LESSON III Literature (Third Week in September) JAMES FENIMORE COOPER

One of the first writers of fiction in America was Charles Brockden Brown. He followed the fashion of fiction then in vogue in England. Ghost stories and tales, making use of supernatural material, were in style. During his time and prior to it, poets of America were languishing for the mother country. It did not occur to them that the Hudson River was as worthy the poet as the Thames or the Avon, or that the birds that caroled in the interminable forests of America made as sweet music as the blackbird, the sky lark and the nightingale of England. We had to wait until the time of James Fenimore Cooper for a break from the old world. Cooper gives us the life of the pioneer, in the eastern part of our country. He was born in New Jersey in the year 1789. His father was of English extraction and his mother Swedish in descent. Cooperstown, on Ostego lake, a very beautiful estate, was acquired by his father, William Cooper, for their home. This region was so primitive in its nature that the wild beast and the Indian were as yet its inhabitants. Soon the log house, their first dwelling, gave way to a rather ambitious mansion, and in time Mr. Cooper went to congress. All of his son's later experiences in the city, at Yale university, and in other places foreign to rural life, did not obliterate the impressions that nature, in all its primitiveness and grandeur, had made upon his mind. He was dismissed from Yale, not because of any very serious escapades, but because he loved the out-door life very much better than class room exercises. His dismissal from Yale caused him to go on shipboard, as a sailor before the mast. There was no naval academy at that time, so that he had to take his training upon the ship. He visited London and Gibraltar, and on his return received a midshipman's commission. He gave up the sea at the time of his marriage, as his wife greatly preferred that he should spend his life with her in the country, to going to sea.

An odd accident changed the whole course of his life. One day, while reading a dull piece of fiction, he remarked to his wife that he believed he could write a better story than that. She dared him to try, and as a result he wrote a tale of English life entitled, "Precaution," which was very stupid for the reason that Cooper knew nothing of high life in England. He might have given up writing altogether had it not been intimated to him that he was very unpatriotic to choose an English theme for his first novel. This suggestion led to a second venture, which was successful. The revolution was a matter of interest to him, and so he chose Westchester county as his scene. He had heard John Jay tell the story of a spy who had served the American government most fearlessly and unselfishly. From this story he created the character of Harvey Birch, and thereby added a great character to the world's fiction. "A character," says Mr. Trent, "appealing profoundly to the general taste of the period for pathos and romantic contrasts." Mr. Pancost says of The Spy "that its publication was almost as memorable an event in our literary history as the publication of Irving's Knickerbocker History of New York." In a sense The Spy is a historical novel. The fact that it is Washington and no other with whom Harvey Birch has his memorable interview, undoubtedly adds to the charm and power of the book. Nevertheless, Cooper's knowledge of the type of man he was describing and the scenes in which the story was laid, had very much to do with it. A position as a man of letters was now won for Mr. Cooper. Before the year was over, he was known favorably in both England and France.

His next venture was The Pioneers, in which he described scenes familiar in his boyhood. Another venture was The Pilot. He had read Scott's Pirate and declared that it was written by a landsman, so he determined to write a sea tale that would reflect his first-hand experience of the sea. Long Tom Coffin and the pilot himself, and Paul Jones would alone have made the story noted, but to these was added the life of the sea, and in it Cooper did something that no other writer had really tried to do, thus giving America the distinction of creating real sea fiction. This year chances to be the centenary of the publication of both The Pioneers and The Pilot.

After Cooper's success with The Pilot which had made him something of a lion in New York, he turned again to the battleground of the Revolution and wrote Lionel Lincoln, or the Leaguer of Boston. This book has all the accuracy of detail characteristic of the modern realistic novel.

In February, 1826 Cooper gave to the world the best of all of his works of fiction, The Last of the Mohicans. As a story of thrilling adventure, it is worthy of high praise. Yet, this is only one of its favorable points, for to employ the words of a well-known critic, "It is full of the poetry of the forest, embodied in the great hunter, Hawkeye." Cooper's fame was now at its height, and he could afford to visit Europe. From June, 1826, to November, 1833, he moved from country to country, the recipient of many courtesies which he did not receive in a very gracious fashion. Mr. Trent says, "He was too typical a democrat to make a favorable impression everywhere. He fancied that his success as a writer made it necessary to lecture to both the old world and the new on their particular weaknesses. Because of this fact, he grew to be very unpopular."

The time in which Cooper lived was not as distinct from our own time as one might think at first hand. Europe half feared and wholly misunderstood America during that period. Ignorant and prejudiced travelers were doing their best to make relations still more strained, very much in the fashion that they are doing it today. Cooper's frequent flings, both at his own country and Great Britain, only succeeded in making him enemies in both countries.

During these years of unfortunate controversy, Cooper wrote some of the best and some of the worst of his novels. The famous Leatherstocking Tales give us Cooper's best pictures of the life he sought to portray. These books, The Deer Slayer, 1841; The Last of the Mohicans, 1826; The Pathfinder, 1840; The Pioneers, 1823; and The Prairie, 1827, to name them in the order in which they should be read, are Cooper's greatest contributions to literature. In this series of novels, he has given us Natty Bumpo, or Leatherstocking, at five successive stages of his life. "We find him on his first warpath, humble and as one who had not been proved; we see him in the fulness of his marvelous skill and sagacity, and we see him finally when age has come upon him, his friends dead, his very dog feeble and toothless, his famous rifle, Kildeer, out of date and ready, like its owner, to be laid aside. To thus show the life and development of a single character in five successive novels is a memorable achievement and the success with which this has been accomplished is one of Cooper's highest claims to distinction."

Leatherstocking has rightfully taken his place in American literature as one of its greatest and most original characters in fiction. Leatherstocking appeals to us partly for himself and partly, like all great characters in fiction, because he is a type of the persons making up the particular civilization that the novelist is striving to paint. Shakespeare's Hamlet, Dicken's Betsy Trotwood, and Scott's Marmion are all great because they interest, first for themselves, and secondly, because they are typical of groups. Leatherstocking is ours. He passed his early life apart from civilization, always keeping in front of the wave of settlement. His life is connected with the subduing of the west. In The Deer Slayer he begins his career on Ostego lake, a very wild country. In The Pioneers, whose time is some sixty years later, the country about the lake had been taken up by settlers, so that the old hunter retreats complaining that he is forced out by the clearings. At length, in The Prairie, which carries us to 1803, a period just after the Louisiana Purchase, we are shown the train of settlers pushing past the forest land into the plains of the far west. In the advance of civilization, Leatherstocking is not a settler, but a pioneer. He is trying to get away from civilization, and chafes because the settler is always close upon his heels.
No small meed of credit is due Cooper that while other novelists had suggested the life of the sailor in such stories as Robinson Crusoe, and Roderick Random, by Tobias Smollett, and Scott in The Pirate, yet he is the first writer of genuine sea tales. In the Leatherstocking stories, Cooper is the novelist of the great stretches of wood and timberland of the waste, and in The Pilot, he is the novelist of the sea in all of its wide expanse. He has created some characters that endure, and literary critics are not slow to admit that Harvey Birch, Pathfinder, or Long Tom Coffin stand worthily beside such characters as Adam Bede and Jeanie Deans.
He was not a master of plot. His plots are not well constructed, and they are very often improbable, but his place as a writer of fiction does not depend on his faults. There is, in his stirring tales of adventure, "dash and vigor," and some of his great dramatic scenes have not often been surpassed. Scenes that have been greatly admired are the wreck of the Ariel in The Pilot, the defense of the cave in the Last of the Mohicans, and the discovery of the body of Asa in The Prairie. Readers of modern fiction will undoubtedly complain that his movement is slow and the material padded. That is the usual complaint of the modern reader when turning to writers of fiction of a hundred years ago. Perhaps it is not entire justice to make these older authors responsible for this fault; rather, we should credit the more modern school with its elimination.
In conclusion, it is rather pleasant to contemplate that while

Cooper did not recover his popularity during his life time, public animosity decreased to such an extent that in 1851, it was possible to hold a successful memorial meeting in the city of New York, at which William Cullen Bryant delivered an appreciative address, Mr. Cooper having passed away on September 14, 1851.
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1. Why might the writing of Cooper make large appeal to the people of the western part of the United States?
2. What would eventually become of the pioneer in our life if the artist did not preserve him? Suggest some other form of art as well as fiction that would tend to preserve the pioneer.
3. Do you know of any novels, since the writing of Scott's Pirate and Cooper's Pilot, that describe sea life?
4. Are tales of adventure as popular today as material for fiction as they were one hundred years ago when Cooper wrote his best novels? If not, how do you account for the change in the taste of people?
5. Through access to books containing selections from American writers, such as Page, and other compilers, or what is better, actual contact with the novel itself, select the account of the wreck of the Ariel in The Pilot, or the defense of the cave in The Last of the Mohicans, and read it to the class.
6. Which five novels comprise the Leatherstocking series?
7. Who wrote Adam Bede?
LESSON IV