[Vol50 | January 1963 | Page 34 | General Feature | Editorial: The Voice of Relief Society ; Vesta | P. Crawford]
33 EDITORIAL JANUARY 1963 (THE Relief Society Magazine is the official publication of the women of the Church, published and directed by the General Board of Relief Society. It is a unique publication, grateful and proud that it is a different Magazine, that it makes no claim to be like any other publication. Its purpose has not changed over the years, although its contents and make-up have many times been adjusted to meet the varying needs of the times and the facilities available for enhancing the attractiveness of the publication. How could The Relief Society Magazine be a facsimile of any other publication — why should anyone desire that it should be so? The Magazine represents Relief Society, both in its historic aspects and in its present greatly enlarged scope and distribution. Just as Relief Society is a unique organization — organized, and in its early days, directed by the Prophet Joseph Smith — so the Magazine is unique, keeping always the same purpose, but being a voice to reach the tens of thousands who now constitute the worldwide sisterhood.. The Magazine links the sister- 34 hood in verisimilitude of purpose and program — assisting in the fields of inspiration, education, and service. The Magazine is the voice that links the past with the everexpanding present. It is as a tree remembering the depth and strength of its roots, yet rejoicing in the number of its branches and the shining glory of its leaves. It is interesting to realize that the Magazine — the messenger — the far-reaching voice — enters the homes of sisters in many lands. It is a cause for much gratitude to know that women of the palms in the far Pacific islands, women of the New Zealand hamlets, women of the Australian cities and towns, women of the historic English villages and towered cities — members wherever there is an understanding of English, are joined together in purpose by the Magazine. Transcending the borders and barriers of nations and of continents, the Magazine carries far and wide a uniting voice. The Magazine, moreover, speaks to women in various phases of their lives. To the young sister, newly 'married, it brings a broad and Belle S. Spafford, President @ Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor @ Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Mildred B. Eyring Wealtha S. Mendenhall Pearle M. Olsen Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell Jennie R. Scott Charlotte A. Larsen Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Cannon Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva Barlow Alberta H. Christensen Afton W. Hunt beautiful understanding of homemaking — both in its high ideals, and in the details of home maintenance and beautification. It inspires the new homemaker to affiliate with Relief Society and become a part of group accomplishment and group spiritual values. 'To the young mother, the Magazine brings the eternal message of sacred family unity, the direction of the habits and abilities and aspirations of children. The woman in the middle years finds her horizons widened, her opportunities increased, by the message of the Magazine. And so it is into the later years, when life becomes enriched by all that has passed, and the ever-present challenge of so much that can be done, so much that can be shared and enjoyed in the later years. So the Magazine binds together the years of a woman's life — and the lives of all women privileged to hear the voice of the sisterhood. The Magazine is not for one land alone, nor for a limited time in any woman's life. It is for many lands and many sisters, for the length of their lives. So it is also for women in many phases of economic condiLaPriel S. Bunker Zola J]. McGhie tions and educational advantages. How wide and beautiful it is for a woman, through the pages of the Magazine, to be inspired to make the most of her means and of herself — what a challenge it is to know that the lesson program, as well as the special articles and _ departments, are planned for all women, whether they are beginners in