[Vol50 | January 1963 | Page 12 | Special Feature | Relief Society Magazines Fiftieth Anniversary Marianne | C. Sharp]
W Relief Society Magazine's Fiftieth Anniversary Marianne C. Sharp, Editor HIS January 1963 issue of The Relief Society Magazine marks the fiftieth year of its publication by the General Board of Relief Society. The need for periodicals within the Church has always been recognized. With the publication of the modern scriptures came the printing of weekly or monthly periodicals even on foreign soil. Rare and valuable are original copies of such periodicals as The Times and Seasons, the Mormon, The Millennial Star, to mention but a few. It was only thirty years after the saints arrived in the Salt Lake Valley that President Brigham Young saw to it that the sisters had a periodical of their own under the name The Woman's Exponent, excerpts from which have been included in The Relief Society Magazine for the past nineteen years, under the heading "Sixty Years Ago." The Woman's Exponent served as the official publication of Relief Society until 1914, when uniform courses of study were provided by the General Board of Relief Society through a published series of Guide Lessons distributed free which were enlarged in 1915 and known as The Relief Society Magazine. The groundwork for the Magazine was laid at the officers meeting of the General Relief Society Conference 12 in April 1914, and voted upon fayorably. The annual subscription price was to be $1, and the monthly issue was to be forty-eight pages with illustrations. It would require 12,000 paid subscriptions, the sisters were cautioned, to make it self-supporting. At this time in 1914, Emmeline B. Wells, who had been editor of the Woman's Exponent since 1877, was President of the Relief Society, with Clarissa S. Williams, First Counselor, and Julina L. Smith (wife of President Joseph F. Smith) Second Counselor. These _ sisters chose Susa Young Gates (daughter of President Brigham Young) as the first Editor of the new Magazine, with Jeannette P. Hyde, Business Manager, and Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary, as Assistant Manager. An Advisory Committee consisted of Clarissa S. Walliams, Julina L. Smith, and Rebecca N. Nibley (wife of Presiding Bishop Charles W. Nibley). The offices were at 28 Bishop's Building (just recently torn down). Interesting incidents have been related of how Sisters Hyde and Lyman went up and down Main Street canvassing for advertisements to meet the payroll. President Joseph F. Smith, who was in California in December, sent the following telegram of good wishes: Mes, "ies NS FACSIMILE OF THE COVER OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MON 1915 Description of the cover, from a note in the January 1915 issue of the Magazine: "The beautiful picture on our cover is one of the four bas-reliefs on the base of the exquisite Sea-Gull Monument in the Temple Square, by our artist, M. M. Young. The artist is a grandson of President Brigham Young" (page 44). Ocean Park, California, December 5, 1914. Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, General Board of the Relief Society: Accept my sincere congratulations and heartiest greetings in honor of the birth of the Relief Society Magazine. May it enter upon its noble mission so firmly entrenched about by the bulwarks of worthy and capable endeavor and enduring truth that its career may be successful and glorious. Josern F. Smrru In the January 1915 editorial "The Mission of Our Magazine" was detailed: It is impossible for us to be sure what any child of ours may become.

How much more impossible, then, to forecast what shall be the future, the final character, of this literary infant, newly-born. If the Editor of this enterprise might shape its policy and fashion its fulfilment, she would have this magazine filled with the 


 9 B.. 82 RBS SF!. Xi SOB Ree 4: ara - EDITORS OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE At the top: Susa Young Gates, 1914-1922; Alice Louise Reynolds, 1923-1930; Mary Connelly Kimball, 1930-1937. At bottom: Belle S. Spafford, 1937-1945; Marianne C. Sharp, 1945- Spirit of the Lord from cover to cover. In order to do that, no article should be published which would encourage vanity, hurtful luxury, sin, or any evil passion of the human breast. Rather would we make of this magazine a beacon light of hope, beauty and charity. The Christian world have all the virtues. They practice many of the moral precepts of true religion; they are charitable, kind, honest, and intelligent. 'They lack one thing, and one thing only, and that is the Gospel of Jesus Christ in its fulness, taught by those having authority. It is, therefore, the spirit and genius of the Gospel which we would like to develop and expound brightly, attractively, cheerfully, and hopefully, to the readers of the Relief Society Magazine. 14 While the baby Magazine may have been weak financially, it was strong and robust in the message it imparted. The early editorials reflect not only the pressing problems of the day, for World War I had begun before the year was out, but they were also filled with encouragement and exhortations from President Wells who had known the Prophet and undergone the blessings and privations of pioneering and lived on at that late date to lead the women of the Church. An editorial on Success asks the questions, "Who are the successful RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE'S FIFTIETH ANNIVERSARY wives?... [They] are the women who learn to balance their lives so that they can give a portion of themselves, unreservedly and with loving generosity, in personal ministrations to their husbands, no matter how exacting the home cares, nor how taxing the responsibilities of the children may be.... Who are the successful mothers?... [They] are the women who have cultivated their intelligence from day to day, so that it has kept pace with the development of their own children. The successful mother has been and is the companion of her children, no matter where their own paths in life may be.... Who are the successful daughters?... The successful daughter may be bright or dull, rich or poor — if she be sympathetic and tenderly unselfish to her mother, she is truly successful." These truths as well as other material in the early issues of The Relief Society Magazine find a responsive chord in the hearts of Relief Society members in 1963. Emmeline B. Wells had been given the responsibility in initiating and heading the grain movement by Relief Society. The first volume of the Magazine narrates her experiences in this movement. The lessons at this time were on Genealogy; Home Ethics; Home Gardening for Women; Literature and Art and Architecture. We learn from the first volume of the Magazine that a member of the General Board, Alice Merrill Horne, was asked to write a textbook for Relief Society on art. Attention was called to the beautiful music rendered by the Relief Society General Choir, and stakes and wards were urged to prepare music for ward and stake Relief Society functions. Readers of The Relief Society Magazine today can judge of the inspiration of the General Board of 1914 in setting forth the mission of The Relief Society Magazine. During its history it has inscribed the history of Relief Society, encouraged and exhorted Relief Society members to selfless service, instructed Relief Society leaders and offered to its readers everywhere the directives, warnings, and inspiration of the leading Brethren. The words of the Prophet of that day, President Joseph F'. Smith, are as vital to Relief Society today as they were then. The counsel of succeeding Presidents — President Heber J. Grant, President George Albert Smith, and _ the prophet today, President David O. McKay, live on in The Relief Society Magazine to guide and bless Relief Society. Susa Young Gates served as Editor from 1914 to 1922. Succeeding Editors have been Alice Louise Reynolds, 1923-1930; Mary Connelly Kimball, 1930-1937; Belle S. Spaftord, 1937-1945; and Marianne C. Sharp, 1945—. The Relief Society Magazine has grown to a periodical of eighty pages, includes color in its pages, and has a subscription price of only $2. It continues to include the lesson work of Relief Society, doing away with the need of Relief Society members to purchase lesson manuals. Its aim is to uplift women in their God-given work as wife, mother, grandmother, homemaker, and charitable neighbor. The Relief So- 


 ciety Magazine stands for the fullest development of a woman's potential as long as her true role as a woman is not neglected nor set aside. Its pages are open today, waiting for Latter-day Saint women throughout the world to inscribe in it their hopes, fears, aspirations, needs, counsel, and conclusions. The beauty of their written words in cadence and rhythm is preserved for future generations.