[Vol50 | January 1963 | Page 21 | Special Feature | Award Winners — Eliza R. Snow | Poem Contest]
ward Winners The Relief Society General Board ls pleased to announce the names of the three winners in the 1962 Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. This contest was announced in the May 1962 issue of The Reliet Society Magazine, and closed August 15; 1962. The first prize of forty dollars is awarded to Miranda Snow Walton, Fl Monte, California, for her poem "Some Late Evening." The second prize of thirty dollars is awarded to Roxana Farnsworth Hase, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her poem "Sego Lilies." The third prize of twenty dollars ls awarded to Dorothy J. Roberts, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her poem "Attic Rain." This poem contest has been conducted annually by the Relief Society General Board since 1924 in honor of Eliza R. Snow, second General President of Reliet Society, 4 sifted poet and inspirational leader. The contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, and is designed to encourage poetry writing and to 'ncrease appreciation for creative writing and the beauty and value of poetry. Prize-winning poems are the property of the General Board of Reliet Society, and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission of the General Board. The General Board also reserves the right to publish any of the poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. Writer who has received the first prize for ewe consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. Mrs. Walton appeals for the fourth time as a winner in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. Mrs. Hase is a third-time winner In the contest; and Mrs. Roberts has been a winner six times. There were 298 poems entered in the contest for 1962. Entries were received from forty of the fifty states, with the largest number, in order, coming from Utah, California, Idaho, Arizona, Washington, and Oregon. Canada, England, Mexico, New Jealand, and Australia were also represented among the entries. The General Board congratulates the prize winners and expresses appreciation to all entrants for their interest lm the contest. "The General Board wishes also to thank the judges for their care and diligence in selecting the prize-winning poems. The services of the poetry committec of the General Board are very much appreciated. The prize-winning poems, together with photographs and brief highlights on the prize-winning contestants, are published in. This sssue of the Magazine. Eliza R.