[Vol50 | January 1963 | Page 1 | Special Feature | New Year's Greeting | General Presidency]
[New Year's Greeting General Presidency]
JANUARY 1963, Vol 50, No 1 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Marianne C. Sharp Editor Vesta P. Crawford Associate Editor Belle S. Spafford General Manager Teach Virtue and Modesty President Joseph Fielding Smith Of the Council of the Twelve [Address Delivered at the Officers Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 3, 1962] sight to think that you good sisters have come from all parts of the world to attend this conference. I congratulate you for your faith and your integrity and I want to say to you, we pray for you constantly. You are doing a wonderful work, and the Prophet certainly was inspired by the spirit of the Lord to have such an organization as the Relief Society given to the Church. You have a great work to perform. We remember you in Our prayers, we want you to know that the work that you are performing is fully appreciated by the brethren of the Authorities of the Church. Now, I want to endorse all that has been said and done, and I am very grateful that Brother Petersen had the inspiration to speak as he did on a topic that is most timely. I know of nothing that is more important today than the theme which he presented to us. Now, there are a great many good, honest people in the world, but that does not change the fact that we are living in a wicked world, a fallen world. In fact, it has always been fallen since Adam and Eve were driven out of the garden of Eden. But that does not mean that there have not been good people down through the ages, at least most of the time. Your work is just as imures is certainly a wonderful 4 portant as any other work in the Church. I want you to know that your brethren appreciate it. I want to say a few words, too, along the line that was mentioned by Elder Petersen. Our day was seen in the days of Isaiah. The Lord opened the eyes of Isaiah. He saw the gathering of the Latter-day Saints to these valleys of the mountains and spoke about it and about the blessings of the Lord that would attend them. But he also saw in that great vision some of the pitfalls and the difficulties and the transgressions that would befall the Latter-day Saints, along with other people, and he has spoken of it. When Isaiah spoke of Zion, he did not mean the world, and when he spoke of the daughters of Zion, he meant the daughters of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I am going to read you a few verses, "As for my people, children are their oppressors, and women tule over them. O my people, they which lead thee cause thee to ert, and destroy the way of thy paths. The Lord standeth up to plead, and standeth to judge the people. The Lord will enter into judgment with the ancients of his people, and the princes thereof: for ye have eaten up the vineyard; the spoil of the poor is in your houses" (Isaiah — 3:12-14). HEN he goes on to talk about Zion. Who is Zion? We, the Latter-day Saints. Moreover the Lord said: Because the daughters of Zion are haughty, and walk with stretched forth necks and wanton eyes, walking and mincing as they go, and making a tinkling with their feet: Therefore the Lord will smite with a scab the crown of the head of the daughters of Zion, and the Lord will discover their secret parts. In that day the Lord will take away the bravery of their tinkling ornaments about their feet, and their cauls, and their round tires like the moon. The chains, and the bracelets, and the mufflers, The bonnets, and the ornaments of the legs, and the headbands, and the tablets, and the earrings. 'The rings, and nose jewels.. (Isaiah 3:16-21). We haven't got quite to that point yet, have we? The changeable suits of apparel, and the mantles, and the wimples, and the crisping pins, The glasses, and the fine linen, and the hoods, and the vails. And it shall come to pass, that instead of sweet smell there shall be stink; and instead of a girdle a rent; and instead of well set hair baldness; and instead of a stomacher a girding of sackcloth; and burning instead of beauty (Isaiah 3:22-24). That is as far as I need to read. Now, you good mothers, you should teach your children virtue, chastity, and they should be taught from their early childhood. And they should be made aware of the pitfalls and the dangers that are so prevalent throughout the world. Now, we are living in a wicked day. When you read your newspapers you can discover that, and they give us but a small fraction of what goes on. Wickedness prevails.
