[Vol50 | January 1963 | Page 23 | Special Feature | Sego Lilies — Second Prize Poem Roxana | F. Hase]
[Sego Lilies — Second Prize Poem Roxana F. Hase]

second prize in 1948, first prize in 1961, and first prize again in 1962. She now has a book of poems entitled For Lovers Onlv ready for publication. Her poems Mrs. Walton has three children: Wwian (Mrs. Delbert Owens), Jack, and Claude Walton. She has been an invalid for several years, and confined to a wheel chair. [{Note: Mrs. Walton Passed away in F] Monte, California, November 1, 1962, several weeks after she had received notification that she had won first prize in the contest. ] Roxana Farnsworth Hase is a third-time winner in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Con. Test, having received the second prize in 1933 and third prize ip 1937. She was born in Manti. Utah, and educated in Manti and Salt Lake City, Utah. She was graduated from the Latter-day Saints Hospital in Salt Lake City and has been a registered nurse for forty-three years. She married Grover Hase in ro2z2. He died in 1935, leaving her with three children. There are ten standchildren, After her husband's death, Mrs. Hase went back to nursing and was head nurse at the L. DS. Hospital in Salt Lake City for many years, and was later Assistant Chief Evening Supervisor at the Veterans Hospital. Her book of poems Delicious Lumps has been widely circulated, and she has been national Poet Laureate for the Colonial Dames of the Seventeenth Century. She has been counselor and president in yard Relief Societies and a Sunday School teacher for many vears. She is q member of the National League of American Pen Women, the National Writers Club, and other hterary organizations, Dorothy J. Roberts, Salt Lake City, Utah, attended the University of Utah for three years and taught school for two years. She began her wnting in college and has published stories, articles, and poetry. Her work has appeared in the Deseret News, the Salt Lake Tribune, the Improvement Era, The Relief Society Magazine, and other publications. She has won the Deseret News Christmas Poetry Contest: second place in the Utah State Fine Arts Poetry Contest; several poetry awards from the League of Utah Writers and the Utah State Poetry Society. She has been a winner six times in the Eliza R Snow Poem Contest, having won the first prize three times. Mrs.