[Vol50 | January 1963 | Page 22 | Special Feature | Some Late Evening — First Prize Poem Miranda | S. Walton]
Snow Poem Contest 22 Miranda Snow Walton First Prize Poem Some Late Evening On some late evening I shall walk alone, Along a path I have not walked before; There, in a quiet garden, strange, unknown, A house stands waiting with an open door. The peace that passeth understanding falls Upon my troubled spirit, stills my fears; Out of the sacred dusk a low voice calls, One I have known and loved in other years. I seek my own, for it is end of day, My footsteps turn within the garden gate; I look ahead and know in some sure way Inside those portals dear ones stand and wait. I hesitate no more, my soul runs free Before the falling shadows of the night, The door is open wide, I see — I see To where a loved one waits beside a light. Sego Lilies Impatiently we waited for the snow to melt, Roxana Farnsworth Hase The sun to warm the winter-weary roots; Second Prize Poem Then, kitchen fork and tin pail in our hands, We searched the valley floor for sego lily shoots. How earnestly we took the prize from loosened earth, Brown-coated, small, but succulent and sweet; Manna in a desert not yet blossomed as the rose. How blest we were to share this hidden treat! Stern greasewood fingers caught and held our skirts, Chill gusts of wind made bonnets insecure As self-appointed guardians tried to hide. Some of the precious root bulbs to mature. Thinking only of our present needs, We would have taken all, these hunger-laden hours, But who could doubt the wisdom of the plan To let us also know the beauty of the flowers! 23 Con ao ST SS Kas» Nv Saal 2 ay Attic Rain Third Prize Poem On attic roof there is the sound of showers; Dorothy J. Roberts And on my eyes the sting of inward rain And in my heart with every spring returning, The stored away, recurrent wrench of pain. A broken tool... And here a bit of garden Still dangles from the worn sole of a shoe, The step it took returning every season Past thistled solitude and twigs of yew. Pen-fashioned lines re-read and keepsakes dusted — A slow-resolving memory clinging yet — This barren desert of a love's withholding Indigenous to dust where eyes are wet. The dust from broken days should not be sterile, Tears be but stains upon an attic floor; What wonder wakens in a dry Sahara When the falling rain beats on its hidden door. Heart-cleaning time comes to the April moment, And like the seasonal showers, attic tears Water the roots and nourish new tomorrows — As roses from this dust — the reaching years. 24 im her life, and she was named the Outstanding poet of Wyoming in 1943. Her poems have been widely published, and she is a fifth-time Winner in the Eliza RSnow Poem Contest, having received third Prize in 1936, third prize in 1946,