[Vol50 | January 1963 | Page 24 | Special Feature | Attic Rain — Third Prize Poem Dorothy | J. Roberts]
[Attic Rain — Third Prize Poem Dorothy J. Roberts]

Roberts js the wife of L. Pay] Roberts, a Salt Lake City business man. They have two married daughters and six grandchildren, Edith Larson js a third-time winner in the Relief Society Short Story Contest, having won the third prize in 955, and second prize in 1956. She lives in Manton, Michigan. "I am a Native of Minnesota," she tells us, ''a long-time resident of Michigan, and a former resident of Fountain Green, Utah. I majored in journalism at NorthWestern University and have been Studving and Practicing the art in my spare time ever since. When I retire from teaching four years from now, I expect to devote all my time to wniting, baby sitting for my grandchildren, and Working in the branch which we hope will soon be organized here. Manton and Cadillac, combined in the fall of 1962, gave us enough sisters to haye our own Relief Society." 25 26 Award Winners The Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the award winners in the Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest, which was announced in the May 1962 issue of the Magazine, and which closed August 15, 1962. The first prize of seventy-five dollars is awarded to Edith Larson of Manton, Michigan, for her story ""Uhe Tender Kiss." The second prize of sixty dollars is awarded to Chnistie Lund Coles, Provo, Utah, for her story "The Home." The third prize of fifty dollars is awarded to Sylvia Probst Young, Midvale, Utah, for her story "Stranger at Nazareth." The Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest was first conducted by the Relief Society General Board in 1942, as a feature of the Relief Society Centennial observance, and was made an annual contest in 1943. The contest is open to Latter-day Saint women who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication in a periodical of recognized merit. The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1962. Forty-nine stories were entered in the contest for 1961, including submissions from Canada, England, Germany, and Australia. The contest was initiated to encourage Latter-day Saint women to express themselves in the field of fiction. The General Board feels that the response to this opportunity continues to increase the literary quality of The Relief Society Magazine and aids the women of the Church in the development of their gifts in creative writing. Prize-winning stories are the property of the Relief Society General Board, and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the night to publish any of the other stories submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. The General Board congratulates the prize-winning contestants, and expresses appreciation to all those who submitted stories. Sincere gratitude is extended to the Short Story Committee of the General Board and to the judges for their discernment and skill in selecting the prize-winning stories.