[Vol50 | January 1963 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Lesson | Title: Visiting Teacher Messages — "It Is Not Meet That I Should Command In All Things" Christine H. Robinson]
For  First  Meeting,  April  1963 
Objective:   To  learn  that  the  person  of  faith  is  justified  by  the  Lord,  but   the  sign 
seeker  is  condemned  by  the  Lord. 
Background 
npHE  Prophet  took  leave  of  Mis- 
souri where  he  had  received 
new  revelation  deahng  with  the 
founding  of  Zion,  the  city  of  God, 
and  numerous  matters  relating  to 
the  gathering  of  the  saints.  Arriving 
in  Kirtland  the  Prophet  wrote: 
In  these  infant  days  of  the  Church, 
there  was  a  great  anxiety  to  obtain  the 
word  of  the  Lord  upon  every  subject  that 
in  any  way  concerned  our  salvation;  and 
as  the  land  of  Zion  was  now  the  most 
important  temporal  object  in  view,  I  en- 
quired of  the  Lord  for  further  informa- 
tion upon  the  gathering  of  the  Saints,  and 
the  purchase  of  the  land,  and  other  mat- 
ters, and  received  the  following  [Section 
63]   {DHC  1:207). 
Wickedness  and  Rebellion 
Section  63  begins  with  the  call 
for  the  saints  to  listen,  to  open 
their  hearts  to  a  revelation  of  the 
Lord's  word.  (D  &  C  63:1.)  All  men 
should  understand  that  God  is 
angry  with  the  wicked.  Some  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  may  be  classed 
as  stiff  necked  (stubborn)  and  un- 
believing as  well  as  those  who  have 
not  made  covenant  with  the  Savior. 
The  Lord's  displeasure  is  also 
shown  toward  the  rebellious.  Re- 
bellion against  God's  law  makes  a 
person  wicked.  Such  people  will- 
fully defy  God  after  knowing  his 
will  toward  them.  This  was  true  of 
Lucifer  and  the  third  part  of  the 
hosts  of  heaven.  {Ihid.y  29:36-37.) 
King  Benjamin  in  The  Book  of 
Mormon  taught  that  rebellion 
against  teachings  received  brought 
a  withdrawal  of  the  Spirit.  (See 
Mosiah  2:36-38.)  The  rebellious 
are  condemned  because  of  their  hav- 
ing accepted  gospel  principles  and 
then  having  disobeyed  them.  Great- 
er responsibilities  bring  greater 
blessings,  but,  if  not  carried  out, 
they  bring  greater  condemnations. 
(D  &  C  1:2-3;  82:3.)  The  degree 
of  condemnation  is  dependent  upon 
the  nature  of  the  disobedience  and 
the  light  enjoyed  by  the  member. 
57

JANUARY  1963 
The  Lord's  Power 
God's  power  is  understood  when 
men  realize  that  he  controls  life 
and  is  able  to  cast  men  into  hell. 
The  wicked  and  rebellious,  know- 
ing that  they  have  flaunted  their 
Maker,  are  fearful  that  death  may 
overtake  them.  The  ever-present 
question  is,  ''What  will  be  my  sit- 
uation after  death?"  God  can  do  all 
things  even  to  destroying  the  world, 
as  well  as  ''to  cast  the  soul  down 
to  hell"  (D&G  63:3-4). 
The  unrepentant  will  not  escape 
the  Lord's  wrath: 
Behold,  I,  the  Lord,  utter  my  voice, 
and  it  shall  be  obeyed. 
Wherefore,  verily  I  say,  let  the  wicked 
take  heed,  and  let  the  rebellious  fear  and 
tremble;  and  let  the  unbelieving  hold  their 
lips,  for  the  day  of  wrath  shall  come  upon 
them  as  a  whirlwind,  and  all  flesh  shall 
know  that  I  am  God   {Ihid.,  63:5-6). 
In  like  manner  the  revelations 
describe  the  condition  of  those  who 
do  not  hearken  to  the  Lord's  mes- 
sage. {Ihid,,  84:95-102;  133:71-73.) 
On  the  other  hand,  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  says  that  blessings  of 
a  celestial  nature  await  those  who 
obey  the  Lord's  voice: 
.  .  .  God  has  in  reserve  a  time,  or 
period  appointed  in  His  own  bosom, 
when  He  will  bring  all  His  subjects,  who 
have  obeyed  His  voice  and  kept  His 
commandments,  into  His  celestial  rest. 
This  rest  is  of  such  perfection  and  glory, 
that  man  has  need  of  a  preparation  be- 
fore he  can,  according  to  the  laws  of  that 
kingdom,  enter  it  and  enjoy  its  blessings. 
This  being  the  fact,  God  has  given  certain 
laws  to  the  human  family,  which,  if 
observed,  are  sufficient  to  prepare  them 
to  inherit  His  rest  (Teachings  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  page    54). 
Signs  Shall  Be  Seen 
As  one  evidence  of  the  last  days, 
signs  are  to  be  seen.     Many  types 
of  natural  phenomena  are  men- 
tioned in  scriptures.  The  ones  gen- 
erally known  are  those  which  are 
to  appear  in  the  heavens,  such  as 
the  sun  darkening  and  the  moon 
turning  to  blood.  (D  &  G  29:14; 
34:9;  45:42;  88:87.)  Other  ocular 
signs  will  be  observed.  (Ibid., 
29:14;  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  Moses 
7:61.)  But  these  are  not  the  only 
signs  predicted  for  these  times. 
There  are  those  who  desire  to  have 
some  visual  demonstration,  such  as 
a  miracle,  to  evidence  the  existence 
of  God,  of  the  divinity  of  his 
Ghurch,  of  the  divine  calling  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  the 
truth  of  the  principles  of  the  gos- 
pel. 
One  desire  for  some  "tangible" 
evidence  of  the  work  of  the  Lord 
in  our  times  is  the  belief  that  the 
gold  plates  of  The  Book  of  Mor- 
mon should  be  on  display  for  those 
who  want  to  "know"  that  Joseph 
Smith  had  plates  of  ancient  origin. 
These  plates,  if  put  on  exhibit, 
would  not  give  evidence  of  the  truth 
of  The  Book  of  Mormon  to  those 
who  would  not  accept  that  scrip- 
ture on  faith  or  seek  for  the  testi- 
mony of  the  Spirit.  Great  faith 
would  still  be  required  to  believe 
that  these  particular  plates  were  of 
ancient  origin  or  that  the  characters 
were  what  the  Prophet  claimed 
them  to  be.  Disputations  would 
probably  not  cease  concerning  these 
claims.  Men  are  not  converted  to 
the  gospel  by  such  visual  demon- 
strations. The  Lord  does  not  give 
man  such  demonstrable  evidence  to 
convert  him.  Faith  continues  as 
the  principle  to  test  man's  alle- 
giance to  God  and  the  only  way  that 
the  rich  blessings  may  be  enjoyed. 
58

LESSON   DEPARTMENT 
(Hebrews  11:1.)  The  testimony 
of  the  witnesses  to  The  Book  of 
Mormon  condemns  those  who  re- 
ject that  testimony.  (D  &  C  5:10- 
20.) 
The  Lord  has  given  evidences  or 
signs  that  men  may  understand  his 
purposes,  but  these  may  not  be  so 
apparent  to  the  person  who  is  not 
looking  for  these  evidences.     The 
missionary  calls  signs  to  the  atten- 
tion of  his  hearer,  such  as  evidence 
that  these  are  the  days  when  men 
are  called  to  repentance  for  the  last 
time.       (D    &    C    33:2-3;     39:17; 
43:28;  90:2.)     What  are  some  of 
these  signs?     Among  several  which 
might  be    mentioned,    these   three 
stand    out    significantly:     (1)     the 
coming  forth  of  The  Book  of  Mor- 
mon.      As     the     Old     Testament 
prophets    predicted    many    details 
about  this  volume,   they  indicated 
that    men   should    know    of   God's 
work  in  the  last  days  by  the  fulfill- 
ment of   such   prophecies.    (Isaiah, 
Chapter  29;  Ezek.   37:16-20.)     As- 
sociated with  this  first  sign  to  give 
evidence  of  The  Book  of  Mormon 
is  the  second  one;   (2)   the  gather- 
ing of  Israel,  particularly  the  Jewish 
portion.      (Isaiah    29:17-19,    22-23; 
Ezek.    37:21-28.)      One  of   the   re- 
markable   historical    events    of   our 
times   is  the  return  of   the  Lord's 
ancient  covenant  people,  Judah,  to 
the  land  of  their  inheritance.    The 
establishment    of  this    one   nation, 
Israel,  in  Palestine,  in  1948,  serves 
to  remind  all  people  that  with  the 
return  -of  Judah  to  the  holy  land, 
God  is  remembering  his  people  as 
prophesied.   (Jeremiah   31:31,  33;  2 
Nephi  20:29-31.)     He  is  remember- 
ing not  only  Judah,  but  others  of 
the  tribes   of    Israel,   especially  Jo- 
seph —  the  Indians,  and  also  the