[Vol50 | January 1963 | Page 7 | Special Feature | Modesty Protects Virtue Mark | E. Petersen]
[Modesty Protects Virtue Mark E. Petersen]

and holiness before me continually'? My reply was, we must practise the teachings of the Savior by upholding all of the standards of the Church. Without the standards of the Church there is no holiness, nor any virtue either in its broader sense or in the strict definition of chastity. I began to list some of the standards of the Church which pertain to holiness and the various virtues the Lord expects to find in a Latterday Saint. I mention just a few of them: first, "We believe in being true." Again, that is as essential as the gospel itself. Next came, "We believe in being chaste." Benevolence, of course, is mentioned and also patience, long-suffering, brotherly and sisterly kindness, forgiveness, charity, godliness, humility, and diligence. LL of these are essential virtues, but, as I read them, I remembered that one of the definitions of virtue is valor, and that valor is the strength of mind which enables one to encounter danger firmly with personal bravery and courage. Next I asked myself, are our virtues, our standards, in danger? Is there need for valor and courage and strength in meeting such dangers today? 'Then I remembered that in these days there are many dangers which confront us and our families, as well as even our little ones. I remembered that delinquency in the United States is growing at a rate five times faster than the Nation's population; that divorce is reaching new highs even among the Latter-day Saints; that both adult and juvenile delinquency are threatening the solidarity of our homes and families, and that danger is facing us in tremendous proportions. Who can stop this condition? Who can build up our most important defenses? Who has the courage to do so? When I noted that the chief threat is to our homes and families, I remembered that the Prophet Joseph Smith laid it upon the Relief Society women of the Church to protect our homes and families by preserving virtue and holiness. The principal cause of juvenile delinquency is unsatisfactory home life. Unsatisfactory home life results largely from adult delinquency. Adult delinquency is weakening the moral fiber of the Nation. More crimes are committed by people over fifty years of age than by any other age group; the next highest is among those over thirty-five. Since our homes are now placed in jeopardy, how can we strengthen them and resist these evils? Whose influence is greatest in the home? We recognize, without doubt, the place of husband and father, but so often those husbands and _ fathers, themselves, do not recognize their responsibility and abandon it in favor of business or other pursuits. The preservation of the home is left chiefly to the wife and mother. In a large part the home is what the mother makes it. Do our women have the personal courage, the valor, the strength of mind to meet this present situation? ' Are you, the women, willing to be the protectors of our homes and provide the stabilizing qualities our people need in this day of instabil- ity? Are you willing to be the "Rock of Gibraltar" in your homes, resisting the corroding influences of a changing world about you? Do you see what is happening all about us? Let us talk of virtue for a moment in terms of chastity. Do you know what tempts the boys to molest the girls today more than any other one thing? It is the mode of dress of our girls who, in the summertime, often wear extremely abbreviated sun suits, even. On the streets; who wear dresses above the knees, whose clothing about the bust is often so tight and revealing that it nearly takes the breath away from the boys who look at it. It is the low-cut evening dress which permits a boy to dance all evening gazing down into a half-concealed but half-disclosed bosom, thus setting him on fire with an unholy desire. It is so often the very skimpy gymnasium suits girls are forced to wear in their physical education classes at school. WHEN the boys are coming into their teens and reaching maturity, and such sights are placed before. Their eyes, almost like an invitation, can you blame them any more than you would the girls who tempt them, if they take advantage of those girls? Unfortunately, many of these young women are innocent victims of a bad situation. From infancy they wear but little clothing. As they reach early childhood there is still little clothing, and so on into young adulthood. 'They are taught that this is the style and they must follow it. They become accustomed to exposing themselves. It is all MODESTY PROTECTS VIRTUE they seem to know, and who is to blame? Who permits them to dress in this manner? Who buys their clothes? Who is it that permits them to wear lipstick and high heels even before they reach their teens? And who permits them to go dating at twelve, thirteen, fourteen, and fifteen, with little restriction or supervision? And who permits not only this early dating but steady dating as well, steady dating which so. Often leads. To early intimacies, degradation, and loss of this precious virtue of which we speak and, frequently, results in early marriages which almost always break up, even while the youngsters are still in their TECHS. The Lord says we are to garnish our thoughts with virtue unceasingly. Can a boy's thoughts be garnished with virtue while he is looking at the plainly outlined form of a beautiful young woman? Can his thoughts be garnished with virtue as he gazes at her limbs so fully exposed by these short, short skirts of today? Are the girls' thoughts gamished with virtue when they wear revealing clothing? Are their thoughts garnished with virtue while they engage in a petting party, and then hope for an early marriage to cover up their indiscretions? Recent national publication carried an editorial discussing this subject, and among other things said that we must face the fact that more and more American women are unwittingly inviting sex crimes. It was estimated that at least half of the rape cases on the blotter could have been avoided had the victim shown more discretion and 


 good judgment. The peculiarly American system of encouraging our girls to be attractive and alluring, or training them to be seductive, and then telling them of course that they must draw an uncrossable line, was considered as a destructive system. The editorial said that the entire concept of training our young women to "both lure and repel, simultaneously," is responsible for irreconcilable conflicts. A girl is encouraged to believe that the number of her dates and the amount of passion she arouses in them may be in many cases the total measure of her success as a female. And then the editorial calls for a new American heroine, not one who is a sweater girl, whose main claim to fame seems to be the shape of her body and how much of it she is willing to reveal, but the editor calls for a national heroine of virtue and cleanliness, who is willing to put her sex appeal in the background and put forward her wit, her charm, her intelligence, and her integrity. I believe that if the women of this Church could practice the kind of virtue the Lord speaks of, they could change this situation. If they had the valor and the courage they could protect their children by helping them to live up to the Church standards of decency and right. But, mothers, unless you take a stand, your daughters will not take a stand. You must set the requirements, you must make the decision. I was confronted the other day by a group of women who were talking about the leaders of the Church and their attitudes on styles. I told those women that I thought they respect- 10 ed the leaders of the Church as long as the brethren stayed away from certain subjects, but when it came to style, the women of the Church pay far more attention to the style designers in New York and Paris than they do to the appeals for modesty on the part of the General Authorities. The styles of today are immodest, but many women follow them and reject the counsel of the Church leaders. So whom do they sustain, whom do they place first in their lives? When it comes to styles, it certainly is not the leaders of the Church, and yet modesty is the first line of defense for chastity. When our girls and boys lose 'their virtue, we cry to high heaven and wonder why this should ever come to our families, forgetting that in our desire to be fashionable we have set aside modesty, which is the great protector of virtue. OTHERS in Israel, as long as we turn away from modesty in dress and follow the way of the world in style, just that long will we pay the price in a breakdown of morals among the younger generation. Have we the courage to correct this condition? We can have a style of our own, a modest one! We are nearly two million people and no longer a small minority.. But in this we would not be alone. Millions of other women are as modest as we would like our women to be. Recently, one of the colleges of the United States, a non-Latter-day Saint school, had a style show in which every dress shown was as modest as if it had been cut out by the General Authorities themselves. There are many sensible and decent people in the world who would support us. Why can we not join with them rather than with those who are so evilminded that they design styles to emphasize sex, knowing very well that such an appeal is an invitation to sin? Now, may I mention some of the other virtues, particularly the influence of our women in promoting love at home, a spirit of prayer, peace, and co-operation, rather than a spirit of quarreling in the home. Family quarrels breed delinquency of both children and parents. Wouldn't you like to foster the spirit of love and prayer in your home, rather than the spirit of contention? The Savior taught us that the spirit of contention is the spirit of the devil. Let us practice our religion in the home and strive for patience, goodMODESTY PROTECTS VIRTUE ness, forgiveness, and long-suffering, and yet develop the courage to fight evil and put it out of our lives. Is physical exposure compatible with the gospel of Jesus Christ? Is quarreling in the home, is violation of the rules of honesty, is gambling, is violation of the Sabbath day? Oh, sisters, let virtue garnish your thoughts unceasingly. Plan your family life so that virtue will garnish the thoughts of your children also. Be firm and courageous in standing for the right, regardless of what the world designs, or how it may beckon you into its evil pursuits. We must ever remember that while we are in the world we must not be of the world. We must practise virtue and holiness before the Lord always, for so he has commanded us. I pray that we may do so in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.