[Vol50 | January 1963 | Page 4 | Special Feature | Teach Virtue and MOdesty Joseph | Fielding Smith]
One of my good brethren who had the right to speak some years ago said, "Chastity TEACH VIRTUE AND MODESTY is dead." virtue. The tendency of the times is towards evil. I deplore, and I know my brethren do, the tendency in the world which Latter-day Saints imitate and copy, as far as the women are concerned, at least in their dress. When I was a young man going to school the girls wore dresses that came down to their ankles. 'They were modest. They don't do that now. I went out occasionally in my youth to Saltair to bathe, when the water was up under the pavilion. I had a bathing suit that covered my body to my ankles, so did the men, and so the women. I remember when a young lady came in to go in bathing. She passed one of the men in charge, and he stopped her. He said, "You can't go in dressed like that." Well, she had a dress on that covered her body down below her knees, but he said, "You have got to get stockings on. I hope that isn't true of A woman came into my office one day, she might be here in this group for all I know, and showed me a picture that she had taken, somewhere near the beginning of the century, of a group bathing at Saltair. I tried to get it from her and she would not let me have it. "No," she said, "I am going to keep this, I am in this picture." But every bather was covered — men and women alike. 'That's why I wanted to get it, to see it, to show it. Now they go in bathing together, men and women at the resorts, with very scanty clothing on. Some of our good, clean, virtuous daughters 


 vie to become Miss America or Miss Utah or California or some other State, and they have to be put on exhibition like prize cattle and go through all kinds of stunts, and dress so they have to show their bodies. Pardon me for talking plainly. I think it is disgraceful that we have reached that point in our lives where, as one of my good brethren said several years ago, "Virtue, modesty are dead." Now we need reformation. You mothers in your homes, are you in the habit of letting your little children run around scantily clothed because it is warm weather, practically naked or nearly so? And they grow up that way, that is, thinking that there is nothing wrong in exposing their bodies. What did the Lord give Adam and Eve garments for? 'To clothe themselves, and the Lord does not like nakedness. And I think the Latter-day Saints should not follow the fashions and the immodesty of the world. We are the people of the Lord. He expects us to live clean, virtuous lives, to keep our thoughts clean and minds pure and faithful in the observance of all his other commandments. Why should we follow the world, why can we not be modest, why can't we do the things the Lord would have us do? The Lord bless you in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.