Current Topics. James H. Anderson. Rumania, having entered the European war field against the Teutonic allies, has been subjected to the grinding process which crushed Servia. German gains in the Balkans, with the exception of those in Macedonia, and about equal German losses on the western front, are the sum of European war progress the past month. Federal control of railways in the United States is being discussed in Congressional circles, with some prospect that action to that end may become an administration program. Peace advocates are becoming urgent for a settlement of the Old World embroilment, but the present outlook is that 1917 will not see the end of the great conflict there. More massacres of Armenians are reported in Turkey. From the accounts given, there would seem to be but few of that class of religionists left in the sultan's dominions. Francis Joseph, emperor of Austria-Hungary for within two weeks of sixty-eight years, died on Nov. 21, and is succeeded by his grand-nephew, Charles Joseph, who takes the title of Charles I. The national policies will be along practically the same lines as heretofore. Simon Bamberger, a well-known Utah citizen of Jewish lineage, was elected governor of the State of Utah. It is generally understood that his ability as a business man and as one of the builders of the State will be directed toward giving the people a strictly business administration. Three women were executed in Mexico, during the last week in November, on the charge of having conspired against officials of the Carranza government; and thousands of other women have met death through the regime inaugurated by that government since it came into power.

The tax amendment proposed to be made to the Utah State constitution was defeated by a decisive vote of the people, who became convinced that its promoters were making a false pretense in the argument that the amendment was directed chiefly at the mining industry.

Arabia has broken away from Turkish rule and a new kingdom has been established there, under Hussein Ben Ali, with the national capital at Mecca. Thus the children of Ishmael have been freed from the governmental domination of the Turkish descendants of Japheth.

The Church administration building in Salt Lake City will be ready for occupancy early in the year. For its evident convenience, its beautiful appearance, stability, and the commendable use of Utah materials as far as practicable in its construction, the edifice is a source of satisfaction to the thousands who visit it.

Mrs. Inez Mulholland Boissevain, who ranked as one of the great equal suffrage workers, although comparatively a young woman, died at Los Angeles just before Thanksgiving. She had become noted both for her womanly graces and her intelligent and forceful yet gentle and determined activity in the cause of woman's political enfranchisement.

Vulgar displays in picture shows and illegal resorts in Salt Lake City have received a setback through the arousing of public indignation on the part of the moral portion of the community. It is greatly to the discredit of the present municipal and other authorities that they did not act in proper enforcement of law until an outraged public sentiment compelled them to do so. There is in the minds of most people a feeling that even now it is spasmodic and not real nor lasting.

Miss Jeanette Rankin has been elected to Congress from Montana—the first woman member of the national House of Representatives. As indicated by her name, the young lady is of Scottish descent, and is said to possess the characteristic persistence and logic in argument of that race, with a very pleasing personality which makes friends of many of the intelligent among her antagonists. Her election is a decided advance toward abolishing unequal suffrage, and if Miss Rankin does as well as may be reasonably expected of her from her exemplary career, further forward steps in that direction cannot be far distant.

Two "Mormon" missionaries, one in Germany and the other in New Zealand, have been released from military service in those countries, to return to Utah, after nearly two years; the one in Germany having been in several battles on the Verdun front. For a long time they were unable to get a hearing on their American citizenship.

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah.

Motto: