HIGH COST OF LIVING. This high-cost-of-living talk has its limits. New Prices When you see women's clubs and men's Are Boosted. civic bodies, and even Congress making a tremendous fuss about the price of eggs and flour, while they say nothing whatever about the shoes and gloves, you get a bit angry if your sympathies run with the farmers, and that is where Utah's sympathies should be. Here starts a man or a firm to raise prices—on paper say; for that was one of the first big interests to deliberately take advantage of the war to raise prices and thus rake in a few millions of money and that raise made printer's ink get a rise then oil, gasoline, lumber, leather, rubber, tin, coal, iron, copper, and, in fact, every conceivable commodity was hoisted up in price to meet the original speculation. The Farmer Trails Behind Miles behind the other speculators come the food stuff's, meat and farmers' products, and Trails Behind, they accommodated themselves to the general rise in prices and lo, everybody gets mad at once. To think that milk and eggs and butter can dare to advance in price O it's awful. There's a cry about high prices that shakes the foundations of the earth. Of course, we all know that the middlemen The get the big benefits out of this rise in eggs Middleman. and food stuffs well so they do from coal and leather. The way society is now organized, the middleman is a necessity, and he has to live and get rich if he can. But the farmer gets better and steadier prices because of the middleman, and the farmer knows it. Of course, the farmer can cut out the middleman, and live on his own produce. But he won't, the modern farmer is too shrewd for that. I don't notice the club women crying out What Do about the rise in feathers and hats. Nor do Women Do I see them wearing any cheaper hats because About High of the unprecedented rise in all fancy goods. Priced No, no! My lady goes more richly clad, and Millinery? gives more luxurious entertainments than ever before. Then she gets together with her kind and shouts and resolutes and gets raving mad in the papers getting publicity at the same time and calls the egg man names and raises her hands in horror over the price of flour and sugar. O woman and O man! 

40 . Don't we all know enough of the primary The Sensible principles of political economy to know that View of The when prices are high, wages are correspond Presenting high and money is easy while prosperity reigns everywhere. That's the law of supply and demand. It's only silly folks who expect wages to rise and prices to fall at one and the same time. The sensible thing for you and me, my dear, is just to institute the severest economy we are capable of, refuse to go in debt, save all we can, wear last year's dresses and hats, use as few eggs as may be, and let the pseudo-reformers go their gait. This talk will all die down, you know. Congress and clubs will spend uselessly a few dollars of money in investigating, and things will end up just where they began. It is, after all, purely a personal matter. If we will each economize and be ready for the crash that is sure to follow, at the close of the war, we can afford to forget all the talk and resolutions while we wait quietly upon the god of war and consequent high prices. 

CALL FOR HISTORY ITEMS. Our General Historian desires to secure the names, sketches and pictures of all women who were milliners, dressmakers, school teachers, music teachers or midwives in Kirtland, Missouri or Nauvoo. Descendants who write such sketches will please include the genealogy and pedigrees of the persons described. These sketches will be published in the Deseret News Genealogical Department, while the names will appear in the list of historic women living in the early days of Church history. Kindly address: General Historian, Relief Society Headquarters, Room 29 Bishop's Building. Salt Lake City, Utah.