Testimony of President Emmeline B. Wells.

The following beautiful testimony of our honored lady was delivered in a Temple meeting, May 4, 1919, but has just been furnished to the "Magazine" by the Church reporter, Elder F. W. Otterstrom.
I think this is the third fast day that I have made up my mind that I certainly would speak, but did not because—well, there is always somebody ready to speak, and I guess I am not quick enough.

I feel that I have a testimony to bear, that I have always kept from the very day that I entered the City of Nauvoo and saw the Prophet Joseph. He came down to the boat to meet the Saints who were coming from the eastern states and the middle states up to the west.
I had been baptized by the wish of my mother, who became a Latter-day Saint as soon as she heard the gospel, but I had no testimony and I had not very much faith, because I did not know much about things. I was always interested in the people that were scholarly and in the greatest schools of the world, and I was particularly happy to believe that I was going to be very great and prominent.

When I came up the river on the boat and standing on the top of the boat to see the prophet on the landing from the boat, I knew instantly then that the gospel was true by the feeling that pervaded me from the crown of my head to the end of my fingers and toes, and every part of my body. I was sure then that I was right, for all that the "Mormonism" sacrifices that was true made I had and that I was fully to come paid Nauvoo.
I felt that just to see him would be worth it all. I had been prepared in a measure for seeing him, but I want to tell you I was not disappointed, because there never was a man like him.

The only incident where a man resembled him was when Brigham Young announced himself as president of the Church and the successor of the Prophet Joseph. I don't remember the words, but that was the announcement that he made in the grove on Temple Hill in the City of Nauvoo.
There were but very few people that knew he had come. They knew all the twelve were away at the time the Prophet Joseph and his brother, Hyrum, were slain, and I think very few in that audience knew that Brigham Young had returned.
When he came forward and made that announcement the whole company arose and exclaimed, in one voice, you might say, that it was the Prophet Joseph. I was standing in a wagon box on wheels, so I did not have to rise, but those who were seated arose and made that exclamation.
I could see very well, and every one of them thought it was really the Prophet Joseph risen from the dead. But after Brigham Young had spoken a few words the tumult subsided, and the people really knew that it was not the Prophet Joseph, but the president of the quorum of the twelve apostles.
It was the most wonderful manifestation, I think, that I have ever known or seen, and I have seen a very great number. It was my privilege when I first went to Nauvoo to become acquainted with one who was known all over the Church as "Mother Whitney."
I was in the homes of Latter-day Saints as soon as I arrived, and the same evening I heard the Prophet Joseph talk to the people.
A large number of us had gathered at the Murdock home on Temple Hill. I did not know that the prophet was coming, but he came that evening.
I have never felt anything so very wonderful as that evening when he talked to us. But I did not speak with him, nor did I shake hands with him, or go near him, but afterwards I was very intimate with him and recited for him and sang for him.
I was closely associated with people who knew him. Then, when he was taken to the prison, I saw him as he went.
I remember very well the day when his body was returned. The heavens poured out rain, just as if the heavens wept over him.
But this manifestation of power and of the mission of the Prophet Joseph I have promised myself and promised others, great men and great women, that I would always testify of it.

It was my privilege to be in the family of Bishop Newel K. Whitney, to which home the prophet went when he came to Nauvoo; and perhaps I will testify here—most of you have probably heard it—that they had not so very long been married.
They had two or three children and were questioning in their minds to which church they should belong. I think neither of them had belonged to any church.
Brother Whitney, I think, had been brought up in a family that had no religion at all, but

Wells 563 had been quite a prominent singer and dancer and delighted in all those things; but they prayed fervently to the Lord. At that time there was a great revival of the Campbellites in the state of Ohio, where they were then living. They were living not far from Kirtland and when the prophet came, he came into the store kept by Newel K. Whitney. He had been a trader with the Indians, selling furs in New York City and Boston, and buying things in return. The prophet came into the store from a sleigh that was outside, and went up the steps into the store. He reached out his hand to Newel K. Whitney, and said: "You have prayed me here, now what do you want?" Newel K. Whitney was so abashed and was taken by surprise so that he could not recall anything about it and the prophet had to repeat the question until this man remembered that he had prayed for a prophet to come. He received him into his home as soon as he came, and it was with the Prophet Joseph that he went to New York afterwards and borrowed money to start the Kirtland bank. Of course, many of you have not heard of the Kirtland bank, I suppose, and its failure; but when they were in the City of New York, staying at a hotel, I think the third story, they were standing on the third floor — that was as high as the houses were in New York at that time. I have heard the bishop say so, — Newel K. Whitney with the prophet looked over onto Long Island Sound, or the ocean, and he said to Newel K. Whitney: "This city will yet be destroyed. There will not be one stone left upon another to tell where it stood." I think there isn't anybody now to tell the story but myself. I don't know of anyone else unless it is some of Bishop Whitney's children; but I have no doubt but this prediction will be fulfilled. I have often reflected upon it when I have been in New York City, that that great city will yet be destroyed, by an earthquake, I suppose, or something of that kind. At any rate, all the prophecies of the Prophet Joseph Smith will be fulfilled. I have no more doubt about that than I have that I stand here today, fearing and trembling as I do. I have not any doubt of it at all. I wanted particularly to tell you of the manifestation when the mantle of the prophet fell upon Brigham Young. After that we had the greatest faith in him, the greatest that could possibly be; and we have had great faith in all those who have followed him. I am very grateful that we have Richard W. Young. I remember his mother very well and what a faithful woman she was, faithful under every circumstance and privation. I have known all the leaders of the Church that have been of 664 very great consequence and a great many hundreds of other people and I have borne testimony to the people over and over again in the city of Washington and in the city of New York and to many great people and in the city of Boston that what I was brought up to think was the next thing to heaven. I have been everywhere, and everywhere that I have been, I have borne my testimony. I recall a time when I was in Washington meeting with the committees. I was with a committee of five and I was saying something rather important. Susan B. Anthony was presiding. A woman away off in the corner arose and said: "That woman is a 'Mormon.' She ought not to speak here." I rather trembled, but Susan B. Anthony arose and said: "Don't take any notice of her. If you go on they will not think of it." I went on and she did not hinder me. I have had many opportunities to bear my testimony and I have never been ashamed or fearful in any way to do so. I was not fearful at that time but it rather annoyed me to have that brought up in a very large assembly of people, to have some one call out that I was a "Mormon"; because at that time the "Mormons" were not so favorably considered as they are today. I am very happy that I have lived to be the age that I am and that I am still able to bear this testimony to the truth. The first day of last March I had been in the Church seventy-seven years. When I was here in meeting that day I was very anxious to speak but I did not get an opportunity because I did not jump up quick enough so I did not have the opportunity to speak. But all along, after the first of my being baptized — and I was baptized at the wish of my mother and not because I knew the gospel was true; and she died as much a martyr to the gospel as if she had been shot. She was one of those who accepted the truth when it first came to her. She suffered much because when they were driven out, she was driven out and endured many terrible hardships, so that she died by the wayside and was buried on the way. They were all martyrs to the truth. I pray that the Lord may continue to bless us. I am sure He will. I have no doubts about it. Especially I feel today to bless Richard Young —