Household Hints Jeanette A. Hyde.
The art of furnishing suitable appetizers and vegetables to go with meat is seldom seriously considered. Therefore, commencing with this issue, we will offer some suggestions, in response to a request from many subscribers. Carefully planned menus with balanced food values well considered, are, as a rule, cheaper in cost than meals not well considered. The list of vegetables given in this department may be added to as one desires or according to family tastes.

Let us consider first the foods which furnish an agreeable accompaniment to beef — whether it be boiled, plain, pot roast, baked or diced in flour, boiled or braised. Mashed potatoes go well with pot roast and to be good must be served hot, having been thoroughly mashed before adding the hot milk or cream, well seasoned with salt, and if desired extra nice and fluffy, one tablespoon of baking powder may be added to them at the last good whipping up. Change the bill by using baked potatoes, browned, boiled, new potatoes served in cream, or new boiled with skins on.

With steak, use French fried potatoes, mashed, shoe string, fancy diced or hashed brown potatoes. Other vegetables which are most acceptable with steak are: spinach, corn, onions, squash, Brussels sprouts, cabbage, tomatoes, string beans, celery, peppers, and carrots.

Always choose light desserts for a meat dinner, as the meat with its rich gravy furnishes sufficient fat. Such desserts are: fruit tarts, cereal or bread puddings, plain or layer cake, corn starch pudding, fruit or Jello desserts. Light pickles and sauces as relishes add a delicious flavor to the midday heavy meals.

During hot weather it is almost necessary to dispense with the meats, hot broths, and soups, using instead fruit cocktails, melons and so forth as an entree. Such light foods introduced at the beginning of the meal cause the gastric juices to flow and thus prepare the stomach for the digestion of the heavier foods which are taken in the second course of the dinner.

Iced soups and bouillons are in good taste and demand during the summer months.

Miscellaneous Hints:
Grease the sides of the rice or macaroni kettle to avoid its boiling over. Creole cooks put about a salt spoonful of lard into the rice kettle, claiming that it not only prevents boiling over but also keeps the individual shapes of the rice kernels better.
* * *
Make little pies on the zinc screw tops of fruit jars. They hold about a spoonful of fruit filling and make a neater dessert to put in a lunch box than a piece of cut pie.
Before stuffing green peppers soak them in weak salt water.
* * *
Tough meat may be made tender by placing in plate of vinegar water, or rubbed freely with lemon juice.
* * *
Brown sauce is improved much in flavor by using a little onion juice.
* * *
Peach Fritters. Peel, cut in quarters, take out stone, dip in batter, dry in hot fat, drain on oil paper, and sprinkle with powdered sugar.

Almost any whole fruit cut into slices, dipped in batter, and fried in hot, deep fat, will make good fritters, which served with chops are very popular and delicious.
* * *
Fritter Batter. Two eggs, well beaten; 1 teaspoon salt; 1/4 cup milk; pinch of nutmeg or cinnamon. Enough sifted flour to make creamy batter, dip in fruit, and fry in hot fat.

As this is the season for string beans we give the best method for preparation of same. String beans should be put into rapidly boiling water to which a teaspoon full each of salt, sugar, small pinch of baking soda has been added. Leave the cover off while the beans are cooking, and they will be a beautiful color.

Beans should be cooked at least two hours before they are really ready to serve. One-half hour before dinner, add two or three onions, or, if liked, add a clove or mint leaf; especially if they are to be used cold for salad.

For fireless cooker or electric stove cooking of string beans, put them in cold with one or two tablespoons of butter — no water at all — and cook them three hours. Peas are even better cooked in the same manner. Water soaks out rich flavors from the vegetables. Carrots, onions, and cabbage may be deliciously cooked in the same manner.
 
We housekeepers are always glad to get a little new side light on our daily tasks of preparing food for the family.
Graham bread is very popular and healthy for most people. Nowadays we like to use shorts and bran and rye flour, mixed with white flour, especially when there is anyone in the family who is constipated and in need of bran in some shape.

A modest old friend taught me to use buttermilk or sour milk lately in mixing bread, using just the same amount of yeast that I otherwise would. The bread comes up twice as quick, is light and crumbly, and is never soggy and sticky.
Of course, soda should be used with the buttermilk, unless one likes the little acid tang which always is found in European breads raised by leaven.

One quart of white flour, 1/2 pint rye meal, 1/2 pint bran, 1 pint shorts or graham flour, 1 quart of buttermilk, 1 teaspoon soda sifted in white flour, 2 teaspoons salt, 2 tablespoons of sugar, soak yeast cakes until soft, pour buttermilk and other ingredients into the flour and mold thoroughly.

GRAPEFRUIT MARMALADE. Emma A. Empey. Cut one large grapefruit in thin slices, leaving rind on the fruit. Select bright, yellow, smooth-skinned fruit and take out seeds. Slice one lemon thin, cover both these with one quart of water and let soak over night. Let boil until soft next morning; when boiled about one-half an hour, measure fruit and juice and add one pint of sugar for each pint of juice. Boil again for one-half of an hour or more until it jellies. This will make a number of glasses of marmalade with the pleasant bitter taste so relished by English housekeepers.