Lesson I. TESTIMONY AND GENEALOGY. First Week in October. The Penalty for Neglect of Temple Work.
That the mind of the prophet dwelt continuously, during his later years, on the subject of salvation for the dead, is proven again and again in his writings and in the history of the Church. The doctrine seems so simple, so comprehensive, that the Latter-day Saints seized upon it with eager delight and hungered for more light and still more light.

The following extracts give the prophet's ideas in more detail and especially his emphatic declaration that unless the temple is built in Nauvoo, "we shall be rejected as a Church with our dead":—

In an editorial from the "Times and Seasons," vol. 4, page 595, occurs the following:

The great designs of God, in relation to the salvation of the human family, are very little understood by the professedly wise and intelligent generation in which we live. Various and conflicting are the opinions of men concerning the plan of salvation, the requisition of the Almighty, the necessary preparations for heaven, the state and condition of departed spirits, and the happiness or misery that is consequent upon the practice of righteousness and iniquity, according to their several notions of virtue and vice.
The Mussulman condemns the heathen, the Jew, and the Christian, and the whole world of mankind rejects the Mussulmans. The Koran regards others as infidels, and consigns the whole of them to perdition. The Jew believes that the whole world that rejects his faith and are not circumcised, are Gentile dogs, and will be damned. The heathen is equally as tenacious about his principles, and the Christian consigns all to perdition who cannot bow to his creed, and submit to his "ipse dixit."
From "History of the Church," vol. 4, period one, page 595. Fora chapter 35.
The doctrine of baptism for the dead.
At the general conference of the Church, held at Nauvoo, October 3, 1841, the prophet said: One dies and is buried, having never heard the gospel of reconciliation; to the other the message of salvation has been sent, he has heard and embraced it, and is made the heir of eternal life. Shall the one become the partaker of glory and the other be consigned to hopeless perdition? Is there no chance for his escape?
Sectarianism answers "none." Such an idea is worse than atheism.
The truth shall break down and dash in pieces all such bigoted Pharisaism; the sects shall be sifted, the honest in heart brought out, and their priests left in the midst of their corruption. This doctrine presents in a clear light the wisdom and mercy of God in preparing an ordinance for the salvation of the dead, being baptized by proxy, their names recorded in heaven, and they judged according to the deeds done in the body.
This doctrine was the burden of the scriptures. Those saints who neglect it in behalf of their deceased relatives do it at the peril of their own salvation.
The dispensation of the fulness of times will bring to light the things that have been revealed in all former dispensations; also other things that have not been before revealed. He shall send Elijah, the Prophet, etc., and restore all things in Christ.
President Smith then announced: "There shall be no more baptisms for the dead until the ordinance can be attended to in the Lord's House; and the Church shall not hold another general conference until they can meet in said house. For thus saith the Lord!"
In regard to the practical working of this principle, we find the prophet announced at the general conference for April, 1844: As soon as the temple and baptismal font are prepared, we calculate to give the Elders of Israel their washings and anointings, and attend to those last and more impressive ordinances, without which we cannot obtain celestial thrones. But there must be a holy place prepared for that purpose.
There was a proclamation made during the time that the foundation of the temple was laid to that effect, so that men may receive their endowments and be made kings and priests unto the Most High God, having nothing to do with temporal things, but their whole time will be taken up with things pertaining to the house of God.
There must, however, be a place built expressly for that purpose, and for men to be baptized for their dead. It must be built in this, the central place; for every man who wishes to save his father, mother, brothers, sisters, and friends, must go through himself, from baptism to ordination, washings and anointings, and receive all the keys and powers of the Priesthood, the same as for himself.
The Lord has an established law in relation to the matter: there must be a particular spot prepared for the salvation of our dead. Men who want to save their dead can come and bring their families, do their work by being baptized and attending to the other ordinances for their dead, and then may go back again to live and wait till they go to receive their reward.
In an address delivered in Nauvoo by the prophet occurs the following:
My text is on the resurrection of the dead, which you will find in the 14th chapter of John—"In my Father's house are many mansions." It should be— "In my Father's kingdom are many kingdoms," in order that ye may be heirs of God and joint-heirs with Christ.
I do not believe the Methodist doctrine of sending honest men and noble-minded men to hell, along with the murderer and the adulterer. I have an order of things to save the poor fellows at any rate, or to get them saved; for I will send men to preach to them in prison and save them if I can.
There are mansions for those who obey a celestial law, and there are other mansions for those who come short of the law, every man in his own order. There is baptism, etc., for those to exercise who are alive, and baptism for the dead who die without the knowledge of the gospel.
I am going on in my progress for eternal life. It is not only necessary that you should be baptized for your dead but you will have to go into temples to save yourselves. There will be 144,000 saviors on Mount Zion, and with them an innumerable host that no man can number.
Oh! I beseech you to go forward, go forward and make your calling and your election sure; and if any man preach any other gospel than that which I have preached, he shall be cursed; and some of you who now hear me shall see it, and know that I testify the truth concerning them. In regard to the law of the Priesthood, there should be a place where all nations shall come up from time to time to receive their endowment; and the Lord has said this shall be the place for the baptisms for the dead.
Every man that has been baptized and belongs to the kingdom has a right to be baptized for those who have gone before; and as soon as the law of the gospel is obeyed here by their friends who act as proxy for them, the Lord has administrators there to set them free.

A man may act as proxy for his own relatives; the ordinances of the gospel which were laid out before the foundations of the world have thus been fulfilled by them, and we may be baptized for those whom we have much friendship for; but it must first be revealed to the man of God, lest we should run too far. "As in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive;" all shall be raised from the dead. The Lamb of God hath brought to pass the resurrection, so that all shall rise from the dead. God Almighty himself dwells in eternal fire; flesh and blood cannot go there, for all corruption is devoured by the fire. "Our God is a consuming fire." When our flesh is quickened by the spirit, there will be no blood in this tabernacle. Some dwell in higher glory than others.

From "History of the Church," vol. 6, period one, page 363. — From President Joseph Smith's address, "Resurrection of the Dead," chant again he says: Minutes of the General Conference of the Church held at Nauvoo. The angel that appeared to John on the Isle of Patmos was a translated or resurrected body (i.e., personage). Jesus Christ went in body after his resurrection, "to minister to resurrected bodies." There has been a chain of authority and power from Adam down to the present time. The best way to obtain truth and wisdom is not to ask it from books, but to go to God in prayer, and obtain divine teaching. It is no more incredible that God should save the dead than that he should raise the dead.

The announcement that the whole land of America is Zion. In an address by Hyrum Smith, the patriarch, in April 1844, we read: I never knew a proclamation to be understood at once. President Brigham Young wished to draw the attention of the brethren first to build the temple and get your washings, anointings, and endowments; after that to build up branches throughout the nations. We must do all we can to build up the temple, and after that to build churches. The gathering will continue here until the temple is so far finished that the elders can get their endowments; and after that the gathering will be from the nations to North and South America, which is the land of Zion. North and South America are the symbols of the wings. The gathering from the old countries will always be to headquarters.

After the martyrdom of the prophet and patriarch, the Council of the Twelve rightfully took charge of the spiritual and temporal affairs of the Church. An epistle was issued after matters were regulated somewhat in Nauvoo, and the following extract shows the continued activity of the Church along temple lines. It is interesting to know that the various apostate "Mormon" churches have done nothing towards temple work or temple building. The Latter-day Saints are the only temple-building people in the world today.

In an epistle of the Twelve Apostles to the Saints of the last days, we find: The building of the temple of the Lord in the city of Nauvoo is occupying the first place in the exertions and prayers of many of the Saints at the present time, knowing as they do that if this building is not completed speedily, "we shall be rejected as a church with our dead;" for the Lord our God hath spoken it.

1. What do you think of a plan of salvation which should exclude nine-tenths of the children of men?
2. What does vicarious salvation mean?
3. Why might the Saints be rejected with their dead?
4. What is a baptismal font?
5. How many saviors will there be on Mount Zion?
6. What are you doing to become one of those saviors?
7. How shall we best obtain knowledge?
8. Who was the Patriarch Hyrum Smith?
9. Where is Zion?

First week in November. Temple work, now and in the millennium.

The mind is often drawn out in wonder as to the need of temples and what power and gifts we shall receive there and when. We like to discover also the beginning of this work, as taught by the prophet, and further elucidated by his successor, Brigham Young.

The Prophet Joseph administered the ordinances of the endowment a year before his martyrdom to Brigham Young, as will be seen from the following extracts, taken from the history of Brigham Young:

May 26, 1843— Met with the Prophet Joseph Smith, the Patriarch Hyrum, Elders Kimball and Richards, receiving our endowments and instructions in the priesthood. The Prophet Joseph administered to us the first ordinances of the endowment, and gave us instructions on the priesthood and the new and everlasting covenant.

May 28 (Sunday)— I met with Bros. Joseph, Hyrum, Heber, Willard, Bishop Whitney, and Judge Adams, when we administered to Brother Joseph the same ordinances of endowment and of the holy Priesthood which he had administered unto us.

May 29— Met at 9 a.m. with the same brethren when Joseph instructed us further in the principles pertaining to the holy Priesthood.

December 3, 1843— Met in assembly room with Joseph, Hyrum, and the Twelve, when the ordinances were administered to Elders Orson Hyde, Parley P. Pratt, W. Woodruff, George A. Smith, and Orson Spencer. We received instructions on the priesthood from Joseph.

December 9— W. W. Phelps, Levi Richards, and C. P. Lott received endowments.

December 17— Samuel H. Smith received endowments.

December 23— Isaac Morley and wife received endowments.

Brigham Young said in a sermon preached in 1856: We were driven from Missouri after Joseph went up there, and we came to Nauvoo, and the Twelve went to England. While we were in England, I think, the Lord manifested to me by visions and his spirit things concerning them until I returned to Nauvoo. Joseph had never mentioned this; there had never been a thought of it in the Church that I knew anything about it at that time. But I had this for myself, and I kept it to myself, and when I returned home and Joseph revealed these things to me, I then understood the reflections that were upon my mind while in England. But this was not until after I had told him what I understood. I saw that he was after something by his conversation, leading my mind along, and others, to see how we could bear this. This was in 1841; the revelation was given in 1843, but the doctrine was revealed before this; and when I told Joseph what I understood, which was right in front of my house in the street, as he was shaking hands and leaving me, he turned round and looked me in the eyes and said: "Brother Brigham, are you speaking what you understand, — are you in earnest?" Said I: "I speak just as the spirit manifests to me." He turned and said: "God bless you."

bless you, the Lord has opened your mind," and about this time came the revelation concerning the baptism for the dead. I know that in my traveling and preaching, many a time, I have stopped by beautiful streams of clear, pure water, and have said to myself, "How delightful it would be to me to go into this, to be baptized for the remission of sins for my forefathers." When I got home Joseph told me it was my privilege. He told me that we could be baptized for our dear friends, but at first it was not revealed that a record should be kept of those who were baptized; but when he received an additional revelation to that effect, then a record was kept. Many, I suppose, were baptized before any record was kept at all, and they were baptized over, and a record kept of the baptisms and the names of the administrator, those who acted for the dead, and of the dead, and of the witnesses. You can read in the "Book of Doctrine and Covenants," the letter that Joseph wrote when he was away from home in regard to having witnesses at these baptisms. I relate this to show you that the Lord did not reveal everything at once; but I need not dwell on this any longer.

On Sunday, May 1, 1842, the Prophet Joseph writes: I preached in the grove, on the keys of the kingdom, charity, etc. The keys are certain signs and words by which false spirits and personages may be detected from true, which cannot be revealed to the elders till the temple is completed. The rich can only get them in the temple, the poor may get them on the mountain top as did Moses. The rich cannot be saved without charity, given to feed the poor when and how God requires it of them, as well as building temples. There are signs in heaven, earth and hell; the elders must know them all, to be endowed with power, to finish their work and prevent imposition. The devil knows many signs, but does not know the sign of the Son of Man, or Jesus.

That temple work will occupy all of our time in the Millennium is indicated in the following extract: At the general conference in Great Salt Lake City, April 8, 1853, President Young said: We have at least one thousand years, counting three hundred and sixty-five days, five hours, forty-eight minutes, and fifty-seven seconds to the year, if I recollect right, wherein the elders of Israel will enter holy temples of the Lord, and officiate for just such persons as you and me, that have done the work we were called to do in our day, whether it was much or little. There will be hundreds of thousands of the sons of Jacob to administer in these temples for you and me. Joseph, Hyrum, Father Smith, and many others will be there to dictate and preside. Joseph will stand at the head of this dispensation and hold the keys of it, for they are not taken from him, they never were in time, they never will be in eternity. I shall be there, if I live, or if I die. If I die, my brethren or my children will officiate for me; I shall lose nothing through death.

Magnify your calling in this Church; and I will warrant you an exaltation just as good and as great as you can ask for. President Young said April 8, 1852: Now, do you want me to explain this a little? Suppose I happen to drop off from this state of mortal existence, and leave a great many things undone that I wanted to do. For instance, I am not sealed to my father, and this is necessary, as I was born before the new and everlasting covenant was restored; consequently, not being an heir, I have to receive my inheritance in my father's kingdom by adoption — by the sealing law. The keys of the sealing power spoken of were to be committed to Elijah for the last days; these are things spoken of. I must be sealed to my father, and thus make a chain of priesthood to connect the links together.

Suppose I should drop off before this is done, what a pity it would be for Brother Brigham to go into eternity and not have his work done. Let me be faithful unto the end, and my works will follow me. If I had not a son in the world disposed to do my work for me, by and by, my daughters would have sons and grandsons; and suppose they would not act for me, I have friends on the earth, for God would raise them up for me, to do my work.

That is not all: by and by the Lord will say to the sleeping dust, awake, and come forth out of your graves. I am on hand, the Lord wakes me up, or sends somebody to do it that possesses the keys of the resurrection. My dust is waked up, my spirit is reunited to it, and it is made a celestial body, filled with immortality and eternal life.

Behold, the first that my children or my friends know of it, I will be with them in some of these temples, and tell them what to do. It may be of interest in this connection to record that President Young took the endowment for his father, the first day that work was done in the St. George temple. And that was the first day that endowments for the dead were ever given on this earth, so far as is known.

Baptisms and sealings for the dead were performed in the Nauvoo temple and in the Endowment House. But no endowments were given in either of the houses for the dead.

The following extract from a recent letter written by David H. Cannon, the president of the St. George temple, is timely: "I quote to you from my dairy, 11th January, 1877: 'Remarks by President Young; "This endowment was revealed to us in the brick store in Nauvoo by the Prophet Joseph Smith." * * * Today is the first time that an endowment has been given to the dead, of which we have any knowledge. It is possible that something may have been done in the days of Enoch of which we have no account.' This is what I wrote at the time in my own language, and not just in the words used by the president."

At the general conference of the Church, held at Nauvoo, President Joseph Smith, by request of the twelve apostles, gave instructions on the doctrine of baptism for the dead. "The proclamation of the first principles of the gospel was a means of salvation to men individually; and it was the truth, not men, that saved them; but men, by actively engaging in rites of salvation substitutionally become instrumental in bringing multitudes of their kindred into the kingdom of God."

1.

Why is it necessary to record the work done in temples? 
2. Who will stand at the head of this dispensation? 
3. How can the chain of the priesthood be fastened back to Adam? 
4. What is the law of adoption, or the sealing law? 
5. What have you done about giving endowments for your kindred dead who may have been baptized for and sealed in the old Endowment House? 

LESSON II. (For October and November.) WORK AND BUSINESS. 
LESSON . "BOOK OF MORMON"— BIBLE TESTIMONY. (Third Week in October.) Subject: Ephraim in America. Text: Ezekiel 37:15-22; Hosea 9:11-12, 7:8; 5:15; Jeremiah 31:9. Aim or Central Truth: Error has delayed truth but never overcome it. This lesson will conclude the Bible testimony concerning the "Book of Mormon," but will by no means exhaust the same. Time and space compel us to be briefer than we like to be in order that the remaining lessons, of which there are only two, shall deal with archaeological testimony. Proposition eight states that Ezekiel is in perfect agreement with Isaiah when he foretells the bringing to light of the "Stick of Joseph" in the hands of Ephraim, and the time when it should come forth, and the nature of the great event, the gathering of Israel, which should commence with the appearance of the "Book." Since the restoration of the gospel with its principles and its keys, these two factors, like the pistons on a locomotive, have been, and still are, working for the unfolding of God's purposes, and the facts are so apparent and conclusive that we meet the most important objections offered by the enemies of the "Book of Mormon," namely: That staff, rod and stick are used synonymously and interchangeably (1) in the Bible and be accepted as meaning, power. (2) That the "Book of Mormon" does not claim that any of Ephraim came to America. The unwary might be deceived with this objection were it not for the fact that the "Stick of Ephraim," should record certain writings. The writings (history) upon this stick should be for Joseph and for all the house of Israel his companions. Ezekiel 37:15-22. It may be insisted that we read of the rod of Aaron, the scepter of Judah, and the shepherd staff, etc., but they are in no instance used in the sense of a stick as set out by Ezekiel. These terms are not used interchangeably, for they are all symbolic of power and not of history. Our opponents are far afield when they seek to urge this objection against the "Book" when they themselves cannot reconcile it with the facts set forth by Ezekiel. Considering objection number two: It is true the "Book" makes no direct mention of Ephraim, and for a very good reason, as we shall soon see. It is just as true that the "Book" does not state that any of Ephraim was not represented in either of the colonies of Lehi or of Mulek that came subsequently to America. Neither does the book state that all who came with Lehi were of the tribe of Manasseh. According to the book, Lehi was a Manassehite, but the lineage of the families of Ishmael and Zoram who came with him is not given by the book. Might they not have been of the tribe of Ephraim? Further, when Mulek left Jerusalem for America, according to the book, he brought "a company" with him, but the lineage of the company is not given. Might not Ephraim have been largely represented in this company? Had the book traced Ephraim by lineage to America, it would have laid itself open to serious and disastrous criticism, and herein, in the writer's opinion, is one of the strongest evidences of the divine authenticity of the book. According to ancient prophecy, and because of his sins and abnominations, Ephraim should be scattered among his brethren. "As for Ephraim, their glory shall fly away like a bird, from the birth, and from the womb, and from the conception. Though they bring up their children, yet will I bereave them, that there shall not be a man left, yea, woe also to them when I depart from them." Hosea 9:11-12. This does not mean annihilation, for Ephraim has a very important work to do in the last days when the "Stick of Joseph" is to be in his hands, and the Lord shall gather Israel from among all nations of the earth and the islands of the sea. It does mean, however, that his glory as a nation shall be lost. They were to be taken as from early birth and separated one from another, and thus destroyed as a nation. Hosea 7:8 tells us, "Ephraim, he hath mixed himself among the people; Ephraim is a cake not turned." Again, "For I will be unto Ephraim as a lion, and as a young lion to the house of Judah; I, even I, will rear and go away; I will take away and none shall rescue him." Hosea 5:14 Here the thought is that Ephraim is to be torn to pieces, scattered. The big thought that comes out of all these prophecies concerning Ephraim is that he had lost his identity as a nation, mixed among the people, and hence, unable these many centuries to trace his lineage. But in the last days Ephraim is to come out from the people, establish his identity, and assume his responsibilities, as Jeremiah sets forth, "They shall come with weeping, and with supplications will I lead them. I will cause them to walk by the rivers of waters in a straight way, wherein they shall not stumble. For, I am a father to Israel, and Ephraim is my first born." Jer. 31:9. In the last days, Ephraim is to be first in the work. He never has been before. He has been patiently awaiting his opportunity to assume the functions of the first born in that day where he is brought to light through the instrumentality of a prophet standing up with the Urim and Thummim as was the case in the time of Nehemiah. 

LESSON . "BOOK OF MORMON"—ARCHAEOLOGICAL TESTIMONY. (Third Week in November.) Subject: Portions of the book opposed to scientific deductions at the time of its coming forth. Text: Robertson's History of America, vol. II, pages 28-30; edition, 1790; vol. II, edition, 1776; Ibid, Note 58, to page 298; vol. II, edition, 1790; Ibid, vo. II, pages 31, 35 and 36, edition of 1817, and vol. II, pages 31 and 32, edition, 1796; The American Universal Geography, page 75, edition, 1793. Aim: Living up to the light we possess often leads to wrong conclusions unless we take God into the reckoning. When the "Book of Mormon" was first published, in 1829-30, little was known as to this continent's past in any particular. The Indians were here, and in different states of development, from crudest savagery to semi-civilization; but as to who they were, or how they came, science and history were alike non-committal and unenlightening. What is the origin of America's red man? a curious world had asked.

Until the "Book of Mormon" came forth with its definite and positive statements, announcing without equivocation the relation of the Indian to the past: that from a high plane of civilization he had retrograded to a state of savagery, none could be found who would venture more than an opinion as to the past of the red man and his country. It is true that early writers had expressed opinions and set up sundry claims concerning the subject, probably the earliest dating back as far as 1607, when Gregoria Garcia, a missionary in South America, published a work in Spanish favoring a Tartar and Chinese origin. Others followed, but space will not permit of even mentioning their publications and the dates of issuance. It is not our purpose, however, to dispose of these earlier publications summarily.

Dr. William Robertson, D.D., principal of the University of Edinburgh, and a member of the Royal Academy of Madrid, as far back as the year 1790, published a work entitled, "The History of America." In this work the learned doctor has canvassed and analyzed the most plausible opinions and conjectures of those from Garcia, 1607, to his own time. Answering his own question set out in his history, "How was America peopled?" he says: "There is hardly any nation from the north to the south pole, to which some antiquary, in the extravagance of conjecture, has not ascribed the honor of peopling America. The Jews, the Canaanites, the Phoenicians, the Carthaginians, the Greeks, the Scythians in ancient times, are supposed to have settled in this western world. The Chinese, the Swedes, the Norwegian, the Welsh, and the Spaniard, are said to have sent colonies thither in later ages, at different periods, and on various occasions.

* * * * - Ye may lay it down as a certain principle in this inquiry, that America was not peopled by any nation of the ancient continent which had made considerable progress in civilization. The inhabitants of the new world were in a state of society so extremely rude as to be unacquainted with those arts which are the first essays of human ingenuity in its advance towards improvement. Even the most cultivated nations in America were strangers to many of those simple inventions which were almost coeval with society in other parts of the world, and were known in the earliest periods of civil life with which we have any acquaintance.

From this it is manifest that the tribes which originally emigrated to America came off from nations which must have been no less barbarous than their posterity at the time when they were first discovered by the Europeans. For although the elegant and refined arts may decline or perish amid the violent shocks of those revolutions and disasters to which nations are exposed, the necessary arts of life, when once they have been introduced among any people, are never lost. None of the vicissitudes in human affairs affect these, and they continue to be practiced as long as the race of men exists.

If ever the use of iron had been known to the savages of America or to their progenitors; if ever they had employed a plow, a loom, a forge, the utility of those inventions would have preserved them, and it is impossible that they should have been abandoned or forgotten. "We may conclude then that the Americans sprung from some people who were themselves in such an early and unimproved stage of society as to be unacquainted with all those necessary arts which continued to be unknown among their posterity when first visited by the Spaniards." (Robertson's History of America, vol. II, pages 28-30, and the same information is found in a later edition of 1796.)

Further, the same author says: "The houses of the people were mere huts of turf or mud, or the branches of trees, like those of the rudest Indian. There is not in all the extent of that vast empire a single monument or vestige of any building more ancient than the conquest." (Ibid, Note 58 to page 298.)

Again: "In all America, however, there is not one animal, tame or wild, which properly belongs to the warm or even the more temperate countries of the ancient continent. The camel, the dromedary, the horse, the cow were as much unknown in America as the elephant or the lion. From this it is obvious that the people who first settled in the western world did not issue from the countries where those animals abound and where men, from having been long accustomed to their aid, would naturally consider it not only as beneficial but as indispensably necessary to the improvement and even the preservation of civil society." (Ibid, pages 31, 35, 36, edition of 1817, and included again in an earlier edition on pages 31 and 32 of 1796.)

Here then we have the verdict of science with reference to the question under discussion just preceding the publication of the "Book of Mormon." At that date it was probably the foremost scientific conclusion and accepted as such almost universally. Certain it is that it was accepted and taught in the schools of this country as is evident from the following, taken from "The American Universal Geography or a View of all the Empires, Kingdoms, States, and Republics in the Known World and of the United States of America in Particular," printed at Boston, Massachusetts, 1793, by Jedediah Morse, A.M., page 75, and answering the question "But who were they?" (meaning the Indians). This work disposes of the question in the following simple manner: "To recite all the opinions given in answer to this question and the reasons to support them would fill a volume. Doctor Robertson and the Abbe Clavijero have extensively and learnedly investigated the subject. I can not expect to afford the reader more satisfaction than to give him the results of their inquiries. Doctor Robertson having recapitulated and canvassed the most plausible opinions on the subject comes to the following conclusion." (And the author proceeds to give these conclusions as hereinbefore expressed.)

Science, according to Herbert Spencer, is simply a higher development of common knowledge. It will be the purpose of our next lesson to show how far afield Doctor Robertson wandered in expressing scientifically his deductions concerning the American Indian in relation to his progenitors, to prehistoric America and the civilizations with their arts and sciences which flourished at different periods on this continent. In a word it will be shown how utterly unscientific and untenable are his positions when thrown against the truth as revealed in the pages of the divine record.

The foregoing then was the teaching of Joseph Smith's boyhood days. Such was the attitude of the public mind toward prehistoric America. Out of this teaching and attitude would naturally come the inspiration for the writing of an entirely different book than the "Book of Mormon" proved to be. This would be true whether Joseph Smith in and of himself or any other man or set of men had attempted to write a book dealing with prehistoric America.

All would have been influenced more or less by the teachings of their day. It is not at all probable, or possible, that any dreamer or speculative genius could, by conjecture, have so imagined or written anything that might have formed a basis for the production of the "Book of Mormon." But what are the facts in the case? We shall find them to be contradictory and diametrically opposed, as set forth in the book, to all the positions established by scientific research up to the time of, and for years after, the coming forth of the book. We shall find, among other things, that the book clearly sets forth: First, three civilizations have existed, flourished and decayed upon parts of the continent, and one on nearly every part. Second, that the civilization, in so far as the occupancy of the country is concerned, in each instance was from the south to the north. Third, that the order of the last civilization, unlike any other known country, was reversed. That it did not proceed in the natural order from the lower to the higher, from the savage to the civilized; but on the contrary, the order was strange and significant to say the least, from the higher to the lower, from the civilized to the savage. Fourth, that each of these civilizations possessed the arts and sciences to a remarkable degree. Fifth, that there was early brought to this continent by the first people the common and domestic animals. Sixth, that these people, as well as those who came at a later date, built many large and wonderful cities. Seventh, that the last great civilization was of Israelitish extraction.

(Note: The members of the society will do well to search the book with a view of ascertaining its positions as pointed out by the seven foregoing statements.)

LESSON . LITERATURE. (October Lesson.) (Optional) (Some of Tennyson's Minor Poems.)

Some of Tennyson's poems might almost be styled wisdom literature; at all events, they deal with the deep problems of life and death. "Tithonus," a poem with a Greek name, presents one of life's problems. We have in this ancient gentleman one who is destined to live the mortal life forever because, forsooth, favored of the gods, he had asked for immortality. Then he sees all things about him die in season and refresh themselves again while he alone wanders as a "white-haired shadow roaming like a dream." He watches the spring come forth in all its loveliness and freshness, and in the agony of his soul cries out, "The woods decay, the woods decay and fall; The vapors weep their burden to the ground. Man comes and tills the earth and lies beneath. And after many a summer dies the swan. Me only cruel immortality consumes; I wither slowly in thine arms, Here at the quiet limit of the world."

In this same anguish, Tithonus cries to the gods, to take back their gift, moaning: "Why should a man desire in any way To vary from the kindly race of men. Or pass beyond the goal of ordinance Where all should praise as is most meet for all?"

Sometimes we hear people express themselves in a fashion that would lead us to believe that they are just a little like Tithonus. They are like him in that they wish they might live forever, or that their loved ones might live forever. Tennyson, in using this old Greek legend, would have us understand that no matter how natural and innate the longing for immortality may be, it must come in the manner in which God has provided, and not in a way man might suggest, for death as well as life is of God's order.

The "Ancient Sage" is another poem full of profound thought. The very name suggests wisdom. In the "Ancient Sage," we have the picture of one who has sounded the depths of knowledge and knows that wisdom lies beyond, and who having done so, instructs others thus: Thou canst not prove the nameless, O my son; Nor canst thou prove the world thou movest in; Thou canst not prove that: thou art body alone. Nor canst thou prove that thou art spirit alone; Nor canst thou prove that thou art both in one. Thou canst not prove thou art immortal—no; Nor yet that thou art mortal—nay, my son. Thou canst not prove that I, who speak with thee, Am not thyself in converse with thyself. For nothing worthy proving can be proven, Nor yet disproven, wherefore thou be wise Cleave ever to the sunnier side of doubt And cling to faith beyond the forms of faith!

She reels not in the storm of warring words; She brightens at the clash of "yes" and "no"; She sees the best that glimmers through the worst; She feels the sun is hid but for a night; She spies the summer through the winter bud; She tastes the fruit before the blossom falls; She hears the lark within the songless egg; She finds the fountain where they wailed mirage!

Many of the most vital truths of existence are not capable of the kind of proof that scholars choose to call scientific; this, no doubt, is one of the reasons why it is impossible to please God without faith. In "Lady Clara Vere de Vere," we find a stanza reading: Trust me, Clara Vere de Vere, From yon blue heavens above us bent, The Gardener Adam and his wife Smile at the claims of long descent; However it be, it seems to me, 'Tis only noble to be good.

"Kind hearts are more than coronets, and simple faith than Norman blood." The British people accepted this as a statement of Tennyson's democratic outlook on even the statement, life, when nor did they raise he was feel that he to the peerage. Another quotation from Tennyson, occurring in Locksley Hall, has received marked attention from orators and writers in the decade that has just past. It reads, "I am the heir of all the ages in the foremost files of time." Here the poet gratefully acknowledges the debt of humanity to a past, rich in religion, philosophy, science, art, and music.

1. Read "Tithonus" through with care, and determine what great lesson it teaches.
2. Do you fancy that living forever in the mortal state could bring happiness to anyone? Give your reasons for the stand you take.
3. John the Revelator and the three Nephites are permitted to remain upon the earth until Christ's second coming. In order to do this, did they undergo any change?
4. What characteristic of the Swan's life leads the poet to say, "And after many a summer dies the swan?"
5. Give evidence of the truth of the statement, "That nothing worthy proving can be proved."
6. How does this support the stand taken by the Latter-day Saints that though they may be unable to prove to another that Jesus is the Christ, yet they may know positively that he is the Christ?