THE CANADIAN TEMPLE Dedication of the Canadian Temple By Helen Kimball Orgill We are including in this issue an article on the dedication of the Canadian temple written by Helen Kimball Orgill. The article came too late to be included in the number devoting space to the Canadian temple, and so we are publishing it while the peoples' thoughts and feelings are centered on the dedication of the Arizona temple, believing that it will prove interesting to our readers. During the last few months the Canadian press has had considerable to say concerning the "Mormons" and their latest built temple. Among other comments, one widely circulated prairie paper stated that they were an unusually religious people. These words were indeed verifiedduring dedication week, for a certain Sabbath solemnity seemed to permeate the crowds who had come to see and hear the ceremonies performed at Cardston.. Sunny Alberta was at its best all week. The many hundreds who traveled by automobile were given a real pleasure trip, for the roads were never better and the prairie breezes had forgotten to blow.; Each Church member brought to the temple a card whereon was printed an invitation to attend the dedication and at what particular time. These were signed by the respective bishops. The appearance of snowy, white-clad sisters, stationed at intervals within the building to direct the crowds, seemed to blend beautifully with the artistic simplicity of the temple. _ For one was struck forcibly with the repression of all osten- "DEDICATION OF THE CANADIAN TEMPLE 549 tation or show in the mural painting and other decorations. Indeed only a culture-loving people would delight in the effect that was created. The Latter-day Saints, as a whole, left the dedication services at Cardston, indeed filled with the "Bread of life," for a spiritual feast was there spread which many a one had never partaken of before. There were tears shining in more than one eye at the appearance of our revered and beloved president whose countenance seemed to shine with the light within. It was the first time many had seen him since his visit here years before as an apostle. For with the struggle against the rigorous elements of a northern climate, as well as the periodical droughts, very few have been able to attend the semi-annual conferences at Salt Lake City very regularly. And those who are privileged to have this blessing could scarcely understand the thrills which passed through the beings of the Saints in Canada at the sight of the large representation of leading brethren and sisters who attended our president on the trip. To hear the inspired voices of two or three apostles, or other leading brethren, as well as a sermon from President Grant at the same meeting was an experience long to be remembered. And the striking note referred to concerning the decorative scheme was also noticeable in the services. So many months had the occasion been looked forward to that an outsider would have expected a little pomp or sentimental emotion to be exhibited. On the contrary the speakers gave no trace of prepared oratory, from the president, who knelt in humility before the altar to offer the dedicatory prayer, to the speakers. All were simple exponents of truth, but one felt the power behind their words. - The key note of all the sessions naturally was salvation for the dead; and the wonderful blessings whichthe living were to receive, through the blessings of the temple, were dwelt upon. The timely words of counsel, given as they were within the hallowed walls of the temple of God, sank deeply into the hearts of the listeners. An unusual drama might be written, depicting the wistful dreams which have been woven with the building of the temple. The living as well as the departed have looked forward to its completion with yearning hearts. And there is every reason to believe that many of our dear ones who have gone before also took a keen interest in the happenings of dedication week. The edifice is now finished, and with its completion, a spirit of permanency and contentment will pervade the homes of the Saints in Canada, such as has never before been experienced. As sure as the Lord liveth his blessings will flow in at our doors. The United Order Rart IT. By J. M. Sjodahl No less remarkable than the peace doctrine in the Book of Mormon is the exemplification in that record, on a somewhat large scale, of the United Order. The story of this feature of American life—the rise and fall of an American Millennium— is recorded in IV Nephi 2-4 and 24-6: "And it came to pass in the thirty and sixth year, the people were all converted unto the Lord, upon all the face of the land, both Nephites and Lamanites, and there were no contentions and disputations among them, and every man did dea! Justly one with another. "And they had all things common among them; therefore there were not rich and poor, bond and free, but they were all made free, and partakers of the theavenly gift. "And it came to pass that the thirty and seventh year passed away also, and there still continued to be peace in the land." "And now, in this two hundred and first year there began to be among them those who were lifted up in pride, such as the wearing of costly apparel, and all manner of fine pearls, and of the fine things of the world. "And from that time forth they did have their goods and their substance no more common among them. "And they began to be divided into classes; and they began to - build up churches unto themselves to get gain, and began to deny the true church of Christ." Millennium in America. We are here informed that the people who were converted and accepted the gospel of Christ, as a consequence were filled with the spirit of love and unity, and they had all things common. Peace prevailed. As Elder George Reynolds expresses it: "Indeed, it may be said that a type, a fore-shadowing of the Millennium for once found place among the erring sons of humanity." And this wonderful condition lasted for 150 years. Another Evidence for the Book of Mormon. This is one more remarkable evidence of the agreement of the Book of Mormon with the teachings of the New Testament, even when these teachings are concealed instead of revealed as in the authorized Bible translation. In the New Testament we read that the converts on the day of Pentecost, whom the Spirit filled with power from on high, "continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine, and fellowship, and in breaking of bread, and in prayers." (Acts 2:42.) The word translated fellowship is Roinonia, which really means a great deal more than fellowship in the abstract. It means, as in verse 44, an arrangement whereby things were held THE UNITED ORDER 551 in common. It means, practically, what among the Latter-day Saints is known as the United Order; so that a faithful translation might be: "They continued steadfastly in the teachings of the apostles, and the united order, and the breaking of the bread, and the prayers.". We see here that the koinonia, the united order, was part of the teaching of the apostles, as was the sacrament and the prayers. It was not clumsy, impractical communism, but some wise, practical arrangement, entirely voluntary, whereby every member was provided for in "all things" both temporal and spiritual. Nor was this a purely Pentecostal condition born of the first enthusiasm of faith. It was part of the Christianity of the New Testament. For a long time after Pentecost, Paul wrote to his beloved Timothy: "Charge them that are rich in this world, that they * * * do good, that they be rich in good works, ready to distribute, willing to communicate." (I Tim. 6:17-19.) The word translated "willing to communicate" is koinont-kous which might better be rendered, "actively interested in the united order," thereby "laying up in store for themselves a good foundation against the time to come, that they may lay hold on eternal life." That was the doctrine of Paul to the end of his earthly mission. This koinonia, or united order, is, in the New Testament, especially ascribed to the Holy Spirit. Paul says: "The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, and the love of God and the koinonia of the Holy Ghost be with you all." (2 Cor. 13:14.) That accounts for 2 Peter 1:4, where the apostle says the divine promise is that those who escape the corruption of the world may be "partakers" koinon-oi of divine nature. It also explains the fact that whenever the Holy Spirit is poured out upon the believers, there is a union of interests, both temporal and spiritual, comes into existence, as naturally as order out of chaos. And so we have a united order in the New Testament, and also in the Book of Mormon. In the Doctrine and Covenants, too, the doctrine of