Genevieve Thornton The Magazine is particularly gratified to present to its readers a sketch of the life of Miss Genevieve Thornton, who has been employed to supervise the case work of the Family Welfare Department of the Latter-day Saints Relief Society at Relief Society Headquarters. Miss Thornton comes to her new position especially -well prepared for her work. From her childhood she has been exceedingly ambitious. During one year of her high school work it was not possible for her to attend school, so she did her studying at home and passed an examination at the end of the school year that was of very high grade. She did her first college work in the Branch Agricultural College in Cedar City, afterwards completing her college course at the University of Utah. In the college at Cedar City she indicated her interest in social work by upholding the affirmative GENEVIEVE THORNTON 539 in a college debate on the question of a legal minimum wage for women in industry. While attending the University of. Utah she did field work for the Family Welfare Department of the Relief Society by special arrangement, and was employed by this organization as social worker for three years following her graduation. Miss Thornton was born in southern Utah, at Pinto, Washington county. She is the daughter of Edmund T. And Jennie Sargent Thornton. Her paternal grandfather was Amos Thornton and her maternal greatgrandfather was William Snow. The names of these two men are household names in southern Utah. They were called to go to that part of the country and settle, and the achievements of their sons and daughters are yearly proclaiming the worth of their forbears. The family lived at Pinto and New Castle, a town settled by Pinto people, until a year ago, when they made Delta their home. Miss Thornton left Utah to enter the graduate school of Social Service Administration at the University of Chicago, from which institution she took her Masters degree in 1926. Miss Thornton's thesis made a study of public school provision for deaf, blind and crippled children in Chicago, the first city in the United States to make adequate educational provision for such children. This study included a first hand study of the special schools for crippled, the special centers for deaf and hard of hearing children, and the Braille and sight-saving classes for blind and partially sighted children. After taking her masters degree she was employed as social worker with the United Charities of Chicago, a family welfare organization which cared for nearly 12,000 families during the year 1926. Concerning this experience, one of the daily papers says: "Due to the foreign born and negro element in the population of Chicago and the fact that Chicago is a great industrial center, social work there offers a most varied experience." After leaving the employ of the United Charities, July 1, 1927, Miss Thornton spent three weeks visiting social service organizations, including the large church agencies in the larger cities in the East. One interesting feature in relation to Miss Thornton's work is the fact that last spring when Judge Victor P. Arnold of the Chicago Juvenile Court ordered a competitive examination for probation officers, Miss Thornton was one of a group of nearly 200 who took this examination. The citizens' examining committee in its report placed her tenth on the list of eligible officers. Through the summer of 1926, Miss Thornton was a res- MISS GENEVIEVE THORNTON, M. A. Supervisor of Case Work in Family Welfare Department, Relief Society GENEVIEVE THORNTON 541 ident at Hull House, a historical social settlement founded bv Jane Addams in 1889, in the midst of large foreign colonies in Chicago. "In the beginning of the social settlement work at Hull House, northern Europeans filled in the surrounding space. Then the population shifted and southern and eastern Europeans came in. The newest comer of all is the Mexican. Yet, through the shifting scenes, Hull House has not ceased in its activities, but has provided an ever increasing number of social opportunities for the people of the neighborhood. Everybody who has visited Hull House remembers, the theater in which Hull House players, who are the neighborhood people, are the actors. A nursery for the children of working mothers and a dental clinic are among the features of this settlement." Miss Thornton has also had experience in the Chicago social settlement, close up to the stockyards where one is reminded with every breeze that blows that she is in contact with one of the not very agreeable features of our modern industrial life.. Recently at the organization of the Women's International League For Peace, in Salt Lake City, Mrs. J. A. Hogle was chosen temporary chairman and Miss Genevieve Thornton temporary secretary. Miss Thornton is a woman of marked refinement and of very gentle manners. She is the first person from New Castle, her home community, to take a Master's Degree, and one of very few to take a Bachelor's Degree. She is the most highly trained supervisor that the Welfare Department has as yet had on its staff. We congratulate Miss Thornton on her achievements and we also congratulate the Welfare Department of the Relief Society on the appointment of one so well fitted to carry on this very important branch of its work. Beautiful Logan Canyon By Mrs. George O. Rich O beautiful Logan Canyon, The brilliant red of the maple, Decked out in Fall array; The quaking asp turning gold, With all your bright, gay colors, We stand in admiration, You seem to have full sway. At what nature doth unfold. The big, pine trees on the mountain, Remain in their dress of green. As lovely a picture to gaze upon As artist has ever seen. Woman Customs-Head Pleads Right Living Taken from the Christian Science Monitor, Boston, July 26, 1927. Finps lrT A Goop Motro ln HANDLING Bic TAsK IN HAWAIIAN ISLANDS Honolulu, T. H.—Mrs. Jeanette Hyde has now filled the post of Collector of Customs, in the Hawaiian Islands, for more than two years. As the only woman occupying so responsible an office in a collection outpost district, under the Treasury Department, the record of her service holds much of interest, especially when the fact is considered that the duties handled by her office average more than $1,750,000 annually. She came here from Utah by virtue of appointment by the President, confirmed by the Senate, and assumed her duties on April 21, 1925. She is at her office in the Federal Building, of which, by virtue of her position, she is custodian, usually at 7:30 o'clock, but not later than 8 in the morning. She remains usually until at least 4:30, and frequently until 5:40 and 6 o'clock, except when her duties call her to the wharves and docks or aboard some newly arrived vessel. WHAT TO OvERCOME Shortly after entering upon her work as a collector, Mrs. Hyde began a systematic effort to improve the customs service. She found that the employees were dissatisfied with their pay. "All wanted increases in compensation, whether it was earned or whether they were capable of earning it," she says. "It seemed to be the main thought that they must have better wages, without stopping to consider that I had first to adjust my pay roll to suit the budget which had been allotted for this port." Mrs. Hyde found that at the docks there was one set of working hours, the business houses had another, and the customs force a still different one. After several conferences with business men the hour of 7 in the morning was agreed upon as the daily starting time. She continues her narrative: "The next great problem was that of limiting the issuance of passes to board incoming vessels, to meet the regulations prescribed by the department. I think this called forth the most vicious attacks and most violent abuse that anyone has ever been called upon to endure. The very method of elimination of passes has since proved so satisfactory that the PLEADS RIGHT LIVING 543 steamship companies themselves are more exacting as to how many and to whom passes are issued, showing that the Government's regulations have proved successful." ExpLaAins Her Dry DUTIES Prior to the orders issued by Mrs. Hyde, communication between ship and shore was under little restraint. In consequence there were numerous ways by which narcotics, liquor and other contrabrand could be smuggled in. Mrs. Hyde is emphatic in her views on this phase of her duties. "As to prohibition," she says, "many people here are laboring under a misconstrued idea with regard to the functioning of the Collector of Customs. In the matter of enforcing prohibition, the only official recognition the Collector of Customs has is the seizure of foreign contraband coming ashore or being brought into the Territory. Local prohibition is enforced entirely through the Prohibition Unit, over which the Collector has no jurisdiction and no official concern; but so far as foreign imports are concerned it is entirely within the Collector's province to seize all foreign liquors and as far as possible to prevent their being brought into the Territory. This act has been consistently enforced. "But more serious than the amount of liquor brought in is that of opium, morphine, cocaine an other narcotics. It requires constant and vigilant perseverance on the part of the customs force to prevent large quantities being brought ashore. "T think one of the greatest handicaps, and one that gives one in an official position great concern, is the finding of men and women of the higher strata of life and those who have sworn to uphold and obey the law in their official positions disregarding the law itself. CrosE WatcH Kept "Tf people in executive positions are exacting of themselves to observe regulations and will require those who work with them to do the same, it builds up the morale and confidence that only can be secured by right living and right doing. Your lives are above reproach, and no matter what the criticism from people or press, you have the confidence of men and women who know you as to the truth of statements made to the contrary.. "This is an honest administrative policy which cannot fail if adhered to. This has been the standard which I have tried to establish with myself, and I have asked of those who work with me to observe, as nearly as possible, the regulations which they are asked to enforce upon other people." After having rearranged working hours, Mrs. Hyde in- 
 stituted a system of promotions among the men and women of the customs force based upon merit. Then, as some of the employees resigned from the service, she utilized the pay which had been given them to increase the pay of those remaining, the latter agreeing to give more efficient service. The increases in pay thus given range from $100 to $150 a year. And yet the budget of expenses of the collector's office has not been increased or exceeded. Mrs. Hyde also found that employees receiving only $1,200 to $1,500 a year, with families of five and six children to support, were wearing $65 suits and $17 hats. "It was unreasonable in the extreme," she says. "So I obtained bids and prices on suits and caps. Then I turned the whole question over to the men themselves, and let them decide what they wanted to wear. They finally chose a lightweight blue serge uniform suited to this climate and in accordance with custom regulations, which, with an extra pair of trousers cost them only $59; also caps costing only $5— a total saving of $18 per man. PERSONNEL IMPROVED "T asked each man to equip himself with a new suit and cap, as those they had were much worn, and to appear in them when on the docks while on duty. They are privileged, however, to wear their old clothing while discharging cargoes. "With shoes polished, trousers neatly pressed, dark ties and light shirts, the force now presents the appearance of real Government employees. The department supplied me with new badges and insignias for the caps, adding to their natty apparel. "T ask the men to work with me and not for me. I have not been obliged to dismiss any member of the force, although I have made transfers to better the service. Efficiency records are kept of each employee, so that when application is made for a promotion, our office records show whether it is deserved. This permits the working out of an honor system. Personal attention to duty and personal interest in work is encouraged by promise of commensurate pecuniary reward." In the period from April 21, 1925, when Mrs. Hyde began her duties, to April 30, 1927, the collections of the Hawaiian customs district amounted to $3,635,256.92. Narcotics valued at $40,000 and liquor valued at $12,000 were seized. The disbursements of the office for the same period amounted to $328,491.69. Put more simply, the cost of collecting $1 from April 22, 1926, to April 30, 1927, was 9 cents. Such is the record of Mrs. Hyde's office from its financial viewpoint. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS   RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor: - - CrarissA SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor -:::: - ALIcE LoursE REYNOLDS Assistant Manager -: Amy Brown Lyman Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Magazine  Vou. XIV NOVEMBER, 1927 No. 11 EDITORIAL Grandsons of the Three Witnesses of the Book of Mormon It is exceedingly gratifying and, under the circumstances perhaps passing strange, that descendants of all three of the witnesses of the Book of Mormon should have visited the Arizona temple since it has been open to the public. It would be gratifying under any circumstances to have these visits, but it is particularly gratifying at a time when the centenary of the delivery of the plates. Of the Book of Mormon to Joseph the Prophet is being commemorated. It is passing strange because the witnesses, in having left the Church would naturally be expected to embitter their posterity when making explanation by way of justification for their act, after having had the visit of an angel. For this reason it is particularly significant that their interests should have led them to make a visit to a temple built by the Latter-day Saints. Oliver Cowdery's grandson came from Cleveland, Ohio. The grandson of David Whitmer very likely came from the place where David Whitmer resided, while Lehi Harris, the grandson of Martin Harris, is a worker on the temple. We are delighted that they have shown so much interest. We trust they feel that they are part and portion of the great latter day work. 
 Countess of Cassillis, President of the Edinburgh Branch of the British National Council of Women Visits Salt Lake Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, Recording Secretary of the National Council of Women of the United States, received a letter from Dr. Valeria H. Parker, President of the National Council of Women of the United States, stating that Lady Cassillis would be visiting Salt Lake City, in connection with her husband, in September, as the Earl of Cassillis would be here on behalf of the Royal Arch Masons of Scotland who were holding a triennial convocation of the General Grand Chapter of the Royal Arch Masons of America, in Denver, from September 26 to 30. Lady Cassillis' itinerary permitted a stop-over in Boston, Salt Lake City and Denver, in the United States. As Dr. Parker was very anxious that she should be met officially during her visit she wrote to Mrs. Lyman, asking her to meet Lady Cassillis and extend adequate courtesies in the name of the Council. Before her arrival Mrs. Lyman called together the heads of affiliated organizations in Salt Lake City and plans were made to meet her and welcome her to the city.;, Immediately upon her arrival a committee of Council representatives, consisting of Mrs. Richard R. Lyman, Recording Secretary of the National Council of Women, Mrs. C. Clarence Neslen, representing the city, Mrs. Harry R. Allen, representing the General Federation of Women's Clubs, and Dr. Jane Skofield of the National Association of Medical Women, called at her hotel, and extended greetings on behalf of Dr. Parker and the National Council of Women of the United States. The committee placed at the disposal of Lady Cassillis an automobile, and extended an invitation for sight-seeing drives about the city and vicinity, and for luncheon to be held in her honor. However, due to the previous plans of Lord Cassillis and his party, every moment of the day and a-half spent in Salt Lake City was programmed with sight-seeing trips, organ recital, visit to the "Great Salt Lake, and to Bingham mines, etc. The local representatives of the Council were delighted to have met Lady Cassillis, who is a most charming and interesting woman, and to spend an hour with her, upon her invitation, just prior to her departure, discussing the work of the National Council of Women of the. United States. They were also pleased to place in her car, baskets of Utah fruits and flowers, bearing messages of friendship and greeting from the National Council of Women of the United States. ' During the hour Lady Cassillis was visiting with Council representatives she stepped into the Board room of the Relief Society, where the General Board was in session. While with the Board she said, "I am delighted to see you; delighted to know that EDITORIAL 547 your special work connects with your religious work. I believe in religion and think that such a connection is valuable." Literary Celebrities Visit Latter-day Saint Temples A book entitled Tramping With a Poet in the Rockies contains one chapter entitled "A Visit to the 'Mormons'." The "Mormons" referred to are those living in and about Cardston, in Alberta, Canada. A good deal of the chapter is devoted to a description of a visit by Stephen Graham, a well-known English writer, and Vachel Lindsay, minstrel poet of America, to the Cardston temple. Now, word reaches us that John Galsworthy, the gifted English playwright recently spent three hours in the Arizona temple. While there he betrayed a good deal of interest, not specially in the temple but in "Mormon" beliefs, and particularly did he ~ show interest in the problem of how we manage to keep our contact with the young people of the Church. MWHarold Bell Wright, who has made his home in Arizona for many years, wrote asking the very latest date of the temple's closing and if he may be admitted when he presents himself. We have in this group of literary celebrities, two English, and two American authors. Stephen Graham is noted for his books of travel, John Galsworthy, English, is one of the very best of our modern writers of drama, while Vachel Lindsay is exceedingly well-known among our American poets and Harold Bell Wright is one of our most popular American novelists. Past Days I'm Thankful For By Grace Ingles Frost What have I to be thankful for? I ofttimes ask of self; For values very meagre grow - Without the boon of health. The blessings that I held most dear, Have long since from me fled; The loved ones who made life so bright, Are numbered with the dead. When other hearts grow buoyant _ With joy at festive time, Remembering, I live again Those days no longer mine. Save shrined within my memory; And as I count them o'er, I cease to ask-my question: Past days, I'm thankful for.