VISIT TO SANPETE.
	Thursday morning, June 14th, we left this city by
train to attend, by invitation of Sister M. A. Hyde
the Conference of the R. S. Y. L. M. I. A. and
P. A. of Sanpete Stake to be held at Gunnison
Friday and Saturday, June 15 and 16. We arrived at
Manti the same evening, where we had the pleasure
of meeting Sister Hyde, and several other sisters
(acquaintances), who are at present officiating
in the Manti Temple. Sisters Hannah Grover of
Nephi, Rebecca Standring of Lehi, and Lucy B.
Young of St. George, were among the number.
Our visit was very pleasant. Bro. and Sister
Jesson who keep the Temple Hotel, are very kind
and courteous to their guests and make every one
feel as much at home as possible. Early the fol-
lowing morning we started off for Gunnison in
company with Sister Hyde, arriving found the
conference had been opened by Sister Helena
Madsen, Prest. of R. S. at that place. There
was a large congregation assembled and after
some interesting remarks by Prest. Hyde who
presided after her arrival, and some reports from
Presidents of R. S. in the Stake, the meeting ad-
journed with singing and prayer until 2 p.m.
	Afternoon session was occupied in speaking up-
on the various subjects of interest pertaining to 
the work of the Relief Society and its progress
and advancement. Testimonies concerning the 
manifestations seen and heard in the Manti Tem-
ple at the time of its dedication were given in such
an impressive way as to pervade the assembly
with the spirit thereof.  Prest Hyde spoke pro-
phetically upon the signs of the times, alluding to
the prophecies of the past and the condition of 
the world at the present; we had the pleasure of 
addressing the sisters, the subjects being spiritual 
improvement, faith, etc. education, reading, culti-
vation of the heart, and practical duties of home 
and of public life. R. S. Conference adjourned 
about the usual hour until the 14th of September,
when it will be held at Fountain Green.
	There was no meeting held in the evening, but
we had an interesting time, and sat up late con-
versing with Bishop Madson and his wife upon
many things now transpiring in the world as well
as in the midst of the Saints.
	Saturday morning several wagon loads and
buggies containing the sisters arrived in good
time for the meeting from adjacent settlements.
	At 10 a.m. the congregation assembled in the 
Relief Society Hall, which is the largest building 
of the kind we have yet seen, and where the Re-
lief Society Conference was also held. Miss
Stena Willardson, of Ephriam, presided for the 
first time since having been called to the position
of Prest. of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Sanpete Stake. 
She did so with much apparent diffidence being 
new to the situation, although there was no need 
of any hesitation on her part as she is abundantly
qualified and well calculated for the position.
Mayfield Y. L. was reported by Miss Augusta
Anderson; Gunnison, Miss Sarah Metcalf; South
Ward, Manti, Mrs. Matilda Allred; North Ward,
Manti, Mrs. Edith Billings Larsen; Ephriam, 
South Ward, Mrs. Dorcas Christenson. We then 
addressed the young ladies encouraging them in
the pursuit of knowledge and understanding.
	Mrs. M. A Hyde followed with excellent re-
marks and testified in a most solemn manner of 
having been taught the principle of plural marriage
by Joseph Smith, the Prophet, who married her 
to Apostle Orson Hyde in Nauvoo. 
	Mrs. Kjar and Mrs. Alvira Cox, of Manti,
Counselors to Miss Willardson, each spoke a 
short time in an instructive and edifying way. 
These young sisters, and those who reported, each 
and all of them manifested their interest in the 
Gospel and the work of improvement; they spoke
intelligently and in good voice; their manner and 
bearing were well calculated to impress the audi-
ence. 
[Column 2]
	In the afternoon the first speaker was Sister 
Lucy B. Young, who gave a dissertation upon
plural marriage, she has an excellent voice,
and a good gift of language, and is an easy speaker.
After some other remarks etc. the Primary Asso-
ciation of Gunnison had a representation.
	Prest. Stena Willardson made suitable remarks,
expressing her desire to fill the position to which
she had been called. There were a few exercises 
by the children well rendered.
	Mrs. Mary Metcalf, Prest. of the P. A. of Gun-
nison, gave her report and mentioned the chil-
dren's manuscript paper, which they edit once a 
month. The sister who had charge of an adjoin-
ing district reported her labors with the Primary 
in the Fields. After some remarks to the children
the Conference was adjourned by Prest. Stena
Willardson to Sept. 15, at Fountain Green.
	Saturday evening we drove over to Manti with 
Sisters Hyde and Young, where we spent the Sab-
bath very pleasantly and Monday morning went
over to Ephriam where two meetings were held,
one with the Relief Society and another with the 
Primary.
	At the R. S. meeting Prest. Peterson was pres-
ent and spoke a few moments during which time 
he asked the sisters to let their Hall be used to es-
tablish an Academy, where, besides the sciences
and useful branches of knowledge, theology, as the 
Latter-day Saints understand it in the Gospel,
might be taught. Such an academy or college 
in every stake of Zion would have a telling effect 
upon the young people. Prest. Peterson spoke of 
the liberality of the Relief Society; said he re-
ceived 1,000 dollars from the Relief Society, while 
abroad on a mission, to bring home the worthy poor.
	Coun. Sarah Peterson in her remarks said for 
years the sisters had saved their Sunday eggs to 
help bring the poor to Zion; this last year they 
had been donated to the Temple, but for years
they had made cheese in the Society, by putting
the milk together; if a sister only had a quart or 
two quarts of milk in the morning she would bring
it, and by this sort of co-operation much good had
been accomplished.
	The children at the Primary meeting rendered
quite a number of exercises very creditably, and 
the presidents spoke feelingly of the good work
in which they are engaged.
	The meeting was an interesting one and in fact
both the meetings at Ephriam were full of interest
and a good spirit prevailed there as well as at the 
Conference in Gunnison. The evening was passed
with Prest. Peterson and family in conversation 
mostly upon the Temple and kindred subjects and
altogether the visit to Sanpete Stake was a very
satisfactory one.


