ECONOMY OF STRENGTH.

	We frequently read long articles on economy
of time and of material, but where one woman
is obliged to not only furnish the brain to di-
rect, but also the hand to execute all the work
of a household, there is great need for her to 
study economy of strength.  Upon her depends,
in a great measure, the health, comfort and 
happiness of her family and the enjoyment of
her guests.
	Although her house is in perfect order and 
her meals served in the best possible manner,
if she is herself all "fagged out," the home will
lack an important element of comfort.
	"But," I hear some one say, "the work is to 
be done, and I must do it."  Yes, but why
not work in the easiest way—saving all the
 labor you can, teaching others to save for you
and planning each day for a resting time.
Why should the farmer's wife rise early and 
work straight through the long, hot summer
day, while the farmer, his hired men, and even
the horses and oxen must have the noon hour
to rest, to lie under the shade of the trees, per-
haps, to take a little nap.  They know they


[Column 1]
can work better for this rest, and it is right
that they should have it.  Why does not the
busy housewife need it just as much?  Too
often, all the rest she allows herself is when she
sits down to soothe a fretting baby, and then
her mind is busy thinking of the work yet to
be done, and actually continuing her toil
through her imagination, thus robbing herself
of the little rest she might have gained.
     Much strength can be saved by wise and
systematic planning—by doing everything in
the easiest way, when no one will be the loser
thereby.
     Of course, there are many kinds of house-
hold work that cannot be slighted, but there
are others that can.  It is a step in the right
direction if, when ironing day comes, the 
sheets, pillow-cases and towels being neatly
folded, a board laid on top and a weight
placed on that, they are left to iron themselves.
All the common, every-day underclothing can
be quickly smoothed, all that is necessary, by
ironing on one side, and if some wrinkles are
left in they will not do any harm.  It is better
that they be in the clothes than on the house-
mother’s brow.  I know one of the neatest of
housekeepers who told me that in the summer
she irons all her sheets, pillow-cases, towels
and plain pieces by sitting out under a tree
and running them, nicely folded, through her
clothes wringer.
     One thoughtful woman says: “I have pasted
on my sewing machine this query: “Is it neces-
sary or really beautiful? Is it worth my time,
strength and thought?” Since I have measured
my sewing by that rule, it is surprising how all
tucks, ruffles and superfluous stitches have
vanished, and not only strength saved at the 
sewing machine, but also at the wash-tub and 
ironing table.”
	Do not spend so many of the beautiful,
summer days in a hot kitchen making jellies
and preserves, Plain, canned fruit is much
more healthful, and takes so much less time to 
prepare.
     If the fruit must be bought, it is just as
cheap to buy it ready canned and frequently
substitute the fresh fruits which can be so
cheaply bought in the winter, since cold storage
and fast fruit-trains have been in operation.
     No one will be the sufferer if jellies and
preserves are stricken entirely from the bill of
[-]are, and the already overburdened housekeeper
will be the gainer.
     Not only should every housekeeper regard it
as a duty to save herself all the work possible,
but if she would make the most and the best 
of herself, she must have a fixed purpose to
give herself an hour of quiet rest every day,
and to take at least a part of that rest lying
down.  I know many women will look upon 
the idea of lying down in the day-time as
wholly absurd and impracticable, but I wish
those who find the daily round of household
cares and duties becoming almost unbearable,
and who go to their beds every night with 
aching back, tired heads and weary feet,
would try this plan.  I am satisfied that they
would soon find it economy in more ways than
one.  Nature will not bear everything, and if
we continue to carry burdens far beyond our
strength, a breaking down will surely come at 
last and rest be enforced.  It may be the long
 and dreamless rest.
     If you cannot take the hour all at once,
take it part in the forenoon after the hurry of
morning work is done, and part in the after-
noon before getting supper.  If there is a baby
to be nursed, lie down with it, persistently shut
the work away, and, if possible, fall asleep
yourself for a few minutes.  One rests so
much faster lying down than in any other posi-
tion.
     What if some neighbor happens to come in 
and find you lying down, and straightway re-
ports you “shiftless?” If you find that you can do

[Column 2]
your work easier and better in this way, be
brave enough to do what seems right to you.
I know how this is.  Well I remember the long,
hot summers when I denied myself much needed
rest, and for fear of what others might say,
toiled on until it seemed to me the kinder idea
of heaven was the most blissful one, until the 
very sound of my children’s voices was a posi-
tive pain to me.  But, thanks to one of the 
best of husbands, who insisted that because
others were working themselves to death was 
no reason that I should, I have found a better
way, and would gladly lead all tired workers
to see the value of economizing their strength
and giving themselves the hour of rest, if they
would keep their faithful hands on the house-
hold wheels, and not lay down their work half
done for some other hand to finish.—The Farm
and Fireside.
