CORRESPONDENCE OF 1776.

BRAINTREE, Mass, 31 Mar. 1776.
	Abigail Adams to John Adams: I long to hear
that you have declared an independency. And
by the way, in the new code of laws which I
suppose it will be necessary for you to make, I
desire you would remember the ladies and be
more generous and favorable to them than your
masters. Do not put such unlimited power into
the hands of the husbands. Remember, all men
would be tyrants if they could. If particular
care and attention is not paid to the ladies,
we are determined to foment a rebellion, and
will not hold ourselves bound by any laws in
which we have no voice or representation.
Men of sense in all ages abhor these customs
which treat us only as the vassals of your sex.
	John to Abagail: As to your extraordinary
code of laws, I can but laugh.	*	*	*
Depend upon it, we know better than to re-
peal our masculine systems. Although they
are in full force, you know they are little more
than theory. We dare not exert our power to 
its full latitude.
	May 7, 1776, Abigail to John: I cannot say
that I think you are very generous to the
ladies,for while you are proclaiming peace and
good will to all men, emancipating all nations,
you insist upon retaining an absolute power
over wives.


Mrs. J. Ellen Foster, of Iowa, urged upon
the Republican Platform Committee at Chicago
the necessity of a pronounced utterance on th
temperance question.
	The justice that must surely follow the
equalization of the sexes would more than re-
pay the sacrifice of those small gallantries,
which are only acquired, and no outgrowth of
the soul within. A woman could well afford
to stand in a car for twenty minutes or more,
going home from her work, if she felt she had
received for her labor the same amount of
money a man would have earned for that
amount of work.—Woman's Chronicle.
	Rev. James Freeman Clark,the distinguished
author and Unitarian minister,died at his home
in Jamacia Plain, June 8. His influence was
marked on the educational and social life of
Boston and he will be especially remembered 
for his warm sympathy with the woman suf-
frage movement. He was always a valued
friend and co-worker of the New England leaders
in this reform. Mr. Clark was fond of recall-
ing his acquaintance with Margaret Fuller from
whom he used to say he had learned to see the
true value of life and how to live for a great
end.—Ex.
	Miss Clara Barton, president of the Ameri-
can Association of the Red Cross, whose name
is known and honored throughout the world,
has lately been the subject of some curiously
misleading newspaper reports. She has been
represented (probably owing to her internation-
al reputation) as a lady of foreign birth; and
the most diverse accounts have been given of 
her views as to woman suffrage. Miss Barton
by request, has furnished the Woman's Journal
with a statement of the facts; which are, that
she was born in Oxford, Mass., of pure Ameri-
can stock, and that she cannot remember the time
when she did not believe in woman suffrage.
This was made clear in her speech at the recent
Woman Suffrage Festival, which was imper-
fectly reported, and which she has kindly
written out, by our request.—Ex.


