KATHINKA ANDERSEN, Ass't Sec.
BANNOCK STAKE.
	Minutes of the quarterly conference of
the Relief Society of Bannock Stake, which
convened in Rexburg Hall, May 18, 1888,
Prest. Temperance Hinkley presiding. Meeting
opened by singing. Prayer by Coun. Telitha
Helm. Singing, “Glorious things are sung of
Zion.” Roll called, and minutes of previous
conference read and approved.
	Sister Sarah Holman, First Coun. of Rex-
burg Society, reported that Society as doing
well. Asked God to bless the Relief Society
with unity, that it may be able to do much for
the advancement of this great work.
	Coun. Henriette Dudley, of Teton, said the
majority of the sisters in her ward had small
families, and it was hard for them to get out to
meetings, and bore a faithful testimony.
	Prest. Louisa Butler, of Lyman, said her
Society was in a prosperous condition, and bore
her testimony.
	Sister Caroline Jacobs, of Salem, said the
sisters of that ward were trying to live their
religion and train their children aright.
	Prest. Orrissa Brower, of Wilford, said they
felt like going forward and performing their
duties better in the future, and asked the bless-
ings of the Lord to rest upon all.
	Prest. T. Helm, of Burton, said the sisters
there were doing well considering their num-
bers, which were few. “There is a good at-
tendance, and all feel to help one another.”
	The statistical and financial reports were
read, showing that the different branches in the
Stake were in a good condition.
	Stake Prest. Temperance Hinkley addressed
the conference. Expressed her approbation of
the work of the Society, and felt pleased to see
so many trying to perform their duties. “We
should be strictly disciplined in the government

[Column 3]
of God, and bring up our children to be an
honor to us. We should teach them by ex-
ample to attend their meetings; we should send
them to Primary, Sunday School and fast
meetings, for there they get the spirit of testi-
mony. We should be prayerful and humble,
that the Lord may pour down His blessings
upon us. If we would be united and do our
duties we would have no time to backbite each
other.”
	Sister Zina D. H. Young told us we should
not quench the Spirit of God, “and evil speak-
ing of each other helps to quench the good
Spirit.” Bore a strong testimony to the truth
of the Gospel, and asked that the blessings of
the Lord might rest on the sisters of the Relief
Society. Would like all to help build a Stake
house. Sister Young bore her testimony, and
gave many good and timely instructions.
	Stake Coun. Telitha J. Helm exhorted the
mothers to be united, and prize their children
above all the riches of the earth. “The Lord
gave them to us pure, and if we don’t bring
them up as we should do, the Lord will hold
us accountable for it. This is a great and
glorious work, and I am thankful that I was
permitted to come down in this last dispensa-
tion of the fulness of times.” Urged the neces-
sity of living pure lives, and be prepared to go
to the temples of God, and do our work for
our dead. “If any one is falling from the faith,
speak to them with all humility and kindness,
and help them climb the hill of perfection; or
if any one is cast down, cheer them up. Asked
God to bless the sisters and unite them as one, 
for in unity there is strength.
	Sister Sarah A. Barnes had felt greatly in-
terested in the good reports, and the instruc-
tions we had received. “I think they have
sunk deep into the hearts of all present, to
grow and blossom in future time. I was pleased
with the instructions given us in regard to the
rearing of our precious jewels God has blessed
us with. Being the President of the Primary,
I take great interest in the advancement of
our children. I think there is no greater
work than with the children; we should teach
them to live for something beyond this world,
to make their aim high, and strive to reach
it. We should improve our talents and educate
ourselves, for the Lord has said we never can
be saved in our ignorance.”
	The Stake and local officers, as they stand,
were unanimously sustained.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Closed by singing, “Arise, oh, glorious Zion.”
Benediction by Sister Sarah A. Barnes.
SARAH A. BARNES, Stake Sec.


