WHAT CONSTITUTES A TRUE WOMAN.

	True womanhood defined, implies—virtue and
purity, love and friendship, truth and sympathy
grace and refinement, modesty and intelligence.
Though her sphere may seem humble,yet she can
make it noble and queenly.  She must live for
those around her, and not for self alone.
It is hers to rear the souls of men.  To form 
the characters of future generations.
	The power of the world lies in her hands.  She
may make it a paradise of bliss, fit for the habita-
tion of the Gods; or she may make it an abode of
shame and misery, the haunt of evil spirits and
demons. ’Tis her privilege, in the holy order of
matrimony, to bless the earth with pure, noble
spirits.  More government lies in her hands than
all the kingdoms, republics, monarchies and
dynasties on earth combined.  Consisting in the
training and moulding of the characters of those
precious souls that God has entrusted into her
care.  For which she will receive reward or pun-
ishment accordingly.   And what is there on earth
more angelic than a pure, modest, chaste, virtu-
ous, benevolent intelligent woman? Or what is
more disgusting, than a haughty, proud, petulant,
shrewish, selfish, demoralized one? It is a duty
that each woman owes to her family and to society
—to be cheerful and pleasant, courteous and
friendly, neat and cleanly in her personal habits.
Paying some regard to the cultivation of taste
and refinement. Being careful and choice of the
language she uses at all times. Yet it is by no
means her duty to keep up with the times in re-
gard to fashion. No true woman can afford to do
that at the risk of neglecting the moral, intellectu-
al and religious training of herself and family.
Life is not long enough for much spare time. She
must make the best use of it possible and then
perhaps at the“end”of mortality we may see much
left undone.
	Each young lady should have her model selected
from the noblest of God’s daughters, who have
done a good work on earth, emulating their good
qualities and omitting all evil.  Living, as we do,
in a time when the gospel is restored to earth in
full power, we are expected to shine with far more
brilliant lustre than we otherside would be, and
we will be held accountable thrice over for the
time we use to no good. And an hundred-fold
punishment will be given us for the time we spend
in idle gossip and the many evils resulting there
from. “But let our conversation be yea, yea, nay
nay.” That is to treat of facts, “for what is more
than that cometh of evil.” In all our social circles
let each one strive, or aim, to gain a higher plane
of intelligence. Never for one moment, encourag-
ing the least thought of vulgarity, much less to
give utterance to the same. Society is necessary
in its own place, but like all other good, it has its
uses and abuses, either to exalt or to deprave.
	Again, true woman will not live for immediate
surroundings. It is hers to visit homes of the
poor and afflicted, the outcast and despairing, and
in her benign way impart words of comfort and


encouragement; which is as divine a mission as
to bind the bleeding wounds of the soldiers after
a battle. Even to bind the wounded hearts that
droop and die around us every day. Who by
one kind word might take courage and resolve to
become useful in doing good on earth. Thus she
might prove herself to be
		"Yet a spirit still and bright,
		With something  of an angel Light."
	She must also keep her home bright and cheery.
Be pleasant and companionable to her family.
Thus might she keep her father and
brothers, her husband and sons from haunts of
vice and corruption, and, by wielding her holy in-
fluence in the right direction win back the lost
ones to light and love. Then let us say no more
that woman has no work to do, no mission to per-
form! Let men boast of their strength and power,
yet the world could not progress one step farther
without the aid of woman. And though she, in
the estimation of law is placed below negroes and
Chinamen still she has a powerful influence for
good if 'tis but wielded in the right direction.
	I would say to the daughters of Zion, be humble
and prayerful in order to retain the Holy Spirit to
direct our minds our words our deeds, that we
may be worthy the name of true, noble, women
—daughters of God.
