DR. RACHEL L. BODLEY.

	The Woman's Journal of June 23rd pub-
lished the death of Dr. Rachel L. Bodley,
Dean of the Pennsylvania Woman's Medical
College. Dr. Bodley was in charge of the
College when some of the ladies from Salt Lake
graduated. It will, no doubt, be a grief and
surprise to hear of her sudden death, which
occurred June 15th, the cause being heart
failure. She was taken seriously ill on Wednes-
day evening, previous to her death on Friday.
Dr. Bodley died at her home in Philadelphia,
but her remains were taken to Cincinnati for
burial. "Miss Bodley was born in Cincinnati,
Ohio, Dec. 7, 1831."
	After having been for some years a teacher
in the higher collegiate studies, Miss Bodley
became a special student in chemistry and
physics in the Polytechnic College in Phila-
delphia, in 1860. In 1862 she returned to
Cincinnati, and was given the position of Pro-
fessor of Natural Sciences in the Cincinnati
Female Seminary, which place she occupied
three years. "In 1865 she was called to the
chair of chemistry and toxicology in the
Woman's medical College of Pennysylvania;
she was elected Dean of the Faculty in January,
1874, and from that time" she has given her-
self time and talents to the college, and has
sought to secure for woman and her work re-
spect and recognition. She has held some very
important and influential positions, and had had

[Column 2]

conferred upon men the degree of A. M. in
the Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila-
delphia; up to that time the institution had
never given a degree to any of its alumni sub-
sequent to the A. B. at graduation. "In 1880
she was made a member of the Franklin
Institute, and was the first woman to deliver
any extended course of lectures in the Institute."
"In 1882 she was chosen a member of the
Educational Society of Philadelphia, and
served three years as Director on the School
Board. After being out one term, "was re-
elected January, 1887, and held the position at
the time of her death."
	The Woman's Journal, in our opinion, pays
a glowing tribute to the memory of this re-
nowned Dr., when it says, "Dr. Bodley's house
was a centre of hospitality, and she was
crippled in her resources by the generous habit
of entertaining strangers attracted by her
 many points of contact with the religious and 
educational world."
	"She dies in the plentitude of her powers."
	"Her correspondents on behalf of the college
numbered, the Queen of England, Lady
Dufferin, and a number of illustrious persons
in several countries."
	From the accounts of Dr. Bodley, which we
have heart and read, she was, in some respects,
similiar to Dr. Lozier, whose death occurred a
short time ago. Both were eminent in the pro-
fession they had chosen for their special life-
work, and both were intensely sympathetic and
generous; they were neither of them afraid of
contact with "Mormon" women, but large-
souled enough to accord to them the same
courtesy they extended to other noble workers.
	The writer had the pleasure of seeing and
conversing with Dr. Lozier at her own home
in New York in the winter of 1886, and was
much impressed with her sympathetic views on
the rights of "Mormon" women. Her letter
protesting against the injustice of the Edmunds
law in their behalf, was widely circulated, and
proved she was not fearful of being contamina-
ted by defending the political position of the
women of Utah.
	"Dr. Bodley," it is said, "took Dr. Anandibai
Joshee into her own house, and with a beautiful
sympathy encouraged the little Hindoo woman
to adhere firmly to her national religion.”
	The world needs such women as these, with
broad views, liberal ideas, generous hearts and 
true respect for the opinions of others. Dr.
Lozier and Dr. Bodley were educated and re-
fined in the heart as well as in the head.
		E. B. W.


[column 1]
CORRESPONDENCE.
