			EMERY STAKE.
	The semi-annual conference of the Relief 
Society of Emery Stake was held Friday,
April 20, 1888, at Castle Dale.


[Column 1]﻿
	At 10 o’clock the meeting was opened by
the singing of the Castle Dale choir, and prayer
was offered by Stake President C. G. Larsen.
The minutes of previous conference read by the
Secretary and unanimously accepted. Sister
Kathinka Andersen was unanimously sustained
as minute clerk of the conference. The re-
ports of the several wards were read, and ex-
hibited the several branches in a lively condi-
tion. The poor had received a liberal share of
the generous donations from the sisters.
	Sister Anna Larsen, the President of the
Relief Society of the Stake, expressed her
happiness for the blessed opportunity of meet-
ing once more with the sisters of Emery Stake
in our semi-annual conference, and that every-
thing around smiled in favor upon us. There
had been considerable whooping-cough and
other sickness, but few deaths among the
children, but it was now getting better. She
desired all the Secretaries to be present, to get
an understanding of the correct way of making
up the reports, as many did not comprehend
this difficult labor, and thereby caused a good
deal of unnecessary trouble for the Stake
Secretary.
	Sister Avery, of Huntington, Mary Olsen;
of Ferron, Ellen Robertson of Orangeville, and
Stine Olsen of Castle Dale, each gave a report
of the Society over which she presided, and
stated that all was well; the sisters were able to
aid in the good of relief and spread of benevo-
lence and comfort all around, and much good
had already been realized from these organiza-
tions in the different wards, by visiting the sick
and alleviating wants.
	Sister Shomaker gave a report of Molen
Ward; said all was well there, and the sisters
were united in their good works.
	Sister Childs, First Counselor to the Stake
President, said she never felt better than to-
day, and wished she could say the same six
months hence, because our path seems often
strewn with troubles and trials. “We should
try to live honest and upright before God,
fast and pray, that the Lord might hear us in
the hour of darkness. We should cultivate
purity of heart, that is the costly jewel for
Latter-day Saints, even if the outward appear-
ance is not so attractive; we may be like a
plain bound book filled with good instructions,
while sometimes a finely ornamented volume
may contain entirely unwholesome, or even
poisonous reading. As mothers, we should
study our children, and adopt the best and
most effectual plans to raise them in the fear of
God, and always keep them under that
power.”
	Conference adjourned until 2 p.m. Choir
sang. Benediction by C. G. Larsen, Jr.
	Afternoon session, 2 p.m.: Opened with
singing, Prayer by Bishop Henning Olsen.
	Sister Pulsipher, of Huntington, Second
Counselor to the Stake President, was the first
speaker. She felt happy for the privilege of
meeting with the sisters on this occasion. We
had no reason to fear neither the Edmunds-
Tucker bill nor any other measure aiming at
our overthrow, if we only keep near God. As
President Woodruff says in the Epistle to the
Saints, ‘This organization of the sisters is for
the purpose of cheering each other, and to
visit the sick and aid the poor, and the more
we do of this, the more abundant will be our
blessings.’ Good instructions given by mothers
to the children will stay by them so they can
go to both Primaries and other meetings and
they will behave well and be benefited.”
	Several of the sisters joined in a faithful
testimony concerning the great Latter-day
work, and their joys in the cause of Relief.
	Prest. C. G. Larsen next addressed the
meeting. Was pleased for the honor conferred
upon him, to occupy a short time; was very
favorably impressed by the minutes read of

[Column 2]
conference six months ago, and wished they
had been printed. “It is proper and right that
we should represent ourselves through our
papers, and the sisters had their own paper—
the Woman’s Exponent—where they can be
heard from, and we should support that paper,
and hand in our contributions to the same.
The noble sisters will yet rule the world with
their great influence as mothers, and many of
them will be sent as ambassadors from Zion, to
invite the good and upright to join in their
labor of kindness and love, because there are
yet as good fish in the brook as has been
brought out from there. Woman suffrage has
of late been much ventilated East, but it
would be a blessing for any nation to give the
women a voice at the polls, as surely less vice
and corruption, drunkenness and debauchery
would exist, and such men would not be placed
in authority to rule over people, who often now
are much better than their rulers.” Concluded by
asking heaven’s choicest blessing to rest upon
the sisters of Emery Stake and their noble
work.
	Several more of the brethren and sisters
present added their testimonies and experiences
in the Church of Christ.
	On motion Kathinka Andersen was unani-
mously sustained as Assistant to the Stake
Secretary, and was set apart to this office by
Prest. C. G. Larsen.
	Prest. Anne Larsen made the closing re-
marks by expressing her satisfaction with all
we had done during this conference, for all the
good counsels and encouragement we had re-
ceived, and hoped we might gather strength for
the time coming, and to remember the poor
and suffering, and try to warm every heart with
the sunshine of love and sympathy. “This is
our mission, and may we all honor it.”
	Conference was then adjourned until October
20th, at Orangeville. Benediction was pro-
nounced by John Jensen.

