EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE series of papers on "The Women of
Utah," commenced in June 1st tissue of the paper
is unavoidably delayed, but we expect to publish
Part III in July 15th No.
	THE Primary Conference was held on Saturday
at the Assembly Hall, Mrs. Ellen C. Clawson
presiding. It is the intention to publish minutes
of this conference in our next issue.
	We wish to say to those who have sent money,
and orders for Primary Hymn Books, and who
cannot understand why they are not forwarded,
that they are not yet bound, but it is confidently
expected they will shortly be ready for sale at the
same price as formerly.
	Letter from Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, who was
appointed at the April Conference to fill the posi-
tion made vacant by the death of "Sister Eliza,"
states she is in the enjoyment of good health, and
she sends love and greeting to the sisters in Zion
and hopes before long to return to her field of
labor here.


LETTBRS from Mrs. M. Isabella Horne to her
family bring word of her safe arrival in England,
and her good health, etc. We are sure the sisters
will be glad to hear of her safety, and will pray
for her, that she may accomplish what she under-
took the journey for, viz., to gather her genealogy,
and return home to perform her labors in the
Temple.
	THE poem, “I Will Answer For My People,”
published in June 1st of the Exponent, and
attributed to the gifted poetess, Sarah E. Car-
michael, we have since been informed was the
production of Mrs. Ida Sutherland, formerly of
this city. We make this correction in justice to
the author, as it was a mistake unavoidably made
on pur part, the two pieces having been sent us on
the same paper, and both credited to Miss
Carmichael. We regret the error very much in-
deed, and especially as the second poem should
have been separate, and entitled, “We Do Not
Call Thee Chieftain.”
	THE Y. L. M. I. A. Conference of this Stake
assembled June 22nd, in the Assembly Hall. in
this city, Mrs. M. A. Freeze presiding. The re-
ports by the young lady presidents were given in
a very intelligent and pleasing manner, and a
good spirit prevailed, and there is every reason to
believe the work of improvement is increasing,
and that success will crown the labors of those
who are so zealously laboring in this field of work
for the advancement of the daughters of Zion. In
the afternoon addresses were made by Dr. Ed.
Isaacson, Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mrs. E. S. Taylor,
Mrs. Mary P. Young and Mrs. M. A. Freeze, and
an adjournment was taken until September.
	THE Relief Society Conference of this Stake
was held in the Assembly Rooms of the 14th
ward, in this city, June 21st, Counselor E. S.
Taylor presiding. There was a good attendance,
and verbal reports from nearly all the wards were
given, which occupied most of the time. In the
afternoon, however, Mrs. Emily S. Richards,
Delegate from Utah to the International Council
and Convention of N. W. S. A. in Washington,
gave a brief review of the representation, and re-
lated some incidents in her experience with the
ladies who assembled there, both of the Council
and the Convention, which followed soon after.
This was a new feature of the conference, and
was especially interesting to the audience. Mrs.
Richards has an uncommon good voice, and a
charming way of telling things; there is no doubt
she made a good impression among the ladies of
that grand Council, and it is a point in favor of
the women of Utah, that they were so ably re-
ported, and by one whose voice could penetrate
the most remote part of the large hall where the
Council was held. At the close of the conference
Counselor Taylor addressed the Sisters on practi-
cal matters pertaining to the organization, and in
a most earnest and effective manner exhorted all
to diligence and faithfulness. Conference was ad-
journed until September.


