NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mrs. Garfield has given $10,000 to the Gar-
field University at Wichita.

	A Hindoo Girls’ High School has been
started at Allahabad.  It has already more
than a hundred pupils.

	Certain Frenchwomen are about to found a
scientific review, La Revue Scientifique des
Femmes.  The directors are already chosen.  A
lady who is a physician to the sultan’s seraglio
is a corresponding member.  The editor is Mme.
Renoz, a Belgian.

	Mrs. Gage, chairman of the executive com-
mittee N. W. S. A., especially urges the vice
presidents to attend immediately to the matter
of writing to the delegates from their districts
to the remaining political conventions, urging
their favorable action upon the memorial
which will be presented to them by the Nation-
al W. S. A.

	The late Emperor of Germany disliked to
hear any one speak slightingly of women.
When he was Crown Prince, an officer once re- 
marked of  a wounded comrade that he was
“weeping like a woman ” “Never make that
comparison,” said the Crown Prince with a
frown. “Crying like an unweaned child would
be better.  Women have more fortitude than
men.”

	Mrs. Emily Crawford, the Paris correspond-
ent of the London Daily News and of the N.
Y. Tribune, who has accomplished some re-
markable feats in journalism, was asked the
other day by a commissioner of the Pall Mall
Gazette, “What is the best way to attain excel-
lence in journalism, and to keep it?” She an- 
swered. “To be very genuine, and to keep be-
tween two poles—eternity and the present mo-
ment.  Do not pester about to-morrow or the
next day.  Go at the business on hand; and
rise above the accidental and all-debasing en-
vironments, by doing your best and then fold-
ing your arms like a fatalist.  We lose so
much force in not being frank and genuine; we
worry so much and to no purpose, in not leav-
ing Providence or Fate a very big place in our
calculations."
	Florence Nightingale says, in a recent letter:
“Without women there can be no domestic
hygiene.  The finest principles and works of
sewerage, water supply and ventilation must,
without the housewife, almost remain a dead-
letter.  But let her be practically instructed
how to keep air, earth and water pure, and to
admit light into her house, and the health and
life-giving machinery is complete.” The As-
sociation of Collegiate Alumnae, among its
other good works, founded a Sanitary Science
Club, which has instructed a number of young
women in this important subject, and has


brought out a little book giving practical hints
on domestic hygiene.  Miss Marion Talbot,
secretary of the Collegiate Alumnae; makes a
specialty of this subject, and has given a val-
uable course of lectures upon it to the young
women at Wellesley and elsewhere.—Ex.


