EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	As Montpelier is seldom heard from, I thought I
would write a few lines in behalf of our Primary 
Association, which is progressing under the able
management of Sister Ann Bunney, who labors
unceasingly in its interests; she, with the help of 
her assistants, is doing much good among the
children.
	On the morning of the 1st of June there might 
have been seen fifteen vehicles, loaded with child-
ren and accompanied by a number of the parents,
on our way to the Preston Grove, where we met
with the Preston Primary Associaton for the pur-
pose of celebrating the birthday of President
Brigham Young.
	It was especially planned for the enjoyment of 
the children, and all who participated enjoyed
themselves very much. 
	The forenoon exercises consisted of songs,
recitations and dialogues from the children, which
were all rendered in a very creditable manner;
also appropriate speeches from Bishop Dalrymple 
and Bro. Osborn. 
	Then came a time of feasting for the children
on the good things prepared for them. 
	The afternoon was spent in swinging, fishing,
boat-riding, ball-playing, games, children running
races for candy, etc.
	Everything went off very pleasantly, and at five
o'clock all prepared to return home, after having 
spent a very enjoyable day. 
					ALMIRA HOLMES, Sec.
	Montpelier, Idaho.


[Column 1]
﻿WOMAN’S VOICE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Once more I take up the pen to give a few
items to sisters and friends, which I hope may
find room in some of my sisters’ and friends’
hearts, that they may see that the Saints up
here are yet alive.
	The weather has been pleasant since winter 
left us, though we had a very bitter cold winter.
The Saints up here are trying to live the princi-
ples of their religion. Our Relief Society is
doing well. We are not behind in the enter-
prise of human intelligence in this place; we 
have the Y. L. M. I. A. meetings every week,
and we also have the Primary Association. We

[Column 2]
have a noble Bishop —James Thomas—with
his Counselors, who visit our meetings and give 
us good instructions.
	Having found in our WOMAN’S EXPONENT
many helpful hints about housekeeping and
practical plans to lighten labor, as well as
sensible suggestions on all subjects of interest
to wives and mothers, I feel inclined to add a 
little for the possible benefit of some of the
busy women, who partake at odd intervals of 
the wholesome mental dishes served by the 
EXPONENT. Especially do I wish to address
those who are over-loaded with household cares,
like myself, too poor to keep help, and yet by 
nature always willing to work, even to over-
work one’s self.
	I have read, and will never forget, that
woman’s life is an endless warfare with work,
and it overcomes us at last. This has led me 
to thinking of the folly of giving up to the 
work, and doing a great injustice to ourselves
and others in keeping up with all our might
this contest, until it finally overcomes us; and 
how unsatisfactory the result, that when at 
last our work is done, the best that may be 
said of us will be, “She was a model house-
keeper.” When I was a young housekeeper I 
did not have much to keep house with, like
many others in early days; we had to work
hard to get things to keep house with; work 
with energy of mind and body. In those days 
there was not much piano playing or buggy 
riding, though I do not begrudge any one their
pleasure. 
I do not wish to be understood as advocating
any unjust claim in these regards, but only 
wish to draw a line between essentials, and non-
essentials; an imaginary line it must be, as
each of us can best decide for ourselves what 
is in our homes. At the time to which I re-
fer, my circumstances, sometimes, permitted
me to have a girl to help me. In these latter
years I recall with real pain the hard work
that I have done. This lesson has given me
some gains for my loss; one of them is the true
view of the question of what part of my work
is really necessary to the general welfare of
myself and family, and what other part may
be omitted. Indispensible work takes more of 
my time than I can afford to give.
	I would ask my sisters, who, like myself, 
perhaps, have been severely taught mentally
and morally at the same time, give ourselves
some rest, even if less work is done. It seems 
often to arise in my mind as a complete ques-
tion, as we have been gifted with one, five, or 
ten talents, have we any right to bury them,
or should we not try to improve these talents
which our Heavenly Father has given unto us?
I admit that I have not used or improved my 
talent as I ought, and should have done, but 
there are excuses, under circumstances in 
which we are sometimes placed through life,
where we cannot always help ourselves; we 
should try to manage our talents, and brighten
and refine ourselves, and our religious duties we
must not neglect.
	It is wise to give a large share of our time
to the preparation for our future treasury for
our spirit, and it is also right to make our
home as comfortable with our children as possi-
ble as lies in our power, but yet, if we in the
doing of all this, consume the time that should
be used in sleep, are we doing our highest duty
towards ourselves and family? This life seems
to me too short for us to be so largely given up 
to the requirements of the body. If parents
would but place this matter before their child-
ren as they grow up, that they might do better
than we have done, instead of gaining worldly
wealth, that perishes with the flames. And in
order that we may be prepared to satisfy our
minds and hearts with wholesome food, we
must take time for proper remedy in our duties;
if we don’t clothe our souls and body in accord
we are placed under more suffering; we must,

[Column 3]
as mothers, have some quiet alone to read, 
think and plan for ourselves and our children; 
I know for my part that I need to study and
pray continually, in order to comply with the
work that must be done, both temporally and
spiritually, but yet with my management there
have been years in which I have not had hard-
ly any rest or sleep, having been so over-worked
that my body actually could not rest, and then
the children needed some assistance, and I 
never felt like imposing upon their right, for 
my conscience would not allow me to rest, but
to attend to my duty toward them, and their
tender feelings; thus, my time and hours of 
rest have often been postponed altogether. 
	I have yet a lesson to learn, how to use and
not waste my time and strength, and have 
learned that it never pays to overwork our
nature; system, order and truthfulness are all
important, nor can we hope to plant such habits
in the minds of our sons and daughters except
by good examples; these will be remembered
longer yet we must not forget that this lesson 
must be taught at the fireside, as well as in our
own home, and this is the experience which I 
have drawn from the foregoing: We are rob-
bing our own children and ourselves of what
is worth far more to them and us than we can
estimate. Let us beware, lest we put cleanli-
ness before Godliness. In regarding this ques-
tion in a pure predicted light, it certainly does
not pay to allow our consciences to absorb our 
whole time and strength. The broken health
of the mother of a home and family, involves,
sometimes, years of increased expense, and, in
many directions besides, the inevitable loss from
waste and mismanagement.
	If we are immoderately fond of our house-
keeping during the first years of our children, 
by the time they have reached the learning 
point between youth and maturity, we are
broken-down, fretful invalids, totally unfitted
to be to them what we should wish to be, their
companions and helpers through this very im-
portant period of their lives, and how can we
say that we are doing our duties as mothers?
Sons, as well as daughters, are safest who make
confidents of mothers; they will do if mothers
have taken time to listen to their wants, and 
taken a lively interest in their affairs, great
and small. This is one investment that pays.
	R. POND. 
Eagle Rock, Idaho, May 18, 1888.


