CAUTION.
Let him that thinketh he standeth take heed, lest he
fall.—1ST COR., X. 12. 
	Were not these the words of our Great Law-
Giver, who at an early age met the opposing
power?
	What did Herod say when the shepherds
heralded forth the news of a Savior’s birth? He
said, “Search diligently for the young child and
bring me word, that I may go and worship him
also." Then was Herod troubled, and all Jerusa-
lem with him.
	But there was another power, the power which
informed the shepherds of His birth. By this they
were warned of God in dream not to return to
Herod; they departed into their own country
another way; also Joseph and His mother were
warned to take the young child and flee into Egypt
“And be thou there until I bring thee word, for
Herod will seek the young child to destroy him."
	On following up this history, we find the op-
posing power continually on the alert to gain its
point; consequently the Savior’s words were,
“Watch and pray," and again I say unto you
“Watch.” Since these are the last days we are
living in, who can say there is no need of prayer.
Those who do will eventually learn which power
they aid. Do not we learn from holy writ that our
mission on this earth is to learn both the evil
and the good. Did not our mother Eve design
this, when she partook of the forbidden fruit?
	I often think the two great powers called good
and evil, are like the two great elements fire and
water. It is often remarked they are both good
servants, but hard masters. Yet how well both
can be utilized and brought to accomplish great
things by the wisdom which God has given to
mankind.
	You know water will readily quench fire when
in the ascendancy; and again, fire will drive water
into steam, and send it through space when this
advantage is taken. Accordingly, notice the con-
flict, and what do we see? Two great powers in
these elements. Now see how beneficial the re-
sult when brought under control. Our steam ships
and railroads and any amount of machinery is run
by fire and water. Our Bishop says this great
wisdom is given us because we are so near the
millennium or thousand years of rest.
	Well, since man has been given so much wisdom
in matters of science, what may not our Father do
who is at the head of all science?


I think He will be able to bring the two great
powers called good and evil into use, and to His
advantage, as easily as man can do by fire and
water. Did He not say He would make the wrath
of man to praise Him, and the remainder He
would restrain?	
	Never let us, then, be found to murmur or com-
plain of the trials we are called to pass through,
only be ready to meet them with fortitude and a
composed mind, feeling an assurance that the
hand, of God is in it all, and for a wise purpose.
	A revelation was given through the Prophet
Joseph Smith, saying,  "The Lord is angry with
none except those who do not acknowledge His
hand in all things."
							M. E. KIMBALL.
	Salt Lake City, June 22, 1888.


