DEAR EDITOR:

Having had the privilege of attending the
dedication of the Manti Temple and of par-
taking of the holy influence there enjoyed, my
mind has been filled with thoughts concerning
that holy place and the sacred ordinances there-
in performed. I wish all our young ladies
could have been there to enjoy the feast, for it
was certainly a feast to the soul and gave joy
and happiness to all who had contributed of
their means for its erection.
	It was a grand event in our lives especcially
so to those who had never been in a Temple.
The spirit that was there was proof that God
had accepted the labors and sacrifices of his
people, and had accepted the beautiful house
built to His name. Manifestations of ap-
proval were seen and heard by many. Yet
some try to make us believe we did not see or
hear anything of a heavenly nature, and at-
tribute the manifestations to earthly causes.
But we have a right to expect manifestations
of approval when we do the will of our
Heavenly Father and please Him by our
[column 2]
labors and sacrifices, and surely He and the
angels were pleased with the completion of
that house when the object to be attained is
the redemption of the living and the dead.
How grand, how beautiful and how broad is
the plan of salvation. No one who under-
stands .our religion can truthfully say we are
narrow in our views of salvation, when we
show by our willingness to impart of our sub-
stance, to devote our time and talents in erect-
ing houses for ordinances of the redemption
of all the dead as well as the living. What a
glorious principle is baptism for the dead and
what a work of love for the living to perform.
Attending the Dedication has had a good effect
upon the people, inspiring them with new zeal
to obtain their records of their ancestors and
increasing their desires to remain faithful that
they may be worth to receive blessings in the
House of the Lord.
	Oh, my young sisters, let me, as a friend and
sister who has your interest at heart, beg of
you to seek the things of God and live pure
and virtuous lives, shun the society of the low
and wicked, make the Lord your friend and he
will teach you by his spirit how to walk before
Him acceptably. Heed the counsels of your
parents and those who counsel you for your
good for they are your best friends though per-
haps now you think otherwise, but the time
will come, either to your sorrow or to your joy,
when you will acknowledge they were your
true friends and taught you what was right.
Do not, I beseech of you, shut the door of the
Temple in your faces by uniting yourselves in
marriage with one who is not of our faith; or
one who is unworthy to be recommended by
his Bishop. Think of it girls, think how little
you prize yourselves or your blessings, to give
yourself to one who can not be recommended
to the Temple. It may seem of little import-
ance to you now in your youthful thoughtless
happiness, but I tell you it is of vital import-
ance to you. You will find when trials and
troubles that are the common lot of humanity
come upon you, when you have sickness and
death and are brought down in humility and
sorrow; that you have cut yourselves off from
the blessings of the Priesthood, and forfeited
all claim to the ordinances of the Gospel and
where can you go for comfort and help? The
way of the transgressor is hard, but the way of
the righteous is peace. The wages of sin is
death, the reward of the righteous is life, even
eternal lives. I know that some of my young
sisters would rather marry a young man with
bad habits than one who is religious for fear
he (the religious one) would some time take an-
other wife. Be careful, my sisters. If you
understood the principle of plural marriage
and the destiny of those who practice it in
righteousness you would say with me, thank
God for plural marriage. I bear testimony
to you that plural marriage is a true and holy
principle and that God blesses and acknowl-
edges those who obey it. Although persecution
is heaped upon those who have embraced that
principle at present, it is true and from God,
and He will reward those who endure patiently
all persecution and trials for their religion. Al-
though my husband has been in exile three
and a half years and I have been left alone to
raise my children, and have never once seen
his face in all that time I have never for one
moment regretted entering into plural marriage
and I would rather have my husband in prison,
or in exile, and never see his face again in this
life, than to have him promise to obey the law
even though he would choose me to be his
lawful wife, because I know if we are true to
our covenants we will be associated together
in Eternity and receive all that has been
promised to us. Therefore we can afford to en-
dure persecution for a season and thank God
we are counted worthy to suffer for His cause.
