JULIA WARD HOWE.

	The recent visit of Mrs. Julia Ward Howe
to Salt Lake City, has awakened a desire to
fulfil immediately a promise made some time
since, when a short sketch was published of
Lucy Stone, that we would give a pen portrait
of Mary A. Livermore and Julia Ward 
Howe.
	Mrs. Howe has become more widely known
everywhere (in this country at least), through
her "Battle Hymn of the Republic," than even
her social, literary and political attainments
had made her, or one might with propriety add,
even the fame of her distinguished husband,
Dr. Samuel G. Howe, now some years deceased.
She will live in that one hymn as long as the
remembrance of the war shall last, and that
will be forever.
	Mrs. Howe was the daughter of Samuel
Ward, a banker in the city of New York, and
early in her school life the little girl had
written verses that betokened a brilliancy of
talent that has since been manifestly apparent
to the world. In these school days she pub-
lished a review of Lamartine's Jocelyn with
translations in English verse, and afterwards
another review of Dwight's translation of the
minor poems of Goethe and Schiller. How
these works were received by the literary world
we cannot say, but, at any rate, the girl kept on
"reading, writing and dreaming."
	When Mrs. Howe nee Miss Ward was twenty
years of age her father died, and soon after a
dear brother; then she began studying the
Bible with the same enthusiasm which had
characterized her in the study of philosophy
and other pursuits of a like nature. Inclined,
as almost all poetic temperaments are, to sea-
sons of melancholy, the sorrows that came
into her life intensified this mood, and she be-
came a "religious and spiritual enthusiast."
She was roused from this condition of mind by
studying "Guizot's History of Civilization,"
which awakened a new life within her.
	"At twenty-three she married Dr. S. G. 
Howe, of Boston—a man whose heroic labors
for Greece in her struggle for independence,
whose beautiful devotion to the blind, and
whose anti-slavery crusades, made men speak
of him as the new Bayard."
	They went abroad immediately, and though
the idol of her circle at home, "her only claim
to social distinction" abroad, "was her hus-
band's fame. Her first child was born in
Rome; her mother-love was strong, and her
passion for the supreme city was deep and fer-
vent." She lived in this divine atmosphere
for months, and then came back to the cold
clearness of New England days, settled into
the prosaic round of housekeeping, and gave
herself much to society." She read, however,
such works as stimulated her to "new resolves
of thoroughness and breadth of culture." In
1850 she went abroad again, and all this time
her strong, active mind was being improved by
what she saw and experienced in her journey-
ings here and there. Soon after she published
"Passion Flowers," a book of poems, said to
have been "over-blamed and over-praised."
She still continued to cultivate art and books.
Dr. Howe had charge of The Commonwealth,
and his wife contributed to its columns editori-

[Column 2]

als, verses and literary articles, which to her
was practical educational work, and must have
had a tendency to make her acquainted with
the most famous men and writers of the time,
a time that called forth the best powers and
thoughts of those "zealous for the liberty of
the slave." Her next book was, "Words for
the Hour." These poems, it is said, "were 
riper, and, even more full of promise."
	Still  studying industriously, still writing
peseveringly, in spite of criticism or flattery,
adhering to her own views, and maintaining a
distinct individuality and the courage one sel-
dom finds in woman, Mrs. Howe pressed on-
ward in her literary career. In 1857 she pub-
lished a play—"The World's Own"—brilliant
and brimful of dramatic feeling. It was
produced at Wallack's Theatre in New York,
In 1859 Dr. and Mrs. Howe accompanied
Theodore Parker to Cuba, and during her
travels she gathered material for a very charm-
ing book, an account of the journey, which
appeared first in the Atlantic Monthly, and
afterwards in a volume called, "A Trip to
Cuba." About the same time Mrs. Howe
wrote occasional letters to the New York Tri-
bune, from Boston, New York and Washington.
Her letters were "about the gay world and
people, and places of note, about summer days 
and autumn glories, about poetry, art and
religion." Mrs. Howe has studied the works
of  the great philosophers, Swedenborg,
Spinoza, Kant, Fichte and Hegel. She has
written many social and philosophic papers,
and has given lectures on ethics. She read a
remrkable lecture of hers at a meeting of the
American Society of Arts and Sciences, at
Northampton, Mass., called "Man a priori and
a posteriori." She has published essays, entitled,
"Polarity," "Limitation," and "the Fact Ac-
complished." We could name many other
essays of hers, but shall only mention one more
before closing this article, the one read at
the International Council in Washington last
April, on Organization.
	Mrs. Howe's last book of miscellaneous
poems is called, "Later Lyrics." She has a
lyrical series called, "Her verses," said by a
fine critic to recall Mrs. Browning's "Sonnets
from the Portuguese," with more of Sappho
and less of the saint." Mrs. Howe has written
a biography of Margaret Fuller, which does
her great credit, and is full of womanly tender-
ness in its style. A later book of travels,
"From the Oak to the Olive," is very highly
spoken of.  It is the story of a journey from
London to Athens via. Paris, Marseilles, Rome
Naples and Venice.
	Mrs. Howe has been, for many years, an
active member of the American Woman
Suffrage Association, of which she has some-
times been President. Mrs. Howe is President
of the Association for the Advancement of
Women, which holds its Congresses once a
year, generally changing from city to city to
accomodate members and reach the people in
different places. This fall the Woman's Con-
gress, as it is called, will meet in Detroit, 
Michigan. This Association gets confused
with the Suffrage Association by those who
are not familiar with the organizations and the
terms used, but it has no connection whatever
with that association, though a number of the
ladies are members of both associations, and
some of them not believers in woman's suffrage
at all. Mrs. Howe in a letter to me, dated
at Newport, R. I., Oct. 3rd, 1883, stated: "The


[Column 1]
topics for the Congress are all selected, and the
papers assigned, quite early in the year. Our
rules do not allow the introduction of any
papers not provided for in this way." This
gives one a little idea of the Association of
Advancement for Women. It is composed of
educated and cultured women, and they have
by-laws and so forth for the Association to be
governed by. Mrs. Howe is also President of
the New England Woman's Club, which was
organized Feb. 11, 1868, making it older than
Sorosis, the woman's club of New York City.
	These clubs were organized about the same
time that the Retrenchment Associations were
in Utah, since called Y. L. M. I. A., showing
that a spirit and influence to gain knowledge
by organized effort, and to do good to each
other, was abroad in the world. "The first ob-
ject of the N. E. Club was to organize the
women of Boston, at that time working singly
in the various fields of philanthropy, into a
compact body, and thus to greatly enlarge
their usefulness, the severely useful being, as
we outsiders acknowledge with proper humili-
ty, the watchword of New England." The
quotation made here is from an article by Olive
Thorne Miller in "Woman." As I have a de-
cided preference in favor of everything that
originates in New England, because, I suppose,
of the New England blood in my veins, and
my happy childhood there; I feel an uncommon
interest in the N. E. Woman's Club. The most
prominent names on the list of officers of this
Club are, Mrs. Howe, Prest.; Dr. Ednah
D. Cheney, Vice Prest.; and Miss Elizabeth P.
Peabody, the American mother of the Kindergar-
ten, said to be "one of Boston's most interesting
and representative women"—all three ladies
being lecturers in the Concord School of
Philosophy. Other noted members are, Abby
Morton Diaz, Lucy Stone, H. L. T. Woolcott,
Maria Mitchell, Kate Gannett Wells and Abbey
W. May. To tell our readers of the workings
of this Club and its development, would require
an article by itself, but we have mentioned it
incidentally in connection with Mrs. Howe.
	There are many interesting things one would
like to bring in when writing of this celebrated
woman, but it is impossible to include all in a
brief sketch. Mrs. Howe's versatility is very
great, she is brilliant in so many ways; unlike
many literary people and leading suffrage
women, she is what in the world is termed "a
society woman." She has been quoted as a
model mother, affectionate and devoted, yet
her scholarly attainments, rank her with men
whose lives are wholly given to their profes-
sion. 
	Mrs. Howe's article on "The Power of Or-
ganization," read at the International Council
in Washington last winter, was quite in keep-
ing with the views advanced by our people,
and rather reminded me of Brigham Young,
as it was much in his  line of thought on the
subject. Her article in The Forum for June
—"Men, Women and Money"—is a very good
good one, and her ideas on these matters do
not differ materially from those we advocate.
Mrs. Howe has had great opportunities, her
whole life having been spent in the midst of
people of wealth, education and culture.
	The post of President of the Woman's De-
partment of the World's Exposition in New
Orleans, in 1884-5, was a handsome compliment
to her executive ability, which she certainly
possesses in a large degree, and the result
proved her equal to the situation. She spoke
of her labors there with much satisfaction to
me, when I met her in New York in 1886, and
afterwards sent me her "Report and Catalogue
of the Woman's Department," a carefully pre-
pared work, containing, in perfect order, the
most minute details.
	It is said Mrs. Howe had auburn hair when
younger, but now it is beautifully white, and
well becomes her dignified and queenly bearing

[Column 2]
and is in harmony with the depth of thought
and research which her whole appearance indi-
cates. That such a woman should have writ-
ten the "Battle Hymn of the Republic" seems
only natural. Mrs. Howe has told us in her
own way in The Century how she was inspired
to write it. There is more in the hymn than
one is likely to see in first reading it, and as
there may be some who have never read it ap-
preciatively, we republish it here in full. 

