FREDERICK III OF GERMANY.

	Most of our readers have certainly been inter-
ested in the Emperor Frederick, who so recently
succeeded to the throne,at the death of his father
the Emperor Wilhelm, who had so long reigned
over that vast empire. He died on the 15th of
June ult., at 11 a.m., after a most severe and
lingering illness and intense suffering. Daily
telegrams had kept the people somewhat familiar
with his case, which was a most singular one, in-
deed, and through it all the sublime grandeur of
his character was apparent. It is a matter of
regret that he has been cut down at such a
critical time, when the strength and genius of
such a sovereign would have been, speaking in
the largest sense, the salvation of the people. His
wife, too, had taken an active interest in plans
looking to the uplifting of the women of the
country, which must have resulted in the good of
the whole, for wherever women, in the aggregate,
are refined, cultivated and advanced, men must,
necessarily, be influenced for good. It is scarcely
expected of the Crown Prince, who succeeds the
Emperor, that his policy will be democratic or in
the interest of peace, as he is said to be a warrior-
born, like his illustrious grandfather, and to detest
anything English, even the English blood in his
own veins.
	It is said of Frederick, that he was courageous
when in battle, and that his career as an officer
was brilliant with success, but that "dazzling as
his victories were, his conduct at home won him
still more glory. With his devoted wife, he was
always prominent in measures for the advance-
ment of learning, for the improvement of the
masses, and for the amelioration of the rigors of
despotism." Frederick was himself a thorough
scholar, and had none of the arrogance of the
"old-style aristocrats," and was consequently
unpopular with men of that type. That there has
been genuine sorrow at his death there can be no
room for doubt, for he was truly the friend of the
people, and they loved him sincerely.
	Frederick III was born in 1831, and might have
lived yet many years to benefit his people, had not
a most cruel and fatal disease laid its heavy hand
upon him. Strange it seems, that looking for-
ward, as he naturally must have done, to the time
when he would ascend the throne, that his reign
and rule should have been so brief; and the entire
time one of suffering and pain. But the kings
and mighty ones are in the hands of the Lord,
and He turneth and overturneth at His good wili
and pleasure, and kingdoms and empires are sub-
ject to Him, and He will fulfill His purposes
concerning them in His own due time and way;
and in all things must His hand and His wisdom
be acknowledged.


