; The Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: Linnie F. Robinson Transparency by Free Lance Photographers Guild Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Springtime Blossoms Photograph by Ward Linton for Don Knight Dick Scopes Illustrations: ~ Mary Scopes I am now a part of the servicemen's group, St. Johns Branch, Maritime District, New England Mission. This group is stationed at the Argentia Naval Station, Argentia, Newfoundland. My Magazine is enjoyed by all the sisters in our group here, as well as by our husbands. We are particularly pleased with the lesson material for literature this year, and are enjoying reading the wonderful textbook. Thank you for this wonderful Magazine that makes us feel closer to home each month. Elouise F. Cheney St. Johns, Newfoundland I really enjoy and look forward to The Relief Society Magazine, and especially appreciate the beautiful covers. I am a= secretary-treasurer in Relief Society, and feel honored to have been asked to take this position. Vera R. Holden Stockport, Cheshire, England. I deeply appreciate the opportunity I have of receiving The Relief Society Magazine. As a missionary I! Find infinite uses for this little gem of inspiration. Our women contacts truly enjoy reading the wonderful messages and the various articles on home and family life, such as the article ''The Effects of Home Influence,'' by President N. Eldon Tanner, in the December 1964 issue. As long as the Magazine is published, the missionaries will have a good proselyting companion. Elder David Mueller Minneapolis, Minnesota The pictures and the essays in the Magazine have always given me strength, courage, and joy, and I profit by the instructions to improve our Relief Society organizations.! Am happy to have the opportunity to serve in such a wonderful organization. Ingeborg M. Gildner President Bavarian Mission Relief Society 162 Wi Vine a a VA Sar i am a new convert to the Church, and the Church is new in our area. The membership is small but growing fast. One of the sisters gave me a number of back issues of The Relief Society Magazine, and I would like to say how very much I enjoyed them, especially Miranda Snow Walton's beautiful sad poem ''Some Late Evening" in the January 1963 issue. The group pictures of the Relief Society sisters are interesting. They have such kind and happy faces, and the samples of their beautiful handicraft show how varied their interests are. Mrs. Roy Stultz Moncton, New Brunswick Canada I enjoy the Magazine very much and sit down as soon as it comes every month to read it from cover to cover. I especially enjoy the serials which are included among the other stories. Thank you for the many hours of pleasure, and for the many more I am sure will come with the arrival of the Magazine. Edna Davis Middlefield, Ohio I must congratulate you on the November Magazine. It is truly as beautiful as autumn itself. The poetry has thrilled me, and I wonder how women can express themselves so beautifully. The other articles and recipes are just as precious, and I would not exclude the lesson department—it is priceless. Mrs. Katie Lewis Malad, Idaho I prize each issue of the Magazine. My children enjoy many of the features and stories as much as I do. I have often used short articles, stories, and poems from the Magazine to brighten up our Home Evening program. Dorothy Brewer Whitmer Mesa, Arizona tne Relief Society 152: