[Vol52 | March 1965 | Page 210 | Home | Mary A. Kelii Makes | Hawaiian Quilts]
Mary A. Kelii Makes Hawaiian Quilts Mary Kelii, Laie, Hawaii, has made more than 200 beautiful Hawaiian quilts. Each appliqued quilt takes a thousand hours to complete. Many of the designs are original with Mrs. Kelii, but some of them represent very old art patterns of the islands. Native flowers and trees, as well as historical emblems, are intricately worked into designs of striking and effective artistry. Mrs. Kelii has made a quilt for each of her children and grandchildren and for many of the Church labor missionaries in Hawaii. At the time the picture was taken, she had twenty-two fully completed quilts ready for gift giving. - Mrs. Kelii was born at Wailuku, Maui, where she spent her childhood. In 1907 she moved to Honolulu and two years later married William Kelii. They are parents of five children, two of them adopted. There are twenty-three grandchildren and twenty-four great-grandchildren. Mrs. Kelii has been a widow for many years. A member of Laie Third Ward, she is still doing ordinance work in the temple. For eighteen years she was Relief Society Secretary at Wahiawa, and has served as first and second Counselor since coming to Laie. 210 CHAPTER 6 Synopsis: Elsa Breinholt leaves her native Heidelberg for Utah, where she is sponsored by the family of Clay Knowlton, stationed in Germany with the United States Army. She obtains employment at a department store and moves into an apartment with three other working girls. Alone on Christmas day, she goes to a children's hospital where she meets Dr. Kirton who takes her to dinner. THE rest of the holiday season passed quickly for Elsa. Her roommates returned, and there was a gala New Year's dance at the stake center which they all attended. Dr. Kirton called again and took her to a concert of the symphony orchestra. "You'd better keep him at a distance — from me, I mean," said Margery. "That's just the type of man I've been looking for. Handsome — sort of.