[Vol52 | March 1965 | Page 226 | General Feature | Notes From the Field: Relief | Society Activities]
Several demonstrations were held, with samples and recipes available. These included cake decorating, candy, Swedish and sweet breads, and glazed doughnuts." 


 East Jordan Stake (Utah) Former Stake Relief Society Presidents Honored at Friendship Social May 1, 1964 Helen M. Burgon, 1962-; Caroline K. Berrett, 1962; Norma Winn, 1962 (not present for the picture); Celeste D. Millerberg, 1955-57; Grace G. Thornton, 1949-1955; Vella Jones, 1945-49 (not present for the picture); Lucy B. Godfrey, 1939-1945; Alta Andrus Aylett, 1935-39; Elfreda L. Jensen, 1927-1935. Sisters Burgon reports: 'Our May Friendship Day was a 'thank you' to all of our sisters. Very special tribute was given to the visiting teachers. An outstanding treat was the presentation of each of the past presidents of the stake. They were given recognition by the spoken word and presented a corsage. Our stake was organized in 1927, and all nine presidents are living, but two could not be present when the picture was taken. The film 'The Awakening' was presented, and truly enjoyed by all, especially since Caroline K. Berrett, one of our former presidents, was with us, and she had played such an important part in writing and producing this film. At the conclusion of the program, we went into the cultural hall, which was beautifully decorated for May Day, complete with May poles and wheelbarrows of fresh flowers. Tables were arranged in the center of the hall under the May pole, displaying outstanding articles made in Relief Society, many to be sold at our stake festival in the summer. A fashion show featured clothes made in a special sewing class held in Relief Society on work meeting day. The clothing was modeled by the sisters and their children. Everyone enjoyed sitting in the circles and renewing old friendships and making new friendships while they drank punch and ate homemade cookies. Printed recipe brochures were given to all, and each of the stake board members made and donated a door prize. There were about 275 in attendance." Bountiful East Stake (Utah) ''Displays of Talents We Gain Through Relief Society Sharing' September 11, 1964 Blanche T. Ellis, President, Bountiful East Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Bountiful East Stake invited the women in the area to visit the 'Displays of Talents We Gain Through Relief Society Sharing.' This picture of attractive quilts is representative of the many booths and displays which made the social an outstanding event, long to be remembered in this stake. The stake Relief Society board, with the help of six ward presidencies, personally distributed 1500 invitations within the stake boundaries. The program commenced with the stake Singing Mothers presenting 'One World' and 'Why a Singing Mother Sings.' Three short skits, 'Ye Are on the Lord's Errand,' excerpts from Sinclair Lewis and Emily Dickinson, and an original humorous skit, written by Marlene McBride, followed on the program. Dorothy Pratt sang 'Let All My Life Be Music.' ' "The foyer and the cultural hall were beautifully decorated, and the booths displayed knitting, a sewing room with bazaar items, a variety of home-: made rugs, and a flower garden of choice food recipes. In the center of the hall were tables covered with Christmas gift suggestions, and a tree decorated with original ornaments. Each of the six wards participated in the booths. The long refreshment table, carrying out the Relief Society colors with a blue taffeta cloth, and net over-cover, adorned with candelabra, and fruit and flower arrangements, caught one's eye immediately. Delicious, attractively arranged trays of cookies and cups of clear limeade, with a red cherry, completed the table. About 500 women attended, of whom many were nonmembers. "In the foyer, Relief Society Magazines were given to those who were not acquainted with this great missionary and teacher. Our objective was to acquaint the women with the opportunities Relief Society has to offer, and we feel a great deal was accomplished."

NOTES FROM THE FIELD 229 Ensign Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Visiting Teachers Social May, 1964 Front row, seated, left to right, members of Ensign Stake Relief Society board: Edel McNeil, Marie Hill, Gwen Shurtleff, Josephine Sigmund, Geraldine Ballard. Standing at the left of the sisters in the front row: Pearl Whitney, member, stake board. Standing at the right of the sisters in the front row: LaDell Woolley, member, stake board. Second row, standing, left to right, officers of Ensign Stake Relief Society Board: Ruth Cutler, First Counselor; Fern Hunter, Second Counselor; Lucy T. Andersen, President; Evelyn Nelson, narrator for dramatization. Third row, standing, first and second from the left: Ros Lynn Bunting, Secretary-Treasurer, Ensign Stake Relief Society; Marie Nelson, accompanist; Yvonne Zutter; Hulda Heppley; Edith Langlois, honored as oldest visiting teacher; Hattie Angebauer, honored for the longest period of service as a visiting teacher (in print dress). Fourth row, at the left: Jewel Cutler, director of the Singing Mothers; Elaine Green, accompanist on the organ for the dramatization; Sheryl] Thygenson. Sister Andersen reports: ' "Our Wonderful World of Relief Society' was the theme for the May social honoring the visiting teachers. There were 260 sisters present, including seventy Singing Mothers. The dramatization was written by Lucy T. Andersen. Songs by the chorus and organ background music were appropriately interspersed through the narrative. Books were presented to Edith Langlois, ninety years of age, the oldest visiting teacher in the stake; Hattie Angebauer, who has been a visiting teacher continuously for fifty-five years; Sheryl Thygenson, twenty-three, the youngest visiting teacher. "There was a wonderful, uplifting, spiritual atmosphere throughout the social. Friendliness and sociability prevailed as refreshments were served in the flower-decked cultural hall." Pioneer Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Holds Social Honoring the Visiting Teachers October 19, 1964 Pioneer Stake Relief Society presidency admiring some of the handwork displays, left to right: Winifred Stanley, Second Counselor; Rosella Holmes, First Counselor; Dicie Godfrey, President. Sister Godfrey reports: "The Pioneer Stake Relief Society held a social honoring the visiting teachers, October 19, 1964. A film strip called "The Awakening' was shown, and the president of each of the eight wards modeled her ward fashion show's winning aprons. Four different kinds of aprons were modeled by each president. Each ward had a booth displaying a few of the lovely articles which they had made for the bazaar. After the social, tasty refreshments were served. It was a very enjoyable afternoon." Burley Stake (Idaho) Relief Society Presidency Honors Ward Presidencies at Luncheon August 25, 1964 Left to right: Effie Mills, First Counselor; LaVerne Darrington, President; Jean Yarrington, Second Counselor; Helen Wood, Secretary-Treasurer. Sister Darrington reports that this luncheon featured foods which can be stored. Home-grown, high-quality, energy dishes were served and displayed. Counselor Effie Mills presented a story from The Book of Mormon to illustrate the blessings which result from sharing and helping one another. Counselor Jean Yarrington showed a display of special foods that can be stored and urged the sisters to be prepared to help one another and to remember those in need. Sister Darrington advised the sisters to be thrifty and independent so that their ways can be an example for others. 230 Go - 4 Maes ¥ es Moos 5 East Millcreek Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Nursery Program David Muir, David Figgat, and David Dalton are seen arranging trains and trucks on a "road rug," in the Seventh Ward nursery. Alta M. Dean, President of the stake Relief Society, reports: "Quiet play was introduced for the junior nursery as the Relief Society mothers began bringing their children. It was necessary to have something worthwhile ready to interest them and to keep controlled behavior, even before the nursery started with prayer and song. "Large flannel paper dolls with flannel clothes, were used. A train and road rug with 'bagged' trains and cars and trucks proved enjoyable. The Relief Society sisters made baby dolls and inserted them into pillow beds. Stoves were made from cardboard boxes, with supplies kept inside, including paper napkins; Scotch-tape-covered food to cook was prepared, and utensils and small-sized foil pie tins, with foil handles stapled on, were supplied. These toys were made in Relief Society during work meetings. "Certain singing-time activities were enhanced by the use of movable cardboard puppets, such as 'Farmer in the Dell.' The farmer's hands swung up and down and his mouth opens in rhythm to the music, through a simple control on the back of the puppet. The children also enjoyed making animal sack puppets for singing time. "Baking activities were loved by the youngsters of some wards. Dough was prepared prior to the meeting, and the children were scrubbed. All-alike white aprons were placed on them, which were made especially for such occasions by Sister Bea Savage, out of old sheets, to impress children with the need to be clean around food. They kneaded and rolled out individual miniature loaves of bread and watched them being placed in the oven. Later, when the bread was baked, it was served to the children. Another time, the children made and decorated cookies and passed them to mothers for workday dessert. "Such preparation teaches and impresses children. Relief Society day becomes an exciting and most important day for them. The nursery has become a learning situation, rather than a chaotic hour and a half of tears, crying, and disorderly running and jumping."