[Vol52 | March 1965 | Page 217 | Home | The Little White Box Janet | W. Breeze]
And, as I grew older, I was encouraged to make my first "little white box." It turned out to be quite a production. I painted it all up with fancy flowers; and on the center of the lid, in macaroni alphabets, I glued the letters t-i-t-h-i-n-g. Even though, as I became a career girl, the little white box was later replaced by numbers in an account book and checkbook, by the time I entered marriage, tithing was a natural and acceptable part of my life. Since then, things have happened which have convinced me more thoroughly than ever that the Lord does bless us when we comply with the things he asks of us. One of many incidents stands out in my mind. It was shortly after our first baby was born. My husband was an enlisted man in the army. We lived comfortably, but somehow, the money we had just didn't seem to want to stretch into the shape of baby 


 furniture; and we were too far away from home to borrow a crib from relatives. Since babies have to have someplace to sleep, it was a temptation to buy a crib rather than pay our tithing. But we didn't give in. THEN, a mysterious letter came in the mail. It was from the Department of the Army and. Was addressed to me. It stated that through some oversight, my allotment checks had not started as soon as they should. Enclosed I would find a check correcting the error made over a year before. Even though it was money we should have received anyway, we deemed it a great blessing that the money had somehow been saved until a time when we could better use it. This was just one occasion. There have been other times when unexpected blessings have come to us. I am sure that the Lord does not bless everyone in the exact same way. However, whether it has been the result of Mother's practical view toward tithing, or unexpected sources of income, we feel very strongly that our blessing for the payment of tithing has been financial security. Now it is our duty to share this wonderful law of tithing with our children. As soon as that first precious baby grew into a little girl with a piggy bank, we told her about tithing. At that time, we had a weekly "home night" that consisted of a story about Jesus, Ring-Around-theRosy, and an ice-cream corte. One night, before the ice-cream cone, we sat at the kitchen table, and with white paper, glue, and. Crayons, we decorated a "little white box," which read: Claudia's Tithing. Thereafter, each home night - Daddy gave her ten pennies. One penny was to go in the little white box. And nine were to go in her piggy bank. Last December, Claudia carried the little white box to her first tithing settlement. The bishop handed her a receipt, and we explained what it was. She later told her grandmother, "This paper means I gave Heavenly Father back his money." Grandmother was so pleased she opened her handbag and brought forth two nickles. She said, "For a very good little girl." Claudia took the money to her bedroom. She put one nickel in her piggy bank — and one in her little white box. Is a child ever too young to be taught the gospel?