Social Service Institute Cora Kasius
A twelve-weeks' course in family welfare work, conducted under the auspices of the Relief Society General Board, has just been completed. This is the second institute for which the board has been responsible, the first having been held at Provo, Utah, in connection with the Brigham Young University, in the summer of 1920. The present institute opened on March 11 and continued until May 29, meeting daily at Relief Society headquarters. The members of the institute were representatives from the various Salt Lake county stakes. Each of the nine Salt Lake county stakes was authorized to send one stake representative and four or five ward representatives. Two stakes asked for the special privilege of sending two stake representatives; so there were in all a total of eleven stake workers and twenty-six ward workers. Both the stake and ward workers met three days a week for three hours where an intensive study was made of methods of family welfare work, of special problems of health, mental disease, delinquency, etc., and of the literature on social work. The stake representatives were asked to be present two additional days each week, during which time they visited various institutions of the state and made a special study of social problems which are dealt with in the welfare departments of the Relief Society. The institute was under the supervision of Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary of the Relief Society, who was assisted by other General Board members and by Miss Cora Kasius and the following other members of the staff of the Relief Society Welfare Department: Miss Lydia Alder, Miss Genevieve Thornton, and Miss Anna Laura Stohl. A course of lectures was given by these social workers in modern methods of family welfare work. The lectures included a history of the charity movement, a study of social reforms, a study of the case work method, a discussion of the elements of normal life, an analysis of the standard of living, a study of problems of income and expenditure, of health problems, of behavior problems, of the backward child, and other related social problems. Mrs. Annie D. Palmer, social worker for the Castle Gate Relief Fund Committee, Miss A. A. Buffington, secretary of the Charity Organization Society of Salt Lake City, and Mrs. Amy W. Evans of the Relief Society General Board, addressed the institute on different occasions, presenting some of these subjects. In making a study of the various special problems, a number
of experts were asked to give addresses to the institute. Problems of health, of mental disease, and of housekeeping were especially emphasized. The specialists made a very important contribution to the institute and their instruction was greatly appreciated by the members of the class and by the General Board. These lectures included: The family as a Social Unit, by Dr. E. Erickson of the University of Utah; A Report of the Goitre Survey of Utah, by Dr. James Wallace of the Utah State Board of Health; The Early Detection of Disease, by Dr. George W. Middleton. The Venereal Disease Control Program in Utah was the subject of two lectures given by Mr. Peter Kasius of the U. S. Public Health Service. Dr. Dean Brimhall of the New York Psychological Corporation appeared before the institute on two occasions, discussing the types and gradations of intelligence, and outlining the development of mental tests by psychologists. Dr. Foster J. Curtis of the U. S. Veterans' Bureau, gave a series of talks in which he discussed the types of mental disease, the early detection of mental disease, and the causes and treatment of mental disorders. Dr. G. H. Pace gave two lectures to the institute on Mental Hygiene, emphasizing particularly the behavior of children and the development of the Mental Hygiene Movement in America. Dr. Ray T. Woolsey addressed the Institute on the subject of pre-natal and maternity care, and Dr. A. L. Brown subsequently gave an address on infant welfare. During the Institute, four different nurses addressed the class: Mrs. J. D. Hammond of the Metropolitan Life Nursing Association, and Mrs. W. W. Hudson of the American Smelting & Refining Company, discussed the work of the Public Health Nurse; Miss Lucy P. Pocock, supervisor of Nurses of the L. D. S. Hospital, gave a talk on the health of the young girl, and Miss Dora Maben discussed the health problems of the pre-school child. Addresses on homemaking, on budget planning, and on food values, were made by Miss Jean Cox of the State Department of Education, and by Mrs. Lalene H. Hart of the Relief Society General Board. A study was first made of food values and the dietary needs of the human mechanism. In a practical way it was shown which foods and what amounts of food have been found to be essential to promote proper growth and development of individuals of various ages. A study was then made of the costs of foods and with this as a basis, various budgets were outlined and computed. Studies were made of the amount of money it would take to keep an infant, a sick person, a person living alone, and families of different sizes, supplied with the necessary food. Other costs besides food costs were studied and budgets covering all the expenditures of a family were computed for families of limited incomes. Plans were made for both small and large families and the figures were based on local prices, 
Elder Stephen L. Richards, of the Quorum of the Twelve, and David A. Smith of the Presiding Bishopric, both addressed the class on different occasions emphasizing the need of spiritual instruction and the importance of spiritual growth in order to give to a family its greatest stability and its most permanent strength. A study of the literature of social work was an important part of the Institute. Various books by national authorities on social problems were presented to the class, some of them in lecture form. The class members were required to read and study four different books: The Normal Life, by Edward T. Devine; The Charity Visitor, by Amelia Sears; What Social Workers Should Know About their Communities, by Margaret Byington; The Art of Helping People Out of Trouble, by Karl De Scheinitz. Three hours a week were spent in reviewing and discussing the various books. Social Diagnosis, by Mary E. Richmond, was used as a reference book and also as a text by the instructors in planning the lectures in methods of family welfare work. The stake workers visited a number of institutions with the idea of learning what facilities the community has in treating problems of health, delinquency, crime, dependency, etc. The different health institutions visited were: the County Hospital, the County Infirmary, the Community Clinic, the City Board of Health, the Primary Convalescent Home, the State School for the Deaf and Blind, in Ogden, and the State Mental Hospital, in Provo. In making a survey of the community's resources for treating delinquency and crime, the following institutions were visited: the State Industrial School in Ogden, the Juvenile Court of Salt Lake City, the Girls' Detention Home, the City Court, the City Jail, the Sheriff's Office, the County Jail, and the State Penitentiary. Visits were also made to the Neighborhood House of Salt Lake City and the State Orphanage, where the work of these two institutions in caring for children was explained by the officers in charge. On the afternoon of June 1, closing exercises including a reception were held at the Relief Society headquarters where the members of the class were the guests of the General Board. The opening and closing prayers were offered by Counselor Jennie B. Knight and Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund of the General Board. A report of the Institute was made by Miss Cora Kasius; addresses were made by two class members, Mrs. Mabel W. James and Mrs. Clarice Tanner, and by President Clarissa S. Williams, Counselor Louise Y. Robison, and General Secretary Amy Brown Lyman of the General Board. Musical numbers were rendered by Mrs. Agnes Bolto, and at the close of the program, refreshments were served. A photograph which is printed herewith, was taken of the class members, of the stake Relief Society board members and the General Board members who were present.
The attendance at the Institute was excellent, all the members making a very good record. Members of the General Board. And also members of the stake boards were invited to attend and there were always a number present. The enrolled members of the class, by stakes, were: Cottonwood: stake worker, Anna L. Johanson; ward workers, Pansy Olander, Francis D. Fowler, Margaret Powell; Ensign: stake worker, Mabel W. James; ward workers, Bae Williams, Sadie Cutler; Grant: stake workers, Marie H. Tanner, Marie K. Nash; ward worker, Mrs. M. C. Clements; Granite: stake worker, Mabel Olsen; ward workers, Gertrude Thompson and Hattie Blair; Jordan: stake workers, Maud P. Butterfield, Helen Vawdery; ward workers, Lucy B. Godfery, Mrs. J. W. Grace, Veda Cundick, Edna Call; Liberty: stake worker, Phoebe Lundberg; ward workers, Hetta Taylor, Sophronia Forsberg, Ruth Keyser, Ruby Stevenson, Aara Fagergren; Pioneer stake: stake worker, Jean V. Burt; ward workers, Clarice Tanner, Daisy Crockett, Eleanor Crockett, Maisie Hurst; Salt Lake: stake worker, Mary Ostler, ward workers, Julia G. Miller, Mrs. Maud Parry, Agnes McMillan, Amelia Winkworth, Mildred Jenkins; Oquirrh: stake worker, Lois Turpin.