Guide Lessons for September
LESSON I (First Week in September)
Theology and Testimony
A. Some Leading Events.
1. The Birth of Isaac. It was in fulfilment of a prophecy made by a messenger from God, a prediction that was so out of harmony with the ordinary experiences of humanity that its fulfilment seemed almost ridiculous. (See Genesis 18:12.)
The fore-ordination of Isaac, known to God, was indirectly revealed to the parents of Isaac by the prophetic declaration of his birth, and in this case prophecy filled its double function, proving to mortals that there is a God, a being whose knowledge exceeds that of mortals and whose power is super-human and whose interest in human affairs is constant.
2. Isaac on the Altar. Is it consistently thinkable that Isaac was kept in ignorance of who he was?a child of promise; that he was not told of what his mission was, as an heir to the priesthood, the elect of God to carry on the progressive fulfilment of the promises made to his father? Can we believe that Isaac was not taught the gospel plan of salvation and exaltation, the culminating part of which was reached by the Savior through becoming the sacrifice of all sacrifices? Had not Abraham read the command given to Adam, "Teach these things freely to your children?" Did Isaac not have the Christ-life pictured to him by his parents, and was not the Savior the boy's highest ideal of heroism? In this event, was Isaac deprived of a free-agency part in this psychological sacrifice, or did he have the choice between flight and facing the ordeal? Isaac was "bound" but was not the binding of his body preceded and accompanied by the inner freedom of willingness?
3. The Eternal Union of Isaac and Rebekah. Divine Guidance?Abraham was inspired to send back to the land of his nativity for a mother for the children of
his son of promise. Isaac's wife was to be an elect lady of select blood. The messenger sent to make the selection was to be left free from all influences except that of inspiration. Abraham not only put him under oath, but he promised him the guiding presence of an angel from God. (See Gen. 24:1-8.) The prediction of Abraham was fulfilled. Rebekah, the good, kind, fair, reverential Rebekah, was discovered and found willing to leave her parental home for the tent where Isaac dwelt. (See Gen. 24:16, 27, 50, 55-58.) What time may have elapsed between the first meeting of Isaac and Rebekah and their marriage is not specified, but their courtship seems to have been a case of "love at first sight." A love that had in it the consciousness of the approval of parents, God, and nature, a love that lasted. (See Gen. 24:67.) This was an event that bears the unmistakable mark of God's approval of careful selection in marriage. It is a striking example of the application of the laws of God in marriage.
4. The Posterity of Isaac and Rebekah.
a. Isaac's appeal to the Lord?Twenty years of married life brought to this couple no children. The Lord had renewed to Isaac the promises made to Abraham thus indicating again that Isaac was to be the chief line of descent for the posterity of the father of the faithful. But how, when, where, this promise was to be fulfilled became a serious question to Isaac. He appealed to God and his entreaty was answered. (Gen. 25:21.)
b. Rebekah's Inquiry of the Lord?To her question, "Why am I thus?" Rebekah received an answer from the Lord that was both explanatory and prophetic, and her after life indicates her loyalty to the accomplishment of the will of the Lord as revealed to her.
c. The Birthright and Blessing Episode?It matters little to us just what rights went with birthright or what privileges went with the blessing. The points of chief value are the facts that both birthright and blessing were choice inheritances which were subject to forfeiture by unworthiness. It goes without saying that one who despises a gift is unworthy of the gift, and Esau "despised his birthright." (Gen. 25:34.) He was glad to sell it for a single meal. That he expressed himself physically famish- 
ing was of little consequence when compared with his spiritual imbecility. It was a blessing so closely related to the birthright, and Jacob bought it, was no ordinary transaction; it was ratified by a solemn oath. It was a transaction to which God was made a witness, a solemn covenant of relinquishment, on the part of Esau, and the taking of responsibility on the part of Jacob. It was a part of the fulfilment of the divine prediction made to Rebekah. It was not simply a blessing that Esau expected but it was the blessing so closely related to the birthright, that selling of the latter worked a forfeiture of the right to the former. Rebekah took the responsibility of seeing to it, in her own way, that the blessing went with the birthright. The outcome of the event was a triple lesson: 1 That disregard for a blessing is evidence of unworthiness of a blessing. 2. That unworthiness ends in disappointment. 3. That the unconditional promises of the Lord cannot fail of complete fulfilment.
Questions and Problems:
1. Discuss the statement, "Isaac took a willing part in the great test of his father Abraham."
2. Show that Rebekah was an elect lady. Of select ancestry.
3. Wherein does the life of Rebekah give evidence that woman is entitled to direct communication with the Lord?
4. From the highest judgment of what is right, (i. e., doing the greatest good to the greatest number), to which would you have given the blessing, Jacob or Esau?
5. What is an unconditional prophecy or promise? Give illustrations of conditional prophecies.
LESSON II (Second Week in September)
Work and Business
LESSON III (Third Week in September)
Literature
Eugene Field
It will be three years on October 28, 1925, since a monument was unveiled to Eugene Field, in Lincoln Park, Chicago. This monument was paid for chiefly by the children of the city of Chicago. It consists of a brooding angel hovering over two sleeping children, sprinkling the sand of dreams into their eyes. On the base are carved the first four lines of "Wynken, Blynken, and Nod." On the other side of the sleeping children are the first four lines of "The Sugar Plum Tree." "Have you ever heard of the Sugar Plum Tree? *Tis a marvel of great renoun,. It blooms on the shore of the Lollipop Sea, In the garden of Shut Eye Town." Eugene Field was born in 1850 in Chicago and died there in 1895. He once satarized himself as the Dante of Chicago, with a roll of sausages about his head. He was prankish, loved very much to get a joke on one of his friends. In the "Americanization of Edward Bok," Mr. Bok tells us how miserable his friend Eugene Field made him and what great embarrassment he caused him by one of his jokes, and then how he extended the most cordial entertainment to him when he visited Chicago. Yet Field was very much more than prankish, he had a very serious side. His last public appearance consisted of a reading to help a destitute woman. He did not know the person for whom he was making the effort, a great one for him, at that particular time, in his failing health, but it was a free-will offering. We have talked of Riley as the children's poet. Eugene Field shares honors with both Longfellow and Riley as children's poet. Such poems as "Just 'Fore Christmas," "Swing High and Swing Low," "Seeing Things,' are very well known by the children all over America. A poem that may remind some of our mothers of their experience with their children and not unlikely with their grand-children, is "The Little Peach,' so we include it in the lesson. THE LITTLE PEACH A little peach in the orchard grew,? A little peach of emerald hue; Warmed by the sun and wet by the dew, It grew. One day passing that orchard through, That little peach dawned on the view Of Johnny Jones and his sister Sue? Them two. Up at that peach a club they threw? Down from the stem on which it grew Fell that peach of emerald hue Mon Dieu. John took a bite and Sue a chew, And then the trouble began to brew,? Trouble the doctor couldn't subdue. For True! Under the turf where the daisies grew They planted John and his sister Sue, And their little souls to the angels flew,? Boo Hoo! Another poem of Fields that I think will appeal to parents is his '"'Father's Letter." I'm going to write a letter to our oldest boy who went Out West last spring to practice law and run for president; Ill tell him all the gossip I guess he'd like to hear, For he hasn't seen the home-folks for going on a year! Most generally it's Martha does the writing, but as she _ Is suffering with a felon, why, the job devolves on me? So, when the supper things are done and put away tonight, I'll draw my boots and shed my coat and settle down to write. I'll tell him crops are looking up, with prospects for big corn, That fooling with the barnyard gate the off ox hurt his horn. * These are the things I'll write him?our boy that's in the west; And I'll tell him how we miss him?his mother and the rest; Why we never have an apple pie that mother doesn't say, He liked it so?I wish that he could have a piece today! I'll tell him we are prospering, and hope he is the same? That we hope he'll have no trouble getting on to wealth and fame; And just before I write "good-by from father and the rest," I'll say that "mother sends her love," and that will please him best, Tor when I went away from home, the weekly news I heard Was nothing to the tenderness I found in that one word? The sacred name of mother? why, even. Now as then, The thought brings back the saintly face, the gracious love again And in my bosom seems to come a peace that is divine, As if an angel spirit communed again with mine; LESSONS FOR SEPTEMBER 387 And one man's heart is strengthened by the message from above, And earth seems nearer heaven when "Mother sends her love." A heartfelt tribute and one with an element of the universal in it is a poem entitled "Father's Way." Eugene Field was very fond of writing lullabys. In his writings we find a Jewish Lullaby, an Armenian Lullaby, a Sicilian Lullaby, Corsican Lullaby, and Wynken, Blynken and Nod is a Dutch Lullaby. A DUTCH LULLABY Wynken, Blynken, and Nod one night Sailed off in a wooden shoe? Sailed on a river of crystal light, Into a sea of dew. "Where are you going, and what do you wish?" The old man asked the three. "We have come to fish for the herring fish That live in this beautiful sea. Nets of silver and gold have we!" Said Wynken, Blynken, And Nod. The old man laughed and sang a song, As they rocked in the wooden shoe, And the wind that sped them all night long Ruffled the waves of dew. The little stars were the herring fish, "Now cast your nets wherever you wish? Never afeard are we." So cried the stars to the fishermen three; Wynken, Blynken, And Nod. Wynken and Blynken are two little eyes, And Nod is a little head, And the wooden shoes that Pailed the skies Is a wee one's trundle-bed. So shut your eyes while mother sings Of wonderful sights that be, And you shall see the beautiful things As you rock in the misty sea, Where the old shoe rocked the fisherman three: Wynken, Blynken, And Nod. When his monument was unveiled it was witnessed by two of his grand children, little Miss Jean Field Foster, and Master Robert Eugene Field. The poem, "A Valentine to My Wife" is representative, in a way, of life in the Field home as well as expressive of his devotion to his wife: A VALENTINE TO MY WIFE Accept; dear girl, this little token, And if between the lines you seek, You'll find the love I've often spoken? The love my dying lips shall speak. Our little ones are making merry O'er am'rous ditties rhymed in jest, But in these words, (though awkward?very ) The genuine article's expressed. You are as fair and. Sweet and tender, Dear brown-eyed little sweetheart mine, As when a callow youth and slender I asked to be your Valentine. What though these years of ours be fleeting? What though the years of youth be flown? I'll mock old Tempus with repeating, "T love my love and her alone!" And when I fall before his reaping, And when my stuttering speech is dumb, Think not my love is dead or sleeping, But that it wails for you to come. So take, dear love, this little token, And if there speaks in any line The sentiment I'd fain have spoken, Say, will you kiss your Valentine? "Christmas" is also a poem written for children. It bears the date December 1, 1884. It is evidence, as are others of Eugene Fields' poems, of his deep religious convictions, for Eugene Field was a religious man. CHRISTMAS My little child comes to my knee And tugging pleads that he may climb Into my lap to hear me tell The Christmas tale he loves so well? A tale my mother told to me, Beginning: "Once upon a time." LESSONS FOR SEPTEMBER 389 It is a tale of skies that rang With angel rhapsodies sublime; Of that great host serene and white, The shepherds saw one winter night; And of the glorious stars that sang An anthem, once upon a time. The story of the hallowed years Tells of the sacrifice sublime Of one who prayed alone and wept While his aweared followers slept? And how his blood and Mary's tears Commingled, once upon a time. And now my darling at my side And echoes of the distant clime Bring the sweet story back to me? Of Bethlehem and Calvary, And of the gentle Christ that died For sinners, once upon a time. The mighty deeds that men have told In pondrous tones or fluent rhyme, Like misty shadows fade away; But this sweet story bides for aye, And, like the stars that sang of old, We sing of "Once upon a time." Eugene Iield's immortality could rest upon one poem, "Little Boy Blue." It is the most exquisite of all of his poems. It is hardly exaggerating the case to say that no other poet has handled this theme in so perfect a manner as has he. If we can know only one of Eugene Fields' poems let that one be "Little Boy Blue." In writing of one of Raphael's Madonnas that is found in the Uffizi gallery, in Florence, Mrs. H. H. Powers says, "There is more than one way of being perfect, but this is perfection, and this is Raphael." We wish to borrow the sentence and apply it to "Little Boy Blue," and say there is more than one way of being perfect, but "Little Boy Blue" is perfect and "Little Boy Blue" is Eugene Field. Of course, it is his masterpiece. LITTLE BOY BLUE The little toy dog is covered with dust, But sturdy and staunch he stands; And the little toy soldier is red with rust, And his musket moulds in his hands. Time was when the little toy dog was new And the soldier was passing fair; And that was the time that our Little Boy Blue Kissed them and put them there. .390 "Now, don't you go till I come," he said, "And don't you make any noise!" So, toddling off to his trundle bed, He dreamt of the pretty toys; And as he was dreaming, an angel song Awakened our Little Boy Blue? Oh! The years are many, the years are long, But the little toy friends are true! Ay, faithful to Little Boy Blue they stand, Each in the same old place? Awaiting the touch of a little hand, The smile of a little face. And they wonder as waiting the long years through In the dust of that little chair, What has become of our little Boy Blue, Since he kissed them and put them there. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Go to the encyclopedia, or some book that will furnish data on the life of Eugene Field, condense it, and give a brief sketch of his life. 2. What specific lines in the poem a "Valentine to My Wife" are evidence of Field's religious convictions in relation to the immortality of the soul. 3. December 1, 1884, is the date given for the writing of Eugene Field's poem called "Christmas." How long had it been written last Christmas? Is it just as good now as when it was written? If you agree that it is, to what do you attribute the fact that it does not grow old or go out of date? 4, If you can find a child or several children in the ward who recite such poems as "Wynken, Blynken and Nod," or "Just 'Fore Christmas," have them come and recite them for the mothers. Don't think you must confine the reading to the poems mentioned, and to others the children of your ward are familiar with. The children will read these poems in a much more attractive way than grown-ups can possibly do. 5. If you can obtain a copy of "The Americanization of Edward Bok" look up the story of the joke Eugene Field played on him; and either read it or tell it to the class. 6. Have some one, not a child, read "Little Boy Blue" to the class. Discuss the poem and see if you can discover why it is so effective. LESSONS FOR SEPTEMBER 391 LESSON IV (Fourth Week in September ) Social Service RECREATION The humdrum of routine, the exhaustion resulting from incessant work, the strain of facing hourly and daily the perplexing problems of living, have telling effects on the human mechanism. Because exercise, or music, or play can rest the tired muscles or nerves, and restore them to normal functioning, these restorative diversions are rightly called recreation?they "'re-create" the powers that have become exhausted by work and strain. Diversions that over-stimulate the human body, and those that have a deteriorating effect of the health and morale of an individual, cannot be termed, properly, recreation. The need for being wholesomely diverted from the more serious aspects of life, can hardly be overestimated. Psychiatrists advise wholesome, normal "escapes" from the strain and pressure of work and worry. If individuals do not find wholesome outlets for pent-up emotions and overstrained nerves, they will involuntarily seek abnormal outlets, and will perhaps resort to too much day-dreaming which may lead to more serious mental phenomena. A person may also become bitter, too preoccupied with his own struggles, and withdraw from his association with his family and friends, and from the world of "reality" to a morbid sphere of exaggerated troubles, persecution, etc. To keep a sensible outlook and to keep a normal balance, an individual must have in his life some self-expression, some beauty, some joy, and some laughter. What form of activity or expression is suitable recreation depends, of course, on the individual needs and tastes. One person's recreation might be arduous labor to another person. A man who spends his days seated at an office desk, pouring over figures and documents, would hardly select reading as a restoring evening activity. A mail man who spends his days walking, or a carpenter who is physically occupied throughout the day, would, likewise, find little rest or change in a long evening walk or some exercise about the home?splitting wood or caring for a family garden. Besides the daily activities, another factor in determining the form of recreation that an individual should select is his particular tastes. A concert might be an unusual treat to one person, while to another, it might be unspeakably boring. A musical comedy or a picture show or a vaudeville offer to many the complete relaxation and diversion needed, while to others three hours spent at these performances would be near torture. Crossword puzzles offered a new "escape" to thousands during the last year, but there are many disdainful folk who dismissed them with a contemptuous "waste of time." What "diverts" one, is not so much a matter of education, training and intellect as of taste. If this were better understood, there would be more respect paid to individual preferences, fewer conflicts in the home circle and among friends, and not so many futile attempts to make friends or families learn to dance, or to play chess, or to hike and enjoy it. In planning recreation, then, for a family, the planner should be careful not to superimpose his own desires and tastes on others. Because parents do not dance, and perhaps their family and friends in their community or native country did not dance, it is not fair to begrudge the young people their evening at the dancing party. If a picnic or an automobile party is planned and a young boy who drives a truck or a car all day wishes to stay home and read or tinker with his car, his preference should be given respect. Perhaps the most serious conflicts in deciding upon the manner of spending leisure come between husband and wife. Their activities during the day are usually entirely different. He is away from home, meeting people, occupied with thoughts foreign from his home and household. His notion of a pleasant evening, perhaps, would be to stay at home, talk with his family, and read the paper or a book. At this point, the wife who has been engrossed with domestic affairs all day, looks longingly at the theatre announcements, or mentions that a friend would like them to call. It often happens that one will be more self-sacrificing than the other, and will quietly set aside his or her wishes repeatedly. Without meaning to be unkind, or inconsiderate, one of the couple may deprive the other of the desired and needed association and outlets, with a resulting domestic discord. Families should consider the wishes and tastes of others, and the members oi the family should be willing to "give and take." The tastes of one should not dominate the entire group. In planning for an unhappy friend or a family whose means are limited, there is a danger of blundering. The kindly friend is prone to expect the recipient of his kindness to enjoy the things he enjoys, to share his enthusiasm for plays or hikes or whatever he, in his good spirits, enjoys. If he has discovered a book that appeals to his fancy, he expects his friend with an entirely ? different outlook on life to find the same enjoyment in its perusal. Books other people select are likely to be disappointing and particularly is this true if the recipient is in trouble or in low spirits. It frequently happens that families whose means are limited are criticized for their attendance at picture shows or for going on picnics at resorts. It is possible, of course, that a family may spend too much of its budget in this manner. But, surely, the persons who live on a meagre income, who have few, if any, comforts in the home, who have no music, no magazines nor books in the home, who are constantly worried about debts and money matters, LESSONS FOR SEPTEMBER 393 have a real need of "escapes." People in more comfortable circumstances have friends' homes where they may call, or automobiles in which to go for drives, or a piano or other music in the home. It is perhaps advisable that a certain amount of even a limited income, should be spent for picture shows and resorts. Likewise, if purchases, house furnishings, ornaments or clothing seem not quite to suit the general standards of taste, it should be remembered' that these purchases are the individual's expressions of taste and beauty, modified by his pocketbook. A community or church program for recreation should offer a variety of diversions?music for the music lovers, pageants for those with dramatic inclinations, swimming and other physical activities for the many indoor workers. The influence of commercial recreations should not be permitted to discourage the development of an extensive community program. There should be some free, supervised activities for all. All individuals should have some opportunity to relax and to set aside their burdens for a short time. Reference: Normal Life, page 42. Questions and Problems 1. Name some wholesome forms of recreation; some unwholesome forms. 2. Why is some form of recreation necessary for every individual? 3. Why is some recreation important for people with limited incomes? 4. Why should parents encourage recreation in the home? 5. What community recreation is provided in your city or town? Teacher's Topic for September Work AS A DEVELOPER OF CHILDREN 1. Work that is play. 2. Value of "chores." "Our civilization does not depend so much on the little red school house as on the kitchen wood box."'?Babson, 3. Parents in the home must lay the foundation in the hearts and minds of the children as to the proper place of work and dignity of labor. 4. The weakness of the age is for old and young to shirk manual labor, and to sympathize with those who have to do it. 5. Arouse, stimulate, create enthusiasm and direct boys and girls, during the formative period, in the home, and it will be easier to contemplate the saving not only to the individual but to the nation: (1) In the betterment of mankind; (2) By prolonging their life of usefulness; (3) By increasing their powers of production; (4) By reducing the cost in operation, maintenance and upkeep of penal institutions. There is No Substitute for Electric Cooking SAFE DEPENDABLE COOL CONVENIENT CLEAN ECONOMICAL No Ashes?No Soot?No Fumes?No Smoke Utah Power, & Light Co. Efficient Public Service u've trie Pierce's tomato sauce! They save you work and trouble?can be served direct from the can. UTAH CANNING CO. OGDEN SINCE 1888 When Buying Mention Pierce's! The beans with the famous Pierce?s tomato sauce! They save you work and trouble-can be served direct from the can.