[Vol10 | June 1923 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Teachers' Topic for July]
topic or fact or by reviewing the main point of the last lesson, the teacher can awaken a desire on the part of the class to hear the new lesson. The lesson for the day should be presented in sub-topics which the teacher has reduced previously to the few most important points of the lesson. The important facts and incidents should be emphasized. The teacher should hold the class closely to a discussion of the lesson, not permitting it to strike off on tangents and discuss irrelevant subjects, A time limit for discussion should be placed on each topic so that the whole lesson can be presented in the class period. The teacher should summarize the discussion,: connecting it with the various points of the lesson thus making it a unit. After the lesson has been presented and discussed, an application of the aim should be made to the life of the students. The Savior, in his teachings, always applied the subject he taught to the lives of his hearers. The last step in the class procedure should be a preview of the next lesson. By suggesting a point for discussion or by making an interesting assignment the teacher can make her class eager to study the next lesson. Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary SOCIAL LEGISLATION OF UTAH Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman discussed the social legislation of the recent session of the Utah legislature. President Williams, in introducing Mrs, Lyman, explained that she had been a member of the late state legislature, and was appointed chairman of the health committee of the House of Representatives. She introduced and sponsored the Sheppard-Towner act, which passed both houses of the legislature, without a dissenting vote, and has been signed by the governor. Mrs. Lyman expressed appreciation for having had the opportunity of being a member of the Utah State Legislature. In her opinion the viewpoint of women is very helpful in all measures of human welfare work, including education, health, and RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 273 recreation. Mrs. Lyman explained briefly some of the social legislation which was introduced into the legislature, including some important measures' which failed to pass.; The Shepherd-Towner bill, as introduced in the state legislature, accepting the provisions of the federal act and qualifying for it, designated the Bureau of Child Hygiene of the State Board of Health, as the state agency through which this work, for the promotion of the welfare and hygiene of maternity and infancy, will be administered.: The federal Sheppard-Towner act passed Congress on November 23, 1921, and was signed by President Harding on Thanksgiving day. There were two provisions to this act. The first provision granted $480,000 for the first year, to be equally divided among the various states of the union, making $10,000 for each state; and $240,000 each year thereafter, for a period of four years, to be divided equally among the states, making $5,000 for each state. These funds are to be given outright by the government to the states. The second provision allows $1,000,000 a year for five years, to be given to the states according to the population, provided that the s'ate appropriate a like amount; provided also, that no state is to receive less than $5,000. Under this provision, Utah was eligible for $8,000 a year, provided this amount be matched by the state. The grant of $10,000 for the first year was accepted by Governor Mabey for the state of Utah, and the passage of the recent bill by the Utah legislature provided for the state to appropriate the amount required in the second provision of the federal act. Through these provisions the state of Utah will now have available for maternity welfare work, $21,000 a year.. Two forward-looking measures were passed in connection with the State Mental Hospital. The first provided that the name of the institution be changed from State Mental Hospital to the Utah State Hospital, the, idea being -to eliminate the term which specifies the type of patients admitted to the institution. It is very regrettable that there seems to be a stigma attached to mental diseases for which hurgan beings are no more responsible, than they are for physical ailments. The second measure provides for admission to the treatment department of the Utah State Hospital, of people making voluntary application. This enables a person who is beginning with mental trouble to go to the hospital voluntarily, without court commitment, and arrange for treatment in the institution. This procedure is a step forward in the treatment of the insane and -enables those i: the early stages of mental disorder to enter the institution, voluntarily, to sen treatment, without going through the regular court procedure. The bill in connection with the Utah State Hospital which 
 failed, provided for the enlarging of the board from three rae bers to five members.. At the present time, the three members of the board are the governor, the state auditor and the state treasurer, who are automatically members by virtue of their state positions. It was thought by those sponsoring the bill that if two others could be added to the board it would be helpfui to the institution, particularly if one of the additional members. Might be a psychiatrist or mental expert,, and the other a person 'qualified or especially interested. In institutional work. It was hoped by some, in case the, bill passed, that the governor might see fit to appoint a woman to one of these two positions. A bill was passed providing for the care of pregnant girls committed to the Industrial School by the county from! Which the girls are sent. In the past no provision has been made for this care, and the school has often been embarrassed over the situation. 'Two important bills in connection with the Industrial School failed to pass. One of these provided for the transfer of children to the Industrial School by the superintendent of the school, with the consent of the parents, without court commitment. In case the superintendent and the parents could not agree, there was to be reference to the Juvenile Court. The other was the transfer of the control of the Industrial School to the State Board of Education, with the idea of removing the stigma which is attached to this institution. The commitment to the institution would then be largely a matter of transfer from one public school to another. A bill was passed providing for the suspension of sentence and probation for adults, which will give first offendersthe opportunity to be put on probation, and if they are truly repentant, and succeed in making good, sentence may be suspended. A bill providing for the continuance of the State Welfare Commission was passed. It had been hoped by the State Welfare Commission that the commission might be made permanent with an appropriation to meet the expense of a permanent secretary. It seemed at the outset that, due to the desire on the part of the legislators to cut down expenses, this idea must be abandoned. The bill as introduced therefore, asked only for $1000 appropriation for clerical expense. The bill finally passed with the appropriation eliminated, so that the commisson will have to continue for two more years without appropriation. The State Welfare Commission was appointed to study the; social needs in the state of Utah with a view of making definite recommendations with regard to future legislation. The child-placing bill which was passed regulates the placing out of children by persons other than parents or relatives of such children, and prescribes that children must be placed by legal adoption. No agencies will be permitted to place chil- RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 275 dren, except those which are properly and duly licensed by the state board of health. This bill also provides for the inspection of maternity homes.. Constructive, preventive welfare work, through proper recfation, has been made possible through the passing of senate bill 56, which provides that city commissioners, city councilmen, boards of trustees and boards of education in any town may set apart for use for public playgrounds, athletic fields, etc., any lands and buildiags owned by such city, town, or county, or 'school district, that may be suitable for recreation purposes. Authority to operate such grounds may be vested in any existing board or body, or a new board may be selected by the local group. Some of the activities suggested by the bill are, plays, ames, calisthenics, gymnastics, athletic sports and games, tournaments, meets and leagues, dramatics, moving picture shows, pageants, celebrations, community music, clubs, debating societies, public speaking, story telling, picnics, hikes, excursions, camping, etc., etc. A bill providing for the appropriation of $2,000 for the purpose of making a study of the cause of goiter, which is very prevalent in some of our communities, was defeated. It is to be hoped that in the future such a provision can be made, with a view of preventing that terrible malady, which afflicts our people in many of the communities. Some of the appropriations along: the lines of child welfare in which women are greatly interested were given as follows: The Martha Society of Ogden, $4,000 for the biennium; the Children's Aid Society of Ogden, $3,000; the Crittenden Home, $3,000; the State Orphan's Home and Day Nursery, $15,000; the Free Kindergarten and Neighborhood House of Salt Lake City, $6,000; the Humane Society, $1,000. The appropriation for the adult blind was raised from $4,000 to $5,000. This appropriation is to be used in carrying forward the re-education of adult blind people, with a view to making them self-supporting. In the interest of health a bill was passed extending the jurisdiction by cities of the first class over water sheds, with a view of preventing the pollution of the streams which go to make up the water supply of these. Cities. It has been found that the campers in the canyons are very careless with regard to the protection of the streams upon which they camp, from human and animal pollution. Mrs. Bessie G. Hale, President Boise Stake Relief Society SOCIAL LEGISLATION OF IDAHO Mrs. Bessie G. Hale gave a discussion of the social legislation of Idaho. Mrs. Hale acted as a member of the Women's Legis- 
 lative Council during the session of the last legislature. The council, which was made up of representatives of the various women's organizations of Idaho, gave its support to and sponsored various bills intended to be remedial of unsatisfactory social conditions affecting the home, the child, and the school. The Sheppard-Towner act passed both houses of the Idaho Jegislature. This bill grants $21,000 to Idaho for the biennium from federal and state funds. Prior to the meeting of the legislature, the governor of the state had accepted the provisions of the bill, and the administration of the act has already been begun by the Child Hygiene Bureau, of Idaho. A doctor and two nurses have been active in making a survey of the needs in Idaho, giving talks in the various districts, and in communicating with all the expectant mothers in the state. The names of expectant mothers have been sent to the Bureau by nurses and family physicians, and the names of these women have been placed on a mailing list. A series of letters have been sent to them which gives advice on diet, clothing, prenatal care, and various other subjects of importance. Various health conferences have been held throughout the state where examinations are made and health topics are discussed. The Bureau is now planning to expand its operations and hopes to accomplish much in reducing the mortality rate of mothers and infants.. The Idaho legislature amended the mothers' pension act, providing that orphan children, guardians, or relatives be entitled to-collect pensions and administer them for the care uf dependent children. A vocational and rehabilitation act was also passed by the legislature. It was proposed that the fund which was appropriated by a previous legislature for use in constructing tubercular hospitals, be refunded to the state treasury. This proposition was opposed and while the construction of a hospital was not authorized, the fund it still held and members of the next legislature may succeed in passing a bill authorizing the construction of such an institution. Bills were also passed providing for the inspection of public eating houses, and for strict milk inspection. The legislature also made it a felony to use or sell narcotics illicitly. In Idaho there is legislation which makes it possible to confine in jail a husband who deserts or wilfully neglects his children; he is placed at work on the public roads and a small wage is granted which is paid to his family. Dr. Wilford W. Barber, Direc'or, Bureau of Child Hygiene, State Board of Health BEGINNINGS OF MATERNITY WELFARE WORK IN UTAT Dr. Wilford W. Barber, director of the Bureau of Child Hygiene, discussed the beginnings of the maternity welfare work RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 277 in Utah as provided by the Sheppard-Towner act. He reviewed, briefly, the provisions of the federal act, and expressed pleasure that this bill qualifying for the government provisions passed the state legislature without a dissenting vote. Utah is the only state in the union in which the bill passed both houses unanimously. The creators of this new bill knew that the future welfare of our nation depends upon the care given today to maternity patients and their children. The future of the race depends on the wellbeing of the baby. The dangers to the life of the mother and child during the process of birth are well known to the medical profession, as well as the fact that for the most part they are preventable. Yet, in spite of this knowledge, each year brings forth, unchanging, its toll of fatalities, and countless numbers of invalid mothers, with the inevitable destroying factor of the happiness of the home. Statistics are available to show that fewer than one-half of all pregnancies are normal, and that the illness and loss of human life, from causes associated with childbirth, are distressing and needlessly high. Of the civilized nations, the United States ranks seventeenth in its maternal death rate. One hundred twelve mothers died in childbirth in Utah last year, and one thousand and eleven infants, largely from preventable causes. A survey being made by the Utah State Board of Health shows that in Utah seventy-five out of every hundred school children suffer from physical defect. Less than one fourth of these have their defects corrected. In the United States thousands of babies die needlessly every year. Thousands of rickety little feet falter along life's highway. Thousands of imperfect baby eyes strain to get a clear vision of the wonders that surround them; thousands of defective ears cannot hear even a mother's lullaby; and thousands of physically unfit men and women occupy back seats in life—are counted failures—all because of the thousands and thousands of babies who have been denied the birthright of a sanitary and protective home. Failure to get these facts to the public; failure to teach lay women the dangers to be avoided and the methods of protection, is one important reason why there has been no decrease in this terrible loss of mothers and children. If every expectant mother, no matter what her status or location, followed the simple, practical advice the Bureau of Child Hygiene offers, the rate of illness moo among our mothers and babies would be materially lessene The Utah States Board of Health offers through its Bureau of Child Hygiene, all possible cooperation, in the development of community plans for the well being of little children and their mothers. It seeks to carry on a wide-spread educational campaign, to teach women their right to good obstetrical care, and what good care includes. 
 The Utah program which has been approved by the Federal Committee may be briefly stated as follows: The cstblishment of health centers in every county for the examination and instruction of mothers, both actual and expectant, and how best to care for and feed their children; to raise the standards of midwifery; cooperation with the juvenile courts and other agencies concerned in the welfare of the illegitimate child, child placing, and the regulation of maternity and infant homes; the promotion of the employment of public health nurses in connection with health centers; preparation and distribution of literature and other activities, as motion pictures, lectures and demonstrations; the promotion of control measures for the restriction of communicable diseases among children. The plan evolved is to work directly and in close cooperation with local units of government and all religious, social, charitable and educational organizations, whose aid can be secured. Roughly, the scheme in outline is as follows: There will be a public health nursing service, the state will be organized into four sections, and each division will have the superintendence of a nurse especially chosen. It is planned that there will be placed in each county an efficient, well-qualified nurse, who will undertake the direction of the work in that local territory, and supervise the labors of community nurses, 'selected for each town. The entire nursing division will be under the direction of the Bureau of Child Hygiene. Civic centers are to be established in every community where proper arrangements can be made. This requires a working unit, composed of a committee on equipment and rooms, one on records, and a publicity committee. When these arrangements have been completed, a center can be started and a representative of the Bureau will come to teach you how it is to be conducted. At these centers, mothers, both actual and expectant, will be taught how best to care for themselves and avoid many of the dangers of childbirth, and will be taught that it is their right to receive good obstetrical care, in order to minimize the dangers of pregnancy, and thereby to reduce the maternal and infant death rates. With this end in view a set of nine prenatal letters has been prepared by gleaning from the entire medical world. They embody the things one preparing to be a mother ought to know. They are mailed, one a month, upon receipt from the family doctor of patient's name and address. Such a comprehensive prenatal program should reduce maternal deaths 75%, premature births 25%, and the death rate of infants under one month, 40%. In 1922 the United States spent per capita $10 for candy, RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 279 $9.50 for general education, $3.50 for police and fire protection, 50c for gum and 314c for the protection of health. The cattle and sheep are dipped, costing somewhere around 25c per head. The trees are sprayed and thousands ot dollars are spent to fight the weevil, and 314 c per capita is spent to protect health. The interests of livestock and forestry have greatly predominated over the interests of human life. It is humiliating that the maternal death rate of Utah is as high as it is. For a people who emphasize the sanctity of the family, it must be the community's responsibility that everything that can preserve, benefit, or add to the family's strength, must be used in its service. The Bureau compliments the Relief Societies on their accomplishments of the past; they indeed have a wonderful opportunity in the future. Doubtless it should be one of the religious duties - of this wonderful organization to assist in the prevention and reclamation of children from disease. The future welfare of our people depends on the care given to mothers and their babies. The race marches forward on the feet of little children. Mrs. Ella Conover, Nurse, Bureau of Child Hygiene Mrs. Conover discussed the part that the public health nurse is to play in the administration of the provisions ot the maternity and infancy act. The public health nurse is the most important factor in the field of child hygiene. Rearing perfectly healthy children would solve many of the social problems which vitally concern society today. Only through special education, first of the mothers and later of the children, can the standard of health be raised and the growing generation attain to physical perfection. The public health nurse, because of her close cuntact with the home and the school, is the best possible instrument to further such education. In most communities, the public health nurse is already recognized as absolutely indispensable to the welfare of the child. Mrs. Conover stated that an eminent New York statistician, Mr. Dublin, states that the prenatal care of the mother, which is given under the supervision of public health nurses, has reduced infant mortality one half. Dr. Adelaide Brown, of San F rancisco, states that infant mortality from intestinal disease has been greatly reduced by the establishment of feeding stations, by providing clean milk, and by the general education of mothers; that better prenatal care should bring under control infant mortahty and greatly reduce the rate. Mrs. Conover stated further that Berkeley has the lowest infant mortality rate in California, and attributes this ac- 
 complishiuent to the work of the public health nurse, and to thorough milk inspection. The field work of the public health nurse of the University of California has proved of such value to the city that the board of education is employing four supervising nurses. The Salt Lake City board of health has in its employ ten nurses, and through their efforts much constructive work is being done in the schools and homes in Salt Lake City. There is a need of a public health nurse in every county in Utah. Experience shows that the public nurse is one of the greatest assets for the eradication of disease, in providing for the care of defective children, and in contributing to the health and happiness of the home. Mrs. Conover reported that three centers had been established in the Bear River stake, at Fielding, Garland and Tremonton, In various other parts of the state, plans are being made to establish centers, all of which will be conducted strictly under the provisions of the Sheppard-Towner act. At these health centers, mothers and expectant mothers will be given examinations, consultations will be held with them, the children will be examined, and the nurses will aim to do follow-up work. The Bureau wishes to cooperate with existing committees and agencies in the. Various counties. Mrs. Conover expressed her appreciation of the excellent assistance the Relief Societies have already given. Because of the hearty cooperation of the Relief Society, Utah is in a position to establish the most efficient system of maternal and child welfare in the United States. General Discussion A general discussion on the Relief Society's plan in cooperating with the Child Hvgiene Bureau was conducted by President Williams. In reply to questions, President Williams made various suggestions and rulings. She stated that the General Board approves of the Bear River stake plan for maintaining a health center by using money from the Relief Society general fund. Inasmuch as health work is not necessarily charity work, the fund for health work should be taken from the general fund and not from the charity fund. President Williams also suggested that stake presidents might decide, in stakes where the charity fund is adequate to care for the needs of the poor, that the persons contributing be asked if their contributions might be placed in the general fund instead of the charity tund. There has been some misunderstanding, President Williams explained, about the gathering of wheat. Wheat, or any other commodity, may be gathered, but not with the purpose of adding to the wheat RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 281 trust fund. These commodities should be sold and the proceeds added to the charity or general funds. By gathering such commodities, it might be possible for a Relief Society to raise a fund to assist in the maternity work. AFTERNOON SESSION ITEMS FROM ANNUAL REPORT Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman read some items from the annual Relief Society report and gave some comparative figures showing the increase in some of the activities of the Relief Society during the past year. There has been an increase in membership; the enrollment at the close of the year 1922 was 53,412. (Annual report published in full in May Magazine.) The secretary also reported the following organizations and reorganizations, which have occurred since the October conference: Logan stake, October 22, 1922, Mrs. Ellen L. Barber, released; Mrs. Bessie G. Ballard, appointed president; European mission, December, 1922, Mrs. Mary Wells Whitney, released; Mrs. Emma Ray McKay appointed president; Northern States mission, February, 1922, Mrs. Emily Whitney Smith, released; Mrs. Rachel Grant Taylor appointed president; Los Angeles stake, organized January 21, 1923, Mrs. Katherine Romney Stewart, appointed president. ". CHANGES IN GENERAL BOARD President Williams announced that Miss Lillian Cameron was released from the General Board on February 7. On January 20, Miss Cameron became the bride of Mr. Isaac B. Roberts. She left soon after with her husband to make her home in Raymond, Alberta, Canada. Because of Miss Cameron's willing and devoted service, she won the love anl respect of the General Board as well as of the Relief Society women generally. On February 7, Miss Alice Louise Reynolds was sustained a member of the General Relief Society Board; she was also appointed associate editor of the Relief Soctety Magazine. Mrs. Inez Knight Allen, President, Utah Stake Relief Society Mrs. Inez Knight Allen spoke on the subject of the responsibility of relatives in caring for dependents. She explained that the legislature of Utah, in 1917, enacted a bill, 5853 (2499) and 5854 (2500), which holds relatives liable for the support of dependents. The bill specifies that an indigent person who is unable to earn a livelihood shall be supported by the father, grandfather, 
 mother, grandmother,. Child, grandchild, brother or sister of said person. Mrs. Allen stated that while she felt to commend the legislature for enacting such a statute, that legal steps should not be taken at first by an agency to have relatives provide for a dependent person. A first measure should be to appeal to the relatives in a friendly manner, with the purpose of securing their willing cooperation to assist in the care of those in need. If the Relief Soceity is caring for a family, the relatives should be consulted. It might be wise to invite them to a family council, the Relief Society acting as a mediator between the relatives and the person in distress. Often the relatives are only in moderate circumstances and unable to give all of the assistance needed, but their interest should be solicited and they should be made to feel a part of the responsibility for the care of the needy or unfortunate member of their family. A widow with seven children was at one time under the care of the Relief Society. It was discovered that the woman had three married sisters, all emnloyed. An interview with them revealed that while they were not particularly well-to-do, their combined income was a comfortable one. After a conference with them, they agreed to assume some responsibility for the welfare of their sister and her children. In another instance, the man of the family died and a young © boy and girl assumed, in a self-sacrificing manner, the heavy responsibilities occasioned by the loss of their father. Neither of these young people was inclined to shirk or to seek personal pleasure. They secured employment and by the practice of the strictest economy, were able to keep up the payments on their home. The Relief Society was willing to aid this family which had such a strong sense of family solidarity and family responsibility. In both of these families, it was unnecessary to apply the law regarding the responsibility of relatives for their dependents, but the principle which underlies the law was the active force. There may be cases where the law should be applied but the better way to accomplish the end is to educate the people to observe and re~ spect the principle of family responsibility. Miss Lydia Alder Employment Bureau, Relief Society Office Miss Lydia Alder gave a report of the work of the Relief Society Employment Bureau, and of the employment situation in Salt Lake City. The employment bureau, in connection with the Relief Society, was established April 4, 1922, at the request of the Presiding Bishop's Office. This bureau has for its purpose the finding of suitable employment for women and girls; there is no fee charged for any of the service. A similar bureau is RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 283 conducted by the Presiding Bishop's Office for men; the two bureaus cooperate closely in their work. Since the opening of the bureau there have been 627 applications by employers, and 596 by employees. Of the number of employees applying, 480 have, been placed. The work has been of a varied nature, including clerking, office, factory, and domestic work. Each applicant is given personal attention. An effort is made to place the person in a, position to which she is fitted. In some instances, where a girl has an ambition to prepare herself for better work, she is given advice and assistance in securing educational advantages. These ambitious girls are sometimes willing to take domestic work temporarily with a view of saving money to permit them to attend school or take some specialized training afterwards. In this manner, with the assistance of the Bureau, two girls have been able to enter nurse training in hospitals and other girls are securing commercial educations. Special attention is given to young girls, particularly those from out of town. The bureau endeavors to place them in good Latter-day Saint homes, and their employers are urged to interest themselves in the welfare of the girls. When yvung girls from out of town write to the bureau a reply is usually sent to the girl's parents. The bureau does not wish to encourage girls to leave the protection of their own homes, and particularly does not wish to encourage girls to leave their own homes without the consent of their parents. A young girl was brought to the bureau by a chambermaid, a middle-aged woman, of one of the local hotels. The chambermaid knew that the character of the hotel was questionable and she disliked seeing the young girl remain there. The girl had paid room rent in advance and was without funds. She was placed temporarily by the bureau in a room in respectable quarters, and in a few days, suitable work was found for her. She later returned to the office, refunded the money auvanced for ber room, and thanked the bureau for its interest in her welfare. There are many women who desire cleaning, washing, and other day work for a few days a week. By securing such employment, widows and deserted women are able to add to the family income. The bureau regrets that it does not have as many places for such women as there are applicants. With the exception of office work, there have been more employers than persons applying for positions. This has made it impossible to fill all the positions, but the best service possible has been given under the circumstances. The employers, particularly in domestic work, can render a great service to their girl employees by being a little thoughtful and considerate. With a little patience an employer may be able to show a girl, who has 
 not had good home training, where she is lacking, and can teach her much in the way of cleanliness and homemaking. A definite schedule of wages cannot be set by the bureau, because the wage varies according to the ability of the girl and the amount of work required. For domestic work, an inexperienced girl receives from $5 to $7 a week, while an experienced girl may receive from $8 to $15. A woman who does cleaning earns about, 35¢ an hour for ordinary work, and about 40c an hour for housecleaning. Office work varies according to experience from $50 to $125 a month. Factory work pays from $8 to $15 a week, and hotel work from $40 to $60 a month. Mrs. Elizabeth C. Williams, Salt Lake Stake Board Mrs, Williams gave a talk on the subject, "Planning for a Family." She first discussed the needs of any family. The family is the basic social institution, and it is the determining factor in economic as well as spiritual welfare. The minimum normal standard of living might be defined as one which furnishes those things that will insure a good standard of physical, mental and moral health, and which embraces the five elements of a normal life, as follows: health, income or employment, education, recreation, and spiritual welfare. Perhaps the most important one is health, as without it the family life is hindered and hhandicapped. In a normal family, the income is adquate to provide a comfortable home, provide food, suitable clothing and care for other essentials; it also provides for educational advantages for the members of the family. Recreation is also recognized as a necessary element of normal life. Authorities agree that proper recreation plays an important part in the family development. The spiritual welfare of the normal family finds expression in the various Church activities. A normal family plans and makes its own provision for these five necessary elements of normal life. Just as it is necessary for an independent family to plan for these five fundamentals, it is also necessary to plan likewise for dependent families. Mrs. Williams stated that nothing but emergent relief should be given to a family without a plan, which is based on absolute knowledge of actual conditions. Wholesome living conditions cannot be provided: without intelligent thought-; neither can they be provided without a certain income which will insure the necessities for maintaining a family. To assist a family intelligently, a study must be made of its resources and its needs. A plan should then be made, not one that will merely tide the family over from month to month, but one that will assist it in reaching normal standards and normal life. Mrs. Williams then presented a budget which had been al- RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 285 lowed for a widow with five children. She stated that the minimum amount with which this family could manage is: food, $30, rent, $12, light and heat, $6, incidentals, $2, total $50. A conference was held with the relatives in this instance which resulted in making the following arrangements for providing this necessary income: a mother's pension, $55, woman's earnings, $8, contributions from relatives, $8, allowance from ward, $9; total $50. No definite amount was set for clothing, but the ward Relief Society and the relatives made arrangements to provide shoes and clothes. The matter of health was not included by a stipulated amount in the budget, but the Relief Society took advantage of various existing health agencies to care for the health of the family. Examinations were made at the clinic and one of the boys whose tonsils were diseased had them removed. The education, recreation, and religious welfare of this family were also considered. Special arrangements must usually be made to create educational opportunities for families with limited incomes. In one instance, it was possible for a girl to complete her business education by securing credit for her tuition and by persuading other members of the family to make an increased contribution. One young girl with a special aptitude for music was permitted to study on an old violin, which the family owned, and a music teacher was interested and gave her lessons gratis. The wards can do much for their dependent families in the way of recreation. If such families are invited free to ward entertainments, they should be given complimentary tickets without any 'publicity whatever. Families who are dependent should be especially urged to be active in Church affairs, for they particularly need the strength and hope which attends the faithful and religious. Mrs. Williams presented a monthly budget for an elderly couple as follows: food, $12, rent, $8, fuel and light, $6, incidentals, $2, total $28. The income for one elderly couple was arranged for as follows: income from property, $15, county assistance, $5, ward assistance, $5, relatives, $3, total, $28. For a person alone the needs are estimated as follows: food, $10, rent, $5, fuel and light, $6, incidentals, $1, total $22. One elderly woman was pfovided for as follows: earnings, $6, county assistance, $7, wardallowance, $7, Relief Society, $2, total. $22. The amount allowed for dependent persons should not be set, but should vary with the circumstances. The treatment of families should not be mechanical, but an individual study should be made of each family situation, with the aim of assisting it in spending intelligently, in overcoming difficulties, and attaining higher things in life.
