[Vol10 | June 1923 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Relief Society Delegates Attend Conventions]

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE our homes our children. Now, as watchful mothers, we have determined that we will meet this condition, that we will organize ourselves, that we will be fortified against any conditions that may surround our children. In Sister Hart's address this morning we were taught the conservation of energy in the home. Sister Irvine made a plea for us to find time to see to the supervision of our children during their recreation hours. In our officers' meeting and in this meeting today, a plea has been made for us to look after their spiritual welfare. We are all grateful and thankful to our heavenly Father that we are firmly established in the principles of the gospel and that in every home we have one ideal to live up to, the ideal set forth by the Latter-day Saints, that of following our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, in his teachings. Mrs. Emily Whitney Smith, Former President of Relief Societies of the Northern States Mission I appreciate greatly being asked to speak on behalf of the Northern States mission. You must realize that conditions in the mission field are quite different from those at home, and that we cannot always carry on just exactly as you do here. We have in the Northern States mission, eighteen well organized | active Relief Society organizations. These organizations are pretty well scattered throughout the states of Minnesota, Wisconsin, Michigan, Illinois, Indiana, and Iowa. We have no close contact with Relief Society headquarters, no stake boards, and some of the sisters are a long way from mission headquarters. Your boys and girls who go into the mission field are asked to act in a way as stake officers. It is a very great help to them when they have had a little experience in this line. Usually they have never attended a Relief Society meeting until they go into the field. Still, it is wonderful the way they take hold of this work after a few months. This last year has been a banner year in the Northern States mission, marked by a great increase in attendance at our meetings, and a better spirit among our sisters. I think there are two reasons for this. The first is that we have made a great effort to establish a Relief Society visiting systerm in the mission field. This is a hard thing to do, for you know the Saints are very much scattered in both small and large centers. Still, the sisters have persevered and have been fairly successful in this work. They have taken the Relief Society Magazine into the homes of the women who have not been active and these women have come to feel the need of the organization. The second factor in our progress has grown out of the interest in the social service lessons, where the fundamentals of family life have been considered. The women of Chicago are RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 305 deeply interested in the child welfare movement. They have held lectures and special parent-teachers' meetings and tried in every way to reach the parents. At the meetings I have had the privilege of attending in Chicago, I have listened to some of the foremost child welfare workers in this country. It is noticeable that the advice and counsel they gave the parents is identical with the lessons in our Reltef Society Magazine. This made our Societies realize that the Relief Society organization is alert to present day conditions and anxious to improve them by preventive welfare work. While we are not able to do a great deal of charity work in the mission field, we do more missionary work than is done at home. Just before I left the mission field I atiended a conference in northern Illinois where one elder reported that there were eight souls ready for baptism, five of whom had been converted through attendance at Relief Society meetings. Through circumstances over which I have had no control, it has been impossible for me to do a great deal of active missionary work in the mission field, but I have tried to make up for this by being just the best kind of a mother I could be to your boys and girls who have been working as missionaries. I have loved them with all my heart and tried to make them feel that fact. I have enjoyed their love arid confidence, and I have often wished that you mothers could occupy for a short time the position of a mission mother and know how your boys and girls feel about your attitude toward their missionary work and the support you give them. Encourage them, don't tell them your troubles until it is quite necessary. Let them know you are proud and happy to have them there, and that the longer they stay, the better you feel about it. One little woman was keeping her husband in the mission field, and' her bishop wrote President Smith that she was having such a struggle, that it was too hard for her, and he thought this elder should be released. The little woman heard about it and she came to Brother Smith at conference time and said, "Don't release my husband. I can tell by his letters what his mission is doing for him, and just as long as I have work, I want to keep him there." He did stay and she had work, and he filled an honorable mission. Bishop Charles W. Nibley, Presiding Bishop of the Church It is a great honor, my dear sisters, that you confer upon me in asking me to speak to this gathering of prominent Relief Society workers. It does my heart and soul good to see the interest that is exhibited here in this great activity. When I look around me and see every seat taken and the scores who are standing, I marvel at the magnitude and the interest that is _ 
 manifested in this splendid organization. Truly the work of the Lord is growing in the earth. I rejoice, too, to think that I am surrounded by and in the presence of the very best women in' all the world. This is not said to flatter, but is what I am firmly convinced is a fact. In my opinion no better body of sisters can be gathered together in all the earth than the sisters who represent the Relief Society organizations. They are the chosen of the Lord, so my spirit is subdued in this great presence. The marvelous growth that you have made since the 17th, day of March, 1842, when the Prophet Joseph Smith perfected the first organization, is wonderful. See what this society has grown to be, not only in this land but in all the lands wherever the Saints are located, in almost all the nations of the earth. It is a great work. It is a marvelous work. I have been looking cver some of your statistics, and find, days spent with the sick, 61,174; special visits to the sick, 157,107; number of visits made by Relief Society ward teachers during the year, 495,159; number of days spent in temple work, 80,512. I sometimes think that in ministering to the poor, we think that if we contribute to charity, we have done our share. In our hurry and stress of work, we forget the admonition: 'Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, To visit the fatherless and widows, in their affliction." Your visit may be much more than the means that you contribute, and so I say, the amount of blessing, of comfort and cheer that has been graciously given in the visiting of the women of this organization from year to year is marvelous beyond comparison. I used to think that we do not have trials such as our parents had, and that we are not called upon to pass through such hardships and make such sacrifices as they made, but we, too, are tried. We also are called upon to exhibit fortitude and integrity, to stay with the work and make it go in a way that our parents were not called upon to do. We have things to contend with in our state of civilization, as we term it, that they did not know about, yet the Lord expects us to be faithful and true and diligent in the great work. The labor of the bishops of the wards naturally connects closely with that of the Relief Society organizations. It is astonishing how little friction and discord we hear of from all of the more than one thousand wards and branches in the Church, Generally speaking the association is agreeable and pleasant but sometimes it could be made more so, if bishops would make it a point to meet with the Relief Society sisters who preside in the ward organizations, at least once a month, to take up their ward problems, talk about the poor, the funds, the method of collecting funds, and about everything, in fact, that comes before them, not in criticism, not in finding fault, but in good constructive work. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 307 So, my sisters, say to your bishops, "We would like to have a meeting with you and your counselors, once a month, and discuss our Relief Society problems, which we believe would be helpful." As the Presiding Bishopric, we have given out these instructions » to the bishops, that they keep. In close touch with the Relief Society organizations in their wards, and try to help them, and have a meeting at least once a month, and there discuss their problems. I might add that the bishop presides over the ward as the President of the Church presides over the entire Church, as the president of the stake presides over the entire stake, and so every organization, the Relief Society, the Sunday School, the Mutual Improvement Association, the Primary, and others, are necessarily under the supervision of the head, and that head is the bishop. The house of the Lord is a house of order. It could not go on in discord and with the organizations running against one another. There must be the most perfect system and the most perfect order, and so the Lord—not man—has given us the most wonderful inte marvelous organization. There are so many opportunities for expansion in your work that they could not all be thought of. But the main part of the work committed to the Relief Society organizations is just what we have heard of here, visiting the poor, adminiscering to the sick, helping to bury the dead, and contributing in every way that you can to the up-building of the kingdom of God. Let your light so shine that men may see your good works, They count more than your good talks. Good sermons are all right in their place, but the admonition of the Savior was, "Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven." 'The work is not the work of Sister Williams, nor the sisters associated with her. They are the honored instruments, at this time, in standing at the head. The Book of Mormon, which is a marvelous work and a wonder, was not Joseph Smith's book. How did he get it? How was the book brought forth? By the influence and power of God, gloryfying the Lord, magnifying his name, adding honor and honor to the name of our God. We should not take the honor to ourselves at all, but rather we should subdue ourselves and magnify and glorify the name of the Lord. [f we work in that spirit, nothing can stop our success, there will be no obstacles but what we can overcome. | I just want to mention a word or two relative to the wheat question, which has troubled some of our bishops and sisters of the Relief Society organizations. It has been considered best by the Presidency of the Church, and the leading brethren, that the wheat fund be deposited where it is absolutely safe, under the direction of the Presiding Bishop's Office, rather than have that 
 fund distributed in so many little banks here and there. Not but what many of these smaller banks are safe, but the brethren think there is not any place quite so safe as within the keeping of the Church itself, and when a receipt is given by the Presiding Bishopric of the Church, we know the whole Church is behind it. We have had banks fail on the right hand and on the left, and we have learned by experience that it is better to try to be safe. We have no desire to cripple small banks by taking means from them; that is not the spirit at all. The desire is to be safe, to have this trust fund protected, and we know it is safer here than anywhere else. It has been, as you know, decided that the interest on these funds would be returned to the Relief Society organizations at least once a year, probably on the first of July of each year, the funds to be used for the work of the Relief Society. My blessing goes out to you, my dear sisters, that the Lord, our God, may pour out his Spirit upon you, and upon this wonderful work that you are accomplishing. It is God's work. Blessed are you because of it. Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde, Member of the General Board RESPONSIBILITY OF WOMAN AS A CITIZEN We have had a constitution of the United States which has stood the test for 131 years. During that period of time we have had nineteen amendments to the Constitution. The last amendment gave to women the power to vote. We have not always exercised the right of citizenship as freely as we might have done. We are now trying to do something for those who are not able to do for themselves. We who live in these wonderful Rocky mountain districts know little of the circumstances that surround the child labor districts of thickly populated parts of the United States. The child labor law, which was passed a number of years ago, was recently declared unconstitutional by the supreme court. An amendment known as the twentieth amendment, was submitted to the last Congress of the United States giving Congress and the states power to limit or prohibit the labor of persons under eighteen years of age. This will give the children an opportunity for education and for recreation, and will insure a stronger generation for the future. So, as citizens, as women looking toward the future, let us help the work in the districts which need our help, by writing to our congressmen. You sisters from Idaho, Wyoming and Nevada, and all the inter-mountain west, see to it that your new congressmen hear from you; ask them to support the proposed amendment which will be re-introduced in the next Con- RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 309 gress, looking toward the betterment of the citizenship of the boys and girls of this great nation. I once met a woman from New York who for a-number of years had been the secretary of the child labor bureau in the City of New York. She told me of conditions in the south, where our greatest child labor problem exists. She told me she had found children lying on the floor in workshops from exhaustion. Let us use our franchise for the things which go to make better conditions for women and children, In the state of New York the newly elected governor gave notice to the people that he would refuse to sign any bill passed by the legislature in 1922 that carried with it any kind of an appropriation. We had secured through the good offices of our representatives and senators, and through the work of the women of the United States, a bill known as the Sheppard-Towner bill, which I am sorry to say you were not able to hear discussed yesterday, and which was introduced in the last Utah legislature by our general secretary, Amy Brown Lyman, and accepted by the state of Utah. True to his word the governor of New York refused to give his signature to the $76,000 appropriation which the state of New York must appropriate in order to qualify for the Sheppard-Towner bill. But he did give a quarter of a million dollars for swine pens in which to keep swine once a year at the state fair. Later, through the advice of his friends, he did arrange to set aside a certain sum to be used by the state of New York for maternity welfare purposes. We will receive in the state of Utah, $13,000 to match the $8,000 appropriated by our last legislature, which will be $21,000 a year for the state. Through the recent activity of women much valuable legislation has been secured, but more legislation is needed in the interest of women and children, consequently it becomes not only the privilege but the duty of every woman to support and initiate measures which have for theirsobject the amelioration of human conditions. When the Constitution was framed, woman was not granted the franchise, and not until the nineteenth amendment became effective in 1919 were the women of the United States enfranchised; let us use it. We should not wait to use it to vote at the election, after the primaries, but should go out to the primaries and see that the best men and women are put in office. It is too late after the primaries are over. The time has been lost. We should not complain at bad government and bad people in office as long as we neglect to accept our responsibility as citizens. I wish I had the voice to tell you of some of the splendid things that were achieved by our women in the last legislature. You may ask, "Would not the men in the legislature have done the same?" 
 I shall only answer you by asking: ""Have they done it in the past?" - I want to leave with you just this thought, that the future generation of men and women will be no stronger than the mothers of today. Therefore, let us build ourselves in health and strength, exercising the opportunities we have to improve ourselves in every way. Itisas much a woman's right to receive a higher education, to come in contact with the things that broaden her and make her a better citizen, as it is of any other citizen in the United States. Sarah M. McLelland, Member of the General Board THE VALUE OF TESTIMONY If you were asked, What is the priceless gift the Lord has bestowed upon you, there is no doubt in my mind, your answer would be, "My testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ; without it I have no hope in the hereafter." Some of the things which are conducive to a testimony are, faith or belief, and the expression of that faith or belief to which must be added also works. Belief is not enough; I believe I can build a house; but I cannot, without material. The bearing of testimony is not enough, yet it is of great importance, for the Lord says, "With some I am not well pleased for they will not open their mouths, but they hide the talent which I have given unto them because of the fear of men." Thus it is seen that belief is essential, the bearing of testimony is important, but added to these things must be a life of Christian works and experience. Job gained his testimony through faith and through overcoming the weakness of the flesh in the face of loss of wives, children, the suffering of pain, and the loss of all his earthly possessions. Even his friends turned against him. The Bible tells us that in the end the Lord gave to Job twice as much as he had before. His testimony was, "I know that my Redeemer lives." Conforming to the gospel plan will insure a testimony, for the promise is that those who do the works shall know of the doctrine. Joseph Smith said, "If the gospel which I have taught has been received with indifference, yet nothing can rob me of the deep and constant happiness which I have felt during almost every hour that I have spent upon it." If we could live up to the gospel standard we could lead the world in faith and works. The Prophet Joseph said the Lord gives us power in proportion to the work to be done. These words should encourage the members of this organization. I wish to relate some experiences in the world which show the value of faith and testimony, and how the gospel of Jesus Christ humbles people. My companion and I were invited by 2 RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 311 lady of culture and refinement to visit her. Being in her neighborhood one day, we called. As I went to ring the bell, a spirit of fear came over me. I thought, "It is a mistake, I will turn back." Then I said, "No, I am not in the mission field to turn back." The lady of the house answered the door and asked us who we were. I said that we were Latter-day Saint missionaries from Salt Lake City. "Oh," she said, "I am pleased to meet you. I have a club meeting here today." But she invited us in for a few moments anyway. We were very plainly attired in street suits. The hostess excused herself to leave the room, and the lady near me pulled her gown to one side and stepped away to the other side of the room. The general attitude was very cool. Soon they said, "We will give you just five minutes to give us your message." I did not know just what I was going into that day, but my mind was led to speak of the divinity of the message of Jesus Christ, and that he was the Son of God and that we lived in the spirit world before we came here, and I went on along that line. I did not over-step my time. They conferred a few moments together, and then said: "You may have the rest of the time of this meeting." That beautiful poem of Eliza R. Snow's came to me, and I can truly tell you I felt I had a sermon, When I came to that stanza:, "T had learned to call thee Father, Through thy Spirit from on high; But until the Key of Knowledge' Was restored, I knew not why. In the heav'ns are parents single? No; the thought makes reason stare; Truth is reason, truth eternal Tells me I've a mother there."— the lady who had moved aside came over to me and sat and held my hand and pressed it to hér lips, and there were tears in my hand. They then asked questions about the "Mormon" people. We exchanged literature and were invited 'to meet with them again. The testimonies I received in the mission field twelve years ago have strengthened me. I could stand here for hours telling of the many times I have received manifestations from the Lord. Your missionary boys and girls are doing better work than you can ever think they are doing, and are gaining strong testimonies of the gospel, but they need constant encouragement. Often when our president came to us in the mission field and said, "What do you need?" I said, "We need encouragement. We feel so weak of ourselves that we feel that we need encouragement, we need the prayers of the Saints." When I received my call, I thought, "Where shall I go for encouragement?" I thought of the girls and 
 boys who have their mothers to encourage them. I turned to Isaiah 41:10, and I read, "Fear thou not; for I am with thee: be not dismayed; for I am thy God: I will strengthen thee; yea, I. Will help thee; yea, I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness." I can testify to you here that the Lord has done sO.; a Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter, Member of General Board I shall speak for a moment or two upon one phase of spirituality, that of trusting in the Almighty. The scriptures are replete with instances of men and women who trusted in the Lord, but I am going to speak of only two, because it would be impossible to cover any great number. How wonderful it is to have a record of what our beloved parents have done. When our first parents were placed upon the earth, they offered sacrifices, to God, and when someone came and asked Adam why he offered sacrifices, he said, he did not know, save the Lord had commanded him. Is not that a beautiful beginning for our first parents? The most wonderful lesson they could have taught us, to trust in God without knowing exactly why. Was it worth Adam's trust? I think so. After he had obeyed this commandment for a long time, he was told of the wonderful things that he had done and that this sacrifice was a similitude of the great sacrifice of the Redeemer that would come later on and change the condition of all af Adam's children. I think he was well paid for trusting in the Lord, and I, for one, am grateful that the record of my first father was thus marvelously and beautifully portrayed. The other instance that I have in mind happened one hundred years ago next: September. The boy prophet had told the world when he was fourteen years of age that he had seen God the Father, and the Son, after which there was three and one-half years of silence. He did not try to explain, he simply said to the world which ridiculed him, "I have seen God the Father and the Son," and that wonderful, wonderful boy never tried to invent anything to bolster up his statement. He simply trusted in the Lord. Was it worth it? I think so. After three and onehalf years of waiting, on the 21st of September, 1823, when he had retired to his little room and said his prayers, he lay awake, for his mind was troubled. Suddenly a light appeared in his room, and a personage stood by his bed, he was terrified, but a kindly voice said, "Joseph, the Lord has heard thy prayers," and this wonderful personage repeated several passages of scripture from Isaiah, which told of marvelous things that were to be done and he talked a long time with that youth as he lay upon RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 313 his bed. All at once the light was gone and the personage had left. As the boy lay there thinking over what he had heard and no doubt wondering as to how it would be received, the room was filled with light and the personage stood beside him and told the things he had told before, and added a few more wonderful things, telling him that the time had not yet come when all who did not believe upon Christ would be cut off from among the people, but that time would come, but not now. Again the room became dark and the personage left. The young man lay upon his bed, pondering over these things, and the room was again filled with light and the heavenly messenger for the third time stood beside him and_ repeated again what he had repeated before, adding a few more wonderful things to what he had already said. The room became dark and the messenger had gone, after he had told the prophet that he was Moroni. The boy lay there thinking, and he noticed that his room was getting light again and he thought the personage was coming back to converse with him, but no, it was not an angel from the Most High God, but it was the light of day coming through his window, which 'ndicated that the boy had talked all night with a messenger from God, because he had had faith enough for three and one-half years to trust, although he was in absolute silence. Did if pay the prophet to trust for three and one-half years? I think so. The Angel Moroni told him that a marvelous work and a wonder was about to come forth, and in my mind I can but think that this great organization that we are privileged to belong to is a part of that marvelous work and a wonder. It pays always to trust in the Lord, even if we are dreadfully distressed. Many of us feel that we walk alone, but we do not walk alone. This little legend is often quoted: It is said that every mortal Walks between two angels here. One records the ill, but blots it, If, before the midnight drear, Man repenteth. Ii uncancelled, then he seals it For the skies, and the right hand Angel weepeth Bowing low with tearful eyes. I think it is well for us to remember that we are always either grieving or pleasing these wonderful presences that are around us to help us, and I am sure there is nothing in all the world that brings greater joy to the human soul than trusting in God. It is easy perhaps to go to him and express our trust and our confidence when we are distressed, but it takes big and 
 noble people in the days of their prosperity and their wealth and pride, to be humble as the Nazarene who always walked with God. Sometimes we lose our trust in our earthly leaders, those who have been asked to preside over us. I think this is where we lose a great deal of joy out of life. Suppose -a great movement is inaugurated and those who are placed over us decide upon a certain plan and present it to us, we do not feel disposed to agree with it, and as individuals, set up our own ideas. The result is that the great movement is stopped. As individuals we have received our own wish. Do you think we would be as happy as if we had stood together and united our efforts in one great cause? Do you think that individual effort brings the joy that one great and noble effort can bring? I think that it pays to trust our leaders, and then in time we will know just why. I would like you to hear this wonderful psalm of trust that David, the beloved psalmist sang: "T will lift up mine eyes unto the hills, from whence cometh my help. My help cometh from the Lord, which made heaven and earth. He will not suffer thy foot to be moved; he that keepth thee will not slumber. Behold, he that keepeth Israel shall neither slumber nor sleep. The Lord is thy keeper: the Lord is thy shade upon thy right hand. The sun shall not smite thee by day, nor the moon by night. The Lord shall preserve thee from all evil; he shall preserve thy soul. The Lord shall preserve thy going out and thy coming in, from this time forth, and even for evermore." Does it mean anything to you to know that he that watches over you, neither slumbers nor sleeps? How beautiful it is that while we slumber we know that the keeper of our souls neither slumbers nor sleeps. We are grateful to you, our dear mothers, for the example you have set us, of trust in the Lord. We are grateful to you for your wonderful integrity in building this marvelous foundation of the Relief Society under the power of God, that you have builded for us to continue to build upon. As younger members in the association, we are proud to step forward with our pebble of assistance, and put it upon this marvelous foundation that you, who are our mothers, builded so well. EDITORIAL    Vol. X JUNE, 1923 * No.