[Column 2]
felt to endorse what the sisters had said, es-
pecially in regard to looking after our chil-
dren.
	Sister McClellen had enjoyed the con-
ference. Thought if we could only put into
practice what we had heard, we would be
better off. D. J. Lau enjoyed meeting with
the sisters, felt the sisters were doing one of
the best works in our community. The sis-
ters are the ones we turn to when we have
sickness or sorrow. The brethren should
turn out and help the sisters at this confer-
ence. Spoke of the good instructions that
have been given to us, they were given un-
der the Spirit of God, His heart went out
to the young mothers who are doing their
duty so nobly. We should appreciate the
nstructions of the visiting sisters.
	Bishop Thatcher and Bishop F. H. Horsly
spoke to the sisters.
	President Julia Pond felt very thankful
for the good spirit that had been present and
felt sure all of us would go home being bet-
ter men and women. She thanked the vis-
ting sisters for their good instructions.
	Sister McCune then gave a recitation.
Benediction was pronounced by President
L. S. Pond.
	NORTH SANPETE STAKE.
	Relief Society Conference of the North
Sanpete Stake held in Moroni, July 9, 1911.
	President Williamina Ericksen, presiding.
Meeting opened at 10 a. m. with the
usual exercises. President Hardy of the
Moroni Relief Society welcomed the sisters
to Moroni. Felt they had a good band of
sisters and great interest was manifested.
	Recitation by Ella Baker, of Fairview.
	Sister Susa Y. Gates said that this was the
first time that she had spoken in her new
mission. Spoke of the joy of companionship
with sister Richards, her traveling compan-
on. The mission of motherhood is one of
the most important. Encourage girls in
this respect. Spoke of the Exponent and
asked the support of the paper. Duties of
mothers in the home to instruct the children
to reverence father and all the Church au-
thorities. Said the library movement was
now to be started in Relief Society. Ad-
vised all to get the Church works first. Self-
shness is one of the faults we should try
to overcome.
	Acts of the Apostles, by Carrie L. Erick-
sen.
	Closing remarks by President Ericksen.
	Singing, and prayer by Olive Acord.
	Conference reconvened at 2 p. m., Presi-
dent Ericksen presiding.
	Address by President Ericksen, who read
a letter from Sister Leoletta Christensen,
who is sick in California.
	Recitation by Sister Lund of Fountain
Green, “No Room for the Boys.”
	Sister Emily Richards of the General
Board spoke of her early experience
in storing grain. Joseph Smith turned
the key for the emancipation of wom-
en, when he organized the Relief Society.
She spoke of the fall of so many girls be-
cause of ignorance. We should keep the
confidence of our children. She wished our
young people could hear the beautiful things
said to guides, who escort tourists in Salt
Lake City. Girls should have training for
motherhood.
	Quartette by Mt. Pleasant North Ward.
	Sister Susy Y. Gates asked how many had

[Column 3]
read the book of Mormon and the Bible.
The most important thing is the gospel. The
saving of souls is the most important. Spoke
of Temple work and the gathering of gene-
alogies.
	President C. N. Lund endorsed every-
thing that had been spoken.
	Bishop Bradly was thankful for this priv-
lege of receiving such good instructions.
	Closing remarks by President Ericksen.
Spirit of the conference enjoyed by all.
	Song by Clara Larsen, of Moroni.
	Benediction by Jos. Jolly.
		MRS. FRANCES E. CHRISTENSEN,
							Stake Secretary.
			EMERY STAKE.
	Minutes of Relief Society Conference of
Emery Stake, held at Ferron Relief Society
Hall, August 6, 1911. President Louisa
Oveson, presiding.
	Of the General Relief Society Board there
were present, Edna May Davis and Susa
Y. Gates. Conference began with the usual
exercises.
	President Louisa Oveson welcomed the
visiting sisters, and was glad to see so many
present. Gave a brief report of the stake
showing it to be in good condition.
	A recitation was given by Mary A. Davis,
of Clawson.
	Edna May Davis, of the General Board,
said she was pleased to hear that the sisters
were obeying the instructions of Brigham
Young, as to the storing of grain. She ad-
vised the building of concrete granaries, and
said if each Society was not able to build
one for themselves, several could unite and
build one sufficiently large so that each share
holder could have a separate bin. She also
recommended the mixing of slacked lime
with wheat as a preventative against weevil.
Said that girls should be taught to hold
themselves above reproach and to avoid the
society of young men who are not of the
highest moral character; also that young
people should be taught to marry in the Tem-
ple, that girls should not pay too much atten-
tion to dress, and when going to the Temple,
should wear plain white clothes, and after
having been through the Temple should
wear the garment properly, neither cut low
in neck or turned back in neck or sleeves.
	She also stated that Sister Emmeline B.
Wells, General Relief Society President, de-
sired that each Society provide endowment
clothing, and keep on hand to rent, to those
wishing to hire clothing for going to the
Temple, but it would be far better for each
one to have their own Temple clothes.
	Sister Susa Y. Gates conveyed to the sis-
ters the love of President Emmeline B.
Wells, she spoke on Prohibition and Word
of Wisdom. Advised the sisters to try and
conquer their own weaknesses and secretly
fight them out between themselves and their
God.
	After closing exercises, meeting ad-
journed until two o’clock.
	The afternoon session was held in the
Ferron meeting house, Bishop Newel K.
Beal taking charge. After the opening exer-
cises the time was given to the sisters to
proceed with their conference.
	Ex-President Mary A. Sorenson thought
there were three very expedient things to be
observed by Latter-day Saints, they were
obedience, prayer and tithing she also read
a letter from Anne Maria Allen, now absent
from home, working in the mission field.


Song by Golda Woodward and Emma
Judd, of Orangeville.
	Sister Edna May Davis spoke on being
obedient to parents and on being humhle
and not letting pride enter our hearts.
	Sister Susa Young Gates spoke on obedi-
ence in the home and to the Priesthood.
Spoke of young girls not wishing to go to
the Temple on account of being prevented
from following fashions. She gave some
beautiful illustrations of the blessings at-
tending Temple work. Spoke of the ne-
cessity of putting down whiskey and other
like evils, said to begin in the home and not
to allow cards or whiskey in the home. Said
do not sanction evil in any one, but be kind
to the erring and make home sweet and
pleasant as possible. Asked the sisters to
sustain the Exponent, as it was the organ
of the Relief Society.
	Stake President Lois Peter Oveson de-
sired parents to watch over their young peo-
ple that they be led in the right direction.
Denounced the practice of young folks go-
ing on excursions to the mountains with-
out their parents, or some older persons
with them.
	President Louisa Oveson hoped the sis-
ters would take the spirit of the conference
home with them. Thanked the people of
Ferron for their kindness and hospitality,
and Sisters Davis and Gates for the good
instructions they had given.
	Benediction by Stake Counselor A. E.
Wall.


