TRIBUTE OF LOVE.
	A tribute to the memory of our beloved sis-
ter and teacher, Laura Petrae Hansen, who
departed this life July 29th, 1911. She was
born at Tidsvilde, Sjelland, Denmark, on July
30th, 1861. She in connection with her parents
joined the Mormon Church July 5th, 1878; em-
grated to Utah in 1880 and with her parents
located in Logan, where she was married to
James F. Hansen on January 20th, 1881. They
shortly afterwards moved to Richmond, and
in the fall of 1884 to Newton, which has since
been their home. Sister Hansen was the moth-
er of ten children, two of whom have preceded
her to the other side and is survived by her
husband and eight children.

			Resolutions.
	Whereas, our highly esteemed sister, at the
close of a beautiful life, has been called to her
heavenly home, we her sisters who know of
her loving deeds, and appreciate her many no-
ble qualities, desire to express our sympathy
for her sorrowing husband and children and to
acknowledge her labors and ministrations of
kindness as a member and teacher of the Relief
Society in the Newton Ward, also as a friend
and neighbor in the best sense of the term.
	Therefore, be it resolved, That we emulate
her noble character, her liberality as a donor
for charitable purposes, that we do humbly
testify that faith, charity, and humility were
leading traits of her character, and that her
steadfast devotion to the work of God is an
example which we should all strive to emulate.
	Resolved, That we tender our heartfelt sym-
pathy to the bereaved family and bid them
look up and trust in God.
	Resolved, That these resolutions be recorded
in the records of the Newton Relief Society,
one presented to the family and also published
in The Woman’s Exponent.

	“She’s gone, but to a rest so sweet
		To all the faithful given.
	Oh, may we earn through earthly life, 
		The same sweet bliss in heaven. 

	May her devout life on earth
		Of patience, hope and love
	Aid us to gain that prize of worth,
		From him who rules above.”


Mrs. William Keith of Berkeley, Cal.,
who has given $3,000 to the present suf—
frage campaign, had devoted, about $1,000 a
year to the cause for the last ten years.
She puts in not only money, but a great
amount of personal labor, lending a hand in
almost every line of work, including the
house-to-house canvassing.


