	MISS ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS.
its sides are quotations from Shakespeare.
There is one exception to this statement, for
on one side we read the words of Washing-
ton Irving—the American. We give quo-
tations from two sides. The first from Hen-
ry Eighth, act five, scene four:
	“In her days every man shall eat in safety
under his own vine what he plants, and sing
the merry songs of peace to all his neigh-
bors: God shall be truly known; and
those about her. From her shall read the
perfect ways of honor, and by these claim
their greatness not by blood.”
	The second quotation is from Tymon of 
Athens, act one, scene two:
	“Honest water that never left man in the
mire.”
	From here we shall make our way to the

[Column 3]
birthplace of Shakespeare, an old house
with gabled roof and low-ceilinged rooms,
of Tudor architecture. This house fronts
the street, but in the rear the grounds are
lovely. There an attempt is made to grow
every flower and shrub mentioned in Shake-
speare’s plays. The grammar school that
the poet attended, and Anne Hathaway’s
cottage, at Shottery, where Shakespeare
wooed and won his bride will come in for
a share of attention.
	But let us suppose that it is the twenty-
third of April, the day of the poet’s birth.
It happens in the year 1911 to fall on Sun-
day, and so we shall meet at Trinity Church,
where the poet lies buried, and there listen
to a sermon by Canon Beeching, of West-
minster Abbey. The next day we shall
meet at the birthplace, and from there we
may march with boquet in hand to the
Church. The bells of the parish church are
chiming, as we make our way down the
chancel, where the clergy at the altar rail
will take our floral offering and place it on
the grave. As we chance to be casual visit-
ors we shall not likely be in the lead of the
procession, consequently, we shall find by
the time that we approach the grave, that
it is entirely covered with flowers that form
a great white mound over and about the slab
that marks the poet’s resting place.
	Leaving the Church we shall make our
way to the memorial theatre, a building that
combines in one, library, playhouse, and mu-
seum. Perhaps Ellen Terry is there giving
a lecture on Shakespeare’s heroines, or per-
haps other London celebrities are presenting
Hamlet or Othello. Perchance, in the open
air, one may witness the May revels, or
Morris dances now being revived all over
England. There is still another chance that
“As You Like It,” or some others of Shake-
speare’s plays are being given in the open
	Evening is approaching now, and perhaps
we shall fancy a ride on the slow-flowing
Avon, and so we hire a boat. It may be
called Rosalind, Juliette, or Portia, what
matter so that we are in the company of one
of Shakespeare’s masterly creations. We
shall make our way by water towards the
church, now bathed in the glorious light of
an English sunset, and at such a fortunate
time, view both church and churchyard.
Soon the streaks of crimson and purple will
grow dim, and with them the church spires
and the lovely churchyard will fade from
our sight. Slowly we drop down the river,
past the Shakespeare monument, with the
statue of Hamlet fronting the river, under
which we may read, as we pass, Horatio’s
last words to the unfortunate prince, “Good
night, sweet prince, and flights of angels
sing thee to thy rest.’ And so with the
shades of night falling fast about, we part
from thee, dear Stratford, with all thy
beauty, and with all they marvelous asso-
ciations, with the words of thy immortal
bard upon our lips:
	“Thou art so lovely, fair, and smallest so
sweet that the senses ache at thee.” 
