[Column 2]
there were many faithful workers, anxious
to make their work a success.
	President Rebecca Rawlins, represented
Benson Stake. She stated that great inter-
est was being manifested in the work. Mem-
bers are being appointed with the special
duty of visiting the aged and the sick, tak-
ing comfort, good cheer, and blessings with
them.
	Mrs. Mary Ellsworth, President of the
Relief Society of the Northwestern Mission
reported the condition of the work in Chi-
cago. She told of the success of the lady
missionaries in preaching the gospel. Their
humility and efforts make them worthy to
be numbered among Zion’s choicest daugh-
ters. Mrs. Ellsworth spoke of her visit to
the places of interest connected with the
early history of the Church, and the knowl-
edge of the truth of the gospel she obtained
from it.
	President E. B. Wells spoke of the
changes in the General Board and intro-
duced the new members: Mrs. Olive D.
Christensen, General Secretary, Mrs. Emma
A. Empey, General Treasurer, Mrs. Amy
B. Lyman, Assistant Secretary, Mrs. Susa
Y. Gates, Miss Edna May Davis, Miss
Sarah E. McLelland, and Mrs. Elizabeth
Caine Crismon, all of whom expressed their
appreciation of their call and their desire
to be of assistance in the work of the Re-
lief Society.
	A ladies’ trio was given by Mrs. Lizzie
Thomas Edward, Mrs. Agnes Olsen Thom-
as, and Mrs. Bird, after which benediction
was pronounced by Bishop George Benson.
	Afternoon session, 2 p. m.—Congregation
sang, “O Ye Mountains High!” Prayer
was offered by Mrs. Sarah J. Cannon. Prof.
Hugh Dougall sang a baritone solo, “The
Palms.”
	Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, President of
Pioneer Stake Relief Society, delivered an
address on “What the Present Age Means
to Women,” dealing with it from four im-
portant standpoints, the economic, the edu-
cational, the political and the spiritual. Mrs.
Cannon compared the methods of work used
formerly with those of today, when so many
inventions and mechanical devices have been
perfected, almost revolutionizing some lines
of woman’s labor. This lightening of work
has given to them time for development and
education.
	While in ancient times some women, such
as Miriam, Rebekah, Queen Esther, Hy-
patia, and others, led in thought, this was
not general. Even in our own country in
the early part of the nineteenth century
girls were not allowed in the public schools;
but barriers are now thrown down, and
women are admitted to state universities and
to many great colleges, and enjoy the priv-
ilege of entering professions.
	Reference was made to many unjust laws
referring to property rights of women,
which are gradually giving way for more
liberal laws, so that women now have prop-
erty and civil rights not known before.
	Mrs. Cannon spoke of the awakening of
women to their equality, and of the begin-
ning of the great organization for the bet-
terment of the condition of women and for
equal rights.
	Spiritually the age has done much for
women; in the Salvation Army where the
officers number both men and women, in
the Christian Science Church, the founder
being a woman, and in other churches. With

[Column 3]
the coming forth of the gospel in these days,
the Relief Society was organized, giving
women a part in the work of uplifting hu-
manity. The age means anything and
everything that women may make of it;
with faith in themselves, in their brothers,
in Christ, in the prophets of the Lord, all
things dreamed of may be attained.
	Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne spoke upon,
“What the Age Means to Us,” in place of
Counselor Clarissa S. Willims, who was de-
tained at home on account of illness. Mrs.
Horne stated that what most impressed the
world is truth; truth the base upon which
we stand, truth as revealed by the prophets,
truth which manifests itself through relig-
ion, poetry, music, and art. The present
age has opened advantages of self unfold-
ment, and women are more widely awake
to their possibilities, and impress upon all
this lesson of self development. Women
should oppose slothfulness, backbiting, im-
purity, hypocrisy, foolishness, and turn to
those ready to help, the inspired, the poet,
the thoughtful, the industrious, and they
would be able to impress the world even
more than they do today.
	A soprano solo, “Fear not Ye O Israel,”
was given by Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward.
	Miss Alice Louise Reynolds gave an ac-
count of her studies and travels abroad, de-
scribing Stratford on Avon in festive garb,
the decorations, flowers, the open air per-
formance of Shakespeare’s plays, and the
demonstrations in honor of the great poet.
Miss Reynolds also told of the great suf-
frage procession in London and the big
meeting in Albert Hall, and read extracts
from Mrs. Pankhurst’s speech at this time.
	President Emmeline B. Wells, in summar-
izing, spoke of the hardships endured to ac-
complish the building of the temples, and
urged the doing of work for the redemption
of the dead, and also in establishing truth,
integrity, and purity in place of the evils
existing today. This they can do, for wom-
en now have the ballot here and thus have
the power to vote for true, clean, and con-
scientious men as local officers, and can
give them moral support and good exam-
ples.
	The entire congregation rose to their feet
to express their approval of the stand for a
clean, moral government.
	After singing by a mixed quartet, “God
be with you till we meet again,” meeting
adjourned until April, 1912.
	Benediction was pronounced by Mrs.
Romania B. Penrose.
		OLIVE D. CHRISTENSEN,
					General Secretary


