IN MEMORY OF DEAR AUNT MAY.
	Died: On Tuesday, October 3rd, 1911, Mrs.
May Bain Murdock, born October 25th, 1833,
in far off Dundee, Scotland. She became a 
member of the L. D. S. Church in 1849, and
in 1856, with her widowed mother, three sis-
ters, and a brother of six years, crossed the
plains in J. G. Willey’s handcart company,
Aunt May pushing a handcart all the way.
Her eldest brother, who had preceded the fam-
ily to Utah, by name Robert A. Bain, met them
at Green River and brought them on to Lehi,
their first home in the valleys.
	Dear Aunt May married my father, Hon.
John R. Murdock, a year later, and she had
one little son, who died at its birth, soon after
our family moved to Beaver, whither my father
was called to preside by President Young, in
the year 1864. Father, my mother, Aunt May
and we four oldest children left our home of 
comfort and our kindred, with heavy hearts.
	My mother and Aunt May lived in the same
home for twenty-one years, mother being an
invalid all this time. I have read of friend-
ship among men and women, have seen fam-
ilies love and respect each other, but I can
truly say I never knew such perfect trust, such
genuine regard and unselfish devotion between
two women, as was that exemplified and lived
in my father’s home.
	Aunt May has been our only mother for
thirty-three years, my own dear mother hav-
ing died in 1877. Aunt May was not only a 
benefactor to our immediate family circle, but 
to all the other branches and homes, to the
young men and women of the neighborhood, 
and the “strangers within the gates.’ All who
met or came under her influence, felt her mag-
netism, her largeness of heart. Many eminent
and distinguished guests have stayed at my
father’s home, in the early days of our Ter-
ritory, and Aunt May was largely the dispenser
of its hospitality and comfort. Colonel Thomas
L. Caine, the governors, judges, military offi-
cers of Utah, also the Presidents and Apostles 
of our Church and their families have often
partaken of her kindly service.
	Aunt May was a woman of strong traits of
character, broad mind, and well informed—
being a keen observer and a great reader, all
her life. She was the confidant, counselor and
nurse, the true and faithful friend of our whole
family, children and grandchildren. My
Grandfather Murdock, my mother, Aunt
May’s own mother, and her youngest brother
were all nursed, and taken care of by her un-
til they went to their long home, also, every
child of the family who preceded her.
	Until two years ago she resided in the old
family home at Beaver, with my youngest 
brother, except several times, when she went
to the Manti and Logan Temples to do work
for the dead. Two years last September she
moved to her youngest sister’s home, she be-
ing a widow and desiring to have her near. She
was tenderly cared for by her until her demise
as before stated. Aunt May left two sisters,
Mrs. Jane S. Coleman of Manti, Sanpete Coun-
ty, Mrs. Betsy S. Goodwin of Beaver City,
many nephews and nieces, besides my father
and his whole family, and many friends over
this and adjacent states, who will love and
revere her memory.
	Dear Aunt May’s funeral was held in the
Beaver Tabernacle, on the 6th of October.
The speakers were old tried friends. Her
Bishop and teachers both testified of her integ-
rity and faith in the Gospel. The flowers were
beautiful and abundant, the singing eloquent
and comforting, the prayers hopeful and in-
spiring. The pall-bearers were two of my
brothers, and their sons, two of my sister’s
sons and two of her nephews. My eldest
brother driving the hearse. We all know that
one of God’s noblest daughters has been called
home and our second mother. Heaven grant
we may live worthy to meet on that other beau-
tiful shore.
			JULIA P. M. FARNSWORTH,
	Salt Lake City, Oct. 18, 1911.


A celebration of the victory will be held
at Faneuil Hall in Boston, Monday evening.
California songs will be sung and suffrage
pictures shown. Prominent local officials
will deliver addresses.


