[Column 1]
to all, a very good spirit prevailed, and the
visit of the sisters was very much appre-
ciated, also the advice and instruction which
they gave. Attendance was very good.
			MARGARET W. MANNING.
								Secretary.
		BANNOCK STAKE.
	Minutes of Bannock Stake Relief Society
Conference, August 17, 1911.
	Morning session.—President Julia Pond
presiding. After the usual opening exer-
cises, President Julia A. Pond said she was
pleased to meet those present, and she gave
a report of the Relief Society work in the
stake. Reports of the various wards were
given by Rhoda Davis, Rachel Thatcher,
Sisters Eliason, Hogan, and Hanson, and
the president of Lund. Sister Tolman of
Chesterfield reported the Chesterfield So-
ciety.
	Sister Elizabeth McCune of Salt Lake
then spoke, saying she had enjoyed the work
of the Mutual, but now being called to labor
in the Relief Society wished to put all her
energy into the Relief Society. Our mis-
sionaries should be posted upon Relief So-
ciety work so they can be more useful. Spoke
at some length upon Temple work and of the
large attendance there of young people want-
ing to be married. She advised the young
girls to make a nice Temple suit, a pretty
simple dress, and have their own suits to
wear. She said the Relief Society sisters
should have a few Temple suits to rent, and
should see that everything is nice and clean.
	Sister Farnsworth of Salt Lake said she
was pleased to be with the sisters of the
stake. She said that President Emmeline B.
Wells sent her regards to all of the sisters.
Had been a worker in the Relief Society
forty-three years and was glad to be counted
worthy to work in this Society. Had visited
thirteen stakes this year, and had enjoyed
her work. She said that we should be
united in our homes children should re-
spect their parents. She spoke of the ad-
vantages the young people have in schools,
and of the nice looking school buildings they
had seen on the way. She was pleased to
know we were saving up grain.
	President L. S. Pond felt quite familiar
with the Relief Society sisters. The sisters
are indeed blessed to have such a talented
president as Sister Wells. Hoped the sisters
were here with pencil and paper to take
down the notes that will be such a benefit
to us in the future. Advised the sisters
who were expecting to build a granary to
buy a portable steel granary. She spoke to
the teachers about their visits.
	Benediction by Bishop T. H. Horsly.
	Afternoon session.—After the opening ex-
ercises Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth of Salt
Lake said she was pleased with the reports
of the Societies. She spoke of the ten cent
fund used for maintaining our headquarters,
traveling expenses and for various other
uses. She spoke at some length on pro-
hibition. It is the duty of the Relief So-
ciety workers to work for prohibition, and
urged the sisters to use their franchise and
use it to the ennobling of mankind.
	Sister McCune spoke of the glory and
honor in having a large family; knew the
prayers of a father and mother in behalf of
their children will be heard, even if they are
wayward none of them will be lost.
	Sister Corbett was pleased to be with us,

