RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT
To the Memory of the Late President
	Lillian M. Hollister, of the National
	Council of Women, by the National
	Relief Society and Young Ladies’ Mu-
	tual Improvement Associations.

	When in the course of human experi-
ence, the silver cord of a life—full, useful,
and complete, is suddenly loosed, and the
golden bowl is unexpectedly broken, all
associated lives quiver in the shock of
that loss and stand confused and helpless
before the Divine fiat.
	Therefore—Knowing the great service
rendered by Mrs. Lillian M. Hollister to
the cause of human advancement as crys-
tallized in her position as President of the
National Council of Women of the United
States, as Supreme Commander of the
Ladies of the Maccabees of the World,
and as officer and worker in the W. C. T.
U., in the Woman’s International and
Michigan State Press Associations, in the
Federation of Women’s Clubs, in the
Woman’s Relief Corps, in the Order of
the Eastern Star and the Degree of
Honor—
	Knowing also her uncounted services
in the financial emancipation of woman-
hood, hitherto hampered by sex condi-
tions and traditions—
	Knowing as well the loss sustained by
the wide circles which have been reached
through her writings and lectures, her
personal ministrations and magnetic lead-
ership—
	Therefore—We, the officers and mem-
bers of the National Woman’s Relief So-
ciety and Young Ladies’ Mutual Im-
provement Associations do unite in this
public expression of our own loss in the
sudden death of Mrs. Lillian M. Hollister,
President of the National Council of
Women.
	We further desire to convey to her in-
timate associates, her family, to our own
members and to the womanhood of this
country, and of the civilized world our
deep conviction that such a life, and such
labors are in themselves a priceless her-
itage which are at once ideal, and a chal-
lenge to all of her sex to like aims, to
similar achievements.
	May the wise Father administer com-
fort to the bereaved husband and associ-
ates, and preserve fruitful remembrances


to all who knew and loved Mrs. Lillian
M. Hollister.
	EMMELINE B. WELLS,
Pres. Nat’l. Woman’s Relief Society.
	SUSA YOUNG GATES,
	CARRIE S. THOMAS,
	ALICE MERRILL HORNE,
		Com. N. W. Relief Society.
	MARTHA H. TINGEY
		Pres. Y. L. N. M. I. A.
	RUTH M. FOX, MAE T. NYSTROM,
	ANN M. CANNON,
