[Column 1]
LIFE SKETCH OF MARY MAGDALENE
			SWINDLE.
	Mary Magdalene Swindle, daughter of John
Witzig and Dorotha Gossoure, and the eldest
of four children, born May 29, 1843, in the
little town of Horgen, Switzerland, in hum-
ble circumstances, being brought up to the
hardships incidental to plain country life. As
the soul grows stronger through hardships
and truth conquors by opposition, this envir-
onment developed for her a strong character
and laid a foundation through the guidance of
providence for the great mission that was
dawning upon her.
	Her course in life was not the flowery path
made easy by protecting hands, but rather in-
spired to read in the things of God the word
“action,” for such were we created and it is
only when we live in accordance with that
great law of our being that we attain our
greatest aim, and truest happiness. Under the
tutoring of her dear mother and the Mormon
Elders, she became a member of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and was
one of those who through conviction had the
courage to be baptized when the ice was upon
the lake and had to be cleared away for that
purpose.
	At the age of 21 years she became the wife
of John Diggleman, three children came to
them through this marriage, Mary M., Lydia,
and John Herman, later a separation came and
she was thrown upon her own resources with
the children, and under extreme difficulty sent
her two youngest children, Lydia, of five years,
and John Herman, of four, in advance to
America with Mormon Elders, and in 1871 she,
with her eldest child, came to America and
joined once again her beloved children. Only
those who have gone through this experience
can appreciate these trying circumstances.
	On March 4, 1872, she became the plural
wife of George Swindle. There were born unto
them from this marriage four children, Annie,
Heber, Joseph and Ellen. After twelve years
of married life, George Swindle died, and she
was left again a widow to rely upon her own
resources.
	In 1884 she was called upon again to leave
her children and go to Salt Lake and take a
course in obstetrics. She completed this
course and was recommended by her instruc-
tors competent to take up that line of work.
	The balance of her life, until worn out by ex-
posure and over-exertion, was spent in assist-
ing humanity and relieving them of pain.
Her labors were mostly in the southern part
of Sevier County. Sister Swindle being very
particular to keep a record of the children
brought through her assistance, which shows
the splendid number of 800 children.
	Sister Swindle was throughout her life a very
zealous worker in her religion and especially
in the Relief Society work.
	She died May 27, 1911. Funeral services were
conducted May 29, 1911, when a vast audience
came to pay their last respects and followed
her remains to their last resting place.
	Sister Swindle was a very able secretary in
the Monroe Ward Relief Society twenty-four
years. The minute books are creditable com-
pliments of her faithful works.
	She was called and set apart to the secretary-
ship in the Sevier Stake Relief Society Board
twelve years ago, which office she filled up to
the time of her demise with great accuracy
and skill.
	Throughout all these years of Stake Labor
each Society has been visited once a year
(twenty societies in all), although many times
through storms on bad roads and inconveni-
ences of travel and in poor health. But
through fortitude and great determination
these duties have been accomplished and great
blessings realized.
	The sisters of the board who have been as-
sociated with her for so many years in love
and unity know her loyal friendship and ster-
ling worth.
	We shall miss her wise counsel and the in-
fluence of her humble, sweet yet forceful life.
Her going leaves a vacancy in our hearts that
will not be filled until we clasp her hand in
the home on high.
	We pause to say that the virtues so com-
mendable in our dear sister should be the dis-
tinguishing characteristics of every true mem-
ber of our society.
	Therefore, be it resolved, That while we, the
members of Sevier Stake Relief Society Board

