[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		ALPINE STAKE
	The forty-second quarterly conference of
the Alpine Stake of Zion convened in the
Third Ward Chapel of American Fork,
July 21st, 1911. Morning session opened
by singing, “Come Let Us Anew.” Prayer
was led by President A. J. Evans. Continued
by singing, “Softly Beams the Sacred
Dawning.” Several of the Local Presi-
dents were called upon to report their re-
spective wards, after which President Re-
becca Standring gave a brief report of the
Alpine Stake. She said we are just as unit-
ed as we possibly can be; in unity there is
strength. We feel our inability, but we pray
continually for aid and strength to perform
this great work that has been placed upon
us. We are very pleased to welcome our
beloved President Emmeline B. Wells and
one of the General Board, Susa Y.
Gates here today. May the Lord give us
an outpouring of His Spirit in this Confer-
ence that we may have great cause to re-
joice is my prayer.
	Sister Gates was our first speaker,
taking three topics to speak upon, her first
The Saving of Wheat. The great signifi-
cance of this request or counsel given
to us by Our Prophet, Brigham Young,
has certainly developed our hearts. It is not
a selfish movement but purely for others.
Second topic, Collecting a Library for the
Sisters of the Relief Society. Commence
for a foundation with the Church Works.
We need to read more and enlighten our
minds; seek knowledge that we can impart
it to others. Third topic, The Exponent.
This is published for the Relief Society
and should be encouraged more by our
sisters. There is not one line written in this
woman’s paper but what is an uplift. Let
us encourage and sustain all good things in
our homes. I do humbly and sincerely
pray that God will bless our two venerable
presidents, Sisters Wells and Standring,
who are permitted to be with us today. I
am thankful for the privilege of hearing
their sweet voices again. It has been an
inspiration to me all my life to hear the
testimonies of the noble women of God.
Grant that they may live long to do good.
	“Only Remembered by what I have
Done,” was beautifully rendered by Brother
John H. Davis of the First Ward of Amer-
ican Fork. Sister LaPriel Gardner of Amer-
ican Fork, a returned missionary from the
Northern States, said: “I cannot give ex-
pression to the gratitude of my heart for
this blessed privilege of having gone forth
in my weakness and humility to proclaim
the truth to those who are in darkness.” She
made many beautiful comparisons from the
Bible testifying of the truthfulness of our
religion. “May we ever keep the teachings
of the Prophet Joseph Smith burning in our
breasts and that God lives, is my prayer.”
	Sister Emmeline B. Wells, President of
the Relief Society throughout the world,
was our next speaker. She felt very
pleased to meet with her sisters in the Al-
pine Stake. “When I first came into this
house I felt the inspiration of the Holy
Spirit. It is here in rich abundance. I have
always loved the Relief Society since the
days of Nauvoo. Sister Eliza R. Snow
brought with her the records from Nauvoo
which proves that this association was never
discontinued since its first organization, she

