[Column 2]
joyous as if she had gained all things.” She
never from that moment wavered though
she went through all the trials incident to
the early history of the Church.
	In 1838 the Richardson family moved
to Kirtland, Ohio, and thence to Illinois,
the family settling on a farm about a day
and a half’s journey from Nauvoo. Here
Elizabeth grew to womanhood.
	Sister Huffaker remembered having
heard the Prophet Joseph speak once when
he was interrupted in his sermon by one
of his enemies until the latter was forcibly
ejected from the meeting.
	At the age of sixteen she married Simp-
son David Huffaker, a widower with six
children. This was in January, 1846.
	She had not thought of marriage and at
first her impulse was to say ,,No.” She was
such a girl, but something whispered again
and again, “You had better say yes and go
to Nauvoo with him.” Therefore she con-
sented. Her parents at that time expected
to go to Nauvoo and never thought of
leaving the Church, which all did later when
the question of polygamy was agitated.
Hence Sister Huffaker always felt that had
she not gone then with Brother Huffaker
she would never have come west with the
Church.
	They were in Nauvoo at the time of the
exodus, Brother Huffaker being a member
of “The Spartan Band” of guards. During 
the attack a cannon ball struck the chimney
of their house and she gathered the fam-
ily together to flee. On the way her hus-
band met her and told her of the twenty-
four hour truce.
	Before leaving the house she had put a
large sum of money, the price of their 
farm, in an old stocking, and hung it down
the well. During the truce they returned
and putting the sum in an old bucket they
covered it with nails and placed the bucket
in full view on the wagon. As they were
searched going out many a mobocrat sat
down on this old bucket while the wagon
was overhauled. Brother Huffaker had
taken their gun to pieces and hidden part
of it in the wagon while Mrs. Huffaker had
fastened a pair of colts around her waist un-
der her dress. One part of the gun was
found by a searcher. With an oath he de-
dared “the d— Mormon had hidden the
rest somewhere, and everything in the
wagon was thrown out in the search, their
corn sacks being cut open and the contents
scattered on the ground. Mr. Huffaker, 
during part of the troublous time, was in
hiding for the mobocrats were “baptizing”
all Mormons by repeated duckings and as
he could not swim he knew his life would
be in danger were he caught.
	With the rest of the refugees the family
crossed the river and traveled with the 
Saints as far as the Des Moines River. As
he was taken ill of chills and fever the fam-
ily remained there that winter, going on to
Winter Quarters in the spring of 1847.
Here they began their journey to Zion in
the company of Jedediah M. Grant, Brother
Huffaker being a leader of ten. They ar-
rived in Utah in October, 1847. Sister
Huffaker traveling in a light buggy often
rode ahead and at one time when some dis-
tance in advance she found herself encir-
cled by a band of Indians. Whirling her
horses she started on a run towards camp,
still surrounded by warriors who, however,
did not offer to molest her. She, however,
never ventured in advance again.

[Column 3]
	One sad event rendered part of the jour-
ney gloomy. Sister Huffaker’s sister-in-
law gave birth to twins while on the jour-
ney and when they were but a few days old
her child next older was crushed to death
under the wheels of her wagon.
	After arriving in Utah they settled final-
ly in Cottonwood.
	Sister Huffaker and her husband re-
turned to the East on a visit in the fall of
1856, in the company of Brother Parley P.
Pratt. Her family, except her babe, was
left in charge of her oldest stepdaughter.
On their return, in the spring, they found
the dread scourge smallpox had taken this
daughter, one of Sister Huffaker’s children
and a child of Brother Huffaker’s plural
wife.
	Sister Huffaker later made two other
visits East.
	The later years of Sister Huffaker’s life,
after the death of her husband, were spent
at the home of her daughter, Mrs. Wm.
Perry, at whose home she died, April, 1911.


