[Column 1]
	A TALK ON CHILDREN. 
Paper read in Pioneer Stake Relief Society. 
	So much can be said about the rearing
of children that one hardly knows where
to begin. Every mother may have dif-
ferent ideas, different experiences as the
result of dealing with childrn of varied
dispositions, for we will find in any fam-
ily that there are rarely if ever two chil-
dren of the same temperament—two that
can be governed alike. What will per-
haps appeal to and govern one child will
have no effect upon another, while some
children are of such a sensitive nature
that the least word of reproof will cause 
them to shrink as it were into themselves. 
	That the back is fitted for the burden
is truly verified when mothers with a
great deal of wisdom and patience are en-
abled to rightly and justly cope with all
these conditions and to successfully un-
derstand their children. It is indeed sad
when children are misunderstood. A 
young man said to me a short time ago
that all his life he had been misunder-
stood. He told me of how especially as
a child his ideas and motives were mis-
construed, and he felt that if he had been
more thoroughly understood his youthful
days would have been much happier. I 
thought that it was indeed deplorable, 
for I knew he had as good a mother as 
ever lived—one who did everything a
mother could do for a child, and I believe
she came nearer sympathizing and under-
standing him than any one else, yet she
has often said that it had taken more tact
and patience to raise this child than all
the rest of her children together. 
	When children begin to form friend-
ships with other boys and girls, when
they are not content to remain at home
for all their pleasure, it is then that the
parents of these children should bestir
themselves if never before, and try to
make their home life so pleasant, so agre-
able, that no outside influence can tear
them away. We should not think more
of our homes than our children; there
should not be a corner too good for them. 
Let them see the inside of your parlors
occasionally, let them feel at liberty to in-
vite their friends in, have them spend the
evening around your fireside and do not
so far outlive your youth that you can join
in their games and be one with them if the
occasion presents itself. Most homes are
far too serious. There are some homes
which upon entering you can feel in the
very atmosphere that there is no joking
permitted, no laughter allowed, and if a
child makes the least move it is immedi-
ately told to hush up and keep quiet. Chil-
dren should be allowed to play and dance
to their hearts content, for they will get
rubs enough, knocks enough and a great
deal of the hard side of life later on, and
parents should resolve to make their child-
hood days so happy and joyous that when
they get out and have to meet the cold
world, combat with unpleasant conditions,
they can look back upon their home as the
one pleasant spot on earth, the sacred mem-
ory of which has saved many a person from
losing their self-respect. When children
are allowed to give vent to all that is
joyous and happy in their natures, they will
develop into happy and useful men and

