[Vol25 | June 1938 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: Dear to the Heart of the]
Dear to the Heart of the Shepherd By Dorothy Clapp Robinson CHAPTER THREE THE telephone jangled impatiently. With a sigh of dismay I wiped my hands and went to answer it. "It will be Nedra again—or Mrs. Richards," I thought. Less than an hour ago both of them had called. Nedra had been emphatic. "Salle Richards and Don Grow have gone away together and they are up to something. When I asked to go along they put me off. Probably they have gone to get married. If you ask me there is something fishy about that Grow place lately. Salle is the only person they will let in beside your husband. I'd keep my wits about me if I were you." "What has all this to do with me?" I had asked her, hoping I sounded impersonal. It did dampen her ardour. "Well,' she finished lamely, "since you are the Relief Society president and a good friend of hers I thought you would be interested." Mrs. Richards had wept. "Someone must stop her. I can't have her going away with the boy. She likes you and would listen to you." Perhaps. I had my doubts that she would listen to anyone. And she was already gone no one knew where. I told her if she found out anything to call me back. But this call was neither of them. The bell pealed again as I lifted the receiver to my ear. To my "'yes?" a small voice came over the wire. "Hello? Are you the woman that gives food to the poor people?" "Yes, I am the Relief Society president." come right away. "Well, Papa says to tell you the little kids are yelling their heads off for their supper and Papa says to "But it isn't supper time yet."
"I know it but Papa says to call you early 'cause it takes these women so long."
"Who are you and where do you live?"
"I'm Albert."
"Albert who? What is your last name and where do you live?"
"We don't live no place. We keep on the move 'cause it's easier. We're at the White Daisy now—second cabin from the end. Be sure and hurry. Goodbye."

He hung the receiver with such emphasis I shuddered as the sound of it struck my ear. I turned slowly back to my work. In the kitchen my prune conserve stared accusingly at me. It had been in the process of making for two days. Then there were two music lessons at four. I just couldn't leave now. Transients. Already in my brief term of office, such requests had grown familiar. Probably traveling from town to town on the bounty of organizations. They always made the immediate acquisition of food a life and death matter. I couldn't go! My car was in the garage for repairs. I attacked the conserve determinedly. Albert and his papa would have to wait. By morning the conserve would be finished and in the basement. But in spite of my resolve my hands were soon lagging. Suppose they really were hungry? Suppose

412
