[WomansExponent | Vol22 | 1893 | January | Issue: 11 | Title: GOVERNMENT. | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

GOVERNMENT.

	ON the day of General Lee’s surrender,
referred to in the last paper, President
Lincoln, who had been in the vicinity of
Richmond, returned to Washington and on
the 11th of April, 1865, he issued a
proclamation demanding for U. S. vessels
in foreign ports those privileges and
immunities which had been denied them
during the war, on the plea of giving equal
belligerent rights to the Republic and her
internal enemies. And on the day follow-
ing an order was issued from the War
Department stopping all drafting of recruits
for the National army and the purchasing
of munitions and war supplies, thus
making a move towards the speedy renewal
of interrupted commerce, and a restoration
of peace. The people of the nation,
rejoicing that the war was ended, began
making preparations for a grand National
Thanksgiving, when suddenly the alarm-
ing news was telegraphed over the country
that the President had been assassinated in
a theatre in Washington, by an actor
named John Wilkes Booth, on the 14th of
April, 1865; the murderer, after shooting
the President, jumped on the stage and
shouted “The South is avenged,” escaped
through a back door and fled into Virginia.
He was overtaken below Fredericksburg
and refusing to surrender, was shot by
Sergeant  Boston Corbett. President
Lincoln died on the morning of the 15th.”
His body was taken to his home in Spring-
field, Ill., and buried with all due honors.
Six hours after his death, Andrew Johnson,
the Vice-President, took the oath of office as
President of the United States, which was
administered by Chief Justice Chase. It
was believed by many that the assassina-
tion of the President was only part of a
deep laid scheme to murder the members of
the Cabinet, General Grant and other
prominent Republicans, as on the same
evening a murderous assault was made up-
on Secretary Seward by an ex-Confederate
soldier. It was a night of horrors at the
capital, and President Johnson and Mr.
Hunter, the Assistant Secretary of State,
issued a proclamation declaring that a
conspiracy had been formed by Jefferson
Davis and many other rebels and traitors
against the goverment for the assassination
of the President and Secretary of State, and
offering a reward of $25,000 a piece for their

[Column 2]
arrest. But though Davis and others were
afterwards captured no punishment wa
ever inflicted upon them. Let it be record-
ed to the honor of the American nation or
the victorious party in the Civil War that
though they came off conquerors, they
manifested no disposition to put their foot
on the neck of the vanquished and keep it
there, but from the first surrender of
General Lee, and all through the work of
reconstruction of the government, they
manifested a desire to be charitable and to
establish peaceable and friendly relations
between the two parties. Altho’ it was
necessary for several years, until the work
of reconstruction was finished, to keep the
South under military law. The severest
punishment inflicted upon the South was
the giving of the elective franchise to the
colored population, making them equal
with their former masters.
	It has been said that the Civil War of
America was more extended in area and
more destructive of life and property, than
any other recorded in history. It is
estimated that one million men were
sacrificed, that the burden of the nation in
loss and debt was $6,000,000,000, and that
it gave freedom to about 4,000,000 slaves.
After the terrible convulsions produced by
the war, the powers of the government
took steps to bring about a reorganization,
political, social and industrial.
	It was a critical period of the nation’s
history, and required a master mind to
stand at the head. It was not long before the
people became convinced that those neces-
sary elements of character to bring about
the results desired were not possessed by
President Johnson; indeed his administra-
tion forms a lamentable page in our nation’s
history. Almost immediately after taking
the reins of government he took issue with
Congress, usurped its authority, and showed
conclusively that though he had been
elected Vice-President by the Republican
party, his sympathies were with the South,
and he worked and ruled in the interests of
the Confederates. Early in the year 1865,
Congress adopted the XIII amendment to
the Constitution, which was as follows:
“Neither slavery nor involuntary servitude,
except as a punishment for crime, whereof
the party shall have been duly convicted,
shall exist within the United States, or any
place subject to their jurisdiction,”
The President opposed this, his plan being
to restore to the Confederate States their
former position in the Union, without any
provision for securing to the freedmen the
right to the exercise of citizenship, and he
labored secretly and underhandedly for
that object. It was well for the nation that
there were many loyal, honest and de-
termined men in the Congress who would
stand firm to their convictions of justice
and right, notwithstanding the President’s
opposition. Measures had been going on
for perfecting peaceful relations among the
whole people of the Republic, but it
made very unsatisfactory progress, as the
President would veto nearly every bill
passed by Congress, and they would then
reconsider it and pass it over his veto, by a
two-thirds majority. Matters even went so
far that there was a convention held at
Philadelphia on the 14th of August, 1866, 
of the insurrectionists, their object being to
form a new party, with President Johnson
as their leader; but there was such a discor-
dant element there that the scheme utterly
failed. Soon after that another convention
was held composed of loyal men from the


South and representative men from the
north. These men supported the measure
adopted by Congress, and succeeded in un-
doing much of the mischief done by the
President and former convention. In the
spring of 1868 the President’s conduct be-
came so disgraceful that he was finally im-
peached of high crimes and misdemeanors,
and he was ordered to answer the impeach-
ment. On the 30th of March 1868, the
trial was begun, and owing to many wise
men of the Senate counseling moderation,
the President was acquitted by one vote.
	The forgoing items have been gleaned from
histories written by northern men, and pos-
sibly they have exaggerated Prest. Johnson’s
actions, he being born a southerner, had
naturally greater sympathy with the
southern party than Congress, which was
composed of northern men, could have.
	In 1867, the peninsula of Alaska was
purchased from Russia for $7,200,000.
The value of General Grant’s military
services in behalf of the Republic and his
patriotism in assisting to defeat the designs
of President Johnson at the Capital had
won the confidence of the loyal people, and
in June 1868, the Republican National Con-
vention at Chicago, nominated him for
President of the United States, with
Schuyler Colfax as Vice Presideut; and they
were elected by an overwhelming majority
in November.
		[To be Continued.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


