[Vol9 | August 1922 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Golden Wedding of Mr. And Mrs. A. W. McCune]

Golden Wedding of Mr. And Mrs. A. W. McCune The golden wedding anniversary of Alfred W. And Elizabeth C. McCune was celebrated July 1, 1922, in the McCune mansion, now the School of Music for the L. D. S. Church. President Grant, and a committee of women whom he had selected to assist him, bade three hundred guests to the reception. Invitations were sent to the various cities and town, in Utah MR» AND MRS. A. W. MCCUNE where Mr. And Mrs. McCune had previously lived and made many warm personal and business friends. President Grant acted as host in receiving, and made everyone feel welcome and at home. An informal program of music was given in which President Grant, Elder Melvin J. Ballard, Profesae Peterson, J. J. McClellan and Willard Weihe participated.  Mrs. McCune was modestly gowned in a white Japanese silk dress trimmed with lace. It was one of those beautiful, quiet home affairs, carrying out the wishes of both President Grant and Mr. And Mrs. McCune. For ten years Sister McCune was identified with the Relief Society General Board, having been called to this position April, 1911. During these years she gave her time and strength unselfishly, visiting practically every stake, counseling and advising the mothers and daughters of Zion. No matter how long and hard the journey, Sister McCune was always willing to accept the appointment. Sister McCune was always welcomed a return visiter to any stake she previously visited. She not only visited the Relief Societies at home, but she traveled extensively in foreign lands, and was entertained by some of the great men and women of the world. It is said of her that during one of her visits in London, she assisted our missionary boys in tracting from house to house. Her testimony has been heard by thousands of people. Sister McCune has always maintained a humble spirit. Her faith. Has been unwavering, and her interest in the Church and her people has never faltered. Her right hand was always extended to those who needed help. Her interests centered around the unfortunate. She blessed the sick and looked after the genealogical release of the dead who are dependent upon their living friends and relatives for assistance. She was the chairman of the genealogical committee of the General Board and was the means of inspiring many of the sisters as well as the brethern to good work in genealogical study and research. Sister McCune gave much of her time in personal supervision in the opening and furnishing of the Relief Society home. Its walls were adorned with some of her beautiful pictures, as gifts to the home. She harbors an intense interest for the women of the Church which has been often beautifully expressed in her gifts and acts of love. Sister McCune's love and interest in the Relief Society work made her one of the most valuable members of the General Board. To know her is to love and respect her, and the Presidency of the Relief Society as well as the General Board join with President Grant and friends in wishing Mr. And Mrs. McCune, health, happiness and long life. —L. Y. R. THE POWER OF TRUTH "Truth is the rock foundation of every great character. It is loyalty to the right as we see it; it is courageous living of our lives in harmony with our ideals; it is always—power."