[Vol9 | August 1922 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Girls in Our Own Zion's Cooperative Mercantile Institution]

Girls in Our Own Zion's Co-operative Mercantile Institution The opening of a cafeteria on the fourth floor of Zion's Cooperative Mercantile Institution, for the employees of that popular establishment led to an investigation and inquiry concerning the status of our girls who labor there so faithfully and so well. The writer is unacquainted with the conditions of girl employees in similar institutions in the world; yet knows something concerning the opportunities provided in this city in like cases. It may be that large institutions in the world provide as luxuriant quarters, as fine insurance facilities, and as excellent food at minimum prices as is offered to the girl employees of this home institution; if that should be true, the marvel is that more of our restless wageearning girls do not crowd such institutions, for the advantages and comforts there offered. The cafeteria, just opened for the use of the girls, has a large, elegantly furnished rest room attached with leather cushioned rockers, couches, velvet rugs, and writing tables so that the period of the noon hour offers relaxation physically and mentally to the tired girl employee. There is an excellent phonograph filled with up-to-date records; beside it stands a piano and pianola; near there is a library of standard novels, books of travel, all the Church works, and the Church auxiliary magazines with the daily papers; rot only this, but a large table contains copies of the higher class Eastern magazines and periodicals, especially the women's magazines, The food served in the cafeteria is cooked by a trained chef who has been in service at a local cafeteria for a number of years. The modern kitchen is fitted with every appliance that science can divise, is compact and exceedingly white and clean. The food is served in cafeteria style; the girls pass along filling their trays as taste or fancy may dictate. Indeed, they are at liberty to bring food, in part or wholly so, if they choose, of their own providing. The usual choice of meats, soups and stews is supplemented by vegetables, gravies, sauces, salads, pickles, and desserts of the most tempting variety and kind. The prices are almost unbelievably cheap; a plate with a most generous slice of roast beef flanked by mashed potatoes and gravy is 15c, vegetables are 5c a 'dish, salads and pickles likewise; great pieces of pie and cake, fruit GIRLS IN OUR Z. C. M. I. 407 and lemon and custard pie, chocolate, nut and banana cake and of most generous proportions are likewise 5c a helping. The cooking and serving is as excellent as any im the city. From two hundred to three hundred people are served here through two hours of service. Provisions are made where any who are not well can rest or receive the kindly ministrations of associates or the matron during the friendly noon hour, and a whole hour time at noon is allowed to each employee. There are two hundred girls in the institution, that is, clerks only. The average clerk's wage is $15 a week. Comparison of wages with other stores in this city proves that this institution has never paid as low prices as the other stores; if anything, their GIRL EMPLOYEES' REST ROOM rate is a little higher. This estimate, of course, does not include the heads of the department, nor the girls who get much higher salaries working in the office. The girls labor from seven and onehalf hours to eight hours a day and are never required to work overtime. Stools are provided where they are at liberty to rest whenever they wish, as long as they are not busy. If the girls are absent for a week because of sickness, their pay goes right on for  that length of time, and they are always allowed one day off each month. Then there is the Insurance Fund which was created two years ago. The following items indicate the liberality of this movement: The usual rules of insurance are followed in the Pension and Benefit proposition. Those who have been one year in the institution and are under 18 years of age, in case of death, their beneficiaries shall receive $500; those who have been in the employ of the institution one year, and less than 15 years, and are over 18 years of age, their beneficiaries receive $1000; over fifteen years, $1,500; for department managers and those who hold equally responsible positions, their beneficiaries receive $2,500. This insurance goes only to those employees' beneficiaries where the, employees are regularly employed at the time of their last illness and who are not already receiving pensions. In the pension system all officers and employees who have attained the age of 65 years, and who have served the institution honorably for twenty years, receive a pension at their retirement. The acceptance of the pension does not debar the employee from engaging in any other business. They receive a monthly pension of one per cent of the average monthly salary, as shown by the pay-roll, for the past ten years, multiplied by years of service. For example: the average salary of an employee for the past 10 years may be $80 per month, his length of service 25 years, 8x25—$20 per month. Naturally there is discretion left with the pension board concerning the associate rights of the Institution and employee: ithe Institution reserving the privilege to discharge any employee or officer when the interest of the institution requires such action. All of the employees have discounts in the purchase of goods. One excellent note of instruction contains the following points: "Misrepresentation— You must never misrepresent goods; you can sell more without. A satisfied customer will always return. Make no promises you are not sure can be fulfilled. Post yourself fully on delivery schedule. "If you have not exactly what a customer asks for, show something else that may answer. "General Conduct.—Don't read newspapers or talk loud. Don't entertain your friends. Keep your stock clean. Keep yourself clean and neatly dressed. Don't discuss politics or other matters foreign to business. Smoking on the premises is positively prohibited, and chewing gum in business hours not allowed. "You must not eather in groups, nor leave your department without permission. Do not attend to your private affairs dur- GIRLS IN OUR Z. C. M. I. 409 ing business hours. Have your mail directed home. Do not use company stationery for your own private correspondence. "Be loyal to the Institution; work for its interest as you would for yourself, and don't criticise. If you have any suggestions drop them in the Suggestion Box in the General Office. "While volume of sales are an important factor in business, polite attention, interest in your duties, and care in waiting on EMPLOYEES' CAFETERIA customers are equally important, and are in themselves productive of increased business. "You are working for an Institution which stands for the highest ideals, and you are expected to maintain this standard in your personal lives. Otherwise, you will not advance with the organization. "Tt is the purpose and policy of the Institution to offer encouragement and scope for ambition and honest labor, but it is not intended to put a premium upon indolence or incapacity, or to stimulate the agitator. The employee who habitually criticizes the policy of those in charge, or complains of their inability to 410 | RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE perceive his superior qualifications, is very apt to defeat his own purpose. "As a final word we wish it understood that every employee of Z. C. M. I. Who faithfully attends to his business, who is steady in his habits, punctual, reliable, and competent in the performance of his special duty, may feel sure that patience and loyalty will ultimately bring their reward." The other rules and instructions issued to the employees are illuminating, and indicates the friendliness of our parent Institution to their associate workers. There is a Mutual Aid Society also associated with the Z. C. M. I. Which is an employees' direct affair. Usually officers and committees head the Society. The following items indicate its scope: E The membership dues shall be as follows: Class I (Members receiving less than $50 per month) 25 cents per month. Class II (Members receiving $50, but less than $75) 50 cents per month. Class III (Members receiving $75, but less than $100) 75 cents per month. Class IV (Members receiving $100 and over per month) $1 per month. These dues are to be deducted from the salary. The benefits to which a member is entitled are as follows: In case of sickness an allowance of $1.75 per day for not exceeding 10 weeks, and 75 cents per day for not exceding 10 weeks thereafter. Provided, that such allowance shall not exceed his or her salary. This allowance to commence two days after the member's regular pay has been stopped. In case the sickness is of longer duration than two days the member will receive the allowance above. In every case Sunday will be excluded. No assistance shall be rendered a member until he has been a member for one month. Upon the death of a member, leaving a dependent wife, husband or child, $250. All other members $100. Upon the death of a member's wife or husband, or adult member, $100; a minor dependent child over 12 years of age, $75; under 12 years, $50. Any female member who has been a member for one year, who leaves the Institution to get married, $25. GIRLS IN OUR Z. C. M. 1. 411 Another item provides that $25 be paid to members of the seciety upon the birth of a child. In case of a missionary call, a sum equal to his fare to his field _ of labor shall be presented, plus $25, provided, however, that such fare shalJ not exceed $100. Provided further, that such member shall have been a member six months previous to the date of his call. A member who becomes a pensioner may remain a member by continuing to pay his due, and shall be entitled to death benefit but not to sick benefit. These instructions may be studied with profit by any girl or woman who engages help from other people and who desires to get help, financial or otherwise, from friends or associates. We commend most heartily all of the items herein mentioned and we are exceedingly proud of the attitude of this greatest, most righteously successful Institution with which we are acquainted. The officers are: President, Heber J. Grant; Anthony W. Ivins, vice president; Manager, John F. Bennett, Assistant Manager, Franklin $. Tingey; secretary, C. A. F. Orlob; Treasurer, W. S. Romney; and John H. Burrows, Assistant Treasurer. All of these are tireless in their efforts to promote the welfare of-thé Tnstitution itself and those associated with it.