[WomansExponent | Vol37 | 1908 | November | Issue: 4 | Title: RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT. | Author: Unknown]

RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
		SNOWFLAKE STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the Snow-
flake Stake convened at Snowflake, August
14, 1908.
	All the members of the Stake Board and
also those of the St. Johns Stake. It is the
first time our missionaries have been ap-
pointed outside of the General Board, and
though the idea was new it was none the less
acceptable to us.
	Sister Ella S. Udall’s remarks led us back
to the “days of long ago.” She spoke of the
many changes that had taken place since
her visit here twenty-five years ago and the
friendship “that used to exist between our
stakes.” Though we have had many ups
and downs we have been greatly blessed in
this land. It has certainly been a school of
experience for us.
	The Relief Society develops, makes us
broad and aids in every way. It is “a most
beautiful organization.” She also gave a
very complete report of the General Relief
Society Conference held in Salt Lake City.
	Sister Emma Patterson spoke of the duties
of Relief Society members and tenderly re-
ferred to some of her old acquaintances and
expressed pleasure in again meeting with
them.
	Miss Mary Ellsworth gave an interesting
account of her work in the Nurse Class. She
was successful in the examination before the
State Board of Utah and we are glad to have
her added to our small number of nurses.
	Sister Mary E. B. Farr spoke of being de-
pendent on the Lord for all things and not
speaking disrespectfully of the authorities.
“We can do more against them in one min-
ute than we can undo in a week.” Also
spoke of the talents God has given us and
the use we should make of them.
	Sister Nona Gibbons referred to some of
the predictions made by local brethren, how
they have been fulfilled and our ability to
serve God wherever we are.
	Sister May H. Larson read an article on
the experiences of Sister Mary A. Ellsworth
in the handcart company and a blessing that
Patriarch John Reidhead had given to the
Relief Society.
	Sister Mary A. Standiford related several
incidents of her journey across the plains
with the handcarts.
	Brother W. W. Willis gave an account of
his parents journey to Salt Lake City in
1847.
	President Mary J. R. West reported our
Stake as doing fairly well, still in some of
the wards there seems to be a lethargy.
	Said she was very much pleased with the
visit of the St. Johns sisters and expressed
gratitude for the excellent conference we
have had.
	President Samuel F. Smith said he was
pleased with the sisters efforts and hoped
they would continue in well doing.
	Brother Littleton L. Perkins also spoke a
short time.
	There were several songs interspersed with
the speaking, most of which were under the
direction of Miss Jennie Kartchner. One on
Relief Society work was composed by Mrs.
Annie H. Kartchner. Another one sung by
Mrs. Mary Porter was composed especially
for the occasion by Mrs. Ethel Westover.
	We have never had visitors at a confer-
ence who were more filled with the good
spirit or possessed a greater gift of imparting
it to others so of course, we feel our confer-
ence was a decided success.
			DELLA F. SMITH, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, 1$.00 one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
