[WomansExponent | Vol37 | 1908 | November | Issue: 4 | Title: TWENTY NINTH ANNIVERSARY. | Author: ELIZA A. HAWKINS,]

TWENTY NINTH ANNIVERSARY.
	It is seldom in the history of a woman’s
organization that the same officers all re-
main in so many years.
	The minutes of the meeting of the 29th
anniversary of the 12th ward Relief Society
held July 14, 1908. President Julia Druce
presiding. Commenced by singing “Guide
Us Oh Thou Great Jehovah.” Prayer by
Bishop F. B. Platt. Singing “Oh Ye Moun-
tains High.”
	Minutes of last annual meeting read and
approved. Counselor Jemima Midgley gave
an address of welcome to all present. Miss
Doret Evans gave a piano selection. Miss
Clare Williams sang a song entitled “Oh
Love Divine.” Mrs. Margaret Romney gave
a brief account of her trip to Honolulu.
Mrs. Ethel Druce Leaver sang a boIo. Mrs.
Emma Derrick gave an interesting reading.
The 12th ward quartette gave a selection.
Miss Winnefred Tibbetts gave a select read-
ing.
	An address on Relief Society work was
given by Mrs. Annie K. Hardy also she read
the minutes of the meeting of the organiza-
tion of the Society 29 years ago when the
present officers were appointed and they
have served ever since.
	Miss Elma Young then sang a song and
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith addressed the
meeting said she was present at the meeting
when Joseph Smith the Prophet organized
the first Relief Society, March 17, 1842. She
knew that he was inspired of God; she urged
the young sisters to join this society; knew
the sisters were blessed in doing their duty.
She enjoyed working in the Temple, she
spent the greater part, of her time in the
Temple, she also enjoyed Relief Society work.
	Mrs. Xenia Druce Schroder gave a piano
selection.
	Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells addressed the
sisters; told of the benefits and blessings
derived rrom the Relief Society work and the
magnificent work in the Temples; explained
the wide field of effort and endeavor for all
wonaen in modern times.
	President Richard Young, Doctor Sey-
mour B. Young, Ex-Bishop H. B. Clawson,
Ex-Bishop T. A. Williams, each spoke en-
couraging words to the sisters and applauded
their good works in the past and the promis-
ing prospects for future labors.
	An announcement was made of the Relief
Society excursion to Wandamere the day to
be the 21st of July, 1908. Closing hymn
Doxology. Benediction, Brother Joshua
Midgley.
	Supper was served at 6:30 p. m. to all
present and a most delightful occasion it
was.
			AMELIA WARDROP,
						Secretary.


“The Pioneer Mother.” Mrs. Irving Moul-
ton presided recently at a meeting in San
Francisco, called by Mrs. Philip Verrill
Mighels, to consider the erection of a statue
to the pioneer mother, not only of California,
but of all lands.
	Miss Margaret Smith, B.A., is a candidate
for the City Council of Birmingham, Eng-
land. Women were made eligible last year.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
			LIBERTY STAKE.
	The semi-annual conference of the Liberty
Stake Relief Society was held in the 9th
ward meetinghouse Thursday, June 25, 1908.
President Anna S. Musser presiding.
	We had with us Sister Annie W. Cannon
and Elizabeth S. Wilcox of the general board,
also Sister Maria Y. Dougal of the Y. L. M.
I. A.
	The soloists at the morning session were
Miss Brain and Sister Eva James.
	After the opening exercises, and address
of welcome by President Musser, Counselor
Mary E. Hodgson presented the names of
the general and stake officers who were un-
animously sustained.
	The Statistical and the Financial report
was read and accepted, and the Presidents
of the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 8th and Liberty wards
each reported her respective society to be
in a flourishing and prosperous condition.
	Sister Maria Y. Dougal read a paper on
the life of Sister Zina D. H. Young, and
Sister Annie W. Cannon spoke to the sisters
for a short time.
	Adjourned until 2 o’clock.
	At the afternoon session, Mr. Brain favor-
ed us with a solo, and Sister Maude Paul
read a paper on the “The Simple Life of
Christ.”
	Sisters Wilcox, Cannon and Dougal, gave
us many good instructions, spoke words of
comfort and good cheer, also gave instruc-
tions to the officers, teachers and missiona-
ries.
	Sister Loyd spoke for a short time to
mothers, and Sister Eva James testified to
the goodness of God to her, during the re-
cent illness of her family.
	President Musser made a few closing re-
marks, thanking all who had helped to make
our conference a success, speaking words of
love and comfort to all present, and giving
instructions to missionaries and teachers.
	After the closing exercises, conference ad-
journed for six months.
				LIZZIE ROBBINS,
						Secretary.
			UNION STAKE.
	Conference of the Relief Society of Union
Stake, held July 19, 1908, President Mary
Schofield presiding. After singing, and
prayer by Brother J. R. Price, singing and
other opening exercises, reports of different
wards were given.
	Sister Rebecca Nibley, of the General
Board, said that every family should have
at least one representative in the Relief
Society to work for the advancement and
betterment of the people.
	Sister Annie Wells Cannon, of the General
Board, said we were certainly blessed to see
and hear the president of the Church and
some of the twelve apostles. The calling of
a Relief Society teacher is the noblest call-
ing a woman can have. The storing of grain
is not a fad but the commandment of a
prophet of God.
	The names of the General and Stake
officers were then presented and sustained.
After singing and benediction by Brother F.
S. Bramwell, conference adjourned until
evening.
	Evening Session.—After singing and
prayer a recitation was given by Sister Eva
Rosenbaum.
	Sister Annie W. Cannon said she was
pleased to see so many young people out to
the meeting. Spoke of the kind of liter-

[Column 2]
ature mothers should allow their children to
read.
	Sister Nibley said parents should set the
example of keeping the Word of Wisdom
before their children.
	President Bramwell spoke of the duties
of the teachers. They should be energetic
and act as guardians of the people.
	Brother George Stoddard endorsed what
had been said during the conference. The
Relief Society was doing a great work.
Every one has a mission on this earth; not
only to save themselves but others.
	Sister Helen Geddes then sang “Daugh-
ters of Zion,” written by Sister Annie W.
Cannon.
	President Mary Schofield said the various
wards had responded generously when called
on for their allotment of the fund on March
17. Said she appreciated the privilege of
holding the conference on Sunday.
	After singing and benediction by Sister
Mary L. Ransom, conference adjourned.
			ETHEL BEAN Ass’t Sec.
		MILLARD STAKE.
	Minutes of Relief Society Conference of
Millard Stake held at Fillmore, July 31,
1908. President I. E. Robison presiding.
	After the usual opening exercises President
I. E. Robison was pleased to see so many in
attendance, hoped we would not feel disap-
pointed because President Hinckley and the
visiting brethren were not present, as they
were holding meeting at Hinckley the object
being to dedicate the Relief Society Hall
that they have just completed, and to re-
organize that Relief Society.
	President Emma Watts of Kanosh, Presi-
dent Mary A. Stephenson of Holden, Presi-
dent M. E. Bushnell of Meadow, Counselor
Maggie Hatch of Scipio, President Melissa
Olsen of Fillmore and President Ann E. Ly-
man of Oak City, each gave a very good re-
port of the work they were doing laboring
for the poor and sick, preparing the dead for
burial, storing wheat, building halls and
granaries, and each one reported an improve-
ment in Society work.
	Elder Orvil Thompson of the Stake Presi-
dency said the Officers of the Relief Society
were superior women inasmuch as they were
doing a superior work, read a passage bear-
ing on Charity. There is no power for good
more potent than the influence of women,
felt the labors of the Relief Society were ap-
preciated.
	Counselor Adeline Smith had enjoyed
visiting the different branches, was thank-
ful for the experiences. A woman’s mission
is to make the home and use her influence
for the betterment of her family.
	President Isabella E. Robison spoke of the
call for more students to take the Nurse
Course, alluded to the lack of nurses who
belong to our faith, this is a calling we
should try to encourage, asked the sisters to
support the Woman’s Exponent. Said there
were over thirty thousand women enrolled
in the Relief Society in the Church.
	After singing benediction by P. T. Brun-
son.
	Relief Society adjourned until evening ses-
sion at which many good testimonies were
given and much good instruction, adjourned
for three months.
			MARINDA BENNETT,
							Secretary.
			NEBO STAKE.
	Conference of Nebo Stake Relief Society
held June 19, 1908, Spanish Fork. Presi-

[Column 3]
dent Eliza J. Dixon, presiding. Sisters
Phebe Y. Beatie and Rebecca E. Little be-
ing present as visitors from the General
Board, and all the officers of Nebo Stake
present except one. Conference commenced
by singing, etc., and usual exercises. A
few words of welcome were spoken by Sis-
ter Holt of Spanish Fork First Ward.
	Sister Eliza J. Dixon presiding. She
reported Nebo Stake in excellent condition.
Sister Sharer report Payson First Ward, Sis-
ter Potter reported Payson Second Ward.
Sister Holt reported Spanish Fork First
Ward.
	Song by Sister Anna Lewis. Sister Beatie
congratulated Nebo Stake on their good
work, also spoke of amusement for the
young, don’t shut up the parlor from the
children, but teach them to take care of
good things and throw everything nice
around them, and go with them to their
places of amusement, and go home with
them and be one of them; said our children
must get a testimony for themselves, lead
them in that influence that will help them
to gain a testimony. Be good mothers.
	Sister Bradford reported Spanish Fork
Second Ward, Sister Jones, Spanish Fork
Third Ward, Spanish Fork Fourth Ward re-
ported by Sister Swensen.
	Sister R. E. Little referred to the good re-
ports that had been given; said the oftener
we meet in conference capacity the better
we get acquainted and learn the good quali
ties of our sisters, thought mothers should
not stay at home with their children but
take them to meeting, if they do cry some-
times.
	After singing and benediction conference
adjourned until 1:30 p. m.
	Afternoon session, President Dixon pre-
siding. Singing and prayer. General and
Stake officers were presented and sustained.
A poem was then read that was written by
Annie Wells Cannon entitled “Daughters of
Zion.”
	A short talk was given by Sister Emma
Hitchinson, “Our Home and What it Should
Be.”
	Song by Sister Anna Beck entitled “Some
Time, Some Where.”
	Sister R. E. Little spoke a short time on
Relief Society work; also of a visit she had
made to Palmyra in the central part of New
York State where Joseph Smith had lived in
the 19th century, and described the place
very beautifully.
	A musical selection was rendered by Sis- 
ter Tjern Lewis, entitled “The Last Hope.”
Sister Beatie spoke on the Nurse Class work.
	Brother Swensen spoke on Relief Society
work, said “the brethren are interested in
the work as well as the sisters.” Bishop
Hales spoke of the good the Relief Society
was doing. Bishop Argyle spoke a few
words of encouragement.
	Bishop Argyle of Lake Shore spoke a short
time on the Relief Society grain.
	Bishop McKell spoke of the help the mis-
sionaries had received from the missionary
fund in the Relief Society.
	Sister Dixon made a few closing remarks
of appreciation to the people of Spanish
Fork for the splendid entertainment and
hospitality received at their hands. Con-
ference closed by singing and benediction.
				ELIZA A. HAWKINS,
						Cor. Secretary.
