(Continued from page 384) blues, and reds. I gave one look and knew it was not for me. THAT night, more in desperation than in hope, we rode by the Lomas house. It was lighted, and after much bell ringing and waiting, we were admitted. The owner was there, assisted by three maids. Feverishly she told us that an American doctor, with no children, would occupy the house manana en la manana. We went quietly out. It was Thursday morning and I had one place left, an apartment far out. It was occupied by an American lady who was moving soon, the agency said. 'The lady received me; the apartment was all that one could wish, even to the lovely hued Mexican hand-woven rugs and the blonde furniture. 'There was only one drawback: the lady would not vacate until she could find a house for the same price. She had been looking for six months. The end of my list had been reached. 'There were still some apartments in the heart of the town, but we were not going to investigate them, even as a last resort. I made a quick decision. Calling to the driver, I showed him the address on Aguas Calientes. "Si, Senora," he said, wheeling his car about. The Senora was home and she led me into the walled garden. This time I did not allow her to lead the conversation. I sat firmly on the cold tile seat and asked if we could have the house. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1948 SEARS CATALOG ORDER DESK SHOPPING SPECIALIST. To answer questions, take measurements help select items, write and mail orders. Phone calls get same service, too. Phone or visit your nearest Sears Store. Professional and Social Stationery
COMMERCIAL AND EDITION PRINTERS AND BOOK BINDERS PAPER RULING DESERET NEWS PRESS 29
Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1. Utah A HOUSE BY FRIDAY "Are you certain you wish it?" she asked anxiously. "It is too much for me, too upsetting of the head and heart, too much work for the maids, to have to rent it again soon. You will be satisfied? You will not want everything changed?" "No," I said, so happy I was scarcely breathing. "It is my house. I felt it as soon as I saw it. Each night I have said a little prayer that if it were right for us to have it, you would say yes." Her eyes grew soft. "Each night I, too, have said my little prayer that I would find the right ones to live in my house." Her face brightened. "You may have the house if you wish it." Tomorrow, she said, was short notice, but we could move in. If the maids could not have everything in readiness, we could be patient, no? At night we came to arrange about the lease. It would be ready in a day or two, she told us. She came to a quick understanding with my husband about the Diplomatic Proviso. Then he drew out his checkbook to pay the first month's rent. She waived it aside. Time enough to pay it, she insisted, when we were settled and the lease signed. The moon was shining when we passed through the garden. We stood by the fountain, savoring this moment when we no longer felt like intruders in an alien land. The difficult part of our Mexican move was over. "Yes," Mr. Tarlock said to one of the American men we met as we passed through the lobby with our bags the next day, "we have our house. Got here on Friday night and we're moving in this Friday noon. My wife did it all herself, too. Couldn't speak a word of Spanish, either. Just had to let herself go and she did it." 429
Personal.. We are growing... We are developing... We have kept our stores modern, but we have not forgotten personal old-time courtesy. When we smile we mean it. We are happiest when we can help you in any friendly way. We owe our success to you our customers. O.P. SKAGGS The Child's BIBLE Special helps for children and young folks. The ideal Bible for gifts and awards. No. 123. Flexible, overlapping covers of genuine QUALITY = leather, round corners, MADE KING JAMES VERSION ber under e: gold edges, Bs headbands KING JAMES 2. $4.00 VERSION No. 123. Flexible, overlapping of genuine leather, round corners, a under gold edges, headbands . . . $4.00 BIBLES AT YOUR BOOKSTORE National SINCE F843 430
You Can Write a Prize Winner (Continued from page 373) children; an individual should struggle for survival. Abnormal reactions require such insight and sympathy and skill in portrayal that the novice butchers them and makes them ugly or ridiculous or unconvincing. Just one more word—as to length. Use just enough words to tell the story. Start at the initial situation, tight spang-bang in the thing that sets the story going. If it is necessary to tell what happened before this, give it in short "flash-backs" sandwiched in between bits of forward moving action. And stop when the emotional experience has been realized by the characters. Never go on to tell how it affected the next generation or the cousins in Duluth or Timbuctu. And there it is—for what it is worth—and may some of those exciting and illuminating stories be written now. The following references provide valuable information and suggestions for story writers: The Writer's Handbook, published annually by The Writer, Inc., Boston, Mass. (Some chapters of each issue are devoted to the short story.) Mary Roberts Rhinehart, Writing Is Work, The Writer, Inc. Walter S. Campbell, Writing Magazine Fiction, The Writer's Digest, 22
East 12th Street, Cincinnati, Ohio ($2.50) Ann Hamilton, How to Revise Your Own Stories, The Writer's Digest ($1.50) Elliott Blackiston, How to Write Short Stories, The Writer's Digest ($2.50) Mildred I. Reid and Delmar E. Bordeaux, Writers: Try Short Stories, Bellevue Books, 313
Trust Building, Rockford, Illinois ($3.00) RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1948 MUSIC FOR Singing Mothers TWO PART CHORUSES—S. A. 2119
Beside Still Waters _.... 15c 1449
Bless This House...... 15¢ 1938
Children's Friend __...... 15¢ 5972
Come, We That Love The Lord 10c 1875
Father, In Thy Mysterious Presence Kneeling ___... 12¢ 1762
Father, We Thank Thee _ 15c 5062
The Good Shepherd ____ 12c 10-W1718
Grateful, O Lord Am I _. 15c 7852
Lift Up Your Heads... 12c 668 O Praise The Lord _._.. 15c 7947
Sing, O Heavens.__..... 12c Orders filled same day received. All postage prepaid. Music sent on approval. We specialize in L. D. S. Church music. Also carry large stocks for schools and home use. Dealers in Steinway and Lester Pianos, band and orchestra instruments, talking machines, records and musicians' supplies. FIRST OF ALL — RELIABILITY MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH Stamped quilt tops, floral designs. 7.98 and 8.98
Baby Quilts, 3.98
Stamped pillow case tubing. Cutwork and easy embroidery. 2.69
American Lady tufted rugs. Stamped rug, 4.50, $6, $10
Yarn, ready cut. § 25¢ package Skein, 35c EDLEPOINT Large chairs - - 6.98 to 8.98
Footstools for covering 6.50 to 15.98 NEEDLEPOINT YARN Large skein, 65¢ — Small skein, 29c ART-NEEDLEWORK — FOURTH FLOOR Dining room chair 1.98 to 5.98