Spiritual Strength Through Sabbath Observance
MAN is so constituted that his spiritual needs must be ministered unto even as are his physical needs; otherwise, he becomes unequal to meet with full vigor the problems of life. President Joseph F. Smith declared: "Many people are inconsistent in that they study concerning the needs of the body, and observe strictly the laws of health, yet they disregard the equally urgent needs of the spirit. For the spirit, as well as the body, needs food." (Gospel Doctrine, p. 262.)
We all recognize that there are times when pronounced strains placed upon the body make it necessary for us to give special attention to our physical well-being. So, too, there are times when the spirit of man needs special attention in order that it will be sufficiently strong to withstand unusual circumstances. Such times are upon us today. Anxiety, sorrow, and mourning are the present lot of mankind, and only those who are spiritually strong can be expected to triumph.
"But," we ask, "how may one grow strong in spirit? What are the foods which nourish this part of man?" President Joseph F. Smith gives answer in these words: "It is the purpose of the Gospel and the holy Priesthood... to benefit mankind spiritually..." (Gospel Doctrine, p. 261.) He further states that the Lord designed that the Latter-day Saint people should become the rich-
Page 612
est of all people in heavenly giftsin spiritual blessings. We must remember, however, that even though the richest of spiritual blessings are designed for Latter-day Saints, they will not come to us, as individuals, through inertia or indifferencethey will come only as the result of faithfulness and diligence. They come through knowledge and obedience, sacrifice and service. They come through keeping ourselves attuned to the mind and will of the Father.
The Father has commanded us to "remember the Sabbath Day and keep it holy." He has also told us through modern revelation: "It is expedient that the Church meet together often and partake of bread and wine in remembrance of the Lord Jesus" (Doc. & Cov. 20:75). "And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day" (Doc. & Cov. 59:9).
Obedience to these commandments brings a pronounced renewal of both physical and spiritual strength. The week days of the average individual today are crowded with new and unusual tasks. The great majority of us are overworked. How easy it is, particularly for mothers who during week days are employed outside the home, to leave for the Sabbath Day odd jobs that they have been too busy to attend to on other days. Because the work demands of week days are so strenuous, they feel justified in using the Sabbath as a day for catching up on undone work, rather than as a day of rest and worship. But there is no excuse for robbing the Lord's day of its sanctity. Work should be so planned and affairs so managed that on the Sabbath we may lay aside our week-day tasks, pay our devotions to our Heavenly Father, and obtain needed physical and spiritual refreshment.
To attend sacrament meeting on the Sabbath should be regarded by Latter-day Saints not as a burdensome requirement, but as a glorious privilege. The sacrament meeting provides opportunity for us to partake of the sacrament, thereby renewing our covenants with our Heavenly Father and testifying that we are willing to serve Him and keep His commandments; it is a period wherein we may worship the Father in humility and prayer; it is an hour of repentance, and a time for meditation upon God's great plan of life and salvation. A proper observance of the duties and devotions of the Sabbath Day will give us the best rest that we can obtain, as well as a great renewal of spiritual strength.B. S. S.
Marianne C. Sharp Appointed Associate Editor ofContinued from page 593)
she majored in ancient languages, and was graduated with High Honors. In her senior year she was given a teaching fellowship in Latin and continued teaching Latin at the University and Stewart Training School after graduation.
Mrs. Sharp is a staunch, orthodox Latter-day Saint. She knows and understands the doctrines of the Church and is obedient to Church teachings. She has been active in Church auxiliary work, having taught in the Sunday School and Primary organizations, and for one year she served as chairman of the Queen's Branch, New York, Genealogical Committee. She is thoroughly familiar with all phases of Relief Society work. While living in New York for a period of eleven years, she served continuously in the Relief Society, first as literature and theology class leader and then as president of the Queen's Branch Society. Later, when New York Stake was created, she served on the Relief Society stake board and as counselor to President Lorena Fletcher. She also represented Relief Society on the National Woman's Radio Committee.
After returning to Utah from New York, she continued her Relief Society work as literature class leader in the Twentieth Ward of Ensign Stake until she was called to be a member of the General Board.
Mrs. Sharp has a fine intellect, discriminating judgment, and excellent literary taste. She is sensitive to the reading interests and needs of Latter-day Saint women, and meticulous in the preparation of Magazine material. She is willing to work long and hard to maintain high standards of excellence. Her husband and her young daughters, Luacine, Louise, and Annetta, are interested in her work and fully cooperate with her. Mrs. Sharp assumes her duties well-equipped to carry the responsible position of associate editor of ThePeriodic Medical Examinations of Apparently Healthy Persons
(Continued from page 595)
Medical guidance of apparently well babies is an important factor in this result. Childhood, especially early childhood, is the time when most developmental defects appear: diseased tonsils, obstructing adenoids, tooth decay, ear trouble, defects of vision, speech abnormalities, damage to the heart valves, emotional difficulties, and many others. Surveys show that millions of American children suffer from one or more of these conditions. If discovered early, nearly all can be improved, and many of them can be entirely relieved before lifelong handicaps result; but not if medical contacts are withheld until compelling symptoms appear.
Early adult life is the period when tuberculosis and the venereal diseases take their heaviest toll. The chances for salvaging the individual and for almost every form of protection for others, center on finding the cases earlyi. e., discovery before they give symptoms. Intensive search for tuberculosis among groups of apparently well people usually reveals from five to ten times the number of cases previously known to exist. And the importance of examining the apparently well for the discovery of syphilis is attested by our recent premarital laws.
When we come to the period of middle and later life it is well to face squarely the fact that medical effort is often a compromise with more or less damaged goods. But there is all the more reason for early examination and guidance. Here the analogy of the yardstick is particularly helpful. The last inch is a poor time on which to concentrate the medical contacts. Some degenerative processes and malignant changes, even when recognized, are difficult to influence, yet there is ample evidence of the high value of early recognition in adding years of comfort and efficiency. Fifty per cent of groups made up of individuals with hypertension (high blood pressure) have shown an average reduction of 18 M. M. under medical guidance. This has meaning when we remember that according to the American Actuarial Society, a reduction of 10 M. M. of hypertension in the age group 40 to 49 decreases the chances of dying by more than one-third.
The practice of periodic medical examination is no panacea. But to say that it is highly desirable is a conservative understatement provided: One's physician is really interested and skillful in this type of work; And provided the person examined follows advice without becoming fussy or developing apprehensiveness.