GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 607 preference to being an unwomanly queen wearing a crown. See Esther 1. 7. Esther. An orphan early in life. Reared in Babylonian captivity, by her father's nephew. Chosen queen 'because of her beauty. Obedient still to her foster father. Saves the king from two traitors. Plans a fast for her people. Risks her life to save her people. Wins out against the arch enemy of the Jews. Exercises royal power to free the Jews. She was an ideal Israelite, an ideal woman. A woman of physical perfection, whose intelligence could be depended upon, whose faith would not weaken, and whose fidelity would never fail. See Esther 2:8, 9. The leadership of women in the Mosaic Dispensation, as in all previous dispensations, did not include ordination to the Priesthood. Yet, it was recognized by the Lord in the sending of Miriam to assist in the deliverance of Israel; in the fulfilling of the prophecies of the patriotic prophetess Deborah, and in the honoring of the declarations made in His name by the scholarly prophetess, Huldah. While the Lord blessed woman's leadership with merit behind it, He did the opposite with that based on meddlesomeness. Questions and Problems 1. Name at least four women of the Mosaic Dispensation other than those mentioned in this lesson. 2. What is your mental picture of Miriam as the Sentinel on the Nile? See Ex. 2:4. 3. Quote the women's chorus reply to the singing of the men at the Red Sea. 4. Describe Miriam as you see her at the Red Sea Celebration. 5. In what way is the mistake of Miriam being sometimes repeated in modern Israel? 6. Quote Micah 6:4 as evidence that Miriam was called of God to her mission. 7. Show that women are called in this dispensation and sent of God as was Miriam. 8. What are the proofs that Deborah was inspired by the Lord as Judge of Israel. 9. Relate Huldah's declaration, 2 Kings 22:15-20, and tell what the effects of the declaration were. See 2 Kings 23:1-17. 10. Where did Esther place her life on the altar for the salvation of her people? 11. Esther requested a general fast by the people. What does this request say concerning her home training and the customs of the Jews in the home? 
 LESSON II "Work and Business (Second Week in January) TEACHER'S TOPIC FOR JANUARY, 1926 THE NEW YEAR RING OUT WILD BELLS Ring out, wild bells, to the wild sky, The flying cloud the frosty light: The year is dying in the night; Ring out, wild bells, and let him die. Ring out the old, ring in the new, Ring, happy bells, across the snow; The year is going, let him go; Ring out the false, ring in the true. ?Tennyson. 1. The New Year is a time to look backward and count blessings rather than to think of misfortunes. 2. A time to cast off old worries and grudges. To rid the mind and the heart of all ill will. 3. A time to welcome new duties and responsibilities. 4. A time to examine ourselves to see if our mental attitude is such that we radiate joy. "Man is that he might have joy.'?Book of Mormon. "The mind is its own place, and in itself can make a heaven of hell, or a hell of heaven."  5. A time to call with bounteous good wishes on those who need spiritual refreshment. LESSON III Literature (Third Week in January) CANADIAN POETS Our last lesson was devoted to the three American poets of the United States who served in the Great World War. We shall devote this lesson to two Canadian poets who stand out conspicuously among war poets, for not even the name of Rupert Brooke which is hallowed by all who know the history of our war poetry, is held in such sacred memory as that. Of John D. McGrae, the Canadian poet, who wrote In Flanders'  2 GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 609 field, and close to him in recognition is Robert W. Service with his thymes of a Red Cross Man. John David McCrae, like Oliver Wendell Holmes and S. Weir Mitchell was a physician. Physicians have so often turned to writing verse that it is impossible to regard the matter as a mere coincident. This Canadian physician who was both soldier and poet, was born in Guelph, Ontario, November 30, 1872. He was the second son of Lieutenant Colonel David McCrae, who took over a battery to France. He was educated at the University of Toronto, being graduated with the M. D. Degree in 1910. He was given a chair in the University of McGill, where he lectured on Pathology and Medicine. He was appointed assistant physician to the Royal Victoria Hospital in Montreal and physician to the Alexandra Hospital. He collaborated with Professor Adams in writing a text book on Pathology and also contributed to the system of medicine by Ostler and McCrae, the latter being his elder brother. He served in the field during the second battle of Ypres where he was placed in charge of medicine and made second commander for the hospital unit provided by the McGill University. He was with the guns along the Ypres sector for 14 months and here he found the inspiration for many of his poems. His health broke under the strain of constant duty. In January, 1918, he contracted pneumonia which, complicated by meningitis, resulted in his death on January 28. Any one acquainted with the landscape of continental Europe knows that it is pretty well covered with green grass and liberally sprinkled with red poppies. 'Those who have seen the cemeteries of the late war, know that they are large plots of ground covered with green grass and white crosses that mark the graves of the men who fell in Flanders' fields and in France where the war was waged. IN FLANDERS' FIELDS N In Flanders' fields, the poppies blow Between the crosses, row on row, That mark our place; and in the sky The larks, still bravely singing, fly, Scarce heard amid the guns below. We are the dead. Short days ago We lived, felt dawn, saw sunset glow, Loved and were loved; and now we lie In Flanders' fields. 
 Take up our quarrel with the foe! To you, from failing hands, we throw The torch. Be yours to lift it high! If ye break faith with us who die We shall not sleep, though poppies blow In Flanders' fields. This is a very unusual poem. It is realistic in its descriptive parts and idealistic in its spirit. The first stanza gives the setting in colorful words. The second stanza assumes that those who lie beneath the poppies and the grass after having made the supreme sacrifice, are speaking for themselves. The language of this stanza carries with it a very deep and touching human message, conveyed in language rarely matched in exquisiteness and effectiveness. The third stanza is a command to us to go on with the fight, followed by that most dramatic and soul stirring assertion: If ye break faith with us who die We shall not sleep, though poppies blow In Flanders' fields. ROBERT W. SERVICE Robert W. Service, born in the quiet little town of Preston, England, on January 16, 1874, emigrated to Vancouver, Canada, where the lure of an explorer's life took hold of him. He traveled up and down the Pacific coast experiencing many hardships, but collecting material which afterward crept into the lines of many of his poems. Before leaving England, he had served an apprenticeship with the Commercial Bank of Scotland, in the city of Glasgow, and now tired of the sacrifices incident to roaming up. And down, in rather wild country, he joined the staff of the Canadian Bank in Victoria, B. C. In 1905. He was transferred to White House, Yukon 'Territory and then to Dawson. Eight years in the Yukon resulted in transforming the bank employee into one of the most important poets of our time. If he collected some material for verse when he was floundering about on the Pacific coast, he collected infinitely more in the eight years in the Yukon. 1 The War made a deep impression on Robert W. Service as it did on a score of poets who read and speak the English language in many lands. He has collected his war poetry under the title of Rhymes of a Red Cross Man. His introductory poem which is entitled Foreword tells his story; for that reason we include it: FOREWORD I've tinkered at my bits of rhymes In weary, woeful, waiting times; GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 611 In doleful hours of battle-din, Ere yet they brought the wounded in; Through vigils of the fateful night, In lousy barns by candle-light; In dug-outs, sagging and aflood, On stretchers stiff and bleared with blood; By ragged grove, by ruined road, By hearths accrust where Love abode; By broken altars, blackened shrines I've tinkered at my bits of rhymes. [ve solaced me with scraps of song The desolate ways along: Through sickly fields all shrapnel-sown, And meadows reaped by death alone; By blazing cross and splintered spire, By headless Virgin in the mire: By gardens gashed amid their bloom, By gutted grave, by shattered tomb; Beside the dying and the dead, Where rocket green and rocket red, In trembling pools of poising light, With flowers of flame festoon the night, Ah me! By what dark ways of wrong I've cheered my heart with scraps of song. So here's my sheaf of war-won verse, And some is bad, and some is worse. And if at times I curse a bit, You needn't read that part of it; For through it all like horror runs The red resentment of the guns, And you yourself would mutter when You took the things that once were men, And sped them through that zone of hate To where the dripping surgeons wait; And wonder too if in God's sight War ever, ever can be right. Yet may it not be, crime and war But effort misdirected are, And if there's good in war and crime, There may be in my bits of rhyme, My songs from out the slaughter mill: So take or leave them as you will. YOUNG FELLOW MY LAD "Where are you going, Young Fellow My Lad, On this glittering morn of May?" 
 "I'm going to join the Colors, Dad; They're looking for men, they say." "But you're only a boy, Young Fellow My Lad; You aren't obliged to go." "I'm seventeen and a quarter, Dad, And ever so strong, you know." "So you're off to France, Young Fellow My Lad, And you're looking so fit and bright." "I'm terribly sorry to leave you, Dad, But I feel that I'm doing right." "God bless you and keep you, Young Fellow My Lad, You're all of my life, you know." "Don't worry. I'll soon be back, dear Dad, And I'm awfully proud to go." "Why don't you write, Young Fellow My Lad? I watch for the post each day; And I miss you so, and I'm awfully sad, And it's months since you went away. And I've had the fire in the parlor lit, And I'm keeping it burning bright Till my boy comes