GREETINGS
It is good to look forward with hope, to face the new year with thankful hearts, to have faith and dreams, to look forward to all those privileges and responsibilities that go into the making of a life. It is good to have that feeling of security which comes from having family and friends, and it is especially good to be able to count those friends by the thousands as do all who belong to our great Relief Society organization.
It is one of the glories of Relief Society that though among our 75,064 members there is a great variety of environments, there is the greatest unity of spirit. Our manners of speech may be different, we may even be different in certain set ideas, but beneath all that, we are alike in what we feel and are, alike in our ideals, alike in our love, and alike in our desire to serve. In all the widely scattered organizations one feels this essential unity.
What a great blessing it is to face life with a testimony that the Gospel is true, to know that God lives, that there is continuity to life, and that those relationships of family and friends, which make life so wonderful, will continue. The great ideal of Relief Society work is to help us put our relationship to our Father in Heaven and our human relationships on a higher level. As we go to our meetings we but put our market basket on our arm and go forth to obtain spiritual food, the real bread of life, to share with all with whom we associate, thus making us better wives, mothers and neighbors. Our prayer should ever be that we may have deeper insight, keener appreciation, finer sympathies, become so spiritually sensitive that we sense the needs of all, that we may identify ourselves in active sympathy with all who suffer. Thus only may we be worthy of our name Relief Society.
We can begin our work this new year better equipped than before because our understanding of the Gospel has increased, and we more fully realize that "we do not live for the sake of knowing but know for the sake of living." Let us strive as never before to keep our thinking straight and our hearts warm toward all persons. Let our faith be steady, let our love be deep, is our humble prayer for all Relief Society members.