Layton AS partakers of the spirit and A blessings of Relief Society membership we are all anxious to pass this privilege on to others. There is a real need in our communities for Relief Society and the opportunities for growth that it presents to its members. Those who are actively participating in its program, who have a vision of the organization as a whole, are proud to say, "I am a member of the Relief Society." ' We like to meet people who are sure of their values. As we value anything, so is our enthusiasm communicated to others. No salesman can convince us of the excellency of his product until he has first convinced himself. He may have a flowing sales talk, be letter-perfect in its delivery, but if a lack of conviction of the value of his product is sensed, one does not buy. Others are prone to accept the value we place upon our possessions. You may have a treasured keepsake that has no appeal for me, but as I sense the value you place upon it, I find myself unconsciously accepting it at its worth to you. We want to like what others like, whose opinions we regard. We hear someone say that a certain book has a wonderful message, that everyone who is up with the times is conversant with it; we read of a review to be given and drop our tasks to find the values in the highly rated book. Do we all understand and like it? No, but someone has said it was worth while. We all want to get out of life all the good that others find in it, so we follow those who are convinced that they have found values. Two women may give out exactly the same invitation to, "Join with us in our organization and receive its benefits" in exactly the same words, yet there is response to one and not the other. Why? One lives Relief Society. She is filled with the spirit of it; it has become Eng of her life; she sees not duty, ut privilege in all that it presents to her. The other?' The sister who does enlistment work feeling that it is impossible to get new members, who dutifully tenders each invitation but doesn't feel in her soul the real benefits which will come to the sister she is inviting, cannot be as successful as the one who senses Relief Society values in full and presents them enthusiastically. All humanity is seeking greater life satisfaction.