Interesting Verse
Among the interesting and talented women who have served the Relief Society organization the names of Lula Greene Richards, Emmeline B. Wells, and Cornelia H. Horne Clayton stand out with prominence. Blessed with unusual literary ability Sisters Richards and Wells served the organization as the first Editor and Assistant Editor respectively of the Woman's Exponent, which was founded in 1872, a quarter of a century after the pioneers landed in Salt Lake Valley. Sister Horne, gifted with business ability, served as its first business manager from December 1, 1875 to July 15, 1877, when she resigned to become the bride of James Leroy Clayton. Their association on the Exponent brought to these women a deep appreciation and sincere love for each other. At the wedding feast prepared for Miss Horne the following poem, written by Lula Richards, was read by Emmeline Wells. After the reading of the poem President John Taylor, who was one of the guests, pronounced it "the choicest of the many valuable and beautiful tributes offered on the sacred and joyful occasion." Sister Richards is the only one of the three still living. Her physical and mental vigor are unusual. Ninety years of age next April she still serves the Relief Society organization.
"Corneel" By Lula Greene Richards (November 29, 1875)
Corneel, Dear Girl: This is thy day of days! From maidenhood's fair path you step Aside. Henceforth in woman's higher, mightier ways Thy walk in life must be—thou art a bride.
In bringing wishes tender, true and kind, As sounds to such scenes should ever ring, No superfluities, however refined, I'd offer, nor one vain, unlikely thing.
It is not vain to wish that fruits and flowers May crown thy lot instead of thorns and weeds; That which we plant and cultivate is ours, Else life were vain, and all good thoughts and deeds.
May faith's bright star illumine all thy path, Love's sweetest blossoms 'round thy heart entwine; And all the wealth which truth and virtue hath For their firm votaries be forever thine.
May he to whom thou givest all in trust, Who fondly, proudly claims thee as his own Prove only nobler, purer and more just Than thy warm hopes or brightest dreams have shown.
Many might deem this wish not worth the while, For 'tis proverbial man never proves As free from folly, selfishness and guile As is believed by woman when she loves. I will admit that cases may be rare In which man falls not short, yet one I've known— But Ill not tell it here, 'twould seem unfair To talk of love today except thine own. God bless thee! This time-honored, sacred phrase Can best express the interest which I feel For ue on this, thy brightest day of ays— God keep thee ever blest, beloved Cormeel.