Louise Y. Robison, Amy Brown Lyman, Kate M. Barker, General Presidency of Relief Society.
National Stewardship Convention By President Louise Y. Robison
A CONVENTION of great significance was held in the Stevens' Hotel, Chicago, November 1-2-3, 1938, under the auspices of the National Committee for Religious and Welfare Recovery. The general theme of the convention was "Stewardship in a Democracy." Sub-topics of this vital subject were discussed by many prominent people, all of whom stressed the need for spirituality in developing character. Catholics, Jews and Protestants united in a program for developing greater responsibility of parents in the home, better citizenship and higher spiritual standards.
The National Council of Women, cooperating with its Committee on Human Relations, appointed five delegates from the L. D. S. Relief Society to represent our organization at the convention. Most stirring appeals were made for youth, who, it was claimed, were divorced from spiritual values. The charge was made that parents are remiss in helping children develop character, and that all too often parents allow financial affairs to receive the greater consideration. This was illustrated by the old Jewish legend of Peter. Peter's parents were blessed with a bounteous harvest. Taking Peter with them the parents walked through the field rejoicing over the heavy heads of wheat and planning what comforts could be purchased when the grain was harvested. When the tour was finished they missed their little son—he had wandered away and was lost.
Many young people are lost spiritually through the attitude of a few instructors in high schools and colleges, who, although employed by parents, destroy the souls of students by sarcastic statements, such as, "Religion is the anesthetic of life," or as one professor advised when announcing a party, "those of you who think you have a soul—please park it outside." Parents have a rich opportunity for character education in selecting or supervising the types of books read by young people or the moving pictures seen. These two activities are mighty forces in building or injuring character.
In helping youth to meet life courageously we develop a valuable asset. One speaker said, "No man should deprive his child the development of self-effort. No matter what the financial status, parents should have children assume responsibility." In teaching the three R's, the most important are Reason, Reverence and Responsibility. It is estimated that millions of young people in the United States today, between the ages of seventeen and twenty-four, are without regular employment, many of them without religious training, who are ready to follow any leader offering a solution for their problem. The future of the nation depends upon the type of leadership which may arise. Realizing this grave condition, the appeal was made for the school, the home and the church to unite in a program for Religious Welfare Recovery, for spiritual mobilization to combat the mobilization of evil. We shall never have a nation of peace and justice until we have individual peace and justice founded upon love of man as well as love of God, and taught in the homes and in the schools. "The Mother must know how to interpret the world to the knowledge of children, it is she who builds the bridge of character from the home to the world outside, over which the child must go alone."
A Litany for Youth
"I come to thee, O God, in this litany of worship, "Hear my prayer, O Lord. "For the fathers and founders of my country; for the pioneers who felled the forests, tamed the rivers, tunneled its mountains, tapped the riches of its prairies; for the daring souls who went deep into mines and blocked out great cities; for the saints and prophets who made its laws, set up its system of government, gave their lives for its liberty, founded its schools and churches and homes— "For these, O God, I thank Thee. "Help me to hold sacred my body and all of the powers with which I am endowed; to grow in 'Wisdom and stature, and in favor with God and man.' "This I pray, in Jesus' name. "Save me from any tendency to receive much from others and pass nothing on to the future. "Hear my prayer, O Lord. "Lead me to the tasks that are to be done; make me an instrument of thine; help me to prepare to give my best; and may I ever be true to thee, and to humanity. "Accept this commitment of myself."
(From The Future Belongs To You, by Roy A. Burkhart. Copyright, 1939. By permission the Abingdon Press.)
Alice Louise Reynolds By Jennie B. Knight
ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS, a choice and greatly beloved spirit, has gone to her reward, to His presence where is fullness of joy. The Gospel of Jesus Christ was the guiding star of her life. She had a great mind, a tender, understanding and friendly heart. She was gifted, particularly in her chosen field of literature. She was an ardent church worker and leader all her life; an uplifting force in her school and community. Her home was a haven of peace, confidence, culture and hospitality.
Alice Louise Reynolds was born April 1, 1873, in Salt Lake City, the daughter of George Reynolds and Mary Ann Tuddenham Reynolds. Her father, a cultured gentleman, was secretary to four presidents of the Latter-day Saint Church. He was the author of The Story of the Book of Mormon, the Book of Mormon Dictionary and the Concordance of the Book of Mormon, and his daughter was justly proud of his achievements. After her mother's death, when 13 years of age, Alice went to Provo with her sister Millie to attend the Brigham Young Academy. She became a student of Dr. Karl G. Maeser and was often a guest at his home. At the age of 17 she taught school in Salt Lake City and a year later in Nephi. In 1892 she entered the University of Michigan, doing some missionary work during the two years spent there. In 1894 she was appointed instructor of English at the Brigham Young Academy, and with the Class of 1895 received a degree of B. Pd. An enthusiastic supporter of the Brigham Young University she was identified with this school for forty-four years. She was made professor of English Literature in 1911.
Students who have taken her courses in Chaucer, Shakespeare, History of the English Novel, Wordsworth, Tennyson, Browning, and Literature of the Bible are numbered by thousands and are to be found in prominent positions in many of the states of the Union as well as in other lands. Next to her classes she was especially devoted to the building of an adequate library for the B. Y. U. and had the satisfaction of seeing its remarkable growth from a few volumes to its present size. The Alice Louise Reynolds section of the library, established in her honor, has 2,940 volumes, many of these books being her personal contributions, the balance given by her club members and friends. She served on the library committee for thirty-five years and as committee chairman for twenty years. Miss Reynolds was the first woman president of the Alumni Association of her Alma Mater. She was a veritable hostess for the school, having an art all her own in helping the presidents with whom she served in entertaining distinguished guests.