All are searching for the things that will bring into their lives the greatest sense of accomplishment, the greatest happiness. Our organization can do this, Our Prophet said, "This charitable society is according to your natures. You are now placed in a situation where you can act according to those sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms. If you live up to your privileges the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates." Do you know of any other organization which holds out such promise to its members? Only as we value our organization can we make it attractive to others. There is no substitute for enthusiastic conviction in enlistment work. If we are filled with the vision and spirit of Relief Society it will radiate from us. If through enthusiastic service we ate obtaining the blessings promised by the Prophet, then we can say, "Come, join our ranks," in such a manner as to make others desire that which we have received. Wlotes. FROM THE FIELD 4 By Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary VERY delightful and profitable beginning for the New A Year is to reflect for a moment upon some of the fine accomplishments of the past. We regret that we cannot publish all of the outstanding achievements of the Relief Society organizations during the past year. Eastern States Mission AN outstanding meeting held at Palmyra is reported by the President: "The Relief Society organizations "The roll call showcd a large attendance of Relief Society members, representing every Branch in the Mission. General President Louise Y. Robison addressed the audience. Her words were received with interest and enthusiasm and have stimulated fruitful works. As the sisters left for their homes many of them expressed a determination to attack their work with renewed zeal. They were truly filled with the spirit of their calling. All of the members were given the long-awaited privilege of greeting Sister Robison personally, SINGING MOTHERS AND DAUGHTERS, EASTERN STATES MISSION of the Mission were given a special place on the Palmyra conference program. The period was devoted entirely to Relief Society work. This is in line with a policy to recognize each of the auxiliaries in these conferences. The experience of this session fully justifies the policy. And to each she gave encouragement in their several undertakings. All felt the influence of her gracious friendliness and her unaffected humility. "Nearly a hundred mothers and pelt sua joined in the choruses specially prepared during months of practice in the branches. It was regarded as a high privilege to hold this notable Relief Society meeting in the Sacred Grove, and the Singing Mothers and their daughters, attired in white, presented a beautiful picture on this holy ground." Mount Ogden Stake Music is recognized everywhere as one of the most potent of civilizing influences and certainl one of the most inspiring in its effect. Good music like any art is a treasure not for the chosen few but one that all may enjoy. Though one works with his hands in the shops or in the fields, his soul may reach the heights through music. An outstanding musical program was given in the Weber College RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JANUARY - 47 also helped the people to realize that the Mothers' Chorus in each ward plays an important part in the program of the Relief Society. Althea B. Zinn was the director; Fern Clark, the organist, and Lydia Burrows the reader.. Teton Stake NAANY stakes used vacation time for social activity in keeping alive the spirit of Relief Society. 'The Teton Stake Relief Society Board entertained all the ward executive officers, the stake presidency and a number of special guests at a dinner, after which a delightful program of appropriate numbers was rendered. Every one enjoyed the "get together" party where a spirit of unity, interest and love prevailed. SINGING MOTHERS, Auditorium by the Singing Mothers of Mount Ogden Stake Relief Society. The theme was the story of the life of the Savior, portrayed in music: His Birth, His Ministry on Earth, His Crucifixion, His Resurrection, and His Ascension into Heaven. The knowledge and inspiration gained by the chorus members has been taken into the wards and has helped to raise the standard of music in the ward organizations. It has MT. OGDEN STAKE Bannock Stake N this stake the lesson work has aroused great interest. This is especially true of the Theology and Visiting Teacher work, as well as the Home Reading project. A play, written by Sister Elsie Hubbard, portraying the spirit of the work, was successfully produced in the ward conferences held throughout the stake. 48 - JANUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Pocatello Stake "THE great enthusiasm that has been aroused far and wide by the Singing Mothers in the Relief Society is very gratifying. In addition to the other fine work which the Pocatello Stake ls doing the above picture tells its own story. Interest taining information and pamphlets from the Extension Division of the Agricultural College. The first lesson on nutrition was the Daily Food Supply. In conducting this lesson, fresh vegetables and fruits were used, and ribbons of various lengths and colors were SINGING MOTHERS, in membership, in the study program, and in all other activities is stimulated by the cultural opportunity offered women through the chorus work. Highland Stake SINCE the subject of nutrition is of such importance in keeping the body in perfect condition the Highland Stake welcomed the suggested study "Food Selection and Preparation" for discussion in the Work and Business department. With the earnest support of executive officers, both in the stake and wards, each month a simple discussion of nutrition has been presented, together with sewing, handicraft and quilting. Stake leaders obtained information from pamphlets suggested in - the July Magazine and were also very graciously assisted by Miss Elna Miller of the A. C. And Sister Ivy Hall, County Home Agent, in obtaining information and pamphlets from the Extension Division of the Agricultural College. The first lesson on nutrition was the Daily Food Supply. In conducting this lesson, fresh vegetables and fruits were used, and ribbons of various lengths and colors were POCATELLO STAKE attached to denote the content of the vitamins and minerals. The accompanying picture shows how this was illustrated with the use of a blackboard. Fruits and vegetables were attached to the blackboard, left to right, as follows: peas, string beans, onion, tomato, orange, parsley, carrot, potato, pepper, beet, cauliflower, cabbage, spinach, celery, and corn. The food elements and their values were listed as follows: Vitamin A?Yellow ribbon Vitamin C?Blue ribbon Calcium?White ribbon Iron?Red ribbon Phosphorus?Green ribbon Protein?Purple ribbon Calories?Brown ribbon A?Avoids colds B?Be not nervous C?Correct connective tissue D?Dental and bone E?Enlarges families F?Lost G?Growth. Calories are units of measurements for determining the amount of heat and energy obtained from food. Vitamins are substances in food which make it possible to properly nourish every part of the body. To inspire friendly interest and participation in the course a dramatization was presented. One of the older sisters was chosen as a bride to show that all ages might benefit by these lessons on nutrition. ?? EDGEHILL WARD, At the begininng of the class the "Wedding March" was played; the bride entered, marched to the front of the room carrying an attractive bouquet of cauliflower, parsley, radishes, brussel sprouts and cranberries. She recited a clever jingle on food values, after which the audience sang the following original verses to the tune of "In Our Lovely Deseret". RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JANUARY - 49 THE VITAMIN SONG There are foods we like to eat That are mighty hard to beat They contain all vitamins from A to G. If you want to keep in step Eat the foods that give you pep, Serve the ones that have been planned For you and me. Chorus Come, come, come each second Tuesday, Bring another friend with you. We are sure, that you'll agree Vitamins from A to G Can be found in recipes both old and new. HIGHLAND STAKE A prize is being given to the sister contributing the best verse each month, which will be added to the song. The same program is being carried out in various ways in each ward in the stake. Each month a chart, "The Day's Food Supply," which lists the proper kinds and amounts of food necessary for an adequate day's supply, is kept before the members.