Items? OF INTEREST Poem Contest IN this number of the pe Society Magazine appear the poems ee those awarded the first three places in the annual poem contest conducted by the General Board. There were 124 poems entered in this year's contest and the committee feel to congratulate the many contributors on the general excellence of their contributions, with the hope that they will continue to write and send in their manuscripts. While it is a fact that all cannot win, this need not deter one from making the effort, and continued work leads at least towards the goal of success. This year the first prize was awarded to Helen Hinckley Jones of Beaver, Utah, for her elegiac poem, "Cycle". Second prize was awarded to Eva Willes Wangsgaard of Ogden, Utah, for her lovely poem, "Always At Night," and Third prize to Grace Zenor Pratt of Colonia Dublan, Mexico, for her _heart-touching verses, ""Today I Gathered Roses". The judges this year were Professor Harold F. Folland of the English Department, University of Utah, Maud Beeley Jacob, writer and literary critic, and Marcia K. Howells of the General Board of Relief Society. Weare most grateful to the judges for their patient consideration and professional judgment. We thank all who contributed in any way. To the success of the contest, and the successful authors have the sincere congratulations of the committee. Annie Wells Cannon, Julia A. F. Lund, Rosannah C. Irvine, Ida P. Beal, Rae B. Barker. New Features of the Magazine for 1939 IN line with the policy of the Relief Society to publish a superior Magazine a number of new features are inaugurated with the January issue. We are the first magazine to our knowledge to use new Green-White paper called "Nature's Tint." This special paper eliminates glares, saves the eyes and makes reading easier. In view of the fact that the Magazine is used many times during the month in lesson work and visiting teaching, and not always under the most favorable lighting conditions, we feel this special "'eye-ease" paper will be greatly appreciated by our subscribers. Weare also using a new "Electra" type face, which is more legible and modern than the type we have used previously. We are informed that we are using the only font of this particular type in the Intermountain territory. The January issue also inaugurates a new cover design which we believe will add to the general attractiveness of the Magazine. The general lay-out of the Maga- zine is being improved by the use of distinctive title heads and department names, and we are expecting to increase the number of illustrations. The content of the Magazine will RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JANUARY - 43 receive the same careful attention which has always characterized its selection. This, together with the improved physical make-up, should give to our subscribers a magazine of quality. Oh OS Angeles A DRAMATIC feature of the Los Angeles Stake Relief Society Conference on November 5 and 6 was the announcement that the stake had reached the final goal set for it in the Membership Campaign. It had increased its membership 33!4% and had thus achieved "keystone success" in one season. The membership of the stake in 1937 was 540. The quota set was 200 new members by 1942. The Campaign was inaugurated in the wards September 6, and by November 5, 6, 235 new members had been enrolled, making the present membership 775. The announcement of the final results was made in a large special Relief Society meeting, attended by the stake presidency and a number of invited guests. The meeting was semi-social in nature, with a program of beautiful musical numbers and short speeches. At the close of the meeting delicious refreshments were served. The President, Sister Blanche Stake Scores Hoglund, paid a sincere tribute to the efficient and energetic stake coordinator, Sister Bessie Redding, who had planned and led the Campaign, and her able assistants, the ward coordinators, for their arduous work and signal success. At a proper moment each of the coordinators was called to the platform and presented with a corsage of gardenias. The plans for the Membership Campaign were presented, thoroughly discussed and copies distributed in the membership department of the Union meeting held in August. On September 6 they were introduced in the ward meetings. Definite tules were adopted and uniformly carried out. Prospective members were made thoroughly familiar with the privileges and responsibilities of membership and were not enrolled until they had attended three regular meetings. The new members are all enthusiastically interested in the work of the organization. 1938 Index The 1938 index is now ready. Those desiring their magazines bound through this office may have cloth binding, including index, for $1.50, and leather binding, including index, for $2.00. The price of the index is: single copy mailed, 100; 3 copies mailed, 25c; when bought at office 5c per copy. 44 - JANUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE New Serial HE February issue of the Magazine brings to our readers a new serial, The Shining Heart, by Sibyl Spande Bowen. Read about old Philander Maddox, rich, eccentric, naive. Become acquainted with Brilliant Alaska Carey whose absorbing life interest is the charming and gifted Nell. Follow the actions of Robert Lathrop, resented by Nell, "For one thing," she said, 'because a man has no business wearing ties as beautiful as those worm by Mr. Lathrop." Enjoy the homely life-philosophy of practical and unromantic Fred; benefit by acquaintance with sophisticated Miss Donavan. The Shining Heart is a story of real-life people whose ambitions and frustrations, selfishness and generosities, dislikes and loves, lead the reader with absorbing interest through a story carrying a delightful element of mystery, centered in a Chinese chest and a shining heart. Sibyl Spande Bowen needs no introduction to our readers, having been a contributor to local magazines for the past 15 years. Her work in the field of fiction is of unusual merit, recently receiving national recognition. HH Magazine Drive "THE Magazine Honor Roll published in the December issue omitted the American Fork First Ward, Alpine Stake. This ward has an enrollment of 82, with 62 subscriptions, giving them a percentage of 76. The Rapid City, South Dakota Branch and the Grand Island, Nebraska Branch should have been listed Western States Mission instead of North Central States Mission. The Lebanon Ward should have been listed Mt. Graham Stake instead of St. Joseph Stake. The Manavu Ward, Utah Stake has an enrollment of 104, with 108 subscriptions, giving them a percentage of 104, instead of 104 enrolled, 84 subscriptions, giving them a percentage of 81 as listed on the December Honor Roll. The Archer Ward of Rexburg Stake was given credit instead of Burton Ward which has an enrollment of 35, with 30 subscriptions, giving them a percentage of 86. Cate "The measure of our civilization is not good roads, or patks, or public buildings but the homes of our people."?Thomas Mann. ?Come Join Our Ranks" By Leone G.