The Needs of the Human Body for Heat and Energy By Dr. Rose H. Widtsoe—University of Utah
There are six important phases of nutrition which will be considered in a series of articles as follows: the heat and energy value of foods; proteins; fats, starches and sugars; mineral salts; vitamins, and finally the balanced diet, as it involves all of the preceding divisions. As stated in a previous article, the three important general uses of food in the body are to supply heat and energy, to build body tissue and to control the various activities that go on in the body in order to maintain life.
Heat and Energy Value of Foods. The body requires heat in order to maintain a normal temperature of 98.6 degrees Fahrenheit. At this temperature the various processes of the body go on more efficiently. Any excess heat is eliminated from the body. In addition to the heat requirement necessary to maintain normal temperature of the body, energy or the power to do work is also needed. All of this heat and energy comes from the food one eats. The original source of food energy is the sun. As the plant grows, energy is bound up in it and remains there until the plant is eaten, digested, and burned. As the food is burned the energy and heat which were bound up in the plant are released for body use. Animals and human beings do not have the power to form foods, as the plants do, from the elements and inorganic material in the air, soil and water, but must eat the foods that have been formed by the growing plants.
Means of Measuring the Heat and Energy Value of Foods. The body is not restricted to the use of any one foodstuff for heat and energy. The starches, sugars, fats and proteins are all burned in the body and yield heat and energy. Certain foods yield much more heat and energy than others. In order to determine the relative fuel values of the various foods it is necessary to have a common measure. This common measure is called the "calorie" and expresses the energy value in terms of heat units. One must realize, however, that the body is not a heat engine such as mechanical engines in which heat is the source of the work. In the body heat is rather the result of the internal and external work which the body does. The energy is the power by means of which the body does its work. It is difficult to understand the significance of a calorie, but we say it is the amount of heat required to raise four pounds (about four pints) of water one degree Fahrenheit. One thinks of the calorie only as a means of comparing the energy value of foods. As one is accustomed to measure quantities in ounces, pounds, inches, yards, pints, etc., so must one measure the heat and energy value of foods in calories.
The Needs of the Body for Heat and Energy. 1. The body needs heat in order to maintain the normal body temperature. The infant requires heat to keep its body warm. Warm, lightweight clothing is used to keep in the body heat. A limited amount of food will furnish all the heat and energy needed. As the child grows older and becomes more active, he will require more food to meet his needs. Adults do not need additional food to maintain normal temperature because an active person is really producing more heat than the body needs and feels uncomfortably warm until the blood cools off. This "cooling off" is made possible by the evaporation of the moisture, or perspiration, on the surface of the body. 2. The body needs energy for work. There are two general types of work, internal and external. The internal work is going on constantly as long as life lasts. The heart is beating; the lungs are breathing; the muscles of the stomach and intestinal walls are expanding and contracting; the liver, kidneys and many secreting glands are constantly performing their important functions. One of the greatest needs for energy is in maintaining the muscles in a state of tone so that they are always ready to do work. One is not conscious of this vast amount of work that is going on all the time in our bodies. A large amount of food is required just to meet the needs of the internal work. The external work, or the work done by the body of which one is conscious, requires by far the greatest amount of energy. Every movement of the body, sitting or standing, walking around, working with one's hands, etc., requires energy in addition to that required for the internal body work. The amount of energy needed depends upon the kind and amount of external work done. Sitting down sewing requires a certain amount of energy, while the same person doing heavy housework requires much more. This means that the greater the amount of work done and the harder the work the greater the amount of food that must be eaten to supply the required energy. 3. Energy is also needed for growth and repair. The adult needs food for use in keeping the body in a state of repair. The body cells are constantly wearing out and being replaced with new ones. A small additional amount of energy is required for this purpose. Growing children need energy not only to repair worn-out cells but to build new cells for growth. Rapidly growing children may be storing, in growth, as much as 12 to 15 per cent of the energy value of the food eaten. The pregnant woman requires a very small additional amount of energy for building new tissue, but this need is generally overestimated. It is more necessary that a pregnant woman look well to the kind of food she eats rather than to increase the amount. The diet of a woman in this condition should consist largely of milk, eggs, fruit, whole cereals, vegetables and meat sparingly. Such foods will furnish the vitamins and minerals that are necessary. The calories will usually be sufficient. Too often pregnant women put on excessive weight. The lactating mother will need additional calories, equal in amount to the milk she secretes, as well as the energy required to secrete it.
Sources of Food Energy. All food except water and the mineral salts yield energy when burned in the body. Different foods yield different amounts. The food groups yielding energy are classified as carbohydrates, fats and proteins. 1. Carbohydrates as a Source of Heat and Energy. The carbohydrates are the chief source of energy. This group comprises all of the sugars and starches. The sugars and starches are built up by the growing plants. Many of the sugars, called simple sugars, are ready for the blood stream and are not acted upon by the digestive juices. Such sugars occur generally throughout the vegetable kingdom. The sugar that we use on our tables is manufactured from the juice of beets or sugar cane. Brown sugar is the same as white sugar except that a small amount of the "mother liquor" is still in it. In other words some of the water and coloring matter has been left in the sugar. It has not been purified and bleached. Sugars are readily soluble and are easily digested. When they are burned in the body they yield carbon dioxide, a very weak acid, which is eliminated by the body through the lungs, and water which is also eliminated by the kidneys and by the skin. So sugars are completely burned and in burning give up the energy that was enclosed in them when they were formed by the growing plant. In a similar manner starches are formed by the growing plants. Starches differ from simple sugars in that they are insoluble in water and must be acted upon by the digestive juices and changed to simple sugars, glucose, before they can be burned in the body. So all sugars, except the simple sugars, and all starches must be changed by the digestive juices to simple sugar before they can be used by the body. Such foods are our best sources of energy because they burn without leaving any waste products. From one-half to two-thirds of our total food calories should come from sugars and starches. The best sources of carbohydrate foods are sugar and starch. White or brown sugar, honey, syrup, molasses, dried fruits, raisins, figs, dates, and all fresh fruits are carbohydrate foods. The best sources of starch are cereals, bread, crackers, cakes, cookies, macaroni and spaghetti, and all root and tuber vegetables, potatoes, Irish and sweet, beans, corn, carrots, peas, squash, etc. All of these foods are rich in calorie value. 2. Fats are derived from both the vegetable and animal foods. It is the chief form in which fuel is stored in the body. Fatty tissue is stored between and around the vital organs and in a layer under the skin. This fat is used for fuel if the diet does not furnish sufficient calories to meet the needs of the body. The most successful way of reducing one's weight is by reducing the caloric value of the diet, thus giving the body a chance to burn some of its fatty tissue. Fatty foods are much more concentrated than carbohydrates or proteins. When burned in the body, they yield two and one-half times more energy per given weight. The best sources of fatty foods are cream, butter, animal and vegetable oils such as olive oil, corn or Mazola oil, cotton seed oil or Wesson oil, lard, snowdrift and meat fats. 3. Proteins as a Source of Heat and Energy. Heat and energy are also produced when protein foods are burned in the body. Only one-half of the protein food burned is used to produce heat and energy, so we do not think of the protein foods as good sources of energy. For this reason we do not eat nearly as much of this type of food as we do of the carbohydrates and fats. There are, however, many important uses for protein foods in the body. The best sources of protein foods are cheese of all kinds, meats of all kinds, poultry, fish, eggs, milk, nuts, peas and beans.
The Effects of Undereating and Overeating. How can one tell whether he is eating too much or too little or just the right amount to meet the body's need for energy? If one eats more food than is needed by the body, one will put on weight. The opposite is true if one eats too little, the weight grows less. Neither condition is good. A growing child should gain weight consistently until he is fully grown. The weight should then remain constant over a long period of years if just the right amount of food is eaten. An insufficient amount of food to supply the body's need for energy may lead to underweight with its accompanying evils: nervousness, irritability, loss of appetite, indigestion, listlessness and lowered vitality. An excess of food will result in overweight and may lead to general inefficiency, lack of ambition and inconvenience. It may also result in diseases of various kinds.