Women We Should Know
Florence Jepperson Madsen—Doctor of Music By Ramona W. Cannon
Florence Jepperson Madsen has played and sung almost since she could speak. She remembers when she used to stand by the family organ, treading with one foot and reaching above her head to keys she could not see, to play the lead while she sang the alto of familiar songs. This spontaneous self-expression became even more interesting when admiring visitors began to leave her quarters and fifty-cent pieces for the entertainment. At five the little girl was making regular public appearances. Her first truly professional performance occurred at the age of eight. She and two brothers played the organ, violin, and bass all afternoon for a children's dance at a private residence. They proudly marched home with their recompense—a pound of butter—value twenty cents.
The Jepperson family would make a most interesting study in heredity. The father and mother had extraordinary musical talent. It must have been a dominant characteristic in both because all six children inherited it, the grandchildren likewise. The father was a landscape painter as well—was in fact known as Utah's pioneer artist. Several of the children inherited this versatility. Florence herself has about forty good paintings to her credit, which she has done in periods of recreation. In both parents love of music equalled the talents they possessed. The mother, Minnie Johnson Jepperson, was known as Provo's contralto singer. She had no training but a voice which retained its exquisite, melting quality into advanced age. The father, Samuel H. Jepperson, crossed the plains at three years of age, and lived at a period when conditions forever demanded the practical—breadwinning, shelter, manual labor. But he hungered for a violin. At last came his opportunity. In exchange for several loads of logs he could have a violin. So at thirteen he went, alone and barefoot, into the canyon. He had to manage the team, make his way through the prickly, tangled thickets which scratched his bare flesh, cut and load the logs without help, keep an alert eye and ear for the snakes which infested the region, and spend lonely nights praying for protection from the ferocity of Indians and wild beasts. He obtained the coveted instrument and learned to play it and also the clarinet. He made musical instruments, taught music, organized bands and orchestras throughout the state, and developed an orchestra among his own family. As they sent their sweet harmonies into the outer air, crowds assembled around the house to listen. This orchestra could play the organ, trombone, bass tuba, clarinet, oboe, violin, guitar, and string bass. Without wealth the family yet lived a life rich in beauty, accomplishment, and associations with great and talented spirits. Mr. Taggart, the New York artist who painted portraits of the Twelve Apostles, was a close friend and did portraits of Mr. and Mrs. Jepperson as a token of esteem. Dr. Winship, the educator, was another friend. By means of cooperation and sacrifice all the children received musical educations. The encouragement of the art and poetry of life meant more to the family than the acquiring of food, clothing and household furniture. "Father desired things for us," says Florence, "but Mother saw that they happened."
Florence for two years before entering Brigham Young University assisted Professor J. R. Boshard in his duties as music supervisor in the Provo schools. After receiving a diploma from the Provo college, she went to the New England Conservatory of Music where, after supporting herself entirely through her student days, she was graduated with high honors. She remained in Boston for thirteen years. From the time of her arrival there, she was a church, concert, and oratorio singer, and for eight years she was head of the vocal department in Lasell Seminary, one of the choice girls' colleges of America. She provided a brother's four years' eastern training in art and music, and two years' musical training for her sister. Besides this she helped many Utahns; she was in fact commonly referred to as the fairy godmother of the Utah students. Unexpectedly a strange incident occurred in her life. An intimate friend, a convert to the Church, who had studied with her in the Conservatory was left a widow with three young children and her health poor. With forebodings in her heart, she asked Florence to promise to take her three children and rear them in case of her own death. Florence attempted to reassure her, but she was insistent and Florence gave the promise.
Soon afterwards Florence came back to Utah to become professor and head of the music department of the Brigham Young University. Dr. Chadwick, President of the Conservatory, had urged her to remain in Boston where she was making a great success; he predicted a brilliant future for her. But her heart longed for her own people, and she felt an urge to give the best of her high attainments to Utahns and her Church. Two years later, in March, she received a telegram that her friend had died, expressing the wish that Florence take her children. She obtained leave and arrived to sing at her friend's funeral. Remaining away from her college work for three months, she obtained custody of the children, for whom no financial provision had been made. This occurred in June, and in August she married Franklin Madsen, also a member of the music department of the Brigham Young University, a teacher of the theoretical subjects and an unusually capable music conductor. Under these conditions, Florence did not expect to advance further in her own career. But her husband recognizing her great talents insisted that she go on. With his help and cooperation she has since marriage taken the following degrees: B. A. from the Brigham Young University; Bachelor of Music, Master of Music, Doctor of Music and Doctor of Music Education from Chicago and Boston institutions. These are rare degrees infrequently attained.
During the 1929 and 1930 seasons Mrs. Madsen conducted the music of the famous California Mission Play. The night of its three thousandth performance Madame Schumann-Heink was guest soloist. Calvin Coolidge was present and congratulated Mrs. Madsen, referring to the evening as the occasion he would longest remember of his Western trip. One summer she conducted four musical plays by J. S. McGroarty, author of the Mission Play. These were presented in a tent stretched over nine live oak trees with a seating capacity of twenty-five hundred. The lighting and scenic effects were most beautiful. Mrs. Madsen arranged or rearranged most of the music and composed some of it, notably the "Indian Love Lament," for which her sister Marguerite had written the words. Two years ago the Madsens drove to Boston to hear the Lament sung by a ladies' chorus of 165, accompanied by the full Boston Symphony orchestra. Florence, upon being discovered there, was enthusiastically applauded.
Last year the Madsens were loaned by the Brigham Young University to the Church Music Committee to launch its very laudable music project in the five stakes of southern California. They loved this experience, and it met with enthusiastic response. Both the Madsens are members of the faculty of the National Summer School Conference on School Music Materials for supervisors and teachers of music, where they give two weeks of intensive training during the summer. Mrs. Madsen organized the first oratorio society in the state during war time and turned the proceeds over to the soldiers. She is mentioned in the "Who's Who in Women of America." She is very successful with composition work, and has published six ladies' choruses and two anthems for mixed voices. One of these is Brother George H. Brimhall's, "Oh, May I Know the Lord As Friend." Another soon to appear has used as its text words from the 84th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants. Sometimes in our zeal for duty in regard to the Gospel we forget its beauty. Florence Madsen preaches religion through beauty, bringing people closer to an understanding of the "measureless riches of the Gospel of Christ." Through music our hearts are softened and our spirits uplifted and opened to the outflowing goodness of God. Artists like Mrs. Madsen are rare. They must have first the natural gift, then tenacity of purpose, an inexhaustible capacity for work, intellectual, emotional and spiritual depth and understanding. When we have them in our midst, let us honor them.
"'Tis fine to travel broadly, To sip earth's nectar clear; 'Tis fine to meet in friendship Those whom we hold most dear; Then life is full of sunshine, Hearts revel in love's call; But joy of service rendered Is the best gift of all."
—H. Asa Fowler.