Her heart sank. There it was, a large flat envelope—her manuscript. She took it up, and pressing it close to her bosom, drew in a long quivering sigh. Escape? No wonder Frank had laughed cynically. She had tried to escape? She had hoped... She had prayed... She had worked... Reached out an arm, a pulsating, quivering hand in the hope that it might find anchorage somewhere, that she might draw herself—all of them—out of this....
For a long time she stood there quivering in the darkness. She gazed again at the stars... So far away... So inscrutable. Why did ambition rise in her like hot blood only to be chilled forever by blinding disappointment! Her throat was tight. Idly she moved in front of the car. The dim light from the window shone on the radiator. A large butterfly, with its wings frayed and singed, was caught in the honeycombed grill. Her eyes were wet with tears as she plucked the butterfly out of its torture and held it on her work-stained hand. "The wheel of fortune! A poor, beautiful thing broken across the ridge of modern civilization!" she murmured.... The butterfly fluttered to the earth, a lovely piece of beauty, ravished and broken. It seemed that something within her, too, had died. Was it merely hope or was it soul itself!
She walked into the house and laid the mail beside her plate. "Well, I see that it came back," her husband scoffed. The "I-told-you-so" was so obvious that she turned upon him with a flash of anger.
"You... You..." Oh, why had she ever confided in him her hope.
"Aw, don't get sore. It's all right, I guess, only..."
"Only what?" She breathed deeply and blinked back the tears.
"Well... I don't mind little luxuries once in a while if we can afford 'em but postage and paper for those things..."
"I've sold three poems. I have eight dollars... Or I did have. I'm using that for my postage."
"Eight dollars!" He sat bolt upright. She bit her lip. The exultation died within her. Why had she told him! That double tree! She could see the light growing in his eyes. She would not have that money tomorrow. How far they had come since they were married! How far apart.... But in a moment she caught herself. She could not blame him. This life... It did things to some people, queer things that made them small inside....
Unnoticed by Frank she slipped outside. She must fight it out here and now. Could she ever escape this drab, disheartening existence? If not, how was she to content herself? Should she keep on writing—for herself—and live in a dream world of her own creating, unsatisfactory and pathetic as that was?
That story... About herself. The obvious foolishness of it all smote her. Presumptuous for her to think that she could write in competition with thousands of others, well educated, experienced, well trained. Bitterness welled up in her. She dropped upon the earth beneath the little tree and wept.
When the weeping had passed, she felt better. Something of the bitterness of life had flowed out of her with the tears. Was she like a butterfly, senseless, save for a few instincts implanted within her by some higher power? Was she like a tree, fixed and rooted, that could not move nor act for itself? They were insensible to this mystic beauty about them, although they were a part of it.
She suddenly realized, as if she had just acquired new eyes, that all this was beautiful! She could understand and feel.... The appreciation of beauty.... That was it! Everywhere about her she could feel it and know its vitalizing power in life. She leaped to her feet. The drab of her day-self was gone. How Frank would have marvelled had he seen her now! Vibrant, pulsating, alive, magnificent! But he slept audibly in the lean-to.
The faintly-felt images came flooding into her being, growing stronger as they became more understandable. She knew! Now she understood. Life was a mystic experience to be lived, within. She suddenly realized that she had been indulging in entirely too much self-pity. She had a mind... Keen, alive, penetrating. She would live in that mind, for that mind, to perpetuate it, to give it new life in the souls of others. What did it matter if they did come back, those stories of hers? She would write them again... And again... And again! There was joy! The joy of creation! At least on paper she could make people do as she wanted them to. She would speak through her characters, for she had something to say.
This last story.... There in the moonlight she went over it line by line in her mind, then looked at it as a whole. It was a sad thing, sadness unrelieved by any hope. The woman was herself. The land was this land. The life she had depicted was her life. Her fertile mentality stirred itself under the inspiration of her new vision. She must give the story life and hope, that was what it lacked. With renewed vigor, she hurried into the house and lit the lamp. Almost joyfully she ripped open the big brown envelope and withdrew the sheets. To her surprise, instead of the usual printed rejection slip she found a typewritten letter. She took it up in her trembling fingers and read:
"Dear Mrs. Manning:
"We are sorry that your story did not win the prize in our contest. It was not the type of thing we wanted. But it is so well written that with a few changes we will buy it at our usual rates. Would you change your title from 'Chained' to 'Escape' and rework your ending so that your woman—she is an extremely interesting character—gives us some ray of hope?
"Sincerely yours, "The Editors."
The strength left her limbs, and she sank down on a chair by the table. Burying her head in her arms, she wept almost hysterically. When she raised her head, there was a smile upon her lips and a light of holiness in her eyes. She had escaped!