Address Elder Melvin J. Ballard (Relief Society Conference, October, 1938)
The Relief Society won my first love and is the organization of the Church to which I first belonged, because my mother was a Relief Society president when I was born, and she served as such for thirty years; so I was trained in the Relief Society.
Speaking for the Authorities of the Church here today, I have been asked to discuss the place of the Relief Society in the Welfare Program. I am very sure that you know your place, but it sometimes is good to go back to fundamentals and restate them, then upon that basis measure what is being done, and look forward to the future. I am going to read a few extracts from the first address which the Prophet gave on the occasion of the organization of the Relief Society. Among other things he said:
"This charitable Society is according to your natures, it is natural for females to have feelings of charity. You are now placed in a situation where you can act according to these sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms. If you live up to these principles, how great and glorious. If you live up to your privileges the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates.... This Society is not only to relieve the poor but to save souls.... And I now turn the key to you in the name of God, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence, shall flow down from this time."
In illustrating the objects of the Society the Prophet also said: "That the Society of sisters might provoke the brethren to good works, in looking to the wants of the poor, searching after objects of charity and in administering to their wants; to assist by correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community, and save the elders the trouble of rebuking; that they may give their time to other duties, etc., in their public teachings."
In our great Welfare movement the Presidency of the Church kept well in mind the assignment that had been made to the Relief Society in the beginning; and the Welfare movement does not contemplate taking away from the sisters their assignment. I am quoting from a statement of the First Presidency in April, 1936, when this work was inaugurated: "Upon ward teachers and the Relief Society must rest the prime responsibility for discovering and appraising the wants of the needy in the ward. These must be administered through the regular organizations of the Church."
Some of you may have, therefore, felt that because the brethren were called into the Welfare program that your privileges were trampled upon and that you were relieved of your responsibility. Now if anyone has that notion I would like to set her right, because the auxiliary organizations have been called from ancient times until this time, and in revelations the Lord refers to them as helpers in government to the Priesthood. In fundamentals I am sure we are all agreed that the responsibility of going forward in this Church rests upon the Priesthood, that divine authority which God has seen fit to give unto the brethren. Someone must hold this responsibility. Of course a woman does not hold the Priesthood, but there are no blessings, privileges, nor exaltation given to husbands who hold the Priesthood that will not come to wives in just as full measure if they are faithful. The man holds the key that unlocks the door to privileges and blessings, but the Lord has also placed a responsibility upon the sisters to provoke the brethren to magnify their callings. You have been willing to do this, you have enabled men to become bishops, stake presidents, and high councilmen, and give most of their time to the Church. You are making sure that he who holds the key that shall unlock the door to your exaltation shall not lose that key; and he must magnify his calling or he will lose it. There is no power, no influence in this Church greater than that which the sisters hold, and we could not do without them.
But sisters, the reason the brethren called this Welfare organization into existence was not to tell you that you had failed, nor was it to tell you that they were going to take it over now. A climax of unemployment and relief had been reached—we had made a survey of the Church that startled us. Due to the depression, the long period of unemployment, and the great losses that had come to people, we found—including men, women and children—80,000 members of this Church in a perilous situation. We said, "This is too big a job to put entirely upon the Relief Society; the brethren now must rally to this task,"—hence this Welfare organization. You come in as a part of it, from the general committee where Sister Robison and her associates sit with us from week to week, to the stakes and the wards—you are a part of it. We have called upon the quorums of the Priesthood, who, after all, are to solve the problem. These shepherds—the High Priests, Seventies and Elders—should assume the responsibility of looking after their flock. They should be a group affiliated with the Relief Society, to strengthen the hands of the sisters, to provide food, shelter and clothing for those in need. If we have, therefore, emphasized the new assistants to you in this organization it has been because we measured the size of the job, and felt it was too big to put the entire load upon your shoulders, able as you are. We knew also that we could not do this work without you. You have a very conspicuous place.
The welfare problem developed as the result of circumstances that occurred during what we called the depression, and it is not going to disappear in a moment. It was not a thing that we could take care of in a year or two years; we never anticipated that, and unfortunately we were misquoted, because we did not declare that within a year we would take everyone off government relief. We say to those who have any type of government work, "Stay with it until you can better yourselves." Our great task is to win people voluntarily to leave public relief work as soon as they can. Why? Because we know as well as we know that we live, that the great expenses of the last several years must stop or this country cannot carry the load. Indebtedness has reached over thirty-nine billions of dollars. I do not think that the Government is in any danger of bankruptcy; I would not have you think that, but it cannot go on indefinitely. Suppose it should suddenly cease! I am not criticizing the expenditures that have been made. I know this, that unless there had been vast sums of money expended to care for the hungry in this country we would have had revolution long before this. Probably it may have been spent unwisely, but the motives were to stave off what would ultimately have caused trouble. I care not how good you are, if you are deprived of food you feel the pangs of hunger, and if you hear the cry of distress on the part of your children and those depending upon you, and there is an abundance in the land and you cannot get it by your own effort honorably, you will be tempted to help yourself.
I was in Cleveland last May attending a convention of the Boy Scouts of America. There were 87,000 people on relief in that great city, and no money with which to obtain food for them, nor would there be until July. I heard men stand up in that great throng of unemployed people and say, "Let us go down to the warehouse or store and help ourselves." I saw women go from door to door with baskets on their arms, asking for food. We know this is a serious problem which must be solved. Some have the opinion that the Government has an inexhaustible store, and if they can just get from the Government it is all right. Every dollar the Government expends—either the city, state or national government—must be secured from the taxes of the people. Should taxes be put so high that people cannot pay them then property will be taken over. Let that go on and it would not be many years before we would be in a state of communism.
I believe that the greatest contribution that can be made through our Welfare program is to change the attitude of people toward relief. There came a situation where it seemed as if everyone were trying to get relief. It is a good deal like the quotation: "Vice is a monster of so frightful mien, As, to be hated, needs but to be seen; Yet seen too oft, familiar with her face, We first endure, then pity, then embrace." When relief and relief work were offered we did not embrace it at first, but we grew familiar with it, we saw others embrace it, we pitied ourselves and then many embraced it. I am appealing to you to continue to stimulate every man and woman, young or old, to be independent, and it is our business to help him to be independent.
You sometimes hear an altogether too frequent criticism against the President of this Church because of the appeals he has made to people to be independent. There is a great misunderstanding concerning the Old Age Assistance, and I speak of this because we are embarrassed that nearly half the people in the State over 65 years of age—and the same is true of Idaho—are on Old Age Assistance. Why are they there? Because many people call it a pension until the feeling has grown and developed that it is a thing people are entitled to whether they need it or not. Many have qualified. Some disposed of their property to their children in order to qualify. It used to be that children had to say why they did not take care of their parents; now they are excused. It used to be that a person deeded his property to the State, and had a life right to it, but after death it was sold by the State. Now if they have less than $3,000 assessed valuation they may keep it all. Now do not understand that the President of this Church would deprive any aged brother or sister of food, shelter or clothing. There is no more generous heart in this world than President Grant's toward the suffering and destitute, and particularly aged people. We say that every aged man or woman who has paid his tithing and supported this Church ought not to have to go to public relief; we ought to take care of him; he has a claim upon this Church. For those who have never supported the Church and have no claim other than our sympathies, we have paid taxes to help in their care, but we do feel that with them, too, we can do a fine piece of missionary work in winning their loyalty to the Church. The man or woman who has never supported the Church, whether he be young or old, has no claim upon us, but those who will repent and support the Church and be loyal to it, then certainly they have a claim upon us.
Now brothers and sisters, teach people to have the spirit of independence. It ought to be a reflection upon any son or daughter who is able to take care of a father and mother to let them accept Old Age Assistance. Old Age Assistance should not be regarded as a pension. Pensions are now being set up under the Security Act of the Government, by which the employee gives a portion of what he receives as salary and the business he works for contributes a similar amount, and this sets up a fund which, in times of old age or lack of work, may be drawn upon. Old Age Assistance has no such fund, it is secured through the sales tax or other taxes, and if it should be suddenly cut off many people would be without that aid and help so important to them. Our appeal is to encourage every family to look after its father and mother if possible, and not make them subjects of public charity. We would not say that those whose children will not support them, and who have no income, should not have Old Age Assistance. They are entitled to it if they cannot get help from any other source.
In order to help people to be independent we have a plan to build apartments around some of our temples where aged people may go and work on the records of people who are supporting them, and find joy in a service that earns them the food they eat and the shelter that is theirs. We would like to see this work extended until we can take care of thousands.
God bless you sisters for what you have done—a noble work. You are entitled to far more credit than the brethren. Although we put the burden upon the brethren you must go hand in hand with them; they are trying to help you carry your great assignment. This Welfare program is the greatest thing before the Church. We must not fail, we will not fail; but we will not fully succeed unless every man and woman does his utmost to assist in the solution of the problem. God bless you and give you the vision to see the future, the courage to dare to go forward and influence the hearts of men and women to yield to our program, to accept of our cooperation, and to find security indeed in the Church in the Lord's own way, that will endure when troublesome times shall come.