IN LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology and Testimony Lesson 7 PETER THE FISHERMAN HELPFUL REFERENCES James E. Talmage ? Jesus the Christ, pp. 218 f., 197-199, 691 f. A. B. Bruce?The Training of the Twelve. Consult index under the heading of Peter. Gustaf Dalman?Sacred Sites and Ways, pp. 121-183. (Macmillan Co., New York, 1935). This book contains a wealth of reliable and stimulating material on the topography of the Gospels. Will be of great value to close students of the New Testament. C. E. Macartney?Of Them He Chose Twelve, pp. 108-121. OUR Interest in the Apostle Peter. The Gospels and the Acts tell us more about Peter than about any other member of the Twelve. Our interest in him is very keen for that reason if no other. Enough is said about Peter to give us a reasonably clear picture of the man,?his strong points and weaknesses are admirably pictured in the New Testament writings. 'The sheer humanity of Peter makes a strong appeal to the average individual. He has a winsome personality that commands the love of all who read the accounts of his life and work. Latter-day Saints and Catholics probably hold him in higher esteem than do most other Christian peoples because of their special views on priesthood and Church organization. We asa people do not believe that Peter was overshadowed by Paul and John in ancient Church circles. To the contrary. Peter was the leader of the Church following Christ's death and highly respected as such. That this was so seems to be attested by the fact that the Gospels and Acts devote so much space to him as compared to the other apostles. We can quite understand the situation by reference to our own day. The President of the Church wields great influence wherever he goes. Consequently newspapers and magazines devote much space to him in their columns. Accounts of his travels and sermons are fully chronicled. The special attention paid by our Lord to Peter and the fact that the latter was promised the "keys of the kingdom of heaven" are also strong evidences in favor of his primacy in the ancient Church. The work of Peter in this dispensation is an added reason for our interest in him. SIMON PETER'S Early Life.? We do not know many details of Peter's early life, but fortunately research has disclosed to us much of interest respecting Galilee (the probable place of his birth) in New Testament times. The apostle was the son of a man by the name of Jona (Matt. 16:17) who may have been a fisherman by trade. It would be quite natural therefore for Jona's sons, Peter and Andrew, to follow in his footsteps. But even if Jona was not a fisherman it would have been easy for Peter and Andrew to pick up the trade from other men because Bethsaida, the little village in which they lived, was a fishing center on the northeast shore of the Sea of Galilee. Dr. Gustaf Dalman points out that Galilee was "eminently conducive to the development of a unique type of Jew." Josephus writes of the courage and pugnacity of the Galileans. The Galilee fishermen were a humble but hardy group of men, and it is significant that so many of the Master's Twelve came from their ranks. As a boy Peter probably learned Greek as a matter of course for it was frequently used and had a wide sphere of influence in Galilee. His native language was Aramaic, and a knowledge of Latin would come to him through his contact with the Romans. We have already pointed out in a previous lesson that Peter's brother, Andrew, had a genuine Greek name. Professor Dalman says, "It is very probable that the brother of Andrew, Simon, was not called in the family circle by the Hebrew form Shim'on, but by the Hellenised (Greek) form, Simon, a form which together with Shim'on, is also found in Jewish literature. Even his second name, Petros, in its Greek form, is not rare there." When entering into young manhood Peter and Andrew seem to have formed a partnership with each other in the fishing industry. Then as business grew Peter and his brother entered into a partnership with James and John, the sons of Zebedee, for the purpose of enlarging their opportunities and profit. Such it is reasonable for us to conjecture. Business seems to have been profitable for the Gospels indicate that they owned their boats and hired other fishermen to help them. (Mark 1:16-20; Luke 5:7, 10.) Peter and his immediate colleagues were therefore substantial business men in the community in which they lived.
The Life of a Fisherman.?The Sea of Galilee still contains many varieties of fish, and the fisherman still carries on his trade as of yore. The net still remains the favorite means with which to catch fish. There are two types of nets, the casting net and the drag net. Occasionally fishing was done by means of hooks attached to lines. This practice is reflected in the advice of the Master to Peter: "Go thou to the sea and cast a hook, and take up the fish that first cometh up and when thou hast opened his mouth, thou shalt find a piece of money." (Matt. 17:27)
After fishing it was necessary to wash the nets. (Luke 5:2) They were then spread out on poles near the shore to dry. It will be recalled that Peter was standing unclothed in his boat when he recognized the Risen Lord. (John 21:7) Little or no clothing was worn while fishing in order to be able at a moment's notice to dive into the water and free the net from rocks and debris as it was brought to shore. When Peter recognized his Master he drew on his short shirt in order that he might not appear before him unclothed. Dr. Dalman says, "It has been thought strange that Peter should don what was probably a wet garment. Sven Hedin, however, states that when sailing on the lake in July, with an air temperature of 87.7? Fahr. and the water 84.1?, he found it very pleasant to pour water over his clothes and let them dry in the wind." It is not at all unlikely that in Peter's day the art, not now used, of salting or drying fish was practised. This is deduced from the fact that the Greek name of the city of Magdala was Tarichaeae (preservation of fish by salting or drying). Magdala is said to have had a population of 40,000 people and 230 fishing boats. This city's position on important roads was of great consequence to the fishing trade. At times business visits were probably made to this place by members of the firm of Peter, Andrew, James, and John. The town had an unsavory reputation. Most of the fishing of these future apostles was probably in the waters of the Sea of Galilee between Bethsaida and Capernaum.
The Galilee District?The districts around the western, northern, and southern shores of the Sea of Galilee must have been very beautiful anciently according to the testimony of Josephus and others. Fruit-trees, palms, fig-trees, olives, walnut-trees, the vine, and citron abounded as well as forests in some districts. It is not as beautiful today. However, there are lovely spots to be found even now as the writer can attest. The winters are extremely mild and the hills and shores seem almost everywhere green. Even in February and March roses and other flowers can be plucked. The summers are very hot and one escapes to the hills and mountains for relief. Probably Peter and his companions occasionally did that. Plantations of oranges and bananas, groves of eucalyptus trees, numerous palms and cypresses, as well as date trees are now to be seen in certain districts around the Sea of Galilee. In time the Galilee district will probably be comparable to what it was anciently. The most important towns on the Sea of Galilee were Magdala, Tiberias, Chorazin, Capernaum, and Bethsaida. We have already said something about Magdala in connection with the fishing industry. Probably most of its inhabitants were non-Jews and entertained themselves in the Greek fashion. Josephus mentions the fact that a hippodrome was in the city. Magdala was the most important town on the western shore of Galilee until Herod Antipas built Tiberias. The town had a very bad reputation as we have already indicated. The more nationalistic type of Jew would generally avoid the town because of its high non-Jewish population. Capernaum had a greater Jewish population and was frequently visited by Peter and his colleagues and by their Lord and Master. (John 1:44, 2:12; Mark 1:16-31; Matt. 8:5, 14; Luke 4:31, 38). Some of these passages seem to indicate that Peter and some of his friends had moved from Bethsaida to Capernaum because of matrimonial circumstances. Bethsaida had a very mixed population. It was much frequented by foreigners, and Greek culture must have been prominent. These circumstances may partly account for the confidence certain Greeks had in Philip (John 12:20-22) who possibly was acquainted with them and their customs. The spiritual tone of Bethsaida must not have been high for the Christ pronounced a woe over it. The same must be said of Capernaum and Chorazin. (See Matt. 11:20-23; Luke 10:13-15) Perhaps we are justified in saying that most of the Galilee region was anything but spiritual and many centers of population were sinks of iniquity. Peter and the other future apostles were representative of a little group who might be termed the "salt of the earth" in their respective communities.
Peter Marries.?Peter probably married young as do most Orientals. The marriage would be arranged by his parents or a go-between according to the usual customs prevailing. (Cf. Gen. 24) The settlement would include a satisfactory dowry and the exchange of gifts. It is even possible that Peter never saw his bride until the day of his marriage. The actual wedding ceremony may have lasted several days depending upon the financial status of the families. The women gathered at the home of the bride and the men at the home of Peter. We unfortunately do not know the name of Peter's bride nor the family she came from. On the great day of the wedding the bride, who had waited in her own home until night, and the groom were brought together. "The hours of waiting for the coming of the groom seem to drag slowly along, and the women and girls who are waiting with her often drop off to sleep. Suddenly those who are watching see the lights of torches and lanterns in the distance, and the shrill wedding cry is raised, amid the shouts of 'There he is! The bridegroom is coming!' Then all is confusion and excitement the bridesmaids trim their lamps (Matt. 25:5-7), and go forth a short distance to meet the groom. The intimate friends enter the house of the bride, while the others wait outside. After a time the entire party returns to the house of the groom. Soon the bride and groom retire to another room; the friend of the groom, who has been one of those who helped to arrange the marriage, waits until the groom appears at the door to announce his satisfaction and happiness in his bride, and then his joy is full (John 3:29)." The above quotation for all practical purposes may be considered a description of Peter's marriage. Peter must have found it more convenient at a later time to live in Capernaum than at Bethsaida. Possibly his mother-in-law had lost her husband. At any rate the Gospels seem to disclose the fact that she was being taken care of in Peter's home at the time our Lord cured her of fever. (Mark 1:29-34; Matt. 8:14-17; Luke 4:38-41).
Questions and Problems (Deal only with as many as time permits)
1. Give all the reasons you can why we are interested in Peter.
2. In the case of Joseph Smith the Lord chose a young boy. In the case of the ancient apostles he seems to have chosen full grown men. Explain the difference as best you can.
3. A large foreign population lived in Galilee. What possible effects, good or bad, would this have upon the development of the ancient apostles?
4. Palestinian parents arranged the marriages of their children. What would you say are the good points and defects of this system?

Visiting Teacher Department
MESSAGES TO THE HOME No. 7
Cast The Beam From Thine Own Eye
"Thou hypocrite, cast out first the beam out of thine own eye, and then shalt thou see clearly to pull out the mote that is in thy brother's eye."?Luke 6:37-42.
If a modern psychologist should give this same advice he would say that one must gain first an objective attitude of himself and then he will be sufficiently able to avoid his own shortcomings to help others. The objective attitude is the ability to stand off and look at oneself objectively; to note just what is wrong with oneself and what to expect. In doing so one becomes better able to solve his own personality problems. Actually each of us have limitations and capacities, an objective estimate of which is essential to the fullest development of character and personality. We have "beams" in our eyes, the presence of which we are sometimes quite unconscious. Our jealousies, prejudices, fears, angers, etc., bias our behavior and deter desirable personality development. We may not always be able to prevent these feelings from occurring, but we can develop the ability to weigh them objectively in order that we may estimate their true importance and deal with them constructively. No one need fear an accurate estimate of himself. Removing the "beam" from one's own eye makes social adjustment more efficient for both self and neighbor. The highest development of personality demands a responsibility to our fellowmen. Jesus does not deny that "motes" need to be cast out from our brother's eye, but He does insist that clear vision is essential to doing it well. He warns against adverse criticism which looks for the evil in people and seeing it tears the character to pieces. The tendency to see the "mote" in the eye of our brother, to criticise and even gossip about it, is all too common. Dr. Ernest M. Ligon, psychologist of Union College, says this is a method by which one endeavors to compensate for his own feelings of inferiority. He directs attention from his own "beams" to the "motes" of another. Jesus ably illustrates these truths in the parable of the unmerciful servant recorded in Matthew 18:21-33.
Discussion
1. Explain how seeing the "beam" in our own eye enables us to deal more justly with the "mote" in a brother's eye.
2. Explain why an objective view of oneself does not cause inferiority complex.
3. Explain the word gossip. What is its effect upon personality?
Visiting Teachers are to call attention to Theology, Literary and Social Service lessons, also Work and Business programs planned by the ward.

Literature
THE ADVANCE OF THE NOVEL Lesson 7
Lorna Doone, a Story of Exmoor
Lorna Doone, by Richard Doddridge Blackmore, was written in 1869, at the peak of the Victorian period, but its author, describing scenes and activities of the seventeenth century during the reign of King James II of England, uses the style of that period. It is an important novel belonging to the list of classics of our language even though Blackmore is considered a minor novelist. Edwin L. Miller, writing in his book English Literature, says: "The book (Lorna Doone) in short, should be read by everybody." Miller says further: "Its plot is good; its style has the pleasing flavor of its age, that of James II; it is saturated with the joy of open air adventure; and John Ridd, its hero, is imperishable."
Miller is but one of many critics who have acclaimed Lorna Doone one of the best romances in the English language. It is a delightful tale, told in the first person, in a half-archaic style that is unusually pleasing. Blackmore throws around his characters an aura that makes them appear as beautiful etchings done in tempera on old parchment. John Ridd, the stalwart Exmoor youth, early in the story takes his place in the center of the stage and scarcely leaves it until the last line has been devoured. John has almost superhuman strength, a delightful sense of humor, a naive way of saying things to make the reader feel that he is gently boasting in a most modest manner. Lorna Doone, on account of her beauty, which John constantly reveals to us?beauty of face and form and figure as well as of spirit?is one of the most loved heroines in fiction. Blackmore was astute when he entitled his book Lorna Doone rather than John Ridd, for by so doing he centered the interest upon the heroine whereas the hero is really the center of all action.
The story may appear to be a bit long to the casual reader. That weight of length has been brought upon us by the speed of our modern world. When the book was written there was plenty of time for long books because books were fewer in number and much more inaccessible than they are at the present time. The story is founded upon the legends of the Doones, a fierce band of robbers who once inhabited Exmoor. However, the romance is scarcely a historical novel in the sense that Sir Walter Scott's The Talisman is historical. The Doones may have actually lived, but the scenes in which they figure in the book are, in all probability, pure fiction. Long says of this tale of young love: "The story abounds in romantic scenes and incidents; its descriptions of natural scenery are unsurpassed, the rhythmic language is at times almost equal to poetry, and the whole tone of the book is wholesome and refreshing. Altogether it would be hard to find a more delightful romance in any language, and it well deserves the place it has won as one of the classics of our literature." It has been said that Lorna Doone "to a Devonshire man is as good as clotted cream". Helen Rex Keller in her "Reader's Digest of Books" says: "... It is Blackmore's special pride that as a native 'he has satisfied natives with their home scenery, people, life, and language'." She continues, "Even without so swift a succession of exciting incidents the unhackneyed style, abounding in fresh simile, with its poetic appreciation of 'the fairest county in England' combined with homely realism, would make it delightful reading. Much as Hardy acquaints us with Wessex, Blackmore impresses Exmoor upon us, with a comprehensive 'Englishness' of setting and character. It is out-of-door England, with swift streams, treacherous bogs, dangerous cliffs, and free winds across the moors."
Lorna Doone begins with John Ridd, a husky boy at school just beginning to show promise of the powerful man he was to become. Told in the first person, it soon establishes a feeling of verisimilitude which carries the reader into the reality of the story. Early in the book big John Ridd meets the charming little girl who is to become the heroine of the story. From that moment forward, even though he does not learn her name during their accidental meeting, the story is given direction and the pleasing outcome is inevitable, for no one of the temperament of John Ridd could very well become the hero of a tragedy. The second meeting between Lorna Doone and John Ridd is delightfully told. John goes fishing to capture loaches for his mother, and in following the stream he comes into the Doone country, a sort of fairy place at the head of a great waterfall, in the hidden valley formed by precipitous peaks. The charm of Blackmore's style is to be found throughout the narrative but scarcely in bolder relief than in the following passage which also suggests hidden meanings, suggestive qualities which abound in the books that really live. John is walking along through his lovely Exmoor when he is thrilled, as we all are at times, by a sudden inspiration of beauty, something akin to revelation more than to observation. "It is all very pretty to see the trees big with their hopes of another year, though dumb as yet on the subject, and the waters murmuring gaiety, and the banks spread out with comfort; but a boy takes none of this to heart, unless he be meant for a poet, and he would liefer have a good apple, or even a bad one, if he stole it."
John Ridd meanders along through his lovely countryside and finally climbs the roaring stream into Doone glen. There he falls and we find this bit of description of Lorna Doone: "When I came to myself again, my hands were full of young grass and mould, and a little girl kneeling at my side was rubbing my forehead tenderly, with a dock-leaf and a handkerchief. 'Oh, I am so glad,' she whispered, softly, as I opened my eyes and looked at her; 'now you will be better, won't you?' I had never heard so sweet a sound as came from between her bright red lips, while there she knelt and gazed at me; neither had I ever seen anything so beautiful as the large dark eyes intent upon me, full of pity and wonder. And then, my nature being slow, and perhaps, for that matter, heavy, I wandered with my hazy eyes down the black shower of her hair, as to my jaded gaze it seemed, and where it fell on the turf, among it (like an early star) was the first primrose of the season. And since that day, I think of her, through all the rough storms of my life, when I see an early primrose. Perhaps she liked my countenance, and indeed I know she did, because she said so afterwards; although at the time she was too young to know what made her take to me. Not that I had any beauty, or ever pretended to have any, only a solid, healthy face, which many girls have laughed at."
From that point forward, the story moves steadily on with the strength of big and brave John Ridd a comfort and shield to his own people as well as to the girl whose lot it was to live among the fierce Doones. The plot concerns itself chiefly with the rescuing of Lorna from the Doones and marrying her, but of course, in the telling, as a good novelist should, Blackmore weaves in many of the happenings in England at that particular time. Such procedure gives the story a genuineness that makes it sound like factual history. Some of the great descriptions in the book, as Keller points out, are John Ridd's rescuing of Lorna from Doone Glen, "the attempted murder in the church, the final duel with Carver Doone, and others,"?these, Keller says, "stand out as great and glowing pictures." Descriptions such as those mentioned present pictures of the hero and heroine in colors that will live, they are so full of quaint declarations which give the slant of the big fellow's mind. I shall cite one such scene: John is in the Doone valley bent upon rescuing Lorna, eager to be unseen and unheard when this bit of description follows: "And then I crossed, with more care, and to the door of Lorna's house, and made the sign, and listened, after taking my snow-shoes off. But no one came, as I expected, neither could I espy a light. And I seemed to hear a faint low sound, like the moaning of the snow-wind. Then I knocked again more loudly, with a knocking at my heart, and receiving no answer, set all my power at once against the door; in a few moments it flew inwards, and I glided along the passage with my feet still slippery. There in Lorna's room I saw, by the moonlight flowing in, a sight which drove me beyond my sense. Lorna was behind a chair, crouching in a corner. In the middle of the room lay Gwenny Carfax, stupid, yet with one hand clutching the ankle of a struggling man. Another man stood above my Lorna, trying to draw the chair away. In a moment I had him round the waist, and he went out of the window with a mighty crash of glass; luckily for him the window had no bars, like some of them. Then I took the other man by the neck; and he could not plead for mercy. I bore him out of the house as lightly as I would bear a baby, yet squeezing his throat a little more than I fain would do to an infant. By the bright moonlight I saw that I carried Marwood de Wichehalse. For his father's sake I spared him, and because he had been my school fellow; but with every muscle of my body strung with indignation, I cast him, like a skittle, from me into a snow drift, which closed over him. Then I looked for the other fellow, tossed through Lorna's window, and found him lying stunned and bleeding, neither able to groan yet. Charleworth Doone, if his gushing blood did not much mislead me."
That passage would, of course, be hard to accept had not Blackmore carefully built up a character for John Ridd that would make the conquering of two men seem easy and the throwing of them through windows and into snow-drifts ordinary, indeed. Scarcely in literature is to be found a sterner picture than that of the mighty Ridd meeting the mighty Carver Doone. Ridd is following the fleeing Carver. Being unarmed, the mighty John "rising from my horse's back although I had no stirrups, I caught a limb, and tore it (like a wheat-awn) from the socket. Men show the rent even now, with wonder; none with more wonder than myself."
The pursued Doone stops at the edge of the bog where John Ridd uses his oak limb to good effect. He strikes the Doone horse knocking him to the ground. Then we have a picture of a struggle that is classic: "I stretched forth my left hand, as I do to a weaker antagonist, and I let him have the hug of me. But in this I was too generous; having forgotten my pistol wound, and the cracking of one of my short lower ribs. Carver Doone caught me round the waist, with such a grip as never yet had been laid upon me. I heard my rib go, I grasped his arm, and tore the muscle out of it (as the string comes out of an orange); then I took him by the throat, which is not allowed in wrestling; but he had snatched at mine; and now was no time of dalliance. In vain he tugged and strained and writhed, dashed his bleeding fist into my face, and flung himself on me, with gnashing jaws. Beneath the iron of my strength?for God that day was with me?I had him helpless in two minutes, and his fiery eyes lolled out."
Those were strong and mighty men. Surely nowhere in fiction, even in the great stories of Richard the Lion-hearted, by Sir Walter Scott himself, is there to be found a stronger or braver hero. John Ridd, true to his simple character, closes his narrative with: "Of Lorna, of my lifelong darling, of my more and more loved wife I will not talk; for it is not seemly that a man should exalt his pride. Year by year, her beauty grows, with the growth of goodness, kindness, and true happiness?above all with love. For change, she makes a joke of this and plays with it, and laughs at it; and then, when my slow nature marvels, back she comes to the earnest thing. And if I wish to pay her out for something very dreadful?as may happen once or twice, when we become too gladsome?I bring her to forgotten sadness, and to me for cure of it, by the two words 'Lorna Doone'."
That is the last paragraph in this book of six hundred forty-six pages, each filled with beautiful descriptions, fine characterizations, splendid bits of smart conversation, and a delightful and ever-present humor. Big John Ridd is a quaint chap, powerful beyond measure, though, according to his own words, a bit slow in the head. The narrative, however, denies the latter.
Suggestions
1. Read The Advance of the English Novel, Chapter 5.
2. Become a little acquainted with the times of King Charles II, King James II, and Queen Anne. You may do this by reading in a history book or the encyclopedia.
3. List the principal characters in Lorna Doone and characterize each.
4. Outline very briefly the plot of the story.
5. Have passages of importance or interest in the book marked for reading. These should advance the plot, reveal character, or they should reveal the style of the author. A few examples: Ridd's fight at school?reveals his courage; his meeting with Lorna Doone?from chapter 8; from chapter 26?as revealing John's powers of repartee; from chapter 27?as revealing John's love; etc.
6. Find and read what you can of Blackmore.

Social Science
Lesson 7
MARITAL ADJUSTMENT
Modern Conditions Make Marital Adjustment a Difficult One. Of all the adjustments, whether educational, vocational, religious, or social, perhaps marriage is the most difficult. It is highly emotional, intimate and constant. No other relationship throws such a strain on one's capacity for good adjustment, and no other reveals so clearly weaknesses of personality and character. Modern conditions have tended to make marriage increasingly difficult. The youths of today find themselves forced to postpone marriage at a time when they find themselves physically capable of mating. Mental, educational and economic preparation for marriage is delayed years beyond sexual maturity. We have not stressed the value of early marriages so much in recent years, as we have become more eager for higher education for many of our youths. Missions are often added to the program of our young people, and marriage usually must be postponed until this entire program has been completed. After education and missions, our youths find great difficulty establishing themselves economically, more so perhaps than in former days when the children grew up to take a natural share in the lands and live stock. Many of the youths of earlier days were able to take over their share and support themselves and family by age twenty. Today we have become accustomed to a standard of living which is difficult to reach and maintain when the young people marry early and have large families. Many of our young people migrate to the cities where large family groups are likely to have more of a struggle to exist than was the case on the farm where children were somewhat of an economic asset and where much was produced in the home toward their maintenance. Moreover, in recent years, women have become more prominent in industry and public life; and perhaps with the broadening of their interests, they have had a tendency to look upon the home not so much as an exclusive career. Many of our young women have achieved ability in supporting themselves before entering marriage, and on that account they find certain difficulties in coming to feel financially dependent upon their husbands.
With the spread of birth control propaganda, sex has largely been separated from reproduction for many people. Marriage too often has become established solely upon a sexual foundation, a foundation upon which the winds and rains of passion and irresponsibility beat and soon cause a great fall of the marriage structure. Fortunately, the Latter-day Saint community has resisted many serious changes and we find the home and family still our strongest social organization. Certainly in the home lies the strength of the Church and the nation. We have not loosened our standards, and we still hold to a virtuous home as the highest goal young people may have. The question comes to our minds as to whether romance loses its flavor if we make too much of a study of it. This is a real possibility, although it need not be the case. To the average person, love is considered to be quite separate from good judgment. It is an instinctive reaction which asks for no reasons as to why it functions as it does. Many matings are based purely on romantic attraction with little consideration as to the hereditary background or intelligence of the loved one. Likewise, it is thought that information can be mixed with as little success as the image of clay and iron of which the scriptures speak. However, with the progress of education and the extending of scientific knowledge of sex and personality, we may rightly hope that attitudes based on information and intelligent understanding of sex and mating will gradually shape our aesthetic taste and finally come to have considerable control over our selection of mates and over our romantic lives in general. Some recent authorities on the psychology of sex have emphasized sexual compatibility as the basis of all successful marriages. Because the sexual side of marriage had so seldom entered into polite discussion, there was a trend of thought which swung to the other extreme of explaining everything in human conduct on a sexual basis. However, more conservative thought on the subject today is recognizing that, while sexual adjustments are important, marital happiness rests upon a much broader foundation. Indifference and boredom are the end results of a marriage that does not include intellectual comradeship, personality traits in the two persons which blend without too much friction (including all of the personal peculiarities of both parties), social life which is mutually satisfying, and some unfolding, creative aim in which both parties take part. Romance may be much broader than sex; it may include all of the cooperative adventures that make life interesting and worth living.
Personality Strain Calls for Constant Revision of Habits and Attitudes. Romantic love is "touchy", i.e., it may be destroyed by the many lingering irritations which may arise in the course of adjusting two lives to the task of living together. When we think of the unkindness we show in the home toward those who mean the most to us, there is little wonder that so many marriages are destroyed, either in spirit or in fact. We wouldn't think of insulting our neighbors as we do the members of our own family. Perhaps the reason for much of our bad behavior toward each other in the home is that we are able to set up our own rules of conduct there without much criticism from the outside, since the home is relatively private. In no other relationship are the flaws in our personality and character revealed so clearly as in marriage. Nowhere else are such exacting demands made upon us, and in no other relationship are we required to give and take so much. In our personal wishes, we must always take account of the welfare and wishes of others, and personal enjoyments must in many cases give way to those that suit others in the family. Personal associates who are obnoxious to the other party to the marriage must be dropped in preference for those who are acceptable to everyone. Of course, all of these adjustments cause the most severe strain on one's personality and are likely to reveal in a short time both parties' greatest weaknesses. Disagreeable dispositions appear first; if the strain is prolonged and severe, then appear weaknesses of character, such as dishonesty, infidelity, alcoholism, and desertion. That differences of opinion and conflicting habits and attitudes will appear should be expected, and even welcomed if they can be properly met. Happy couples usually establish some court between themselves to which they can take their difficulties and make good-humored and intelligent adjustments promptly before deep emotions are stirred up to blind their judgment. Among the most difficult kinds of adjustments required are those between the partners to the marriage and the relatives on both sides. This is particularly difficult when the couple are forced to live with either of the families. When people marry, they must exercise considerably more independence of judgment and action than was the case when they lived under the shelter of their parents' homes. Unless married people are thrown on their own resources, both financial and intellectual, they are likely to remain immature and to have greater difficulty making their own decisions and their own way when they finally must. Furthermore, troubles between the couple are usually made worse by those who listen to them. Romance often helps to solve difficulties, but those who are not parties to the romance are likely to carry feelings longer and keep stirred up unpleasant subjects which would otherwise be forgotten. However, it would probably be unwise for married people to attempt to sever all contacts with their previous homes, friends, interests, and hobbies. Contacts outside the home are probably necessary to give one a proper view of life and human understanding. Marriages may go sour simply because of the attempt of one party or the other to break off all contacts outside the home. For the most wholesome personality development, mingling with many people is important. Professor Lewis M. Terman, of Stanford University, published in 1935 the results of a study in which he administered a variety of personality tests to a large group of happily married people, divorced couples, and unhappily married couples. His results indicate some personality qualities which contribute to the disruption of marriage and others which seem to be the basis of happy marriages. He summarizes his results as follows: "Outstanding traits of the happily married, both husbands and wives, include emotional stability, social adaptability, uplift interests, and a tendency to conservatism, the men showing more tolerance and sympathy than the women. The unhappily give most evidence of neurotic and introvertive tendencies, intolerant attitudes, and volitional inadequacy." (Johnson W. B., and Terman, L. M. "Personality Characteristics of Happily Married and Unhappily Married, and Divorced Persons," page 311. For complete article, see Character and Personality, 1935, Vol. 3, pp. 290-311.)
Training for Marriage Begins in the Cradle. Most of the causes of difficulties in marital adjustment have their beginning in childhood. To train our children to be good husbands or wives we should begin in their infancy. Failure in marriage is most often explained by the development of inadequate social habits?respect for the rights and interests of others, tolerance, honesty, good humor, sociability, and a general high level of moral and religious life. These qualities are acquired in the course of growth, if the educational and social influences are right. Temper tantrums are planted in the cradle and often bear fruit in the divorce court. Any two people entering marriage bring into the bargain all of the effects of good or bad training from infancy up. Little defects of personality can often be corrected when they conflict with the personality of another in the intimate relations of marriage; but often the parties are either unwilling or unable to make corrections in their habits of dealing with people, which they have practiced all their lives. Chronic irritations of this kind frequently make marriage so disagreeable that, if separation is not resorted to, the lives of both parties are permanently blighted. The woman whose parents have given her every advantage is often defeated when she must meet the hard realities of keeping house and limiting her spending. The romance of marriage suddenly changes into a continual round of unpleasant duties, such as dish-washing, floor-mopping, mending, and budget keeping. However, if a sense of responsibility has been developed in the young girl as she grows up, it is much easier for her to lighten the load of these tasks by fitting them into the personal ideal of making an efficient and happy household. The husband, on the other hand, who as he has grown up has developed responsibility for meeting certain of his duties about the home and who has already learned something of earning his own way and caring for his own property will find marriage a much easier adjustment than the one who has had over-solicitous parents who have done all of his thinking and provided for all of his financial needs. One psychologist, G. W. Crane, has presented some evidence from census records to show that the order in which children come into the family has something to do with their chances of being divorced. He found that boys who were "only children" have a divorce hazard about five times as great as their number in the population would justify, and "only girls" about four times as great. Children who are born in the middle of the family, i.e., those with at least one older and one younger brother or sister, have the lowest divorce hazard. Children who have been ill more than average are likely to have personality difficulties which make happy marriage difficult. In fact, any of those circumstances which are likely to contribute to behavior difficulties in children are likely to affect the happiness of a marriage. Particularly straining on a marriage are those extremely strong parent-child fixations which prevent the young people from truly growing up and finding their rightful place in the adult world. HILDREN Are Often the Best Protection of a Happy Marriage. After the romantic period of a marriage has passed, the need becomes important for acquiring some unfolding, creative aim which can be shared by both husband and wife. Some couples take up hobbies, such as landscape gardening or art collections, which frequently aid in holding them together. Others: become mutually absorbed in making a living through a business enterprise. To Latter-day Saints, one of the best fields for mutual endeavor is in the Church program. Unquestionably a devout religious faith which is shared by both parties without serious disagreement as to details is one of the best safeguards against drifting apart. However, the most common and most satisfactory bond that can be made is the rearing of a family. There is no other undertaking in which the interests of a couple can be so mutually enjoyed. Home duties and making a living, both of which may have naturally distasteful elements, at once become lightened and directed toward a common goal when the first child comes. Better behavior toward each other becomes more necessary on the part of the parents, since the example they set begins to affect the lives of their children. Good conduct between the parents at home is then carried into the school and community through the good behavior of the children, and public opinion enters the family picture. There is no worse preparation for marriage than for one to have parents who have separated after failure to make the necessary adjustRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JANUARY - 63 ments themselves. Children who are moved from one parent to the other acquire conflicting ideals with resulting confusion and strain which reflect in difficulties in school, and which often lead them into the juvenile court as children, and into the divorce court as adults. PIRITUALITY in the Home Is One of Its Greatest Safeguards. Marriage is something much more to Latter-day Saints than an earthly contract for the satisfying of emotional needs. It bears deep signifcance as to our welfare in the hereafter. To bring children into the world and properly care for them is asked of us by the Lord. Our responsibility then becomes doubly serious. When we think of our relationships in marriage as being a preparation for greater opportunity to live happily together in the hereafter, we are impelled to redouble our efforts to make a success of our relationship on earth. Problems For Discussion 1. Show why marriages which are built on a purely romantic basis are likely to be unsatisfactory. Enumerate some other important factors in marital adjustment. 2. What would you say is the place of children in preserving marital happiness? How can differences over children disrupt a marriage? 3. Discuss how a common religious faith may contribute to the permanence of a marriage. 4. Show how marriage brings out all of the defects and virtues of personality and character. 5. When and how do we learn to be good husbands or wives? 6. Discuss the spiritual significance of marriage. Show how this should make marriage more permanent, 64 - JANUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE &ducation for Family Life FAMILY RELATIONSHIPS Lesson 4 Growing Up Emotionally By Paul Popenoe, Sc. D. (Director Institute of Family Relations, Los Angeles, Calif.) SUCCESSFUL family life depends so much upon the attainment of emotional maturity that it is worth while to devote an entire lesson to the subject. Some of the evidences of emotional maturity (e. G., attainment of selfknowledge, self-control, and unselfishness) were mentioned in Lesson No. 2. This lesson will deal more particularly with the development of the love-life. Using that term very broadly to refer to human relationships, it is evident that the love-life develops normally through a number of successive stages: I. The infant loves only himself. He is entirely self-centered, 100 per cent selfish. He is concerned solely with the satisfaction of his own needs and desires (not to say the gratification of his whims); he does not care how much he inconveniences anyone else, so long as he can have his own way. If he does not get his own way, he will have a tantrum and try to compel attention in that fashion. II. Shortly, however, the child broadens out his love-life to include his parents and in particular his mother (or her substitute). She occupies a relation to him that no one else holds. His love-life turns on an axis suspended between himself and her. She is very largely the object of worship and the source of authority. III. Soon the love-life expands again. It is important to note that this development is not a process of leaving something behind, as the caterpillar leaves the cocoon behind to emerge as a butterfly. It is merely a matter of expanding the horizon. It is like throwing a stone into a pond. The circles become larger and larger, but the center, where the stone lit, is always there. That center is you. You never cease to love yourself??if you do, you are insane, literally! But as time goes on you expand the area of your love-life until you occupy a much smaller part of it than you did when a baby. In the pre-adolescent period the child begins to emancipate himself from exclusive dependence on his mother; to develop more interests outside of the home; to begin to adopt the standards and values of those of his own age and sex (the "gang'', whether this be male or female). Formerly, whatever his mother said was so; now what his mother says is wrong if the gang thinks otherwise. At this stage he is learning how to get along with his equals (his parents may give him the best of it, or the worst of it, but can never treat him as a real equal). This is a particularly important stage in development, because he is being socialized. IV. In the high school period, he begins to take more interest in the other sex. At first this is a generalized interest. The girl is interested in all boys, just because they are boys and she wants to learn what boys are like. But little by little, attention is focused for longer and longer periods of time on one person of the other sex, until by a process of trial and error each learns lis own nature and that of the other sex and finally. V. The adult level of mate-selection is reached, in which each picks a partner for life-long, unique companionship, the establishment of a home, and the founding of a new family. This is the normal process, but unfortunately, development of the individual may be arrested at any stage. Many an adult has really not passed beyond the infantile stage of self-love, of wanting to be waited on and having a tantrum if he does not get his own way. Many an adult is still tied to his mother's apron strings?he has never been weaned, emotionally. (This is a common cause, among men and to a less extent among women, of failure to marty.) Many an adult has not passed beyond the Boy Scout level, emotionally. Still more have remained at an adolescent level, in which any girl is about as attractive as any other (or vice versa) and a love-life can not long be maintained at an adult level?hence broken homes and broken lives. Fundamentally, the failure to go on at the normal time from one stage to the next is due to fear. ?The child attached to his mother is afraid to go out with the gang? they won't treat him as well as his RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JANUARY - 65 mother does, so he stays where he is comfortable. 'The boy who is getting along well with the gang, is afraid to go out with girls. He knows how to deal with the gang, but he finds that the girls don't admire his accomplishments which the gang thinks are smart?they laugh at him. The boy who is getting along pretty well with a lot of girls is afraid to risk himself in a situation (i.e., marriage) where he has to hold one girl's affection all his life. That seems a big undertaking; he feels safer to stay at the level of a playboy where he can merely "love "em and leave 'em." Boys are a little more likely to be arrested in development at the mother-love stage, girls at the gang stage. A girl who has been taught, more or less unconsciously by her own mother, that "men aren't all that they ought to be" and that a girl's safety and happiness depends on keeping at a safe distance from them, will naturally have trouble in making the swing of interest over from her own sex to the othcr sex. If at the same time she lacks normal social life and plenty of informal associations with boys, it will be easy for her to go through life always afraid of boys and repelling them either by a morbid "hands off" attitude or on the contrary, if she is trying to overcome this fear by aggressiveness and becomes a little desperate, by pursuing them too openly. It is necessary to go through all the stages, if one is to grow up. None of them can be skipped. Jim, for instance, never learned to get along with other boys: he missed the gang stage. At college he wants to get along well with girls and he should be having some romantic friendships with them. But this is lmpossible because he has never learned to get along with his own 66 - JANUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE equals (the function of the gang stage) and therefore never can deal with girls as equals. He has in his make-up only two kinds of love, namely, self-love and mother-love; therefore that is all he can offer the girls, and that is not what they want! Since the tendency to grow up emotionally is inherent, all that is necessary is to give it a chance. This means merely that the young people at each stage must (a) be free from fears, inhibitions, frustrations; (b) that they must have opportunity for a normal! Social life, appropriate to their age; and (c) they must have before them all the time the normal patterns appropriate to the next stage, so they will be able to go ahead. While every one of these stages is important, in actual practice the adolescent stage seems to be the "last resting place" of a large proportion of the population. This is due to the fact that some parents do not themselves have any adult patterns to furnish the children; they themselves have never grown up. In the next place, the children often have too little association with their own parents, especially in cities. Schools and colleges have not always recognized the problem and given young people help in growing through the adolescent stage. Finally, most of the patterns of the modern world, which surround our children from morning until night, are infarttile or, at the best, adolescent patterns, provided by the movies, the popular songs of the day, the newspapers and magazines, the billboards, and other educational agencies. Take the matter of married happiness as an illustration. The newspapers are constantly mentioning marriages, but not because they are happy. They are always telling of unhappy marriages?of the broken homes of wealthy, important, or conspicuous people. Married happiness is rarely a theme of the movies, of popular songs, of fiction, or of the "funny papers": they are always presenting the opposite. Is it not almost inevitable, unless parents, church, and other serious interests make a much greater effort to counteract all this, that young people should grow up with the unconscious belief that married happiness is rare, that most of the prominent, wealthy, admirable, and intelligent people of the world fail in marriage; that it's just a gamble? but after all we might as well try it because a license costs only $2 and if we don't like it we can quit at any time! To succeed in marriage and parenthood, therefore, emotional maturity is almost indispensable. 'The attainment of this ought to be one of the principal concerns of modern life. Questions and Problems 1. Suggest two or three changes that you think should be made in the social life of many high school students, in order to promote their normal emotional development. 2. Describe briefly some case from history, in which an intelligent man or woman was characterized by marked emotional immaturity. 3. A recent writer says that if parents are embarrassed by the sex questions of their children, it shows that the parents are not emotionally mature. How do you explain this? 4. A girl who is a freshman in college is not interested in boys; says that in comparison with her own father they all seem too frivolous, insincere ? not worth while. How would you counsel her, in order to give her a better perspective? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JANUARY - 67 Literature for the Missions TYPICAL WOMEN OF THE CHURCH Lesson 6 ANNA K. G. WIDTSOE (A Norwegian Lady) ANNA KARINE GAARDEN (WIDTSOE) was born June 4, 1849, in the famous fishing village of Titran, on the island of Froya, the outermost island, off the coast of Norway. She came of goodly parents -and lived in easy circumstances under her father's roof. From her earliest childhood she manifested unusual intelligence and power. She was active, with a sensitive spirit that responded quickly to human needs or to the manifestations of nature. Indeed, her character was early nurtured and moulded by the contrasts of nature and constant battle with the ocean on her native island. She was trained well in her childhood. Every day there was work to be done by the family and the men employed by the father in his fishing outfit. The seasons brought their own tasks?candle making, soap making, putting up fruit, carding and spinning wool, weaving cloth and, with the aid of a tailor, measuring, cutting and sewing the clothes for the family. In these tasks Anna and her sister, Petroline, were required to take part. Thus, they grew in usefulness and understanding. In the home.-also it was the custom, whenever possible, to hold a family gathering every evening, at which hymns were sung, a chapter from the Bible read, selections from musical instruments given and selections from history and literature read or recited. If the mail had arrived, these evenings also included recitals of the news of the day. It was a valuable type of education. The outermost island was not isolated, for, during the fishing season, thousands of men_ gathered from all parts of Norway and other countries of Europe to participate in the profits of the fishermen. The village had a cosmopolitan character. Many men of influence sat at the table of the Gaarden family. This was all educational for Anna and her sister. Anna's father, the government pilot, often took her with him on his trips to distant places; consequently she gained early a wide expetience with conditions prevailing in the world. When she was twelve years of age her beloved mother suddenly passed away. The father, who never remarried, placed the burden of household responsibility upon Anna, guided and directed by her old nurse, Ingeborg Mikkelsen. Soon after Anna's mother died, a new school teacher came to Titran, a black-haired, blue-eyed, deepvoiced, athletic young man, who soon, because of his intelligent helpfulness, became the idol of the people of the village. He comforted the sick, built up the depressed, helped the families with their legal affairs, provided a community house with literature and lectures for the thousands of fishermen who gathered on the island in the fishing season. This young school teacher, John A. Widtsoe by name, determined that some day he should 68 - JANUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE marry Anna Gaarden, who attracted him both for her beauty and her intelligence. Anna had many suitors, but decided to give her life into the hands of the schoolmaster, and when a little past twenty-one years of age, married him. The years that followed were very happy. Soon after the marriage the schoolmaster obtained a teaching position in one of the large cities of the mainland; thus she forsook permanently the island of her youth. Seven years after her marriage came the catastrophe that completely changed the current of her life: One day the schoolmaster took sick in the school room, was brought home ill, and three days thereafter, died. The young widow could not understand why the Lord permitted such a thing to happen. She and her two boys needed the husband and father. She fought intense spiritual battles at the time, but came out victorious, with a greater trust and faith in God than she ever had before. The Bible became her constant companion. For a while she taught domestic art in the school in which her husband had taught, but soon settled in the city of Trondhjem, the home of her husband, where she set up business as a dressmaker. One day she took a pair of her son John's shoes to a shoemaker. When she was about to leave the shoemaker said to her, "Madam, I have something better to give you than soles for your son's shoes." Astonished, she asked him what he, a shoemaker, could offer her better than shoemaker's service. He declared solemnly that he could teach her how to win happiness on earth and in the life to come; he could tell her whence she came, why she was on earth, and where she was going after death. The shoemaker was a Mormon convert who in this fashion was bearing testimony to his customer.; When she discovered that the shoemaker, Olaus Johnson, was a Mormon, she was horrified. However, when John's shoes were returned, a Mormon tract was found in each one of them. To her astonishment she found that the assertions made by the tracts were substantiated by Holy Writ. She ventured to attend a meeting of the little branch in Trondhiem. The Elders began to labor with her; she fought valiantly, for she did not wish to become a Mormon. She sat up throughout the nights seeking arguments with which to vanquish the Elders, but she was always vanquished. 'After two years, she became definitely convinced that the despised Mormons possessed the true gospel of the Lord, Jesus Christ. She asked for an early baptism. On April 1, 1881, the ice was broken on the fjord and she was baptized in ice-cold water. She bore the testimony throughout her life that never before or since was she filled with such genial warmth. She began to tell relatives and friends of the pearl of great price that she had found. The usual thing happened?her friends turned away from her, her relatives would hardly speak to her. In despair she went back to the island whence she had come and where with tender heart she had for many years as the daughter of a well-to-do family distributed charity to all who were in need. Yet when she returned as a Mormon, every door was closed against her. She could not find a bed or a meal among relatives and former friends. Thoroughly disillusioned she con- tinued her daily work in Trondhjem, and made plans for emigration to Utah. Tickets were secured; she sold part of what was left of her husband's library, collected the remnants of her property, and with her two boys set sail to join the Latterday Saints in the valleys of the mountains. She arrived in Utah in 1883 and settled in Logan. There she set up her dressmaking shop and began to earn a meager living under conditions very different than those she had known throughout most of her life. Her native country had a soft and easy climate, high mountains covered with green forests, sunlit summers, darkened winters; here the mountains were barren, the climate dry. Nevertheless, she loved the country to which she had come, for here she was with her people, and here she could sit under the voices of the Priesthood of Alinighty God The early days in Zion were not easy, and here in a strange land with few friends the path at times seemed thorny. 'There were weeks when the little family had little or nothing to eat, and her foolish pride kept her from seeking assistance from those who had ample. There were long nights through which she sewed for a pittance. Tlowever, gradually she prospered. She built a small home; she took part in the activities of the Church; she won many friends; she grew greatly in spiritual power. In her thinking and planning, the welfare and the future of her two boys were uppermost. She was very loyal to the schoolmaster's memory; she never remarried. She had promised him to care for the boys and to provide for them training to fit them for the battle of life. Her husband had been a school teacher, and she felt that she could do nothing RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JANUARY - 69 better than to cncourage her boys to follow in their father's footsteps. In course of time she secured training for both boys in the schools of that day. 'The older son, after finishing high school, went east to study at Harvard University and graduated in 1894. Her son Osborne soon afterwards graduated from the Utah State Agricultural College, where her son 'John was employed. From then on, life was easier for the widow. Soon, Osborne was sent on a mission to the South Sea'Islands and the family was separated again. A little later John was married. Sister Widtsoe and her sister then took up their abode together in Salt Lake City where she lived until her death. She was a lover of flowers. She spent hours in her garden caring for them, and she insisted that flowers did best when they knew that a loving hand was tending them. Along with the care of her flowers, she enjoyed doing good to those in distress. Emigrants from her native country always found a welcome in her home. She advised, counseled and directed them. Many had a successful beginning in the new land through the influence of Sister Widtsoe. As she became better off financially, she was able to help not only spiritually but materially. Her home, first in Logan and later in Salt Lake City, was always a gathering place for young people who loved the inspiration that flowed 'from her. In 1903, she and her sister accepted gladly a call to do missionary work in Norway, where they remained for more than three years; and after their release spent nearly another year in a successful search for their genealogy. Upon their return in 1907, Sister Widtsoe became active in many public enterprises; belonged to a number of organizations 70 - JANUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to advance human welfare; kept up her acquaintanceship with her people, especially with youth and those who needed help. She was exceedingly happy in the realization of her ambition to educate her boys. John, some years after graduation, had gone abroad to study in Europe. Osborne, after graduating from the Utah State Agricultural College, had acquitted himself at Harvard University most creditably. Both became teachers. When she returned from her mission, John was the president of the Utah State Agricultural College, and Osborne held an important position in the Latter-day Saint College, of which he ultimately became the principal. Later on, John became the president of the University of Utah and Osborne the head of the Department of English in that state institution. Each of these onward steps gave great joy to Sister Widtsoe, who felt that thereby she was fulfilling the wishes of her departed husband. She was still happier to know that both boys were faithful to the restored Gospel and active in the Church. She was always a lover of education. From her childhood the poetic instinct had beat strong within her. Nature reacted strongly upon her. In later life she devoted a good part of her time to writing poetry in her native language, much of it of exquisite beauty. She also engaged in Temple work and together with her sister sought eagerly to complete the genealogical records of the family. Her spiritual life was of an exceedingly high order. At one time she was president of the Women's Press Club of Salt Lake City. She held, at various times, other positions of service. Throughout her life her testimony of the truth of the restored Gospe of Jesus Christ never wavered; she grew stronger in her faith day by day. All who came within the radius of her influence were touched by the vigorous, unyielding faith that she possessed. She grieved, as all Latter-day Saints do, over the blindness of those who fail to understand the Gospel. A few days before she died, she declared that the greatest joy that had come into her life was derived from her possession of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ as first brought to her by Brother Olaus Johnson, the shoemaker, in Trondhjem. "There has been nothing else sO precious in my life," she said. She died in the faith, July 11, 1919. Topics for Consideration 1. Describe Anna Widtsoe's personality. 2. Why was it natural for her instinctively to impress one as a superior person? 3. Why do you think it was at first hard for her to accept Mormonism? 4. How and why did she become well informed on the scriptures? 5. Relate the similarity of the things she did in girlhood with those Elizabeth Hoagland did. 6. Account for the persecution accorded early converts to Mormonism among all peoples in all lands. 7. What were Anna Widtsoe's greatest desires? 8. Keeping in mind the abilities and achievements of her two sons, what do you estimate her own abilities to be? 9. How did she prove that she was a sincere, devoted Latter-day Saint? 10. She lived a typical Latter-day Saint life. What kind of a life is this? 11. What of value to us may be learned from Sister Widtsoe's life? So Relieve Your eyes "NATURE'S TINT' is what the paper mill calls the paper on which this January number is printed. It has been produced and is being used because it is easier on the eyes than the ordinary white, india, and sepia papers which have been used for many years. This light green paper lends itself very nicely to the reproduction of art work and photographs and at the same time brings out very clearly all the smaller type and reading material. We congratulate the Relief Society Magazine on this forward step and trust that the decision to use Nature's Tint in 1939 will be just one of many incidents that will help to make a happy New Year for readers of this Magazine. THE DESERET NEWS PRESS Printers and Publishers since 1850 29 Richards Street... Salt Lake City, Utah