Vol. XXVI JANUARY, 1939 No. 1 EDITORIAL Confidence THE year 1938 is ended. All that it gave of joy and sorrow, of satisfaction and remorse is now relegated to the past. With the new year comes a feeling of new beginnings, of a fresh start in the battle of life. Hope, which "swells eternal in the human breast," bids the new year to be a better year than yesteryear, and reason says to each of us, "This year you are older and wiser, the experiences of the past qualify you to meet whatever the new year may eons than you have met any year heretofore." But in reality many of us face the future with anxiety. We lie awake nights dreading possible calamities of the morrow. Not knowing what the future holds for us we stand before it afraid. ? The pace of civilization today is swift. Progress, involving change, seems to keynote man's existence and brings a thousand disturbances that gnaw at patience, upset poise, and work one into a state of nervous uncertainty. Life today calls for such power of adjustment that it leaves many of us feeling innately inadequate to cope with it successfully. If the New Year could give to every Relief Society woman one gift I would say let it be the gift of confidence, that feeling of adequacy to meet whatever the future may hold. Let her recapture the confidence of her youth. Youth has its sorrows, its obstacles to overcome, its adjustments to make, but its thoughts and ideas have not fallen into ruts; it has not been intimidated by life. Facing the future with confidence actually rendcrs one more capable of utilizing the ability which he actually possesses to the greatest advantage. It leads to well directed action and, unafraid to dedicate one's life to the purposes which challenge, personal development is increased. Confidence is something which we may give to one another. It is one of the most contagious things in the world. A confident person readily transmits to his associates the same attitude. One individual sincerely believing in another is like a stimulating tonic, increasing that person's belief in himself and thus enlarging his power to do. Confidence is nourished by success, and as success breeds confidence so confidence in turn breeds success. In approaching the future the average adult needs to view life from RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JANUARY ? 4 the vantage point established for us by the Gospel. We need to take a long-range view, seeing its place in the eternal program. We need to get a fresh vision of what we ourselves could do if we would do all that we can do. We need to live every day courageously and "let virtue garnish our thoughts unceasingly; then shall our confidence wax strong." (Doc. & Cov. 121:45.) Though 1939 may bring cloudy and misty days alternating with clear and sunny ones let us go forward and partake of whatever the New Year has to offer, unafraid.