Her efforts in behalf of her Church were untiring. In addition to her school classes in religious education she was a teacher in the Sunday Schools, served the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association for many years as stake counselor, president and board member. She was an efficient member of the General Board of the National Woman's Relief Society, also serving as Associate Editor of the Relief Society Magazine from 1923 to 1928, and as Editor from 1928 to 1930. During this period she attended and participated in Relief Society Conventions in many of the stakes of Zion, gave lectures in the Idaho summer camps, and participated in general and ward Relief Society conferences. For eight years she wrote the literary lessons used by this organization. She also prepared lessons for the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association as well as for the General Sunday School Union Board. Because of her very sympathetic, generous nature, she was often called upon to speak at funerals, to assist in writing letters of condolence, resolutions of respect and appreciation to the bereaved. In 1934 she collaborated with our beloved Harrison R. Merrill in compiling one hundred sermonettes by Dr. George H. Brimhall which were published in a volume entitled Long and Short Range Arrows. She was writing the history of the Brigham Young University and of her own life, both of which were unfinished at the time of her passing. She was active in political affairs of both state and nation and was a delegate to the Democratic National Convention in San Francisco in 1920, taking an active part in it. She attended the National Convention at Houston, Texas, in company with her beloved co-worker, Inez K. Allen, whose recent passing we also mourn.
Miss Reynolds was an extensive traveler and deeply interested in world affairs. She made four trips to Europe in the interest of additional education and enlarged friendships. While there she took a number of courses at European universities. She had many distinguished friends both at home and abroad. During her last visit to London in 1937 she was most happy in being the guest of her life-long friends, Apostle Richard R. and Amy Brown Lyman. Much as she enjoyed her early visit to Vienna and other wonderful cities of the continent, her last European trip was very precious to her. It was made soon after the coronation of King George VI of England, and during the Centenary of the introduction of the Gospel of Jesus Christ by the Latter-day Saints into England. President Heber J. Grant presided at this celebration and Miss Reynolds was an enthusiastic participant. Many delightful and enlightening hours have been enjoyed by members of churches, schools, clubs and home groups listening to her accounts of her trips abroad.