Romance of Quilting and Quilts By Lutie H. Fryer Assistant Professor—University of Utah
The intimate things of life, those that surround us as we grow up, become so much a part of everyday existence that we never think of their beginnings. If we saw them for the first time perhaps we would feel curious about their origin, but as it is, to us they never began. They just are. Such is the case of quilts.
Quilt making as a homecraft art has played no small part in the growth and development of civilization in its march across the ages. In America from the earliest colonial times to the present quilts were a necessary part of pioneer homemaking, then as a product of awakened desire for beauty in the home, and now this twentieth century revival is an appreciation of that art, which of all the time-honored household arts has withstood the machine age, and has by no means reached the climax.
As known today, the quilt is the result of combining two kinds of needlework, both of very ancient origin, but widely different in character. Patchwork is the art of piecing together fabrics of various kinds and colors; it was used by the Egyptians for their clothes, wall decoration, and furniture. Quilting is the method of fastening together layers of cloth to secure firmly the "filling". We find that knights of the middle ages wore quilted jackets under their heavy armor to protect their bodies. Such a garment was called a "jamberson". Before the ages of tapestry, the great halls were hung with quilted pictures. At the entrances, too, there was a similar hanging, because the great oaken doors, that were barricades in case of attacks, could not be opened and shut as the members of the household came and went. We still see evidences of these door curtains in some of the older churches in Europe where the metal or wooden doors are far too heavy to open each time someone enters. Later the quilted hangings were replaced by embroidered pictures and they in turn by tapestries, but quilting still held its own for bed clothes and curtains. From 1545 to almost 1620, quilting was used on some of the finest costumes; many of the skirts were quilted and embroidered in gold, and studded with pearls and other gems. In museums there are many beautiful examples of quilted petticoats that were worn during the 18th Century. Sometimes the overskirt hid the petticoat almost entirely except for a narrow panel down the front; at other times it showed beneath panniers of handsome brocade.
The quilt as we know it in America was in the beginning a strictly utilitarian article, born of the necessity of providing warm covers for beds and hangings for doors and windows to help keep out the cold winter and was so intimately connected with the everyday life of the colonies that no record of it exists. Within the four walls of the crude log cabins there was little thought of adornment or art, and yet the artistic longing, latent or inherited, in every woman where her home is concerned, unconsciously expressed itself in her quilts.
Under the general title of "Patchwork" we may consider three different kinds of quilts: First, the pieced quilt, showing the pieced patch set together in various ways and quilted in designs. Nearly all quilts made in America prior to 1750 were pieced quilts. Second, the appliqued, patched, or "laid-on" quilt, usually in floral design and considered by some as more elegant than the humble "pieced" variety. Applique for quilt-making came into favor about the middle of the eighteenth century and reached its climax about 1850. With the late revival of patchwork it has reached a perfection of artistic color combination and needlecraft far superior to anything made in earlier times. Third, the quilted counterpane which is usually white, producing a decorative value by use of padded or corded quilting in elaborate design.
The pieced quilt, made of pieces of fabric cut after a pattern and sewed together to form a block or repeat, was familiar to most households where economy was a necessity, as it was created of scraps of material not otherwise used. The precious scraps of printed cottons, so rare and costly in that day, were highly treasured for quilt blocks. The applique quilt is apt to be a more artistic expression of the quilter's craft, in that it is created out of new or whole cloth. It offers greater freedom for the expression of the designer's artistic nature. History tells us very little about the patchwork quilt prior to 1750, but between 1750 and 1850 many quilts were pieced and patched and many are now the cherished possessions of great-granddaughters of the original makers. All the old favorite quilt patches had interesting generic names. These names are intriguing. Religion, occupations, politics, nature in its various phases, and their meager social activities all contributed their quota to the quilt names of colonial days. Rose of Sharon, Star of Bethlehem, Anvil, Ship's Wheel, Carpenter's Wheel, Churn Dash, Water Mill, Whig Rose, Lincoln's Platform, Democrat Rose, Sun Dial, Autumn Leaf, Garden Maze, Ocean Wave, and Eight Hands Around are a few well chosen familiar names. Volumes could be written on the "Quilting Bee" and the part it played in the social life in pioneer days. Not having the modern conveniences for exchanging choice bits of gossip, the quilting bee afforded an excellent means of broadcasting the latest events, such as engagements, births, styles for women, etc. Here patterns were exchanged freely.
The quilt's place in art is an important one, as the making of patchwork quilts is one of the most picturesque of all the folk-arts. It is the only homecraft that has withstood the machine age. Much of the beauty expressed by our architects, poets and artists of today had its first fling in these humble creations in the hands of our pioneer mothers. Bed-quilts, so essential to comfort, made them the most important form of needlework prior to about 1750. Alice Morse Earl, in Home Life in Colonial Days, says: "The feminine love of color, the longing for decoration, as well as pride in needlecraft, found riotous expression in quiltmaking. Women eagerly exchanged patterns with one another; they talked over the designs and admired pretty bits of calico and pondered what combinations to make, with far more zest than women discuss art or examine art specimens today."
History repeats itself and today the old-fashioned quilt is the newfashioned quilt, and the old patterns are as much at home among modern furnishings as they were among Queen Anne or Victorian furniture. One of the most modern touches in the present-day bedroom is a lovely old patchwork quilt of grandmother's, the priceless relic of bygone days. But women of today make a study of their bedrooms before selecting their quilts, so that the color-harmony and the pattern will be most suitable. Today a quilt may form a perfect symphony in one room and be a discord in another. In the colonial bedroom, where the bed was the principal piece of furniture, the quilt was the central motif, the object of first consideration both in pattern and coloring. The other decorations were of minor importance, hence there was no thought of matching the quilt to any particular color scheme. Some of the loveliest examples of quilts were made during the Victorian era; they are an inspiration for quilt makers of today. The patterns are beautiful, especially when made up in soft, blended hues.
So many lovely old quilts have come to light the past few years, some with gay colors and others that have mellowed into soft tints and shades that make us want to touch them to see if they are real. They are growing old gracefully. If they could talk they would tell us interesting stories of romance, travel or old-time garden parties when our grandmothers were young. Of course, we probably always will have those quilts that live in seclusion, that never know a ray of sunshine or a breath of fresh air, unless they are on display for a few hours, then back into hiding. Quilts have always seemed so human that one wonders if they do not feel neglected when they are hidden away most of the time. It is gratifying to know that many rare old quilts are being used today instead of being packed away where no one can enjoy them; and whether they be red and green or made of softer hues they find enthusiastic friends wherever they may be found.
Today the country is "quilt-conscious" and the making of quilts in the home has become astonishingly popular. Interest centers around authentic antique designs or modern ones that have definite artistic merit. A quotation from Florence Bedell of the University of Colorado may help us to appreciate quilts: "If you wish to collect something, and every one should collect something, quilts will make a most interesting and beautiful collection. Of course, association means much, so one from your own ancestors will be most valuable to you. With our present 'renaissance of old furniture and houschold articles,' the value of quilts is going up year by year. A few years ago a quilt made of pieces of dresses of Presidents' wives was offered for sale in Colorado for $25,000. If you cannot own such highly prized quilts, you can at least enjoy reading and studying about them so that when the opportunity comes you can look at a quilt with more appreciation."
Time adds significance to every quilt, whether you make it yourself or receive it as a gift. Enjoy it as you would any art treasure. With an artistic setting a quilt of gay colors is akin to a choice mosaic or a costly cameo of rare beauty.
Escape By Wilford D. Lee
ELSIE MANNING lifted her pencil from the paper and reread the lines which she had just written. The words reflected back into her soul the subtle emotion which she had tried to put into them. An excited flush warmed her lean cheeks, and sent a flow through her work-hardened body.
Water lilies floating on a limpid pool, Moon-lit silver glancing brilliantly, The breath of night's long hush, A sighing breeze That sweeps the moon-glanced basin to the rim, And the water lilies dip and sway...... Like the breeze, emotion sweeps my aching Breathes softly from the depths of longing And thoughts a dancing in the white lilies on a moon-lit stream....
The far-away tinkle of tug chains broke into her reverie, shattering the spell which the woman had woven about herself. As the tinkling became clearer, she became acutely aware of the immediate time and place, of the staggering heat of the little shanty with its unpainted walls and bare floor. The only polished piece of furniture in the room was the little writing desk. It was made of satiny walnut and seemed to be an incongruous intrusion upon the bare furnishings of the room. The desk was a present from her maternal grandmother. Each day it recalled to her mind the two magic, Alice-in-Wonderland years when she had lived with that lovely old lady in the big house and had been her sole companion. She arose and with a soft cloth removed the film of dust that had gathered on it, then turned to her other work. She whipped the potatoes to a white froth, cut the large slices of bread, filled the granite cups with water, and. Then stepping outside she returned the heavy canvas water sack to its nail.
Heat waves shimmered across the rolling landscape as four horses, streaked with sweat and dirt, moved toward the house in a cloud of dust. Elsie hurried to the cistern to pump water before Frank had stopped the team. As he released the horses one by one, they hurried to the watering trough. One horse, an evil-faced bay, veered toward a little poplar tree, and reached out to nip off a mouthful of the leaves, the only green for miles about. The woman shouted at him, catching up a stick to drive him off. She remained guard over the little tree until all the horses had passed.
When Frank came to the house from feeding his team, Elsie had a big basin of water waiting for him on a bench just outside the door. His face was a dirt-colored mask through which his eyes and teeth flashed startlingly.
"How much water is there left in the cistern?" he asked, rolling up his sleeves.
"It's getting pretty low," she replied. "You'll have to haul tomorrow. Is John through with the tank?"
The man turned and looked off to the west where a little shanty not unlike their own was set against a ragged semicircle of trees. "That looks like the tank there by his cistern now," he observed. "Did you notice how many trips he made this morning?"
"This is only his second," his wife replied. "He usually makes three."
"That double tree must have broke," he scowled, blowing the water over his face and rubbing a rough hand over his neck. "We couldn't find a very good stick for it last week."
"Will you haul tomorrow then?" she asked.
"I guess I'll have to."
After dinner, Frank went out and looked at the car which stood by the side of the house. The rear tire was down, so he pumped it up. The top was gone, and the body, behind the front seat, was cut away and made into the semblance of a truck body. As he was backing the car around the woman screamed. He jammed on an ineffective brake, but he could not stop until he had bent the little tree over and scraped off some bark from the trunk. He scowled as he jerked the machine forward and swung away. When he had gone, Elsie took a piece of cloth and bound the bark back into place.
When the dishes were done, the woman took two ten-pound lard pails, an old magazine, some paper, and the now empty water bag from its nail and started east along the dimly marked road. Soon she came to the rim of a canyon, a deep gorge cut through the flat earth. The creek looked cool and inviting as she stood there contemplating the pleasant scene. With sure step she started down the slope. At the sound of her coming two boys, one about ten and the other twelve, came out from the shade of a clump of bushes to wave to her. As she came closer, they caught up their buckets of berries to show her how many they had picked.
"We found a lot today, Mother," the older boy exulted. "There's a patch of service berry bushes down by that old mine just loaded with berries."
"And I found some currants, too, Ma," said Willie proudly. "I put them on the bottom of the bucket. Gee, they're good!"
The mother smiled. "I'll bet you ate more than you put in the pail, didn't you?" she asked, brushing the boy's long hair back out of his eyes.
They moved out of the hot sun into the shade of the bushes. Jack, the older boy, glanced down at the papers his mother was carrying. "Are you writing another story, Mom?" he asked.
She smiled a little sadly. "Another... And another... Another...."
"Gee, you've wrote lots of 'em, ain't you, Mom?" Willie observed. "What's the matter, don't they like 'em?"
"No, they don't seem to."
"Gosh, we do. That is, some of 'em,—the funny ones."
"It is hard to write a funny story here," she told them.
The boys emptied pails and then went off in search of more berries. The mother found a shady spot and opened the Writer's Journal, much thumbed and in many places heavily underlined. One passage she re-read:
"Most amateur writers love to describe that which they have never seen, reveling in those scenes and situations which they have never experienced. Not until they are capable of describing that which is about them and weaving their own real-life situations into their literature will they be successful."
She turned further and re-read a full-page advertisement:
"Magazine offers a prize of $100 for the best short story on an agricultural theme.... It must be bright in its viewpoint, depicting real life accomplishment.... Second prize $50 and a third prize of $25.... Manuscripts must be in by July First...."
It was now over a month since she had sent in her manuscript, but as yet she had heard nothing from it. The hope that filled her soul ebbed or waned as she speculated upon the chances of winning the coveted prize. Did the delay mean that they were seriously considering her manuscript, or did it mean that it was lying stacked with thousands of others awaiting the attention of a negligent clerk.... With a sigh she shut the magazine and took up her pencil. All through the hot afternoon she scribbled industriously. Her face, now lighted by the enthusiasm for her toil, reflected with versatile utterance the gamut of emotions through which her nimble mind ran. When the sun sank below the rim of the canyon, she called to the boys, "We will have to hurry now, or Father will be in before we get home."
When they arrived at the house, the father was not there; the horses, which had not been hitched up at all that afternoon, nickered quietly for water as the boys came by the cistern. The boys unharnessed the horses, then fed and watered them while their mother chopped awkwardly at a crooked stick of quaking asp and made a fire. It was not until the setting sun had tinged the whole landscape with a wash of rose light that they saw the old car coming over the horizon.
When the man arrived, he was in a savage mood. She could tell that from the way he banged the battered old door of the car.
"Jack," he snapped at the boy who was playing by the shed, "water and feed the horses. Haven't I told you that when I'm gone..."
"They're all watered and fed," the woman told him quietly, "and we are waiting for supper."
He stamped around to the front of the house, took off his dust-covered jacket and hat, and rolled up his sleeves. "John smashed that double tree," he growled, splashing into the water. "Had to go clear to town after a new one."
"How did you pay for it?" she inquired.
"Didn't. Had to run my face," he mumbled. "Can't John pay for it? He broke it."
"He hasn't got any more than we have. He couldn't buy anything, you know that." He sloshed the basin of dirty water into the bucket beside the bench. She made no reply.
When he came in she asked, "Did you get the mail?"
For some reason he gave a short cynical laugh. "Yes, I got it."
Before her husband and the boys were through with their supper, the woman left the table and stepped out into the starlit night. How bright the stars were! How silent and far away... And promising. The mail... A strange excitement animated her as she made her way toward the car. An enthralling intuition quickened her breath and set her heart pounding. She took a deep breath.... Why had Frank laughed that way? Her hand explored the cold leather seat bottom of the car. It touched the sheaf of letters and papers scattered about. She gathered them up and felt again....