World Center For Women's Archives By Virginia Driggs Clark
"WHERE are the official histories and documents of our pioneer women?" This question was asked of four hundred women assembled in the city of Washington, D. C. at a meeting of the World Center for Women's Archives. The question was asked by Fola La Follette, daughter in the famous La Follette family of Wisconsin. She explained that having an unusual interest in history she was fascinated with the stories of western settlement but felt something was lacking. She concluded that stories dealing with pioneer women had been omitted. Careful research revealed numerous records rich in the activities of men but not of women; the story of womankind was probably hidden away in diaries, letters, miscellaneous notes and references, or in the memories of people?seldom written. The World Center for Women's Archives was organized two years ago by Mary Beard, wife of our prominent historian, Dr. Charles A. Beard, with the support of Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt and a group of nationally known women. Its purposes are: "To make a systematic search for undeposited source materials dealing with women's lives and activities, interests and ideas, as members of society everywhere. Included in such source materials will be letters, diaries, speeches, pamphlets and articles, manuscripts of books in special cases, notes and memoranda, programs of work and publicity. "To reproduce important materials, already deposited elsewhere, by means of microfilming and other modern processes. "To become a clearing-house of information with respect to the location and character of source materials on women in other libraries and institutions. "To encourage recognition of women as co-makers of history." Inez Haynes Irwin, Chairman of the Board of Directors of Women's Archives, related the part played by Kathryn Greene as co-inventor of the cotton gin. The part played by Eli Whitney in this important invention has been fully emphasized, but very little credit has been given to Kathryn Greene. It is only simple justice that women be recognized for their contributions to life. Mary Beard, speaking to this gathering, declared that women should be recognized as co-makers of history; the Hall of Fame has been founded, but there are very few women in it. An appeal was also made by Dorothy Detzer, Secretary of the Women's International League for Peace, who urged that in collecting the histories of women we do not forget their hopes and dreams. The organization for a world center for women's archives is only two years old, but is growing rapidly. At the present time there is no building in which to store precious collections; there is no permanent fund to assure the organization's stability, but there are hundreds of women all over the country whose interest in preserving the traditions, histories and writings of women will make the dreams of the organization a reality.