The Legend of the Green Gates By Edith Young Booth HOEVER has traveled \? through the towns of southern Utah must remember the historic and interesting city of Saint George, founded by a group of outstanding men and women whom the great pioneer leader, Brigham Young, called to settle the "Dixie" country. Here a marvelous community was established as a result of perseverance and industry. Even though extreme hardships were encountered, St. George became one of the outstanding early pioneer settlements of Utah. To reach this city near the border line of the "Territory" required weeks of travel over roads that were scarcely more than trails; yet many of the Church leaders built beautiful winter homes here and thus enjoyed a climate which excelled even California's sunny vales. The homes of President Young, Orson Pratt, Erastus Snow and others remain as interesting landmarks of the early "sixties". The beloved President, Brigham Young, had designated this city as the place where a temple should be erected. This building was commenced several years after the foundations of the Salt Lake Temple were laid; yet, through the enthusiastic efforts of the St. George people, assisted by willing volunteers from all parts of Utah, it became the first temple west of the Mississippi River to be dedicated. As the building progressed, various materials were sent from Salt Lake City and other places to be used in its construction. As it neared completion, the workers anxiously awaited the paint and other materials to be used in finishing the great edifice. 'They had been compelled to discontinue activities because of the delay in receiving these. After weeks of weary travel over muddy, slippery roads, the supplies arrived. Eagerly the unloading was watched, and how happy every one of the big family of St. George felt when they at last beheld the kegs of paint. The temple grounds were buzzing with humanity, as all hands were ready and eager to assist in this great work. After impatiently waiting for what seemed an interminable period, the containers were opened. White paint had been ordered, but in filling the order it was clearly apparent that "some one had blundered,"' for instead of white the spectators gazed on paint of a brilliant green hue!. A wail of disappointment rent the air, and a look of deep despair flooded the countenances of the gathered throng. Women wept and men stormed at this unexpected turn of affairs. Travel was slow in those days, but after weeks of delay another consignment of paint of the right color was received?this time accompanied by demonstrations of great joy and thanksgiving. When asked what should become of the green paint, President Young said that any man who would put his fences in good condition and build a suitable gate should be given enough paint to paint the gate. The numerous green gates still remaining in all sections of St. George manifest that the people took advantage of Brigham Young's offer.