Mothers' Day Tributes
By Lula Greene Richards
In our near Western communities the first quarter of the present year?1926?seems to have been strongly characterized by the passing away in death of many aged, young and middle-aged matrons. And for this cause it may be presumed that in many households this month of May will bring Mothers' Day not only as a sacred time for loving thoughts and appreciative expressions in words and actions of the mothers' never failing devotion toward their children?but it will also come as a solemn and even lonely season because of the missing from their accustomed places of so many prized and precious mothers.
The heartfelt sympathies of the Magazine go out to all who suffer from such bereavement?and offers all that sincere condolement may be able to give.
EDNA L. SMITH
As one prominent among those mothers whose deaths have occurred but recently may be recorded the name of Sister Edna Lambson Smith. Her long and faithful service in the Endowment House of past years?later in the Salt Lake Temple where she presided successfully over the Sister Workers for years?and also her works in the different organizations of the women of the Church, have brought her into close touch and mutual helpfulness and cooperation with many hundreds of the Latter-day Saints by whom her name will ever be reverenced and her memory highly esteemed.
Sister Edna was a native of Salt Lake City, born on March 3, 1851, in the adobe house built by her father on the corner of North Temple and First West Streets, and known as the first plastered house built in the new city. Edna's father?Alfred B. Lambson, and her mother?Melissa Jane Bigler Lambson?were Utah Pioneers of 1847. On New Year's Day?January 1, 1871?Edna was married to Apostle Joseph F. Smith, who later became the President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Edna's first child was her son Hyrum M. Smith, who before his death was sustained by the Church as one of the Council of Twelve. Nine other children were born to her, four of whom are living, namely, Alvin F. Smith, Edna Melissa Smith Bowman, Emma Smith and Martha Smith Jenson.
AUNT EDNA'S PREPARATIONS
A few days previous to the demise of Sister Edna L. Smith
MOTHERS' DAY TRIBUTES 247
?which occurred on Sunday, the 28th of February, 1926?"Aunt Edna" (as she was familiarly known among her large circle of friends) showed a new and strong desire to extend to her loved ones and near associates an evidence of especial concern and tender interest in her feelings toward them. The relating of one or two instances will perhaps sufficiently portray the marked emotional influence by which she was moved at the time.
It was at a small social gathering that Aunt Edna found an opportunity of drawing aside one of her former intimate associates between whom and herself some misunderstanding had existed. With evidence of a softened spirit Aunt Edna heartily congratulated the other lady on her being the recipient of an inestimable good turn of fortune, and declared that, upon hearing of the great blessing which had come to her friend she was so moved upon that she wept for joy. This demonstration from Aunt Edna increased the other lady's happiness immensely.
Exactly one week before her death as Aunt Edna entered the Seventeenth ward chapel for Sunday evening service she was met and kindly greeted by her Bishop, Nicholas G. Smith. While speaking with him she made the following remarkable announcement: "Bishop, I am not coming to meeting here any more." Little did Aunt Edna or her listener think her statement was prophetic and would soon be proved true. Bishop Smith answered her good-naturedly, and proposed that she take a seat near the door where they were standing, but she answered that she would prefer going to her accustomed portion of the building. With her daughter, Emma, she passed from the west to the east side of the hall.
Aunt Edna selected a seat by the side of one of her close friends and associate workers. "I just thought I would come down here and sit by you," she said, in a kindly, pleasant way. The friend thanked her for the consideration shown. There were a few moments of spare time before the meeting commenced, and a quiet, neighborly little chat was whispered between the two friends who had been companions in Church work for more than a quarter of a century. This little episode, occurring as it did so near the coming of the more important event so soon to follow, is and will continue to be a cherished and sacred reminiscence of dear Aunt Edna to the woman still remaining.
At that Sunday evening service the principal part of the time was allotted to the ward Primary association, that the work done by the officers and children might be presented before the parents and other older members of the ward. And another pleasing and striking feature connected with the doings of the evening?as viewed afterwards?was the selection of the child to offer the opening prayer. So promptly and perfectly was the prayer pro-


nounced that the friend beside Aunt Edna whispered to her while the boy was taking his seat, "That little fellow knows his business, doesn't he?" And Aunt Edna whispered back, "That is my grandson, Martha's boy." The friend had not recognized the child?it was Harold Smith Jenson.
Aunt Edna seemed unusually happy at that last meeting which she was to attend on earth?a farewell gathering for her to be followed only by her own obsequies. Without doubt, the same loving regard would have been extended toward all her friends had they happened to meet her, that was shown to those who were so fortunate as to come in contact with her during the last few days of her life.
The remark was made by one of the speakers at her funeral that "Aunt Edna was a natural Latter-day Saint." And those who understood her best could testify to the truth of that assertion. To bear witness to the truth of the Gospel as taught by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was as natural to Aunt Edna as drawing her breath.
The last unusual feature in Aunt Edna's preparations for final departure was the unique arrangement which brought her funeral services to be held on the third of March?her seventy-fifth birthday?making the wonderful combination of a birthday celebration and a funeral gathering all in one.
Oft in this earth life, weary and distressed? Longing for those departed whom we love? How sweet to find new work and heavenly rest, As dear Aunt Edna has in life above.
Mother o' Mine
By Alberta Huish Christensen
The balm of the radiant sunshine, And the freshness of morning dew, The truest of gold, to fashion a heart, Were used in the making of you.
A smile that is calm as an infant's A love that can mock fate, or time; You never have counted the cost or pain, Wonderful Mother O' Mine.
A soul that can rise above malice, Mortal, and yet more divine, Surely, God used just the best things He had, When he made you, Mother O' Mine.