[Vol52 | January 1965 | Page 74 | Lesson | Social Science — The Church Weliare Program Ariel | S. Ballif]

JANUARY 1965

ties and attitudes recommended by Browning and Burns in these four poems.

3. How do satire and irony help in these poems to expose evil and advocate goodness?

4. Near the end of the lesson a prose paragraph of "Address to the Unco Guid or the Rigidly Righteous" is given. Then the comment is made, "But the poem is better than the para-

phrase, as poems always are." Why is a poem better than a paraphrase of it? What does the paraphrase miss?

5. Probably experienced readers of literature will generally feel that of the four poems covered by this lesson, the most brilliant and best is Browning's "Soliloquy of the Spanish Cloister." What qualities make this a better and more brilliant poem than the other four?

For more extensive comments on Browning's life and writing, see Lesson Four in the October Relief Society Magazine. And for even more extensive comments, see the literature text, which contains contrasting portraits by Browning of two thoroughly sincere and good men in "Rabbi Ben Ezra" and "A Grammarian's Funeral."

¹gold, ²coarse woolen cloth, ³conceited fellow, ⁴blockhead
⁵prize

SOCIAL SCIENCE Divine Law and Church Government
The Functioning of Church Government

Elder Ariel S. Ballif

Lesson 20 — The Church Welfare Program

For Fourth Meeting, April 1965

Objective: To increase our understanding of the meaning and implications of brotherhood.

The Church Welfare Plan is the expression of a philosophy that is as old as the Church itself, and the Priesthood is the instrumentality through which its aims may be achieved, with auxiliary aid (John A. Widtsoe, Priesthood and Church Government, page 289).

The welfare plan is a permanent plan for the purpose of extending temporary assistance to the individual, so far as his temporal needs are con-

74

LESSON DEPARTMENT

cerned, but permanent benefit so far as his spiritual welfare is involved. That is all there is to it (President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Addresses, page 26).

PRACTICAL RELIGION

In a previous lesson, we have attempted to establish the important idea that in God's teachings to man there is no separation between temporal and spiritual things. President Joseph F. Smith says, "It is the purpose of God in restoring the gospel and the holy Priesthood, not only to benefit mankind spiritually, but also to benefit them temporally" (Gospel Doctrine, 1956 edition, page 209). This doctrine develops the idea that our work, our play, our study, or our participation in the activity of the Church should be governed by the same set of values. The teachings go even farther and assume that each person who belongs to the Church is actively interested in the spiritual and economic welfare of each and every other member of the organization. It is important that one should be concerned about the conditions of his neighbors. Calamity may strike anyone of us at any time, but if we develop the idea of mutual aid, then there is an insurance against the day of misfortune. In President McKay's talk in a special welfare meeting held on April 5, 1949, he said, "Truly the man was right who said, 'The race of mankind would perish if they ceased to aid each other . . . we cannot exist without mutual help. All, therefore, that need aid have a right to ask it from their fellow mortals; no one who holds the power of granting can refuse it without guilt.'"

COOPERATION ESSENTIAL TO ONENESS

During the time of President Brigham Young's leadership, the Church won its survival by mutual aid and cooperation. President Young stated:

I say that they who are opposed to co-operation are opposed to heaven, to their own welfare, to the welfare of their neighbors, nay, and to everything that is good. The least thought or act of an individual who is or can be called a Saint, that militates against oneness of feeling and action amongst the Saints is opposed to everything that is heavenly and good. . . . If we are not one, we are not the Lord's. We can not do his will, nor be his disciples unless we are one . . . (Journal of Discourses, 16:65).

The Welfare Program provides the ideal vehicle for a practical expression of the above-stated philosophy. Every member of the Church can participate in the program either in production, preservation, or distribution of foods or materials. It is the fact that everyone can and should participate that makes the program so important.

THE MEANING OF BROTHERHOOD

People from every occupation and from every family in the Church can work together with a feeling that the Welfare Program belongs to them and the benefits are available for everyone who is in need. The person in need works side by side with the man in affluent circumstances. Both have a pride in the success of the project. The one in need can have the blessing of the work opportunity, while the other person feels a security and confidence in the continuance of

75

JANUARY 1965

a successful cooperative project. No one knows when calamity may strike or when he will need the cooperative effort of his quorum to help him solve his problem.

Working in the Welfare Program, when physically able, removes any possibility of stigma that is sometimes attached to other systems of providing help to the needy. The man or woman who willingly works on the project can receive the blessings of his efforts in materials essential to his well-being. The person who works and does not need has the joy of knowing that his efforts have made it possible to relieve the suffering of his brother or sister.

OPERATION OF THE WELFARE PROGRAM

In the above discussion, stress has been placed on the attitude of the members toward the Welfare Program. After all, in Church work people are the main concern. In fact they, the people, constitute the Church, and the government of the Church is the Priesthood in action through worthy members of the Church.

In order to get a clearer picture of the Welfare Program and its function, we will examine briefly two aspects of this important organization. First, we will summarize the means of production of welfare commodities. This involves all of the means of producing the commodities needed to fill the welfare budget of the Church. Second, and of even more importance, we will examine the means of distribution of making the product available in the right place at the right time.

Each aspect has required great vision, careful planning, and the dedication of leaders and lay members alike, to make possible the realization of the objectives of the plan insofar as this has been achieved.

It is true that production cannot be fully understood apart from distribution, a quick look at the means of producing the tremendous welfare budget will give meaning to the method of making the materials available to the bishops to meet the needs of their people.

1. Production

Every ward and stake has been advised and urged to secure means of producing in quantity the commodities their area can most naturally supply. They are encouraged to purchase farms, to produce hay and grain, to acquire cattle, to set up dairies, develop meat-producing projects, or factories for processing food, or making clothing. In fact, they are encouraged to develop all kinds of projects that will contribute to the budget requirements as recommended by the General Church Welfare Committee.

The Church is set up into welfare regions. Each region is composed of a number of stakes. They are organized on the basis of geographical location and the commodities they are best prepared to produce. The wards and stakes are encouraged to develop projects that can best fit into the budget assignment of the region to which they belong. The productive power of the Welfare Program, in terms of farms, canneries, or industries, has made a remarkable growth in the twenty-eight years since it was organized.

76

LESSON DEPARTMENT

2. Distribution

There are two important parts of this heading; the first, how much is needed to meet the demands of all the wards in the Church; and, second, who is going to distribute the commodities? The two parts must be discussed together to have proper meaning.

The production of the welfare budget is, in reality, a miracle of cooperation. A budget is set up each year based on the actual usage of the previous year. Every bishop reports what he has used in assisting his members and on the basis of the past year's estimate, his need for the coming year.

Budget making in the Welfare Program is a perpetual thing. While the bishop is using one budget, another one is being produced, and a third one is being estimated.

The various regions of the Welfare Program produce as much of their own budget as possible, but, in their speciality, they produce a surplus which is available to the rest of the Church.

After the commodities have been produced, who actually gets them into the hands of those in need? This service demonstrates a very real function of the Church organization. The Welfare Program does not require a new set of officers to fulfill its function, but it requires a careful organization of officers whom the Lord set up in the beginning.

The heart of the care of the needy and the center of the distribution of commodities is in the hands of the bishop. He is the father of the ward and has a personal interest in every member. Support and assistance come from the Relief Society. The president of the Relief Society is a true social worker. Going into the homes of the needy, sick, and afflicted, under the direction of the bishop, after he has made a visit, she makes a realistic and practical study of the needs and the abilities of the family. This study becomes one basis for the help that the family will receive.

The Priesthood in each ward is organized to assist in the welfare of the members. The ward welfare committee includes the ward Priesthood executive committee (consisting of the bishopric, the high priest group leader, the seventies president or group leader, the elders president or group leader, the general secretary of the Aaronic Priesthood over twenty-one, and the general secretary of the Aaronic Priesthood under twenty-one), the Relief Society presidency and a ward clerk. This committee meets and reports the conditions of the ward membership as to sickness, unemployment, or any other conditions that would impair the spiritual, temporal, or intellectual well-being of the members of the ward. This committee is to see to it that suffering in any family of the Church membership is alleviated.

Through the bishop's order on the storehouse (usually one warehouse in each welfare region), the physical needs of the worthy members can be met. The bishop's storehouse has the commodities prepared by the many welfare projects throughout the Church and stored in this storehouse according to the budget needs of the bishops in the region.

Today, the functioning of the Priesthood through home teachers could meet the needs of mem-

77

JANUARY 1965

bers, including their spiritual, temporal, and intellectual welfare.

IN SUMMARY

The Welfare Program, though very briefly reviewed above, is an excellent example of the functioning of religious idealism. Much is said about being our brother's keeper, unselfishness, and the Golden Rule, but in the Welfare Program, we have a practical application of true brotherhood. This is expressed in the unified approach to resolving the problems of poverty, both spiritual and material, among Church members.

As long as the members have a desire to be self-supporting and are willing to do their best, then the Welfare Program provides the way for the quorum members to help their brothers without embarrassing them. Every project developed by wards or stakes presents a potential occupational opportunity for a member who is without employment. The unemployed person can join with others in a united effort to make the project successful. The needy person can spend as much time as he needs on a welfare project in order to care for his family. His quorum brethren work with him to establish him on a self-supporting basis. At the same time, the quorum members are constantly searching for permanent employment for their brother in an industry that will provide him with a greater opportunity to improve his economic situation.

By the united effort of all Church members in support of the welfare projects, work opportunities are made available, and the needs of a person can be met

in the time-honored method of personal effort.

Perhaps it should be emphasized here, at the conclusion of this lesson, that all Melchizedek Priesthood members will be encouraged to participate in activities pertaining to all phases of the Priesthood correlation program, including home teaching, genealogy, missionary, and welfare work. The quorums or groups will engage in all these activities as directed by their respective Priesthood committees of the high council and in concurrence and cooperation with the ward bishopric and the ward council. The members of each quorum will be responsible and report directly to their group leaders in all phases of Priesthood work.

However, the leadership of these Priesthood programs will be given to various groups. Thus, the leadership of the home teaching program rests with the bishopric working through and with the various Priesthood quorum and group leaders. The leadership for the genealogy program will be given to the high priests group, and the group leader will serve as the ward council adviser on genealogy. Similarly, leadership for missionary activities will be given to the seventies quorum or group in the ward, and the seventies leader in the ward will serve as the ward council adviser on missionary work. Under the direction of the bishopric, the elders quorum will be given the leadership for the Welfare Program, and the elders president or group leader will serve as the ward council adviser on welfare. However, the bishop will serve as chairman of the ward welfare

78

LESSON DEPARTMENT

committee and also serve as chairman of the ward council.

The more closely we work together in the Church, the more we can appreciate the qualities of each other. If our effort is an effort of unselfish service to our fellow men, love and understanding are our reward. The total result is the unity, the oneness, that the Savior said we must have if we are his.

THOUGHTS FOR DISCUSSION

1. What part or parts of the Church organization is or are responsible for the care of the poor?
2. In what kind of a welfare project have you participated?

3. What special responsibility for the temporal welfare of their members do Priesthood quorums have?
4. What important functions does the Relief Society perform in the care of the needy?
5. What is meant by the general welfare budget of the Church?
6. How does the Church provide an opportunity for work to the unemployed member?

REFERENCES

Welfare Plan, Handbook of Instruction
Melchizedek Priesthood Handbook
Widtsoe, John A.: Discourses of Brigham Young, Chapters, XXIV, XXVI.
Addresses: Delivered at the special welfare meeting held in the Salt Lake Tabernacle, April 5, 1949.

To an Eight-Year-Old

Dorothy J. Roberts

Isn't it ridiculous,
Your being so far away —
A river and a chain of hills
To part me from your play?

It is unbelievable,
A lake, a field of grain,
A desert and a row of elms
Can cause a year of pain.

Isn't it incongruous,
With jets to shrink the hours
That we are separated by
A line of gold sunflowers,

A duty and a dollar and
A cloud that may bring snow —
When I long to see you
And to hold you, so!

HAWAIIAN TOURS
February-May-July
14 days in the Islands,
7 days in the Outer Islands

OAKLAND AND
LOS ANGELES
January

For those who wish, there will be time
to go to the temples.

HILL CUMORAH
PAGEANT TOURS

There will be a 16 day, 24 day, 27
day, and 29 day tour arranged.

Esther James Tours
460 7th Avenue

Salt Lake City, Utah 84103

Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051

GENEALOGICAL RESEARCH TOUR TO GREAT BRITAIN

RESEARCHERS-on-the-SPOT Eleanor M. Hall, Secretary

157 N. State Street        Salt Lake City, Utah 84103        Phone 359-1679

For details see the Magazine for December 1964, page 957.

79

Birthday Congratulations

One Hundred One

Mrs. Mary Bohne
Cardston, Alberta, Canada

Mrs. Ann Eliza Allen Coombs
Centerville, Utah

Ninety-nine

Mrs. Elizabeth Jane Taylor McEntire
Rexburg, Idaho

Ninety-eight

Mrs. Mary Hegsted Rawson
Whittier, California

Mrs. Martha Platt
Salt Lake City, Utah

Mrs. Evelyn Cox Moffitt
Salt Lake City, Utah

Ninety-seven

Mrs. Ellen Johannah Larson Smith
Mesa, Arizona

Mrs. Sina C. H. Mortensen
Mesa, Arizona

Ninety-six

Miss Grace Ella Minot
St. Petersburg, Florida

Ninety-five

Mrs. Livinia Anderson Frankcom
Bountiful, Utah

Ninety-four

Mrs. Ella Belle Lawson Kitto
Little Rock, Arkansas

Ninety-three

Mrs. Mary Amy Newbold Crombie
Denver, Colorado

Mrs. Abbie Jane Moyer Willden
Price, Utah

Mrs. Frances Lathrop Lebo
Bakersfield, California

Miss Agnes Wailes
Salt Lake City, Utah

Mrs. Loretta Tucker Johnson
Berkeley, California

Ninety-two

Mrs. Eliza Jane Rideout Dyson
Hooper, Utah

Mrs. Dorteah Larson Peterson
Salt Lake City, Utah

Ninety-one

Mrs. Rose Varney
American Fork, Utah

Miss Marian Marie Anderson
Salt Lake City, Utah

Mrs. Margaret Reynolds
Yucaipa, California

Mrs. Emily F. Smith
Preston, Idaho

Mrs. Della M. Chadwick
Preston, Idaho

Miss Ruth Lewis
Salt Lake City, Utah

Mrs. Alma Gertrude Watson McGregor
Provo, Utah

Mrs. Emma Ovard Chase
Salt Lake City, Utah

Mrs. Maria Elizabeth Christensen
Gother, [?]
Sanford, Colorado

Mrs. Zerviah S. Greene Smith
Logan, Utah

Mrs. Lucy Cornford Mount
Toronto, Ontario, Canada

Ninety

Mrs. Fanny Thompson
Salt Lake City, Utah

Mrs. Martine Larsen Schenk
Bancroft, Idaho

Mrs. Jucy Baird Jacob Winterton
Charleston, Utah

Mrs. Carola Schlatter Wurzbach
Fullerton, California

Miss Anna Rasmusson
Salt Lake City, Utah

Mrs. Susan Parker Bues
Hooper, Utah

Mrs. Artimesia Snow Seegmiller
Stewart
Les Vegas, Nevada

Mrs. Josephine Hansen Halliday
Salt Lake City, Utah

Miss Charlotte Knapp
Moroni, Utah

80
