[Vol52 | January 1965 | Page 58 | Lesson | Theology — The One Mighty and Strong Roy W. Doxey :" | ]
[Theology — The One Mighty and Strong Roy W. Doxey :"]
[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a woman holding an open book with one hand raised]

Lesson Department

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a woman holding an open book with one hand raised]

THEOLOGY The Doctrine and Covenants

Elder Roy W. Doxey

Lesson 63 — The One Mighty and Strong
(Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 85)

For First Meeting, April 1965

Objective: To recognize the importance of adhering to the revelations of the Lord and how claim to office may be tested.

INTRODUCTION

By commandment, William W. Phelps was promised certain blessings after his baptism. (Section 55.) At this early period (June 1831) he was given the assignment to travel with the Prophet Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon to Independence, Missouri, where he was to engage in the printing business. (Verses 4-5.) At the time the Prophet wrote to him (November 27, 1832) about conditions in Missouri, he was editor and printer of the Evening and Morning Star, the first periodical published by the Church. Brother Phelps was also an assistant to Bishop Edward Partridge. In reply to a letter from him, the Prophet, already concerned about the welfare of the saints in Missouri, gave instructions regarding the allotting of inheritances to the saints. Matters of great weight rested upon the Prophet's mind and by inspiration he sensed the feelings of Brother Phelps in these words:

... My God, great and mighty art Thou, therefore show unto Thy servant what shall become of those who are essaying to come up unto Zion, in order to keep the commandments of God, and yet receive not their inheritance by consecrations, by order of deed from the Bishop, the man that God has appointed in a legal way, agreeably to the law given to organize and regulate the Church, and all the affairs of the same (DHC 1:298).

Then, revealing the source of his own feelings toward Brother Phelps, the Prophet wrote:

Brother William, in the love of God, having the most implicit confidence in you as a man of God, having obtained this confidence by a vision of heaven,

58

LESSON DEPARTMENT

therefore I will proceed to unfold to you some of the feelings of my heart, and to answer the question (Ibid.).

LETTERS AS REVELATIONS

From this letter of November 27, 1832, we have received Section 85 of the Doctrine and Covenants. (DHC 1:298-299.) Historically, there are many examples of letters becoming scripture as the writer was inspired to pen words of admonition, encouragement, and commandment. The apostle Paul indicated that his knowledge of the gospel of Jesus Christ was received not from men, but from the Lord, the Giver of revelation. (Galatians 1:11-12.) Christian scripture consists of many letters written to branches of the Church and to individuals during the New Testament period. (Romans, Corinthians, Galatians, Colossians, Timothy, etc.) The apostles Peter and John have also contributed scripture in the form of letters. In The Book of Mormon we have the letter of Mormon to his son Moroni that explains the doctrine of the atonement as it relates to little children. (Moroni 8.) Subsequent sections in the Doctrine and Covenants also come from letters. (Sections 121, 122, 123, 127, 128.)

CHURCH RECORD TO BE KEPT

Important instructions were given to the "Lord's clerk" in Zion (Missouri) regarding the keeping of a faithful record. Under the law of consecration the steward was required to manage his inheritance (stewardship), not only for his own welfare but also for the general purposes of the Church. Records were to be kept of those who consecrated their property and of the stewardships received. (D&C 85:1.) The following verse of the revelation describes somewhat the nature of some of our records of today: "And also their manner of life, their faith, and works. . . ." In that day those who came to Zion and did not consecrate, and, consequently, did not receive an inheritance, were considered unfaithful to their covenants. A penalty for these and also those who had apostatized after receiving their inheritance was not to have their names enrolled with the faithful. (Verses 2-3.)

BOOK OF LIFE

An accurate record of acts is maintained in the heavens comparable with the recordings made in the "book of the law of God" (see D&C 85:1-5) kept by the Lord's clerk on the earth. In a later revelation, the Lord emphasized the necessity for keeping accurate records that there might be agreement with the "book of life" which is kept in heaven. (Ibid., 128:7.) In the New Testament period, John the Revelator explained that all things shall be inherited by the faithful, while the disobedient shall not enter into the abode of God.

And there shall in no wise enter into it any thing that defileth, neither whatsoever worketh abomination, or maketh a lie: but they which are written in the Lamb's book of life (Revelation 21:27).

The Lamb's book of life is the book of life kept in the heavens.

PRESENT APPLICATION

In 1832 and as long as the law of consecration was in force, the

59

JANUARY 1965

Lord intended that his saints would prepare themselves against the day of burning when the Savior would come in flaming fire taking vengeance upon those who were not keeping his commandments. (D&C 85:7-8.) This message is similar to the promise that the same judgment would come to those who would not tithe:

Behold, now it is called today until the coming of the Son of Man, and verily it is a day of sacrifice, and a day for the tithing of my people; for he that is tithed shall not be burned at his coming.

For after today cometh the burning—this is speaking after the manner of the Lord—for verily I say, tomorrow all the proud and they that do wickedly shall be as stubble; and I will burn them up, for I am the Lord of Hosts; and I will not spare any that remain in Babylon.

Wherefore, if ye believe me, ye will labor while it is called today (D&C 64:23-25).

It is apparent from the discussion about the book of life and its purpose, that the inheritance of the saints in the future life will be determined by their faithfulness. In the annual conference of 1900, speakers mentioned this subject and also applied Section 85 to conditions as they are now. The law of consecration in force in 1832 is not required of the saints today, but every member of the Church is under obligation to keep the commandments, among which is the law of tithing. By commandment, a faithful record is kept of the non-tithe payers as well as of those who pay tithing. In the language of Elder Rudger Clawson:

... The lines are being drawn. It must be known to the authorities of

this Church and to the people who are faithful and who are not faithful. God requires it and it must be recorded, for the reason plainly set forth in the revelation, that those whose names are not found recorded in the book of the law of God shall have no inheritance in Zion in that day when our eternal inheritance shall be divided out to us (Conference Report, April 1900, page 44).

"THE STILL SMALL VOICE"

There are various means by which the Lord communicates with his children and, especially, the prophets. In the Doctrine and Covenants there are many forms of revelation noted: for example, the visitation of heavenly beings, Section 27; by vision, as Section 76; the use of the Urim and Thummim, as Sections 3, 6, 7, 11; inspiration, Sections 8, 20 and 21, and other ways.

We come now to another method of revelation — the Lord speaking into the mind. An example is Enos, who, while struggling in the spirit said: "behold, the voice of the Lord came into my mind again . . ." (B. of M., Enos 10). Jeremiah experienced revelation in this same way. (Jeremiah 1:4, 11, 13.)

One of the notable experiences of the Prophet Joseph Smith in receiving revelation is found in Section 85, as follows:

Yea, thus saith the still small voice, which whispereth through and pierceth all things, and often times it maketh my bones to quake while it maketh manifest . . . (Verse 6).

Nephi, in calling his wayward brothers to repentance, reminded them of the times when an angel "hath spoken unto you in a still small voice, but ye were past feeling, that ye could not feel his

60

JANUARY 1965

their children, enrolled in the book of the law of God:
While that man, who was called of God and appointed, that putteth forth his hand to steady the ark of God, shall fall by the shaft of death, like as a tree that is smitten by the vivid shaft of lightning (D&C 85:7-8).

In their explanation of these verses, the First Presidency set forth these ideas:
1. Conditions of jealousy, pride, unbelief, and hardness of heart prevailed among the brethren in Missouri. (Ibid., 84:54-58, 76.) Bishop Edward Partridge was a party to this condition, resulting in the foregoing revelation being received.
2. Bishop Partridge and most of the saints in Missouri partially repented, although in March 1833, the Lord declared that he was not well pleased with the bishop. Eight years later he died due to persecution in Missouri, forgiven of the Lord.

Who shall say that his repentance, his sacrifices, his sufferings and faithfulness did not procure for him a mitigation of the severe judgment decreed against him in the revelation contained in the eighty-fifth section of the Doctrine and Covenants? At any rate, the Lord said, some three years later, that he was well pleased with Bishop Partridge (Improvement Era 10:938-939; see also DHC II:302-303).

3. Bishop Partridge was the man referred to in the revelation who should fall by the shaft of death, if he did not repent. (D&C 85:8.)
4. If Bishop Partridge had not repented, the Lord would have appointed "one mighty and strong" to take his place; therefore, the First Presidency considered "the whole incident of the prophecy closed" (Improvement Era 10:940).

BISHOP EDWARD PARTRIDGE

Bishop Edward Partridge was called to the bishopric February 4, 1831 (D&C 41:9), and at that time the Lord referred to him as "like unto Nathanael of old." Before this, he was a member of the Campbellites and joined the Church in December 1830. During the severe persecution of the saints in Missouri, due partly to their failure to keep the commandments of the Lord, he "acted a most noble, and self-sacrificing part, and bore many indignities with the greatest patience." Partly stripped of his clothing, the bishop was taken to the public square in Independence, Missouri, because he would not denounce The Book of Mormon and he was tarred and feathered, as the mob jeered. Later, he with five others, offered themselves as ransom for the Church even to be scourged and put to death, if that would stop the inhuman cruelties heaped upon the saints by the Missourians. Later, he assisted the saints in their drivings from Missouri, and assisted in their location in Illinois. On May 27, 1840, Bishop Partridge died in Nauvoo, accepted of the Lord.

AN ALTERNATIVE

From this revelation, there is no escape from the definite teaching of the Lord on how his servants are to be appointed. President Joseph F. Smith and his Counselors drew attention to the important truth that if there was ever a need for the "one mighty and strong" he would have to occupy the same position as Bishop Part-

62
