[Vol52 | January 1965 | Page 1 | Special Feature | New Year's Greetings | General Presidency]
[New Year's Greetings General Presidency]

New Year's Greetings

To each of you, each loved and loving sister, the General Board of Relief Society extends our warmest wishes for a joyous New Year. We acknowledge with gratitude your valued contributions to the success which has attended the work of Relief Society this past year and your support of its programs. Our prayer is that you have received benefit, your life has been blessed, your happiness increased, and your knowledge expanded.

As the old calendar comes down, the year 1964 becomes history. One last look at the calendar pages reveals much that is worth remembering, many days to be treasured and, perhaps, some that brought sorrow. Good memories remain to bring a glow to living. Rewarding growth, both spiritual and mental, becomes evident in an evaluation of a year's activities. Some of the past year may be what Emily Dickinson would call an "amethyst remembrance," jewel bright, with a touch of nostalgia and a whisper of melancholy among its beauties.

"The past is prologue" Shakespeare elucidates. That which has gone before, the prefatory act upon which what will come is based, may make the future better if wisdom is gained and judgment attained.

The new calendar goes up. Twelve new pages appear marked off into 365 days, each of which is full of promise, offering precious time to learn, to do, to achieve. They offer opportunities to give, to serve, to receive, to extend the mind, to enlarge the soul, to fulfill in fuller measure potentialities of character.

The new year lies ahead, a pathway to tomorrow. It is well to walk this path with faith. It is wise to observe the guideposts along the way. It is good to walk in the company of family and friends, all with the same worthy destination. It is joyous, indeed, to take the path that Jesus trod and follow in his footsteps.

May 1965 bring you greater happiness, finer accomplishment, and more dedicated devotion to the gospel. Our sincere love bears our greetings.

Affectionately,

Belle S. Spafford
Marianne C. Sharp
Louise Y. Madsen

From Near and Far

Once a month The Relief Society Magazine comes to my door.
It brings me joy and happiness,
and even more,
It gives good thoughts
the whole day through
And lifts my spirits when things
go wrong,
As they sometimes do.
So let us read the Magazine,
and I pray
Our testimonies will be strengthened
day by day.
                    Donna Chadburn
                    Roy, Utah

I am a missionary serving in the Southwest Indian Mission. When we give the Magazine to our contacts they thoroughly enjoy it, and it is a great help to us in our work. There was a young Hopi lady who was burned very badly and had to stay in the hospital several months. Although she wasn't a member, we gave her several issues of the Magazine to read. On our return visit, she was just bubbling over with enthusiasm, and she showed us the stories and articles she had enjoyed so much. The happiness and warmth of the Magazine had helped to cheer her spirits and fill the long hours.
                    Eva Kaye Bonner
                    Tuba City, Arizona

This is the second year now that some kind and generous people have given me a year's subscription to the Magazine. I feel so very grateful for these people, even though I do not know whom to thank. I feel a bond of closeness to all the wonderful missionaries who come over here and bring the gospel into our midst. From the bottom of my heart thanks a lot. I just love to receive the Magazine. It has such a store of knowledge in its pages for us all.
                    Joyce E. Ward
                    Rockhampton
                    Queensland
                    Australia

Although I am not a woman, and, in fact, have very little to do with the Relief Society, yet I would like to tell you how the Relief Society helps me.
I am a missionary in the Alaskan-Canadian Mission. Up here many of the people are not familiar with the Church and its organizations. The Magazine is an interesting, as well as practical way, for the people to see the Church from the inside. It is a great aid to our missionary labors.
                    Elder Tom Welch
                    Juneau, Alaska

I have just received my first copy of our delightful Magazine. As a very recent convert, I am so pleased to have a source available that is both instructional and entertaining. I have so much to learn, but I am sure the Magazine will help me to gain knowledge of our wonderful Church, and also give me practical help. I may yet learn to be a decent cook!
                    Mrs. Barbara A. Ezell
                    Santa Monica, California

I cannot tell you in words how much I enjoy the wonderful stories and lessons in the Magazine. I have taken the Magazine for seven years, and haven't missed reading it from cover to cover within a few days after its arrival. I wish that all married women could have this book in their homes, then perhaps their troubles would not seem so big and important if they had the Magazine to live by and be guided by.
                    Mrs. Evan Coon
                    Erda, Utah

As far back as I can remember the Magazine has been a part of my life. In addition to being an inspiration in our home, it has also been a real help in preparing short talks for the various meetings we attend. I especially enjoy the poetry and have added many of the poems to my personal collection.
                    —Mrs. Cristel Nielson Sagers
                    Lynndyl, Utah

2

The Relief Society Magazine

Volume 51    December 1964    Number 12

Editor   Marianne C Sharp    Associate Editor   Vesta P. Crawford
General Manager   Belle S. Spafford

Special Features
1   New Year's Greetings    General Presidency
4   The Relief Society Organization by Revelation    Joseph Fielding Smith
7   Place of Mothers in the Plan of Teaching the Gospel in the Home    Harold B. Lee
21  Award Winners — Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest
22  Wind Valley — First Prize Poem    Lenora Hansen
23  Progeny — Second Prize Poem    Pearle M. Olsen
24  Love's Gifts — Third Prize Poem    Lila Bennett Spencer
26  Award Winners — Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest
27  Heart Room — First Prize Story    Venda Brown Castleberry
36  The 1965 March of Dimes    George P. Voss

Fiction
38  Wait Up For Me, Jenny    Sara O. Moss
45  Turn of the Wheel — Chapter 4    Mabel Harmer

General Features
2   From Near and Far
34  Editorial: The Morning of the New Year    Vesta P. Crawford
36  Notes to the Field: Bound Volumes of 1964 Magazines
37  Woman's Sphere    Ramona W. Cannon
44  Laura L. Christensen — Winner of Blue Ribbons
51  Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities
80  Birthday Congratulations

Lessons for April
58  Theology — The One Mighty and Strong    Roy W. Doxey
63  Visiting Teacher Message — "For They Shall be Judged. . ."    Christine H. Robinson
65  Work Meeting — "Faith, If It Hath Not Works, Is Dead"    Alberta H. Christensen
69  Literature — Exploring Right and Wrong Attitudes Through Literature — Part III    Bruce B. Clark
74  Social Science — The Church Welfare Program    Ariel S. Ballif

Poetry
Snow at Night, by Christie Lund Coles, 6; Old Year, New Year, by Norma Wrathall, 6; Pine Roots and Irritations, by Mabel Jones Gabbott, 20; Mothering in Nazareth, by Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 20; Rosalie, by Evelyn Fieldsted, 33; To an Eight-Year-Old, by Dorothy J. Roberts, 79.

The Cover: Silent Brook, Near Spring City, Utah, by Lucien Bown, lithographed in full color by Deseret News Press; Frontispiece: Winter in Wasatch Mountains, by L. Paul Roberts; Art Layout by Dick Scopes; Illustrations by Mary Scopes.

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1964 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone EMpire 4-2511. Subscription 2642. Editorial Dept. 2394. Subscription: Price $2.00 a year, foreign, $2.20 a year, 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.
