[Vol52 | January 1965 | Page 26 | Special Feature | Award Winners — Annual Relief Society Short | Story Contest]
[Award Winners — Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest]
The Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the award winners in the Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest, which was announced in the May 1964 issue of the Magazine, and which closed August 15, 1964. The first prize of seventy-five dollars is awarded to Venda Brown Castleberry, Provo, Utah, for her story ''Heart Room.'' The second prize of sixty dollars is awarded to Lael J. Littke, Monterey Park, California, for her story ''Among Strangers.'' The third prize of fifty dollars is awarded to Norma A. Wrathall, Sunnyvale, California, for her story ''A Doll for Emarita.''. The Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest was first conducted by the Relief Society General Board in 1942, as a feature of the Relief Society Centennial observance, and was made an annual contest in 1943. The contest is open to Latter-day Saint women who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication in a periodical of recognized merit. The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1965. Fifty-five stories were entered in the contest for 1964, including submissions from Canada, Australia, England, and Wales. Mrs. Castleberry is a firsttime winner in the contest; Mrs. Littke is represented for the second time; and Mrs. Wrathall is a fourth-time winner. The contest was initiated to encourage Latter-day Saint women to express themselves in the field of fiction. The General Board feels that the response to this opportunity continues to increase the literary quality of The Relief Society Magazine and aids the women of the Church in the development of their gifts in creative writing. This year's submissions were of an excellent quality. Prize-winning stories are the property of the General Board of Relief Society and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest.