[Vol52 | January 1965 | Page 69 | Lesson | Literature — Exploring Right and Wrong Attitudes Through Literature — Part III Bruce | B. Clark]

LESSON DEPARTMENT

of the Savior "Search the scriptures; for in them ye think ye have eternal life: and they are they which testify of me" (John 5:39).

In this day of skepticism and material interests, there are some to whom one memory of their youth is a cherished heritage — evenings at home, with father or mother reading from the scriptures, the children listening attentively. Surely a return to this practice will be an enriching experience for today's child, who has a challenging and doubting world to meet.

THOUGHTS FOR DISCUSSION

1. Is a reading of the scriptures one of your unrealized objectives?

2. What schedule adjustment would you need to make were you Sister A?

3. What schedule adjustment would you consider feasible, were you Sister B?

4. What schedule adjustment would you suggest for a mother with several very young children?

5. Is one more likely to carry out an activity if she makes a written or verbal commitment than if she merely makes a mental resolve? Discuss.

6. Am I a doer of the word or a believer, only?

LITERATURE The Individual and Human Values
         As Seen Through Literature

Dr. Bruce B. Clark

Lesson 7 — Exploring Right and Wrong Attitudes Through Literature — Part III
                                For Third Meeting, April 1965

Objective: To show how literature exposes the waste of self-righteousness and hypocrisy, and affirms the worth of genuine righteousness and sincerity.

THE lesson for this month is closely related in purpose to the one for last month. Again we explore several significant selections to see how literature exposes evil and defends goodness. However, whereas last month we studied four short stories, this month we examine five poems; and whereas last month the focus was on selfishness in relation to unselfishness, this month the focus is on self-righteousness and hypocrisy in relation to genuine righteousness and sincerity.

Obviously these are very broad subjects. Thousands of works, great and small, have touched upon them, and the five short selections we are examining are more

69

LESSON DEPARTMENT

and who spend their time talking about their neighbor's faults and follies. I should like to speak, says Burns, in defense of all the poor mortals who often act unwisely and make mistakes. You look at them, he continues, and think at how weak and sinful they are compared with your strength and purity. But is the difference that great? Are you flawless—or just better at hiding? Also, you may now be grown up and beyond the temptations that "galloped" in your veins when you were young, but have you forgotten? Besides, maybe you're not any temptation. Therefore, look on men, and even more gently on women. Although they may do a little wrong, do not condemn them. Above all, consider not merely what they have done but why. God alone has the power to look into a human heart to judge actions and motives and regrets. He alone knows not only what one has done and why but what one has "resisted doing and why." Man's responsibility is to forgive; only God, and his specially appointed representatives, have authority to judge.

All of this is what "Address to the Unco Guid" says. But the poem is better than the paraphrase, as poems always are.

Comment on "About Ben Adhem." As a brief conclusion focusing on the central subject of this lesson, we include Leigh Hunt's little poem "About Ben Adhem." Although not one of the great writers, Hunt (1784-1859) is an important second-level English poet and critic of the Romantic Age. This famous short poem, stressing the importance of unselfish brotherly love, is simple in wording and openly clear in message:

Abou Ben Adhem, may his tribe increase!
Awoke one night from a deep dream of peace,
And saw, within the moonlight in his room,
Making it rich, and like a lily in bloom,
An angel writing in a book of gold:—

Exceeding peace had made Ben Adhem bold,
And to the presence in the room he said,
"What writest thou?"—The vision raised its head,
And with a look made of all sweet accord,
Answered, "The names of those who love the Lord."
"And is mine one?" said Abou.
"Nay, not so,"
Replied the angel. Abou spoke more low,
But cheerly still; and said, "I pray thee then,
Write me as one that loves his fellow-men."

The angel wrote, and vanished.
The next night
It came again with a great wakening light,
And showed the names whom love of God had blessed,
And lo! Ben Adhem's name led all the rest.

THOUGHTS AND QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION

1. Identify as extensively and specifically as possible the various sins of attitude and behavior exposed by Browning and Burns in "Johannes Agricola in Meditation," "Soliloquy of the Spanish Cloister," "A Man's a Man for A' That," and "Address to the Unco Guid or the Rigidly Righteous."

2. Then identify as extensively and specifically as possible the good quali-

73
