[Vol52 | January 1965 | Page 21 | Special Feature | Award Winners — Eliza R. Snow | Poem Contest]
is awarded to Lenora Hansen, Snowflake, Arizona, for her poem ''Wind Valley."" The second prize of thirty dollars is awarded to Pearle M. Olsen, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her poem ''Progeny."' The third prize of twenty dollars is awarded to Lila Bennet Spencer, Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, Canada, for her poem ''Love's Gifts."' This poem contest has been conducted annually by the Relief Society General Board since 1924, in honor of Eliza R. Snow, second General President of Relief Society, a gifted poet and inspirational leader. January was her birth month. The contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, and is designed to encourage poetry writing and to increase appreciation for creative writing and the beauty and value of poetry. Prize-winning poems are the property of the General Board of Relief Society, and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission awartl winners of the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest.

All of the award winners in the 1964 Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest are firsttime winners, and Mrs. Hansen and Mrs. Spencer represent localities not previously listed as home cities of award-winning poets. The General Board is pleased to note that the poem contest is thus receiving a wider interest and a wider geographical representation. Two hundred eighty poems were entered in the 1964 poem contest, thirtyone States of the United States, and six other countries being represented. The largest number of entries came from Utah, California, Idaho, Arizona, Washington, lowa, Wyoming, Michigan, and Texas, in that order. Scotland, England, Canada, New Zealand, Australia, and Germany were the countries outside Continental United States which were listed as the homelands of the authors. The General Board congratulates the prize winners and expresses appreciation to all entrants for their interest in the contest. The General Board wishes also to thank the judges for their care and diligence in selecting the prizewinning poems. The services of the poetry committee of the General Board are very much appreciated. The prize-winning poems, together with photographs and brief highlights on the prize-winning contestants, are published in this issue of the Magazine.