[Vol52 | January 1965 | Page 44 | General Feature | Laura L. Christensen — Winner of | Blue Ribbons]
Laura L. Christensen —Winner of Blue Ribbons Laura Lorentzen Christensen, Moore, Idaho, has been an exhibitor at the Eastern Idaho State Fair since 1910, and has received 135 blue ribbons as awards for her dressmaking, tailoring, and many varieties of handwork. For fourteen years she served as supervisor of the needlework department at the Eastern Idaho State Fair. She is adept with the crochet hook, knitting needles, and paint brush. She makes many of her own designs and has developed a method of making hats and bags from iris leaves. She has made afghans and pillows from men's ties, dressed dolls for table decorations, has done leather tooling, has made a rug and a handbag from plastic bags; she has embroidered wool tapestries for wall hangings, and has made corsages from wood fiber, and hats of velvet, feathers, crepe paper, fur, and wool. She has tailored many suits for women, using materials cut from men's discarded suits, and has hand-sewed fifteen beautiful United States flags. In working with fur, she has made hats, caps, and capes from old coats. For many years Sister Christensen served Relief Society as stake work director, and, later, as president of Lost River Stake Relief Society. She is mother to ten children, grandmother to fifty-three, and great-grandmother to nine. ''Never an idle moment' has been the motto of her life. 44 CHAPTER 4 Synopsis: Elsa Brienholt leaves her native Heidelberg for America. At the Station she is bade goodbye by her mother and younger sister, Maria, as well as by Karl Ernst, a Church member who has recently come from Munich. In Salt Lake City, Elsa is met by the parents of Clay Knowlton, a member of the United States Armed Forces stationed in Heidelberg, who are sponsoring her. TuHE Knowltons drove through the downtown - Streets to give Elsa her first view of the city, and then out to their home in the southeast. The mountains seemed so close it looked as if she could almost reach out and _ touch them. They also looked extremely high and rugged. At the house she was welcomed by fourteen-year-old Jean, and Burt, just turned seventeen. They were full of questions about their brother, whom they had not seen Mabel Harmer now for more than a year. Elsa had the feeling that they thought _ there was something more serious between her and Clay than was actually the case. She wished that she knew just what to do about it, but decided she couldn't very well say, "Now, look here. J am not engaged to marry your brother. I probably never shal] be." Burt at once constituted himself her escort and stand-in for his absent brother, "There's a dance in the ward tonight," he said. "Wouldn't you like to go?" "Thank you very much," she said, "but, after riding on a bus for three nights I can't think of a more inviting place to go than to bed." "I guess you're right," he agreed. 'Well, there'l] be others.

I told Clay that I'd look 


 after you. Anyway, tomorrow is Saturday and no school, so we can go someplace. Do you like football?" "I don't know. What is it?" "Boy! Didn't you ever see a football game? That will be the ticket!" It was indeed the '"'ticket'' as far as Elsa was concerned. The cheering and wild enthusiasm from both sides of the stadium were something she never could have imagined. Burt tried to explain something of the intricacies of the game, but without too much success. She had no difficulty, however, in mastering a "hot dog' and, on the whole, found the afternoon highly exciting and enjoyable. That evening Barbara Wilkins, from next door, came over to get acquainted. When they talked about Clay, Elsa couldn't help but notice the girl's heightened color and interest. She wondered how much, if anything, there was between them. Clay had never mentioned a girl back home who meant anything special to him, but that didn't mean _ there couldn't be one. THE next day Elsa went with the Knowltons to church. What a difference there was in the several hundred people in this ward and the few dozen at home! Everyone was very cordial, however, and made her most welcome. On the whole, she decided that she rather enjoyed the larger crowd. She was very anxious to find work and wanted to start looking on Monday morning. Mrs. Knowlton tried to persuade her to wait for a few days and get 46 acquainted with the city, but Elsa replied, ""No, I may get homesick if I don't get busy. And that will never do at this distance. The only way I could get back now would be by walking and swimming." Since her only experience had been as a saleswoman, she went to several downtown stores and registered. The only encouragement she could get was for work after Thanksgiving, when the holiday buying would begin, and that might be only temporary. Thanksgiving was a whole month away. She simply had to find something to do before then. She couldn't impose upon the hospitality of the Knowltons much longer, although they were doing everything in their power to make her feel welcome. She knew that she could go up to her uncle's home in Idaho and, indeed, there was already an invitation to spend Thanksgiving with them, but she wanted very much to stay in Salt Lake City. "And I _ will," she resolved. "There is certainly something I can do." It was not long before she began to suspect that there was something more to Burt's constant offers of escort than an order from Clay to "look after you." She knew, as any girl would, without undue _ vanity, that she was very pretty — had often been called beautiful. She knew, also, that a seventeen-yearold youth could be very impressionable, and it gave her additional reason for wanting to move away. She decided that, if nothing else showed up, she would have to take housework. It was the last thing she wanted, since she would have to be so much alone and not be able to make the contacts she had hoped for. But it might have to do for a while, anyway. She decided not to go to any more games or even to MIA with Burt, unless others of the family were along. Several times he had said, "As soon as there is enough snow in the mountains I'm going to take you skiing." "But, I can't! I've never been on a pair of skis in my life," Elsa protested. "So what? Did you think the rest of us were born wearing them? There's really nothing to it. You work on the bunny slopes for a few times and then zoom! You ride the ski lift up the mountainside and come zipping down." "Unless you catch your ski on a loose root, or hit a big rock," said Jean. "Then you zip right headfirst into six feet of snow. But it's worth it. Unless you break a leg, of course. Lots of people do. I never have." "I'm sure it must be worth the risk," Elsa agreed. "Sometime when I feel that I can take a few weeks off to nurture a broken limb I'll give it a try." "You can't wait that long," said Burt, "fon account of that time never comes. You have to dare and do. Anyway, no one breaks legs any more — much." HIE was so insistent that she decided to go, thinking that Jean would also be along. It turned out, however, that she would have to use Jean's togs and skis. "Oh, I wouldn't think of doing that!" she exclaimed.