[Vol52 | January 1965 | Page 63 | Lesson | Visiting Teacher Message — "For They Shall be Judged. . . ." Christine H. Robinson * | ]
[Italics by writer.]

LESSON DEPARTMENT

ridge — the Presiding Bishop. It would be that bishop's duty in future, under the law of consecration, to "arrange by lot the inheritances of the Saints." (D&C 57:7, 15; 58:14, 17; 85:7.) Furthermore, that bishop would have to be called in the Lord's way, and not as men might wish to make their own rules. The order of calling Priesthood officers was established early in the dispensation. With the restoration of the Priesthood, it was stated that authority is necessary to call men into the Lord's service. Before this, Hyrum Smith was told that he was not to preach the gospel until he had been called. (Ibid., 11:15.) In the revelation on organizing the Church, Priesthood officers were to be appointed and ordained. (Ibid., 20:2-3, 38-39, 60.) Moreover, they were to be approved by a vote of the Church in appointed meetings. (Verses 61-65.) These steps are necessary to receive the approval of the Lord: (1) a call by revelation or authority; (2) approval of the members of the Church; and (3) an ordination by one who has the authority. These steps were indicated later, as noted above, to validate the call of the President of the Church. (Ibid., 28:2-7; 43:2-4.) The Presiding Bishop as all officers in the Church, is no exception as witnessed by the instruction concerning the appointment of Bishop Edward Partridge:

And again, I have called my servant Edward Partridge; and I give a commandment, that he should be appointed by the voice of the church, and ordained a bishop unto the church, to leave his merchandise and to spend all his time in the labors of the church;

To see to all things as it shall be appointed unto him in my laws in the day that I shall give them (Ibid., 41:9-10). [Italics by writer.]

Future bishops unto the Church will receive their appointment in the same manner. The Lord declares that there can be no exception.

Pretenders to Church office or to the rights and privileges of the Church have arisen and will probably continue to arise occasionally; therefore, it behooves Latter-day Saints to be aware of the foregoing keys against deception. In concluding their message on this revelation (Section 85), President Joseph F. Smith and his Counselors wrote in 1907:

... we would say that the Latter-day Saints by this time, should be so well settled in the conviction that God has established his Church in the earth for the last time, to remain, and no more to be thrown down, or destroyed; and that God's house is a house of order, of law, of regularity, that erratic disturbers of that order of men ... ought not to have any influence with them, nor ought the Saints to be disturbed in their spirit by such characters and their theories. The Church of Christ is with the Saints. It has committed to it the law of God for its own government and perpetuation. It possesses every means for the correction of every wrong or abuse or error which may from time to time arise, and that without anarchy, or even revolution; it can do it by process of evolution — by development, by an increase of knowledge, wisdom, patience and charity (Improvement Era 10:942).

NO INHERITANCES FOR SOME

The remaining verses of Section 85 re-affirm, with emphasis, that the unfaithful members of the Church not having their names recorded in the book of the law will not obtain an inheri-

63

JANUARY 1965

tance, but their lot will be found among the unbelievers where there are wailing and gnashing of teeth. (Verses 9-11.) The consequences of disobedience are serious indeed when one considers the penalty imposed upon the children of the priest. (Ezra 2:61-63.) They shall be cut off from the ordinances of the house of the Lord, and from their fathers who are dead and who were faithful. The separation of fathers, mothers, and children in eternity with the loss of eternal life, is far more serious than some members of the Church are prone to consider. President Joseph F. Smith in discussing this matter was emphatic, as brought out in this lesson, that Section 85 not

only has reference to the law of consecration but also to the law of tithing because it took the place of the former law. (Conference Report, October 1899, page 42.)

QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION

1. Tell what circumstances brought forth Section 85.
2. Why would you believe that letters can be scripture?
3. What relationship is there between the book of life and the book of the law?
4. Discuss: Section 85 is a commandment to observe the law of tithing.
5. What is the still small voice and who may enjoy its promptings?
6. What does the Lord say in Section 85 about the penalty of disobedience to his commandments?

VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE
Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants

Christine H. Robinson

Message 63 — "For They Shall Be Judged According to Their Works, and Every Man Shall Receive According to His Own Works . . ."
(D&C 76:111).

For First Meeting, April 1965

Objective: To be counted worthy and to receive the commendation of the Lord, our lives must be filled with fruitful actions.

ONE of the most clearly established facts outlined in the scriptures is that men shall be judged by their works. Both ancient and modern scriptures are replete with statements supporting this fact. The Savior in his parables and in his sermons frequently stressed the importance of performing good works. He said, "Ye

64
