The seminaries carry forward the weekday religious training that formerly ended with the sixth grade in the public schools. What is the junior seminary? It is only Religion Class under a new name for grades 7, 8 and 9 of the public schools. Heretofore Religion Class work has ended with the eighth grade. We have had seminaries in the high schools, but there is an increase in the number of high schools. Most of the ninth grade students in Utah, as well as a large portion in Idaho, do not go to senior high school at all, and as we have been previously operating, there was in the ninth grade what one of our teachers called the tragic gap. In this city there are 25,000 junior high school students, few of whom our organizations are reaching, and so it was felt that if we can so organize that we can carry forward this work as effectively as ever, the Religion Class, by including the ninth grade, will be doing more than ever before.
We are trying to effect a junior seminary organization. That will begin where the Primary leaves off. One problem occurs where the children are taken to and from school in buses. How can we carry junior seminary work forward there? In certain stakes arrangements have been made for the children to be released from public school in time to get junior seminary training. Some schools report 100 per cent of the students in the junior seminary work. We go to the home and secure their support, without which we know in advance that we shall fail. The response from the homes has been most generous.
In the schools, pupils are taught that they must do their own thinking, that they are responsible for themselves. The young people are feeling that new freedom; therefore we must give them positive religious instruction if we are to hold them.
Senior seminary work comes in the high schools, under the supervision of paid teachers. Today we are serving 87 public institutions — 83 high school groups, and 4 college groups. As means will permit, this seminary work will extend until it reaches every high school and college, junior and senior, where our people attend in sufficient numbers to warrant the establishment of an institution.
President Robison's saying that there is nothing so dear to the heart of parents as the training of their children, is proved by the sacrifices the Latter-day Saints have made for it. May I read from a journal. A university president last June was addressing the graduating class at a baccalaureate service. Two thousand or more young people, ready to receive their degrees, were in the assembly. The president said:
"One reason that in educated communities today there is a weakening of the hold which the orthodox religions have on the thoughts and actions of those who are young and independent is the static and ritualistic conception of God and of His word, which those religions insist must be accepted. There are, however, unmistakable signs that the proportion of those who find spiritual enlightenment by blind obedience to vested authority is decreasing with great rapidity."
Your young people attending schools and colleges are reading this magazine. Teachers suggest these ideas and assign these topics for your young people to write essays about. There is in this country today a war upon established religion. The thing to do is to arm ourselves in advance. We have one university, six junior colleges, one academy — only eight schools now maintained in the Church; but we have the seminaries. These offer opportunities for weekday religious instruction for all of the young people they can possibly reach. We shall succeed in accomplishing this purpose only with your backing and help, and may you feel keenly alive to the necessity of supporting the Church educational program.
Prohibition Judge Oscar W. McConkie
On December 18, 1917, the Eighteenth Amendment was submitted to the States by Congress and on January 8, 1918, the first State, Mississippi, ratified it. Nebraska, the last of the first 36 states to approve, ratified on January 16, 1919, whereupon the Secretary of State, by proclamation, made January 29, 1919, caused that it should become effective one year from Nebraska's ratification, or on January 16, 1920. By February 25, 1919, 45 of the states had ratified and on March 9, 1922, New Jersey, the 46th, followed, leaving Connecticut and Rhode Island declining so to do.
The Votes of States and Nation
In a majority of cases the vote of the ratifying states was overwhelming. With the exception of four, New York, Maryland, Montana, and Nevada, the several states passed enforcement acts. With the view of creating machinery within the government for the Eighteenth Amendment's enforcement, in October, 1919, the Congress passed the Volstead Act. It was vetoed by President Wilson, but so strong was the congressional will that it was immediately passed over the President's veto by vote of 176 to 55 in the House and 65 to 20 in the Senate. At the time the Eighteenth Amendment was ratified twelve states were already bone dry, six by legislative enactment and six by popular vote, while 18 others had state-wide restrictions. All bone-dry laws had been passed after the beginning of the World War in 1914.
The express intention of the Eighteenth Amendment and the enactments that followed was to prohibit the manufacture, sale, barter, transportation, importation, exportation, delivery or furnishing of any intoxicating liquors, or the possession thereof, except under the provisions of the law, and the word "liquor" was defined to mean alcohol, brandy, whisky, rum, gin, beer, ale, porter, and wine, and other beverages containing one-half of one per cent or more of alcohol.
The Protest of Brewers
After the ratification of the Eighteenth Amendment, brewery interests retained Elihu Root to contest the law and Charles E. Hughes was chief counsel for the prohibition interests. The matter was fully considered and determined, but agitation did not stop there. With increased vigilance energies were renewed. Contrary to law, brewer corporations contributed financial aid to wet political organizations. But when the breaking down of constitutional law is the aim, the striking down of statutory law seems of small moment to him who rides thus shod. The appalling compensation of these and kindred efforts — together with the help of well meaning persons who have no apparent vision and but little understanding — is disrespect for not only this law but contempt for all law that does not meet individual approval.
Widespread Consumption of Alcoholic Drinks
The fact must not be ignored, also, that there are large numbers of intelligent and patriotic people who have both vision and understanding but who do not believe that the 18th Amendment is in harmony with the fundamentals of our government. Whatever the reason, it is a fact that many men and women in whom are reposed public trusts, daily violate the law. It is also true that in greater or less degree and in one form or another the use of alcohol has been almost world-old as an article of worldwide consumption. In far-apart countries peoples have used it. Grain, fruit, and milk have long furnished ingredients for its manufacture. Indeed it has been said that one must go to the Turks of Asia Minor or to the innermost recesses of the Sahara to find peoples who are free from it.
The Cost of Prohibition
The New York Times has made the claim that eight years of prohibition enforcement cost the government $177,716,000, at the same time pointing to the fact that during the same period only $38,390,889.36 was collected in fines and penalties. The government, it is said, profited $284,008,512.62 from liquor revenue during the eight years previous to 1918, and that from January 16, 1920, to October 31, 1927, 47 officers and 126 civilians were killed in the enforcement of the law.
The Cost of Crime
Without minimizing the loss of enforcement I refer you to an infinitely greater loss, of which loss the use of alcohol is admitted as one of the positive and approximate causes. In the United States there are 12,000 annual homicides, or more than 2,000 times as many as the number of officers killed in enforcing prohibition. Financial crimes cost approximately 250 times as much as the cost of prohibition enforcement. The loss of production on prisoners is two billion dollars annually. Between nine and ten billion dollars is our annual cost of crime. One million persons are annually committed to penal institutions. The cost of policing the country, detecting crime, convicting persons, caring for them before and after conviction, etc., is three billion dollars annually. In other words the annual cost of crime to the government and the country is two and one half times the average annual receipts of the government; is three times the average national budget; is three times the customs and internal revenue; and is twelve times the cost of the army and navy. It is approximately 500 times the entire cost of prohibition enforcement.
It is true that human intelligence cannot determine just what proportion of the expenditure of these incomprehensible sums is made necessary because of alcoholic beverages, but it will scarcely be doubted that the proportion is material.
Effects of Alcohol
Reverence inspires obedience and intoxicating beverages destroy reverence. Irreverence is the mother of crime. How, then, can rational men assert that intoxicating liquors are not responsible, directly and indirectly, for much of the crime that costs the nation such stupendous sums?
As to the virtue of temperance, we are not left to the wisdom of men. "Behold, verily, thus saith the Lord unto you: In consequence of evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men in the last days, I have warned you, and forewarn you, by giving unto you this word of wisdom by revelation —That inasmuch as any man drinketh wine or strong drink among you, behold it is not good, neither meet in the sight of your father, only in assembling yourselves together to offer up your sacraments before him."
Change to Better Foods
Milk is one of our most healthful foods. From 1917 to 1924 its consumption increased fifty percent, an increase far exceeding that in population. Increased advertising of its food values partly explain the increase, but in the opinion of persons in official position, prohibition has been the important factor in promoting its popularity. Restaurants and hotels substitute it for beverages. On thousands of street corners where liquors were sold, are now orange juice and ice cream stands. Their consumption increased phenomenally with the passing of the saloon. The consumption of ice cream more than doubled. Prevailing mid-day beef steaks served in thousands of saloons passed, salads and sandwiches taking their place. Coffee and tea merchants contemplated a great harvest, but, peculiarly enough, the consumption per capita remained practically the same. Less drinking at meals resulted in lighter eating. Eating habits were transformed, the effect upon health being apparent. Alcohol Lowers Efficiency Herbert Hoover, when Secretary of Commerce, ascribed to prohibition an increase of efficiency in the individual worker of the United States of upwards of ten percent. He stated: "There is no question that prohibition is making America more productive." In his annual report of 1925 he reviewed the country's gain in national efficiency since 1920 and credited prohibition as one of the important causes of the increase. I quote, also, Professor Thomas Nixon Carver, eminent Harvard University authority  : "I am convinced," said he, "that one important factor in promotion, in maintaining a scarcity of high grade men, and at the same time increasing the superabundance of low grade men, is drink. Drunkenness, or anything that tends to destroy a man's dependability, would tend to prevent his promotion or cause his demotion, thus increasing the congestion in the lower occupations. Anything which makes for sobriety should, other things equal, increase the rate of promotion, and thus relieve the congestion at the bottom." A survey of manufacturing plants and industrial centers revealed that the workers were, since prohibition, taking more interest in sports, week-end vacations and daily recreation, thus materially increasing their efficiency and adding to their energy. Gain in Real Values Notwithstanding clamor to the contrary, it is asserted by students that infinitely less money is now spent annually for liquor than before prohibition. Savings banks reported an increase in depositors from an annual average of a few million when prohibition came, to 46,762,240 in 1926. A survey of insurance companies showed that the heads of families were at home nights in far greater numbers after prohibition began, and industrial concerns reported material decline in loss from accidents. With prohibition the financial burden of the states in caring for dependent children, in cases where intemperance was the approximate cause, decreased approximately fifty percent. Real estate values, formerly cheapened by adjoining saloons, increased and where there had been naught but buy and drink there was substituted investment and the desire for more investment. Indeed, just as man's blood reaches every part of the physical body, so does the use of intoxicating liquor fasten itself upon every parcel of the temporal structure. An indictment against it would charge that it not only damages the nerves, acts as a narcotic, weakens the heart, lowers resistance, hinders immunity, increases typhoid mortality, lessens nerve sensibility, impairs judgment, detracts from nerve and muscle power, lowers blood pressure, causes irritation and checks digestion, smothers spirituality and destroys reverence, but would also charge that it is equally harmful to the economic structure. Prof. Fisher wrote: "The mental worker who takes alcohol voluntarily puts a yoke upon himself. He limits the exercise of his faculties; for he cannot judge so wisely, will so forcefully, think so clearly, as when his system is free from alcohol. The athlete who takes alcoholic liquor is similarly handicapped; for he is not free to run so fast, jump so high, pitch a baseball so accurately as when his system is free from the drug. Any one who has become a 'slave to alcohol' has lost the very essence of personal liberty."
PROHIBITION
Enforcement is the Problem
I have sought to speak only of the temporal side of alcohol and have said nothing about state sovereignty, individual liberties or the wisdom or lack of wisdom of making the 18th Amendment a part of the Constitution. Our problem is an enforcement problem. Law will not execute itself. It is not enough to simply refrain from the violation of law. We must be aggressive. Evidence must be found and prosecutions begun. If we are unwilling or too indolent to lend ourselves to that end then the law will lie prostrate. Where all men favor a law, there is no enforcement problem. In the case at issue millions of our citizens are not in present accord with it. Therein lies our greatest difficulty. We can devote ourselves to its enforcement. Because of the "designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men in the last days" it is necessary that we do so.
Resolution to Uphold the Prohibition Law
By Counselor Julia A. Child
One of our Articles of Faith says: 'We believe in being subject to kings, presidents, rulers, and magistrates, in obeying, honoring, and sustaining the law." I feel that, to a great extent, it rests with the mothers as to how this 18th Amendment to the Constitution of the United States is carried out. As mothers, if we are united, we can do a very great deal in enforcing that law, and I should like to present for consideration a resolution to be adopted by the members of this organization,
Resolution
WHEREAS there is widespread disrespect for and numerous violations of the 18th Amendment to our national constitution, which prohibits the manufacture, possession or use of intoxicating liquor,
AND WHEREAS the National Woman's Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints views with alarm and sorrow the many evil consequences of such disrespect and such violations which, if continued, will destroy human life and happiness, and also undermine confidence in government:
Therefore. BE IT RESOLVED that the organization calls upon all its members to live in strict accord with both the letter and the spirit of the prohibition law in their homes and in all other places, and that they use every proper endeavor to persuade others to do likewise, to the end that peace and safety may be assured, and that loyalty to law and government may prevail.
Training School for the Feeble-Minded
By Counselor Amy Brown Lyman
I feel that a brief report of the work of the Commission appointed to select a site for the Utah State Training School for the Feeble-minded, is due the Relief Society women. At the last session of the legislature, a law was passed providing for such an institution and carrying an appropriation of $300,000. You will recall the part the Relief Society women took in helping to bring about the passage of the bill, by personally interviewing your legislators and by circulating petitions. Soon after the close of the legislative session, the Governor appointed a commission of five to select a site. The members are: Governor George H. Dern, chairman; Mr. D. A. Skeen of Salt Lake City; Mayor John Booth of Spanish Fork; Mr. Roy Thatcher of Ogden; Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman of Salt Lake City.
The commission sought advice from states having such an institution, and applied to the Director of the Experiment Station of the Agricultural College for a soil expert and a hydraulic engineer to give expert advice as to soil, water, drainage, and sewage. Letters were written also to individuals who were experts in these matters. As the Governor had already planned to attend a convention of Governors in Boston, and as the secretary of the commission was scheduled to attend a bar convention in the East, it was easy and inexpensive for them to visit some of the outstanding institutions. Director P. V. Cardon of the Agricultural College, with Professor Clyde, hydraulic engineer, and Doctors Jennings and Stewart, soil experts, accompanied the commission in investigating sites. Two additional experts, Dr. Allen, superintendent of the Vermont State Training School, and Dr. Calder of Los Angeles, a native Utahn, also assisted. The aid of these physicians, both psychiatrists excellently trained and with long experience in institutional work, was invaluable to the commission.
Some of the decisions reached were:
1. That the school be located as near as possible to the center of population of the State; near the seat of government, the medical school, and social agencies; also near the best transportation facilities and the sources of supply.