Speaking of their march farther west, the poet says: "The next camp was in South Pass, so named by Fremont, who had set up a cairn of stones here: the summit of the Rocky Mountains. ~The flying snow fell in our faces as we looked away to the west. The waters were flowing toward the setting sun. It seemed to us all, weary as we were, the rest of the way must be down hill to the vast ocean. Our camp was by the Pacific Springs. We were now drinking of the waters that flowed to the mighty ocean What exultation! What glory and achievement!" Sounds like a paragraph from a Latter-day Saint's note book. Again: "At Salt Lake, a beautiful city and scene of: honest industry, we rested long, sold some worn-out cattle, the carriage and the two horses; keeping one for mother and the baby. We three little fellows had learned to walk well; and walk we did now all the time....." Later on he says, making a belated apology, but one that from its apparent sincerity ought to be accepted fully: 'life was monctonous here.'?speaking of a sojourn in California?''for we had to live alone in our cabin because of the intolerable toughness and roughness of the men here at The Forks, who made their focus of action and distraction in the Howling Wilderness saloon. Here I laid the scene of "The Danites," my famous play, but have always been sorry I printed it, as it is unfair to the Mormons and Chinese." After being spared by the Indians because they called him "Los bobo," the fool, he had a long struggle to regain his health. - When strong enough," he says, "I went home, went to college some, studied law at home some; but ever and ever the lure of the mountains called and called, and I could not keep my mind on  my books. But I could keep my mind on the perils I had passed. I could write of them, and I did write of them, almost every day. The Tale of the Tall Alcalde, Oregonian, Californian, With Walker in Nicaragua?I had lived all these and more; and they were now a part of my existence. If you would care to read further of my life, making allowance for poetic license, you will find these literally true." Again he says: "My first lines, and in truth, all my lines, as a rule, were descriptive stories of the lands I knew, so that my poems are literally my autobiography." Songs of the Sierra was his first book. It was published at his own expense in London, where it met with considerable favor. Life Among the Modocs was one of his most profitable publications. He called it a veritable goid mine. He concludes his autobiography with paragraphs of summation, among them these: "The little story of our pilgrimage is simply that of thousands and hundreds of thousands who peopled the ultimate West. We were, perhaps, a little more reliant on or a little more dependent on Providence, a little more prayerful than the average, perhaps; for while others carried guns to protect them, the head of our little party never laid hand to a gun, never fired a shot in all his Jong life. All the vast multitude as in the exodus of old, in quest of the Promised Land, was, as a rule, religious, and buried their dead with hymns and prayers, all along that dreary half year's journey on which no coward ever ventured, and where the weak fel! By the wayside, leaving a natural selection of good and great people, both in soul and body." That he hoped he was doing something worthy and fine in his poems is indicated near the close of his autobiography, where he also indicates that he believes the great singers of those great times are yet to come. "But bear in mind," he says, "we are only plowing, sowing now, making ready for the reaper, the happy harvester of song, who will come to his own, and all in good time, when of today the workers and builders shall not be forgotten. Only let us build true, level, square, and deserve to be remembered." "Of course both warp and woof of every real poem, beyond a. Sonnet's length, must be shot through and through with threads of gold and silver, else it is at best but a guide book; and I would like to be remembered by those of the years to be as a.