We shall devote this lesson to a consideration 'of these specific causes, noting the ways in which modern social work and workers deal with the problem. A. Physical Diseases: Their Nature and Extent The precise amount of disease and ill-health is, of course, impossible to determine. We are therefore forced to rely upon estimates. One index, however, is the vearly number of persons tieated in hospitals and disnensaries. The U. S. Census Bureau reports that in the year 1922, 4.700 hospitals and sanatoriums in the United States treated over 5,000,000 patients for an aggregate of 81,500,000 days. Another 576,000 persons were treated in institutions for the mentally handicapped. These figures, of course, do not include the out-patients at dispensaries and the private patients treated in their homes or at the doctor's office. In their book Social Pathology, Queen and Mann quote from the Committee on Waste in Industry, of the Federated American Engineering Societies, to the effect that: * * * each of the 42,000 persons gainfully employed in the United States loses on an average more than 8 davs a year from illness, a total of 350.000 working days. Perhaps 3 per cent of the wage earners (1,250,000) have tuberculosis. Influenza and pneumonia in non-epidemic vears take ahont 35.000 lives in the working aces and account for at least 350.0000 cases of sickness. Typhoid fever fills abovt 150,000 beds annually and takes 15,000 lives. Malaria is responsible for much "sub-standard" health and probably affects 1.500.000 people each vear. Perhans J,500,000 workers are infected with venereal diseases. Six million have organic diseases _ of various sorts. Twenty-five million have defective vision requiring correction. Another way to estimate the nature and extent of vhvsical morbidity is to consider the things that neonle die of. The latest statistics are those furnished by the U. S. Census Bureau in 1927. From which the following figures are taken; lCrowell, 1925 (p. 451)  Death-Rates per 100,000 Estimated Population in the U. S. Registration Area, 1925 A. The Ten Chief Causes of Death Diseases of the heart 176.9 Cancer and other malignant tumors...- 92.6 Tuberculosis (all forms) 86.6 Cerebral hemorrhage -_ 83.7 Accidental or undefined 200...78.3 Broncho-pneumonia A I D 38.6 Diarrhea and enteritis (under 2 years of age) 00.002... 31.5 Dai) Kye enc 29.6 Arterios Sclerosis. 20.1 Diabetes mellitus 16.9 B. Death-Rates by Divisions All causes (exclusive of still-births) 20... ,182.3 I. Epidemic, endemic and infections diseases............ 169.1 II. General diseases not included in I iu. 138.9 III. Diseases of the nervous system and organs of special sense 120.1 IV. Diseases of the circulatory system 211.0 V. Diseases of the respiratory system 108.6 VI. Diseases of the digestive system 101.2 VII. Non-venereal diseases of the genito-urinary system and annexa 1.8 VIII. The puerperal state 14.9 IX. Diseases of the skin and cellular tissue-................... 3.2 . G Diseases of bones and organs of locomotion................ 1.3 XI. Malformations.. 13.8 XII. Early infancy 60.1 XIII. Old age 12.0 XIV. External causes ' 99.1 The relationship between social work and physical disease is well illustrated in the following facts:? During the six months ending March 31, 1923, the New York Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor cared for 3,875 families, in which it found 5,613 separate important health problems. Five hundred and thirty-nine families showed tuberculosis, 299 showed nervous or mental disease or mental deficiency. 268 showed venereal disease, 236 showed rickets, 163 showed cardiac problems. Facts of a similar nature come from the United Charities of Chicago, where it is reported for 1921-22:% * * * that 2,125 families out of 5,400 receiving "major services" presented important health problems. For the six years ending in 1922, 12,500 out of 38,000 such families presented cases of acute illness. B. The Treatment of Physical Disease The scope and variety of public and private effort for the relief and prevention of physical i'Iness and distress is, in many ways, the crowning achievement of Western civilization, Merely Queen and Mann. Op, cit. 457. GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 47 to list the main divisions and types of these efforts, would take more space than is here available. Hospitals, sanatoria, clinics, dispensaries, infant-welfare stations, with their efficient staffs of physicians, surgeons, laboratory technicians, pathologists, nurses, etc., are already quite well-known to the public. The newer services of the medical social workers, the public health nurse, the tuberculosis association teacher, and the heart association worker are, however, not so well understood. These latter services constitute a sort of auxiliary to the field of medicine; they are among the more modern forms of social assistance made necessary in the active control of disease and poverty. The social nature of much disease and its responsiveness to educational control is well illustrated in the case of tuberculosis which two decades ago was the chief cause of death. Due largely to the ingenious and persistent educational efforts of the National Tuberculosis Association, the "white plague" has become?in the United States at least?much less devastating and now occupies only third place among the chief causes of death.* And this in spite of the fact that there is still no specific remedy for tuberculosis. An interesting example of the tremendous power of private philanthropy in the control of disease is the work of the Rockefeller Foundation,?the largest philanthropic enterprise of its sort in the world. During the year 1928, for example, under the able leadership of its president, Dr. George E. Vincent, the Foundation spent $21,690,738 in the world-wide control of hookworm, malaria, yellow fever, etc. Most of this vast sum was spent in foreign countries in the form of subsidies to medical schools, for research, for nursing education. Contributions were also made to the budgets of 85 county health organizations in seven states of the Mississippi flood area.? C. Mental Diseases: Their Nature and Extent We should carefully distinguish, at the outset, between mental deficiency and insanity. The former is essentially a lack of mind and is correctly called feeblemindedness, whereas the latter is truly a loss of mind and is correctly designated mental disease or insanity. The term "insanity" describes the legal status of a mentally diseased person after a court has declared him to be a danger to himself or to society or both. The point is that a person can be declared insane for any one of a score of mental diseases, each one of which is more or less distinct from all the rest in nature, causation, and outcome. STbid. 4The unique way of financing this vast, educational campaign is, of course, by the sale of Christmas seals.  The nature and relative importance of these mental diseases (psychoses) can be seen from the following table: Number and Per Cent Distribution, by Psychoses, of Patients in Hospitals* for Mental Disease, January 1, 1923 ('Patients in Hospitals for Mental disease, 1923," U. S. Census Bureau, 1926, p. 44.) Psychoses Number Per Cent All clinical groups 265,829 100.0 Traumatic.... 251 0.2 Senile 13,585 5.1 With cerebral arteriosclerosis...... 4,419 1.7 General paralysis.. 9,394 3.5 With cerebral syphilis. 1,810 0.7 With Huntington's chorea 317 0.1 With brain tumor 49 (2) With other brain or nervous diseases.................. 1,060 0.4 Alcoholic 7,396 2.8 Due to drugs and other exogenous toxins........ 554 0.2 With pellagra. 907 0.2 With other somatic diseases 1,978 0.7 MANIC-DEPRESSIVE -- 40,751 15.3 Involution melancholia 5,763 2.2 Dementia praecox (schizophrenia)..114,240 43.0 Paranoia or paranoid conditions............-...0------ 11,953 4.5 Epileptic ???? 9,155 3.4 Psychoneuroses and neuroses...........0..0-0cessc1eseseese-os 2,351 0.9 With psychopathic personality...2,883 1.1 With mental deficiency 20.0...11,942 4.5 Undiagnosed ???? 14,235 5.4 Without psychosis 2220.2...9,499 3.6 Unknown - 1,467 0.6
(2) Less than one-tenth of 1 per cent.
That insanity is increasing in the United States, there can be little doubt. It is probable, however, that much of the increase is due to the fact that mental diseases are much more noticeable and are treated earlier now than ever before. This fact, together with the better facilities that are increasingly available for the care of the insane, explains a good deal of the increase noted in the statistics. It is quite incorrect, moreover, to assume that all insanity is attributable to one cause?heredity. As a matter of fact, each specific form of mental disease has its own unique set of causes, some being hereditary, others non-hereditary. Generalizing in regard to insanity as a whole, it is more nearly correct to assume that it is produced by two equally important sets of causes?(1)
Class leaders and L. D. S. Welfare workers generally will do well to write for a copy of "A Review of 1928," by Dr. G. E. Vincent. Rockefeller Foundation, 61 Broadway, New York City.
*State hospitals 165 Other public hospitals................ 148 Private hospitals 213
GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 49
predisposing facts (hereditary, constitutional, etc.); and (2) contributing factors (environmental pressures, life experiences, etc.)
D. The Mental Hygiene Movement
The mental hygiene movement is uniquely an American effort?precipitated by Clifford W. Beers' epoch-making book, A Mind That Found Itself?to prevent nervous and mental diseases and to raise the standards of care and treatment of the mentally handicapped. It assumes that what was done by educational and community organization methods for the control of tuberculosis can also be done for insanity. The chief problems attacked, of course, are mental disease, feeble-mindedness, and epilepsy. The borderline conditions, including such mild disorders as hysteria, neurasthenia, psychasthenia, anxiety neuroses, etc., are also of chief concern, not only because they constitute by far the largest group of the mentally handicapped, but because they respond best to curative and preventive treatment.
Mental hygienists and their social work colleagues in this field are devoted also to the task of raising the standards of care and treatment of the insane, the feeble-minded, and the epileptics in public institutions. Then, too, by means of survey and demonstration, important mental hygiene projects have been launched under both public and private auspices. On the more strictly social service side are to be noted the almost universal employment of psychiatric social workers in State institutions. These workers have become invaluable in the diagnosis and treatment of the mentally handicapped.
The outstanding achievement of the mental hygiene movement, to date, however, is the child-guidance clinic, a free outpatient facility for the diagnosis and treatment of children's conduct disorders. The minimum staff of a child-guidance clinic comprises a psychiatrist (who is also a physician), a psychologist, and a psychiatric social worker. In almost every American city of any size, one or more of these clinics serves the juvenile court, the public schools, the social agencies, and parents generally, in the personality adjustment of children who are traditionally labelled "delinquent," "incorrigible," "nervous," "truant," "unadjusted," "sub-normal," etc.
Questions for the Further Stimulation of Thought
1. What do people die of in your community and State? Do these causes differ from those in other places?
2. Make a list of all the various health and medical agencies serving your community.
 
3. To what extent is illness and disease a cause of poverty and destitution in your community?
4. How forward-looking are the public health facilities and regulations in your town and state? Do you require all milk that is sold to be pasteurized?
5. Is your community adequately supplied with well trained physicians, competent nurses and modern hospital facilities? Whose business is it to see that such services and facilities are made available in your community?
6. How do mentally-ill people in your community get into your state hospital? Do they go via the county jail? Is this practice intelligent and humane? Then why does the practice continue?
7. Does the mental hospital in your State measure up to the best standards of care and treatment in such matters as fire protection; ample accommodations; size and quality of its staff? medical, nursing, psychological, social service, occupational therapy, etc.?
8. Is there an out-patient department maintained by your State hospital?
9. Does your State hospital take the position that all insanity is more or less incurable? Why?
10. Are the services of a child-guidance clinic available to your community? Why not?
11. Get some member of your group to read and review A Mind That Found Itself by Clifford W. Beers, or Reluctantly, Told by Jane Hillyer. Your local librarian will be glad to get these books for you.
Leadership Week at B. Y. U.
Leadership week at the Brigham Young University will convene Monday, January 27th, covering the week including January 31st. An attractive program is being prepared under the direction of Dr. Lowry Nelson, head of the extension division. The Slogan for the week is "Your Community and What You Can Do For It."
Conferences and Conventions
General Board members visited Relief Society stake conventions and conferences, which were held in the stakes during 1929, as follows:
Alberta?Mrs. Elise B. Alder. Alpine?Mrs. Jennie B. Knight. Bannock?Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. Bear Lake?Mrs. Marcia K. Howells. Bear River?Mrs. Louise Y. Robison. Beaver?Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford. Benson?Mrs. Elise B. Alder. Big Horn?Mrs. Marcia K. Howells. Blackfoot?Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter. Blaine?Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon. Boise?Mrs. Louise Y. Robison. Box Elder?Mrs. Cora L. Bennion. Burley??Mrs. Inez K. Allen. Cache?Miss Alice L. Reynolds. Carbon?Mrs. Jennie B. Knight. Cassia?Mrs. Julia A. Child. Cottonwood?Mrs. Kate M. Barker. Curlew?Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon. Deseret?Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford. Duchesne?Mrs. Ida Peterson Beal. East Jordan?Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. Emery?Mrs. Jennie B. Knight. Ensign?Mrs. Kate M. Barker, Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. Franklin?Mrs. Ethel R. Smith. Fremont?Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford. Garfield?Mrs. Louise Y. Robison. Granite?Mrs. Marcia K. Howells. Grant?Mrs. Julia A. Child, Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund, Mrs. Louise Y. Robison. Gunnison?Miss Alice L. Reynolds. Hollywood?Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. Hyrum?Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. Idaho?Mrs. Ethel R. Smith. Idaho Falls?Mrs. Amy W. Evans. Juab?Miss Alice L. Reynolds. Juarez?Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon. Kanab?Mrs. Louise Y. Robison. Kolob?Mrs. Marcia K. Howells. Lethbridge?Mrs. Elise B. Alder. Liberty?Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford, Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter. Lehi?Mrs. Inez K. Allen. Logan?Mrs. Elise B. Alder. Los Angeles?Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. Lost River?Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. Lyman?Mrs. Julia A. Child. Malad?Mrs. Inez K. Allen. Maricopa?Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon. Millard?Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon. Minidoka?Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford. Moapa?Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford. Montpelier?Mrs. Ida Peterson Beal. Morgan?Mrs. Ida Peterson Beal. Moroni?Mrs. Louise Y. Robison. Mt. Ogden?Mrs. Ida Peterson Beal. Nebo?Mrs. Cora L. Bennion. Nevada?Mrs. Inez K. Allen. North Davis?Mrs. Marcia K. Howells. North Sanpete?Mrs. Ida Peterson Beal. North Sevier?Mrs. Jennie B. Knight. North Weber?Mrs. Ethel R. Smith. Ogden?Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. Oneida?Mrs. Elise B. Alder. Oquirrh?Mrs. Amy W. Evans. Palmyra?Mrs. Louise Y. Robison. Panguitch?Mrs. Jennie B. Knight. Parowan?Mrs. Amy W. Evans. Pioneer?Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford, Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter. Pocatello?Mrs. Cora L. Bennion. Portneuf?Mrs. Louise Y. Robison. Raft River?Mrs. Kate M. Barker. Rigby?Mrs. Julia A. Child. Roosevelt?Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. St. George?Mrs. Ethel R. Smith. St. Johns?Mrs. Inez K. Allen.
 
St. Joseph?Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon. Salt Lake?Mrs. Cora L. Bennion. Miss Sarah M. McLelland. San Francisco?Mrs. Louise Y. Robison. San Juan?Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. San Luis?Mrs. Ida Peterson Beal. Sharon?Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. Sevier?Mrs. Jennie B. Knight. Shelley?Mrs. Julia A. Child. Snowflake?Mrs. Inez K. Allen. South Davis?Mrs. Ida Peterson Beal. South Sanpete?Mrs. Ethel R. Smith. South Sevier?Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford. Star Valley?Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. Summit?Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. Taylor?Mrs. Elise B. Alder. Teton?Mrs. Marcia K. Howells. Timpanogos?Mrs. Cora L. Bennion. Tintic?Mrs. Ida Peterson Beal. Tooele?Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon. Twin Falls?Mrs. Elise B. Alder. Uintah?Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. Union?Mrs. Kate M. Barker. Utah?Mrs. Inez K. Allen. Wasatch?Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. Wayne?Mrs. Inez K. Allen. Weber?Mrs. Amy W. Evans. West Jordan?Mrs. Ethel R. Smith. Woodruff?Mrs. Kate M. Barker. Yellowstone?Mrs. Louise Y. Robison. Young?Mrs. Ida Peterson Beal.
The Seasons
'Tis Autumn here, and Summer there; And somewhere else 'tis Spring, With tiny blades of tender grass And birds come back to sing.
And in some other place the snow Falls gently through the air; Smoke curls from every chimney; There's quiet everywhere.
And so it is with human hearts, Wherever you may go; While your heart bursts with joy and song, My heart breaks with woe.
And when at last my aching heart Begins to lighter grow, Some other heart is singing And another breaks with woe.
?Adeline J. Haws.
A Midland Trilogy
By Lais V. Hales
Vandemark's Folly, The Hawkeye, and The Invisible Woman, comprise Herbert Quick's Midland Trilogy. Each one of these books has in turn been called "the great American novel" by eminent critics. Three rapidly changing phases of American civilization, which have already become mythical, have here been preserved for all time. All three books are composed of the happiest possible mixture of fiction, romance, and history, and their admirers are many and constantly increasing. Though it is about four years since death robbed us of their great author, Mr. Quick lives vividly through his books, which are intimate and biographical.
Vandemark's Folly begins this epic of the Middle West. It is a story of the Erie Canal and the settlement of Iowa. It covers the stirring decade of 1855 to 1865. Its hero, Vandemark, a Dutchman, comes as a pioneer to the much feared and much loved prairies of Iowa. Here he fights for the prairie, builds it up, wins estate and infinite love, and develops a personality that for many years colors both incidents and individuals. Throughout the book one feels the pathos, the tragedy, the exaltation, the variety, the comedy, of pioneer life. Overshadowing everything in the book is the Iowa Prairie, which Mr. Quick knew so well and loved so much. His descriptions of the blizzard and the prairie fire are things never to be forgotten. William Allen White has called this book "the best historical novel of the Middle West."
The Hawkeye continues the narrative of the growth of this American soil through the 'seventies and 'eighties, the era of "engaging ruffians and lovable boodlers." This book covers the era of county irregularities and lawlessness, vividly exposing both the good and the bad of this period. The hero of this book is Fremont McConkey, "a sensitive child, banished from contact save with a few of his kind, condemned to long, lonely days with the green sky of the prairies and the blue meadows of heaven, full of romance, quivering with dreams, timid as a shade-haunting heron, yet yearning for companionship, conscious of his own precocity, secretly proud of it, and yet keenly aware that he must be looked upon by town people as ignorant." How well Mr. Quick knew Fremont McConkey! His handling of his boy hero and his descriptions of the land where Fremont 'snared gophers, hunted the nests of prairie chickens.
 
watched the formation of storms, hunted wild-fowl, listened to the orchestration of the birds, leaped sidewise in fear of the rattle snake as the locust sprung its rattle, picked up stubs of grass to fester in his bare feet, and saw his fellow tumble-weeds rolling back and forth in the wind,'?these are two of the three best things in this good book. It is here that we find the finest of Mr. Quick's many tributes to the pioneer mother, of whom he says: "The mothers of the frontier! In the smoky over-heated kitchens, as they washed and mopped and baked and brewed and spun and wove and knit, and boiled soap, and mended and cut and basted and sewed, and strained milk and skimmed cream and churned and worked over butter, catching now and then an opportunity to read while rocking a child to sleep, drinking in once in a while a bit of poetry from the sky or the cloud or the flower; they worked and planned and assumed all for their children....... We build monuments in the public square for the soldiers of our wars; but where is the monument for the Kate McConkeys who made possible so much of the good that is represented by the public square itself? Unless it is a monument not made with hands, in our hearts and souls, none can ever exist which can be in any way adequate."
The Invisible Woman carries the story on to the end of the century?to the time of wild speculation, of railroad power, of invisible government. Woman at this time was just emerging from her "place in the home". Christina Thorkelson is the woman, and she is one of Mr. Quick's finest creations. She has all the honesty, the sturdiness, the understanding, of the pioneer woman plus a confidence which they lacked. The Invisible Woman is a good, honest book but lacks the epic qualities of the first two.