In the contest one feature especially pleasing to the Board is the fact that the winners have come from varied localities in the Church. Last year the winner of the first prize was from Colorado; the winner of the second prize, from California. One year the second prize was won by a lady living in Longview, Washington. Twice honorable mention has gone to persons living on the other side of the Atlantic, and once to Canada.
The judges for the 1929 contest were Mrs. Jennie B. Knight of the General Board, Dr. Sherman B. Neff, head of the English Department of the University of Utah, and Miss Kate Thomas, a well known writer of the State.
The Magazine is pleased once again to congratulate the winners in the Eliza R. Snow Poetry Contest.
President Louise Y. Robison Speaks at General Conference
Much appreciated by the women of the Church was an innovation that occurred at the recent general conference in the Salt Lake Tabernacle, October 4-6, 1929. President Grant called to the stand President Louise Y. Robison of the Relief Society, President Ruth May Fox of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, and President May Anderson of the Primary Association. They were each invited to occupy a few moments of the time. This is the first time in the history of the Church that the heads of these three important organizations affecting so vitally the work of women and children in the Church, have been called to speak in a general conference. Sister Robison was first, and, as a result, had the least time to adjust to a situation so wholly new. Yet she was equal to the occasion. Her voice carried through the vast auditorium, and her testimony was heard, not only by the thousands in the audience before her, but by the tens of thousands of radio listeners all over the land. This innovation, due largely to the fact that amplifiers and other mechanical devices convey a voice of ordinary power long distances, is but another of the blessings we receive from the scientific age in which we live. In the recognition given to our President as the representative of the great Relief Society, we experience a feeling of rejoicing and congratulation. We trust that the future holds more such occasions for the women of our Church who carry such significant responsibility.
General Board of Relief Society Expresses Appreciation to Organist
Edna Coray, for twenty-three years organist for the General Board of the Relief Society, has recently severed her connection with the organization. Her marriage made the resignation imperative, as she has moved out of the State. Mrs. Edna Coray Dyer has rendered very efficient and very exceptional service. Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, director of the choir, states that she is one of the best all-round musicians in this part of the country, talented and trustworthy. "If I asked," says Mrs. Edward, "that a key be lowered or raised for any selection, she could do it on the instant." To talent she added loyalty and dependability, so that the director of the choir knew that she would always be on hand when called for, and she always was on hand. The Relief Society, its officers and members, take this opportunity of expressing their grateful appreciation to Mrs. Dyer for her efficient and faithful services.
We trust that in every respect new life, praying that God will add abundant blessings,
Notes from the Field
Annual Dues: With the spirit of hearty cooperation, so characteristic of the stakes, the suggestions of the General Board in reference to the Annual Dues were very generally carried into effect. There have been, during the past year, many changes in the stake organizations, and a number of questions in relation to the payment of annual dues have come into the office. It is therefore deemed advisable to quote a few instructions that are necessary for this piece of work.
Dues in the Relief Society consist of fifty cents a year? twenty-five cents of which is forwarded to the General Board, to be used for the general maintenance of the Relief Society; the other twenty-five cents is retained in the stake organization to be used for its maintenance. The annual membership dues should be paid in advance in January of each year. For example, the dues for 1930 should be paid in January, 1930. The dues should be sent to the stake secretary not later than February 28. The stake secretary should then forward the portion due to the General Board to the General Secretary by March 31, retaining the remainder for stake purposes.
Where members are enrolled in the Relief Society for the first time, it is expected that they pay their membership dues for the year in which they were admitted; however, when new members enter the organization after September 30, the dues paid at this time should be considered as covering the remainder of the year and the following year.
For the convenience of the secretary in checking the payment of dues, a column has been provided on the right-hand side of the roll for this purpose.
REORGANIZATIONS
Since the October conference, reports of reorganizations in some of the stakes, also changes in the personnel of the officers, have reached the office.
Bannock Stake: Mrs. Minnie L. Sorensen was released, after years of faithful service. Mrs. Cora Cooper was called to take Mrs. Sorensen's place as president, with Mrs. Pond and Mrs. Lydia Hilten as counselors. It has always been a matter of congratulation to Bannock stake to consider the fine leadership shown in Relief Society work. Sister Sorensen was fully alive to the problems before her, her term as president showing great development and reflecting real credit upon the stake. The good wishes of the General Board and all the people of the stake accompany Mrs. Sorensen in her retirement; and the hearty cooperation and support that have been characteristic of her administration we are sure will come to Mrs. Cooper and her corps of officers.
Liberty Stake: In the calling of Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood to the General Board of Relief Society, the problem of new leadership was suggested for Liberty stake, and Mrs. Ida S. Rees, who for many years has filled the position as first counselor, was called to succeed Mrs. Greenwood. Mrs. Rees has chosen Mrs. Ruby W. Henderson, first counselor; Mrs. Retta S. Neff, second counselor; and Mrs. Edith R. Christensen has been retained as secretary-treasurer. The stake is fortunate in the choice of able and capable leaders, and the congratulations and best wishes of the General Board and the people generally go to Mrs. Rees and to the stake.
Lost River Stake: The removal of Mrs. Mary E. Black from her home in the Lost River stake to Logan, has been the occasion for a change. Mrs. Black is a woman of very great ability and a real Relief Society leader. The stake, however, is to be congratulated upon the new officers, who have been chosen: for president, Mrs. Elizabeth Hoggan; first counselor, Mrs. Mary A. Jeppesen; second counselor, Mrs. Veda J. Waddoups; secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Josephine Toombs (retained). In assuming their duties as officers these sisters have the very best wishes of the General Board and of the Relief Society.
Pioneer Stake: The last reorganization to be fully reported was from Pioneer stake, Mrs. Lettie T. Cannon being released, and the following executive officers sustained: Mrs. Edna T. Matson, president; Mrs. Lanora S. Hyde, first counselor; Mrs. Florence Burton, second counselor; Mrs. Amelia Bissell, secretary-treasurer. Sister Cannon and her able associates have left a record of undoubted achievements. The love and best wishes of the General Board and the people of their stake are extended to them. The Pioneer stake Relief Society is to be congratulated upon its new leaders, and we are sure the same fine cooperation and hearty support will be given them by the people.
Guide Lessons for March
LESSON I
Theology and Testimony (First Week in March)
BOOK OF MORMON
Lesson 6. A Nephite Colony
In this lesson, which covers the matter between pages 181 and 212 of the Book of Mormon, we have a continuity which we have not had in any of the lessons thus far studied. It is mainly narrative?the story of one of the Nephite colonies. But in order to understand the whole situation, it is necessary to know certain historical facts in connection with Nephite migrations.
1. Zarahemla and the Land of Nephi. As has been hinted already once or twice, it is not very material just where the places mentioned in the Book of Mormon were in the absolute sense. About all we can now hope to do is to locate these places with respect to one another. To be sure, it would be helpful if we could put our finger on our present map of the Americas and say with confidence, "Zarahemla was here" and "The Land of Nephi was there." But as we cannot do that, we must do the next best thing, which is to locate the Book of Mormon places relatively.
The Land of Zarahemla is where we find King Mosiah, father of King Benjamin, about one and a quarter centuries before Christ. Yet King Mosiah was born in the Land of Nephi. How does all this come about?
On the death of Lehi, Laman became murderous in his purpose to rule, and he embittered his followers toward Nephi and Nephi's friends. So Nephi, warned of God, took all his friends and their belongings into the wilderness, where they might live in comparative peace and safety. Doubtless they did not go any great distance away from their first home. That is why their enemies found them presently, and renewed their disturbance. And so Nephi moved again. These removals were rather numerous, we are led to believe, and continued long after Nephi's death?continued, in fact, as long as his people were unable to resist the encroachments of the Lamanites. They happened, however, these removals, within what is very generally termed in the Record, the Land of Nephi, named after their first great leader.