[Vol28 | June 1941 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Article | Title: Alice H. Osborn]

Alice H. Osborn, Director MAKING a report of this kind is like describing a department store, for our work covers many departments. We have a rental bureau, travel bureau, transient, welfare and employment bureaus, and an information bureau in a very literal sense. We have to think fast to make our inquirers feel that we earn these titles. We sometimes think that everything hard to catalogue is referred to our office, but we appreciate the compliment. We hear nice things constantly about the Church for supporting a place where its members may get the service they need.
When the General Board of Relief Society started this office, we had two stakes and the California Mission to serve. Now, in addition to the mission, we have eight stakes, with fifty-four wards. The stakes closest to the office get the most use out of it because distance and transportation have to be considered. In the beginning, we were primarily interested in welfare work. At that time, public assistance was practically a new thing to our California members; relief, if any, had been from the Church.
When the depression hit us all; it took one person's full time directing people to the proper place for the assistance they were in need of and eligible for, and making contacts and appointments for them.
Since the advent of the Church welfare movement, our members are gradually removing themselves from the public relief rolls, many of them finding work in the aircraft factories and through other employment; others are getting into Latter-day Saint industries and ward projects.
Projects are springing up in all of the stakes, which are attracting attention outside of Church circles. At our monthly meetings, when the stakes report their plans and active projects, the growth in the welfare program in southern California is very apparent. We are all interested in the work, and since it has become better understood, it has grown more rapidly.
When we opened the office in Los Angeles, we could see that our employment possibilities could be developed, and that employment was the answer to most of our welfare problems, Especially was this true SOCIAL WELFARE DEPARTMENT where couples were on the verge of a separation.
Often their difficulties were patched up on the strength of a job, and other couples were brought together who were already living apart?in some instances the wife living with her folks or working in some home, and beginning to question the ability of her husband, when all he needed was a job and a little build-up. We have had many such cases during the years and have had pleasant experiences with employers who were glad to listen to reports of unusual cases and to give them work. Our office is well known in industrial, mercantile and manufacturing districts. We have a fine relationship with many of them. We are often asked, "How do you get your jobs and how does the employer hear of you?" The most plausible answer is that someone in their employ is a member of the Church and has given such outstanding service that they want other members. Also, one tells another that we operate without a charge to applicants, and they like the idea of unemployed people not having to pay for job-finding service.
Then again, members of our Church have a good reputation in California for being sober and industrious, and their recommendations of other members have weight when there are vacancies to be filled. We are often told by business men that their best employees are our Church members. Latter-day Saint transients from the inter-mountain states, and from all over the country, find the office a good place from which to start.
They may need a place to live, or work; sometimes they are without funds, and immediate employment is necessary; or we may have to supply them with food, lodging, or carfare to reach relatives. The Church provides us with a fund to be used for that purpose. The welfare workers on the stake Relief Society boards are a great help to us. We call the stake worker when visits have to be made. She then reports her findings in the home she has visited and makes recommendations, and we work together in the interest of our families. We think we are especially fortunate in being able to find work for many of our transients. The young people who come to California looking for work are usually a fine type and a credit to the Church. It has been thought by some that we spend too much time on the stranger within our gates, but we were all strangers at one time or another, so we can't blame others for coming. Too many of our young people, and older ones, too, are in the I-can-do-anything class, and cannot take the better jobs. Calvin Coolidge said, "The world is full of educated derelicts and unsuccessful men with talents.
Determination and persistence alone have unlimited powers." The truth in these words of Calvin Coolidge has been impressed upon me many times in my work in the welfare office. We never miss an opportunity to advise our visitors to attend Church, and try to give them a little spiritual uplift. 422 ?  A Relief Society Health Project Alverda Partridge First Counselor, Big Horn Stake Relief Society THE wheat interest money received by the wards and branches was pooled in a stake fund.
There was such a small amount going to each ward that we felt we could do much more by pooling it. We had a little over $100 altogether. The ward presidents were consulted in deciding just what health project would be most beneficial, and after very careful consideration, a tonsil project was decided on. A survey of the needy families in each ward was made by the various ward presidents.
Each ward president consulted her bishop, as he was very familiar with some of the cases in mind.
After completing the list of those needing aid, the ward president then very tactfully made a personal visit to each one of these families, explaining her plan and offering aid to the families who desired it.
After the survey was made, a committee, composed of ward presidents and some of the stake board members, met by appointment with the physicians in Lovell and explained their plan. The doctors were very cooperative, and said if the plan was to help those who were in need and would likely not be able to have care without assistance, they would give it at a reduced price. The physicians also promised to hold a clinic for a definite period of time, during which they would give physical examinations and smallpox vaccinations at reduced rates to all members of Big Horn stake?adults and children.
After we had gone this far, nothing further was done until our plans were submitted to the General Board for approval.
Approval was given, and it lent encouragement to us, and we began to work out our plans then, confident of success. A list of those needing tonsillectomies was submitted and approved for examination by the physicians.
Each one was assigned a definite day on which to bring a certain number of patients to the hospital for operations. We had thirty-seven operations performed in the Lovell Hospital. In one of our branches, fifty miles distant, there were three other people who needed care very badly, and the physician in that vicinity, although not a member of our Church, was very cooperative. He performed these operations at a reduced price after hearing of our stake project.
This made a total of forty tonsillectomies. As a result of the clinic, which was also held as planned, there were over one hundred inoculations for diphtheria and over one hundred vaccinations for smallpox.
This service was paid for by the individuals, but it was given at a reduced rate. The stake Relief Society president and the physicians were the only ones who had any idea of the amounts charged for the operations. We felt it best to keep it just as quiet as possible. The board members did not even know?just the president. The doctors appreciated the confidence in which this infor-
mation was held. In all of our work we have found it best that very few know just who receives aid. In regard to these tonsillectomies, nobody knew just who was being helped, and we feel that has been a good condition, and it encourages others who really need aid. In one of our large wards there were so many needing care that we decided to ask the bishop for assist-
ance. He suggested that we go to the stake president and ask him for support in such an extensive project. This was done, and as a result, $100 was added to the Relief Society funds. We surely appreciated this as it made it possible for all who had been solicited to be cared for. We feel that a very worthy project was completed, and many are now enjoying better health as a result.
Cooperation with Community Agencies in Health Work