[Vol28 | June 1941 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Guide | Title: LESSON PREVIEW]

LESSON PREVIEW?1941-42
alive the luster of life and maintains balance. Fourth, great writers were always aware of it. It is universal. Thackeray said, "The humorous writer professes to awaken and direct your love, your pity, your kindness?your scorn for untruth, pretension, imposture?your tenderness for the weak, the poor, the oppressed, the unhappy." Fifth, the object of the course is not only for literary values, but it will have a wider scope. Through it, we are more aware of the humor of life. We hope that it will lift people's standards and enjoyments; that it will raise the general tenor of our appreciation of humor. There is a place for the practical application of humor in our homes. We have available high-class humor if we look for it. We should make women aware that they need a sense of humor. Many times humor might help us to better understand the point of view of our young people. It is often the sugar-coated method that accomplishes much, painlessly. Many possibilities and an unlimited amount of material for this course await the resourceful teacher and the active Relief Society class member. The following eight lessons will be presented in the Relief Society Magazine under the subject "Humor in Life and Literature:"
1. Introduction
2. Humor?Its Meaning, Principles Governing It, and Mediums of Expression
3. Mediums and Types of Humor
4. Types of Humor?Continued
5. Some Great Humorous Characters
6. Humor In Its Highest Form
7. Humor About and For Children
8. The Importance of a Sense of Humor
There will be no one text used for the course this year, but extensive references will follow each of the lessons. If, however, the stakes and wards wish to buy a book which will give an excellent background for the course, Stephen Leacock's Greatest Pages of American Humor, now on sale at the Deseret Book Company, 44
East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, will be of value. (Price $1.25.) The following supplementary reading list will be found helpful: "Humor?An Analysis," Books and Bookmen "The Place of Humor in Schools," F. Freudley, Educational Review "Sense of Humor in Children," N. Waterman, Home Progress, 3:4, September, 1939 "The University and Humor," Bookman, 32:522-9 "What Is Funny and Why," Literary Digest, 115:24, January 21, 1933 "Wit and Humor," Hygeia, 11:1033, November, 1933. "Are Women Humorous?" Outlook, 159:206-7, November 14, 1931 "Laughter of Little Children," Hygeia, 9:452-5, May, 1931 "Sense of Humor in Children," Century, 64:559 "Laughter Tonic for the Tired?Medicine for the Miserable," Hygeia, 16: 314-16
If class leaders will consider the following authors in their summer reading program, they will find excellent enrichment material for the literature lessons:
Bill Nye Benjamin Franklin James Whitcomb Riley Thomas Bailey Aldrich Eugene Field James T. Fields H. C. Bunner Samuel S. Cox Mark Twain Nathaniel Ward Harriet Beecher Stowe Artemus Ward Oliver Wendell Holmes Robert J. Burdette James Russell Lowell John G. Saxe Washington Irving Bret Harte Frank R. Stockton William D. Howells
Irvin S. Cobb A. A. Milne Will Rogers Stephen Leacock O. Henry E. M. Delafield Edna Ferber E. P. Wodehouse Ring Lardner Charles Lamb Booth Tarkington Robert Burns Edmund Vance Cooke Charles Dickens Clarence Day H. Buddington Kelland
 
Social Science
Education For Family Life. Foundations for Successful Marriage
FOR a number of years the
lessons scheduled for the fourth Tuesday of the month have been titled, "Social Service." In recent years, as the courses have referred to educational work rather than to principles of social work, it is felt that a broader title should be used, which would cover both phases of the work. We shall, therefore, in the future use the title, "Social Science," for this course. The lessons for 1941-42 will conclude the study of "Education for Family Life." The final course will be "Foundations for Successful Marriage." Following are the titles of each lesson:
1. What it Means to be Successfully Married
2. The Heritage of the Home
3. Stepping Toward Marriage Through Courtship
4. The Start and the Art of Marriage
5. Rights Versus Responsibilities in the Home
6. Economic Aspects of Family Life
7. The Future of Marriage and Family Life
No