[Vol28 | June 1941 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Guide | Title: Theology and Testimony]

Theology and Testimony
Articles of Faith
A LOGICAL sequence of study in the theology department to follow after the consideration of the lives of our leaders is a course on the faith and doctrines of the Latter-day Saints. A study of our Articles of Faith will be undertaken, and this course will extend from October, 1941, through May, 1944. The book, Articles of Faith, by Elder James E. Talmage, will be used as a textbook instead of printed lessons in the Relief Society Magazine. Each chapter in the book will provide the material for one theology lesson. Because of its comprehensiveness and inclusiveness, the book is ideal for class leaders. It is also heavily referenced at the end of each chapter and there are additional notes in the appendix at the end of the book. The visiting teachers of each ward will carry into each Latter-day Saint home on their October visit a printed card copy of our Articles of Faith, and it is suggested that class leaders capitalize on this and offer suggestions for the use of this card by the women of the Church and their families. Thus, a mother may do much to increase her knowledge of the Gospel and encourage her children to interest themselves in the Articles of Faith. In March, 1841, at the request of Mr. John Wentworth, editor and proprietor of the Chicago Democrat, the Prophet Joseph Smith wrote a sketch of the rise, progress, persecution, and faith of the Latter-day Saints. This very famous document was concluded with an epitome of the doctrines of the Church, since called the Articles of Faith. These statements of our faith were not "produced by the labored efforts and the harmonized contentions of scholastics, but were struck off by one mind at a single effort to make a declaration of that which is most assuredly believed by the Church.... The combined directness, perspicuity, simplicity and comprehensiveness of this statement of the doctrine of the Church is regarded as strong evidence of a divine inspiration operating upon the Prophet Joseph Smith." It is essential that every true member of the Church familiarize himself with the doctrines of the Church. Without an understanding of what we believe, we have no criterion by which to judge ourselves. The better the understanding we possess, the more anxious we are to live in accordance with Gospel precepts. Thus, it is necessary for us to become more familiar with the doctrines of the Church that our faith might grow and stimulate us to better living. Following are the lesson titles:
Chapter 1. Introductory Chapter 2. God and the Holy Trinity Chapter 3. Transgression and the Fall Chapter 4. The Atonement and Salvation Chapter 5. Faith and Repentance Chapter 6. Baptism
Chapter 7. Baptism?Continued Chapter 8. The Holy Ghost
Articles of Faith, by Elder James E. Talmage, may be purchased from the Deseret Book Company, 44 East
 
South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, Utah, for 75 cents for a single copy or in quantities of six or more at 60 cents per copy.
Visiting Teachers Messages To The Home
Expressions of Faith
IN order to increase faith in God and in the Gospel, and in the hope also of stimulating a fuller expression of faith, the Relief Society has planned to study this year in its theology course the doctrines of the Church as given in the Articles of Faith. It is desired that the spirit and influence of this study shall extend to all those who are unable to attend the theological class, but who may be contacted by the visiting teachers of the Society. With this end in view, the General Board of Relief Society will present to each stake, sometime this summer, enough printed card copies of the Articles of Faith so that one may be placed in each Latter-day Saint home when the teachers make their October visits. It is hoped that this card will not be put away in a drawer, but framed or mounted and placed on the wall, where it may be frequently seen and consulted by members of the family. There is a joy in encouraging righteousness in the world. Relief Society visiting teachers have a great mission to perform. At times, a deep concern is felt because some teachers do not make the most of their opportunities to give information, inspiration and encouragement in the homes. This is their privilege as well as their opportunity. It is a great satisfaction to hear of renewals of faith and expressions of blessings derived in the homes because of the fine work of Relief Society visiting teachers. However, there are many teachers who can improve their work. It is desired that every teacher in our Church strive more diligently to be a missionary in spirit, and that she be thoroughly prepared in order to accomplish a maximum amount of good. She should read the lesson, attend the preparation meeting, and pray for help and guidance. "The prepared teacher is the inspired teacher." Women in the Church can do no greater thing than to cultivate a sincere faith in God, which leads to good deeds and peace of soul. To stimulate and cultivate the inner faith which we possess, we must have spiritual exercise and endeavor, which will strengthen spiritual powers. To be consistent Latter-day Saints we must not only know and have an understanding of the doctrines of the Church, but we must express our faith in action. Working on the theory that we must be "doers of the word and not hearers