[Vol28 | June 1941 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Article | Title: ANNUAL REPORT]

ANNUAL REPORT?1940
temple day, made nearly 100 special visits to the sick and homebound, annual visits to all members in the ward were made by the presidency, and the women contributed, during the year, nearly 600 hours in making 15 quilts. This statement of activities in one ward, multiplied by the 2,132 local Relief Societies, would give a fair indication of the extent of services rendered by the Society during 1940. Several instances were reported where ward Relief Societies held special sewing days for motherless families and for families who had lost all their belongings by fire.
IN addition to activities such as these, many special programs and projects are being conducted for the furtherance of individual and community welfare. In many instances, these special services are carried forward on a stake basis, with pooled funds from the various wards of the stake. Nineteen years ago, the General Board recommended, at its April general conference in 1922, that the interest on the recently centralized wheat trust fund be used for health work, with emphasis on maternity care and child welfare. Your narrative reports for 1940 give indication of the extensiveness of the maternal and child-health work which you are doing. A few examples will serve to illustrate this activity. One stake Relief Society has conducted a clinic for pre-school children regularly twice a month since 1922, and has successfully conducted a first-class maternity hospital since 1924; several stakes give hospital sewing service in exchange for free hospital beds for the needy; one stake used its wheat interest last year to refill its medical kits and to continue the
hospital and medical contracts in a group insurance plan under which it may have needy cases cared for each year; another stake without a wheat fund participated in a May health-fund drive for a dental project, and paid one-third of the cost of dental work for nearly 700 children and adults. Numerous stakes report cooperation with public health and nursing services in the examination of children at clinics, and the expenditure of wheat interest for doing follow-up corrective health work for children whose families cannot pay for the necessary care. Many wards and stakes are spending their wheat interest to provide care for maternity cases, for needed operations for mothers and children, for dental work, tonsillectomies, eye glasses, false teeth, surgical appliances, layettes, eye operations, for the employment of housekeepers and nurses in cases of illness, for medicine and cod-liver oil, for maternity bundles, containing supplies and equipment for home delivery, and for cooperation with other community agencies in providing such services as hot school lunches and immunization against disease. The Relief Societies have also done considerable health education work, not only through the medium of the nutrition lessons studied monthly by most organizations during the past three years, but also by inviting in for lectures and demonstrations public-health nurses, dentists, opticians, and physicians.
BESIDES their activities in their local Relief Societies, members of the Society throughout the Church have responded whole-
heartedly to calls for service in the interest of the Church welfare program, assisting in both stake and regional welfare centers, and in their own wards, in the collection and conditioning of great quantities of used clothing, in the making of hundreds of quilts and other articles of bedding, the weaving of rugs, the production of thousands of pieces of new clothing for men, women, and children, the canning and drying of a tremendous amount of fruits and vegetables. Other stakes have helped to raise funds to meet Church welfare assignments in the form of cash. These activities in the interest of the Church welfare program are not reflected in the financial records of the Relief Society, which show a total disbursement from general, stake, ward, and mission Relief Society funds for the year 1940 of $405,319.06, an increase of 8 percent or $30,785.74 over 1939. In addition to these extensive and major services, many members of the Society throughout the Church found time to appear in choruses of Singing Mothers. Many Societies held special demonstrations and exhibits of their handwork, conducted flower shows, arranged for special lectures, sponsored temple excursions, provided temple suits for the use of young couples, baptismal suits and towels, linen for the sacrament service, presented radio programs, cooperated extensively in the Church beautification project in activities ranging from the planting of shrubs and flowers for the chapel grounds to the complete renovation of Relief Society halls and of homes of widows and other dependent families. They also cooperated with the Church Campaign Committee on
 
the non-use of alcohol and tobacco, distributing thousands of pamphlets, contacting school officials, and placing law observance placards in business houses. During the year, Relief Society workers increased the membership of the organization by 4,922 members, devising various plans for stimulating interest in the values of the organization and enlisting new members, and also increased attendance opportunities for the members by providing nurseries at the meeting places where young mothers might leave their small children while in meeting, and transportation for older women otherwise unable to attend. They also increased the subscription list of the Relief Society Magazine by more than 5,000 subscriptions, bringing the total circulation to more than 50,000. Some Societies have entered subscriptions for their local public libraries, others have provided subscriptions for all missionaries from their wards, have maintained penny boxes and collected funds in other ways which are used for Magazine subscriptions for those unable to pay, and at least one ward accepted produce from its members in payment for Magazine subscriptions. Many Relief Societies have completed files of all bound volumes of the Magazine, and some Societies have had their book collections placed in Relief Society sections of the local public libraries. Perhaps the approach of the centennial, with the interest which it has centered in Relief Society beginnings and other historical material, has stimulated the renewed interest of local organizations in their Relief Society histories. Many