[Vol28 | June 1941 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Article | Title: ANNUAL REPORT]

ANNUAL REPORT?1940
99 years ago. I was also impressed by the fact that there is still need in all our communities, irrespective of their extensive and varied geographical distribution, for the same helpful, friendly, sympathetic services as those performed by the women of Nauvoo at the inception of the Society. Although begun so long ago, at a time when there were no patterns and precedents in organizations for women, no experiences upon which to draw in establishing and conducting a workable society for women, it is indicative of its inspired inception that the purposes of the original organization are still the principal concern of all Relief Societies today, wherever located. In adhering to its initial assignment, the Society has not clung to customs and functions for which there is no need today, but it has adapted its human services to a changing era, risen to meet new needs, expanded its program, and endeavored always to improve the methods by which it carries forward its timeless objectives.
A FEW excerpts from stake, ward, and mission reports, compared with others from the Nauvoo records, will serve to bear out these statements and also to give a panorama of Relief Society at work. Weekly meetings were inaugurated in the first days of the Society at Nauvoo; last year more than 71,000 weekly meetings were held in the various wards, except during the summer months. A charity fund, derived from contributions of members and others, was started at the organization meeting in 1842; contributions and other receipts for charity in 1940 amounted to $76,844.91.
In 1843, a necessity committee of 16 was appointed "to search out the poor and suffering, to call upon the rich for aid, and thus, as far as possible, relieve the wants of all." Last year, the visiting teachers made 1,188,462 visits to the homes of Latter-day Saint families, nearly 60,000 more calls than were recorded in 1939. During the first year of operation, the Relief Society expended for the relief of the poor, $306.48; in 1940, a total of $95,187.12 was disbursed for charitable purposes. In the fall of 1843, the Relief Society women of Nauvoo initiated sewing service for those in need, assembling materials and making bedding and clothing to be "given to such as are suffering cold and nakedness." Last year, the regular monthly sewing meetings held throughout the organization carried forward a larger sewing program than usual in order to make bedding and clothing for distribution through the Church welfare program, as well as for issuance by the Society. Compare the similarity of the proposal in 1843 that the Society "get together materials for the Saints for bedding that they might not suffer" with the 1940 project for better beds and bedding conducted on a "help one another" plan in an Arizona stake, with the hundreds of quilts made by ward Relief Societies throughout the Church, and with the recent request of the Relief Societies in the Brazilian Mission for information on mattress-making so that the bedding facilities of their members might be improved. Sewing for the needy is indeed a major activity of the Relief Society of today, as it was in Nauvoo. The early minutes tell us that in
addition to caring for the needy and destitute, the women of the first Relief Society turned their efforts toward the raising of funds for the temple which was then being built in Nauvoo. In the reports submitted for 1940 are numerous examples of funds raised by Relief Societies in various ingenious ways in the interest of the erection of ward chapels and stake houses, and even in the purchase of lots on which ward buildings are to be placed. They have raised funds to help buy chairs and benches for their chapels, and, as an example of the geographical spread of similar activities, I mention that a ward Relief Society in Salt Lake City, and one in the far-away Argentine Mission each assisted its ward to buy an organ. The Nauvoo Relief Society as an organization offered to weave and sew clothing for the temple workmen, most of whom were giving volunteer service, and they also donated groceries for their families. The 1940 reports include many instances of the Relief Society preparing and serving food to men donating labor in the erection of chapels, in the beautification of Church grounds, and in some types of welfare projects.
IN fulfilling its chief purpose?"to seek out and relieve the distressed," the women of Nauvoo encountered problems which are familiar to every Relief Society president today. Some of the narrative reports sent in by wards for 1940 tell of services similar to those recorded in the Nauvoo minutes of the Society. The following excerpts from the 1940 report of one small-town ward Relief Society in Utah indicate the services of a typical ward
 
Relief Society?a transient family in desperate need and with many problems settled in the community, care was provided for a maternity case, hospital care for a case of appendicitis, an aged, sick man was visited, the bishop requested a visit to learn what assistance might be given the family of a man who had been shot, care was given by the members of the Society during the illness of a woman, a tonsillectomy for a little boy was arranged, comfort and assistance was given in connection with at least ten funerals in the community, and the Society assisted the bishop in providing and distributing cheer baskets at Christmas time. In addition to these welfare activities, the conduct of the regular weekly meetings, the study of the outlined educational courses, and the work of the visiting teachers, this Society also held a meeting at the home of each of its aged, homebound members in recognition of their birthdays, bought material and made draperies for the ward Relief Society room, prepared and sold refreshments at a ward party to raise money for the stake tabernacle, made a survey in the interest of the Church campaign against the use of alcohol and tobacco, assisted in the Church beautification program, held a ward Relief Society conference, attended special meetings called by the bishop to discuss ward problems, attended the annual stake Relief Society conference, gave a party for retiring officers when the ward Relief Society was reorganized, sent representatives to a stake music course, bought eighteen of the new Relief Society Song Books, held monthly officers' meetings, provided a trio to sing in the temple on stake Relief Society