[Vol28 | June 1941 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Article | Title: Eva G. Gillespie]

Eva G. Gillespie President, Sharon Stake Relief Society
THEY say necessity is the mother of invention. We had very few funds with which to carry on, and we saw so much need among the children of our stake that we naturally turned to the first lesson in social welfare?contact community agencies. Through the cooperation of our public-health nurse, we started well-baby conferences nearly three years ago. We planned to hold them monthly, but the response was so great that we have held them twice monthly, and sometimes three times. These well-baby conferences are for children under six years of age. In our stake we have 789 children under six years of age, of whom 437 are registered at the conference, 391 have been protected against smallpox, and 431 against diphtheria. Protecting the infant against these diseases before he reaches one year of age assures a higher degree of immunity for the child, and less severe reaction from the immunization. Although the maternal and child-health program conducted by the State Board of Health is primarily for rural communities only, a government survey indicates that the entire State of Utah is considered rural with the exception of Salt Lake City, Ogden, and Provo. Federal funds are available to the state on a matching basis to carry out this work. A reliable doctor is employed and paid for by the state, and the nurse gives her time from her regular work. The other women, those who act as hostesses, those who take temperatures, weigh and measure the children and otherwise assist at these conferences, are volunteer Relief Society women. A thorough examination is given each child by the doctor, and advice given to the mother on the child's care. We find that these conferences are helping the mothers just as much as the children.
Corrective work is not done at these conferences, and so where the doctor finds corrective work necessary, with the assistance of the public-health nurse we follow up cases and use our funds for this purpose. Our public-health nurse spends over one-fourth of her time in visiting families, so who is in a better position to know the conditions in the home? We receive fine cooperation from our county commissioners. They matched the amount we paid out for nearly all tonsil and eye cases. Once each year, and sometimes twice, my counselor and I meet with our county commissioners, and they are certainly a fine group of men. We explain to them some of our problems in connection with corrective work, and point out that through rheumatism the children's hearts and other organs are being affected, and they have always responded very well. We never draw the line on whether the children are from Latter-day Saint families or not, as we are working for the good of the community. When the doctor sends the bill, I approve it and attach a little written history of the case, then send it to our commissioner, and he has always paid half of the charge of the corrective work. In some communities typhoid vaccine is also furnished by the state for everyone free of charge, and where necessity arises it can be secured by any section. This also applies to pneumonia serum and drugs for venereal disease. If we cannot get a physician to administer these things free of charge to indigent or borderline cases, we can contact the county physician and have it done. The Red Cross has been another
 
source of help to us, and at present we have a class of forty-eight women in our stake taking the home nursing course, with our public-health nurse as instructor. She takes the time from her regular work to give these instructions. Our public-health nurse helps in teaching a class for expectant mothers at our Utah Valley Hospital, and we are urging every young mother to take advantage of this fine course. Then we have our Lions Club, the American Legion, and different business-men's clubs. If we acquaint them with some of our health problems they are very willing to assist. We also have a Chamber of Commerce in our little town of Orem, which assists us in our health work. In the past year we have had thirty tonsil cases taken care of, eight severe dental cases, two maternity cases, and five eye corrections, and as we have only a small wheat interest fund to draw from, you can see it would not go very far in paying these bills. Although our schools have a preventive health program and in our district two grades in each school receive complete dental care each year, and all children receive a medical examination, they have no funds for other corrective work. Last year they did a little experimental work in our case, and advanced a small amount which the community matched through sponsoring a picture show, and through dime donations from the children in our four schools. We are not anticipating this help for the coming year, as they can continue only the preventive program from their budget. Our records do not show very many cases taken care of, but we are instrumental in having numerous
cases taken care of through other agencies. The Crippled Children's Service?another government agency?the Tuberculosis Association, and the outpatient department of our Utah Valley Hospital have taken care of many cases without any cost to us, when referred to them after our investigation has found it is necessary. We also work in close cooperation with our county welfare workers, and have succeeded in having several operations and maternity cases hospitalized by them, with the Church, through the bishoprics, paying but
a small part. When we take care of maternity cases, our funds have stretched further by having the women cared for in the homes of the several fine women in our stake with sufficient training to care for these patients. The patients have appreciated it so much that we recommend this in our stake. It also helps the women who care for them, because in most cases they are widows and need the extra income. Our aim is to promote health and prevent disease, and if we work through our children, we are making a better generation to carry on.
MID-SUMMER PEACE By Celia Van Cott
Such beauty, Lord, holds fast my heart this hour When long grey shadows cling to earth's green breast, When summer's sun through heaven's unseen power Sinks slowly down behind the mountain crest; When leaf plumes brush the sky and evening's breeze Stirs mint-twined grass along the cooling stream; When twilight sifts a purple haze through trees To shuttle out the last of day's bright beam.
There's fragile loveliness upon earth's face When day is stilled and night creeps down the sky? Soon quietude shall settle on this place And all things rest or sleep in peace, while I With heart attuned shall wait through moon-mist night To see dawn break in crystal splints of light.