[Vol28 | June 1941 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Today's Need—Spiritual Awakening]

is slow, continuous, upward climb since the divine edict "multiply and replenish the earth." The only thing which places man above the beasts of the field is his possession of spiritual gifts.
Superior intellectuality without spiritual virtues may tend only to make men more beastlike. Man's earthly existence is but a test as to whether he will concentrate his efforts, his mind, his soul upon things which contribute to the comfort and gratification of his physical instincts and passions, or whether he will make as his life's end and purpose the acquisition of spiritual qualities. "The thing a man does practically lay to heart," says Carlyle, "and know for certain concerning his vital relations to this mysterious Uni-. Verse, and his duty and destiny there, that is in all cases the primary thing for him, and creatively determines all the rest.... And, I say, if you tell me what that is, you tell me to a very great extent what the man is, what the kind of things he will do is."
That philosopher never spoke anything nearer the truth. Now, sisters, I ask you to imagine what condition man would have been in if God had never revealed Himself to man.
Just imagine man placed here with his knowledge taken away from him; that is, his memory of his pre-existent state. If the Lord had not revealed Himself, I have no idea of what would have happened. The saving of his life, and the perpetuation of his species would be his sole aim; indeed, there would be nothing else to live for.
When he got thirsty, the water would quench his thirst; when he became hungry, the fruits of the field would satisfy his hunger. He would feel the warmth of the sun by day; leaves and reeds would make him a comfortable bed at night.
Skins of animals would keep him warm.
When another man would come to rob him, or try to seize from him a luscious piece of venison, or some fruit which he had collected from the tree, a fight would ensue. The gratification of appetite and passion would be man's sole aim, and thus, as the Book of Mormon plainly states, man became "carnal, sensual, and devilish by nature." In a word, he would be just an animal. The Lord anticipating this, revealed Himself to man and gave the Gospel Plan. In order to assist man to rise above the earth and earthly things, and to keep his heart from being centered upon them, the Lord suggested or, indeed, commanded man to take of the "firstlings of the flock" and offer them as a sacrifice to God.
Have you ever thought of it? The best, which ordinarily would be for self, must be given to a higher power—the first step in spiritual uplift.
When man thus denied himself, and conquered his physical appetite, and paid reverence to someone higher than himself, he approached nearer his Maker—there was a spiritual awakening. Two Ways of Life There is a most significant story of two boys—one who heeded God's commandment, and offered sacrifice, paid his devotion to Deity in accordance with the command of the Lord. The other failed to do it because his heart was centered upon the things of the earth. As a consequence he became grasping and selfish and murderous. He choked his soul with greed. He stifled his spirituality. He became jealous and envious, and finally murdered his brother. In that simple account of Cain and Abel we find the story of the race. The man who sets his heart upon the things of the world, who does not hesitate to cheat a brother, who will lie for gain, who will steal from his neighbor, or who, by slander, will rob another of his reputation, lives on a low, animal plane of existence, and either stifles his spirituality or permits it to lie dormant. To be thus carnally minded is death. No truer word was ever spoken or written. On the other hand, the man who tills the soil, garners his fruit, increases his flocks and his herds, having in mind making better the world in which he lives, desiring to contribute to the happiness of his fellows, and who does all things for the glory of God, will, to the extent that he denies himself for these ideals, develop his spirituality. Indeed, only to the extent that he does this will he rise above the plane of the animal world.
Commenting upon this, Rudolph Eucken gives the following: "I cannot conceive of the development of a powerful personality, a deep-rooted and profound mind, of a character rising above this world, without his having experienced a divinity in life above, beyond the world of sensible reality, and as surely as we can create in ourselves a life in contrast to pure nature, growing by degrees and extending to the heights of the true, the good, and the beautiful, we may have the same assurance of that religion called universal."
Paul has in mind these two courses of life when he writes: "But if ye bite and devour one another, take heed that ye be not consumed one of another. "This I say, then, Walk in the Spirit, and ye shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. "Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these: Adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness, idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variance, emulations, wrath, strife, seditions,. Heresies, envyings, murders, drunkenness, revellings, and such like, of the which I tell you before, as I have also told you in time past, that they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God. "But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance: against such there is no law. "And they that are Christ's have crucified the flesh with the affections and lusts. "If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit. "Let us not be desirous of vain glory, provoking one another, envying one another." Evidently, judging from Paul's letter, spiritual awakening was a crying need among the Galatians in the days of the Apostles.
Jesus emphasized the same need when he said: "Labour not for the meat which perisheth, but for that meat which endureth unto everlasting life, which the Son of man shall give unto you: for him hath God the Father sealed." World Conditions Today A few years ago we were inclined to think that since history began man has made great progress. To day as we look at world conditions, we are convinced that progress is not one thousandth part of what it should be. Selfishness, envy, hatred, conquest, mass-murder, are on a rampage throughout the so-called civilized world, and love and peace and joy are being banished from the hearts and homes and lives of men.
With all our boasted civilization there never was a time when spiritual awakening and spiritual ideals were more needed.
Civilization has grown too complex for the human mind to visualize or to control.
Unless man comes to a speedy realization that the higher and not the baser qualities of man must be developed, then the present status of civilization is in jeopardy.
Life on the animal plane has as its ideal the survival of the fittest—kill or be killed, crush or be crushed, mangle or be mangled. For man, with his intelligence, this is a sure road to anguish and death. The spiritual road has Christ as its goal. The individual lives for something higher than self. He hears the Savior's voice saying: "I am the way, the truth, and the life."
Following that voice he soon learns that there is no one great thing which he can do to attain happiness or eternal life. He learns that "life is made up not of great sacrifices or duties, but of little things in which smiles and kindness and small obligations given habitually are what win and preserve the heart and secure comfort."
Life is an ever-flowing river on which one embarks at birth and sails for fifty, sixty, seventy, eighty, or more years.
Every year that passes goes into an eternity never to return, yet each carries with it into the past no weakness, no bodily ailment, no sorrow, no laughter, no thought, no noble aspirations, no hope, no ambition—all these with every trait of character, every inclination, every tendency remain with us. In other words, our lives are made up of daily thoughts and actions. We may resolve to let all our sorrows and weaknesses go with the passing time, but we know that every thought, every inclination, has left its indelible impression upon our souls, and we shall have to deal with it today. So live, then, that each day will find you conscious of having wilfully made no person unhappy. No one has lived a wellspent day who at night tosses his head on a sleepless pillow because of a stricken conscience. Daniel Webster once said that the greatest thought that had ever occupied his mind was the realization of the fact that "there is no evil we cannot face or flee from but the consequences of duty disregarded." Our conscience remains with us and will be with us at the end, to pain us for duties violated or give us comfort for duties performed. Danger of Unlimited Destructive Forces Never before in the history of the world has there been such need as today for spiritual awakening. Not that man is more depraved, not that he is less religious, but that he has in his grasp such seemingly unlimited mechanized power. If you put bombs in the hands of an inexperienced child he is likely to blow himself to pieces. To a degree that is just what we are witnessing today in the world. In the hands of undeveloped, spiritually-dead people has been placed the power of explosives, the radio, the airplane, the submarine, all the concentrated power of electricity, and even that of the breaking up of the atom.
Unless there is a spiritual awakening, civilization is threatened. The carnal-minded in the world are causing heart-aches and threatening the extinction of the race. Hope Dawning But the sun of hope is rising.
Thinking men and women are recognizing the need of man's looking up toward the heavens instead of groveling in response to the animal instinct. One man, commenting on this, said that if all the destroyers of civilization could be eliminated, and the traits of the rest of us that come from destructive strains could be eliminated, an approach to the Millennium some hundred years hence is by no means inconceivable. Men's Hearts Must Be Changed Spiritual awakening in the hearts of millions of men and women would bring about a changed world. I am hopeful that the dawning of that day is not far distant. My faith in the ultimate triumph of the Gospel of Jesus Christ assures me that a spiritual awakening must come. It will come through the acceptance of Jesus Christ and obedience to His Gospel. I believe that there never was a time in the history of the world when there was such a need for a united, determined stand to uphold Christ and the Restoration of the Gospel through the Prophet Joseph Smith as there is today.
With all my soul I believe it. Influence of Mothers As I intimated in my introduction, one of the most potential influences in awakening spirituality in the hearts of mankind is found among the mothers of men. I repeat, it is the mothers who make us most. If you mothers believe in God sincerely, and exemplify that belief in your daily words and actions in the home, your children will believe also. If you are skeptical and doubtful of the efficacy of the Gospel, your children are very likely to partake of your skepticism and doubt and grow up disbelievers. I am not unmindful, when I say that, of the undesirable influences to which our children are subjected when they get out from under your care. I know what they are, and so do you. But in the midst of these influences there is always the memory of mother, and what she would like you to do, and that is an anchor, a safe anchor in the midst of temptation. "The mother, in her office, holds the key Of the soul; and she it is who stamps the coin Of character, and makes the being who would be a savage But for her gentle cares, a Christian man, Then crown her Queen o' the world!" Conclusion In conclusion, sisters, I repeat that the greatest need of the world today is spiritual awakening. The mothers of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints can contribute more to this awakening than any other group of women in the world. God help you to realize your responsibility and to meet it nobly.