[Vol28 | June 1941 | Sequence: 29 | Category: Article | Title: ANNUAL REPORT]
ANNUAL REPORT?1940
have written summaries covering the period since the organization of Societies in their local communities, including the town where President Lyman was born, where Relief Society history dates back to 1856. Some of these histories are supplemented by scrapbooks containing life histories of the elderly members of the Society, newspaper and magazine clippings, et cetera. There seems to be no limit to the ingenuity of Relief Society women, who capitalize on every opportunity for raising funds for the conduct of their own local Societies, for the Church welfare program, for assisting their bishops with ward buildings, and for charitable purposes. They have composed and produced pageants and plays, conducted food sales, sewed carpet rags, made and sold rugs and other articles; they have collected and sold soap labels and old newspapers in order to buy the new Relief Society Song Book; they have given dinners, bazaars and carnivals, and one progressive ward compiled a cook book, and has sold nearly the entire edition of 1,000 copies at $1.00 per book, in order to procure funds for their new ward chapel.
MANY Relief Societies accomplish their work in the face of obstacles such as distance, poor roads, lack of transportation, and adverse weather conditions. The example of one little ward in Idaho is typical of
many others?"many of the women do not drive cars, and they walk miles through many kinds of weather to attend to their Relief Society duties. For many years past they have recorded 100 percent visiting teaching. They have 28 families in their ward, and 28 members enrolled in the Relief Society. This year they have 34 subscriptions to the Relief Society Magazine." As an example of what the association in Relief Society meetings means to the members, I have selected the report of a small branch in the East. At the beginning of last year, the officers were discouraged because of the small attendance at the meetings and the apparent lack of interest, and decided it was not worth the effort to continue the meetings. However, they found that they missed the meetings so much that they decided to resume them last October, even though only one or two members attended. By the end of December they had pieced two baby quilts to be given wherever most needed, and report that they are happy in their work and are holding meetings regularly. Their report ends with these significant words: "As the year closes we look back with thankful hearts for the little good we have accomplished and the much good we have received."
(For report of membership, see Relief Society Magazine, May, 1941, pp. 314-324.)
RELIEF SOCIETY of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
