[Vol28 | June 1941 | Sequence: 32 | Category: Article | Title: Lessons]
LESSONS FOR JULY, 1941 & OCTOBER THE COVER By Avard Fairbanks THE Pioneers faced a frontier which demanded struggle, | sacrifice and sorrow, but still they pressed on. Out in the West a culture charged with spirituality of mind, with idealism in the building of healthy and strong bodies, and with plans for a splendid system of social organization was fostered by the pioneer forefathers. Have the sons and daughters of these hardy people lost sight of the vision and foresight of their ancestors? We cannot falter, for today we have new frontiers to conquer. The group of sculpture representing 'New Frontiers,'' composed and placed in the Century of Progress Exposition in Chicago, was so created to show that in our progress and development there are new frontiers for the descendants of the Pioneers. In the arrangement of this particular group of sculpture, the mother is placed in an elevated position?symbolic of our American concept of the mother. She is the center about which the family life is grouped. She is honored, and it is her husband's desire to keep her thus. She seeks the refinements of life. She looks forward. She senses and feels the living development and the great future beyond. It is her duty to guide and direct the children toward futures of high purpose. The courageous and strong husband provides for the physical necessities of life. It may be noticed that in his right hand he grasps the vegetables and fruits of the fields. He cultivates or provides that which gives sustenance to his family. In his left hand he supports the child. It is the great responsibility of true manhood to sponsor, uphold and protect life. The young boy at the opposite side of the group is shown with his books in his hand. He, as a symbol of youth, sees new fields of activity as a result of his learning. He is to carry on the culture of his progenitors. As our religious teachings point out that progress is eternal and that "the glory of God is intelligence," we must realize that we cannot come to the end of the horizon. It is constantly expanding and enlarging with our increased vision and activities. This group of sculpture through its tranquility and its dignity manifests that the youth of today seeks to further advance the culture established by the great Pioneers. The youth of today also will take on responsibilities of life. With force and energy it too will struggle and sacrifice and meet courageously its "New Frontiers."
