[Vol28 | June 1941 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Guide | Title: LESSON PREVIEW]

LESSON PREVIEW?1941-42
only," the visiting teacher message committee of the General Board has chosen as the general title of the messages for 1941-42, "Expressions of Faith," with the following titles for each month:
1. Faith
2. Prayer as an Expression of Faith
3. Fast Day Observance as an Expression of Faith
4. Loyalty to Church Leadership as an Expression of Faith
5. Attendance at Sacrament Meetings as an Expression of Faith
6. Service as an Expression of Faith
7. Sabbath Day Observance as an Expression of Faith
8. Obeying the Commandments of God as an Expression of Faith
Work-and-Business
Better Buymanship
IN the beginning days and years of Relief Society, the activities of the organization were devoted largely to helping people in need. As the program grew and expanded to meet other objectives of the organization, and the educational program became a definite part of Relief Society, activities concerned with helping people to better conditions in their homes were carried forward on the second Tuesday of the month, designated as work-and-business day. Relief Society should reserve in its program a place where up-to-date information and improved methods of homemaking may be discussed and made adaptable in the homes of its members. Anything that mothers can do to become better informed and more efficient in solving the many problems of the modern home on the present income or the reduced incomes that may lie ahead for the American family, will help to raise the standard of living to the highest level possible in each individual case. This objective has a definite place in our Society, as the great majority of its members are not only faithful, devoted Relief Society workers, but also mothers and homemakers upon whom rests the very important responsibility of being the hub around which the many phases of home life revolve. No small part of the manifold duties of a homemaker is to direct the family's consumption problems which are, generally speaking, four in number: those of manager, user, citizen, and buyer. As manager she makes impersonal comparisons between members of the family as to the importance of individual satisfactions, and apportions the family income so that desired values are attained. As user she applies techniques of food preparation, clothing construction, et cetera, to goods and services purchased, and shares in their ultimate consumption. As citizen she takes an active interest in legislation affecting consumption. As buyer she selects goods and services for family use. She should know what qualities she is buying and get what she wants at the lowest cost. To stretch the buying power of the family dollars is a real chal-
lenge and responsibility, and a possibility in most homes. The time element makes it impossible to discuss all four phases of the consumption problem. Since more people may be conscious of the buying phase, that approach to the subject has been chosen. The topics outlined for discussion will open the door to the value and extent of the subject. They will serve as a guide for individual study by the homemakers of Relief Society who are desirous of becoming more wise and efficient as a part of the group which is the chief spender of the nation. Activities involved in purchasing goods and services will take on new meaning and be much more interesting under the general
 
title of "Better Buymanship." The following subjects are submitted for discussion during 1941-42:
1. The Consumer Movement
2. Judging Qualities in Materials
3. Comparison of the Fibers Used in Materials
4. Man-made Fibers in the Spotlight
5. Ready-to-wear Dresses and Coats
6. Hosiery
7. Children's Clothing
8. Care of Clothing
To conserve the space in the Relief Society Magazine for the lesson proper, no references will be printed at the end of each lesson. These references will be contained in a blue bulletin sent by the General Board to stake work-and-business leaders.
Literature
Humor in Life and Literature
AFTER three years of studying "The Advance of the Novel" in the literature department, we make a complete departure. The year 1941-42 will launch us into a course entitled, "Humor in Life and Literature." There are many reasons for choosing such a course of study: First, humor has a definite and dignified place in literature. We believe with Carlyle that "Humor has justly been regarded as the finest perfection of poetic genius." Second, we feel that there is a world-wide need for release from tension at present. Henry Ward Beecher, the great preacher, said, "Mirth is God's medicine.... He who has a sense of the humorous has more than wealth." Quoting the writer of our lessons, "Humor is like the seasoning in our food. We wouldn't want it as an entire diet. How much better life is for enough humor to make us relish it." Every age has had humor. Third, humor distinguishes us from the animal kingdom. Man rises to heights through an appreciation of humor. Humor not only reflects, but it helps to mold. God has given us a sense of humor that we should be careful not to lose, but use and refine. Max Eastman says that "being in fun" is a condition most natural to childhood and that "children at play reveal the humorous laugh in its simplest and most omnivorous form." Humor keeps