[Vol28 | June 1941 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Poem | Title: Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Poem Contest]
Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Poem Contest
THE Eliza Roxey Snow Relief Society Memorial Prize Poem Contest is conducted annually by the Relief Society General Board. Three prizes are awarded?a first prize of $15, a second prize of $10, and a third prize of $5. The prize poems are published each year in the January issue of the Relief Society Magazine. Prize-winning poems are the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for the published poems at the regular Magazine rates. Rules governing the contest are published herewith. Since 1923, when the Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest was established, no definite subject has been recommended for the poems submitted. This year, because Latter-day Saint women are directing their interest toward the hundredth year of Relief Society, the Relief Society centennial is to be the theme of all poems submitted in the contest. In the past the contest has opened each year upon publication of the announcement in the August number of the Magazine, and has closed on October 15. This year, because of the limitation of subject to the centennial theme, it is recognized that more time is desirable, and therefore the announcement is made in the June number of the Magazine. This year, the contest will close October 1, so that the prize-winning poems may be included in the new Relief Society Centennial Anthology of Verse which is now in the course of preparation. The object of the contest is to encourage women to do creative writing in the form of poetry, to appreciate more keenly the beauty and value of poetic verse, and, at this time especially, to direct creative expression and appreciation toward the Relief Society century. May this be the outstanding year for excellence in poetry.
RULES OF THE CONTEST
1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women. Members of the General Board and persons connected with the Relief Society office staff are not eligible to enter this contest.
2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant.
