LITERATURE Miss Alice L. Reynolds, Member of General Board One of the poets said, "I am part of all that I have met." Dr. Calderwood has said the same thing this afternoon in other words, We have been studying during the past years American literature. There are more people writing good poetry in America today than ever before in its hitsory. There are more people writing good poetry in the state of Utah today than ever before in its history. I recall a moment of real exaltation when I stood in Scotland, on the banks of the Doon, and thought of Burns' poem "Ye banks and braes of bonnie Doon." It brought to mind all the splendid scenery that we have in this state, and I looked forward to the time when somebody would interpret the beauties of our scenery even as Burns has interpreted the beauties of Scotch scenery.. I think there is hope. If you will note the poetry that is being written in our state today, I believe that you will see that there are signs pointing to such a future. We sing in our national hymn, "We love thy rocks and rills, thy woods and templed hills," and this morning we opened our conference by singing "For the strength of the hills we bless thee." The hills are ever present to us in America, and' particularly is that so in this section. Of De country. I am going to read youa poem,,"; Those Yonder Hills," poem that has grown out of our environment: THOSE YONDER HILLS I have watched those wondrous hills Against the rim of sky there to the east, Through all the year. - I have seen the tender Spring Lay verdant scarfs of variBoned hues Across their barren breasts, And with her warm, sweet breath Coax waxen lilies into bloom; I have watched the Summer dusk Fill the wide canyons with a misty zone of blue, And touch with light, caressing fingers The tall crags, as Summer sunset flung Afar to every peak a roseate glow. And later, when the Autumn came with quiet treid, 
 Scattering her store. Of rich and vivid wealth, I've stood in worship at the shrine Of those great hills, Awed by the breathless beauty which I saw * * * And when the jagged summits Lifted high and haughty heads, Shaking the mantle which the Winter placed With patient care, to their still feet, I have seen the grave, chill dawn Arch halos of pearled platinum and yellow gold Above their aged crests; and tint 'With mauve and rose the scant, torn cloaks they wore. I have turned to those tall hills for comfort, Seen their lofty heights through tear-dimmed eyes, Which made the horizon a strange, uneven line * * * And, list'ning close, there, to my disquieted soul, The voices of those great and glorious hills Spoke softly of the peace they knew. * * * O! Mighty mountains of mine own dear land— I love you so! That is poetry. That poem was written by Gladys Ann Wagstaff, a Utah girl. I hope we shall have more such poems in the future. I wish to congratulate Relief Society workers for the initiative they have shown in enriching their literary lessons. Writing for the letters of Emily Dickinson, having Ada Dwyer Russel address you on Amy Lowell, having the nurse of Eugene Field speak to you, visiting the grave of Joaquin Miller and reading the very large number of volumes of Mark Twain is all most commendable. On the seventeenth of March Professor Alfred Osmond read from his poem, The Exiles, to a group of Relief Society workers. The author was deeply gratified and the audience greatly pleased. That sort of thing will stimulate the writing of other poems that will cast a glamour over our past. Today we are to listen to Mrs. Katherine B. Palm. She will present some material on Edgar Lee Masters. There are critics of the first order in America who say that Edgar Lee Masters is the greatest of our American poets: Mr. Masters visited Utah two years ago last month. When he returned home he wrote an article for The Nation, entitled "The American Background," in which article he said some complimentary things about Utah. Mrs. Palm is one of the outstanding students of literature in our state. She and her husband were hosts to Mr. Masters on his late visit to Salt Lake City. In an article published in the American Mercury De Voto took a fling at Mr. Masters for what he had said about Utah in the Nation. De Voto held that "Mormon" propaganda was responsible for Mr. Masters' favorable impressions of Salt Lake and the "Mormon" people. We shall now learn Mrs. Palm's version of Mr. Masters' entertainers and we Shall have the pleasure of hearing her discuss Edgar Lee Masters, the poet. EDGAR