SOCIAL SERVICE Dr. W. R, Calderwood I am not a psychiatrist. I have studied mental hygiene; I have taught it approximately ten years at the University of Utah. The mental hygiene movement began in 1908, when a man by the name of Beers who had been committed to a mental hospital came out and interested philanthropic, broad-minded men in bettering the conditions in mental hospitals. As soon as they began to see the problems they began to look for the causes, which led to an investigation of the mental hospital and prison systems, delinquency homes, the problem of prostitution and other things of that sort. The first mental hygiene society was organized in 1908, and since then mental hygiene organizations have been organized all over the world. Recently, one was organized in Utah— about a year ago. I think Mrs. Evans defined a psychiatrist well ——one trained in the detection and treatment of mental disorders. _A physician who has had psychiatric training, who has spent two or three years in studying the mental problems, the mental maladjustments of the more serious type, as well as minor maladjustments, is a psychiatrist... © I am delighted to know that the women of the Relief Society are taking up this problem at its beginning. We have heretofore been working on end results. We wait until we have our criminals, prostitutes, etc., and then spend vast sums of money to care for them. I do not mean that we should not continue our efforts at the present time to reclaim those who are ill and those who have been lost to society. We study the conservation of all kinds of material; for instance, the conservation of hogs, of water power, of forests, but only recently have we begun to. Appreciate the importance of conserving human energy. The greatest force in all the world is human energy—no other force exists which compares to it. We should be concerned with the conservation of human energy and should try to check the destruction of human energy, to guide it right by beginning in childhood. I have read your text, Dr. Wile's Challenge of Childhood, as well as other books, and some very interesting problems are discussed in the book, which you have already partly covered and will no doubt complete before you take up another text. I believe that all leaders in this movement should be widely read. You are not confined in your reading to one or two books, and the more outside information you can get and bring into your class, the better effects you are going to have on the members. You should have in your home towns libraries where people who are interested in these human problems can find books and pamphlets and magazines on the subject, and you will find the young mothers S) anxious to get additional information in order to better care for their children. About 65 percent of the individuals who comes into this world are normal, about 15 to 20 per cent above normal, 10 per cent dullards, and 5 per cent feeblesminded, including idiots and imbeciles. While there are 80 or 85 per cent who are normal and above normal, there are all degrees of normality. This 65 per cent normal vary in their capacity to study different problems, but taking it for granted that 85 per cent are born with normal capacity, then what they accomplish after that depends: upon environment. What we do to develop our potential powers depends absolutely upon our environment. We come into the world without any. Knowledge, but we have capacity to learn. So the child's capacity to learn is measured by his inheritance. What he learns depends upon his environment. How many of us live up to our capacity? Nobody reaches full capacity. The brain is a plastic organ—the only plastic organ man has. If you use it right, you will continue to grow mentally; if you do not use it, you will not grow mentally. It is susceptible of modification. You may modify your course in life, your habits and viewpoints. The problem you have to deal with in the child is the child's ability to adjust satisfactorily, and the degree in which he is able to adjust and control his mental and instinctive tendencies depends upon his environment. In early life this environment is the home. His first contact is with the mother. The mother nourishes him and cares for him—he cries for mother. He does not know mother from anybody else. Some say we have certain instinctive tendencies, while others say we have no instincts, that we are born with a mechanism which responds to stimulation. We do respond to stimulation.. The child comes into contact with the mother's breast and nurses— ~ I do not care whether you call it instinct or a response to stimulation. - How a child is going to react depends upon the situation presented to him. The child's first love life is influenced by the mother more than by the father—she is his first love object— a perfect individual to the young child. Time goes on and the little boy wants to be like father, the little girl, like mother. After awhile the child begins to see other individuals who behave a little differently from' what mother does, from what father does, and he wonders if mother is the most wonderful woman in all the world, and if father is the best man that ever lived. The child thinks, "I go to visit 'Johnny Jones and I don't see his mother scolding the children and asking them to do things they don't want to do." He doesn't see them under all circumstances, and he wonders if father and mother are just what he thought. The child is disillusioned as to what father and mother are, and he begins to build finer worlds—he day dreams and peoples his world with new parents, with new brothers and sisters, with new conditions. 
 The fantasy which is an important part of the child's life should be guided and directed in the development of the child. Father and mother should guide the fancies and day dreams of boys and girls. It is natural and normal and the parents ought not to try to curtail it. Children should be obliged to do a certain amount of work, in order for them to learn to adjust themselves in the home, depending upon their age; but they will day dream and they will build air-castles and they will people these homes with new individuals, and what their parents have been may determine what they are going to put into these new homes. They put in parents like their parents were to them in their infancy days. There are two barriers to a child's progress—the barrier of reality and the barrier of authority. We abuse our authority as parents, frequently compelling the child to do things which are not, frequently, for the child's best interest, because we have not studied children. We have to earn a living, but we have not qualified to live as we ought to live in peace and harmony with the community and adjust ourselves satisfactorily and get happiness out of life. Happiness depends upon our ability to understand our companions— you cannot be happy unless you are adjusted to those with whom you are associated. You cannot associate efficiently to the best advantage unless you have some knowledge of the reactions, the attitude, the behavior of those with whom you are associated. So the study of conduct and reasons for conduct (there is always a cause behind any maladjusted situation) is important. If 85 per cent are born with normal brain power, why do so many become maladjusted; why do we have so many nervous breakdowns, so many delinquent children, so much 'shellshock in the war? Because these have not sufficient ability to meet reality— it is'too stern, too hard to meet. During the war, some of our men suffering from shell shock, which was really a nervous breakdown. Some of them had it before they were drafted. It was not due to the burst of a shell, but to nervous prostration, inability to meet the reality. We have life shock all along the line— people who cannot meet the situation, who cannot meet life's problems every day. Our great class of failures are those who cannot meet life's problems successfuly every day. The drunkard cannot meet life's problems every day—he must drink today because it is too cold; tomorrow, because it is too hot; today, because John Jones is going away, and tomorrow, because Tom Moore is coming back. Many problems come to the child early in his life and he should be trained to meet every day's problems every day—not to put off till tomorrow what ought to be done today. A child becomes efficient in life, is able to adjust satisfactorily, only to the extent that he learns to meet life's problems every day, and \ we don't find many who are doing it. The child, when he is born into the world, utters a cry of discontent, a cry of rebellion against the change in environmental condition. Before birth, life was no exertion, there were no disturbing influences, but just as soon as he is born, disturbing influences come in—cold, air, heat, light, noise, and he rebels and cries in protest, and he continues to cry from the cradle to the grave. "Mama, you help me. Father, you do this; I don't want to"—crying out in protest against reality. The child can be trained to meet situations if we begin early in life, and teach him to meet them every day. If he slights them today, it is easier to slight them tomorrow. It is important to stress this in the home before school days, for by that time the child's habits are pretty well determined. It is not a problem of the schools, or of Religion Class, or Sunday School, or Mutual —it is a problem of the home. Our greatest failure is in the-home. Parents have not been qualified as parents. -It seems to me that the sole purpose of education should be training for parenthood. We say we are training for citizenship. It is all right so far as it goes, but a good citizen may not be a good parent. He may hold important public offices and neglect his home, and you know and I know men in our communities who have done good public service, but who have been miserable failures as fathers. They have not been trained in the duties of fatherhood—they feel that they have bigger jobs—bigger problems. Have they? Have they? I do not think so. God gave us these children for a brief period of time, and we will be held responsible for our action toward them—whether they become efficient or inefficient depends upon » US parents. What is a socially efficient individual? One who can take care of his own affairs and have something left over for the welfare of the community. His own affairs include 'his home life—his family. The prime purpose of education is qualification for parenthood, and I believe our schools have failed and are still failing to stress preparation for parenthood. We have no parenthood class in schools, so far as I know. The young people would not want to go to them—boys and girls hesitate about admitting that they may some day be parents. But there should be work along the lines of mental hygiene, etc., which will qualify them for parenthood. I think we ought to stand for better training in our universities and colleges for parenthood. The schools will institute these courses just as soon as we want them. They are your schools, and if they are not offering courses wanted, it is because you do not ask for them. They will put in what you ask for if you ask for it unitedly. We should have a trained psychiatrist at the University. Many students are weeded out because of their inability to adjust \ 
 satisfactorily—not because they have not sufficient gray matter. If we had a trained psychiatrist, I think a good many of these people could be kept at the University. We have such men in eastern colleges, who try to find out the reason why boys and girls cannot properly adjust to the University, and it isn't usually from lack of brain power. Your organization should use its influence to bring this situation about in order that your children may be better trained for parenthood than you were. We ought to have a trained psychiatrist in connection with our state schools: We ought to have more mental hygiene taught in our district schools. Some of our students at the University who are studying mental hygiene subjects do not know why—they register because they need the credit. I do not care how much book learning they get out of the course. It isn't book learning that qualifies people —it is viewpoint. What is your attitude toward life and life's problems?. Buildings do not make a school or a university—it is men who are inspiring, it is men who have ideals, men who are character-builders. If a person is a character-builder and is in close contact with students, in heaven's name, do not take him out of that place and make him superintendent or something where he cannot get into contact with children. There is no greater work in the world than coming into contact with children—no more ennobling work. We pay our teachers a higher salary for supervising and we take the efficien teacher away from her work and make a supervisor of her, where she does not come in contact with the children any more. If you have in your schools someone who is building characters, keep him where boys and girls come in close contact with them and learn how to live efficiently, and do not promote him. 1 The whole aim of education and the whole aim of mental hygiene is the same—health and ability to satisfactorily adjust, and that is all there is in living. We have to train to earn a living and while we are learning to earn a living, we should learn to live. There are two adjustments we have to make—we ought to make three. We have to adjust to society, to our potential mate, and we should adjust to affinity—to God. We grow by contacts, we canot grow in any other way. The child's life depends upon the contacts in the home' and in the early environmental situation. He does not grow because of school work—he spends a few hours in school but the rest of the time, elsewhere. Elsewhere may not mean school. What are his environmental situations when he is elsewhere? You have learned something of the Intelligent Quotient. We frequently speak of the Development Quotient, too. How well is the child developing according to his age, physically and mentally? We have the Accomplishment Quotient, which is being developed now, which will mean as much as the I. Q. Or the Development Quotient. How much has he accomplished as compared with his ability? Has he accomplished as much as he should have accomplished along this particular line? A great deal of time is being spent in these scientific investigations. Man is scientifically studying himself today, which is a recent thing; and the greatest engineering feat of all the ages is the study of man. No other engineering feat is so complicated as that of learning witty man adjusts and fails to adjust satisfactorily. We ought to think more. We are slaves so long as we are ruled by instinct and emotion. We are free men only when we control emotions by intellect. We are studying this problem as it has never been studied before. It is the biggest problem which humanity ever had or ever can have—this problem of trying to understand man in relation to his fellowmen and in relation to God. I should like, in passing, to name a few social needs for our state. We need a central board which will have general supervision over all of our state institutions, where human beings are housed, such as the mental hospital, state penitentiary, etc. We need an institution for our feeble-minded, where such children may be trained to some degree of efficiency.. This is a big problem and we are not handling it. We need to train psychiatric social workers. We have some trained social workers, but not enough who have the psychiatric viewpoint. The Relief Society could not do better than to train such workers. We should stand for a change in the state school curriculum whereby mental hygiene will be introduced in the high schools at least, where the boys and girls can at least get the idea that there is such a problem and that it is their problem to solve. We should get young mothers interested in mental health. You are engaged in a great cause and it deserves your very best efforts—your very best thought. Learn to solve life's problems today and do it now. We do not always do