Report and Official Instructions President Belle S. Spafford [Delivered at the Officers Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 29, 1965] A report of the status of Relief Society, together with new recommendations or instructions of the General Board, are scheduled each year for the Officers Meeting of the General Relief Society Conference. I am pleased to report that, generally speaking, the Relief Societies of the Church are in good condition. The Society is growing in size. The Society is proving to be an effective instrument for the development of woman _leadership within the Church. During the past two years special emphasis has been placed upon this with encouraging results. There are 183,000 women holding leadership positions in Relief Society and, on the whole, the quality of their work is very good. We are enthusiastic over the leadership of the young women in the college campus Relief Societies. We note with gratitude the continued activity of those who have left the campuses and established residences elsewhere. Many of these young women are with their husbands who are in the Armed Services, or who are on special government assignments in _ foreign countries. These young women are giving outstanding leadership to Relief Society in many parts of the world. The careful adherence to General Board recommendations and programs is standardizing the work of Relief Societies throughout the Church, giving strength to local Societies and to the organization as a whole. It is noticeable that, in the few instances in which there are deviations from General Board regulation or where there have been modifications or substitutions of General Board programs, the records of _ these Societies do not compare favorably with those of the other stakes. We, therefore, commend close adherence to General Board regulations and programs, cautioning leaders against deviating therefrom. We are pleased to advise you that the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions has been revised and brought up to date. The draft is in the hands of the Coordinating Committee. When it is approved and ready for use, you will be notified. Until such time, continue to use the present Handbook as you have _ been doing. COORDINATED PROGRAM Sisters, we acknowledge your cooperation in support of the coordinated program of the Church. Your acceptance of changes in programs and procedures has been appreciated. We particularly commend you for your encouragement and helpfulness in the home-centered gospel teaching program. You have caught the spirit of the Family Home Evening and _ transferred it to ward leaders whom you are guiding and assisting in meeting their many responsibilities to the mothers in promoting this vital and inspired program. May the successes which you see all about you encourage sustained enthusiasm and effort. MEMBERSHIP There were 12,701 new members enrolled during 1964, making a total of 274,703. While this may seem to be a substantial increase when the figure is viewed alone, when compared with the increases for' the preceding years it seems to bear analysis. For example, in 1963 the membership increase was approximately 14,000. In 1962 it was approximately 17,000. We urge you whose membership increase last year was less than in previous years carefully to consider the reasons. Strengthen your efforts, where possible. Review the recommendations given at the last General Conference as well as those given at the Relief Society sessions of the 1965 stake quarterly conferences. RELIEF SOCIETY RECORDS It is anticipated that a change will be made in the Relief Society records in 1967 to bring them into line with the Coordinating Committee recommendations. Therefore, identical record books and annual reports now in use will continue to be used in 1966 and until . Careful consideration should be given to the extra sheets needed for the record book fiilers as explained in the "Bulletin to Stake Relief Society SecretaryTreasurers," issued July 16. Instructions have recently been received from the Church Historian's Office that, effective , the procedure for submitting Auxiliary records to the Church Historian's Office for permanent filing has been changed and we are now directed that all Relief Society records for the year 1964 should be submitted to the respective stake and ward clerks for transmittal to the Church Historian's Office during the month of . ATTENDANCE Attendance figures have been more than maintained. There was an average of 103,515 women in attendance at the regular weekly meetings—an _increase of approximately 3,000. EDUCATION We remind you of the reversal of the social science and literature meetings, beginning this October. Social science will be presented at the third weekly meeting of the month and literature at the fourth weekly meeting. Courses of study for the 1965-66 education season are as follows: Visiting Teacher Message: The eight visiting teacher messages are taken from the 88th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants. The author, Sister Christine Robinson, points out in the preview that '"'this section of the Doctrine and Covenants is given as a guide to show all of us today that the way of life is truth and that the truth we possess in the gospel is the only way in which we may find peace, joy, success and exaltation." These messages are particularly appropriate for mothers in the home at this time. Theology: The theology course will be a continuation of the Doctrine and Covenants with REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS a study of Sections 88-92. These sections include the important revelation known as the 'Word of Wisdom.' Two lessons will be devoted to this subject. It is felt that our study of the Doctrine and Covenants is having far-reaching influence in the lives of the sisters. Women of the Church should be familiar with the revelations of the Lord in this dispensation. We encourage class leaders to continue their excellent work in inspiring the members to study the revelations for themselves. In every theology class, copies of the Doctrine and Covenants should be in evidence in the hands of class members. An individual study of the revelations accomspanied by a class discussion of the lesson material so ably prepared by Elder Roy W. Doxey, offer rich opportunity for the women of the Church to learn revealed gospel truths so that they may be applied in their individual lives. Work Meeting: From October through , and in , the work meeting discussions prepared by Winnifred Jardine and published under the general heading, 'Molding A Happy Life," which were discontinued in order that the coordinated lessons, "Teaching the Gospel in the Home," could be used, will be resumed. Commencing , and continuing on for a twelve-month period, a new series of discussions prepared by Hazel S. Cannon entitled, 'Development Through Homemaking Education," will be used. This course will include practical homemak- ing helps, information on wise buying, money management, and similar subjects. Social Science: Starting with the October lesson, the series, "Teaching the Gospel in the Home," becomes. The _ social science course. These lessons, as you know, are delightfully written by Sister Alberta H. Christensen, General Board member. They are coordinated with the Melchizedek Priesthood lessons. Literature: The _ literature course will be a continuation of the course, ''The Individual and Human Values As Seen Through Literature." Out of the Best Books, a valuable volume dealing with world literature especially prepared for the use of Relief Society by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas of Brigham Young University, is again the text. Reports of the favorable response of the sisters to the analytical study of world literature, as presented in_ the literature course of last season, and which will be followed again this year, are appreciated. The General Board has received numbers of letters from Relief Society officers and literature class leaders appealing for a continuation of the study of literature according to the plan that has been in use during past years. As you know, courses of study are now being planned within a framework established by the Coordinating Committee as approved by the Presiding Authorities of the Church. We assure you that the need for cultural influences through our 816 educational courses has not been lost sight of by this committee. If present plans materialize, we are confident that you will see the wisdom of any modification in present courses and that you will be happy with the lessons provided. SPECIAL LESSONS FOR RELIEF SOCIETY To meet the needs of Societies desiring simplified courses of study, including some of the Indian Relief Societies, special lessons have again been provided by the Relief Society General Board. These lessons are a continuation of those prepared last year, and then designated as Indian Lessons, Volume 1. The 1965-66 manual Special Lessons for Relief Society, Volume 2 is available at the General Board office at a cost of $1.75. Indian or Spanish Relief Societies just being organized are advised to begin their studies with Lessons for Indian Relief Societies, Volume 1. WORK MEETING Work meeting continues to be the second-best attended meeting, attesting the continuing interest of the sisters in creative handwork and in learning new and better methods of homemaking. With regard to the character and activities of this meeting, the General Board recommends that a _ social spirit characterize the work meeting and that an atmosphere of informality and a feeling of friendly cooperation be maintained. Sewing assignments for the Church Welfare Program continue to take precedence over any other activity. Although sewing is of major importance, the General] Board encourages the teaching of other arts and skills, such as knitting, quilting, the giving of instructions in cooking, cleaning, budgeting, and similar homemaking matters. Last year there was a total of over one and a half million articles completed in the work meeting, an increase of over 100,000 articles. In our educational and homemaking programs, the Coordinating Committee is placing special emphasis on what they term "involvement." Involvement means the act of embracing or including. In planning work: meeting activities, let us not lose sight of the need to involve every sister, old and young, mother or grandmother, skilled or unskilled. In the work meeting department of this conference there will be a display of items particularly appealing to the older sisters. SEWING MACHINES We note a small increase in the number of local Relief Societies owning sewing machines. We still do not have, however, an average of one machine for each ward or branch Relief Society. The General Board considers that at least one sewing machine in good working order is important equipment for each Relief Society to own, if it aims to conduct the recommended work meeting program. VISITING TEACHING We rejoice in the continued growth, strength, and effectiveness of the visiting teaching proREPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS gram. During 1964, a total of four and a half million visits, an increase of 141,000 over 1963, were made to the homes by over 120,-.000 visiting teachers. An average of 9.2 visits was made in the stakes to each family and an average of 8 visits was made Churchwide. COMPASSIONATE SERVICE The compassionate services reflect the very heart and soul of Relief Society. In a day when people seem to be growing increasingly self-centered and to be directing so much of their energies toward material gain, it is impressive and important that Relief Society steadfastly holds to the concept, "I am my sister's keeper." MAGAZINE The circulation figures for The , which is such a valuable instrument in furthering the ideals and work of Relief Society, are gratifying. At the close of 1964 the circulation was 231,933, an increase over the previous year of 14,536. (You will note the increase in Magazine subscriptions was approximately 3,000 higher than the increase in membership). CHURCH WELFARE PARTICIPATION Church welfare activities continue to engage the time and attention of Relief Society women. There' were 109,000 family visits made by Relief Society presidents under the direction of their respective bishops during 1964 with 73,580 other contacts being made. This was an increase of 33,000 in these two areas of service. There were 810,000 hours contributed by women on welfare projects. SINGING MOTHERS Approximately 44,000 sisters are finding personal happiness and development as well as giving service to Relief Society through membership in 3,113 Singing Mothers choruses. The generous contribution. Of these sisters in terms of both time and talent is recognized and appreciated. RELIEF SOCIETY SESSIONS AT QUARTERLY CONFERENCE The many courtesies extended to the members of the General Board as they met with you in Relief Society sessions of the quarterly conferences during the first six months of this year were greatly appreciated.. Your. Kindnesses added to" the"- comfort, convenience, and pleasure of our visits. That Relief Society quarterly We have been advised - conference sessions for 1966 will be held during the last half of 1966, June through December. CONCLUSION Sisters, you as Relief Society leaders are directing a work in your stakes and missions that has tremendous meaning in the lives of Latter-day Saint women —work that influences their ideals and standards, that has direct bearing on the strength of their testimonies, that affects their day-to-day living and enters into their eternal well-being. Keep your: vision clear. Give balanced leadership to all aspects of the work, for each division is important in the total program, otherwise, it would not be included. As you consider the work, also be considerate of the women—women who love and need Relief Society, who want to serve it, and who want to serve their Church through this medium. May the Lord bless you to this end, I pray.