The Steady dripping from the trees was the only sound that broke the awful stillness. "One night of fury and the dreams of a lifetime vanish in Snow from the blossomed branches. Icicles glistened like sems as the sun Streamed through the open places of 'the trees. "May Day, blossoms and frost," said Randy, Miriam's husband, coming up noisily from the south end of the orchard. "That's a strange combination, Miriam. The lined features of her pretty face, and her head drooped on her shoulders. "A hundred tons of fruit down the drain," continued Randy. Following. She Stopped by the graveled driveway near the house. "And this was to have been the new carport that Abe Steadman was to have started on next week," wall. Oh, Randy, why did it have to happen, just when we were out of debt and ready to start living?" She put her head against the old porch railing. The tears came and sobs shook her slight frame. '""Your new truck, a new paint job inside and out, new drapes. Why? Why?" Sue felt Randy's big hand on her shoulder with its firm pressure. The gesture gave her a spark of courage and she raised her troubled eyes to his. '""We've seen worse times than this," she said, "'and I suppose we can make it through, but what about Kathy? We've promised her this year at college. There's nothing here for her in a small farming community. College is so expensive, but how are we going to find a substitute for a dream like that?" Randy shrugged. '"'Why substitute? We've had a complete crop failure. Surely our daughter can understand that. Suppose she does have to wait a year? She's young. She has her whole life before her. She can surely find something to do." "Oh, Randy! How can you be so coldly practical? She's planned on it. For years." Miriam turned impatiently and walked onto the porch. She removed her wet shoes, and Randy took off his muddy overshoes. Inside, Miriam sat down as she put on some house slippers. "There is one little resource that I can use to get Kathy through the first quarter." She looked set and determined. "And what's. That?" asked Randy. "You know we have been scraping the barrel the past three months, waiting for the 820 cherries to come on to give us an income." "I know that as well as you do,'"' said Miriam, "'but that little insurance policy I've had for years. I can cash that in. It's only a few hundred, but it will pay one quarter's registration and the dorm fee. After that, goodness knows." Randy looked worried and beaten. "But Miriam, there're books and _ clothes, spending money, and so many fees that come along." Miriam was determined. She had made up her mind. Kathy was on her way to college. "What about Aunt Libby? Maybe she could stay with her. She has a big house and she's all alone." "Oh, Randy! A young girl living with an elderly woman! Compare that with life in a dormitory, where there's fun and gaiety every minute. Real joy of college life—that's what I want for Kathy." And Kathy was going to have it. Miriam was now determined. Her graduation took place in three weeks. From then on till September the time could be spent in preparation for going away. Thoughts raced resolutely through her mind. "We'll make a start,' she said to Randy. "I think we can do it." Miriam hurried through her work that day with a new determination, in spite of the anguished morning. She planned as she worked. She had a few things she could turn into cash, she calculated. There was the china teapot that was an heirloom she hadn't wanted to part with, a piece quilt that a woman in town had wanted her to make, and an afghan that she was sure she could sell at The Hobby Shop. If she could make transactions out of these things, without letting Kathy know she was scrimping too much, it would help toward the college fund. She set the table in the dining room for that evening. She had made a noodle dish and a green bean casserole that Randy liked. She brightened each place with a pear salad on crisp lettuce. The table had a light, festive air about it, and Miriam hoped that tensions would be lifted and worries cast aside for the evening. At five-thirty Kathy arrived from school, bursting into the house. She looked _ terrified. "Mom, Dad!" she exclaimed as a greeting. "Have you seen the headlines? I bought a paper." Entire Fruit Crop Destroyed by Heavy Frost "Ts it true, Dad? Does it mean our crop here, too, or some other valley?" Miriam watched Randy. She hoped he wouldn't say too much —not just now. There was no use to dampen the girl's spirits unnecessarily. If she knew all the facts, it would only upset her. Finally Randy spoke. "Ves, it's true, Kathy. Everything went last night. There isn't a pound of anything in the whole orchard. I've examined the buds in every section. It's all gone." Kathy sat down by the table. "Oh, I'm sorry, Daddy. What are we going to do?" Randy smiled kindly at his youngest daughter. "Oh, I guess I'll get a job—some kind of a job to get us through. We haven't starved yet." FROST IN THE VALLEY Kathy smiled. "I guess that means no college for me,' she said soberly.; "Nonsense," said Miriam. "Of course you're going to college. That's been taken care of for years. Come on, dinner will be getting cold." KatrHy was too preoccupied to eat much. "Daddy, we're not in debt much, are we?" she asked suddenly. Before Randy could answer, Miriam asked hurriedly, ""Whatever made you ask that?" "Because Bessie was pretty upset, too, when she heard about the frost. You know they just bought all that new furniture— even a piano. Bessie said her folks figured on the fruit crop, and they didn't worry because it looked so promising for everybody. They have six children, you know." "How lucky," laughed Miriam. "Still we're happy with our four daughters.'' She passed the food, not wanting to talk about the frost, or money, or the months to come in front of Kathy. "Just one more wedding to go," laughed Kathy. "All right, Mother, I won't talk about debts or college or how I'm going to get there. I know it bothers you. I only hope I'm not going to be an added worry for you and Daddy. After all, it will cost an awful lot of money." Randy was about to speak, but Miriam gave him one of her "looks."' For now, she wanted him to say nothing. There were plans to make. There was work to do. Positive thinking was what they all needed at this time. Randy was apt to put too much C pressure on the opposite side of the picture. He must not discourage Kathy at this point. The summer wore on and now it was autumn. It had been a busy time. Miriam had made things for Kathy. By contriving, remodeling, and sewing the various articles of clothing, Kathy's wardrobe was, on an average, what a young college girl might wear. Kathy had earned a little money by baby-sitting or helping the young mothers who needed her. The day came when Kathy boarded the bus for her college life. It was a great triumph for Miriam as she waved goodbye to her youngest daughter. When she had gone Miriam looked eagerly for Kathy's letters. It was everything the girl expected. "It's so marvelous, Mother," she wrote. "I'm meeting all these new friends. Some are rich and some are poor, but they're all fun to be with. I think I love them all. We rush to classes, then to a lecture, and always we hunt something to eat. But you should see us in the dorm. We have to dress for dinner, and we eat with lighted candles, fine linen, and crystal. We really have to watch our manners. I know you would love this part, Mother, as you adore formality." These letters spurred Miriam's ambition to make Kathy's college days more memorable. She had worked hard on the piece quilt, and, finally, she sold it. The afghan was still at The Hobby Shop on consignment. She hoped it would sell, too, so she could send Kathy the money to buy her a formal. She also needed a dress for dates. There was still the heirloom teapot, but Miriam had not been able to make her- 822 self take it to the antique dealer. A letter from Kathy contained a paragraph that disturbed Miriam a little. "T went to see Aunt Libby today. I believe she likes me, Mom. I helped her hang some curtains, and she: was really pleased with the result. Did you know she has a bad knee? She has a hard time to walk." Miriam and Randy had not known much about Aunt Libby. It had been so long since they had been to the city to see her. Secretly now, she hoped Kathy wouldn't go there too much. Aunt Libby might demand much of her time, and she wanted Kathy to stay on the campus. College life —that's what she had dreamed of for Kathy. Iv was but a week before Thanksgiving. Kathy would be home for the holidays, and Joan and Millie had promised to come from Idaho. Janet, living in Montana, was unable to bring her family of five.: "Well, we do have the freezer full of food," said Randy. 'We ought to have a joyful Thanksgiving." Miriam smiled lifelessly. "It's after Thanksgiving I'm thinking about," she said. "Randy, what are we going to do? The next quarter at the University has to be paid the middle of December. How can we get the money?" Randy was putting the big logs into the grate. The fireplace would be ready to light whenever it was needed. He stood up, irritation on his face and in his voice as he spoke. "Miriam, don't start that again. You know we can't make it, and that should be final. This temporary job I have just keeps us going. There are taxes and insurances to meet right. She said, "but I was wondering if you'd mind j; Hugh for a loan. He has SO much Randy's €yes shot fire. He was straight and tall. "TI do mind," he Said with anger. "Do you think I want it to go through that we're broke—that | m a failShe furthered the kn Randy now Stood in the doorway. Miriam had never seen his FROST IN THE VALLEY the 15th," he said angrily. "You for. Miriam 8aped. This was too sudden to stasp. Where, but at k would Randy get the money? That would mean debt driven home by a carload of other young people. The students drove on and Kathy came bursting into the house, her face aglow with excitement and joy at being home again "Mother, 'Dad! " She embraced them both, and Mi little room, where Randy had deposited the suitcases. "How I've missed my little room," said the girl, looking about. "The dorm is nice, but, oh, the quiet, wonderful feeling of a little room like this." Miriam could understand. Her daughter became homesick at times. That was understandable. "Mother, Daddy. I have something to tell you. I'm not going to school next quarter." Miriam sat down on the bed. "You what?" "I'm going back, but I have a full time job on the campus. I'm going to take just one class. And that's not all. I'm going to live with Aunt Libby. She really 'wants me to." Miriam was too bewildered to speak. "Are you sure this is what you want?" she finally asked. ""Never was more sure of anything in my life. Aunt Libby will let me have a nice room like this, and I insist on paying for my food. It won't be expensive, Mother, and I can help Aunt Libby a lot. She needs someone around, and she is so happy I'm coming." From somewhere the girl had produced a gift-wrapped box. She handed it to Miriam. 'Open it, Mother. It's for you and Daddy. A Thanksgiving present." Miriam opened the box. There was a beautiful lace tablecloth. "T don't understand," said Miriam. _ "T didn't buy the formal when you sent me the: money. I wore my graduation dress, and I bought this banquet size cloth for you. Through the grapevine I heard about your selling the piece quilt. From now on, I'm on my own, and I'm really thrilled 824 about it. Saving for college is my challenge now. You and Daddy are free to do whatever you want with your time and money. And it's about time you were released from all this worry of sending me to college. I'm ready to meet the world."' The girl waved her arms above her head and grinned happily. Then she picked up the box containing the lace tablecloth. "Hurry, dears, let's go and see how our Thanksgiving table is going to look tomorrow. I'll bet it will be simply gorgeous!" She hurried down the hall and the long flight of steps, singing for the sheer joy of life. Miriam looked at Randy with tears on her lashes. She saw his eyes, now soft and tender, and a half smile played about his lips. He drew her over to where he stood. She felt the big hand on her shoulder, and he began leading her toward the stairs. "This should be a great Thanksgiving," said Randy, guiding Miriam firmly down the stairs, "even if there was frost in the valley." Miriam raised her head. Worries, troubles, cares and _ heartaches, spiraled off into space. She felt an overwhelming state of gratitude. With peace and love and security, Miriam did indeed feel the spirit of thanksgiving. She knew Randy had been right about Kathy. At that moment Miriam let go of her youngest daughter, and she went down the steps with a buoyant spring in her step. She smiled up at Randy. ""Even if there was frost in the valley, we can always look forward to another year.'' His answer was a smile, with the firm pressure of his strong hand. Ramona W. Cannon Mrs. Don L. (Alice Welti) Buehner, Second Counselor in the East Mill Creek Eighth Ward Relief Society, Salt Lake City, Utah, and mother of six children under eleven years of age, became the new Mrs. America on August 28 in San Diego, California. The fifty contestants—one from each State—passed tests in baking, laundry, flower arrangements, auto driving, a Mrs. United States Savings Bond contest, essay writing, and self-expression. In the last category Mrs. Buehner sang "Sound of Music' and displayed an original painting of Logan Canyon, Utah. — Joan Sutherland, known as '"'La Stupenda'' in the world of opera, returned to her native Australia in , to sing the role of the forsaken Scottish girl in Donizetti's ''Lucia di Lammermoor."' Critics described her voice as '"'superb,''. And rated the performance as the best since Nellie Melba, also an Australian singer, performed the role in 1902. Richard Bonynge, husband of Joan Sutherland, directed the opera which was presented in '"'Her Majesty's Theatre"' in Melbourne. Blanche Wolf Knopf, of Viennese descent, is president of the Alfred A. Knopf Publishing Company, Incorporated, which this year is celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of its founding by her husband Alfred A. Knopf. Through the years they have worked side by side, priding themselves on the beauty of their books, as well as the contents. Among others, they have attracted many great European writers. Queen Juliana of the Netherlands has announced the engagement of her daughter Crown Princess Beatrix to Claus von Amsberg, a West German diplomat. The wedding will probably be held in the spring of 1966. Miss Marion Gridley, eminent journalist of Chicago, Illinois, and head of Publicity and Publications of the Chicago University Medical School, is an expert in public relations. She is a third-generation writer, and is an expert on Abraham Lincoln. She has won many national awards and two from Rome and Germany. She is also editor and publisher of Amerindian, a source magazine among. University and scientific circles on the American Indian. Mrs. Sharon Sites, thirty-four, of Los Angeles, California, sailed alone in a small boat from Marina del Rey to Hawaii. She embarked on June 12 and arrived in Hawaii on July 21st, after a journey of storm, danger, and oppressive loneliness, having weathered, among other hazards, a terrific six-day storm, which several times changed her course of direction. Mrs. Yvette Vaucher, a thirty-five year old Geneva, Switzerland, housewife, became the first woman to scale the dangerous north wall of the 14,700 foot atterhorn, in July. The face of the north wall is almost perpendicular, and experienced alpinists had considered the ascent not possible for a woman to accomplish.