GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL - 99 Lord," and the briefest of all codes of ethics, "Love thy neighbor," each is growing to over-shadow all other laws and codes. (b) The little impulse of helpfulness grows into the great heartthrob of benevolence; the little act of self-sacrifice becomes a leading life-habit that lifts us up and holds us in the line of heroes and heroines. The simple faith of childhood grows into a spiritual life that makes for us a place in the presence of God. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Give the Savior's own interpretation of the parable of the tares. 2. Who are the persons referred to by the word "men" in Matthew 13:25? 3. Show how this parable teaches patience and forbearance. 4. When people unite in organizations for purposes out of harmony with the teachings of Christ, what part of the parable are they illustrating? 5. To what extent is each one of us a "tare"? 6. What are the evidences of one's being the "wheat" spoken of in the parable? 7. Show how this parable teaches the unescapableness of the final judgment. 8, State three evident purposes of this parable. 9. Show the fitness of the mustard-plant as an object of | illustration in this parable. 10. Give historical application of the idea of growth from - small to great things under divine care. 11. Wherein is the religious law and the ethical code of the Savior like the mustard-plant that became the greatest of all "herbs"? 12. Correlate the parable of the mustard-seed with the hymn beginning, "Jesus, once of humble birth." 13. Wherein is the faith of childhood like the mustard-seed? How may it become the greatest source of joy and the greatest factor of happiness through earth-life and at. Its end? LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in April) 
 LESSON II Literature (Third Week in April) James RussELL LOWELL James Russell Lowell holds a position of high honor among the poets of his period. He came of one of those old New England families, who, like the Adamses, have never failed to produce men of marked ability. The present President of Harvard University, President A. Lawrence Lowell, is of that family; also, Amy Lowell, who is one of the chief exponents of the new poetry in America at the present time. Among his ancestors were many prominent persons: clergymen and judges and men of marked public spirit. His father was a minister in a church in Boston and was noted for the integrity of his character and the energy he put forth. Lowell, like Longfellow, was born and nurtured in an environment of culture. He was surrounded with a good library and had the classical training that Harvard University then afforded. He was graduated from Harvard University in 1838. Lowell made his advent at a very important period of time. The conscience and the intellect of New England had been aroused by the leadership, first, of William Lloyd -Garrison. And, secondly, of Ralph Waldo Emerson, Garrison had established a paper called The Liberator, whose purpose was so to stir the conscience of the North that it would demand the abolition of slavery in the United States. By the publication of his essay on Nature, Emerson had roused the New England intellect to a new sense of freedom and an appreciation of the beautiful in nature. Lowell responded readily to his spiritual and intellectual environment. He was dreamy and poetic and loved nature in the same ardent manner as did some of the English poets of this period. But while he loved to portray the beauties of nature as did Wordsworth in England, in one thing he differed greatly from him: Wordsworth, through most of his life, was not interested in social reform, while Lowell was very greatly interested in such reform. Lowell, like Whittier, became a poetic trumpeter of the Abolition Period. But, while Lowell responded quickly to the new life about him, he, like the others of his group, _ inherited the Puritan tendencies and reflected them in his writings. He did not object to poetry that taught an ethical lesson, and admits in his own criticism of himself that he probably had not learned the distinction between singing and preaching. We have in this presentation set forth three characteristics that are very prominent in the writings of Mr. Lowell. First, the GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 101 was a Puritan of the Puritans, inheriting the traditions of his New England forefathers, and reflecting their love for morals and moral teaching; secondly, he responded very quickly to the beauty in nature; and, thirdly, he was part and portion of that spirit that was with great zeal seeking to free the slaves of America. A good illustration of a poem that sets forth the first two characteristics, that of a love for the ethical in life and for loveliness in nature, is The Vision of Sir Launfal. We desire that the class leader shall study the poem and present it to the class as she sees fit. We shall include the descriptions of Spring and. Winter as examples of Lowell's ability to portray nature, and two other stanzas from the poem illustrating his ability to portray and teach a moral lesson through the medium of poetry: The Vision of Sir Launfal "And what is so rare as a day in June? Then, if ever, come perfect days; Then Heaven tries earth if it be in tune, And over it softly her warm ear lays; Whether we look. Or whether we listen, We hear life murmur, or see it glisten; Every clod feels a stir of might, An instinct wi hin it that reaches and towers, And, groping blindly above it for light, Climbs to a soul in grass and flowers; The flush of life may.. Well be seen Thrilling back over hills and valleys; The cowslip startles in meadows green, The buttercup catches the sun in its chalice, And there's never a leaf nor a blade too mean _ To be some happy creature's palace;. The little bird sits at his door in the sun, Atilt like a blossom among the leaves, And lets his illumined being o'errun With the deluge of summer it receives; His mate feels the eggs beneath her wings, And the heart in her dumb breast flutters and sings; He sings to the wide world, and she to her nest,? In the nice ear of Nature which song is. The best?" In contrast to the above description of spring, is the portrayal of winter given below: "Down swept the chill wind from the mountain peak, From the snow five thousand summers old; On open wold and hill-top bleak It gathered all the cold. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE And whirled it like sleet on the wanderer's cheek; It carried a shiver everywhere From the unleafed boughs and pastures bare; The little brook heard it and built a roof 'Neath which he could house him, winter-proof; All night by the white stars' frosty gleams He groined his arches and matched his beams; Slender and clear were his crystal spars As the lashes of light that trim the stars; He sculptured every summer delight In his halls and chambers out of sight; Sometimes his tinkling waters slipt Down through a frost-leaved forest-crypt, Long, sparkling aisles of steel-stemmed trees Bending to counterfeit a breeze; Sometimes the roof no fretwork knew But silvery mosses that downward grew; Sometimes it was carved in sharp relief With quaint arabesques of ice-fern leaf; Sometimes it was simply smooth and clear For the gladness of heaven to shine through, and here He had caught the nodding bulrush-tops And hung them thickly with diamond drops, That crystalled the beams of moon and sun, And made a star of every one. No mortal builder's most rare device Could match this winter-palace of ice; Twas as if every image that mirrored lay In his depths serene through the summer day, Each fleeting shadow of earth and sky, Lest the happy model should be lost, Had been mimicked in fairy masonry By the elfin builders of the frost." The two stanzas below illustrate Lowell's ability to point a moral lesson: "As Sir Launfal made morn through the darksome gate, He was 'ware of a leper, crouched by the same, Who begged with his hand and moaned as he sate; And a loathing over Sir Launfal came; The sunshine went out of his soul with a thrill, The flesh 'neath his armor 'gan shrink and crawl. 'And midway its leap his heart stood still Like a frozen waterfall; For this man, so foul and bent of stature, Rasped harshly against his dainty nature, And seemed the one blot on the summer morn,? So he tossed him a piece of gold in scorn, GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 103 "'The leper raised not the gold from the dust: Better-to me the poor man's crust, Better the blessing of the poor, Though I turn me empty from his door; That is no true alms which the hand can hold; He gives 'nothing but worthless gold Who gives from a sense of duty; But he who gives but a slender mite, And gives to that which is out of sight, That thread of the all-sustaining Beauty Which runs through all and doth all unite,? The hand cannot clasp the whole of his alms, The heart outstretches its eager palms, For a god goes with it and makes it store To the soul that was starving in darkness before." The best example of Lowell's abolition poetry is perhaps found in his The Present Crisis: 'When a deed is done for Freedom, through the broad earth's aching breast Runs a thrill of joy prophetic, trembling on from east to west, And the slave, where'er he cowers, feels the soul within him climb To the awful verge of manhood, as the energy sublime Of a century bursts full-blossomed on the thorny stem of Time. "Once to every man and nation comes the moment to decide, In the strife of Truth with Falsehood, for the good or evil side; Some great cause, God's new Messiah, offering each the bloom or blight, Parts the goats upon the left hand, and the sheep upon the right, And the choice goes by forever 'twixt that darkness and that light. "Hast thou chosen, O my people, on. Whose party thou shalt stand, Ere the Doom from its worn sandals shakes the dust against our land? Though the cause of Evil prosper, yet 'tis Truth alone is strong, And, albeit she wander outcast now, I see around her throng Troops of beautiful, tall angels, to enshield her from all wrong. "Careless seems the great Avenger; history's pages but record One death-grapple in the darkness 'twixt old systems and the Word; Truth forever on the scaffold, Wrong forever on the throne,? Yet that scaffold sways the future, and, behind the dim unknown, Standeth God within the shadow, keeping watch above his own." 
 Inasmuch as February marks the anniversary of the birth of Abraham Lincoln, we are including a stanza from Lowell's Commemoration Ode, of July 21, 1865. This is one of the first and best poetic tributes to Lincoln after his martyrdom. "Such was he, our Martyr-Chief, Whom late the Nation he had led, With ashes on her head, Wept with the passion of an angry grief: Forgive me, if from present things I turn To speak what in my heart will beat and burn, And hang my wreath on his world-honored urn, Nature, they say, doth dote, And cannot make a man Save on some worn-out plan, Repeating us by rote: For him her Old-World moulds aside she threw, And choosing sweet clay from the breast Of the unexhausted West, With stuff untainted shaped a hero new, Wise, steadfast in the strength of God, and true. How beautiful to. See Once more a shepherd of mankind indeed, Who loved his charge, but never loved to lead; One whose meek flock the people joyed to be, Not lured by any cheat of birth, But by his clear-grained human worth, And brave old wisdom of sincerity! They knew that outward grace is dust; They could not choose but trust In that sure-footed mind's unfaltering skill, And supple-tempered will That bend like perfect steel to spring again and thrust. His was no lonely mountain-peak of mind, Thrusting to thin air o'er our-cloudy bars, A sea-mark now, now lost in vapors blind; Broad prairie rather, genial. Level-lined, Fruitful and friendly for all human kind, Yet also nigh to heaven and loved of loftiest stars. Nothing of Europe here, Or, then, of Europe fronting mornward still, Ere any names of Serf and Peer Could Nature's equal scheme deface And thwart her genial will; Here was a type of the true elder race, And one of Plutarch's men talked with us face to face. GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL ~ 108 I praise him not; it were too late; And some innovative weakness there must be In him who condescends to victory Such as the Present gives, and cannot wait, 'Safe in himself as in a fate. So always firmly he: He knew to bide his time, And can his fame abide, Still patient in his simple faith sublime, _Till the wise years decide. Great captains, with their guns and drums, Disturb our judgment for the hour, But at last silence comes; These all are gone, and, standing like a tower, Our children shall behold his fame. The kindly-earnest, brave, foreseeing man, Sagacious, patient, dreading praise, not blame, New birth of our new soil, the first American. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1.. Give the names of some persons in the famous Adams family of New England, prominent in American history, and, if you are able, prominent as writers. 2. At this point the class teacher should present in her own 3. Do you agree or disagree with what Lowell says in relation to alms-giving? 4. Select some details from the poet's description of spring and winter that serve to bring the picture to your mind. 5: Do you think a painter could take his description of winter and convert it into a real winter scene? 6. What historical truth did Lowell hold in mind; when he wrote: "Truth forever on the scaffold, wrong forever on the throne,? Yet that scaffold sways the future, and, behind the dim unknown, Standeth God within the shadow, keeping watch above his own." 7. If Lowell were alive today, what social reforms that we are now interested in would you expect him to be interested in? Way the Vision of Sir Launfal.  
 LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in April). Pene STANDARD OF LIVING?THE INDIVIDUAL TREATMENT Of SOCIAL PROBLEMS The efforts of society to bring about a better distribution of wealth and material comforts, and to provide more universal opportunities for education and development have been projected in many forms. Various plans and programs have been advanced to better social conditions, to raise standards of living, and to provide more general opportunities for development. In promoting health and providing facilities for medical care, in improving working conditions, in attempting to prevent delinquency and crime, a community expresses its concern for the well being of the entire group and a desire to extend certain advantages to all of its members. The activities to better social conditions may be classified according to the nature and content of the problem, such as, disease, poverty, crime, child labor, or educational provisions. Another classification of social work may be made according to the process. One process is dealing with institutions, legislation, and education, and endeavors to bring about a general or group improvement. The other method is working with individuals or families to assist them to make a better adjustment or attain a more complete development. The previous discussion pointed out various general programs designed to effect group improvement. The establishment of health centers, the control of child labor, the enactment of school laws, the improvement of industrial conditions, and countless other efforts all have their effect on the standards and development "of the whole group. But even though industrial conditions are improved, and health opportunities are provided, and satisfactory social legislation is enacted, a satisfactory adjustment for each individual cannot be expected. There still remains the problem of fitting man to his environment, of helping him'to adjust in the best possible manner to the problem of living. The process of adjusting to environment, of developing in a normal satisfactory manner, is a serious and difficult one even under favorable conditions. To persons who have many adversities, special difficulties, heavy burdens, or serious handicaps, the process of natural adjustment is made extremely difficult. Unless intelligent, understanding assistance is offered to the overburdened at the right time, the process of development is often seriously interfered with. There will always be a need for both GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 107 processes?working with groups and with individuals. In any program, whether dealing with poverty, or delinquency, or labor, or health, the two processes are needed, one used to supplement the other. In every community that has a desire to help the distressed, there is need then, for community effort to improve institutions, to enact desirable legislation, to better industrial conditions, and provide health, educational, and recreational opportunities. There is also need of organized effort which seeks to recognize individual socia! Problems, to comprehend their significance and to administer the kind of assistance and treatment needed. This individual treatment, this work with persons who cannot meet alone the difficulties of living, forms an important part of a modern social welfare program. The attitude toward people who are not entirely successful socially, is changing. The family, whose income is not adequate 'to care for all its needs, or the boy who has been a truant or committed some juvenile offense is not regarded, at this time, as a failure to be pitied. The attitude of society now is to recognize such situations as evidences of society's own failure to understand and meet human needs. Social workers attempt to interpret these situations, to discover what misfortunes and handicaps have brought distress to these individuals and then to remove as far as possible the handicaps. At the same time, an effort is made to discover the possibi. Ities and potentialities of the individuals and to provide opportunities for their development. The attitude of society toward women and children who have been deprived of a father's support, by death or illness, illustrates the present conception of society's responsibility to its unfortunate members. In the past there was a greater tendency, in the event of the death of the breadwinner of the family, to place the children in an institution or orphanage and break up the home entirety. Or perhaps the mother was allowed to leave her family of small growing children and was permitted to take employment. Children were taken from school so that they could add their - small earnings to the scanty family income. Little attention was paid to the care, nourishment, health or education of the family. The problem of widowhood or of the incapacity of the breadwinner is now met not only in terms of finances or relief. The emphasis is placed in the human elements involved; on the value of home life, on the need of giving children a mother's care, on the economy and training children for future usefulness, and on the wisdom of safeguarding a family's health. To provide such a comprehensive plan of treatment for individuals and families who have been handicapped and burdened and distressed requires some community organization. The state, private societies and churches have long felt a responsibility to 
. Care for the unfortunate by providing institutions or by giving relief. These organizations are becoming increasingly conscious of the importance of the task of dealing with social problems. They are recognizing, more and more, that the guiding of human lives, the treatment of individuals in distress, is a serious undertaking, deserving of study, of understanding, and of intelligent cooperative effort. Reference: Dr. Edward T. Devine, Normal Life, pages 160-165. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. What is meant by group improvement programs? Give examples. 2. Why cannot all social problems be solved by programs of group improvement? What else is needed? 3. Does the establishment of a health center give assurance that all who could be benefited by the center are receiving its benefits? What service is needed to extend its benefits?. 4. Discuss school and child labor legislation as group improvement and relate their administration to individual treatment. 5. What are the functions of a probation officer of the juvenile court? 6. Why has the emphasis in dealing with families whose income is not adequate been changed from mere relief to continued, understanding service? TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR APRIL THE GOSPEL IN THE HOME The Restoration "And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people."? Revelations 14:6, "But in the last days it shall come to pass, that the mountain of the house of the Lord shall be established in the top of the mountains, and it shall be exalted above the hills; and people shall flow unto it.'?Micah 4:1. A. The Church organized at Fayette, Seneca county, New York, April 6, 1830, with six members. B. Note the marvelous and steady growth of the Church throughout the years as a fulfilment of promise and prophecy. C. Discuss the significance of Easter, symbolizing the resurrection, and the organization of the Church in April?the springtime of the year and the renewal of all things beautiful. Helps for Literature Lessons Several requests have come for lists of books that might assist in the literature work and help to build a library, either in the community or in the home. The standard History of American Literature is the Cambridge, History of American Literature, published by Putnam and issued in several volumes. This series of books contains more select material on American literature than is found in any other set. It is scholarly, however, and may not suit the general needs. We suggest two books that are very good from the standpoint of the selections they contain. First, "Three Centuries of American Literature," and, secondly, "Chief American Poets." In order to furnish books that contain brief biographical sketches of the authors and some critical comments, we suggest a list of manuals of American literature as follows: 'American Literature," by Long; "American Literature,' Bronson; "History of American Literature," Cairns; "Introduction to American Literature," Pancoast; "American Literature,' Halleck, and "American Literature,' Katherine Lee Bates. If you have public or school libraries that are fairly well equipped, you will find all or many of these books in the stacks. If you wish to purchase any of these books you may do so by writing to A. C. McClurg & Company, Chicago. If you wish a satisfactory and complete edition of the poets we have studied, for public or private libraries, we would suggest that you purchase the Cambridge edition of the poets, to be had in separate volumes. Compare the Pages of Che Deseret News: with those of any other paper. Notice that while the paper is clean and fit for any child to read it is also interesting and informative in the highest sense?And you get "TODAY'S NEWS TODAY". Individual Sacrament Sets Now in Stock BEST IN THE MARKET WILL LAST A LIFE TIME 
 REFERENCES FURNISHED Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and _Intermountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific: SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed. Inquiries cheerfully answered THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 7  Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921. "I am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and the proper number of glasses. ?"fiverything arrived in good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness." BUREAU OF INFORMATION Temple Block Salt Lake City Islands. Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver. Glazier and Taylor HOSIERY COMPANY 33 EAST BROADWAY A Store Dealing in Quality Hosiery and Underwear Exclusively Heavy Silk Full-Fashioned, all colors A wonderful hose for wear Per Pair.: $2.00 Box of Three Pairs 5.75 Silk Semi-Fashioned, all colors, beautiful and durable Per Pair $1.50 Box of Three Pair.