A Mother's Success Depends on her Daughters By Agnes Bostonne The best thing I learned last Mothers' Day about the mother business, or mythology as the Greeks would call it, was the advice that if I were going to have a large family, to plan if possible to have more than half of them girls. Personally, I had felt I was competent to bring up a dozen boys rather than one girl. In fact, more than one woman, if she happens to feel her daughters slipping away from her influence at the difficult high school age, has been heard to groan, "If I only had sons instead of daughters." And it is true, a daughter can often be the most difficult of problems, especially if she be over-sexed, while a boy can always be turned over to his father as a court of last resort. A girl, never. If her mother cannot manage her with feminine tact and understanding, surely no mere father can do it. And yet, the calmest mother in Utah, a white-haired woman of sixty, told me she based her success in home-making on daughters. She had had eleven children, of whom seven were girls. And her home life had been as successful as that of any mother. Four of her daughters were happily married, and of these three had graduated from college before marriage. Of the others, one was a trained nurse, one was teaching, and one was still in High School. "Tt is due, thanks to my husband and my daughters, that I've always had a happy home, that my boys and girls have always wanted to be at home and to stay at home," declared the serene mother with a contented Mother's day purr of satisfaction. "Having my home is the best thing in my life. It's been a varied but enjoyable experience. It's the easiest thing in the world to bring up a family. Just the natural thing to do. Part of the daily program. But you've got to plan the program. "My chief plan was to try always to have a girl at home, and in order to bring this about I planned to have each girl, as soon A MOTHER'S SUCCESS 229 as she had finished the grades, spend a year at home with me. Before going on to high school my girls were to take a year off, to assume the responsibility with me as chief adviser or prime minister. Thus they would get training in home-making and in responsibility and I would get a much-needed helper. It was also good for their health, and it made them the following year return to their studies with double avidity, and a practical background for home economics courses, they could have obtained in no other way. At first the girls rather resented not going right on with their school work, but they soon grew into it. It was the natural, necessary thing and they accepted it. It was a part of the home way of doing things, part of the house-keeping clockwork. It was each girl's intellectual weaning, her first life responsibility, learning to help others and herself. "It would have been a task otherwise to keep all the girls in school. We had sixteen acres of fruit around the homestead here, where we raised apricots as big as peaches, and forty acres of orchard and hay land up on the foothills, and ten acres of dryfarm that we could irrigate only in the Spring and Fall when there was an excess of water., "We had our hogs, our poultry, and our vegetable garden. That meant a lot of work for us all, as well as for hired men, and when there are eleven children to feed and clothe; that item alone could easily take every minute of a mother's time as well as that of a mother's helper. When each daughter had her year at home she took full responsibility for the housekeeping, planned all the meals with my assistance. Babies were always coming along and I couldn't help much. That made it harder for daughter, as she had to be nurse as well as housekeeper, but it made it easier also to have me out of the way. Of course, I could always be consulted, but I was not in the way enough to be dictatorial, and each girl really had an opportunity to hold the reins and drive. When a girl took charge she already knew how to make bread, and she had her sisters help her, as each had her own home duties. One looked after the beds, another the chickens, another the school lunches, for all the children carried lunches and everything had to be arranged the night before. The other girls usually were home in time to help in getting supper, which was the principal meal, but always I was at home, sick, or well; and, most years as I have said, there was a daughter homemaker and housekeeper, so that our home was always a pleasant place to get back to. "It has proved to be an excellent system for my girls, and they have all had their home year except my youngest. You would have thought that some of the girls wouldn't have made good housekeepers, so young. Melba was the most surprising. When she was a little girl it was hard to get her to leave her 
 dolls for her dishes or her dusting, and her older sister, Grace, 2ften used to say to her, 'I pity you when you grow up and have tc be Mother's right hand girl. I don't believe you'll ever be able to attend to much on your own responsibility.' She did, all. The same. When her turn came for the year at home, she took full charge of me and my baby, of father and all the children, and of the hired man. There was so much work to do, so many lunches to put up that sometimes the hired man would have to kelp her. My youngest daughter, Clara, is now. In high school. She didn't have the year at home, but I'm proud of her just the same. A year ago I thought I was spoiling her for not having her assume responsibility like the others, but she can plan a Sunday dinner as well as the rest of us. One Sunday we all went to church and left Clara at home to prepare a simple home dinner. Both her sister and her brother brought home two friends to dinner, hut Clara rallied and gave them a good meal. She added a salad and her brother helped her, and it made me wonder if I could have done as well myself. But perhaps she wouldn't have been such a resourceful hostess if she had not seen her sisters before her taking, each one her year, responsibile housewifeliness. "The girls, because of their year at home went at their high school work, as I have said, with more eagerness, especially the home economics course. But the two most important features of my plan were. I think, the intellectual weaning of my girls, and the fact that it kept them from getting married too young. So many girls do no practical thinking until they get married, or go to work for themselves. I think that when a girl is old enough to go to high school it is time for her to begin to decide things for herself and others. You don't want a baby to be a baby forever. You are always thinking ahead for him. And in the same way, you don't want your daughter to be a little girl forever. Your duty is to see that she grows up and gets a young woman's mind. So I'm glad I've now and then effaced myself in my home in order that my girls might have mature, responsible opinions of their own in home matters. I've heard German and Swiss women tell of how important every German mother thinks it for her daughter to have a year away from home before she marries, to learn how things are done in other homes, to get away from the home folks and to learn to rely on herself. That is an excellent way for a girl to make progress toward maturity, but I think I've hit on a better one. I've kept my girls under my influence at home, but I've also given them the chance to think and learn for themselves. "And better than that, none of my girls have married before they were twenty. Arriving at high school a year late with healthy, mature, observant minds, they have met the sex side of life with much frankness. When a girl has helped her mother  A MOTHER'S SUCCESS 231 with her babies and knows from practical, even bitter experience, how much money and backbone it takes to run a home successfully she is not going to plunge into matrimony immediately. Not at the high school age, anyway. She is going to have a happy, open-eyed girlhood, and marriage is going to find her realizing that finance as well as sentiment are back of wedded life, and that a talent for companionship and homemaking is the most valuable asset in married life. My girls are good homemakers because I've trained them, started them young in the art, and given them endless opportunities for practice. "There is nothing so pitiful as the marriage of young, ignorant people with childish minds. A' friend of ours brought his fifteen year old daughter to our city to attend the high school. He said he didn't want her to go to the country high school back home. She would be just like all the other country girls, think she must get married at sixteen or seventeen. He wanted her to have some mental training, mix with girls whose mothers all believed in watching them carefully, in giving them sane standards and in giving them an education so enjoyable they would not want to be married too early. He said he would be glad even to have his daughter earn her living for a year or two before marriage, SO that she needn't feel absolutely dependent on any man's pocket book. Why, he said, the girls in his back country town get married when they are very young. I know it is hard to go against public opinion and one girl in a town can't be very different from the other girls, but that man was shifting responsibility which he and his wife should have shouldered themselves. In part anyway. They could at least have given their daughter a 'home year" before she started high school and she would have been one year wiser in meeting the social follies of the high school. "For the last three years I haven't had a daughter at home and I've felt the lack. All are married, teaching or in school. But this winter one of my daughters came home with her baby for a long visit and has been a big help. I am even tempered and made a good start with the family, but I never should have been able to stick to my plans for a year at home for each girl, if their father hadn't helped me. I should have spoiled them all if he hadn't been there. Even now my son-in-law says I manage to have the girls do the housework by doing the dishes myself. My husband was an excitable Scotchman, but I was his second wife and he was twenty years older than I. He had already brought up one fmily when he married me. He had learned control. He would declare it was the girl's place to get breakfast and he would see that they did it. He wouldn't let me do it even if I longed to. I've already told you it is the simplest thing in the world to bring up a large family, if you have plenty of daughters but I'd better add to that recipe another ingredient. You've got to have a good husband to help you. That is more than half the battle.