[Vol5 | March 1918 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Integrity and Personal Loyalty Laura J. Adamson]

Integrity and Personal Loyalty. Necessary Elements in Successful Organization. By Laura J. Adamson, President of Relief Society of the Boise Stake. "Stern Daughter of the voice of God, O Duty, if that name thou love Who art a light to guide, a rod To check the erring, and reprove; Thou who art victory and law When empty terrors overawe; From vain temptations dost set free; And calm'st the weary strife of frail  humanity." Wordsworth. Certainly duty is a rod to check the erring; it sets people free from temptation and calms the strife of humanity. The rod is not one of force and coercion, but one of invitation, of persuasion, of assistance. Faithfulness to duty leads to dependableness, or integrity, a condition to be sought for and obtained in any organization which is active and complete and which meets with any measure of success. In the army and navy, attention to duty is a fundamental requirement. When Lord Nelson gave the command to his British associates he inspired their courage by assuring them that "England expects every man, this day, to do his duty." A sentinel who had fallen asleep in a grain field was awakened to see his general standing in his place, only to realize that he had sacrificed his right to the claim of military integrity. One of the biggest problems the business man encounters is to secure assistants in whom he can place implicit confidence; upon whom he can depend. If dependableness in the army and the navy, and in business, is a fundamental requirement, what can we say of its place in the church? Were the pioneers people who could be depended upon? Did they stand the test? Were they firm when events reached a crisis? The choicest characters in church history are those men and women who never faltered in the race of adversity, persecution or trial. They were true to a trust; they kept their word; they did their full duty, and because of these characteristics we revere their memories. We owe to such characters INTEGRITY AND PERSONAL LOYALTY. 139 a full measure of gratitude for the very soil upon which we have planted our feet; for the opportunities we are afforded, and for many of the blessings we enjoy. No well laid plan can be successfully completed without the assistance of dependable persons. Results would not be obtained where the officers, detailed to perform their part, failed to discharge their obligation. It may be said that integrity usually begets personal loyalty. One of the essential characteristics of a successful business officer in a church organization is that of loyalty to his associates and to those by whom he has been chosen to act. If a church officer does not intend to stand by those who have chosen him, he will do himself a favor and his associates a kindness by presenting his resignation. The way would then be cleared to secure active cooperation and live interest from those who have both integrity and loyalty. Loyalty to constituted authority should be the slogan of all officers in the Boise stake. For it we will merit and receive appreciation from our leaders and inspire the best efforts of which that authority is capable. What could we ask more,  officers members? Your loyalty to the authorities in an organization is evidence of your confidence. No loyal worker in the Church will neglect to perform the reasonable duties which may be imposed upon him. He will not shirk; he will not tire; he will not betray a trust. His course will be well defined. His work will be well performed and his attitude will be unquestioned. When Porter Rockwell was imprisoned in Missouri, and while for weeks he suffered the indignities of a merciless prison guard, he was given the assurance that upon the delivery into custody of the Prophet Joseph Smith, wealth, money or position would be his, he answered with sublime loyalty, "I'll see you all in hell first, and then I won't." A loyal body of active officers forms an efficient working force. Such a body can lead out in social activities and can create a healthful community spirit; can be in the vanguard of child and community welfare; can induce a spirit of industry which will result in a full treasury for the organization; can stimulate a meeting attendance that will be encouraging; can heed and fully meet the demands for moral and intellectual betterment of the people among whom this directing force strives. Give to an organization such leadership and a moving force will be set up whose influence will be felt for good and whose work will vitalize the lives of those upon whom its influence is shed. I submit that dependableness is an essential characteristic of the soldier, the sailor, the man of business, the statesman, the 
 private citizen and the humble church worker. Faithfulness to duty inculcates loyalty to constituted authority. Loyalty to coworkers is an evidence of confidence, it cements officers into an efficient working force whose influence radiates from center to circumference and whose endeavors result in the accomplishment of permanent good and final perfection.