[Vol5 | March 1918 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: War Economy in Shoes Lillian H. Cannon]

War Economy in Shoes. By Lillian H. Cannon. In the last month's article economy in dress as a patriotic duty was emphasized. Practicing economy with so high a motive reacts directly on the character of the woman. It also teaches her to form the homely habit of economy for economy's sake; that nothing should be wasted and that all things should be put to their very best use. To practice economy we must buy the things that will last the longest, in order to leave as much material as possible for those who need it worse than we do. In the selection of shoes with the thought of war economy three things should be considered: comfort, beauty, and suitability. The Relief Society woman is active. She is on her feet a great part of the day. It is necessary, then, that a large, comfortable shoe be worn if she is to get the greatest amount of wear from it. High heels are the style now, but women cannot wear them without bad effects. Backache, headache, tired feet and legs, and extreme nervousness, are results that come from their use. A shoe for comfort should be moderately loose. If the shoe pinches anywhere it is apt to be discarded long before it is worn out, or it produces corns and bunions. Patent leather is heating to the feet in summer and cooling in winter and is not so durable as leather. A woman who values comfort as well as her time will choose buttoned shoes instead of laced ones, and certainly will avoid high-topped shoes. Beauty is closely allied to comfort in shoes. A woman hobbling along on painful feet, no matter how costly and stylish the cut of her shoes, is anything but a beautiful figure; but the woman who can put her feet down in ease and comfort has a certain grace of carriage. Black shoes are always the most economical ones to buy. They can be worn on any occasion and with any dress. They are kept clean and shining until the last possible expenditure of time and effort. Black sets forth the beauty of the small foot and hides the dimensions of the large one. Our girls now think they must have shoes to match the costume to some extent, but this fashion makes colored shoes, unless worn with suitable colored costumes, both poor taste and an extravagance. A person with large ankles should never choose a shoe with black bottoms and light colored tops. The light tops emphasize the sturdy dimensions. White shoes are beautiful with any costume, but are never economical, as 
 they must be cleaned very often. They are not suitable, either for a woman over forty-five, unless worn with white dress in summer time. Gray shoes are charming with a gray suit or hat and gloves, and tan shoes with tan or brown costumes, if people are wealthy, and can afford these luxuries. Times have changed, of course, and what seemed to be unsuitable for a woman of fifty, twenty years ago, is adopted by her now with as much zest as by the young girl. It is a beautiful thing "to keep young." It is more beautiful to keep youth in the heart and to grow old gracefully. We can't keep our bodies young no matter how hard we try. We have to grow old and we succeed only in making ourselves ridiculous when we wear the clothes of youth. The care of shoes bears almost as close a relation to economy as the selection of them. No woman who values the appearance of her shoes will wear her best ones about the house, for the Relief Society woman does her own housework and many other things. As soon as she comes into the house she will exchange her shoes for those she reserves for the house. No shoes can be kept in the best of condition if they are worn to sweep or scrub in. It is economy to have more than one pair of best shoes, if possible. If a woman wishes to look well she will keep her shoes in first-class condition, with regard to blacking, repairs, etc. Liquid blacking is injurious to leather, causing it to crack. Oiling or greasing leather shoes almost doubles their wearing properties. Even the soles of the shoes should be greased often. Shoes should be repaired before they are badly dilapidated. The best repairer that can be obtained is the cheapest one. Some cobblers have a manner of deforming the shoes in such a way that it is hard to wear them again. Try mending holes and soles with worn-out inner auto tires; anneal the rubber and stick it on. We must now retrench and conserve. The time may come when we will be glad to have shoes that are even worth mending. GLOVES. What has been said in the talk on shoes, with regard to quality, holds good in reference to gloves. The best are the cheapest in the end. It is more necessary that gloves should match the costume than that shoes should do so. Even black gloves do not look as well with any other colored suit as they do with black. White gloves look well with any costume, but are not very economical. White kid gloves kept for special occasions for the average woman can be cleaned at home with gasoline. On account of its inflammability it must be used out of doors.