Preparing the Meal of Today By Lucy Rose Middleton
"The turnpike road to people's hearts I find, Lies through their mouth, or I mistake mankind," Sings the poet, Peter Pindar. We will all agree that his words carry much truth. Many important matters have been settled over appetizing and attractively prepared dinners: business deals of great magnitude, romances terminating in marriage arrangements, the celebration of anniversaries. Good cooking is an accomplishment well calculated to make a man boast about his wife. Pepys so relished Mrs. Pepys' cooking that he made a record of it in his Diary, writing, "My wife has got ready a very fine dinner?viz: a dish of marrow bones, a leg of mutton, a loin of veal, a dish of fowl, three pullets and a dozen of larks all in a dish, a great tart, a neat's tongue, a dish of anchovy, a dish of prawn and cheese." How glaringly the lack of balance and grace in such a meal contrasts with a skillfully prepared meal of today! It would seem that man was once a carnivorous animal. Cookery today is both a science and an art. As for the scientific side, we should all know that potatoes, bread, rice, and macaroni are carbohydrate or starchy foods and that meat, cheese, eggs, dried peas and beans come under the list of protein foods. Fat foods include cream, fat meats, butter and oils. Among the foods supplying mineral salts to the diet are vegetables, cereals, milk, and fruits. Vitamins, the subject of considerable recent study, are present in milk, cereals, cod liver oil, fruits and vegetables. Another of the food elements which is necessary to the body is, of course, water. This is obtained both from the foods we eat and the beverages we drink. A proper diet must include all these food principles in adequate quantities. The art of cookery includes the careful selection of foods that are suitable in flavor and texture and attractive in color. Someone once discovered that turkey and cranberries, pork and apple sauce, and the flavor of mint with mutton have a natural affinity for one another. Since that time the housewife instinctively adds the harmonizing condiment to her grocery list when she plans to serve one of these meats. The woman who selects her foods scientifically and then adds the artistic touch to the preparation and service will find herself presiding over a most attractive and appetizing meal.
RECIPES FOR JANUARY
Stuffed Baked Potatoes With Cheese 3 large flat potatoes. 1 tablespoon butter 1/2 cup grated cheese. Salt and pepper. Hot milk.
Bake potatoes 40 minutes in a hot oven or until soft (450-500 degrees). Remove from oven, cut in halves lengthwise, scoop out the inside. Mash, add butter, salt and pepper, enough hot milk to make the mixture creamy, and grated cheese. Refill the shells. Sprinkle the top with grated cheese and bake for five or ten minutes.
Baked Halibut With Tomato Sauce 2 pounds halibut. 2 cups tomato sauce.
Clean fish, put in baking pan, pour around half the tomato sauce, and bake 35 minutes in moderately hot oven (375 degrees). Baste often. Remove to a hot platter, pour around it the remaining sauce heated to boiling point, and garnish with parsley.
Tomato Sauce 2 cups tomatoes, cooked or canned. 1 slice onion. 3 tablespoons butter. 3 tablespoons flour. Salt and pepper.
Cook the tomatoes and onion together for 15 minutes, and strain. Brown the butter and add flour. When well blended add tomato juice. Bring to boiling point.
Fricassee of Veal 2 pounds sliced veal. 1 small onion. 2 stalks celery. 6 slices carrot. Salt and pepper. 4 tablespoons butter. 4 tablespoons flour. Pork fat.
Wipe meat, cover with boiling water, and add vegetables. Cook slowly until meat is tender. Remove meat, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge with flour, and fry (saute) in pork fat. Strain liquid (there should be 2 cups). Melt butter, add flour and blend well. Add strained liquor. Bring to a boil, season with salt and pepper and pour around meat. Garnish with watercress or parsley.
Harvard Beets 12 small beets, cooked and cut in slices, cubes or fancy shapes. 1/2 cup sugar. 1/2 tablespoon cornstarch. 1/4 cup water. 1/4 cup vinegar. 2 tablespoons butter.
Mix sugar and cornstarch. Add vinegar and water and boil 5 minutes. Add beets and let stand over low heat 30 minutes. Just before serving bring to boiling point and add butter.
Corn Bread 3/4 cup corn meal. 1 cup white flour. 1/3 cup sugar. 5 teaspoons baking powder. 3/4 teaspoon salt. 1 cup milk. 1 egg, well beaten. 2 tablespoons shortening.
Mix the dry ingredients and sift; add milk, egg, and shortening; bake in shallow buttered pan 20 minutes in hot oven (425 degrees). For shortening, butter, chicken fat, or beef drippings may be used.
Date Squares 2 cups of rolled oats. 1 1/2 cup of flour. 1 teaspoon soda. 1 1/2 cup brown sugar. 1/2 cup of melted butter.
Add sifted flour and soda to rolled oats and brown sugar, and last, the melted butter. Mix well. This mixture will be crumbly.
Filling 1 pound dates stoned and cut in pieces. 1 cup brown sugar. 1 cup water. 1 teaspoon flour.
Mix all together and cook until quite thick. Stir to prevent burning. Cool. Put one-half of the dry mixture in buttered large square pan, add filling and spread evenly, then add the remaining crumbs. Bake 15-20 minutes or until golden brown. Cool and cut.
Brown Betty 2 cups bread crumbs. 1/4 cup butter, melted. 1 quart apples. 1/4 cup sugar, brown or white. 1/4 teaspoon grated nutmeg. Grated rind and juice of 1/2 lemon. 1/4 cup hot water.
Mix crumbs and butter lightly with a fork. Cover bottom of buttered pudding dish with crumbs and spread half of the apples, sprinkle with half of sugar, and half of nutmeg, lemon juice and rind together; repeat, cover with remaining crumbs and water, and bake 40 minutes in a moderately hot oven (350 degrees). Cover at first to prevent crumbs from browning too rapidly. Serve with cream and sugar.
Fig Newton Delight 12-15 fig newtons. 1/2 pint whipping cream. Maraschino cherries.
Cut fig newtons in small pieces. Whip cream stiff and add to fig newtons. Let stand in refrigerator for about 8 hours before serving. Top each serving with a maraschino cherry.