[Vol8 | February 1921 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial Am I a Failure]

EDITORIAL    RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor — - - - Susa Younc Gates Business Manager - - - - - - - -JanetTe A. Hype Assistant Manager - - - - - - - Amy Brown LyMan Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah 

VOL. VIII FEBRUARY, 1921 No. 2
AM I A FAILURE?
The sensitive, earnest worker faces occasionally the bitter question of personal success or personal failure. The difficulty with the question is always the individual bias with which it is answered. There is no man in this Church and kingdom, and certainly no woman, who does not feel a sense of failure more or less often. Moroni tells us that the Lord gives us weaknesses, that we may approach more nearly to him. And Nephi's marvelous prayer portrays his own weakness and anguish of spirit; first describing the wonderful experiences through which the Lord had glorified him, he then exclaims (II Nephi 4:26, 28):
"O then, if I have seen so great things, if the Lord, in his condescension unto the children of men, hath visited me in so much mercy, why should my heart weep, and my soul linger in the valley of sorrow, and my flesh waste away, and my strength slacken, because of mine afflictions?"
"And why should I yield to sin, because of my flesh? Yea, why should I give way to temptations, that the evil one have place in my heart, to destroy my peace and afflict my soul?"
Men who have been measurably unsuccessful in business, women who have lacked opportunity for culture, or both, who have gifts without an opportunity of using those gifts, are too often the victims of great depression of spirit. Every man whose ambitions reach to the skies finds the measurable failure of his


mortal power to encompass the object of his righteous ambition. Children fail to take the counsel of their parents and parents grieve bitterly, both because of sorrow at the child's wrongdoing and because of the implied failure in the training of the parents. No one who has neither son nor daughter can measure the despair of the father or mother who is powerless to prevent the loved child from taking a downward course, and yet each child is as much a son and daughter of God as we ourselves are. Adam did not, and apparently could not, prevent the crime of Cain, nor did Noah, Abraham, Isaac or Jacob, much less David, Solomon, Eli, or Elijah, seem able through teaching or example to keep their children in the right path. And what, pray, shall we say of the son of the morning, who rebelled in heaven, where conditions were presumably far more favorable than we have yet had upon this earth?
Let us, once and for all, accept the thought that we must be succored in affliction and tested by temptation and seeming failure ere we have either wisdom or strength to climb the upward path toward heaven and salvation. The other day a little couplet was quoted in a newspaper:
"Then welcome each rebuff which turns earth's smoothness rough."
The writer was a seer as well as a poet, and well understood the basic principles of life and the keynote of all progress. The newspaper writer goes on to say:
"I think if a departed spirit really could look back and help the ones who are here, a pathway of progress and usefulness would be pointed out, and no matter how rugged or how thorny that pathway might be, the mortal under advisement would be urged to follow it, regardless of all temporary gain, ease or pleasure."
"The world has an entirely erroneous idea of suffering. Suffering, so called, is but a form of labor. It is either to eradicate grossness or selfishness in ourselves or to overcome outside obstacles."
No man or woman is, or can possibly be, a failure who has striven to do good and struggled to overcome individual temptation. No business man is a failure because he does not make much money. Some are failures who are very rich. No woman who has done her duty as best she could is a failure because she happens to be a poor housekeeper, has had no education, or whose children turn away from the truth. Failures in life are those who permit selfish greed, personal ambition, or spiteful envy to finally conquer and corrode life's fountains, and to prevent personal progress and personal development. These are poor miserable failures. Are you one of them? If not, then let us thank the Lord that the gospel is a gospel of hope, not despair?of constant repentance and regeneration, not final, or eternal, punishment.
EDITORIAL. 113