[Vol8 | February 1921 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: The Plan of Salvation Wilma Stolworthy]
The Plan of Salvation By Wilma Stolworthy. "We will go down for there is space there, and we will take of these materials and we will make an earth whereon these may dwell; and we will prove them herewith, to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them. And they who keep their second estate shall have glory added upon their head forever and ever." (Book of Abraham 3:24, 27. Pearl of Great Price.) WHENCE. The heavenly home in all its radiant glory nestled among the trees. Under their shade a group of girls sat talking. The serious look on their faces evidenced an earnest conversation. A beautiful girl was the center of the group, to her the remarks were made or the questions asked. "Aren't you afraid to go? Just think of the change it will be." "Yes, sickness, pain and temptations will be there. But mother says my new parents will give me a heritage that will fit me to meet all these. They will give me the privilege of being born under the New and Everlasting Covenant. Their constant counsel and guidance will keep me from straying far from the right path. I am anxious to go now." "But the change? Aren't you afraid of that?" "No, mother says that the months spent next to my earthly mother's heart will prepare me for the change. Then when the time comes for my birth all will seem natural and I will enter the new world with no fears nor misgivings. After all, girls, the earthly birth is but a forgetting which gives us a chance to show what our life here has prepared us for." The mother came to the door and called. The girls ran quickly to her side and the door closed upon the group. A few days later the chosen girl stood with her guide ready to leave for her new probation. Goodbyes were said through tears. Then with her mother's and father's blessing she passed into the new world and new life that was to prepare her for future glory. WHY? Long hours of suffering, a deep taste of the bitter sweet, a cry of pain, and a baby girl was ushered into the world of pain and joy. The baby was a tiny, frail bundle of helplessness, but
