[Vol34 | August 1947 | Sequence: 33 | Category: Lesson | Title: Theology: The Need of a Redeemer; The Antemortal Godship of Christ Elder Don B. Colton]
consequences. Whatever was done fall should pay the penalty attached was done that man might be. The to it. As Paul stated so plainly: Latter-day Saints reject the doctrine that the "fall of Adam" was the re- Wherefore, as by one man sin entered sult of the breaking of a moral law. into the world, and death by sin; and so Adam and Eve were noble people, death passed upon all men, for that all and will be honored and acclaimed have sinned. . . . Therefore, as by the of- as our first great parents in mortal fence of one judgment came upon all men life. They did, however, break a law to condemnation; even so by the right- of God with reference to their bod- eousness of one the free gift came upon ies. They were forbidden to partake all men unto justification of life (Rom. of certain things which had been 5:12, 18). condemned. They were told if they took into their bodies certain foods, The atonement was made by the that their bodies would lose the only One who was without sin and power which they held to live could pay the debt. We should not forever. Elder Talmage teaches that be puzzled because of vicarious the fall was brought about by eating work. In this case, it was "volun- things unfit to be taken into the tary and love inspired." Latter-day body, which things made the body a Saints know that much of our tem- thing of earth. ple work is vicarious. It, too, is love Only immortal bodies or beings inspired. Much of the work of the may dwell in the presence of God. world is done by agents. An eternal When Adam and Eve partook of the law had been broken, and there was forbidden fruit, they became mortal but One who could pay the penalty. beings and fell from a higher to a That One was the Only Begotten lower estate, considering it from one Son of God who was foreordained standpoint, however, it was a state in the heavens for that work. He was of advancement on the way of eter- chosen to do the work by Elohim— nal progression. With this mortal the greatest of all. "For as the Father state, death was inevitable, because hath life in himself; so hath he giv- mortality cannot put on immortality en to the Son to have life in him- without it. self" (John 5:26). Had he not After the fall, and in accordance come, man would have gone to his with the plan adopted by the council grave and the flesh "to crumble to in heaven, Adam, and the woman its mother earth, to rise no more." given to him and who was an essen- The resurrection has come and will tial part of the plan, became subject come to all as a glorious gift from the to physical ailments and human Son of God. (Read II Nephi, Chap- frailties. They and their posterity ter 9). Christ redeems us all from —being mortal—were subject to the consequences of Adam's trans- temptation by Lucifer, which John gressions and from our own sins if, and deceitfulness had beguiled Eve. with all our hearts, we accept him Death, sickness, temptation, and and obey his gospel plan. "For as in sin came into the world. Adam all die, even so in Christ shall It seems just and logical that only all be made alive" (I Cor. 15:33). those who were responsible for the

The Antemortal Godship of Christ
This part of the lesson should be studied very carefully. It must be