[Vol34 | August 1947 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: A Visit to the Hawaiian Sorensen]

This is the name of Brother McKay's mother. Sister David O. McKay's name is Emma Rae Riggs McKay. A Visit to the Hawaiian Islands President Belle S. Spafford George Q. Cannon, in company with nine other elders of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, landed at Honolulu on the beautiful isle of Oahu.
Groves of coconut trees with their tall trunks and long, graceful leaves, as well as other trees of endless variety, masses of living green from the root upward, being covered with a multitude of vines and creepers of many kinds, were growing abundantly on the isle.
There were blooming shrubs, ferns and flowers. In fact, so beautiful were the isles of the Hawaiian group that Elder Cannon declared: "We longed to tread upon them."
These elders had been sent to preach the gospel to the Haole (white) people of the Hawaiian Islands, then called the Sandwich Islands.
They soon saw, however, that little could be done among this class of people on the islands.
Some of the elders favored returning home, but Elder Cannon, seeing himself surrounded by a whole nation who ought to be taught the message of salvation which God had empowered them to carry, was so urgently impressed with the feeling that he should stay and teach the gospel to the native people that he declared that if all should leave, he, though the youngest of the group, would remain, learn the language, and do his duty as an elder to that people even though he did not baptize a soul. Consequently, he and some of the elders did remain.
They acquired Page 516 ()* December 12, 1850, Elder the language and were the means in the hands of God of bringing large numbers to a knowledge of restored truth.
Since that time nearly one hundred years ago, many, many missionaries have taught the gospel to the inhabitants of these mountainous isles of the Hawaiian group; and these people, the seed of Israel, have accepted the truth until, today, two fine missions and a great stake of Zion are established there; a sacred temple and a great tabernacle have been erected by the Church and are viewed with interest by thousands who visit the islands annually. A visit to this romantic country under ordinary circumstances would be delightful; to go there and mingle with the choice, sweet-spirited women who have accepted the gospe and who, imbued with its spirit, are carrying forward the work of Relief Society, is a privilege and a blessing. Recently, in company with Sister Velma N. Simonsen, General Board member, I enjoyed such an opportunity, when, upon assignment of the General Board, we went to the islands to conduct meetings with the Relief Society sisters there. On April 23, we arrived at Honolulu to be greeted at the dock by President and Sister Ralph Woolley of Oahu Stake, President and Sister Melvyn A.
Weenig of the Central Pacific Mission, Relief Society stake and ward officers and members, missionaries, and friends.
Only one who has been greeted at the dock amid the music of the Royal Hawaiian
A VISIT TO THE HAWAIIAN ISLANDS 517 VELMA N. SIMONSEN, MEMBER OF THE GENERAL BOARD, AND PRESIDENT BELLE S. SPAFFORD These sisters are wearing the beautiful leis which were presented to them by stake and mission officers, Relief Society sisters, missionaries, and friends, on the occasion of their arrival at Honolulu to conduct Relief Society conventions, Band, with the gorgeous, colorful, fragrant flower leis and the loving aloha of these warm-hearted people can fully appreciate the experience. All of the warmth, beauty, and hosPitality of the land seem to combine in extending a lavish welcome.
Although we had never before seen most of those who greeted us, they seemed not strangers to us, but dear, intimate friends, The Relief Societies of the Islands had not been visited by a General Board representative since the visit of Sister Louise Y.
Robison in August 1937. All were eager to meet together to consider the work of Relief Society. In Oahu Stake, meetings were held for Relief Society stake executive officers, stake board members, stake and ward officers, and class leaders, as well as for the general Relief Society membership. Relief Society was favored in having Priesthood representatives in attendance at most of the meetings.
Administrative and secretarial.