[Vol34 | August 1947 | Sequence: 30 | Category: Lesson | Title: Social Science: Essentials in Home Training Elder Joseph Jacobs]
Social  Science — Essentials  in  Home  Training 
Lesson  2— Honesty 
EJder  Joseph  Jacobs 
For  Tuesday,  November  25,  1947 
Objective:  To  show  that  honesty  is  fundamental  to  an  upright  character,  and  that 
teaching  of  this  principle  and  a  consistent  example  set  by  daily  living  must  be  given  chil- 
dren in  the  home. 
TN  a  chemistry  class  in  college  the  were  finished  and  handed  in,  the  ex- 
students  were  assigned  several  periments  were  checked  off  in  the 
experiments  to  work  out  and  hand  professor's  roll  book  and  posted  on 
in  by  the  end  of  the  term,  in  order  the  bulletin  board  each  month. 
to  complete  a  certain  unit.  As  they  Early  in   the  second  month,  Tom

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
Russell's  name  appeared  on  the  list, 
but  Tom  had  not  completed  those 
experiments.  For  several  days  he 
pondered  this  occurrence  and  was 
tempted  to  let  it  pass.  Under  the 
circumstances,  no  one  would  know 
or  question  the  fact  that  the  work 
had  not  been  handed  in,  and  he 
would  avoid  many,  many  hours  of 
tedious  study.  At  last,  however,  his 
sense  of  honor  triumphed.  He  went 
to  the  professor  and  explained  that 
there  had  been  a  mistake,  that  he 
had  not  completed  the  experiments 
and  was  ready  to  proceed  immediate- 
ly on  the  assignment. 
Many  people  think  the  only  point 
that  matters  is  whether  or  not  one 
gets  caught  in  a  dishonest  act.  They 
are  fooling  only  themselves  with  this 
philosophy.  There  is  One  who 
always  knows,  to  whom  we  must 
some  day  account  for  all  our  actions. 
And  even  if  an  evil  act  apparently 
escapes  detection,  it  leaves  a  mark 
upon  the  soul  which  cannot  be 
erased.  A  proverb  of  old  says:  "A 
good  name  is  rather  to  be  chosen 
than  great  riches"  (Prov.  22:1). 
It  is  a  high  compliment  to  be 
known  as  an  honest  man,  and  too 
much  emphasis  cannot  be  made  up- 
on this  basic  principle  of  living: 
J.  P.  Morgan  once  loaned  a  large  sum  of 
money  to  a  man  who  had  very  little  col- 
lateral to  offer  as  security.  He  was  ques- 
tioned for  this  apparent  rashness.  Morgan 
answered  that  he  made  the  loan  because 
of  the  man's  reputation  over  a  long  period, 
for  his  high  honor  and  integrity.  When 
asked  if  collateral  was  not  also  important, 
Morgan  replied  he  would  not  loan  even  a 
single  dollar  to  a  man  he  could  not  trust, 
regardless  of  his  collateral  (Dr.  Franklin 
L.  West:  "Church  Section,"  The  Deseref 
News,  March  30,  1946). 
Integrity,    or  honesty,   is    funda- 
mental to  the  structure  of  our  so- 
571 
ciety.  Business  is  dependent  upon 
the  honesty  of  the  individual  mem- 
bers of  society.  It  is  estimated  that 
seventy-five  per  cent  of  our  modern 
business  is  done  on  credit,  which 
simply  means  that  people  are  as- 
sumed to  be  as  good  as  their  word. 
In  his  book  Fundamentals  oi  Pros- 
perity, Roger  W.  Babson  relates  the 
following  incident: 
While  on  a  recent  visit  to  Chicago,  I 
was  taken  by  the  president  of  one  of  the 
largest  banks  to  see  his  new  safety  deposit 
vaults.  He  described  these — as  bank  pres- 
idents will— as  the  largest  and  most  mar- 
velous vaults  in  the  city.  He  expatiated  on 
the  heavy  steel  doors  and  the  various  elec- 
trical and  mechanical  contrivances  which 
protect  the  stocks  and  bonds  deposited  in 
the  institution. 
While  at  the  bank  a  person  came  in  to 
rent  a  box.  He  made  the  arrangements 
for  the  box,  and  the  box  was  handed  to 
him.  In  it  he  deposited  some  stocks  and 
bonds  which  he  took  from  his  pocket. 
Then  the  clerk  who  had  charge  of  the 
vaults  went  to  a  rack  on  the  wall  and  took 
out  a  key  and  gave  it  to  the  man.  .  .  .  The 
man  then  put  the  box  into  one  of  the  steel 
compartments,  shut  the  door  and  turned 
the  key.  He  then  went  away  feeling  per- 
fectly secure  on  account  of  those  steel 
doors  and  various  mechanical  and  electrical 
contrivances  existing  to  protect  his  wealth. 
I  did  not  wish  to  give  him  a  sleepless 
night  so  I  said  nothing;  but  I  couldn't 
help  thinking  how  easy  it  would  have  been 
for  that  poorly-paid,  hunchbacked  clerk  to 
make  a  duplicate  of  that  key  before  he  de- 
livered it  to  the  renter  of  that  box.  With 
such  a  duplicate,  the  clerk  could  have 
made  that  man  penniless  within  a  few 
minutes  after  he  had  left  the  building.  The 
great  steel  door  and  the  electrical  and  me- 
chanical contrivances  would  have  been  ab- 
solutely valueless. 
Of  course  the  point  I  am  making  is 
that  the  real  security  which  that  great  bank 
in  Chicago  had  to  offer  its  clientele  lay  not 
in  the  massive  stone  columns  in  front  of 
its  structure,  nor  in  the  heavy  steel  doors; 
nor  the  electrical  and  mechanical  contri-

572 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— AUGUST  1947 
vances.  The  real  strength  of  that  institu- 
tion rested  in  the  honesty — the  absolute 
integrity — of  its  clerks   (pp.  13-15). 
What  Statement  Do  We  Have 
Which  Shows  the  Lattei-day  Saint 
Belief  in  Honesty? 
As  Latter-day  Saints  we  believe  in 
adhering  to  honesty  in  all  its  varied 
phases.  The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
in  giving  a  brief  summary  of  our  be- 
liefs, stated,  among  other  things, 
"We  believe  in  being  honestf  true, 
chaste,  benevolent,  virtuous,  and  in 
doing  good  to  all  men  .  ..."  (13th 
Article  of  faith). 
What  Does  It  Mean  to  Be  Honest 
With  One's  Self? 
Being  honest  with  one's  self  is  a 
noble  ambition.  It  means  living  up 
to  one's  highest  ideals.  It  means 
not  succumbing  to  petty  practices 
(even  though  they  might  never  be 
discovered  by  others )  that  may  jeop- 
ardize one's  reputation  or  character, 
or  that  may  injure  someone  else.  It 
was  Shakespeare  who  said:  "To 
thine  own  self  be  true,  And  it  must 
follow,  as  the  night  the  day,  Thou 
canst  not  then  be  false  to  any  man." 
No  matter  what  the  world  thinks  of 
us,  we  must  live  with  ourselves  and 
a  clear  conscience  is  worth  more  than 
all  the  money  or  power  in  the  world. 
The  business  man  who  misleads  or 
overcharges  and  then  salves  his  con- 
science with  the  doctrine  that  such 
practices  are  necessary  in  business,  is 
untrue  to  himself  and  to  others.  The 
politician  who  shifts  and  stalls  to 
keep  in  the  good  graces  of  different 
groups,  that  he  may  benefit  personal- 
ly, is  a  menace  to  society.  The  person 
who  adroitly  phrases  a  statement  to 
give  the  wrong  impression  is  un- 
truthful in  a  very  cowardly  way.  Wil- 
liam George  Jordan  says: 
He  who  is  careless  of  his  appointments 
is  the  thoughtless  thief  of  another's  time. 
The  man  who  makes  truth  his  watchword 
is  careful  in  his  words,  he  seeks  to  be  ac- 
curate, neither  understanding  nor  over- 
coloring.  He  never  states  as  a  fact  that  of 
which  he  is  not  sure.  What  he  says  has  the 
ring  of  sincerity,  the  hallmark  of  pure  gold. 
If  he  praises  you,  you  accept  his  statement 
as  "net,"  you  do  not  have  to  work  out  a 
problem  in  mental  arithmetic  on  the  side 
to  see  what  discount  you  ought  to  make 
before  you  accept  his  judgment.  His 
promise  counts  for  something.  .  .  .  His 
honesty  is  not  policy.  The  man  who  is 
honest  merely  because  it  is  "the  best  pol- 
icy" is  not  really  honest,  he  is  only  politic. 
Usually  such  a  man  would  forsake  his  seem- 
ing loyalty  to  truth  and  would  work  over- 
time for  the  devil — if  he  could  get  better 
terms. 
Man  is  usually  loyal  to  what  he  most 
desires.  The  man  who  lies  to  save  a  nickel, 
merely  proclaims  that  he  esteems  a  nickel 
more  than  he  does  his  honor.  He  who  sac- 
rifices his  ideals,  truth  and  character,  for 
mere  money  or  position,  is  weighing  his 
conscience  in  one  pan  of  scale  against  a 
bag  of  gold  in  the  other  (The  Power  oi 
Truth,  pp.  5-8). 
Can  the  Golden  Rule  Be  Used  as  a 
Guide  to  Honesty? 
The  Savior  gave  us  a  yardstick 
with  which  to  measure  honesty.  It  is 
so  simple  that  even  a  child  can  under- 
stand it,  and  yet  the  whole  world  is 
suffering  today  from  the  lack  of  its 
application.  It  is  stated  in  what  is 
commonly  referred  to  as  the  Golden 
Rule:  "Therefore  all  things  whatso- 
ever ye  would  that  men  should  do  to 
you,  do  ye  even  so  to  them. . ." 
Is  it  a  Form  of  Dishonesty  to 
Neglect  Church  Obligations? 
One  phase  of  dishonesty  is  re- 
vealed in  the  matter  of  how  we  carry 
out  our  obligations  to  the  Lord, 
although  many  do  not  look  upon  it 
in  that  light.  When  we  become  mem- 
bers of  the  Church,  we  are  under  ob-