[Vol34 | August 1947 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Article | Title: Magazine Isaacson]

Magazine Promotion Ida Isaacson Counselor, Wells Stake Relief Society, Salt Lake City [Address Delivered at Magazine Section, Relief Society General Conference, October 2, 1946.] E, in Wells Stake, have tried to promote the Magazine in three ways: 1. By the use of visual aids, posters, slogans, booklets, etc. 2. By ward check ups on Relief Society memberships and Magazine subscriptions. 3. By holding two well-planned Magazine meetings during the summer in our homes. On June 13, the Magazine representatives and educational counselors came to the first meeting with a fairly accurate check up on the women in their wards.
They had written down on slips of paper: 1. The number of Relief Society members in their wards. 2. The number of Relief Society members taking the Magazine. 3. The number of Latter-day Saint women in their wards. On July 8, we.
Held a second meeting for Magazine representatives only. And each was given a chart to fill out and return by September 1, which they did. The detailed chart had eight questions to be answered by the Magazine representative: 1.
Number of Relief Society members in your ward? 2.
Number of Relief Society members taking the Magazine? 3.
Number of Latter-day Saint women in your ward?
Number of subscriptions going outside the ward?
Number of subscriptions coming into the ward from other wards?
Number of non-members taking the Magazine? PS Ss 7.
Number of Magazines sent as gifts in your own ward? 8.
Number of Relief Society working mothers?
This chart is proving to be an index to us of the women in Wells Stake. It shows that we have: 772
Relief Society members in Wells Stake 666
Magazine subscriptions 1592
Latter-day Saint women The chart tells us that 106 of our Relief Society members are not represented by the Magazine, and further indicates that over half of our women are not members of the Society, or 820 are not members of the Society, and not represented by the Magazine. We found forty-one non-members were taking the Magazine, and thirty-seven Magazines were being sent out of the stake.
When the chart is completely finished, it will tell us more. It will tell us how many Magazines are being sent as personal gifts to members in the ward by members of the ward. And here, we believe, is a fertile field to work in. We can do something about these 820 women who are not Relief Society minded.
Many of these women know very little about the Society or its work. As a friend, a neighbor, a relative, a visiting teacher, we can give the Magazine to these homes.
Each of us presenting a Magazine in one of these homes would produce a real showing. The chart reveals a great deal of Page 549 550 fine work on the part of the Magazine representatives and educational counselors. For instance, one new ward has a membership of 101, and a Magazine subscription count of ninety-six. This Magazine representative is sixty-seven years of age, but she has had splendid help from her husband, who writes out all of her reports and takes them to the office. In fact, all of the husbands of Magazine representatives in Wells Stake have co-operated splendidly. And we do thank them. One Magazine representative has a notebook, with the names and addresses of every Latter-day Saint woman in her ward, and needless to say, she knows her women. But, as she says, "I want to know them better." She doesn't have good health, but she uses the telephone, and also talks with her women wherever she meets them. Her achievement is one of the best, and her well-planned record is taking good care of the women in her ward. In two new wards, the visiting teachers and presidencies have made calls on all Latter-day Saint women.
This strengthens the cause of the Magazine, because it arouses enthusiasm among the women.
There are endless ways to attract attention to the Magazine the use of visual aids, the telephone, personal calls, casual meetings; but, more than anything else, is a careful
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE AUGUST 1947 check up of our women and a consistent following through, until, by our interviews, we have placed the Magazine in all our Latter-day Saint homes, Early this spring we recognized the value of visual aids. At a visiting teachers' convention each Magazine representative and educational counselor, working together, made a poster. We have placed these posters in our Relief Society rooms this summer, and this fall we will make new ones. Also, at this convention, we gave each woman a little book, in which about ten women had.
Stated their personal opinions of the Magazine. Over 200 women attended the convention. I might add that another exemplary way to attract attention to the Magazine is for mothers and grandmothers to occasionally have their daughters, or their nieces, read to them some bit from the Magazine. It would have a lasting influence, I shall welcome the day when Junior and Gleaner Girls will be introduced to The Relief Society Magazine by their mothers. Our goal in Wells Stake is to make the way a happy way for the receiving of the Magazine. We still have far to go, but we are getting a great pleasure out of promoting the Magazine. Oo OUR BABY Rose Thomas Graham Two starry-eyed forget-me-nots, Two petal-puckered lips; Ten pink coral beads for toes, Ten pearl-drop finger tips; This is the only kodak snap We've taken of the little chap. - August Coolers Sara Mills N our family we like company.
Maybe it's a heritage from pioneer days when anyone who passed the door, stranger or friend, was invited in. For such company _ and the kind I invite by penny postal card or telephone, I keep on hand a number of cooling drinks that I can quickly bring out from the refrigerator and cupboard.
They are not expensive as expenses go these days  and they are decidedly delicious. The grocery shelves are full of ingredients for making punch, sugar and all, ready to pour into glasses of ice water.
They do very well in a pinch, or when your children bring their neighborhood friends in for a party drink. As a foundation for homemade cooling drinks, I use lemon syrup.
With a covered jar of this syrup in the back of the refrigerator, you are ready for anyone.
Make this syrup by mixing the following ingredients together: LEMON SYRUP 2 cups lemon juice 1 cup sugar 4 tablespoons grated lemon peel You can combine this syrup with orange juice, pineapple juice, papaya juice (that one you must try), grape juice, or cherry juice. Do you know that the juice of those red pie cherries, picked in the back yard and bottled in your own kitchen, makes a drink that is superlative and entirely different? If you live where you can pick or buy a mango, peel it and force the pulp through a sieve. Use this pulp with water, the syrup, and orange juice. It is a drink to be remembered. The lemon syrup goes well, too, with all those pure juices and nectars on the grocer's shelves: apple juice, apricot nectar, peach, plum, and pear nectar. It is a good idea to keep a can or two of these juices chilled, ready for instant use. The flavor and sparkle of fruit drinks are improved by adding ginger ale or lime rickey. My party list includes the following drinks, made with ginger ale: 1/2  cup lemon juice 1 1/2 cups orange juice 3 cups cider 1/3 cup powdered sugar 3 cups ginger ale Mix together and add ice cubes This drink is good for winter parties, too. Don't forget that. If you care to add one cup of pineapple juice, it will improve the drink. 2 cups orange juice  1/2 cup lemon juice sugar to suit 1 pint ginger ale Mint garnish Squeeze and strain 1 cup lime juice.
Sweeten and pour into glasses partially filled with ice cubes.
Finish filling glasses with sparkling water or ginger ale. Page 551 552  1 1/2 cups chilled grape juice 2 cups chilled grapefruit juice Combine, and pour the mixture into glasses and fill with sparkling water, or ginger ale, if you prefer.
Grapefruit juice and ginger ale together also make a pleasant drink. If you can get a fresh pineapple, here is a punch worth serving: 1 fresh pineapple 3 limes or lemons 4 oranges 2 quarts pure apple juice 1 bottle of sparkling water First, cut the pineapple into small cubes. Mix the fresh pineapple juice with the lime or lemon juice and orange juice.
Sweeten and add the apple juice and bottle of sparkling water. The pineapple cubes can then be added. The combination makes any punch bowl proud. And now a grape juice drink: 4 cups grape juice 1/2 cup lime juice 1 cup orange juice 1 cup water Sugar to suit If you need a nourishing milk drink and want a new taste, you might try this one: 1 pint of Postum made with milk 1 pint vanilla ice cream Add vanilla ice cream to milk Postum and whip. Now, to quickly make something to go with the drinks! The first suggestion is good for everyone. If you
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE AUGUST 1947 haven't made it many times, I'm sure you have eaten it at the neighbors'. It's simply the familiar graham crackers pressed together with a sweet filling consisting of powdered sugar mixed with any number of things. The preferred mix, with children, anyway, contains chocolate. If] am going to use the crackers within a few hours, I add a little cream and powdered chocolate or cocoa to the sugar. For variation, I omit the chocolate and use vanilla and a drop of mint.
Orange juice, with a little of the orange rind, is good, too. You may use any jelly or jam you have on the shelf. The variations are many. Pop the filled crackers, covered, into the ice box, if you have the time before serving. If you don't want to serve sweet crackers, here is a mixture, even easier to make, to go on those round, crisp crackers: Combine: 1 glass sharp, spreading cheese 1 cup chopped toasted almonds, or any other chopped nuts For another quick treat, take a small square or wedge of creamed cheese and 2 tablespoons or so of crisp, crumbled bacon and about the same amount of chopped parsley. A few drops of Worcestershire sauce and a drop of Tobasco sauce help. For easier spreading, use a little milk. For something more substantial, use whole-wheat bread and peanut butter. To the peanut butter, add some chopped green peppers and cucumbers. As one hears over the radio: "It's delicious. It's nutritious!"