[Vol34 | August 1947 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Lesson | Title: How the Magazine Fortifies the Visiting Teacher Anna B. Hart]
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— AUGUST  1947 
Photograph  by  L.  C.  Thome 
VISITING  TEACHING  IN  A  BUGGY 
Sarah  Bartlett  Bingham  and  Evelyn  B.  Richardson  of  Vernal,  Utah,  ready  for  a 
trip  in  a  buggy. 
the  unfinished  knitting  of  much-needed 
stockings.  Sometimes,  we  would  return 
in  the  evening  and  sit  up  with  the  sick 
and  at  Christmas  time  we  would  see  that 
each  family  had  something  special  for 
their  holiday  cheer. 
When  the  people  made  grain  do- 
nations and  contributions  of  like  na- 
ture, the  teachers  would  have  to 
gather  them  by  team  and  wagon.  At 
a  later  period  most  of  the  contribu- 
tions consisted  of  money. 
In  the  colonizing  of  the  various 
valleys  of  the  Far  West,  small  settle- 
ments were  established,  but  still 
there  were  isolated  families  to  be  vis- 
ited. In  the  early  period  of  coloniza- 
tion wagons  were  used  to  take  the 
sisters  on  their  visits.  Many  times 
this  would  necessitate  the  removal  of 
the  team  for  the  entire  day  from  the 
planting  and  harvesting.  As  noon- 
time approached,  these  women 
would  be  asked  to  dinner  in  one  of 
the  homes. 
ONE  elderly  sister,  who  is  now 
nearing  her  ninetieth  birthday, 
lived  during  her  early  married  life  in 
a  farming  community  of  scattered 
homes.  On  four  different  occasions 
as  she  and  her  companion  went  in  a 
wagon  to  do  their  visiting  teaching, 
she  was  called  upon  to  assist  at  the 
birth  of  a  baby.  The  words  of  Lucy 
Smith,  the  mother  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph,  at  the  second  meeting  of  the 
Relief  Society,  could  not  have  been 
more  literally  lived:  "We  must  cher- 
ish one  another,  comfort  one  an- 
other, and  watch  over  one  another." 
As  time  went  on  and  people  be- 
came more  prosperous,  the  wagons 
used  for  visiting  teaching  were  re- 
placed by  buggies.  Two  teachers 
who  used  a  one-horse,  light  buggy  to 
travel  over  their  district  in  a  scat- 
tered vicinity  took  with  them  their 
nursing  babies,  whom  they  carried 
with  them  into  the  homes.  At  one 
home  they  visited  they  decided  the

WHERE  THERE'S  A  WILL 
509 
next  home  would  be  reached  quicker 
by  walking  through  the  fields.  As 
both  of  their  babies  were  fast  asleep 
they  asked  young  Mrs.  M   , 
who  also  had  a  sleeping  baby,  if  she 
would  mind  if  they  left  their  babies 
there  with  her  while  they  made  their 
next  visit.  This  was  agreed  upon  and 
the  teachers  started  out.  However, 
they  had  not  gone  far  before  they 
heard  Mrs.  M   calling  in  a 
loud  voice,  "Come  quickly,  all  three 
babies  are  awake!" 
Wintertime  brought  hazards  to 
those  who  traveled  long  distances  to 
visit.  Many  times  the  teachers  would 
start  out  in  good  weather  only  to 
find  themselves  in  a  sudden  severe 
snowstorm  far  from  home.  Although 
they  sometimes  suffered  from  the 
extreme  cold  and  many  times  ar- 
rived home  hours  late,  still  they  were 
protected  and  none  lost  her  life.  In 
midwinter,  when  the  snow  was  heavy 
on  the  ground,  they  hitched  their 
teams  to  bobsleighs  and  thus  cov- 
ered their  districts.  In  one  commun- 
ity a  team  of  mules  was  often  used 
on  a  wagon  in  good  weather  and  on 
a  sleigh  in  the  winter. 
In  many  communities  the  women 
went  horseback  to  do  their  teaching. 
A  woman  now  in  her  eighties  re- 
lates that  she  and  a  companion,  both 
at  the  age  of  nineteen,  were  chosen 
to  be  teachers  in  a  little  Latter-day 
Saint  settlement.  They  rode  horse- 
back to  do  their  teaching  in  the 
ward,  comprising  twelve  families 
who  lived  up  and  down  a  creek  for 
a  distance  of  five  miles. 
Women  still  travel  by  horseback. 
In  one  of  the  northern  states,  where 
the  snow  lies  some  sixty  inches  deep 
in  the  winter,  a  mother  and  her 
daughter,  during  the  bad  weather, 
travel  in  this  manner  because  they 
can  cover  more  territory  in  less  time. 
Photograph,  Courtesy  Muriel  IS.  Wailis