[Vol34 | August 1947 | Sequence: 34 | Category: Article | Title: The Place Oliver K. Meservy]
524  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— AUGUST  1947 
hearts  of  these  people.    One  could  The  Latter-day  Saint  people  of  the 
not  visit  with  the  saints  of  the  Cen-  Hawaiian  Islands    are    looking  for- 
tral  Pacific  Mission  without  realiz-  ward    to    observing    in    July    the 
ing  that  this  small  but  growing  mis-  Centennial    of    the   arrival   of   the 
sion  is  full  of  great  promise.  Mormon  pioneers  in  the  Salt  Lake 
A  social  function  which  we  shall  Valley.    The  gospel  is  very  dear  to 
long  remember  was  the  "sukiyaki"  these  people.  Even  though  they  live 
dinner  served  at  the  mission  home  on  these  faraway  islands,  the  story 
by  the  sisters  of  the  Central  Pacific  of  the  westward  trek  of  the  pioneers 
Mission.    A  large  group  was  in  at-  and  the  establishment  of   Church 
tendance  including  missionaries  and  headquarters  in  the  Valley  of    the 
many  members  of  the  Oahu  Stake.  Great  Salt  Lake  is  the  history  of  their 
Gay  in  Japanese  kimonos  and  obis,  brothers  and  sisters  who  pioneered 
with  hibiscus  in  our  hair,  we  sat  on  that  the  Church   which  they  love 
cushions  on  the  floor  at  low  tables  might  become  mighty  in  the  midst 
and  were  served  delicious  Japanese  of  the  Rocky  Mountains  and  expand 
food  which  we  saw  cooked  on  the  its  borders  to  the  far  corners  of  the 
iron  kettles  before  us.  earth;  that  this  gospel  which  was 
We  enjoyed  many  delightful  so-  taken  to  the  Hawaiian  Islands  near- 
cial  functions  during  our  visit.  Space  ly  one  hundred  years  ago  might  be 
does  not  allow  us  to  mention  all.  carried  to  the  honest  in  heart  every- 
However,  a  report  of  our  trip  would  where;  that  the  lives  of  people  might 
be  incomplete  without  reference  to  be  sweet  and  pure;  that  they  shall 
the  luau,  the  Hawaiian  feast,  given  hunger  not,  neither  thirst, 
by  the  Oahu  Stake  Board  at  the  This  trip  to  the  Islands  has  further 
home  of  Counselor  Mary  Taylor,  demonstrated  to  me  the  strength 
which  gave  us  opportunity  to  taste  of  Relief  Society  leadership  and 
foods  prepared  as  only  the  Hawaiians  the  devotion  of  Relief  Society  worn- 
can  prepare  them,  and  to  wear  our  en  to  the  great  work  of  the  So- 
gorgeous  silk  holokus.  Two  of  these  ciety;  my  testimony  of  the  divine  in- 
lovely  gowns,  made  by  Relief  Society  spiration  which  directed  the  Proph- 
sisters  from  patterns  drafted  by  them  et  Joseph  Smith  when  he  founded 
were  presented  to  us.  We  shall  this  Society  has  been  strengthened, 
always  prize  these  gowns  because  and  my  knowledge  of  the  truth  of 
they  represent  the  workmanship  and  the  restored  gospel  has  been  made 
love  of  our  sisters  of  Oahu.  more  sure.