[Vol34 | August 1947 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: Womans Cannon]

.How pure should be all the principles taught and the examples set for our little ones Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon N India today women of many political and religious faiths, uniting in the All-India Women's Conference, are working for: a minimum marriage age of sixteen for girls; elimination of religious or caste restrictions on marriage; the right of women to own and inherit property; the abolition of the dowry system, of polygamy, and of the custom of purdah which keeps women indoors and veiled from all male eyes except those of members of the family.
Prominent in the movement are Mrs. Vijayalakshmi Pandit, sister of Jawaharlal Nehru and Hindu leader of the Indian delegation to the U. N., and many other highly trained women, among them doctors and lawyers.
Most of the 30,000 women of the organization are Western educated. MISS FLORENCE ADAMS, a 1944 graduate of the Brigham Young University, is with the Public Relations Office, GHQ-FEC, in Tokio, Japan, -in the radio and pictorial section. Her radio interviews with service men are released in their home towns. She has assisted in a broadcast, "English Conversation," which teaches English to the Japanese listening public. The program has inspired the largest fan mail in Japanese radio history. In answer to one month's work, Miss Adams, herself, received more than 1000 letters. FIVE daughters of Isaac Van Wagoner Carling, Utah pioneer, still live, their ages ranging from eighty to ninety-two years.
They are: Sarah Elizabeth Carling Webb of Mesa, Arizona; Ellen Elvira Carling Chamberlain of Glendale, Utah; Catherine Aurelia Carling Porter of Salt Lake City; Lydia May Carling Covington Lang of Orem, Utah; and Martha Jane Carling Webb Porter of Blackfoot, Idaho. As young women, these sisters lived in the United Order.
They have been temple workers, have held positions of responsibility in the Church, and are progenitors of many prominent leaders in Church and State.
Charming and most versatile young woman is Senorita Octava Barcia, instructor in Spanish at the University of Utah. She plays the piano, sings, writes poetry, paints, composes music. At seventeen she was graduated from a university in her native Buenos Aires. Later, she taught poetry writing to children from eight to ten years of age, and music and art to tubercular children in government-operated schools. A volume of her poems is being published in Buenos Aires this summer.