[Vol34 | August 1947 | Sequence: 29 | Category: Article | Title: Where There's a Will: Ethel Colton Smith, New Member of the General Board President Belle S. Spafford]
A  VISIT  TO  THE  HAWAIIAN  ISLANDS 
523 
which  excellent  talks  were  given  by 
Relief  Society  sisters.  These  talks 
revealed  the  fine  insight  of  these 
young  Japanese  women  into  the 
great  purposes  of  Relief  Society,  as 
well  as  their  deep  appreciation  for 
all  that  the  organization  offers  them. 
The  regular  Fast  Day  service 
which  followed  the  Relief  Society 
conference  was  a  rich,  spiritual  ex- 
perience. Missionaries  and  Latter- 
day  Saint  servicemen  in  attendance 
bore  strong  testimonies  of  the  truth 
of  the  restored  gospel.  I  could  not 
help  but  feel  how  comforted    the 
mothers  of  these  young  people 
would  be  could  they  have  heard 
them  bear  their  testimonies  that  day. 
A  young  Japanese  missionary  girl  re- 
ceived her  honorable  release  from 
missionary  service.  Her  Buddhist 
parents  were  on  the  stand  and,  al- 
though they  had  not  accepted  the 
belief  to  which  she  was  giving  her 
full  devotion,  their  love  for  her  and 
their  pride  in  her  work  were  plainly 
evident.  The  testimonies  of  the 
members  of  the  mission  were  im- 
pressive, showing  the  deep  convic- 
tion of  the  truth  of  the  gospel  in  the 
OAHU  STAKE  RELIEF  SOCIETY  BOARD  ENTERTAINS  GENERAL  BOARD 
MEMBERS  AT  HONOLULU,  May  6,  1947 
Front  row  seated,  left  to  right:  President  Belle  S.  Spafford;  Sai  Lang  Aid,  First 
Counselor,  Oahu  Stake  Relief  Society;  Mary  Tyau,  President  Oahu  Stake  Relief  Society; 
Mary  Taylor,  Second  Counselor,  Oahu  Stake  Relief  Society;  Velma  N.  Simonsen,  mem- 
ber of  the  General  Board. 
Standing,  left  to  right:  Helen  Ellis;  Kamaile  Kauhini;  Emma  Mossman;  Rachel 
Wakefield;  Georgia  H.  Weenig,  President,  Central  Pacific  Mission  Relief  Society;  Irene 
K.  Peters;  Rose  Smith;  Romania  Hyde  Woolley,  wife  of  Ralph  E.  Woolley,  Presi- 
dent, Oahu  Stake;  Julia  Doyle.

524  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— AUGUST  1947 
hearts  of  these  people.    One  could  The  Latter-day  Saint  people  of  the 
not  visit  with  the  saints  of  the  Cen-  Hawaiian  Islands    are    looking  for- 
tral  Pacific  Mission  without  realiz-  ward    to    observing    in    July    the 
ing  that  this  small  but  growing  mis-  Centennial    of    the   arrival   of   the 
sion  is  full  of  great  promise.  Mormon  pioneers  in  the  Salt  Lake 
A  social  function  which  we  shall  Valley.    The  gospel  is  very  dear  to 
long  remember  was  the  "sukiyaki"  these  people.  Even  though  they  live 
dinner  served  at  the  mission  home  on  these  faraway  islands,  the  story 
by  the  sisters  of  the  Central  Pacific  of  the  westward  trek  of  the  pioneers 
Mission.    A  large  group  was  in  at-  and  the  establishment  of   Church 
tendance  including  missionaries  and  headquarters  in  the  Valley  of    the 
many  members  of  the  Oahu  Stake.  Great  Salt  Lake  is  the  history  of  their 
Gay  in  Japanese  kimonos  and  obis,  brothers  and  sisters  who  pioneered 
with  hibiscus  in  our  hair,  we  sat  on  that  the  Church   which  they  love 
cushions  on  the  floor  at  low  tables  might  become  mighty  in  the  midst 
and  were  served  delicious  Japanese  of  the  Rocky  Mountains  and  expand 
food  which  we  saw  cooked  on  the  its  borders  to  the  far  corners  of  the 
iron  kettles  before  us.  earth;  that  this  gospel  which  was 
We  enjoyed  many  delightful  so-  taken  to  the  Hawaiian  Islands  near- 
cial  functions  during  our  visit.  Space  ly  one  hundred  years  ago  might  be 
does  not  allow  us  to  mention  all.  carried  to  the  honest  in  heart  every- 
However,  a  report  of  our  trip  would  where;  that  the  lives  of  people  might 
be  incomplete  without  reference  to  be  sweet  and  pure;  that  they  shall 
the  luau,  the  Hawaiian  feast,  given  hunger  not,  neither  thirst, 
by  the  Oahu  Stake  Board  at  the  This  trip  to  the  Islands  has  further 
home  of  Counselor  Mary  Taylor,  demonstrated  to  me  the  strength 
which  gave  us  opportunity  to  taste  of  Relief  Society  leadership  and 
foods  prepared  as  only  the  Hawaiians  the  devotion  of  Relief  Society  worn- 
can  prepare  them,  and  to  wear  our  en  to  the  great  work  of  the  So- 
gorgeous  silk  holokus.  Two  of  these  ciety;  my  testimony  of  the  divine  in- 
lovely  gowns,  made  by  Relief  Society  spiration  which  directed  the  Proph- 
sisters  from  patterns  drafted  by  them  et  Joseph  Smith  when  he  founded 
were  presented  to  us.  We  shall  this  Society  has  been  strengthened, 
always  prize  these  gowns  because  and  my  knowledge  of  the  truth  of 
they  represent  the  workmanship  and  the  restored  gospel  has  been  made 
love  of  our  sisters  of  Oahu.  more  sure. 
EVENING 
Oliver  K.  Meservy 
When,  from  the  crowding  work  of  day, 
At  twilight  I  am  free, 
I  love  to  walk  among  the  trees 
And  with  my  Maker  be. 
And  then  my  soul,  in  gratitude, 
Offers  up  a  prayer; 
In  the  glory  of  the  woodland, 
I  feel  God's  presence  there.