[Vol34 | August 1947 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Article | Title: Work Meeting Sewing Committee]

And let the LESSON DEPARTMENT Work Meeting Sewing (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Work Meeting Committee, Leone G. Layton, Chairman Preview of Lessons for 1947-48 HE optional sewing course was introduced into Relief Society work meeting in 1946-47 in order to give to women who so desired opportunity to learn, under helpful supervision, the fundamentals of sewing. The General Board has been delighted with the accomplishments of the stakes and wards which have followed the recommended course.
Women who had never before made clothing have learned to sew and many, more experienced sewers, have been enabled to add to their sewing skill by learning short cuts and new methods.
Many homes have been benefited by this learning, and many children have taken pride in wearing the workmanship of 'their mothers' hands. In view of the success and interest shown in the course, and because of a continued need, the General Board feels it advisable to outline a course for 1947-48.
There are still many women in the Church who are unable to do their own home sewing and would welcome opportunity to learn. We urge those wards which have not, as yet, organized a sewing class to make every effort to do so. We feel that in addition to the benefit derived by the individual, there is benefit to the Society as well, in that the more women who become interested in sewing and acquire sewing skill, the more will be willing and able to help Relief Society fill its sewing requirements. The course is, however, for optional use by the wards and should in no way interfere with the necessary Welfare or Relief Society sewing. The course, as outlined for 1947- 48, will introduce material of proven benefit to women and will be suitable for classes just beginning, as well as provide additional instruction for more advanced sewers. It is the desire of the General Board that Latter-day Saint women learn to use those touches which make a garment look "not homemade but handmade." The same textbook may be used as was recommended for 1946-47, The Complete Book of Sewing. In addition to this text, many fine and helpful articles may be found in pamphlets published by the various pattern companies and in current household magazines.
Eight lessons will be published in The Relief Society Magazine, from August through March. A ward which desires to do so may substitute a fashion show in place of one of the lessons. The titles for the lessons are: Lesson 1. '"Musts'" for Success in Sewing Lesson 2.
Choosing a Pattern Suiting the pattern to the figure and the material.
Lesson 3.
Altering a Pattern to Suit Figure Types Enlarging or reducing to suit figure peculiarities, Instruction on how to put a sleeve in an armhole, and on how to Suit the type of pad to the garment, Lesson 5. Bias Cutting and Joining, Commonly used Plackets for adults Cording, ang Facing Garments, Proper method of using bias for finishing, Lesson 6
Fitted Facings Learning to cut facings to properly finish faced edgings.
Lesson 7. Plackets Commonly used plackets for adults’ and children’s garments Lesson 8: Make Over Suggestions Lesson 1— "Musts" for Success in Sewing Jean Ridges Jennings EWERY woman who does her own sewing, whether she is a beginner or has had much experience, hopes to have her finished garment look as professional as possible. Many times her success or failure hinges on the little things, the details that are thoughtlessly slighted or unknowingly overlooked. Our aim in this lesson is to call attention to some points that are at all times important, but frequently neglected. One of the first really important things to watch is the color of the thread. Be sure that it matches the material exactly after it is sewed. Thread stitches up lighter than it appears on the spool. A good rule to follow is to match the color of the highlight on the spool to the goods. Use fine pins and needles to avoid making marks in the cloth while working on it. The less a garment is handled in the making, the better it will look when completed. Repeated stitching and picking out to remedy mistakes give the cloth a worked-over look that detracts from its newness. So get the habit of basting well and freely to make sure machine stitching will be right before it is used. Then remove bastings in short pieces by cutting them at frequent intervals. Pressing is all important. Be sure to press as you go. Follow the rule of never sewing over an unpressed seam. But before using the iron on a garment always make a test on a sample of material to determine what method of pressing is best. Many fabrics are injured by improper pressing. Most fabrics cannot be ironed directly. Many times moisture is harmful. Materials with a nap are more successfully pressed with two cloths, one dry, next to the material, one moist, over the dry. In some cases merely steaming with a moist cloth lightly touched by a hot iron is best. Make a test on the fabric with different methods and determine which is most satisfactory. Above all, avoid overpressing which gives a flat, shiny look. Strive for absolute* accuracy in all work. Follow pattern markings exactly so that pieces fit together in their proper proportion. Make a habit of always stitching out the full seam allowance on all seams, unless making allowance for fit. This cannot be stressed too much, because many garments are thrown completely out of line by deviating from the amount taken in at the seams.
LESSON DEPARTMENT 567
Keep the garment hung on a clothes hanger at all times, and not just folded up. This saves repeated pressings, which take time and are hard on materials. Press as you go, and keep your dress properly hung, and it will always be pressed. Remember there are two kinds of
trouble—the trouble you take and the trouble you make. Have one, and avoid the other. Organize your work well in the beginning. Do all steps in their proper order. Take infinite pains. Remember—If it's worth doing at all it's worth doing well.
Literature—Literature of the Doctrine and Covenants
Elder H. Wayne Driggs
Lesson 2—Literary Values of the Doctrine and Covenants For Tuesday, November 18, 1947
Objective: To appreciate the Doctrine and Covenants as literature through a discussion of the elements of truth and beauty it contains.
ONE of the great lyric poets, John Keats, who died at twenty-six, left the world this immortal line, "A thing of beauty is a joy forever." The oft-quoted Keats must have sensed his early death, for in his writings are found many hints of his love for life and many fears for its uncertainty. To compensate for worldly insecurities he wrote of steadfast stars, of autumn's constant hush, of night birds' returning songs. In his Ode on a Grecian Urn, one senses the comfort he must have gained from knowing that such a work of art was not soon touched by time's on-moving hand, and that though the figures engraved upon its polished clay could never move, yet, always, as if true, they would remain forever beautiful.
Along with the truths which great literature propounds, may, also, be found the beauty that lives in their discovery. So it is with scripture. For its full appreciation a reader must gain more than mere mastery of its mechanics of language, or of the creative power which directs the
writing of lines, an immortal power which gives them immortal cast. Only in this way can the full joy of truth and beauty be known.
To the student of scripture there comes the double assignment. He must be enlightened with the doctrine of truth and to appreciate more fully its message to the heart, as well as the mind, he must know something of the form in which thoughts are expressed.
Our most modern scripture as understood by Latter-day Saints today is the Doctrine and Covenants. Within its inspired sections may be found the same power of literary excellence that characterizes the scriptures of old. One need not look far within its pages before he finds the marks of literary form which, if studied and understood even but briefly, will add to one's appreciation of its truth and beauty.
Let us, then, as students of literary values to be found in the Doctrine and Covenants, seek out a few of most characteristic marks for our study. We need to know a few 568 of the signposts that point the way. In good literary form may be found such things as economy of words, effective choice of words, and the forceful use of words in sentence patterns. To understand these values in scriptural reading is truly to read literature, rather than merely to read about it. For illustration consider the following oft-quoted selections from the Doctrine and Covenants in the light of the elements of good literary form just mentioned. Let us first consider word economy. And now, after the many testimonies which have been given of him, this is the testimony, last of all, which we give of him: That he lives! For we saw him, even on the right hand of God; and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the Only Begotten of the Father That by him and through him and of him, the worlds are and were created; and the inhabitants thereof are begotten sons and daughters unto God (76:22-24).
Note the placement of the italicized phrases in the sentence.
They are thrown ahead of a main thought which follows. A reversal of order would demand more words and lessen the effectiveness of the sentence pattern.
Another example of word economy: Remember the worth" of souls is great in the sight of God; For, behold, the Lord your Redeemer suffered death in the flesh; wherefore he suffered the pain of all men, that all men might repent and come unto him (18:10, 11). If the italicized phrases were to read as many writers would pen it, it would be as follows: "The Lord who is your Redeemer," etc. In the following excerpt note the word choice.
Catch the force of the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE -AUGUST 1947 italicized words which are struck with cutting edges: How long can rolling waters remain impure?
What power shall stay the heavens? As well might man stretch forth his puny arm to stop the Missouri river in_ its decreed course, or to turn it up stream, as to hinder the Almighty from pouring down knowledge from heaven upon the heads of the Latter-day Saints (121:33). In the quotation below regard the force of sentence pattern.
Note especially the skill with which the words of significant meaning are set at the beginning and ending of the sentence, thus keeping a balance of thought well knit within.