[Vol34 | August 1947 | Sequence: 35 | Category: Article | Title: Our Baby Grace Sayre]
Grace  Sayre 
Bless  his  happy,  little  heart! 
His  breakfast  spoon  held  in  mid-air, 
He  aims  his  porridge  at  his  mouth, 
But  lands  it  in  his  hair!

A  Place  in  the  Country 
IV_THE  CHICKENS 
Ruby  Scran  ton  /ones 
[This  is  the  fourth  in  a  series  of  five  short-short  stories. — Ed.] 
WHEN  the  dishes  were  done,  hens  scattered,  cackling,  all  over  the 
Ellen    Martin    brought    a  place. 
basket  of  apricots  from  the  "Tie  'Curtains'  up,  Betty,"  Ellen 
root  cellar  and  sat  down  by  the  open  called  as  she  ran  after  the  hens  and 
kitchen  window  to  pit  them.    It  was  shooed  them  back  towards  their  pen 
so  wonderful,  she  thought,  to  have  with  her  apron, 
your  own  fruit  to  put  up.  It  had  been  When  they  had  first  let  the  hens 
too  expensive  in  the  city  and,  any-  out  of  the  crate,  the  same  thing  had 
way,  there  had  been  no  place  in  the  happened.     It  was  then  that  John 
apartment  to  keep  bottled  fruit.  This  had  given  the  puppy  his  name.    He 
winter  the  children   were  going   to  had  picked  him  up  and  said,  "Here, 
have  all  they  could  eat.  'Curtains,'  let  them  alone.  They  have 
Just  then  Betty  came  in  to  ask,  just  as  much  right  here  as  you  have, 
"There's  no  more  wheat,  Mother,  even  if  they  didn't  cost  so  much." 
what  shall  I  feed  the  chickens?"  The   children   had  laughed    and 
"Are  you  sure?"  Ellen  asked  in  danced  around  their  father  and  the 
surprise.  "Daddy  said  he  brought  puppy  saying,  "  'Curtains!'  'Cur- 
enough  for  a  week  and  we've  had  tains!'  Let  me  have  'Curtains,'  "  and 
them  only  five  days."  that  had  been  his  name  ever  since. 
She  put  aside  the  apricots  and  hur-  Ellen  stood  watching  the  hens  for 
ried  to  the  garage  with  Betty.  The  awhile.  They  seemed  busy  and  con- 
sack  was  empty.  tented,  so  she  said  to  Betty,  "You 
"We    must    have    been    feeding  and  Johnny  stay  here  in  the  shade 
them  too  much,"  she  decided.  "Dad-  and  watch  them.     I  must  get  back 
dy  will  have  to  get  more  feed  tomor-  to  work." 
row,  but  what  can  we  give  them  to-  The  fire  in  the  range  had  gone 
day?"     She  looked  around.    There  out  so  Ellen  made  it  up  again  and 
was  fruit  under  every  tree  and  every  put  the  jars  in  a  kettle  to  boil.  The 
step  she  took  disturbed  swarms    of  heat  was  soon  almost  unbearable  in 
grasshoppers.  the  little  kitchen,  so  she  moved  her 
"I  know,"  she  said,  "we'll  let  them  chair  between  the  door  and  window 
out.    They  must  know  their  home  to  get  any  little  breeze  there  was. 
by  this  time.    The  lazy  things  can  Once  she    looked    out.     The  hens 
get  their  own  food."     She  opened  were  still  eating  and  the  children 
the  run  gate,  and  the  eight  hens  were  sitting  under  the  tree, 
filed  out.  She  began  to  wonder  if  she  had 
Johnny  and  the  puppy  came  run-  been  wise  to  ask  John  to  get  the 
ning  from  around  the  house,  and  the  hens.     They  had  cost  him  almost 
Page  544

A  PLACE  IN  THE  COUNTRY 
545 
two  days'  work  and  grain  was  expen- 
sive. She  had  hoped  to  save  buying 
eggs  and  maybe  have  some  eggs  to 
sell.  So  far  the  eight  hens  had  aver- 
aged six  eggs  a  day.  If  each  of  the 
family  ate  one  a  day  and  she  made 
one  cake  a  week,  there  would  be  only 
a  dozen  to  sell.  That  would  hardly 
pay  for  their  feed. 
She  took  the  jars  out  of  the  boiling 
water  and  put  them  on  a  wet  cloth 
on  the  table.  Then  she  filled  the 
stove  with  coal  and  put  the  apricots 
on  to  cook.  As  she  measured  out  the 
sugar  she  began  to  worry  about  the 
first  monthly  payment  due  in  ten 
days.  She  had  barely  half  enough  in 
the  candy  box  behind  the  mush  car- 
tons. She  would  have  to  convince 
John  that  she  could  pick  all  the 
fruit  herself.  He  seemed  to  have  no 
trouble  finding  jobs  and  if  he  worked 
every  day  they  might  get  enough. 
CHE  was  startled  out  of  her  mus- 
ing by  a  loud  cackling  and  shout- 
ing. She  ran  to  the  door  and  saw 
the  half-grown  Hawkins  boy  driving 
the  hens  towards  home.  They  were 
running  first  one  way  and  then  an- 
other, and  flying  over  bushes.  The 
children  came  from  the  far  end  of 
the  orchard  and  tried  to  help.  She 
went  out  and,  together,  they  finally 
got  them  shut  in  the  run. 
The  boy's  face  was  red  and  he  was 
plainly  mad.  "Your  old  hens  ate  our 
lettuce.  They  pecked  at  our  cab- 
bage," he  panted.  "They've  about 
ruined  the  whole  garden.  Pa  says 
don't  you  know  there's  a  law?" 
"Law?"  Ellen  asked  in  wonder. 
"You  mean  I  can't  turn  them  out?" 
"Of  course  not— not  in  summer, 
anyway." 
"I  thought  they'd  stay  home,"  El- 
len answered  apologetically,  wiping 
her  face  with  her  apron.  "I  thought 
they'd  like  the  grasshoppers." 
"Hens  never  stay  home.  They 
don't  have  any  sense."  He  turned 
away  then,  and  was  soon  crawling 
under  the  wire  fence. 
"You  should  have  stayed,"  was  all 
she  said  to  the  children. 
She  walked  slowly  back  to  the 
house.  Now  she  knew  the  chickens 
weren't  such  a  good  idea.  Everything 
she  did  seemed  to  be  wrong.  She  was 
just  too  ignorant  to  live  on  a  farm. 
A  peculiar  smell  was  coming  from 
the  kitchen.  She  hurried  in  and 
found  that  the  apricots  had  boiled 
over  and  burned  on  the  stove,  filling 
the  room  with  smoke.  She  grabbed 
a  spoon  to  stir  the  jam  and  found  it 
burned  to  the  bottom  of  the  kettle. 
That  was  too  much.  She  sat  down, 
put  her  head  on  the  table,  and  cried, 
Thus'  John  found  her  when  he 
came  home  for  lunch.  "Now,  now," 
he  comforted,  lifting  the  burned  ket- 
tle from  the  stove  and  carrying  it  out- 
side. "Nothing  can  be  that  bad." 
Ellen  raised  her  head  and  tear- 
fully told  her  story.  "The  neighbors 
will  never  like  me  now,"  she  sobbed. 
"They'll  think  I  don't  have  any 
more  sense  than  the  chickens." 
"Don't  worry  about  that,"  John 
consoled,  patting  her  shoulder.  "I'll 
go  over  and  pay  for  the  damage.  I'll 
fix  it  up  while  you  wash  your  face. 
And  do  come  out  in  the  yard  and 
cool  off." 
A  half  hour  later  when  John  re- 
turned, Ellen  had  washed  and 
combed  her  hair  and  put  on  a  clean 
apron.  She  was  scraping  the  stove. 
"How  much?"  she  asked. 
"Only  three  dollars,"  he  said,  start- 
ing to  make  the  fire.  "I  told  him  you 
just  couldn't  bear  to  have  anything