[Vol34 | August 1947 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Editorial | Title: Make Home a Garff]

Page 535
Editorial 
Vol. 34
August 1947 No. 8 HPHROUGH this past year we have heard a great deal about the fine virtues and wonderful accomplishments of the pioneer forefathers. Not least among their accomplishments were the pleasant places the mothers made of those early log cabins. Their homes were first and foremost kept very clean; secondly, they used the materials they had at hand to beautify and make comfortable their homes. There were no shops from which to buy, even if they had had money. Braided and woven rag rugs made the bare floors both warm and cheerful. The cherished pieces of furniture which did not have to be discarded on the journey westward were kept polished and occupied the choicest positions in the rooms. Frequently, a bouquet of sego lilies adorned the one and only table in the room. The wife and mother of today has many advantages over her pioneer ancestor, for the shops and products that offer ways and means of beautifying our homes are varied enough to suit most pocketbooks. There are books and periodicals that furnish one with ideas that not only use new materials, but show how to use and make the best of what one has
on hand. Many feel that while the children are young it is not worthwhile to Page 536 beautify a home. However, this is the age when beauty and practicality go hand in hand, and many floor coverings and wall finishes resist wear and tear, and are easily kept in good condition. Children respond to beauty and cleanliness like flowers to the sun. They soon learn to respect and take pride in helping keep home a lovely place. At the same time, a pleasant environment will give the child standards that will help him or her all through life. The average homemaker who would like to beautify her home with good taste will use restraint in decorating and choosing the furnishings. No matter how elegant the furniture and draperies or how expensive the wallpaper, if a home is not neat and clean it is not truly beautiful. There is an interesting old fairy tale about the three sisters who kept the world beautiful. These sisters were March, April, and May. March was the sister who swept all the dirt and ugliness away. April washed everything clean so that May could  come after to polish and shine the earth to a dazzling loveliness. While considering how to make home attractive, remember the three sisters and use their methods along with the decorators' touches, and home will indeed become a pleasant place. G. R. G.