[Vol41 | July 1954 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Fiction | Title: Work | Author: Gardner]
[Work Meeting Home Safety Rhea H. Gardner]
476 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JULY  1954 
Photograph   submitted  by   Cleona   W.    Hedenstrom 
OGDEN  STAKE   (UTAH),  OGDEN  FOURTH  WARD  WORK  MEETING 
FEATURES  "COVERALL"  APRONS  March  9,  1954 
Front  row,  seated,  left  to  right:  Cleona  Hedenstrom,  President,  Ogden  Stake  Relief 
Society;  Mae  Child,  Secretary,  Ogden  Fourth  Ward  Relief  Society;  Amy  Vowles,  Coun- 
selor; Ella  Stratford,  President;  Violet  Perkins,  Counselor;  Kate  Couch;  Aurilla  Folkman, 
work  meeting  leader;  Margaret  Mumford,  quilting  chairman. 
Second  row,  standing,  left  to  right:  Edna  Tribe,  Counselor,  Ogden  Stake  Relief 
Society;  Vivian  Carlson,  work  meeting  leader,  Ogden  Stake  Rehef  Society;  Ethel  Lewis; 
Ella  Crandall;  Mary  Colvell;  Ethel  Hatton;  Crystal  Watkins;  Lora  Wright;  Alice  Sip- 
herd;  Luella  Mann;  Martha  Rampton;  Margaret  Dearden;  Ireta  Watkins;  Echo  Berg; 
Viola  Woolley;  Zena  Gardner;  Virginia  Tribe;  Alberta  Greenhalgh. 
Cleona  W.  Hedenstrom  reports  the  success  of  this  unique  apron  project:  "Sister 
Stratford  had  a  large  coverall  apron  which  many  of  the  sisters  liked.  The  pattern 
was  one  which  needed  to  be  sized  to  the  individual,  so  we  asked  all  those  sisters  who 
wished  to  make  this  apron  to  bring  their  material  to  the  February  work  meeting.  There 
a  pattern  was  cut  to  fit  each  sister,  and  each  was  assisted  in  cutting  out  her  apron. 
As  many  as  could,  sewed  their  aprons  on  the  Relief  Society  machines.  While  waiting 
to  be  helped,  some  of  the  sisters  quilted  on  a  baby  quilt,  crocheted,  or  embroidered. 
During  the  day  sixteen  patterns  and  fifteen  aprons  were  cut  out.  Several  patterns  and 
aprons  were  cut  out  later,  and  the  sisters  urged  to  finish  their  aprons  and  wear  them 
to  work  meeting,  March  9,  1954.  At  the  luncheon  served  at  noon  we  honored  Sister 
Kate  Couch,  who  was  eighty  years  old  in  March." 
(jtands 
Alice  R.  J^ch 
Like  moon-etched  dusky  shadows,  deep  toil  marks  intertwine 
Across  her  hands,  blue-veined  and  worn,  and  chart  a  pioneer  line.