[Vol41 | July 1954 | Sequence: 00 | Category: Article | Title: V41_07_00_BOARD]
This story has lifted me to higher realms. I am a better man for having read it. (My wife has noted some improvement and is wondering why.) Seldom, if ever, have I read a story in which I've waited so impatiently for the next installment, yet while waiting have had a delicious morsel to think about. 'Thanks to the editor and the author, Alice Morrey Bailey. —J. Sedley Stanford Logan, Utah It was thrilling to open The Relief Society Magazine today and read the article "The Birth of a Heritage — The Gospel in England" (May 1954). As a former Prestonian, it brought back many memories of the town of my birth.
Editor - - - - = = - - - - - rianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - Meow P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford

THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY AT THE EXCAVATION FOR THE SUBBASEMENT OF THE NEW RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING February 10, 1954 Standing in the foreground at the right, left to right: Counselor Marianne C. Sharp; President Belle S. Spafford; Counselor Velma N. Simonsen. The women are facing southwest towards the temple. The building in the right background is the Joseph F. Smith Memorial Building, and in the left background may be seen establishments on the north side of North Temple Street. Bs * 5 if: 8 4 pve GRO +, ° Ct oo » BES. I Vie rable OE RE i he eS oO 89 TIE BRN OS OR * "f dd i. Sid hoe Pad fan, ee re 2 es er ~ oma es a le i Bot a tds Hal Rumel SOUTH END OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING SITE Looking southwest towards the temple on Main Street, between North Temple Street and South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. The two white stakes mark the southeast and southwest corners of the building. Page 423 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1954 Hal Rumel BEGINNING OF CONSTRUCTION OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING February 16, 1954 The placement of the first forms for the concrete walls of the subbasement may be seen at the left (northeast corner of the building), immediately adjoining the steps of the Joseph F. Smith Memorial Building. Other buildings in the circle are, left to right: The Latter-day Saints Business College, Barratt Hall, and the Brigham Young Memorial Building. Hotel Utah may be seen in the background at the nght. Note the ladder placed against the south wall of the excavation, and the service road sloping down to the center of the workings, used for transporting materials for. The building. Whitney, son of Bishop Whitney. This exceptional young man came to Utah in July 1847 with the first group of pioneers; later he set the type for the first number of the Deseret News, issued in June 1850. For many years he was a member of the Salt Lake Theatre Orchestra, and during his entire residence in Utah, he was a bookkeeper in the office of President Brigham Young. THE first wife of Horace K. Whitney, whose home was located on this property, was Helen Mar Kimball Whitney, eldest daughter of Heber C. Kimball, and a remarkable woman in her own right. For many years she was a prominent Relief Society worker in Utah, and a writer of considerable ability. She was the mother of Orson F'. Whitney, brilliant writer, poet, orator and apostle. Two other wives of Horace K. Whitney lived on the Whitney corner, Lucy Bloxom and Mary Cravath. Mary Cravath's son, Horace G. Whitney, general manager of the Deseret News for twenty-five "IN THE SHADOW OF THE TEMPLE" Hal Rumel THE PROGRESS OF CONSTRUCTION May 19, 1954 This photograph is taken from the north wall, looking south towards Hotel Utah, with the temple spires at the extreme right. Workmen are shown finishing the ceiling of the subbasement (floor of the ground story). Forms for the cement wall of the ground story. The picture. Years, was one of the finest characters Utah has produced, a business man, a literary man, and a loyal adherent of the Church. The three Horace K. Whitney homes faced North Temple Street, and a picture of them is reproduced here, taken before they were torn down and destroyed, about 1900, to make way for the L. D. S. College. The first building constructed after the Church acquired the Whitney corner, in 1900, was the one now known as L. D. S. Business College, erected in 1901. In 1902, Mrs. Matilda M. Barratt donated In the foreground may be seen the The elevator shaft is in the center of the money to build Barratt Hall, in memory of her son Samuel M. Bartatt. In 1903, the Brigham Young Memorial Building was erected on the south side of the campus, and the Joseph F. Smith Memorial Building was constructed in 1919. All of these buildings remain in use. Now, "in the shadow of the temple," on the northwest corner of the block to the east of the temple, where a hundred years ago, pioneers established their homes, the walls of the Relief Society Building rise higher each day. 'The building will be substantial, beautiful, and ade- 426 quate for the work of administering the affairs of Relief Society. It will Relief Society, the great organizaexemplify the strength, the steadRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1954 fastness, the work, and the message exalt all womankind. Ode toa Deserted Cottage Norma Parkinson Post Tired, old, forgotten, it stands With broken, cobwebbed windows Like bleary, sightless eyes, Mute evidence of age and desolation. What lives, what happy thoughts, Were born, have lived... And died here? Did childish faces press against the panes, Panes shining from the care of loving hands, Save where small hands pressed moistly While waving farewell to some departing loved one? Through sagging door and open hearth Time and seasons each has left its gifts Of dust and leaves, soft blanketings of snow, With kindly thought to hide the scars of age. Alone it stands, untenanted, save for some Sly, mischievous, curious squirrel, which, Searching for nuts, scampers fearlessly Across its doorsill, stops, sniffs, departs With disdainful flirt of fluffy tail; Or gorgeous painted butterfly, Winged spirit to some fair departed flower Fluttering aimlessly through its empty eyes, Flutters, and is gone, taking with it That brief ray of sunshine and life, leaving, Once more, loneliness and gloom of memory. Of the worldwide sisterhood — the tion which is destined to bless and The Birthday Helen Hooper MILY heard the front door opEK en and was pleased. Never, she reflected, had that door been locked in all the years since Thomas had built the house and brought her here as a bride. 'The unlocked door was a symbol of security in this valley of the mountains. She listened to the footsteps: coming through the long front hall. She felt sure it was some of the children come to visit. She loved to have them come, for grandchildren and great-grandchildren were all dear to her heart, and it eased her mind when she could see for herself that they were well and happy. They entered the dining room, where she lay on the couch by the window. It was her grandson Eugene and his family. She tried to sit up to welcome them. "Here, let me help you, Grandma." Helen hurried over and slipped her arm under the frail shoulders, and said, "Gene, come turn her feet around, please. There, right on the footstool. Is the pillow comfortable here, Grandma? Spencer, dear, couldn't you wait until Grandma gets settled before you kiss her?" The little boy had climbed up on the couch, and his lips were loving against the soft, withered cheek. "Grandma, will you be a hundred next week?" he asked. Young Eugene pushed forward and pressed a kiss on the other cheek before she could answer. Dred?" he asked. She looked at him anxiously. He time to have parties.' "Grandma, I how does it feel to be nearly a hunwas frail like his grandfather had been as a boy, and she worried about him the same way she had worried about Albert. 'Today he looked better—he seemed to have gained a little weight. Reassured, she answered them both together, "I will be one hundred years old next week, dears, and I don't feel any different at all." Her happy smile took in the others, too, and Carolyn stepped close. Leaning forward, she kissed the wrinkled forehead and said, "We ought to have a big birthday party for you, Grandma." Emily smiled, but answered firmly, "No, dear, I wouldn't like a party. Parties are for young girls. How old are you, now, dear?" "I'm fifteen," Carolyn answered. Emily nodded. "Fifteen is the " She included them all in her glance, as they seated themselves around her. "I remember how much I wanted to go to a dancing party on my fifteenth birthday. It was a special dancing party celebrating the Fourth of July, but it was my birthday, too. The captain had passed the word along as the wagon train closed in the big circle to make camp for the night. While my sister Lizzie and I started to get the supper ready, I told her I was going to ask father to let me go." mK OK OK 7 MILY looked at the faces around her, but they seemed to have changed, somehow. Her grandson's pleasant face seemed to have taken on the stern, purposeful look of her Page 427 428 father, and Carolyn's laughing blue eyes belonged to Lizzie, as she stirred the corn-meal mush and whispered, "Wait until father has had his supper, before you ask him. As soon as we get the children washed and in bed, I'll put your hair up for you." Delighted, Emily fingered the braids hanging loosely over her shoulders, and in her mind's eye she could suddenly see herself with highpiled hair transformed into a grownup young lady, dancing, laughing, weaving in and out in the glow from the campfires, while the fiddle sang the melodies of enchantment. "P-s-s-st,'' Lizzie's whisper urged her sharply back to reality. "Get busy, here comes Father." She began automatically to do the necessary chores. In spite of the natural fatigue from the long hours of walking over the dusty, heat-shimmering plain, her toes tingled with the urge to dance, and she hummed softly while she worked. She gathered the younger children into a circle for family prayer, and then helped Lizzie serve up bowls of hot corn-meal mush and sizzling slices of salt pork. After they had eaten, she started the nightly ritual of scrubbing the young ones clean and tucking them in bed, while Lizzie washed the dishes and cared for Mother and the new baby in the wagon. All the while a part of her consciousness was focused on her father, trying to impress him with the competence and mature ability of an added year. She crawled out from under the wagon with a final warning to the boys, and stood by the inside front wheel. A feeling of gaiety and exRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1954 citement seemed to pervade the entire circle, and Brother Jonas was already tuning up his fiddle. Suddenly she couldn't wait another minute. She stepped up on the hub of the wheel, holding onto the seat where her father sat talking quietly to her mother, who was inside the dark interior of the wagon. "Father." He turned and looked at her. "Yes, Emily?" "Father " Her heart was fluttering, and felt as big as a bucket inside the small frame of her ribs. Her voice was thick with longing. "Father, I'm fifteen today—a whole year older. May-I go to the dance with Lizzie tonight?" There was a silence while her father deliberated. At last he said, "You are growing up, Emily, learning to do a woman's work." He paused again, and she urged him on, "Yes, Father?" "There is more to being a woman than you realize, child. We'll wait another year. Sixteen is soon enough to start dancing with the grown-ups." HE fluttering heart stopped, and was encompassed in a vast ache of disappointment. As she jumped to the ground, she heard her mothers voice ineffectually consoling. She seized a bucket and headed toward the bushes bordering the creek a little distance beyond the circle of wagons. A moment later Lizzie joined her. "No use fretting, pet,' Lizzie sympathized, with the superior wisdom of nearly two years. "It will be all the more gay for the waiting." "I don't want to wait! It isn't fair!" Emily's _ disappointment THE BIRTHDAY burst into anger. "I'm old enough to do everything but have fun." They reached the creek, and, tucking up her skirts, Emily waded out to where the stream was swift and clear, before filling her bucket. The water and sand were soothing and cool to her feet. She turned back and sat on the bank and let the water lave them with rippling gentleness.. The bushes behind her rustled softly in the night breeze, and here and there she could hear the soft call of the night birds. Lizzie, taking advantage of the darkness, had unfastened her bodice and begun to scrub herself industriously. Emily's tears welled up afresh, as she caught the faint gleam of her sister's white skin in the darkness and thought of Lizzie dancing gaily, while she waited alone in her bed under the wagon. She felt unloved and incredibly lonely. Suddenly their father was beside them. The pressure of his fingers on Emily's shoulder was at once a warning and a command. She arose quickly and walked with him, noting that his other hand was guiding Lizzie. They walked swiftly and without a sound until they reached the circle of wagons. Safely inside, Emily slowly released her pent-up breath and her troubled eyes searched her father's face. Except for a small tightness around the lips, she could see no difference. His voice was calm as he explained, "There are Indians in the bushes along the creek. The men just brought word." The short hair at the nape of Emily's neck seemed to rise up and a tingle ran all the way down her spine. Indians! She stepped in- 429 stinctively closer to her father, and he patted her head soothingly for a moment, then he said briefly, "Get to bed, now, lass." Quickly, and with loving gratitude, she obeyed him. é "WERE they real Indians?" Spencer's excited question jerked Emily's mind instantly back to the present. "Yes, dear, they were real," she answered. "Did you get hurt or anything?" asked Eugene. "No. They stole some of the cattle, but we didn't try to get them back. We didn't want to make the Indians angry," she explained. "You were lucky. They might have stolen you!" said Eugene. "Yes, dear, that was why I didn't care any more that I couldn't go to the dance." Her smile, faintly reminiscent, was lovely to see. Eugene giggled, and Carolyn asked, "Weren't there any goodlooking boys that you wanted to dance with?" "I don't remember any, dear. Not until we went to a dance down in the bowery the next summer," said Emily. "And that is another story, and we have tired Grandma enough," Helen interposed. "We will go now and let you rest, Grandma, but we'll be back next week to wish you a happy birthday." A flurry of kisses and they were gone. Emily lay back. It was true, she was tired. She liked having them come, but it was nice and quiet when they left. One hundred years, she thought drowsily, and I wouldn't have missed a minute of them, not a single minute.