[Vol41 | July 1954 | Sequence: 06 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorial | Author: Crawford]
[Editorial: The Responsibilities of Freedom Vesta P. Crawford]
She also quilted every Tuesday from May 1953 until the Calgary First Ward bazaar was held on November 5, 1953. For the occasion of her seventy-fourth birthday, Sister Ross was honored by having a poem written for her by her daughter, Eileen Ross Lott, part of which is quoted below: BRAVE SPIRIT You were never one to ask for favors, To sit and say that such was your just due, But you were one to work, and fight, if need be, Brave Spirit, all of us are proud of you.... Married when in your youth You might have chosen ease, the quiet life, Instead, you chose, together with your husband, To come up to this country wild and rife.... Your children all have left your hearthstone— Another generation and another voice; Would you have changed your life for ease and splendor? Not you, Brave Spirit, this was your own choice. ~The Way" Ruth Moody Ostegar HE two little doors of the [aoc popped open, and the one "coo-coo"' of the little bird reverberated throughout' the still, dark house. Martha Whitmore raised herself on one elbow so as to see more easily the hands of the luminous dial on her bedside stand. One is such a disturbing number, she thought to herself. It might mean anything — twelvethirty, one, one-thirty—it could hardly be two-thirty. The hands pointed to one-thirty, and she sighed as she lay back down again. Now where on earth can that gitl be? She thought. It seems like children just try to see how late they can stay out, with never a thought of their parents. Of course, she might possibly have slipped in without my hearing her. I'll just take a look in her room and see if she's there. Suiting the action to the word, Martha quietly arose, and softly, so as not to awaken John, her husband, crept down the hall. The sight of the open door and the moonlight streaming across the empty bed confirmed her fears; Beth was somewhere out in the night. "What's the matter, Mom, can't you sleep?" John's voice came to her from the other twin bed as she climbed into her own.: "It's Beth," she said, "she hasn't come home yet, and here it is almost two o'clock. Do you think something's happened to her?" "Of course not, Martha. Aren't you ever going to get over worrying?