[Vol41 | July 1954 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Fiction | Title: Sixty]
[Sixty Years Ago „]
vl/ork    nteetifig — Selection,  Care^  and  Use  of 
Household  Equipment 
(A  Course  Recommended  for  Use  by  Wards  and  Branches  at  Work  Meeting)] 
Lesson  1— Home  Safety 
Rhea  H,  Gardner 
For  Tuesday,  October  12,  1954 
nPHE  expression  "safe  at  home" 
does  not  apply  to  the  average 
American  household.  The  annual 
toll  in  human  lives  in  the  homes  of 
the  United  States  is  about  30,000. 
In  addition,  1 50,000  more  are  perm- 
anently disabled,  and  five  million 
are  temporarily  disabled  each  year. 
The  cost  of  these  home  accidents, 
in  dollars  alone,  is  near  $650,000,000. 
The  ideal  time  to  begin  making 
your  home  safe  is  when  you  start 
making  plans  for  the  building  of  it. 
Many  of  us,  however,  may  not  be 
fortunate  enough  to  have  new 
homes,  but  we  can  learn  to  live 
safely  in  the  homes  we  have. 
More  accidents  occur  in  the 
kitchen  than  in  any  other  one  room. 
Scaldings,  misuse  of  kitchen  equip- 
ment, and  falls  are  among  the  ma- 
jor causes  of  home  accidents.  Burns 
can  have  serious  results.  Avoid  them 
by  removing  covers  from  boiling  or 
steaming  foods  or  from  roasters  and 
pressure  cookers  from  the  far  side 
first,  by  keeping  matches  out  of 
reach  of  children,  by  using  a  safe 
hot  pad  when  handling  hot  dishes, 
and  by  turning  handles  of  cooking 
pans  in  from  reach  of  youngsters. 
Next  to  the  kitchen,  the  living 
room  is  the  most  accident-prone 
room  in  the  house.  Some  of  the 
accident  traps  here  are  slick  floors 
(non-skid  wax  is  now  available),  un- 
secured scatter  rugs,  worn  carpets, 
long  and  worn  electric  cords,  un- 
protected fireplaces,  and  bad  furni- 
ture arrangement.  Scatter  rugs,  with 
a  triangular  piece  of  inner  tube,  or 
rubber  jar  rings,  stitched  to  each 
corner,  are  slip-proof.  It  is  unwise 
economy  to  run  an  electric  cord  un- 
der the  rug  to  a  lamp  on  the  op- 
posite side  of  a  room,  or  through 
a  doorway  to  a  lamp  or  appliance 
there.  The  cost  of  having  extra  out- 
lets is  far  less  than  the  cost  of  a 
serious  accident.  Fire  screens  are 
a  must. 
Among  the  age  group  of  people 
sixty-fi\'e  years  and  over,  bedrooms 
are  highest  in  the  accident  toll.  The 
most  frequent  reasons  are:  slick 
floors,  insufficient  light,  and  clut- 
tered pathways.  Older  people, 
especially,  need  a  light  at  their  bed- 
side, plenty  of  light  in  the  room, 
and  a  clear  pathway  to  the  door. 
The  bathroom  contributes  more 
than  its  share  of  accidents  for  its 
size.  Inexpensive  aids,  such  as  a 
hand  bar  over  the  bathtub,  a  rubber 
mat  in  the  tub,  and  a  non-slip  ma- 
terial for  the  floor  help  prevent  seri- 
ous bathroom  falls.  Misuse  of  elec- 
trical appliances  in  the  bathroom 
has  caused  hundreds  of  deaths. 
Stairways  are  often  *'dangerways." 
Falls  are  most  frequent  here.  The 
causes  of  them  are  usually  loose 
Page  483