[Vol41 | July 1954 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Tale of | Author: Conclusion]
[Tale of the Trail — A Visit to Phantom Ranch C First Ladies of Our Land — Wives of the Presidents — Part V — Conclusion]
432  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JULY  1954 
less  of  the  dude  upstairs,  Linda  us,  we  experience  the  thrill  of 
sinks  to  her  knees  and,  with  a  for-  thrills  when  we  come  to  the  sign 
ward  tilting  of  her  backline,  goes  that  reverses  the  first  milepost  of 
all  out  for  a  clump  of  green  vegeta-  the  morning:  Phantom  Ranch,  i 
tion  far  down  the  canyon  wall.  The  mile.  North  Rim,  13.4  miles.  For- 
lure  of  meeting  the  Colorado  in  the  gotten  are  the  heat,  the  dust,  the 
depths  of  the  canyon  becomes  sub-  rigors  of  the  trail  behind.  We  even 
merged  by  the  fear  of  getting  there  bestow  a  friendly  pat  upon  our  long- 
instantly— over  the  wall  of  the  eared  conveyance— and  a  prodding 
precipice.  No  amount  of  frantic  to  hurry  her  along,  as  we  thread  our 
jerkings  on  the  reins  serves  to  cheat  way  through  an  incredible  orchard 
Miss  Linda  of  her  mid-morning  in  bloom  and  glimpse  the  buildings 
lunch,  which  she  nibbles  at  non-  of  Phantom  Ranch, 
chalantly  as  she  hurries  to  join  the  Arriving,  we  turn  our  mules  over 
rest  of  the  party.  to  the  guide,  meet  the  genial  man- 
Noontime  finds  us  at  the  half-way  ager  of  the  ranch,  who  assigns  us 
point.  Ribbon  Falls,  where  we  our  respective  luxurious,  air-condi- 
stop  for  lunch.  A  proper  apprecia-  tioned  cottages.  There,  we  see  per- 
tion  of  the  beautiful  spectacle  and  haps  the  most  picturesque  swim- 
the  fit-for-a-feast  fried  chicken  is  ming  pool  in  the  world.  To  the  trail 
somehow  lacking.  There  is  still  the  weary,  the  cool  waters  fed  by  Bright 
other  half  of  the  trail  to  negotiate  Angel  Creek  are  more  refreshing  to 
via  the  same  means  of  locomotion,  see  than  any  meadow  pool  which 
But,  once  more  back  in  the  saddle,  may  be  reached  easily  and  without 
we  find  that  the  steeper  parts  of  peril. 
the  trail  are  behind  us,  that  the  We  are  still  there  when  the  South 
cellar  door  slopes  at  a  less  forbid-  Rimmers  ride  in.  In  a  time  lapse 
ding  angle,  and  the  vistas  are  more  comparable  to  ours,  they  join  us. 
to  the  liking  of  a  plainsman.  Introductions  are  exchanged  back 
We  find  ourselves  with  time  and  and  forth,  and  it  takes  the  clang  of 
inclination  to  note  another  series  of  the  dinner  bell  to  rout  us  from  the 
trail  signs  wholly  foreign  to  the  drag-  cool  delight  of  the  pool. 
ging  mile  posts.  These  chart  our  After  eating,  we  have  the  one 
swift  descent,  not  in  leagues,  kilo-  great  achievement  to  enjoy— to  meet 
meters,  or  miles,  but  in  ages  and  Mr.  Colorado  in  his  lair,  perhaps  a 
eons  of  time  as  we  pass  through  the  half  mile  below  the  Lodge.  We 
varied  strata  of  the  earth's  under-  find  him  a  muddy,  snarling,  can- 
pinnings.  We  seem  to  rush  down  tankerous  creature  wholly  different 
through  the  Permian,  Mississippian,  from  the  peaceful  glimpse  of  him 
the  Cambrian,  the  Algonkian,  to  the  we  had  seen  from  the  rim.  Certain- 
dark  and  twisted  Arch  can,  the  great-  ly,  the  man  who  penned  the  ''Silvery 
granddaddy  of  all  earth's  rock  for-  Colorado"  song  did  not  gain  his  in- 
mations.  spiration  at  Phantom  Ranch. 
Back   at   the   pool,   there   is   an 
CPURRED  on  by  the  contempla-  evening  of  song  and  conversation, 
tion   of   these   formations   and  stories  of  adventure,  and  tales  of 
the  geological  expose  thus  afforded  rivermen  who  have  braved  the  rap-

TALE  OF  THE  TRAIL 
433 
Kolb  Brothers 
THE  POOL  AT  PHANTOM  RANCH 
ids  of  the  Colorado  in  boats.  The 
chairs  provided  are  comfortable 
enough,  but  most  of  the  guests 
choose  further  to  placate  protesting 
anatomies  with  pillows  brought 
from  their  cabins.  It  is  hot  in  the 
canyon's  depths,  the  climate  being 
actually  tropical,  but  thanks  to  air- 
conditioning,  a  cool  night's  sleep  is 
enjoyed  by  all. 
In  the  morning,  after  breakfast, 
we  team  up  again  with  our  mules 
and  our  guide  and  say  goodbye  to 
lovely  Phantom  Ranch  as  we  back- 
track yesterday's  journey.  Up!  Up! 
Fifty-five  hundred  feet  to  the  Rim! 
We  pass  by  those  leering  mileposts. 
We  climb  through  those  rock  ages 
—Archean,    Algonkian,    Cambrian, 
Mississipian,  Permian.  We  re-dis- 
cover all  those  aching  joints  and 
muscles  we  thought  we  had  left  be- 
hind at  Phantom  Ranch.  At  four 
o'clock,  we  top  out  at  the  Rim.  My 
wife,  more  inured  to  the  ways  of  the 
saddle,  sighs  that  it  is  over.  I  just 
sigh. 
Somehow,  I  manage  an  exit  from 
the  saddle.  A  bus  with  soft,  soft  cush- 
ions is  waiting  to  take  us  back  to 
the  lodge  on  the  Rim.  My  wife 
begins  planning  a  return  trip  next 
year.  She  wonders  if  we  would 
have  the  same  mules,  the  same 
guide.  I  wondered  if  she  would 
have  the  same  husband.  I'm  not 
sure  I  can  recover  from  this  one  trip 
to  Phantom  Ranch.

First  Ladies  of  Our  Land 
WIVES  OF  THE  PRESIDENTS 
Part  V— Conclusion 
Elsie  C.  Carroll 
GRACE  Goodhue  Coolidge 
(1879  -  ),  only  child  of 
Andrew  and  Lemira  B.  Good- 
hue, was  born  in  Burlington,  Ver- 
mont. She  was  a  teacher  in  the 
Clarke  School  for  the  Deaf  in 
Northampton,  Massachusetts,  when 
she  met  Calvin  Coolidge,  who  had 
just  finished  his  law  course.  After 
their  marriage,  October  4,  1905, 
Grace  gave  her  talents  and  energies 
to  the  art  of  homemaking  and  moth- 
erhood. Since  the  State  of  Massa- 
chusetts was  without  an  executive 
residence,  when  Calvin  Coolidge  be- 
came Governor,  the  Coolidges  con- 
tinued to  live  in  their  modest  home 
in  Northampton,  and  Calvin  Cool- 
idge commuted  to  the  capital.  Mrs. 
Coolidge  graciously  performed  her 
official  duties  in  Boston  and  kept  up 
her  homemaking  activities  in  North- 
ampton. 
In  the  summertime  the  Coolidges 
went  with  their  sons  to  the  Ver- 
mont hills  to  the  home  of  Colonel 
John  Coolidge,  Calvin's  father.  A 
friend  said:  ''All  the  strength  and 
simplicity  of  New  England  Ver- 
mont went  into  the  lives  of  Calvin 
and  Grace  Coolidge,  and  into  the 
training  of  their  sons.  They  took 
that  strength  and  simplicity  with 
them  when  they  went  to  the  White 
House." 
The  family  was  at  their  summer 
retreat  when  President  Warren 
Harding  died.  Colonel  Coolidge 
climbed  the  stairs  of  the  farmhouse 
to  give  the  news  to  the  Vice-Presi- 
Page  434 
Courtesy  Library  of  Congress 
GRACE  GOODHUE  COOLIDGE 
dent,  and,  by  the  light  of  a  kero- 
sene lamp.  Colonel  Coolidge,  by  his 
right  as  a  notary  public,  swore  his 
son  in  as  President  of  the  United 
States,  August  3,  1923. 
Mrs.  Coolidge,  already  accustom- 
ed to  social  life,  and  blessed  with 
beauty  and  charm,  fitted  into  the 
role  of  First  Lady  with  ease  and 
gracious  friendliness.  Because  of  her 
vivacity  and  fine  simplicity,  she  soon 
became  one  of  the  best  loved  of  all 
our  First  Ladies.  Even  under  the 
sorrow  of  the  sudden  and  tragic 
death  of  her  younger  son  at  the 
age  of  fourteen,  she  remained  strong 
and  heroic,  never  allowing  her  per- 
sonal grief  to  interfere  with  her 
duties  as  First  Lady.    She  felt  that