[Vol21 | March 1934 | Sequence: 33 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson Department]

LESSON DEPARTMENT 7. The Lord further said. 'My law shall be kept on this land. Let no man think he is ruler; but let God rule him that judgeth, according' to the counsel of his own will, 6, if other words, him that counseleth of sitteth upon the judgment seat, Let no man break the laws of the laid, for ne that keepeth the laws of God hath no need to break the laws of the land." (D, & C. 58:19: 21.) Doubtless all these were timely instructions. 8.
Foundations of Zion Laid.
Within a few days after the exact location of Zion was revealed, the Colesville branch of the Church, consisting of about sixty souls, arrived at Independence. On the second day of August, 1831, the Prophet assisted these people in laying the first log for a house, as a "foundation of Zion," in Kaw township, within the present limits of Kansas City. The fog was carried and put in place by twelve men, in honor of the twelve tribes of Israel. The place was then appropriately dedicated as the land of Zion by Sidney Rigdon and accepted as such by the voice of the people.
After the prayer had been offered Sidney Rigdon arose and said: "I now pronounce this land consecrated and dedicated unto the Lord for a possession and inheritance for the Saints, and for all the faithful servants of the Lord to the remotest ages of time. In the name of Jesus Christ, having authority from him. Amen." (History of the Church, Vol. 1, p. 196.), Forebodings of Sorrow. Much 'was expected of the saints who gathered at Zion.
They were regarded. As the chosen people of the 'Lord. All, who were strong enough -were expected; to haye the United Order and otherwise keep all the commandments of God. On the 177 other hand, they had been in the Church but a short time and therefore did not possess the maturity that many of the saints possess at the present time.
Moreover there were a few among them who were: not truly converted to the faith. In consequence of these and other conditions, the members of the Church as a whole did not fully comply with all that was expected of them. The: Prophet foresaw this condition 4s: early as January, 1834, and in a letter to Wm. W. Phelps, then in Missouri, wrote in part, as follows: "The Lord will have a place whence his word will go forth, in these last days, in purity; for if Zion will not purify herself, so as to be approved of in all things, in his sight, he will seek another people; for they who will not hear his voice, must expect to feel his wrath. Let me say unto you, seek to purify yourselves, and also all the inhabitants of Zion, lest the Lord's anger be kindled to fierceness. Repent, repent, is the voice of God to Zion. I say unto you, hear the warning voice of God, lest Zion fall." (History of the Church, Vol.. 1, p. 316.) 10.
Expulsion from Jackson County. The saints were expelled' by mob violence from Jackson county?in which Independence "'the center place" is situated?in the early winter of 1833, scarcely two and one-half years after its settlement by our people. The details of this inhuman affair need not be related here.
When word of this calamity reached the Prophet at Kirtland, the Lord gave him a revelation containing the following: "I, the Lord, have suffered the affliction to come upon them, wherewith they have been afflicted, in consequence of their transgressions; 178 yet I will own them, and they shall be mine in that day when I shall come to make up my jewels.
There were jarrings, and contentions, and envyings, and strifes, and lustful and covetous desires among them; therefore by these things they polluted their inheritances. In the day of their peace they esteemed lightly my counsel; but, in the day of their trouble, of necessity they feel after me." (D. & C, 101: 2-8.) Again: "I speak not concerning those who are appointed to lead my people, who are the first elders of my church, for they are not all under this condemnation." (D. & C. 105:7.) 11.
Redemption of Zion Postponed.
While enroute to Missouri with Zion's Camp, in June of 1834, the Prophet received a revelation in which the redemption of Zion was postponed "for a little season."
Here are the Lord's words: "In consequence of the transgressions of my people, it is expedient in me that mine elders should wait for a little season for the redemption of Zion, that they themselves, may be prepared, and that my people may be taught more perfectly, and have experience, and know more perfectly concerning their duty, and the things which I require at their hands." (D. & C. 105:9, 10.) 12. Project Not Abandoned. The redemption of Zion is only temporarily abandoned, and in course of time will be resumed.
Touching this matter, the Lord says: "Zion small be redeemed, although she is chastened for a little season." (D. & C. 100:13.) Again: "Zion shall not be moved out of her place, notwithstanding her children are scattered.
They that remain, and are pure in heart, shall return, and come to their inheritances, they and their RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE children, with songs of everlasting joy, to build up the waste places of Zion-?and all these things that the prophets may be fulfilled. And, behold, there is none other place appointed than that which I have appointed neither shall there be any other place appointed than that which I have appointed, for the work of the gathering of my saints?until the day cometh when there is found no more room for them; and then I have other places which I will appoint unto them, and they shall be called stakes, for the curtains or the strength of Zion." (D. & C. 101:1721.) 13. The Latter-day Saints are looking hopefully forward to the time when the Lord will see fit to begin again the work of Zion's redemption. Zion, however, will not be redeemed by individuals who disregard the word of God, for, "Zion cannot be built up unless it is by the principles of the law of the celestial kingdom; otherwise I cannot receive her unto myself." (D. & C. 105:5.) Suggestions for Discussion and Review 1.
Under what conditions was the exact 'location of Zion revealed?
Give in as much detail as possible. 2. In what respects is Jackson County, Missouri, ideal as the "center place' of Zion? 3. Why was it necessary that the saints at Zion be unusually strict in their attitude toward the law of the Lord? 4, What conditions will prevail in Zion that do not prevail among us at present?
Enumerate them. 5.
When and under what conditions will Zion be built? 6.
Describe the character of the individuals who will assist in building Zion.
LESSON DEPARTMENT 179