[Vol21 | March 1934 | Sequence: 36 | Category: Article | Title: Social Service]

Social Service (Fourth Week in May)
Constructive Use of Out of School Time
LESSON XVII
Of schools in 1845?Caldwell & Courtis say: "Schools were in session all the year round, but apparently there were many and frequent vacations, varying in length. Every Wednesday and Saturday afternoon throughout the year and all fast days were holidays. National holidays, like Christmas, Thanksgiving, Fourth of July, Election Day, etc., were also observed, and there were many short special vacations. Specifically mentioned as vacations are the week beginning on the first Monday in June and the remainder of the week after the exhibit in August and the two' succeeding weeks."" (Then and Now in Education, p. 13.) With such a program the use of out of school time is not so important. At the present time in most American rural areas the school season is from twenty-eight to thirty-six weeks in length. This leaves from sixteen to twenty-four weeks out of school. In cities the school term is generally longer and the vacation period correspondingly shorter. In most rural localities the vacation period is scheduled at the time when the children can labor most profitably in raising or harvesting the crops. The city vacation time is almost universally the midsummer. The aim of this lesson is to point the way to parents for planning the non-vocational part of the activities of the summer. The lesson will set forth some aims and ideals. The class members will have the responsibilities of planning the concrete detailed expression of these. The theme of the lesson is found in the following paragraph from the report of the White House Conference?p. 170. "A progressive educational policy which provides an educationally and healthfully sound and complete program throughout the entire year, including the long summer vacation, which has become a major problem in child education. Rightly directed the vacation becomes an asset; but wrongly managed or neglected, a serious detriment to child health and development. Every school should assume leadership in securing for the child during the summer vacation, opportunities for healthful and creative activities."
LESSON DEPARTMENT In a recent article is found the following statement of the aim of the lesson: "The objects to be sought are fourfold, relating to health, pleasure, the background of experience and the broadening of the child's horizon." (H. G. Bull: Vacations for Children?Hygeia, June 1932, pp. 534-536)
Suggestions for Procedure:
1. By discussion have the class members decide clearly whether their vacation problem is essentially one of providing relaxation from a term of formal, straining, uninteresting school life, or whether the school is modern, providing a variety of healthful activities so that the vacation problem is essentially one of carrying on in a constructive way. This analysis of the life of a child in the local school will point the way to the selection of proper vacation programs.
2. The material outlined for reading is interesting and complete. Take all of the time that is necessary to discuss the topics and questions given in the reading guide.
3. Use the supplementary material as helps in discussing these points.
Reading guides for the class members: Personality, pp. 31-39. School seems to be taken for granted for part of the year. Three problems are implied in the opening paragraphs. These should be carefully noted.
1. The value of the alternating program of school and vacation.
2. The temporary management troubles of the parents during vacation time.
3. The permanent educative value of the use of out of school time Pages 32-33 give a detailed argu187 ment in support of this third point. The educational objectives of vacation activity are listed as follows:
4. Physical welfare or health.
5. Teaching children to face the realities of life.
6. Teaching the value of cooperation.
7. Making life richer.
8. Developing wider interests.
9. Recapturing eagerness or "the thirst for life."
10. Integrating the personality.
A paragraph is written on each of these. After reading you may want further information about some of them. The practical suggestions weave themselves around the idea that parental memories do not interpret the present child world but that social conditions of today call for a program of utilizing the facilities now available for vacation activities. The following questions are answered somewhat definitely: What is a desirable program for summer play schools? What educational activities are desirable for regular summer school classes? What are the possibilities of summer camps? What are the limitations of summer camps? What is necessary to build a satisfactory neighborhood play organization? Describe a "proper variety" of activities for a neighborhood or home program. What are the special problems of the rural child?
Supplementary Material:
1. What is meant by "Integrating the Personality?" "A man's personality is revealed 188 in the way he thinks, feels, acts with regard to his daily life situations. In truth, the way one meets life situations is a true index of personality for after all, one's personality is simply character in action. "The way a child learns to respond to his many daily life situations thus determines his character or personality. Left unaided and unguided, he will often respond in ways that are socially desirable, exhibiting such traits as cooperation, sympathy, and service. In far too many instances, the clash between impulsive desires and duty is disastrous, developing such traits as loss of self-control, attitudes of failure, inferiorities, selfishness, and sullenness. Such maladjustments tend to make the child a misfit in group living. He is said to be abnormal, to possess a distorted or warped personality. He is doomed to failure and unhappiness. Guidance, then, at all those points in his experience where wrong choices are likely to be made is the child's birthright. He was not born for failure and misery. "The crucial factor, then, in the building of the stable character, the integrated personality, is child guidance in all those experiences which cause him to respond in ways unwholesome either for himself or for society. These life situations may be classified into three groups: (1) work situations, (2) civic-social situations, and (3) leisure situations." (Germane: Integration of the Personality. Dept. Of Superintendence of the N. E. A. 1931).
2. Releasing the creative activities. Quotations from Cobb: The New Leaven.
3. "One evening, as I read scenes from a narrative poem that I had been writing, the scene of which was laid in ancient India, she sat on the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE floor in the midst of the family drawing illustrative pictures as I read. Some eight illustrations were made within an hour and a half, wonderfully catching the spirit of the poem and its Oriental atmosphere, surprisingly correct in accessories of Oriental costume and physiognomy. How she got that Orientalism into the pictures, and the expression of rhapsody in some of them describing an Oriental saint, it is difficult to say; because one never knows how much of our creational expression in life comes from the subconscious memory and how much from inspirational sources beyond that." (pp. 132-3).
4. The following is quoted from a letter to a so-called progressive school which really states the purpose of well planned vacations. "We keenly appreciate what the school has done during the past year for our three boys. The happy combination of freedom and skillful stimulus in an environment of well-chosen materials has aroused their eager interest and has developed their ability for independent and creative activity. We have been particularly delighted at the emphasis you have placed on esthetic expression for each child, regardless of age or special aptitude. The orchestra, the weaving, the modeling, the fresco painting, the gardening, the building, the play-acting, the singing, the dancing have done so much to enrich the children's outlook and capacity for enjoying life. We have been glad too that they have been getting the significance of everyday things in their walks and trips. Perhaps, above all, we have appreciated the love and understanding you have all given the individual development of these three quite different personalities. We have actually seen each LESSON DEPARTMENT boy grow under it? Ben in interest and character, Jack in the assertion of his own personality, and Peter in observation and coordination." (pp. 138-9)
5. "Creative desire on the part of the young child naturally expresses itself in handwork and crafts, in the arts of modeling, painting, music, poetry, drama, and rhythmics."' (p. 139)
6. "Also in other forms of art-expression using different mediums, such as paper cutting, clay modeling, ivory-soap carving, woodwork, handicrafts of various kinds, children show marvelous courage, skill and creative power." (p. 149)
7. "Of the value of music in the life of the child, Mr. Surette has this to say: 'Music, it may be pointed out, is the one form of activity in which a whole school can take part while at the same time creating something beautiful. It is like play minus the exuberant physical activity but plus an exuberance of the spirit. It requires the most accurate teamwork, it is unselfish, it awakens sympathy, creates joy, frees the soul and subtly harmonizes the physical being. What school can afford to neglect it? What school can afford to offer its children anything less than the whole of it." (p. 144-5)
8. "Dramatic expression in the acting of plays is a very important factor in the emotional and esthetic development of children. In many of the progressive schools such expression differs radically from the ordinary form of school dramatics; first, in that here every child in the group takes part; and secondly, that the acting flows naturally and genuinely from the child's own consciousness instead of expressing an artificial mode set for it by someone else." (p. 151)
189 7. "Even in play? or one might say?especially in play, the child is creative. Here are no hampering forms, no technique or modes already established to which the child soul must adapt itself in order to express. In play the child finds utmost freedom to be itself. In play the child, furthermore, is satisfying only its own vivid desire. In play, therefore, more than anywhere else, the child shows those qualities of the true creator,?imagination, initiative, inventiveness, resourcefulness, persistence in the face of difficulties, and a marvelous power of adapting material at hand to an inner purpose. As I write, children outside are improvising a military camp. One boy had a vivid idea which came to dominate the group. First it was drill with wands; then mimic warfare from behind every vantage point: next a Red Cross unit sprang into existence and a stretcher was improvised out of two wands and a raincoat. There came up a rain. This, instead of putting a damper on the project, only heightened creativeness by suggesting the need of shelter. Raincoats spread over chairs furnished temporary shelter, but a more permanent form being desired the next move was to build a frame and stretch over it pieces of canvas, oilcloth, gunnysack?anything which came to hand. The next day a boy brought a pup tent. This has been set up in the back yard. Where and how will it all end? Such play of the imagination is bound by no external goals. In this fact inheres its charm; and this is the nature of true creation, that the end is not foreseen from the beginning." (pp. 153-5)
3. A combination of work and play suggestions is found in the following plan suggested by Pulliam in his 190 "Extra Instructional Activities of the Teacher. (pp. 286-287.)
A Boy's Vacation Program
I. Work Activities.
1. A vacant lot and home gardening contest for which ten prizes are offered by the Rotary Club. Division I for boys under 12. Division II for boys between 12 and 17. Last year 141 gardens were registered. Each one of these gardens was assigned to a member of the Rotary Club who was its sponsor. This sponsor made regular visits to the garden and gave the boy in charge advice and encouragement. Each boy was, of course, permitted to sell all he raised in his garden. The boy who won first prize in Division II. A fifteen-year-old living in the heart of town, made over $75 clear on the garden that covered less than two city lots.
2. A bureau of employment where farmers and citizens may get in touch with boys to do odd jobs, pick berries, and similar work.
3. The organization of block clean-up squads of boys, to clean up the various blocks of the city.
4. Construction and maintenance of tennis courts and play equipment, and improvement work on the boy's camp. No charge is made to any boy to go to camp in his turn but he is obliged to do two hours' work each morning for the good of the camp. This summer a dam to make a swimming pool at the camp was constructed entirely by the boys.
II. Play Activities.
1. Camping. It is possible for every boy in town to spend several weeks at camp if his parents are willing for him to go. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE He needs only to pay the actual cost of his food while there.
2. Baseball leagues. Junior league, for boys under 15. Senior league, for boys between 15 and 18. The schedule of games and general oversight of the league are in the hands of the director, but each team is organized and managed by the boys themselves around their own natural play-groups. Last year over two hundred boys participated in the baseball games. An all-star team is picked to play in the National Junior Championship elimination contests.
3. Swimming, tennis, and other individual contests.
III. Development Activities.
1. System of recognition. Medal for achievement of the Playground and Recreation Association of America for general athletic prowess.
2. The Boy Scout Program. Already organized troops are encouraged to do as much work as possible in camp, and efforts are made to start new troops and to interest all boys. However, a boy does not have to belong to the Scouts to participate in the summer program, or even to go to camp.
3. Pictures and Lectures. Educational pictures and inspirational short lectures by local men each Saturday afternoon at the City Hall auditorium free to all boys who want to come. It is hoped that in the future some short courses in motor mechanics, airplane building, carpentry, and agriculture (in connection with gardens) may be offered to boys who will attend them voluntarily an hour or two a day, several days each week,"
Supt. Willis A. Sutton of Atlanta, LESSON DEPARTMENT Georgia, outlines the problem and a variety of programmed activities in the following quotations from a recent article (Sutton: The Wise Use of Summer Vacations?Child Welfare, April 1932, p.478) A record of the summer activities is kept in points and is given a place beside the school record. "The old idea of vacation is a relic of the past ages. It was all very well when children were needed to work during the summer, assisting their parents with the harvest and having other things to engage their time. "I do not underestimate the value of the home training nor the home supervision, but I do say most emphatically that in the average American home today the period of vacation is a taxing, trying period for the mothers and fathers of our land; and for the majority of children it is a waste and an extravagance of time and a type of relaxation that often destroys the mental discipline and organization which has gone on in the regular school during the preceding months. The children of virtually every city in this nation return to school in September exhausted in body, lowered in vitality, and sometimes thoroughly disorganized socially and even morally. "We have carefully thought out the plan and realize that if 400 points are really made, practically all of the time of the child will be occupied. We have made every effort to give 191 the greatest possible variety to these activities so that every line of work may be encouraged. The children may do such simple things as cutting out pictures and making a scrapbook. They may take care of the baby, set the table, wash the dishes, care for the lawn or automobile; they may look after the sick of their community, write letters, read books, and teach others to play games; they may learn to swim, study works of art or places of historical interest, and do a hundred other things for which credit will be given." School exhibits, etc., in the fall check up the summer work.
4. Social training in manners, courtesy, and entertaining is possible only in vacation when visiting and entertaining should be encouraged. This is possible on simple scales in the neighborhood and other small groups as well as in distant visiting. This point is especially stressed in H. G. Bull's article "Vacations for Children" ?Hygeia, June, 1932.
5. Vacation is a great opportunity period for applying the learning of school. Planning purchases and figuring costs is a good child occupation. Provisions for general reading should be made so that the children may continue their quest for experience in the field of books. Picnics and trips furnish occasion for observing and identifying objects of nature. Telling to others offers occasion for natural language expression.