LITERATURE Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, Member of General Board To me poetry is a beautiful expression of the human soul, and I think it is a splendid thing, sometimes, to soar to the heights out of the sordid and everyday things of life, through the medium of imagery. If I were giving this lesson in a ward Relief Society, I should not give it all myself; I should only try to lead out and ask the members to do the work, to read the poems, and to tell the story. We are told by Olive Schriner that greatness is to take the common things of life and to talk nobly about them. Poets take the common things of life and show us the beauty therein. The poet Burns, and nearly all other poets have that gift, Lowell shows us that beautiful quality in his poem, To the Dandelion. James Russell Lowell was one of the most versatile of our American authors. He was not only a poet but a critic, an orator, a scholar, a satirist, and a humorist; however, he was, I think, greatest as a poet. In our past lessons we have learned that James a Russell Lowell was one of the wonderful group of New England literary men, who established literary standards in America; that he was contemporary with Longfellow, Emerson, Whittier, Holmes; that his daily walks were along the elm-shaded paths and through the halls of Harvard University. In the present lesson, two very beautiful pictures stand out in relief, so that an artist might paint in color without a model. The first picture that presents itself is the picture of George Washington when he took command of the American army on July 3, 1775, under the old elm tree. Within the year that is past, the Washington Elm, cherished very tenderly for years, has given way, making it necessary to pull it down and dig up the roots. On the one hundredth anniversary of Washington's taking command of the army, Lowell's poem, Under the Old Elm, was read: Musing beneath the legendary tree, 7 The years between furl off; I seem to see The sun-flecks, shaken the stirred foliage through, Dapple with gold his sober buff and blue And weave prophetic aureoles round the head That shines our beacon now nor darkens with the dead. O man of silent mood, A stranger among strangers then, How art thou since renowned the Great, the Good, Familiar as the day in all the homes of men! The winged years, that winnow praise and blame, Blow many names out: they but fan to flame The self-renewing splendors of thy fame. Do you see the picture? Can you not go back to 1775 and see that great majestic figure of George Washington, under the spreading boughs of the elm tree, with the sunshine gleaming through its leaves and scattered in flecks on the buff and blue uniform, where he stands with his cocked hat and his sword at his side, taking command of the American army? The writer of the lesson on the first page tells us of the visit that she made herself to the home of Lowell and she describes that home. Any one at all familiar with New England knows that the topography of the country is mainly wooded hills and running brooks. If you have read mother's poetry, you can almost smell the hemlock ana the spruce and pine of old New England, and here, shaded by these wonderful elm trees and the beautiful fir trees, stands the ancestral home of the Lowell family. How fortunate that he was born, lived and died in that ancestral home. A square house, three stories high, with three windows across the front of the third and second stories, and in the front of the first story, there is a beautiful arched door between the windows. The house is painted buff with white trimmings—a frame house. And from the studio window it is possible to look out and to see Mt. Auburn, that little historic cemetery where so many of America's great are RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES 293 buried, where Longfellow lies, where Lowell himself now lies, where Edwin Booth is buried, and other great American people. Mt, Auburn has become noted in American history. On a snowy day, when the snow had been falling all night, Lowell was looking from his study window at Mt. Auburn, and he was inspired to write these words as he thought of a little mound, the grave of his own little daughter, Blanche, in Mt. Auburn: The snow had begun in the gloaming And busily all the night Had been heaping field and highway With a silence deep and white.