Northern States Mission The mission presidents are like mothers in a way. I claimed a big family of girls when I was at the L. D. S. and now I have a big family of missionaries, The only trouble is that in the cases of some of your sons and daughters, I do not see them as often as I should like to. If there is one ambition in my heart it is to make the mission home a home. We are glad to have all the missionaries join our big family. Our hearts go out to these wonderful boys and girls and we are proud of the progress they are making, and of their development. I feel very inexperienced in Relief Society work. When I was. Told that my husband was to preside over the mission, and that in most cases the wife of the mission president becomes president of the Relief Society, I was nearly overcome. I have worked in Church organizations all my life, but it happened that I worked in the Primary, and in the Sunday School, and in the Mutual. I am learning all the time, however, and hope to carry out the desires of the General Board successfully. We have in the Northern States mission thirteen organizations, All of the different organizations have studied all of the subjects as outlined in the Magazine. I feel proud of the fact that out of the sixty-three officers we have, fifty-nine subscribe for our . Next year, if possible, we will have 100%. One thing that we are trying to emphasize in the mission field is the gospel conversations and things of that type that we do. I believe that in the mission field the duties of the Relief Society officers vary a little from those in the stakes, because conditions are different. Women missionaries have a wonderful opportunity of preaching the gospel. They go into homes, where the missionaries would not be received. By their lives they teach the gospel. Last year over thirteen hundred gospel conversations were held, and many Church books were sold by them. These records and figures do not always show the amount of work actually done, but they are an index to what is being accomplished.: I sent out to the Relief Societies in our field three questions —the. Type of question which I think is a good thing for us to ask ourselves in regard to the gospel of Christ. 1. What does Relief Society mean to you? 2. What does it do for you? 3. In what ways does it strengthen the branch and build up the branch with RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES 301 which you are connected? In sending out the questionnaire I had a double object. I wanted these members of the association not only to send that report to me but I wanted these members to take stock of what the Relief Society meant to them, what it could be as an upbuilding force in the community in which they lived. It was inspiring to receive the letters. In answer. Under the first question, one answer said that the Relief Society was a light to their path, and a guide to their feet, that it was the next thing to their homes; that it gives an opportunity to develop, both as individuals and groups, and that through the doctrine of good works, a firmer faith is gained. Also, in another way, some one expressed it that the Relief Society gives opportunity for practical application of the gospel principles. Many of the responses ' expressed appreciation for the Magazine and for the lessons outlined in it. In a very personal letter, one woman said, it was a prop to her when she was discouraged and downhearted. Many of them said that the thing that appeals to them is the meetings for they feel that these are their own meetings. Under the second question, some of the answers were that the Relief Society gives the women confidence in taking part, and in assuming responsibility. Answers taqthe third question included among other thoughts, this, that the Relief Societies are depended upon and relied upon for much of the important practical work in the branches, such as furnishing carpet or extra chairs, or sacrament service for the new chapel. During the last year two of our organizations have donated $100 each for the building fund, and when you consider the size of these organizations, this is a wonderful record, for they have an average attendance of but 15. I feel that the Relief Society women in this mission are living up to the teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, in helping and strengthening the Church in every field of endeavor, MRS. MARIE YOUNG President of Relief Societies,