			BEAR LAKE.
   The Conference of the Relief Society of
the Bear Lake Stake of Zion convened in
the meeting house at St. Charles, on Sun-
day at 2 p. m. May 29, 1892. Stake Pres.
J. P. Lindsay presiding. Meeting com-
menced by singing "Lord we Come Before
Thee Now." Prayer by Bishop John H.
Hart. Singing. President J. P. Lindsay
spoke of the Jubilee which had been held
in each Society throughout the Stakes of 
Zion. She said we all are missionairies
here on earth, and there is no time to be
lost in filling our mission. No one should
treat lightly sacred things. Spoke of the
need of education and of understanding the
organization of our bodies and how to take
good care of them. Urged the mothers in
Israel, who will have to rear the young, to
gain the confidence of the children and cor-
rect them in a spirit of kindness and care-
fulness. Said that the children should pre-
pare to fill the higher offices; that they may
be more able to fill them than those who
now occupy those places. Spoke of the
necessity of being inspired of God when
chosing a partner for life and for all eternity,
and advised all the young people to be care-
ful and not trifle with the sacred feelings of
others.
   Our Heavenly Father is ever ready and
willing to hear and answer the prayers of
the faithful. The Lord wants us to do all
we can first, and then he will help. Said
that she wished the reports of each Jubilee
handed in. The speaker spoke of the
request of Pres. Zina D. Young and her
Counselors to appoint an agent, for the EX-
PONENT, from each Society.
   Stake Counselor L. W. Hart was glad the
Sisters were growing better and getting bet-
ter acquainted with the principles of the
Gospel. Also felt thankful that she had the
privilege of working out her own salvation.
Spoke of the necessity of performing good
works in order to fill our mission, and of the
importance of faith that we may be able to
please God, for by faith all good has been 
and will be done. The speaker said that all
are subject to trials, tribulations, hopes and
fears in this life, and it is worth every effort
we are called on to make to gain our salva-
tion. Spoke of having charity for others
and said backbiting would not help us, but
those who indulge in it injure others.
   Bishop J. H. Hart bore his testimony to
the effect that the words which had been 
spoken were true. Said that it was neces-
sary for us to meet together to be taught,
spoke of the blessings we receive and of the
promises God has made; also of the man-
ifestations of the Spirit of God.
   Pres. J. P. Lindsay spoke of the Stake
Fund and of appointing two ladies from
each Society to visit the Primaries each
meeting.
   Singing, "The Lord is King." Bene-
diction by Brother J. A. Bagley.
