	After the services were over the cortege wound
its way to the burial-place which is situated on a 
high bluff or mountain top a beautiful resting
place for the dead, it being the season of wild
flowers made the appearance of the cemetery 
still more attractive.
	The next day, which was the regular monthly
fast meeting, the brethren and sisters convened 
at the residence of Sister Lydia Taylor, for al-
though there is a meeting house at La Platta
nearly finished, yet on account of the high winds
it was considered wisdom to meet in a private
house until the windows were all in, and the 
building quite secure.  The meeting was well at-
tended the large room being well filled and a 
lively spirited time was enjoyed by all present.
	In the afternoon of the same day May 5th, the 
Relief Society of the La Platta branch of Burnham
ward was fully organized by President Hammond
and the local authorities, Mrs. Lydia Taylor
President; the names of all the officers will appear
in a future number.
	Friday morning, May 6th, about 8 a. m. we
went on our journey, we were in sight of the San
Juan river, for a long distance the country on both 
sides of the river was settled by enterprising
colonizers, who had built substantial houses some
of them quite smart in appearance, excellent
fences and the gardens under fine cultivation;
immense tracts of land sown with wheat just
showing itself above the ground gave promise of 
an abundant harvest.  About noon camped,
rested our horses, and lunched in a cosy nook be-
tween the mountains, afterwards drove on to a 
good camping ground for the night; we rose
early and drove twelve miles to Cherry Creek be-
fore breakfast, which we partook of under an im-
mense pine tree; then pursued our way through
dense forests of cedar and pine; the road being
very dangerous we had to observe a great deal of
caution, until we passed a long and precipitous
dugway cut on the side of a mountain, after
which the roads were better until we arrived at
Mancos, which is a ward of magnificent distances
being fifteen miles in length; there we were
pleased to hear the welcome sound of the rail-
road whistle for the first time since leaving the
D. and R. G. R. R. at Thompson's Springs on 
