WOMEN AT MINNEAPOLIS.
	The women who were present as alter-
nates at the Republican convention at Min-
neapolis were naturally the observed of all
observers. They seem to have borne the
observation well. Men from various parts
of the country have expressed, in a manner
at once pleasant and amusing, their surprise
to find these Wyoming women very much
like other women, good-looking, well-dress-
ed, lady-like and amiable, not perceptibly
"unsexed" in any way by the exercise of
suffrage.
	The ladies have, of course, been repeat-
edly questioned as to the working of woman
suffrage in Wyoming, and have had to ex-
plain over and over that it has created no
soul-harrowing revolution, no subversion of


the foundations, no antagonism between
men and women. "The men of Wyoming
were as desirous for us to attend the conven-
tion as the women," said Mrs. Cora G. Car-
leton, of Hilliard, Uinta Co. "It is the fun-
niest thing in the world to come east and
notice the classification of sex. We should
never know in public life that there was
such a difference. For twenty years Wyom-
ing has enjoyed woman suffrage, and the
women have voted as naturally as they have
fulfiled any of the duties of life. There is
never anything disagreeable connected with
going to the polls. The right is exercised
freely, as a matter of course. Did you
know," added she, "that there are men in
my State ranging from twenty to seventy
years in age, who, having lived in the Ter-
ritory all their lives, never voted for a Pres-
ident? Yet all of the women who are twen-
ty-one will cast a vote at the same time they
do in November. We all trust and hope it
will be for Harrison."
	Mrs. Theresa A. Jenkins, of Cheyenne,
who was greeted with cheers at the stations
all along the route, is reported as saying:
"I am for Harrison. It was the Harrison
administration that made us a State, and
therefore we Wyoming women are loyal to
the President. I have no vote in the con-
vention. I am here only by the courtesy of
the State, and by the withdrawal of one
county delegate. Although I do not have
a vote, yet many of the famous wire-pullers,
feeling that by the uniqueness of the position
I might be able to shape public opinion to
some extent, have tried to influence me; but
they have found that neither money nor
position can tempt a woman to swerve from
her political principles. I am for Harrison
first, last and all the time. Mrs. Harrison
believes in woman suffrage and is loyal to
all women, and she is just the woman we
want in the White House."
	Miss Susan B. Anthony, president of the
National-American W. S. A., was granted
a hearing before the committee on resolutions.
She presented the memorial published in an-
other column, and spoke earnestly for the
adoption of a woman suffrage plank. A
number of memorials asking for a suffrage
plank were presented to the committee on
resolutions, and were widely circulated by
the press.
		A. S. B.
	Woman's Journal:


The National Editorial Association, at its
recent annual meeting in San Francisco, de-
cided henceforth to exclude from member-
ship all "class" Press Associations. This
rules out all the Women's Press Associations.
If a society composed exclusively of women
is a "class" association, a society composed
exclusively of men is equally so. To be
consistent, the National Editorial Associ-
ation ought to exclude all State Press As-
sociations that do not admit women to mem-
bership.—Ex.


