IN RURAL ENGLAND.
			XVI.

	Lord Walton was deeply impressed with
the manner and appearance of Miss Conway;
he had heard of her through the family so-
licitor, but after seeing and hearing her, he
felt, "the half had not been told."
	Then too Miss Conway had improved
greatly since coming to the castle; the res-
ponsibility that had come to her in the po-
sition of hostess gave altogether more ease
and calmness to her general demeaor; nat-
urally she was a lady, yet  unaccustomed to
the society of people of rank, and therefore
she had manifested a hesitancy and apparent
dread of meeting people, that wore off as
from time to time she was brought in con-
tact with distinguished persons.  Her home
life had formerly been quiet, and the eti-
quette and usages of society she only knew
through the teaching of others; but these
matters require practical application, and
few people indeed, however bright and well
read they may be, have sufficient native
grace, courtesy and tact to feel perfectly
serene in the company of those who have
been trained from infancy in the smallest
details of receiving, entertaining and those
numberless ceremonies that must be observ-
ed in the "best society."
	Miss Conway was one in a thousand, and
every one who came into her presence felt
her superiority, though often unable to des-
cribe the why or wherefore.
	It was this fact that Lord Walton had re-
alized, and he was almost self-condemned
when conversing with her about Maitland.
With truly characteristic dignity she told
the story of Maitland’s attachment to Lady 
Anna with which the reader is already ac-
quainted.
	Miss Conway did not leave him in the
dark in regard to the impulsiveness of his
son, for she observed by the drift of his re-
marks that he inclined to the belief that her
cousin had been most infatuated, in fact had
set a trap to catch his son by her wiles, in-
trigue and artifice.
	It roused her womanly reserve to a pitch
of enthusiasm she had not believed herself
capable of feeling, and it greatly pleased Dr.
Bland, who saw that she was capable of
becoming a very queen in power, and deter-
mination when opposed or misunderstood.
Royally she plead her cousin Anna’s cause,
showing how her affections had been won,
and how she had suffered through the cruel-
ty of pride and the enmity that separated the 
two families.
	Miss Conway was very loth to consent to
the meeting between her cousin and Mait-
land’s father, but after some persuasion from
Dr. Bland, who felt it might be productive 
of the best interests of all parties concerned,
she reluctantly yielded and informed her
that Maitland's father desired to be present-
ed to her, and urged her to meet him in the
drawing-room immediately, so that the ordeal
would soon be over, adding at the same time,
"Have no fears Anna he dare not be arro-
gant with one of his own rank, besides re-
member you have a brother to defend your
position, and in sober earnest, I cannot but
believe Lord Walton will be favorably im-
pressed with your sweet simplicity and in-
nocent face."
	"You love me so much dear cousin Jane
that I seem more attractive in your eyes, do
not imagine that others see me as you do."
	"You are indeed very beautiful Anna,
and must draw all hearts to you by your
very artlessness and freedom from guile, of
which the great world to which you belong
is so full."
	It was the first time her cousin Jane had
spoken thus, but she saw she needed en-
couragement to meet this man, whom she
had been so much in dread of for many
weary months, and so while she was adjust-
ing her ribbons and laces a little Jane talk-
ed on to keep her spirits up, and then they
went down to the drawing-room together.
	Miss Conway saw directly that Lord Wal-
ton was surprised with her beauty, and re-
gal manner; for unlike her more heroic cous-
in, she had been throughly trained by her
French governesses in that elegance of style;
for which French women have ever been
celebrated.  For once this man of the world
seemed really embarrassed, he scarcely ad-
dressed half a dozen words to Lady Anna
beyond the simple introductory ceremony,
and excused himself by remembering that
he had an engagement that he must keep.
	Neither Dr. Bland or Miss Conway help-
ed him in the least towards interviewing
Miss Hilliard, and when he had taken his
departure, and the spell of his presence was
broken, Lady Anna retired to her own room,
and the Doctor forgetting he had a patient
waiting for him ardently urged Miss Con-
way to consent to his wish and become his
wife.  It was a lovely, balmy summer af-
ternoon, and they walked out into the shady
avenues under the great proud elms, centur-
ies old, and sauntering to and fro restlessly,
the Doctor told over again the oft repeated
tale of love that is always sweet and new to the
blushing though perchance doubting maid-
en.  He had repeated the story so often that
one would think the girl, would have known,
it by heart, herself but she listened as
though hearing it for the first time, and cer-
tainly it seemed to make a more heartfelt
impression,for contrary to her usual coldness


[column 1]
and indifference she gave him her hand
with such a look of tenderness that he ac-
cepted the silent action as a promise and
clasping her to his heart sealed the compact
with the kiss of betrothal.  Forgetful of all
else he lingered until the shades of evening
began to fall, when suddenly Jane remem-
bered she had household duties to perform
and chiding herself for such neglect, he was
reminded that his horse was standing saddled
and bridled, waiting to take him across the
fields to the sick patient he had totally for-
gotten.
	He was willing to go now, and alone
crossing the fields he could meditate, and
feel more deeply the sense of his happiness.
He had almost despaired of winning her
love, he had believed she would turn to him
in some great need for his strong arm to lean
upon, and that she would make him happy
even thus, but now his cup of joy was brim-
ming o’er and he scarcely knew how to give
expression to his feelings.  All the sounds
of nature were sweet and full of melody as
he rode along, and he was in that mood of
delicious ecstacy that comes with unexpect-
ed bliss.
	Jane was different, unlike the placid Doc-
tor who never thought of blaming himself
for leaving the poor woman so long without
attention, he felt self-satisfied; Jane flew to
her cousin, and finding her in tears inward-
ly condemned the selfishness that had kept
her so long away from duty.  She soothed
her cousin’s temporary grief assuring her
that all would be well now, and her lover
would be able to come openly instead of
making stolen visits as had been his custom.
In fact she prophesied, though she was not
aware of her own prophetic nature her mind
was more at peace, for she had long been
debating within herself whether his love was
deep and strong enough to brave all, and
unite her destiny with one whom she had
only known so short a time.
	When Lord Walton turned his horse’s
head toward home he rode like one pursued,
so eager was he to meet his wife and tell her
of his interview.  He found her anxiously
waiting not knowing what might be the
consequence of his anger.  He came in like
one unconcerned, she rose to meet him, he
motioned her to be seated and then related
what had occurred.  That he had seen the
niece of whom he had previously heard,
"and were you convinced of her superior
wisdom?” inquired his wife, as though she
was innocent of any real knowledge of the one,
who knew of her clandestine visit to the
castle.  ‘‘I have never met any one more of
a match for me or for any other man, for
that matter, such a spirit, if she had been
the Lady of the castle instead of a poor re-
lation she could not have borne herself
more proudly.  She talked as if she were
both father and mother to Sir Edward’s
daughter,  and that cold-blooded Doctor
Bland, sat back and admired her evidently
congratulatory, while she argued her cous-
in’s cause like an expert lawyer, instead of a
country cousin.”
	‘‘And how did it end, satisfactorily it
would seem from your composure?” this
was all Lady Walton ventured to say, she
did not ask if he had seen Miss Hilliard or
her brother, somehow she stood in fear of
him, but Miss Conway she felt sure would
keep her secret inviolate.
	‘‘It came out well enough, that is I saw
this fine young lady for whom Maitland is
dying in love, though I doubt it, and yet
she is beautiful, how that old bear should
have such a delicate, refined, and gentle
daughter I can’t possibly understand, it

[column 2]
comes of the good blood generations back I
suppose you would say. ”
	Further conversation was prevented by
the entrance of Maitland, who not knowing
of his father’s visit or that he was in the
house, came hastily in to speak to his moth-
er before going out for a ride, his father
noticing he was booted and spurred said,
“whither away young man, is this the way
you come to your mother’s apartments, have
you no respect for the proprieties that you come
thus unceremoniously into your mother’s
boudoir? I shall begin to believe you are as
desperately infatuated as I have been in-
formed by your new-found acquaintances.”
   “And pray who may they be?” inquired
the young man hotly not guessing that his
father had been to the castle or knew
aught of his visits there.
	“Hold young man, show a trifle more re-
spect, I am not to be questioned in this mat-
ter, but first answer me where were you go-
ing?”  “For a ride in the open air, and to
call on a young friend who has lately come
from abroad;” replied Maitland respectfully.
	“And that young friend is a gentleman
trust?” retorted his father. “In every
sense of the word and a most agreable com-
panion, the son of our neighbor, the late
Sir Edward Hilliard, of whose existence ev-
en the family were not aware until since his
father’s death.”
	Indeed a very pretty romance, but hard to
believe considering that at the time this
young man was born, Sir Edward was dy-
ing to be revenged upon me for marrying
your mother,” and as he pronounced the
last words he looked towards his wife to see
what effect it would have; he saw she was
deathly pale, but Maitland trembled from
head to foot, and groaned aloud; sinking in-
to a chair he covered his face, as though he
would shut out all the world.
	Lord Walton was satisfied, for he was de-
termined to ascertain whether his son knew
aught of the difficulty that had created the
enmity between Sir Edward and himself,
and he turned then to his wlfe, who was
trying to soothe her son, and as though half
sorry said, “Maitland is womanish, he is his
mother’s child certainly, such weakness I
dislike, why should he be shocked, there is
nothing disgraceful about it.  However he
had better ascertain if this girl of whom he
is so enamored is honorably born; if the
young man is heir, what is she?”
	Lady Walton was too much annoyed to
reply, and a servant came in answer to her
call with some wine and restoratives, for
Maitland, and therefore the conversation
was discontinued.  Maitland soon revived
and his father having left the room, without
questioning his mother, whose heart he felt
