IN MEMORIAM.

	Another noble spirit has departed! one whom
we had vainly hoped to keep with us longer, and
we feel deeply the want of her presence, her be-
loved society, which was ever like the perfumed
flower, dispensing sweets through every hour.
Sister Mary Haines Jacobs, was the beloved
daughter of John and Sarah Haines, she was born
August 13th 1827, at North Petheston, Somerset-
shire, England, she joined the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints in 1853, or '54, emi-
grated to America in 1857; leaving her parents,
brothers and sisters for the Gospel's sake. She
was married October 14th, 1858, to Daniel Jacobs,
in the State of New York; in 1859 they were able
to come to Utah; Brother Jacobs having means
enough to pay his wife's passage, and working
upon the way to pay his own way. They passed
through all the hardships that the Saints in those
days had to endure. Sister Jacobs was ill all the
way crossing the plains, but she never murmured;
she passed through many severe trials, but was
faithful to the end, always cheerful and contented
happy in doing good for those around her, never
a word of complaint passed her lips; her faith and
trust in God were unbounded. A true wife and
mother in the truest sense of the term, she pos-
sessed a spirit of love and benevolence towards
all, to know her was to love her, for she always
had a kind word and a pleasant smile for one and
all, she has been active in many public capacities;
Sister Jacobs made her home for some time in St.
Charles, Bear Lake Couty, Idaho. In 1867 she
was called to act as Counselor in the St. Charles
Relief Society which office she held until 1880,
when she was called and set apart to preside as
President over that Society, which office she held
until 1884, when with her family she moved to
Pleasant Green Ward, Salt Lake County. She
has been a true and faithful member in the Re-
lief Society from that time until the time of her
death, always on hand and willing for any call
that was made of her; she was the mother of six
living children, her second daughter who passed
away some three years ago, having left three
small children, Sister Jacobs performed the part
of a true and loving mother to her daughter's
little children until the time of her demise. She

[Column 2]

died March 27th 1892, at Pleasant Green, of
pneumonia. She leaves a loving husband, five
children and eleven grandchildren to mourn her
loss, her eldest son is now filling a mission in
Indiana.

A bright spirit has flown, a loved one departed
	A gentle one gone to her rest,
While friends are left desolate, bowed and sad.
		hearted,
	Yet feeling that Father knows best.

Cold death often visits the most perfect house-
		hold,
	Selecting the dearest of all; 
None purer, not better, from out of the threshold,
	E'er answered the sorrowful call-

Than Mary,—so lovely in face, mind and spirit,
	Intelligent, gentle and true;
Her counsel so wise, that all paused to hear it,
	Like wisdom is given to few.

Farewell dear mother, we do not mourn thee
	As one dead, but gone to rest,
From thy labors, and thy sufferings,
	With thy kindred to be blest.
		ALVIRA S. HIRST, Pres.
		ANN C. BERTOCH,
		NANCY H. DEARDON,
			Counselors.
