"DI VERNON" MAKES A HIT.

	A member of our Pacific Coast Women's
Press Association, Eliza D. Keith, who writes
for the San Francisco News Letter over the
pen name of "Di Vernon," has just scored a
journalistic triumph over no less a periodical
than the Illustrated American. If "Di Ver-
non" has a hobby, it is American patriotism,
and the prevention of cruelty to animals.
	Beginning with a Fourth of July article,
1890, she published a glowing article in the
News Letter, in which occur these words: "It
is treason to haul down the flag from the mast-
head; it is treason to degrade it in the esti-
mation of a child." In February, 1891, she
asked: "Shall the flag of our country be de-
based by bearing upon its fair surface an ad-
vertising device? If there be no law to prevent
it, let us have one at once."
	In September, 1891, she delivered a mag-
nificent address before the Women's Press-
Association at Union Square Hall. The per-
oration was a grand patriotic outburst, calling
upon Congress to protect the flag from the ad-
vertising fiend. This was published in the
Daily Report, of San Francisco, and in the
New York Journalist, giving it a widespread
circulation. This address also contained an
exposition of "Di Vernon's" pet project, the
organization of the "Order of the American
Flag," a patriotic legion, among the children
of America.
	At other times during the last few years,
Eliza D. Keith (Di Vernon) has made sim-
ilar appeals to arouse the patriotic sentiment.
	Imagine her surprise, taking up a copy of
the Illustrated American in April, 1892, to
find a self laudatory editorial, in which the pa-
per congratulated itself that the crusade which
it had inaugurated against the flag advertis-
ing was about to bear fruit. To claim the
whole credit for that aroused Di Vernon's
sense of justice. She wrote to the editor, ask-
ing the date of the "inauguration." Mr. Min-
ton replied in courteous note, stating that


the matter was brought up in editorials of vol.
9, page 530, dated Feb. 6, 1892.
	Eliza D. Keith (Di Vernon) has dug up
all the dates of her patriotic articles, and in
the News Letter of May 14, 1892, has pub-
lished a history of the whole matter, under the
appropriate caption: "Honor the Flag."
	With characteristic directness, Di Vernon
asks: "Don't you think that instead of taking
the lead, you were rather late in dropping in-
to line?"—The Journalist.


