QUESTIONS OF INTEREST.

	The subscribers will perhaps notice that the
paper is in new dress this time and it is hoped
that very soon other improvements may be made
it is really desirable that the subscription should
be increased sufficiently to warrant its being pub-
lished weekly, instead of semi-monthly.  Agents
should make an effort in this direction, it would
be a laudable ambition and remember how much
more reading matter you will get for the same
price.

	There are a number of things to be written
about that we have not space for this issue, viz.
our California letter, visits we have made with
the sisters to Tooele, Box Elder and Juab Stakes
to attend Sisters meetings and conferences, of
Relief Society, Y. L. M. I. A. and P. A. which
were very interesting and enjoyable.  Sisters Z.
D. H. Young, B. W. Smith, and S. M. Kimball
have been among the speakers who have been
visiting at these places. At Brigham City we had
the pleasure of seeing and hearing the Primary
children at a Concert in the Opera House which
was a very grand affair, and would have been a
credit even to young people.  The little folks did
some fine acting. At Nephi we also had a woman
suffrage meeting in addition to the womens’ Con-
ferences. Sister M. Isabella Horne has been
traveling through parts of this Stake holding
meeting in the various wards, South Cotton Wood
Mill Creek, Taylorsville and others.

	There are so many subjects pending one might
with propriety treat upon editorially that it is
difficult to decide which is the most important, or
what would be the most acceptable.  The great
question of the next President of the United States
is to most people, a very exciting public matter,
and in the two great conventions as well as in the
prohibition Convention, in Cincinnati the pub-
lic sentiment of the parties has been made appar-
ent, or one might say party spirit has at least been
exhibited, however all things considered every-
thing passed off as well as could be expected and
even more harmoniously than might have been
thought judging by appearances.  So far so good,
but the end is not yet reached, but for the good
name of our great Republic it is to be hoped
peace and good order may be maintained and a
disposition to bear dissappointment bravely if on
the losing side.  Women are as deeply interested
in this grave national matter as men can possibly
be and have as much or more at Stake. It re- 
mains to be proven what either party will do for
women.  Miss Anthony has considerable influence
with the Republican party, but whether it is suffi-
cient even with all her ablest co-workers and the
whole association of the N. A. W. S.  A. to pro-
duce any positive effect, or radical change it is
impossibly to say.  One fact however is well-

[Column 2]
known that the woman suffrage cause is growing
in popularity every day, and that alone is suffi-
cient indication of its ultimate success.

	The Old Folks Excursion to Payson on Wed-
nesday June 29th, was the largest and one of the
most plesant “outs” they have ever enjoyed.
We intend to give it somewhat in detail in our
next issue of the paper, but as copy was just about
all in before it took place, we can only make
brief mention of it here.  It is certainly a happy
occasion for the aged who have little
opportunity for pleasure and it is very noticable
that they look forward to it with a happy antici-
pation each succeeding year. Surely those who
give of their means to this benevolent enterprise
must feel abundantly blest in return in witnessing
the happiness they bestow upon the aged infirm
and comparatively helpless who are slowly but
surely descending the hill of life. The D. &R. G.
railway people have been most magnanimous
in placing their cars and engine at the disposal of
the Old Folks Committee too much cannot be
said in their praise, and this time a larger com-
pany went out than ever before one thousand
people over seventy years old were aboard the
train at the time of reaching Payson some of
them were taken on at different stations on the
route.  The good people of Payson were more
than hospitable, they were magnanimously gen-
erous in their preparations to entertain the vet-
erans, and carriages and teams were in waiting
on the arrival of the train, bands of music playing,
and for those who chose to walk, sweet fresh hay
had been spread all the way from the depot to the
grove which was soft and fragrant.  Sunday School
children with flags and banners lined the entire
distance, and when the grove was reached the
long tables spread with the bounties of the earth
and every delicacy of the season were in waiting
young men and maidens with dainty white caps
and aprons, ribbons etc., displaying the national
colors vied with each other in attendance upon the
party.  The flags, banners and festooning with
bunting, tents and stands for the speakers at the
grove gave the whole affair the appearance of an
out-door banquet and such indeed it was.
	These excursions are of all nationalities and
creeds, and irrespective of race or color. It has
become an annual custom and one that seems
likely to survive for the young people growing up
in our midst enter into the spirit of it, and will as-
surredly perpetuate the practise when those who
inaugurated it shall have passed away.


