		MRS. SOLOMON THATCHER JR.

	[Address delivered in large Tabernacle in 
Salt Lake City, Sunday evening June 5,
1892.]
Ladies and Gentlemen of Utah and Salt 
		Lake City:

	I wish to assure you that I appreciate very
much the compliment of this invitation to
be present and speak to you of a matter that
lies very near to my heart. I am exceed-

[Column 2]
ingly interested in the association that is
holding its grand meeting in this Taber-
nacle for the last few days. If there is any-
thing that is better for young people than
another thing after religion, it is the love of
education and culture. I am glad to know
that these young men and women are sys-
tematically pursuing a course of education
and growth. Education is the great lever
that shall lift the world from vice and deg-
radation. Education is the great key that
shall unlock the storehouse of nature, and
shall put into your hands as willing slaves,
the great powers of nature. Education is
the sunlight that shall drive away the mists
and miasmas of ignorance, vice and super-
stitution. Education is the sunlight that
shall show to you the face of your God, and
lead you to know his love for you.
	I should hesitate to occupy your time and
trust my ability to interest you, did I not
feel that every man and woman should be
interested in everything that tends to show
God's goodness to us, that tends to elevate
manhood and womanhood. We are ap-
proaching a great epoch in the history of
civilization. Already the great nations of 
the earth and the islands of the sea are col-
lecting their treasures,and bringing them up
to show as a thank offering to God for His
goodness and mercy to all. Already upon
the shores of Lake Michigan, a few miles
from the hum and the noise of a million and
a half of people, a city is approaching com-
pletion, a city of buildings of magnificient
proportions, of great architectural beauty.
These palaces are to be the storehouses in
which shall be placed the offerings of men, 
the products of the brain, of the heart, and
of the hand of man, products of the sea and 
of the soil and of the mine. Already the
plowshare has turned the soil that shall
produce exposition grain; already the forge
and smelting furnace are smelting exposition
ore; already the choicest products of your
quarries are being worked by skillful men to
show to the world your marbles, your gran-
ites, and your precious stones; already the
spinners are weaving their beautiful fabrics
to delight your eyes.
	No money has been spared in this under-
taking. The president of the directory told 
me just before I left home,that it would be
very difficult to obtain in all the world
enough insurance to cover the value of the
wonderful products that shall be on exhibi-
tion at this exposition. 67 countries have
already accepted invitations to participate.
Japan, that far away country in Asia, has
appropriated $600,000 with which to show
the value of her products. The State of
Illinois has appropriated $800,000 with
which to properly set forth her resources.
	I should be glad to talk to you longer and
tell you of the general work of the fair, but
I want to talk to you of what the women
are doing in the fair. Some little time after
Congress had decided to celebrate the quad-
ricentennial of the discovery of America,and
had appointed a commission of gentlemen
who formed their plans on a comprehensive
scale, a large party, stimulated, no doubt by
a patriotic woman, introduced a bill into
Congress, asking for the appointment of a
board of women, to serve on all departments


[Column 1]
of the board where women’s work was ex-
pected, and in the performance of other
work. This was a great step in advance for
women; and it is the first time in the history
of our country that women have been invit- 
ed to participate in a department of our
country’s government. This was the result
of the sensible ideas of women. The mem-
bers of the commission, as soon as this
board was appointed, vied with each other
in their desires to give us great opportunities
and full scope. They put into our hands
all the interests of women all over the world.
They have made us the official channel
through which all women and organizations
of women may come into connection with
the fair. This opportunity was seized upon
to bring out everything that would elevate
and show the value of women in the world.
	We are making great efforts to have in
the competition exhibition everything that
women have ever done. It will be a great
surprise to these gentlemen to find how
generally women have occupied all positions,
if I mentioned to you that we have dis-
covered women blacksmiths, women wagon-
ers, and one of the best ranches in California
is owned and run by a woman. We have
found women shoemakers, and in fact the
women nowadays are doing about every-
thing they please. We are not satisfied in
showing simply what the women in this
part of the world are doing, but we have in-
vited our sisters from all over the world to
join in this great enterprise. Mrs. Palmer,
our president, is a lady combining every
characteristic that is beautiful and delightful.
She is beautiful, winsome in her manner,
displaying those qualities of mind and heart
which should win every one. Mrs. Palmer,
our president, in her visit abroad last sum-
mer, by her personal acquaintance has been
able to interest some of the noblest men and
women of Europe in the Fair. In England
the Princess Christian, a lady of great ability
and daughter of Queen Victoria, is head of
the World’s Fair commission board of wo-
men. In France, Madam Carnot and others
of prominence are greatly interested in the
women’s department of the fair. The
French nation has appointed a commission
of women and has appropriated a sum of
money to pay all the expenses attended upon
their exhibits. Germany, Russia, Scandi-
navia, and in fact most of the European
countries have appointed commissions of
women also. Mexico and most of the great
advanced South American States have ap-
pointed woman commissions also. Last
summer a lady from China went to India,
empowered to confer with a princess of that
country, a woman of most humane disposi-
tion, who has taken a great interest in the
poor child widows of that land, providing
them with schools, homes, etc. This prin-
cess we hope will be able to induce the gov-
ernment of India to appoint a commission of
women for the World’s Fair; a most un-
heard of thing, for women are looked upon
as little better than nothing there.
	We have a woman’s building at the fair,
which was given us by the gentlemen. It
is most beautifully located, and I want you
to remember that this building is yours,
women of Utah; it belongs to all the women
of the world. As I said, it is most beauti-
fully located, commanding a fine view of the
grounds. At the right is the great horti-
cultural building, at the left the State build-
ing of Illinois, while in front stretches out
a noble view of the best buildings of the
fair. On the roof of this structure is a gar-
den,, with fountains, where the weary

[Column 2]
visitor may sit and rest in quietness and
view the magnificent scene. From the
lower floor will be steps leading down to the
lagoon, where launches, etc., will convey
visitors to other parts of the grounds; or if
they prefer land transportation, an electric
road will furnish rapid transit.
	On the lower floor of this building we in-
tend to display all the benevolences of wo-
men. We shall have offices, headquarters,
reading and writing rooms, etc., also a large
assembly room for women and organizations
of women to assemble to discuss organiza-
tions, or listen to lectures. We shall have
on this floor a library with books written
only by women, and they have written some
very good ones. We shall also have a model
hospital, with trained nurses, physicians,
etc., We shall have a model kitchen, with
all modern labor saving machinery useful in
such a place; here distinguished teachers
will give lessons in the best methods of ob-
taining the most nutriment with the least
possible expense. We shall also have a
colonial exhibit, which will show you the
methods of life and thoughts of the people
in the early part of the history of our
country. We shall have an exhibit show-
ing the advance of women. We expect to
show that women have always been a great
factor,though unsuspected, in the history of
the world. For cycles and ages great plane-
tary systems rolled through space, without
clash and noise, luminous bodies came and
went, and great comets would terrify at
times with their peculiar flights. For ages
no one suspected the great laws which held
them in space and told them when
to come and when to return. But
after a series of cycles and ages, men dis-
covered that God was back of all this, that
He had originated the plan and the purpose
and the law by which all these were gov-
eerned, and that even the flying comet was
subject to His own law. So in the domin-
ion of men. We intend to show that there
has been a quiet, but irresistible force gov-
erning the decrees of men, and softening
their harsh features. This force has been
women.
	Prof. Putnam, of Yale College, and head
of the bureau of ethnology, has had in
Mexico quite a number of scientists,and has
been making researches in regard to the
habits and manner of life of pre-historic
man. We expect to show you some very
great things from his investigations. He
has already found in that country many of
the utensils, etc., and even some of the re-
mains of this people themselves, wrapped in
the mummy bands in which their bodies
were buried. Professor Putnam tells us
that the condition of women at the earliest
time was pitiable indeed; that she was pur-
sued as you have seen the hawk pursue the
gentle dove; that she was captured and
slain, or forced to submit to terrible indig-
nities. Later on, her faith and her intelli-
gence and her gentle influence made for her
a better place in the economy of the times,
and she became the home-maker. In those
early days the women did all the work,
while the men followed the chase, or lolled
in indolent ease. And a curious fact has
been developed by these excavations, it has
been discovered that in those days the men
wore all the jewelry, the bracelets and the
false hair and other things now usually used
by the women.
	It is an astounding reflection that the wo-
men were the first inventors; they manu-
factured the household utensils from various
materials, even using molded clay and bak-

[Column 3]
ing it in the sun. They were the first that
took the coarse vegetable fiber and twisted
it carefully for their clothes, or from the wool
and hair of animals and the down of birds
made warm fabrics. They were the first
basket makers, and some of those early
baskets have never been surpassed for
beauty and durability. They were also the
first dyers, dying their articles with juices of
plants.
	I have endeavored to give you some idea
of what the women of the world have done,
and are doing.
	The board of lady managers has also
taken another step. At first no provision
was made for the very ones we love the
best—nothing had been done for the chil-
dren. The children should have a building
and the lady managers have decided to put
up a building for them. It will cost $20,000
and will take another $20,000 to run it.This
we expect to erect, and we want the young
ladies to give entertainments, concerts, etc.,
and raise the money to carry on this build-
ing. Here mothers can bring their babies
and put them in the care of competent
nurses, while they go and enjoy the Fair.
We shall check the babies, just as you would
check baggage, and you can go away with
your check and know that the little ones
will be safe.
	Then we intend to have a kindergarten,
arid we shall also have a room where your
children will be instructed in regard to the
peoples of various lands, their habits, modes
of life and peculiarities of dress; and compe-
tent ladies will take these children in charge.
It is a wish very near the heart of the board
of lady managers, that as many women as
possible may enjoy this occasion and have
the benefit of the growth and culture attend-
ant upon a visit to the Fair. Consequently,
an association of the board of lady managers
is endeavoring to construct a number of
dormitories in which women may take lodg-
ings with perfectly respectable surroundings,
at the slight cost of probably 35c. a day.
We want to make it possible for every wo-
man that can leave home, to come. We do
not wish any money consideration to hinder
them. To help them to attend we shall
have five dormitories, capable of accommo-
dating one thousand people each. There
will also be appointed another corps of lady
managers.
	There are also 350,000 teachers in the
United States and if any one ought to have
the advantage of this growth and culture, it
is the teacher, who cares for our children,
who instructs them, and shows them the
way of life. We must broaden and ennoble
their lives. We have been working and
laboring with the boards of education in
Chicago, and they have almost promised to
grant us the use of twenty of their largest
and most beautiful school houses, near the
fair, with fifteen rooms each, of thirty by
sixty feet; these rooms we intend to fit up
as dormitories for visiting teachers, where
the teachers can have a cheap but respect-
able lodging under the care of the lady
managers. All these things are done to
make it possible for you to come.
	Men and women of Utah, you have a
glorious heritage. You breathe a higher
and purer air than most of your brethren;
your eyes constantly rest upon one of the
most glorious landscapes with which God
has ever blessed the vision of man; your
soil yields most abundant growth; you are
environed by mountains with hearts of gold
and veins of silver, and sinews of iron; you
have magnificent resources. It remains for


you to take advantage of this opportunity to
show to the world the wealth and the
grandeur that God has given you.  You
must unite yourselves together; there must
be political parties; there must be no sec-
tarian division; you must be brethren and
sisters. And sisters of Utah, you must
work for your own land; you must bring to
the great fair your products and your glori-
ous things.
	You have a most beautiful site at the
Fair.  You have as large an amount of
space as Montana, Nevada and Idaho. And 
the day set apart for your celebration is the
24th of July, a most glorious one in your
history.  On that day your speakers, your
great men, will gather together, and the
people will gather around your house to
hear what God has done for Utah, and what
you have done for yourselves.  Now,  you
want to see what you can do.  You must
be brave.  You will have the board of lady
managers, and I trust you will lift up the
hands of these women, and all the women
that shall hereafter be appointed.  You
must have Columbian clubs. I wish every
one of these Young Men's Mutual Improve-
ment Associations would this winter resolve
itself into a Columbian club, with the view
of advancing and displaying your own re-
sources, and showing what Utah is.  We
wish the young ladies would do the same.
Every city, every hamlet, and every town
must have one of these Columbian Clubs.
You must get so enthused with this spirit,
that you will wish to give to Utah the
highest place among her sister States and
Territories.
	We want to see everybody at the fair.  It
may be that some of those I see before me
will never see the gates of the fair open.
They show by their whitened hair and fur-
rowed cheek that they will soon see that
celestial city, where God has in store for
them scenes and joys that no earthly fairs
can produce.  But I want the young men
and the young women to come to the fair.
You can by economy get the money for you
will find all the expenses not very heavy.
You cannot afford to miss this culture.  Do
not let your beautiful country take second
or third place.  Every man and woman of
you must put your shoulders to the wheel
and help to make your representation second
to none. I hope to see you all at the fair.
The culture you thus obtain will make you
nobler mothers and grander wives, and you
will go forth side by side with your brothers
to elevate and ennoble the world.


