L. D. S. COLLEGE EXERCISES.

	I visited the Latter-day Saints College to
hear the closing exercises of this year, and
from the sublime address delivered by one of
the graduates, Philip S. Maycock, I send you
an extract which you will I trust please give
place in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	"I wish to remark in passing that,in represent-
ing the graduates on this memorable occasion, I
have the honer of representing almost as many
ladies as gentlemen. She has demonstrated


her capacity of entering the ranks of the
teachers' profession, and keeping there an hon-
ored place.
	She has shown that she is as competent of
moulding the plastic mind of the child, as are
the members of the sterner sex, nay, even
more competent. In this college, at least, she
long ago dissipated that fallacious claim of
man's intellectual superiority over woman; for
she has indisputably proven that, under the
same school conditions, her intellectuality out-
shines that of man."
	"Mrs. Charlotte Emerson Brown in her
biennial address, outlines the work and pro-
gress of the last two years. She said there is
no longer any doubt as to the wisdom of this
movement. Our movement is a necessary part
of the new civilization. Ours is an age of
intellect and of critical investigation. Every
question is being analyzed and resolved into
its elements The axe is at the root of every
tree.
	"Theology, civil government, questions in
sociology, all of vast practical movement, are
under investigation as unsolved problems. In
this search for new truth and readjustment of
human relations, woman comes to the front
and is an important factor. Woman's clubs
are a great educator and developer of woman's
powers for the new position they are called to
occupy. They inspire high aims, broader in-
formation, teach women to think and to ex-
press thought clearly on paper, or in extempor-
aneous addresses. They are teachers in parlia-
mentary usage; they are schools for post
graduates,and they help women to know them-
selves and their own capabilities."
		DR. E. S. BARNEY.
	June 1st, 1892.


