			GOSHEN.
   A special meeting of Goshen Relief So-
ciety was held May 13th, 1892, in Relief
Hall. There were present Stake President
Mary John and her Counselor Marilla Dan-
iels. Meeting commenced at 10 a. m: Pres-
ident Mary Johnson presiding, singing
"O say what is truth." Bishop Wm. Price
offered the opening prayer after which was
sung: "Sweet is the work my God, my
King", and the minutes of the last meeting
were read.
   President Mary Johnson, "we have our
Stake President and Sister Daniels with us
and they will speak to us."
   President Mary John was pleased to meet
with us. Hoped we would have a good
time together. Spoke of the book that was
going to be published containing history and


Jubilee reports of the Relief Society, also
spoke of the EXPONENT and hoped more
would subscribe for it. Said, "These so-
cities are good schools for us. The Jubilee
was a great thing for us all, showing the in-
terest of the sisters in the work. It is de-
sired that the Temple should be finished
this year and it requires our mite in this.
This is a great work and we cannot do too
much good for the futherance thereof. We
should teach the children while they are
young, and be diligent in order to gain the
smiles and approbation of our Heavenly
Father. The more good we do here the
greater will be our reward hereafter.
   Counselor Marilla Daniels said: "We
have a great mission to perform, and we
 cannot do so without the aid of the Lord.
We have to seek him in our closets, for that
is the way to obtain his spirit to guide us.
We may expect trials to prove us and they
will prove blessings." She showed the dif-
ference between the circumstances of the 
saints now and those of the early days.
Spoke of the work in the Temples, training
of our children, attending to the sick, culti-
vating faith in our children. In the days of
Navuoo she said: "The Prophet desired the
sisters to pay one cent a week to help build
the Temple; the people were very anxious
to have a Temple in that day, and we should
be just as anxious now. It is just as essen-
tial for us to work for the dead as for the liv-
ing, for we cannot be saved without them. 
Let us do all we can while we are here so
when we depart we will be missed.
   The Bishop and several of the brethren
met with us and gave some good and timely
advice. Emma Jenkins sang the "Unknown
Grave."
   Louisa Taylor knew this was the true
work. Spoke of her early days and the
blessings of the Relief Society. Sarah Rob-
erts was thankful to be a member of the 
Church and hoped to be able to keep the
commandments of God. President Johnson
said "our time had been well spent we would
meet again in the afternoon."
   Singing, "May we who know the joyful 
sound." Benediction pronounced by Elder
Wm. Finch.
   Afternoon services were similar to the
morning meeting. The stake presidency
spoke of the good we could do to the sick
and the blessings we were enjoying. Pres-
ident Johnson and Counselors Ellison and
Gourley and Mary Dodds with some more
of our brethren and sisters gave good and
timely advice. The necessity for a suffrage
association was discussed at some length but
as Sister Bullock did not come we were not
organized. 	
			LOUISA TAYLOR, Secretary.


