EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Mrs. Susa Young Gates, daughter of the late
President Brigham Young, and editor of the
Young Woman's Journal, left this City June 16,
enroute for Boston or rather Cambridge to take a
summer course of instruction in literature at
Harvard College.
	A VERY pretty gift and much appreciated was
that of a box of pressed ferns and sea-weed from
the Sandwich Islands and the box contained
unique Relief Society badges, such as were worn
by the native sisters there on Jubilee Day, March
17.  The badges were for Zina D. H. Young and
her Counselors including one for the editor.  It
was a very pretty remembrance of their sisters
far away.
	We acknowledge with grateful thanks the gen-
erous gifts of bouquets of choice flowers, some
from the garden, some from the mountain side,
some from the wildwood, all beautiful and speak-
ing in tender but silent language of friendship and
affection.  In trying to recall the-givers of these
testimonials of love, we remember Minnie
Christenson, Jane Cowen, Betsy Glover, James
Dwyer, and some from unknown sources, but we
prize them all.


THIS seems to be a season of recreation and
enjoyment, lawn fetes, picnics in the cañons, ex-
cursions here and there; lake bathing and all sorts
of summer festivities are being indulged in by
old and young; the city never presented a finer
appearance, the June roses have been more
plentiful than ever; and it does seem indeed a
delightful pleasure to have a profusion of flowers.
In the country too vegetation though late gives
promise of a plentiful harvest, and everywhere
around peace and plenty smile upon the people.
	MRS. Amelia F. Young returned about a week
ago from abroad, where she has been making
quite an extended tour on the continent and in
Great Britain, having been absent more than a
year, and during that time sojourned in several of
the large cities long enough to visit the most at-
tractive places of interest. Like most travelers
Mrs. Young seems to have been best pleased with
Paris, though she has enjoyed being in and sight-
seeing London, also Berlin, Berne, and many other
cities as well as those not quite so famous. Mrs.
Young is looking remarkably well and her wel-
come home was most cordial, for she is sincerely
beloved and greatly admired by her friends in
Utah.
	THERE seems to be a positive movement now
regarding representation for Utah at the World’s
Fair in Chicago. We hear of plans for the build-
ing, and as we have repeatedly heard a beautiful
site has been assigned to this Territory, it is but
natural to think a handsome building will be
erected thereon.  A Committee of ladies has
been appointed and will doubtless commence
work in their department of the undertaking
right away. The ladies are Mrs. F. S. Richards
of Salt Lake, President, Mrs. F. D. Richards of
Ogden, Vice President, Mrs. J. N. Dart, Salt
Lake, Mrs. Geo. Thatcher, Logan, Mrs. Electa
Bullock, Provo, Miss May Preston is Secretay of
the Board.  The committee of ladies are
well qualified for the positions to which they are
called, and it is hoped they will have the support
and influence necessary to success, from the
gentlemen of the committee and the people at
large.


