[Vol47 | August 1960 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: LaPriel | Author: Brown]
LaPriel Strong Bunker Appointed to the General Board of Relief Society Zina Y. C. Brown APRIEL Strong Bunker comes to the General Board of Relief Society with unusual qualifications. Her appointment to this position came June 1, 1960. She was born in Salt Lake City to William Hill Strong and Clara Ann Bishop, the youngest of twelve children. She was married to Bryan L. Bunker in the Salt Lake Temple on April 20, 1923. They made their home in Las Vegas, Nevada, with the exception of two years in Los Angeles, until they moved to Salt Lake City, Utah, in August 1959. Sister Bunker served as head of the Relief Society in the California Mission when her husband _presided over that mission. She had been president of the Moapa Stake Relief Society and had served previously as first counselor to two stake Relief Society presidents. She has served in class leadership in all departments of Relief Society. Her record of nearly thirty years as a visiting teacher is as remarkable as her twenty-eight years as ward and stake organist, which included her position as accompanist for the Singing Mothers. All this time given to the work of the kingdom has not barred her from being a wonderful wife and mother. Indeed, her first responsibility in this "work in the kingdom' has been to her noble companion and their seven sons, with whom this marriage was blessed. Three of these sons died in infancy. LAPRIEL S. BUNKER The eldest son, Bryan Allen, was graduated from the University of Utah. He married Merle Tietjen. Douglas Rich married Carol Rae Brown. He is receiving his Doctorate from Harvard University this summer. Garry, the third son, who is working on his Master's degree at Brigham Young University, martied Carolyn Marie Brown. David Sterling, the youngest, will enter the B. Y. U. This fall. Sister Bunker is truly all that the ideal Latter-day Saint woman should be. Her cheerful and buoyant spirit radiates love and good will wherever she goes. She is beloved by her husband, sons, daughters-inlaw, and her eleven grandchildren.