[Vol47 | August 1960 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Lesson | Title: Work | Author: Johnson]
WVork IT leeting—Caring for the Sick in the Home (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 2 — Manifestations of Illness Maria Johnson For Tuesday, November 8, 1960 Objective: To learn to recognize, observe, and report symptoms or signs of illness. To learn how to take and record the body temperature, pulse, and respiration. Symptoms symptom such as headache, pain, or nausea is not a disease, but it may be an important warning that something is wrong and may be most helpful to the doctor in determining the cause of the illness. The doctor depends upon the individual attending the patient to report to him the symptoms she observes and those of which the patient complains. Just as a child puts together the various shapes and colors of a puzzle to make the picture complete, so the doctor puts together the symptoms that are evident. One symptom may be of little importance by itself; but, when associated with others, the group of symptoms may be very significant. Any of us might have a fever today, yet the disease or cause of the fever could be different in each case. Other symptoms that accompany the fever will be important in determining the cause. Warning signals that any one of us can recognize are numerous, for example, headache, dizziness, nausea, swelling, bleeding, rash. Different diseases usually have a different combination or grouping of symptoms, so we can sce how important our observations are to the doctor who is to make the diagnosis and treat the disease. In addition to the symptoms observed or reported, he may need X-rays or laboratory tests. Page 548 Reporting to the Doctor When you call a doctor, let him feel you need help and that you are not just a panicky woman. Describe the symptoms you have observed. For example, pain in the abdomen is Sharp, comes and goes; the patient draws up her legs when the pain comes; it started an hour ago; or you might report the baby pulls at his ear and screams. Whatever you report, give the location, the character, when first noted, etc. If you have a thermometer, take the temperature and report it along with other observations. When the doctor comes ask him to write his orders for you, or you may write them. In either case go over them with the doctor and see that there are no misunderstandings. Never hesitate to ask for further explanation, if it is needed. Household Planning in Caring for the Sick When the care of a patient is added to the daily responsibilities in a home, emotional tension easily builds up. To avoid this make a plan. Write down what is to be done for the patient and at what time. Then fit this schedule into your household plan. Other members of the family can relieve you, if there is a plan they can understand, LESSON DEPARTMENT 549 and each one can see where he or Today we will read thermometers she can give a helping hand. And take pulse. The Vital Signs Temperature, pulse, and respiration are often called the vital signs. 'They give the doctor important clues in determining a patient's condition. The thermometer for taking body temperature is called a clinical or fever thermometer and differs from other thermometers in that the mercury remains at the highest point until it is shaken down. The mouth thermometer has either a slender bulb or a short stubby one. The rectal thermometer always has a stubby bulb. Never use a thermometer with a slender bulb when taking a rectal temperature as it may break and injure the patient. The normal mouth temperature is approximately 98.6 degrees F. The normal rectal temperature will be a degree higher or 99.6 degrees F. A thermometer has three parts — a bulb, a stem, and a tip end. (See illustration.) To Read a Thermomcter Important Steps Key Points 1. Become familiar with the scale and They appear on either side of the ridge numbers. Along the stem. 2. Shake down the mercury. It stays Grasp the tip end between the thumb at the last reading until shaken and forefinger, and shake with a snap down. Of the wrist. 3. Read the thermometer to the nearHold horizontally, in good light, with est tenth. The mercury will appear markings toward you. Do not touch along the ridge of the stem bethe bulb end. Rotate the stem _between the numbers and lines. Tween the thumb and finger until you sce where the line of mercury stops. ———i"'i S 8 100 2 4 6 "108 >) AVERAGE f NORMAL J PPV TA FVUTA CYTE ETONTIVINELTOTOROTIO IDET OTTO >) o4 S 6 + 100 2 4 6 108 Thermometers showing the average normal mouth temperature. Normal rectal temperature is one degree higher — 99.6. Mouth temperatures may be taken with either the long bulb thermometer or the stubby point thermometer, but rectal temperatures should be taken with the stubby bulb thermometer only. 550 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1960 To Take a Mouth Tcmperature Wait 20 or 30 minutes after a patient has had a hot or cold drink, or a tub bath, before taking the temperature. Equipment needed: Mouth thermometer Soap to clean the thermometer Cotton or tissue for wipes Important Steps Waste container Timepicce or watch with second hand Key Points 1. Wash your hands. 2. Take clean thermometer from clean container and shake down to at least 96° F. 3. Rinse the thermometer in cool To make it more pleasant to hold in water. The mouth, and so the mercury will not rise in washing. 4. Place the thermometer bulb under Have the patient keep the lips closed the tongue a little to one side but not bite down. In the patient's mouth. Leave it for at least 3 minutes. 5. Remove the thermometer and read. This will be the figure where the ribbon of mercury stops. 6. Clean thermometer with soap and Never put a thermometer away before cool water and store in clean concleaning it. Tainer. 7. Record temperature. Example — 98.6° — 100° — 102.4° 97-5" 8. Wash your hands. To Take a Rectal Temperature [E-quipment: lubricant such as vaseline or cold cream. Same as for mouth temperature, except use a stubby thermometer and add a Important Steps Key Points 1. Wash your hands. 2. Have adult turn on side — a child So anus is visible. On abdomen. 3. Shake down thermometer and Put lubricant on clean tissue — never lubricate the bulb end. Dip thermometer into a jar of lubricant. 4. Insert the bulb about one inch Always hold the thermometer for a slowly and gently. Hold in place child. Hold it for the adult unless he three minutes. Can hold it himself. 5. Remove — wipe and read. Same as for mouth thermometer. 6. Cleanse and put in container Same as for mouth thermometer. 7. Record temperature Write (R) after figure to show it is a rectal temperature. 8. Wash your hands. LESSON DEPARTMENT 551 The pulse is the beat which is felt each time the heart contracts to force the blood through the arteries or blood vessels. We speak of the heartbeat or pulsation. The normal pulse usually has perfect rhythm and moderate rate. A marked variation in pulse sometimes is more serious than change in temperature. Do not take a pulse after excitement or exercise. The pulse is usually taken at the inner surface of the wrist on the thumb side, where an artery lies near the surface and close to a bone. (See illustration.) You will need a watch or timepiece with a second hand. To Take a Pulse Important Steps 1. The patient should be lying down or sitting with the arm at rest on the bed or other support. 2. Place the tips of your first thrce fingers on the inner surface of the wrist on the thumb side. (Sce illustration.) Press just hard enough to feel the pulse distinctly. 3. Count the pulsation or beats for a full minute. 4. Record the exact number of beats in one minute and any irregularity. Key Points Exertion from holding the arm up can affect the pulse. Never take a pulse with the thumb, as there is an artery in the thumb, and you will feel your own pulse. If you press too hard you will be unable to feel the pulse. Use a watch or timepiece with a second hand. Observe any irregularity in thythm. (Does it skip beats?) The normal pulse usually has perfect thythm. An irregular pulse will skip beats. Respiration Respiration is the process of breathing. Oxygen keeps the body cells alive. We get our oxygen by breathing in fresh air and get rid of carbon dioxide waste as we breathe out. It is important to report to the doctor if the patient's respirations do not appear normal. For example, you will observe if the breathing is too slow, if it is shallow, if it is difficult, if the patient finds it easier to breathe when sitting up. Respirations will change with exercise or excitement.