[Vol47 | August 1960 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Lesson | Title: Social]
Social Science —Spiritual Living in the Nuclear Age Lesson 9 — Expanding Our Religious Horizons — Part Il: Concepts of Man Elder Blaine M. Porter For Tuesday, November 22, 1960 Objective: Introduction HE challenge of understanding the nature of man has faced all generations. 'The Psalmist _ said, "What is man, that thou art mindful of him?" Socrates admonished his fellow men — "Know thyself." Alexander Pope in 1733 said in his famous poem, "The proper study of mankind is man.' Today the study of man is receiving more attention than in any previous period of history. Studies of human growth and development are numerous. Educators seek to "understand" students in order to teach them more effectively. Army psychiatrists analyze the "why" of man's behavior in order to explain his actions in certain situations. Religionists emphasize in more specific details than ever before how early experiences influence the later behavior and religious beliefs of an individual. Social scientists, mental health specialists, psychiatrists, and many other professional persons are waging crusades on many fronts as we attempt to understand more fully the nature of man. Concepts of Man The Bible teaches that God created man and, furthermore, that he created man in his own image. Latter-day Saints believe that man is an eternal being, having existed prior to this hfe and continuing to exist Page 558 To discover how our concepts of man and the resulting relationships influence our potentialities for spiritual living. With his own individuality after this life. According to our present understanding we first existed in the form of intelligence. We then became spirit children of God, next mortal beings, and, following this, we will become resurrected beings. We further believe that man has been given the free agency to make decisions and, to a certain degree, determine the course which his life will take. But within the framework of considering man an offspring of God, a free agent, and as one who is living a purposeful life, there ls considerable latitude for behefs concerning the nature of man. As we look at the traditional concepts of man, we find that three basic approaches emerge. Man Is Evil. 'The most traditional approach is to look upon man as basically bad and inherently evil. Throughout most of Christian history, man has been taught that he was born in sin, and that his natural tendency ls toward evil thoughts and sinful deeds. The statements, "man is by nature carnal, sensual, and devilish," and "the natural man is an enemy of God," have been interpreted by some to support this approach. If he is left on his own, they claim, he will yield to the "flesh," choose the evil, and, in general, live a life of degradation. Plans for transforming man from this state into one which would permit him to LESSON DEPARTMENT return to the presence of his Creator range all the way from self-persecution to confessing a belief in Christ and being saved by the grace of God. The task of child rearing from this point of view consists of one in which parents, teachers, and signifcant others in the life of a child must constantly and diligently work at rooting out the evil which is inherently in man from the time of his birth, and constantly try to direct and control him in order to produce a person who will obey and conform to the prescribed pattern. Proponents of this point of view have drawn an analogy between child rearing and that of rolling a ball uphill. As long as one is pushing and forcing it in the right direction, it will continue to go, but the minute one relaxes or removes the pressure, the natural tendency is to roll back down or, in the case of a child, to revert to evil and sinful behavior. Man Is Neither Good Nor Bad. Another approach to man has been to look upon him as being neither basically good nor evil. This concept is based on the premise that man enters the world with a blank slate, and what he becomes and his future destiny depend upon what is written upon the slate by the significant people in his life (parents, other family members, teachers, etc). Man, it is claimed, can easily be swayed in the direction of good or evil depending upon who influences him first and most strongly. This concept pictures man living in a world in which good and evil are in competition with each other, and man stands as a neutral pawn to be pushed and swayed by the strongest 559 force. He possesses the potentialities of becoming a sinner or a saint. The environmental influences are all-important in determining the direction life will take. With favorable environmental conditions and the influence of the spirit of Christ, an individual can develop and experience the most positive potentialities within him. The task of child rearing from this point of view is to surround the child with as much protection from evil as possible while parents, teachers, and significant others indoctrinate him with concepts and beliefs that will take him in the direction of good and right living. Man Is Good. A third approach is to regard man as basically and inherently good. Adherents of this philosophy point out that man comes into the world innocent of guilt and sinfulness and, as a child of God, he inherits divinelike attributes in his human nature. Every spirit of man was innocent in the beginning; and God having redeemed man from the fall, men became again, in their infant state, innocent before God (D & C 93:38). This approach to man recognizes that he may be diverted into evil ways, but it looks upon life as potentially good and upon man as a potentially loving, kind, contributing person. One of the basic, reasons why man is here is to experience further growth in his Godlike potentialities. The task of child rearing from this point of view is one of helping the individual become himself. It assumes that if we provide a healthy atmosphere, positive growth and development will naturally take place. 560 Use this advertisement as your order blank mem = Books for the Church Pianist Church Pianist— Stults 2.222.022.2210 -- eee 1.50 Eighteen Hymn Transcriptions— Kohlmann 2222--22-0++ 85 Famous Sacred Songs—Peery -----+-+ 1.25 Melodies For Church and Home—Shelley 1.00 More Concert Transcriptions of Favorite Hymns—Kohlmann 1.00 Piano Hymn Voluntaries—Lorenz -..- 1.50 Piano Transcriptions of Your Favorite Hymns—Parsons 1.25 Preludes, Offertories, Postludes—Schaum 85 Preludes, Offertories, Postludes—Stickles 1.25 Sacred Piano Album for Home and Church—Gahm 1.50 Sacred Piano Solos— Rettenberg 2.22222 1.00 Sabbath Day Music— Randolph 22 1.50 Sunday Piano Music —Boston.00 222.---eeeeee eee 1.25 Tranquil Hours— Presser..0 2-2---2--200-000e- 1.50 Twenty-Four Voluntaries—Stickles 1.50 Music Sent on Approval I DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South I Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated above. CI On Approval LJ Charge (1 Money Enclosed Ore ee erry 15 E. Ist South 'salt Lake City 11, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1960 Man's Relationship to Man No matter which of the above three concepts of the nature of man (or even combinations of these concepts) we subscribe to, we would probably agree on the final goal to be achieved: namely, to discover and live the abundant life as taught and exemplified by our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. However, the manner in which we go about achieving this task and the resulting relationship with our fellow men, vary considerably among these concepts. If our concept of man is that he is by nature evil, we will approach him with caution and suspicion until he has "proved'' himself. If we adhere to the belief that man by nature will do evil, our expectations are in this direction, and it is quite probable that we will find that for which we are looking. We tend to fee] uncomfortable around him or even fear him, until we have established a feeling of trust and confdence. Such an outlook easily allows for exclusiveness and provincialism (a narrow point of view). Those who subscribe to the second approach to man: namely, that he is neither good nor bad, but is as plastic clay — look upon other people as objects to be molded and manipulated to fit the values which the molder has. With this point of view, we approach others not so much with fear and distrust as we do with hesitancy and wonder and one maintains a much more optimistic view of man. Since he feels that man can just as easily be molded into a "good" person as a "bad" one, he is more willing to enter into relationships with him. The third approach provides a LESSON DEPARTMENT more widening horizon, since it looks upon man as potentially ¢ good and, therefore, looking for the best in his fellow men. We look upon our relationships with man as consisting not so much of protecting or manipulating and molding, but rather of helping the individual discover himself and expericnce the Godlike potentialities within him. It allows us to reach out with warmth, with love, and acceptance. It permits us to recognize the fact that it is human to err. But because there is value and worth and potentiality for good in all men, our responsibility and goal is not to condemn the evil and reject those who do not behave in our way and think 2s we do, but to capitalize upon the good in all human beings. We sce our responsibility mainly as the task of trying to create an environment which is conducive to the healthy growth and development of all mankind — physically, mentally, socially, emotionally, and spiritually. An illustration which may help to clarify this point is to contrast the potentialities of man with the expectations which we have when we plant a seed. We recognize that the potentialities for growth whether it be a cornstalk, a rosebush, or an oak tree, are inherent in the seed. Our expectations are that it will grow and experience its destiny, but we realize that we must make the conditions right in order for that growth to take place. We must find good soil in which to plant the seed. We must provide the necessary nourishment in order for it to grow. We must protect it, particularly during its early growth and tender period, in order 561 that it will not be distorted or killed. 'Then, if we provide the right conditions, it will grow into the potentialities which we expected from the seed itself. But we would not expect the seed of a rosebush to grow into a distorted and tangled bush with no_ blossoms. Neither would we expect to take the seed of a squash and manipulate and mold it into a pine tree. And so with human beings, it ls our responsibility to make the conditions right for learning and growth, so that a child may develop the potentialities of Godlike characteristics which are inherently within him. The Latter-day Saint Concept of Man The Latter-day Saint concept of man is that he is born innocent; unencumbered by any sin connected with his birth or with the fall of Adam. Furthermore, he is born with potentialities of Godlike characteristics. Note the following quotations from our prophets: Man is the child of God, formed in the divine image and endowed with divine attributes, and even as the infant son of our earthly father and mother is capable in due time of becoming a man, so the undeveloped offspring of celestial parentage is capable, by experience through ages of aeons, of evolving into a God (Joseph F. Smith, Improvement Era, 13:81, November 1909).... We are the offspring of God, born with the same faculties and powers as He possesses, capable of enlargement through the experience that we are now passing through in our second estate.... He has begotten us in His own image. He has given us faculties and powers that are capable of enlargement until His fullness is reached which He has promised — until we shall sit upon thrones, governing 562 and controlling our posterity from eternity to eternity, and increasing cternally (Lorenzo Snow, Millennial Star 56:772, December 3, 1894). We were born in the image of God our Father; He begot us like unto himself. 'There is the nature of deity in the composition of our spiritual organization; in our spiritual birth our Father transmitted to us the capabilities, powers and faculties which he himself possessed, as much so as the child on its mother's bosom possesses, although in an_ undeveloped state, the faculties, powers and susccptibilities of its parent (Lorenzo Snow, Deseret Weekly News 20:597, January 14, 1872). Lowell L. Bennion, in discussing this subject, presents the following opinion: Man comes into the world innocent of any guilt, sinfulness, or depravity. He comes as a child of God with divine-like attributes in lis human nature. Mforeover, the Spirit of God and of Christ enlightens every person who is born in the world to incline him toward the good. Man, being a free agent, may choose good or evil. Living among other free agents, he is strongly influenced by others in this choice.... He is here to learn to do good and thereby to find joy. This he will find as he learns to live in harmony with the will and attributes of his Creator and grows in his God-like potentiality (Bennion, Lowell L.: An Introduction to The Gospel, page 58). As the individual grows toward adulthood and becomes accountable for his actions, he must face the task of dealing with the physical drives and urges within him. These basic and natural urges are potentiallv valuable. It is only when they get out of balance and out of control that they are dangcrous. We are reminded of the power of the desire for the expression of these drives and the inclination to yield RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1960 o "the works of the flesh" in the scriptural affirmation that '"'the natural man is an enemy to God." Because of this, we as Latter-day Saints are taught that man must yield to the enticings of the Spirit, be born again, and put off the "natural" man, in order that the Godlike potentialities may properly develop and manifest themselves. In the words of Brother ElRay L. Christiansen: President Grant once reminded us that there are two spirits striving with all men — one telling them what to do that is right, and the other telling them to do that which will please themselves, that will gratify their own pride and ambitions. So, as King Benjamin said, unless we yield "'to the enticings of the Holy Spirit, and putteth off the natural man... And becometh as a child,' meek and submissive, and gentle, full "of love, we are likely to spend our time in gratifying our own ambitions, and thus fail to develop the spiritual attributes and power. We will be led away from the divine destiny which may be ours (123 Annual Church Conference, page 35). Summary The nature of man for purposes of analysis has been classified into three broad approaches: (1) Man is basically and inherently evil; (2) Man is neither good nor evil, but enters the world as a blank slate to be written upon; and (3) Man has an inheritance of divine potentialities. The relationships which we establish with other men are highly influenced by our concept of the nature of man. What we find in our fellow men is influenced, if not determined, by what we expect to find in him. It is also quite probable that what man feels we expect of him determines his behavior and LESSON DEPARTMENT what he is able to reflect toward us. The attitudes with which we approach man, whether these attitudes be overt or subtle, and whether they be directed toward a child or an adult, are powerful influences. If we give the impression to a child that we expect him to misbehave, to be "naughty," to be "bad," he soon learns to play the role which we expect of him. This alone suggests the great value of a positive concept of the nature of man. Regardless of the concept we choose to believe, we all recognize that man is here to develop the divine characteristics within him, that he needs the nurturing care of individuals who love him, and the spirit of God to inspire and guide him. Establishing harmonious and creative relationships with our fellow men is one of the cornerstones in the foundation of building a world at peace. Just as the lens of a camera determines the width of focus, so does our concept of man detcrmine the narrowness or breadth of our religious horizons. God grant that we may have the vision and understanding that will permit and help us to implement the concept of the brotherhood of man truly. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Give additional illustrations of how one's concept of the nature of man influences child-rearing practices. 2. Give additional illustrations of how one's concept of man influences his relationship to his fellow men. 3. How does one's concept of man telate to his concept of God? 4. In what way does an understanding of the concept of emotional maturity help us understand man? 5. What are some of the ways in which we can learn more about the nature of man? 563 HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT Twenty-three days, including Boston, Washington, New York, and Chicago. Top broadway show will be seen. Church historical places will also be visited such as Nauvoo and Adam-OndiAhman. GUATEMALA Book of Mormon Archeological Sites. Tour leaving August 17, 1960. Will be back in time for school. LABOR DAY Tour to Bryce and Grand Canyons and Glen Canyon Dam, Sept. 3rd, 4th, and Sth. ROSE PARADE TOUR Taking March 1961 reservations for Hawatian Tour.

ESTHER JAMES TOURS 460 7th Ave. Phone EM 3-5229 e BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover.