[Vol47 | August 1960 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Lesson | Title: Literature | Author: Jacobs]
Ni rehanmane= es een Literature Comes of Age Lesson 18 — Washington Irving, Polished Paradox Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature, by James D, Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York, pp. 193-220) For Tuesday, November 15, 1960 Objective: To relate the writings of Irving to the man, and both to the dynamic beginning period of the Nation out of which they grew. ASHINGTON Irving, who became one of America's first cultural ambassadors to Europe, was born into a wealthy New York City merchant family, April 3, 1783. Although it was an age of patternmaking and expansion in every phase of the new Nation's existence, and although Irving became the first universally accepted literary symbol of the United States, yet never did he symbolize those driving forces which, in his own day, were at work to make his country unique and great. Everywhere read and _ enjoyed, acclaimed and loved, he was Mr. American Literature, Gentleman, both creator and symbol, yet the world his writings created was one of memory, legend, and_ security. America's real world was one of action, of reality, of destiny, and futurity; and it was increasingly to become one of conflict. This world Washington Irving — successfully avoided both in literature as in life. Between these divergent worlds, lie contradictions of a new Nation erupting into an identity which many of its citizens feared, others even refused to face. Yet then, as now, music and scene, gentle humor and soothing dream provide their own peculiar delights. Nor are these enduring values to be refused any more in our own nuclear age than they were Page 552 during the decades of momentous decisions and transitions which Irving could have known, but chose to ignore. In fairness we must esteem Irving for his considerable virtues, and for the great enjoyments still to be found in his early works. In literature he came as near to being America's patron saint as anyone; esteemed by his own age, he still yields gentle pleasure and _ lasting charm to our own. Background Historical Events Irving's seventy-six years made the grand span from the Revolution, which first gave the new Nation identity, to the Civil War, which so nearly destroyed it. On April 10, 1783, sixteen days after Irving's birth, Washington read to his troops the proclamation of Congress ordering "cessation of hostilities." A few months later British troops marched out of Irving's home town of New York after seven years of occupation. When Irving was five, the Constitution was ratifed (1788). Thirteen years later Jefferson became President (1801), followed by the Louisiana Purchase in two years. In 1807, Fulton's steamboat confounded _ Irving's beloved Hudson River folk, and from 1812-1815 there was the War of 1812 with England, Irving serving briefly on the staff of the Governor of New York. In 1820, when LESSON DEPARTMENT he was thirty-seven, the Missouri Compromise temporarily appeased the South on the slavery question, in 1823 the Monroe Doctrine startled the world, and, in 1825, the Erie Canal opened fertile interior lands to colonization. In 1831 the first steam locomotive run was made in New York State; five years later Morse invented the telegraph; the Mexican War began in 1846; followed by the Gold Rush to California. Commodore Perry opened trade with Japan in 1854; and in 1859 oil was discovered. On November 28 of the same year Irving died at Sunnyside, his tranquil country estate in 'Tarrytown on the Hudson. The Essential Irving Such events were of Irving's world, yet not in it, at least not imaginatively. Heir to a prosperous family hardware business which he hated less when it failed, "reading" in a law office just long enough to acquire a permanent distaste for dry legalities and an abhorrence of political strife, Irving's nearest approach to contemporary problems was to lose large sums in steamboat, western land, and South American mine speculations; later he found satisfaction in having brought together in peaceful arbitration the American Ambassador to the Court of St. James and British diplomats when, in 1846, the two countries were perilously near war over their differences in defining the northern boundary of Oregon. A handsome young man with light brown hair, blue eyes, and a pleasantly husky voice both smooth and modulated, Irving was described as "Friendliness itself." Believing 553 throughout his life that "a kind heart is the fountain of gladness, making everything in its vicinity to freshen into smiles, and that happiness is reflective like the light of Heaven," he dedicated his life to the pleasure of giving pleasure to others. In his travels during his mature years, and lengthy selfexiles to Europe, he considered himself a self-appointed ambassador of good will. Refusing to dwell on the rough and cruel part of life, he felt that good humor was "the oil and wine for a merry meeting." He loved little children, often playing with them for hours on end, and wrote lengthy letters concerning them. He was so modest and shy that when the famous English traveler, Mrs. Frances 'Trollope, spotted him in the audience of the Cincinnati theatre in which she was lecturing and asked him for an impromptu speech, he fled both the theatre and the town itself rather than comply. In the years of his semi-retirement at Sunnyside, his life continued as it had always been: with many visits from friends, close ties with his nieces and family, horseback rides in the country, regular attendance at operas and plays, whist, chess, reading, and writing. These were the important values in his personal life — mild, peaceful, harmful to none. In his life, as in his writings, he had "always had an opinion that much good might be done by keeping mankind in good humor with one another." So successfully did he mold his life to this ideal that, save for Franklin alone, he was most widely loved by his countrymen. Irving, the Traveler From his seventeenth year, when 554 he made his first extended trip up his beloved Hudson River Valley, Irving secmed happiest when he traveled. A painter with words, he sought scenes of beauty, finding it most abundantly in the exotic and the old, which, with extreme care and polish, he recreated into his sharply chiseled prose. Adored and pampered by his family, he was sent to Europe at age twenty-one to gain "health, education and_ pleasure," which, during the next two years, he found in abundance. Returning to America, he toyed with the law and magazine editing, then, in 1815 at age thirty-eight, he went to Europe for a Mediterranean cruise and remained for seventeen years. Again, in 1841, he returned to romantic Spain as American Ambassador for four years. The last thirteen years of his hfe he spent at his home Sunnyside. Irving enjoyed creating the illusion that he lived a leisurely, casual, bachelor existence. Actually, Longfellow saw him truly when, calling upon him during his first long stay in Madrid, he gave the impression of "always being at work." In his travels, he was always the self-conscious literary man with a sharp eye for material suitable for his pen. In his writings he had excellent technical powers, which are everywhere evident in his carefully revised prose; but he had little creative impulse so, as his bosom friend Henry Brevoort wrote, "He makes his travels go far," as is beautifully exemplified in "The Stout Gentlemen," in our text, page 203. Both in travel and in wniting, Irving was the arch-romantic, loving to depict folk tales and humor with his skilled pen. Best of all is the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1960 carefully controlled tone of his sketches, which produces in the reader a subtle emotional effect of pleasure and surrender to his art. Itving's Literary Significance Irving's lack of interest in contemporary affairs is not to deny the importance of his contributions to American literature. Historically, he was the first writer in the new country to make his living by writing. 'The appearance of his Sketch Book ("A collection of familiar essays and pleasant tales," see text, page 193), in both America and England, in 1819-20, brought him immediate fame, causing Europe to admit that, finally, a first-rate writer had been produced west of the Atlantic. He pioneered the development of the short story, the only literary type originated in America, exerting a strong influence on Edgar Allen Poe and Nathaniel Hawthorne who brought the short story to its full stature. In addition, he influenced Dickens and Stevenson, and many other nineteenth-century writers. And, within his own lifetime, eight of his different works appeared in forty-two Spanish editions, 113 translations were made into French, and_ sixty-one into German; The Sketch Book was translated into fifteen languages, thus indicating his world-wide acceptance. In two different senses Irving should be remembered as a transitional writer. 'Though he owed much to Goldsmith, his favorite author, and other eighteenth century English writers, such as Addison and Steele, Sterne and Swift, he was not merely their American imitation. In his youthful and best LESSON DEPARTMENT works, Knickerbocker's History of New York and The Sketch Book, the sole aim of his satires was to entertain and give pleasure, in contrast to all his predecessors, except Byrd and Franklin, who wrote didactic literature designed to instruct or to persuade. He was first in his country to write biography, history, and the familiar essay for amusement only. Irving's second transition _ reversed the trend from conservatism to liberalism which then characterized the new Nation growing towards its first full maturity. In his youthful satires Irving found his freest, most natural stride. When later he became a romantic antiquarian and mood-writer, the star of his genius was less bright (for example, Tales of a Traveler and Life of Columbus). Such later travel books as A Tour on the Prairies, Abbotsford, and Newstead Abbey, all appearing in 1835, were but competent first-hand reporting and impressionistic personal essays, while the ponderous works of his. Later vears (Life of Goldsmith, 1840; Mohamet and His Successors, 1850; and his five-volume Life of Washington, 1855-59) were so grinding and dull that even amiable Longfellow complained that he was reshuffling his old notes rather than writing a new book. Thus his reputation arose from those few early works in which he attempted but few things, but he did those few extremely well. Irving, the Satirist New York was still a town which loved endless parties, parades, dinners, and its personalities and "characters" when Irving, aged 555 twenty-four, joined with his editorbrother William, and James K. Paulding to publish twenty issues of Salmagundi during 1807-08 (Salmagundi; a miscellany or salad composed of chopped meat and pickled herring, with oil, vinegar, pepper, and onions). The unrestrained, youthful vigor of these essays is apparent only if the whole title is read: SALMAGUNDI, or the WHIM-WHAMS AND OPINIONS OF LAUNCELOT LANGSTAFF, Esq., AND OTHERS. In hoe est hoax, eum quiz et jokesez, Et smokem, toastem, roastem folksez, Fee, fa, fum. Psalmanazar, With baked, and broiled, and stewed, and toasted; And fried, and boiled, and smoked, and roasted, We treat the town. (Salmagundi, Saturday January 24, 1807, page 209) Obviously patterned after the Spectator papers of Addison and Steele, the essays' theme might have been a statement in No. XIII: "... It is easier to laugh ten follies out of countenance than to coax, reason, or flog a man out of one." Two excerpts from the same paper show that the young wits dared to poke fun at whatever weaknesses they Saw ln humanity, not exempting youth's own common tendency to take itself too seriously while sctting the established world straight:. We seriously assure our readers that we were fully possessed of all the wisdom and morality it contains at the moment we commenced writing. It is the world which has grown wiser, — not us; we have thrown our mite into the common stock of knowledge, we have shared our 556 morsel with the ignorant multitude; and so far from clevating ourselves above the world, our sole endeavor has been to raise the world to our own level, and make it as wise as we, its disinterested benefactors (Salmagundi, page 263). They also give ironic solace to those we always have with us who long for the flawless "good old days" while the modern world goes to pot:. We bequeath our first volume to future generations, — and much good may it do them. Heaven grant they may be able to read it! For, if our fashionable mode of education continues to improve, as of late, I am under serious apprehensions that the period is not far distant when the discipline of the dancing master will supersede that of the grammarian; crotchets and quavers supplant the alphabet.... How does my heart yearn for poor dear posterity, when this work shall become as unintelligible to our grandchildren as it seems to be to their grandfathers and grandmothers (Salmagundi, page 264). What a neatly turned satire on those who always feel yesterday's education was superior! And _ for dancing and music substitute TV and "rock 'n' roll" — have fundamentals ever changed? Knickerbocker's History of New York (1809) Among other reasons, sensitive young Irving gave up the editorship of the Analectic Magazine when he was twenty-seven, because he disliked reviewing books about which nothing good could honestly be said; similarly, through satire and laughter the History might be defined as a gentle listing of those weaknesses in mankind which Irving felt might be eliminated or improved. And in the vigorous new democracy, aristocratic, Federalistic Irving found much that might be RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1960 bettered: he ridiculed fantastic new schemes for eliminating poverty, poked fun at the money system by suggesting oyster shells replace specie, found the solid old Dutch burghers pompous and windy, distrusted the equalizing rule by the people, feared mobs and Yankees, and even let the reader know that he was less than perfect: If from all that I have said thou dost not gather, worthy reader, that Peter Stuyvesant was a tough, sturdy, valiant, weather - beaten, mettlesome, obstinate, leathern-sided, lion-hearted, —_ gencrousspirited old governor, either I have written to but little purpose, or thou art very dull at drawing conclusions (Book V, Chapter 1). With the unrestrained vigor which characterizes not only the entire book but, more important, the mind of voung Irving, he pricked the bubble of Dutch complacency by telling how their "Fort Good Hoop" was taken by the hated Yankees without casualty by invading the fort during the usual afternoon nap hour: In an instant the flag of thei High Mightinesses was lowered, and the Yankee standard elevated in its stead, being a dried codfish by way of a spread eagle... Van Curlet and his men, they were seized by the nape of the neck, conducted to the gate, and one by one dismissed with a kick in the crupper.... Jacobus Van Curlet receiving two kicks in consideration of his official digmity (Book IV, Chapter III). But Irving shows no partiality, for next he lampoons the enterprising greed of the Connecticut Yankees.... The Nieuw Nederlandts had long been regarded by the whole Yankee race as the modern land of promise, and them- LESSON DEPARTMENT selves as the chosen and peculiar people destined... To get possession of it. In truth they are a wonderful and all-prevalent people, of that class who only require an inch to gain an cll, or a halter to gain a horse. From the time they first gained a foothold on Plymouth Rock, they began to migrate, progressing and progressing from place to place, and land to land, making a little here and a little there. Hence they have facetiously received the nickname of THE PILGRIMS: that is to say, a people who are always secking a better country than their own (Book IV, Chapter XII). After reading such samplings, it is no wonder that young Irving was popular with the home town folks even before "Rip Van Winkle" and "The Legend of Sleepy Hollow" endearcd him to all people everywhere. 'The eerie mystery of the latter story has long made it a favorite of children of all ages, as well as influenced writers from Poe to Stevenson. Best loved of all Irving's works is "Rip Van Winkle," immortalized in the painting by John Quidor (text, page 165). In this story his two strongest literary skills are blended: first, with the same verve as found in the History, he satirizes the democratic spirit of party, weaknesses of mob voting, the tyranny of "petticoat government," and the rewards of "getting away from it all" — which seem to make nature-lovers of so many husbands; next he paints the dream of the ideal past in a nostalgic mood from which none of us can escape, the same mood which is to be his chief stock in trade the rest of his life until, alas, he wore it out. While few will maintain that 557 Irving is one of our great writers, none should deny his skills within that small area which he made his own. Not only was he a careful craftsman; he also knew precisely what his contemporaries wanted and he gave it to them, both to their delight and to ours. And while he dodged many realities in his later writings, and was heavily indebted to the eighteenth-century writers he loved, still it should be recalled that in several important ways he was first. Further, he excelled and was loved because much of his writing was his own; he maintained his independence even while he conformed; his strong feeling for old places and ways and folk tales was original; seeing the weaknesses of himself and his world, he laughed gently at it all; and, though basically an aristocrat, never did he take himself so seriously that he could not laugh at himself as well as his age, both past and present. Surely the American view of life as well as American literature would be much poorer had he accepted the appointment as Secretary of the Navy instead of trusting his talent and writing The Sketch Book. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Though many have felt Irving alwavs sought to escape the harsh realities of life, still he was tremendously popular. Discuss this apparent paradox. 2. In his later writings Irving gave up satire entirely. Do you feel this made him a better writer? 3. What do you feel to have been the source of greatest happiness for Irving?