A LETTER, FROM HIS HISTORIAN TO THE PUBLIC.

To the Friends of the Late President Heber C.
	Kimball:
	In the forthcoming history of my grandfather,
which I am engaged in writing, and which will
probably appear some time in the winter or early
spring, it is my intention to devote a chapter,aside
from the main narrative,to anecdotes and personal
reminiscences, illustrative of his life and charac-
ter.
	With a view to making this as interesting as
possible, I hereby invite all the old-time friends
and acquaintances of President Kimball who may
so desire, to contribute to this chapter, believing
that in their possession are doubtless many choice
gems of word and incident pertaining to his event-
ful life, which have not yet found their way into
print, and are not noted in his journal, and which,
unless now secured, may in a few years be entire-
ly lost to history.
	The anecdotes should be crisp, brief and to the
point, and will be published in the book with
their writers' names, unless otherwise desired.
Early attention will greatly oblige. Please ad-
dress as below.
			Very respectfuly,
				ORSON F. WHITNEY,
					P. O. Box 357,
						Salt Lake City,
								Utah.
	Nov. 16, 1887.


[Column 1]
			DAYS OF TRIAL.
	The remarkable occurrences taking place here day
after day sound a note of warning to all who are
not wide awake in the performance of every duty
to renew their diligence, and be more earnest,
more prayerful and watchful than ever and take
heed to their ways, that they may be able to en-
dure the days of trial that are now just at the
doors. They have been talked of and prophe-
sied of in public and in private, these days of
testing, and that but few would be able to endure,
and yet the actual circumstances that would bring
about these peculiar experiences were not under-
stood in the least. Whoever thought Congress
would have passed such unprecedented laws and 
strenuous measures, as have been passed by that
body without any,or very little opposition, against
the Mormon people, and enforced rigorously
and although the enforcement of these cruel and
harsh measures has brought so much hardship it
does not seem to satisfy the craving desires of the
enemies of the Saints, but the officers of the
government seem more and more anxious to bring
severe and more cruel hardships upon the people.
So long as they submit patiently, instead of think-
ing "it is enough," they are ready to heap more
persecution and prosecution, and make the bur-
den heavier and more grievous to be borne. They
[Column 2]
are not content with breaking up families and des-
olating happy homes, fining and imprisoning men
who have sought to worship God with clean hands
and pure hearts,but still pursue"with a zeal worthy
of a better cause;" the patient endurance and long
suffering of this people under a series of trials of
the most harassing character and outrages perpe-
trated in the name of the government, will indeed
be a problem for the unbeliever to solve. Strange,
in this land of religious liberty where churches
and denominations of all kinds and all beliefs are
allowed perfect freedom that the property of the
Mormon Church should be seized upon. It can-
not be because of the immense wealth, if so the
Roman Catholic and Episcopal Church would be
subjected to the same indignity. The Church
property of the Mormons has been accumulated
from the tithes and offerings of the people who
actually believe in the literal translation of that
scripture which says, "bring your tithes and your
offerings into the storehouse of the Lord and see
if I will not pour you out a blessing that there
shall not be room to receive it." And for these
things are the Latter-day Saints persecuted. But
they and their enemies are all in the hands of one
who sees not as man sees and whose ways are not
as man's ways, and He will surely punish those
who oppress the innocent, the widow and the
orphan, for whom, and other laudable purposes,
these tithes and offerings were given.
	The Lord will pour out of His indignation upon
the wicked as He has said and His hand will not be
stayed when His judgements begin.
	 Already strifes and uprisings and riots and
threatenings are heard, and it would be well to
heed the warnings contained in the word of the
Lord to this people and be prepared for the evil
day which is just at hand.

	One of the great events of the present day was
the execution of the Anarchists in Chicago on the
11th of November 1877. Whether the matter will
end there remains for the future to determine. It
is the general opinion of the most conservative
people, that there will be serious difficulty yet with
this socialistic element, if not in Chicago in other
cities further east. They are dangerous every-
where, working in secret and in the dark, not es-
tablishiug themselves openly, but in various ways
creating discord and strife between the employer
and the employed. Sowing the seeds of disunion
and strife where before confidence existed; and
making such an intricate network of complica-
tions as will puzzle the nation much more, and be
far more difficult to handle and to unravel than
the "Mormon" question which the goveriment con-
siders such a knotty problem. "Mormonism" has
brought into the country an element of in-
dustry and enterprise, a people who believe
in labor, and who discountenance emphatic-
ally every tendency to discord and strife,
or opposition to peace and good govern-
ment. It is deplorable indeed to think that such
secret combinations against the peace and pros-
perity of the American people, should exist and
find followers in the midst of the great cities of
the United States. And the end is not yet. What
developments of this nature and disturbances may
arise no one knows, but the fulfillment of the pre-
dictions of ancient and modern prophets should
warn the nations everywhere to prepare for the
events that are to herald in the coming of the Son
of Man upon the earth.


