DEAR AUNT EM:
	I have been visiting my old home in the
North this summer; the dear old home I left
just ten years ago with my parents, who were
seeking a better home in the far South.
	And this was my first sorrow, to leave my
childhood’s home, with its beautiful surround-
ings, its green hills, its cool, delightful canons,
its pure, warbling streams, with its waving wil-
lows on their banks, its secluded pastures;
where we hunted the wild strawberry or
plucked the fragrant wild rose. All these I
loved with a love that was a part of my life,and
to leave them, with all the dear companions
and associates of my girlhood, seemed more
than I could bear. But the troubles of youth
are soon forgotten; and although our route for
the greater part was over mountains, across
deserts and through sand and dust, yet each
succeeding day brought something new and in-
teresting. Peace and happiness came in the
new home, but the level, desert plains of Ari-
zona could never take the place, in my heart,
of the mountains, hills and canons I loved so
well; and the mild winter weather could not
take the place of the beautiful snow, the merry
sleigh-rides by moonlight, and the many
pleasures incident to a cold climate.
	But this was not what I started to tell. It
was of my visit home after an absence of ten
years. And, oh! how I enjoyed it—the same
old hills, canons, creeks and nooks, all so famil-
iar’ to me. I visited the dear old saw-mill,
around which so many happy memories cling,
almost the same as when I saw it last, with its
pine logs and piles of sweet-scented lumber.
The town itself is much changed. I see im-
provement on every hand. Comfortable, and
even luxurious homes are taking the place of
the double log house of earlier days. And the
old schoolmates—the boys and girls that were
the belles and beaux of our quiet little village
ten years ago—death has entered our ranks
and taken three of the best and dearest girl
friends; several have found homes in the far,
sunny south, others have moved to various
points and but few remain. The happy, care-
less boys, that were then just merging into
manhood—some have filled and others are fill-
ing honorable missions, and are faithful workers
in the kingdom of our God; while some of
both sexes have strayed from the Gospel paths
and have found sorrow and discontent. I visited
with many dear friends, but all seem changed,
and as I view these many changes that have
taken place, I feel like a second Rip Van Win-
kle, and that I alone am the same. But as I
look at my two sturdy boys and my sweet baby
girl, I realize that there is a great difference
between 17 and 27, and that I, too, am changed.
And as I sit musing in the twilight over the
various fortunes of the friends of my early
youth, some happy, some so very sad, I kneel
and thank my God that my feet have not been
permitted to stray from the sheltering folds of
the Gospel, and that my barque has anchored
in a haven of rest.
							RACHEL.
	Salt Lake City, Oct. 29, 1887.


