WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
	﻿PRIMARY MEETING AND FAIR.
	We had the pleasure of attending a special
meeting of the P. A. of South Cottonwood
in company with Sister E. C. Clawson, on
Thursday, Nov. 10th, at 11 o’clock a.m., Mrs.
Elizabeth Davis presiding. There was quite a
good attendance of the children, and a pro-
gramme had been prepared for the occasion,
consisting of choice selections of recitations
and songs, which were well rendered. The
meetings in that ward have to be held in dis-
tricts during the winter season, as the distances
are too great for the children to come together
in the ward house; so previous to the change
this special meeting and Fair was held to en-
courage the little ones.
	After the programme was finished, Prest.
Davis asked some questions, that were promptly
answered by the children, and Sisters E. C.
Clawson, E. B. Wells, M. Rawlins and E Davis
each spoke a few minutes, encouraging the
children in the good work in which they were
engaged, and impressing upon them the neces-
sity of obedience, honesty, truthfulness, per-
severance and every virtue that would pre-
pare them for usefulness in the kingdom of God
upon the earth.
	After the close of the meeting excellent re-
freshments were served in the adjoining hall,
where preparations had been made for the
Fair. The Primary children had been assisted
by the Young Ladies' Association in getting
articles for the Fair, and it was a very good
showing. There were on exhibition by the
little boys, vegetables of several kinds, all very
large and of good quality; also little articles
made by ingenious and skillful hands, chairs,
tables, wheelbarrow, and other useful things,
pencil drawings and so on; needle work in
abundance of almost every variety, plain sew-
ing and fancy work, embroidery, lace work
crochet, plain and fancy knitting, wool flowers,
hair flowers, a miniature house cut and covered
with sea-weed, quite picturesque, by the girls.
A young Brother Tipton had made quite a
unique little microscope, and was showing a 
musquito under it, which amused the children,
and even grown people, the tiny legs, horns
and teeth assuming such large proportions.
[Column 2]
﻿There were a number of curiosities from New.
Zealand on exhibition, brought by Bro. E L.
Davis, quantities of ferns, some artistically
arranged and framed, and shells of various
sorts and sizes; the most peculiar was one to
which clung a long heavy branch of yellow
sea-weed, which resembled somewhat a man’s
beard.
	A large frame contained the photo’s of fifty-
five Maories; a brief description of the picture
is given here, and below, also, a description of
a Maori village. a photograph of which was
exhibited at the Fair, and last the Kauri tree,
which gives employment to many people in
digging for the gum, which is one of the chief
exports of the country.

