A WARNING 
FOR THE YOUNG PEOPLE IN UTAH.
     The Rev. M. T. Lamb is traveling over the
country lecturing on Mormonism, and how to
meet it from a Christian standpoint. He di-
vides Mormons into three classes; the leaders, or
hypocrites, as he styles them (but we know
better), the sincere Mormons and the indifferent
young people. The first class he has no hopes
of; not much of the second, but the third class
he has great hopes of converting over to the
so-called Christianity, and he has great hopes
of the apostates. The latter glass he is wel-
come to, as we have no use for them. But to
my young brethren and sisters, who have not
a testimony of this work called Mormon-
ism, I would say, they should seek diligently
to secure a testimony for themselves. “Seek,
and ye shall find, knock, and it shall be opened
unto you.” Then when he, the Rev. Mr;
Lamb, brings the 10,000 copies of his Golden
Bibles to distribute among the young people
of Utah, they will be prepared to meet him with
a knowledge for themselves; and you will get
it if you ask God in faith, and of this I am a
living witness.
     I was away from the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints from the time I was
twelve years old until I was thirty-two, and I
prayed earnestly to my Heavenly Father to
lead and guide me in the right. I sought for
light and truth, but found it not until I had
the privilege af listening again to the Elders
who are sent out to preach the Gospel as it
was taught by Jesus Christ Himself and all of
His Apostles and Prophets, and I know it is
the Gospel and power of God unto salvation,and
would not exchange this knowledge for all
the world contains. And so may you know,
my brethren and sisters, if you will strive to
do so.
     May God bless you all, and lead you in the
paths of truth and righteousness, that when
the “wolf in sheep’s clothing” shall present
himself before you, you may stand firm to
God and the truth, with a knowledge of your
own, is the prayer of,
     Your sister in the Gospel of Christ,
				     ELIZABETH JONES.
Council Bluffs.


