MRS. FREDERIC HILL.

By the death of Mrs. Frederic Hill this Re-
view loses one of its earliest supporters and
most faithful friends. She died on the 22nd of
August at the advanced age of eighty-four.
But although she passed fourscore years, her
old age brought only increased wisdom and
happiness instead of the psalmist’s labor and
sorrow. She suffered a little latterly from in-
firmity of body, but the brightness of her in-
tellect and the keenness of her sympathy re-
mained undiminished to the last, and she passed
from this life to the next without suffering, full
of faith and hope, and surrounded by those she
most loved.
	Mrs. Hill was, as most of our readers know,
the wife of Mr. Frederic Hill, one of five
brothers all well-known in public life. Sir
Rowland Hill is the best known, but Mr.
Frederic Hill, as Inspector of Prisons for
Scotland, and afterwards one of the Secre-
taries of the Post-Office, and still more as one
who has devoted his life to the public good,
will long bear an honored name. Mrs. Hill’s
maiden name was Martha Cowper. She was
born at Enfield in 1803. Her father was a
man of scientific tastes who, inheriting proper-
ty from her grandfather, retired early from
business and devoted himself to his labor-
atory and his books. Nine children were born
to him of whom the subject of the present
paper was the seventh. At least one other of
the children inherited the father’s love of
science, and became in after life well known as
Professor Cowper, who invented the first work-
ing printing machine, and whose classes at
King’s College in chemistry and applied
science were always crowded, and are still re-
membered in the college. It was a happy un-
eventful childhood at the Enfield house, and
in due course Martha Cowper went to school
with the others. But female education at the
beginning of this century was at a low ebb,
and her great store of information, her strong
love of books, and accurate knowledge of
natural history were due rather to individual
work and home influence than to school teach-
ing. She used to illustrate the state of female
education in those days by an amusing anec-
dote. One of her schoool fellows, a girl of
eighteen, was a married woman, and had been
sent by her husband to learn to be educated,
and Martha Cowper used to help her in the
composition of letters to her husband which,
notwithstanding this assistance, were generally
returned with many corrections.
	A tour in Scotland with her scientific
brother, when she was nineteen, was Miss

[Column 2]
Cowper’s first experience of a wider world.
They went to the Island of Bute amongst
other places, and her sympathy with her fel-
lows was as keen then as in later years.
Twenty years afterwards when she visited the
island with her husband, an old woman recog-
nized her as she was comforting a crying child,
and said, “I am sure you must be Miss Cowper
by the way you talk to that child.” Space
does not allow us to do more than refer either
at this or a later period of her life, to the
numberless instances of the kindness of her
heart that are remembered in the family, but
one instance is worthy of special mention at
this stage. When Poland was fighting for
freedom and all England was watching the
struggle, Martha Cowper and her sister, pocket
money running short, melted down a silver tea-
pot and sent the proceeds to aid the Poles in
their grand fight for national life. The great
issues of contemporary history al-
ways deeply moved her. The French Re-
volutions of 1830 and 1848, the Crimean War,
the American struggle for Union against Se-
cession, the Franco German War, were all
eagerly followed by her with the interest of a
true liberal, who always hoped that good
might come out of the terrible evils of war.
But modern politics—though she followed
them just as closely—did not win her entire
sympathy. Her fresh nature, only desirous of
good; was impatient of all the compromises
and concessions which the politician of to-day
thinks necessary to progress.
	Both parents died in Martha’s childhood, and
on their death the children were placed in
charge of an aunt living in London. Under
the influence of a large library, Miss Cowper’s
taste for books developed into a passion for
reading of every kind, and she remained an
omnivorous reader for the rest of her life. Her
judgment of books was always sound and her
criticisms keen and suggestive. Though often
she seemed to dip and skim in somewhat butter-
fly fashion, she always seized and retained the
pith of the book she had in hand. But her
self-culture, remarkable as it was, was subor-
dinated to her interest in others, an interest
that was unfailingly shown in kindness and
help and encouragement, and all what she
would call “selfish” work was set aside when
any good work was on hand. One of the
great events of her young life was a winter in
Paris in 1825. She was, as she says in one of
her notes, “alternately struck with the beauty
of Paris and its inconveniences.” The grand
palaces, the beautiful gardens, the brilliant
shops, the rush of daily life, and cheerful as-
pect of the population were all delightful to
her. But she adds, “the absence of the path-
ways and open drains in every street were most
unpleasant for pedestrians.” She witnessed an
ancient historical custom carried out for the
last time. She saw Charles X dine public as
the Kings of France were wont to do under
the ancien regime. She and her friends ob-
tained tickets, there was a great crowd of
gaily dressed people in the ante-chamber, the
doors of the Presence Chamber were thrown
open, and the sightseers were allowed to ad-
vance to a cordon only three feet from the roy-
al table where the King, the Duchess of Berri,
and the Duchess of Angoulême were dining off
a fish dinner (it was Friday) “amid a blaze of 
light, and with lovely music.” One of the
three royal diners, as Martha Cowper points one
in her notes, had been in the horrors of the
great French Revolution, and had shared with
her royal parents the imprisonment in the
Temple till their execution. Sight seeing did
not take up all the Paris time. Many days
were spent in visiting charitable institutions,
and a visit to the Deaf and Dumb establish-
ment was long remembered.
	Our space only permits of a mere sketch of
Mrs. Hill’s life, and we must pass over some

[Column 3]
uneventful years of quiet goodness to come to
the first and almost her last appearance as an
authoress. In 1833 she published in conjunc-
tion with the late Mr. William Ellis, a series of
stories and papers on familiar topics for
children under the title of “The Parents’ Cabi-
net.” The work was to her surprise a very
great success, and although it has now passed
into the hands of other publishers, it still has
a good sale under another title. The story
entitled “Frances Meadows; or Traits of
Character,” has especial interest to those who
knew Mrs. Hill, because the incidents related
really happened in her school, and the Frances
Meadows was herself.
	All the natural history papers are hers and
many of the tales. She used to tell a pretty
story of how she sent the first tale “Harry the
'Shrimper,” to her Collaborateur. Mr. Ellis for
approval. She held him in much reverence,
as well as esteem, and his critical fiat was to
her a judgment beyond appeal. “Well, my
dear," he said, when she saw him, “I cannot
conceive how you could write such a story
—” “There,” burst in Miss Cowper, “Mrs.
Ellis should not have shown it you, I told her
to send it back if it was too bad.” “My dear
young lady,” continued Mr. Ellis taking her
hand, “you should let me finish my sentences.
I was going on to say, ‘without your having
found out long ago your power of “story tell-
ing.” ’ ” It was not only Mr. Ellis who ap-
proved her work, good critic as he was; a
much better than he, the great Miss Edgeworth
herself with whom Mrs. Hill often corres-
ponded, wrote to express her approval and ad-
miration in most unreserved terms. Miss
Edgeworths’s criticisims were long and most
elaborate, and include valuable suggestions as
to the best form of children’s books; but we
have only space for one sentence as a specimen
of her appreciation of this particular work.
“I ought,” she says, “to be very jealous and en-
vious of you, my dear Miss Cowper, it it were
true that such evil feelings were always ex-
cited by the fear or the certainty of being sur-
passed, for assuredly I think you have sur-
passed me in my own line, or in that which I
wished to make my line.” These were most
gratifying words to receive from the authoress
of such tales for the young as “Forester” or
“Lazy Laurence;” but proud and happy as
they made Mrs. Hill, they did not give her
more pleasure than she subsequently found in
her distribution of all her profits in handsome
presents to her friends and children. Her keenest
pleasure always lay in adding to the pleasure
of those around her.
	Mrs. Hill’s marriage took place in 1840. Her
husband was then Inspector of Prisons for
Scotland, and they lived for some years in Ed-
inburgh. Mrs. Hill’s life in the northern capi-
tal was a very happy and useful one. Socially
she had the pick of what was, intellectually
speaking, one of the best societies in the world,
and she formed friendships then which were
possessions for life. Such men as John Hill
Burton, the two Coombes, Mr. Nimmo, James
Simpson, the two Chambers; such women as
Mrs. Fletcher and Miss Sterling Graham, were
amongst her friends. But she never allowed
the pleasures of society to interfere with the
work of her life. She went the round of the
prisons with her husband, helped in all his
many schemes of reform, and stopped many a
a career of crime by her kind help and en-
couragement to better courses. She used to
follow her prison friends’ subsequent career, and
had many stories of their success in honest
labor. She was fond of the saying of one man
who attributed his change to the Prison Ma-
tron, who, he said, “so mithered him that he
could not go wrong.” And she would repeat
too late for me to mend, but I hope my poor
children will be taught better.”
	She was a strong and very early advocate of


[Column 1]

substitution of useful work for treadmill labor
in prisons, and she rejoiced when her husband
was able to introduce this reform in the prisons
under his charge. Working overtime, as a
means by which prisoners could earn a little
money for themselves, was an arrangement in-
troduced into all the Scottish prisons,and Mrs.
Hill's family still possesses needlework sewn
in overtime by some of the women in whom
she was interested. We cannot in this space
enumerate all she did. But her sympathy was
boundless and never rested until it found an
outlet in practical good. The industrial
Schools of Aberdeen—the first Industrial
Schools ever started—founded and carried on
by Sheriff Watsonrwere one of Mrs. Hill's es-
pecial hobbies,and their founder was one of her
warmest friends. They were day schools, ad-
mission to which was voluntary, where the
children were taught not only the ordinary
elments of education, but also to make nets for
the Aberdeen fishermen (their chief source of
profit), to mend their clothes and shoes, and to
work in the garden. Juvenile begging and
juvenile crime practically ceased in Aberdeen.
	One of Mrs. Hill's favorite theories was that
the world in its schemes, whether of reformation
of criminals, or of improvement of mankind
generally, did not take proper count of three
powerful factors, love, sympathy, kindness. If
all natures were like hers, if the highest
pleasure were found by all as it was
found by her in doing the greatest
good, if all could understand and lighten the 
the cares of others as she could, those factors
would indeed be powerful. Whilst she fully
valued all philanthropic associations, she sat
little on committees. She thought men did
that sort of work better than women. But she
also thought the best work of all was done-
when the sexes worked together in cordial co-
operation, each doing that for which the sex
was best flitted. Perhaps her sphere of good
would have been wider if she had taken a
more active part in the direction of philan-
thropic societies. But she never failed to uti-
lize their organizations when she could, whilst
she constantly sought out cases of individual
suffering. Her keen sympathy thus found
plenty of scope in unceasing though unobtru-
sive good work, which would have been neces-
sarily curtailed if her time had been taken up
by committees.
	Whilst she always maintained that wemen
in their choice of independent work should
never forget the graces of life and all home
duties that fell to their lot, she held equally
strongly that wemen, as regards their work in
life, and their opportunities of self-mainten-
ance, were held in a restraint and subjection
that was most unjust. An old friend, the late
Dr. Birkbeck, once found her when a girl deep
in a book on woman’s rights. "My dear," he
said, "do you agree with these opinions?"
"Yes," replied Martha Cowper. "So do I,"
whispered the doctor, "but mind you don't tell
anybody what you think, or you will never
get a husband." "Then," retorted the girl, "I
never will marry."
	No account of Mrs.Hill would be complete that
omitted to mention her interest in education,
especially the education of the very young.
Mere mechanical teaching by rote and routine
was her abomination. To train the infantile
mind by observation of Nature and constant
explanation of all the simple phenomena of
life was her modus operandi. As usual she put
her theories into practice herself, and her own
children and grand children, and all the little
ones who had the privilege of being within her
circle remember with pleasure her object les-
sens, her clearness of exposition and her wealth
of illustration.
	She sent her own children to the first Kin-
dergarten started in England, and at the same
time was thus enabled to aid two struggling

[Column 2]

German refugees who sought a livelihood by
starting the then novel system. Her love aud
knowlege of natural history influenced her
educational theories, and no school was perfect
in her idea where the pupils were not all taught
to observe and understand the nature that sur-
rounded them. She gave prizes innumerable
for collections of flowers and other natural ob-
jects.
	The last thirty years of her life were spent
in Hampstead, where Mr. Hill resided after his
appointment to the post office. But the change
of scene did not change her interests. Her
life was spent in good work up to the very last.
Indeed her enthusiasm, her disbelief in any hu-
man badness beyond remedy, her profound be-
lief in human perfectibility seemed only to in-
creasewith age. One of her friends writes of
her: "Dear Mrs. Hill's persistent belief in
everything that was good and beautiful was a
magic that lent its glamor to all that
surrounded her. A chat with her reconciled
you to the world and seems to have cleared
away all thought of evil and dread of harm."
	We must close this little memoir. We had
much more to tell, but we must put it by for
some other occasion.  Our picture is but im-
perfect; but it will serve to recall a bright and
happy presence to those who knew her, and it
will be only the fault of the writer if it does
not present to those who did not know her the
image of a good life and a beautiful nature.
The world was the better for her presence while
she lived: we hope it may be the better for her
example now she is gone.—Englishwoman's Re-
view.


