BACKBITING.

     Sisters, this is a habit we all indulge in too
much, and until it is done away with there
never will be unity in our Society; and how do
we expect to prosper if we are not united? If
one pulls one way and another a different way
altogether, we never  can improve in our
Society. Therefore, dear sisters, let us all
make a covenant that at the commencement of
our meetings that we will stop at once, put our
foot on the head of that terrible scorpion which
is working in our hearts, and crush him to
death. Why not break ourselves of this awful
habit? for such it is. We hear a remark
passed about one of our friends, and until we
have a chance to unload ourselves of that bur-
den (for such we think it is), we are not con-
tented. And do we always get the exact truth?
I am afraid not. We think when we hear re-
marks passed that they sound terrible, but
when we go to tell them they have lost their
charm, and we add to make them sound grand
to others, as they had done to us. And for
this one reason we have not been more united
in the past than we have; we are too willing to
pick each other to pieces, too willing to find
fault. Ah, sisters! why not begin now to re-
form? “Better late than never” (but better
never late).
     Alas! if we begin now and make a success
of it the Lord’s blessings will be with us, for
we cannot attain His blessing when we are all
the time backbiting His children who are as
near and dear to Him as we are. We are all
human; there is not one of us but what has
our faults and our failings, and still have good
qualities too; but instead of trying to run them
down, why not speak to them aside, tell them
kindly, and tell them where they did wrong,
and if we know how, show them the right way
to replace their wrong steps? Oh, how much
better they would feel; they would thank us
ten fold, and we would not have to be dodging
around the corners to keep out of their way, so
we could not be accused of anything we would
not like to face.	
     Kind sisters, you, perhaps, will tire of my
writing, but I pray to God our Eternal Father
that He will bless us with peace, union and
strength, that we may work hand in hand, and
be a united band of workers. If we do this I
know we will improve greatly, for improve-
ment should be our motto, and unity be in our
midst.	     Your sister,
