EDITOR EXPONENT:
	DEAR SISTER WELLS:—Since President
Anna Ivins returned from the city she requested
me to send you a short sketch of our trip
around the St. George Stake:
	September 29th Sisters Mary B. Eyring, Ann
C. Woodbury of Relief Society, Mary G.
Whitehead of Mutuals and Julia H. Ivins of
the Primaries, left for the Santa Clara. At 3
o’clock met with the Relief Society and Young
Ladies together, and afterwards met with the
Primary; had a very good time, and hope a
profitable one to all. We spent the night with 
Sister Ensign. 
	The 30th we traveled on to Gunlock. At 3
o’clock met with Primary; Sister Ella Leavitt
resigned, as she had so many small children she
could not attend; Sister Lizzie Hunt was put
in Second Counselor to Sister Emma Holt.
Met with Relief Society; had a very good meet-
ing.
	October 1st traveled on to Pine Valley, and
met with the Primary, Sister Ellen Jones pre-
siding. On the 2nd met in the afternoon; the
Bishop administered the sacrament, and turned
the meeting over to the sisters. In the evening
met with the Mutual. Sister Lucy Gardner
resigned, and Sister Emma Burgess chosen as 
Second Counselor to Sister Julia Cox. We
had a day long to be remembered.
	3rd went on to Hamblin; had dinner at Sister
Canfields, and traveled on to Hebron. At 4
o’clock held meeting; very few people are in
this place, owing to the water being gone. They
have very nice brick houses, but are discour-
aged at keeping up such a long flume; they
think of moving to the water. A good feeling
prevailed. We traveled on to Bishop Terry’s
Ranch, and stayed all night, where we were
hospitably entertained. 
	The 4th we traveled to Panacca. Here we
divided, part going to Bishop Lee’s and the
others to President Wadsworth’s. This settle-
ment has had a good deal of sickness in the
shape of measles and whooping cough. 5th
met with Primary in the forenoon and with
the Relief Society and Young Ladies in the
afternoon; had a very good time.
	The 6th we traveled on to Bro. Terry’s Ranch
in the morning. The 7th found snow on the 
ground; had a very cold drive to Hamblin; held
meeting in the afternoon; had a very good time;
very few people in this settlement. 8th went
on to Pinto; snow most of the way; held meet-
ing at President Jane Harrison’s, owing to the
meeting house being under repair. Met with
Bro. D. H. Cannon, who encouraged us very
much in our labors. Traveled on to Harmony;
snow near 3 feet deep on the side of the road.
On the 9th met with the Sabbath School; sisters
talked to the children. In the afternoon met
with the R. S. and Y. L; had a very good
time.  10th traveled on to Toquerville; met
with Relief Society and Young Ladies; also the
Primary. There is a bright lot of children
here, and Sister Adelaide Savage takes great
interest in them.  11th went on to Rockville.
12th met with the Primary in the forenoon;
here is a very interesting Primary, and shows 
the energy of Sister Lizzie Smith. In the
afternoon met with Relief Society. The young
ladies of this place are all married; some from
Springdale and Shonesbury met us here; these
settlements have had a good deal of sickness.
13th traveled on to Grafton and held meeting.
This settlement is small; most of the people were
out; we had an excellent meeting; they have a


very good meeting house; it is not quite finished.
We traveled on to Virgin. At 2 o’clock met
with Relief Society; the President here is very
feeble; it is Sister John Parker; Counselor
Workman presided; met with Primary at 4
o’clock, President Pratt presiding; had a very
good meeting.
	On the 14th we went on to Toquerville; ate
dinner at Sister Savage’s; her husband is in
prison for taking care of his family. Went on
to Leeds, where we held meeting at early candle
light. 15th traveled on to Washington; had
meeting at 1 o’clock with Relief Society; at 3
o’clock met with Primary; at 4 with Young
Ladies; had very good meetings, and a good
feeling prevailed; arrived in St George about 6
in the evening, having been 17 days from home.
We were glad to find all well at home, and
trust we have done some good in urging the
Saints to their duty. We traveled about three
hundred miles.
	Ever praying for the welfare of Zion I re-
main,
		Your sister in the Gospel,
				ANN C. WOODBURY.
St. George, Nov. 4, 1887.


