LETTER FROM SANDWICH ISLANDS.
Laie, Oahu, Hawaiian Islands,
Oct. 22nd 1887,
To Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith, President of
	the Relief Society of the Chnrch of Jesus
	Christ of Latter-day Saints:
DEAR SISTER:
	Not being supplied with blanks to forward you
a correct report of our work in this part of the
vineyard we are under the necessity of writing you
the condition of the Relief Societies of these
islands, which we are pleased to say speak favor-
ably for themselves at present. There are 22 so-
cieties in all, in which there are 514 members.
Meetings are generally held weekly, working and
testimony meetings alternately. The Societies of
this island are far in advance of those on the
other islands owing to our direct and constant la-
bor among them, as you are doubtless aware that
these poor natives when left by themselves, soon
fall into slothfulness and sin. We are laboring
as energetically as possible to introduce all kinds
of useful work among them. And in order to


make this pleasant and interesting, we purpose
having a fair before our next conference.
Previous to the introduction of this work in our
meetings, their only work has been to assist the
missionaries, donate to the Temple, tithing, etc.
There are few poor among them. Owing to the
delightfulness of the climate, but little clothing is
required, and when the earth will yield their sus-
tenance (poi) they are never in want. Hence, it
has been thought wise to call on them to assist
in these different objects; and since our last con-
ference they have donated four hundred and
eighty-six dollars and twenty-five cents ($486.25,)
to these purposes. We will be pleased to receive
such instructions as you see fit to give us with re-
gard to our labors here for we realize our inexpe-
rience in the duties resting upon us; but we are
very desirous of fulfilling our missions hon-
orably among this people. We will also be
pleased to receive blanks for our next conference
report, that we may better know what is required
of us. You will also favor us by stating the price
per hundred of having blanks printed. The price
of printing here necessitates us making our own,
and if advisable we will send home to have them
printed. Ever praying for the welfare of our
sisters in Zion who are unitedly laboring for the
upbuilding of God’s Kingdom upon the earth.
We have the honor to be,
		Your sister in the Gospel,
			LIBBIE NOALL, President,
			LUCY M. KING,
			NELLIE BBESLEY, Counselors.


