VISIT TO THE POET WHITTIER

	A hundred times or more since my return
from my visit to New England in the winter

[column 2]
﻿of 1885-86, I have thought that I would write
up my visit to the great American Quaker
Poet, John G. Whittier; always waiting for a
time when I could have more leisure or a bet-
ter opportunity out in the green fields, or by
the winter fireside; but to one whose busy life
is all hurry, and every hour occupied, no such
time seems to come. However, I will make an
attempt at telling the facts.
	It was a cold day in midwinter, and the
snow lay very heavy upon the ground. I had
been in Boston then several days, had visited
some of the most noted public places, and
hunted up cousins whom I had never seen be-
fore, and had called at the office of the
Woman's Journal and The Watchman, con-
versed with the editors about general matters,
and about Utah matters in particular, had
seen a number of notable people, and had
dined, by invitation, with Lucy Stone, certainly
one of the greatest women in America, where
I also met her bright, intellectual and gifted
daughter, Alice Stone Blackwell, and began
to think of going up into the country again to
finish my visit with brothers and sisters and
old school friends, but before going back to the
beautiful Connecticutt Valley I was determined
to see one or two people in whom I had a
special interest. The most important of these
was the illustrious Poet, Whittier, whom I had
quoted from a child, and whom all New Eng-
land people are so proud to claim as one of
their own. I had been invited by his cousins,
who had twice called upon me in Salt Lake, to
come to Oak Knoll in Danvers, and they
had promised to introduce me to Mr. Whittier,
and also to Elizabeth Stuart Phelps.
	And as we do in the childrens’ stories, I will
repeat again, it was a cold day in midwinter,
but I wrapped up well, and was soon at the
station, where I took the train on the Old
Colony Road for Danvers. Arrived at the
depot about noon, and drove to an old-time
hotel and dined Ordered a horse and sleigh,
as I learned it was some little distance to Oak
Knoll, and in a few minutes we drove up the
steep hill to the new and stately residence very
properly called Oak Knoll. It looked very
grand and imposing, and in Summer or Autumn
the grounds and surroundings must be all one’s
fancy could paint for a poet’s home. The fine
situation of the house on the brow of the hill,
the magnificent old trees, the architecture of
the handsome modern building, all tend to
make the whole a picture of beauty, and give
an impression of elegance and grandeur.
	As we drove close to the place I noticed a
woman of stately figure upon the the piazza
facing the drive; she came forward immediately
and soon recognized me, without explanation.
She knew I wanted to see her cousin, the poet.
and said, “How sorry I am, Mrs. W---------, but
he is not here; he has gone to Amesbury on
business, though we expect him home soon.” I
was most kindly and hospitably welcomed, my
wraps taken off, and the conveyance sent away;
meantime I was ushered into a large and elegant 
parlor, where a handsome painting of the poet
when a young man, adorned the space above
the mantel. It was a large and very interest-
ing portrait, and so life-like that one could
easily imagine he was about to speak. There
were many beautiful ornaments and some ex-
quisite statuary in the room, and it presented,
altogether, the attractive appearance of a
most artistically furnished draw-ing-room.
Another of the cousins came in almost


as soon as I reached the parlor, but the
eldest was reclining on a sofa in the adjoining
parlor, where a bright wood fire was burning
on the hearth; that room, too, seemed the per-
fection of elegance in its furnishings; the lady
rose from the sofa almost immediately, and
came to join in the conversation, which, as a
natural consequence, was of Utah and the
“Mormons.” I found all three sisters accom-
plished and intelligent women, and much more
free from prejudice than most of the people one
meets here and there in traveling, and they con-
versed on the subject of the Edmunds bill and
the measures taken to enforce the law, with
much feeling and interest in our affairs. They
also talked to me of the place, the trees, the
fruits and the shrubbery around Oak Knoll,
and the pleasure of gathering the nuts for
winter, and how their cousin, the poet, enjoyed
these simple pastimes. It is indeed a grand
and poetic place, and might be written up in
verse the most tender and sentimental.
This is a very rambling account of my visit,
and, like the childrens’ stories, will have to be
continued next time.
E.B. Wells.   Aunt Em.


