TOOELE STAKE.
	The Conference of the Relief Society of
Tooele Stake convened in the meeting house at
Tooele, Sept. 11 and 12, 1887, Counselor Emily
Warburton presiding, as Prest. Hunter had
not arrived from Grantsville in time for the
morning meeting.  There were present from
Salt Lake City, Sisters S. M. Kimball and M. 
W. Snow, also Prest. Gowans and Counselor
Jane Eastham of Tooele Stake; Bishop Atkin
and other brethren.  Presidents of branches
of R. S. in the stake, Sisters Jeanette Dela-
mere, Tooele, Hannah Burridge, St. John’s,

[Column 2]
Jane Adamson, Lake View. After the usual
exercises and reading of minutes and reports
Sister Kimball addressed the meeting, gave ex-
cellent instruction to the sisters in reference to
their duties and pointed out in a clear and
forcible manner the benefit of being thus organ-
ized.  Advised the observance of order and 
urged the sisters to be charitable and for-
giving, helpful and energetic and live near
to the Lord so as to know when we are doing
right.
	Sister Snow spoke of her recent visit to
Mexico and made many good remarks concern-
ing the Relief Society its organization and
benefits, rejoiced that we had the oppor-
tunity of helping to redeem and happify each
other through our labors and efforts as a society,
and closed by saying that our religion was
worth making any sacrifice for.
	Prest. Hunter having come in excused her-
self for being late, and spoke of not feeling well
in health, said she had passed through a se-
vere trial of late, a great fire had destroyed
much of their property, barns, hay and so on;
felt she had not attended to her society duties
of late as she should but intended to in the
future.
	The Presidents of the several wards re-
ported and Bishop Atkin of Tooele Ward
made a few good remarks encouraging the 
sisters, and endorsed all that had been said,
thought the Relief Society a great help.
	In the afternoon the P. A. of the stake held
a conference, Mrs. Sarah Hale presiding.  There
were songs and recitations well rendered, show-
ing that President Jane Bowen had taken great
pains to teach the little folks.
	In the evening the Young Ladies Associa-
tions held a conference, Sister Ann Tate presid-
ing.  After the perliminary exercises minutes
and reports were read and Sisters Kimball and
Snow addressed the young people on suitable 
subjects; President Gowans also gave good in-
struction and the meeting was an enjoyable 
and interesting one.
     Sunday morning the sisters visited the Sab-
bath School and Sisters Kimball and Snow ad-
dressed the children, giving good counsel and
urging them onward in the performance of
duty.
     In the afternoon the Relief Society Confer-
ence was continued, and the sisters from Salt
Lake each spoke a short time in an intelligent
and interesting manner.
     We thank our sisters very much for paying 
us this visit and for the good advice we have
received.  May God bless them and those who
visit us from time to time to encourage and
help us is my prayer.
	ANN TATE, Cor. Sec.
ONEIDA STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the Oneida
Stake of Zion was held in Franklin, Sept 25th,
1887, at 10 a.m.  Opened with the usual exer-
cises of singing and prayer.  The minutes of
the previous district conference were read; also
the reports for the past six months, which were
very encouraging to the sisters.
     Prest. Elizabeth Fox was pleased to see so
many out, this being the first general conference
of Relief Society held in this Stake: “And in-
asmuch as we have the Spirit of the Lord we
will have a good time.” Requested the presi-
dents of the various branches to give verbal 
reports, which was done with but few excep-
tions, showing that most of them were in a 
prosperous condition, after which a song was
sung by Sister Martha Robinson.
     Sister Sarah Richards, of Mormon Ward, in-
structed the sisters to rear their children in the
ways of the Lord, that they will be true and
faithful and obey the Gospel in its fullest sense.
Exhorted the boys to be truthful and honest
and they would be good men; gave the same

[Column 3]
advice to the girls. “When we are sick we
should send for the Elders, as the prayers of
the faithful will heal the sick.  We should be
peace-makers, and not heed idle gossip, but set a
good example before all.”
	Sister Ann Hale, Counselor, was pleased to
see so many happy faces present; was pleased
with the reports. “The sisters should inform
their minds as much as possible, using an hour
each day for that purpose.  All are willing to
help the Bishops in all that they might ask.
Children should be respectful to their parents.”
Felt that the ward teachers should visit us
oftener than they do; made other interesting 
remarks.
	Sister Mary Hawks, Counselor, was pleased
to meet with the sisters in the first general con-
ference, although there were a great many
wards a long way off, so it was impossible for
all to attend; still we may have a good time.
It takes all our time to beautify our homes and
to inform our minds; our husbands should help
in training our children in proper ways, as the
mothers cannot work hard all day and study
at night.  We should attend our meetings so
we can be wise in watching the company our
children keep.  Let our practice and theory
go together to the protection of our little ones,
as they should enjoy all the privileges before
them.  We need the blessings of the Lord at
all times.  Hoped the sisters would feel well
paid for coming out.
     Bishop Wm. Parkinson, of Preston, would
much rather listen to the sisters than occupy
any time.  Would put his trust in the Lord,
that he might be able to say something that
would edify the congregation. “The Gospel is
the same to-day as it was anciently.  It takes
the same work to-day as it did then to gain the
same blessings.  We should love our neighbors
as ourselves, and we would have a heaven on 
earth.  We should lay aside all our imperfec-
tions and follies, and not allow the adversary
to gain power over us, but strive to do right at 
all times; as we have to endure the scorn and
ridicule from all, it is hard to continue this
battle, and the obstacles can be removed by
helping each other.  I love all that are honest
and true, no matter what their religion.  Let
us be upright and honorable, so we can have
the full flow of the Spirit of the Lord.”
	Bishop S. R. Parkinson said, “We should be
charitable to all, and give good counsel freely
to all.  We must be sure and not vilify our
neighbors, not speak of their bad actions, and
when we are old we may be able to think that
we have been peace-makers.  May we put the
counsel in practice that we have heard.”  In-
voked the blessing of the Lord upon us.
     Singing by the choir.  Benediction was pro-
nounced by Thomas Durant.
	2 p.m.: Meeting opened with singing and
prayer.  Sacrament was administered, and
Sister Adeline Barber, of Cache Stake, said,
“The Relief Society was organized for our bene-
fit, as we are enabled to stand up and bear our
testimonies, and help bear off the kingdom of
our God.  As our brethren have to go on mis-
sions, we have our children to bring up in a 
proper manner.  The Lord has shown the sis-
ters that celestial marriage is right, and we
need to be humble before the Lord, and be an
instrument in His hands in doing good.  How
long would this persecution hang around us, if
we were united and pure?  If we would live 
this principle in purity it would be no trial to
us.  Let us be faithful in all things, and we
will have joy in our labors.  It is our duty to 
be kind to those who have obeyed this law.
We must put away the styles and fashions of
the world, when we come to the Temple of the
Lord; dress plain and we will not be reproved.”
Song by Sister Martha Robinson, entitled,
“Who’s on the Lord’s side, who?”
	Sister Rogers said: “The Relief Society is a


great organizaton, as it enables us to visit the
poor and needy, and those that are in trouble.
We should give all that we have to the Lord.
Whatever we sow the same we shall reap. Let
us all be cheerful in whatever we are called
upon to do, as we are blessed with many things.
If we ask we shall receive,” etc.
	Bro. Thos. Durant hoped the instructions we
had received would remain on our minds, and
we would put them into practice. We should
set ourselves in order, that we might turn the
key to our own benefit, as it is the most im-
portant matter that pertains unto us.”
	Sister Fox endorsed the instructions that
had been given; was pleased with the reports.
“We have a great deal to encourage us, and
also discourage us, but we should depend on
the Lord.” Gave general counsel to all;
thought it would be well to hold these general
conferences every six months. Desired the
blessings of the Lord to attend her in all
things.
	Conference adjourned sine die. Singing.
Benediction by S. R. Parkinson. 
	ELIZABETH FOX, Prest.
