EDITORIAL NOTES.
	At the Y. M. M. I. A. Conference of Weber
Stake, held in Ogden, Nov. 13th, 1877, Bishop O.
F. Whitney delivered an address in the evening,
which, it is stated, held the large audience spell-
bound for two hours. The Ogden Herald says:
"The meeting in the evening, as in the afternoon,


was very large, many not being able to gain ad-
mittance. Bishop Orson F. Whitney, after the
opening exercises, occupied the time with an elo-
quent address full of wise counsel. He elicited
the interest of the large audience as only few
speakers could, and his instructions will long be
remembered as among the choicest that could be
given. A synopsis would not do justice to him t
and therefore we refrain from giving a more ex-
tended notice.”
	THE quarterly conference of the Relief Society
of this Stake of Zion will be held in the Four-
teenth Ward Assembly Rooms in this city, on
Thursday, December 8th, next, commencing at
10 a.m. and 2 p.m. A full and punctual attendance
from all parts of the county is requested. On the
following day, Friday, December 9th, the Y. L. M.
I. A. of this Stake will hold conference, and on
Saturday, December 10th, the Primary Associa-
tions will hold their conference. It is earnestly
desired by the presidents and officers of these
several conferences that the meetings should be
well attended, and an interest manifested for the
general good. A cordial invitation is extended to
all who desire to see these organizations prosper,
to come and hear the instructions given. As this
is the time for verbal reports, it may be more in-
teresting than when written reports are read.
Presidents of Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A.
are expected to represent the condition of the re-
spective Society or Association over which they
preside.
	MRS. MARILLA M. RICKER, of Washington,
has been visiting this city the past three of four
weeks. She has, we believe, enjoyed the sight-
seeing and association with friends here whom
she had met and formed a friendship for in the
east, notwithstanding they were Mormons. Mrs.
Ricker, though not a professed Christian, has
many excellent qualities of heart and soul, as well
as a superior education and general knowledge of
the world, and stands high in her profession (the
law); was admitted to the bar of the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia in 1882, and
was subjected to a very searching examination as
to her knowledge of law. There were 17 male
applicants at the time. The Committee, in recom-
mending her admission, reported that she stood
at the head of the list of applicants, and was es-
pecially versed in the complex common law rules
governing real estate titles. “Her practice has
been principally in the criminal courts of Washing-
ton. She visits prisons, and does much philan-
thropic work. In our next issue we propose to
make a more extended notice of this noted woman
lawyer and her visit to Utah.


