[Vol7 | February 1920 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial The Discipline of Fear]
no  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
Your  fear  is  your  protection ;  and,  perchance,  the  shield  of 
your  helpless  children. 
Don't  hesitate  to  express  your  fear  of  evil  spiritual  influ- 
ences. All  the  devices  of  the  adversary,  which  lead  people  into 
evil  practices,  lustful  excesses,  or  spiritualistic  experiments, 
are  dangerous  to  handle  or  to  have  in  the  house.  Even  books, 
cards,  ouija  boards,  all  are  a  menace,  both  to  sanity  and  to 
spiritual  salvation.  You  should  fear  such  things,  rightly  and 
properly  fear  them !  Out  of  less  than  thirty  thousand  people 
in  a  London  insane  asylum,  it  is  said  that  over  ten  thousand  of 
them  have  gone  there  through  dabbling  with  spiritualism.  One 
of  our  ablest  and  most  brilliant  high  Church  authorities  lost 
his  faith  in  the  Savior,  and  in  the  gospel  itself,  through  read- 
ing spiritualistic  papers,  although  no  medium  ever  visited  him. 
Los  Angeles,  which  is  the  home  of  these  modern  New  Thought 
and  spiritualistic  cults,  has  more  people  who  turn  crazy  than 
any  other  city  in  the  United  States. 
It  is  fear  of  physical  disease  which  provides  our  safe- 
guards of  innoculation,  isolation  in  communicable  diseases,  and 
urges  us  to  become  ceptically  clean  in  person,  home  and  sur- 
roundings. It  is  fear  which  builds  walls  of  protections,  arma- 
ments and  arsenals.  Much  as  we  wish  the  day  to  come  when 
prisons  and  wars  will  be  no  more,  while  the  devil  and  all  his 
hosts  are  raging  up  and  down  the  earth,  we  all  need  pro- 
tection from  wicked  men  and  from  enemy  armies. 
It  is  fear  of  ridicule  and  gossip  which  prevents  many  sins, 
and  even  crimes,  and  which,  on  the  other  hand,  turns  some 
people  into  safer  paths  of  life,  and  gives  a  start  in  the  right 
direction.  A  healthy  fear  of  public  opinion  prevents  many 
public  crimes,  and  brings  to  pass  many  needed  reforms.  Don't 
be  afraid  of  fear. 
Harness  fear,  double  it  with  discipline,  and  drive  your  team 
carefully  and  wisely.  It  will  not  hurt  your  children  and 
friends,  to  inspire  them,  on  special  and  needed  occasions,  with 
a  healthy  fear  of  your  displeasure.  Use  your  own  fear  as  a 
goal  to  higher  achievements,  to  better  self-control,  and  you 
will  come  to  value  fear,  and  will  even  fear  to  lose  your  fear. 
Bring  your  fear  to  heel,  make  it  your  servant ;  else,  in  very 
truth,  it  will  master  you,  and  drive  you  eventually  on  to  the 
rocks  of  destruction.  But,  understood  and  disciplined,  the 
eloud  will  lift,  and  behind  the  fear,  you  will  find  the  smiling 
face  of  victory  and  peace.