[Vol7 | February 1920 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: The Official Round Table]

ROUND TABLE 105 European Mission. Mrs. Lucy W. Smith writes very interestingly of conditions in the Relief Society of the European mission. Following convention are some in quotations London on from her letter November 9. :Seven "We held a splendid branches were represented as follows: Croyden, Hammersmith, Holloway, North London, South London, Watford and Portsmouth. There were present between seventy-five and eighty people, and it was found that all but four of these keep the Word of Wisdom, and all but three pay tithing. The amount of sewing these people do is remarkable. Nearly every organization in the mission owns a maternity chest which is lent to mothers who need it, and which is returned later to the society — all things laundered, and missing articles supplied fOr the next occasion. Some societies pledge themselves to clothe each year from one to one-half dozen children, providing them with clothes from their skin out. Nearly every article of clothing being made in the society. Some take orders for sewing to supply the organizations with funds. One in particular makes pillow cases, saying they could not supply the demand in the past year. My daughter, Edith, has been with me at two Relief Society gatherings, one in Halifax, and the Convention in London. At Halifax they held a bazaar with an evening social and a meeting the next day, Sunday afternoon. She has been working faithfully and very earnestly in the society here." The organizations are very much interested in Child Welfare work. A member will be appointed from each branch to specialize on this subject, and to give this valuable information to the members of the society. Genealogical work is a special feature for the Relief Society. Assistance in the homes of the poor, sick, distressed and mourning is freely given, and those who are feeling spiritually poor are also visited and given words of encouragement. The "Relief Society Magazine" is very much appreciated. It is a constant source of inspiration. Other items of interest come from James Gunn McKay, president of the London conference: "The seven branches of the London conference have thirty-three officers and twelve teachers. Five of them hold their meetings on Monday evenings, one on Wednesday and one on Thursday. With the exception of three, all of these branches have been organized since 1915. It is the plan to organize a society at St. Albans and one at Luton in the near future. "These branches have accomplished a great deal of work during the war. They have provided for the needy, cared for the sick, and comforted those, in sorrow and trouble. • They 
 have cheered the lonely and provided entertainment for the Old Folks. With bazaars, entertainments and the making of clothing they have been able to keep their treasuries supplied with funds. Each organization has on hand a substantial amount of money and garments ready for calls of need. "Not only have the temporal wants been provided for, but also the mental and spiritual needs of the members have been looked after. Classes in First Aid have been conducted, talks on gospel themes and the reading of the stories written by our own authors, have been quite extensively carried out. A course in genealogy has been given in each society. This has awakened a deep interest in this fascinating subject until many have had their hearts turned to their fathers. In consequence of this one activity, hundreds of names have been searched out of the old family Bibles and parish records, and a great many names have been sent to the St. George Temple. One person alone has secured twenty-two hundred names of his departed relatives. "The work throughout has been conducive of a sweet spirituality and a strong testimony of the restored gospel of Christ. In the very nature of their struggles to attend and sustain their own organizations, they have found latent powers and obtained a peep of future possibilities within themselves." Blaine and Boise Stakes. Two of the most successful conferences, or conventions, held during the past year, were those of the Blaine and Boise stakes, presided over by Mrs. Laura J. Adamson and Mrs. Bessie B. Hale respectively. Adequate preparation had been made by both stakes before the conferences were held, and all of the details were worked out. In both instances practically all of the stake officers were in attendance at the stake board meetings, and there was a large representation of ward officers at the stake and local meetings and at the general sessions. While several of the other auxiliary organizations were holding meetings at the same time, there was not the slightest confusion or interference, and no waste of time. In addition to reports from ward presidents, reports were given by the chairmen of the various Stake Board committees. These chairmen all seem to be experts in their various lines and were enthusiastic in their plans for renewed interest in their various fields. Since the organization of the Boise stake, August 2, 1919, the stake officers have visited every ward organization in the stake, once each month, on the regular Relief Society day, and,in addition to this, ward conferences have been held ROUND TABLE 107 with each organization, the conferences taking place on Sunday. The nearest ward to the stake Relief Society headquarters is20 miles away, and some of the farthest ones are 80 miles distant. Following the lead set by the presidency of the stake in inaugurating a campaign against the cigarette evil, the Relief Society stake board members have pledged themselves, collectively and individually to work unceasingly toward the suppression and eradication of this evil. This program has been carried into the wards, where the ward organizations and members are pledged to the same cause. The Boise stake presidency has appointed two members of the High Council to assist with the work in each of the auxiliary organizations. The high counselors for the Relief Society meet regularly with the stake board each week in the regular board meeting. These members have also accompanied the Relief Society stake officers to the ward conferences which have been held, giving valuable assistance to the work. St. George Stake. Mrs. Elida C. Snow, first counselor in the St. George Stake Relief Society, passed to the great beyond, on September 20, 1919. Mrs. Snow was born in Salt Lake City, in 1854, and when only a child of seven moved with her parents to Dixie, her entire life from that time being spent in the south. She married Erastus B. Snow, of St. George, and nine children were born to them. Many years of her life were spent in Relief Society work. She acted as secretary in the ward Relief Society for several years and later served as stake secretary for five years. From this position she was called to the office of first counselor to Mrs. Emily C. Brooks, in which capacity she served for thirteen years, and up to the time of her death. Mrs. Snow was a woman of faith and courage. She was intelligent and progressive, was well read, and wise in all her dealings. She was sympathetic, and loved everything of an uplifting nature. She was greatly beloved by her co-workers who are united in the opinion that their lives are richer and better for having known her. Cache Stake. At the Cache stake conference, held in November, a complete report of the general conference, held in Salt Lake City in October, was given by the secretary, Mrs. Mary E. Smith. The work of the Social Advisory committee was explained by Mrs. Sophia Cardon, and Mrs. Durham of the Y. L. M. I. A, stake board presented resolutions on the cigarette evil, which were unanimously adopted. Mrs. Kinnie B. Caine made a strong appeal to the mothers to teach their small boys the 
 importance of the Word of Wisdom, with special emphasis on the tobacco evil. Mrs. Amy Lyman Merrill gave a talk on proper housing, and home training, and President S. F. Ballif gave counsel and encouragement to those in attendance. There were 250 present at the morning session and 400 present at the afternoon session. During the year, the following wards have been reorganized: The Logan 1st, 7th, 8th and 10th wards. Before retiring the first ward presidency donated $100 toward the erection of a new meeting house. The new officers have succeeded in building up a good charity fund and have pieced and quilted six quilts. The 7th ward gave a banquet to the retiring officers presenting each with a Relief Society pin. An entertainment was also given in honor of the teachers to which every woman in the ward was invited, a program was given and refreshments served. During the summer this ward quilted seven quilts for the Primary bazaar, and pieced and quilted nine quilts for the Relief Society. The members of this branch have done charity work in the temple for one hundred and fifty names. They have secured a list of names and are making the officer to any member to work for two names and receive in payment a year's subscription to the "Relief Society Magazine." The 8th ward is in the outlying district and it has been difficult to hold more than one meeting a month. However, the members have decided to hold two meetings a month, in order to take up the lesson work more fully. They hope eventually to have weekly meetings. Members of the 10th ward organization have pieced and quilted seven quilts, have worked twelve days in the temple for charity, and have greatly increased their subscription to the "Magazine." Bear Lake Stake, During the month of September, three successful district conferences were held in the Bear Lake stake. The regular lesson work was considered and discussions given on the various activities. A very pleasant social was given recently in honor of Mrs. Louisa Tueller, who served for many years as stake secretary. A program was rendered, refreshments served, and a dainty wrist-watch presented to her by the Relief Society of the stake. In point of service, Mrs. Tueller is the oldest member on the stake board, having held this office during the terms of three presidents.