CHRISTMAS IS JUST ANOTHER DAY woman and falling in love with a young man she had never even met. Sue's blue eyes sparkled with happiness. Her soft, red lips trembled a little over the words.: "T do want to marry him, Mother. But the way things are...." She spread her hands in a hopeless little gesture. _ Nina patted one of them. "Everything will work out," she said with a confidence she did not really feel. "I?ll be waiting to meet your nice, young man.? They had no time for further conversation. A customer was fingering a bit of black kid and Sue moved toward her. Nina's heart was so filled with worry and confusion that she did not know just where she was going until she found herself in the men's department. Then she saw Lonnie's brown head. He was wrinkling his brows over two pairs of shamelessly brilliant pajamas. His face broke up into a relieved smile as he caught sight of her. "Gee, Mom, I'm glad you happened by. I don't know a thing about what Dad likes. Help me pick out a present for him, that' s a good rl. " i" She fingered the cotton and remembered Lonnie's graveness years ago when she had helped him decide if a certain packet of modeling clay held just the right texture. "T think this one," she said, selectting the one with the most red. Lawrence had always loved red though he had never worn it. They walked together toward the door, and she felt Lonnie's eyes on her. There was something odd in his face and voice. "Say, what were you doing in. The 849. Men's department? Just sort of wandering around like a little lost pup?" He had said it teasingly, but there was an underlying concern in his tone. "I'm doing some last-minute shopping," she explained, and he pulled. Out his wallet. His look was owlish: "Look, Mom! Will you get Sis a... Well, you know, a sort of petticoat,' he added desperately. "I... I don't dare go into one of those stores." She took the bill he handed her, and promised. "Silk," he insisted, "and plenty of lace. She's got to have things nice.' Her eyes burned as she selected a dainty thing of lace and peach-colored satin. Then she went back into the slushy streets where a light snow was beginning to fall and Christmas anthems were beginning to come over the loud-speakers. It was getting dusk, and the red and green street lights burned brightly. She stopped at her husband's office and tried to carry him off home for a nice little supper. But his worried, tired eyes told of several hours work yet to be done. He got his hat, however, and gave her a one-sided smile as he led her toward the elevators. "Let's duck into the lunchroom and have a sandwich, Mrs. Burton"; and to the girl who came to their place at the counter, he said, "A turkey sandwich." He ate slowly and insisted on hearing everything about her day. When she was through, his glance was tender. "Not much fun for you, Nina, wandering around all alone. I wish I could help celebrate...." He hunched his shoulders in a hopeless 850 little gesture, and picked up the check. NINA felt low as she rode home on the bus. The house was so still and quiet that it might have been any evening but Christmas Eve. She shook herself and scolded roundly: "What are you, Mrs. Nina May Burton? Are you a little girl that you want to play Christmas? Why there are plenty of people in this world who haven't half what you have." She slipped her feet back into her galoshes. "Now put on your hat and take that little sacque to Mattie." It was better out here,. Walking in the crisp, white snow. People were hurrying toward their homes. She could peep through lighted windows and see children at their play, light burning brightly against the branches of evergreen. Even Mattie's shabby old home seemed cheerful to Nina. The numerous brothers and _ sisters were chattering excitedly over a slim, little tree. Mattie hugged the pink sacque tenderly to her breast. "It's so lovely! I can just see him in it." Her eves were shiny, and far away. She said simply, "George will be so proud." 'Then she put it back into its tissue-paper nest and made Nina sit down for a little while. "I baked a cake today," she said shvly, offering a square, waxed-paper package. "One of your favorites? with dates." Nina's eyes were shining as she let herself back into the wintery night. Everybody was so kind. She wondered why she had ever found Mattie homely. Even now, her thin body distorted with her child, she had a ? beauty of soul that made her lovely. All at once Nina found herself thinking: "That's how it is with Christmas. It is just a day. An ordinary day. But there's beauty in it, promise." For the first time in a long time her heart felt light and happy. Things weren't as wrong as she had thought them. After all, nothing could really change her family. They were part of her. She was part of them. "Even if they don't think Christmas is worthy of the fuss," she thought gently. The thought broke abruptly. There was something the matter at her home. Halfway down the street she could see that the lights were blazing from the attic to the basement. A delivery van stood at the door, and as it drew away, a tall soldierly figure jumped from a taxi. Nina was running as they reached the gate. She cried his name. "Bob! Oh, Bobbie!" Then she was gathered into a great, big hug which pushed the breath from her body and made her warm and glad to the bottoms of her feet. "I got that furlough, Mom," he told her, and as they walked arm in arm toward the porch, Nina remembered the lights. "T hope nothing's happened," she said breathlessly, "I hope...." Something had happened. From the front door to the living room pine needles littered the floor. A cyclone seemed to have broken in the midst of the living room. Bits of string and tissue paper were scattered about. A. Tall, broad-limbed Christmas tree stood in one corner, while Lawrence climbed a stepladder to place CHRISTMAS IS JUST ANOTHER DAY a sparkling tinsel star on the top. Nina sank into a chair and for a moment her head felt dizzy listening to all the talking and explaining. Bob was hugging Sue, shaking hands with Lon, and gripping the fingers of a tall, strange young man who came shyly from the shadows. Sue caught his arm. "Jerry, this is my mother." The boy's eyes were clear and fine, and the hand he gave her was firm and brown. Her eyes met Sue's, and there passed between them a look such as only women know who love with every fiber. "Hello, Jerry," said Nina, and her fingers tightened. It was like having another son! Bob's voice was teasing. "But the tree, Lon, fellow. Why a tree? I thought we were all grownup." Lon's eyes were touched with embarrassment, and his voice was husky. "We got it for Mom," he said, and they all shouted with laughter. To her, he made explanation in a little aside. ""We thought you might be... A little lonely," he said, then drew her up and made her stand in front. "It's beautiful, isn't it?" he said proudly. Nina felt-her mind whirling. She didn't quite understand. Were these the people who just that morning had declared that Christmas was a bother? And now they were turning things upside down and inside out to prove that it wasn't. "We decided to have dinner at home," offered Sue brightly. "I saw the turkey in the refrigerator." "The gang's coming, too," cried Lonnie, smacking his lips over the turkey. Na 851 It was their father who protested: "All that work for your mother! I thought I'd take her down town and buy her a really swell meal at the best cafe." Nina's eyes were shining. "What work?" she asked, her mind busy planning. Mattie could do the yams and the cranberries. 'They wouldn't be hard. She'd make the dressing herself, and Sue and Jerry could set the table. There was even a cake. A date cake! Her voice was excited: "We'll have a delicious dinner. Just wait and see." Then she was bustling about, picking up paper and string, whisking bits of pine needle from the carpet. She felt busy and needed again, as though she had suddenly become important. Shyly she inserted a bit of unselfishness. "You children will have to find something to do for the evening. Dad and I will want to sit by the fire like a pair of old cronies and sink our bones in rest and more rest." She wished she might ask Bob, just as a special favor, to stay at home with them. He had so little time. But days at camp are dull. He'd want to do a little rug-cutting of his own. After all, she'd have him a little while, and that was all she asked. She'd enjoy them while she could, she told herself, and would not let her mind go past tomorrow. Loneliness had vanished, and in its place burned a glad, sweet joy. "Christmas is just another day," she said unexpectedly, and added, as their eyes turned toward her with quick, loving glances, "but, as Lonnie would say ? 'What' another day!" EDITORIAL Vol. No,