Government Specifications on Bed Linens
The following information with respect to Government specifications on bed linens, obtained from Justin C. Stewart, State Consumer Relations Officer, Office of Price Administration, will be found of interest to Relief Society women:
CONSUMERS may now buy bed sheets and pillowcases more wisely than ever before. Since March 2 of this year, manufacturers of these commodities have been required by the Office of Price Administration to manufacture and sell their products according to definite standards established by the Government. Since the job of the Office of Price Administration is to control prices, one might reasonably ask why it should issue an order requiring that a product be manufactured according to standard specifications. It came about this way. Early this year, the prices of bed linens were rising at an alarming rate, and it was necessary for the OPA to establish ceiling prices at the manufacturer level. At retail, the price is controlled by the General Maximum Price Regulation, and, therefore, the ceiling price for any particular store is the highest price charged by that store in . In attempting to set ceiling prices for manufacturers, however, it was discovered that there were so many variations in size, weight, thread, count, and the like, that it was impossible to set prices without setting literally hundreds of them on the products of many different manufacturers. Every housewife has had the same experience?she has gone into various stores looking at sheets and pillowcases with varying prices and brand names, and has been at a loss to know which was the best buy for her needs. Now, however, she may study the qualities of the various grades as established by the Government, and go to the store and ask for the "type" which will meet her needs best. The following chart gives the specifications which go to make up these "types":
Minimum Specifications Requirements, As Included in the Order
Type 180 | Type 140 | Type 128 | Type 112 | Back Print Filled | Cloth
Thread count per square inch (unbleached): 180 | 140 | 128 | 112 | 
Width of hems ? Selvage: Tape | Tape | Tape | Tape | Plain Total width of thread hems (total for both ends): 4" | 4" | 4" | 4" | 4"
Weight per sq. Yard Tensile strength made from
These are the minimum specifications (except in the case of "Print Cloth" Type D) for the various types of sheets made from "carded" cotton yarns. There is nothing to prevent the manufacturer from making his sheets better than required. Sheets that are made entirely from "combed" cotton yarns are excluded from the regulation. They are the higher priced "percales" and are an extra soft, premium-priced product. The order requires that the manufacturer attach a label to each sheet or pillowcase which states the following facts: (a) the type and size of the articles; (b) if the piece is a second, a statement to that effect; (c) if the article does not meet the minimum specifications, the term "substandard" must be used. Surveys conducted in Salt Lake City stores indicate that nearly all bed linens now in the hands of retailers bear labels indicating the type. Labels in some establishments also carry such information as the actual thread count, weight per yard, amount of sizing, etc. It should be noted that the consumer is always assured that the article will meet the minimum specifications for the particular type when it is so labeled. However, sheets may be above the minimum specifications, and where the label gives the information, the consumer can tell just how much better the sheet is than the minimum requirement for that particular type. Even when labels did not carry the detailed information, the sales people or department managers were usually able to supply the manufacturer's specifications. Following are statements regarding various types of sheets, with the specifications translated into non-technical language:
Type 180 Carded percale. Light weight. Fine yarns. Smooth texture. Good strength. Smallest amount of sizing. Initial cost?highest of this group.
Type 140 Heavy muslin. Strongest?probably most durable, good for extra hard wear. Smallest amount of sizing. Initial cost?less than Type 180, but highest of muslin group. Most expensive to launder if laundry is done commercially by weight.
Type 128 Medium weight muslin. Medium strength. Coarser weave, good for general use. Greater amount of sizing. Initial cost?medium.
Type 112 Light weight muslin. Less strong than Type 128. Coarser weave. Heavy sizing. Initial cost?low, may not be so low in final cost.
Back-filled Least strong. Has slightly higher thread count than Type 112, but because of low weight and low tensile strength and high percent of sizing will not give as much wear as Type 112. Lowest price. Often cut rather than torn to size.
Print-cloth Very light weight. Known by trade as "percale." Low strength. Usually finely woven, smooth texture considering price. Print-cloth is used for a limited variety of merchandise, particularly pillowcases and small sheets, such as crib sheets. Since the specifications given in the order are maximum rather than minimum specifications, the order requires that the actual construction features must be specified on the label. In this way the consumer has some guide by which to judge for himself what the probable value and wearing qualities will be.