GROUP TAKING PART IN REXBURG FOURTH WARD CENTENNIAL PAGEANT On front row are seven honored sisters who have been members of Relief Society fifty years or more. Left to right: Ellen Neeley, Caroline Peterson, Emma Brower, Olive Bean, Agnes Walters, Florence Bennion, Ann Butte.
Singing Mothers' chorus. This chorus, under the direction of Emma Walker, furnished the music for the pageant. Music was also furnished by a boys' chorus under the direction of Phil Linnebach." The present president of this ward Relief Society is Emily Soren.
Rexburg Stake (Rexburg, Idaho)
FOLLOWING is a report of the pageant, "A Century of Progress," and other features of the centennial program of the Rexburg Fourth Ward Relief Society, of which Erma Stucki is president: "We celebrated with a centennial program, Tuesday evening, March 17, at eight P.M. Baskets of flowers and potted plants beautified the rostrum of the chapel. Stella Shail, chairman of the program committee, conducted the meeting, under the direction of President Erma Stucki and counselors, Genevieve Klinger and Julia Anderson. The meeting was opened with 'A Song of Triumph,' sung by the Relief Society Sextette under the direction of Hazel Anderson, chorister, and Verus Catmul, accompanist. Bishop D. G. Taylor offered the invocation. The chorus from the Contemporary Music Study Club, conducted by Ruby Stoker, sang three selections. Ruth Biddulph then read 'Whatever
CENTENNIAL PAGEANT Brigham City First Ward Relief Society, Box Elder Stake
Ends,' a short story. 'A Century of Progress,' a tableau written and directed by Nettie Christensen, Magazine representative, was presented, with Sister Christensen as the reader. It depicted the eighteen charter members of Relief Society, who were charming in their pioneer costumes, creating a fitting atmosphere for the occasion. The eight general presidents were also depicted. The women representing them were chosen from those who have served or are serving as executive officers in our ward, with the view of representing the original characters as nearly as possible. "As a special gesture of appreciation, we presented corsages to each of the seven sisters who had been members of Relief Society for fifty years or more. Dancing in the recreation hall followed the program, and light refreshments were served."
Box Elder Stake (Brigham City, Utah)
ALICE R. RICH, president of Brigham City First Ward Relief Society, sent us the following brief report of the centennial observance held in this ward: "The accompanying picture represents the centennial celebration of the Relief Society of the Brigham City First Ward?a sacred pageant depicting women who have been prominent in forwarding God's great earth plan from the beginning of time down to the present. The second part of the pageant depicted the youthful Prophet, Joseph Smith, and his mother, Lucy, and the presidency of the first Relief Society organization as they received from the Prophet's hand the keys with which to begin the glorious work that has been carried on by Relief