Literature The Bible as Literature Lesson 6 Poetry of the Bible (Tuesday, March 16, 1943) Objective: To indicate the literary qualities of Bible poetry and to consider some of the types. Lesson Topics 1. Characteristics of Bible poetry 2. The Psalms 3. Rhapsodies 4. Proverbs "Few literatures in so brief a space are graced with a larger heritage of poetry than the Bible," declares Dr. Philo M. Buck. To appreciate fully the literary values of Bible poetry, it will. Be necessary to study intensively some of the books, such as Job, Isaiah, and Jeremiah. This brief discussion can do little more than indicate some of the characteristics which give Bible poetry literary value, and emphasize that the Bible is a rich storehouse of poetic expression.. Bible poetry expresses deep sympathy. It deals with experiences and emotions which are universally true, reaching to the heart of humanity everywhere. Much of it, particularly the Psalms, is inspired by nature. The Bible poet uses vivid, picturesque language. He personifies the hills, LESSON DEPARTMENT making them "skip and clap their hands." He pictures the all-powerful Jehovah "riding upon the wings of the wind," the sound of his voice causing "the earth to tremble," and his touch bringing "smoke from the hills." He writes without elaboration, expressing simply, yet forcefully, the profoundest truths and deepest feelings. The Psalms, for example, are suited to people of all capacities. They are easily comprehended, yet inexhaustibly deep. The poetic beauty in which the Bible excels is its description of the world around us. In this poetry "the whole universe becomes one vast chorus of living things. The Bible landscape needs no dryads to people its woodlands, no oreads to skip over its mountains, no naids to give mirth to its waters or music to its streams. A higher animation fills them; for every chiming brook and fluttering spray and every blessed sound is a note in God's anthem." The outstanding characteristic of Bible poetry is, therefore, its revelation of God. This is the theme cf all the poetic types, from the lyrics which are, in the main, songs in praise of God, to Job, the great epic drama which presents not the deeds of a great hero, "but shows us a suffering hero in agony, wondering at and studying out God's ways in the world. To the poet, Jehovah is the maker and preserver of all things. He shines in the firmament, rides on the thunderstorm; he clothes the lilies; he feeds the ravens and young lions; he gives rain and fruitful seasons. He is the everlasting shield and comfort and joy of Israel." Van Dyke lists, the following three great qualities which distinguish Bible poetry: a genuine love of nature, a 879 passionate sense of the beauty of holiness, and intense joy in God. The Psalms Doctor Buck invites us to imagine the psalmists of old sitting with their lyres, meditating upon the vastness of the heavens, the mystery of the night, the intense heat of the desert, the majesty of the storm, and reading from these natural phenomena messages from the Creator. Poetic imagination stirred their deepest emotions, and they burst forth into such expressions as the exquisite 23rd Psalm. A few excerpts will remind the readers what a rich treasure of poetic literature the Psalms offer: The voice of the Lord is upon the waters: The God of glory thundereth: The Lord is upon many waters. The voice of the Lord is powerful; The voice of the Lord is full of majesty. The voice of the Lord breaketh the cedars. (Psalms 29) The Lord is my rock, and my fortress, and my deliverer; My God, my strength, in whom I will trust. (Psalms 18) As the hart panteth after the water brooks, So panteth my soul after thee, O God.... (Psalms 42) The inspiration of many of these poems, such as the 23rd and 42na Psalms, striking in their moral and emotional intensity, came from the majesty and mystery of the desert, and have a lyrical quality that we do not discover in other literatures. The Psalms have served many great people by expressing for them what they wanted to say but could not say adequately in their own words. After the victory at Dunbar, Cromwell quoted the first two verses of the 117th Psalm: "O praise the Lord, all ye nations: Praise Him, all 880 ye people: For his merciful kindness is great toward us: And the truth of the Lord endureth forever." Queen Elizabeth when she learned that she was to take the English throne, quoted the twenty-third verse of the 118th Psalm: "This is the Lord's doings." When the Earl of Strafford stood on the scaffold to meet his death, he quoted the second verse of the 146th Psalm: "While I live, will I praise the Lord." F. W. Farrar in The Bible, Its Meaning and Supremacy says that such remarkable instances as those mentioned above do not represent a thousandth part of the spell exercised by special Psalms and particularly special verses upon individuals all through the history of England. The motto of the University of Oxford is the first verse of the 27th Psalm: "The Lord is my light and my salvation; whom shall I fear? The Lord is the strength of my life; of whom shall I be afraid?" Poetry of the Prophets ?Rhapsodies There is another group of Biblical poets even greater than the psalmists. These are the prophets. Among the most outstanding of the poet-prophets are Isaiah, Jeremiah, Amos, and Joel. These men lived at a time much like our own, when danger to their country was acute. They were statesmen as well as poets and could foresee invaders marching against their people. They raised their voices in anger, scorn, or lament. But, as Doctor Buck points out, "There was always in-their cry a call back to the old simplicity of life and religion. Always it is the desert calling on the city to mend its ways lest ? the new luxury sap the manhood and the new creed make them forget real values." The following might be a description of what is happening in parts of the world today: They shall run to and from in the city; They shall run upon the wall, They shall climb upon the houses; They shall enter in at the windows like a thief. The earth shall quake before them;. The heavens shall tremble: The sun and the moon shall be dark, And the stars shall withdraw their shining. (Joel 2:9, 10) The poetry of the prophets not alone expresses the inner emotions of a people under tremendous strain, but also gives comments on the changing traditions of the Hebrew people. The prophets were not primarily foretellers of the future but the inspired voices of God, calling Israel's attention to its mission and its dangers. Often a prose sermon of these prophets breaks off for a moment into rhapsodic utterances. The rhapsody is a particular type of dramatic-lyrical composition. In a rhapsody the prophet "displays the incidents themselves before our imagination working toward their goal with the realistic clearness of drama. But upon examination such prophetic compositions are found to go far beyond the machinery of dramatic literature, and borrow from all other literary departments special modes of treatment, to be blended together in the most highly wrought and spiritual of literary forms." (Literary Study of the Bible, by Moulton, Chapter XVIII, treats this form fully and analyzes the Rhapsody of the Chaldeans from the prophecy of Habakkuk, the Rhapsody of the LESSON DEPARTMENT Locust Plague from the prophecy of Joel, etc.) These rhapsodies, vivid spiritual utterances combining poetry and music, are well illustrated in the Book of Isaiah. The last twenty-six chapters of Isaiah are made up of rhapsodies in a very complete sense; some of these are entire spiritual dramas. Moses, Samuel, Saul, and David are all prophet-poets who had the courage of their convictions, Nathan and Elijah are others. Doctor Buck declares, "I would give much for the song of exultation sung by the hairy prophet Elijah as, after. The divine vindication, he took up the sword and alone fell upon the four hundred discomfited prophets of Baal." "The prophet would go with his divine message throughout the country, speaking out the words of God which had been given to him. His "Thus saith the Lord' would be heard from throne room and counsel chamber to the market place and temple, wherever men congregated." Critics state that there is "nothin in any other literature quite like the prophetic books of the Bible, with ~ their patriotic motives, their intense emotional imagery of poetry and vision, their urge for political and moral rehabilitation of the country in the face of crisis." 'The prophet poets are social reformers urging justice to the widows and fatherless and brotherhood to the poor; they.. Are jealous ministers in the service of their God, proclaiming against the new practices ef paganism and luxury; they are consolers of the people in days of affliction. Proverbs. - Some critics classify the proverbs as poetry and some. As prose..-."They 8381 may at least be called poetic prose. The Book of Proverbs, a collection of wise sayings founded on observations of life, is a clear revelation of human nature, showing that the Hebrews were very similar to us. These sayings point out the safe pathway of life, and their wisdom teaches far into the future. One commentator says, "They do not tell us what is wrong with our automobiles ?such engines being then unknown ?but they tell us how to drive in security." 'They give advice on education, family relationships, work, restraint, how in general to conduct | oneself in society, teaching the philosophy of moderation, and reflecting the accumulated knowledge of many generations, as can be seen in the following excerpts: "Go to the ant, thou sluggard; consider her ways and be wise." "A soft answer turneth away wrath; but grievous words stir 'up anger." "A friend loveth at all times." "Even a fool, when he holdeth his peace, is counted wise: and he that shutteth his lips is esteemed | as a man of understanding." Many proverbs have a touch of humor: "It is better to dwell in a corner of the housetop, than with a brawling woman in a wide house." "It is better to dwell in the wilderness than with a contentious and angry woman." Scattered throughout the Bible is a great variety of poetry, and there are several complete books, such as Job, the Psalms, Proverbs, Song of Solomon, and Book of Lamentations. Of these, Job is the greatest. It is the most magnificent work in. Hebrew literature and is one of the greatest poems in world literature. To do it justice, an entire lesson should be 'devoted to it; the same is 882 true of The Song of Solomon, a great love song with wholesome lessons on purity and fidelity, and, according to some critics, with deep symbolic meaning. The Psalms are lyrics of devotion. The Proverbs are terse maxims crystallized from the experience of the race. The rhapsodies are poetic spiritual dramas inserted often in prose sermons. In all, the poetry of the Bible is lasting beauty and inspiration. Study Helps '1. How does the rhythm of the Bible literature differ from that of other poetry with which we are familiar? (See notes in The Modern Reader's Bible, by Moulton. ) 2. Select and read some choice Psalms. Discuss them as pieces of literature: theme, style, setting, etc. The following are a ? few of the many Psalms distinguished for their beauty: 1, 8, 15, 19, 24, 27, 30:1-8, 32:1 33, 34, 37, 139, 39, 46, 51, 62, 92, 107. 3. Analyze a poem, such as David's lament over Saul, giving the setting, theme, style, etc. Memorize some of the Psalms and Proverbs which are timely today. References Buck, Dr. Philo M., The Golden Thread. Moulton, Dr. R. G., The Modern Reader's Bible. Armstrong, How to Know the Bible. Thomas and Espenshad, Bible Readings. Van Dyke, The Bible as Literature (Chapter VIII). Farrar, F. W., The Bible, Its Meaning and Supremacy (Chapter XXIII). Moulton Dr. R. G., The Bible as Literature (Chapters 1-8; 18). Rice, John, The Old Testament in the Life of Today. Note: The Holy Land, by Fulleylove and Kelman, listed as a literature reference in the Magazine, is now out of print. A