Social Science What "America" Means Lesson 5 Our Civic Rights and Duties (Tuesday, March 23, 1943) "The end of the State is not only to live, but to live nobly. WHEN the Constitution of the United States was framed, two fundamental fields. Of activity and conduct were in the minds of the delegates who formed the Convention. They first formulated and wrote a charter of government, consisting of a law-making body, a law- 'Aristotle interpreting body, and a law-executing body. To each department was ascribed clearly its functions, which were given meaning as time went on by the character and intelligence of - the men who were chosen by the people to be their public servants in government. The statesmen of the LESSON DEPARTMENT Republic yielded their best thought and purposes to the charter which the fathers had written, and Madame De Stael remarked to Edward Everett in Paris: "You Americans are the advance guard of the human race." The fathers of the Republic also marked out the second field of activity and conduct; namely, civic liberty, defined fundamentally by the Bill of Rights, or the first ten amendments to the Constitution. The Government was forbidden to invade this field, for it is the field wherein every citizen discovers his sacred rights and privileges, to make a life all that is best. 'The glory of this field lies in the fact that it requires the highest moral and intellectual endeavor to properly appreciate it. Courts of justice were instituted that its rights should not be invaded. Never before in the history of mankind was this ever done, and it has become, as the founders wished, the principal characteristic of our Government. It holds to the ideal that man must have the privilege to develop all that is best within him?the development of his noblest purposes and desires. Civic liberty makes man a citizen and not a subject. It gives him his agency to attain knowledge and happiness, and brings all citizens of the Republic more and more into a harmony of divine purpose. Christianity was to be "the true Light, which lighteth every man that cometh into the world." It found its ultimate synthesis of illuminating power in the message and consciousness of Christ. ? This is the main characteristic of our Government. No man can be stripped of his property, of his liberty, or of his freedom. He may worship God as his conscience dictates; he may receive his education in public schools and colleges; he may go and come as he pleases; and he may make of his home all that is lovely and true. To the Constitution, he must always be loyal, and his loyalty depends upon the sacredness of his citizenship. The essentials of our civic liberty are proclaimed by the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution, and upon these essentials the civilization of America has been built. They demand the highest ideals of citizenship, and citizenship requires that its purity be kept inviolate. Any movement among the citizens of America to force their ideas on the people by hate and by social and political revolution is contrary to American principles and becomes the greatest menace to the Constitution and our civic liberties. "If we are to have industrial peace," says a noted economist, "we must have the industrial virtues," which are honesty in work and fidelity to public security, public order, and the unity of our national life. The unfortunate condition today in America is our weakness of morale and the loss oi our finer sense of civic virtues. Our democratic government has always been threatened by forces from within, for where there is individual opportunity, there will always be inequality, for no two individuals have the same ability, the same tastes, and the same mental and physical powers. Citizens must follow the principles of self-control, and realize that it is honest labor and patient endeavor that bring men to the ideal of self-government and obedience to the nobler im- 884 pulses of the spirit. ""Men are free," said David H. Lawrence, "when they are in a living homeland; not when they are straying and breaking away. Men are free when they are obeying some deep inward voice of religious belief. Obeying from within." If America is to live, if our civic liberty is to grow larger and more hopeful in the future, our moral and spiritual values must be deeply rooted in a spiritual idealism. Our civic liberty is the ideal of the more abundant life, of realizing life in its largest possibilities. It is as James Truslow. Adams points out in his Epic of America, "that dream of a land in which life should be better and richer and fuller for every man, with opportunity for each according to his ability or achievement." "The building of this Nation has been a long, a solemn, and a sacred task." It has been the work of men of the loftiest ideals of life, who looked upon their government as something over which Divine Providence has had an influence. The American people have always regarded themselves "as the instruments of Providence in the working out of a great government and a mighty civilization." Almost alone among -the governments of the world, they have been in the habit of invoking the Divine blessing upon the deliberations of their legislative bodies; and on every festive occasion, they have given their hearts in prayer. America needs re-idealizing. It needs higher moral values and spiritual standards. Its people must work together in a common loyalty. William Penn laid down some forceful ideas to his people when he founded Pennsylvania. "Governments, like ? clocks, from the motion men give them," 'he said, "and as governments are made and moved by men, so by them they are ruined too. Let men be good and the government cannot be bad. But if men be bad, let the government be ever so good, they will endeavor to warp and spoil it to their turn." And at the close of his remarkable statement, he says that. A good constitution and form of government will be preserved by men of wisdom and virtue, and that good citizenship must be preserved by a virtuous education of youth. John Marshall, the famous Judge of the Supreme Court of the. United States, once said: "A constitution is framed for ages to come, and is designed to approach immortality as nearly as human institutions can approach it. Lis course cannot always be tranquil. It is exposed to storms and tempests, and its framers must be unwise statesmen indeed, if they have not provided it... With the means of selfpreservation from the perils it may be destined to encounter." These words from the most noted immortal Nationalist address of our first great chief justice. Is one of the "strongest and most enduring strands of that mighty: cable woven by him to hold the American people together as a united and imperishable union." MERICA'S gift to the world is its Constitution and its ideal of civic liberty. It brings the people together in the bond of common loyalty, and its values in spiritual achievement and moral purposes find validity in the vision of God. 'This great thought was expressed by John Adams, when he said: There are rights antecedent to all earthly LESSON DEPARTMENT _ government?tights that cannot be repealed or restrained by human laws?nights derived from the great legislator of the Universe. The same thought was expressed by Brigham Young: I want to say to every man, the Constitution of the United States, as formed by our fathers, was dictated, was revealed, was put into their hearts by the Almighty, who -sits enthroned in the midst of the heavens; although unknown to them, it was dictated by the revelations of Jesus Christ... I say to you, magnify the laws. There is no law in the United States or in the Constitution, but I am ready to make honorable. In this country the name of the Savior is confessed. His law is authority and His providence trusted. The name of the Son of Man and His teachings are honored. The day of His birth and His resurrection are honored in every home and by every church, and at this moment wise men of the nation are stressing the spiritual values more and more every day. They are asserting that democratic institutions and cultural activities rest upon the assumption that man is a spiritual being and that his highest good should be defined in terms of spiritual values. A group of scientists have declared recently that "Spiritual life and its laws, as we experience them in ourselves at our best, are distinctive. They are not identical with the phenomena and laws of nature described by the natural sciences, and whatever description of them the natural sciences may be capable of giving, cannot affect their reality and their value." No other book ever written gives us the ideal of good citizenship as does the Bible. 'Take, for example, the fifteenth Psalm, a beautiful lyric. Its title is "The Good Citizen," and it. Begins with a question: Lord, who shall abide in thy tabernacle? Who shall dwell in thy holy hill? The question is answered by the description of a man "whose character" says Henry Van Dyke, "corresponds to the law of God." He that walketh uprightly, And worketh righteousness, And speaketh truth in his heart. He that backbiteth not with his tongue, Nor doeth 'evil to his neighbor, Nor taketh up a reproach against his neighbor. In whose eyes a vile person is condemned; But he honoreth them that fear the Lord. He that sweareth to his own hurt, and changeth not, He that putteth. Not out his money to usury, Nor taketh reward against the innocent. He that doeth these things shall never be moved. The Latter-day Saints have a deep and glowing faith in the providence of God and His laws. They see that the need of the world is a knowledge of the principles of morale which are the outgrowth of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. In the Epic of America, by James Truslow Adams, we are made ~ aware of the character and molding influence of the ideals of America, or as he calls it the "American Dream." He points out that in the development of the physical resources of our country, there has been a striving, which, however obscured, is still the distinctive note and the chief contribution of our nation to human progress. It is "the dream of a land in which life should be better and richer and fuller for every man, with opportunity for each, according to his ability or achievement." But the greater dream of America has 886 been to establish the power and righteousness of truth in the hearts of all people. There are moral values. And spiritual standards which as they are sought make for peace and concord. This is the unity of America for which we pray and for which we. Live. Questions and Subjects for Discussion 1. Discuss the introductory statement at the head of this lesson. Who was Aristotle? (An ancient Greek philosopher, who lived about 300 B. C.) 2. What is meant by civic liberty? '"Civic liberty is the sacred heritage of all Americans." Why do we say this? 3. Madame de Stael was a celebrated French writer. What did she mean when she said: "You Americans are the advance guard of the human race'? 4. What is meant by the statement: "Civic liberty makes man a citizen and not a subject'? 5. How would you answer the question: 'What are the main characteristics of the Government of the United States'? 6. Give all the reasons you can why our ? American Government gave to its citizens the right to worship God according to the dictates of conscience. 7. We say, "Our Government is threatened by forces within." What do we mean by this? 8. Give all the reasons you can as to why the Government of the United States is a Christian government. G. Are we as loyal to both family and state government as our fathers were? 10. Discuss the subject: 'The Latter-day Saints are loyal supporters of the Government of the United States." References Elson, History of the United States. Curtis, Constitutional History of the United States Beck, Constitution of the United States Channing, History of the United States, Vol. III Walker, Making of the Nation Farrand, The Fathers of the Constitution Woodbum, The American Republic and its Government Fiske, The Critical Period of American History It will be well to go to your public library and find some one-volume histories for references to the Constitution. > Y General Presidents of Reliof Society (For optional use of Relief Societies in stakes and missions in countries other than the United States, in lieu of social science lessons. ) Note: The course, "General Presidents of Relief Society," includes eight lessons? one on each of the eight general presidents. No lesson was published in this department for the month of December, as the General Board does not require that a meeting be held on Tuesday, December 22, due to the holiday season. Relief Societies desiring to present all eight lessons of the course must necessarily combine two lessons for presentation at one meeting or present two lessons in March?one on the fourth Tuesday, March 23, and one on the fifth Tuesday, March 30. In order that lessons may be available sufficiently early for wards desiring to have an extra lesson on the fifth Tuesday in March, two lessons, "Emmeline B. Wells" and "Clarissa S. Williams," are published in this issue of the Magazine. LESSON DEPARTMENT 887 Emmeline Blanche Woodward Wells Fifth Relief Society President Lesson 5 F{MMELINE Blanche Woodward was born at Petersham, Massachusetts, February 29, 1828. Her ancestors were Puritans, patriots ever ready to sacrifice for their convictions, and people of literary attainments. All three of these strains were strongly marked in the precocious Emmeline, who entered school at three years of age, early wrote bits of poetry and prose, and was graduated at fifteen with honors and a teacher's certificate. While still a pupil at a "select school for young ladies," she was baptized a Latter-day Saint, at the wish of her mother. Through ridicule her companions and teachers tried to persuade her to give up this unpopular new religion. Her soul was in conflict. She was ambitious for a higher education and loved the society of scholars. Although lacking a sure testimony of the Gospel, she remained steadfast, renounced her ambitions, and somewhat dubiously set out for Nauvoo. The Prophet Joseph Smith was at the dock to meet the boatload of Saints. He shook hands with Emmeline. She said later, "I knew instantly then that the Gospel was true by the feeling that pervaded me from the crown of my head to the ends of my fingers and toes and every part of my body." Heretofore, in Emmeline's mind greatness had been somehow involved with scholarly achievement. Now, in the Prophet, untaught in schools, this fifteen-yearold girl recognized greatness in its highest form. "Never was there another man like him," she testified to her old age. With this new, clear vision of truth, Emmeline was spiritually armored for the hard years ahead. In Nauvoo, and later at Winter Quarters, this young woman taught school and Sunday school; she also sang and recited at social gatherings. In 1848, as the wife of Newel K. Whitney, Emmeline came to Utah, but was soon left a widow with two small children. She taught school in a log cabin, with the books and equipment she could provide. After two years she married General Daniel H. Wells, a leader, a man of culture, and later one of the First Presidency of the Church. In their home were books, music, a background of spirituality, and intelligent conversation. As Mrs. Wells became more widely known, persons of national and international note called at her home, many of them her personal friends. Mrs. Wells was a charming woman, small and delicately built, with aristocratic features and lovely eyes of forget-me-not blue. Her fragile body housed the soul of a poet, with its insight and sensitive discrimination. Nevertheless, she was a woman of spirit, outspoken and ready to defend what she believed right and just. And through the years of deprivation, drivings, long marches, pioneering struggles and, later, comfort, she felt that the women of Zion had a destiny to work out. Mrs. Wells early espoused the cause of woman's advancement. Her public activities did not com- mence until the seventies, however, as she bore Daniel Wells three daughters and remained at home most of the time while her children were young. But in 1870, when Utah Territory was granted female suffrage, she was among the first women in the United States who cast their ballots as citizens. The Woman's Exponent was first published in 1872, with President Brigham Young's approval. He wanted the women to have a literary publication in which to express their ideas and spread information. But the women had to finance it; and so they incorporated and bought stock at $10 per share. The enterprise succeeded, and Mrs. Wells became assistant editor in 1875, and two years later, editor and publisher. The publication kept abreast of women's activities and interests the world over, gave Relief Society news and instructions, encouraged Mormon women's efforts in all home industries, aided mothers in caring for their children and homes, and published. Matter that was of spiritual and educational value. In a charming style Mrs. Wells gave wise advice on numerous subjects, particularly on methods of cultivating refinement in the home. Mrs. Wells published a volume of poems, Musings and Memories, and compiled and edited two books for the Chicago World's Fair?Songs and Flowers of the Wasatch, and Charities and Philanthropies. She was also the founder of two literary organizations, the Utah Women's Press Club and the Reapers' Club. On her eighty-fourth birthday, the Brigham Young University conferred upon her the honorary degree of Doctor of Literature. ? In 1876, President Young told Mrs. Wells that the men had failed to store a two-year supply of grain for every family as he had requested, and laid upon her the mission of storing grain, like Joseph of Egypt, against a day of famine, drouth, or crop failure. Sister Wells felt "very timid" in accepting this mission. President Young said: "Begin by writing the strongest editorial that you can possibly write upon this subject." She obeyed, asking, as President Young desired, that the women buy wheat and save wheat, and that they "build storehouses for the storing of their grain... And that they solicit donations from their husbands and brethren to assist them in carrying out this enterprise." She urged them to "be in earnest." For many years she wrote about wheat, encouraging the women in this project. Some of the women gleaned wheat and some bought wheat with the proceeds of their Sunday eggs, which they gathered early on Saturdays and late on Sundays in order to increase the number; other women sold homemade quilts, jams, and cheese to acquire the grain. Instructions for building granaries appeared in the Exponent. They were to be cool, dry, and dark. When bins and granaries were running over, new ones were built with money raised by the sisters. Grain was lent to bishops for the poor, and to farmers as seed during times of drouth.