Helping the Adolescent to Develop a Wholesome Personality
By Elna Miller of the Extension Division of the Agricultural College of North Dakota
The problem of helping the adolescent boy or girl to develop a wholesome personality is one of the most important undertakings with which those of us who are interested in young people have to deal. The attitude and reactions toward life which are developed during these years, will largely determine the individual's success in his chosen profession, his success as a citizen, his success in marriage, and his success as a parent. If the child is to reach maturity with a possibility for a full realization of his best self, we must help the adolescent to solve his two most complex problems.
Two Great Problems of Youth
The first of these problems is, by a process of mental and emotional weaning, to break himself away from depending upon home ties. The second is to establish a wholesome attitude towards, and a desire for, successful mating and marriage relationship. We can best help the youth to solve these two great issues only by an understanding of the background which has influenced his development during the years of his childhood, as well as the changing conditions which are taking place during his adolescent years.
What is Adolescence?
Adolescence is often defined as a bridge which crosses the chasm between childhood and manhood. For ages past, these years have been looked upon as a period of great stress and strain for the parent; and we have failed to realize that it is one of far greater stress and strain for the child who is standing on the threshold of youth, struggling to emerge into manhood or womanhood. These are the years when the individual must test out the wholesomeness of his previous years. We cannot discuss the characteristics of the adolescent without looking back upon the ten or twelve years which have preceded this period; only thus can we acquaint ourselves with changes in the child's development. Life's changes are gradual and rhythmic. One period overlaps another so closely that it is difficult for one who is constantly with the child to recognize these changes. While we


cannot make any absolute rule stating that every child is in a definite period at a given age, yet we can make a general division which should help us to know how to deal with the child at different periods.
The Two Early Periods
One classification considers the child's development from the physical, the mental and emotional as well as the social and spiritual standpoints. It begins with infancy. During the first two years the child learns to sit up, to creep, to walk, and, in a limited manner, to talk. He should learn also the beginning of good food habits. The child's years from two to six are known as his language period. This is his time for forming good speech habits. He must learn the words that will help him express his thoughts. During this time the child must be given every opportunity possible to express himself. Children of this age should be seen and heard. This is also the chief period of habit formation and character training. The child must form the habits of proper food selection, of personal cleanliness, both internal and external, and of getting sufficient rest and exercise. In addition to these physical health habits, the child must learn the habits of mental health. He must develop habits of wholesome social relationship, and lay the foundation for his spiritual development.
Period of Experiments
The third period in the child's life?a direct outgrowth of his first five or six years and extending on to the tenth or twelfth year?is one of experimentation. He is concerned with testing life. Things seem somewhat vague and are not clear cut. The child struggles to see things clearly and is a stickler for facts. He is busy gathering the tools which he is to need in his adult years. He learns his rules, his tables and formulas. He is not so much concerned with reasons as he is with facts. His likes and dislikes change abruptly. One day he may have spurts of interest in one direction and the next day his interest takes an entirely different turn. Towards the end of this period the child emerges with the framework of his moral being rather well built. He should have acquired the fundamentals of character, such as truth, loyalty, honesty and other desirable qualities.
The Adolescent Age
After the period of tool gathering and experimenting, the child reaches the adolescent years and finds himself filled with a burning desire to try these tools out for himself. The years between twelve or fourteen and eighteen or twenty are likely to be filled with emotional conflicts. The
HELPING THE ADOLESCENT 425
child now loves to argue and is never satisfied until he is on the winning side. He bursts forth into flights of oratory. He is temperamental and trigger-tempered. One moment finds him acting like a man, the next day may find him crying like a child. He is inconsistent and inconstant. One minute he is prone to work and play beyond his strength and the next to be consumed with fatigue.
Introvert and Extrovert Types
Frequently the child is shy and self-conscious, particularly if he belongs to what is known as the introvert type. Introvert means turning inward, and the introvert individual is one who turns his thoughts inward. He shuns the limelight and does not meet people easily. He builds a wall about his personality to avoid contact with others. He feels deeply but cannot express himself. He keeps to himself much of the time, not because he does not like to be with people, but because he finds it difficult to be a good mixer. During the adolescent years we find the individual who is directly opposite from the introvert type. This we call the extrovert, which means turning outward. The extrovert has an open natured, active personality. He is self confident, a good mixer, and loves to show off. He puts forth great effort to make a favorable impression on the public. He is inclined to be self-centered and egotistical. Each of these types needs particular care during the adolescence. The quiet, retiring, self-conscious type needs encouragement in expressing himself, and much help in establishing self-confidence and self-esteem. The child of the opposite type may need a certain amount of careful suppression, lest he develop a personality too bold and overbearing.
Periods of Emotional Growth
Because of the complex emotional situation of these years, it is well to know the various periods in the emotional growth of the child. Every normal child passes through a period when the mother has the chief influence over his emotions, another when the father's influence is uppermost, and still another when the strongest influence comes from the school. While the boy and the girl each pass through these various stages, the age limits differ for the two sexes. The emotional phases for the girl may be classified as follows: From infancy until eight or nine years is the mother phase. From nine until fifteen years is the school phase. From fifteen until eighteen years is the father phase. From eighteen on is the mating phase. The boy's emotional periods are distributed in the following divisions:


Until seven or eight years is the mother phase. From eight to twelve is the father phase. From twelve to eighteen is the school phase. From eighteen on is the mating phase. These divisions are not always clear cut and the age at which they develop may vary a year or two, but in general, we may accept this division. To understand how best to help the child and also to know who can best help him at different ages in his development, is the problem.
Two Body-Types
Just as mental and emotional changes are most conspicuous during the adolescent years, so also are physical changes. Up to this time the child's growth has been rather steady and gradual, but now we find physical development taking uneven spurts. The child passes through a stage of awkwardness when he seems to be all legs and arms. His bad posture is due to poor muscular development; and this awkwardness increases his sensitiveness. With this rapid, outward, physical change, occur distinct changes in the body proportions. They take on two forms: the tall, thin child with the long legs and arms and short trunk; and the child with the long trunk and short arms and legs. The individual with the short trunk has small lungs and heart and a limited circulatory system. The intestine is short. The chest is inclined to be hollow, and the abdominal organs have a tendency to sag downward. This means more difficulty for the girl. This type tires much more easily and can stand less physical strain. The child with the shorter legs and arms and longer trunk has a larger heart and lungs and his circulation is better. He has a larger digestive tract with a long intestine. He usually has greater endurance than has the short-body type. The boy's voice at this time begins to take on a more masculine quality. This makes him more sensitive and self-conscious. The boy often starts a sentence in the shrill high pitched voice of a child and before he gets the sentence finished his voice is away down in a low pitched bass key.
Home Ties vs. Independence
We should first acquaint ourselves with some of the conditions which the adolescent has to face, as well as with the factors which have influenced his development before reaching these years. Then we shall be in a better position to know how to help the adolescent to develop a wholesome personality. With these facts in mind, we can provide the necessary environment and thus help the adolescent to solve his two complex problems: (1) breaking away from home ties and (2) establishing a wholesome attitude toward his love life.
HELPING THE ADOLESCENT 427
If the child is to develop his own personality he must have the apron strings loosened, so that his dependence upon home ties can be broken. During the adolescent period the child should be able to put away childish things; he should have left home, in feelings, by the time he is twenty. Many children grow up to the point of leaving the parental roof, and yet remain homesick for the rest of their lives. On the other hand, we find children who remain at home and because of careful training are able to outgrow their feeling of dependence upon the parents and the home. This process of breaking away from home ties does not in any way mean running away from home, nor showing disrespect for parents and home. It means that the child is arriving at the point where he can live his own life, think for himself, and make his own decisions. He is no longer to rely absolutely upon parents to make his life plans. The wise parent will advise and direct so that the child will make his own decisions.
Train in Self-Reliance
The best age to start this process of mental and emotional weaning is during the mother phase in the child's emotional growth; that is during the first eight or nine years. During these years the child should be given every opportunity to rely upon himself and to become independent. He should learn to dress himself, to care for his personal belongings, to keep his toys in order and to do such other things as are well within his ability. At this age, on many things the child can use his own power of decision. Bobbie may well be left to decide whether he should wear the blue or the tan blouse, the striped or the plain stockings. Likewise, Betty should be consulted as to whether the new dress is to be pink or yellow and whether it should be plain or ruffled.
The Real Mother
The mother who is more interested in the child's welfare than in her own emotional indulgence, will help him to tear himself away from his mother's emotional life. No crippling bandage should remain to fetter his independent action. The petted and pampered child, whose mother is overanxious, is prevented from developing independence both of thought and of action. The child should so develop that he will take his place beside others. In the adolescent period the child is beyond the point where he enjoys taking orders and having set plans made for him. He must have freedom to develop his own interests, to discover for himself, to experiment, and even to make mistakes. The adolescent youth feels himself ready for responsibility. He wants to be accepted as a grown person and to break the habits of parental domination. He is ready to strike out for himself. This is the


time for parents and teachers to take their hands off, and let him demonstrate this power of shifting for himself. Because of parents' eagerness to protect them, boys and girls are often prevented from being themselves. A typical example is revealed in the following plea from a vivacious young thing who demands her chance to become an individual:
A Daughter Speaks Out
"Why don't mothers understand youth?' the girl's letter reads. "Can't they remember that they were girls once? Or weren't mothers ever seventeen? Don't you think a senior in high school should ever think for herself? Mother dictates every move I make. She tells me when to practice my music, when to study my algebra, and when to go to bed. She even tells me how to wash dishes and where to put them away, just as though I hadn't done them for my whole lifetime. I hate them all because mother is always telling me when and how to do things.
"I shouldn't mind doing what mother dictates if she would ever let me do anything I want to do. I wanted to work in the drug store after school to earn some spending money for myself so I wouldn't have to account to mother for everything, but she refused to let me for fear I'd meet 'some questionable salesman and run away with him.
"Instead of having an allowance of my own, I have to ask mother for every cent and then tell her what I intend to spend it for. I can't even buy an ice cream cone without giving a tearful account of it.
"Mother even wants to choose all my friends. I never feel safe in having girls come to the house because mother sits in the room all the time and monopolizes all the conversation, or else she sits in the next room and eavesdrops on every word. She even wants to answer all the questions anyone asks me. I can't have a boy friend come to the house and I can never go to a party with one without a frightful scene.
"Mother is suspicious of me all the time. She opens all my letters and decides whether I shall see them. When I get little notes from the girls, she accuses me of trying to put something over on her.
"Mother says she is doing all this to protect me from the world. I don't want to be protected. Neither do I want to be bad, but can't a girl of seventeen be good and be happy at the same time? I just want to have freedom to live my own life, to make my own decisions, and to use my own mind. Mother has controlled my mind for so long that I feel as though I have very little mind of my own left.
To Prevent One-Sidedness
"I love mother dearly, and I don't want to make her un-
HELPING THE ADOLESCENT 429
happy; but I must have a chance to grow and to try out some things in life for myself. I want to have a personality of my own, and not live out all my years just being mother's shadow."
How many more boys and girls are suffering from such domination and yet are keeping all their pent-up emotions to themselves! During this period, by increasing his interests outside the home, we can do much toward helping the child to become an independent individual. His social contacts should be increased. He should be encouraged in group organizations such as scout work or camp-fire boys and girls clubs and similar organizations. These provide for self expression and prevent the child from becoming too self-centered. A broad interest in good music, in good literature, or in beautiful works of art, will prevent a one-sided development.
Preparation for Love-Life
To develop a desirable state of mind towards the mating phase of one's life, is a task quite as complex as is that of breaking away from parental bondage. Its success depends, quite extensively, on the degree to which the child is able to escape from the emotional home ties. Here again we must refer back to the period in the child's emotional development which we called the mother phase. If the mother has left too many emotional wrappings about the child during this period, the adolescent boy or girl has much difficulty in making healthy associations with individuals of the opposite sex. The mother who has monopolized the child's emotional life during the mother phase to such an extent that the child enjoys her association to the exclusion of friends of his own age, is doing much toward thwarting the normal development of the child's love-life. Mothers often beam with pride as they say "Richard is mother's sweetheart. He would much rather take mother out for a good time than girls of his own age," or "Alice and I are just like sisters. I never worry about her because she always wants to be with me. She is not interested in other girls, and I am so glad that she has no use for boys." Mothers who really understand the needs of boys and girls of this age will encourage Richard to take other girls to an occasional show and will widen Alice's circle to include both boys and girls of her own age whenever possible. The petted child who is too closely connected with his mother is unable to make the simplest human adjustments required by the transfer of affections to the boy or girl outside the home family.
What Youth Should Know
Since the adolescent is what he is by virtue of his childhood, it is much less of a problem to provide a wholesome environment


for him at this critical time if we have paved the way from his earliest years. The mother who has kept faith with her child has kept the child's confidence, so that she has less difficulty in helping him make the necessary adjustments during these changing years. Before the pronounced physical changes take place, the boy and girl should be informed as to what these changes mean. The parent who has kept the child's confidence by answering all of the child's questions from his earliest years, has no difficulty in presenting these fundamental facts of life. The time to do this is while the child is still in the questioning stage, before he reaches the years when he is self-conscious and is less interested in facts than he is in sensations. The girl must be prepared for the process of menstruation before her figure shows signs of change. She should understand that this is a perfectly normal function which should give her no discomfort nor pain, provided she is in a state of positive health with her muscles firm and well developed and her blood and digestion what they should be. This period should not be looked upon as a sick time. The girl should refrain from strenuous physical activity, but a small amount of exercise during these days is far better than none at all. Personal cleanliness is more important at this time than at any other.
Clean and Wholesome
The girl must have the proper food habits well established. She must know the value of perfect cleanliness, both internal and external. She should not only know what healthful clothing and shoes are, but she should wear this kind. The girl should learn to feel that her responsibility to future generations is to maintain a clean, strong, healthy body, so that the life stream may pass on through her, unhampered by physical defects. Before the boy's voice begins to deepen, he should know the changes he may expect. He must know his contribution in living a clean, wholesome life and must become perfectly familiar with the essentials of hygiene.
Conserving This Strength
It is necessary both for the boy and for the girl to know and to practice all the rules of the health game. Since there is a great tendency during these years to work and play far beyond their physical strength, they must provide for sufficient rest. It is during these years that so many extra activities aside from their school work loom up to sap their vitality and there is great danger of neglecting to get sufficient sleep and rest. There is no other time during the growing period, after the first year or two, when weight is quite such an important
HELPING THE ADOLESCENT 431
factor. Most of our tuberculosis develops during the years between twelve and twenty. It is the underweight boy or girl who may contract this disease. Girls are more susceptible than boys of this age because girls are more likely to be underweight. The present craze among girls to retain a boyish figure through a process of unbalanced dieting, accompanied by wearing too few clothes, seems to be responsible for a good deal of tuberculosis among our young girls. Boys and girls of those years should be from ten to fifteen pounds overweight in order to build up sufficient resistance against infectious diseases during these critical years.
Encourage Group Fun
About this time the girl takes a keener interest in boys and in clothes and thinks less of games and physical activities. Because of this development, it is well to encourage group fun involving both boys and girls. She needs much association with boys during these years if she is to develop a healthy attitude toward adult responsibilities; but it should be both boys and girls, rather than a pairing off with any single boy during the early adolescent years. If she is to make a successful choice as to her life mate, she must have an opportunity to know many different types of personalities. The boy, likewise, is beset with emotional changes. He should understand that he will have a new need for self-control. He will have new sensations and different feelings toward girls than he has ever had before. He must be encouraged in group activities. Athletics and different types of competitive games afford a desirable safety valve as an outlet for the boy's new emotional sensations.
Do Not Trifle With Youth
During this period we should encourage group fun. If the girl's interest in boys is made light of, or likewise if the boy who shows an interest in girls is teased over the situation, we are defeating our purpose of developing the proper attitude between the sexes. If we are to help the adolescent with the second of his two greatest problems, we shall encourage wholesome associations between boys and girls. It is not always necessary, nor even desirable, to have evident adult supervision over all parties involving both boys and girls. If we have been careful in building our foundation for this period, we can well take our hands off and give youth a chance to assert itself. Too many restrictions prevent a full realization of the individual's best self. The individual who feels that his parents have faith and trust in him, is far less inclined to overstep the bounds of propriety than is the one who feels that he is constantly being guarded and watched over.