[Vol1 | October 1914 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: Literature]

LITERATURE Lesson VL (Thirty Minutes.) Ten Minute Talk on Current Events.
Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin: Subject: Franklin as a public benefactor.
Sentiment: "A quarrelsome man has no good neighbors." 1.
Establishes public library. (First project of a public nature.) Altemus edition, pp. 136-143.
Crowell edition, pp. 98-100; 111-113. 2.
Establishes police force.
Altemus, pp. 182-183.
Crowell, pp. 148-149. 3.
Establishes fire company known as the Union Fire Company.
Altemus, pp. 184-185.
Crowell, pp. 149-150. 4.
Invents open stove.
Altemus, pp. 207-209.
Crowell, pp. 168-169. 5.
In connection with Dr.
Bond, establishes hospital in Philadelphia.
Altemus, pp. 216-219.
Crowell pp. 176-79. 6.
Suggested plans for cleaning and paving streets.
Altemus, pp. 221-223.
Crowell, pp. 180-182.
QUESTIONS. 1.
How did Franklin begin the first subscription library in America? 2.
What name was given to the library? 3.
In what year was it established?
. 9 4.
What are the benefits of a public library? 5.
What use did Franklin make of the library? 6.
Compare the original fire company in Philadelphia with a modern fire department in a large city. 7.
What advantage was the open stove over the old fireplace? 8.
Compare Franklin's attitude relative to patents with that of the inventors today. 9.
How were the Philadelphians converted to the idea of lighting the streets? 10.
How did Franklin secure funds from the Assembly to assist in the establishment of a hospital? 11.
Whenever Franklin wished to promote a scheme, what was his first step in the matter? 12.
Name the public benefactions of Benjamin Franklin.
October HOME ETHICS Lesson VL Causes of Infidelity and Indifference to the Gospel of Christ: 1.
If parents fail to live up to the principles in which they outwardly profess to believe, the child in the home will detect it.
The religion that is but a veneer will destroy confidence in the family circle and will create a weakening of confidence, which will result in indifference to religion. 2.
Parents have a first duty to teach their offspring the gospel of Christ which has been given solely for a guide to present action and a goal for future effort.
How many children would know how to even try to be Christ-like, without this knowledge was obtained from the father and mother?
We teach our children what their many pioneer ancestor? have done in the redemption of a desert, but neglect to tell them why they came.
Are you assisting your sons to get an understanding of the saving power of the Priesthood and to attend their Quorum meetings faithfully?
How to Choose Between Good and Evil. 3.
An understanding of art will aid in teaching young people how vulgar and inartistic are rag-time and rag dancing.
Take your children to Mutual and Primary, where they will learn the beautiful dances.
Help them to distinguish and understand between the vulgar and common and the pure, the beautiful and dignified.
Three great principles of art are
10 . simplicity, dignity and technical rendition.
Learn to dance perfectly, daintily, and yet with dignity.
In topic 4 we refer to learning the principles of the Gospel so that we may know how to be good.
A person once said to President John Henry Smith: "So and So is such a good man!" He asked in reply "What is he good for?" When no: answer seemed forthcoming, he said "Every man and woman: must be good for something, if their goodness is to avail!" From this we glean that we have a second duty as parents, to teach our children technically how to take part in the home activities and how to do something perfectly so that they may sustain themselves and not be a burden.
Do you desire that your child shall grow up in purity and truth?
Then see to it that idleness shall not destroy him.
There is no surer way of training a child in the way he should walk than to teach him how to work, how to make something, how to add to the sweetness of home.
There is no better way to teach fortitude, honesty, integrity, courage, dignity and self-respect than by making things with the hands, that are perfect in use and beauty.
Not trying once, but daily receiving the same training which must go a long way toward strengthening the purpose and power of the child to live up to the principles of the gospel.
There couldn't be a better saving machine than the getting of head and hand to work together in making something of use and beauty.
How wicked to allow children to grow up without home cares, with no flowers to tend, no trees, no garden, but only a dirty yard, a filthy house.
How dreadfully dulled will be the child who never learns how to play and "play fair." The boy who understands town ball, and plays well, and who "plays fair," will not be the one to raise prices when war gives him such an opportunity.
Discussion.
To what liberties is a child entitled?
When should a boy and a girl be at home?
When may the child be trusted away from home influence?
Is the street a safe place for children?
Why not?
When is absence from home dangerous and destructive of modesty and virtue?
Do you believe in the chaperone and why?
What effect has the parents' example upon the religion of the child?
What effect has neglect to teach the gospel on a child?
What do you think of hypocrisy?
Do you think that a person who does right for personal ends is apt to be a rogue and known as such to the child in the home?
Why are work and competence saving powers?
Why are idleness and incompetence destructive to true religion?
In what  way do ugliness, filthiness, the low and inartistic tear down true religion?  .