[WomansExponent | Vol16 | 1887 | July | Issue: 3 | Title: MASS CONVENTION, | Author: MATTIE A. CANNON]

MASS CONVENTION,
		SALT LAKE THEATRE.
	In accordance with the call from the Terri-
torial Central Committee the citizens of this
county assembled en masse in the theatre, at 12,
m. The building was well filled. Col. J. R.
Winder Chairman of the Ter. Cen. Com.
called the assembly to order, and nominated
Hon. James Sharp as Chairman. Mr. Sharp
was elected with applause. He thanked the
audience, and stated that sovereign statehood
was the object of the movement. Hon. F. S.
Richards moved that a secretary, two vice presi-
dents and an assistant secretary be elected.
The following gentlemen were nominated and
sustained by vote of the meeting. Judge E.
A. Smith, Secretary, Mayor F. Armstrong,
First Vice President, Hon. C. D. Brinton,
Second Vice President, H. G. Whitney, Assist-
ant Secretary. Prayer was offered by Bishop
O. F. Whitney. The band played, Hail
Columbia." H. G. Whitney read the Call for
the Convention, and Hon. John T. Caine, with
some appropriate remarks, moved that a com-
mittee of seven be appointed by the chair to
select names to be placed before the Convention
as delegates. The Chairman named as Com.
on Nom.: Hon. John T. Caine, Col. T. J.
Webber, Judge Adam Spiers, Dr. H. J. Faust.
E. Holman, O. S. Clawson and A. E. Hyde,
After the Committee had retired, speeches
were called for, and the following gentlemen
responded to the call by briefly addressing the
assembly: Hon. F. S. Richards, Le Grande 
Young, O. F. Whitney, J. F. Wells, J. H.
Moyle, R. W. Sloan and Andrew Jenson.
	Hon. F. S. Richards said the object of the
convention had been fully stated. His heart
was in the measure, and his soul was full of
patriotic pride in the oldest and most populous
Territory coming forward and asking recogni-
tion in the Union! For more than 37 years
the parent government had partially borne the
expenses of the Territorial government. It
was their sincere desire and moral duty to step
forward and assume their own responsibilities.
The Territory was now able to take her own
part. Several times had she asked for admis-
sion, but never were her prospects as bright as
to day. The change would bring new blessings
and responsibilities. These will be conditions
such as the youth receives on attaining his
majority. The additional responsibilities would
be more than compensated for by the powers
and advantages. Statehood was to Territorial
government as was mature manhood to irre-
sponsible childhood. Utah had outgrown her
condition of infancy, and was prepared to take
her part in the national government—the great-
est government on earth. Every additional
state gave greater power and prestige to the
nation. The end of the nation's growth was
not yet; it would be as much greater as was the
nation greater to-day than 100 years ago. There


[Column 1]
was no truer, more loyal or more patriotic peo-
ple than those represented here to-day. They-
should demand equal rights and equal responsi-
bilities with their fellow citizens, and should
bring both a constitution that would be a char-
ter of equal liberty to all. 
	The band played, "The Star Spangled Ban-
ner."
	Le Grande Young was then called for and
said he was heartily in accord with the present
movement. Ever since he had been old enough
to understand the difference between a Terri-
tory  and Statehood he had desired the latter
condition, and he knew that was the sentiment
of the great majority of the people, many of
whom had been anxiously wishing it for the last
 forty years. Thirty-nine years ago the people of
Utah, then called Deseret, framed a constitu-
tion and asked admission. This was before a
territorial government was formed, and the
feeling then was as patriotic as it could possibly
be to-day. The first thing the Pioneers did in-
dicated their true feelings. They came to this
land then in a foreign state, and raised the
stars and stripes. The constitution they then
adopted was worthy of support to-day.
	O. F. Whitney was then called, and was
greeted with cheers and applause. He said the
call was totally unexpected, for he was not a
political speaker. He realized, however, that
he would be recreant to his position as an
American citizen, if he failed to respond. He
was no orator, but he could at times speak his
mind and place before his hearers his sentiments
on the things that lay next his heart. One of
his favorite themes was the beauty and glory of
 the institutions of America. He loved them
with his whole heart. He was a descendant of
some of those whom God raised up to found
this government, and he was in hearty unison
with any movement inspired of God to secure
our rights in this great government raised up to
benefit the human race. It would be a slander
on the Almighty to say there was any intention
in His heart to limit these blessings to any
handful of people or any one nation. Princi-
ples are eternal, having their foundation in
Him, who is the father, inspirer and the pro-
tector of the good and pure and patriotic
everywhere. This nation's principles are of the
leaven destined to leaven the whole lump of
clay which we call mother earth. Every
movement for liberty, every shackle stricken 
off was a step in the purpose of the Almighty
for the emancipation of the human family.
James Russell Lowell, an American poet and
statesman, had voiced the speaker's sentiments,
and the sentiments of every patriot. Says he:
		"Is true freedom but to break
		Fetters for our own dear sake?
		And, with leathern hearts forget.
		That we owe mankind a debt?
		No! True freedom is to share
		All the chains our brothers wear,
		And with heart and hand to be
		Earnest to make others free.

		"They are slaves who fear to speak,
		For the fallen and the weak;
		They are slaves who will not choose
		Hatred, scoffing and abuse,
		Rather than in silence shrink
		From the truth they needs must think;
		They are slaves who dare not be
		In the right, with two or three."
	The speaker invoked the blessing of the Al-
mighty upon all movements for the bettering
of the condition of the human family. May
God defend the right and overrule this action
for our good and His own glory!
	Junius F. Wells, Esq., came forward in
answer to calls from the audience. He felt
deeply the importance of the step being taken
to-day for the emancipation of the people of
Utah. In times past the applications of the
people for admission, made on five occasions,
were passed by. But the people had grown
[Column 2]
and some time their power must be irrestible in 
this demand. The speaker believed that time
had come, and that Utah would be welcomed
into the sisterhood of States. Her people had
every neccessary qualification, and should be
found at the door. If they ask it would be
given; if they knock it will be opened to them.
	Jemes H. Moylǝ, Esq., next responded to the
call. He had been born in Utah's vales, an
American citizen. There was no privilege
upon which he looked with greater honor. The
results of the labors of those who founded
Utah were great, so great that she was now en-
titled to statehood. There were elements of
disunion here as well as elsewhere, but these
were such as were natural to humanity. Utah
had within her borders the resources to make
her one of the greatest of the States in the Union.
Now, on the approach of the nation's natal
day, there was the opportunity to move for-
ward to the liberty commemorated on that day.
May the people uuite in celebrating the birth
of this the greatest and freest of the nations of
the earth.
	Robert W.. Sloan was called for and said he
knew of nothing that could be urged against
statehood for Utah. He did not believe there
was anything of that nature. He was heart
and soul in the movement, and would support
it with all his power. Here was the foundation
of a State that would be the peer of any
that now bore that title. A great
commonwealth had been built up by those who
came to Utah in early days, for the good of
the present generation, who should benefit by
it. He wanted the rights of every man recog-
nized in the Constitution. He believed Utah
would be admitted, but whether she was or
not, her people would know they were right,
and that ultimately the right would win.
	Andrew Jenson, Esq., said his feelings were
in accord with the movement. He had been
born in a foreign land, and when, in his boy-
hood, he read of the great republic of America,
it filled his heart with joy. Many of the peo-
ple of Utah had come from the Scandinavian
nations; but they were not Scandinavians to-
day, but American citizens, honest and true.
They expected to remain American citizens
and to sustain American institutions. He
could not be silent in this great movement, and
pledged himself to support it.
	Hon. John T. Caine, of the committee on
nominations, submitted the following report:
	The Com. on nom. submitted the following
list of names of Delegates to the Constitution-
al Convention to be held in the City Hall on
Thursday, June 30, to represent Salt Lake
County.
	James Sharp, Wm. Riter, John T. Caine,
Samuel P. Teasdel, Franklin S. Richards, Le
Grand Young, Elias A. Smith, Richard Howe,
L. S. Hills, John Clark, Samuel Bennion, An-
drew Jenson, Francis Armstrong, Feramorz
Little, Junius F. Wells, John R. Winder.
	Your committee also suggest the following
alternates to act in the event of a failure of any
of the principals.
	James H. Moyle, John C. Cutler, O. F. Whit-
ney, Thomas W. Jennings.
	On motion, the report of the committee was
adopted, there being but one vote in the nega-
all were elected.
	The closing prayer was offered by President
Angus M. Cannon.
	The assembly then gave three rousing cheers
for the new State of Utah, and dispersed.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.
			WEBER STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of the Weber Stake of Zion was held in
the Ogden Tabernacle, Thursday, June 16th,
1887. uuder the direction of President Jane S.
[column 2]
Richards. After singing, prayer was offered.
by Prest. L. W. Shurtliff, and the minutes of
the previous conference were read and accepted.
	Prest. Jane S. Richards said she was very
much pleased to see so goodly a number
present, for she felt the Spirit of God was here
to-day, and would be richly given to all who
sought for it through faith and prayer. Was
delighted to have Sister Zina D. H. Young
and Sister Harriet Snow, President of R. S. Box
Elder Co. with us again; also highly grati-
fied to have Sister Herrick with us again after
her long absence from our midst, and trusted
that all would accept and appreciate the good
counsel these sisters may impart.
	Sister Janette Bingham felt to thank the
Lord for all good, and to live only for the up-
building of His Kingdom here on earth. If
we had met to-day to be filled with His Spirit
our prayers would be surely answered.
	Prest. L. W. Shurtliff felt to rejoice in meet-
ing with the sisters always, and was truly proud
of the great and good works which they are
constantly achieving. Referred to some inter-
esting remarks which he heard Apostle F. D.
Richards make in regard to the sisters visiting
those who are cold and indifferent as punctually
as those who are sick, for by so doing untold
good would be accomplished. Prayed God’s
blessings to rest upon all.
	Sister Zina D. Young asked an interest in
the faith and prayers of all present. Spoke of
the Prophet Joseph Smith and some of his
grand and glorious teachings to the sisters in
the early scenes of the Church. Said, “As he
Government has now disfranchised us we can
speak with perfect freedom on the pure and
holy principles of the Gospel.” Gave a pleas-
ing account of her attendance at the reunion of
President Heber C. Kimball’s family. Felt
that these days are the best we have yet seen
on earth, and if we could banish from our
midst the spirit of fault-finding we would then
know perfect happiness, and more nearly be-
come as the Son of Man. Prayed that the
teachers might continually be filled with the
Spirit of God, and speak words of wisdom to
all whom they might visit.
	Elder D. H. Peery said the time was when
he firmly believed the teachings and teachers
of this Church were all wrong, but through
the faith and long-suffering of his wife, all
these ideas were changed. Knew the hearts
of womankind, as a rule, are purer and nearer
God than are those of men. “Through our
union only will all malice be overcome, and
through our prayers would we attain unbounded
success.” Spoke of the great danger of our
sons and daughters marrying those not of our
faith. “If we are indifferent to and rebellious
against those things which we know God has
revealed, He will surely bring us low and hum-
ble us to do-His will.”
Sister Harriet Snow, Stake President of Box
Elder County Relief Society, was pleased to
meet her sisters in this county, but felt her ina-
bility in speaking to them. Desired to be
humble, meek and pure before God, so as to
discern the whisperings of the still small voice,
and thus be enabled to overcome fear and
the many trials we are called to pass through.
Prayed for the spirit of peace and union to be
with all the societies in every county and ward
in this land.
	Sister Sarah Herrick was very thankful to
again be associated with her sisters. Knew we
could not half appreciate the society and sym-
pathy of our brethren and sisters until we are
deprived for a time of the same. Desired to
live righteously before the Lord, and thereby
gain His approval and blessings.
	Elder Maycock felt that an individual inter-
est should be taken in the different organiza-
tions of this Church, and a spirit of love and
charity be cultivated in our midst. Prayed
God’s blessings to rest upon all the sisters in
ich abundance, and to give them renewed


[Column 1]
strength and energy in their various labors.
	Prayer was offered by Elder Saunders, and
meeting adjourned until 2 o’clock p.m.
	2 o’clock p.m.  Meeting came to order by
singing, “How firm a foundation.” Prayer by
Bishop R. McQuarry.   Singing, “There’s, a
feast of fat things.”
	Elder Joseph Stanford being requested to
make a few remarks, felt to respond willingly
in this as well as all other calls, for in so doing 
could he obtain the Spirit and blessings of
God.  Referred to the remarks of Sister Zina
Young and others, and of the good that must
follow if their instructions were only treasured
up and carried out.  Admonished the sisters
to speak all good of one another, and to seek to
build each other up by faith and good works.
	Sisters Widerborg and Bickington bore faith-
ful testimonies to the truth of the Gospel, and
desired that all the sisters might live to be
worthy of the greatest praise and honor from
their sons and daughters, and to teach them
every principle of the Gospel in all purity, by
observing the same in our daily lives.
	Sisters Randall and Yearsley felt determined
to follow in the footsteps of righteousness un-
til the end should come, and seemed greatly 
filled with the Spirit of God, and the gifts 
and blessings He so kindly bestows.
	Coun. Hattie C. Brown always enjoyed meet-
ing with the Saints of God, and was proud
that she had a standing with them in His
kingdom; felt to praise the Lord for the many
gifts and blessings He bestows upon us.
	Sister Harriet Snow said she had been a
member of this Church for more than forty
years, and had never yet doubted one principle 
of this, the everlasting Gospel, but felt stronger 
and more determined to live them than ever
before. Advised the mothers to set good ex-
amples in their homes as well as in their socie-
ties.  Said that in the county over which she
presided there was one branch of Lamanites,
which was in a prosperous condition,  The sis-
ters of that branch were doing all in their
power to learn the principles of cleanliness and 
industry, as well as those pertaining to the Gos-
pel.  Prayed God to bless us inasmuch as we
live according to His teachings.
	Sister Zina Young read a revelation given
through Joseph the Seer, in Harmony, Susque-
hannah Co., Pennsylvania, July, 1830, which
was both interesting and instructive.  Said if
nothing more than the words contained therein
had been heard to-day, there was an abundance
to be remembered and carried out.  Advised
the mothers to read the Book of Mormon and
Doctrine and Covenants often, and live accord-
ing to their teachings.  Quoted the saying of
the Prophet Joseph’s: “Don’t climb on to the
extreme branches of the tree, for there is dan-
ger of falling.  Cling close to the trunk.”
Thought it would just as appropriately apply
to any one of us to-day.  Thanked the sisters
for their liberal donations to the Hospital, and
admonished the sisters to live purely, so that
they could officiate in the ordinance of washing
and anointing the sick, and to labor earnestly
with the young to instill the principles of the
Gospel in their hearts in all purity, so they will
not stray away from the fold.
	Prest. J. S. Richards said Sister Eliza R.
Snow Smith sent her love and blessing to all
the sisters in this county, and hoped to enjoy
their society in conference again.  Then Sister
Richards asked if the sisters all felt to sustain
Sister   Eliza R.   Snow   Smith, as     their
President	to      carry     out   all        her
teachings and put in practice her instruc-
tions and exercise our faith, and that we may
have her with us again as we have had many
times in the past, and to sustain her, also, as
the President of the Relief Society of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
in all the world.  The vote was unanimous.
[Column 2]
After singing and prayer, conference adjourned
for three months.
				MATTIE A. CANNON
					Sec. of Weber Stake

