			BEAVER REPORT.
	The first Sisters' Conference held in the Bea-
ver Stake of Zion, in May last, had a good re-
presentation from every settlement in the coun-
ty. Sister Lucinda Howd presiding. Singing
by the choir, prayer by Elder Robertson. There
were many representative brethren and sisters
on the stand from the different settlements.
President Howd first stated the object of the 
Conference and then the reports were read from
the different places, representing all the societies
in a prosperous condition, temporally and spirit-
ually. President John Ashworth, Elder Wm.
Fotheringham, M. A. McDonny and L. Skinner
spoke of the many good principles pertaining to
our religion. D. F. Cox spoke of the
the many advantages the young people of the
present time enjoyed for improvement  compar-
ed to what we older ones had in our younger
days; exhorted the sisters to faithfulness in per-
forming all the duties enjoined upon them as
Latter-day Saints. Bro. Robertson spoke very
instructively and edifyingly, being filled with
the power of God. A good spirit prevailed
throughout the entire meeting, and every one
who spoke, both men and women, testified to

[Column 2]
the same. Bro. Blackburn spoke upon Celestial
marriage, said we should teach this principle
to our children. Many of the sisters
gave much good and glorious instruction and
bore powerful testimonies of what they had seen
and heard, which corroborated the truth of the 
everlasting Gospel. Sister Mary E. Lightner
went back in her remarks to the days of the
Prophet Joseph, and related many things plea-
sant to hear. Sister L. B. Pratt, our aged veter-
an of the cross, spoke of many interesting inci-
dents of her life; and said she was living on bor-
rowed time, and at her advanced age she had
learned not to fear man but to put her trust in
God. I will just say there is not power in my
pen to write the many good things that were
said in our Conference.
	Brothers Ashworth and Fotherignham said
they never enjoyed themselves better than dur-
ing this conference. They would not say the 
sisters had done some good preaching lest they
should not like it, but they would say they had
done some very good talking. And the presi-
dents of the young ladies gave some very good
and intelligent instructions. 
	Jane Gillis, president of the Primary Associa-
tion, and her counselors, L. Shepherd and Irene
Hills, presented their little intelligent band with
instructions. The secretary called the roll, and
the minutes of the P. A. were read by Edna
Farnsworth, a little girl 11 years of age. The
young are improving greatly in qualifications
in Beaver. The sisters are much united in
keeping their covenants and living up to their
duties. Sister Howd presided with great dig-
nity. 			                     RACHEL.


