DREAMLAND.

How often doth the tir'd and weary soul
Long to burst the care-chains which control
Its every impulse. When worn with grief,
What brings to weary hearts that pure relief
Which springs untainted from affection's fount?
Moments of sweet joy o'er which we count
As counts the greedy miser o'er his gold?
And on the crowded Bark of Life are rolled
Adown the dim and winding stream of years,
Freighted alike with pleasures and with tears.
What tones the harshest feelings of this life
To kindness? Forbids unceasing strife?
Softens pain? pillows sickness into sleep?
While o'er the senses there doth gently creep,
A nameless calm—a sweetness of repose,
Which but to feel we'd bear unnumber'd woes?
'Tis Dreamland—That oasis in Life's waste;
That freedom of the soul in which we taste
Again the pleasures and the joys of youth—
Unblemish'd love of beauty and of truth.
In dreams the soul, unburden'd of its care,
Floats on the wings of pleasure through the air.
With what unbounded joy it takes its flight,
And soars into those blissful realms of light.
Where the mind, untrammel'd, unconfin'd and free,
May revel in its own wild ecstacy;
And with a mother's fondness lingers o'er
Each infant joy (now lost forevermore)
As it lies cradled in the lap of Time,
In innocence and beauty half sublime.
In dreams, perhaps, the spirit views again
The little stream that wander'd through the glen;
The dear old cot, round which the woodbine clings,
And through long, weary years its fragrance brings;
The grassy spot, fair fields, the shady nook
Close seated near some softly murmering brook;
Moonlight bowers, bright skies, and waters clear;
The hum of birds, and songs it loved to hear;
And lonely walks, through woods and by the sea,
And happy meetings full of mirth and glee;
While at each turn it takes it seems to meet
The well-known faces that it loved to greet,
And deeper joys fill up each place
Like bright stars midst the dim in heaven's space;
And dreams, desires, and aspirations high,
And visions of bright hopes flit swiftly by—
All mingled in one glad, one joyous throng,
That bears the soul in ecstacy along.
Thus like the little honey bee that sips
Its garner'd sweetness from each flowr'ets lips,
The s[-]ul culls from the joys of by-gone years
A tenderness which this frail life endears.
*	*	*	*	*	*	*
O, Dreamland! Thou sweet haven of pure joy—
The only one man knows without alloy—
To thee we turn when sorrow bows the heart—
When willingly with this poor life we'd part—
To thee we turn, with many a weary sigh
And taste of pleasures that can never die.
Joy follows joy—each in succession gleams,
And from thy fountain well life's dearest dreams;
In thee we find what life can ne'er attain—
We feel a joy unmingled with a pain.
