	SISTERS' CONFERENCE, 
			Tuesday, June 18, 1880.
	Mrs. M. Snow presiding. Opening prayer,
Mrs. S. P. Booth. Among those present were
Sisters E. R. Snow Smith and E. B. Wells, of
Salt Lake City. Minutes and condensed report
of March Conference read. Sister Eliza blessed
the sisters with comforting words. E. B. Wells
encouraged us with her eloquence. S. P. Booth
reported first ward. Upon motion conference
adjourned until 2 p.m.
	Afternoon. Presidents of Relief Societies
gave verbal reports, which were followed by re-
marks by Uncle Joseph Young, the sisters from
Salt Lake City and Apostle L. Snow, all re-
minding us of our many duties and pointing out
the path of salvation. Benediction by Bro.
Isaac Smith.
	June 10th. Devoted to Y. L. M. I. A., the
superintendent presiding. All presidents pre-
sent reported verbally. Remarks were then
made by other officers, all expressing a deter-
mination to improve.
	2 p.m. Dedicated to the presidents of Primary
Association to report verbally.
	5 p.m. The little folks' conference. Each
one of the four hundred present felt their pres-
ence indispensable. Upon the whole our con-
ference is one long to be remembered with grate-
ful feelings and many thanks to our dearly be-
loved Sister Eliza, and not forgetting others of
our sister visitors. Conference adjourned until
September 10th. Benediction by Lizze Felt.
	Financial, Cash and Property:
Receipts, 	-	-	-		$235,43.
		Disbursements:
	To Poor, $30.70; Temple, 30.05; Emigration,
29.25; Missionary, 11.50; Lamanites, 9.25; Build-
ings, 49.25; Home Industries, 90.05; Sta-
tionery, 6.19; Wheat, 44 bushels.
	Total on hand, 	-	-	-	$289,57.
						M. E. SNOW, 
					Recording Secretary. 

	The Young Ladies Mutual Improvement As-
sociation of the 8th Ward, Salt Lake City, met
as usual, June 25th, 1880, and were highly edi-
fied in listening to a lecture from Mrs. Dr. R. B.
Pratt. The Dr. said she would not give all she
would like to in one short lecture, but would
try and glean what would interest the young
ladies, which did so, and all felt very well paid
for attending. Before finishing Dr. Pratt ex-
horted the young ladies to study and learn in
regard to their health, felt pleased with the in-
terest of the listeners, said she would be pleased
at any time to meet with us. The Association
feel to thank Dr. Pratt for her lecture and sin-
cerely hope to hear from her again.
	We hold our meetings now once a month.
Our exercises consist of reading, select recita-
tions, songs, music, and teachings from various
members.
	We are pleased at all times to see visitors, and
cordially invite our good sisters who are working
for the improvement and elevation of the
daughters of Zion. 
				MARY S. LEAVER, President,
				S. A. HAWKINS, Secretary.

