A FEW OF MY THOUGHTS.

	While reflecting upon the present state of so-
ciety and the prevailing sins and vices of the
world, we are sometimes ready to exclaim, with
the Prophet, "How is the gold become dim;
how is the most fine gold changed." How
often are our ears made to tingle and our hearts
to grow sad at the fearful accounts of crime and 
misery that abound throughout the length and
breadth of the land. While we read of the reve-
lations made by a Talmage and are shocked by
the horrible crimes prevalent. While dens of
infamy and debauchery flourish under the pro-
tection of the law, and the vile seducer of inno-
cence walks abroad with unblushing front
amongst the rich and honored of the land, while
the poor victim of his flattery and deception,
whose only crime was "loving not wisely, but
too well," and who has yielded to him all that
woman holds most dear (her purity) is forsaken
and cast out to be shunned and scorned by her
own sex and only sought by the opposite for the
gratification of the basest of passions and be cast
aside till she becomes a loathsome and degraded
thing unfit for the society of man or woman,
till in her agony and despair she is frequently
driven to commit the fearful crime of self-de-
struction, or perhaps thinking to hide her shame
to cover her guilt, she herself tramples on the
best law of our nature and becomes the destroy-
er of her hapless offspring, or vice robed in
splendor displays her gaudy garments at the
corners of the streets. While industrious and
suffering virtue is too often left to suffer and die
uncared for and unknown. Truly we are ready
to veil our faces to shut out the fearful picture
and to cry out in anguish of spirit;
Is there no balm in Gilead? Is there no physi-
cian there? Why, then, is not the health of my
people recovered? Surely the Lord will find a 
remedy, or the nation that is guilty of these
things will be followed by a strange punish-
ment, and be cut off; a fit reward for their deeds.
But who are they who are the first to cry out
against the revelations and institutions of the
Lord? Is it not the seducer, the debauchee, the


vile libertine, who panders to the lusts and pas-
sions of men? But these are not all. How
many of those whose elevated position, and su-
perior advantages of education and refinement
makes them a power in the land, who should
be the guardians of purity and virtue, and many
who profess to be followers of Him who is of purer
eyes than to behold iniquity; in whom was found
no sin, yet do not even they, the teachers of a
false system of religion, cry “Peace, Peace,”
when there is no peace, calling light darkness,
and darkness light, putting bitter for sweet and
sweet for bitter.
   "These are they who creep into houses" (hypo-
crites,) who, under the guise of religion, gain the
confidence of the unsuspecting, and taking ad-
vantage of the influence thus acquired, by the
basest of arts, "lead captive silly women."  Oh,
beware of them; trust not their promises; the
poison of asps is under their lips; the garland is
cankered; there is death in the cup that they
offer; the pillow is burning. May the day speedi-
ly arrive when woman shall understand her true
destiny; when she shall dare arise in the
strength of her purity, and say to the vain seek-
er of the pleasures of an hour, get thee gone! I
have nothing to do with thee. Then would the
libertine and profligate in vain seek for a victim.
Hasten the day of the Lord when righteousness
shall cover the earth.
			P. C. Y., 2d Ward, S. L. City


