	KANAB.
	The Quarterly Conference of  the Relief Soci-
eties of the Kanab Stake was held  at   Glendale,
June 4th, 1880, Counselor Mrs. Harriet  Bunting
presiding.  Present on the stand:  Counselors H.
Bunting and L. A. Johnson;  Sister L. Spencer,
president of the  Orderville  Ward,  and  Sister
Foot, of the Glendale Ward.  Of  the  brethren:
Presidents H. C. Spencer and Jas. L. Bunting,
Bishops  W.  D.  Johnson, Jr.,  Royal Cutler, T.
Smith, and Elder Carpenter.  The brethren and
sisters made  some very  interesting  remarks in
reference to home manufature, the responsibil-
ities of parents in  rearing  their children;  urged
them to give the little ones  good  educations, to
teach  them  politeness,  and  impress  on their
young minds the importance of  prayer and obe-
dience to the priesthood; wished  the  sisters to
do what they could to help gather the poor.  In
fact, the whole meeting was replete  with  good
counsel  and  instruction.  The  conference was
adjourned till September 3d,  to be  held at Ka-
nab. The Societies  in  the  Stake have loaned
their wheat to the needy, as desired by President
Taylor.  The sisters are trying  to  live their reli-
gion and  to do the best they can, in the absence
of President Elizabeth Nuttall, whom  we  hope
will soon be with us again.  Wishing success to
the EXPONENT and peace and prosperity to Zion,
	I remain, your sister in the gospel,
	M. ELIZABETH LITTLE, Secretary.

	The Primary Association of Levan  was  orga-
nized May 29th, 1879, by Sister  Eliza R. Snow
and Sister M. I. Horne.  We held our first an-
niversary May 29th, 1880;  after the usual  open-
ing exercises, Sister Esther Gardner made a few
remarks and read the report  of  our  Association
and exercises of the past year; the  children  re-
cited pieces and sang songs, also recited the  Ar
ticles of Faith; eight of the children repeated the 
ten  commandments,  and  answered  questions
from  them,  and  from  the  Juvenile  Instsuctor.
Bishop Aagard and H. Peterson gave some very
encouraging remarks.  Meetings held, 40; names
enrolled,  78; average  attendance,  33;  financial
report, donations  received,  $5.50, and 50 cts in
calico.  Donated to Manti Temple $3.00; expend-
ed for the Association, $4.90;  remaining  in  the
treasury,  60  cents, and  one quilt  made by  the
Primary Association, for the Temple, price $5.00.
Singing by the children, "Jesus, Mighty King in
Zion." benediction by Bishop Aagrad. Esther
Gardner, President; Eliza  Curtis,  Anna  Peter-
son,  Counselors;  Martha  Gardner,  Secretary;
Amelia  Mangelson,  Assistant;  Irinda  Taylor,
Treasurer.

	The Y. L. M. I. A. of Paradise, Cache County,
organized under the direction of sisters Eliza R.
Snow and Elizabeth  Davis, Aug. 10,  '78,  with
the following officers:
	Carrie M. C. Smith, President; Elizabeth San-
diford, Sarah Ann Obray, Elizabeth Remington,
Henrietta Sinfield, Counselors: Mary J. Oldham,
Secretary; and Harriet  Howells,  Assistant-Sec-
retary.  They still  remain the same  with  the
exception of the secretaries, who have been  ab-
sent from the settlement of some time. Their
places are now filled by Sisters  Fanny  Gibbs as
Secretary and Ellen Bishop Assistant-Secretary,
also adding to our number Charlotte  Ann Loft-
house, as Treasurer.  We have enrolled seventy
members,  with an  average  attendance  of  45.
November last we subscribed for the EXPONENT
which is ever  welcome and  appreciated  by  the
members.  We hold  our  meetings  weekly,   on
Tuesday evening.  Also conjoint meetings  with
the Y. M. M. I. A., monthly.  They are con-
ducted,  on a whole, the same as  proposed  by
Brother Wells and Hardy, which method is en-
tered into heartily and attended with  good  suc-
oess.  We have not  progressed  in  a  temporal
point of  view  so much as could be desired; our
circumstances not being so favorable.  Of one
thing  we  feel confident, that we have  kept the
object of these organizations, viz.:  Improvement
rather than entertainment. We feel also that the
spirit enjoyed  by the  members is mainly  due to
the  inspiring  visit of Sister Snow  and  Davis.
We feel that they have touched a chord  in  the
hearts of the sisters that will never cease to vi-

[Column 3]
brate.  We will close our communication,  desir-
ing to be remembered by the  remainder  of  our
sisters in the cause of truth.
