	FANNY GIBBS, Sec'y
			
	The Quarterly Conference  of  the  Y. L. M. I.
Association of the  Weber  Stake  of  Zion  was
held in the Tabernacle, Ogden, June 18th, Presi-
dent Sarah Herrick presiding. Meeting opened
by singing, "Now  let  us  Rejoice."  Prayer by
Bishop Hart.  Singing, "May we who know the
Joyful  Sound."  Minutes  of  last  Conference
read  and  accepted.  Reports  were  then  read
from thirteen associations, all being reported ex-
cept one.  President  Sarah  Herrick  addressed
the meeting.  She was  pleased with the reports
and was satisfied the  young  ladies were awake
and trying to  perform,  to  the  utmost of their
ability, the  duties  assigned  them.  Felt inte-
rested in the great  work  in  which we were en-
gaged,  and  was  desirous  of  doing  more good.
Hoped we would all profit  by  the good instruc-
tion given at the R. S.  Conference  yesterday,
and ever strive to do  the  will  of  our  Father in
heaven.
	Bishop Sanford Bingham  exhorted the young
ladies  to  try  and  fully  appreciate  the  great
blessings they receive and improve every oppor-
tunity to gain  wisdom  and  knowledge,  that in
after years they might  have  nothing  to regret,
President Sarah Richards, Summit Stake, spoke
on the training of children, necessity of prayer,
liberality, and the despicable practice of tattling.
	Bishop Hart,  West  Weber,  gave  much good
instruction in regard to our duties as Saints, and
was sure if we  lived  our  religion  all  would be
well.
	Prest.  Jane  S. Richards  followed,  endorsing
what had been said, and  impressing  upon  the
minds of the young ladies the necessity of hav-
ing great  faith  and  of  being  united.  Advised
mothers to teach their children when young the
principles of the gospel, and  the  importance of
attending to their prayers and other duties faith-
fully.  Spoke on various other subjects and was
listened to throughout  with  marked  attention.
Meeting adjourned  till  2 p.m. Singing, "Do
what is right."  Benediction by  Elder Thomas
Morley.
	2 p.m.  After singing  and  prayer, Mrs. Mar-
tha Critchelow, president R. S. First Ward was
called upon to address the meeting.  She bore a 
faithful testimony to the  truth  of  the  religion
she had embraced, had been  richly  paid for  at-
tending this conference,  and  hoped  all  present
would try and carry out the  good counsel which 
had been given.
	Mrs.  Martha  Bingham,  president  R.  S.  of 
Riverdale, said many  good  things  encouraging
to all who are striving to  do  right, gave much
excellent counsel and asked the Lord to bless all
in their efforts to do good.
	The presidents of  the  Young Ladies Associa-
tions present each spoke, expressing  a feeling of
deep interest in the associations over which they
were placed, and a desire to perform their duties
acceptably, relying upon their  heavenly Father
for  strength,  knowing  they  were  incom-
petent  to  fill  such  responsible  posi-
tions  without  his  spirit  to  guide   them.
Interesting and instructive remarks were made
by counselors,  Mrs.  Emily  S.  Richards, Mrs.
Josephine R. West and Mrs. Letitia Peery, which
were calculated in their  nature, to  inspire the
young ladies to  greater  dilligence and renewed
efforts in the  cause  of  mutual  improvement.
Bishop McQuarrie gave  a very earnest address,
speaking upon many principles of  our holy reli-
gion, pointing out clearly the importance of ob-
serving the Word of Wisdom, and setting an ex-
ample worthy of  imitation.  Prayed  the bless-
ings of heaven to rest upon all  who are interest-
ed in building up the kingdom  of  God  on  the
earth.  President Sarah  Herrick  had  enjoyed
the Conference, and trusted all felt blessed and
 benefitted by the good counsel they had received.
Exhorted the young ladies to  persevere in good
works,  and  perform  faithfully  every  known
duty.  Conference was then adjourned for three
months.
	Statistical  and  financial  report;  statistical:
members, 620; meetings held, 96;  average at-
tendance, 2,863;  conjoint  sessions,  34;  visits of
county officers,  9;  chapters  read  in  Church
Works, 8,442; lectures delivered, 32; testimonies
born, 178.
	Financial: Cash on hand at date of last report,
$64.70;  cash  received, $82.57;  disbursed for chari-
table  purposes, books, etc., $104.53;  amount  of
cash and  property on  hand,  $62.79.  There is
also some wheat which was not reported.
	ROSE CANFIELD, Secretary.


