BY HANNAH T. KING.

	Annesley Hall was the paternal home of Mary
Chaworth, it is a short distance from Newstead
Abbey, the ancient possession of the Byrons;
both are situated in Nottinghamshire, England;
the estates join each other, and have been made
famous by the graphic pen of the poet. Mary
Chaworth was an heiress, and is described as
having much personal beauty, and a disposition
the most amiable and attaching. Lord Byron
had been introduced to her family in London,
and on taking up his residence at Newstead,
and after coming to the title, he renewed his
acquaintance with them. He was then only
sixteen, and the young heiress two years older.
His visits were frequent and familiar; a room
being appropriated to him whenever
he thought proper to make use of it.
A few happy weeks were passed riding,
boating on the lake, shooting at a given
mark, and such like, in which Mary always
made one, Byron being through all her devoted
Esquire. This short period of about six weeks
was probably the happiest, the sweetest, and the
least mixed with alloy of his short, but full life;
In them he imbibed a deep-seated passion for his
young hostess, that was to color all his future
life, and only bring to him bitterness and disap-
pointment. He writes in his diary of this time:
"When I was fifteen we formed a party to visit
Matlock, in Derbyshire; when in that most re-
markable cavern, where you have to cross a
stream, only two persons can occupy the boat at
the same time, and that in a reclining position,
this stream flows under the rock, with the rock
so close upon the water as to admit the boat only
to be pushed through the chasm by a ferryman,
(a sort of Charon) who wades at the
stern, stooping all the time; the
companion of my transit was M. A. C.
with whom I had been long in love, and never
told it though she had discovered it without. I
recollect well every feeling of those moments
but cannot describe them,let them pass. There
were five besides myself,and my M. A. C. Alas!
why do I say my? Our union would have sealed
feuds, in which blood had been shed by our an-
cestors! it would have joined lands, broad and
rich, and two persons not ill-matched in years
(she is two years my elder) united two hearts,
and perhaps strengthened one head, which by
the bye has never been quite right since! and
what has been the result?" These are his own
words.
	It seemed the lives of these two persons were

[Column 2]
mysteriously interwoven, yet destined never to
culminate; Byron has converted all the scenes
of these times into that beautiful, sad, but
graphic poem.—"The Dream"—That is the
strongest, the most thrilling and the briefest
biography ever written in the English language!
her name would not now be known but for the
immortality that this boy-lover gave to it, "even
now she loved another" and it seems she had no
prescience of mind to see, or comprehend the
brilliant destiny awaiting him; but prefrred the
associate of grooms and jockeys, to the poet-boy
who was hereafter to stand before the world the
cynosure of all hearts and eyesl aud alas! the
sequel was the old, old tale, neglect, and deser-
tion, by him to whom she gave her wealth, and
above all herself, who squandered her riches in
reckless extravagance, with horse-racing and its
usual concomitants. She awoke from her fal-
lacious dream to find the gay "John Musters"
over whom she had so fondly thrown the
mantle of her early love, was merely the Hero of
the steeple chase prominent on the race course,
the idol of grooms and jockeys, and men of ques-
tionable character, Yclept "Gentlemen"!—while
"the boy" she had seen no glory in, had become
a nation's glory associated with the royalty for
which mental wealth forms and bestows the
diadem.
	She sent for him and requested an interview!
but to his honor be it spoken, he declined that
which must have been distressing to both: No!
his love had been to him no child's play, no
dalliance with coquetteries, but a passion that
had drugged his soul with bitterness, thrown
his life under a cloud, so pure, as never
after to be trifled with so sacred, that it
seemed the very wedding of the spiritual, and
the eternal. He had passed from out that old
Hall never again to enter it.
	It is perhaps but just to offer excuses for her—
she was an heiress—and the petted, child of
adulation, which wealth engenders—she was
two years his senior which at the early age
they met, making a girl far ahead of a boy of
sixteen or less, he is then merely a being for her
to patronize; to trifle with, and this was her
course with Byron, severe was the penalty; her
mind, never a strong one, became by her sorrow-
ful change, "The Queen of a fantastic realm.
Her thoughts were combinations of disjointed
things, and forms impalpable and unpercived of
others sight familiar were to hers."
	Byron's name alone gives her half the laurel
which o'er shades his grave.


