							E. S. BARNEY.


SAN FRANCISCO, June 18th, 1880.
Editor Exponent:
	There has been nothing of late of special in-
terest at present merely the local news of a large
city which does not make a lasting impression.
Local news consists of murders, suicides, acci-
dents, embezzlements and scandals, of which we
have enough to sustain us from day to day;
sometimes we have an extra like the late awful
railroad accident. Each one of you who long
for a view of the world had best remain at home,
where you are comparatively safe and where you
can never dream the half that's being done in
the great, busy world. For the lack of other
amusement, I watch the children in these nar-
row streets, where children are so numerous,
and I reason within myself why nearly all of
them turn out bad, and I have arrived at the
couclusion that it is the lack of youthful amuse-
ments of which the children are deprived. Boys
in particular; girls can amuse themselves in the
house, but boys must be out and have breath-
ing room. All, or nearly all, of the games and
pastimes are prohibited by law. They are not
allowed to fly kites because they get entangled
with the telegraph wires; no ball games, for it
breaks people's heads; no hide-and-go-seek, for
there is no place to hide; no whistles, for there
are no trees; no sleds or skates, for there is no
snow or ice; no place to make a wagon, for there
are no boards, and for my part I sympathize
with the much abused boys; there is no place for
them to play but the street. If they go into a
park, there is a man to keep them off the grass,
and if they sit on the steps of the house, some
one throws water on them.
	The great cry is, "What shall we do with our
boys?" I think that in large cities, some suita-
ble place should be provided for them to play
beside the street. If the city should hire some
wagons to let the boys have a ride for once in
their lives, or provide some suitable amusement,
it would be cheaper than boarding them at the
State's expense. If they had something to oc-
cupy their minds, they would not get into so
much mischief. The depravity among the
children here is frightful. Boys six years of age
smoking and learning different vices from older
boys. Every day we can see little boys, seven,
eight, nine and so on, of age, taken to the pri-
son. They are initiated in crime so young that
the State prison has no terrors; and some of you
mothers who are so anxious about your own lit-
tle ones should feel content and thank God that
you are so far away from such wickedness.
	Everything seems to be on the change politi-
cally, financially and domestically, and we are
all living in a suspense; something seems to
threaten us, but what, time only will reveal.
	Respectfully,					NELLIE.


THE gavel used  at  the  Chicago  convention
was made  of  wood  from  Lincoln's  home.  the
handle was a cane  grown  on  the  Mt.  Vernon
estate.  It was presented as a souvenir to  Sena-
tor Hoar to carry home.  It is  said  he  made a
"most admirable presiding  officer" doing justice
to all interested parties and  commanding  their
respect.


