THE CHILDREN'S FAIR.

	A Fair held in Farmington by the Pri-
mary Association, under the supervision of Sis-
ter Aurelia S. Rogers and her assistants, to
whom great credit is due for their unwearied
efforts to make it a complete success. Sisters
Eliza R. Snow Smith and Ellen C. S. Clawson
visited it and gave a most interesting report of
the affair. It seems remarkable that children
with the help of one or two efficient and zealous
sisters could make such a showing of home man-
ufacture. It makes one feel like saying Hurrah,
for the children and the Primary Association;
they are becoming a power in the midst of Zion.
	The following are a complete list of articles on
exhibition at the Industrial Fair of the Primary
Association of Farmington, held June 29th and
30th, 1880. Mottoes, 9, in frames 23x12 inches.
Splint Work.—Three large paper holders, three
baskets filled with Tarlton flowers, eight wall
pockets. Wool—Flowers.—Four large oval
frames filled with wool flowers, three large cases
of wool flowers. Crochet Work.—Seven crochet
tidies, one lady's collar, two factory tidies, one
flower basket. Knitting Work.—Seven pairs
socks and stockings, three pairs wristlets, (wool)
one pair mittens, one money purse, four pieces
lace, one collar.
	Straw Work.—One large wall pocket, one
basket, two baskets straw flowers, four bouquets
straw flowers, seven home-made straw hats for
ladies.
	Mrs. Clark and five little daughters working
at table making all kinds of fancy straw work,
six dolls' bonnets, trimmed with fancy straw
work, one beautiful basket. Quilting Work.—
Sixty blocks pieced for quilting, eight quilts.
Marking on Card Board.—One in frame 21x13
inches, the Lord's Prayer, in colored silk, raised
at home, one inch frame 20x13 inches, the Ten
Commandments, in home-made silk, in colors,
very beautiful, two hanging flower baskets, one
balloon in cardboard, three match safes, one cor-
nucopia, fourteen picture frames, one oval bask-
et, one square box, one oval box, one mug.
Sampler Work.—Two large mottoes, three book-
marks, four alphabets.
	Miscellaneous Articles.—One rabbit of cotton,
one black-bird of cloth, one arm chair, wood,
one bob-sled, pair of grey-hounds in plaster
paris, one shovel plow and chain, two balls car-
pet rags, one wreath paper flowers, four large
bouquets, paper flowers, three tarlton mats, one
wax basket, nine handsome wool mats, one
piece embroidery, one bouquet cambric flowers,
one box covered with shells from the Salt Lake,
one plaited rag carpet, sixteen yards rag carpet,
model of church, view of Lake Shore Park, two
handsomely dressed dolls.
	Silk Worms and one hair switch. Specimens
of Cooking.—Fve loaves of bread, seven different
kinds of cake, vegetables, fruits, etc., raised by
members of the Association, strawberries, cher-
ries, gooseberries, honey in comb, pie-plant,
turnips, potatoes, beans, butter, flowers fresh
from the garden.
										COM.
	N.B—The above articles were manufactured
or raised by the members of the Association.


