CURIOSITY.

	Woman's curiosity has become proverb[-]al, and
with me the question arises, what is  curiosity?
I  think it is nothing more or, less than an in-
stinctive desire for  knowledge, and I ask myself
again, is there any thing worth  man's knowing
that woman should not know?  Woman is an in-
telligent being and has her part to act in the 
drama of life  (and  no  very  unimportant  part
either) and should feel interested in all that per-
tains  to  the welfare  of  the  human  race;  then
why should she be kept in ignorance of  existing
facts, that are proper  for  man  to  know.  For
ages [-]ast it has been considered  unpopular, and
almost  disrespectful, for woman  to  know any-
thing outside of her household affairs;  but shank
God things are changing, women are  beginning
to   understand  their  rights,  to  indulge  their 
curiosity,  and  look  and  learn  for  themselves;
they are no longer satisfied to remain in igno-
rance and stupidity.
	Knowledge when rightly  used  hurts  no  one
but tends to exalt,  none  need  be  afraid  that
woman will know too much: the more she knows
the better able she  will  be  to  act  wisely;  and
with the spirit of the Lord to help her she can
more easily and better  perform  the  duties  and
labors of life.  It will make her tasks lighter  for
she will not have so many blunders to rectify so
many wrongs to make right, she will not need
to do the same things over twice or thrice when,
she knows  where,  and how  everything  should
be done and therefore is  enabled  to  avoid  much
unnecessary  labor.  Then  let  woman  as  well
as man strive  for  knowledge, and  let  none  be
ridiculed for being curious.
	Let old  fashioned  notions  be  buried  in  the
past and let women emerge  into  the  light and
bring forth  children  of  intelligence,  who  will
help revolutionize the world.
	No wonder the world is in a  deplorable condi-
tion when women, the mothers and teachers are
not to know only the few things that man thinks
proper.  It is sad to know that so much  corrup-
tion exists in the world.  And I  do not  wonder
that man's sensitiveness is disturbed  when such
gross [-]vils are exposed to the eyes  of  the ladies,
as it has been of late in the  Museum of wax fig-
ures;  but I saw nothing there more unfit for the 
ladies to see than  gentleman, in  fact  I think  if
either is excluded it should be the men.
	By  women  seeing,  and  understanding  the
causes and effects, as mothers, they may, by pro-
per teachings prevent much of the evil that now
exists in the world.  So let no more ridicule and
reproach be cast upon woman for  being  curious.
I say success to  "Women's  cu[-]osity."
	C. DOW.
	Salt Lake City, June 1880.


