WOMAN'S CONVENTION.

	At the concluding session of the N. W. S. A.
Convention, held in Indiaanapolis, Indiana, on
the evening of May 27th, there was a very large
and intelligent audience, and the exercises were
particularly interesting.
	First on the programme was Mrs. E. T. Housh,
of Louisville, Kentucky, who read a pointed and
witty poem, entitled "Scrub up, for the Women
are Coming." Mrs. Carr, of Louisville, reported
woman's work in Kentucky. Mrs. Mary E.
Haggart, of Indiana, made an effective address
and was warmly applauded.	*	*	*	Mrs.
Belva A. Lockwood said:
	"I would not, if I could, add anything to the
eloquent arguments of the speakers who have
preceded me, but I will say that the question
that seems most important to me is which of the
great parties of this country will put in its plat-
form the plank of woman suffrage. That party,
whatever it may be, will be the party of the fu-
ture, for as sure as I stand here to-night, not a
decade will pass, before every woman iu this
country, black and white, will have the right to
vote. The mouth of woman is no longer closed,
the fear has been lifted, and we must become
citizens. It has been said, "When the women
of this country ask for the ballot they should
have it," and as sure as truth is truth, so sure
now is the time to ask for it. Already in many
States they are voting on the school question,
and we need only to have that suffrage extend-
ed. But will the women in their new political
condition render the body politic no better and
purer? They certainly will, and that quickly.
In other words, before we attempt to govern
others we must show that we have a capacity
for self-government. If the laws are bad, we
must be willing to obey them until we can make
them better. If the ballot is given to the women
of this country, let them show the people that
they are fit descendants of the forefathers who
planned the revolution of 1776. Revolutions
make and unmake men, but no single mind
can control the impulse that drives them for-
ward. Slowly but surely in the last half century
has woman been coming to the front, and soon
she will be placed side by side with man as his
equal in everything. The era of woman is now.
She has only to put forth her hand to grasp the
forbidden fruits of the past. What she wants
is thorough and liberal education. The sole ob-
ject of the women of the next generation will
not be to get married, but they will fit them-
selves for self-support. The girl must be educat-
ed like the boy to trades and professions, and the
world is gradually waking up to this fact. In
Europe, as well as in America, the universities
now practice co-education, which gives a new
impetus to artistic and literary pursuits. When
men and women stand equal in everything,there
will be but one code of morals for man and for
woman. Hitherto, men in marrying women
have demanded of them that virtue which they
themselves could not return. See ye not, oh,
woman, that the harvests are ripe and the la-
borers few? Then, indeed, it is time for you to
be up and doing. Show your individuality and
that you are necessary for the perpetuation of
the government. There can be no elevated wo-
manhood without a noble manhood, and equal
and exact justice for both. We want great states-
men in this country rather than great generals,
and intelligent and thoughtful women rather
than leaders of fashion. If women are to have
the ballot, as I believe they are, they should ac-
cept it as a sacred trust, and use it accordingly.
If we want the ballot, now is the time to strike
the blow, but we must have united and concert-
ed action all along the line. Already have Eliza-
beth Cady Stanton, Susan B. Anthony and Lu-
cretia Mott seen the promised land, and I pray
to God that they may be allowed to enter in.
(Continued applause.)
	The speaking was concluded by a lengthy and
carefully-prepared address by Miss Phoebe Couz-
ins. Lack of space prevents a full report, and a
synopsis would do a decided injustice to such a
literary and logical effort."

