		ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN June 28th, 1880.
	Aunt Em: While all nature seems hushed
after a threatening thunder-storm and the stifl-
ing dust lies beneath the carriage wheels as they
are whirling past in scores to enjoy the washed
air and the cooling breeze, and the leaves are
silvery from falling water that has so recently
bathed them, I find I have just time for once
to admire nature decked in her most beautiful
attire, and comment upon the "weather." I
almost wonder if I have just awakened from a
dream and have been asleep all these months
since I last wrote.
	Really, I have scarce had time to realize
whether I had a friend or foe, whether the moon
rose or the sun set. I have been lost to every
thing but books and lectures. You will please
remember where I turned the leaf down when I
was last talking to you: I had arrived at Ann
Arbor here I met Miss Mattie Paul Hughes she
is now very busy expecting to receive her Degree
as M. D., the 1st of July, is not this welcome
news? You would think so if you had traveled
the same road through brambles and briars, al-
though the knowledge is valuable the road is
rough and thorny, She has gained the point,
and won the prize and many readers in Utah
will have the pleasure of her acquaintance and
usefulness when she feels she has what she
wants and needs and the whisperings are—come
home.
	My visit at the college—my anticipations were
fully realized and I felt satisfied with the oppor-
tunity that I saw had opened for me. I found
just what I wanted to add to what I had at-
tained in Philadelphia I made no delay but again
the second time registered my name as a medical
student and went to work. The lectures are
now closed and with them I have completed
my studies in Chemistry and received my Cer-
tificate.	*	*	*	*	*
	It is astonishing what art and science of this
the 19th, century can do. The more one learns
the more they know: there is no end; and instead
of emerging from, they are merging into the great
ocean of knowledge, and the labor began can
only be continued in another sphere.	*	*	*


Everything pertaining to the college and lec-
tures seems well done, and well applied. The
Chemical facilities I learn cannot be equaled in
the United States. I do not know how many
hundred tables they have in the Laboratory for
Physiological, Chemical and Analytical work.
	The building is large, furnished with several
wings fitted up with gas and water works, and
suitable apparatus, yet this summer they will
still add to it. The grounds called the Campus
which is an enclosure of some 100 rods square is a
lovely place for a walk, one is shielded from the
schorching sun by the trees above, and the as-
phaltum walks so nice to the feet, and the bal-
ance is carpeted with green grass. In this en-
closure is situated the great University of Mich-
igan comprising the Department of Literature,
Science and the Arts including the Schools of
Mines) . The Department of Medicine and
Surgery the Department of Law, the schools of
Pharmacy, the Homoeopathic Medical, and the
Dental College. Two large Hospitals. There is
considerable clashing between the professors of
the Regular school of Medicine and the Homoe-
pathic, this could scarcely be expected otherwise
when the two schools are at such wide differ-
ences from each other. On the whole Ann Ar-
ber as its name implies is sufficiently feminine
to make the place attractive. More Anon.
