HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE Minutes of the Quarterly Conference of
the Y. L. M. I. A. of June 19th, and further re-
marks of President Taylor in the afternoon of
that day, are crowded out again.

	WE have several reports from Primary Asso-
ciations laid by for next time, also some poetry
and other articles; and we repeat again that
we must have the real and full name of those
who send articles for publication; otherwise we
cannot use them.

	THE Home Dramatic Club will appear in the
Theater on the night of the 23d and 24, of July
in the pretty, thrilling and romantic drama of
"Rosedale." Miss Keetie Haywood will person-
ate the beautiful and fascinating Lady Florence
May. Mrs. Ardelle Cummings the piquant
charming and interesting Rosa Leigh. The
principal character Elliot Grey will be performed
by Laron Commings and Matthew Lee M. D., by
O. F. Whitney. Hebe M. Wells will appear in
a new role the gentlemanly villain Col. Caven-
dish May.

	WE are pleased to announce to our readers and
the many friends of the young lady that Miss
Mattie Paul Hughes received her diploma on the
first day of July, Commencement at the Ann
Arbor University. She writes, "It was my day
of days" with two hundred and four other grad-
uates I marched triumphantly on to the great
platform, where we were presented with our
diplomas amid the cheers of the crowded Hall
and as we descended our floral gifts were handed
us. Mine was a basket of beautiful flowers rich
and rare."
	Miss Mattie goes from the University to the
home of an invalid lady who resides on the
banks of the St. Clair river: where she will re-
main until September, then go to the New
England Hospital, Boston, Mass.

	PREPARATIONS are being made for a magnifi-
cent display in the procession of the Pioneer
Celebration on the 24th inst., which will also be
a sort of Jubilee of the Fiftieth Year since the
organization of the Church. It should certainly
be a time of general rejoicing and a "day of
days" for Israel. The Decorative Committee,
with young ladies to assist them, are beautifying
the inside of the Tabernacle, by making new
baskets and wreaths of flowers and vines, mak-
ing the place more fresh and attractive, and
with the draping and other adornments it will
present a charming picture.

	ERRATA.—In July 1st number of the EXPO-
NENT, in the article entitled "Byron's Monu-
ment," some typographical errors occur which
must be corrected. The word Carebury, in the
inscription, should have been are buried. I in-
tended the inscription printed in the form in
in which it is inscribed upon the tomb. Here
it is, as it should be:

Where many of the ancestors of his Mother are buried
				Lie the remains of
		George Gordon Noel Byron, Lord Byron
		Of Rochdale in the County of Lancaster
		Author of Childo Harold's Pilgrimage.

	The other correction is Eternal City, which
reads as published, Eternallity.
