WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.


[Column 1]	
	Mrs. Woodruff said she was truly pleased in
having the privilege of meeting with the sisters
of Utah County. She had listened with interest
to the account given of the faithful labors of the 
sisters of this Stake. We had been organized
for a noble work.  Let us not yield to the powers
of darkness by neglecting  our  prayers,  but  with
all  our  energies assist in  our small  way  to  roll
on  the glorious work of building temples that we
may have the privilege of entering in and doing
a work for our dear friends, who are waiting the
other side of the vail for us to assist them.  Mrs.
Woodruff said through faith and prayer she had
received a testimony of  the truth of  the gospel,
and urged the necessity  of  all  having  the testi-
mony of Jesus within them, that their faith fail
not.  Let us arrange our home affairs to meet as
often as possible, that our spirits may be fed by
the spirit of  God,  then  we  will  rejoice  in  the
trials we are called  to pass through.  The expe-
rience we gain here will be of untold value to us.
May God bless my dear sisters,  and  I  earnestly
ask him to bless  Sister  Smoot.  I  have known
her many years as a tried and faithful friend.
	Mrs. Lucky W. Kimball presented the compli-
ments of  Miss  E.  R. Snow, S. M. Kimball and
E. B. Wells, who had been invited to meet with
us.  Through press of business  they could not
come, but desired  to  extend  their sincere love,
and felt that they would be with the conference
in spirit.  Mrs. Kimball made an earnest appeal
in behalf of the EXPONENT.  Was confident that
all present could testify  that the spirit of God
had been with us during our conference.  Sister
M. T. Smoot also spoke in behalf of our Woman's-
Paper.
	Adjourned until 2  p.m. Singing, benediction by 
Bishop Paxman. 
	Two o'clock p.m. After the opening  exer-
cises, the  president  said  we  will  now  hear
from Brother Woodruff.  "My sisters and moth-
ers in Zion—I am glad to meet with you to-day.
The Relief  Society  was  organized  by  Joseph
Smith by revelation, and  has  for  its  object the
building up of the Kingdom of God.  It does not
all depend  upon  the  Elders  of  Israel  by  any
means.   You  are  like  ministering  angels; you
are aids to the bishops, and a great many worthy
people would suffer were  it  not  for these organ-
izations.  The responsibilities of building up this
Kingdom  rests  alike  upon  the  man  and  the
woman.  While the Elders  are  among the na-
tions preaching the Gosepl, the mothers have the
guidance of the children.  When I contemplate
the positions of you mothers in bearing the souls
of men, and your future destiny, it is far beyond
the  honors  conferred  upon  the  queens  of the
earth, who are looked upon  with honor.  When
they die  there is an end of their glory.  Your
promise is eternal.  You cannot know the result
of your labors until  you pass behind the vail.
You have no thrones here, but when  you have
faithfully performed the work you were ordained
to do on this earth, your exaltation will be eter-
nal, you  will  inherit  kingdoms forever. It is
only a step to the other  side, it  is  like  passing
from one door to another, and what little time
you remain here  do  all the  good  you can, train
your children aright, teach them the principles
of life and salvation, try to  stem the tide of evil
that is gaining a foothold among our young peo-
ple, teach your children to honor the  principles
of marriage as  revealed  through  the  Prophet
Joseph, without this order of marriage we cannot
be exalted; instill these eternal  principles in the
minds of  the  rising  generation, that they may
control their actions through life.  Let me  say
to the sisters of Zion, we cannot do without your
assistance in accomplishing this great work, our
sons and daughters are to bear off this kingdom,
and it devolves upon  the  mothers  to  prepare
them for the "work before them."  The speaker
said he had never been at home but one summer
in his life, of course the training of children  was
entirely out of the question.  One of his children
was over a year old  before  he  saw him.  "Be
faithful my sisters, that when  the  trump shall
sound, we may come forth and inherit eternal
lives."
	Brother Teasdale  made  some  excellent  re-
marks in regard to the vast amount of goed done
by the Relief Societies,  and  the  object of their
mission. Brother John said he had been highly
 edified and he hoped the sisters would give heed
to the advice of Brother Woodruff.
	Conference  adjourned  until  August  27th.
After singing.  Prayer by Brother Teasdale.
	Statistical and Financial Report:  Statistical—
No. of members,  2,031;  No.  of Teachers,  329;
No. of meetings held,  156;  average  attendance
626;  church  papers  taken,  321;  EXPON-
ENTS, 117. 
	Financial:—Total receipts,  $743;  total disburs-

[Column 2]
ments, $653; to poor, $401; to  Temple, $77.55; for
building  purposes,  $113.63;  missionary,  $9.04;
home industries, $28.50;  P.  E.  Fund, $21; book
and stationery, $2.35; cash on hand, $261.26; pro-
perty on hand,  $7,134.20;  wheat  loaned,  1,101
bushels and 32  pounds;  wheat  on  hand,  1,053
bushels and 27 pounds. 
	CAROLINE DANIELS, Sec'y
	LUCY W. KIMBALL, Cor. Sec'y
			
