JOURNAL.

	By far the liveliest scene in the convention
was that at the election of corresponding sec-
retary the first day. The committee on nomina-
tions reported in favor of the choice of Rachel G.
Foster, an intelligent and earnest young lady of
Philadelphia, and on the motion to amend the
report by substituting the name of Mrs. Sara
Andrews Spencer, of Washington, who has held
the office for some years, a spirited discussion

[Column 2]
ensued. The committee claimed that they had
decided upon the change because they under-
stood Mrs. Spencer's health was not good, and
they did not desire to impose upon her further.
That lady pertinently suggested that when she
wanted to be relieved of the office she would let
the convention know it, and not before, besides,
her health was as good as anybody's. She was
enthusiastically supported by "Father Adkin-
son, the prehistoric suffragist," and a number of
the older members of the association. Miss Fos-
ter, who had done nothing to secure the nomi-
nation, very sensibly said nothing, and left her
claims in the hands of her friends, and there, as
is usually the result they remained, as she was
defeated by a decided majority. Mrs. Spencer
is known to be earnest and self-sacrificing in the
work, and has made an excellent officer, but her
opponents claim that she is almost too arbitrary
in her management of affairs.
	The re-election of Elizabeth Cady Stanton to
the office of President of the Association is a de-
served compliment, although it was done over
her protest. In her letter to Miss Anthony she
stated that she was in favor of the choice of Mrs.
Z. G. Wallace of this city, for president of the
Association, as she possessed all the qualifica-
tions of a first-class executive officer, besided be-
ing thoroughly in earnest in the work.
	Mrs. Belva A. Lockwood, the distinguished
woman attorney of Washington City, arrived in
time for the night session Wednesday. In conver-
sation with a journal reporter last night she
said that she was detained in Washington by
important legal business and could not get here
sooner. When interrogated concerning the
Hill-Raymond case she said after attending the
Chicago convention she was going to Georgia
to collect testimony for the case. What the ul-
timate result of the trial will be she could not
say, but believed that it would be against Hill.
She said she had no interest in the matter ex-
cept that of an attorney, and as such she was
determined to press it to the end. Although,
she said, Miss Raymond had somewhat com-
promised herself by accepting money from Hill,
yet the case would be carried through all the
courts.
	In personal appearance Mrs. Lockwood is
rather large, with an excellent face and gray
hair, which is rolled above her forehead. She
was dressed in black silk and satin, and wore a
large gray felt hat, which gave her a decidedly
masculine appearance. In conversation she is
fluent and entertaining.
		*		*		*		*
	Miss Phoebe Couzins is probably the most at-
tractive looking lady in the convention, and
dresses richly and in perfect taste. She is an
excellent member of the Association, and her ad-
dress, delivered last night, was a masterly liter-
ary effort, one that any man might be proud to
have written.


