			OBITUARIES.

	The sistesr of the Minersville Relief Society
have been called to mourn the loss of one of
their most faithful members, the beloved wife
of our worthy Bishop, James McKnight. She
departed this life June 3d, 1880. Her complaint
was dropsy, from which she suffered six months
and two weeks. Sister Sarah McKnight was
ever faithful to the cause of truth, was a teacher
in our society for many years, always counseling
good to the members. She has endured many
afflictions, but by the exercise of faith she al-
ways possessed, she was enabled to overcome,
until her last sickness. She was a loving wife,
an affectionate mother and a true Saint of God.
She died as she had lived, in full faith of the
Gospel, with the glorious hope of coming forth in
the resurrection of the just. The deceased, Sarah
Howell McKnight, was born December 26th,
1833, in South Wales; was baptized at the age of
twelve years; emigrated with her parents to
Australia shortly after; was married to James
McKnight April 4th, 1854; started the same day
to the home of the Saints. She leaves her hus-
band and ten children, an aged mother, and a
large circle of friends to mourn her loss.
									P. A. Z.

	Died in Spring City, Utah, June, 1880, Sister
Caroline King and Lena Olsen. Sister King has
been a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints for 49 years, has passed
through a great many of the persecutions inci-
dent to the rise of the church. She has been
faithful to the last; a kind and dutiful wife and
mother, and we now feel assured she has gone
to enjoy the Fiftieth Year's Jubilee with the just
behind the vail. Sister Olsen was one of our
beloved teachers. She was a widow when she
emigrated from Scandinavia, but she brought
her family to Zion. She has suffered most se-
verely for three years with an inward cancer,
which finally caused her death. She was sur
rounded by a large family of children, who are
left to mourn her loss, though they were glad
she could be relieved for her suffering was so

[Column 2]
intense. She has done much good in waiting on
the sick and needy in our society.
				FANNY KOFFORD,
		In behalf of the R. S. Spring City.

	DIED in Pleasant Green, at fifteen minutes to
12 o'clock, June, 28, 1880, after an illness of two
weeks, Charlotte Brook Hirst, wife of the late
deceased John Hirst. She was born March,
1818, in Slaithwaite, England, and was baptized
into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints in 1853, emigrated to Utah in 1868; was
the mother of thirteen children. She leaves one
son and nine daughters, thirty-nine grandchil-
dren and many friends, who deeply mourn her
loss. She was a good, kind, faithful wife and
mother. She has always had a desire that as
soon as the Lord saw fit to take her to her hus-
band, who died just twenty-one months and
twenty-one days before her, that it would be a
happy day. In the spring of 1879, Sister Snow
and Sister Horne organized a Relief Society in
this Ward, and Sister Hirst was elected Presi-
dent, the duties of which office she has perform-
ed well. Rather than miss her meeting she
would walk four miles. She was a woman of
the purest principles and greatest integrity, and
was well respected by all who knew her; wher-
ever she went she gained the good will of all her
associates. She was liberal to the poor, faithful
and true to her trust as a hand-maiden of God,
and as a good, useful member of the Ward in
which she lived. She has passed from earth
with a full assurance of an eternal salvation with
the redeemed and sanctified in Jesus Christ.

	"I'll praise my Maker while I've breath,
	And when my voice is lost in death,
	Praise shall employ my nobler powers;
	My days of praise shall ne'er be past,
	While life and  thought and being last,
	Or immortality endures."
								VIRA.


