SALT LAKE CITY, JULY 15, 1880.


[Column 1]
	PLEASURE EXCURSION TO BLACK
	ROCK

	A very pleasant party of old people, almost all
over the allotted three score years and ten.
This company under the management of one of 
the most efficient and courteous committees
that could possibly be formed, went out to Black
Rock (via) the Utah Western Railway to spend
the day in social converse etc., on Thursday
July 8th, inst. They were gathered from all the 
various parts of the city, and the local regions
roundabout, in carriages, wagons and street cars.
They were accompanied by Pres. John Taylor,
Apostle Wilford Woodruff our aged veteran sisters
Elizabeth Ann Whitney and Eliza R. Snow
Smith, some other invited guests; a few news-
paper reporters and some musicians were also
members of the party.
	The train left the Depot in this city at 8. 20,A.
M. There were in addition to all the passenger
cars that could be obtained eight flat cars all
crowded.
	The ride to Black Rock was agreeable in every
respect, nothing occured to mar the enjoyment
of any, and the weather was most propitious.
Arriving at the destination about half past nine.
A star spangled banner was streaming from a
high point of the Mt., just by the Grantsville
brass band under the leadership of Bro., James
Ratcliffe and in handsome brand new uniform,
greeted the party with excellent music; Pres.
F. M. Lyman and his assistants had prepared a
bowery, tables and every convenience needful to
make the old people comfortable with lumber,
wagon cover and materials from Tooele. Re-
freshments of every kind imaginable had been
brought and were soon served,buckets of lemon-
ade were prepared and all who wished were
furnished with hot water for tea. The 7th,ward
band led by Bro. Wm. Foster played some lively
music and some of the old people were invited to
dance. Father Colborn one of Zion's Camp
aged 79,danced a hornpipe like a young boy; also
Elder Samuel Neslen 73 of S. L. City, Amos
Mc Bride Grantsville 84, and Wm. Jenkinson
16th, Ward S. L. City 72,(blind.) Sister Eastham
of Grantsville and Scotch Ann of 15th Ward S.
L. City. The company enjoyed the oocasion in
meeting with old friends and in bathing in the 
calm placid and exhilarating waters of the cele-
brated Salt Lake. A number of old people from
Tooele Co.,came to meet those from the city,and
participate in the social festivities.
	At one o'clock P. M., exercises were com-
menced in the bowery. Prayer was offered by
Elder Chapman, Wm. Foster sang "The Merry
Mormons," all joining in the chorus. Presiding
Bishop Edward Hunter; Chairman of the Ex-
cursion Committee made a few fatherly and in-
terestng remarks, Bro. Hunter is now 86 years
of age and is still full of life and vigor. Bro.

[Column 2]
Beers sang "The down hill of life." Sister Levis-
age aged 93 gave a page of her experience and 
sang a verse of the hymn "Now let us rejoice in
the day of salvation," Elder Neslen sung "The
King of the Cannibal Islands" nearly all the old
people joining in the chorus. The oldest man
was called for when Wm. Wilding aged 97 came
forward. A Duet by Bro. and Sister Moss
"We've lived and loved together." This aged
couple have lived happily together about 53
years, and have had 21 children. Elder Samuel
Neslen and his wife Sister Eunice Neslen have
been wedded 51 years, and lived in perfect har-
mony during the entire period. They have had
12 children 53 grandchildren and 6 great grand-
children.
	 President Taylor at the request of the com-
mittee addressed the assembly. He blessed the
people and those who had so thoughtfully re-
membered the "old folks." He expressed his
pleasure at being present to witness so much
happiness; remarked it was proper to pluck as
many flowers as possible in the journey of life;
spoke of the blessings of the everlasting Gospel,
and that this was what had brought so many of
us together under such favorable circumstances,
for which we of all people on the face of the
earth ought to be grateful. Said: "I suppose we
have a good many seventies here to-day; well
we are looking forward to the future when we
shall meet with those who have gone before, let
us try to benefit our fellowmen and help prepare
all that we can for the Celestial kingdom; let
union be our motto, we must be united, cleave
to God and to one another, live our religion,
keep the commandments of God, and we'll
meet on the other side of Jordan, Hallelujah, as
we used to sing." Blest Bro. Goddard and
Bro. Savage and said let us all seek to bless one
another and proposed three cheers for "the old
folks at home." Bros. Savage and Goddard pro-
posed three cheers for President Taylor, which
was responded to by the multitude.
	Bro. Savage, in behalf of the people, thanked
Bros. W. W. Riter, Hooper, Jennings, Teasdel,
also Walker Bro., and Alonzo Hyde and D. J.
Taylor of Black Rock, and other merchants and
private individuals for donating liberally towards
the excursion, and the prizes for some of the
oldest of the party, and generously assisting to
make the old folks happy. He then proposed
a vote of thanks for Pres. Lyman, of Tooele,
which was heartily accorded and three loud and
enthusiastic cheers were given for the "Repub-
lic of Tooele."
	Bro. Wm. Jenkinson (blind) sang "John, the 
sailor.'[-] Prizes were distrubted to those who
sang, danced, etc. Catherine Wilson, aged 87,
of E. T. City, who pulled a handcart across the
plains, and Daniel England, of Tooele, 81, the
oldest man present, who had drawn a handcart
across the plains, had prizes awarded them,
also two aged sisters for making neckties from
native grown silk. One of the fovorite singers
of other days, Elder William C. Dun-
bar, sang "My dear old wife and I," in
his happiest manner. The congregation sang
"Praise God," and the closing benediction was
pronounced by Bro. George Goddard. There
were many old people from Tooele and Grants-
ville. Everything passed off peaceably and
pleasantly, and some dear old people with
whom we are intimately acquainted de-
clared it the happiest day of their lives.
	It is very beautiful to see such manifestations
of reverence and respect for the aged, who are
deprived of many of the recreations and enjoy-
ments the younger and middle-aged participate
in. God bless those who thus administer, bless,
comfort and bring gladness and pleasure to the
weary ones who have toiled so long in this work-
aday world, and who are now nearing the "gold-

[Column 3]
en gates" of the celestial city. Success to Bishop
Hunter and Brothers Savage and Goddard, for
their annual entertainment of the old folks.
May they never want for any good thing, and
always meet with kindness, and a hearty God
bless you from all, both young and old.


