Little Moments of Eternity
WHAT SHALL WE DO WITH THEM?
By Lella Marler Hoggan
PATTERNS Take Time To Plan
"As we journey through life Let us live by the way." ?Moore.
OUT of the vast stretches of eternity the Master has given to each of his children a little span of time to be spent here in the earth life before voyaging into the land of Life Everlasting. Since that long ago day, when the parents of the race groped their way out of Eden into a world filled with necessary tasks and requirements, man has spent a measure of his time providing himself with the necessities of life. By the work of his brain and his hand he has shortened his hours of labor and lengthened his moments of leisure. These little moments of eternity that we flaunt so carelessly, have cost the race long years of patient toil and earnest study. Knowing this, should we not treasure them more gratefully and use them more discreetly?
"Character," said Elbert Hubbard, "is the result of two things?mental attitude and the way we spend our time." Each small portion of time is a little part of eternity. The only way to save it is to use it so as to make a permanent mark on our souls for good. So spent, it is not lost.
The hour of beginning again is at hand. Last year's accounts are closed. The slate is washed clean, ready for the new record. What are we going to write into it? How are we going to spend the leisure hours of this year? Let us resolve to accomplish some of our long cherished hopes. Why not make our program a matter of thoughtful planning and earnest prayer? The use to which we put our little leisure moments will determine our eternal progress. Surely this is a matter of sufficient importance to demand careful consideration.
Every great event in the universe was planned before it was accomplished. Careless, haphazard effort usually ends in futility. Any worthwhile service that is performed requires a recipe, a pattern, a blueprint, or a design. A charted course leads to a definite destination. Out of the crosses and losses of long experience, patterns of life are evolved. After much trial and error, a plan that will work is discovered.
PATTERNS are the answers to difficult problems. They are the salvage carried from life's battlefield, the heart of materialized dreams. Patterns save time and energy. They forestall worry. They bring expected results. Why should we not profit by the wisdom of the long struggles of humanity? The person with clearly defined objectives and a set purpose is not easily lured into the wobbly bypaths that branch off from the course of achievement. He does not loiter in surroundings that detract from his well being. His high purpose challenges all interference.
"I hear a voice you do not hear That bids me not to stay. I see a hand you do not see That beckons me away." ?Selected.
LITTLE MOMENTS OF ETERNITY 23
OUT of years of wisdom come the brief bits of philosophy that shape our destiny. No need to grope among the dim half-truths and vague theories of men, nor to follow blurred ideals that lead only to disappointed hopes. Under divine inspiration great men have lighted their lanterns and hung them high that those coming after, by following the gleam, may reach the Harbor of Truth. From Mt. Sinai Moses thundered forth the Ten Commandments. After these many years, they still stand as the foundation of law. In the Golden Rule the Master gave the most perfect behavior pattern?a single sentence, consisting of but eleven simple words. And yet for nineteen hundred years it has stood as the peak of good conduct. The fundamental truths of the Gospel are forever the same. Can we not pattern life in harmony with these simple truths?
WE can not go back through the years and undo the past. After life's tapestry is completed we can not weave in a design to our heart's liking. Wasted hours can never be recalled. "Vanished yesterdays are the tyrants of tomorrow."
In making our pattern for the year's guidance let it be brief and simple and clear cut. Let it bear a definite relationship to our eternal progress and be an answer to the inmost desires of our heart. What may we do that will enrich and enlarge our lives, and add to our eternal development and joy: that will reach out into the lives of others to bless and encourage and uplift? Let us write into our program that which will bring to us and to others "life more abundant."