An Ideal Method for Studying the New Testament
By Adena W. Swenson
(Presented in the Relief Society Conference of the Manila Ward, Timpanogos Stake)
A DEMONSTRATION
Scene:?Any living room. Mother seated at small table reading Bible and R. S. Magazine.
Characters:?Mother and three children, Grace, Jane and Mark.
(Enter the three children.)
Grace?What book are you reading, mother?
Mother?This is the Bible, dear. I am getting my Relief Society lesson  This year the Theology lessons are about the Life of the Savior, which is found in the New Testament. Jane?Grandmother told me last Sunday that when she was a little girl like me, before she joined our church, she learned a verse from the Bible every day and she remembers a lot of them now. Mark?Yes, and she said her father used to read a verse from the Bible every morning before they had prayer. He said if they started the day out by thinking of the Lord they would feel happier all the day. Grace?I wish I could learn a verse from the Bible. Read us some Mother. Mother?Alright, come sit close beside me and you can help me prepare my lesson for tomorrow. This lesson is about the sermon on the Mount. People who spend lots of time studying Literature say some of the most beautiful verses in the world are found in this sermon. You children may read a few verses and we will discuss it together. When we find some verse that we especially like, we will memorize that one. You know when Jesus lived in Galilee He spent much of His time walking from one village to another. As He walked He talked to His apostles and the people who followed him. One day the crowd was so large that He wanted to stand on higher ground so they could all hear Him better. So they went to a mountain, of course not as high as our mountains, where Jesus gave such a wonderful sermon that even today we call it the "Sermon on the Mount." Everyone should be able to repeat some of this lovely sermon. Jane, turn to the 5th chapter of St. Matthew and read from the 7th to the 9th verses. Jane?(reads) ?7th?Blessed are the merciful for they shall obtain mercy. 8th?Blessed are the pure in heart for they shall see God. 9th?Blessed are the peace makers for they shall be called the children of God. Grace?What is a peacemaker? Mother?This morning when the twins were quarreling over the red ball, Mark said, "Lets take the ball outside where we can all play with it." Soon you were all laughing and playing and Mark was a peacemaker. Now Mark you may read this. Mark?(reads Matthew 5:11-12.) 11?Blessed are ye, when men shall revile you, and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely, for my sake. 12?Rejoice and be exceeding glad; for great is your reward in heaven; for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you. Mother?The prophet Joseph Smith was arrested many, many times but was never found guilty once. He rejoiced that he was worthy to be persecuted for Christ's sake. Jane you read Matthew the 16th. Jane?(reads) Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in Heaven. I have heard our returned missionaries say that if all the Saints at home would pay their tithing, keep the Sabbath day holy and attend to their religious duties "Their light would shine" so that it would be easier to convert the people of the world to our religion. Mark?Let's learn that verse, then when we do wrong we will remember METHOD FOR STUDYING THE NEW TESTAMENT 35 it and try to make our 'light shine' brighter. Lets say it all together. Altogether?"Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good Works and glorify your Father which is in Heaven." Mother?It was in this 'Sermon on the Mount' that Jesus taught the people how to pray. He doesn't want us to use too many words but to mean what we say. You children all know the Lord's Prayer. Let us repeat it together. (All repeat the prayer together. At the end of the prayer a knock is heard at the door. Grace goes to the door. Enter two Relief Society teachers. Shake hands and the mother invites them to be seated. First Teacher?Sister Brown we are so glad to see you and your children looking so well today. Since you have your Bible and Relief Society magazine handy, we will proceed at once with the Teacher's Topic. Mother?The children and I have been studying the Relief Society lesson. We enjoy studying about the Savior. First Teacher?I am so thrilled that the Teacher's Topics this year are the parables of the Savior. They are so interesting and I hope we can learn something in each one of them that we can use in making our lives better. The parable today is The Sower. (She tells the story of the Sower. Matt. 13:3-9; 19-23.) Mother?That explains lots of things that have puzzled me. I have often wondered why we don't live our religion more fully when we hear it taught so often. Second Teacher?I think the General Board of the Relief Society was certainly inspired this year when they chose the theology lesson, the teacher's topic and the reading project all from the New Testament. I wasn't satisfied with the results of the project last year from the Old Testament, neither my own, nor my district's accomplishments. Mother?The Old Testament seemed so hard to read. Second Teacher?The New Testament is easier and shorter to read. I suggest that we start from the first of the book and when we find something especially interesting we mark it until some of the children can read it out aloud. I have chosen a verse and printed a copy for each home in my district to hang on the wall. If we see it often, perhaps we can memorize a verse or two each month. (Mother takes the verse. Matt. 6:33.) Mother?Thank you. We will hang it here children where we can see it. Who will learn it first? (reads aloud) Matt. 6:33. "But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you." If we take advantage of these things that the Relief Society has outlined for us, we will be like Grandmother, with Bible verses in our Memory Garden that we can recall when we are lonely or discouraged. Since we have heard that beautiful story of The Sower, lets sing a verse of that Sunday School song, "We Are Sowing, Daily Sowing." (Chorister leads the audience in singing with the characters.)