Notes to the Field DURING the coming year it is hoped that the Stakes will report their fine activities to the General Office. Be assured that the material will be used just as soon as possible. There are two issues of the Relief Society Magazine where it is impossible to include the "Notes" and these are the May and November issues, when all available space is required for a report of the General Relief Society Conferences. The office wishes to thank the Stakes for their fine co-operation in writing up interesting events. The material is used just as nearly as possible in the order in which it is received at the office. Literary Department Abraham Lincoln. As you go to meeting, go over carefully what you know about Abraham Lincoln. As you walk home consider what you have added to your store of knowledge. Make note of all the stories of home life you come across. What qualities did Lincoln show in smoothing difficulties in his home? Pp. 272- 276. In studying Abraham Lincoln mothers will have a delightful opportunity of getting close to their children and in having a common interest. They should tell their children what they learn about Lincoln and have them in turn try to find out all they can to tell about this great President. A Lincoln scrapbook would be most valuable for the children in the home. Many of the chapters from the Carl Sandberg book on Lincoln might be cut for excellent readings which would be most suitable for programs on the 17th of March. Some suggestions follow: The Boy Baby Arrives?chapter 4, beginning at the fourth paragraph on page 9, and ending at the middle of page 10. (short but well written.) The death of Nancy Hanks Lincoln, Page 23- 25, Chapter 11. Keepsakes and Verse of Lincoln, Chapter 63, page 197-206. Many other portions of the book could be used, as the stories told and the style of writing are both exceptionally good. There is a wealth of idealism and worthy purpose indicated in the study of the life of Abraham Lincoln. He was eager for reforms in our social and political life. 'The foundations of American society were laid by men who endured economic want and physical hardships that they might gain access to opportunities few in number and inconsiderable in importance as compared with those which today lie close at hand for all of us." With these thoughts in mind select music for the lessons which will rekindle love of country and our Flag? a symbol of Liberty. "America," "America the Beautiful," "The Flag Without a Stain," and many other patriotic songs could be used to good effect. "Your Mission" was one of President Lincoln's favorite songs. The words are found in "Heart Throbs." If you can do no better, let it be a "musical reading." One of the most beautiful poems that has been written is "O Captain! My Captain," by Walt Whitman. Perhaps no contemporary of Lincoln had a keener appreciation for the great man of the hour, than he. This poem breathes so much of our Western land. "My Captain," is a most picturesque comparison of the great War President whose steady  hand guided the ship of state through the troubled waters of civil war, and brought it safely into port. Whitman refuses to accept the acclaim of joy that all may feel, for to him only the sorrow is in evidence. Nothing could more graphically describe this than the poem?read it! 1. Consider impressions of Lincoln's personality which you gather from reading his letters. 2. Sketch a word picture of his early years. 3. In this connection, tell an Indian story. 4, Tell of Nancy Hanks. 5. Explain "The wilderness is careless." 6. What does this suggest, "Silence found him; he met silence." Page 30. 7. From page 39 show how, "Other elements, invisible, yet permanent, traced their lines in the tissues of his head and heart." 8. Discuss, "Books lighted lamps in the dark rooms of his gloomy hours." 9, Was Lincoln temperate? 10. What can you tell of Ann Rutledge? 11. Explain Lincoln as a "Learner always." 12. Name the five traits people spoke of in connection with Lincoln. 13. In Lincoln's letters note the clear, concise, original way he expresses himself. 14. Tell of a "Curious marriage offer." Chapter 46. 15. Describe Mary Todd. Chapter 51. 16. Tell about Lincoln's marriage. Chapter 58. 17. Read one of Lincoln's rhymes. Do you like it? Why? 18. Tell one of Lincoln's "yarns." 19. Give a quotation from Lincoln?one you like. 20. What do you think of the style of Sandberg's Abraham Lincoln? President Robison Returns N December 16th President Robison returned from attending a convention of the National Council of Women help in New York City December 1-4 and visits to points of interest in the Eastern States Mission. She reports that the Council Convention was unusually interesting this year. A forum held in connection with the Convention based on the theme "A Forecast For Better Living" stressed the part in life played by women in the home. After the Convention she accompanied President Don B. Colton of the Eastern States Mission to a branch conference at Cambridge, Massachusetts. She spent a short time with her son Rulon Y. Robison and his family in Boston and then visited the Habit Clinic For Child Guidance. She accompanied President Colton, his wife, and President John H. Taylor of the First Council of Seventy to Washington, D. C., where they attended the first conference of the Eastern States Mission to be held in that city. She found the missionaries and members there are doing an exceptionally fine piece of work. Their spirit is beautiful and their allegiance to the Church is steadfast. In our February Magazine President Robison will make a detailed report of her visit. NOTES TO THE FIELD 45 ELIZA ROXY SNOW MEMORIAL POEM CONTEST AGAIN the prize poem committee for the General Board of Relief Society is happy to announce the winners in the annual contest. A slight change will be noted this year in the contest rules, three poems are selected for prizes and no honorable mention, instead of two prize poems and three honorable mention. The first prize was awarded to Veneta L. Nielson of Logan, Utah for "Plains' Cradle Song. Second prize was to Vesta Pierce Crawford of Salt Lake City, Utah for "Blossomed Tree, and third prize to Miranda Snow Walton of Evanston, Wyoming for "The Greater Death." The judges this year were Professor Harrison R. Merrill of the B. Y. University, Mrs. Blanche Thomas McKey, poet, and teacher, and Mrs. Lalene H. Hart, member of Relief Society General Board. 96 poems were submitted, most of them excellent, rendering the selection rather difficult. The committee congratulates the successful authors, and thanks all who entered the contest, hoping they will continue their interest in this project for the encouragement of women writers. The committee also expresses appreciation to the judges for their assistance and helpfulness. Annie Wells Cannon, Juila A. F. Lund, Rosannah C. Irvine, Lotta Paul Baxter, Mary C. Kimball, Poem Contest Committee GREETING CARD CONTEST THE General Board compliments the stakes that participated in the Greeting Card Contest as outlined. In the July, 1936, Relief Society Magazine. We extend our hearty congratulations to the following prize winners, who will each receive a copy of Handicrafts for Every Woman. Block Print, Mt. Ogden Stake Mrs. E. H. Slade, 573 27th Street, Ogden, Utah. Linoleum Block Cut, Union Stake Miss Effie Hughey, Le Grande, Oregon. Stencil, Western States Mission Belva Fluckiger, 517 West 22 St., Cheyenne, Wyo. Wax Crayon, Juarez Stake Mrs. Margaret B. Cluff, Colonia Pacheco, Mexico. Spatter Paint, California Mission Mrs. H. K. Carmen, 504 Riverside Drive, Susanville, California. Special Prize, R. S. Greeting Card, Sevier Stake Mrs. Ruth S. Peterson, 80 East First So., Richfield, Utah. Water Color, Wasatch Stake Fontella C. Woolstenholm, Heber. Wasatch Co., Utah. We extend our appreciation to Wasatch Stake for entering the largest number of cards in the contest.