One investigation has shown that children who were given their own way in the home had tantrums twice as often as those who were not. Illness is frequently a contributing cause of tantrums. Stratton found that college students who had undergone the most illnesses burst into anger the most often. This tendency was particularly related to the number of illnesses suffered before six years of age. A mother is likely to be more attentive to the demands of an ill child than one in good health, which multiplies for the child who has many illnesses, his chances of learning that tantrums "pay." Hunger and fatigue also precipitate outbursts. Goodenough found that the number of outbursts during the hour before the noon meal was about twice the number during the hour just after. Every wise mother, and daughter, knows that her requests fall more kindly on father's ears after dinner than just before. A person who is tired or who has missed his sleep is also more irritable than usual and therefore more likely to "explode." Tantrums are also frequently the outcome of too much regulation and not enough free opportunity to explore to heart's content. Regulation, if it does not allow for an adequate degree of freedom during play, is bound to breed bad temper in the child. The engrossing pursuits of the child should not be interfered with until after due notice has been given, and then only for meals, toilet, rest, and when actual injury to the child or property is probable, or the rights of others are seriously interfered with. For the correction of tantrums, the following additional suggestions are offered. Try always to understand the nature of the child's frustrations and to guide him to gain insight into getting around them. Give only the minimum of assistance for him to see his own way out. Don't respond to his angry outbursts by losing your own temper?to do so indicates lack of insight on your part. Serenity, calm, patience, and good humor are extremely contagious. The peace that comes from deep faith in the Gospel and devotion to the great cause of parenthood should permeate every Latter-day Saint home, and this peace is a great step toward cultivating good dispositions in the children. When a tantrum is thrown, the best method is indifference?ignore it. But by all means don't give in even if the child holds his breath. (Breath holding is not dangerous ordinarily.) Don't let the tantrum make the child the center of attention of all those in the home. Tantrums are more frequent in homes where there are more adults?to pay attention, to give in, and to buy peace with bribes. Don't give corporal 66 punishment. If simply ignoring the "scene" doesn't seem appropriate, don't stop to coax; but simply carry the child to his room and leave him there alone until he has it out with himself. Tell him only that he may come out when he can behave himself. PLAY with other children multiplies frustrations, but there is probably no better way to teach the child respect for the rights of others. Careful guidance during play by a thoughtful parent can be of great assistance in helping the child to gain insight into how to get along socially; the meddling and interference of a thoughtless parent will promote more tantrums than it will cure. A routine carefully thought out and rigidly enforced is essential for avoidance of tantrums. Irregularity in toilet habits, hours of eating and rest, and inconsistency in treatment of misbehavior are serious handicaps to the little tot who is trying hard to learn "what it is all about.' Violent corporal punishment on one occasion and complete indifference to the same act on another leaves the child confused as to where he stands on anything. One treatment by the mother and another by the father or others in the home is equally vicious. Decide upon a sensible routine and plan for training the child, and then strictly adhere to it. This is the kindest treatment for the child after all, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the true way to "suffer the little children, and forbid them not, to come unto me." Through all correcting of anger impulses in children, ability to catch the child's point of view and provision for social and acceptable outlets for his activity is of paramount importance. The child should be given sufficient time and materials to do his own experimenting as far as possible.
Problems for Discussion
1. What do you consider to be the legitimate uses of anger? Discuss Mark 11:15-18.
2. Why are anger outbursts ordinarily of little value for modern adults? Point out the different uses served by anger in animals compared with anger as used by modern men.
3. Of what use is the tantrum to the child? How are tantrums and the early use of language by the child similar?
4. Enumerate some of the principal contributing causes of tantrums or outbursts. What can you do in your home to decrease the number of these contributing causes?
5. Assuming tantrums have been acquired by your children, outline a program for overcoming them.
6. Why are there so many frustrations during the early years of walking? What can you suggest by way of reducing the number of frustrations?
A WORD TO MOTHERS
The following story is one of many that might be told. We quote from a letter received at the office of the General Board of Primary Association:
"A few days before Christmas the Postman stopped at our door and handed Mary a strange magazine. It was entitled 'The Children's Friend' and said 'A Merry Christmas from W.'
"Then the children and I sat down and went through the magazine very carefully. We found an endless number of most interesting things. There were poems and pictures and things to make and the best stories, and such tales of Rollicky-Roy!
"I discovered that this magazine was not only a children's magazine, but it also had interesting articles for the children's parents, articles to help me in the rearing of my family, suggestions to help me provide interesting and happy times for our home afternoons and evenings. I found that the Officers' Department was also helpful with its teacher training, its music and play and various other items.
"The very best thing about the Friend was that it would come to us each month and bring us new stories and new things for the children to do. This it has continued to do month after month.
"One month our magazine failed to arrive at the usual time. Billy, Mary, and Jane were so worried. Why did it not come? What were they to do? How did the continued story end this time? What interesting thing was Rollicky Roy doing? These and many other questions made me realize how valuable The Children's Friend was to my children.
"Two days of anxious watching went by. We had all decided to inquire into the cause of the delay when much to our delight, on the third day, the Postman delivered the long looked for magazine. The children could hardly wait to open it. The contents were utterly devoured by three pairs of eager eyes, then Billy, the eldest read aloud the stories they had waited so anxiously to hear."
A year passed. The Children's Friend not only brought the M........ Family useful ways to spend their leisure hours, it not only made the children happy each month with its wealth of interesting material, but it also brought to them the greatest thing on earth: The Gospel of Jesus Christ as revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith. Through this magazine this family learned of the organization called the Primary Association which is held each week throughout the Church. These children have attended the Primary each week with their little friends. Here they have become so interested in the Primary work that they now want to become Latter-day Saints. Their mother is going to let them be baptized. They say they can never again be without their magazine, The Children's Friend.
THE CHILDREN'S FRIEND IS THE ONLY MAGAZINE FOR CHILDREN PUBLISHED BY THE CHURCH. YOU CANNOT AFFORD TO BE WITHOUT IT IN YOUR HOME. GIVE IT TO YOUR CHILDREN OR GRANDCHILDREN AS A CHRISTMAS, NEW YEARS, OR BIRTHDAY GIFT.
"