2 Editorial Health HEALTH is a priceless boon. People today realize more than ever before that a great deal of illness results from not adhering more strictly to the laws of health. Sins of omission and commission in this field are manifold. Especially is it vital that children's health should be safeguarded. There was a time when parents deliberately exposed their children to disease, their theory being that if contracted while young the cases would be light and that they would be immune when older when the attacks would be more severe. This fallacy has been strongly advised against by physicians. Mothers are urged to guard their little ones against these children's diseases, as it is affirmed the longer they can go without contracting them the better. Some mothers are very careless and needlessly expose their children's playmates by not keeping their own children home when coming down with the disease, while others are careless in observing quarantine regulations. Many children have died and some have suffered permanent injury through some mother taking her sick child where others have contracted the disease. Being sorry or saying "I didn't think" will not atone. Physicians and research laboratories are doing everything they can to cut down sickness, and remarkable success is being attained in some lines. Some diseases have been largely controlled. In others no progress has been made, and some illnesses are on the increase. The Utah State Planning Board issued in April, 1936, a valuable book entitled Health Conditions and Facilities of Utah. It is pointed out that in the Beehive State, teeth defects top the list of physical defects among children. We are glad our  organizations in many places are cooperating with parents in removing this defect. While in Utah smallpox has been the lowest in its history during the past year, this disease may be eliminated if universal vaccination is resorted to. The book also states that, "No child in Utah need have diphtheria. This goal could be realized by the immunization of all children between the ages of six months and two years." Here again our organizations have aided in making many children immune. There were more cases of scarlet fever in Utah in 1935 than for the combined total of the previous seven years, and the death rate was higher than any year since 1911. Physicians are inclined to believe that the mildness of the cases is the primary factor in causing the rise of morbidity rates. So often these mild cases are not detected, properly diagnosed, and children are either careless or maliciously permitted to go to school or to mingle with other children. Every few years the death rate from measles and whooping cough reaches an exceptionally high peak in Utah. There is a great need for mothers to be educated, so that they will isolate their infants during periods when whooping cough is prevalent. "Acquired heart disease is most frequently due to improper habits of living and to infections, particularly those of the rheumatic group. Other diseases often leave heart trouble in their wake." While we do not have similar reports from other states where our people reside we feel sure the conditions are relatively the same and we urge our members to do all in their power to prevent the spread of disease. We also hope that our organizations will do as much as their funds will permit in aiding parents who are financially unable to minister to their children's health needs. Happy New Year O our many readers we extend heartiest wishes for a happy, prosperous New Year filled with good deeds and worth while accomplishments. This is a wonderful time in which ot live. So many changes arrest attention and the future doubtless will bring undreamed of wonders. The Church is marching forward. New wards and stakes are being organized, new buildings erected, beautiful monuments dedicated and a great Security Program is being launched that is challenging the attention of the world. The members of the Church are showing renewed interest as seen in the increased payment of tithes and offerings and in their more faithful adherence to all the Gospel requirements. We congratulate our stakes on the excellence of the conventions that have just been completed. The general preparation and the topics given have been better than ever before. Reports reach us from all parts of the Church that the lesson work is being carried forward better this year than ever in our history. Our women have accomplished herculean tasks in their great desire to aid the Security Program. With deep gratitude we acknowledge this faithful work and pray that our Father will make our officers and members adequate for whatever tasks await them in the future. Lesson Department (For First Week in March) Theology and Testimony Lesson 6 CHRIST THE CHAMPION OF WOMAN Helpful References. Matthew 5:27-32; 15:21-28; 19:3- 12; 22:23-33; 26:6-13. Mark 10:2-12; 14:3-9; 16:1-10. Luke 7:36-50; 8:43-48; 10:38-42; 20:45-47, John 4:5-42; 8:3-11; 11:1-45; 12: 1-8;19:25-27; 20:11-18. Smith: The Way To Perfection, chapters 34, 35. Talmage: Jesus the Christ, pp. 473- 475; 484; 432-434. Rall: The Teachings of Jesus, pp. 103, 104. Findlay: The Realism of Jesus, chapter 8. Silver: Religion and a Changing World, chapter 8. 1. Woman and Her Place as a Human Soul. In this lesson we shall observe how the Christ handled the second of the five basic principles underlying the law of Moses. It deals fundamentally, as did the principle considered in the last lesson, with the sacred nature of human personality. The Savior deals particularly with woman and her place, first of all, as a human soul. We shall not confine ourselves only to a consideration of Matthew 5:27-32, but shall let other Gospel references shed as much light as possible on the subject. 2. Christ the Great Champion and Ennobler of Womankind. Dr. Joseph Klausner, famous authority on Hebrew literature, said in his book, Jesus of Nazareth, "The crucial test of a nation's civilization at any specified epoch, is the position of its women." The good Doctor holds, too, that the position of women among the Jews at the time of Christ was a "tolerably high" one. Some scholars deny this. Whatever the facts may be, certain it is that the Savior is regarded as the great champion and ennobler of womankind. The late Elder James E. Talmage remarks in his book, Jesus the Christ, "The world's greatest champion of women and womanhood is Jesus the Christ." In Matthew 5:27-32 we find the Christ's discussion of the second basic principle of the law of Moses. He points out that to "look upon" a woman with lustful desire is to do her a great wrong, for it is nothing more or less than a degradation of her personal worth. She is not "first of all a woman, but a human soul." Asa certain writer here points out, "the primary reality is always humanity and the common human relation to the common Father." The Savior directs our attention to the fact that to be dominated by animal passion, however natural it may seem, not only degrades the object of the passion, but also constitutes treason to the soul of man. At any cost man must conquer his impulses. Better is it to lose a member of the body than to have the whole body "cast into hell." Our Lord then points out the sacred character  of the marriage tie and by implication the importance of wholesome home life. He makes allusion to divorce as handled by the law of Moses and recorded in Deuteronomy 24:1. His pronouncement respecting divorce is to us clear and unmistakable. Only in the case of unfaithfulness may a wife be divorced. In another connection the Christ reiterated and extended this doctrine. When certain Pharisees came to him with questionable motives and asked? "Is it lawful for a man to put away his wife for every cause?"? He answered them clearly that in the beginning it was not so. God had intended man and woman by marriage to be one flesh. "What therefore God hath joined together, let not man put asunder." Furthermore, He points out that Moses suffered men to put away their wives only "because of the hardness of your hearts." It is clear He means in this instance, as in others, that the law of Moses had an end and the higher law was to operate. The Savior saw with clear eyes the necessity of protecting women in the most important of all social relations. And if men would receive it, they also are benefited beyond measure! The pronouncements of the Christ on this vital topic have evoked a veritable deluge of literature. The complex nature of our modern life has perhaps made it harder for men to receive the teaching respecting divorce in our age than it was at the time of Christ. Some tell us that a new order of society is in the making, that eventually marriage and the home as conceived in a conservative past, are doomed to disappear. Judging from statistics on crime and divorce daily presented in newspapers and periodicals, one is sometimes tempted to believe such is the case. However, there occasionally arises a clear voice facing the facts and having optimism for the future. Abba Hillel Silver, in his book, Religion in a Changing World, says, "To form a judgment of the average American home based solely on the numerous instances of impermanence and infidelity which obtrude themselves upon our attention or are chronicled in the public press, is altogether unwarranted. The millions of American homes are still sound. Love and fidelity and the spirit of self-sacrifice have not yet entirely vanished from the dwelling places of our people and around millions of firesides the sanctities of life still hover. There are still vast reserves of spiritual and moral strength in the American home and one need not anticipate its early liquidation.... On the other hand, it would be the sheerest folly-to assume that all is well with the American home. All is not well with the American home. The American home is in ferment. It is passing through the preliminary stages of a new adjustment made necessary by the new conditions of life, and like all adjustments, it is attended by pain, suffering, and tragedy. The American home is being attacked by new social, economic, and intellectual forces, and it has not yet perfected the strategy with which to meet the new conditions." 'While admitting certain changes are always necessary to meet new circumstances even in the home, the Church of Jesus Christ oi Latter-day Saints still teaches the sanctity of marriage ties and the reverence for womanhood as taught by the Christ. We are in thorough sympathy with the words of a certain English writer when he says, "There is no such championship of the right of woman to an equal place in the sun in her own right as that of Jesus, and, if we knew the whole truth, we should see that He is not only nearer the ideal, but also nearer the real facts of the case. For the Christian, at least, the thing that counts is a woman's soul; the salvation of the man who loves her depends upon his respect for what is eternal in her." 3. Christ and the Samaritan Woman. Some of the most charming episodes in the Gospels have references to the Savior's talks with women. Therein is pictured His appreciation of the worth of their souls even when they themselves were known to be sinners. One of these incidents is given in the Gospel of John (4:5-42) where He is presented talking with the Samaritan woman at the well. The Christ and His disciples, hungry and spent, reached Jacob's well near a place called Sychar. The disciples went to the town to buy something to eat, leaving him sitting at the well, While thus preoccupied, a Samaritan woman came to draw water and the Savior asked her for a drink. The woman was astonished, for as the story indicates, "Jews have no dealings with the Samaritans." But she found the Christ to be no ordinary Jew. He broke down, at one stroke, the false barrier that prevented the ordinary normal association of two of God's children. Thus He paved the way for a Gospel conversation that showed his love of her eternal soul. He knew the woman was a sinner but she was reminded of it in a most gentle way. There is no instance in the Gospels in which the Christ chides a woman with the severity he used with certain men. 4. Mary Chose the Good Part. Luke 10:38-42 gives us a most unusual picture of the Savior at the home of two women, Mary and Martha. Mary sat enraptured at his feet and "heard his word" while Martha bustled around "cumbered with much serving." Finally Martha could stand the apparently unequal situation no longer, and, approaching the Savior she said, "dost thou not care that my sister hath left me to serve alone? Bid her therefore that she help me." To which the Savior answered, "Martha, Martha, thou art careful and troubled about many things: But one thing is needful: and Mary hath chosen that good part, which shall not be taken away from her." Many interesting things have been said about this incident, but the thing of most interest to us about it is that the Christ did not regard women as servants merely intended to look after men's material comfort and well-being. He was interested in them as human personalities whose spiritual well-being was the prime essential. Questions 1. Can you find any Christian justification for the discrimination against women oftimes met with in industrial and even educational institutions? 2. What outstanding leaders in the United States have led the way in protecting the rights of women? 3. What needs yet to be done in the United States before women fully win the rights which a Christian way of life demands for them? 4. What did the Prophet Joseph Smith do to improve the lot of women? Problems for Further Study (Treat only those that time and circumstance permit.) 1, Examine carefully Luke 8:19- - 21 and John 2:1-4, Some have said these passages show that the Christ LESSON DEPARTMENT 51  was disrespectful to His mother. Cite scripture that would indicate such was not the case. 2. Read John 19:25-27. What side of the Christ's nature does this incident portray? Who was the "disciple'? Why was Peter or James not chosen? 3. Investigate the teachings of President Brigham Young and President Joseph F. Smith in regard to the treatment of women. Teacher's Topic (For March) Tue House Burtt Upon a Rock Matt. 7:24-27. 'THIS is not regarded as a parable by all writers on the subject, but it has such a strong appeal and presents such a fine opportunity for a good lesson that it is being included in this group of lessons. It comes at the end of the Sermon on the Mount. And Jesus said to the people: "Therefore, whosoever heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, which built his house upon a rock: "And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell not: for it was founded upon a rock. "And every one that heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them not, shall be likened unto a foolish man, which built his house upon the sand: "And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell: and great was the fall of it." This comparison was especially apt for Palestine as the sudden and furious storms sweep down into the low valleys. The barren hillsides were contributive to floods and extra care needed to be taken in building in order to withstand wind and water. The hearers of the parable had no difficulty in making the application which Jesus intended. If we are thoroughly familiar with the truths of the Gospel and have a strong faith in its principles and teaching we can more easily withstand the shocks of adversity and misfortune that come to us. Christ emphasized the "doing" as well as the "hearing" of the word. To hear the Gospel and do as it teaches makes for strength and security. We should read the Sermon on the Mount to determine to what extent we are as "the wise man which built his house upon a rock." LESSON DEPARTMENT 53 Work and Business Sire Covers (See "Handicrafts for Every Woman" p. 47 Uses. LIP covers have become a part S of home furnishing and decoration. When they are put to proper uses and in harmony with other articles, they give a very delightful effect. They can be used the year around if both warm and cool colors are chosen. Slip covers serve many purposes. They may be purely decorative, but more often they are for furniture protection. They are taking the place of tidies and doilies, and are much more practical. More comfort can be taken in the easy upholstered chair if simple, plain washable and well fitted slip covers are used. Slip covers prolong the life of the new furniture. The thrifty homemaker can make slips to protect and cover worn places, and in this way extend its usefulness, when a purchase of new furniture is entirely out of the question. Selection of Materials. First take into consideration the room. For bedrooms, percales, creton, plain Indian head and chintz in small and dainty figures. For living rooms, more dignified conventional cretons, plain and blocked linens. For dining room, waterproof ginghams, percales, cotton crash, Indian head in colors, monks cloth. For the sun parlor or porch bold stripes and figures may be used. Before purchasing, when possible, it is a good idea to get the store to send samples of one or two yard lengths, in a variety of materials to lay over the furniture to see which is best for the room before one makes the purchase, Always try to buy the best material that can be afforded. The inexpensive pieces fade both in light and laundry. As a rule they are filled, and soon wash out, making them look clumsy and cheap. Better colors and designs are found in the better grade fabrics. Even though they cost more in the beginning they are pretty as long as they last. The heavier the material the smoother they fit and the less wrinkles they have. Some good materials are: rep, crash, cotten damask, galatea, drapery sateen, handblocked linen, denim, and tapestry. These offer a wide range of color and pattern. Besides harmonizing with the walls and floor covering, slip-covers should be selected in good taste. For example large rooms and large pieces of furniture require fabric of smaller design and lighter texture and color. The surface of the cloth should be smooth to keep dust from sifting through, also free from loose lint. Glazed chintz and cambric muslin in bright colors lend a cheerful atmosphere to a room. Articles To Have Slip Covers.. Living room furniture, all upholstered furniture, dining room chair seats, bedroom chairs, foot stools, cossak, also pads for straight chairs. Steps To Be Taken. OR the construction of slip-covers an estimate of fabric and the yardage should be very accurately taken to determine the cost. Fasten one end of the tape measure to the lower edge of the chair  frame at the center back, measure to the top of the chair, across the top and down the front of the back along a straight line, over the seat and down the front edge. Always add four inches for tucking in along the back of the seat in case there is shrinking in laundering; also add six inches for seams and finishing at lower edges. For the arms fasten tape measure at the seat and bring up over the arms to the outside edges. Be sure sufficient allowance is made for all seams. If material has large figures. Or has an up and down pattern additional yardage must be purchased. If the slip-cover is finished with a pleated or gathered ruffle more cloth will be needed than for a plain cover. For gathering fullness allow twice as many widths as the chair measures and three times as many for pleating, multiply the number of widths by the desired depth of the ruffle to obtain the total amount needed and make additional allowance for hemming and matching the pattern. Thus, for a seven inch gathered valance on a chair 42 inches are required and at least a half yard more must be allowed for hems and matching, It is advisable to shrink all washable materials before making. Well fitted slip-covers require a placket or opening. Its position depends entirely upon the piece of furniture that is being covered, and upon the types of fastenings being used. Snaps, hooks and eyes or buttons, allow an opening to gap if much strain is put on it. Fit covers closely. OOSE cushions should be covered separately and the covering should be the same style as that of the cushion. Covers for box cushions must be made boxed and never made merely by sewing two pieces of cloth together. The kind of seams depends largely upon material used? French or bound seams. For class room demonstration take a small bedroom chair or article not too large to handle. Pad with worn out quilt or blanket or any soft material. First cut paper patterns for back, arms and seat by laying paper over surface and fitting as near as possible. For the first time in making slip covers cut a try-slip cover by using worn out sheets or just any old material. Sew and fit on chair very smoothly. Rip open your tryslip cover and use for the pattern to lay on your new material. Cut, sew and fit before the class. Show in class samples and prices of materials which are suitable for different types of furniture. Reference. Text Book, "Handicrafts For Every Woman," on Slip Covers, page 47. U. S. Department of Agriculture Leaflet, No. 76, on Slip Covers. Where possible get furniture stores to demonstrate slip covers. LESSON DEPARTMENT 55 Literature (For Third Week in March) Lesson 6 ABRAHAM "Geography is about maps; Biography is about chaps." ?Gilbert Chesterton. HIS has been styled a "waggish couplet;" but it suggests to us that biography is sometimes about very real chaps?chaps whose lives have been the pivot upon which great and stupendous changes have taken place. Lincoln did not remain long in Congress. Time swept into the Senate of the United States, Stephen A. Douglas, a Democrat, and in the House of Representatives was also a Democrat. Yet while Lincoln was no longer in office he had assisted in the national campaign for the Whigs. A paper, in Boston, commenting on his Tremont Temple Speech, said: "It was powerful and convincing and was cheered to the echo." Sorrow came to him in the death of his little son, "Eddie." Lincoln turned to his law practice. He soon became eminent because he won decisions that were momentous. He declared that he would never again go into politics; for his law practice was bringing to him a richness of life such as could not accrue from service in the lower house of Congress. Yearly his practice was increasing. Much as Lincoln desired to stay with his law practice, destiny was shaping another road for him to travel; for Calhoun, Clay, and Webster were dead, and the country needed other leaders. Abolitionist organizations were taking the form of a religious crusade LINCOLN  'They had leaped into a fierce stride with the passage at Washington of a law requiring all people North to help slave hunters from the South in the capture of runaway property." People were becoming incensed. "One Sabbath at church a book started to write itself," as its author sat listening to the sermon. She wrote it and read it to her children and the tears ran down their faces; the father came in; he cried, too." It was Uncle Tom's Cabin, This was in 1852. Eight power presses were employed printing it; the sales reached more than 300,000. A check for $10,000 arrived four months after its publication. Harriet Beecher Stowe, a mother of six, had achieved this remarkable result. Mary Todd Lincoln had borne four children. In 1850 came William Wallace, and in the spring of 1853, Thomas, nicknamed Tad. As Lincoln traveled there was a feeling of change in the air. They began to feel the pulse of the West. Douglas was telling the country from the floor of the Senate: "There is a power in the nation greater than the North or the South.... That power is the country known as the Great West." The people were coming in droves from Europe. All this Lincoln saw. "He saw Germans, Irish, English by tens of thousands, come into Illinois. Fourteen steamboats were ice-locked near Cario, in the Mississippi in 1854. Up at Nauvoo, where the Mormon colony had moved out and crossed the Great Plains and the  Rocky Mountains, to settle at the Great Salt Lake in the midst of the Great American Desert, had come a group of French communists. Near Athens in Sangamon County was a settlement of Norwegians, north of Springfield was a huddle of Portuguese." Across the Great Plains stretching east from the foothills of the Rocky Mountains toward the Mississippi River were many wagon trains. A traveler counted 459 wagons in ten miles along the Platte River. Yet trouble was brewing. Riders from Missouri, a slave state, got on their horses with rifles and rode over into Kansas and battled with abolitionists from New England. "Peace societies organize; they aim to stop war. They distribute Charles Sumner's address on The True Grandeur of Nations, in which he says: There is no war which is honorable, no peace which is dishonorable." THE first cablegram is sent across the sea; a rifle known as the breech-loading rifle is on the market; men shoot bullets more often and quicker. Wendell Phillips drops his law practice to become an advocate of abolition. He complains that the churches are slow; "the theatre bowing to its audience has preached immediate emancipation, and given us the whole of Uncle Tom; while the pulpit is either silent or hostile." On the stage, "slaves shoot their hunters with applause." Still in many hamlets and towns it is the church people who hide runaway negroes in cellars, and who carry on the antislavery organizations. Civil war in Kansas threatened the entire nation in 1856. In Massachusetts Emerson told the people that they "must learn to do with less... Sell their acres, and their pleasant houses." Lincoln had met with clergymen, from the South, who said the Bible gave authority for slavery. One day while chatting with them he said: "When I see strong hands sowing, reaping, and threshing wheat into bread, I cannot refrain from wishing that those hands, some way, in God's good time, shall own the mouth-they feed!" Now we have Douglas and Lincoln pitted against each other in a contest for the United States Senate. Stephen A. Douglas, Senator from Illinois was leading man in the great drama of American politics. He was nationally and internationally known. When he read from his papers, in Washington, a speech of Lincoln's saying, that. A house divided against itself cannot stand, the Senator was more than interested. When he read that the state Republican convention had "with cheers resolved 'that Hon. Abraham Lincoln is our first and only choice for United States Senator to fill the vacancy about to be created by the expiration of Mr. Douglas' term of office; he was again more than interested." Judge Douglas was given an ovation when he returned to his native state. Sixty miles from Chicago, a special train "with brass bands, flags, streamers, and pennants met him on July 9th and escorted the statesman to Chicago. As he stepped out on the Lake Street balcony of the Tremont House that night, rockets and red fire lit the' street; he gazed into what the Chicago Times called 'an ocean of upturned faces' and a transparent sign reading 'Welcome to Stephen A. Douglas, the Defender of Popular Sovereignty.' " Lincoln expected that some day Douglas would be the President of the United States. LESSON DEPARTMENT 57 That night Douglas made his first speech of the campaign. In it he accused Mr. Lincoln of "boldly advocating war between the North and the South." After that whenever Judge Douglas talked at any length he quoted Lincoln, 'that the government could not be permanent half slave and half free,' and intimated that what Lincoln wanted was war. Lincoln would also quote from his "House Divided" speech and say: he expected a crisis; he didn't wish it." time progressed Lincoln grew in strength. One night there was a parade. Following the carriage of Mr. Lincoln was a wagon with thirty-two young ladies representing the states of the Union. The wagon bore the motto: 'The Girls All Link To Lincoln, As Their Mothers Linked To Clay." Across the main street was a banner, bearing on one side the words, "Coles County for Lincoln, and on the other an immense painting of a man driving a team of six horses. This was Abe as he appeared thirty years ago, when he drove a wagon across the country; then a poor teamster, unnoticed and unknown; now the object of almost idolatrous devotion from the people of the same county." It was on an afternoon in September at Clinton, when he said: "You can fool all the people some of the time, and some of the people all the time, but you cannot fool all the people all the time." Lincoln was now fifty years of age; it had been thirty years since he left his father's home. Sandburg has given us a masterful description of Lincoln at this time. He says of him: "The instant he began to speak the ungainly mouth lost its heaviness, the half-listless eyes attained a wondrous power, and the people stood bewildered and_ breathless. Every movement of his long muscular frame denoted inflexible earnestness, and a something issued forth, elemental and mystical, that told what the man had been, what he was, and what he would do. There were moments when he seemed all legs and feet, and again he appeared all head and neck; yet every look of the deep-set eyes, every movement of the prominent jaw, every wave of the hard-gripping hand, produced an impression, and before he had spoken twenty minutes the conviction took possession of thousands that here was the prophetic man of the present." The people voted on November second, and while Lincoln had 4,085 more votes than Douglas, Douglas had a majority of the legislature, so he became Senator. But Lincoln's work had not been in vain, his speeches had been published in part and in full in the papers all over the country; all eyes were upon him and the presidential election was not far away. They were calling him "Old Abe." "They began that when I was thirty years old," he once said to a friend. Once his little son entered a room, where a new potrait of his father was resting against the wall. As. He saw it he cried out: "Here's another Old Abe." Lincoln was receiving enquiries from various parts of the country, asking if he would consent to run for president. He wrote to Senator Trumbull, saying, "The taste is in my mouth a little." The Lincoln men arranged for the Republican Convention in Chicago. The Republican party had now succeeded the Whigs. Members of the convention were astonished "at the noise and intensity" of the Lincoln supporters. On  the first two days of the convention the Seward men were allowed by the Chicago managers to have free run of the floor. But on the third day the Lincoln shouters were shoved through the doors till they filled all seats and standing room, and the New York boys were crowded out. "Nomination speeches were in single sentences. Judd said, 'I desire, on behalf of the delegation from Illinois, to put in nomination, as a candidate for President of the United States, Abraham Lincoln of Illinois, while Delano of Ohio said, 'T rise on behalf of a portion of the delegation from Ohio, to put in nomination the man who can split rails and maul Democrats?Abraham Lincoln,' " SEWARD was ahead of Lincoln on the first ballot; then came a change of votes, a second ballot was taken and the chairman spoke: "Of 466 votes 354 were cast for the candidate highest, and 'Abraham Lincoln of Illinois is selected as your candidate for President of the United States.' " Lincoln busied himself as best he could, for one in his anxious state of mind on the morning of the balloting. Finally a messenger boy handed him a telegram addressed "Abe," reading: "We did it. Glory to God!" Then followed a "flurry" of telegrams. He told the crowd in the Journal office he was going home to tell his wife the news. One heard him say, "I reckon there's a little short woman down at our house that would like to hear the news." Another heard him say: "There is a lady over yonder on Eighth Street who is deeply interested in this news; I will carry it to her." Boxes, barrels, kindling wood, fence rails and brushwood went up in bonfire smoke in the Sangamon River country that Friday night." When the chosen committee called on Lincoln at Springfield to tell him he was nominated he replied that he would co-operate, "imploring the assistance of Divine Providence." The campaign progressed with Lincoln showing greater strength as the days wore on. Then came the news of victory, which was followed by tortuous days with office seekers. The time to go to Washington was near at hand. He must see his stepmother before leaving. He missed connection with a passenger train and had to use a freight train part of the way. We are shown him with a shawl over his shoulder picking his way through the slush, where friends were awaiting him with a buggy at the station. The next morning he visited Sally Bush Lincoln. He drove eight miles out to the old farm along the road over which he had hauled wood with an ox team. Then "he and Sally Bush put their arms around each other and listened to each other's heartbeats. They held hands and talked, they talked without holding hands. Each looked into eyes thrust back in deep sockets. She was all of a mother to him. He was her boy more than any born to her. He gave her a photograph of her boy, a hungry picture of him standing and wanting, wanting. He stroked her face a last time, kissed good-by, and went away.... She knew his heart would go roaming back often, that even when he rode in an open carriage in New York or Washington with soldiers, flags, and cheering thousands along the streets he might just as like be thinking of her in the old log farmhouse out in Coles County, Illinois." The Lincolns had left their home, clothes, books, and household goods LESSON DEPARTMENT 59 were packed in boxes and trunks. They were staying at the Chenery House. Lincoln had tied his trunks himself, and had written, "A. Lincoln, The White House, Washington, D. C.," on cards which he fastened to the trunks. "He was going to the biggest house in the country, the hardest house in the country to live in: the Atlantic seaboard was the front yard, the Rocky Mountains and the Pacific slope the colossal back yard." A cold drizzle of rain was falling on the morning of February 11 when Lincoln and his party of fifteen left Springfield. A thousand people crowded in and around the brick station to wish him luck and Godspeed. "A path was made for him from the station to his car; hands stretched out for one last handshake. He had not intended to make a speech; but on the platform of the car he turned and saw his home folk, so he raised his hand for silence. His friends and neighbors stood with uncovered heads as he said: "No one who has never been placed in a like position can understand my feelings at this hour nor the oppressive sadness I feel at this parting.... Here I have lived from my youtti till now I am an old man. Here the most sacred trusts of earth were assumed; here all my children were born; and here one of them lies buried.... Today I leave you; I go to assume a task more difficult than that which devolved upon General Washington. Unless the great God who assisted him shall be with and aid me, I must fail." Bells rang, the train moved. Lincoln was on his way to Washington to face carnage and martyrdom ?and to gain immortality. Note: You may obtain additional material from chapters 82 to 168. Questions 1. Where did Uncle Tom's Cabin first take form? What amount did the author receive four months after its publication? What was her name? How many children had she when she wrote the book? 2. Sandburg paints us a picture of Lincoln as he stands before an audience delivering an address. Is it a good piece of portraiture? Do you see Lincoln? Does his personality grip you? 3. What idea of the customs of the time do you get from Lincoln's visit to Coles County just before he left for Washington? How did Coles County portray Lincoin in a parade during the campaign? Why was he especially dear to Coles County, and Coles County especially dear to him? 4. Did you mothers and some of you who are not mothers weep when you read of the parting of Lincoln and Sally Bush? Do you think this an effective piece of writing?