Notes from the Field Julia A. F. Lund?General Secretary Hollywood and Pasadena Stakes HOLLYWOOD and Pasadena Stakes, though the division was made earlier, worked together until the conclusion of the Relief Society year in June, 1936. The accompanying pictures are examples of the joint efforts of these two splendid Stakes. The one is of a pageant, which graphically explained the educational work of the Relief Society, and the following picture is a beautiful display of the handicraft work. These two pictures speak for themselves, and tell most completely of the skill, ingenuity and artistry of these fine Relief Society workers. With the opening of the latter part of the year's work, their efforts will be directed into their respective Stakes, and we certainly expect much from them. Rigby Stake DURING the present Fall one of the veteran Relief Society Presidents was released, and a most beautiful testimonial was given in her honor. For eighteen years Sister Lettie E. Call has given devoted service to the Relief Society cause, and has been the President of the Rigby Stake for more than twelve years. Her co-workers and the people of the community which she has served so long and so well, joined in the lovely event, which took place in the Stake Tabernacle in Rigby. Tributes from the people of the Stake, including the Priesthood, were in rich abundance. The Relief Society Stake Board presented Sister Call witha beautiful wrist watch. The General Board of Relief Society regretted very much PAGEANT, HOLLYWOOD AND PASADENA STAKES NOTES FROM THE FIELD ? DISPLAY, HANDICRAFT WORK, HOLLYWOOD AND PASADENA STAKES not being able to have a personal representative in attendance, but they sent their expressions of the high regard in which Sister Call is held. They are deeply grateful for the fine cooperation always experienced from her in her work. Sister Call retires with the love and best wishes of all who knew her, for many happy useful years yet to come. Mount Ogden Stake ANOTHER Relief Society sister who has won great distinction for her leadership and fine service is Sister Almira C. Rich. For nearly a quarter of a century, Sister Rich has been identified with the Relief Society work in the Mount Ogden Stake, and the effect of her leadership has been in evidence in every field. In October of this year the Relief Society organizations of her Stake joined in giving a most beautiful testimonial in recognition of her fine services. This was held in the Twelfth Ward Chapel in Ogden, and each Ward of the Stake assumed responsibility for the fine event. A program of excellent music by the Singing Mothers, and expressions of appreciation for Sister Rich from her co-workers, offered a very pleasant afternoon's entertainment. This happy event was concluded by a social hour in which all participated. Lost River Stake IN August 21st, the annual flower show of the Lost River Stake was held at Darlington. According to the press report, all previous shows, which have been representative of the best the valley could produce, were eclipsed by this year's display. The beauty, variety and arrangement of the flowers was particularly artistic. A record number of people attended the program, and afterwards inspected the handwork of the sisters of the Stake. This Stake also records the work of one of its Visiting Teachers, who is a convert to the Church, and for the past nine years has never missed visiting her district. If her companion is unable to go she does not fail to make the call. Deseret Stake HE following is an account of the manner in which the Magazine Drive was so successfully conducted. The Magazine Agent in the Delta Second Ward cooperated with the Relief Society officers in serving a hot dinner, which sold for  PAGEANT, JEROME WARD 25c per plate. The materials used for the dinner were donated by the members. The proceeds from the sale of the food was divided equally among all who helped, and this was found to amount to 80c per person. The money was given to each individual with the understanding that she subscribe to the Relief Society Magazine. This, together with the house to house visit by the Agent, proved to be a very successful method of securing the desired results. Blaine Stake THE above is a picture of a most beautiful pageant which was presented by the Jerome Ward Relief Society. It furnished the program for the Ward Conference and was given under the able direction of Viola Redford, Ward Chorister. This pageant of "The Gate Beautiful," is most expressive of the aims and hopes of the Relief Society women in their educational program. Bear River Stake THE Bear River Stake decided to try out the plan of holding district conferences during the Summer months. The object was to bring closer contact between the Ward Officers and Members. There were five of these district conferences in which every Ward participated. The first was held July 28, 1936. The Presidency from each Ward was invited to attend, and at the close of the program a social hour was spent and light refreshments served. It proved to bea most successful means of bringing about the desired result, and drawing closer the bonds of love and harmony between Stake and Ward workers. The program of the conventions consisted of fine music, addresses of welcome by the presidents, and inspirational talks on the subject of "Growth Through Service."