A Present Day Challenge
By Marianne Clark Sharp
TO develop a desire in each citizen of this country to take an active part in the affairs of our government is important at any time; but just now when theories of government in our nation are so conflicting, it is especially important that each one of us does his part. There are at work in the world today forces which are seeking to overthrow government and law. Most of the European countries, inflamed by class or racial hatred, are thirsting for greater power and with little regard for the welfare of their fellow beings. We have peace in the United States, but a peace threatened by the same undermining forces of destruction. At this time we are asking the members of the Relief Society, especially, to bear their share in this struggle.
As members of this Church we know that we live in a land of promise. Over two thousand years before Christ it was proclaimed: "For behold, this is a land which is choice above all other lands; wherefore he that doth possess it shall serve God or shall be swept off; for it is the everlasting decree of God. And it is not until the fulness of iniquity among the children of the land, that they are swept off." (Book of Mormon, Ether 2:10.)
May we do our part in keeping the fulness of iniquity from among the children of this land, or else we, too, will be swept off, as surely as were those to whom this pronouncement was given.
As members of this Church we also have recorded what the Lord has said concerning the Constitution of this land and the Constitutional Law. A hundred years ago our people were suffering grievous hardships at the hands of some of their fellow citizens. "That every man may act in doctrine and principle pertaining to futurity, according to the moral agency which I have given unto him," the Lord declared in December, 1833, "for this purpose have I established the Constitution of this land, by the hands of wise men whom I raised up unto this very purpose, and redeemed the land by the shedding of blood." (D. And C., 101:78, 80.)
Four months earlier the Lord upheld the Constitutional Law, putting the blame for their troubles elsewhere: "And now, verily I say unto you concerning the laws of the land, it is my will that my people should observe to do all things whatsoever I command them.
"And that law of the land which is constitutional, supporting that principle of freedom in maintaining rights and privileges, belongs to all mankind, and is justifiable before me.
"Therefore, I, the Lord, justify you, and your brethren of my Church, in befriending that law which is the constitutional law of the land;
"And as pertaining to law of man, whatsoever is more or less than this cometh of evil.
"I, the Lord God, make you free, therefore ye are free indeed; and the law also maketh you free.
"Nevertheless, when the wicked rule the people mourn.
"Wherefore, honest men and wise men should be sought for diligently, and good men and wise men ye
A PRESENT DAY CHALLENGE 7
should observe to uphold; otherwise whatsoever is less than these cometh of evil." (D. And C., 98:4-10.)
Two years later, in 1835, the Church (in Section 134 of the Doctrine and Covenants) puts itself on record as to its belief in law and government. The first verse we are all familiar with. It reads:
"We believe that governments were instituted of God for the benefit of man; and that he holds men accountable for their acts in relation to them, both in making laws and administering them, for the good and safety of society.
"We believe that no government can exist in peace, except such laws are framed and held inviolate as will secure to each individual the free exercise of conscience, the right and control of property, and the protection of life."
The latter verse explains the wars in Europe at the present time, for in the warring countries their people, not in accord with the ruling regime, are denied these three things: 1. The free exercise of conscience; 2. The right and control of property, and 3. The protection of life.
I must confess that until quite recently I took for granted the personal liberty which we enjoy in this country. These parts of the Doctrine and Covenants which I have quoted, and other parts, with the opinions we have of early Church leaders, seemed to me to belong to another time and generation. I now believe that only if we prayerfully follow the advice given us in these sections will we be able to combat the insidious forces arrayed all over the world against free governments. It is that same old pre-world struggle for free agency.
As I see it, we women of this country have not done all that we could with our vote. When we were striving for the franchise we promised almost a state of Utopia if we were granted it, and from what I can read, instead of changing the votes for the better, all we have done is swell the former totals. Very often this summer I heard women close a political discussion half apologetically? "Well, I really don't know enough about the question to vote intelligently." Our saying that "it is impossible for a man to be saved in ignorance," certainly includes the women. We must arouse ourselves, and while helping out in local problems as most of us do? seeing that we get better schools and safer streets for our children?not suddenly discover that the government has taken over the training of our children. As mothers we should teach them to appreciate their liberty and guard our laws that they may not lose the freedom we inherited.
Let us study not only the national problems, but international ones as well, as they affect us, and seek earnestly the inspiration of the Lord in our actions, that we may do as He has instructed us: "Wherefore, honest men and wise men should be sought for diligently, and good men and wise men ye should observe to uphold; otherwise whatsoever is less than these cometh of evil."