Report on International Congress
By Amy Brown Lyman
COUNSELOR Amy Brown Lyman represented the Relief Society and Young Woman's Mutual Improvement Association at the International Council of Women's Triennial Meeting, held at Dubrovnik, Yugoslavia, September 28 to October 9, 1936. She sent a very exhaustive report of her trip and the meetings, some portions of which we print herewith.
WHEN it was decided to hold this meeting in Yugoslavia, the Yugoslavia National Council thought Dubrovnik would be a much more interesting place than Belgrade, the Capital, because it is a typical medieval city, centuries old, and the old part of the city is as it has always been. Belgrade, on the other hand, is a new modern city since the war. It was literally destroyed at that time and has since been practically rebuilt. It is called the modern concrete city of Yugoslavia.
Dubrovnik, however, does not have enough hotel accommodations nor transportation facilities to take care of such a convention. Dubrovnik, anciently known as Ragusa, was founded in the seventh century. It was one of the smallest republics that ever existed. It is located on the beautiful Adriatic Sea backed by huge mountains. The old wall is from thirty to forty feet high. It is intact and surrounds the city in a circular form from the mountains on one side to those on the other. There is a tall tower in the center of the city which was used anciently as a "look-out." And on one of the side walls there is a huge arsenal. The main street, King Peter Street, is about as wide as one of our avenues and is about one mile long. The other streets are all narrower?not more than eleven feet wide. They are all paved with stone. The rest of the place in this city is occupied by tall dwellings which look like great tenements all joined together. Each family owns its own suite of rooms. Wagons and automobiles are not allowed in the old city. The streets are too narrow and the people are too numerous. The food, merchandise, etc., are hauled about in hand-carts. They did, however, allow Lady Aberdeen's car to drive down the main street to our meeting places. You enter in the city through a beautiful archway. The main buildings are the Doge's Palace, which, it is said, rivals the Doge's Palace in Venice, the Bishop's Palace, two old Cathedrals and the Theater. On every hand are beautiful archways and sculptured friezes. The theater resembles very much the old Salt Lake Theater with its parquet and three circles, the latter made up entirely of boxes which are all completely separated and are entered each by its own respective door. The boxes each hold six people. The old market, almost in the center of the town, is still used and is most interesting. The newer part of the city is built outside the walls and looks much like any ordinary city. Most of our meetings were held in the old city, in the Theater and the Town Hall. The committee meetings were held in a modern normal school building outside the wall.
 
Business hours in Dubrovnik are from 9:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. and from 3:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. The banks open for the public promptly at 4:00 p.m. During the noon recess the people eat luncheon and visit. In the evening they promenade through the main street, and you cannot imagine anything gayer and more colorful than King Peter Street at night. It is here that young people meet in their Sunday best clothes, dance, fall in love, etc.
Richard the Lion Hearted was ship-wrecked near Dubrovnik, 700 years ago on his way home from the Holy land where he went with the Crusades, and was rescued by the people. In gratitude he left funds to build a church. This year (August) King Edward VIII visited the place. He created quite a sensation and won the hearts of everybody. The Duke and Duchess of Kent also visited here this summer and are planning on building a chateau somewhere near on the sea. It is said that this coast country will in time rival the Italian Riviera. Yugoslavia, like the other Balkan Countries, is doing everything possible to attract tourists. The people are anxious to know the world and they would like to have the world know them. They have been brought up through wars and tribulations and have been controlled first by one nation and then another. They are now anxious to establish their country on a sound basis and to have the sympathy and approval of the great nations of the world.
THERE were only four delegates from America.
Lady Aberdeen, after thirty-six years active service as President, retired and was elected as Honorary President. The new President is Baroness Pol Boel of Brussels, Belgium.
BARONESS POL BOEL
The meetings covered eleven days and were long drawn out owing to the fact that everything done had to be translated into the three official languages?English, German, and French.
THE outstanding meeting, of course, was the Inaugural Public session held in the theater. It was most interesting and colorful. The decorations of flowers and flags lent beauty to the scene. On the wall at the back of the stage were two large portraits, one of Queen Marie and the other of Little King Peter II. Hanging from the boxes around the theater were the flags of all nations which were represented, with the American flag hanging directly over the front center of the
REPORT ON INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS 15
stage. (Our Council, as you know, is the oldest member of the I.C.) On its right was the English flag. (Their Council is the second oldest.) In the Town Hall our flag also had first place. Outside the theater, in front of the entrance, fifty girls in brilliant peasant costumes formed an aisle through which we all passed. They were animated and gay and their bright black eyes indicated Slavic snap and temperament. The officers and dignitaries were seated on the stage. On the front row were Lady Aberdeen; Six Vice-Presidents; the Minister of the Interior, representing the Queen; the Mayor of Dubrovnik; Madame Petkovitch, the President of the Yugoslavia National Council. Behind them were Secretaries and Treasurers; the Conveners of the Standing Committee; Fraternal Delegates; and Presidents of affiliated National Councils.
The Executive Committee presented three resolutions providing for (a) a Jubilee Celebration in 1938; (b) a Jubilee Fund; (c) for the establishment of a new standing committee on "Housing."
The most intense feeling was shown in connection with the subject of Peace; the idea being that every organization should strive constantly for the continuance and strengthening of the League of Nations and for the upholding of the covenants of the League. The U.S. Delegation took no part in this discussion nor voting. They certainly approved of the clause recommending education for Peace throughout the world.
Some of the important decisions as embodied in the resolutions were: That the National Councils (a) Continue to work for the eradication of slavery; (b) Write a short history of their respective organizations and send a copy to the I.C.; (c) Promote Journalism as a career for women and especially to keep the younger generation of women journalists well informed regarding the progress of the woman's movement; (d) Keep a card index or bibliography recording National development in the woman's movement so that a complete survey might at any time be available; (e) Work for the equality between sexes in respect of Nationality including the right of the spouses to independent nationality; also urge their governments to accord women the same rights and responsibilities of citizenship as men; (f) Work for (1) the abolition of child labor, (2) continuance of part-time education and training for all young people, after the close of compulsory attendance, at part-time school, (3) for the raising of the school leaving age from 14 to 15 and even 16, (4) for better education for world citizenship, (5) for children's library; (g) Urge the respective countries (1) to place women as well as men in the administration of Broadcasting and let them take part in the drawing up of programs, (2) to have popular information and lectures on the Woman's movement broadcasting in the respective countries; (h) Urge women who have the vote to intensify their efforts before election in the interest of the best candidates; (i) Continue the work for Equal Moral Standards among young people and for the abolition of prostitution; (j) Recommend that women
 
workers join trade unions and mixed professional organizations; (k) Make protests against all measures restricting woman's right to work, and provide for the needs for herself and her family by paid work; also see to it that married or unmarried women have the same rights as men to keep or obtain paid work; (l) Work for prison reform; (m) Foster an appreciation of films of artistic merit and pronounced social and educational value, so that production of such films shall be encouraged; and also do their utmost to disseminate information concerning them; (n) Work against and condemn all films tended to bring one country in contempt in the eyes of the others; (o) Considering the growing inter-dependence between the different parts of the world and the importance of international collaboration the I.C.W. Recommends that the National Councils promote a better education for world understanding and collaboration, by fostering in the schools a spirit of good-will and understanding and by reforming, where necessary, the text books and the teaching of such subjects as history, geography and civics; (p) By resolution the committee on Broadcasting and Cinema was divided into two separate committees.
The following are among the interesting matters brought before the Council.
Standing Committee on Housing?Emergency Resolution. It was proposed "that a Standing Committee on Housing be set up by the International Council of Women in order to study improved methods of town and rural Development planning, and to encourage higher standards in matters relative to the hygiene of housing and the comfort and well-being of the people in every condition of life."
The Housing resolution was considered an emergency resolution and was presented because of the great importance of the women of the various Councils supporting the extensive plans for modern housing for working people, and for the abolishment of slums, which are going forward in many countries. Lady Aberdeen's daughter, Lady Pentland, was later made Convener of this Committee.
Committee Meetings: In the final meetings held by the Standing Committees a prospective of future work was discussed. In the Committee on Trades and Professions it was suggested that the study for the next period would be: the effect of unemployment on the young people from fourteen to twenty-three; trade unions for women; insurance for intellectual and professional workers such as nurses etc., in fact a study of the whole question of social insurance.
In the education committee the questions recommended for study were: do the schools prepare children for citizenship; are children studying unnecessary subjects; are they learning to employ leisure properly; what can we do to improve our rural schools?