HAPPENINGS By Annie Wells Cannon THERE would be no past regrets if each day one lived as though it were the beginning of a New Year. COUNTESS WALDECK, Hungarian journalist and traveller discusses in an illuminating lecture "Women Under Dictatorship," how women under Hitler and Mussolini lived under their restricted freedom and comments what significance the position of these women may have in the future of all women. ANTACIO CARMARGO, of New Mexico, 118 years old, has lived under four flags?Spanish, Mexican, Texas-Republic and United States. She is happy to live as long as she can work. NAZIMOVA, Russian ragedienne has returned to the legitimate drama and her favorite role? Ibsen's 'Hedda Gabler." On the opening night in New York she had 38 curtain calls. INA CLAIRE, blonde vivacious actress, during a starring performance of "End of Summer" in Chicago, was told that she had been awarded a gold medal for good diction by the American Academy of Arts and Letters. After the performance she was officially notified by Dr. William Lyons Phelps. ERNESTINE SCHUMANN HEINK is mourned the world over. Few women have been so renowned and so beolved. Her rich contralto voice thrilled in Grand Opera in the great capitals of Europe and America, cheered soldiers in army camps and sufferers in hospitals. Her motherly heart embraced all mankind in love. KATHERINE CORNELL, in Maxwell Anderson's new drama, "The Wingless Victory" is making her usual success. HATTIE CARAWAY of Arkansas is the only woman in the United States Senate this year, and there are five women in the House of Representatives, while in Brazil where suffrage has maintained only two years there are two women in Congress, ten women Mayors, eight women Consuls and women Secretaries of Labor, Education and Public Health. Mrs. REVA BECK BOSONE is the first woman judge to serve in Salt Lake City. JUDGE FLORENCE ALLEN, of Ohio, in holding Ohio's minimum wage law affecting 42,000 women and minors constitutional, declared the United States supreme court did not criticize the minimum wage law but the method of setting up wage scales. MARGARET FLINT'S _ book, "The Old Ashburn Place," won the $10,000 novel prize this last year and there are other charming novels by women well worth reading. MRS. KATHERINE KENT THURSTON, of Utah, is the recipient of a $60 prize for a poem ?"At Her Wedding." This poem will be included in an anthology of heretofore unpublished poems. Mrs. Thurston is a widow and the mother of 10 children. HAZEL HILL GREENWOOD, so deeply mourned by all her associates, gave unsparingly her talents and her service in the work of humanity.