[Vol54 | November | Magazine Page 870 | PDF Page 911]

--- PAGE 870 (PDF page 911) ---
November 1967

Relief Society Magazine, November 1967, p. 623.) A life situation which illustrates the virtue of integrity as compared to material possessions follows:

LIFE EXAMPLE

Visualize the life situation of Lehi, living in Jerusalem 600 years before the birth of Christ. Lehi is a humble, religious man, receptive to the promptings of the spirit and the warning words of the prophets. He, himself, has foretold the coming of the Messiah and preached repentance to the unrighteous citizens of Jerusalem. He has been commanded in a dream to take his family and journey into the wilderness, for an unknown destination. In the words of his son, Nephi, we read:

And it came to pass that the Lord commanded my father, even in a dream, that he should take his family and depart into the wilderness.
And it came to pass that he was obedient unto the word of the Lord, wherefore he did as the Lord commanded him.
And it came to pass that he departed into the wilderness. And he left his house, and the land of his inheritance, and his gold, and his silver, and his precious things, and took nothing with him, save it were his family, and provisions, and tents, and departed into the wilderness (1 Nephi 2:2-4).

The scriptural record does not say whether or not Sariah parted readily with their precious possessions. To most women, an exchange of the comforts of home for the hardships of extended travel in the wilderness would be a sacrifice. The record does state, however, that upon the safe return of her sons from the house of Laban with the plates of brass, she rejoiced, saying:

Now I know of a surety that the Lord hath commanded my husband to flee into the wilderness; yea, and I also know of a surety that the Lord hath protected my sons, and delivered them out of the hands of Laban, and given them power whereby they could accomplish the things which the Lord hath commanded them. And after this manner of language did she speak (1 Nephi 5:8).

No silver, no gold, no precious things! Far more important than silver or gold or precious things, however arduously accumulated, is the integrity of a man or woman who, steadfast in purpose, puts first things first, who is willing to sacrifice the temporal and transient for that which is of everlasting value. Every Latter-day Saint woman should recognize this as truth.

Class Involvement

1. How does this life experience relate to integrity, from a woman's point of view?

2. Do you think it would require more courage and sacrifice on the part of Sariah than the Latter-day Saint women experience today in crossing the plains in 1847? Or than a convert to the Church may experience today?

INTEGRITY IN THE HOME

Integrity is accepted as basic to a successful home environment. There is no place in the husband and wife relationship for intrigue or deception; no place in the child-to-child relationship for insincerity or misunderstanding, although the mother may need to be constantly vigilant in order to keep the dependability of one child from creating jealousy in another. The home is the place for honesty and sincerity, for they make for moral strength, regard-

870