[Vol54 | December | Magazine Page 903 | PDF Page 948]

--- PAGE 903 (PDF page 948) ---
The Christmas Lamb

Grouchy Jake and how he always frowned and grumbled if the boys and girls even came near his yard. Then he ran to his room, knelt beside his bed, and prayed as he had never prayed before and asked his Heavenly Father what gift he could give to His Son.

He was very quiet all the rest of that day and the next, which was the day before Christmas. After dinner, without saying anything to anybody, he got down from the table, walked slowly to the closet, took out his jacket and put it on. Very, very slowly he walked over to the Christmas tree, reached to the very back and picked up the blue package with the red bow, and ever so slowly left the house.

He was gone for a long time, and his mother began to feel a little uneasy—until she heard him jumping up the walk. He took all the steps in one big leap and threw open the door. "Mother, Mother, Mr. Jake is nice!" he shouted as he went to the closet to hang up his jacket. He sat down on the arm of his mother's chair, and once again, with a sparkle in his eyes, and with conviction in his voice, he said, "Mother, if I had been there at that first Christmas, I would have given Jesus my lamb."

MY QUIET NEED
Marjorie L. Hafen

No words, no empty smiles invade our quiet peace.
These treasured moments bring tranquility, release.
Despair and turmoil now forgotten ebb. Indeed,
Just bring near to you fulfills my quiet need.

THREE SCORE AND TEN
Linnie Fisher Robinson

I stand in the arrogant flesh,
    In three score and ten of the Lord;
I have shunned the turns in the road
    And walked in the way of his word.
I have seen what the tide has left—
    The wreckage gathered in storm.
I have heeded the cries of need
    And used my strength against harm.
I have found what the heart can earn
    Through the work of the brain and the arm;
The blessings of home and of love,
    The shelter of love that is warm.
So, now will come loss of pride
    In the failure of limb to fulfill—
Yet death shall not rob but restore
    The farthest reach of my will.

903