[Vol54 | November | Magazine Page 866 | PDF Page 907]

--- PAGE 866 (PDF page 907) ---
November 1967

HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education

Discussion 5—The Living Room—Your Design for Living

Celestia J. Taylor

Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, February, 1968
Southern Hemisphere: July 1968

Objective: To awaken us to the possibilities of using what we have to the greatest advantage.

INTRODUCTION

Sir Winston Churchill once said that "we shape our houses and then they shape our lives." It is not possible for us to escape the fact that the homes we live in are a reflection of ourselves—of our desires, our values, and our personalities. "Oh," you say, "this isn't true; if I had more money, this isn't the way I'd live, at all or the kind of house I'd live in, at all."

Many people have excused their inadequacies and have justified their inability to create a satisfactory way of life, by this kind of reasoning. Money is seldom the answer, however, to the question as to the kind of life we build for ourselves within our homes. Rather, the real answer lies in our ability to make the most of what we have and to face the truth about our limitations. In most parts of the world, the poorest of us today have far more to work with than did our grandparents, and most of them managed to make of their homes places of beauty, enriched with the joy of contentment. At the same time, the richest of us need to know that the extravagant expenditure of money does not guarantee good taste or lasting satisfaction in our possessions.

How can we make our living rooms reflect the kind of life which each of us wants to live?

PLAN FOR THE FAMILY

The living room should be planned and arranged to best serve its function as the living center of the home for the people who are to use it. The furniture should be placed for the convenience of living, to serve family interests, and in "conversational groupings" for gracious living and entertaining. A living room is not conducive to happy family living if it is not planned for every member of the family, regardless of how beautiful it may be.

LIVE WITH COLORS THAT KEEP YOU HAPPY

Color is the most important single factor to be considered in decorating your living room. With

866