[Vol54 | June | Magazine Page 6 | PDF Page 27]

--- PAGE 6 (PDF page 27) ---
The Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the award winners in the Relief Society Short Story Contest, which was announced in the May 1966 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, and which closed August 15, 1966.

The first prize of seventy-five dollars is awarded to Myrna Clawson, Modesto, California, for her story "Who Loves Here?" The second prize of sixty dollars is awarded to Marie M. Hayes, Seattle, Washington, for her story "A Gift to the Giver." The third prize of fifty dollars is awarded to Hazel M. Thomson, Bountiful, Utah, for her story, "To Warm the Heart."

The Relief Society Short Story Contest was first conducted by the Relief Society General Board in 1942, as a feature of the Relief Society Centennial observance, and was made an annual contest in 1943. The contest is open to Latter-day Saint women who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication in a periodical of recognized merit.

The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1967.

Sixty-seven stories were entered in the 1966 contest, including submissions from England, Wales, and Canada. Mrs. Clawson is a first-time winner in the

award winners | ANNUAL RELIEF SOCIETY
                SHORT STORY CONTEST

contest, and her winning story will mark her first appearance as an author in The Relief Society Magazine. Mrs. Hayes is also a first-time winner and a first time author for the Magazine. Mrs. Thomson is also well known to readers of the Magazine through her two serials "Your Heart to Understanding," and "Because of the Word," as well as many other writings published in the Magazine.

The contest was initiated to encourage Latter-day Saint women to express themselves in the field of fiction. The General Board feels that the response to this opportunity continues to increase the literary quality of The Relief Society Magazine, and aids the women of the Church in the development of their gifts in creative writing.

Prize-winning stories are the property of the General Board of Relief Society and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest.

Gratitude is extended to the members of the General Board who served on the short story committee, and to the judges who evaluated the stories and selected the winning entries.

26