[Vol54 | February | Magazine Page 2 | PDF Page 7]

--- PAGE 2 (PDF page 7) ---
January 1967

If immortality, then, is the first step in the achievement of the Lord's work and his glory, it is readily to be understood that the process by which immortality is achieved is through the bearing of mortal offspring by mortal mothers in holy wedlock and sired by mortal fathers. Woman's role in God's eternal plan of salvation has been re-affirmed. Will you think of this, in this day of mass hysteria over birth control by artificial means? It might be well for Relief Society mothers to consider the role of woman in the great plan of salvation as the Lord has explained it.

The woman's role involves a partnership, hopefully with a noble son of God. It was the apostle Paul who declared this interdependence between men and women to be achieved only in holy wedlock. Here are a few of his quotations: "Nevertheless neither is the man without the woman, neither the woman without the man, in the Lord. For as the woman is of the man, even so is the man also by the woman; but all things of God" (I Cor. 11: 11-12). ". . . but the woman is the glory of the man" (I Cor. 11: 7). "Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ also loved the church, and gave himself for it. . . . So ought men to love their wives as their own bodies. He that loveth his wife loveth himself" (Eph. 5:25, 28). "For this cause shall a man leave father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife; and they twain shall be one flesh" (Matt. 19:5).

The sacred nature of this partnership is nowhere better explained than by our own President David O. McKay, and is now quoted in our 1966 Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, if you want to check this when you get home, page 63. This is what we're teaching your husbands in their weekly Priesthood meetings.

I read this to my wife and she commented, "But why don't you teach this to the Priesthood rather than to the sisters?" Well, we want the sisters to know what their husbands are being taught, and if their husbands are not going to Priesthood meeting, they will see that they get there to hear these lessons taught in Priesthood meeting. Now this is what the President said, and you can understand what my wife meant:

"Love is the highest attribute of the human soul, and fidelity is love's noblest offspring. Most, if not all, of the virtues are the natural fruit of genuine love.

President McKay has given inspired counsel regarding the physical dimension of the love relationship between a man and his wife. He said:

"Let us instruct young people who come to us to know that a woman should be queen of her own body . . . .

"Second, let them remember that gentleness and consideration after the ceremony are just as appropriate and necessary and beautiful as gentleness and consideration before the wedding.

". . . Chastity is the crown of beautiful womanhood, and self-control is the source of true manhood, if you will know it, not indulgence . . . .

"Let us teach our young men to enter into matrimony with the idea that each will be just as considerate of a wife after the ceremony as during courtship" (Melchizedek Priesthood Manual 1966, page 63).

Now you have companion lessons to these in the Relief So-

6