[Vol54 | November | Magazine Page 862 | PDF Page 903]

--- PAGE 862 (PDF page 903) ---
November 1967

of the saints during the time of the Savior. (Life of Heber C. Kimball, p. 90.) The Prophet also prayed, as we do, for success in a calling, that the solemn assembly commanded to be held, might be acceptable. (Ibid., 109:6-13.)

REMEMBER THE MISSIONARIES

Those members of the Church who have had members of their families serve as missionaries, or who themselves have been on missions for the Church, or who may have been converted through the labors of missionaries, have a strong feeling for the success of those who labor in the mission field. All members of the Church who have a sincere desire for the growth of the Church are anxious to have the Lord's power with his servants. Many verses in the dedicatory prayer are devoted to this subject.

The desire of the Prophet was that nothing which would thwart the progress of the Church would be successful. That those who lied or published slanderous material against the saints might be confounded, was a part of that petition. (Ibid., 109:24-33.)

Before the saints had established Kirtland, Ohio, as a gathering place, the Lord promised that when his servants were endowed there would be a gathering to the bosom of the Church. (Ibid., 38:38.) This endowment would be such that they would be taught from on high to perform missionary work. (Ibid., 43:16.)

With the temple built, the great missionary program would be inaugurated.

Apparently the endowment referred to in reference to the Kirt-

land Temple was an outpouring of the Holy Ghost. The Prophet prayed for this blessing for those who would go forth to preach the gospel. (Ibid., 109:22-23, 35, 42.)

Class Discussion

How important is it that you pray for the missionaries in your daily prayers?

REMEMBER THE SUFFERING SAINTS

The Prophet prayed that the actions of wicked men against the saints would cease, and that their persecutors might repent of their wicked ways. (D&C 109:45-53.)

The persecution suffered by the saints of the Missouri period consisted of both physical and mental persecution. Although the saints today do not receive persecution from arms or the loss of homes and a lack of the necessities of life, still, in some mission fields, there is possible loss of employment and some forms of ostracism. Latter-day Saints throughout the world may well pray for their fellow members that persecution may cease, but that if tribulations come, they may be able to withstand them.

REMEMBER THE HEADS OF GOVERNMENTS

Latter-day Saints are known as a peace-loving people. They wait for the day when there will be a permanent peace with the coming of the Savior. (Ibid., 101:26.)

They have been commanded, also, to renounce war and to seek peace through the turning of the hearts of the children to the fathers and the hearts of the fathers to the children. (Ibid., 98:16-17.) This admonition to preach the gospel that peace may be generated in

862