[Vol54 | February | Magazine Page 4 | PDF Page 9]

--- PAGE 4 (PDF page 9) ---
January 1967

Joseph Smith, whose duty it is to look after the interests of all the women of Zion and of all the women that may come under their supervision and care, irrespective of religion, color or condition. I expect to see the day when this organization will be one of the most perfect, most efficient and effective organizations for good in the Church but that day will be when we shall have women who are not only imbued with the spirit of the gospel of Jesus Christ, and with the testimony of Christ in their hearts, but also with youth, vigor and intelligence to enable them to discharge the great duties and responsibilities that rest upon them. Today it is too much the case that our young, vigorous, intelligent women feel that only the aged should be connected with the Relief Society. This is a mistake. We want the young women, the intelligent women, women of faith, of courage and of purity to be associated with the Relief Societies of the various stakes and wards of Zion. We want them to take hold of this work with vigor, with intelligence and unitedly, for the building up of Zion and the instruction of women in their duties, domestic duties, public duties, and every duty that may devolve upon them (SMITH, JOSEPH F., Gospel Doctrine, Tenth Edition, pp. 386, 387).

I was startled upon one occasion to have announced by a certain women's organization that one of our past Relief Society presidents had graduated from the Relief Society into this other women's organization. Let there be no uncertainty in the minds of our Latter-day Saint women as to the Relief Society being the greatest of all women's organizations. There is no other greater organization on the face of the earth for the Latter-day Saint wife or mother.

Sister Spafford has so kindly spoken of my daughter Helen. (This isn't on the script, darling.) When she was a teenager, the patriarch gave her a blessing.

Her older sister had received a blessing in which she was told that she would be a missionary, a great missionary, and this sweet daughter was told that she would be a shining light in the great Relief Society program of the Church. Carefree, careless, both of them; they may have placed their own individual interpretations, but now the wheels of time have moved on. This other, yes, who knows, she is now an angel, maybe, in the realms on high, is one of the great missionaries.

In the temple today, one of the Brethren bore witness to having sat in meditation and having recalled an experience in the Logan Temple when a sister in deep sorrow had come to him because of the loss of her companion, then a few days later she came back and was all in ecstasy, never happier in her life than now, and he said, "What's happened to change you?"

"The last few days," she said, "I went to the assembly room in the Logan Temple. There were some other couples in that room, and as I sat there, I heard the most heavenly music. Then, after it was ended I said to the people there with me, 'Did you hear that music?' They all said, 'Yes, we heard it.'"

In my mind, as he spoke, I thought of my own sweet missionary daughter. In my mind's eye she could have been accompanying that kind of heavenly choir because she majored in music to be the great missionary that God apparently intended her to be.

Woman's place in training her family is the third phase of this

8