[Vol54 | February | Magazine Page 3 | PDF Page 8]

--- PAGE 3 (PDF page 8) ---
The Role of Women in Building the Kingdom

ciety, don't you see? And you, having been schooled in the Relief Society, your husbands receiving this kind of a lesson in the Priesthood, the meeting of the two lessons brings an ideal Home Evening lesson, where father and mother, with their growing-up sons and daughters, are taught these fundamental principles. The curse of infidelity is plainly set forth also by President McKay in this same Priesthood manual that I'm talking about. He says:

As teachers, we are to let the people know, and warn these men - and this is not imagination - who, after having lived with their wives and brought into this world four or five children, get tired of them and seek a divorce, that they are on the road to hell. (Ibid., pp. 63, 64)

That comforts me a little, because I quoted something to a certain lovely sister who was having trouble with her husband, that no woman was expected to follow her husband to hell, and I am reinforced when President McKay made this statement:

It is unfair to a woman to leave her that way, merely because the man happens to fall in love with some younger woman and feels that the wife is not so beautiful or attractive as she used to be. Warn him! Nothing but unhappiness for him and injustice to those children can result (Ibid., page 64).

I saw what I think was the pinnacle of understanding in this respect when the president of the American Medical Association was here to give an address before our Utah Association. They, the auxiliary to the Utah Association, had arranged for some entertainment for his wife, but she became ill and could not accompany him, and the sisters, of course, were very disappointed, and one of them asked him, "Is your wife just as beautiful as she always was to you?" And he answered, "Yes, just as beautiful, but it does take her a little more time."

Sometimes as we go throughout the Church we hear a husband and wife who come to us and ask that because they are not compatible in their marriage, they having had a temple marriage, wouldn't it be better if they were to free themselves from each other and then seek more congenial partners? And to all such we say, whenever we find a couple who have been married in the temple who say they are tiring of each other, it is an evidence that either one or both are not true to their temple covenants. Any couple married in the temple who are true to their covenants will grow dearer to each other, and love will find a deeper meaning on their golden wedding anniversary than on the day they were married in the house of the Lord. Now don't you mistake that.

The duties and purposes of the Relief Society in this regard have found expression from one of the Presidents of the Church, President Joseph F. Smith, in which he emphasizes another phase of the woman's role as a member of the Relief Society. Now I have spoken of the one phase as a creator in company with her husband. Now note what President Joseph F. Smith says:

I will speak of the Relief Society as one great organization in the Church, organized by the Prophet

7