[Vol54 | February | Magazine Page 183 | PDF Page 188]

--- PAGE 183 (PDF page 188) ---
to the hitching post before helping them down. Sister Miller alighted first, carrying the lunch basket to where the men were seated in the shade of the willows near the spring. After a moment, Cath realized Ben was still holding her hand. She drew it away, slowly.

"I—I'm glad you're back, Ben."

"Are you, Cath? Are you really? The bishop tells me you've been seeing an awful lot of Granville. Are you—promised now, Cath?"

"No, Ben. Not now, nor ever to Granville. I couldn't make him a promise when I loved someone else."

Her meaning was plain from her manner, her eyes, the tone of her voice. Ben caught it at once, as he caught her to him. The man, the harvesters stopped their eating for the moment and watched. As the kiss ended they looked at each other and grinned, turning their attention again to the lunch at hand.

Ben saw. He took her hand and almost ran with her to another cabin, out of sight of the others.

"It isn't a house like Granville could give you, Cath. But come and see."

"A person can't fall in love with a house, nor what's in it either, Ben. I know, for I've been trying to now for quite sometime. The only thing that really matters is who is in the house."

It was a lovely cabin. Inside, the air was pungent with the smell of pine from the freshly sawed wood. Ben closed the door behind them, again taking her gently in his arms. As he bent his head toward her lips, suddenly she straightened and stared.

Through the cabin window she could see the wagon Ben had taken. It was piled high with furniture and plows and, yes! There at the front, just behind the seat was a — she could scarcely believe her eyes — but there it was, a kitchen range.

"Here!" Ben turned her face to his. "They are just some of the things the gold seekers had thrown away in their hurry to get to California. President Young said to load our wagons as well as we could for the trip back. But they can wait, this can't," and he bent his head until his lips touched hers.

Hazel Merchant Thomson was born in Peoa, Summit County, Utah, and graduated from South Summit High School. She received a B.S. degree from Brigham Young University and a M.S. degree from the University of Utah. She taught school in South Summit District, and, at present, is a teacher in first grade at Tolman Elementary School, Bountiful, Utah. She is married to Grant A. Thomson, a teacher at Bountiful High School, and has two adopted sons, Drew in the United States Navy, and Terry in the United States Marines. Her Church work has included all the auxiliaries of the Church, and, at present, she teaches the Gospel Doctrine Class, Tenth Ward, Bountiful North Stake. Her writings have been published in The Improvement Era, The Instructor, Grade Teacher, Instructor for Elementary Teachers, Venture, and Onward. She has had stories accepted recently by Jack and Jill and Highlights for Children. She spends some time in temple and genealogy work.

Several of Mrs. Thomson's writings have been published in The Relief Society Magazine, as well as two serials "Because of the Word" (1961), and "Your Heart to Understanding" (1964).

179