[Vol54 | February | Magazine Page 8 | PDF Page 13]

--- PAGE 8 (PDF page 13) ---
January 1967

Now just a word about another subject. President Joseph F. Smith said something else that I've carried in my mind these years, something about the importance of owning your own home. Now we're drifting away from that today. And I want you to get the importance of what he said here.

It was early the rule among the Latter-day Saints to have the lands so divided that every family could have a spot of ground which could be called theirs; and it has been the proud boast of this people that among them were more home owners than among any other people of like numbers. This condition had a good tendency, and whatever men said of us, the home among this people was a first consideration. It is this love of home that has made the saints famous as colonizers, builders of settlements, and redeemers of the deserts. But in the cities there appears now to be coming into vogue the idea that renting is the thing. Of course, it may be necessary as a temporary makeshift, but no young couple should ever settle down with the idea that such a condition, as far as they are concerned, shall be permanent. Every young man should have an ambition to possess his own home. It is better for him, for his family, for security, for the state, and for the Church. Nothing so engenders stability, strength, power, patriotism, fidelity to country and to God as the owning of a home - a spot of earth that you and your children can call yours. And besides, there are so many tender virtues that grow with ownership that the government of a family is made doubly easy thereby (SMITH, JOSEPH F., Gospel Doctrine, Tenth Edition, page 305).

Now a home, I would impress, not only a home here, but building a home for the eternity. This is a phase of it, and I shall close with this, with one or two obvious conclusions. The Lord said:

And again, verily I say unto you, if a man marry a wife by my word, which is my law, and by the new and everlasting covenant, and it is sealed unto them by the Holy Spirit of promise... they shall pass by the angels, and the gods, which are set there, to their exaltation and glory in all things, as hath been sealed upon their heads, which glory shall be a fulness and a continuation of the seeds forever and ever (D&C 132:19).

Now, the Prophet Joseph Smith, commenting on this scripture, explained:

Except a man and his wife enter into an everlasting covenant and be married for eternity, while in this probation, by the power and authority of the Holy Priesthood, they will cease to increase when they die; that is, they will not have any children after the resurrection. But those who are married by the power and authority of the priesthood in this life, and continue without committing the sin against the Holy Ghost, will continue to increase and have children in the celestial glory (SMITH, JOSEPH FIELDING, Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, pages 300-301).

Our First Presidency in our latter days has said:

So far as the stages of eternal progression and attainment have been made known through divine revelation, we are to understand that only the resurrected and glorified beings can become the parents of spirit offspring. Only such exalted souls have reached maturity in the appointed course of eternal life; and the spirits born to them in the eternal worlds will pass in due sequence through the several stages or estates by which the glorified parents have obtained exaltation. (The First Presidency, June 30, 1916, "The Father and the Son," page 8).

Now the conclusions. Woman has within her the power of creation in company with her legal and lawful husband here, and if

12