[Vol54 | February | Magazine Page 181 | PDF Page 186]

--- PAGE 181 (PDF page 186) ---
To Warm the Heart

Her heart pounded and she fairly seemed to melt under the piercing blue of his eyes. He had stooped and kissed her then, once and hard.

"Till harvest time," he said softly.

It happened so quickly that Cath wondered afterward whether it had really happened at all. Granville wondered, too.

"I can't understand what's happened to Shepherd," he said upon more than one occasion. "There was a time when he was in my way every time I turned around. I haven't laid eyes on him for weeks."

The memory of their parting was brought vividly to her mind and Cath had not answered. Somehow she felt a little annoyed with Ben. If he really loved her, why had he not asked her to stop seeing Granville? He hadn't mentioned it, leaving the decision entirely to her, and at present her decision was to keep going with Granville.

He was good company and she enjoyed especially the plays they saw together. He had seen most of them at other times and places with different actors and actresses. His comparisons were both enlightening and interesting to her meager background in the theater.

During the plays she had seen with Ben his comments had been of a different nature.

"Actors?" he had said. "I don't know one from the other. To me they are real people, and all this is really happening to them, and while the play lasts, I live it with them."

Yes, the two men were different, as different as the houses

they were building, and again Cath remembered the huge, imposing house on Brigham Street that would have a cookstove in the kitchen.

Then, on an afternoon late in July, Ben did put in an appearance. Lean and bronzed from long hours in the sun, he was more handsome than Cath remembered. She was preparing to leave for a drive behind Granville's high-stepping ponies when Ben rode up.

"Rather an outsize riding pony you have there, Shepherd," said Granville, picking up the lines of his spirited team.

"I have no riding horse," Ben answered evenly, "Only my team. I've been working them pretty hard and thought there was no need of bringing both of them."

"I was able to trade my work horses for these ponies," said Granville. "They are almost as fast as the team I had in Boston."

Cath kept her eyes on Ben's face, but he kept his own eyes averted. He certainly wasn't acting much like he came to see her. He answered her question as though she had spoken.

"President Young sent me, Granville. Seems as though there is a company of saints approaching the mountains that has just about exhausted its store of provisions. We have five outfits now, ready to leave right away with supplies for them. We need one more team and wagon and President Young suggested you might be willing to go."

"Well, now," said Granville, "you just might explain to the President that I traded my work horses for these ponies. Besides I have to be here, to see that the

177