[Vol54 | November | Magazine Page 871 | PDF Page 912]

--- PAGE 871 (PDF page 912) ---
less of the financial standing of the family.

Question

What does it mean to have a friend upon whom you may count, whose commendation is sincere—not a maneuvering for a compliment or a favor?

INTEGRITY IN THE CHURCH

Every individual holding a position of leadership in the Church recognizes and appreciates the value of integrity in those who make up the membership.

Question

1. How essential is it to the bishop to have confidence that delegated responsibility will be carried forth by individuals who are upright and steadfast in purpose?
2. How important is it to have Relief Society class leaders who are at all times dependable? How important is it to have visiting teachers who are likewise dependable?

THE UPWARD ROAD

The goal of perfection is not easily attained. The steadfast, wise-thinking, triumph-over-self road is a long one. It is beset with many obstacles. For some individuals the handicaps often seem unsurmountable, for others it is less difficult. But for all it is a road requiring patience and understanding on the part of all individuals and all relationships involved. These statements are an appropriate preface for the following words of William Shakespeare and for the questions that relate to that perfection of which integrity is an essential factor:

If to do were as easy as to know what were good to do, chapels had been Churches and poor men's cottages princes' palaces (The Merchant of Venice, Act I, Scene II).

Lesson Department

Class Involvement

Discuss, keeping in mind this question: are we qualified to pass judgment on the progress another individual is making toward achieving integrity?

1. Is it possible for us to know all aspects of the problems another individual faces?
2. Can we know of another's capacity or limitations in meeting problems?
3. Can we actually know how much progress an individual is making toward her objective?
4. What is the difference between condoning a vice and tolerance of an individual?
5. Are we qualified to pass judgment on others?

Relevant to these questions are the following lines:

What can they know, who see me stumbling, fall,
Of granite heights to which my step aspires?

(From poem Appraisal, by A. H. Christensen.)

CONCLUSION

Integrity is essential to purposeful living. It is the mainspring for the development of constant effort. One may live satisfactorily, even happily, without the luxuries of an expensive home, art objects, an ample bank account, and other material possessions. But poor indeed would be the life lacking the sincerity of loved ones, the truth-speaking of friends, and the personal satisfaction of endeavoring to keep faith with one's own beliefs.

Discussion

Use as many of the lesson questions as time will permit. All are relevant.

FOR HOME-DOING

Ask yourself, "Do I live what I believe and say?" Are you helping your children to see, and reminding yourself, that acquiring integrity of thought and action is worth all effort?

871