[Vol54 | December | Magazine Page 5 | PDF Page 50]

--- PAGE 5 (PDF page 50) ---
Tell Me of Love

were telling her. Wally Ridge-haven. Now, get going."

Wally shrugged, rolling his eyes heavenward. "You should've been a drover," he said. But he went outside to chop the wood.

"That adorable rascal," Cleo said to Julie, who was washing the dishes. "We love him to pieces, but we can't let him run us around. He reminds me of my Kip—red hair and tipsy smile. Gee, I'm lonely for those little pikers of mine."

"Aunt Tricia will take good care of them," Julie assured her.

"I know," Cleo said petulantly. "They won't even miss me."

"You're their mother," Julie said. "No one, not even wonderful Aunt Tricia, can take your place."

CLEO looked at Julie. There were stars in her eyes. "Righto!" she said, with a sort of glory in her voice. "I'm their mother." She looked around briskly. "Now, let's see. We've got to get a hustle on. I'll start the bread while you mix up the biscuits. Call your friend Betz, and I will show her how to fix this dried fruit. Those men will be plain starved when they get back here. They'll be sick of tinned stuff."

At eleven o'clock Wally and Betz started for the township to meet Carolyn.

Cleo and Julie stood on the veranda and watched them ride off together, their red and gold hair bright and beautiful in the midday sunshine.

"Can't stop the whirlwind," Cleo said. "Say! Look up the road. I think that moving spot might be Casey Jones!"

It was. He was limping toward them, so weak and trembly he could hardly drag his feet.

Julie ran toward him. She knelt down in the dust beside him. He was soaking wet with sweat, breathless and gaunt, and there was a dripping scarlet wound on his shoulder.

"He's been in a fight," Cleo said. "Probably with a dingo who's out there after our sheep! I'll get the wheelbarrow."

They lugged him into the kitchen. Julie sat on the floor cradling his head in her lap. She bathed the wound with an antiseptic Aunt Cleo mixed up, then she coaxed him to swallow a bite or two of dog biscuit soaked in tinned milk.

His brown eyes followed every move she made, pleading with her. He whimpered, trying to get up again.

"What does he want, Aunt Cleo?" Julie asked. "I know he's begging me for something."

"I'm a bush woman, Julie. That gash on his shoulder was made by a dingo. And a big one. He wants us to follow him out there and shoot that dingo before he gets our sheep."

"We'll go," Julie said. "As soon as Carolyn gets here to stay with Aunt Isabelle."

After they had lunched, Julie hurried to her room to put on her high boots as a protection against poisonous snakes.

"Why can't Wally go, too?" Betz asked. "He really wants to go. Cleo promised to show him how to shoot better."

"He is needed here. Betz, Aunt Isabelle might need something from the township. And we'll need more wood for the stove."

49