[Vol54 | December | Magazine Page 905 | PDF Page 950]

--- PAGE 905 (PDF page 950) ---
President Hugh B. Brown, in his address illuminated the characteristics of the Prophet Joseph Smith, his divine calling, and his dedicated and devoted mission upon the earth.

Joseph Smith was the first man since the apostles of Jesus Christ were martyred to make the claim which prophets have always made: that God had spoken to him. I believe he was a prophet of God because he gave to this world some of the greatest revelations of all time. I believe he was a prophet of God because he foretold many things which have come to pass; things which only God could bring to pass.

... as much as any man who ever lived, the Prophet Joseph had a testimony of Jesus for, like the apostles of old, he saw him and heard him speak, and like them he gave his life for that testimony. ...

I believe Joseph Smith was a prophet because he did many superhuman things. One was translating the Book of Mormon. ...

The Book of Mormon not only declares on the title page that its purpose is to convince Jew and Gentile that Jesus is the Christ, the Eternal God, but this truth is the burden of its message.

President N. Eldon Tanner spoke on the power of prayer as a directing and sustaining force in the lives of the saints, helping to ennoble them by faith and courage to seek righteousness.

I often wonder if we really realize the power of prayer, if we appreciate what a great blessing it is to be able to call on our Father in Heaven in humble prayer; knowing that he is interested in us and that he wants us to succeed. ...

To pray effectively, and to feel that one can be heard and have his prayers answered, one must believe that he is praying to a God that can hear and answer, one who is interested in his children and their well-being. ...

Yes, it is important, and the Lord emphasizes that we must humble ourselves and accept the teachings of Jesus Christ and keep his commandments if we would expect him to hear and answer our prayers.

President Joseph Fielding Smith explained the mission of the Savior as Redeemer and Mediator "who stands between mankind and his Heavenly Father."

... for some reason, the world looks upon the fall of Adam as being a shameful thing, that Adam came into this world, and the men who gave us the King James Bible have expressed that thought that in partaking of the forbidden fruit Adam did a shameful thing, and we suffer for it.

Well, Adam did only what he had to do, and Adam partook of that fruit for one good reason, and that was to open the door to bring you and me and everybody else into this world. ...

Now that great blessing of celestial glory could never have come to us without a period of time in mortality, and so we came here in this mortal world. We are in school, the mortal school, to gain the experiences, the training, the joys and the sufferings that we partake of, that we might be educated in all these things and be prepared, if we are faithful and true to the commandments of the Lord, to become sons and daughters of God, joint heirs with Jesus Christ; and in His presence go on to a fullness and a continuation of the seeds forever, and perhaps through our faithfulness have the opportunity of building worlds and peopling them. ...

In his closing address President McKay blessed the saints and counseled them always to remember the gospel as an anchor in their lives.

The Gospel is our anchor. We know what it stands for. If we live it, feel it, and bear record to the world by the way we live, we will contribute to its growth and upbuilding. Speak well of it, of the Priesthood, of the Authorities; let the standards of the Gospel radiate in our lives.

905