[Vol54 | September | Magazine Page 642 | PDF Page 675]

--- PAGE 642 (PDF page 675) ---
From Near and Far

Since we are so far from the center of the Church, our thoughts are often turned to our former homes, friends, and sisters in the Church, as we see the covers and read the pages of the Magazine. Sometimes we recognize a familiar name, or face, or place, or experience. More than this, however, is the truth of the gospel which the Magazine brings through its stories, poems, talks, essays, and thoughts. Thanks for the love you send each month through the Magazine.
                                      Kathleen J. Damron
                                      Apia, Upolu
                                      Western Samoa

We are grateful for The Relief Society Magazines. They are becoming more beautiful each year. The covers are lovely, and the group pictures give us many splendid ideas. But most of all we love the hobby pages showing the dear sisters and their many talents, such as painting, quilt making, and all kinds of handicraft work. I would like to encourage the elderly sisters to putter around in their gardens. I would not have lived to be almost eighty years old had it not been for my outdoor activities.
                                      Sarah E. Peterson
                                      Sebastopol, California

I have been a reader of The Relief Society Magazine through many years, and now I shall soon be eighty years of age. Of the many poems I have read and enjoyed in our great Magazine, none has hit my heart like Lael W. Hill's "Inviolate" (April frontispiece 1967). There is in the poem something that is beautifully new and yet is timeless. Only the elements, the "wind, or rain and snow" can tell the soul that something. Her knowing insight combines in a sort of oneness both truth and beauty.
                                      Estella Cluff Freestone
                                      Los Angeles, California

I offer my thanks for the marvelous Relief Society Magazine. What a privilege and honor it is to belong to the world-wide sisterhood. It brings tears to my eyes to think that wherever my daughter or I may go there is a hand waiting to welcome us with the loving sweetness that Relief Society sisters develop.
                                      Doreen S. Walsh
                                      Bracknell, Berkshire, England

The beautiful color pictures and the lovely flowers, the green trees and lush vegetation, and the temple in New Zealand set my heart to racing with expectancy for spring ("New Zealand—A Silhouette in Green," by Wealtha S. Mendenhall, March 1967). I very much enjoyed the story "To Warm the Heart" and the serial "The Golden Chain," both by the same lady (Hazel M. Thomson).
                                      Lillie Hendricks
                                      Big Springs, Texas

Today the sun is shining and the spring signs are beginning to show, yet my heart and mind were drawn inward when I arose this day. I had two sorrows for which I had been searching for a way to express myself to these two beloved relatives. Then my Relief Society Magazine came, and as is my habit, I sat down to look through it and turned directly to page 289 (April) and the article "Into Every Life Some Rain Must Fall" (by Amy Giles Bond), then I went on to page 280 and found "Inner Struggles" (by Arlene Larsen Bascom). Here were the answers to my need for expression. I am borrowing these two articles from my friends so that I may send them to my dear sweet mother who is ill, and also to my dear niece who lost her young husband in Viet Nam last week. I thank you for a Magazine that has so much to offer the sisters in the gospel.
                                      Barbara P. Rudd
                                      Taylorsville, Utah

642