[Vol54 | November | Magazine Page 859 | PDF Page 900]

--- PAGE 859 (PDF page 900) ---
Lesson Department

SPIRITUAL LIVING—
The Doctrine and Covenants

Lesson 35—The Kirtland Temple (Dedicatory Prayer)
Elder Roy W. Doxey

(Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 109)
Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, February 1968
Southern Hemisphere: July 1968

Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman analyzes the dedicatory prayer given by revelation to enlarge her understanding of proper entreaties to the Lord to assist her in her own praying.

INTRODUCTION

As early as 1832, the Lord commanded his people to build a temple in Kirtland, Ohio. (D&C 88:119-120.) A committee was appointed to obtain funds for the construction of the temple. The Lord had told his people that a purpose of this building was that the disciples might go forth to prune the vineyard for the last time. (D&C 95:4) In the circular sent out by the committee, it was said that this house would be the place where the elders might call a solemn assembly, and treasure up words of wisdom that they might go to the gentiles for the last time. (DHC I:349.)

THE KIRTLAND TEMPLE

On March 27, 1836, the day of the dedication of the Kirtland temple, the structure, consisting of two stories and an attic, was finished except for the second story. The first and second stories each had two pulpits, one at each end, consisting of four different compartments, one arising above and a little behind the next one, capable of seating three persons each. One set of the pulpits was for the Melchizedek Priesthood while the one at the other end of the room was for the Aaronic Priesthood. By means of curtains or veils hanging from the ceiling, each room could be divided into four compartments or classes. The doctrine of baptism for the dead had not been revealed at this time, consequently, there was no baptismal font in the building. The building was, however, constructed to suit and accomodate the various quorums of the Priesthood and worship of the Church at that time. In the attic, five rooms were built for the holding of school and the use of different quorums of the Priesthood.

DEDICATORY SERVICE

The dedicatory service con-

859