[Vol54 | April | Magazine Page 6 | PDF Page 19]

--- PAGE 6 (PDF page 19) ---
January 1967

sight of this uncompleted project. From time to time the question of its completion has been considered with the Relief Society Presidency. At no time has there appeared to be any thought of abandoning the project.

It was a happy occasion when, on August 19, 1966, the Relief Society Presidency received word that authorization had been given by President McKay to go forward immediately with the erection of the structure. It was to be located on Temple Square at a site agreeable to the First Presidency and the Temple Square Committee. The site determined upon by those two groups was midway between the Tabernacle and the Assembly Hall, toward the west wall of the Square. In response to the express desire of the General Presidency, authorization was granted to meet the costs of completing the structure from General Board funds.

Brother Howard Barker, a former member of the Church Building Committee, assigned to the Campanile project, and a man who has shown dedicated interest in the memorial through the years, has devoted endless hours to locating and assembling the stored parts, a number of which had been moved from their original storage place. Fortunately, every part was located.

Elder Mark B. Garff and his associates on the Building Committee promptly took hold of the erection of the structure, putting forth special effort to have it ready for viewing during this conference. We are, therefore, pleased to announce the completion of the Relief Society Cen-

tennial Memorial — a project initiated a quarter of a century ago.

We acknowledge with grateful appreciation the support and cooperation of Elder Mark E. Petersen, as chairman of the Temple Square Committee, and his associates on the committee. These brethren have been understanding and considerate. We appreciate the efforts of Brother Mark B. Garff and his associates, and Brother Howard Barker for his valuable service.

To our present First Presidency, President David O. McKay, Presidents Hugh B. Brown, Nathan Eldon Tanner, Joseph Fielding Smith, and Thorpe B. Isaacson, we express most humble and grateful thanks for their interest and concern in bringing to fulfillment the dream of Sister Lyman, her Board, and the sisters of the Centennial day that there should be on Temple Square a permanent memorial which you, today, may have the choice privilege of viewing at the close of this meeting—a memorial erected to the honored position of women in the gospel plan; a Centennial Memorial honoring the founding of Relief Society; a memorial approved by three great Presidents of the Church, President Grant, President Smith, and President McKay.

And here shall hang the bell known as the Nauvoo Temple Bell — a treasured bell to be presented in a new and beautiful setting for all to enjoy. And as people pause to view it in its new setting, may their vision be opened to the importance of the place and work of the women of the Church.

18