[Vol54 | December | Magazine Page 4 | PDF Page 49]

--- PAGE 4 (PDF page 49) ---
January 1967

Dr. George had said about a regression, but she could not break her promise to him. Instead, she asked, "Did you know he sent for Carolyn Bridges? Wally is to meet her plane at noon."

"Well, no, I didn't know that. But I'm glad. We'd better put that old couch on the veranda in Isabelle's room. Carolyn can sleep there beside her. That way we'll know she's watched over. Wally will have to cut a pile of wood for the stove in there, or it gets cold at night. I imagine Isabelle and Carolyn will hit it off together. They're about the same age."

"Oh, yes," Julie murmured. "What kind of fruit or juice do we have, Aunt Cleo? Betz always likes fruit for breakfast."

Cleo swung around from the stove. "You tell her Royal Highness to get out here and pitch in. We've dried apricots and dried apples that she can soak and stew."

"But isn't there some tinned fruit?" Julie persisted.

"I packed it all for the men," Cleo said. "It gets blistering hot out there. They need every little luxury I sent along. Wally can bring some things from the township this morning."

"What about Aunt Isabelle? I promised Dr. George that she would have the very best. Fresh meat, too."

Cleo nodded. "I've thought of that. You and I will go after some fresh meat this very day. We'll leave as soon as the nurse gets here. We'll take one of the old jeeps out where the sheep are grazing. How would you like a leg of lamb? Ummm. Smackin' good!"

"Perfect," Julie agreed. "Lamb is my very favorite."

"Mine, too. That way we'll have some bones for Casey Jones."

"Where is that kelpie?" Julie asked. "I've fixed his plate."

"Beats me." Cleo shook her head. "He is a bit off lately. He's always been the smartest dog in this bush. Uncle Rufe said he could bring in a flock of sheep all by himself. It's not often a dog can do that!"

"He's eight years old," Julie said. "Grandfather knows how Ron loves him. That's why he sent him here to the station, so Ron could see him often when he came up from Perth."

Julie bit her lip. "I hope he didn't follow the men, Aunt Cleo. He could get lost if they didn't see him."

"He might have gone," she answered. "All I know for sure is that he's mighty troubled. He knows something's happened to Ron. Kelpies are gentle and peaceful unless something goes wrong. Then they go plumb daffy about it."

During the morning the station house hummed with activity. Cleo had a job for everyone except Isabelle, and even she insisted on hemming a few flour sacks for tea towels.

"Wally!" she called after him when he followed Betz out to the veranda. "We need heaps of wood cut. And Betz! There are piles of rugs to sweep out. Get busy, you two."

"I was only telling her . . ." Wally began.

Cleo looked at him, her hands on her hips. "I know what you

48