[Vol54 | December | Magazine Page 885 | PDF Page 930]

--- PAGE 885 (PDF page 930) ---
A Testimony of the Work

My dear sisters, we are living in a time, as President Tanner has so beautifully indicated, when each of us is called upon to do his very best and to be his very best. It is a time when, it seems to me, the Adversary has marshalled his force in a final effort to overthrow and deliver the work of Jesus, the Christ. We are called upon to stem that tide, and the most basic and important unit of the Church, of society, and of the world is the home—the home over which you, as mothers and wives, preside in large measure. You are responsible for it and for what comes from it. I pray God's blessings upon you. May God bless all of us that we may rededicate ourselves to his work and show by our actions that we mean what we say when we testify to the divinity of Christ and to the restoration of the gospel. I leave you my personal testimony that I know beyond any shadow of a doubt that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and I have known that all my life. The longer I live, the more confirmed becomes my faith, and I would like to do what Sister Spafford advised all of us to do—to so order the balance of our lives that when the end shall come so far as this life is concerned, we may say with the apostle, "I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith." (1 Timothy 4:7.)

God bless you, my dear sisters. I congratulate the General Board and the General Presidency of Relief Society, and pray for his peace and blessings to be with all, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

LONDON AT NIGHT
Anne Reynolds
Lichfield Branch, Central British Mission

London at night—a liner alight,
Moored in the indigo sky;
London at night—a breathtaking sight,
Huge and serene to the eye.

London by day, busy and gay,
Rising to meet flying clouds;
London by day—early in May,
Filled with adventuring crowds.

London in rain—or sunshine again;
Steering through fog to the sea;
London in rain—grass-fringed Park Lane;
At any time—London for me!

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of Big Ben clock tower]

885