Semi-Annual Conference of the Relief Society Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary The Relief Society semi-annual conference was held October 4, 1928, with President Clarissa S. Williams presiding. I'wo sessions were helda general officers' meeting and a general session. At the officers' meeting, the following program was followed: Opening remarks by President Clarissa S. Williams; roll call; "Institutional Opportunities for Deaf and Blind in Utah," with demonstration, by Superintendent Frank M. Driggs of the Utah School for Deaf and Blind; Mission Reports by Mrs. Rachel G. Taylor, former president of Northern States Mission; Mrs. Cora S. Jenkins, former president of New Zealand Mission; Mrs. Venus R. Rossiter, former president of French Mission; Stake Report by Mrs. Elfleda L. Jensen, president, East Jordan Stake. The general session opened with a greeting by President Clarissa S. Williams. This was followed by an address by Judge Hugo B. Anderson, subject, "Responsibility of the State in Caring for its Children." Additional addresses were given by Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde, Counselors Jennie B. Knight and Louise Y. Robison, General Secretary Amy B. Lyman; closing remarks were made by President Williams. Musical numbers were given by Mrs. E. E. Erickson, the Lindsay Sisters, and the Relief Society choir. Officers' Meeting PRESIDENT CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS In her opening remarks, President Williams spoke as follows: I cannot tell you, my dear sisters, how happy I am to greet you this morning, to look into your faces, and to partake of your spirit. I greet you with love in my heart, and I want you to know that I appreciate what you have done and what you are still doing in the interest of our great cause. I am pleased to report to you that we have practically finished our one-day conferences, but our two-day conventions are just beginning. It will be late in the year before we are through, so I hope you will keep your warm fires burning and your nice blankets ready for us when we come, the winds blowing and the snow flying. If it should happen that it is not RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 657 possible for us to come during this winter season, you will be duly notified and shall receive your visit later on, as you are aware. A change has been made in regard to the visits of the auxiliary organizations. The Relief Society in its convention work has been assigned to visit with the Priesthood in the fourth quarter of the year. It is an experiment and we really do not know how it will work out; but, as you know, we have always been able to surmount almost every difficulty. Probably you all have noticed in the Magazine what I finally was authorized to do with the Honor Fund, which you so kindly presented to me in April of 1926; but I would like to report the matter to you verbally and to pass over to you the joy I feel in being able to have that money put into the very thing in which I have always been so deeply interested. We already had two loan funds for nursesthe Zina D. H. Young Loan Fund for undergraduate nurses and the Public Health Nurse Loan Fund. It, therefore, seemed to me that it would not be possible to use this fund in the interest of nursing, which has always been the very ideal of my heart. But one day in our executive meeting, Sister Lyman said, "Sisters, I have been wondering if Sister Williams would like this honor fund of hers placed in the public health nurse-loan fund, and to have the joint fund named the Clarissa S. Williams Honor Loan Fund for Public Health Nurses. Immediately Sisters Knight and Robison seconded that thought, and I think I began to cry, I was so overcome with joy. J had been hoping and praying that there would be some nurse activity, which I might especially sponsor. The Board approved the recommendation, and I am pleased to report to you personally the use of your gift to me, which [ have loved and appreciated more than you can know. A number of nurses have already been benefited by loans from this fund and have returned home for labor among us. One of these spent her time in Brighton this summer with the Utah Public Health Association, looking after under-nourished children. Thirty children were there from various parts of the State, ten of them recommended through the social service department. President Williams expressed her appreciation for the presence of Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde, who has been absent from the State for a number of years, serving as U. S. Collector of Customs at Hawaii. DEAF AND BLIND IN UTAH Interesting information on the care of the deaf and blind in Utah has been given to us by Superintendent Frank M. Driggs of the Utah School for Deaf and Blind. He says that 
 Utah, generously and appropriately for forty-four years has been endeavoring to educate deaf children, and for thirtythree years has been teaching blind children. The two institutions are conducted under the same general board of directors, or trustees and by the same superintendent and officers. The two schools, however, are entirely distinct in educational work, the methods of instruction being altogether different. For both the deaf and the blind children the State provides the school, the books, and especially trained teachrs. Among the subjects taught are sewing, cooking, dressmaking, carpentry, printing, linotyping, etc. There are also well-equipped shops, in which boys and girls are trained in the handcrafts, and a splendid gymnasium, where physical education is featured. The State has provided a farm with fruit trees of all kinds, and with pigs, chickens, sheep, and horses. Dairying, poultry raising, and similar work are subjects of instruction. To deaf children the primary and fundamental thing is the English language. Every deaf child is taught to speak, and also to read speech upon the lips. Character building, history and geography, with a little chemistry and physics, are also taught. In the school for the blind the children are taught to see with the little eyes they have in their fingers. It is astonishing to note how much they can learn to feel with their eyes closed. Superintendent Driggs stated that the school needs every child in the State of Utah and in western Wyoming or eastern Nevada, that is too deaf or too blind to get along well in the public schools. When these children are educated, their lives are made bright, happy, and useful. Miss Catherine Gordon, Primary supervisor of the School for the Deaf, gave demonstrations in teaching the deaf. She was assisted by John Hancock and Bessie Plattis, who have been deaf from birth, and who have been in the school two years. Mr. Ray Wenger, a graduate of the School for the Deaf, and a bacteriologist at the L. D. S, Hospital, gave a brief address explaining further the work of the school. He stated that the school cannot stand alone in this work, but needs the cooperation of the parents, who can assist by encouraging an early attendance at the school. Verne Penrod, a little blind boy, gave a demonstration by reading Braille. Miss Tessie Newton of Salt Lake City, who was graduated from the School for the Blind last May, and who learns her music from Braille, rendered a piano solo. MISSION AND STAKE REPORTS Mrs. Rachel Grant Taylor, former president Northern States Mission Relief Societies, gave a most interesting report of the RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 659 Relief Society work in this section, paying a tribute to the faithful workers of the various branches. There are ten Societies with 269 members in the Northern States Mission. Eachi Society is taking all the subjects prescribed in the course of study, and thirty-six of the forty executive officers in the ten organizations are subscribers to the Magazine. One of the activities featured in the Mission is temple work. Although few women can go to the temple, they have supported the work by sending funds and names. Last year 404 days were spent in this servicea remarkable record to be made by only 269 members. Another interesting figure is the large number of visits to the sick and homebound made last year. There were 1867 visits made. The women have also done missionary work, distributing tracts and pamphlets. The 1927 report showed 480 tracts, 307 pamphlets, 86 Books of Mormon and 84 other Church works distributed, and 1,200 gospel conversations. Mrs. Taylor emphasized the importance of converting prospective missionaries to the value of real service for the Church, rather than to the idea of self-development; for while there is great personal development for the missionary, his thought should be centered upon what he can do for the Church. Concerning the work of some of the social service institutions she had visited in Chicago, Mrs. Taylor mentioned especially Hull House, Mary Crane Nursery, Spaulding School for Crippled Children, and the Children's Memorial Hospital. Mrs. Cora L. Jenkins, former president, New Zealand Mission Relief Society, reported prosperous the work in this far-away country. The people devote much of their life to the Gospel; and, in the case of the sisters, to the Relief Society. Relief Society work was first organized in New Zealand in 1881, conducted then by local Maori sisters, who have always shown great interest. Prominent workers in the Relief Society have lived in Zion, and their experiences here have been of remarkable benefit to themselves. There are forty-two Relief Societies in New Zealand, forty of them among the Maori sisters. There are ten board members, assigned to the districts nearest their own homes, who visit each of the Relief Societies in their respective districts twice a year at their own expense, and who visit the conferences that are held four times a year in each district. Many of these members contribute all their surplus over the bare necessities of life to Relief Society work. Much of the work of the Maori sisters is not reported and is little known outside of their own families and villages. For instance, at the death of any member of the family or of a Maori village, all the 
 people living there join in assisting the family to carry out old Maroi customs. Last January a Relief Society convention, covering four days, was held, with meetings twice daily. Important work was discussed. Wherever a specially arranged course of study is used, meetings are held regularly. The Maori women are eager for progress. They never resent a suggestion. When told how they can improve their work, they take the suggestion gratefully. The greatest xample of this is shown in their handwork. Naturally skilled in handcraft, their handwork in the past has consisted of weaving flax into mats, kits, and large carpets that would cover an entire floor, also soft rugs to sleep on. When American or European handwork was recently introduced among then, it is amazing what they accomplished in various kinds of exquisite articles. In New Zealand there is very little need for child-welfare work because of the effective way of the government meeting this need. They have a system, endowed by Lord Plunket, one of the governors of New Zealand, which takes care of ail children under school age. Besides, they have district nurses also, who go out into the country and take care of the needy cases. Hospitals are provided; but the sisters, however, take care of their own dependents. The French Mission was reported by Mrs. Venus R. Rossiter, former president there. The French Mission comprises France, Belgium, and the French-speaking people of Switzerland. In these countries there are eleven organizationsfive in Belgium, four in Switzerland, and two in France. The sisters in Europe labor under many difficulties and make great sacrifices. Many of them have to earn their own living, and thus travel far to attend meeting; but their development is a recompense to them and a joy to the mission president. The women have been most successful in raising funds. In 1925, they realized $100 from the sale of their handwork; in 1927, they went near the $1,000 point; and the collections for 1928 will far exceed those of last year. For a handful of 132 people, with Societies scattered over three European countries, these figures are significant. Mrs. Rossiter commented upon the excellent cooperation between the Relief Society and other organizations in France and Switzerland. In Switzerland last year, through cooperation with the Red Cross, several people were sent to sanitariums for their health; and one man was sent for six weeks to a hospital. In other cases people were taken to the mountains to recuperate after operations. The Red Cross was surprised ts RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 661 learn of the amount of welfare work done by a few Relief Society women. A favorable change in the feeling of European people toward the Latter-day Saints was reported at a mission presidents' conference held in Paris recently, excellent newspaper reports were given of the work, with photographs of those presiding, and favorable comments were made on the work of the Latter-day Saint women. Mrs. Rossister says the young missionaries are doing well in Europe. She complimented the mothers of Israel for their contribution to the Church in sending these excellent young people to carry the Gospel message to the world. President Elfleda L. Jensen reported the work of East Jordan Stake. A year ago last May it was divided into the East and West Jordan stakes. In East Jordan stake the aim is to advance and aid every member of the 1325 L. D. S. Women in that stake. There are 234 dependable visiting teachers, 52 capable class leaders, 11 social service aids, besides a number of committees on art instruction, needlework, and recreation. The slogan for the year has been: "Plant up, paint up and clean up East Jordan. It is a good place to livewe are going to make it better." The wheat interest in this stake has been pooled. This year it amounted to $308.07. The maternity bundles, of which there are three distinct kinds, have been replenished. Six baby bundles, eight emergency bundles, and sixteen loan or rent bundles have been let out, and parts of bundles have been loaned. Blankets, rubber sheets, and lot water bottles with attachments have been added to the collection. So far this year this stake has held nine half-day baby clinics; and 166 babies have been weighed, measured, registered, by local doctors, assisted by one from the State Board of Health. A three-day clinic has been held for children under six years of age; more than fifty children were examined by the -doctor from the State Board of Health. Other features reported were a class leaders' convention, ward conferences, special visits by stake presidency to ward presidencies, and a home reading course which was reported upon by members weekly at roll call. Mrs. Jensen paid a tribute to the Relief Society Magazine, stating that it is a constant help and inspiration to the women of the organization. General Session In opening the afternoon session of the conference, President Williams extended a hearty welcome and expressed her 
 appreciation and love for the great Relief Society cause and for the women who are so bravely carrying on the work in the stakes and wards of the organization. The first speaker was Judge Hugo B. Anderson, whose subject was "Responsibility of the State in Caring for its Children." Judge Anderson outlined the power of the state regarding child welfare and stated that with these powers the state obviously has corresponding duties. He also spoke of the inalienable rights of childhood which he named as the right <o be well born, the right to a normal home life, the right to health, the right to an opportunity for education (including moral, intellectual and spiritual education), and the opportunity for recreation. (Judge Anderson's address will be published in a later issue of the Magazine.) Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde, Collector of Customs for the port of Hawaii, brought greetings from the Islands and in behalf of the Relief Society women of this mission, she presented President Williams with a beautiful lei with a hearty aloha. Mrs. Hyde expressed her joy and happiness in being able to attend the conference and have her soul recharged with the spirit of the work and the workers. She spoke of the Relief Society service as an opportunity and blessing to all concerned, and quoted the words of the Savior when He said, "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me." She reported Relief Society work in Hawaii. As in excellent condition with Mrs. Olivia S. Waddoups, the wife of the president of the mission, in charge. The activity of the Hawaiian women is marvelous and they never tire of working early and late for their beloved organization. They are dignified, kind, gentle and courteous, and love to be found assisting those who are sick and in need. Because of their good work, the people in Hawaii are calling upon them to help them in various community and humanitarian projects. The Relief Society has been established in the Islands for many years and has been a great blessing and education to the women who have profited in every way by it. And it is their earnest desire tc put into practice in their daily lives what they have learned. COUNSELOR JENNIE B. KNIGHT As I have pondered over the things I have heard today along the lines of child welfare work and humanitarian work in general, I have felt to attribute this great progress to our Heavenly Father, who has touched the hearts of the women of Zion and of the women of the world in the interest of those who are unfortunate as well as those who are blessed with all their faculties and with all that intelligence can give to them. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 663 The other day a little woman came into my home and said, "IT had such a disappointment this morning. When we left Canada, my husband gave a beautiful, fur-lined coat to a friend of his who had not been very well, and said, 'I am going toa warmer country; take this furlined coat and wear it when the winds blow and the snow flies, and when you must go to your ranch. You haven't been very well, and I wish you would use it." So the man used it for a year and had much comfort out of it, but he felt he should send it back, which he did. I hung it in a closet and it has not been used all this time, and when I went into the closet to take the coat out this morning it was all moth-eaten. Now it is of no use to any one; the fur lining is all gone and its warmth-giving qualities are gone. It appears from the surface to be the same coat, but I am so disappointed to think our friend did not keep it." I think we can draw a lesson from this story. If we are useful and are in the service of our fellow men, working every day, the moths will not creep into our lives; but if we are indolent and if we allow oursevles to be filled with anger and hatred and doubt and disloyalty and disobedience, dishonesty, envy, evil speaking of our leaders, whether they be of the church or of the state, if we are indifferent and ungrateful, jealous, selfish, stingy, these attributes will eat out the warmthgiving quality of our lives and we shall become nothing but a shell. If this little woman had taken this coat out and hung it in the sunshine where the winds could have blown against it and the rays of the sun could have entered and would have seen that it was useful, the moths would not have been there, and so if we will let the sunshine of the Gospel enter into our lives, if we will have faith, and add to our faith, virtue; and to virtue, knowledge; and to knowledge, temperance; and to temperance, patience; and to patience, godliness; and to godliness, brotherly kindness; and to brotherly kindness, charity, then our lives will indeed be full of fruits of good work. We will then have the power as officers and as mothers to give out warmth and comfort, and when we are called into the homes of those who are needing our care, and when our families are visited with storms of sorrow and trouble and distress, we can put our arms, with loving warmth around them, and we can be of comfort and cheer to them. The Lord will give us this power if we will strive to serve Him. May we ever be found working in His cause, that we may indeed be a comfort is my prayer. COUNSELOR LOUISE Y. ROBISON. I have decided to speak to you briefly this afternoon on the subject of Travelers' Aid, You sisters and brothers who in 
 your travels had friends meet you at the station, do not know the anguish one may feel in going into a strange town all alone with no one to lend a helping hand or speak a word of welcome. This condition is not rare in the traveling world. It is estimated that there are many hundreds of young girls who really drop out of sight every year by going into strange cities to seek employment and by having no one to meet them and to direct them to reliable agencies. It was in the early fifties that a man in St. Louis did the first work recorded on travelers' aid when he left a big share of his fortune to take care of people going west. Then there were different religious groups, the Y. W. C. A., the Friends, and the Women's Bible Class, and a number of other people in large cities who, knowing the danger there was for young girls to go to other cities unacquainted, worked out a plan of meeting these young women and giving them needed advice and help. Then there were other travelers who seemed to need help. There were the aged, the sick, and little children traveling alone, and attention was given to these. The Jews were the first to meet the immigrants when they landed. Not until 1917 did all these groups which were helping travelers, meet and form a society known as the Travelers' Aid Society. This organization is non-sectarian, embraces every religion, every tribe and nation in the world, and is for every age from the baby to old age. And the service is everywhere and is free. In Salt Lake City the work is directed by Miss Kate Williams, who is. An efficient social worker. Some of you sisters may have a friend coming from Scandinavia or from Germany, or from any other foreign-speaking country, or an aged person who is not familiar with travel. If you will write in time to the Travelers' Aid Society here, they will meet your people and take care of them and see that they are put on the right train, or on the bus, or that they get in touch with their friends. Or if you know of girls coming into the city for employment or to visit, advise them to get in touch with the Travelers' Aid woman who is at the station, and who wears a badge of the two hemispheres bound together, and she wil! Help them. There came to the station one day a girl, looking for her aunt. She had a huge suit case and looked bewildered, so the Travelers' Aid worker stopped her. This girl had never been on a train before, but she said she thought she had in her suit case somewhere the name and address of her aunt, but she could not find it. She knew only that the name was Brown. She did not know her uncle's given name. What was she to do? The Travelers' Aid worker said, "Sit here until I get through this work I am doing now, and I will help you." In RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 665 half an hour she had gone through the directory and found the right Brown, telephoned, and sent the girl to her aunt. What would that girl have done without his help? Whom could she have turned to? Of course, there is always the policeman, as a last resort. A little boy arrived at the station one day, from Montana, and when he got here he was crying bitterly. He had a note from his grandmother in Montana saying his mother would meet him here, that she was working out in a mining camp. The mother was not here, so the worker went over the situation and hunted for his mother, and the little youngster was comforted with books and toys and with a rest in a neat little crib. The worker got in touch with the telephone operator in the town where the mother was supposed to be working and found the mother had left the place where she had been employed two months before, and that they did not know where she was. But it was not long before the resourceful worker got in touch with the mother, and by direction of the latter, put the boy on a bus the next morning and sent him to her. These are not unusual instancesthey happen every day in Salt Lake. If you are letting children travel alone, do not put them in the care of a passenger unless he is a friend. It is a risky thing at best to let children travel alone. Lunches soon spoil in the warm cars, and their little stomachs are disturbed by too frequent eating. But if they have to travel alone, or if aged people must travel alone, get in touch with the Travelers' Aid workers who are in every large city and they will take care of them free of charge, except for hotel bills or telegrams, etc. I pray that the spirit of this conference will go home with you Relief Society women and be an inspiration and help to you in your future work. MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN General Secretary and Treasurer While Judge Anderson was speaking to us today I thought over all the things we ought to be doing and I was inclined to be a little discouraged, so I took out my pencil and made note of a few of the things we have done in the last few years, and 1 shall mention them by way of encouragement. It has been nineteen years this month since I first began working on the General Board cf Relief Society, and during these many years, covering nearly a quarter of a century, I have been impressed, interested and thrilled with the growth and development of the Society as I have observed it at close range. I am going to mention some things, showing that we 666 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINF are growing and progressing, and I presume these nineteen years are typical of any other nineteen years. In 1913, we were not holding weekly meetings throughout the Societysome wards were holding meetings once a month, and some twice a monthbut President Wells said in a conference that while it was not obligatory, she would like to recommend that the women begin holding weekly meetings. Her recommendation was soon adopted and we all know what a great step forward that was. Then in 1914, we began the first uniform course of study. Previously, each stake had prepared its own educational work, and while it was excellent, still the General Board felt that a uniform, standardized course of study would be much more satisfactory to all concerned. So the uniform course of study was begun in 1914 and in these years this course has covered theological study, history, art, literature, home economics with practical demonstrations, and social problems such as health, sanitation, poverty, crime, employment, and the provisions which the state had made for caring for its dependents. About this time the work of the visiting teacher was enlarged and made more uniform and topics were instituted in connection with their visits. Stake board meetings and tnion meetings were made universal and programs outlined for them. During the year of 1914, the Relief Society Magazine was planned. Meanwhile, and for the year, a Bulletin was issued and the Magazine began publication in 1915, the Bulletin being known as Volume I. In this Magazine the new course of study was placed along with other interesting data and you all know what the Magazine has meant to us these fifteen years. It has satisfied our older women who, with their background, poise, and spirituality,. Have found it most helpful, and it satisfies our younger women who are aggressive, enthusiastic and have visions of the future. In fact, it has satisfied everybody. In 1915-16 we began to be interested in temple and genealogical work in real earnest, and I do not need to tell you what has been accomplished by the Relief Society women along these lines for you know yourselves what we have done and are doing today to help the Genealogical Society with this great work of salvatoin for the dead. 'In 1918-19 we began a serious study of social problems and in connection with this study our welfare department was started with one worker. This department has been a very excellent laboratory for study and training and for inspiration throughout the organization. We had our first social service institute in 1920 at the Brigham Young University, and we have had a great many since, and the General Board is ready now to hold institutes in any RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 667 of your stakes, whenever they are asked for. Those who have had institutes know what a wonderful help they have been. In 1922 the wheat fund was centralized and the interest set aside for health and maternity work. I won't go into the details of this project because you all know what we have accomplished. The results must be gratifying to President Williams who was inspired to make the recommendations regarding the centralizing of this wheat fund and the use of the interest for health work. In 1923 we established loan funds and memorials for our past presidents, and later, in 1926, through the generosity of our women, an honor fund was established for President Williams. These funds are for the encouragement of the art of writing, for salvation for the dead, for assisting in educational work, in nursing and in public health nursing. But there is something greater in the Relief Society than any one of these activities or than all of them, and it is the spirit of the work, the great, dynamic spiritual force which has been with the Society from the beginning. And what is this force? It is the spirit of the Lord with which the organization has been blessed since the Prophet Joseph Smith turned the keys to women. This spirit has been supported by the Holy Priesthood all through these years, and by your faith and prayers, and your testimonies. This spirit is the real force which has made the organization great and my prayer is that we will always bear this in mind. PRESIDENT CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS My dear sisters: There are a few subjects that I feel should be brought before you before we part for six months. We want you to know that during the summer season, vacations for malnourished children have been arranged and carried out, and we take this opportunity of extending our thanks and appreciation to those stakes which have assisted so nobly in this work. Sixteen children went to North Davis stake, twenty-five to Franklin and Oneida stakes, eight to Kolob stake, and four to South Davis stake. Through the courtesy of the Exchange club, eight boys went to the Boys' Camp at Mueller Park, and through the courtesy of the Utah Public Health Association, ten extremely underweight children were taken to the health camp in Big Cottonwood canyon. All the children returned home greatly improved. There have been a number of organizations and reorganizations since the April conference, and we hereby extend our heartfelt thanks to the women who have served so nobly and capably, and we bespeak faith and prayers for those who have been newly apointed that they may be as successful as those who have been released from the work. Following is a list of the organizations and reorganizations which have occurred since the April conference: Alpine stake, divided July 1, 1928, into Alpine, Lehi and 
 Timpanogos stakes, Mrs. Eliza Buckwalter released as president of Alpine stake, and Mrs. Maude D. Christensen appointed president, Mrs. Mina Webb appointed president of Lehi stake, and Mrs. Ella M. Cragun appointed president of Timpanogos stake; Ensign stake, reorganized September 25, 1928, Mrs. Luacine S. Clark, released, Mrs. Alice Bitner Castleton appointed president; Fremont stake, reorganized June, 1928, Mrs. Marie M. Merrill released, Mrs. M. May Grover appointed president; Oquirrh stake, reorganized August 19, 1928, Mrs. Emma S. Jacobs, released, Mrs. Marie Tygeson, appointed president; Snowflake 'stake, reorganized August 26, 1928, Mrs. Ann S. Shumway released, Mrs. Leonora S. Rogers appointed president; South Sevier stake, reorganized July, 1928, Mrs. Nina A. Hansen released, Mrs. Ada Anderson appointed president; Summit stake, reorganized September, 1928, Mrs. Jemima B. Crittenden, released, new president not yet appointed; Teton stake, reorganized July, 1928, Mrs. Mary A. Nelson released, Mrs. Ada Fairbanks, appointed president; Utah stake, reorganized June 3, 1928, Mrs. Electa S. Dixon released, Mrs. Ascha E. Paxman appointed president; Yellowstone stake, reorganized June 10, 1928, Mrs. Lucy P. Lloyd, released, Mrs. Ellen J. Murri appointed president; Eastern States mission, reorganized August, 1928, Miss Lola R. Bradford, released, Miss Olita Melville appointed president; New Zealand mission, reorganized April, 1928, Mrs. Cora S. Jenkins released, Mrs. Jennie Magleby appointed president; French mission, reorganized September, 1928, Mrs. Venus R. Rossiter, released, new president not yet appointed; Swiss-German mission, reorganized, 1928, Mrs. Sarah R. Cannon released, Mrs. Eliza W. Tadje appointed president; Northern States mission, reorganized April, 1928, Mrs. Rachel Grant Taylor released, Mrs. Allie Y. Pond appointed president; Western States mission, reorganized April, 1928, Mrs. Florence R. Knight released, Mrs. Elias S. Woodruff appointed president. They say it is a sign of old age when one begins to be reminiscent and to talk about ancient history, and I admit that probably I am getting a little old, for I should like to speak a little of my experience in the Relief Society. I began my Relief Society work when I was sixteen years old, going around the block as an assistant teacher, and I feel that the experience I gained at that time has been most valuable and formed the foundation for much of the work that I have been able to do since. Later, after I was married and had seven children, I was asked to be secretary of the Seventeenth ward Relief Society. I felt that I could not do this with all my little babies. But my husband said, "My dear, you must do it; it is the very thing you need; you need to get away from the babies, and I will help you all I can, either by taking care of the children or making out your reports or RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 069 copying your minutes, or any other thing I can do." [ felt that I couldn't refuse then, so I consented. I made out my own reports and copied my own minutes, however, but my husband tended the children and helped to make it possible for me to get out. I had occupied this position of secretary between seven and eight years when I was asked if I would accept the position of president of the ward. And I did not know how I could do that either. There is a little more responsibility connected to that position than to that of a secretary, but I did, and I worked at that for about eight years, and before I was released from that I was appointed treasurer of the general Relief Society. That occurred about the year 1901. Then, during that time, the Salt Lake Stake was reorganized and four stakes made from that stake, and I was urged to accept the presidency of the Salt Lake stake, which I did. Later, in 1911, I was appointed counselor to President Emmeline B. Wells, and on April 4, 1921, which is just seven and a half years ago, I was appointed president. Now, I like to feel that I have no regrets, that I have done my work as well as I could, that I have tried to have the spirit of the Lord with me at all times, and if I should feel at any time that I should like to be 'released, I hope that you will all feel in that event that I have thought out very well the line which I should follow and that whatever happens I hope I shail still have your love and your faith and prayers. You will recollect that it has always been my policy to advocate to you that we do not retain our positions too long, that there are many capable women and that such honor and dignity as come with positions of this kind, should rotate. My earnest prayer at this time is that the Lord will bless you in your labors and help you to do your work in a manner pleasing to him. Counselor Knight suggested that the audience stand as an Amen to President Williams' remarks, and the entire congregation arose and remained standing for a few minutes.