BeBe Pioneers RED RUSTCORNELIA JAMES CANNON By Lais V. Hales About fifty years ago, to a prominent family in St, Paul, Minnesota, a little girl was born. All her girlhood was spent in the West among the Swedish immigrants. In 1899 she graduated from Radcliffe College and a few years later married Dr. Walter Bradford Cannon who is a George Higginson Professor of Physiology at the Harvard University Medical School. Today Mrs. Cannon is the mother of five fine children and the author of a novel Red Rust and several articles of substance. Red Rust is Mrs. Cannon's first novel. It tells of Swedish immigrant life on a pioneer farm in Minnesota. From close observation and from her lawyer father she has gleaned her information and she thoroughly understands and loves the people she writes about. Matts Swenson, a young Swedish boy, drives his oxen over. The hills of Minnesota during the cold weather. As Matts wanders over this land of "prairie and privation'" he comes into contact with a family named Jensen who have recently arrived in the neighborhood. Olaf Jensen, the father, is a cruel man with a craving for liquor. Matts works for Olaf and gets a glimpse of the cruel treatment which Olaf gives his family. Matts, who is sensitive, delicate, decent, with a great love for beauty, goodness, uprightness, feels very sorry for Lena Jensen and her children. He realizes how hard pioneer life is on women and children at its best and he does everything in his power to make things more pleasant. In his effort to enlighten the burdens of Lena and her children Matts evokes the anger of Olaf. Olaf meets with a violent death and releases his family from the curse of his temper. Matts continues to help and befriend the Jensen family until he realizes that Lena, though an older woman, has come to deeply love him. Never before in her life had she known solicitude or sympathy from any man. Olaf Jensen, in his mad desire to build up a fortune in America, had sacrificed her without a thought. Matts and Lena are quietly married and return to the Jensen farmstead to live. Matts continues his study of wheat. Many times he has seen red rust, hot winds, long continued drought, and grasshoppers wreck the wheat crop. His dream is of finding someday, through cross breeding, the wheat which will make these disasters impossible. Lena believes in Matts and helps him. While he experiments with his small plot of ground she cares for PIONEERS 671 the rest of the farm. She endures the soul-destroying toil of pioneering in this new country with fortitude. She knows that if Matts can develop a wheat that can withstand the ravages of the dreaded red rust he can save the farmers of Minnesota. Matts struggles on meeting often with defeat and discouragement. After years of patience, self-mastery, and self-sacrifice he obtains a variety of wheat which ripens before the appearance of the red rust. Before he has time to realize that he has succeeded death overtakes him. It is left for Lena to complete Matts' dreain by having his seed planted wherever such grain could grow and give rich harvests. Today Matts Swenson is forgotten but his wheat is still growing on the fertile lands of Minnesota. There is something distinctly refreshing about [ted Rust. According to Dorothy Foster Gilman, Matts Swenson is "an idealized portrait of our new Americans." Instead of wanting to take from, his wonderful new country which he had adopted, he wanted to give to her and make her richer and finer. He is a splendid example of the kind of immigrant that this country most needs. His eyes are turned toward the future instead of back to the glory of a sunset long past. As Mrs. Cannon has portrayed him he is of heroic stature, free from all petty characteristics. And he is real tooso real that after closing the book he is still with us. The story is directly told. The language is beautiful without any attempt at effect. One can open the book at random and find such clear beautiful writing as the following: '"Matts' heart was beating fast as he lifted the paper that lay at the foot of the stocky Swedish plant. He carried it carefully to the row of native wheat, where the tall green stalk, although freed of twothirds of its spikelets, still hung its heavy head. The great moments of his life had come. As Matts stood there in his shabby clothes, his bare feet brown with the dust of the field, his unkempt hair pushed back from his forehead, his hands ready for the delicate work they must do, he was one with the poets and creators of the ages. The light that shone in the eyes must have illuminated the face of every man who ever struggled to remake his world and to build up a better one about him. The passion to set new forces free, which inspired him, may have been the driving force of the creator of being itself."