MAY DAY.
	
	The old and merry holiday has come round once
again, bringing with it a wealth of memories; I
almost scent the breath of “dogtooth” and “spring-
beauty” in the very air; and in my mind’s eye
again I see the group of maidens and young men,
and little lads and lasses, starting out to the woods
for the day, and hear, or seem to hear, the song
and laughter which made the welkin ring, “Lang
Syne.”
	With what joy we welcomed the fair month of
May, that brought us
	"Daisies pled and violets blue,
	And lady smocks all silver white,
	And cuckoe buds of silver hue, 
	That paint the meadows with delight.”
	How we ransacked the dim old woods for the
rarest posies, and clambered and toiled over
rocky cliffs for the choicest ferns, and then in the
noontide rest, we sought the shadiest dell and re-
freshed ourselves with the dainties provided by
our dear mothers, and slacked our thirst at the
clear, cold, crystal spring. Then came the home-
ward tramp in the gloaming, with our arms full of
flowers and ferns, to keep fresh by their fragrance,
for a few days, the breath of spring we had
breathed that day. O, the happy, healthy, tired
girls and boys of long ago, when we went Maying.
Long may the memories live in our hearts, and,
like the scent of lavender in old presses, bring up,
like the breath of soft summer air and glint of
blue skies, only happy recollections.
	In ye olden times May Day marked the out-
break into life and beauty of mother nature, after
her long winter nap, and was heralded with great
pomp and festive gatherings, and it is not strange
that the profusion of buds and blossoms that are
spread around us at this time should have been
heralded with an instinctive feeling of gladness
and delight, or that the flowers around us should
have been set up in a sort of decorative fashion
and such homage be paid them as finds expression
in the song and dance.
	Among the Romans we find their floral games,
which began on the 28th of April, and lasted
several days, corresponding to our May-day festi-
val. Among the ancient Celtic people there was
a festival, called “Beltain,” held on the first of
May, and in England, during the middle ages, it
was the custom for all, both high and low, even
the court itself, to go out on the first May morning
early to fetch the flowers fresh; so we learn from
Chaucer and other writers. The hawthorne
branches were gathered and brought home, with
songs and all sorts of merriment, and came to be
called the May by a very natural transition of
ideas. So the ceremony of bringing it was called,
“Bringing home the May.” Thus came the ex-
pression, “Going a Maying.”
	Then a little later came the erection of a fixed
pole in every town and village, called the “May
pole,” where, on each May morning, were sus-
pended wreaths of flowers, and a pretty dance
was inaugurated round it. Different colored rib-
bons were tacked to the pole, and each lad and
lassie held one, and in the figure of the dance
wound and unwound these ribbons in a pretty
fanciful pattern round the pole.
	But the stern Puritans did away with most of
this pretty, harmless nonsense, though in France
and Germany even yet, the May pole may be
found, and the ceremony of crowning the fairest


maiden with flowers, as queen of the May, is not
yet obsolete.
	So you see, dear readers, we can call history to
aid us in maintaining this beautiful holiday. It is
but an expression, after all, of our natural love of
God and His goodness, to whom we owe the
springtime and the flowers, and all the resurrected
beauties of this pleasant earth. Surely the tribute
we pay to Him through our love of May time will
be acceptable offering.

	"Consider the lilies of the field how they grow."
