THE SITUATION.

	President Cleveland, as we are informed, did
not sign that infamous measure known to us
as the Edmunds-Tucker Bill. Query: "Why
did he not sign it?" I believe he knew it was a
gross violation of the Constitution, and would
prove the opening wedge to break in pieces the
platform upon which all constitutional freedom
was founded. There may have been other
reasons why he did not sign it, for God, it
seems to me, would not suffer a man who had
righteousness in his soul to sell his birthright
by signing away the rights guaranteed in that
sacred instrument, the Declaration of Inde-
pendence.
	The Governor of Arizona has shown his
patriotism by vetoing, or at least abolishing,
that ridiculous test oath. God will bless such
men, and they are worthy to rise to positions of
honor and renown. It seems that men are rare
nowadays who will seek to maintain inviolate
that sacred, heaven-born boon, that cannot be
purchased with gold nor silver, but which cost
the royal blood of our patriot fathers, who, we
may well believe, are looking down from the
paradise of God oftentimes to see the holy,
sacred altar of liberty desecrated It should
be priceless to us, for it was rendered ever dear
to them by the pleading prayers and bitter
tears and sacrifices of their tender wives and
children, dearer still for the crimson blood that
flowed out from hearts so brave and true. Like
unto the Son of God, they came to this earth
for a purpose—to lay their lives down in be-
queathing unto their posterity that legacy that
could not be found upon all the face of the
earth.
	Oh, liberty, we, like our fathers, have wor-
shipped at thy sacred shrine. Freedom, where
hast thou fled? Hast thou no friends nor
home upon the earth? Hast thou returned to
God who gave thee birth, whither patriots and
statesmen have gone before thee? The form of
thy beautiful goddess, dethroned of her glory,
has bowed her head in shame, and bathed her
cheeks in tears for her children's woes and her
country's wrongs. Exiled and imprisoned,
their property confiscated, scores of thy sons
are led in the language of Zion's poetess to
exclaim:

"Oh, persecution, shall thy purple hand
Spread utter desolation through the land?
Shall freedom's banner be no more unfurled?
Has peace indeed been taken from the world?"

	Those who signed the Declaration of Inde-
pendence laid their lives upon the altar. That
Declaration guarantees religious liberty; but do
we enjoy it? Every man, woman and child
should enter a protest against such despotic,
oppressive bills being acknowledged as law upon
this free American soil. We should contend
for our rights, for we are the legal and lawful
heirs to every right and privilege couched in
that sacred document which is the will and
heritage of our forefathers.
	Many thanks to the Woman's Convention;
their heads were well balanced when they

[Column 2]

asked the President to veto that clause in the
bill robbing the women of the elective franchise.
We cannot call it anything but robbery—class-
ing the wives and mothers with idiots and
criminals.
	Websters's definition of "Republic" is: "A
commonwealth, a state in which the exercise of
the sovereign power is lodged in representatives
elected by the people; in modern usage it differs
from a democracy or democratic State in which
the people exercise the powers of sovereignty
in person." Now, I would like to ask Mr.
Edmunds, if women are not people, what are
they? His bill classes them with reprobates,
idiots and criminals.
	In ancient days, when King Ahasueras
passed a decree to have all the Jews slain,
Esther, the Queen, proclaimed a fast of three
days and three nights to be observed among
Jews throughout all the provinces of the land,
and also by the Queen and her maids, during
which time they neither ate nor drank. The
morning of the fourth day Esther arose and
put on her royal apparel, and said unto her
maids, "I go before the King with my petition;
if I die, I die," for it was death by the law to
appear before his royal highness without per-
mission. When the King saw the Queen
standing in the inner court of the royal palace
he held out the golden scepter with these words,
"What is thy petition, Queen Esther? If it be
half of the kingdom it shall be granted thee."
Oh, how beautiful she must have looked,
clothed in her royal apparel, after fasting three
days and three nights, with her heart drawn
out in silent prayer unto the throne of God to
spare her life and the lives of her people!
Then was a manifestation of the power of God
brought to bear upon the King, through the
power of faith, brought into action by the un-
just persecution of the people of God. Her
petition was granted. God changed the decree
of the King, and Israel was free. So always
in His due time, may we see the hand of God
in answer to prayer.
	The Latter-day Saints have been taught to
pray for their rulers. They do so, and we ven-
ture to say many of them often remember
Senator Edmunds in their devotions. His
name will yet be held in derision by all who
love the name of Freedom. We hope soon to
see the time when the people with one united
voice may enter a protest against his despotic
bill.
	Pray on, Latter-day Saints! Let your fa t-
ings and prayers come up before the mighty
God of Israel, and you will see Haman hung
upon the gallows he is preparing for you.
