THE CHOICE OF COMPANIONS.

	In choosing companions our aim should be to
select persons better and more intelligent than we
are, in order that we may profit by their example,
and thus better ourselves.
	It has been very truly and aptly said, that per-
sons may be known by the company they keep;
for those who are naturally good will never be
satisfied, and cannot associate with those of an
inferior or degraded nature.
	Association with persons wiser and better than
ourselves inspires and stimulates, as it gives us a
higher ideal of life, and causes us to seek to attain
a higher standard of perfection for ourselves.
Under such influences our minds cannot fail to
become enlightened and our ideas broadened.  We
profit by the experience of wiser persons almost


without knowing it.  In short, companionship
wields a wonderful influence over the formation
of our characters, and it may be asserted as fact,
that, almost without exception, our aims and ambi-
tion become either elevated or degraded accord-
ing to the society we keep.  In the one case many 
evils may be avoided by the timely advice of some
good, wise companion--on the other, numerous
are the instances where a person's character,
whose chief fault originally was weakness, has
been completely changed for the worse, and at
last ruined, through the pernicious influence of
associates, if not more vicious at least having less
moral force than himself.
     Furthermore, the companions chosen and asso-
ciated with when young are likely to be the kind
which will suit us when old.  Does it not look un-
reasonable to think we can associate with and
take delight in the presence of inferior persons at
one time of our life, and that when we grow older
we will of choice select better?  Such a change
would not, of course, be impossible, and a change for
the better, however late, would be commendable; 
but it most frequently occurs that the same habits,
likes and dislikes cling to us throughout life—
especially those formed and cultivated in youth.
     It is therefore easy to see that the evils arising
from companionship with inferior and uncultivated
persons are numerous, and create blemishes in the
character which are not easily removed.  A person
whose tastes and desires are low, whose ambition,
if such a quality be possessed at all, is not of an
elevating nature, is one to be shunned as a com-
panion.  A human soul properly constituted ought
not to find pleasure in the company of a being
narrow-minded, selfish and disagreeable.  On the
other hand, one who tries to better himself, who
has intellect and character, and is elevated in his
nature and ambition, should be sought after, for
his company is agreeable and good, which latter
quality has a wonderful power to charm.
     "It is astonishing," says Canon Mosely, "how
much good goodness makes.  Nothing that is good
is alone, nor anything bad; it makes others good
or others bad; and that other, and so on: like a
stone thrown into a pond which makes circles that
make other wilder ones, and then others, till the
last reaches the shore."
