R. S. AND Y. L. MEETING.
	
	Minutes of the regular meeting held in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, March 4th,
1887, Prest. M. I. Horne presiding. Opened by
singing, “What was witnessed in the heavens.”
Prayer by Sister E. Howard. Continued by
singing, “Redeemer of Israel.” Minutes of pre-
vious meeting read and approved, and minutes of
P. A. of the 21st Ward read.
	Sister McLean then reported the 10th Ward
R. S., said they were feeling and doing well; the
poor are attended to as well as possible, and the
teachers are good women; also attended to the
storing of grain; a good spirit prevails. Bore her
testimony to the truth, and asked God to bless us.
	Prest. Horne was pleased to see so many
present; hoped the sisters would be filled with the
Spirit, and said, “If every woman would diffuse
the spirit of the Gospel in her home, she would
realize how great her influence would be on her
husband and children. Let us have our minds
clear of bad feelings towards each other, and have
clean hands and a pure heart. The Lord says,
'He will be no respector of persons, and unless
we keep the commandments, we cannot know
Him,' and this is the time when we require His
help, and He will deliver us if we are only faithful.
Let us also cultivate love towards each other, and
let us so order our lives that we may merit His
smile and approbation.”


Congregational singing, "How firm a founda-
tion."
	Sister E. Howard addressed the meeting, and
said she had been to the Temple; thought it
would be a blessing to us if we put in practice
all we heard there. Hoped there were no timid
hearts here to-day, but that all were strong in the
Lord. We are going into bondage, but if we feel
as we ought to, we should not feel this bondage
so very much. Bro. F. D. Richards has said that
there has not been any immediate revelation that
our bondage is going to be very severe. Prayed
that the Spirit of God would be poured out upon
us, to strengthen and comfort us.
	Sister Reid reported the 16th Ward R. S. They
met twice a month, and have quite a few poor to
attend to; the sisters are all united, and they strive
to do all they are called upon to do by the Bishop.
Bore her testimony, and desired to stand firm and
faithful.
	Sister Richards thanked the sisters for their
faith and prayers, which they had manifested in
her behalf; thanked the Lord that she was enabled
to help herself, and mingle with us once more.
	(Sister Dye realized that the teachings of our
Savior are being verified to-day. She spoke in
tongues, the interpretation being given by Sister
Paul.)
	Sister Stevenson loved to meet with the Saints.
We should feed our minds with the literature of
this Church, and not study fashion as we do.
	Dr. E. S. Barney then spoke for a short time.
Had been visiting in Arizona, and lecturing to
the Saints on different subjects; had enjoyed her
trip, and also the feelings of the sisters in the
south. Conversed with many; also said that the
Saints are suffering more than we have any idea
of. Gave other good counsel in regard to storing
up wheat, sugar, rice and beans. Prayed God to
bless us.
	Quite a number of the sisters bore faithful testi-
monies, and Prest. Horne adjourned the meeting
for four weeks.
	Closed by singing, "The time is far spent."
Benediction by Sister E. S. Taylor.
