THE HINDOO MARRIAGE LAW.

	The case of Rukmibhai, the native lady
whose wrongs aroused so general a feeling of
sympathy in England and India, is again ex-
citing attention. It appears that Rukmibhai
was married, according to Hindoo usage, at the
age of 11, to a youth some years her senior.
She remained at her parents' house, was care-
fully educated, and grew up, according to all
accounts, into a refined and cultivated lady.
Some eighteen months ago she published in the
Times of India, under the non de plume of a
"Hindoo Lady," a series of forcible and strik-
ing letters on the miseries entailed on her sex
in India, by the barbarous customs of infant
marriage and enforced widowhood. Last year
her husband tried to get her to live with him,
and on her refusing instituted a suit for the
restitution of conjugal rights in the Bombay
High Court. The case was tried in the first
instance by Mr. Justice Pinhey, when it hav-
ing been proved that the husband was too
poor to support her, was utterly ignorant and
uneducated—in fact a mere coolie—and was
moreover consumptive, the Judge expressed
the opinion that it would be a barbarous, cruel
and revolting thing to compel her to live
with such a man. He further held that
such a suit could not lie under Hindoo law,
and dismissed it. The husband appealed, and
the case was argued before the Chief Justice
and Mr. Bayley. Those learned Judges,
while expressing their entire sympathy with
Rukmibhai, felt compelled to rule that Mr.
Justice Pinhey was wrong in law and
remanded the case to the Lower Court for
trial on its merits. It has now been reheard
before Mr. Justice Farran. Rukmibhai's
counsel could only repeat that his client had
never consented to the marriage, and never
regarded the man as her husband, that the
husband was poor, ignorant, and unhealthy,
and that if ordered to return to him she
would be forced to disobey, and was pre-
pared to take the consequences. The court
had no option save to pass an order that she
should join her husband within a month.
Should she fail to do so, she would be liable
to six months' imprisonment. The case has
excited much sympathy among the Anglo-
Indian community. The English newspapers
are publishing articles and letters on the
subject.
	The Times, April 11th, says that a com-
mittee has been formed in Bombay under
the presidency of Professor Wordsworth to
take action with a view to the removal of
the anomaly which applies coercive English
provisions to enforce the Hindoo law. The
committee is busily engaged in raising funds,
and seems determined to thresh out the case
again before the Appeal Court. Should that
tribunal uphold the ruling of the Court of
first instance, it is to be hoped that the funds
will suffice to carry the case to and to obtain
an authoritative decision from the Privy
Council. The sympathy shown by the Brit-
ish Press and public is fully appreciated here,
but it would appear that the exact position
of affairs is not clearly understood at home.
If the existing order is not set aside, Ruk-
mibhai will be liable not only to trial by a
Criminal Court, but to six months' imprison-
ment in a civil goal for disobedience to the
order of a Civil Court. That imprisonment
over, her troubles will not be necessarily at
an end, for if her husband again requests
her to live with him, and she again refuses,
a fresh cause of action will arise, and the
whole miserable business may be repeated
over and over again after the expiration of
each term of imprisonment. It is therefore
in the highest degree desirable that the Court
of ultimate appeal should have an oppor-
tunity of expressing its opinion on the legal

[Column 2]

point. Should that opinion be adverse to
Rukmibhai, it is to be hoped that the force
of English and Anglo-Indian opinion will
compel the Government to alter the law.
Among the native community, however, hard-
ly a single voice except that of Mr. Malabari,
a Parsee gentleman, has been raised in her
favor, and the so-called reformers who agitate
loudly for representative institutions, etc., say
no word for the alteration of the cruel law
which the Bombay Court has been reluctant-
ly compelled to enforce.
	A letter by Rukmibhai herself to an Eng-
lish lady, which was published in the Times
April 9th, forcibly shows the hardship, not
only of her case, but of all other Hindoo
wives. The fiftieth year of our Queen's ac-
cession to the most renowned throne, she
says, is the jubilee year in which every town
and every village in her dominions, is to
show its loyalty in the best way it can,
and wish the Mother Queen a long happy
life to rule over us for many years with
peace and prosperity. At such an unusual
occasion will the mother listen to an earnest
appeal from her millions of Indian daughters,
and grant them a few simple words of
change into the books on Hindoo law, that
marriages performed before the respective
ages of twenty in boys and fifteen in girls,
shall not be considered legal in the eyes of
the  law if brought before the court?—Se-
lected.


"What a picturesque little cottage! A verit-
able Swiss chalet."
	"A Swiss shall he, do you call it? To my
mind, it's more like an Irish shan't he."
	"I see," said an opposing counsel to the
late Emery A. Storrs, "you hate to meet the
truth in this matter." "I never do meet it,"
was the prompt reply; "the truth and I al-
ways travel in the same direction."
	"Mamma," said a small boy, "how do you
spell 'knee?'" "K-n-e-e, Johnny." Silence 
for several minutes, while the letters were
going down laboriously. "Mamma, how do
spell 'grow'?" "G-r-o-w, my son." More la-
borious scratching, after which the boy looks
up smilingly, remarking: "Now I've got it,—
k-n-e-e, ne, g-r-o-w, gro, negro."
	"Major," said a friend to him one day, "if
some one was to challenge you to fight a duel,
what would you do?" "It would all depend on
whether he was a gentleman  or not," said the
major. "If he was a gentleman, I'd certainly
fight him." "But how would you judge as to
that?" "That wouldn't be hard to tell. If he
was a gentleman, he wouldn't want to fight me
unless I had insulted him; and I wouldn't insult
him if he was a gentleman."


Women constitute two thirds of our church
members and only one fifth of our criminals.
Yet there are still people who say that
woman suffrage would strengthen the politi-
cal power of vice and crime.
	Light is thrown on the woman question
by the remark of the Springfield Republican,
that "if a woman can market well, she ought
to be intelligent enough to vote." This idea,
the New York World thinks, "is probably
based on the assumption that the selection of
pork chops is a similar process to the selec-
tion of politicians." It can be further re-
marked that, if better results were not se-
cured in the selection of pork chops for the
breakfast-table than in the election of politi-
cians for office, there would be trouble in a
large number of the happy families of this
country.—Ex.


