EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our late visit to the Primary Associations
of this, the Sanpete Stake of Zion, was a very
gratifying one, except in Fountain Green,
where the yellow flag told the dreaded story
of sickness among the little ones. It is more
and more apparent, that the most active, ener-
getic, wide awake and dutiful are the most
happy, whether they be officers or members of
these Associations; and we were very much
pleased, the other day, to hear the father of a
numerous family say in our Sabbath meeting
that since the Primary had been organized


his children were devoted to our religion earlier
and in a higher degree than previous to that
time.
	The nineteen Primaries of this Stake are
all adding their mite yearly to the building of
the Manti Temple, some gleaning wheat, some
making carpet (of which, we have been reliably
informed, it will take 1,100 yards to cover one
floor of that grand house), others making
quilts, counterpanes, tidies, laces, etc, and
saving nickles and dimes to help roll on this
important work. There have been seven fairs
the last year, and there are six manuscript
papers edited by the Primaries, weekly. There
are 2,114 children enrolled in the Primaries of
this Stake; 496 meetings have been held ac-
cording to our last yearly statistics, with an
average attendance of not quite one half of
the numbers enrolled. $265.52 was collected
last year, $207.64 disbursed, and there is $183.96
on hand.
	Quite a number of concerts have been given
by the children to delighted audiences, the pre-
siding sisters and the children unitedly working
for the financial independence of the Primaries,
while the most talented and warm hearted of
our young people render able and willing aid
in training the wee amateurs for their perform-
ances.
	From the average attendance, given above,
the inference seems justifiable that there is a
lack of appreciation on the part of the parents,
as it is a well established fact that children
will attend their meetings if not kept at home.
The presidents and counselors of Primaries are
laying up treasures in heaven, and in the
hearts of the children.
	While in Indianola we were permitted to
witness a novel entertainment. Our Lamanite
brethren and sisters there had arranged to
give a picnic in the evening to their friends,
Indians from the Bannock Nation, who were
there visiting and attending the Sanpete Stake
Quarterly Conference, held at Ephraim, and who
in turn decided to entertain them with a speci-
men of their war-dance. About a dozen of
the warriors sat down on the floor, surrounding
a small drum, on which they beat excellent
time with muffled sticks to a kind of chant, in
which the war chief was the leader. One, only,
was dressed in full war dress, tomahawk and
all. Two or three of them would jump up, at
different times, as if they had waited to be in-
spired by the music, to which they, in perfect
time, would jump on both feet at a time, swing-
ing their bodies from one side to the other,
every little while lifting their tomahawks up
over their heads, (those who had no tomahawk
used a drum stick) and giving vent to the
ominous "Ugh" in a manner that made us
shudder, while we thanked our Father in Hea-
ven that they were our friends and not our
enemies. Two venerable chiefs, whose majestic
bearing and noble looks showed that they
could by no means be considered dethroned
monarchs were proud but passive spectators
of this singular feast.
	The kind Bishop of Indianola, Brother J.
Spencer, presided, and upon his invitation we
were present. He seemed perfectly at home
among both the visiting and resident Laman-
ites, who in their turn seemed to think that
his words were their law. Next morning the
Bannock visitors were driven to the station by
the Indianola Indians, with their own teams.
	The work in the Primaries is steadily in-
creasing in interest. That work is its own
sweet reward, to say nothing about the harvest
to come from the seeds of truth and love now
sown so faithfully by the sisters who are and
have been laboring in the good cause.
		HELENA MADSEN, 
		LUCY BERGLUND, 
		HANNAH WICKMAN, 
	Stake Presidency of Primaries
Gunnison, Sanpete Co., April 12, 1887.


