UTAH STAKE.
	(Utah Stake Conference of the Relief So-
ciety, held March 4th, 1887, Prest. John
presiding. Conference opened with the usual
exercises of singing and prayer.) The minutes
of the previous meeting were read, as were
also the reports for the past six months.
The President requested the presidents of the
various branches of the Society to give verbal
reports, which was done with few exceptions,
after which Sister John expressed herself as
feeling well in meeting with the sisters and
listening to such good reports. She believed
that the sisters are faithful in their duties, and
exhorted them to continue faithful, that they
may claim the blessings of God.
	Sister Marilla Daniels said: We must seek
the Lord earnestly for His Spirit, for we need
to be humble and prayerful, and to be charit-
able one to another; and inasmuch as we all
need it ourselves, we must have sympathy for
each other. We are told that we shall be
tried and tested, but we must try to keep the

[Column 3]

Spirit of the Lord with us continually; we are
in His hands, and He is our only defense; we
need not fear if we each have His Spirit, for we
will then feel that come what may we will be
faithful.
	(Sister Roberts of Goshen, was impressed to
speak to the sisters with the spirit of prophecy,
and uttered comforting words to the sisters
through the influence of that spirit.)
	2 p.m.  Conference opened with singing
and prayer by Patriarch Zebedee Coltrin.
	Sister Minerva Snow said: "I feel pleasure
in these associations, and I desire to be one
with you, for we are all helping to roll forth
Father's work, and I do not know of anything
that is more important than to help build up
His kingdom. We should be faithful and dili-
gent in every duty that we are called upon to
perform. The hand of God is moving among
the nations of the earth, and God will carry
us through this persecution if we are faithful
and rely upon Him, and no matter what we
endure, our reward will be the riches of eter-
nity."
	Sister Hyde of Sanpete, said she had come
as a listener; never felt more like enduring to
the end than to-day. We must be zealous in
the cause of Christ, and serve the Lord with
all our hearts. The speaker felt that her
hearers were on the Lord's side, and declared
that it is our own fault if we do not have the
Spirit of the Lord, through not living up to
our privileges.
	Sister Taylor from Salt Lake City, spoke of
our testimony, that this is the work of God,
and alluded to the perfect character of our
organizations, like which there is nothing in
the world. We must be in subjection to the
will of God, for darkness is hovering over us.
Though we may feel that we are driven to the
wall, yet we know that God rules, and we can
trust Him. Perhaps all of us do not have the
faith that we should have. Do we remember
that we have the promise that we can come to
Him and ask for things and take no denial.
The Relief Society has a great and important
mission to perform, and each of us must try to
work out our own salvation. To the speaker
the Gospel was dearer to-day than ever it
was.
	Prest. Smoot occupied the remainder of the
afternoon in speaking to and instructing the
sisters, very little of which can be given in
these minutes. He hoped, first of all, what he
did say would cheer them on their way, and
spoke then of the action of Congress in taking
the franchise from the women of Utah. This
however, he felt would be only fer a short sea-
son, for the Lord has pointed out our destinies,
if we do our part. The Lord chastens whom
He loves, every son and daughter—He afflicts,
us that we may become easy and pliable to
handle like clay in the hands of the potter,
and that He may be able to bring us back into
His presence, and in no instance have His peo-
ple been slow to acknowledge the justice of
His acts. We, as a people, have become filled
with vanity and pride, and many here to-day
will remember how humble we were when we
first came to these valleys and lived upon roots
and greens. When pride takes possession of
us we must be chastised and humbled, and the
clouds hanging over us to-day indicate that
perhaps the Lord is not well pleased with us
to-day. Let us ask ourselves, have we forgot
the Lord? Have we taught our children to
love the follies of Babylon? President Young
in his day warned all to retrench in their ex-
travagances, and for a time there was a reform,
but it did not last long. Much responsibility
rests on the mothers, that they fail not to teach
their daughters the truths of the Gospel, and
to worship God. There is enough means ex-
pended unnecessarily among the Latter-day
Saints to build a temple every year. If there
is trouble over us let us ask ourselves, why is it?


I ask you all to reform, that the Lord may
bless us. Amen.
	The President, Sister John, felt that the
Lord had been with us in our conference. We
will now adjourn for three months. Singing,
"Praise God from whom all blessings flow," etc.
Benediction by Bro. David John.
