MARICOPA STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of this Stake was held March 25th, 1887,
at the residence of our President, E. G. Mc-
Donald, commencing at 1 p.m., Prest. E. G.
McDonald presiding. The meeting opened
with singing and prayer, after which the
minutes of the previous conference were read
and approved.
	Prest. E. G. McDonald was thankful to
meet with the sisters again; she realized the in-
convenience of the place of meeting, but it
could not be avoided, school being kept in our
Society Hall. She prayed that the Spirit of
the Lord might be with us that we might have
a joyful time together.
	The presidents of the different branches in
the Stake gave in the reports of their respective
Societies, showing an increased exertion on the
part of most of the members to do their part,
and be alive to their duties, while others evinced
a corresponding slackness and neglect of their
duties; thus it is, but those who perform the
labor will verily receive the reward, while those

[Column 2]

who are slothful will see their error and loss
when it is too late.  The names of the officers
of the Relief Society were then presented be-
fore the Conference, and were unanimously
sustained.
	The statistical and financial reports were
read by the Secretary, the financial report
making a pretty fair showing, considering the
hard times.
	Remarks were then made by a number of
sisters, who expressed their firm belief in the
principles of the everlasting Gospel as revealed
through the Prophet Joseph Smith, and their
desires ever to be faithful to their duties.
	Some of the brethren who were present were
then requested to speak:
	Bro. Charles Allen had been well pleased
with the exercises, and could bear testimony
that the Spirit of the Lord had dictated the
remarks that had been made. He felt that the
Relief Society was a power in the midst of this
people, and exhorted all to prepare themselves
for the events that were near at our doors.
Bro. Heber had said, "A test was coming,
and we must be true to our religion, if we de-
sired to stand." The speaker referred to tith-
ing and the word of wisdom, and the great
blessings promised to those who obeyed these
laws, and gave many good instructions.
	Bro. George Lewis felt to endorse what had
been said, and felt that woman's influence was
a power in the land, and should be exercised
for good. In order to do this we should keep
the Spirit of God in our hearts, that we may
seek eternal life above every earthly object.
	Prest. E. G. McDonald then addressed the
meeting. She had felt to rejoice in the testi-
monies that had been borne by the brethren
and sisters, and felt that there was a spirit of
good created by these meetings. We should
use all the influence we have against selling
our homes to those who are not of our faith.
If we are neglectful of our inheritance we
shall receive a chastening from the hands of
our enemies, and the innocent will have to suf-
fer with the guilty. She exhorted the sisters to
visit the sick, to be as angels of mercy in the
sick chamber, and cheer the hearts of those
who are bowed down in trouble and sorrow.
	Sister Crismon, of Salt Lake, expressed her
pleasure in meeting with the sisters of Mesa;
she had enjoyed the meeting very much, and
felt that the Spirit of the Lord was in our
midst; she believed there was a good people
here, for she had felt this spirit in all their
meetings. She spoke highly of the beauty of
our country, and said she had enjoyed her visit
very much.
	Conference was then adjourned for three
months.
