THE QUEEN OF HAWAII.

	In another portion of this paper will be found
an account of the arrival of Her Hawaiian
Majesty, Queen Kapiolani and suite in San Fran-
cisco, on their way to England to take part in the
festivities and ceremonies connected with the fifti-
eth or jubilee anniversary of the coronation of
Queen Victoria of the empire of Great Britain.
It will naturally be supposed the ruler of a nation
in which Latter-day Saint Elders, when laboring
as missionaries, have found so cordial a welcome
and met with so much success as in the Sandwich
Islands, could not fail to be regarded with more
than usual interest by the community dwelling in
these valleys. There are among the inhabitants
of Utah not only many who have spent some
years in Her Majesty’s dominions, acquiring the
language and becoming acquainted with the cus-
toms and habits of her subjects, but also quite a
numerous colony of her own people, who, having
embraced what is known as Mormonism, were per-
mitted to leave the Islands and take up their resi-
dence with the main body of the Church. It was
therefore with much eagerness that all particulars
of Her Majesty’s retinue, journey and intentions
were read, and with sincere pleasure that a visit
to this city was expected. Moreover, as the con-
sort of a Prince whose dominions under his en-
lightened rule have made great progress in the
scale of intelligence and civilization, the Queen
was entitled to the respect which so far on her
journey has everywhere been shown her.
	In reply to the dispatch of the Mayor of Salt
Lake City, tendering the royal party the hospitali-
ties of the City, came the disappointing news that
prior engagements would not allow the Queen to
stop here at all, that her whole transcontinental
journey indeed would have to be unbroken un-
til she reached Washington—upon which a cer-
tain mendacious newspaper here took occasion to
insinuate that her Majesty’s experience with
“Mormons” and “Mormon” methods in her own
fair Islands had made her only too willing to pass
by the headquarters of the Church with an illcon-
cealed slight. The utter falsity of this statement
was learned from the lips of the party themselves
during their journey down from Ogden, whither
a special train, with a large number of invited
guests, including of course many of those who had
been on the Islands, as well as the entire Hawaiian
colony in this city, proceeded to meet them. The
affecting scene which transpired as the natives met
their Queen is thus described by an eyewitness:
	“The door of the car, which had been kept locked
was now opened to admit one of the Hawaiians
from this city, a large, good-looking woman
named Kapukini, who is of superior birth, having
chieftain’s blood in her veins. As soon as she
saw her royal mistress she burst into tears, and
bending low kissed the cheek of the Princess—(the
King’s sister and heiress apparent to the throne) a
privilege her birth accorded her, and then pressed
her lips to the hand of the Queen. She was
spoken to kindly by the Queen, who seemed to

[Column 2]
recognize her, and was given a seat near by. It
was a long time however, before the poor creature
could master her sobs, and both the Queen and
the Princess had frequent recourse to their own
handkerchiefs. When the woman was able to
speak, however, the two engaged her in
animated conversation, which was kept up most
of the way down to the city. The Queen inquired
particularly after the twenty of her subjects who
had been allowed to come to Utah—whether they
were happy and contented and how they were oc-
cupied. Kapunkini answered her that they all
were doing well, and that none had a wish to re-
turn. When the train reached the city, the other
Kanakas were admitted to the car; the women all
prostrated themselves on their knees in the aisle
weeping convulsively and kissing the hands of the
Queen and Princess; the men merely knelt and
took the proffered hand without saluting it, though
the respect and veneration expressed in their
faces were almost like worship and adoration. The
women continued to kneel and weep in the aisle
till the men helped them into seats, and then their
tears did not cease to flow.”
	The Queen is fifty-two years of age; her
hair is jet black, and is worn combed straight back
and coiled on the top of her head, under her hat;
her color is somewhat lighter than that of the na-
tives here. Her air is dignified especially when she
is receiving the homage of those around her; and
the carriage of her head is the most queenly thing
about her. When she smiles she looks so pleas-
ant that it almost makes her look pretty. “She was
dressed a la European in a black satin dress
trimmed with velvet; the sleeves, fringed with
ruffs of lace, terminated half way between the
elbow and wrist, leaving a plump and dusky arm
visible; the hands were encased in black kid
gloves; a high black hat, trimmed with black vel-
vet and surmounted by a white dove’s wing, was
the only head dress; a long strip of grey fur en-
circled her neck, crossed on her bosom and dis-
appeared somewhere in the back ground. A gold-
rimmed eye glass depended by a long gold chain
from her neck; in her hand she held a small
palmetto fan. Her sister-in-law was somewhat
darker in color, and her hair was slightly mixed
with grey. With the exception of a heavy black
veil which hung about her shoulders she was at-
tired in much the same fashion as the queen.”
	After a short stay the locomotive bell and whistle
gave warning that travel was about to resume.
The car was reluctantly vacated, and in a few mo-
ments the train bearing the travelers on their long
journey was lost to view.
	May they have a prosperous and agreeable
voyage by land and sea, and reach their home
again in safety and peace.


