WHO WILL BE THE VICTORS?	

	One would think that the o'er wise and flippant
writers who have so frequently doomed "Mor-
monism" and the patriarchal order of marriage to
speedy death, would begin to reflect a little before
leaping to any more conclusions, at least till they
discover some stronger symptoms of decline, as
they certainly have a most provokingly healthy
appearance, which bespeaks long life and pros-
perity, in spite of all the efforts and chicanery of
the shriveled and cankered souls who have tried
so long to prove them otherwise.
	The farces and failures which have been mixed
rather indiscriminately, and the chagrin of the
would-be usurpers of "Mormon's" rights, when
being beaten at their own game, have afforded us
some amusement in the midst of our trials, as well
as food for reflection upon the past, present and
future course of the people against whom the
darts of the wicked have been hurled from every
quarter, though no just cause or provocation has
ever been proven against them. Those who
brought about the murder of the Prophet Joseph
and his brother Hyrum admitted that the law
could not touch them; "but," said they, "bullets
can." Their worst enemies were men who had
been members of the "Mormon" Church, but
had been found out in their iniquities and dealt
with for the same, and they thirsted for the
Prophet's blood.
	Among the strong reasons for troubles in that
day was the power and influence that the "Mor-
mons" were gaining through their united votes,
etc., and the Prophet had drawn around him some
firm friends among unbelievers, who were men of
influence, and they favored his election as the
coming President of the United States. His
martyrdom was deemed the death blow to "Mor-
monism." The same spirit that prompted the 
murderers of Joseph and the Saints who were
slaughtered in Missouri and Illinois, is what
reigns in the hearts of our persecutors to-day. It
was the growing influence that they were gaining,
and the prosperity which they were in a fair way
to enjoy, that stirred up the jealousy and hatred of
politicians and hireling priests.
	But "Mormonism" has survived and thriven
through it all, though it has been annihilated
scores of times in the imagination of those who
have marshaled themselves to battle against the
light and intelligence revealed from on high for
the salvation of the human family. Its followers
have been threatened with utter extermination,
and their faith and courage have been tested for
half a century, but its strength has increased
with its years, and it has been able to withstand
every attack that has been made upon it by its
various opposers. They have long since proven
their inability to cope with it, and only made their
own cause appear more diminutive by com-
parison.
	The sectarian plate-passers and political dema-
gogues who have joined hands for the extirpation
of "Mormonism" might meet with some success
were they to spend their time and artillery upon
one another, as has been their custom from time 
immemorial, instead of wasting it in the vain at-
tempt to break down what God has set up. Those

[Column 2]
who could approve of the unprincipled course
taken against the "Mormons" under the cloak of
religion and law, particularly of the Edmunds-
Tucker Bill, which was rushed through the House
with a "whoop and a howl," like so many hood-
lums, or uncivilized barbarians, instead of wise
and experienced statesmen, must be void of human
feelings, and we have reason to be grateful that
we are not dependent upon them, nor upon
political power for "life, liberty and the pursuit of
happiness," and that among the "fifty millions"
set up as a scarecrow to the builders of these far
off cities and towns, there are those who are
governed by common-sense principles and would
manifest mercy and equity towards all classes
without respect to their religious belief, and have
no sympathy with those who are co-operating
against the peace and good order which Utah was
noted for before sectarian hypocrites and political
scapegraces bore rule. Think of the noise and
cant that has been made over the enslaved "Mor-
mons" and the "one man power" in Utah, and
how ingeniously the gentle and kindly hearted
Christians have worked to christianize the "poor,
ignorant, benighted and down-trodden dupes," and
"win them back to the liberty of the Gospel!"
while scheming and plotting to take away every
iota of what we enjoy, and cannot be satisfied till
they bring all these poor objects of charity (?) un-
der the reign of an absolute despotism.
	When the first proposition was made to give the
elective feranchise to the"enslaved" women of
Utah as a means of making their escape from the
tyranny of the "Mormon Priesthood," it was never
dreamed that we could slight so tempting an offer,
but would grasp the "bait" with eagerness to es-
cape from Utah's dreary prison walls to enjoy
that glorious freedom so nobly and magnanimous-
ly offered from the gracious hands of "wolves in
sheep's clothing." This was the mission of the
would be invaders of our national rights, but they
missed their aim. Th cloven foot was too visible,
and we saw through their scheme at a glance,
though we were "judged as fools," and among the
offscourings of the earth. We may look for any-
thing and everything as long as such characters
are suffered to hold office. Laws have been fab-
ricated at the shortest notice to suit any and every
case that would enable them to rob and pillage the
"Mormon" Church. They have pronounced the
innocent guilty, and the cold blooded murderer
not guilty, seeing only a "Mormon" was killed,
and would not leave us one vestige of right or
liberty, which they allow to some of the meanest
cravens and assassins that walk the Almighty's
footstool, and even foist them into office to domineer
and insult peaceful citizens, and they are patted
on the back for doing the bidding of their masters.
But what conquests have been made by the
enemies of "Mormonism" is to us as much of a
myth as the true gospel is to those who are seek
ing to stop its growth and future prominence be
fore the world by trickery and falsehoods, appar-
ently the favorite weapons resorted to for this pur-
pose; and who of them have ever escaped the
rock which they prepared to split asunder the
"Mormon" craft? Who can remember a time that
persecution did not give it a fresh impetus to push
onward and upward? Which of them are display-
ing the greatest wisdom and valor, "our unrelent-
ing foes, who have wasted so much breath, time
and money in trying to demolish "Mormonism,"
or the objects of their hate, who knowing their
rights, object to being hoodwinked out of them,
and will use every lawful means to retain what
is their own and are wisely hoarding their strength
for more useful and humane purposes than seeking
the destruction of their fellow beings? The
course that is being pursued by the nation
though their instrumentality is nothing surpris-
ing to those whom they are seeking to victimise,
as they have been looking forward to those days,
and to many more peculiar and wonderful events
which are to transpire in the near future, all of

[Column 3]
which were predicted by the Prophet Joseph
Smith. We know that the Church of Jesus
Christ is established in this land never more to be
scattered or moved out of its place, and let those
note it down whose mouths occasionally water
over the flattering prospect of robbing the "Mor-
mons" of their hard earnings, enjoying their vines
and fig trees, with their rich pastures, pleasant
homes, Temples and thriving cities, etc., that cost
so many years of weary toil and sacrifice, and the
lives of scores who laid the foundation, and are
now resting under the peaceful sod of these val-
leys. The fate of all who fight against this work
may be read in that of Mr. Dickson, who with
others has conceived great things in imagination
over the extirpation of the "foul blot" in Utah,
and in his mad zeal has signed his own political
death warrant. Congressman Tucker is only
another added to the scores who have gone crazy
over the delightful anticipation of plucking up "Mor-
monsim," and he will not be the last. Plenty more
will follow in their wake, and like their predeces-
sors will drift down the same muddy stream, and
be lost in everlasting oblivion. While the quiet,
unassuming people whose rights they are seeking
to take away, and are inflicting with fines, im-
prisonments, and various other outrages upon the
weaker sex, as well as the strong, and in their
blighted hopes, repeatedly set traps to gain their
vicious ends, will complacently walk the same
road that has been marked out for them to follow
which leads upward and onward, leaving the agi-
tators in the hands of the Great Judge who will
repay them with ten fold interest for persecuting
those who cling together in obedience to Him
who said "Unless ye are one ye are not mine."
	The nation is threatened with greater and more
dire calamities than they will ever have power to
bring upon the Latter-day Saints. Its doom is
sealed and the rottenness defies the physician's
art. The "cancer has eaten up its vitals" and no
patching up process can save it. But the Consti-
tution will be preserved through the united efforts
of the faithful of this people who will be the only
ones found who will have remained true to our
nation's flag, and they will bear it off triumphantly.
This is the "ultimate result," and it is nearer than
some of our enemies have surmised; and they will
find a much greater demand at Head quarters for
"national undertakers" than in Utah. Methinks
those who have doomed polygamy to speedy
death are little prepared for the "Great Reaper"
who "has begun the work with His thrice sharp-
ened sickle," as He will hardly regard "public
sentiment" however "great and overwhelmingly
opposed" it may be to "polygamy," or any other
principle that He has seen fit to establish on this
land of promise. No matter if "the popular fiat
has gone forth." Man proposes, but God disposes,
and it is for Him to decide what shall be and what
shall not be "within the limits of a nation conse-
crated to all that is noblest and best in progress
and civilization."
