MARIE CALM.

	By the death of Miss Marie Calm, which
occurred after a short illness at Cassel, Ger-
many, on February 22nd, the German women
have lost an earnest advocate of their higher
education, and a hard worker on many
questions of social interest. Marie Calm was
no theorist, during her early life she had
practical experience in education, both as
governess in England and Russia, and princi-
pal of a school in the Rhine Provinces, and
she was able to estimate, at its full value,
the influence for good which a sounder me-
thod of instruction and a broader extent of
knowledge, would exert upon women's lives.
	Maria Calm, the poet, novelist and philan-
thropist; was born at Arolson, in the princi-
pality of Waldeck in 1832. Her father was
burgomaster of that town, and held the usual
views of the time upon woman's education;
but his daughter persuaded him to allow her
to finish her education in Switzerland, and
from thence she went as governess to other
countries. Afterwards she took charge of a
girls' school in Germany, which she retained
till forced to give it up by delicate health.
From this time she turned her full attention
to writing.
	In 1865, the first Woman's Congress, when
the Deutschen Frauen Allgemeiner Verein
was established, was held at Leipsic, and im-
mediately afterwards, Maria Calm, delighted
to find this commencement of effort for eleva-
tion of her countrywomen, wrote to the pro-
moters of the Congress to express her sym-
pathy with their views. Three years later,
in October, 1869, she invited the Conference
to meet in Cassel, and worked almost single-
handed for its success, very few men or
women in Cassel caring for its objects, and
all disapproving of women speakers. The
Congress, however, despite all discourage-
ments, was a thorough success; a local Union
for the education of women was founded,
and an Industrial School for Girls established.
The instruction in this school includes book-
keeping, foreign languages, German literature
and history, commercial correspondence, buy-

[Column 2]

ing of goods for household and other pur-
poses, drawing and needlework of all kinds.
The school rapidly grew and prospered. Miss
Calm not only held classes in history and
literature in it herself, but assembled the
pupils in her own house in the evenings,
thus supplementing the school education by
kindly home influence.
	Since 1869, however, she placed herself at
the service of the cause of Woman's Educa-
tion, being ready to travel wherever she was
needed to lecture upon education, and to
found unions and schools. She went in this
way to Hamburg, Heidelberg, Stuttgart,
Frankfurt and many other towns, her sound
good sense, and pleasant, genial manners, al-
ways winning friends to the cause. In Eng-
land friends will remember her last visit in
the summer of 1862, and the interest she took
in all the methods for developing the rights
and responsibilities of women in that country.
She was an accomplished English scholar, and
took part with ease in a meeting of the Women's
Poor Law Guardian Society, relating the
analogous part which German ladies took in
the management of the poor at Hamburg, El-
berfeldt, Cassel, and other places. She was
also much pleased by a visit she paid to the
colleges for women at Cambridge, to a Suffrage
Meeting at Southsea, and other occasions
where women were endeavoring to do honest
and thorough work. On her return to Ger-
many she wrote accounts of many of these
movements; but although publishers were easily
found for her papers on the condition of
Women's Employment and Education in Eng-
land, it is worthy of note that she received
continual discouragement about her Suffrage
articles, and it is not certain that they have
ever found a publisher to this day.
	The list of her writings is too long to be
mentioned; some are composed with special
reference to girls, such as the "Blick in das
Leben," prepared for girls from sixteen to
eighteen, and "Weibliches Wirken in Kuche,
Wohnzimmer und Salon." Her novels are
thoughtful, and full of earnest purpose; a vol-
ume of poems, called "Bilder und Klange,"
was printed during the Franco-Prussian war,
and sold for the benefit of the wounded soldiers.
Her writings in Neue Bahnen, and other Ger-
man periodicals, were innumerable; the latest
communication we received from her was in
November last, on the subject of the Medical
Education of Women, in which she was pro-
foundly interested; she spoke hopefully in it of
the next meeting in Weimar. Her last illness
was short, and the announcement of her death
on February 22nd was the first intimation that
many of her English friends received of her
danger. She was one of those who can ill be
spared.—Englishwoman's Review.


