	PERSONNEL OF HER SUITE.
	
	The long expected steamer Australia arrived
early yesterday morning from Honolulu, and
was saluted by Fort Mason, Alcatraz and H.
B. M. ship Conquest, as she brought to this city
Queen Kapiolani of Hawaii and her numerous
retinue. The vessel was boarded by the port
authorities and various press representatives
before she docked, as the latter were anxious to
catch a glimpse of her Majesty ere she hedged
herself in the impenetrability that surrounds
royalty.
	The Queen was upon deck as the steamer
came into port and was taking her first look at
a large city through a pair of glasses. She
had on an ulster of some warm grayish material,
and though her face bore evidences of fatigue,
yet there was noticeable a kindly expression in
her eyes, which betokened a character of ex-
treme gentleness. The Queen is a woman
of about 40 years of age, of large size, stout in
frame, and vigorous of constitution, and her
sympathetic cast of countenance makes her
face attractive even to handsomeness. She is
a woman of great generosity and enlightenment,
and has done all that lay in her power toward
the alleviation of those distressed with that
terrible curse of leprosy. Through her exer-
tions the Kapiolani Home for leper girls was

[Column 2]
founded, $15,000 being appropriated for that
purpose by the Hawaiian Legislature in 1884.
She also interests herself in the various public
gardens, schools and hospitals with which her
kingdom is supplied.
	The Queen graciously received such gentle-
men as were presented to her, but the conversa-
tion was carried on through the medium of Her
Royal Highness, the Princess Liliuokalani,  
who, unlike the Queen, speaks English fluently.
Under the circumstances it cannot be expected
that her Majesty would have much to say, be-
yond that she felt some regret at having left
home, and that every thing appeared strange
to her, it being the first time that she had ever
left her native land; that her plans were as yet
indefinite, but that she hoped to make a stay
of about a week in San Francisco, and would
then leave for New York, en route to England.
	On her arrival at the Palace Hotel her
Majesty and the lady members of her suite
were ushered into the rooms which had been
prepared for them, while the gentlemen of the
party amused themselves by parading the corri-
dors, and receiving the congratulations of the
numerous ex-residents of Honolulu who had
congregated there to see them.
	The party is under the charge of Colonel
Curtis Iaukea, Governor of Oaku, and the
King's Chamberlain. He is a tall man of
soldierly appearance, with a light brown com-
plexion, a slight mustache, expressive eyes and 
dignified manner. He said that the Queen im-
mediately on her arrival at the Palace Hotel
had sought the privacy of her rooms, and had
intimated, for the day at least, she would be
invisible to everybody, as she wished to rest
after the week’s voyage.
	“Yes,” said the Colonel, “it is, as the Queen
has already told you, her first departure from 
home, and you know the peculiar sensations
that attend people when for the first time they
find themselves separated from the associations
of childhood. But it has long been her ardent
desire to see something of the world, and
especially to see England and her ruler. This, 
as you are aware, is the jubilee year in Eng-
land, and Queen Kapiolani wishes to be present 
and pay her respects to the woman who rules
one of the greatest empires in the world. It
is not surprising that she should admire Eng-
land. There are many Englishmen in the em-
ploy of the Hawaiian Government, and their
conversation has naturally excited the curiosity
of so enlightened a lady. England though is
not the only objective point of the journey.
We shall see as much of the United States as
possible, and also of Europe.”
“Yes,” continued the Colonel, “I have been
abroad before. I was in Russia at the present
Czar's coronation, and so all is not new to me.
My wife, you know, is one of the ladies in
waiting upon her Majesty.”
Among the notable gentlemen of the party 
is Colonel J. H. Boyd, who is Secretary to the
Queen. He is a young man with English
mutton-chop whiskers, and wore a light crush-
hat, a frock coat and a pair of light-colored
pantaloons. Mr. Boyd found many old friends
awaiting him at the Palace Hotel, and seemed
thoroughly at home.
	“I wish,” said he, “that that absurd state-
ment about the Queen bringing the royal band
should be flatly contradicted. It was never in-
tended to be brought, and I cannot see how
such a statement could ever have been pub-
lished.”
“Nothing is true that is ever published about
the islands,” interjected a jovial looking per-
sonage by the name of H. J. Hart, who is the
restaurateur in ordinary to the Queen and the
entire nobility of the kingdom, “is it Colonel?”
The officer of the royal forces did not make 
a very forcible reply to his strong appeal, but
quietly remarked:
	“There was, indeed, quite a stir when we left


Honolulu, a week ago to-day. The army turned
out, the navy saluted, the whole population of
the island seemed to be massed upon the shore
to say good-by to their beloved Queen. In-
deed, it was an affecting scene."
	"Indeed it was," broke in the restaurateur,
who it is alleged, is on the still hunt for a man
who can make ice cream and digestible pastry
on a small salary. "The Hawaiian people
are very fond of the alloa, that is, the farewell.
Ah, indeed, it would have made you weep to
have seen the spectacle of an adored Queen
leaving that sunlit isle of the sea, where the
gorgeous palms and the snake-like sugar cane
rustle in the evening breeze. Grandest country
on earth, sir. Fact. Fancy, our exports
were $12,000,000 last year."
	The Quartermaster-General of the army,
Colonel Samuel Nowlein, is also in the party
and will accompany her Majesty to England,
and will then take his daughter to Italy. The
young lady is an artist of exceptional ability,
and it is understood that she shall be placed
at one of the leading art schools in Italy, so
that her talents may be properly developed.
	His Excellency, John O. Dominis, Com-
mander-in-Chief of the military forces, was
the only gentleman who was not seen in the
corridors of the Palace Hotel. The voyage
had not been a happy one for him, and he
had accordingly retired. He is the husband of
her Royal Highness, the Princess Liliuokalani,
the heir apparent to the throne. He is about
45 years of age, and is five years older than
the Queen. General Dominis, the future
Prince consort to the expectant Hawaiian
Queen, is a European, and is about 55 years of
age.
	The Hawaiians seem to be jubilant over
their success in raising money in England, and
say that their credit in that country is good for
any amount.
	When it was hinted that England was an
exacting money-lender, and wanted her debt
even unto the uttermost farthing, there was a
very spontaneous answer from the statesmen
present, that "as soon as England gives us any
trouble about wanting her money, we will come
over here and borrow it and tell England we
want nothing to do with her." The Hawaiian
party was so delighted with its treatment by
Captain H. G. Howlett that no sooner had its
members finished their toilets than they sallied
forth, bought a handsome gold watch, had his
initials and an appropriate inscription engraved
upon it, and presented it to the Captain of the
Australia, as an evidence of their esteem and
gratitude.—The Chronicle.


