ONLY A MORMON.
	What happened when the Mormons forty
years ago settled in the desert of Utah was
this: A city sprang up as if by magic, and
the untiring industry, energy and zeal of the
emigrants turned a barren wilderness into a
fertile and blooming garden. The American
frontiersman would sooner steal than starve or
work any day, and the possessions of the Mor-
mons have been piously coveted by him these
many years. He has sought and found divers
of the Lord’s orthodox saints to whom the
beam in the Mormon eye is very grievous.
Brother Frelinghuysen, of New Jersey, some
fifteen years ago, found himself unable to sleep
nights all along of those spiritually ophthalmic
Mormons. So he got after them with his little
persecution and was straightway so relieved in
mind that he was able to go meet his Redeemer
in a glow of conscious sainthood. Just what
is the matter with brother Edmunds, of Ver-


mont, is not known; it may be the drinks he
takes; but between them he has contrived to
get in his work on the Mormon brethren in the
line of peculiar Christianity that comes to him
by inheritance. Brother Edmunds relieves
the ancestral high tension piety generated in
super-heated coppers by working it off on Mor-
mons instead of witches. His bill just passed
by Congress is designed to turn over these in-
dustrious, energetic and zealous miscreants,
their church and its property, their government
and schools, to the pious frontiersmen who
have waited and hungered for the same, have
gone ragged and have drunk “Valley-tan”
through weary years. Perhaps these dearly
beloved brethren of Senator Edmunds are now
about entering into their reward. Perhaps the
men who have created a garden out of a wilder-
ness will not have the wit to keep it from the
poor loafers who now covet it, even as they
won it from the Indians who once owned it.
Perhaps water will flee affrighted up-hill at
the holy snort of our brother Edmunds (of
Vermont). Or perhaps this, our brother, may
die of old age, leaving the Church of Latter-
day Saints in full possession of its faculties and
moneys and savings, its gardens and accumula-
tions and flesh pots. Things as perverse as
this have happened in this most perverse of
worlds, and even Edmundses have appeared to
live in vain save as they serve to point a moral
and adorn the gospel according to Cotton
Mather.—San Francisco News Letter.


