AND WHY.

	It is a standing joke with our husbands and
brothers, that when two or more women meet
together for an afternoon visit, or even a morn-
ing call, their conversation is sure to gravi-
tate to the subject of servant girls and the
trials and tribulations of housekeepers in
general. I do not by any means admit the
truth of this, generally speaking, but if it were
true, what wonder?
	Do not these self-same husbands and brothers
converse on the subjects that are of the great-
est interest to them and have the most intimate
connection with their business? As for instance,
does not the farmer talk of the weather, the
crops, the latest improvements in machinery
for lightening agricultural labor, with his
brother farmers? The politician discusses the
prospective changes in official careers, the
merits and demerits of the candidates, the
tariff, the civil service, and all the ponderous
methods of government, with his fellow politi-
cians? and so on, ad infinitum. The horseman
talks nothing but horse; the merchants com-
pare notes in regard to trade; lawyers discuss
court affairs, and physicians (if ever on friendly
terms enough to speak at all) drift naturally
into the subjects which for them have the
greatest interest.
	How few housekeepers and mothers, com-
paratively speaking, have opportunities to post
themselves on the topics of the day; they talk
of their housekeeping cares, their children,
their servants, because these are the subjects,
which are, of necessity, daily and hourly upper-
most in their minds.
	Husbands do not object, as a general thing,
the sharing of the substantial benefits some-
times derived from learning, through their
chats, the recipe for some new and delicious
dish; the faults or merits of the new girl about
to be engaged, or whether it is wiser to make
that always dreaded change from the old one,
with all her faults, to the new one we know
nought of; to borrow an occasional bright idea
of how to make "auld claes look amoist as
weel's the new." Why, I could go on for an
hour, and then not enumerate all the benefits,
yes, actual benefits, to be derived from these
harmless, neighborly gossips, at which the male
population poke so much fun.
	If housekeepers had fewer cares and


more opportunities for pleasure and improve-
ment, they might have more varied subjects of
conversation; but while their heads and hands
are full of the homely duties of the hour, it
must be expected these selfsame duties will
furnish the principal food for their daily talk.
