			J. S. WOOLLEY, Sec.


[Column 1]
A GOOD WOMAN GONE.
	We have been called upon to chronicle
the death of our dear departed sister,
Sarah Ann Stevenson Fullmer, who died
at her home September 7, after an illness
of six weeks.
	She was the mother of twelve children,
seven sons and five daughters, all of
whom are living, seventy nine grandchil-
dren, sixty-eight of whom are living and
five great grandchildren.
	She had the satisfaction of having all
her children with her during her last ill-
ness. All that loving hands could do was
done to keep her with us, but the Lord or-
dained otherwise, and through his mercy
she passed away calm as a summer morn-
ing, none realizing that death was so near.
BIOGRAPHICAL.
	She was born in England, July 31, 1835,
and was baptized into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints in 1848. Her
father’s home was always a stopping place
for the Elders. Young as she was she
took great pleasure in distributing tracts
and helping them sing the songs of Zion,
as she was a beautiful singer.
	In the year 1853 she emigrated to
America with her parents, remaining in
Philadelphia where she worked with her
father at the tailor trade until 1855, when
she came to Salt Lake City with a com-
pany of Saints. On October 12, of the
same year, she married John S. Fullmer
and moved to Spanish Fork in 1857 re-
maining there until 1861, when she again
moved and made her home in Springville,
and there the greater portion of her family
were born. Those who have undergone
the hardships of those early days in Utah
can in a measure know what they were to
her.
	Her husband losing his all in the driv-
ings of Nauvoo, pioneering into Salt Lake
and neighboring towns and devoting his
time and talent for missionary work and
large families on his hands, it necessitated

[Column 2]
all to do what they could to make the bur-
den lighter, and this she bravely did, as
all who know her can attest. Being an
expert seamstress and her father a pro-
fessional tailor, she helped him in his shop
year after year, working in the late hours
of the night to prepare her home and little
ones to again leave on the morrow.
	In 1881 her husband come into Castle
Valley, with the desire, as this country
was new, of getting her comfortably
located with land for her boys, who had by
that time grown to be a great help. Short-
ly after they had moved into their new
home the husband and father died, leav-
ing her to be father and mother to that
large family of children which she has
creditably accomplished.
	Her farm being five miles from town
she has often walked that distance to
attend her meetings. She was a zealous
worker for many years, being chosen
teacher of the Theological department
when the Sunday School was first organ
ized in this place. When the Relief Soci-
ety was organized she was chosen first
counselor to the president, she frequently
traveled with the Stake officers through
the Stake, and later in the absence of
President Annie U. Larson at the Temple
at Manti was chosen as aid, she became
thoroughly known and loved by the sisters
through the Stake.
	Nature had endowed her with the attri-
butes of a nurse and for many years she
was seen at the bedside of the suffering
and in times of sickness she knew no fear.
	After her children were sufficiently
grown that she could spare the time she
began to write, bringing forth that latent
talent for her own development and the
benefit of her sister woman. She fre-
quently wrote for the Exponent, her
articles being strong and forceful.
	We can truly say of her she was a self-
made woman. When the Suffrage Asso-
ciation was organized through the territory
she was chosen president of Emery Co
She was sent twice as a delegate to the
conventions held at Salt Lake city to
represent this county.
	After statehood the ladies of this place
deciding the Suffrage Association no
longer necessary organized a club for edu-
cational purposes, naming it the Union
Club. She succeeded Mrs. Lizzie Reid as
president and was sent as a delegate to the
Federation of Clubs held in Salt Lake
City. Politically she has ever been thor-
oughly Democratic and has been chosen a
delegate by her party many times to the
County Conventions where she has ever
stood up for justice and correct principles.
	She was elected school trustee of this
place and was re-elected July, 1900, without
an opponent. Many of the little children
will miss her presence in the school room.
In all her walks in life Sister Fullmer has
been thorough, her motto being “what
was worth doing at all, was worth doing
well.” One of her greatest characteristics.
was punctuality, nothing annoyed her
more than being late.
	We feel she has now gone on to higher
attainments and greater opportunities, for
we know there is no standing still to an
ambition such as hers, and although we
will ever miss her we can of a truth pro-
claim “She hath done what she could.”
				JANE R. COX,
				JOSIE E. CHILDS,
						Committee.


