MRS. ALDER’S LETTER FROM ENGLAND.
	[Extracts of a letter from President George Q.
Morris of the London Conference, Aug. 15, 1901.]
Sister Lydia D. Alder:
	I was much pleased at receiving your
letter of July 25, which reached me a week
or so ago. Many thanks for the tickets
and suggestions concerning the tourists
sleepers. I wish you might have received
the same before your journey. Hope by
this time you are entirely free from your
troublesome cough. I presume being at
home soon set you right since you were
there in a favorable climate, though warm,
and had some home comforts, I think you en-
dured serious inconvenience during the two
years of your work here, and nothing but
your zeal in the work would make the con-
ditions endurable, or the bearing of them
anything but a hardship.
	However, you bore them faithfully and
uncomplainingly, and did an excellent
work withal, a better work than many a
younger and stronger missionary. I want
to acknowledge to you my appreciation of
your labors in this Conference and express
my praise for their excellence and extent.

[Column 2]
	I think as you look back on the two
years you spent here you must gain much
joy. I think, too, you have and will real-
ize many blessings. Since coming in
touch with the work of the sister mission-
aries, I have always been an advocate lor
them. In most ways they stand equal to
the brethren; in many ways they are able
to do more than the brethren ordinarily are
able to do.
	We now have, as you may know, four
sisters laboring with us Sister Penfold
was sent to me to take Sister Holbrook’s
place with Sister Sargeant, and about a
month ago, when Sisters Woodward, of
Idaho, and Clark, of Salt Lake, were sent
over, President Lyman sent them both
down here, so that for the present four are
laboring in London. They are very active
in tracting and street work.
	The results of our half summer’s outdoor
work are being manifest now in the amount
of opposition that we are receiving on all
sides. On the streets a combination of
local preachers and church workers from
various denominations have banded to-
gether, for once to hold regular meetings
for the purpose of exposing “Mormonism.”
They come into the places we regularly
visit, and go over the old stories, so often
repeated under similar conditions. The
opposition we have always been receiving
in the Finsbury park burst into a storm
about a month ago, and after being thor-
oughly excited by one of our opponents at
the meeting, the mob broke up our gather-
ing and drove our brethren and sisters out
of the park, amid jeering and hooting.
Some threats were made, but no violence
was attempted.
	The next Sunday we went back as usual
and under the protection of an extra force
of police and detectives, held an excellent
meeting. We have been doing so every
Sunday morning since, and have had good
crowds that listened attentively. Last Sun-
day during the latter part of our meeting,
I think there were three hundred people
listening with the greatest attention. We
owe much of the interest taken in us to the
activity of our enemies.
	The afternoon following the morning
upon which we were driven from the park,
we baptized seven persons in London. Dur-
ing last month fifteen baptisms were re-
corded. seven of them were in Southhamp-
ton.
	Brother Dougall is now in charge in
Stratford. He will do a good work among
the Saints there.
	Last Sunday Brother Simmonds, whose
daughter you may remember at the
Stratford meeting, was baptized into the
Church at Stratford.
	You have no doubt seen the Stratford
Saints who went out to Salt Lake, as well
as Brother Sherwood and others, who came
from laboring there and among us.
	We are preparing for our conference,
which is to be held on October 6. Presi-
dent Lyman we hope will be with us. We
shall try and surpass the one held last
spring. Up to date we have had about
twenty-three baptisms since last conference,
and are hoping for enough more to make a
very favorable report by conference time, a
little more than two months hence.
	We now have but twenty-three mission-
aries in the field. When I came about a
year ago and went into the priesthood
meeting, I think I found about thirty-five.
We are beginning to feel a bit lonesome.

[Column 3]
All here are well and join in kindest
regards to yourself and daughter, May.
Remember me kindly to all old friends and
associates in the work.
	With kindest regards, I remain,
		Faithfully your brother,
