FUNERAL IN TABERNACLE.
The catafalque, upon which rested the
white casket containing the mortal remains
of the venerable departed leader of Israel,
was veritably embedded in rare flowers
whose fragrance was wafted throughout the
big auditorium. The west end of the vast
building had been transformed into a
regular bower of blossoms, palms and
foliage. White and green was the prevail-
ing effect from the silver-mounted casket
down in front of the stand to the draperies
which hung in artistic festoons from the
gilded pipes of the great organ. The first
four pillars which support the galleries on
either side of the building at the west end
were covered with white draperies around
which were entwined ropes of ivy and
sprigs of autumn leaves. The galleries
above were also draped in similiar effects
relieved by cord tassels and white rosettes.
At the back, towering above the choir, was
the life-sized oil portrait of the departed
President. Immediately beneath the por-
trait was the tribute of the Temple
workers, a reproduction of the Salt Lake
Temple in white and purple everlasting
flowers upon a solid background of deep
green ivy leaves At the right hand, fac-
ing the catafalque, stood the floral design,
the token of the Quorum of Apostles, at the
left the piece offered by the Deseret Sunday
School Union. The first consisted of an
arc nearly five feet in height wrought in
white everlasting flowers and relieved by
twelve stars of pink carnations with a
cream rosebud in the center. Within this
stood a Corinthian pillar in white ever-
lasting flowers with cream colored rosebuds,
fern leaves and a knot of white crepe. On
either side stood one broken column en-
twined with smilax and white carnations,
the whole upon a base of astors, chrysan-
themums and roses, surmounted with a
white dove with wings outstretched. The
Deseret Sunday School Union tribute was
a beehive upon a background of ivy leaves,
the hive—yellow astors and chrysanthe-
mums. The other floral designs were
numerous and elaborate—a scroll in pink
and white roses, dahlias, carnations and
other choice flowers. In the center of the
scroll appeared the purple letters which
read, “As God is Man May Be.” Adja-
cent a lyre of artistic design in different
kinds of flowers from Zion’s Saving Bank
and Trust Company.
The Z. C. M. I. gave a half-moon cres-
cent and a star standing upon an easel in
fern leaves and smilax. A floral anchor
with a crown in the center and a white
dove surmounting the easel, the Latter-day
Saints’ University; a double armfull of per-
fect American Beauty roses represented
the sorrow of the First Seven Presidents of
Seventies.
Other pieces, greatly admired, were an
elaborate lyre from the Elks of Salt Lake;
bouquet on easel, Utah Light and Power
company; basket, Salt Lake Primary
Association; spray of roses, from John W.
Young of New York; spray of roses from
the General Relief Society; design in
chrysanthemums, from R. E. Evans and
wife; horseshoe of roses and ivy from the
General Board of the Y. M. M. I. A.; a
wreath from the General Board of the
Primary Association; harp with the design
“Father,” from the family; bouquet of
roses from Governor Wells and wife; piece
in pink and white roses, carnations,
dahlias and chrysanthemums, with sheaves
of wheat from, the Priesthood and Sunday
Schools of Weber Stake, and dozens of
smaller pieces and simple bouquets.
The funeral services were presided over
by President Joseph F. Smith, who
announced the opening hymn, “O, my
Father,” written by President Snow’s sis-
ter, Eliza R. Snow. It was exquisitely
rendered by the choir. Prayer was offered
by Apostle M. W. Merrill, and the hymn
following was, “Zion Stands with hills
surrounded.”
Apostle Brigham Young was the first
speaker. His address was eloquent and
sympathetic, and he closed with the
remark, “Of all things that are in my
heart, I desire most to stand in the presence
of the servants of God who have gone be-
fore and to be worthy of their plaudits.”
The second speaker was Apostle John
Henry Smith, who also spoke with great
tenderness of the late President and in the
course of his remarks related the following
incident.
“On a recent visit to the city of
Washington I was the bearer of a message
from President Snow to William McKinley
and that great man paid a tribute to our
departed President that I never shall for-
get. President McKinley received the
message with much manifest pleasure and
said to me that he had met President Snow
in Ohio when they were both young men
and had talked with him. He then said to
me: ‘Upon your return to Salt Lake City
I want you to give my best wishes to
President Snow and tell him that I have
much respect and esteem for him as a man
devoted to the interests of his fellow men.
I think he is a good man and lives a God
fearing, true life.’ It was a beautiful
tribute from a great man.”
After Apostle J. H. Smith’s address
the choir sang, with intense feeling, one of
President Snow’s favorite hymns, “Who
are these arrayed in white?”
Apostle John W. Taylor was the next
speaker. He like his brothers who pre-
ceded him, alluded to President Snow’s
spiritual characteristics, and read some
passages from the Pearl of Great Price, and
a revelation given to the Prophet Joseph
Smith on the subject of the priesthood and
some other passages in the Book of Doctrine
and Covenants, and concluded by testifying
of the immortality of man, and that Joseph
Smith was a prophet of God.
The anthem, “Shall We Meet Beyond
the River,” was beautifully sung by the
Temple choir, and President Rudger
Clawson paid a glowing tribute to Presi-
dent Snow’s life and labors. He referred
in his remarks to the Apostles who had
been associated with President Snow and
said how many had gone behind the vail
in the last fifty years. He spoke with
tenderness indicative of deep emotion, and
closed with these words:
“I am interested in the family of Presi-
dent Snow and in their great bereavement
I offer my sympathy. I pray God to help
them and encourage them that they may
have peace and consolation. I pray God
that they may emulate the example of their
father and be strong and brave and firm as
he was. I pray that God will help them
now that they may recognize his hand
and say ‘Thy will, not ours, be done.’ ”
President Joseph F. Smith said that
because of the limited time he would not
attempt to speak, only to say that Presi-
dent Snow was the last of the Apostles of
mature years and who were acquainted
with the Prophet Joseph Smith. “With
the exception of the Prophet Joseph
Smith,” continued the speaker, “I don’t
believe any man ever stood upon this earth
who bore a stronger, more clear cut testi-
mony of Jesus Christ.” President Smith
said that he knew the Prophet Joseph
Smith and he knew he was a Prophet of
God. He bore the same testimony in
relation to Brigham Young, John Tayor,
Wilford Woodruff and Lorenzo Snow.
“You have seen what President Snow has
accomplished but there are some things he
accomplished that you will know nothing
about only through prayer and devotion to
Christ.” President Smith declared to the
family of President Snow that their father
was not deceived and enjoined them to
follow in his footsteps and be true to their
last breath to the cause of Zion
The Tabernacle choir sang the hymn,
“Glory to God on High,” and the bene-
diction was pronounced by Bishop John R.
Winder.
Every arrangement had been carefully
made for those who were to march in the
procession to the depot.
The funeral train was headed by Chief
Hilton and a platoon of police, then Major
Young and Bishop Empey, and Held’s
band came next playing a funeral march;
then came President Smith and Apostle
Young, the men who carried the floral
otterings marched in front of the Apostles,


[Column 1]
also the young ladies, representing the
Sunday School and Y. L. M. I. A., with
some of the flowers. After the casket,
borne by Apostles, relieved by sons of the
late President, came the members of the
family, the presiding Bishopric, wives of
the General Authorities, presidents of
of Stakes and missions. Bishopric of the
Eighteenth Ward, in which President
Snow resided, general boards of the Deseret
Sunday School Union, Relief Society,
Y. M. M. I. A., Y. L. M. I. A., Primary
Association, Church schools and religion
classes. Then came the business directors
of the Z. C, M. I., Zion’s Savings Bank
and Trust Company, Utah Eight and
Power Company, Salt Lake and Los
Angeles Ry. Company, Saltair Beach
Company, Grass Creek Coal Company and
the general public.
	There was a great concourse of people at
the depot to see the train leave and con-
trary to past experience on such occasions,
there was no delay. The casket was
placed in the rear car and those who held
tickets promptly boarded the train.
	The funeral train was composed of seven
cars and the journey to Brigham City was
the shortest time on record. As the cars
sped past town and village groups of peo-
ple could be seen on either side of the
track. The coach containing the casket
was modestly decorated with wreaths
of flowers in the windows and festoons of
smilax and ferns arranged about the
interior.
	About 750 people were on the train in-
cluding all the leading authorities of the
Church, Governor Wells, and other
prominent citizens. There was but one
stop made on the trip, and that was five
minutes at Ogden where the train was met
by the Sunday School children of the city.
	At three o’clock the train reached Brig-
ham City, the city which President Snow
had founded and where he had spent the
most active years of his life. The recep-
tion there was altogether worthy. In
response to the request of the committee
the citizens of Brigham City and Box Elder
county were at the depot with over one
hundred teams to convey the Salt Lake
contingent to the cemetery. The line of
carriages extended over one mile. Such a
funeral Brigham City never witnessed be-
fore in all her history and no doubt it is
stamped indelibly upon the memories of
her citizens who saw it.
	As the procession moved to the ceme-
tery the band played “General Sherman’s
Funeral March,” Beethoven’s “Funeral
March,” and “Dolores.” The line of
march was east on Forest Street to Main,
south to Third South and east to the
cemetery, which is on Fourth East. The
buildings were draped in mourning and the
sidewalks were lined with people. One of
the most beautiful spectacles was the line
of Sunday School children, 1,057 of them
stationed along Main from Forest Street to
Third South.
	The hearse proceeded to the Snow burial
lot, which already contains many members
of the famiiy as indicated by the granite
shafts and marble headstones. The casket
was taken from the hearse and opened for
a brief spell to give the people of Brigham
City an opportunity to take a last view of
the beloved face. During the space the
band played “Nearer, My God, to Thee.”
The four walls of the grave were built ot
brick and lined with white broadcloth.

[Column 2]
Evergreens and flowers were strewn on the
bottom and as the coffin was being lowered
into the receptacle the Brigham City choir,
under the leadership of S. M. Lee, sang
the “Resurrection” hymn. The grave
was dedicated by Apostle George Teasdale,
and after that prayer, Apostle Clawson
arose in behalf of the family and expressed
deep thanks to the people of Box Elder
Stake for their splendid help, and all who
had a hand in laying away the beloved
President. The services at the grave
ended by the choir singing, “Shall We
Meet Beyond the River.”
	The red sandstone blocks formed the top
of the grave, and they were cemented to
the brick walls and the grave was thus
sealed. The box in which the coffin was
encased was made of polished wood with
silver screws. When the grave was heaped
with flowers and all had taken a parting
look at the sacred spot they turned their
faces towards their homes.


