D R. COLUMBUS DAY.
	The Utah State Society Daughters of
the Revolution were entertained at their
regular meeting on Wednesday Octocer 16,
1901, at the home of Mrs. Alice M. S.
Horne. Some miscellaneous business was
disposed of and in addition to the regular
exercises celebrated Columbus Day (Oct-
ober 12) appropriately by sentiments and a
paper on the discovery of America, read by
Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth, after which
Mrs. T. G. Webber gave a graphic
account of her visit to Genoa and the home
and notable places of Columbus remin-
iscences. Mrs. Webber was the only one
present who had visited these historic
scenes.
	In honor of the occasion Mrs. Horne
had decorated a Columbus room in the
most artistic manner imaginable, with a
variety of Indian relics, that reminded one
forcibly ef the early days in the valley as
well as the discovery of America. It only
needed a papoose in the baby basket and a
live Indian mother or two to complete the
picture. There were mats and blankets
galore, mocassins and other buckskin
garments elaborately fringed, and fine
ears of Indian corn in an Indian squaw
basket. The entire room and Indian
ornaments decorated with Autumn leaves
and trailing vines, over which the light of
the setting sun from the western windows
fell, making the picture sufficiently fantas-
tic for the weird fancy to conjure up wood-
land scenes with sleeping Indians, or
almost to hear the warwhoop of the
savages springing from their hiding places.
	In the absence of the regent, Mrs
Williams, the first vice-regent, Mrs
Farnsworth, presided Mrs. Ella W. Hyde
gave her paper which was exceedingly
interesting, the topic being “Important
Events of the Revolution, 1775 and 1776.”
	The refreshments served were also in
keeping with the celebration of the day,
Ice cream in globes, white and chocolate
color, imitating earth and water. Alto-
gether it was a delightful afternoon and
Mrs. Horne deserves great credit for the
artistic taste displayed in the arrangement
of the details that gave such pleasure to her
guests.


Miss Katherine E. Conway, of Boston,
has in press a novel, entitled. “Lalor’s
Maples.”


