NOTES AND NEWS.
	Seventy-seven tribes are represented
among the 1007 pupils in the Indian train-
ing school at Carlisle.
	Roosevelt is the first President of the
United States since Abraham Lincoln who
has expressed himself publicly in favor
of woman suffrage before attaining the
presidency.
	President W. F. Slocum, of Colorado
College, announces an anonymous gift of
$100,000 for the erection of the Science
Building. Dr. D. K. Pearsons, the
Chicago philanthropist, is believed to be
the giver. He gave $50,000 to the college
in 1894, and last January an additional
$50,000 toward the Science Building. The
building will be larger than at first planned
and will cost $3,000,000.
	Mrs. Roosevelt has rented what is
know as “The President’s Pew,” at St.
John’s Episcopal Church in Washington,
for herself and such of her children and
visitors as may care to worship there. She
was reared in that communion, while her
husband belongs to the Dutch Reformed
Church, and generally attends it. The
difference of religion has never disturbed
their perfect domestic harmony. President
Roosevelt, who is an avowed believer in
woman suffrage, is entirely willing that
his wife should call her soul her own, and
go to whatever church she pleases.
	A dispatch from Christiana, dated
October 9, says: “The privilege recently
granted women to vote for, and sit in
municipal councils in Norway is adding
unusual interest to the approaching
elections. The women’s battle-cry is
‘away with politicians; only men and
women who further social reform to the
front[-]’ Conservatives and Liberals are
trying to induce the women to vote for
their candidates, but even in the smallest
towns the women insist upon their right to
pick the best men of both parties and to
support the women candidates. The men 
are greatly disturbed and do not know
how to vote.”
	Liliuokalani, formerly queen of Hawaii,
recently celebrated her sixty-second birth-
day by giving several entertainments at
which hundreds of natives and a few
whites were present. Three hundred
guests breakfasted with the deposed queen
and then came a general reception. In
 the afternoon there was a great luau, or
feast at which Federal Judge Estee was
present, and escorted the hostess to a large
tent, under which the luau was given. He
was seated on a mat at her right hand.
The food was served on mats on the
ground, and the staple articles were poi
and raw fish. It was reported that the
ex-queen would invite a number of her old
political enemies to celebrate the burying
of the hatchet, but only her personal
friends and partisans were present at the
feast.


