WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
WALKS AROUND CANTERBURY.
	What a history this city has! Once a
Roman stronghold, fortified with a wall all
around it, portions of which are still stand-
ing. Also some of the sentinel’s posts,
where are apertures for their guns, and
where in those days a stern voice called,
“Who goes there?” Slowly but surely
they are crumbling to decay, but now are
monuments to their builders, who long ago
returned to dust from whence they came.
Of late years the municipality of Canter-
bury have taken great care of all these
relics, which ivy-grown, with rustic seats
within them, woo’s one’s fancy and imagin-
ation.
THE DANE JOHN.
	Following the line of the city wall, the ter-
race which bounds the castle market is full
in view, being considerably raised. Cross-
ing the bridge we reach the old Riding
Gate, outside of which was the meeting
point of three Roman Roads. One leads to
Rickborough, one (now the stone street) to
Lympne, the other was the Watling Street,
leading one way to Dover, the other to
London and Chester.
	The street inside the gate is called the
Watling street, but at this point Roman
Canterbury had been destroyed, that the
true line of the street was lost, but was dis-
covered when the excavations for drainage
revealed the foundations of the Roman
houses in the middle of the present road.
	The true line of the street, however, is
given in its western continuation, the Lane,
which leads to the original place of crossing
the river.
	The Riding Gate, constructed of Roman
brick, has disappeared. It seems that this
part of the city wall was the end of the
Roman fortifications. The part of this wall
is well preserved, and forms the outside
embankment of the bridge. Looking over
its side we see the old moat, converted at
this point into a vegetable garden, and far-
ther on to a cattle market. The offices of
the dealers have been made underground,
facing out on the street, and on the ground
level of the old moat, the bridge being
above over which thousands pass daily.
Strange feelings fill the heart of the be-
holder. So many hundreds of years ago
citizens and soldiers of ancient Rome lived
their lives here, died and were buried; not
only here, but in other cities of England.
In the old capital city of Winchester, when
excavating for water mains a number of
years ago, in one of the streets a man and
a woman were unearthed apparently in an
excellent state of preservation, but vanish-
ing from sight as soon as the air touched
them. They had coins in their hands of
the time of Julius Ceasar, of the date 60
years B. C. This was the money to pay
the ferryman to row them across the river.
Of course the remains were immediately
sent to the British Musuem.
	Passing the bridge before mentioned, we
enter the grounds know as the Dane John.
This from time immemorial has been open

[Column 2]
ground for the amusement of the citizens.
It was laid out and planted in the early
part of this century by one of the city’s
aldermen, whose munificence and public
spirit is commemorated by the obelisk on
the mound, which cone shaped, rises to a
great heihgt.
	This mound is a puzzle to antiquarians;
however old the walls may be the mound is
certainly older, for at this point the wall
bends so as to admit of the mound being
included. Formerly two others were out-
side of this wall. Its present shape is
most usual, but originally it was of the
ordinary bell shape, lower and larger in
circumference. The ground being taken
from the outside and placed at the top, has
produced the present conical shape. It is
also a puzzle to account for its name which
appears in various forms, Dangon, Dangen,
Demgoen and Dungal in the different per-
iods of its history.
	Some think that Dane John is the true
form and that the mound is Danish earth-
work, but it really seems of earlier date
than the Danish invasion, yet it might
have been a monument of some of their
victories, as history tells us of the death of
a certain Danish king somewhere in this
locality. An old cannon is preserved in
the park at the foot of the mound, said to
have once belonged to the Danes.
	A winding walk around the sides of the
mound by gradual ascent reaches the
monument on top which gives the names
and history pertaining to the surrounding
park and of those who gave the same to
the city.
	The view from this point is delightful.
The gardens, with flowers, shrubbery,
trees and walks below, look in miniature
from this height, as also the old cannon,
which appears as a toy. The Banacks, the
Orphanage for minister’s children, the cas-
tle ruins and the monument erected by the
citizens for the forty one Kentish martyrs,
who were burned at the stake in the reign
of Queen Mary, because they belonged to
the Reformed Church, are all plainly dis-
cernible.
	Up here the wind is blowing almost a
gale, it is like a veritable March day. Still
it is invigorating, and the company laugh
merrily as we hold on to the fence until
each gust has spent itself.
	This is a popular Lovers Walk on sum-
mer moonlight nights, such walks must be
ideal indeed. The grassy sides of the Dane
John look like velvet. Peace and quiet
reign here; it is a secluded retreat where
the pulse of the busy city below is not felt.
	Down in the park seats are scattered
around, inviting repose and relaxation.
Lovers choose a romantic walk when they
ascend the Dane John. Like their aspir-
ations, it is far above the world’s tumult,
almost in realms of bliss; but the path that
ascends also descends, and they must
awaken on common terra firma again. If
their fairy castles are as high as the Dane
John, no wonder they have so many sad
falls. Of course one is nearer the moon and

[Column 3]
stars, the far away and unttainable, which
may account for the sweet dreams of youth
which never fulfilled are always eluding
the hand that tries to imprison them, even
until the day of life is past and the night
falls.
	Still the world would be dull without
them, so youth dream on. The spot, the
hour is enchanted; neither moon nor stars
ever tell tales. This beauty will disappear
when the garish sun has arisen.
	How strange! This formerly a part of
the great Roman Empire. The wall is
high and strong, no doubt they thought it
impregnable, with the moat and draw-
bridges. Though so strongly fortified her
power was broken and strangers pulled
down the walls.
			(Continued.)


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
	much as possible for you money.					TRY US.

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank n Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
		LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

The Most Convenient Local Train Service
in the State is given by the . . . . .
Oregon Short Line
	Railroad
FIVE Fast Daily Trains Each Way between
Salt Lake City and Ogden . . . , . .

Se that your tickets read via the
	“SHORT LINE”
			And Get the bes

CITY TICKET OFFICE for tickets to all points, 100 West
	Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.

S. W. Eccles,		D. E. Burley,
	Gen Tfc. Mgr.		G. P. & T. A


Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation

