LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting was
held in the 14th Ward hall, August 31,
1901, with President M. I. Horne presid-
ing. Singing, “O, my Father.” Prayer
by Counselor Elizabeth Webb. Singing,
“When first the glorious light of truth.”
Minutes of former meeting read and
accepted.
	President Horne said though our Presi-
dent, Zina D. H. Young’s, body was
waiting to be buried, she felt there was no
need to mourn for her, her life was well
spent, she was a true Mother in Israel, she
had spent her life time in this work, and
her life was almost perfect. She never
spoke of people’s faults, she never wished
to hear anyone find fault with another,
especially the authorities of the Church.
There is too much of it in Zion. We have
a great many trials but the Lord has
ordained it, and He will always bring com-
fort to us. When we are possessed of evil
spirits let us rid ourselves of them.
	Counselor Elizabeth J. Stevenson said
when she came into the room she thought,
“O, ye faithful ones!” There are always
a few faithful. She had recently visited
Bear Lake Stake, she enjoyed meeting with
the sisters. She had been acquainted with
our Mother, Aunt Zina, about forty-five
years. She honored and revered her be-
cause of her faithfulness and integrity to
the truth. She would never say an un-
kind word of any one, but helped all to
gain a blessing. We must abide by the.
golden rule, “Do to others as we wish to
be done by,” not be jealous, but be pre-
pared to stand in holy places.
	Sister Barnes spoke of blessings bestowed
upon her by Aunt Zina, felt she had been
one of God’s noble women.
	Sister Mary L. Morris said that Aunt
Zina, twenty-five years ago, in this hall,
said there were two things she always
wanted to get away from, “a house on fire
and a person speaking evil of another.”
	The congregation sang “This God is the
God we adore.”
	A sister bore her testimony to the truth
of the Gospel.
	Sister R. R. Grant felt happy to meet
with her sisters, thankful she could be
numbered with the Saints. She had
received a letter from her son, H. J. Grant,
that he was on ship board, was well and
blessed of the Lord. Felt we should al-
ways be happy that we can have the privi-
lege of preparing for the life to come.
	Sister Margaret Gardner said she felt the
words of Sister Zina D. H. Young would
perhaps have more weight with us now she
is gone.
	Sister Barnes spoke of the grand recep-
tion there was in heaven when such faith,
ful ones as Sister Zina entered.
	Sister Nebeker felt thankful she was
born in this dispensation and she was will-
ing to listen to the teachings of the Gospel.
Said she had spent many pleasant hours
with Aunt Zina and her sister, Presendia
Kimball.
	Elizabeth Buzzo spoke of her love for
Sister Zina D. H. Young and her familiar
association with her.
	Sister Shoenfeld spoke of the blessings
that had been bestowed upon her by Sis-
ter Zina and her sister and all she promised
had been fulfilled.
	Sister Smart said she felt that our loss
was Sister Zina’s gain, remember her last
words, “Let us make the best of it.” 

[Column 2]
	Sister Lydia D. Alder felt we should feel
it is a privilege to speak in these meetings.
Speaking of Sister Zina she said: “Who
has she not administered to? Who has
she not blessed? ‘He is with us all the
way,’ Aunt Zina said, ‘there is no dark
shadow to pass through, make the best of
it.’ Said she had not the fear of death that
she once had, we do not come alone, neither
do we go alone.” Alluded to the blessing
Sister Zina had given her before she went
on her mission abroad.
	Sister Mary P. Silver could not tell of
the blessings she had received from Sister
Zina, her life had been a blessing to us.
	Sister Stevenson spoke of the blessing
President Lyman had given Aunt Zina be-
fore going to Canada, and how his words
had been fulfilled.
	Sister Arnold related a dream and bore
her testimony.
	Sister Paul bore her testimony, and
Sister Irvine spoke of the comfort and
blessing Sister Zina had been to her.
	Sister Mair wondered what would life be
without the Gospel, she could not imagine.
	President Horne said it was profitable to
her to meet with her sisters here.
	Meeting adjourned. Singing, “Weep,
weep not for me, Zion.” Benediction by
Maria W. Wilcox.
