			LAST SERMON.
 
	[Delivered at the Tabernacle in Salt Lake City,
Sunday afternoon, October 6, 1901.]

	Addressing the vast congregation of
brethren and sisters, President Snow’s
remarks in substance as published in the

[Column 2]
Deseret Evening News on Monday, October
7, were as follows:
	I marvel that I have ventured out today;
but I have something to say to you, and I
trust that I may have sufficient strength of
voice, and time enough to say it. And I
hope you will give me your faith and
prayers that I may address you.
	I am delighted to hear that there has been
such a good spirit in the Conference—a
spirit that has enabled the brethren to
speak of the glorious progress the Saints
have made. The Saints have not been idle
during the past six months. They have done
their duty to a great extent. They have
exercised their faith in behalf of the
brethren during this conference more than
at the other conferences. They are
improving in this respect. And if they
continue to improve in this, the brethren at
the next conference will have still more of
the Spirit by which to speak to them.
	During the past day or two I have had a
distressing cold, rendering me hoarse and
I feared that I should be unable to be here
at all. But through the blessings of the
Lord and your faith and prayers I am here.
	I want to say something to you about a
subject that deeply concerns the Priest-
hood—you Presidents of Stakes, you
Bishops of wards, you Elders, High Priests
and High Councilors. I wish you to
remember what I say. It is of interest to
all the officers in the Church. There are
fifty Stakes in Zion, presided over by a
president and counselors. In each of
these Stakes there is an average of at least
eight wards, each having a Bishop at its
head. Now, this means a tremendous
responsibility. These details of all these
organizations depend on the fifty presi-
dents. There is something, therefore, for
each of them to do. There is a great deal
for them to accomplish. This responsibili-
ty is sacred and extensive. Though these
presidents have been faithful, they have
not been as faithful as they could be—as
they ought to be. They have not sensed
their responsibilities as they should do.
	The Church is now seventy-two years
old, and during this period we have im-
proved. This is right. We ought to be
doing greater things than we did in our
youth. The Lord is coming one of these
days. He is interested in what you officers
are doing. You presidents of Stakes should
attend to the affairs in your districts. Look
after the interests of the people whom you
oversee as you would look after the inter-
ests of your own family—your own wives
and children. You should think of
them day and night. When you go to rest
you should devote half an hour before you 
sleep in thinking of their welfare. Try to
find out where you can help them. See
wherein you can advise them in their
spiritual and material affairs. Ascertain
whether they are spending too much or
too little, and whether they can spend their
money to better advantage. Then, too,
the Bishops have to be looked after.
Bishops, however wise—and many of them
are wise—have to be cared for. This is

[Column 3]
the duty, not of the Apostles, but of the
presidents of Stakes. It is the duty of the
High Priests, Elders. Teachers and Dea-
cons to look after the interests of the
Church in Zion. Do not lay this duty on
the Apostles. They have too much
already. They ought to look to these
things of which I have been speaking
occasionally at least.
	Now, the Lord has ordained a certain
channel through which He is going to
exalt His children, overcome wickedness
and uplift righteousness. This channel is
the Holy Priesthood—His authority to
men. And the Priesthood has various
officers the duties of whom He has clearly
shown. The special duty of the Seventies
and the Apostles is to look after the world.
The duty of the High Priests and Elders
is to look after our home interests—to build
up the waste places of Zion. The time is
coming when you cannot have the Twelve
to depend upon—when you will have to do
these things yourselves. They will have
other duties to perform. I want you to
remember this. 
	It is a tremendous responsibility this
matter of the Priesthood. You presidents
of Stakes, know how the Lord is obeyed in
your district of country. Know whether
the people keep the Sabbath day, whether
they profane the name of Deity, whether
they pay their tithes, use tobacco, build
meeting houses and school houses—know
everything they do. God will help you in
this; for it is what he requires of you. But
when you are depending on the Apostles
to do these things you are doing what you
have no business to do. Let the High
Council visit the wards with you, that they
also may know what is the condition of
the people. Be lively in performing these
duties.
	God bless you all, brethren and sisters.
I am glad to see such a vast multitude of
people. I am delighted, as I said in the
beginning, at the good spirit that has been,
poured out upon you. I thank you for
exercising your faith and prayers in my
behalf. When I got up here I did not
think I conld say half a dozen words. But
have been enabled to say what I had on
my mind. Of course a great deal more,
might be said. It might be expanded and
made much more of.
	There is another subject that I wish to
speak of. I am getting along in years now,
being nearly eighty-eight years old. I
have had only one counselor since Presi-
dent Cannon died. I have chosen another
counselor. I have sought the guidance of
the Lord in the matter, and the Lord has
directed the choice. I have chosen a
strong, energetic man, and I think he will
be a great help to myself and President
Smith; I hope, therefore, you will sustain
him. God bless you all.


Mrs. Lillian M. Stevens has just been
elected president for the twenty-fifth time
of the Maine Woman’s Christian Temper-
ance Union.


