PRESIDENT LORENZO SNOW.

“It will only be a sleep
When with songs and dewy light
Morning blossoms out of night
He will open his bright eyes
’Neath the palms of Paradise
Yet we foolish ones must weep.”

	President Lorenzo Snow, prophet, seer
and revelator of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints, passed from this life
into the great beyond on Thursday,
October 10, 1901, 3:45 p. m., at the Bee
Hive House in this city, surrounded by a
large number of his family, his two
counselors, Joseph F. Smith and Rudger
Clawson, and a number of the Quorum of
the Twelve Apostles. He had only been
seriously ill a short time, in fact he pre-
sided at a meeting on Wednesday morning
the day before his decease, although he
had been suffering from a severe cold and
cough for several days previous. His
death so unexpected was a severe shock to
all those who heard the sad tidings, and it
seemed almost impossible to believe it had
actually taken place.
	On the Sabbath day, October 6, Presi-
dent Snow preached to the assembled
multitude and his voice rang out as strong
and clear as in his palmiest days; his form
was erect and his eyes shone as bright as
ever, aud those who saw and heard him
could scarcely credit that in so short a time
he would pass from their sight into the
great beyond, but so it is, and none know
the day nor the hour.

		“Beyond life’s toils and cares,
Its hopes and joys, its weariness and sorrow,
Its sleepless nights, its days of smiles and tears,
Will be a long sweet life, unmarked by years,
		One bright, unending morrow!

		Beyond time’s troubled stream,
Beyond the chilling waves of death’s dark river.
Beyond life’s lowering clouds and fitful gleams,
Its dark realities and brighter dreams—
		A beautiful forever!

		No aching hearts are there,
No tear-dimmed eyes, no form by sickness wasted,
No cheek grown pale through penury or care,
No spirits crushed beneath the woes they bear,
		No sighs for bliss untasted.

		Ear hath not heard the song
Of rapturous praise within that shining portal;
No heart of man hath dreamed what joys belong
To that redeemed and happy blood-washed throng,
		All glorious and immortal.”

	It does seem wrong to mourn for one
who has lived so long and to such noble
purpose, who has gone to join those whom
he loved here on earth, wives, children,
parents, brothers and sisters. And yet it
is natural because they who go are missed
in their accustomed places, and those
whom they held dear are lonely.

		“Death hath made no breach
In love and sympathy, in hope and trust,
No outward sign or sound our ears can reach:
But there’s an inward spiritual speech
That greets us still, though mortal tongues be
	dust.”

	President Snow was indeed a very
remarkable man, and his long life and
eventful career emphasized those character-
stics which were so conspicuous in his
later manhood. He was a man of very
great energy and business enterprise. In
his early life he had been ambitious for
knowledge and determined to obtain a
classical education. And yet he had in his
veins the revolutionary blood which made
him ardently patriotic with a desire to 
serve the country he loved in a military

[Column 2]
capacity, and he received a commission, first
as ensign and afterwards lieutenant in the
Ohio State militia. When twenty-one he
entered Oberlin College and expecting to
make a mark in a literary course including
languages, for which he had a decided
taste.
	Lorenzo Snow was of the New England
Puritan parentage, his forefathers having
arrived at an early date in the settlement
of the colonies, and he inherited the
religious fervor that characterized his
ancestors.
	He was born in Mantua, Portage Co.,
Ohio, April 3, 1814, the Snow family
having moved west from Massachusetts
only a short time before his birth. His
sister, Eliza R. Snow, received the Gospel
first, and it was from her he first heard of
Joseph Smith, the Prophet, and became
interested in the Gospel and was baptized
and ordained an Elder and began preach-
ing among his relatives and friends in
Ohio, many of whom he converted to the
faith in which he so earnestly believed and
to which he eventually consecrated his
whole life.
	In 1838 he went with his family and
parents from Kirtland to Missouri, but was
on a mission in Kentucky when the
Mormon people were driven from there to
Illinois. He joined them in Nauvoo in
May, 1840 and the same month left for a
European mission. While in England he
was made one of the Presidency of the
mission, and had the honor and privilege
of presenting the Book of Mormon to Queen
Victoria and the Prince Consort, through
the courtesy of Sir Henry Wheatly.
	After his return to Nauvoo he taught
school as an occupation, and when the
Nauvoo Legion was organized was made
a Captain.
	When the Saints left Nauvoo in
February, 1846, he was one among the
number of exiles, but after reaching Mt.
Pisgah in the spring remained over until
the spring of 1847, and crossed the plains
the following year, 1848, Captain of a
hundred wagons in Brigham Young’s
company to Salt Lake.
	February 12, 1849, he was ordained an
Apostle, and became a member of the
Quorum of the Twelve. In October of
that year he was appointed to open up a
mission in Italy and the adjoining countries
with three other Elders assisting, organ-
zed a mission in Italy, in November, 1850.
The first converts were Waldenses and the
work spread into Switzerland. At this
time he translated the Book of Mormon and
some pamphlets into Italian. He then
started for India, but on account of an
accident to the ship at Malta he was disap-
pointed in visiti[-]g the Orient and returned
home. The fall after he was appointed by
the Church authorities to locate fifty fami-l
ies within what is now Box Elder County.
He at once proceeded to lay out a city, and
called it Brigham and he was very soon
after made President of that Stake of Zion.
When the County was organized he was
a member of the Council of the Territorial
Assembly of Utah, and continued in the
Legislature for thirty years, during that
time he was twelve years President of the
Council.
	In 1864 he was called on a special mis-
sion to the Sandwich Islands, and when
trying to land at Lahaina, March 31, the
boat capsized in a terrible storm and
President Snow was taken out of the water


apparently dead, but was miraculously
restored to life by his brethren inflating
his lungs with their own breath and his life
was again restored.
His success as a financier in Brigham
city is well known and he established
many prosperous home industries in that
locality. 
When the Edmund’s law was enforced
Apostle Snow was one who was sentenced
under the principle of segregation. His
case was tried before the Supreme Court of
the United States, and after serving eleven
months in the penitentiary he was released
by a decision of said court. His fortitude
and heroism during this long term of
imprisonment for conscience sake won for
him the highest respect from the officers of
the law.
On the demise of President Wilford
Woodruff, Lorenzo Snow, then President
of the Quorum of the Apostles, became by
right of succession, President of the
Church, and was officially elected on
September 13, 1898. At the dedication of
the Temple, April 6, 1893, Apostle Snow
was made President of the Temple, which
position he held at the time of his demise.
His life has been full of noble work well
and faithfully performed. He was posses-
sed of superior executive ability and enter-
prise in whatever pursuit he took part, and
his advice in business matters was con-
sidered wise and his judgment sound.
President Snow was a man of fine intel-
lectuality, a vigorous writer, a student of
classical literature all his life, fond of read-
ing and passionately fond of music of the
best quality, a patron of the fine arts and
altogether a man of culture and refinement
in its highest and best sense.
His labors among the people since he
became President of the Church have been
incessant and arduous for a man of his
years, but he had wonderful vitality and
powers of endurance almost beyond a pos-
sibility of believing.

