	PROVIDENCE, CACHE Co., Jan. 14, 1877.
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	At our regular Relief Society meeting
which is held on the first Thursday of
every month, our worthy Bishop and a few
of the brethren met with us, a good spirit
prevailed, much good instruction was im-
parted to us by the Bishop. He said it was
his desire that we, as sisters, should take
hold and carry out the counsel given by
President Young in regard to storing up
grain.
	The President, Sister Margaret Mathews,
urged upon us the importance of taking
heed to this counsel, and in faith and with
energy do all we can whereby we might
sustain ourselves and our little ones in the
day of famine and distress; she also coun-
seled the sisters to sustain the EXPONENT
by subscribing for it, showing to us the im-
portance, as wives and mothers, to sustain
to the best of our endeavors everything
calculated in its nature to benefit the saints.
We have commenced collecting grain, our
means are very limited, but it is the inten-
tion of the sisters to do all they can. When

[Column 2]
we heard of the arrival of Sister E. R.
Snow in Logan and that it was her inten-
tion to visit this settlement, the sisters here
were expecting a treat of good things by
listening to her instruction, when lo! the
next report that came, was that she had re-
turned to Salt Lake City, and no one could
tell the cause of her sudden departure, and
many conjectures were circulated among
the sisters but the most feasible idea that
we could arrive at was, that the weather
was too cold for her to travel, and that when
it got warmer she, with others, would visit
us.
	We hail with delight the prospect of
having a Temple erected in Cache Co., to
the name of the Lord, whereby we can of-
ficiate for those that have died without the
knowledge of the Gospel.
	The Lord has blessed us with health, we
have not been afflicted with sickness as
some settlements have, and hope and pray
that the Lord in His goodness and mercy
may continue to look over our imperfect-
ness, that our lives may be spared to do good
among the Saints, and while certain individ-
uals that once partook of the good spirit,
but through transgression have denied the
faith and are striving to bring trouble upon
us, we as saints will renew our diligence,
and become more united in our actions and
feelings, so that we may enjoy a greater
portion of the Holy Spirit and become
more perfect; this is the desire of my
heart.
						E. E. M.

