									SHAKESPEARE.
	The very fact that God is in all His
works consistent that He never created
something for nothing, is a positive demon-
stration that there are no "surplus women,"
and that according to the first command-
ment given to man, (and we believe just as
binding upon woman) namely to "multiply
and replenish the earth," and from which
law there has never been an appeal, proves
that every man and woman who desires to
obey the laws of God should marry. There
is no doubt as many men as women born

[Column 2]
into the world but nature's laws are pervert-
ed, the means she has provided are not
properly adjusted, because sin has come into
the world, and an antagonism has developed
itself which has to be met and dealt with;
it has created a disturbance and confusion
and disarranged the eternal laws and prin-
ciples which were they carried out in their
perfection would reconcile and harmonize
all animate nature.
	God has given to those whom he created
in His own image, an agency and the power
to use that as an influence for good or evil,
and through the errors and darkness of
"the blind leaders of the blind," instead of
trusting in all humility and meekness upon
God, men have wandered further and fur-
ther from the right and become so wrapt
in traditions that it is almost impossible to
make them comprehend the will of Jeho-
vah. Misconstructed governments which
contain in their codes the elements of dis-
solution, are the causes of the degenerating
consequences which are becoming more
than ever noticeable. A few years back
there was less talk of the great majority of
old maids, and also of divorces. What are
the causes of these results? Philosophers
tell us there is no effect without a cause,
and if, as some writers affirm, there are not
women enough in certain localities for each
man to have a wife, why do not men marry
those who are marriageable; probably the
fact is, that women choose to remain old
maids, rather than marry useless, profigate,
or intemperate men. We still persist in
saying there are more good women than
men and if they cannot marry honorable
husbands they choose to remain single, un-
til they fully comprehend the laws of com-
plete progression, and then they will not
unite themselves wtth wicked men, for of
what avail would it be? They would only
lead them into misery and degradation and
entail upon them an everlasting curse instead
of blessing.
	It is no mysterious dispensation of provi-
dence that has left them "lone roses to pine
on the stem," or unprovided with husbands
to support, protect and comfort them.
	Sir Henry James (we are informed) calls
unmarried women "social failures," by
what name or phrase would he christen
bachelors? They not only fail socially but
morally, physically and spiritually; and on
them instead of woman, no doubt will fall
the sin of not fulfilling the first command-
ment, because woman by tradition, custom
and long-established laws of society, does
not assert a right to choose for herself, one
who shall be her companion and the father
of her children. Woe be unto her if she
dare so outrage the man-made positive laws
of social and domestic life. Such a woman
is made the jest and by-word of her sisters
even, and the scoff and scorn of those who
call themselves "the protectors and support-
ers of the weaker sex." Occasionally you
will hear the remark that woman has as
much right to her choice as man, but she
must not speak out, or show her preference
except by seeking to attract with womanly
grace and sweetness, modestly, quietly and
unobtrusively. In my estimation it is far
more honorable to openly avow one's senti-
ments than to practice all the wiles and arts
of modern or ancient invention for the sake
of procuring the husband of one's choice,
or failing in that, to profane the holy ordi-
nance of marriage before high heaven at
the sacred altar, with one who does not
form with you that perfect bond of love and
confidence which is essential to the ele-
ments which should enter into that new
life which is to be the fruit of your union.

