SCIENTIFIC NOTES.

	A magnificently beautiful meteoric dis-
play was recently witnessed from Jackson-
ville, Ill. Kansas, Missouri, Iowa, Illinois
and Indiana were favored with a sight of
this meteor, which is said by observers to
have surpassed in grandeur anything of the
kind which has ever been seen in this coun-
try. The meteor lighted up the whole
earth and heavens brilliantly, and imparted
a subdued green coloring to the objects on
which the light rested. One singular fea-
ture of the occurrence was that, instead of
coming towards the earth, it passed in a
horizontal direction from west to east. It
was seen first in the west, when it resem-
bled a blazing, burning ball, nearly as large
as the full moon. As it swept along with
its fiery tail it seemed some twenty de-
grees in length, and some ten to twenty
fragments following it. When it reached a
point considerably east of north it burst in-
to from ten to twenty fragments, not unlike
the bursting of a rocket, and these frag-
ments seemed to disappear in a bank of
clouds. From the time the meteor was
first seen in the west till lost sight of in the
east full twenty seconds had elapsed.
	Recently the "San Francisco Chronicle"
described a ball of fire visible in that city,
which fell into the sea. It is stated that
between twelve and one, just after mid-


night, there was visible a peculiar light on
the sand and sea around, and looking up an
immense ball of fire was observed descend-
ing to the earth. Its course was rapid and
the mass fell into the sea about half a mile
from shore; it made a loud hissing noise,
followed by a sharp explosion. The com-
bustion occasioned by the immense velocity
with which the object traveled through the
atmosphere remained visible for about two
minutes. From the brilliancy and area of
fire surrounding the splash by the sudden
immersion in the water, it is conjectured
the aerolite must have been of immense
size. The number of meteors lately visible
have called the attention of scientific per-
sons to the cause; there is much diversity
of opinion regarding the nature and origin
of these aerolites. The two most widely
accepted is that they are bodies of the
planetary system that have come near
enough to be acted upon by the orbits. A
great many aerolites have been found and
many are in the different scientific institu-
tions in the world. The largest of which
there is any authentic record was found by
a Swedish Arctic Expedition in 1870, on
the west coast of Greenland. It weighs 25
tons, and is now at the Royal Academy at
Stockholm. The opinion most generally
conceded for the great number of meteors
which have appeared of late is that the
earth is passing through a belt of aerolite.


