	WOMAN IN THE CHURCHES.

	Rev. Isaac M. See, of the Wickliffe
Church, who is upon trial for permitting
women to preach from his pulpit, occupied
the entire session of the Newark (New Jer-
sey) Presbytery on Thursday, in making
his defense, speaking thereon for three and
a half hours. The matters contained in
the charge, he said, were such as related
to his relation as a Christian minister and
to the Lord Jesus Christ, the king and head
of all things in the Church. The women
who had preached in his church were dele-
gates to a National Convention which was
being held at Newark, and he had no
thought that any of the delegates proposed
speaking in his chapel until the day pre-
vious to their appearing there. He had
been glad to have them there, for he was
pleased to see that the Lord had opened up
a field for his daughters in a sphere where
men had so signally failed; but in permit-
ting this occupancy of his pulpit he had no
thought of going counter to the wishes of
the Presbytery. It was only after prayer-
ful consideration that this action had been
taken, and it was not until meeting with
Dr. Craven on the succeeding Wednesday
that he had the least intimation that he
had done aught at which any of his breth-
ren could take offense. He believed that
women had as much power in the preach-
ing of the Holy Gospel as he had himself.
His experience in the company of blessed
baptized women had been for the past
twelve years in attendance on what were
called "Tuesday meetings" at the house of
Dr. Palmer, in the city of New York. Mrs.
Palmer he regarded as a woman of God,
baptized of the Holy Ghost for her work.
A more noble life than hers he did not
think he ever saw, nor a person of more
personal power. He would scarcely be
willing to stand and preach when he could
not invite such a person as Mrs. Palmer to
stand and preach and teach the Holy Gos-
pel. In those Palmer meetings he had
heard the grandest eloquence from female
lips.
	In relation to the Bible teaching, he
would call the attention of the Presbytery
to the passage, "We are neither Greek nor
Jew, bond nor free, male nor female," and
in his opinion, Woman was the most vital
portion of the house of God. It was evi-
dent that she was coming into a wider lib-
erty than ever before; the events of the
past few years would prove this to every
unprejudiced mind—not to a Presbyterian
mind, perhaps, but to the mind that looks
outside a narrow sectarian view. He would
not urge her right to ordination, but he did
claim that she had a right to stand, as any
layman might stand, and preach either in
pulpit or pew, for the pulpit in his opinion,
was no more sacred than a barrel-head or a
sidewalk." With regard to the commands
of Paul that women should be silent in the
churches, Mr. See said that in those days
in Corinth there were babbling women, and
it was probably such women that Paul had
reference to. There were also babbling wo-
men in the present day, as any one might
find, if they tried to get up a church fair or
festival. The women of Corinth were of
the most degraded type, which was a suffi-
cient reason for Paul's mandate to them.
The act for which he stood charged was not
forbidden either in the book of discipline
or in the confession of faith, and why should
he promise not to do it any more?
	A Brother—Because you are bound to re-
gard the peace of the Church. You are
bound to keep it.

[Column 2]
	Mr. See—Jesus said he came not to bring
peace, but a sword.
	Mr. See next alluded to the deliverance
of the General Assembly of 1874 to the ef-
fect that the ministers and elders of each
church must decide for themselves as to
the propriety of women teaching; "and so,"
said he, "on the one side is the Apostolic
injunction to silence, and on the other the
General Assembly says: 'Do as you please.'
Dr. Cuyler's people have done as they
pleased, and my people have done as they
pleased. The whole matter is that the
teaching of Paul was correct and fitting for
his day, but his ministry ended with his
death. The Church of Christ lived through
the ages, and each age must be governed by
its customs. The woman of to-day is diff-
erent in every respect from the woman of
previous days, and the woman of the future
has a yet more glorious destiny before her.
For myself, I had rather die in ignominy
to-night than to yield this point in the least.
My fear is not for myself, but for you, lest
you should cling to the letter that killeth
rather than to the spirit which giveth light.
May God bless you and guide you aright."
	Oliver Johnson, editor of the Orange (N.
J.) Journal makes the following comment:

