			CANTON, FULTON CO., ILL.,
							Jan. 10, 1877.
TO ELIZA R. SNOW.
	Dear sister:—As you are President of the
Relief Society, I deem it proper to report
progress to you, and the good sisters asso-
ciated with you in your labors of love and
charity among the Saints in Zion. Although
charity begins at home with the ladies of
Utah, their power is felt for good all over
the land; not only in words, but by noble
deeds of sacrifice in the establishment of
right. I feel proud of my sisters in Zion,
and am one with them in the glorious work
of assisting to establish righteousness in the
kingdom of God. Although my calling is
to preach the Word of life and salvation
abroad in this dark, benighted nation, dis-
tracted and demoralized by corruption and
misrule, until anarchy has taken the place
of law and order all over the land. The
fact is they have fallen upon the "little
stone in the mountains" and are being brok-
en to pieces. And thus it may become the
Head of the Corner, but that is their busi-
ness. Our labor is to build up the kingdom
of God, and warn the honest in heart to
flee from the impending judgments about to
fall on this nation.
	On the 5th of last March, Junius F.
Wells and myself organized a Branch of the
Church in this place with seven members;
now it numbers fifty souls, all rejoicing in
the truth. On Monday, Dec. 31st, I organ-
ized a Branch of the Relief Society in this
place, to be called the Fulton Co. Branch
Relief Society, with Sister Sarah Williams
President, Elizabeth Emanuel and Emile
Williams Counselors; Emile Williams Sec-
retary, and Ellen Vaughan Treasurer.
	We instructed them to send a report of
their proceedings to the Editor of the EX-
PONENT for publication, as they desire to
be one with their sisters in Zion. They
had a temporary organization and were
awaiting my return to organize them offi-
cially.
	Remember me kindly to your co-workers
in the cause of truth, and believe me as
ever one with you, and all the faithful in
the kingdom of God.
