CAUSES OF ILL-HEALTH.

	In looking over the Journal of Nov. 4th,
I was saddened by the perusal of an article
on the failing health of Western women;
not believing in Dr. Draper's assertion in
his Physiology, that "Woman is mentally
and physically imperfect," but merely con-
sidering the doctor a second edition of that
impious King Alfonzo of Spain, who said
that if the Almighty had consulted him
when he made the world, he could have
given him some useful hints! It seems to
me there are two idols worshipped by wo-
men, which are the cause of so much mar-
red existence. The first, Fashion that great
Diana of the Parisians, before whom the
world lies prostrate and Woman disabled;
upon her ring of changes trade is kept brisk.
She is remorseless and untiring in her de-
mand, slaying her thousands, while she fills
the coffers of the merchant princes.
	The masterly silence of the physicians
are spoken of, this I think will often be
found a necessity, to cover the uncertainty
and short coming of the profession. This
is the second idol; women at large learn al-
most everything but that which is of the
most vital importance to them, viz: the
knowledge of the "House they live in,"
which is really a captivating study; then,


if from irregular manner of living, insuffi-
cient sleep, lack of needful exercise, er-
rors in clothing, and mechanical restraints
of dress on the free movement of the body,
women are lost to all healthy enjoyment,
they consign themselves, it may be, to the
hands of a strange physician, without in-
quiry even of his antecedents and surround-
ings. Then often it is masterly arrogance
on one side, and ignorant submission on the
other.
	The American Journal of Medical Science
says: "Every thoughtful man who wishes
well to this department, Gynoecology, (dis-
eases of women) must view with concern
the unwise haste with which young practic-
ioners, who have neither time nor oppartu-
nity to acquire experience in general medi-
cine, strive to devote themselves to it."
Perhaps not more than one-tenth of those
who take the two years' courses of lec-
tures in our great rival schools, ever have the
opportunity of practical knowledge in hospi-
tal wards. Huxley's address before the
managers of the John Hopkins University,
it is to be hoped will have a happy influ-
ence in this direction.
	General culture is the remedy for this
gaeat evil. Human Physiology should be
taught in every girl's school, so that moth-
ers may no longer cripple their children
from the cradle.
	Dr. B. W. Richardson, in that admirable
book, "Diseases of Modern Life," says "It
is as if the fashion willed that to be fashion-
able is to be physically disabled."
	In conclusion, shall I offer a quotation
from another physician, Dr. Samuel Bard,
to wit: "I confess, not without severe regret,
that toward the end of thirty years' prac-
tice, I found much less occassion for the
use of instruments than I did in the begin-
ning, and I believe we may certainly con-
clude that the person who, in proportion to
the extent of his practice, meets with the
most frequent occasion for their use, knows
least of the powers of Nature, and that he
who boasts of his skill and success in their
application is a very dangerous man.”
	THEMISTA.
