								COWPER.

	In the long winter evenings there are hours
which the great Creator of seasons and times
seems to have allotted to mortals for enjoyment
and self-examination. It is customary at this
season, among all classes of people, to draw
around the hearth, cheerful or dull, and partici-
pate more or less in some simple home pastime
—such as stories of a marvellous nature, or old
legends of fairies, ghosts, hobgoblins, or any
remniscence of reality or fiction that presents
itself first upon the tablet of the mind. Sub-
jects chosen a[-] this time are usually character-
istic of the person or the place, and partake in
a noticeable degree of the atmosphere which
predominates.
	Sitting by a blazing fire of coal, all aglow,
sending forth animation and warmth, one sus-
ceptible of outward impressions feels imbued
with pleasant thoughts and bright pictures or
representations of life; something appropriate
to the cheerful aspect of the room, and the ra-
diant faces lit up by the glow and warmth of
the burning coal, which suggest happy

[Column 2]
thoughts and pleasing ideas on the past, prese[-]t
and future.

		"Ere the evening lamps are lighted,
			And, like phantoms, grim and tall,
		Shadows from the fitful fireside
			Dance upon the parlor wall."

	At such moments, when the busy toil of the
day is over, and one sits down to muse for a
respite, ere the night fairly closes in, with all
its ceremony of silent potency, this verse of
Longfellow's may be most fully realized. Who
has not sat and watched fitful shadows cast
upon the wall by the reflection of the dull fire-
light, and drawn comparisons suited to the con-
dition of mind and the adaptibility of such
shading and outlining to the musings of the
fancies within?
	"We belong to our time," some one has said;
is it because people partake in a large degree
of the influence of surroundings and associa-
tions?
	It is extremely difficult to realize the cold-
ness, apathy and hard selfishness of human
nature taken as a whole, when the heart is full
of generous warmth, and overflowing with
blessings, which, though small perhaps in
themselves, are great, according to the spirit of
appreciation in which they are received.
	The actual busy "work-a-day world," with all
its shifting, noises, sights and struggles, is shut
out from the circle by the fireside, as though it
were a thing of the past. There may be news-
papers telling of some friend that has passed
away, or some one who has failed in business,
or of the general obligations of mankind—but
their interest is transient and fails to fix the
attention but for a few moments only.
	It is pleasant and customary in some homes
to have tea or chocolate with rosy apples or
dough-nuts, to while away the long evenings
which succeed the short days; but we were
upon the subject of reveries, we were not think
ing of newspapers, letters, recreations, tea or
refreshments just now, "a truce to all these,"
(nevertheless "one cannot feed upon air") but
our cogitations sitting here by the glowing:
grate were of old legends, past experiences,
dreamy fancies, that have long since died in
embryo—sentiments choked to death in the
expression, memories of childhood and school-
days, and by-gone anticipations, which are now
perhaps the more pleasant from lack of fulfill-
ment, thinking of these and conjuring up com-
parisons, shadings and imitations to life,
watching the fitful blaze and the shadowy re-
flections find it most delightful amusement for
a few hours.
	Musings like these are not unprofitable, they
lead one to look into the labyrinths of the
mind, and ascertain whether there are still
rich, fertile, uncultivated, or unexplored fields
for life's uses, with fresh bubbling springs of
thought ready to bring into real actual service
the reserved forces, which time and opportuni-
ties may yet develop into special phases for the
good of mankind. These reveries are not only
attractive in themselves, but ofttimes a posi-
tive relief, especially to the over-burdened
mind; the scientific thinker in any and all of the
professions, the pursuits and avocations of daily
labor, and some of these comprise real drudg-
ery, mental or physical, such persons should
allow themselves part at least of these long,
winter evenings to recruit mental and physi-
cal forces. If all vitality is drained the person
becomes stale, dry and unfruitful, then the
special mission assigned them upon the earth
will fail in its complete accomplishment.
	These are hours given more especially for
contemplation and reflection, and charity for
one's self and all the universal brotherhood.
Cherish then in these hours of firelight reve-

[Column 3]
ries "love of our neighbors" and a desire to
recognize the affections which centre in home-
life, and become better acquainted not only
with one's self, but with each others finer and
more lovable attributes. The winter evenings
should contribute to that tenderness, devotion
and regard for each other's happiness, which
are the most pleasing features of home inter-
course. These are times when men and women
may enter with zeal and true appreciation into
those charming little courtesies that endear
and beautify home-life, purifying the best ele-
ments of character, and refining the tone of
every-day association. Were men and women
to devote a little more time and thought to
practising virtues and endearments at home,
there would be less excuse for seeking these at-
tractions and enjoyments abroad.
					[handwritten] E. B. Wells


