				ST. GEORGE, Jan. 2, 1877.
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	Yesterday the Temple in this city, or a
portion of it, was dedicated. At 10 o'clock
the people began to wend their way to the
Temple block. It was announced on the
day previous, at meeting, that the doors
would be opened at 12 o'clock m. and closed
at a quarter to one. Everybody seemed
anxious to be there too early rather than too
late. Riding down a little before twelve,
one met people going by ones and twos;
wagons loaded with men and women; and
some few carriages occupied by happy-look-
ing people; and on almost every face was
seen  thoughtful but joyous expression, in
keeping with the occasion. The building
was surrounded by a throng of people when
we arrived. Presently the carriage con-
taining the President drove up at the south
side entrance to the basement. Simultane-
ously the several doors were opened, and
the people crowded into the two large rooms
—running north and south—of the base-
ment story. President Young: together
with those of the Twelve Apostles who
were present, and some of the leading
brethren, occupied the font-room. The
large double doors connecting the large halls
with the font room were thrown open to en-
able all to hear. At the time appointed the

[Column 2]
outer doors were closed and the services
commenced by the congregation singing
the hymn, "The Spirit of God like a fire is
burning." Bros. Woodruff and Snow then
gave some instructions to the people, as to
how they should conduct themselves while
the prayer was being offered up. That
every heart should be uplifted to God, and
every head bowed, and every eye closed.
Apostle Woodruff then solemnly ascended
the steps leading to the font, and in an im-
pressive manner appealed to Almighty God
to accept of His people's offering. My own
heart and mind were too interested in the
prayer to notice anything. But nothing
was forgotten in it. The blessing of Heav-
en was sought on all the Relief Societies
throughout the world. Also upon all the
sisters who had contributed in any way to
the building of the House. Of course I
could but remember this, as I was included
among those sisters. At the close of the
prayer, the choir, under the leadership of
Bro. McFarlan, sang a beautiful hymn com-
posed for the occasion by C. L. Walker.
The congregation then proceeded to the
main hall on the next floor. After complete
order was obtained, another hymn was sung
and Bro. Erastus Snow delivered the dedi-
catory prayer for that room and its sur-
roundings. President Young with some of the
leading brethren then ascended to the seal-
ing room to dedicate that. The voices of
the brethren united in a hymn floated down
to us, like the distant strains of a heavenly
choir. After the brethren returned to the
lower room, the people were told that work
was to be commenced in the Temple imme-
diately.
	Then that which the people had so longed
for, and still hoped for, transpired; Presi-
dent Young arose in the power of the Holy
Ghost and addressed the multitude. His
exhortations were powerful and impressive.
The house seemed filled with a heavenly
host, and the President's face fairly shone
with the light of the Holy Ghost. His re-
marks were reported in full and will short-
ly be published.
	To-day he feels much better than could
be expected; seems cheerful and comforta-
ble; was out in his carriage this afternoon.
	It was estimated that there were over
1,200 people present, yesterday, at the
Temple.
	The weather here is simply delightful.
Imagine yourself enjoying an ideal spring.
A deep blue sky, a few white fleecy clouds
a warm, brilliant sun, with rather cold
nights, and you have a picture of the state
of the weather day after day. Not even
rain enough for a little mud. Warm and
pleasant, except at night.
							S. Y. D


[Column 1]
						For the EXPONENT.
