			BACKBITING.

	Of all pernicious habits to which the
weakness of the human race permits us to
become addicted, there is none more prev-
alent, contemptible, treacherous and crim-
inal than what is familiarly known as
"backbiting." Prevalent, because it is
practiced unknowingly; contemptible, be-
cause it is ever linked with hypocrisy;
treacherous because it not only calumniates
its victims but debases its votaries; and
criminal because it violates a direct com-
mand of God. It is double dealing and dis-
honorable; for, in addition to causing the
contempt of our associates, it forces us to
despise ourselves. Like a two-edged sword
in the hands of a child, or a subtle poison,
envenoming all it touches. It lives by
associating with its sister Gossip, and
alighting on a half-ruined character and
mangling it when it thinks no danger is
near; like a vulture too cowardly to attack
its prey openly, when some other hand has
struck the fatal blow, greedily pounces up-
on the dead and dying; how many of us
there are who yield to and practice a form
of this vice, and yet do not realize that we
do so!
	We are sitting in our room, alone, when
a friend drops in to chat a few minutes; the
conversation flags for a moment, when either
one or the other happens to remember what
such a one said about so and so, or what
public opinion is respecting Mr. A.; again
it is confided to us, in the st.ictest secrecy,
that Miss B. really did this and that, or
that it is a great pity, a matter of regret
that Mr C. is of such a nature or character,
etc.; and ere we are aware, we find our-
selves exchanging critical opinions and
commentaries, and dealing out this social
scandal as though it were an incumbent
duty.
	Everywhere it is the same—at home,
abroad, on the street or in the parlor and

[Column 2]
ballroom—we feel that we connot be enter-
taining; and making this end justify the
means, adopt this careless and ruinous mode
of accomplishing it. If we knew the con-
tempt this habit inspires in the minds of
our listeners—even though they practice it
—it might influence us to suppress it. Let
us ask ourselves if we are pleased to hear
others abused? No, we are not. It is in
opposition to Christian philanthropy; and
what assurance have we to the contrary,
that it is only our presence which secures
us from similar treatment? None whatever,
the scandal-monger and backbiter are com-
mon enemies to mankind.
	These, however, are generally of the
more innocent kind, that draw on the re-
source for conversational material. There
is another class, though it is hard to draw
the line of demarcation—actuated by envy
and personal malice, and use such unfair,
mean ways to avenge their wrongs and pro-
mote their private interests. These are
slanderers. It is difficult to determine,
though, which of the two kinds produce
the worst results, but we are led to believe,
strange as it may appear to some, that the
first may lay claim to the distinction; for,
on the same principle that a false friend
may work more injury than the bitterest
enemy, so can the apparently friendly,
semi-condoling gossip create more trouble
than the professional slanderer. Why?
Because we will listen to and heed the one,
while we always distrust the other.
	But every word has its weight, and
though a good character is the best proof
against abuse, yet even as continual drops
of water wear away the stone, so if there
be a pregnable or half-weakened spot in an
otherwise good name, evil words, canker-
like, gnaw their way through. But, asks,
one, will not truth arrest itself? Yes, if
we will allow it a fair hearing, but alas! we
often deny it the privilege of a trial, too
readily trample it into the dust; and though
"truth crushed to the earth will rise again"
yet it is frequently discouraged by relent-
less persecution, and falls to rise no more,
until after-history vindicates the rights con-
temporaries denied.
	If we would but stop a moment and cal-
culate the result of every disparaging word
we feel tempted to utter, few of us could
be induced to proceed. If we knew the
unhappiness and misery that flies through
the world on the wings of slander, we
would pause at length before adding our
quota to the general curse; for as hesitation
loses much, so does it gain much, and the
still small voice of conscience is an arbiter
which is ever ready to condemn a wicked
deed, or applaud a good one, if we will al-
low it to assume its office as the dictator of
our actions. Professional slanderers, thank
heaven, are the exception and not the rule,
but how careful we ought to be that we do
not progress in the downward path until
we swell their numbers and merit their
punishment—ostracism from good society
and the favor of onr God. The only way
to escape is to repudiate all tendencies in
that direction, to discountenance by exam-
ple and precept, the vicious propensity of
"backbiting." By doing this we follow
the teachings of our Savior "speak evil of

[Column 3]
no one." We are all frail creatures and
continually liable to go astray. We ask
God to forgive our weaknesses; should we
not, then, forgive the shortcomings of our
fellow men? and unless we do, is it not
hollow mockery to pray? The apostle Paul
says: "Though I speak with the tongue of
an angel, though I have faith to remove
mountains and understand all myster-
ies and all knowledge, and have not char-
ity, I am nothing." Let us then be charit-
able and forgiving, and when a fellow crea-
ture says or does wrong, or is not just as
we think he should be, don't tear his name
to pieces, or disparage him by unkind
words, but show him his error and encour-
age him in his efforts to reform. Remem-
ber the words of our Savior. "Judge not
lest ye be judged," and, "let him that is
guiltless cast the first stone."
