THE CURSE OF THE HOUR.

	There is too much lying. On every hand
we meet with exaggeration, equivocation,
deception. We call it all lying, and every
one who intentionally varies one iota from
the strictest fact and truth, is indeed a liar.
	The expressman agrees to deliver a trunk
for you at a certain place by a certain hour.
He delivers it the day after. The grocer
promises to send you the best tea in the
market. He takes the first he lays his
hands upon without any care for the quality,
and dispatches it to you without a twinge.
The printer promises to do your work
cheaper than it can be done elsewhere in
town. He forgets his promise and charges
what he pleases. The tailor agrees to de-
liver a suit of clothes without fail by six in
the evening. You get them in the morn-
ing. The dentist pledges his word that
your teeth as filled by him will be all right
for a dozen years. The fillings come out
in six months. The man over the way is
in need of a temporary loan. You lend him
a small sum which he promises to return at
given time. He keeps it a month over the
time. An auctioneer tells you that a cer-
tain picture is by a master artist. He lies
and is not worthy of trust. A salesman
lies about his goods. A watch maker about
your watch. The gossiper at the dinner
table tells exaggerated stories to astonish
the ladies. The florist assures you that his
flowers were picked in the morning, when
they are two days old. The book publisher
advertises that his book is selling by the
tens of thousands, when he has not sold a
thousand.
	Everywhere we hear lying, lying, lying.
Men and women, who would knock you
down if you called them liars. Deception
is the rule rather than exception. Canvass-
ers lie about companies. Brokers about
stock. Editors lie about politics. Exagger-
ation and misrepresentation rule the hour,
and are its curse.
	Gentlemen— ladies — why can not the
truth be told always and ever? Why all
this deception and lying? Why so much
falsifying and cheating? In the name of
all that is true and good, we beg of you to
do as you agree!—The Alpha.


