			BREAKING LOOSE.

	What is coming now, we wonder? A few
years since, the Rev. Dr. Cuyler, of Brook-
lyn was overhauled by his Presbytery upon
complaint of Dr. Vandyke, for allowing Miss
Smiley, the sweet-hearted Quakeress, to
call sinners to the Saviour from his pulpit.
The case, we believe, was taken to the Gen-
eral Assembly, whose utterance upon the
subject was not satisfactory to the com-
plainant. And now behold! here is anoth-
er rebellious minister, the Rev. Mr. See, of
Newark, who, on Sunday, Oct. 29 last, (we
love to preface when such a crime is report-
ed) "did, both in the morning and evening,
introduce females whom he permitted and
encouraged then and there publicly to
preach and teach, being in violation of the
Book of Discipline." The women here re-
ferred to were members of the late Wo-
man's Temperance Convention, whom Mr.
See permitted to occupy his pulpit on that
occasion. They were Mrs. Robinson, of
Indiana, and Mrs. C. S. Whitney, of Hart-
ford, Conn.
	The Presbytery met in Newark on
Wednesday, for the trial of Mr. See. After
some preliminary skirmishing, the com-
plaint was taken up, and Mr. See admitted
the specifications but denied the charge.
The Rev. Dr. Craven, the complainant, then
took the floor and in a two hours speech
presented his side of the question. His
mouth was full of compliments for woman.
Nobody appreciated her noble qualities, her
delicacy, her refinement, her purity and de-
votion more than himself; but inasmuch as
Paul had commanded the ignorant and
newly converted Greek women to be silent
in the churches, when if they had spoken
they would only have brought reproach up-
on the cause, he insisted that women in all
ages however intelligent and well qualified
to present the claims of the gospel and how-
ever wide the demand for their services
and the willingness to hear them might be,
should hold their peace. He felt kindly to-
ward Mr. See, but believed it to be his duty
as a minister of this Presbyterian Church
to resist this innovation of woman's preach-
ing as contrary both to Scripture and the
Standards.
	On Thursday Mr. See defended himself
with power and eloquence. He did not
flinch, but met the question squarely, de-

[Column 3]
claring his belief that God is in this new
departure for Christian women as teachers
and preachers.
	The Presbytery adjourned till Wednes-
day, when it will meet to render its ver-
dict. Meanwhile we have a "little story,"
which we commend to Dr Craven and
those who may be inclined to agree with
him.
	Nearly forty years ago, two Quaker wo-
men, of high Southern birth (Sarah and An-
gelina Grimke), having emancipated their
own slaves, came to the North to plead the
cause of their enslaved sisters before those
of their own sex. They went by invitation
to Massachusetts, where in such vestries,
halls and private houses as in that day could
be procured for such a purpose, they depict-
ed the wrongs and cruelties of the slave
system, as they had witnessed them from
childhood. They produced a powerful im-
pression wherever they went, and at length
the Legislature of the State invited one of
them to speak in their Hall, and attended
the lecture in a body. Those clergymen of
the State who stood guard over slavery
were in a terrible state of dismay in view
of these proceedings, and when the general
Association of Congressional ministers came
together in annual meeting, a Protestant
"bull," framed by the man who afterwards
earned the soubriquet of "South-side
Adams," was promulgated for the purpose
of arresting the evil. This "bull" is the
subject of one of Whittier's stirring lyrics.
	But the nub of our little story is a pen
caricature, drawn at that day by a Quaker's
skillful hand. The picture represents a
crowd of women enclosed by a circular
wall, so high that they could not scale it.
Here and there was a breach, through
which a few were trying to escape. March-
ing around this enclosure was a guard of
men in clerical garb, with guns upon their
shoulders, some of them with the point of
the bayonet, driving back the women who
sought to escape. In the background stood
his Satanic Majesty in his well known uni-
form, and from his mouth escaping this le-
gend: "That's right, my helpers—don't
let 'em out; if you do my cake will be all
dough."
	We commend this bit of history to the
Rev. Dr. Craven and the Newark Presby-
tery.—Woman's Journal.


