OBITUARY.

	Died, in Ogden City, Jan. 14th, 1877, Mary
W. Brown. She was born in Stockport, Ches-
shire, Eng., 30th of March, 1814. Embraced
the Gospel in 1850, and came to the valley in
1854. In 1855 she was married to Capt. James
Brown of Ogden. She was an exemplary wo-
man. She adopted two motherless children
and bestowed on them the care, anxiety and
love of a fond mother; and during her sickness
the thought of them was always uppermost
and she would frequently say, "What will be-
come of my poor boys?" She was a subscriber
to the EXPONENT, and a member of the Relief
Society. As a faithful Latter-day Saint she
loved her religion and lived it truly and con-
sistently, and has died with a glorious hope
of the resurrection, respected and esteemed by
all who knew her. "Blessed are the dead that
die in the Lord," for they shall come forth in
the morning of the resurrection crowned with
eternal glory."					A. M. F.
	Ogden, Jan. 24th, 1877.


AN INTERESTING discovery of a part of
the old Roman wall has been lately made at
London in the heart of the city. Some
buildings were demolished in Camomile
Street, near its junction with Bishopsgate
Street, and in the excavation some thirty-
six feet of the old wall were revealed, be-
sides a bastion. The wall was fully nine
feet thick; the bastion projects on the north-
ern side, is more than semi-circle, solid; and
about sixteen feet across; the heights va-
ried from two to four feet and a half, and
the whole was about ten feet below the lev-
el of the modern street. The wall had had
faces of roughly wrought stone, with a
double band of the usual bright tiles on thecity side; but on the outside much dark
iron stone had been used. Much Kentisli
rag stone and green stone had also been em-
ployed, and this seems to point to an epoch
for the construction, when the Romans had
a knowledge of the country and ability to
transport materials to considerable distance.


SCENE, library. Freshman—"Where
shall I find Darwin's works?" Librarian—
"What do you want with Darwin?"—
Freshman—"I want his "Origin of Species,'
so as to find something about this finance
question."—Cornell Era.


