MORMON ELDERS IN THE EAST.

	A debate was held on Thursday and Friday
evenings, Dec. 28 and 29, between Elder A. M.
Musser of this city, and the Rev. Dr. Martin
of Ohio, in Massasoit's Hall, Strasburg, Lan-


caster Co., Penn. The following were the
heads discussed:
	1. We believe that the atonement of our Sa-
viour covered only the sins entailed upon man
by Adam's fall, and not the individual, personal
sins of men.
	2. We believe that men must work out their
own salvation from their individual sins by
their good works through faith, repentance,
baptism—by immersion, and for the remission
of sins, and the laying on of hands for the re-
ception of the Holy Ghost.
	3. We believe that the gifts of the Spirit as
enjoyed by the Saints anciently, are absolutely
necessary to the true and proper understanding
and interpretation of the Holy Scriptures,
which is a Divine record, and that the Holy
Scripture is as a sealed book to all who do not
enjoy the Holy Ghost as enjoyed by those who
wrote it.
	4. We believe that the celestial order of Mar-
riage for time and eternity, commonly called
"Polygamy," as taught by us, is strictly a
Scriptural doctrine.
	5. King James' English translation of the
Bible is our standard.
	Signed
		A. MILTON NUSSER,
		ORSON F. WHITNEY,
	Elders of the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints.
	I agree to impugn the above doctrines of
Mormonism, maintaining the doctrines of the
Presbyterian Church, including the immediate
inspiration of the Holy Scriptures as written
in the original language of the inspired pen-
man, and I believe that King James' transla-
tion is generally very good.
	Signed,
		JOHN WYNNE MARTIN.	Each speaker was limited to twenty minutes,
Elder Musser taking the affirmative, and Dr.
Martin having the concluding speech upon
each subject. Each party chose an Umpire
and those two chose a third who acted as mod-
erator.
	Passage after passage of Scripture was quoted;
and the whole evenings were spent in this
manner. Some thought the Rev. Dr. was not
as competent as he should have been, being a
little too nervous, &c. No doubt the questions
were ably dealt with by Elder Musser, but as
the adage goes,
		"Convince a man against his will,
		He's of the same opinion still."
	The world do not want the truth, they want
popularity, position and money.


