HOME AFFAIRS.

	A MOST perfect surprise was tendered to Miss
E. R. Snow on Monday, Jan. 22, the day fol-
lowing her birthday. All unexpectedly she
was invited to the residence of Mrs. Bathshe-
ba W. Smith, where she found assembled as
many of the sisters as the house could hold, to
congratulate her on the anniversary of her
natal-day, and wish her many returns of the
same with increased joy, prosperity and happi-
ness. Prest. Daniel H. Wells and Elder Orson
Pratt, sen., were present on the occasion; each
of them, in a happy manner, made some ex-
cellent remarks appropriate to the time and
place. Mrs. E. A. Whitney chanted forth in
praise a "song of Zion." A sumptuous dinner
had been shrewdly and quietly arranged, and
everything went "merry as a marriage bell."
Miss Snow was the recipient of some elegant
and valuable presents from her "dear five hun-
dred friends," but the choicest gift of all is the
love of the people.
	ANOTHER GOOD TIME.—The Fourth Annual
Meeting of the Young Ladies' Association of
the 10th Ward was held Jan. 10, 1877, at the
ward meeting house. There were in attendance
several ladies of the General Retrenchment
Association, Mrs. E. B. Wells of the Woman's
Exponent, the officers of the Ward Relief So-
ciety, and others. After Prest. Mrs. M. J.
Pierce and several of the young girls had made
suitable remarks, Sisters Bathsheba W. Smith,
Margaret Young and Wilmirth East spoke
beautifully on the principles of the Gospel, our
duties as mothers in Israel, daughters of Zion,
and their good instructions and kind counsel
will long be remembered and cherished by
those who heard them. We have had a true
spiritual feast, which will cause many to live
purer and better lives.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells spoke on the Grain Ques-
tion, Woman's Book, and Woman's Exponent.
Never before has it been known where women
have saved grain for a famine; this is a privi-
lege which God has assigned to us. The publi-
cation of the Woman's Book should be pushed
forward by the sisters, for it will preach the
Gospel in many places where the elders would
not be listened to, and will remove much of the
prejudice in regard to the Mormon Women.
The EXPONENT should also be sustained, for it
also has a voice in proclaiming to the world,
the rights and motives of the Women of Utah.
	Other remarks were made, after which we
adjourned until our next regular meeting.
	M. P.


