EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In response to my request Sister Jenson of
Brigham City forwarded the following statisti-


cal items of Mantua; not the Italian Mantua,
celebrated as the birthplace of Virgil the poet,
but a small, thriving town, one hour's drive
north from Brigham City, in "Little Valley,"
Box Elder County.			E. R. SNOW.
	"This little town was first settled in the
Spring of 1863, by eight humble and poor fam-
ilies, over whom my husband, H. P. Jensen,
presided as Bishop. They have since increased
mostly from the Old World, of the same hum-
ble class, to the number of two hundred and
eighty-three.
	They now constitute a well-ordered and hap-
py society of Latter-day Saints. They have
good meetings for worship, with a good choir.
The fathers are organized in Quorums of the
Priesthood—the mothers organized in a Relief
Society, work together in love and unity, hav-
ing a capital of $300 (three hundred dollars)—
they are striving to honor every requisition—
looking after the wants of the poor, storing up
grain against a day of famine, and living up to
the spirit of the times. The daughters are or-
ganized in a Young Ladies' Retrenchment As-
sociation—their wearing apparel being as much
as possible, "the workmanship of their own
hands." They make their own hats, artificial
flowers, &c. They meet together once in two
weeks, and have interesting meetings, and, as
daughters, are truly an honor to their parents.
	The sons are organized in a Young Men's
Mutual Improvement Society—have very in-
teresting meetings, and to their credit it may
be said, and truly, not one of those young men
indulge either in strong drink or in the use of
tobacco in any form.
	The sexes of those associations meet together
once a month—the young gentlemen and ladies
presiding alternately. This has proved a great
benefit in their improvement in the develop-
ment of their talents.
	A good day school is taught by Miss C. An-
derson. The Sunday School is well attended.
Dancing parties and other amusements are
strictly controlled according to the published
circular and counsel of the Priesthood, and
neither liquor nor round dancing is ever intro-
duced.
	Here the people have manifested their faith
by their works. In the past year, 1876, they
have donated
	For the Temple......................... $708.20
	Fast-day offering......................   136.35
	For emigrating the poor..........     78.40
		Arizona mission................   238.70
		Brigham City Tabernacle..  300.00
							     ————
			Total............................1461 65
	As this little town lies in the rude moun-
tains, eight hundred feet above Brigham City,
the people have had to contend with many dif-
ficulties in the form of grasshoppers, crickets
and frost: the former and latter were so des-
tructive last season that their wheat crop was
reduced eight bushels per head, but their econ-
omy is admirable and they are not discouraged.
They have a store in the United Order, where
the account shows that in two months' time
they sold butter and eggs to the amount of six
hundred dollars.
	So much for the little tree planted thirteen
years ago, in a cold corner of the Lord's vine-
yard."
								S. J. J.


