SOMEBODY CARES Carey came back into the living room. "I hope that you don't mind my saying this, but I don't think it would hurt you to get some rest. You look very weary." Her voice sounded motherly, as if she were addressing a member of her own family. "Tll rest after I fix the children some lunch," the young woman answered kindly. "By the way, I am Beverly Rogers, and I do want to thank you for helping me out." "The pleasure was all mine. My name is Carey Nichols." Carey's eves fell upon Michael and then the twins. "You have a fine little familer"' Beverly was glad to have someone to talk to. "Sit down a moment, if you are not in a hurry." She motioned to Carey. "You haven't lived here in town long have you? I don't recall seeing you before." "No, we haven't, Mrs. Nichols. My husband found work here a month ago, and as soon as he found a place to live, we moved here. Right after we moved here, I became ill. So you see, we just haven't gone out anywhere as yet. We really haven't put forth any effort whatever to make friends. We have been too wrapped up in our own personal problems." Svuppenty Carey had a thought. "You know I just don't see how you are going to be able to get much rest with the twins still so active. If I'm not interfering, why don't I get your lunch for you? I really haven't anything else to do." Beverly's eyes showed a note of relief as she gave her approval. "That would be very kind of you, Mrs. Nichols." Ouickly, but efficiently, Carey fixed the children some soup, sandwiches, and milk. She prepared a tray for Beverly, and when she went into the living room, she found that Beverly had fallen asleep in the easy chair. Carey took a blanket off one of the beds and put it over her. Poor girl, she must be exhausted, she thought. It was three o'clock that afternoon before Carey finished the dishes that apparently had been left since the day before. She folded up the clothes in the kitchen, and then straightened the beds in the living room. Still Beverly slept on. Just before she was ready to leave, Carey touched Beverly gently on the shoulder. "I'm going now, Beverly. The children have all been fed, and I left some soup and sandwiches for you." Beverly was startled for a moment. "What! Oh, yes, thank you very much, Mrs. Nichols. That is the best sleep I have had in a long time. You'll never know what a help this has been to me." Michael had been standing by Carey all the time, and now he took hold of her hand. "I wish that you would come back and see us again. Please." He looked pleadingly into Carey's eyes. "Please," he said once more. "Of course, dear. If your mother wants me." didn't want to push herself. "You're welcome any time, Mrs. I'll come back Carey 584 Nichols, but not to come and work. Just come and visit us again soon." Beverly's voice was pleasant, and she had a more vital look about her than when Carey had first seen her. In the ensuing days, Carey found herself going back day after day. She longed to help with the children and listen to their eager stories. She looked forward to their eagerness when she arrived at their house, and they greeted her happily at the door, beckoning her to come in. Beverly was doing much better than when Carey had first met her, and the children now called Carey "Auntie Carey." How Carey loved those words. At last she felt needed and useful. She, too, had taken on a new vitality that she had gradually lost when her family left home. As Beverly became better and made friends with women her own age, Carey spent less time in the Rogers' home. However, Michael and the other children continued to cling to the loving attention Carey was always ready to give them. She was grateful for the key to banish her loneliness which she had found, and her companionship with Beverly and the children had opened her eves and heart to wider paths. After she had expressed to the ward Relief Society president her desire to do more than just attend the meetings, her former hours of too much leisure were filled with the joy of service. The closer friendships Carey had found would prove a sustaining power to her in the years that lay ahead. She was needed, loved, and cherished by many. Sight and Sound of Summer