EDITORIAL The Power of Example For I have given you an example, that ye should do as I have done to you" (John 13:15). 'These were the words of Christ to the apostles at the last supper. In his last hours with his disciples he ministered unto them and was the perfect example of the service he expected of his followers. "... When Jesus knew that his hour was come that he should depart out of this world unto the Father, having loved his own which were in the world, he loved them unto the end." 'The Savior served, and because he had so served, those who observed his actions heard his words, and loved him, and followed his example. Paul in his epistle to Timothy admonished him "... Be thou an example of the believers, in word, in conversation, in charity, in spirit, in faith, in purity" (I Timothy 4:12). It is certain that Paul was defining for Timothy, and for us, exemplary living and explaining that one's life should serve as a pattern, deserving imitation by others. This should be our standard of behavior. Our words, even our conversations should convey the thoughts, the beliefs, the knowledge that guides our lives. Deeds speak even louder than words the charity and love we practice. To be an example in spirit, in faith, and in purity is to express throughout our lives in every facet of our living the firmness of our testimony, the fullness of our desire to do what is nght. Example stimulates to emulation. How eagerly many people follow the hero of the moment, sometimes without much thought as to where or how they are being led. How slavishly some follow fads and fashion without considering whether they are becoming to them as individuals. How many there are who, failing to use their free agency wisely, allow themselves to follow unworthy leaders. How great is the need for wisdom to seek and follow the best examples and to hold as ideal only the leadership of the righteous. The leadership that is demanded today, the leadership that we as es Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer members of the Church should be giving, is, as President David O. McKay has said, "not attained by chance, nor fostered by indulgence." This leadership demands careful preparation and the constant knowledge that we are being watched, that Church leadership is being sought, that the Lord expects his gospel to be taught and lived by the members of his Church. The example of parents to their children is perhaps the most frequently emulated. Parents have been assured that when their behavior is inconsistent with their teachings, their children will follow their action more readily than their counsel. "Although parents do not realize it, every act of their lives has effect upon their children," Elder Mark E. Petersen has stated. If parents want their children to be good children they will have to be good themselves. President Brigham Young, in one of his great discourses, said, "... It is a shame, a weakening shameful thing for any member of the Church to pursue a course that he knows is not right, and that he would rather his children should not follow." The power of example is not limited to individuals. Groups of people achieving through an organization prove to be an example also. 'To the women of the world, to the great organizations of women, Relief Society can be and is a powerful example of all that is true, uplifting, and good. The true meaning of charity with its greatest aspect of leve and its intrinsic goal of service to God and to his children is shown in the work of Relief Society. The loving kindness that is an attribute of Deity to, be attained by mortals is expressed in its goals. Teaching the principles of the gospel and helping its members to grow in spirituality and knowledge are exemplary aspects of its reason for being. The power of example is expressed in the simple, glorious utterance of the Savior, "Come follow me." Peter explains this call — "For even, hereunto were ye called: because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example, that ye should follow his steps" (I Peter 2:21). —L. W. M. Tue Relief Society Annual General Conference will be held Wednesday and Thursday, October 2 and 3, 1963. 'The general session will be held on Wednesday, October 2, from 2 to 4 p. M. In the Tabernacle. It is suggested that ward Relief Society presidents ask their bishops to announce in the wards the general session of the conference to which the general public is invited. Attendance at the officers meeting on Wednesday morning, October 2, from 9:30 to 11:30 in the Tabernacle, and the departmental meetings to be held on Thursday morning and Thursday afternoon, October 3, is limited to stake board members and mission officers. A reception to which stake board members and mission officers are invited will be held on Wednesday evening, October 2, from 7 to 10 in the Relief Society Building. Appropriate visual aids can be of great assistance to a class leader. If wisely used, they can enrich the lesson material by adding interest, strengthening a point, and la an idea. They also can be used effectively in introducing or concluding a esson. A picture kit of carefully planned visual aids for the 1963-64 literature lessons may be obtained from the Department of Audio-Visual Communication, Brigham Young a Provo, Utah, price $3.55 (not obtainable from Relief Society General oard ). The packet contains the following materials: 1. Portraits of Mark Twain, Emily Dickinson, William Dean Howells, Robert Frost, Willa Cather, Sinclair Lewis, and Carl Sandburg. 2. Illustration of Huckleberry Finn and Nigger Jim on their raft on the Mississippi River, for use with the lesson on Huckleberry Finn. 3. Seven small portraits for the literature map. The Second C ompassionaTE service has been in the past, and should ever be one of the most important parts of Relief Society. Let us keep in mind that the great need in the world today is for kindness — in our thoughts, our words, our deeds. Shall we not remember that this was the purpose for which Relief Society was first organized? New sisters —- as they join — should be given an understanding of the privilege and duty they have, as members of Relief Society, to assist in giving compassionate service. Modern hospital and medical facilities, with labor-saving devices in the homes, have obviated the need for some of the actual bedside care and housework formerly given. However, we still have the responsibility of rendering physical, spiritual, and moral uplift to those in distress. The Prophet Joseph Smith asked, '""Who are better qualified to administer than our faithful and zealous sisters, whose hearts are full of faith, tenderness, sympathy and compassion? No one," he answered (DHC IV, page 607). How much joy has come to sisters in the past, through visits to the sick, the troubled, the lonely! Cherished friendships have been made in these rewarding experiences. Many times such a person has gone into homes for the purpose of giving comfort and cheer or to render service, only to come away knowing that she has received the greater blessing by the examples of faith and courage she has witnessed. She knows the truth of King Benjamin's words, "... When ye are in the service of your fellow beings