Versatile Cottage Cheese Margaret F. Maxwell Att of us enjoy that old standby, cottage cheese and fruit as a salad, and we know that cottage cheese makes a delicious luncheon addition, just as it comes from the carton. Children love it, with or without fruit, and it is well known as an excellent source of calcium. But cottage cheese is putting on a new dress nowadays, and adds its smooth piquancy to every course in the meal. So, for an inexpensive, nutritious addition to your family's diet, get acquainted with versatile cottage cheese! Yal | rr MAC a. | Cott Val = hovel '¢ Acearn! ~ - ~. >> J 2 c. Cottage cheese 1 can (7 oz.) tuna "4 tsp. Paprika 1 tsp. Salt 1 tbsp. Steak sauce 1 egg Y, c. Cracker crumbs Combine cottage cheese with tuna, seasoning, egg, and half the crumbs. Place in greased 1% quart casserole; sprinkle remaining crumbs on top. Bake at 350° for 30 minutes. Serves four to six. Instead of the usual white sauce over vegetables, try this new cottage cheese 596 sauce, which adds a suggestion of tartness to such vegetables as broccoli, cauliflower, potatoes, and onions. Cottage Cheese Sauce 2' tbsp. Salad oil 2% tbsp. Flour salt and pepper to taste 1 c. Milk "2 €. Cream-style cottage cheese Combine in saucepan salad oil, flour, salt, and pepper. Add milk; stir until smooth. Cook over moderate heat, stirring constantly until smooth and _thickened. Beat cottage cheese until smooth and creamy. Add to sauce and heat to serving temperature, but do not boil. Makes 1% cups sauce. Variations: Substitute % cup sour cream for % cup of milk. Add % tsp. Lemon juice. And now for the dessert. Here we offer two contrasting recipes, the first a simple, family style no-bake cheese cake, and the second, Pascha, traditional climax of the Russian Easter feast, which, though given here in a simplified version, is worthy of crowning the most elegant meal. Filling: 2 tbsp. (2 envelopes) unflavored gelatin "A c. Water 4 C88s % Cc. Sugar 1 c. Milk 2 c. Cottage cheese "% C. Orange juice 1 tbsp. Grated orange rind Dissolve gelatin in cold water. Combine eggs, sugar, and milk; cook over hot water in double boiler, or over low heat, stirring constantly, until slightly thickened (about 10 minutes). Add softened gelatin and cook about 5 minutes longer. Remove from heat; add remaining ingredients, and allow to cool. Crust: 2 c. Graham cracker crumbs " C. Sugar 1 tsp. Cinnamon " ¢c. Melted butter or salad oil Combine all crust ingredients. Line bottom and sides of 8-inch pan (at least 2 inches deep) saving 4 cup crumbs. Pour with reChill 2 to 3 hours becooled filling into crust. Top maining crumbs. Fore serving. Ib. Cottage cheese 1 C. Sour cream 1 c. Confectioners' sugar "2 tsp. Vanilla /2 tsp. Almond extract 1 tbsp. (1 envelope) unflavored gelatin "2 C. Hot water 1 C. Raisins 1 tbsp. Granulated sugar "4 c. Chopped candied fruit walnuts, chopped almonds, crystallized cherries, optional Soak raisins in granulated sugar and hot water for one-half hour. In large bowl, dissolve gelatin with sour cream. Add cottage cheese, and beat until smooth. Add confectioners' sugar, vanilla, and almond extract. Drain raisins, add with chopped candied fruit to cottage cheese mixture. Pour into large cone-shaped mold. Leave in refrigerator overnight. Unmold just before serving; garnish with walnuts and cherries, if desired. Audrey King 4% vasr selling bazaar item or a verv appropriate gift for the newborn is embroidered felt baby bootees. They require only a small amount of material and can be made in two or three hours. Their small size provides an appealing miniature of the boots babies wear when they are older, and the tiny embroidery on them makes them a real conversation piece. The pattern included here fits most babies until they are about two and a half months old, although it can be easily enlarged, if desired, for other babies. Material required (for one pair of bootees) fine white felt, 9" x 8" 2/3 yd. Pink or blue nbbon fine cotton, 9" x 12" 1 skein of embroidery thread, pink or blue PATTERN There are just three pieces to the pattern. Lav the pieces on the felt and cut them out. Reverse each piece and cut again. By reversing the pattern in this way, the proper shaping for a right and left foot will be achieved. The cotton lining is cut out in the same way, but 1/4" should be allowed around each piece for turning under later. Cut the inside corners of each toe piece lining as illustrated. CUT LINING | A suggested pattern layout 598 THE HOME — INSIDE AND OUT SEWING Baste the appropriate pieces of cotton to the inside of the felt pieces, turning the cotton edge under 1/4", making sure that the cotton reaches near the edges of the felt pieces. PATTERN PIECES Right Toe (for left, reverse) Right Back B _ (for left, reverse) Right sole (for left sole, reverse) Baste the lined toe pieces to the lined soles, taking care to match the right toe with the right sole and the left toe piece with the left sole. At this stage a design may be embroidered on the toe, or the toe may be embroidered before lining. Some suggested designs are shown below. Baste the lined box pieces to the soles, overlapping the toe pieces to the sides. Starting at the junction of the back piece to the toe piece, make very fine blanket stitches all around the sole, joining the toe and back pieces to the sole securely as you do so. Stitch around the top part of the boot as shown, then stitch around the tongue. The first 6 or 7 stitches should be sewed through the toe piece in order to anchor the back piece securely. ES Ley de Make four holes where indicated for the laces on each shoe. Scissors points are suitable for doing this. Pierce through the lining, but do not make the holes too big. Blanket stitch around the holes, making sure you catch the lining. Thread the ribbon through the holes, pull out the basting threads if you have not done so already, and the bootees are finished! THE HOME — INSIDE AND OUT fad apse OOOO pip ipay aoe, ye ys: 55, 5,