VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Message 50 — "Wherefore, If Ye Believe Me, Ye Will Labor While It Is Called Today" (D & C 64:25). Christine H. Robinson For First Meeting, Objective: To demonstrate the fact that belief in the Savior motivates prompt, pro: ductive action. PropLe of action — those who get things done — are invariably individuals who have fixed and settled beliefs. 'These people are dedicated, devoted, determined, because of unwavering convictions of the importance and necessity of that which they are doing. When the Lord said, as recorded in the D & C 64:25, "Wherefore, if ye believe me, ye will labor while it is called today," he was emphasizing two important, closely related facts. First, genuine belief is the motivator of action. Unless we have strong convictions we are likely to postpone actions and not do those things which we should do at the time they should be done. The Savior said, "He that believeth on me, the works that I do shall he do also" (John 14:12). Belief then is the lmportant essential. If we would follow the Lord's counsel we will do all of the things which he has commanded us because believing, we will know that by following his counsel and commandments we can find joy and happiness in this life. The second fact emphasized in this scripture ls that if we truly believe the Lord we will labor (act) today — not in some indefinite future. One of the most important things to remember about action is that it is "no action" until it is taken — until something is done. In other words postponed, procrastinated, and just dreamed-about action, is no action. The trouble with postponing until tomorrow the things we should do today, is that tomorrow may be too late. In fact, tomorrow really never comes. Life is made up of a succession of todays. Someone has said, "Every day ls a new life to a wise man." Thomas Carlyle expressed the thought this way when he said, "Our main business is not to see what lies dimly at 4 distance, but to do what lies clear: ly at hand." The importance of laboring today is expressed beautifully by the Indian dramatist Kalidasa, Look to this day For it is life, the very life of life. In its brief course Lie all the verities and realities of your existence; Yesterday is but a dream And tomorrow is only a vision, But today well lived makes every yesterday a dream of happiness And every tomorrow a vision of hope. Look well, therefore, to this day! The ancient psalmist also advises us, "This is the day which the Lord hath made; we will rejoice and be glad in it" (Psalms 118:24). Our application of these thoughts consists in strengthening our beliefs so that they become real motivators of action. Let us ask ourselves, do we really have faith that Jesus is our Lord and Savior? Do we really have faith in his teachings? If we do we will do the things he has told us to do. We will today perform those little acts of neighborly kindnesses which should be done today, but which we so often postpone. We will today overcome those little personal weaknesses and habits which we are always going to overcome but which we never quite seem to accomplish. We will today express gratitude and appreciation for those deeds of kindness and thoughtfulness performed to us and for us by others. In The Book of Mormon, the LESSON DEPARTMENT Prophet Samuel the Lamanite told of the predicament in which the people of his time found themselves because they had procrastinated the day of their salvation until it was everlastingly too late. They had sought happiness too much in worldly material things, and had failed each day, through postponement, to overcome and repent of their weaknesses and imperfections. 'They had failed to perform those acts of kindness which are the essence of the Saviors teachings. Samuel told the people that their days of probation were past and their exaltation lost because of their procrastination. (See Helaman 13.) Surely the counsel given to us in this scripture in The Doctrine and Covenants 64:25 ls both timely and pertinent. Today is the day of our salvation. If we are truly wise we will heed the Lord and believe him, and do the things he instructs us while it is yet today.