Literature Lesson 42 — Huck Finn's Initiation Into Truth Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature, by James D. Hart and mae Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York, pp. 617-651) For Third Meeting, Objective: To understand and experience Huck's progression from innocence toward moral maturity. Iw 1876, the year The Adventures of Tom Sawyer was published, Mark Twain began writing what he intended to be its sequel. When the book finally appeared eight years later, in 1885, its identity in Twain's eyes had not changed, since the title page read, "The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn (Tom Sawyer's Comrade)." But within itself the book had changed a great deal. In the first section of the novel, even though Huck is allowed to tell the story in the far more intimate and "real" first person "I," Samuel Langhorne Clemens is definitely the controlling author. It is in the large, rich center section of the book when Huck is entirely free of Tom, the restraints of "civilization," and in- deed the restraints of Mark Twain himself, at least on the surface level, that its sensitive, large and vigorous heart surges and swells the novel into its unquestioned greatness and vitality. Just as did Geppetto's Pinocchio, Huck miraculously turns himself from a rather inconsequential stage prop into a "real live bov." Once Huck found himself created and alive on the page, almost literally he wrenched the pen from Twain's fingers and wrote his own storv himself. Twain never seemed to realize the significance of what had happened. His 1876 burst of initial creative energy took him through chapter XVI; then, after at least three vears' hesitation, during which his deep well of the unconscious flowed full once more, he continued writing; but now Huck himself was fully aware of his own identity, the moral dilemma which faced him, and how he would resolve it. This informed sureness of the great middle section never seemed to impress Twain to any recorded degree, for he felt his greatest work was his documented, wooden Joan of Arc, which he wrote more than ten vears later. The novel Huckleberry Finn is very loosely organized. It consists of a series of episodes or adventures which happen to Huck and Nigger Jim. The two strongest unifying elements are Huckleberry Finn, who tells the story, and the Mississippi River, which symbolizes the peace and freedom which Huck and Nigger Jim seek, at the same time providing the physical means for escaping from one adventure to the next. HUCK'S "AMERICAN LANGUAGE" The major source of this novel's power is its extremely successful "llusion of reality," its ability to make the reader become Huck by absorbing Huck's world through his eyes and ears and, more intimately, through his untrammeled conscience and sense of values. The miracle of Huck's creation is the spontaneous zest for life which Twain has caught through his use of words alone. Huck is so vital, so throbbing with life, that we become him. 'Through the magic pronoun "T"' we are transmitted out of our own present selves and "popped" inside Huck's skin. From inside Huck we hear through his ears, peep out through his eyes, and above all tell ourselves through his mouth. Yet it is not merely the pronoun "Tl" which creates this sense of reality. 'Twain endeavored to make his fiction an exact transcript of life, and it is what and how the "T' speaks that makes the character of Huck so authentic. The following account of a child's loneliness as he fights to maintain his own identity under a deluge of attacks from that incomprehensible world which is dominated by adults, rings as true in its tone as in its revelations of the patterns of Huck's mind. Miss Watson, "a tolerable slim old maid, with goggles on," is attempting to "sivilize" the homeless waif for his own good.... Miss Watson would say, "Don't put your feet up there, Huckleberry"; and "Don't scrunch up like that Huckleberry — set up straight"; and pretty soon she would say, "Don't gap and stretch like that, Huckleberry — why don't you try to behave?"' Then she told me all about the bad place and I said I wished I was there. She got mad then, but I didn't mean no harm. All I wanted was to go somewheres; all I wanted was a change, I warn't particular. She said it was wicked to say what I said; said she wouldn't say it for the whole world; she was going to live so as to go to the good place. Well, I couldn't see no advantage in going where she was going, so I made up 'my mind I wouldn't try for it. Miss Watson she kept pecking at me, and it got tiresome and lonesome. By and by they fetched the niggers in and had prayers, and then everybody was off to bed. I went up to my room with a piece of candle, and put it on the table. Then I set down in a chair by the window and tried to think of something cheerful, but it warn't no use. I felt so lonesome I most wished I was dead. The stars were shining, and the leaves rustled in the woods ever so mournful; and I heard an owl, away off, who-whooing about somebody that was dead, and a whippowill and a dog crying about somebody that was going to die; and the wind was trying to whisper something to me, and I couldn't make out what it was, and so it made the cold shivers run over me (The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn, World Publishing Company, 1947, pp. 19-20. Reprinted by permission of Harper and Row, Publishers). This same authentic world-reality pervades Huck's description of his bullying, drunken father, now returned to dominate his "accepted" castoff son, even while revealing his Own sense of inferiority, and the conversation between them. Such words had never before been written down; they were almost too true, too immediately from life ever to be stiffened into "literature"': When I lit my candle and went up to my room that night there sat pap — his own self! He was most fifty, and he looked it. His hair was long and tangled and greasy, and hung down, and you could see his LESSON DEPARTMENT eyes shining through like he was behind vines. It was all black, no gray; so was his long, mixed-up whiskers. There warn't no color in his face, where his face showed; it was white; not like another man's white, but a white to make a body sick, a white to make a body's flesh craw] — a tree-toad white, a fish-belly white. As for his clothes — just rags, that was alr I stood a-looking at him; he set there a-looking at me, with his chair tilted back a little. I set the candle down. I noticed the window was up; so he had clumb in by the shed. He kept a-looking me all over. By and by he says: "Starchy clothes — very. You think you're a good deal of a big-bug, don't you?" "Maybe I am, maybe I ain't," I says. "Don't you give me none o' your lip," says he. '"'You've put on considerable many frills since I been away. I'll take you down a peg before I get done with you. You're educated, too, they say — can read and write. You think you're better'n your father, now, don't you, because he can't? I'll take it out of you. Who told you you might meddle with such hifalut'n foolishness, hey? — who told you you could? ".. You lemme catch you fooling around that school again, you hear? Your mother couldn't read, and she couldn't write, nuther, before she died. None of the family couldn't before they died. I can't; and here you're a-swelling yourself up like this. I ain't the man to stand it — you hear? C Say, lemme hear you read" (Ibid., pp. 40-42). Twain is equally skilled at using the right words and images which enable us to experience the peace and freedom and _ security which Huck and his soulmate, the runaway slave Nigger Jim, find as they hide and sleep by day and float by night down the vast majesty of "Mother Mississippi." Not excluding Thoreau, there exists in the language no lovelier lyric poetry in praise of nature's rewards to those who love her and trust her than that found in Huck's prose sentences of Chapter ny Two or three days and nights went by; I reckon I might say they swum by, they slid along so quiet and smooth and lovely. Not a sound anywhere — perfectly still — just like the whole world was asleep, only sometimes the _ bullfrogs a-cluttering, maybe.... We would take some fish off of the lines and cook up a hot breakfast. And afterwards we would watch the lonesomeness of the river, and kind of lazy along, and by and by lazy off to sleep. Wake up by and by, and look to see what done it, and maybe see a steamboat coughing along up-stream, so far off towards the other side you couldn't tell nothing about her only whether she was a stern-wheel or side-wheel; then for about an hour there wouldn't be nothing to hear nor nothing to see — just solid lonesomeness. Next you'd see a raft sliding by, away off yonder, and maybe a galoot on it chopping... You'd see the ax flash and come down —you don't hear nothing; you see that ax go up again, and by the time it's above the man's head then you hear the k'chunk! — it had took all that time to come over the water. So we would put in the day, lazying around, listening to the stillness.... Sometimes we'd have that whole river all to ourselves for the longest time. Yonder was the banks and the islands, across the water; and maybe a spark — which was a candle in a cabin window; and sometimes on the water you could see a spark or two — on a raft or a scow, you know; and maybe you could hear a fiddle or a song coming over from one of them crafts. It's lovely to live on a raft. We had the sky up there, all speckled with stars, and we used to lay on our backs and look up at them, and discuss about whether they was made or only just happened. Jim he allowed they was made, but I allowed they happened; I judged it would have took too long to make so many. Jim said the moon could 'a' laid them; well, that looked kind of reasonable, so I didn't say nothing against it, because I've seen a frog lay most as many, so of course, it could be done. We used to watch the stars that fell, too, and 628 see them streak down. Jim allowed they'd got spoiled and was hove out of the nest (Ibid., pp. 163-165 passim). THE STORY OF HUCKLEBERRY FINN Towards the end of The Adventures of Tom Sawyer Huckleberry Finn, vagabond son of the village drunkard, and envy of all the village boys because of his unrestrained freedom, is adopted by the Widow Douglas who, with her sister, Miss Watson, intends to give him the "mothering" and civilizing influences he has never had (and never submits to). In the closing chapter of Tom Sawyer, Tom and Huck are given the gold found after the death of Indian Joe. Early in the Adventures of Huckleberry Finn Huck's father returns after another of his lengthy absences, to get the fortune. Unsuccessful, he captures Huck and imprisons him in a lonely cabin along the river. In a drunken seizure he almost succeeds in killing Huck who determines to escape. Stealing a canoe, he sets up camp on isolated Jackson Island, where he finds Nigger Jim, Miss Watson's slave, who has run away in an attempt to find his wife and children who have been taken from him. Reared under the moral code of the South, Huck knows full well he should turn Jim over to the law, since he is stolen property worth $800, but he becomes so attached to him that he decides to go against his social conscience and "go to hell" by helping Jim escape. Two itinerant frauds and fakers, The Duke of Bridgewater and the Dauphin, self-styled heir to the throne of France, come aboard the raft, and by virtue of their feigned royal station, trick Huck and Jim into becoming their servants while they plot new methods of exploiting the trusting gullibility of the inhabitants of the next village. When they learn that a local farmer, Peter Wilks, has died, and that his brother is expected momentarily to claim his fortune, they pretend to be the long-lost brother and his attendant, bilk the innocent daughters of their nghtful inheritance, sell Nigger Jim for cash, and are about ready to escape when Huck exposes them and in shame at the disgraceful levels to which humans will stoop, witnesses their capture by indignant citizens who ride them out of town on a rail. Huck goes to the Phelps farm to help Tom Sawyer "rescue" Nigger Jim, which they manage to accomplish in a most elaborate and extended intrigue, only to discover that Miss Watson freed Nigger Jim in her will just before she died. Realizing that Mrs. Phelps intends now to civilize him, just as the Widow Douglas and Miss Watson had intended before, Huck states his intention of running past the frontier into free territory "because Aunt Sally she's going to adopt me and sivilize me, and I can't stand it. I been there before." HUCK'S EMERGING DEFINITION OF MAN Because Huck had no one to force him to conform to the rules of society and culture, he wore no shoes, attended no school, and spent his days doing what pleased him most. He could thus stand outside society and evaluate it, using as his sole basis for judgment his own common sense and his own spontaneous moral values. 'Though Huck LESSON DEPARTMENT himself runs away from the Widow Douglas to escape from her world of artificiality and the demands of society, he still has to learn from Nigger Jim the human compassion and love which ideally bind human beings together. In an effort to relieve the peaceful monotony of life on the raft, Huck tries to persuade Jim that they have not been separated, when, in actuality, a fog had caused Huck to become lost in the canoe while Jim, bucking rough water, almost went down on the raft, sick with worry that Huck was lost or drowned. When Nigger Jim finally sees that Huck had been teasing him about a matter so grave as his own death, he says to him, ".. When I got all wore out wid work, an wid de callin' for you, en went to sleep, my heart wuz mos' broke bekase you wuz los', en I didn' k'yer no' mo' what become er me en de raf'. En when I wake up en fine you back ag'in, all safe en soun', de tears come, en I could' a' got down on my knees en kiss yo' foot, 's so thankful. En all you wuz thinkin' 'bout wuz how you could make a fool uv ole Jim wid a lie. Dat truck dah is trash; en trash is what people is dat puts dirt on de head er dey fren's en makes 'em ashamed." Then he got up slow and walked to the wigwam, and went in there without saying anything but that. But that was enough. It made me feel so mean I could almost kissed his foot to get him to take it back. It was fifteen minutes before I could work myself up to go and humble myself to a nigger; but I done it, and I warn't ever sorry for it afterward, neither. I didn't do him no more mean tricks, and I wouldn't done that one if I'd 'a' knowed it would make him feel that way (Ibid., page 126). Thus Huck is shamed out of his own falseness in his relations with Jim and never again betrays the mutual trust which the two share henceforth. More fully than ever before, Huck now knows how precious a virtue is moral honesty. Having survived his own moment of weakness, he is ready to endure witnessing various examples of man's cruelty and harshness to his own kind. For the first time seeing such human weaknesses ___ realistically, Huck sees fraud and murder and cowardice for the evils they are. At the same time he feels toward the perpetrators a pity and compassion which better enable him to understand human flaws without denying them, while passionately wishing such human hardness and suffering could never again exist. One of the episodes in the story tells of Huck's being taken in to live by the feuding Grangerford family. Fear, suspicion, and force dominate his entrance into the Grangerford home. Cast ashore after the raft has been wrecked, Huck approaches the door of the darkened house only to be surrounded by howling dogs. After he is questioned from within by someone who does not show his face at the opened window, the voice continues:. "What did you say your name was?" "George Jackson, sir. I'm only a boy." "Look here, if you're telling the truth you needn't be afraid — nobody'll hurt you. But don't try to budge; stand right where you are. Rouse out Bob and Tom, some of you, and fetch the guns.... "Snatch that light away, Betsy, you old fool — ain't you got any sense. Put it on the floor behind the front door. Bob, if you and Tom are ready, take your places." 630 "All ready." "... Now, all ready. George Jackson. And mind, don't you hurry — come mighty slow. If there's anybody with you, let him keep back — if he shows himself he'll be shot. Come along now. Come slow; push the door open yourself — just enough to squeeze in, d'you hear?" I didn't hurry; I couldn't if I'd wanted to. I took one slow step at a time and there warn't a sound, only I thought I could hear my heart. The dogs were as still as the humans.... When I got to the three log doorsteps I heard them unlocking and unbarring and unbolting. I put my hand on the door and pushed it a little and a little more till somebody said, "There, that's enough — put your head in.'' I done it, but I judged they would take it off. The candle was on the floor, and there they all was, looking at me, and me at them, for about a quarter of a minute: Three big men with guns pointed at me, which made me wince, I tell you... (Ibid., page 139). Step forward, In such scenes as the above we have really been there, thanks to Twain's narrative skills. With him we suffer in apprehension; our hearts thump with his as these mysterious humans terrorize him. But when they see he is only a boy with no malice in his heart toward them, they instantly change into gentle, solicitous friends, capable of love and warmth both to each other as to strangers in need. In the romantic Victorian age, when Tennyson's "Idylls of the King" symbolized the vast popularity of the idealized past, realist Twain was ever the militant foe of paying undeserved homage to royalty as such, be it present or past. He attacks royalty by introducing the Duke of Bridgewater and the Dau- phin (referred to above). With increasing awe and contempt for such unashamed skulduggery as the two exhibit, Huck watches the operations of his guests as they violate poor, untutored, untamed Huck's high regard for public decency, religion, and the worth of human dignity. 'Their supreme act of exploitation comes to a. Climax just before the funeral, as they pose as heirs to the $6,000 left by Peter Wilks. In a moment of sheer intuition the paii decide to give the money to the three daughters, correctly guessing that, in return for such "trust" they will return it to the uncles for them to invest. When we got upstairs everybody gethered around the table, and the king he counted it and stacked it up, three hundred dollars in a pile — twenty elegant little piles. Everybody looked hungry at it, and licked their chops. Then they raked it into the bag again, and I see the king begin to swell himself up for another speech. He says: "Friends all, my poor brother that lays yonder has done generous by them that's left behind in the vale of sorrers. He has done generous by these yer poor little lambs that he loved and sheltered, and that's left fatherless and motherless. Yes, and we that knowed him knows that he would 'a' done more generous by 'em if he hadn't ben afeard o' woundin' his dear William and me. Now, wouldn't he?... Well, then, what kind o' brothers would it be that'd stand in his way at sech a time? And what kind o' uncles would it be that'd rob — yes, rob — sech poor sweet lambs as these 'at he loved so at sech a time? If I know William — and I think I do — he — well, I'll jest ask him." He turns around and begins to make a lot of signs to the duke with his hands, and the duke he looks at him stupid and leather-headed awhile; then all of a sudden he seems to catch his meaning, and jumps for the king, goo-gooing with all his might for joy, and hugs him LESSON DEPARTMENT about fifteen times before he lets up. Then the king says, "I knowed it; I reckon that'll convince anybody the way he feels about it. Here Mary Jane, Susan, Joanner, take the money — take it all. It's the gift of him that lays yonder, cold but joyful." Mary Jane she went for him, Susan and the hare-lip went for the duke, and then such another hugging and kissing I never see yet. And everybody crowded up with the tears in their eyes, and most shook the hands off of them frauds, saying all the time: "You dear good souls! — how lovely! — how could you!" (Ibid., pp. 222-223). Rarely have hypocrisy and greed for gain been satirized more effectively. Huck's attitude toward humankind very neatly approximates that of Twain: tenderly he loves the human good which he sees and does, but bitterly he abhors man's inhumanity to man. And once having assessed these most questionable "blessings" of civilization, it is not surprising that wiser, enlightened Huck finally returns to the peace and security of his original self — to a distant land so far away both in place and in time that it exists most really in the spirit and art of Mark Twain, one of our central probers into the morals and hopes and fears of his countrymen. Thoughts for Discussion 1. How can language as ungrammatical and crude as Huck's ever be classed as great literature? 2. Many critics feel that, while Tom Sawyer is a child's book, Huckleberry Finn is for adults. Do you agree or disagree? Why so? 3. Do you feel that Huck turned to nature for truth or for escape? 4. Discuss Huckleberry Finn as a moral book. 5- Can a great writer ever be unaware of what he is doing, or of what he does best?