VOL. 25	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, 1896.	NO. 8.


CONTENTS:
	The Pacific Coast Woman’s Press Association
—Frances Fuller Victor. A Letter—Jane S.
Coleman. Jean Ingelow. A Few Words About
India—Dilbhur. U. W. P C.—E. R. Shipp. Re-
lief Society General Conference—E. B. Wells
Journeying In Dixie—Ann C. Woodbury. A Let-
ter Of Sympathy—Camilla C. Cobb—Lydia Ann
Wells—Mary L. Morris. R. S. Reports. In
Memoriam. Leaves From My Journal—Kim.
	EDITORIAL: Moderation And Self-Control. A
Brilliant Wedding. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY: Matinal Musings—E. R. Shipp. The
Eternal Justice—Anne Reeves Aldrich. Wedding
Bells—L- D. Alder. The Heart—The Heart—
Eliza Cook. Wedding Bells—Amelia W. Farns-
worth.


MATINAL MUSINGS.

BEFORE the early rays of morn
Dispel the gloom and bring us dawn,
My heart ascends to Father’s throne,
And all His love and mercies own.
I thank Him for this night of rest  
And that through all my life He’s blest
And watched o’er me, with tender care,
And heeded every earnest prayer.
In peaceful joy my heart responds
To nature’s fair alluring charms;
Each leaf and tree and floweret sweet,
The shady glen and lone retreat,
The babbling brook with mossy side,
The forests grand and deep and wide,
The clear blue sky, the fleecy cloud,
The rising sun that speaks aloud
Of Father’s wondrous love and power
To His frail children every hour.
With solemn thoughts and reverent mood,
My soul pours forth its gratitude.
						E. R. SHIPP.


THE ETERNAL JUSTICE.

THANK God that God shall judge my soul not man
	I marvel when they say,
	"Think of that awful Day!
No pitying fellow-sinner’s eye shall scan 
	With tolerance thy soul,
	But His who knows the whole,
The God whom all men own is wholly just.”
	Hold thou that last word dear,
	And live untouched by fear,
He knows with what, strange fires He mixed the
	dust. 
		The heritage and race,
		The circumstance and place,
Which makes us what we are—were from His
	hand.
		That left us, faint of voice,
		Small margin for a choice.
He gave, I took; shall I not fearless stand?
	Hereditary bent
	That hedges in intent
He knows, be sure, the God who shaped thy
	brain,
		He loves the soul He made;
		He knows His own hand laid
On each the mark of some ancestral stain, 
		Not souls severely white,
		But groping for more light,
Are what Eternal Justice here demands.
		Fear not; He made thee dust,
		Cling to that sweet word—“Just.”
All’s well with thee if thou art in just hands.
				ANNE REEVES ALDRICH.


[Column 1]
THE PACIFIC COAST WOMAN’S
PRESS ASSOCIATION.

	THE Pacific Coast Woman's Press
Association has for its object (so says its
constitution) “the promotion of acquaintance,
good fellowship and co-operation among
the women writers this coast, and the
advancement of their professional interests.” 
All women are eligible tor active member-
ship, who are engaged professionially in
journalism— that is to say who write for
pay—and all who are engaged in literary
work, or in illustrating the same. All wo-
men who are simply interested in literary
or artistic work, and willing to labor for
the welfare of the association, are eligible
for associate membership. We have cer-
tainly thrown open the doors widely
enough, and a goodly number have come
in, among whom are some eminent names.
In the promotion of goodfellowship we
have enjoyed, and we believe conferred
much genuine pleasure.
	As to the work a press association should
do, there has been some variance of opinion
—a variance broadened by actual or rumor-
ed criticisms offered by our older associa-
tions composed entirely of men. For my-
self, I will remark just here, that because
we do our work in a way somewhat dif-
ferent to men, it is not necessarily inferior
to men’s work. The difference in work
and methods is a matter of environment
quite as much as of natural tendencies.
Men have fewer ever present cares than
women in the ranks of press writers. The
member of a men’s association usually is,
or assumes to be, only a press man, while-
the press woman frequently has besides
her literary work a school, a business or a
household on her hands. Even the enjoy-
ment of the stated meeting is marred by
the apprehension of a late dinner. The
man who has had the whole day to devote
to an article or articles on these subjects
which are plainly brought before him by
his associations has a great advantage over
the women, who while seeking to do a cer-
tain thing is distracted by having to give
her thoughts to affairs entirely foreign to
it.
	“Very well,” you say, “just that dif-
ference makes the man’s work superior”—
as in fact it might very reasonably do, and
without dispute frequently does do. Men
are in daily contact with the world’s great-
er affairs, or those which they choose to
consider greater; as questions of municipal
or national government, of our foreign
relations, of tariff reforms, or of “sixteen
to one.” But while they are struggling
with problems of shall we, or shall we not
have a double standard for money, women
handicapped as they are by a multiplici-
ty of cares are carrying on a campaign in-
tended to bring about a single standard in
morals. The question might, though it
should not be, raised, as to the comparative
mportance of the two aims; but it must ‘
be admitted that women have achieved
much of value to society in the narrow
sphere of activities, and in spite of a long

[Column 2]
and determind oppositions from the mascu-
line portion.
	About specialists—it has been objected
by some that we, as a Press Association
cannot with dignity lend ourselves to the
endorsements or even to the considerations
of  special subjects outside of the profes-
sion of literature. This is being in a way,
as narrow as those associations which ex-
clude everything but newspapers from
press work. How shall we better become
journalists, if that is our aim, than by dis-
cussion of the questions that relate to good
citizenship, of the progress of the race?
Yet I have been made unpleasantly aware
that on a recent occasion when a gentleman
who had been invited to address us on the
Silver Question, failed to keep his appoint-
ment, and the High Priestess of Woman
Suffrage who was present, kindly consent-
ed to fill the intellectual vacuum, there
was much dissatisfaction manifested. The
venerable woman before us declined to dis-
cuss silver because as she said she knew
“nothing about it except that she had never
had enough of of it,” but she gave us a
timely talk about things which deeply con-
cern women, and imparted to us facts
gathered from a lifetime of work in her
chosen field. The objectors declared that
suffrage speeches were not in order in a
Press Association; yet they were eager to
hear about silver and gold. What a fasci-
nating subject is money! Some one has
forcibly said that “Gold is the only idol
that is worshiped in all lands without a
temple, and by all sects without hypocri-
cy.”
	Why were we not prepared to close the
gap in our program for ourselves by a free
discussion of the popular religion of gold,
which is prefered to liberty? The news-
papers and magazines are teeming with
articles on the subject. Connot we get
as much out of this literature about money
as would enable us to discuss it? But not
having done so should we not—and cer-
tainly the majority of us did—thank the
woman who was prepared on another great
question to speak to us?
	What I desire to impress upon the
Association is that while we are in spirit
and effect a literary body, we must not be
too wholly literary, but that our best inter-
ests lie in the pursuit of practical infor-
mation. There must be a well developed
idea before there can be a literary product
of any value. While we analyze standard
authors, review new ones, or entertain
each other with our own performances in
prose and verse, we cannot afford to con-
fine ourselves to these dines. If, for in-
stance, instead of this we call upon our
kindergarteners to give us an illustrated
talk upon their methods of teaching; upon
our public-school teachers to enlighten us
on the merits and defects in the methods
pursued in the city schools; upon our art-
ists for a technical explanation of the art of
illustration; upon our professor of Botany
for a lesson in science, with an account of
her field work; upon our gifted astron-
omer for a prose-poem describing the fields
of heaven in which she labors while we


[Column 1]
sleep; upon those consecrated women who
while their names are upon our roll, are
devoting their lives to the rescue of the
young and unwary, and the betterment of
conditions of the poor in our own and other
cities—we should be constantly gaining
that kind of information for which every
writer, and especially every editor has a
practical use.
	When we have an outing or participate
in the outing of other organizations should
we not feel to discover something to write
up, which would be a just return for the
courtesies we have enjoyed as well as a
contribution to our own stock of ideas.
	The Pacific Coast Woman's Press
Association by its earlier efforts brought
together on this Coast about one hundred
and fifty women of similar tastes and as-
pirations who, else would have known
little or nothing of each other. Aside from
the social pleasures derived from a personal
acquaintance, the numerical strength of the
new association was a triumph. It gave
intellectual women, isolated in various
parts of the country that faith in themselves
which was a much needed support.
	Although since that time the far south-
ern members have for convenience formed
a separate association, while some have re-
moved to wider fields of employment in
the East; and while a few have passed from
the labor of living to the unspeakable peace
of the Beyond, there are still over a hun-
dred in the present organization.
	If there had not been a Pacific Coast
Woman’s Press Association in existence,
much that was of interest to our women
would have been unrepresented at the
World’s Columbian Exposition, and there
would have been no Woman’s Congress in
California. Taking advantage of the
opportunity offered by the Mid-Winter
Fair in this State, the Association proposed
and affected the great undertaking whose
outcome was a surprise to everyoue in the
quality of the intellectual work done. I do
not mean to convey the impression that the
Congress was composed mainly of
members of the Association, but only
that it was projected and carried to consum-
mation by the efforts of certain of the most
prominent press women. The Congress
itself was a thoroughly representative body,
drawn from all parts of the coast, who
came together by invitation to express
themselves on a great variety of subjects.
The manner in which they acquitted them-
selves was a revelation to most people, dis-
covering, as it did, a latent power until
then unsuspected,
	I remember being much surprised by a
remark of the Evening Post reporter at the
close of the second day, that the women
“might have done this before if they had
only known it.” They know it now, and
they are never going back to the silence
and isolation of their former lives.
	Out of that special congress grew the
Woman’s Congress Association of the Pa-
cific Coast, which holds annual sessions. Its
Executive Board and Auxiliary Committee
are composed largely of the Press Associa-
tion. On its floor thoughtful women of all
ranks in life, of all religious creeds, of
every degree of culture, meet upon perfect
equality to give and receive of each others
best. Many decaying walls of prejudice
and usage have fallen which can never
again be erected, leaving a clear field for
future progress in all directions.
	As a proof of this, behold the great ad-

[Column 2]
vance which the suffrage movement receiv-
ed by allying itself with the Woman’s Con-
gress. Not that all the members of this
association, or the Congress Association are
Woman Suffragists—some of both are op-
posed to the ballot for women—but that
the congress gave an opportunity for that
fair debate which women in the past were
not allowed. It cannot be otherwise than
that this enlargement of our liberties shall
continue to broaden our intellectual view,
and with it the horizon of our souls. We
shall ultimately, too, come to get our opin-
ons by thinking, rather than as Mrs.
Browning says men get their’s, and boys
learn to spell, “by reiteration chiefly.”—
the reiteration of other peoples opinions,
which they also had adopted in the same
way. The world never did and never will
advance one step except by liberty in
thought. Let us therefore not fear to think
too freely, while we act discreetly. Some-
where between slavish submission, and ex-
cessive resistance to popular prejudices, the
real truth will be found.
	It is my hope and my belief that the
Pacific Coast Press Association has before it
a future even more useful than its past, but
should it not again find so happy a con-
junction of circumstances, it has done
enough to have made a place in history.
	I could not close this paper which from
its too specific nature I fear may have prov-
en wearisome to our guests, without ex-
pressing my conviction that no member
who has been, or may be compelled to sever
her connection with the association but
feels genuine regret at having to separate
from us. Although not to be mentioned
as of importance the social features of our
organization are sufficient to compensate
the members for any trifling sacrifices that
may be made in its interest. Its social
meetings and outings are marked by the
unconventional and cordial goodfellowship
which is one of the stated objects of our
union. There is talent enough amongst
ourselves, could we combine it, to enter-
tain our friends right royally; but usually
we have gone out into the highway and
brought in our friends to entertain us; per-
haps because we were fearful of not having
that “infinite variety” which “custom
cannot stale,” and prefered to withdraw
ourselves from view. If we have been too
literary to dance we have still piped and
sung, told stories and laughed at them,
cracked jokes and propounded riddles, im-
provised songs and by sharp concussion
struck sparks of wit from the flintiest of
us—in fact indulged in that mild sort of
high jinks which a woman's press associa-
tion might with propriety allow itself. To
all those who whether as hotel managers,
real estate or transportation companies,
have contributed to our pleasure from year
to year in the past, our grateful acknowl-
edgements are rendered, as also for that
which we are to enjoy this year.
	Nor could I close this paper without
voicing the sentiment of regret which I
am sure prevails among us, that rotation in
office while it gives us the officers of our
choice, retires those whom we have learned
to admire and love, not only for faithful-
ness to duty, but for their many charms of
person and character. There is, however,
this compensating feature with rule, that it
brings distinctly before us group after
group, giving us finally a thorough under-
standing of the whole. To our gracious
retiring president, and to each one who

[Column 3]
vacates her office this year, is extended our
heartfelt good will and affection. 
	FRANCES FULLER VICTOR.


WOMAN S EXPONENT


A LETTER.

TEASDALE, WAYNE CO.
				October 6, 1896.
Dear Sister Wells:
	I FORWARD our Conference Report; we
just held one afternoon session of Stake
Conference. My counselors could not
attend, Sister Forsyth had sore throat in
her family and three of her children died;
it was the first time she had failed to attend
an appointment. She is my second coun-
selor and has been a great help to me in
my labors. We enjoyed an excellent spirit
in our conference though short, much was
spoken for our general good and received in
an appreciative manner. We had a number
of young ladies join the Relief Society.
The Stake President of the Young Ladies
Mutual Improvement Association advised
the young sisters to join and attend the
monthly testimony meetings, and I am
pleased to note they heeded her counsel;
there are three associations where all have
joined the Relief Society. I enclose the
names of the presidents and secretaries as
desired. We are always pleased to receive
the WOMAN’S EXPONENT and profit by its
hints and suggestions on many subjects
pertaining to women. With kind love and
wishing you health and success in your
many labors.
			Yours respectfully
					JANE S. COLEMAN.


JEAN INGELOW.

	JEAN INGELOW the charming English
poetess and novelist, is seriously ill. She
is now 76 years of age and has been very
feeble for some time. She lives in a
quaint little cottage in Kensington with
her bachelor brother, surrounded by her
birds and flowers. Her conservatory is
twice the size of her dwelling, and one of
her favorite pastimes has been to liberate
her feathered friends among the flowers
while she writes at her desk. She has
always had an intense horror of publicity
and dislikes any display in her honor. In
addition to her books of poems, she has
written four novels and various works for
children. Her poems are refreshing and
sparkling, among the best known of which
is “We Are Seven.”


A LETTER from Miss Willard dated Mar-
seilles, says: “I am here with Lady
Henry trying to help the Armenian refugees.
We have two or three hundred in a refuge
that we opened directly on our arrival; the
distress is great. It looked curious enough
(and so good!) to see Lady Henry standing
up in the midst and measuring off the num-
ber of yards necessary to make a woman’s
dress while I told out the thread and nee-
dles wherewith to sew it. Then the men
said if we would give them some of that
same cloth they would make themselves
shirts, so we measured off material for
them too, and for the first time their sad
faces brightened and as we left there was
no end of smiling, laughter and chatter in
the great dreary rooms of the big hospital
wing given us without rent by the city
authorities.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WEDDING BELLS.

[To my children Florence and Neal.]
Again the wedding bells are ringing
Like low toned voices joyous, singing;— 
Show white flowers they now are bringing,
To deck the fair and stately bride,
Who so sweetly, now is standing
By her dark eyed husband’s side.

Joyous, happy wedding bells!
How much of joy your clanging tells,
While on the air your music swells;
How true is Love, how sweet is Joy!
How pure the heart where these abound
Though care must be the need alloy.

Life joined to life! fast hand in hand,
Wander on through summer’s fairy land,
By soft sweet breezes gently fann’d,
While the stream of Time flows gently on;
By its sloping banks gleams the golden sand,
Kissed by the rays of the noonday sun.

Stand firm together! fierce storms may come;
From loved one’s side O, never roam!
List to the river’s gentle moan!
Onward, onward tho’ change be near;
Be true to love that gently binds,
Though leaves grow yellow, old and sere.

Now lowly at the Altar bending,
Where vows eternal are ascending,
While prayers from loving hearts are wending.
Up to the Majesty on high.
Keep them safe O, Heavenly Father,
Let Thy scourges pass them by.

High noon rolls on a pace,
And on the dial now we trace,
The hour upon its clear-cut face.
The vows are uttered that forever,
Link heart to heart, and life to life,
On earth no more to change or sever.

How grand the Temple and the Vow,
In reverence deep each heart doth bow;
Earthly cares are faded now;
And Peace with white and fluttering wings
Falls on the group assembled there
So far above frail, earthly things.

So solemn bells ring’out the sound!
The love of God doth here abound;
Like burnished gold gleams all around.
Slow from the altar rise the pair,
Who thus have pledged before their God
Each joy and ill of life to share.

Prayer and blessings go together;
In both fair and stormy weather;
Cling to God and never sever,
Though the trial and the cross
Doth crush the heart where now is joy;
'Tis only seeming earthly loss.

No cross, no crown.” Be this thy prayer,
“O, Father give Thy love to share
My heart before Thee now I bare;
O, lead me safe thro’ every storm,
O, never, leave me or forsake
But hold me in Thy love so warm.”

Soon wedding bells will ring again,
The Savior come on earth to reign,
To banish sin and Death and pain,
And wipe the tears from every face,
The Wedding Supper will be spread,
May you my darlings share a place.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.
October 7, 1896.


THE HEART—THE HEART

THE heart—the heart! oh! let it be
	A true and bounteous thing; 
As kindly warm, as nobly free,
	As eagle’s nestling wing.


Oh! keep it not, like miser’s gold,
	Shut in from all beside;
But let its precious stores unfold, 
	In mercy, far and wide.
The heart—the heart, that’s truly blest
	Is never all its own;
No ray of glory lights the breast
	That beats for self alone.
The heart—the heart! oh! let it spare
	A sigh for other’s pain;
The breath that soothes a brother’s care
	Is never spent in vain.
And though it throb at gentlest touch,
	Or sorrow’s faintest call,
’Twere better it should ache too much,
	Than never ache at all.
The heart—the heart, that’s truly blest,
	Is never all its own;
No ray of glory lights the breast 
	That beats for self alone.
					ELIZA COOK.


[Column 1]
A FEW WORDS ABOUT INDIA.

	I ARRIVED in India in December 1860, 3
years after the great mutiny of 1857 Lord
Canning took the reins of government in
1856 when everything promised a reign of
peace and prosperity; but as is often the
case a time of special calm preceeds the
direst storm and such was unhappily the
case then. In 1857 came the first mutter-
ings of the storm that was to sweep over
so large a portion of British India. At the
commencement of the year chupattees
(cakes of flour and water) were circulated
through the Northwest provinces and en-
closed in them were papers advising the
natives to rise in mutiny on a certain day,
and kill all the Europeans. Some say
that the means proposed was for the cooks
to put Datura or Deadly Nightshade in
their soup and so kill whole families at
once. However whatever the diabolical
means suggested were, it was over-ruled
by a merciful Providence and discovered in
time to prevent its being carried out. This
and treasonable placards appearing at Del-
hi and other suspicious occurences gave
warning of Mohomedan disaffection and
conspiracy.
	The Enfield rifle and its greased cart-
ridge was at this time put into the hands of
the Sepoys (a native regiment) without ex-
planation or precaution. General Anson
the Commander in Chief, was a man who
snubbed caste, and native “beastly
ly prejudice” as he called it and was op-
posed to making any concession to it. The
mutiny first broke but at Meerutt, 35 miles
from Delhi where there were stationed
European troops amounting to 1800 also
about 2900 native soldiers.
	On the 23 of April the skirmishers of the
3rd native cavelry on parade refused to
touch the new cartridge which had to be
torn off with their teeth although permis-
sion had been given them to break off the
end with the fingers. The reason they
assigned was that they were made with
bullock’s fat, and they hold the bull sacred
or pigs fat which would break their caste
to touch as they hold the pig to be an un-
clean animal.
	Eighty-five mutineers were tried and sen-
tenced to imprisonment. On the even-
ing of the next day the native troops rose,
liberated their comrades and the felons in
jail, shot down their officers and the doom-
ed station was given up to conflagration
and massacre. The next day the Meerutt

[Column 2]
mutineers reached Delhi. There were no
Europeans troops to oppose them and soon
the city was entirely in their hands. Nina
Sahab of Bithoor whose claims as the adopt-
ed son of Pishwah had not been recognized
by the government, fanned the insurrection.
At Cownpore the suffering of the Euro-
peans cannot be imagined. When the
Nina Sahab heard that troops were march-
ing from Allshabad and were expected
daily he ordered a deep well to be dug and
into it were cast hundreds of men, women
and children alive and left there to die,
after having been at the mercy of the
native troops for days. Many ladies com-
mitted suicide and killed their children,
and husbands killed their own wives rather
than let them suffer at the hands of the devils
for they could be called by no other name.
	The Europeans in the residency
of Lucknow were besieged on the 30th of
June and were not relieved until the 25th
of September by the Heroic Havelock.
The final relief was achieved by Sir Colin
Campbell on the 17th of Dec. I met with
many who had suffered at that time but
had escaped, some through the fidelity of
their servants for there were many that
were true to their masters and mistresses
and loved them dearly and risked their own
lives to save them. One lady I knew
who lost her reason through the cruelties
she underwent. I must not forget to tell
you an incident of one Ayah, a woman
servant’s fidelity. She informed her mis-
tress that her house would be attacked that
night, and told her that if she would trust
her she would save her and her children,
and proposed that she should stain her
mistress and the children with walnut
juice and dress them in the native clothes
and at night she took them down to the
river where she had a native boat awaiting
them and they were taken into a creek up
the river and lived in a hut for weeks in
her care, during which time a little baby
was born to her mistress. The lady’s hus-
band escaped as a native, after being stained
from head to foot and dressed as a Malley
or gardener. He was one of the leading
merchants of Calcutta, but living about
three miles from the city. Both Cawnpore
and Lucknow are most interesting towns
on account of their tragic history and inter-
esting buildings. I must not encroach up-
on your columns longer now but on anoth-
er occasion I shall be happy to write more
of this interesting country and people
which I love dearly.
					DILBHUR.


ON the 21st of this month the Princeton
University will celebrate the 150th anni-
versary of its foundation as the college of
New Jersey.
	A WOMAN’S club has been started in
France. It has a house furnished by the
President at her own expense. The fees
are fifteen dollars annually, and it gathers
together refined working women, widows
and spinsters, who dine together write let
ters, chat and amuse themselves with games.
	HARRIET PRESCOTT SPOFFORD writing
of the late Abagail Dodge, says that she
was a discriminating critic of books and
people and measures; she loved nature,
poetry, children and beauty in every shape.
She kindled brightness in others, and you
felt in her society that you were listening
to the most brilliant woman of her genera-
tion.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as 
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, OCTOBER 15, 1896.


[Column 1]
MODERATION AND SELF-CONTROL.

	THE peculiar phases of circumstances
and the environments of the present time
especially in regard to political matters call
for sound judgment and sane-thinking on
the part of all men and women who are de-
sirous of good to the community in which
they reside, or the commonwealth of which
that community is a component part. The
extremes that seem to be a natural conse-
quence of the general excitement can scarce-
ly result in anything but disaffection and
bitterness among the people when all is
over, unless more kindly sentiments and
better methods of campaigning prevail.
Conservative people are considered wanting
in the enthusiasm necessary to carry the
vital questions to a satisfactory result.
Women who form a large part of the vot-
ing population here in Utah have been in
most instances exceedingly modest and un-
prouounced, and it seems in keeping with
the situation. It is comparatively new to
them and some of the conditions this year
are also new to men, consequently caution
is more essentially needful. However, it
has been positively necessary some of the
real work should be done by women, and a
few have been willing to accept the re-
sponsibility and do the actual work without
remuneration or expectation of reward ex-
cept what may come in the beneficial re-
sults that may accrue to all, and the satis-
faction of doing one’s duty. Women the
world over are considered peace-makers
and in the present state of affairs, such
helpfulness as they can render in promot-
ing harmony should certainly be exercised
for the good of all concerned. Women
should assuredly hold themselves above
party feeling and seek for the highest
good of all concerned, and we believe this
is the general idea among the women who
have taken a prominent part in public
matters.
	The eyes of the nation are upon the wo-
men of Utah, and especially in this first
election which is so important because of
the complications that have arisen on the
monetary question. Men strong in the
party to which they have been allied for
years have dissolved their connection with
it and gone over to the opposite party; thus
it does not seem strange if women coming
into practical politics at such a trying time
should be criticised and perchance make
some mistakes.

[Column 2]
	The experiment (as most people call it) 
of nominating women to office and of wo-
men holding office is new except in rare
instances; though in Wyoming women
have been doing duty in positions of emol-
ument and trust for twenty-five years. No
complaints of inability or indifference to the
interest of the public are reported; only a
small number of women are likely to occu-
py public offices for some time to come al-
though men seem somewhat doubtful upon
the matter. If more good and competent
women would attend the Primaries and
Conventions and take part in the proceed-
ings, it would doubtless have a good effect.
	The dissatisfaction of the public mind
has reached such a stage that matters will
not be settled by the election of a Presi-
dent, however acceptable it may be to the
toiling masses, the working people and to
the nation in general. It will take some
time and great wisdom to adjust affairs so
complicated and bring men and women to
that stage of feeling of security, that will
inspire confidence and promote good fellow-
ship instead of the discord that prevails
largely at the present.
	The nomination of a few women for the
Legislature shows the liberality of some
honorable men who realize the justice of
equal suffrage. It is most desirable that
these few women should be in every respect
capable of doing the work which will be
expected at their hands, for should there be
any lack or indifference on their part, it
would have a direct bearing on any aspir-
ant for office forever after. For the good
of the cause and the advancement of all
who are to come after to fill the places
where woman’s work will be effective, the
women of today should help to make these
new beginners firm and strong that they
may indeed be helpful to the state. None
of those who follow will have so much
criticism, as these who lay the foundation
of the new departure in woman’s emancipa-
tion.
	In Salt Lake County two women have
been nominated for the Senate and two for
the House and one for County auditor.
	In Davis County one woman has been
nominated for the Senate, in Weber County
one for County recorder also in Box Elder,
and one in Millard Co. for the same office,
two in Kane County for county offices, and
perhaps these are not all. After long years
of patient waiting women are coming to a
realization of some of the fruits of their
labors in the opportunities offered them for
broader culture and higher aims, and if in
the meantime moderation and self-control
are properly exercised, what great achieve-
ments may we not expect in good govern-
ment and better conditions of society when
all the people instead of one half take part
even in local matters.
	Yet one interested in the welfare of Utah
must not lose sight of the present condi-
tions, but stand for pure and righteous
principles of justice and equity to all
whatever betides; be valiant and upright,
and true to one's own conscience.


A BRILLIANT WEDDING.

	MISS FLORENCE D. ALDER and Elder
Cornelius Schettler were united in marriage
on Wednesday, Oct. 7. at 12 M in the
Salt Lake Temple, Bishop J. R. Winder
officiating in the ceremony. The bride is
the daughter of George and Lydia D.
Alder, well known residents of this city.


and a very popular young lady. The
bridegroom is the son of B. H. and Mary
Schettler (B. H. Schettler is widely known
in business circles) and the bridegroom
has only recently returned from a mission
to Germany, where he also paid some
special attention to music for which he has
fine talent. He was highly complimented
on his instrumental work by learned musi-
cians in Berlin, Germany, where he labored
as a missionary.
	The reception at the residence of the
bride’s parents in the evening was a bril-
liant affair, and was numerously attended.
The spacious parlors were artistically decor-
ated with flowers, smilax and Autumn
leaves, and the happy couple who stood
in the bay window under the beautiful
floral decorations looked radiantly happy
in their new role. Miss Irene Schettler and
little Miss May Alder were the brides-
maids and Wm. McEwan and Ernest
Schettler stood at the right of the bride-
groom, and assisted in receiving the guests
and shared in the congratulations and
compliments, as did the bridesmaids.
	The wedding presents from relatives and
friends were mostly useful articles though
many of them were elegant, among the
gifts was a large Bible presented by the Y.
L. M. I. A. of the Second ward, with the
bride’s name in gilt letters, and inside
the autograph of each of the young girls of
the association. The Bible was given as an
expression of love and appreciation to one
who had been their secretary for several
years, and was a very appropriate gift.
	With the many warm friends of the new-
married couple we extend our hearty con-
gratulations, and wish them Bon voyage
on the great sea of life, and trust their
highest expectations of happiness may be
fully realized.


EDITORIAL NOTES

	IN consequence of the mass meeting of
ladies which will be held in the Theatre on
the 31st of this month, the annual meeting
of the Utah Woman’s Press Club will be
held on Wednesday the 28th. All members
should be present as new officers will be
elected. An interesting time is anticipated,
as each member is expected to appear in
character and give a selection from the
character represented.
	THE Kindergarten Autumn tea at Dr.
E. R. Shipp's handsome parlors on Oct. 15,
was a genuine success, socially it was ex-
ceedingly pleasant, and the music and other
exercises were fine. Mrs. Lizzie Thomas
Edwards song was highly appreciated, she
was in excellent voice, and the association
feels very grateful to her, and to Prof. Mc-
Clellan, the accompanist also Professor
Schettler with his guitar, and to all who in
any way contributed to the success of the
entertainment. The Autumn leaves and
flowers as decorations were most charming-
ly arranged. Mrs. Shipp and her lovely
daughters made every one feel welcome,
also the other ladies who so kindly and
gracefully assisted in receiving.
	ON Monday evening the 9th of Novem-
ber the Rev. Anna H. Shaw will give a
lecture in the large Tabernacle in this city.
Miss Shaw’s great ability, her versatility
and popularity as a celebrated lecturer is so
universally known, that it is hoped the
building will be filled to its utmost capaci-


ty; especially as the object of the lecture 
is to raise means for the Kindergartens in
this city, which are doing such effective
work for the children. Miss Shaw will be
on her homeward journey after her cam-
paign work for equal suffrage in California,
and only comes here to speak at the solicita-
tion of the women who are laboring so
faithfully to establish Kindergartens and
make them a permanent institution in Utah.
Miss Shaw will be accompanied by the
party of Eastern women who have been
assisting in the great campaign throughout
the State of California.
	MISS MARY GREW, who died very sud-
denly (October 10,) at her residence in
Philadelpha, was a most remarkable char-
acter. She was born in Hartford Conn.,
Sep. 1, 1813, and was educated there; she
removed to Boston in 1837, and afterwards
to Philadelphia her permanent residence
ever since. By inheritance and training
she was a radical abolitionist and was
associated with and co-operated in that
work with the heroic men who took so
prominent a part in that early period, Wm.
Loyd Garrison, Wendell Philips and others.
She was a member of the Boston Female
Anti-Slavery Society from its organization,
and after her removal to Philadelphia unit-
ed with the Anti-Slavery Society there
and was its Cor. Sec’y., and wrote its
annual reports until 1870, when the Society
disbanded. She was a member of the fa-
mous Anti-Slavery Convention in 1838, in
Pennsylvania Hall, when it was surround-
ed by a furious mob which destroyed the
building by fire a few hours after the Con-
vention adjourned. After Slavery was
abolished and the 15th amendment to the
Constitution ratified, she devoted her life
to other reforms, principally the enfran-
chisement of women. She was a very
forcible lecturer and an occasional preacher in
the pulpits of the Unitarian churches; and
in Northern New England the pulpits of
the Free Will Baptists, Methodists and
Congregational churches were open to her.
Miss Grew was one of the founders of
the New Century Club of Philadelphia,
said to be the most influential club in the
United States, and also of the Pennsyl-
vania Woman’s Suffrage Association, and
its President for many years.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


U. W. P. C.

	SEP. 30, 1896, the Woman’s Press Club
met at the office of the WOMAN'S EXPO-
NENT. Because of the absence of Presi-
dent Wells, Dr. R. B. Pratt presided. The
opening prayer was offered by Phebe C.
Young. Shakespearean Sentiments were
given in answer to roll call. The minutes
were read and with one correction were ap-
proved. Mrs. Phebe C. Young should be
mentioned as having read, at the last meet-
ing, “Margaret Queen of Louis of
France.” Miscellaneous business being
next in order Mrs. Brown moved, and it
was carried, that the treasurer be empower-
ed to buy the necessary books and paper
for the club.
	Dr. Curtis gave an interesting account of
her summer vacation. 
	She was glad to return to our ideal city
after her peaceful respite during the heated
term. At the present time there are sani-
tariums where the panacea for all ills is
found in absolute rest, must not read or write
and as far as possible abstain from thinking.


She had found in the wild woods and peace-
ful rivers of Washington such an ideal sani-
tarium. She had left all care, worry and
political issues at home and had returned a
weightier woman—at least physically.
Rest is fine, and so is work grand. She
felt she had returned not as a stranger but
as one of the press household.
	Mrs. Mary Lambert followed with a
beautiful poem on the Island of Hawaii,
after which the members all joined in an
animated discussion of the paper.
	Mrs. Lambert by request spoke in the
musical language of the Hawaiian.
	After a lengthy and interesting discussion
of the religious, social and moral status of
the Hawaiians and society in general, the
meeting adjourned for one month.
	ELLIS R. SHIPP, Sec. pro tem.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL CON-
FERENCE
	THE General Conference of the Relief
Society was held in the Assembly Hall in
Salt Lake City, Saturday Oct. 3, 1896, at 2
p. m., Mrs. Zina D. H. Young presiding.
On the stand were the Vice Presidents
Jane S. Richards, Bathsheba W. Smith
and Sarah M. Kimball, Secretaries E. B.
Wells and R. B. Pratt, several Stake Presi-
dents from a distance occupied the upper
stand, and there was a good sized congre-
gation in the body of the house.
	Conference opened with singing ‘ Re-
deemer of Israel,” prayer by Sister B. W.
Smith, continued by singing “Let us pray
gladly pray.” Roll called, seventeen
Stakes represented. Minutes of previous
Conference read and approved.
	President Zina D. H. Young welcomed
the congregation in a very gracious man-
ner and thanked the brethren who were
present for their presence, felt glad to see
so many from a distance but wished there
was not a vacant seat in the house, urged
the sisters to do all in their power to get
the members to attend their local meetings,
felt we needed the Spirit of the Lord to be
constantly with us, not only do we need it
every hour but all the time. Related
some instances of sublime faith in children;
referred to a dream of Patriarch John
Young about a looking glass in which
one’s neighbor’s faults were magnified, ad-
vised all to follow the teachings of Joseph
the Prophet and pray night and day to the
Lord for guidance.
	President Adeline H. Barber of the Cache
Stake Relief Society spoke against mumur-
ing, referred to the recent high wind, said
it occured immediately after a woman’s
meeting in which the sisters had complain-
ed so much of hard times; reported good
work done in the Society and a good feeling
generally, and beautifully of Temple work.
President Hakes of Maricopa Stake, rep-
resented the Relief Society work in that
locality for his wife who could not come
because of financial difficulties, and had
asked him to report. Spoke very interest-
ingly of the labors of the sisters in that
part of the vineyard. 
	Lorinda E. Thompson of the Board of
Millard Relief Society gave an excellent
account of the sisters in that Stake and of
the President, Elizabeth Yates, and alluded
to the distressing sickness (Diphtheria) that
had prevailed at Scipio, out of one hun-
dred cases, however, only eight had died,

[Column 2]
all the others had recovered, which seemed
remarkable.
	President Emma J. Bennett, Relief Soci-
ety Bingham Stake gave a very favorable
report, referred to the willingness of the
brethren to assist the sisters in their labors
and to go with them when visiting the
Stakes spoke highly of the country, they
had rich ranches and lovely fields of grain;
of the union which prevailed among them,
all being in harmony; sisters would come
eight or ten miles to attend Conferences,
and bring babies with them; made some
remarks on the Word of Wisdom and the
blessings attending those who kept it. 
	Temperance Hinckley President of Re-
lief Society of Bannock Stake, spoke of the
disadvantages they labored under in having
such long distances to travel by team to
visit the Stake she and her Counselors
had visited all around recently, felt to do
all in her power and reported a good and
united feeling among the sisters in the
Stake knew they were charitable and
humble and were desirous of doing their
duty they were always ready to assist the
Bishops in relieving the poor and in every
good word and work for Zion.
	President Mary A. P. Hyde, Relief Soci-
ety Sanpete Stake, spoke of having just re-
turned from a Quarterly Conference in that
county and of the good feeling that exist
ed among the Saints, spoke very feelingly
of the loss by death of her two Counselors
during the present year, Sisters Minerva
W. Snow and Sarah A. Peterson, and of
the strong attachment that had existed
between them, but realized they were bet-
ter off and that they would not wish to re-
turn here. Two other Counselors had
since been appointed and she felt that they
would be faithful in the position to which
they had been called and set apart. They
were Sisters Alvira L. Cox and Abbie
Shoemaker. Sister Hyde felt blest in ber
ing able to attend the Conference and
hearing the good reports from the sisters.
	President Ann C. Woodbury of the Re-
lief Society of St. George Stake, spoke of
the great losses sustained in that locality
by floods, but did not feel discouraged but
hopeful, thought their faith and union had
ncreased of late. The sisters generally had.
to pay for teams to go around the Stake,
the distances they had to travel in visiting
all around were considerable; her advice
had been to put their financial women in
the front so they could make means to
sustain the poor and for such other purposes
as means was needed for, thought there
was a prospect now of a railroad coming
and then they would have a market for
their produce; last year the people there
had large crops of grain and disposed of it
too readily, this year the crops would be
light, scarcity would make them more
careful in the future; thought as a people,
we were greatly blest in comparison with
the nations of the earth, for this she prais-
ed the God of Jacob who had blessed us
and kept us “and will bless us and keep
us if we will serve Him.” Sister Wood-
bury spoke earnestly of the silk industry;
the sisters there had pushed the work for-
ward this year, there had been two hundred
pounds of cocoons raised there this season,
and it would be a great help to them; she
had been working in the interst of the silk
industry for eighteen years trying to ac-
complish something and realized that if
it would not be of any benefit to her, it
would in the future to the children, and


[Column 1]
grandchildren of those who were laboring
in its establishment.
	President Mary John, of the Relief Soci-
ety of Utah Stake, spoke of the large num-
ber of branches in that Stake of Zion, thirty
three and all doing well; the poor were
well looked after, none suffering, referred to
some instances when on account of death and
misfortune whole families were dependent;
realized the Relief Society had been a great
school in which many important lessons were
learned; referred to the bountiful harvest
and thought the sisters should be on the
alert and store up more grain during this
year. Spoke most encouragingly concern-
ing the Free Kindergarten in Provo, said,
"We have started it and we feel we shall
make a success of it eventually, feel assur-
ed of it, of having a free kindergarten in
each ward; children in these schools are
taught such nice manners, and to be so
kind and gentle, let me advise all mothers
arid grandmothers to encourage these
schools.”
	President Elizabeth Fox of Oneida Stake
rejoiced to see the sisters from the North,
the South, the East and West come to the
Conference and enjoy the privileges of the
teaching and the spirit of the Gospel. In
that Stake they experienced some difficulty
in getting teams especially to go long dis-
tances; spoke about wheat and the need
there was and would be of grain in times
to come, as yet had no granary but hoped
to do better in the future; spoke of the
good work many of the aged sisters had
done, and the hardships they had borne.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young made a few
remarks and opened out upon the subject
of a suitable house for the sisters to meet
in to be owned by the Relief Society. Wo-
men had done so much to help build other
houses for public purposes and to build
Temples, and when the President of the
Stake, C. O. Card, lacked the means to go
on with the Logan Temple and the men
were to be discharged because there was no
money to pay them, Sister Jane S. Rich-
ards raised five hundred dollars through the
Relief Society of Weber County to keep the
men working, and it stands as a memento
to the sisters of that Society forever.
	Sister Sarah M. Kimball wished she
could do justice to the subject, in what she
wanted to say; in her feelings she felt
humiliated in regard to the failure of the
meeting in the morning. It was under-
stood that we were to have the Hall and
permission had been given, but in conse-
quence of a previous appointment which
had been published the meeting could not
be held. “We need a house of our own,
owned and controlled by the Society, a
house under the shadow of the Temple, a
counterpart of it. We have contributed to
all public places that have been built and
at all times, but we want a house of our
own suitable to the various purposes of
this great organization; we want the land
to build on and it should be near; and a
house with conveniences for you my sisters
Who come from a distance, and where we
are prepared to entertain strangers when
they come; a bureau of information should
be established in it, and a place where let-
ters can be written, and other things of
this kind done that are an adjunct to the
Society. I have only a few minutes and
don’t expect to be here again, the question
is being discussed whether you representa-
tive Women who are here want this build-
ing, and we want to put it to vote.” Sister

[Column 2]
Kimball then told what Joseph Smith had
said to the sisters of the Society in Nauvoo,
and his giving them a lot belonging to the
Church, and that a house was given with it
which could be repaired and made useful;
she then said “I want to ask you sisters if
you want such a building as I have describ-
ed?” The motion was put to the house and
the vote taken and it was unanimous; the
speaker added “If you are alive to this
proposition then see how much can be
done.”
	Sister Zina D. H. Young spoke of the
sisters of Sanpete Stake building their large
hall over the Co-op store in Ephraim, al-
most entirely without money; they contri-
buted all their Sunday eggs, some had
sheep and gave wool etc. and in various
ways raised $600, it was very wonderful;
reminded the sisters to consider the subject.
After singing the doxology the Conference
adjourned until 7.30 p. m. Benediction by
Elder E. John Nuttall.
			E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
JOURNEYING IN DIXIE.

Dear Sister Wells:
	I THOUGHT a few lines from this part
might interest the readers of the EXPO-
NENT.
	President Ann C. Woodbury, her coun-
selor Emma Morris, of the Relief Society
and Mary G. Whitehead, of the Primary
Association of St. George Stake of Zion,
left St George to visit the Western settle-
ments, Sep. 1, 1896, arriving at Price Val-
ley after traveling over a very rough road,
at 4 p. m. held a meeting with the Pri-
mary Association and, had a very nice
meeting well attended by parents and
children. In the evening held a meeting
with the Relief Society. Bishop Mower met
with us and spoke words of encouragement
to the sisters. Here we found Rosena
Jarvis, President of Y. L. M. I. A.; she 
had been holding meetings in some of the
settlements. The morning of the 2nd we
met with the young ladies and had an ex-
cellent meeting. This is a lovely valley
and the scriptures are fulfilled in the say-
ing that Zion should be established in the tops
of the mountains. We left the sisters of Price
Valley feeling well and arrived at Pinto and
held a meeting with the Relief Society at 3
p. m. Here the sisters generally turned
out, we had a nice time. At 5 p. m. we
met with the children of the Primary.
Here the children are a credit to any settle-
ment. In the evening we met with the
young ladies and had an excellent meet-
ing, in fact we had a time long to be re-
membered
	Sep. 3, we went on to Hamblin and ap-
pointed a meeting to be held on our return
trip. We reached Hebron and held a gen-
eral meeting in the evening. Bishop Holt
who is a live bishop encouraged us with his
presence and also set an example to the
young men that they did not fail to imi-
tate; had a very good meeting. We went
to Sister Terry’s ranch and spent the
night. The 4th we traveled to Clover,
held a general meeting at 4 o’clock; on
the 5th we left the little settlement of
Clover and arrived at Panacca met the genial
Bishop Charles Reno who made us very
welcome. We met with the Relief Society
in the evening; owing to the storm we had
a slim attendance at the meeting. Sunday
the 6th we met with the Sabbath school;

[Column 2]
after the sacrament had been administered
Superintendent Arthur Lee turned the
meeting over to Sister Whitehead of the
Primary. We had an interesting time here,
there was a housefull of very lovely child-
ren. In the evening we held meeting with
the young ladies, Miss Alice Tindley is
president. The young men were invited
in, a Mr. Osborn an editor from Pioche
also met with us. We left Panacca on the
7th, arrived at Sister Terry’s ranch,  had
supper and went to Hebron for the night.
On the 8th we started for Hamblin, held
a meeting at noon, organized a Primary,
had a good time, had dinner with our old
friend Sister Campfield, traveled on to
Pinto, found Bishop Knell very sick. We
left Pinto and arrived in Grass Valley in
time to hold an evening meeting with the
people and organize a Young Ladies
Association. Here we found a nice place
and a progressive people. They have the
advancement of children at heart. The 9th
we left Grass Valley for St. George feeling
we had done some good in urging the
people to their duties.
	Ever praying for the welfare of Zion, I
remain your sister in the Gospel
				ANN C. WOODBURY.


A LETTER OF SYMPATHY.

	Mrs. A. S. Rogers.
Dear Sister:
	As Primary officers in monthly meeting
assembled October 2, we feel to offer you
our heartfelt sympathy in this your double
bereavement of your sister and husband;
but more especially do we condole with
you in the loss of of the former, because
she was our beloved President and co-labor-
er, whom to know was to love. But yours
dear sister, was naturally the keener smart;
are you not woven in each other’s lives?
You hung on each other’s necks in deep sor-
row and in bitter trial.
	We can hardly think of you without
glancing over your past history. While
you were suffering the pangs of maternal
bereavement and paternal absence and en-
during mob violence, we on Europe’s far-
off shores were blessed with precious pres-
ence and wise counsel of that loving father
and bereaved husband who was for the
time being, as it were, torn from his tender
flock to fill the important mission of presid-
ing over the British Isles. And though a
little child at the time we well remember a
song being composed expressive of the love
and esteem in which he was held by the
English Saints. In said song he was desig-
nated “ Faithful One.” 
	What an honor to be the children of
such a father and a martyred mother!
	Think you not that the Lord watched
over the little flock of those sainted par-
ents and will reward those who suffer-in
His righteouness? yea verily !
	And while your heart is wrung with
sorrow which cannot be healed in this life,
Ellen’s heart is filled with unbounded joy;
for as it was said to your father on leaving
his great field of labor “Faithful one, faith-
ful one, welcome him home,” so shall
it be said to his dear daughter as she is
folded in the arms of her parents in that
happy home of which it is said,
	“And God shall wipe away all tears, from
their eyes; and there shall be no more death
neither sorrow, nor crying, neither shall there be


any more pain; for the former things are passed
away.—Rev., 21st chap., 4th verse.
				CAMILLA C. COBB,
				LYDIA ANN WELLS,
				MARY L. MORRIS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS..

WAYNE STAKE.
	THE Relief Society of the Wayne Stake
held their Conference in the Blue Valley
meeting house Aug 24, 1896, President J.S.
Coleman presiding. Singing, prayer by
Patriarch F. W. Young, continued by sing-
ing. Roll called, minutes of the previous
Conference were read and approved. Presi-
dent J.S. Coleman was pleased to meet with
the sisters again, said we should deem it a
great privilege to be members of the Relief
Society, encouraged the young ladies to at-
tend the Relief Society also parents to at-
tend the Sunday school and Primary meet-
ings and gave other good instruction, pray-
ed the spirit of the Lord to be with all
during the Conference. Statistical and
financial report was then read.
	The Teasdale, Grover, Caineville and
Giles Relief Societies were then reported by
their several presidents, were all in good
condition and doing well. Sisters Sarah
Rust and Agnes Woleman spoke a short
time. President J. S. Coleman was pleased
to hear the good reports given by each of
the presidents, advised the sisters to plant
mulberry trees on the Relief Society lots.
	President William Paxman of Juab Stake
spoke very encouragingly to the sisters,
spoke of the aid they were to the Bishop
in relieving the poor etc., prayed the Lord
to bless the sisters in their good work 
	President W. E. Robison of the Wayne
Stake was pleased to note the rapid pro-
gress the sisters of Wayne Stake were
making, endorsed the remarks of the sisters
and also those of President William Pax-
man. President Paxman testified that
Apostle Teasdale had promised him great
blessings on his journey and they had all
been fulfilled for which he thanked the
Lord. Elder Joseph Eckersby also testified
that the Spirit of God had attended the
Conference and gave other good instruction.
Conference adjourned for six months.
Singing, benediction by President H.
M. Hanson.
			ANNIE COLEMAN, Sec.
 [Reported by Mary Jane Wilson.]
ONEIDA STAKE.
	WE held our Quarterly Conference at
Eranklin on Sep. 8, with a pretty good at-
tendance. We had as visitors Sister Jane
S. Richards of the general Presidency, and
Sister Stevens, both of Ogden, President
Julia Lindsey of the Bear Lake Stake,
President Adeline H. Barber of the Cache
Stake, Stake President George C. Parkin-
son, also the local Stake Presidency and
many presidents of branches. Much good
instruction was given and although the
weather was cold and rainy we had a most
enjoyable time.
	Sister Barber had with her samples of
silk which had been raised by the sisters in
the Cache Stake, which proved beyond a
doubt that silk is a natural production
of these Western states, and only awaits
development to become a source of wealth.
	Just before the afternoon session of Con-
ference was dismissed Mrs. Mary C. C.

[Column 2]
Bradford of Denver, Col., was announced.
She came to the stand, was introduced and
made a few remarks on the nature of her
labors among the people and announced
that she would lecture in the meeting house
that evening at 7.30. At the appointed
time she delivered a brilliant lecture, show-
ing by facts instead of theory the benefit to
be derived from women receiving the right
ot the franchise. At the close of the meet-
ing she organized an Equal Suffrage Club,
with sixty-three members. She also visit-
ed Malad, Weston, Preston, Cifton and
Oxford, and organized clubs in these towns
and from there she went by train to Black-
foot Idaho. She is intending to labor for
the best interest of woman suffrage in this
state up to the election. The Legislature
has granted an amendment and it was left
to voters whether the women of Idaho shall
have the ballot or not. We all feel
encouaged.
	Mrs. M. C. Athey, State Cor. Sec. of
Boise, Idaho, writes, “ Let us give a hard
pull, a long pull and a pull altogether
and we shall see a splendid victory this
fall.”
				D. E. DUDLEY.


FROM a recent monograph of the United
States Census Bureau is taken statistics
that show how the new woman developed
in the United States between the years 1870
and 1890. The figures relate to the num-
ber of women in other than domestic em-
ployments, and are of great interest. In
1870 there were 693 actresses, in 1890 there
were 3,948. The solitary woman architect
of 1870 twenty years later had 21 rivals in
her profession. The number of artists and
teachers of art has increased from 412 to
10,810. Under the head of authors, liter-
ary and scientific persons the number in-
creased from 159 to 2,725. There were no
women chemists, assayers or metallurgists
in 1870, but twenty years later there were
46. Women preachers increased in num-
ber from 67 to 1,235. The success of 24
dentists inspired 337 new women to take
up the trade. Designers, draughtsmen and
inventors grew from 13 to 206. There was
not a known woman civil engineer or sur-
veyor twenty-five years ago, yet five years
ago there were 127 mistresses of the transit,
theodolite and chain. A nucleus of 35
journalists grew to an army of 888 in two
decades. Musicians and teachers of music
increased nearly seven fold, or from 5,753
to 34,519. In the field of politics, that is,
Government officials, State, Federal and
local, the number had grown in twenty
years from 414 to 4,875. Physicians and
surgeons of the fair sex were rapidly ad-
mitted to practice, and the ranks grew from
527 to 4,555. By 1870 the competency of
women teachers in public and private
schools was generally recognized, and
84,047 were so employed, but twenty years
later the birch was wielded by 245,965
qualified women, some of whom held chairs
in famous colleges. The 100 theatrical
managers and showmen in 1870 must have
succeeded, for the year 1890 found 634 of
them “in the business.” Two women in
1890 had taken up the profession of veter-
inary surgeons. The army of bookkeepers,
accountants and clerks grew from 8,016 to
91,825. A most extraordinary statement is
that in 1870 there were but 7 women sten-
ographers and typewriters, and they were
the pioneers of the 21,185 that came later,
a figure which at the present time must be


increased by 10,000 at least. Saleswomen
could hardly be said to be established in
1870, as the census takers could find but
2,775. When they went around twenty
year later they discovered 58,499 young
women calling for “Ca-sh.” There is no
question but that the employment of wo-
men on all the lines indicated has increased
enormously since the census was taken.
							—Ex.


IN MEMORIAM.

	DIED—At Pleasant Grove, Utah, Aug. 5, 1896,
Margaret Foutz, daughter of David and Mary
Mun. Born December 11, 1801 in Franklin
county, Pa. Married to Jacob Foutz July 22,
1823, husband and wife joined the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in 1834, in Ohio.
They gathered with the Saints in the land of Mo.
and settled on Crooked River in Caldwell County.
They passed through the terrible persecutions
which the Saints endured in that land. They
were in the bloody slaughter at Haun’s mill where
some eighteen persons were killed out-right and
many others wounded, her husband with others
were huddled together in a blacksmith’s shop
and shot down, he being severly wounded drew
some of his dead companions over him and feign-
ed himself dead when the murderous mob stripped
their victims; he thus saved his life. They were
expelled from the state of Mo. to Illinois, and
gathered with the Saints at Nauvoo, where her
husband was Bishop of one of the wards; they
helped to build up that place and endured all the
trials and labors incident thereto, and were again
driven in the general exodus into the wilderness
by the hand of persecution. They arrived in
Salt Lake valley in the fall of 1847, to make a
home and living in the Desert Wilderness with
short rations and little means to begin with. The
next summer she lost her husband; he died at a
time when the people were mostly subsisting on
roots and greens she was left with a large family
and scant means. She settled in Pleasant Grove
in 1851 where she resided ever after. She had
twelve children, seventy grandchildren, one
hundred and twenty-six great grandchildren and
nine great great grandchildren. Two sons and
three daughters survive her. She was an inces- 
sant worker till within a few weeks of death; She
was a devoted mother and faithful in her religi-
ous duties and highly respected by all who knew
her. She died in full faith of the Gospel and
hope of a glorious Resurrection.
					SARAH A. FOUTZ.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	RESOLUTIONS adopted by the officers and
members of the Springville Second ward Relief
Society in memory of Sister Hannah Harrison,
who died after a lingering illness September 15;
1896, at Springville, Utah. She was born at
Warrington, Lancashire, England, July 18, 1817
	When only nineteen she married William Har-
rison. Five years later she received the Gospel,
and was baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints, in February 1838. At the
time it was so cold that her shoes became frozen
to the bank of the stream and she had to walk
home in her stockings.
	She emigarted to Utah in 1856, and was one of
the honored hand-cart company. When Utah
was reached the family moved direct to Spring-
ville where she has lived until her death, surviv-
ing her husband fifteen years.
	Sister Harrison has been an active publicwork-
er, was first counselor in the first Relief Society of
Springville and has been one of its members over
twenty-six years. Ever has she borne a faithful
testimony to the cause of her life’s devotion. Be
it therefore
	RESOLVED, That as our Heavenly Father has
taken our noble and faithful sister to her heaven-
ly home, we herewith express our sympathy for
her children and grand children. Be it further
	RESOLVED, That these resolutions be placed
on the records of the Society and a copy be sent
to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.
					ZEBINA ALLEMAN.


PRINCESS HELENE of Montenegro who
is to marry the Crown Prince of Italy, is a
poet, and many of her verses have been set
to music and are sung by the peasants in
all parts of the principality.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WEDDING BELLS.

[WRITTEN in honor of the sixtieth anniversary
of the marriage of Brother and Sister Tyler.]

RING out! Ye joyous wedding bells
Let your sweet music fill the air.
A wedding festive is at hand
So extol it everywhere.
Let your notes be clear as crystal
Laden with joy, peace and love,
With heart-felt thanks and gratitude,
To the great God above.

For three score years ago today
You sent forth a happy peal
While modest maid and buoyant youth
Did at the sacred altar kneel.
’Twas then your notes were filled with hope
Thought was found there blending,
But now life’s fiercest storms are past,
And in paths of truth they still are wending.

Tho’ sorrow oft has filled their hearts,
And bitter grief has left its traces,
The sun’s shone brightly thro’ the clouds
And still illuminates those faces.
Blessed are you, dear aged friends
Who launched your bark on life’s stormy sea
So many, many years ago
To be preserved this day to see

With fond hearts still aglow with love,
Both for each other and the truth,
And the vows at the altar given,
So long ago in your happy youth;
So now ring out! Ye merry bells!
Let not one shadow your tones bedim,
But let your rich notes gladly tell
Of the richer qualities within.

For our Patriarch and his winsome bride
Who still are working hand in hand
In the great cause of righteousness
Among Zion’s most faithful, stand.
Ring out, let the angels catch the strain
And carry it heavenward I pray,
And there in endless peace and joy
May they sing the eternal wedding day.
AMELIA W. FARNSWORTH.
Beaver City, Sep. 11, 1896.


[Column 1]
LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.

SORRENTO
	Friday, Nov. 29.—After breakfast we
entered our carriages and drove past the
house of Tasso, all embowered in groves
and flowers, on to Castellamar ten miles
away, through the town and on to Pom-
peii. During the drive the volcano was
before us, and watching the smoke it
seemed to twist and coil into every conceiv-
able shape, having heard the saying “It
is the gate of the infernal region,” could
fancy heads and forms and all kinds of
weird things. Pompeii and Herculaneum,
cities of Ancient Italy on the Mediterra-
nean at the foot of Vesuvius, because of
their beautiful location and healthful cli-
mate were much frequented by the wealthy
families of Rome, and in Aug. 79 A. D.
they were completely overwhelmed by the
eruption of Vesuvius. From the entrance
of Pompeii we first visited the Museum
where were the remains of people and the
articles found in the excavations; they esti-
mate 2,000 perished but there are only a few
figures here with many curious things.
Then directly to the Forum where are the
Bosicila or hall of justice, the temple of
Jupiter, the temple of Venus which was
unfinished when the city was destroyed,
the Pantheon and the Triumphal Arch,—

[Column 2]
these ruins are very beautiful. The group
of buildings about the Stabian gate extend-
ed along the side of the Forum, a three
sided space surrounded by Doric portico
and near the Thermal or baths is the elegant
house “Bulwer” makes, the dwelling of
Glaucus, the Tragic Poet. The house of
Sallust, the bakery where were the loaves
of bread. The streets are paved with
blocks of lava, they have stepping stones at
the crossways, and there are deep ruts made
by the chariot wheels. We found they had
a complete sewer system. A private resi-
dence consists of a central room or atrium,
with smaller apartments clustered about
it; those we visited had an open court or
garden behind the Atrium surrounded by
columns and called the peristylium; the
houses had no outlook upon the street and
the rooms on either side the entrance were
rented as shops, and they rolled down the
wooden blinds as they do now. The wall
paintings were of landscape, mythological
figures and scenes from history and daily
life, the mosaic work on the floors were
ornamental designs in black and white, but
in the Casa del Fanno it represented the
Battle of Alexander, and we saw beautiful
mosaic at the houses of the fountains and at
the door or entrance hall of one house, was
a bear in mosaic. In the temple of Isis
our guide pointed out the passage where
the priests used to pass underground to the
statue to answer the questions when the
people appealed to the Oracle. Leaving
the ruins we drove back to Naples.
	Saturday, Nov. 30.—Early breakfast and
the ladies took open carriages for the ex-
cursion to Mt. Vesuvius via Resnia, the
gentlemen going horseback via Pompeii
the ladies could go with them if good
equestrians, but all prefered the drive.
	The last eruption destroye[-] Cooks rail-
way from the end of the carriage road to
the summit of the Cone. So we had a
guide, our manager going with the gentle-
men. The morning was fine, the drive
pleasant, the villas of the rich had high
walls but from the glimpses we had of
them they seemed like Paradise. Outside
were the poor at work, little children seem-
ed to be weaving silk this early, eating dry
bread and maccaroni; they were still at
work when we returned at night, there
seems no happy medium it is affluence or
squalor. Italians were constantly swarm-
ing about the carriages urging us to buy
their wares 15 Lira and coming down three
and four Lira at a time, finishing with
“What will you give Signora?” We were
beseiged with beggars all the way, old and
young, some were repulsive and we avoided
them if possible as we could not benefit them
and they had what we considered capable
of injuring us. One pretty little child ran
after our carriage along a steep hillside for
more than a mile clamoring for "A sou
Signora," until fearing she would be lost
we threw her some, thereby inviting a
number of children to try for more by turn-
ing cartwheels for our amusement. Where
they came from was surprising. I asked
the guide if there was no provision made
for the old and feeble, and he replied,
"Ample, they prefer to beg as they make
more money." As we ascended the
mountain the grandeur of the view increas-
ed; in front was the volcano with its
smoke and down the mountain side from
many crevices streams of bright red lava
were slowly flowing, back of us the Sea
and Islands the water like glass reflected

[Column 3]
the golden splendor of the sun. We came
to the road made over the lava that was
thrown out there years ago, it was not yet
cool, in the crevices we saw blossoms. The
lava becomes black as it cools it forms
great waves and mounds and one side
seemed to form quite a mountain. Our
guide pointed out all places of interest and
the excavations of Herculaneum from which
this or that relic was taken. We stopped
when near Cooks Hotel to feed the horses
and refresh ourselves; our lunch was spread
upon a large table and consisted of bread,
cold ham and chicken, claret and pears and
eaten amidst some merriment. Upon
reaching the hotel we left the carriages
and began to climb for about half a mile
through brush and a little grove of trees,
the air growing hotter and hotter, the
smoke coming nearer. Emerging from
this we found ourselves at the edge of the
internal fires. We all with one acccord
shrank back but a native said to one lady
"Courage mamma and take a look at the
Furnace of the devil, if you come to Vesuv-
ious and don’t see the crater it is like
going to Rome and not seeing the Pope" One
lady remarked "I have seen enough, do
hope it won’t become eruptive while we are
here, it is dreadfully warm." The guide
took me upon the surface of cool lava, it
burnt my shoes and feet and looking up
under this crust was an enormous caldron
of molten lava—it was an appalling sight.
Looking down at my feet there were
crevices and I could see the cool lava was
only about three inches thick, under this
was the awful lake of fire and sulphurous
flames were constantly emitted "See how
thin the crust! It will not break through
Signora or I would not stand here, but if it
did, Presto! you are dead, you will not
sigh you will not moan so soon will it be
over; so take a look to carry with you of
the infernal regions."
	From these crevices the hot lava would
bubble up, cool a little, break off and run
slowly down the mountains. We gave the
natives centimes and they took a pole, dip-
ped it into the molten lava, wound it
around like molasses candy, dropped it
on a rock, put the pennies in, which burned
a blue flame a second or so long enough to
melt the superscription, then became a
black mass which we have as souvenirs.
	Returned to Naples. Next morning the
gentlemen said their trip was most fatigu-
ing the smoke hot, choking and blinding, their
boots burned past wearing and they saw
nothing.
	If the wind is just right it blows away the
smoke, you see the bright prismatic colors
from the crystals of sulphur, alum and
iron and beautiful stalactites.
KIM.


R.K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations. 65
