VOL. 25.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1, 15, 1896. No. 9—10.


CONTENTS:
 
	Mrs. Stanton To Mr. Bryan—Elizabeth Cady
Stanton. Ceramics—L. S. M. Kate Field’s
Body. Proposed Constitutional Amendment—
Rachel Foster Avery. U. W. P. C.—E. R. Shipp,
Sec. Reception To Clara Barton—Ex. Ladies’
Semi-Monthly Meeting—Zina Hyde, Sec. Leaves
From My Journal—Kim. A Loving Tribute—H.
B. T. In Memoriam. The Snare—Zion’s Convert
Notes And News.
	EDITORIAL: —Founder’s Day. Important To
Women. Rev. Anna Howard Shaw. Woman’s
Work And Duty. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—Flag Day:—John G. Whittier.
The Spirit of Sleep—Julia Bowring Maltese.
In Prayer—C. A. C. Life In Death—Nevada
V. Davis.


FLAG DAY.

WHAT though around thee blazes 
	No fiery rallying sign ?
From all thy own high places
	Give Heaven the light of thine ! 
Still let the land be shaken
	By a summons of thine own ;
By all save truth forsaken,
	Why, stand with that alone !

But when with thine uniting,
	Come voices long and loud,
And far off hills are writing
	The fire-words on the cloud ;
When from Penobscot's fountains
	A deep response is heard,
And o'er the Western mountains
	Rolls back thy rallying word ;

Shall thy line of battle falter
	With its allies just in view ?
O, by hearth and holy altar,
	My fatherland, be true !
Fling abroad thy scrolls of Freedom !
	Speed them onward far and fast !
Over hill and valley speed them,
	Like the sibyl’s on the blast.
					JOHN G. WHITTIER.


THE SPIRIT OF SLEEP.
WHO is it that comes in shadowy robes,
	With a spell silent and deep,
Wrapping our forms in a mystic trance?
	'Tis the mighty spirit of sleep.
He seals the eyes that are wet with tears,
	And those where gladness beams,
And by a wave of his scepter-wand
	We soar to the land of dreams.
’Tis then the weary mourner finds,
	A brief respite from care;
And dreams perchance of a voice beloved,
	Or a face that was sweet and fair.
The sultan may lie on his downy bed
	With curtains of tinted glow,
The beggar may rest her weary bones
	’Neath a coverlet of snow.


But potent the nectar his chalice holds, 
	Solace to all he brings,
And visits the poor in his humble cot, 
	As well as the halls of kings.
He soothes the sailor boy to rest,
	And lulls the soldier’s pain;
O, where on earth can a spot be found
	Not a part of his domain? 
In the silent gloom of the midnight hour,
	His standard is unfurled;
With his misty crown he reigns supreme
	The monarch of the world.
		JULIA BOWRING MALTESE.


MRS. STANTON TO MR. BRYAN.

	To the Democratic Nominee for Presi-
dent of the United States William Bryan.
	Honored Sir:—In your leisure hours I
presume you are considering some very
strong points with which to gild your in-
augural address in case you should be
chosen for our next president.
	Allow me to call your attention to the
position of thirty-five millions of American
citizens, who in violation of every principle
of our government, are wholly unrepresent-
ed in the legislature of the country. A
large number of this class are persons of
education and wealth, exerting an immense
moral and intellectual influence on our
civilization and pouring vast sums as taxes
into our national treasury.
	In view of that fact, it would be a grace-
ful tribute from a young man to the moth-
ers of this Republic to recommend Con-
gress, in his inaugural address to pass a
Sixteenth Amendment to the National Con-
stitution forbidding disfranchisement in the
several states on the ground of “Sex,”
thus placing educated women at least on an
even political platform with emancipated
slaves and ignorant immigrants of the old
world.
	Such an act of justice on the threshold of
your administration would be the keynote
to the reforms proposed by the Chicago
platform. Important as the questions of
Finance and Tariff may be, they are insig-
nificant compared with the civil and politi-
cal rights of thirty-five millions of people.
	This would be the strongest point in
your address, and one that none of your
predecessors have as yet made; a step of
progress in social and political evolution of
the period in which we live.
	An enthusiastic supporter of Mr. Bryan
read to me his great Labor Day speech,
delivered in Chicago on Sep. 7. It cer-
tainly has a true ring in it from beginning
to end. Ignoring all minor questions, such
as tariff and finance, that might have con-
fused his audience—as they do everybody—
he dwells on the fundamental principles of
just government which, if carried out,
would secure equal rights to the thirty-five
millions disfranchised women,
	The ballot, as he describes it, in the hand
of every citizen would indeed be a scepter
of power; a crown of royalty. A man
who, as President of the United States,


would use his influence to carry out such
principles, I would be glad to see in the
highest position in the gift of the American
people.—Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Honor-
ary President Woman’s Suffrage Associa-
tion.


CERAMICS.

(Read before the U. W. Press Club.)
	IN preparing a brief article upon porce-
lain I have been somewhat hampered for
reference books also for want of time to
make it worthy the subject and worthy the
attention of this cultivated body of women.
	I can only briefly touch upon the origin, 
influence and progress of pottery and por-
celain for several thousand years to the
present time.
	Pottery is the oldest and most widely
diffused of human arts. The recorded his-
tory begins with the building of Babel, and
great cities in all ages are great structures
of pottery. It is its own historian. Ceramic
collections are libraries of history; every
specimen a book of the thoughts of men, of
which the earliest known were published
not long after the Deluge. Every people
civilized or barbarian, in one form or
another have written their history in clay. 
	The first fire kindled on clay soil, baked
it and thus it was found that a soft, easily
molded substance could be made into 
a permanent article of use; wherever trade
was established and pottery made for sale,
the forms and decorations were those most
likely to be accepted by the people; thus 
the prevailing styles were the indicators of
public taste and the work of the potter en-
during for ages, makes the Ceramic art take
precedence of all others, as the index of
human character in various ages and
countries. All study in every department
of human art, begins at a period not long
after the Mosaic Deluge. All art history
when traced towards its beginning, is found
to commence at a time less than 5000 years
ago. There is no work of human hands, 
no result of human thought now known
where date is found more than 3000 years
before Christ. The converging lines in the
history of all human invention and arts, in
tombs, in architecture, in money, in forms
of religion, in language spoken or written,
above all in Ceramic art, point to the west-
ern portion of Asia as the place where, and
about 5000 years ago as the time when the
history of man as read in his works, must
begin. 
	The oldest known pottery is Egyptian. 
We approach Egypt with a certain amount
of awe, for it comprises relics of civilization
of such hoary antiquity, that it seems like
peering into the secrets of the grave. Un-
glazed pottery was made in many parts of
the world as an independent discovery, and
the genealogy briefly stated is this.—Men
made brick and other unglazed pottery in
Mesopotamia and carried the art with them
wherever they went The Egyptians dis-
covered the art of painting it with colors.
Persia received the art from Assyria and


[Column 1]
transmitted it to China, China gave it to
Corea and Japan. Traces of art appear in
the Eastern Mediterranean and it is suppos-
ed to have extended down the line to Ger-
many where it is found in its 12th century.
In the middle of the 15th century Italy
adopted it and Italian potters carried it to
France.  German potters who had either
revived their lost art or received it
afresh from Italy, diffused it through
Northern Europe.
	Holland took it from Germany and sent
new potters to England to teach it. Mean-
time about 2000 years ago, either in Persia
or China was discovered the art of making
pottery translucent and producing what is
now known as porcelain.
	For 1600 years this art was known only
in Asia. In Venice about 1519, an old pot-
ter made porcelain and died without leaving
a successor. It was made in Florence
about 1580, but again the art was lost.
At St. Cloud, France, about 1695, the art
of making soft-parte pottery was discover-
ed and France began to make this ware.
About 1710 at Dresden in Germany the
Asiatic secret of making true or hard-parte
porcelain was discovered and thereafter
came the glory of Dresden and Sevres in
both kinds of porcelain; thus the cups on
our tables are lineal descendents of the cups
used by the ancestry of the builders of the
Pyramids.
	A child is sometimes told to hold a shell
to its ear and hear the sound of the sea—
that same deep sound which one may hear
in any vase of Chelsea or Derby, Sevres or
Dresden, Menton or Copal and coming
down through the long succession of gener-
ations of pottery is the roar of the Deluge.
	The lessons and Influences received from
Egypt, at and after the conquest of Cyprus
are as visible in Cypriote vases, as if
written in Greek or English letters.
	The rude forms of early Phenician
statuettes, resembling the mud figures
made by modern children are followed by
more graceful figures, until the culmnia-
tion is reached in that superb Greek art
which has never been surpassed.
	The Egyptians stamped on the forms of
pottery imperishable illustrations of their
wonderful mythology. The Greek fabrics
glowed with illustrations of the Helenic
story. The Chinese spread over their en-
ameled ware a wealth of brilliant colors,
rich with the chaotic imagery of Chinese
religion and history. The Saracens inter-
wove in pottery the luxuriant vines and
flowers of the east and made their marques
shine in the sunlight, resplendent with gor-
geous colors. Assyria, Phenicia, Italy, Ger-
many, France, England, and in fact, every
country has impressed or painted character-
istic thoughts, in or on the plastic clay and
burned it for a permanent record, to be
studied by generations of man. The lovers
of porcelain need no further argument to
justify them in their hobby. They have
abundant reason for the pursuit in this—
that no other art so fully gratifies the love
of beauty. Standards of beauty are arbi-
trary, but the Ceramic art conforms to any
and every standard. The highest results
of civilization may be said to appear in the
best union of beauty and utility.
	Porcelain and pottery are thus the
measure as no other art can be of compara-
tive civilization. Almost all other beauty
fades or decays. Flowers are short lived;
oil or water color painting change and
fade; but a group of beautiful flowers or

[Column 2]
figures by a great artist on a Dresden vase,
painted a century ago, gleams with the
beauty of a summer day and will be as beauti-
ful a thousand years hence as today unless
the vase be broken. Color except in gems
is nowhere so brilliant as in enamel.
	Families brought up with such cheerful
household decorations feel their refining in-
fluence; children grow up among them
with a love of beauty; the table furnished
with tasteful ware ceases to be a mere feed-
ing place, its memories become important
possesions as the members separate to go
their different ways in the journey of life.
	Pottery in the broadest meaning of the
word includes everything made by baking
in a furnace into the composition of which
clay enters. Porcelain is a variety of pot-
tery—objects made wholly or in part in
clay and baked which are opaque are called
pottery; those which are translucent are
porcelain. Pottery is of two kinds, soft
and hard; soft pottery is made of ordinary
clay a common house brick is an illustra-
tion. Hard pottery is made by a mixture
of stone or sand with clay as a fire brick is
an illustration. Soft pottery is divided in-
to four classes—Unglazed, Glazed, Lustrous
and Enameled. Glazed pottery is covered
with a coating of glass. Lustrous pottery
is where the object is covered with a thin
varnish-like glaze, so thin that an iron
point easily penetrates it; its composition
is unknown. Enameled pottery is covered
with a substance composed of stone, sand,
oxide of lead and tin.
	Hard pottery is the ware known as stone
ware. The cream ware perfected by
Wedgewood was hard pottery. Porce-
lain is a translucent pottery made by the
union of vitrifiable and non-vitrifiable sub-
stances. Hard paste porcelain or true porcelain
is made by the union of kaolen and felspar.
	The potters wheel is a revolving disc
turned by foot or machinery. The clay is
softened with water, a lump according to
the size of the vessel to be made is thrown
violently down on the center of the wheel
which is set in motion and the workmen
with thumb and fingers, curved sticks,
knives and other tools shapes the vessel.
Other forms are made in molds. The pot-
tery can be painted on the unglazed ware
or on the enamel. The colors for decorat-
ing porcelain are colored earths mixed
with vitrifiable substances.
	I have now given the technology of pot-
tery and will briefly touch upon the dif-
ferent nations and their pottery. As has
been stated before, Egypt was the first to
make pottery. It made it before the build-
ing of the pyramids. Tablets of pottery
were used there for ordinary writing pur-
poses. The next to learn pottery was
Assyria and Babylonia where it was also
used for records and business transactions.
Next came China, then Greece, then Etru-
ria, then Rome.
	The best Persian arid Italian pottery was
the first half of the 16th ceritury. The in-
cised ware was the earliest decoration and
consisted of designs scratched in through
the surface color showing the color beneath.
The wares were not beautiful in form, their
merit consisted in the decoration. Italian
potters then carried the art to France and
the French artists adopted many styles and
originated many more until it almost leads
the world today. It is said that women
cannot invent anything of themselves, but
in 1547 we read that the widow of Arthur
Gouffier occupied herself with books and art.

[Column 3]
She established a small pottery, employed
workmen and made ware for her own
amusement; when she died she left the
estate to her son who still carried on the
work, but the products ceased to appear
with the lives of mother and son. They
were called the Oiron ware and belong to
what is known in France as faience. The
lady seems to have followed her own taste
in modeling and decorating, the prevailing
color being a dark yellow on a cream white
ground, darkened by brown; there are
few pieces in existence aud they are so
valuable that one piece sold for 25,000
francs. This ware was never copied until
our own time at great labor and expense
by skilled English potters. Who shall say
women can accomplish nothing!
	China which has the honor of naming
all porcelain, is supposed to be only an imi-
tator, and it is probable that they
learned enameling from central Asia. The
Chinese have never been distinguished for
inventing, but only as close imitators. The
oldest Chinese work on Ceramic art was
issued in the 14th century and there are
now in China many private and one imper-
ial factories. From this last has come the
finest specimens of Chinese porcelain. It
is said that most of the ancient work was
reproduced in the Ming dynasty and
collectors do not know when paying a high
price for seeming old china, but what it is
a modern imitation of the cunning China-
man who has ways that are dark and tricks
that are sometimes vain.
	The peculiar greenish tint seen on so
much of the Chinese ware is due, it is said,
to their desire to imitate jode one of the
hardest substances known. The most
celebrated of Chinese potters were Chu Ong
and his daughter, Chu Kias. The father
excelled in birds and beasts while the
daughter who excelled her father produced
exquisite works of all kinds and colors.
Her wares sold for more than their weight
in silver.
							L. S. M.


67 WOMAN S EXPONENT


KATE FIELD’S BODY.
	SAN FRANCISCO, Oct. 23.—The Wo-
man’s Press Association has arranged to re-
ceive with just honor the body of Kate
Field when it arrives in this city from
Hawaii on its way to the east. A commit-
tee consisting of Mrs. Van Pelt, Miss Cool-
birth and Mrs. Dickinson has been appointed
to make the necessary preparations, acting
with Mrs. Henry E. Highton, one of Kate
Field’s friends.
	The body will be taken to the mortuary
chapel at Trinity church, which will be
abundantly decorated with flowers, where
services will be held.


MISS LENORA JACKSON, the violinist,
whose debut recently in Berlin was honored
by the attendance of the American and
British embassies and large delegations
from the colonies of the English-speaking
residents in the German capital, is a Chica-
go girl twenty-six years old. Ten years
ago she made her first appearance in the
musical circles of that city.
	QUEEN VICTORIA has been queen of
Great Britain during the administration of
Van Buren Harrison, Tyler, Polk, Taylor,
Fillmore, Pierce, Grant, Hayes, Garfield,
Arthur, Harrison and Cleveland.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN PRAYER.

WHEN God and I were all alone,
I knelt me down by His great throne,
	And then He knew my heart.
Then merciful and pityingly,
I felt that He looked down on me,
	To help me do my part. 
The shadows fell and evening came,
But He was with me still the same,
	I felt His loving hand.
So may He guide me all along,
In thought and prayer, in speech and song 
	Unto that better land.
Sunday, January, 1895.
							C. A. C.


LIFE IN DEATH.

WHISPER gently in her dead ear,
Another soul has caught a spark
From the dying torch that she laid down;
Will feed it, breathe it into flame!
Perhaps her soul may rest in ease
May quieter sleep, if she should hear
That still her light burns bright and clear
Like vestal fire in temple’s fane.

She died of—you give it a learned name, 
I know better what opened the way,
To her sweet soul imprisoned in clay,
She died, I tell you of starvation’s blight.
The love that was hers by natural right,
Was coldly withheld; she bore her part,
With a smile on her lips and a pain in her heart.

Now here she lies all free from care,
No! only her body, the shelter fair
Of fairer soul, which has gladly gone 
To live in love near the great white throne.
					NEVADA V. DAVIS.


PROPOSED CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENT.

PHILADELPHIA Oct. 23, 1896.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:
	Will you kindly publish the following
proposed amendment to the Constitution of
the National American Woman Suffrage
Association:
	In Article III., Section I, strike out the
words “to attend all its meetings, to par-
ticipate in all discussions that may arise,
and.”
	Offered by Laura Clay, Lexington, Ky.
			RACHEL FOSTER AVERY.


[Column 1]
U. W. P. C.

	THE Utah Woman’s Press Club held its
annual meeting on Wednesday, October 28
instead of the 31st because of the woman’s
mass meeting to be held on that date. It
was a very interesting session, President E.
B. Wells presided in her usually dignified
manner and called upon Mrs. Maria Wilcox
to open the meeting with prayer.
	The secretary then called the roll and
read the minutes of the last meeting which
were approved. The President explained
the results of the business meeting of the
executive committee and our reason for
changing the present meeting from the
regular date and said: “Our program upon
the present occasion is to attend to the im-
portant business of electing officers for the
coming year and the representation of
literary characters by the different members
of the club.” 

[Column 2]
	Mrs. Phebe C. Young gave the unique
and practical sentiment from Owen Meri-
dith’s Lucile “Man cannot live with-
out cooks,” Elizabeth Stevenson repre-
sented herself as a night and day nurse and
a 41 year’s bride. Pearl Russell bedecked
in the crimson Autumn leaves looked the
very queen of Autumn, and gave a
beautiful poetic sentiment.
	C. C. R. Wells read Ella Wheeler Wil-
cox poem “Whatever is is best.”
	Ruth M. Fox in quaint costume and de-
mure manner represented very perfectly the
character of Alice Carey, and recited her
sweet little poem “Painting a Picture.”
	Dr. E. R. Shipp gave a sentiment from
Shakespeare, Mrs. Harker with a very long
fellow pinned upon her dress gave a charm-
ing quotation from the poet, whose words
are deep heart tones awakening the sweet-
est sentiments of life.
	President E. B. Wells in velvet gown
and silken scarf, read in her most charming
manner Jean Ingelow’s exquisite poem
“Regret.”
	Dr. R. B. Pratt with a bouquet of sweet
hawthorne blossoms, leaves and thorn, and
the letter A in gold and scarlet upon her
breast read from Hawthorne’s “Scarlet
Letter,” the extracts being very interesting
as were also her comments and moral
taken from this pathetic story. 
	The characters throughout were well
sustained, evinced by the readiness with
which they were detected. The members
too proving themselves remarkably conver-
sant with literary topics and characters.
	The President expressed her pleasure
with the evening’s entertainment and said
she regretted the motion being made at our
business meeting that we should elect no
one to office who was not present upon this
occasion, as so many of the ladies were act-
vely engaged in the political campaign and
could not be here to represent themselves.
Ella W. Hyde who made the motion was
willing to have the motion reconsidered
which was accordingly done and by vote of
the members, carried unanimously. Mrs.
Hyde then made a motion which carried,
that the President appoint a nominating
committee. R. B. Pratt. H. A. Badger
and E. J. Stevenson were appointed by the
President to act as that committee. The
committee then withdrew and pleasant chat
was engaged in until their return, when
the chairman of the committee gave the
following report: Ruth M. Fox, Pres’t;
Ella W. Hyde, Vice-Pres’t; Syntitha
Dickinson, 2nd Vice-Pres’t; Ellis R.
Shipp, Vice-Pres’t at large; Oreille Curtis,
Secretary; Hattie Harker, Assistant Secre-
tary; Lizzie S. Wilcox Cor. Secretary;
Olea Shipp, Assistant Cor. Secretary;
Phebe C. Young, Treasurer; L. D. Alder,
Auditor.
	The motion was made and. carried, that
we accept the names as prepared by the
committee for the officers of the U. W. P. C.
for the ensuing year.
	The names of Maria Miller Johnson, Julia
Ivins McDonald and Augusta Joyce
Chrocheron were also accepted as honorary
members. L. D. Alder, H. A. Badger and
E. J. Stevenson were sustained as program
committee for the next three months. The
President also appointed a committee to
attend to preparing a book which should
contain the names of the officers past and
present and of all members. The ladies ap-
pointed were Dr. R. B. Pratt, Dr
E. R. Shipp and Ella W. Hyde.

[Column 3]
	The President gave advice concerning
dues, said our by-laws provided that all
dues and initation fees should be paid with-
in sixty days and that all who failed to
perform their part on the program should be
fined a nominal sum.
	Miss Maude Pratt said that on account of
her inability to attend regularly, she desired
to tender her resignation. It was, how-
ever, moved and carried that Miss Pratt’s
name be retained upon the roll.
	Meeting adjourned and prayer was offer-
ed by L. D. Alder. The next important
matter to be attended to was delicious re-
freshments served by the young ladies of
the club.
		ELLIS R. SHIPP, Rec. Sec.


RECEPTION TO CLARA BARTON.
MISS CLARA BARTON, president of the
American Red Cross, was given a reception
at the Shoreham Hotel, Washington, D. C.,
October 8. The chief decorations of the
parlors were flags of all nations, and the
orchestra played the national airs of the
principal countries of the world. Miss Barton
was assisted in receiving by Dr. Julius
Hubbell, field agent of the Red Cross, and
by Mr. A. M. Wister and Mr. George H.
Pullman, who accompanied her to Armenia.
	At the banquet covers were laid for one
hundred, on tables formed to represent six
large crosses of white with red stripes, like
emblems of the Red Cross Society.
The speakers were B. H. Warner, for
the citizens of Washington; Mrs. Sara
Spencer, on behalf of personal friends;
Commissioner Ross, for the District of
Columbia; Mrs. John A. Logan, on behalf
of wives, mothers and daughters of soldiers;
Mrs. M. B. Pratt, for the W. C. T. U. of
the district; Captain Huntoon, (instead of
Major McElroy,) for the G. A. R.; Mrs. 
Ellen Spencer Mussey, for women attor-
neys; Colonel Thomas Wilson, for the
Loyal Legion; Mrs. Ruth D. G. Havens,
for the Academy of Forty; Mrs. Sara D.
LaFetra, for the world’s W. C. T. U.; and
Mrs. Fannie Pomeroy, for the Legion of
Loyal Women. Secretary of the Navy
Herbert, who was among the guests, eulo-
gized. Miss Barton's work in organizing the
Red Cross so that it would exist as long as
the Government. Miss Barton in returning
her thanks said:
	Friends—If you ask of our mission what
we found and what we left, there is really
but this to say: We found want, desola-
tion and suffering, and relieved them so far
as we were able. In spite of all, these are
still there, and they have grown since.
Winter is approaching and unless the open
hands of charity, not of this country alone,
but of all civilized countries, be reached out
to them and access be secured, hunger and
cold will gather the victims in by the tens
of thousands, and bury them like the fall-
ing leaves beneath the snow."
	George A. Polk, financial secretary of
the society denied that the Sultan of Tur-
key had conferred a decoration on Miss Bar-
ton as had been reported. Miss Barton had
never spoken to the Sultan. Letters of
regret were read from Secretary Olney,
Postmaster-General Wilson, Secretary
Morton, Secretary Francis, General Greeley
and many others. - Ex.


THE recent National Council of Women
in Germany was a notable gathering.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. 
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.

	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 &228 Constitution Build- 
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter. 

SALT LAKE CITY, NOVEMBER I, 15, 1896.


[Column 1]
FOUNDER’S DAY.

AT BRIGHAM YOUNG ACADEMY.
	ON the 16th of October the anniversary
of the founding of the Brigham Young
Academy at Provo was appropriately cele-
brated, the institution at that time having
attained its majority, twenty-one years.
The street parade was very fine and
quite elaborate in some respects. The dif-
ferent classes and departments marching in
their order and carrying banners, flags and
colors with sentiments and symbols. The
ladies in white with colored scarfs or sashes
looked lovely, and the young men and wo-
men who carried green branches or boughs
shouting “Tree” were perhaps the most 
noticable, and certainly bore off the honors in
voicing their emblem.
	The day was fine and everything passed
off harmoniously, notwithstanding the long
line of people in carriages and on foot and
the bands of music and gay streamers as
well. The houses, business blocks etc.
were decorated and everything indicated a
gala day for Provo.
	The vast concourse of citizens, visitors
and Academic teachers and students filed
into the Tabernacle about 10 a. m. and the
master of ceremonies, Prof. Benjamin
Cluff, President of the Academy announced
the program. There were quite a number
of distinguished people present on the stand
President Wilford Woodruff and George Q.
Cannon, Apostles Brigham Young and
Heber J. Grant and Prof. Karl G. Maeser
and other notables. Quite a number of
President Brigham Young’s family occupied
seats of honor; the music was furnished
by the Academy students under the direc-
tion of Prof. Anton Lund Jr. President
Woodruff spoke a short time reviewing the
labors of the Founders of the institution and
expressing his reverence for this great man
Brigham Young and making such references
to the school as were best calculated to im-
press those present with its advantages, and
to cause the young people of today to appreci-
ate the privileges they enjoy as compared
with earlier times when the facilities for
education were very meager indeed.
	President George Q. Cannon was the
orator of the day. His address was forci-
ble and telling and calculated to inspire
those present with a true sense and appre-
ciation of the educational opportunities en-
joyed by the present generation.
	Prof. Maeser was much overcome when

[Column 2]
he tried to speak and was only able to say
a few words so tenderly was he touched
with the memories of the past.
	Captain Willard Young spoke a few
words dwelling upon the education of the
heart as well as the head. Prof. Cluff
made closing remarks, reviewing the work
of the several departments in a general
way and commenting upon methods etc.
After music and prayer the meeting was
dismissed and the crowd marched to the
Academy to partake of a sumptuous ban-
quet prepared by the Domestic Economy
Class of young women, whose motto is
“Helpful and Hopeful.”
	The tables were handsomely decorated
with flowers of the season and the whole
immense dining hall presented an inviting
appearance. It is quite impossible to go
into details, but suffice it to say the cooking
was excellent and the entire “menu”
which was not too elaborate but in strict
accordance with the hygienic system prac-
tised by the class under whose supervision
the dinner was given. Mrs. Susa Young
Gates having the management in charge.
	Toasts and sentiments were offered after-
wards by President George Q. Cannon,
Karl G. Maeser and others, and statements
were made of the condition of the Academy
and the need of establishing a collegiate
department such as would do credit to
Utah and to the great pioneer founder of
the school, Brigham Young. These mat-
ters were discussed and positive reasons
given for delaying the increase of expense,
and financial responsibility for the present
time.
	After dinner etc. classes were called in
the several departments to give the visitors
an idea of the order and methods pursued,
which was an interesting part of the affair.
	A reception was held in the evening in
order that the students might have the
opportunity of meeting and shaking hands
with Presidents Woodruff and Cannon, and
some others of the visitors from Salt Lake
City, who had been invited to the banquet
and exercises.
	The celebration has given those who
attended a better idea of the Academy and
its standing and future prospects, and cer-
tainly every person who loves Utah must
feel that this pioneer institution of learning
has done a magnificent work in the midst
of Zion.


[Column 1]
IMPORTANT TO WOMEN.

	To all Presidents of the Relief Society in
all its numerous branches, and to all agents
of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and to all wo-
men interested in the welfare of the sex we
wish to urge the necessity of active meas-
ures being taken to sustain their own wo-
man’s paper. The times demand woman’s
best thoughts wisely expressed, and the
EXPONENT has for nearly a quarter of a
century been the champion of woman’s
cause, and the promoter of woman’s pro-
gress. The occasion requires now that
some definite measures be taken to secure
subscriptions, and to collect those unpaid
in order to maintain its existence, some-
thing should really be done to revive the
enthusiasm of the sisters, and in keeping
awake the interest of those who are indif-
ferent to their own best good, so that they
may not lose the opportunity of giving ex-
pression to their ideas from time to time,
and of making a record of their charitable

[Column 2]
and philanthropic work as well as having a
repository of literary and historic produc-
tions and recording biographies of women
whose lives afford rich examples for the
youth of Zion to emulate. In fact the his-
tory of the women of the state, and of this
intermountain region is to be found in the
EXPONENT, and it is desirable that in the
condition of the present time, special atten-
tion should be given to home interests and
home industries; the silk industry is
practically woman’s work and in this parti-
cular line of making it a success we need a
woman's paper to communicate ideas, in-
struction and the best methods of procedure.
Surely the sisters can comprehend how
essential it is to have some avenue of in-
formation on so important a matter as seri-
culture. The EXPONENT has always been
awake to the importance of this special
work for women and children, and has al-
ways welcomed any correspondence upon
this subject.
	The prestige the EXPONENT has given
the women of this Church in the outside
world is little realized; it has broken down
mountains of prejudice, it has gone into the
homes of the rich, and the famous, poets,
writers, philosophers, people of rank and
title; besides it affords opportunity to the
Elders who are out preaching the Gospel to
allay much prejudice they have to meet.
Many are the testimonies of Elders who re-
turn from missions in regard to the good
effects of this little home paper. 
	There are more home industries than the
silk, to be sure, and our women should not
forget the straw work—but at present silk
seems uppermost and to attract the most
attention; and it touches the people more
as a source of revenue, and money seems to
be the present craze and in no way can the
cause of sericulture be so thoroughly venti-
lated as through a paper zealously devoted
to the home interests, home productions
and home industries. 
	If every president would send out canvas-
sers in her respective ward and secure ten
subscriptions it would go a long way to-
wards relieving the embarrasing situation.
	Remember President Zina D. H. Young
gave this positive counsel some time ago,
and requested that the President see to it
that one good agent or two be appointed
from each Society. Any letter addressed
to this office asking for information upon
this matter will be promptly answered.


REV. ANNA HOWARD SHAW M. D.

	The coming of Dr. Shaw to speak in the
large Tabernacle was an event of considerable
importance, as she is really the most distin-
guished woman speaker on the platform.
This year she has been working vigorously
for the suffrage amendment in the State of
California, and naturally it has given her a
wonderful experience of Western life, and
particularly in relation to the conditions of
women in the Western States. Dr. Shaw
has received several ovations there that
were very gratifying and complimentary,
and assuredly the women of this state
were glad to show her the utmost
respect and accord the honor due to a grand
and noble woman whose life is devoted to
the advancement of her sex and the uplift-
ing of the race. Miss Shaw has a charm-
ing personality and commanding presence,
a winning and gracious manner and in fact
all the characteristics that are calculated to


edify and please an audience composed of
men and women accustomed to listen to
sublime subjects eloquently illustrated by
word painting.
	Of Dr. Shaw the press in all the large
cities where she has spoken has given
excellent testimonials.
	The Louisville Commercial, Louisville,
Ky., said “The Rev. Anna Shaw the
noted preacher of Boston, appeared before
two large audiences in this city yesterday
and established a reputation as a profound
thinker and eloquent and graceful
speaker.”
	Miss Shaw captivated her entire audience
and held it spellbound for about two hours
on the subject of “The Fate of Repub-
lics.” Her speech was a magnificent plea
for woman suffrage, interspersed with wit,
harmless sarcasm, considerable wisdom and
oceans of eloquence. She is a complete
bundle of natural and acquired niceties of
intellectual development. “She has a pure
silver tongue, oiled with honey and polished
with strong vinegar.”—The Home
Weekly.
	The San Francisco Chronicle said “ Five
thousand people waiting on the steps of the
Temple Emanuel for the purpose of hearing
the woman preacher’s last address does not
look as though her position were uncertain.
Mere curiosity does not take the same peo-
ple to nine consecutive sessions.”
	Another paper, The Empire, Toronto,
Canada, says, “She is a clever logician and
clinches her arguments well. It is impos-
sible to accuse her of either rant or tirade; 
her speech has force and definiteness, yet
always a touch of humor that keeps even
the crustiest audience on pleasant terms
with the speaker. She possesses a rich
contralto voice that rings full and sweet in
the largest auditorums and contributes
much to the enjoyment of her hearers.”
	Miss Shaw was accompanied by four
ladies who have been assisting in carrying
on the campaign for the suffrage amend-
ment to the Constitution in California.
They are Miss Lucy E. Anthony, Dr.
Shaw’s Secretary, a very able and genial
young woman, Mrs. Emma Sweet, Susan
B. Anthony’s Secretary who is all her
name implies and a great deal more, Miss
Mary G. Hay, who always makes a favor-
able impression and has an abundance of
executive ability, and Harriet May Mills,
who possesses the characteristics essential
for effective work in any great undertaking.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
WOMAN’S WORK AND DUTY.
	NOW that the heat of the campaign is
over and the election held in all parts of the
United States, and the results comparative-
ly well known, it may be that the excite-
ment will subside and gradually things will 
assume their normal condition. Certainly
here in Utah there should not be such
material disturbances as to effect our pros-
perity, or the good feeling that should exist
with people whose interests are in so many 
respects closely identified with each other in
the welfare of the whole. So far as it is
possible the party feeling should be laid
aside, and especially among women there 
ought not to exist any intense partisanship
to hinder their working together for the
public good. In educational work particu-
larly women should show such deep inter-
est and true nobility of purpose as to secure
the admiration of all intelligent and high-
minded citizens. There is ample opportu-

[Column 2]
nity to do commendable work in this direc-
tion, and it is most desirable-that the
mothers should manifest the deepest interest
in the welfare of the children in the school-
room and see to it that all conditions are for
the best good of the scholars, not only in
books, desks, teachers and buildings of the
highest grade and attainments, but that the
sanitary regulations are of the most im-
proved methods. This seems to be the
special duty of the women voters; and
another important matter is the municipal
regulations of city affairs. In many cities
women have done effective work in this
direction, and have met with sincere appro-
bation because of the success achieved over
and above the results of man’s work alone.
	Utah is bound to become a great and
prosperous state, and it never can be un-
less it has great women as well as great
men. Both are equally necessary for the
achievement to be gained, and the young
women of the present generation, would do
well to emulate the heroic example of the
women who helped men to lay the founda-
tion of this prosperous and growing state.
	There are some particular objects far-see-
ing women have been anxious to promote,
and that they have felt the state should
foster in the way of giving remunerative
employment to the people, and also that it
would be beneficial in several ways. These
are perhaps to men trivial things in com-
parison with other more noticable legisla-
tion, but it is trifles that make up the sum
of human existence.
	In this connection it is only just to men-
tion the silk industry, which has received
something of an impetus during the last
year, since the appropriation made by the
first legislature of the new State; but the
work requires more help and greater effort
to establish it permanently and make it pay
for the means invested. If something
more substantial were done, the State
would then realize the utility of investment.
	The Kindergarten system in connection
with the public schools should be brought
before the legislature and the matter pushed
to a realization, (and by the way) in Bear
River City, Box Elder Co., the women
have succeeded in having a kindergarten in
connection with the district school.
	A public library and reading room will
also be a subject for serious consideration,
and one might go into other matters for the
betterment of the people, and aids to the
home, but mere suggestions are all that
was intended in this article.
	A small number of women were nomina-
ted by each of the two great parties and the
Democrats having elected their ticket, it
follows that all the women nominated by
them are elected. So far we are not quite
sure of all in the state, but in Salt Lake
county we know there are three and in
Utah county one. From this city Dr.
Martha Hughes Cannon goes to the Senate,
Mrs. Eurithe LaBarthe to the House, Mrs.
Margaret A. Caine will fill the office
of Auditor; and Mrs. Ellen Jakeman of
Provo, Treasurer of Utah Co.
	These are all women in the prime of life,
with good mentality and manifest activity,
and capability in other positions, and it
seems a foregone conclusion that they will 
acquit themselves well and do honor to the
cause of equal suffrage. There are no
supposable grounds for thinking otherwise,
and certainiy they are to be congratulated.
	It is a disappointment that all the wo-
men were not elected, for it would have

[Column 3]
been a much truer, test of women’s power
had there been some women from each
party; as it is the Republican party having
lost everything here, and nearly everything
throughout the entire state, women as well
as men must content themselves as best
they can until another election, when
things may be different. Therefore we re-
peat the old saying, “Make the best of it.”
	The vote for Presidential electors was
also overwhelmingly in favor of the Bryan
electors and consequently the Democrats
have won the day in Utah, though their
candidate for President is not the victor
this time.
	Looking at the matter philosophically
the time evidently had not come for so
decided a change in the nation; the Latter-
day Saints believe implicitly in an over-
ruling Providence that guides, directs and
controls the affairs of nations. And assuredly
in this case the people had exerted their
utmost strength at the polls, and the cam-
paign had been rigorously pushed through-
out the entire country. Whatever changes
may come it is wise to hope and believe all
will be for the best eventually, even though
it may seem hard and be contrary to what
the people generally were longing, hoping
and praying for.
	The Latter-day Saints know that it is their
duty to live their religion to have faith in
the promises of God made to His people from
time to time through His servants, and
whatever changes come or difficulties, or
tribulations, to maintain their integrity to
the Gospel unflinchingly through good or ill
report in all places and at all times. Who-
ever can do this, discharging every duty
faithfully, cannot fail to secure peace of
mind and have the courage that will carry
them through all the trials and difficulties
of life, and help them to obtain eternal life
in the world to come.


EDITORIAL NOTES

	THE Executive meeting of the National
Council of Women of the United States,
will he held this year in Boston on Decem-
ber 2nd, 3rd and 4th. Notices have been
sent to each society belonging to the Coun-
cil to send delegates, but this year Utah
organizations cannot conveniently send
representatives on account of the great dis-
tance and the scarcity of means.
	THE book of poems to be issued by Mrs.
E. B. Wells is now in course of publication
at the office of the Juvenile Instructor, more
than one third of the pages have been
prepared, and it is expected the Book will
be ready for subscribers before Christmas.
The title will be MUSINGS AND MEMORIES
and the size and shape of the Dictionary of
the Book of Mormon.
	As the list of names of Presidents and
Secretaries is now nearly complete and
ready for publication, and finding a delin-
quency in this Stake, we find it necessary
to make another request that each Presi-
dent of a Relief Society in Salt Lake City
and County send by letter or postal to this
office the full name and Post Office address
of President and Secretary of her respective
society, at the earliest possible date. 
	THE reception on Nov. 9 to Dr. Shaw
and her party of ladies at the Templeton
Hotel was a great disappointment on ac-
count of the inclemency of the weather;
the lecture in the evening was also sparsely


attended for the same reason; but it was a
success in every other respect; her subject
was “The Fate of Republics” and was
handled in a masterly manner. Miss Shaw
was introduced to the audience by Gover-
ner Wells in a brief but very graceful
speech, and her audience were appreciative
and sympathetically responsive, and all
hoped it would not be her last visit to Salt
Lake City.
	AT a business meeting of the officers of
the State Suffrage Association held in the
office of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT on Wed-
nesday, October 7, at 11 a. m. (and as this
was the time for the election of officers for
the ensuing year) a quorum being present,
among other matters considered was the
subject of continuing the Association, the
members having since obtaining the fran-
chise divided on party lines. In this con-
nection Mrs. Emily S. Richards moved
that the Association hold over until next
April, and that official letters be sent to
all County organizations requesting them
to give an expression in writing on the
question of continuing the different organ-
izations. The motion was seconded by
Mrs. Ella W. Hyde, and carried unanimous-
ly. After the transaction of some other
business, the meeting adjourned subject to
he call of the President.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the Semi-Monthly Meeting
held in the 14th Ward Assembly Hall,
Saturday, Oct. 17, 1896, Counselor E.
Webb presiding. Singing “Lord we come
before Thee now,” prayer by Counselor
Clara C. Cannon, singing “Welcome best
of all good meetings,” minutes of previous
meeting read and approved. Counselor
Webb thought we could have a very
pleasant meeting although there were so
few here, for the Lord had promised that
where a few had met together in His name
there He would be also; said there was a
good deal of sickness now and we had need to
put our trust in the Lord; made some excel-
lent remarks.  Regretted very much Presi-
dent Horne’s sickness which prevented her
being here with the sisters.
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon bore a strong
testimony, felt she was strengthened in
doing so, said the sisters faces, no matter
how old and plain they might be, looked
beautiful to her; spoke of her severe ill-
ness and how she was healed almost instant-
ly by faith, said it would take hours to tell
of her blessings. Prayed God to bless us
all and strengthen us.
	Sister Sarah M. Kimball said the sen-
tence just came to her “ If ye love me, feed
my sheep,” thought by attending these
meetings we were fed, spoke of a sister’s
fast day meeting experience, and on faith
and asked questions on the same. Referred
to Sister Rachel Grant’s affliction, of her
deafness, felt we should exercise more faith
for our loved ones and for ourselves, culti-
vate our faith by living pure lives and be-
coming pure in heart. Proposed that the
key-note of the meeting and the next two
weeks to be “Faith,” prayed the Lord to
give us the spirit of inspiration and of faith,
that when we laid our hands on the sick
they might be healed.
	President Mary A. Hyde felt it a privil-
ege to meet here with the sisters today,
said when she first joined the Church she
could pick out every Latter-day Saint in a

[Column 2]
congregation by the glow on their faces
which was the Spirit of the Lord, this was
a great testimony to her; bore a strong
testimony, spoke of her association with
the Prophet Joseph Smith also of her brok-
en limb and how she was healed by the
power of faith, made some other excellent
remarks.
	Sister J. C. Howe said since meeting
with us last she had great cause for grati-
tude, told how she had met with a very
severe accident, had fallen from a high
place and injured her arm; her first
thought was to be administered to which
was done and she was healed, felt to praise
the Lord for this, considered it was the
duty when we had these manifestations of
God’s goodness to us to speak of these
things. Prayed the Lord to bless us all.
	Sister Armeda S. Young felt while the
sisters were speaking on faith she must
arise and speak of how she was blest. She
referred to the work of Sister Sorenson, she
had fasted and prayed that she might have
an opportunity of speaking to President
Woodruff about this work. She had the
chance and President Woodruff said to her,
‘‘God bless you and go on with your
work.” She felt comforted and blest by
this. Bore a strong testimony.
	Sister Elizabeth Paul spoke on Faith also
testified that God did hear and answer our
prayers, the Lord was displeased with none
so much as those that did not acknowledge
His hand, told how she had been healed
and how she had helped to administer to
others, felt it was our duty to speak of these
things. Prayed God to bless us all and
increase our faith. Sister Paul was filled
with the spirit of prophecy, and prophecied
many good things for the sisters.
	Sister Waterfall gave her experiences in
her sickness and how she had been healed
bore her testimony and felt to praise the
Lord.
	Sister Allred related her experience
when a very young girl before joining the
Church, she had a very sick spell and was
healed by the Elders of the Church. Bore
a faithful testimony.
	Counselor E T. Webb felt we had had a
very good meeting and hoped we would act
upon Sister Kimball’s suggestion and study
the subject of faith, and all have something
to say at the next meeting about it. Sing-
ing, Doxology. Benediction by Sister
Mary Alice Lambert.
				ZINA HYDE, Sec.


[Column 1]
LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.

ROME, Saturday Dec. 3, 1895.
	THE journey was resumed by rail via
Chiusi and Arrezzo, the latter a town in
the grand duchy of Tuscany at the influx
of the Chiano into the Arno, 55 miles from
Florence, anciently celebrated for terra-
cotta vases. The celebrated painter Spin-
etto Aretino was born here; he was es-
teemed equal to Giotto in design and his
superior in painting; also the birthplace of
Petrarch (the house still stands in the
Strada dell’ Orte) in the immediate neigh-
borhood Michael Angelo was born. The
scenery along this route is beautiful and
every inch of the way most interesting.
Not far from Arrezzo we pass Carlona, an
ancient town on a hill overlooking Logo
Trasimeno, the site of the Hannibals vic-
tory and the beautiful Valle di Chiano, there
are remains of Etruscan walls, the

[Column 2]
Cathedral and churches are adorned with
pictures by Fra Angelico, Signorelli and
other later painters. Another interesting
place was Perugia, the Roman Perusia, an
Etruscan city on a hill 1300 feet above the
old valley of the Tiber. In the Collegio
del’ Cambio there is a beautiful room decor-
ated with frescoes by Perugino, the Cathed-
ral St. Lorenzo contains Baroccios Master-
piece a Descent from the Cross, and the
library contains rich manuscript, the church
St. Domenico is noted for exquisite stained
glass and the monument of Pope Benedict
XI. About fifteen miles from here is
Assisi, famous for the great Francescan
Monastery founded in 1228; its churches
also are rich in art treasures, the Monas-
teries are most interesting. We noticed
when passing the Carthusian Monastery,
the Monks have each a tiny house, a room
to live and eat in, another to sleep in; the
rooms have balconies overlooking the gar-
dens which are bright with colors and fra-
grant with sweet smells.
	We arrive at Florence (the city of flowers)
pleasantly situated among the hills with
the river Arno flowing through the city, on
its right bank is the splendid walk of the
Cascine, on the left the beautiful Viale dei
Colli. Driving to our hotel we had splen-
did views of the bridge, over the Arno, Mr.
Mc. V. pointing out Ponte Vecchio, rebuilt
in 1362, remarkable for its double line of
shops, the Ponte G Trinita is a handsome
bridge, [16th century] with statues of the
Seasons. The Campanile, the unrivaled
work of Giotto is 292 feet high of many
colored marbles and adorned with statues
and reliefs by Donatello, Andrea, Pisano
and other Masters. We reach Hotel Wash-
ington 6, Lung Arno Movo Alexander de
Gablo in time for dinner.
	December 4.—Early morning found us
on the Piazza della Signoria, the business
center of Florence and historic, as here
Savonarola was hanged and burned in 1498.
“After the departure of Charles VIII,
Savonarola was made lawgiver of Florence:
a council with a select committee like that
of Venice but with Christ as their king in-
stead of a Doge, was the government that he
advocated; his throne was the pulpit; he
ruled for three years. During this time
such an inspiration of love and sacrifice
breathed throughout Florence that unlawful
possessions were restored, enemies embrac-
ed, hymns, not ballads were sung in the
streets, and the adherents of Savonarola
went from house to house collecting all
sensuous books and pictures, which they
burnt on a huge pyre on the last day of
the carnival. About the time Savonarola
was hung Amerigo Vespucci of Florence
who gave his name to America, explored the
coast of Venezuela.”
	Our manager pointed out Palazzo Vecchio
the residence of Cosmo I. begun in 1298,
an example of the Florentine castles of the
middle ages, at the entrance is Bandinelli’s
group of Hercules and Cacus, the court is
adorned with sculptured columns and an
elegant fountain with a figure of Vorocchio,
the great hall is frescoed by Vosari and
contains Passaglio’s statue of Savonarola.
Near the place is a magnificent fountain of
the time of Cosmo I. and an exquestrian
statue of Cosmo by John of Bologna 1594; 
in the same square is the Loggia dei Lanzi
14th century, an open vaulted hall very
beautiful and containing masterpieces of
sculpture, adjoined to this is the Portico
degli Uffizi adorned with statues of cele-


brated Tuscans. In the second story of
this building is the famous Uffizi Gallery,
the hall known as the Tribune is the rich-
est room in the world and contains the
Venus de’ Medici, one of the most perfect
specimens of sculpture existing, found in
Hadrian’s villa at Tivoli, the Dancing
Faun, the Apollino, the Wrestlers, all mar-
vels of beauty, while in painting the
best works of Raphael, Michael Angelo,
Titian, Correggio, besides a rich collection
of Etruscan and Italo Grecian vases and
nearly 30,000 drawings by the great
Masters. On the first floor of the building
is the Blblioteca Nationale which contains
300,000 volumes and 8000 manuscripts
much of it is of great rarity. The building
is splendid, of rich simplicity. Connected
with this palace by a bridge a mile long is
the Pitti palace. We walked over the
bridge which is hung with portraits; there
were many of Catherine de Medici, only child
of Lorenzo de’ Medici, she was the wicked
queen of France. Here she is attired in
ermine, royal purple and jewels, looking
defiant while the portraits I saw of her in
France she was penitent, always in an
attitude of prayer. One of the party said
to me “She was not nearly so wicked as
Catherine II. of Russia.” There were por-
traits of the kings and queens of all the
kingdoms and here was a beautiful portrait
of Nell Gwynne; a lady from Dublin said
she was acquainted with her descendants
and there were three beautiful sisters, all
like Nell, not chaste. The tramp across
that bridge is long to be remembered and
in the Palace the front of which is occupied
by His Majesty, King Humbert. We
went though the Art Gallery where we saw
the beautiful blue Madonna, and the
Madonna della Seggiola by Raphaelle, a
circular picture painted in 1516. The
Madonna sits in a low chair holding the
child on her knees; at her side St. John
folds his little hands in prayer; she wears a
many colored handkerchief on her head and
one on her shoulders—it is most beautiful.
There was an exquisite Madonna and Child
by Murillo and that beautiful gem the Fates
by Rosso Fiorentino, ascribed to Michael
Angelo.
	Leaving the Pitti Palace we visited the
Casa Guida, long the residence of the
Brownings, in the Piazza S. Felice and the
house of Michael Angelo, No. 64 via
Ghibellina, and the house where Dante
was born, in the via Dante Alighieri, and
No. 2 is that of Amerigo Vespucci. Then
we visited the Baptistery to see the remark-
able bronze doors by Ghiberti, the one
nearest the church Michael Angelo
said when he looked at them “Worthy to
be the Gates of Heaven.” The streets of
Florence are old, narrow and twisting, but
in the small windows of the shops are the
most beautiful things; I wished for great
wealth that I might buy some of the art
treasures but since I could not buy, it was
a delight to admire.
	We now took carriages and drove to the
highest part of the Boboli Garden where
we had a superb view of the city, and to
the west the Vale of Arno. The hills are
very beautiful and the plains covered with
villages and country residences. Then
we drove to the Foundling Hospital with
the famous Medallions of infants in
swaddling clothes, by Andrea della Robba,
they are most curious and priceless, money
would not purchase one. Home to dinner.
						KIM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A LOVING TRIBUTE.

Dear Sister:
	I WILL endeavor to write a brief account of the
life and labors of Sister Ann E. Cook, President
of the Garden City Relief Society who died on
the 18th of May, 1896. She was one of the most
patient uncomplaining women that ever lived and
always had a kind word for every one. She has
been a subscriber for the EXPONENT ever since
it was first started. It is quite impossible for one
to do justice to her exemplary life and many
virtues.
	She was born in the town of Stillwater, Sara-
toga Co., New York, June 18, 1823, and was the
daughter of Henry and Phebe Baker Howland.
	When she was about seventeen years of age
her parents removed to Kalamazoo Co., Michi-
gan. In 1840 she married Phineas W. Cook and
in the winter of 1844 and 45 they heard the first
sound of the glorious Gospel and gladly received
it, she being the only one of her father’s family
who has ever received it, and her husband and
one sister were the only ones of his family who
believed and were baptized. They came to the
Saints at Winter Quarters and shared in the hard-
ships and privations that were borne by them,
coming to Utah in 1848 when President Young’s
family came.
	Sister Cook was appointed president of the
Garden City Relief Society in 1876 at its first or-
ganization in which capacity she labored faith-
fully until her death; she was beloved by all who
knew her. She was the mother of sixteen child-
ren ten of whom preceded her to the other side;
she leaves four sons, two daughters, thirty grand-
children and nineteen great grandchildren. She
always bore a faithful testimony to the truth of
the Gospel, and was always willing to do any-
thing she was called to do according to the best
of her ability.
	No matter what trials and privations she had to
pass through she was never known to murmur or
complain against the justice and mercy of her
Heavenly Father. She always taught her child-
ren to pray to Him and revere His Holy Name.
	She died in full faith of a glorious resurrection.
								H. B. T.
Garden City, Rich Co., Utah, Oct. 19 1896.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.

SUSAN VILATE MUIR.
	SUSAN VILATE MUIR, daughter of the late
Jedediah M. and Susan Grant, was born in Salt
Lake City, Utah, on the 19th day of September,
1855, and died at Randolph, Rich county, Utah,
on September 29, 1896, being 41 years and 9 days
old. She was married to William S. Muir, Jr., in
the year 1871 and moved from Bountiful to Ran-
dolph in 1888. She was an affectionate daughter,
a faithful wife, a loving mother and an earnest
and sincere Latter-day Saint, and as such will be
mourned by a host of relatives and friends. She
leaves a husband and ten children, four sons and
six daughters, her youngest being three weeks
old at the time of her death; she also leaves
two grandchildren. She was very highly esteem-
ed and her many good traits of character were
appreciated by the Saints where she resided.
Her funeral was largely attended by the good
people of Randolph and Woodruff and by
relatives from Salt Lake and Bountiful, and the
funeral sermon, preached by her brother, Elder
Heber J. Grant, was full of comfort and encour-
agement to the bereaved family and friends. May
she rest in peace till the morning of the first
resurrection, when she will be found worthy of
rich blessings in our Father’s kingdom.—[COM.
EMILY E. HILL.
	DIED, at Ogden City, Utah, October 11, 1896,
Emily Eliza Hill, beloved wife of Elder William
S. Hill and daughter of Thomas and Elisabeth
Maria Reeder, pioneer settlers in Wellsville,
Cache county, and later of Ogden City. She was
the first girl baby that was born in the then new
settlement of Wellsville on the 13th of November,
1859. She was baptized at eight years old, and
through her girlhood proved herself a very
affectionate child. When she was about 10 years,
of age she had a narrow escape from death, hav-
ing been accidentally shot in the forehead with a
rfflie bullet which glanced and only made a
severe scalp wound.
	On June 27, 1879, she was married at the House
of the Lord in Salt Lake City to Elder William S.
Hill, whom she accompanied in 1884 on a mis-
sion to settle in St. Johns, Arizona. They re-
mained there five years and then returned to

[Column 2]
Ogden. When she died she left behind her two
sons and five daughters, a new born babe dying
at its birth.
	The funeral took place from the Third ward of
Ogden city, Elders Joseph Parry and Henry
Newman testified to the deceased’s sterling
worth and faithfulness and the certainty to her of
an early and glorious resurrection and eternal
life.
				FRANCIS H. REEDER.
LYDIA DOWNER GATES.
	DIED in Wilson ward, Weber county, Utah, at
the residence of her daughter, Mrs. Willard Bing-
ham, at 12:30 a. m., Sunday, October 11, 1896,
after a short illness, Lydia Downer Gates, aged
86 years and 3 months. Mother Gates was born
in the state of Vermont, July 12, 1810; married
Samuel Gates in the year 1830, by whom she had
twelve children, eight of whom besides her hus-
band have long since preceded her to the spirit
land. She and her husband joined the Church in
Michigan at an early date, and soon after gather-
ed with the Saints. They were well acquainted
with the Prophet Joseph Smith, who had often
shared the hospitality of their humble dwelling
and for whom they always ertertained the highest
love and regard. They also willingly rendered
their mite in the erection of the Nauvoo Temple,
and were among the few who received their en-
dowments therein. They shared in all the perse-
cutions and drivings incident to that time; cross-
ing the Missouri river in early spring and set-
tling with the Camp of Israel, arriving in Utah in
1850. They settled in the spot where the old
Bingham fort (now called Five Points, Lynne dis-
trict) was built in Weber county, making this their
home, and which place widow Gates held pos-
session of the homestead up to the day of her
death, but had a short time since rented the
place and moved to live with her daughter in
Wilson Lane, from which place the corpse was
conveyed in a hearse to the Lynne meeting
house.
	The obsequies were conducted by Bishop
Smuin of Lynne ward, on Monday, October 12th,
1896, there being on the stand Elders L. W.
Shurtliff and C. F. Middleton of the Stake presi-
dency; Elder Lorin Farr, president of the High
Priest’s quorum; High Councilor Joseph Parry
of Ogden; Patriarch P. G. Taylor of Harrisville
Bishop Bingham of Riverdale; Bishop Backham
of Wilson Lane ward and others.
	After prayer and appropriate singing by the
choir, Bishop Smuin, Elders Farr and Parry, and
President L. W. Shurtliff spoke of the noble
career of Mother Gates for the sixty years of their
acquaintance with her, and said the legacy of
righteousness which she left to her offspring was
better than riches. None of them knew of any
faults in Mother Gates during their life-long ac-
quaintance, for she was never known to sit in the
seat of the scornful, or found complaining against
the Lord’s anointed, but was full to the brim
with charity and good works and was always
prompt to her meetings. She was fully up to the
standard in the payment of tithes and offerings,
even in her widowhood, and had nobly supported
the eternal order of marriage. Surely it can be
said she died the death of the righteous.
	The remains were viewed by a large concourse
of people. The features were as placid as in
balmy sleep. The pall bearers were her near
young relatives, who bore the beautiful white cof-
fin to the superb white hearse which was follow-
ed to the Ogden City cemetery by a host of
relatives and friends. The remains were con-
signed to rest in the Ogden cemetery till the
resurrection of the just.
							P. L.
ADELIA A. KIMBALL.
	DIED at Kanosh, Millard county, October 19,
1896, Adelia A. Kimball, aged 68 years, 7 months
and 17 days.
	She was the daughter of Catherine and Eber
Wilcox, and was born in Shandgo county, New
York. She was first married to William Hatton
who was killed by Indians in Fillmore, which
left her a widow with three small children, Wil-
liam, Henry and Mary Eliza. She was after-
wards married to President Heber C. Kimball
and lived in his family until her daughter Mary
Eliza was married to Abraham A. Kimball and
he was called on a mission to the Muddy. She
accompanied them and there she acted as presi-
dent of the Relief Society. The family after a
few years spent in that then inhospitable country,
moved north as far as Kanosh county, where she
has lived up to the time of her death. On Jan. 1,
1875 she was elected president of the Relief
Society of the Kanosh ward and for nearly


twenty-two-years has labored faithfully in that
capacity. She was well qualified for that posi-
tion, being a woman of kind and gentle disposi-
tion, always ready with the healing balm of
charity and spiritual counsel for the afflicted.
Her soul was full of peace to all mankind. She
was never known to endorse a slander or en-
courage gossip. She had a great reverence for
the Priesthood, and her presence brought with it
an influence of peace. Even the rudest boys up-
on the streets noted aunt Ade[-]ia’s approach, for
all who knew her loved her. For the last two
years her health has been failing, and for the last
year she has been mostly confined to her bed.
She was conscious to the last, and as the shadows
of this life bore down upon her and the horizon
of her bright reward was dawning, she called her
children and her grandchildren around her bed
and bore to them a faithful testimony of the truth
of the Gospel urging them to be true and stead-
fast in the great work of God, then silently passed
away. The immediate cause of death was catarrh
of the stomach and head, from which she suffered
greatly.
	The funeral was under the direction of the
ward Relief Society and was beautifully conduct-
ed. The procession walked from the residence
two blocks to the meeting hall; first came Presi-
dent I. N. Hinckley and Bishop Jessie Hopkin-
son, followed by two members of the High Coun-
cil then the Bishop’s counselors followed by six
veterans in the Priesthood, bearing in their hands
the beautiful casket containing the corpse then
followed the whole body of the Relief Society,
and lastly citizens of all ages and faith, did honor
to the deceased. The casket was placed in the
center of the hall and upon it stood a large cross
of new cut flowers.
	B. H. Watts, George Crane, James Abraham
and Bishop Hopkinson were the speakers and
President I. N. Hinckley endorsed all the good
things that had been said of our departed sister.
He counseled her offspring and all assembled to
emulate her life and example, as being among
the bright and faithful ones of this life. Then
was tenderly laid away the body of a rare mem-
ber of womankind, whose peaceful life leaves
sweet memories with all who knew her.
GEORGE CRANE.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE SNARE.

	IN section 90 and 17th verse of the
Doctrine and Covenants it reads thus: "Be
not ashamed neither confounded, but be
admonished in all your high mindedness
and pride, for it bringeth a snare upon your
souls.” It also says “Cease to be idle,
cease to be unclean.”—Yes truly our
Father requires us to be pure, both mentally
and physically clean, or we are not fit to
come into His kingdom; but this caution
upon high-mindedness and pride has been
repeated many times in the old Testament
as well as the New, but not in this form
telling us of the snare.
	But it is a caution and should be observ-
ed you will no doubt admit, and after
being repeated by so many prophets both
ancient and modern, shall we now be slack
and treat the subject with indifference?
Then we shall undoubtedly feel the snare,
even as the Apostle Peter did, for I think
he was a high-minded, proud man natu-
rally.
	Had he been humble he would have ask-
ed our Savior why He washed His disci-
ples feet, for he would be ashamed to have
his Lord and Master do this for him; but
instead of this he quickly said “Thou
shalt never wash my feet,” the reply was,
"Then thou wilt have no part or lot with
me;" but behold how quickly he was
humbled and said "Not only my feet, but
my hands and head." Jesus said "Ye
are clean but not all."
	Then you remember when told by our
Savior “He that hath no sword let him
sell his garment and buy one,” He was
told “We have two swords,” the reply
was “It is enough.”

[Column 2]
	Here Peter saw a crisis was at hand and
was ready and willing to use the sword,
which he did and was told to put up his
sword in its sheath. How astonished to
hear this! What benefit is a sword kept
in its sheath? Here he flew into a passion
and said “I do not know his meaning. No
I do not know the man.” He denied Him
three times, then the cock crowed; Jesus
gave him a look which Peter felt, remem-
bering the words “Before the cock crows
twice thou wilt deny me thrice.” The
Apostle Peter went out and wept bitterly.
Here humility took the place which pride
and self-conceit had left, for this is the
spirit of the world and we being of the
earth earthy, we find it is our spirit at
times although we think we are humble or
try to be so at least, yet we find we have a
will power which may be used with indis-
cretion at times when in haste, and we do
not take time to consider the consequences.
	You will remember our Savior previous-
ly told Peter that “Satan desires to sift
thee as wheat, but I have prayed for thee.”
Now I would ask, was he not in the sieve
at the time of these trials? (And where
in does the sieve differ from the snare, for
they are surely in the hands of the tempter,)
until he was again humble, then the Lord
could deliver him and surely his lesson was
a profitable one, teaching him the difference
between pride and self-conceit, and dignity
and self-respect; the former being the
spirit of the world and the latter the Spirit
of Christ; for this dignity enabled Him to
reject the tempter every time until he gained
the victory. Yet always answering him in
a respectful manner yet firm and decided.
Is not this God-like?
	Does not this spirit belong to every
sound-minded, religious person?
	Not only so, but the good spirit requires
you to love your enemies, do good to those
who hate you, making sacrifices. “If he
ask you to give him your coat, give him
your cloak also; if he ask you to go a mile,
go with him twain,” etc., then you become
worthy to be called the children of your
Father.
	This nobility of character does not be-
long to the proud ones of this world. No,
they can not understand such humility as
this. The spirit of the world could not
comprehend it. No, it takes the wisdom
of the Deity to keep out of the snare that is
ready for us if we lean so much upon our
own strength and do not observe the golden
rule. Let us then be humble and acknowl-
edge the hand of the Lord in our chastise-
ment; for it seems that we are already in
the snare, ever since politics divided us, as
Jesus said “except ye are one ye are not
mine.” Humility is our only safe-guard,
for the Lord resists the proud but gives
grace to the humble.
	St. Paul tells us that all our afflictions
will be sanctified to our good in as much as
we fear God and keep his commandments.
This is a comfort; then let us not grieve
the good Spirit of our Father who is watch-
ing to do good to all who put their trust in
Him. This is the faith of
ZION'S CONVERT.
S. L. City, Aug. 10, 1896.

	MISS HARRIET MAY MILLS contrlbutes
to the Woman's Journal graphic letters
describing the California campaign.
	MRS. HELEN M. GOUGAR of Lafayette,
Ind., has been speaking in many places in
Ohio in behalf of free silver.

[Column 3]
	IN Montana, following the example of
Idaho, all four of the political parties have
put a woman suffrage plank in their plat-
forms—Democrats, Populists and both
wings of the Republicans.---Boston Tran-
script.
	THE women of France prepared a
monster petition, which was presented to
the Czarina on her visit to Paris, asking her
to exert her influence with her husband to
obtain the deliverance of Armenia from
Turkish rule.—Ex.
	AT Melbourn, Victoria, on October 9,
the Assembly, after an all-night sitting,
passed the second reading of the bill estab-
lishing woman suffrage and “one man, one
vote.”

	BEFORE the next issue of the WOMAN'S
JOURNAL the most momentous national
election held for many years will have been
decided; and of the millions of women
whose interests are at stake, not one will
have had a voice in determining the result
except those who live in Wyoming, Utah
and Colorado.—Woman's Journal.

	MRS. HUMPHREY WARD'S latest book,
“Sir George Tressady,” which has just
appeared, is considered the most interesting
of this great novelist’s books. The author
occupies a place in the first rank of modern
writers. Mrs. Ward, as is well known,
comes from the brilliant Arnold family, of
which Mathew Arnold was a member.
Her early years were spent in Oxford, and
she grew up under the influence of that
city’s intellectual life. She is not only a
student of books but of men, and her time
is divided almost equally between her uni-
versity extension work and writing. Mrs.
Ward is, without doubt, the best paid of
living novelists. Out of “Robert Else-
mere,” “David Grieve” and “Marcella”
she has probably made $3,000,000, and for
the last one published she will receive more
than for any other.

	AT the Woman’s Congress in Berlin
the greater part of the addresses was in-
deed worth hearing, giving news and de-
tails of the work of women all over the
world. The papers on the University
studies of women, and on the practice of
medical women read by doctors from
America, Russia, Armenia, Bosnia, France
and Italy were received with the same
sympathy as the papers on the Working
Women Question of the different countries.
The claim for participation in poor and
orphanage work met with as great an inter-
est as the Woman’s Right Question; and
the legal disabilities of German women
were just as much condemned as the
Government’s indifference to prostitution,
all in all, one hundred papers were read.


R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

