VOL. 25.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEB. 15, AND MAR. 1, 1897.		No. 16 & 17


CONTENTS:
	The Silk Industry—M. A. Till. Slavery As A
National Question—Mrs I. M. Brown. Items About
Silk—Ann C. Woodbury. Governor Drake’s
Welcome. Leaves From My Journal—Kim.
Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting—Zina Y. Bull
Sec. First Annual Report Of The Relief Society.
President Anthony’s Annual Address. Sketch
And Resolutions Of Respect. The New Wo-
man—Elsie Ada Faust. An Interesting Journey
—Ann C. Woodbury. Notes And News.
	EDITORIAL:—Social Gathering. About The
Convention Living Pictures Of The Holy Land.
A Pleasant Affair. A Farewell Party. Editorial
Notes.
	POETRY:—Edward Stevenson—R. M. F. Eve-
ning Thoughts—Annie D. Stevens. To My
Niece Dr. E. R. Shipp—S. E. P.


EDWARD STEVENSON.

HE has fought the good fight, the warfare is
		ended; 
	The trophy’s of victory are many and bright.
Vanished the thunder, and smoke of the struggle
	For him, who was girded for truth and the
		right.
He was first in the ranks and foremost in battle;
	Shoulder to shoulder with the true and the
		brave,
Facing the foe with a power that was dauntless,
	Unflinching in duty, yet eager to save.
Rest, noble warrior,  rest thee for a season;
	There never was soldier, who fought with more
		zeal,
And never a cause, more righteous or glorious,
	Nor ever a foe that could shatter thy steel.
Give him a burial befitting a chieftian!
	Enshroud him in robes that the righteous doth
		wear,
Chant o’er his bier songs of triumph and glory—
Oh! such glory as his no traitor can share.

There on the low mound scatter ivy and laurel;
	True emblems of life that shall never decay;
Now leave him in peace, with God and the angels,
	To rise with the just at the Dawn of the Day.
								R. M. F.


EVENING THOUGHTS.

THE shades of night are falling,
	The day is nearly done,
Its labors, whether finished 
	Or whether just begun,
Are laid aside. While musing
	Comes a voice “Look, look I say,”
And lo! a glorious angel
	With my record for the day.

I read of kind words spoken,
	I read of noble thought,
And of a trying lesson learned,
	Of conflicts bravely fought.
There are resolutions written
	Of the good I meant to do,
And a promise to be humble,
	Charitable, patient, true.

There, in bright golden letters,
	I can see my morning prayer
With the heading: Trust in Jesus
	He will all your burdens bear.


And I stand entranced, enraptured
	With a joy I cannot hide;
When, behold, a finger pointing
	Bids me view the other side.

Ah, it says that in the morning
	As I hurried down the street
A weak, tired, aged woman
	Raised her eyes a smile to meet,
And I passed her by unnoticed,
	Left her hungry, faint and sad,
When a kind word would have fed her,
	Would have made the lone heart glad,

There are resolutions broken!
	Can it be I was so weak!
And I’m charged with being haughty,
	When I meant to be so meek.
Charity is growing weaker,
	While ingratitude grows strong.
And my anger conquered patience,
	When I thought I suffered wrong.

I am saddened by my record
	When I see the debtor side;
All those charges crush my spirit,
	Pain my heart, and wound my pride :
But the finger that was pointing
	Draws a line, and then with care
Writes results, and to my credit
	Stands the golden “Morning Prayer.”

Thus at eve I scan my record,
	So when life is near its close,
Will I look upon those pages
	Ere I seek my last repose;
May the good deeds overbalance,
	And the credit still be there,
On each page the same sweet story,
	“Trust in God” and “Daily Prayer.”
			ANNIE D. STEVENS.


[Column 1]
THE SILK INDUSTRY.

Dear Editor Exponent:
	I greatly appreciate your kind endeavors
in trying to work up a renewed interest in
Sericulture realizing it is an important and
beneficial industry and one which is advo-
cated by the far-seeing and those who
know the benefits of home industries.
	I much regret I cannot report much pro-
gress in our Association of late, owing to
there not being a reliable market for cocoons
consequently no quick returns for the labor;
could we have an Experiment Station in
Utah I am confident thousands of pounds
would be raised, thereby furnishing em-
ployment for women and children who
form so prominent a part in feeding and
taking care of the worms, and there is an
abundance of feed, mulberry trees are
grown throughout the state and in some
settlements whole acres have for years been
planted with them. We keep our organ-
ization in running order and move when-
ever opportunity presents. An energetic
company of ladies of Springville entered
into the spirit of raising cocoons with a vim
last season owing to the inducements offered
by the last Legislature and were very suc-
cessful, but through some lack the favors
have not been complied with, which rather
dampens their ardor. They wish to get
their cocoons reeled up and have depended

[Column 2]
upon the encouraging enactment passed in
the Silk Bill which I trust will yet be forth-
coming, as it will be a stimulus to many
others to raise cocoons.
	This County has been one of the fore-
most in Sericulture and has made a mark-
ed success not only in raising cocoons but
eggs; also spun and reeled silk besides
fabrics of pure native silk some of which
were exhibited at the World’s Fair and
were considered very creditable; the suc-
cess which has been achieved has been by
private enterprise.
	The elements in Utah are not excelled
for silk raising as proved by the beautiful
textures as abundantly testified to by ex-
perts. I hope to see this industry greatly
advanced this coming season, there being a
bounty of twenty-five cents on each pound
of good cocoons verified to by a committee,
and a reeler also furnished for one hundred
pounds of good cocoons certified to by
said committee, (see Silk Bill treating up-
on this question.)
	The late Mr. Daniel Graves an inde-
fatigable worker in the silk business desired
to see a corporate body of influential persons
interested in silk culture, advance money so
this industry could be permanently and
successfully established, returning a fair
compensation to all engaged in the under-
taking. May this industry receive the
attention it demands and flourish in our
midst, rewarding the promoters with grati-
fying results.
				Respectfully
					M. A. TILL,
President Utah Co. Silk Association.


SLAVERY AS A NATIONAL QUES-
TION.

	SLAVERY came into the United States
not as a national question, but through the
rapacity of man. The infamy was shared
by England and the United States. It was
a source of profit to New England, particu-
larly Boston, Salem, Bristol and Provi-
dence.
	McMaster says “The profit was threefold,
molasses brought from Jamaica was turned
into rum; rum sent to Africa bought
negroes; negroes carried to Jamaica were
changed for molasses which, taken to New
England was turned into rum.”
	With the horrors of slavery in the south,
abolition grew in the north. In 1775
thousands of people in the colonies freed
their slaves, Pennsylvania taking the lead.
In 1784 New Hampshire became a free
state. Pennsylvania, Rhode Island and
Connecticutt provided for gradual abolition.
Virginia and Maryland revised their
emancipation statutes and Congress passed
in 1787 the ordinance which forbade slav-
ery existing in the territory north of the
Ohio river.
	At a convention called in 1783 to parcel
out the western lands into states, a code
was drawn providing for the abolition of
slavery after 1800; this was not adopt-
ed. Benjamin Franklin was President
of the Philadelphia Society, whose memo-


[Column 1]
rial so excited the south in 1790. In 1793
the House of Representatives was asked to
abolish slavery, but refused to do so, stated
what were its Constitutional powers. The
Government, this House said “could not
prevent the importation of slaves before
1808, nor emancipate slaves, nor interfere
with international affairs of a state, for the
purpose of securing better treatment of
slaves, but congress could tax $10 each on
slaves imported and forbid the fitting out
of ships for engaging in African slave
trade.”
	From that moment abolition declined.
The northern states soon provided for the
extinction of slavery; the southern states
would not. In 1793 the south demanded
and obtained the rendition of fugitive
slaves. In 1794 the north demanded and
obtained the law for the suppression of the
slave trade.
	Then came Eli Whitney’s invention of
the cotton gin and the demand for the
slave labor could not be supplied by natural
increase. A world of smuggling and kid-
napping sprang into life; negroes set free
by the north were siezed and sold into slav-
ery. The Quakers protested and the
negroes petitioned Congress in vain. The
House declared the remedy lay with the
Courts.
	The slave trade went on openly; ships
were built in our ports, loaded with mana-
cles cleared for the West Indies, took in a
cargo of rum, raised the Dutch flag and
sailed for Africa where these negroes were
snared like wild animals; so openly was this
carried on Congress amended and made
more stringent in 1800, its slave laws. A
ship load of free negroes from Guadeloupe
landed at Wilmington, Delaware, others
followed from San Domingo landing at
Boston and New York. In South Carolina
these men were beheld with horror, they
had once been slaves and freed by France
had become obnoxious and by force had
been placed on American ships and driven
to the United States.
	Their minds were believed to be inflamed
with wild ideas of liberty by the acts of
Toussaint L'Overture, and the horrors of
San Domingo, the uprising, the massacre
seemed likely to be repeated on American
soil. The South asked the House to pro-
tect the country, the bill passed.
	In 1804 the anti-slavery feeling revived.
North Carolina terrified at the negroes en-
tering her ports, asked Congress to prohibit
the importation of slaves from any part of
the world. When Louisana was purchased
a petition to Congress asked that slavery be
excluded west of the Mississppi river.
	At Cahokid, Kaskaskid Vincennes the
French settlements on the Wabash and at
Detroit both Indian and negro slavery had
existed long before the country came into
the possession of' the United States. In
Michigan the struggle for slavery ended in
1787. A little later in Illinois but did not
end in Indiana until 1809.
	Slavery came for the first time into
national politics towards the close of Jack-
son’s administration, but for a number of
years had no influence in shaping political
movements.
	Abolition Societies were formed in the
north in 1831, but did not come into
prominence until two years later. These
Societies were only in a very restricted de-
gree the cause of the feeling in the north
against slavery. The anti-slavery out-
burst in the north over the admission of

[Column 2]
Missouri was a dozen years before an
abolition society was in existence. When
the abolition movement started, it was
avowedly designed to be cosmopolitan
in character. The originators looked down
upon any merely national or patriotic
feelings.
	Had the majority of the North been in
hearty accord with the abolitionist it would
have disrupted the Union and perpetrated
slavery in the South.
	Rosevelt says “Slavery was responsible
for the streak of coarse and brutal barbarism
Which ran through the Southern character,
and which marked the ferocious outcry
raised by the whole Southern press against
the abolitionist.”
	There had been an uprising in Virginia
at the time the abolition movement came
into prominence and this added to the rage
and terror with which the South regarded
the latter. There had been always a
strong separatist feeling in the South, but
it had been local and never affected all the
states at the same time.
	The Alien Sedition laws were more fierce-
ly resented in Virginia and Kuntucky than
in South Carolina; the tariff which so ex-
asperated the latter pleased Louisana,
Georgia and Alabama; but slavery was an
interest common to the whole South, when
it was menaced all Southerners came to-
gether for its protection.
	As abolition arose and grew in the North,
in the South grew the Separatist move-
ment; and it began to identify itself with
the maintenance of slavery. The un-
scrupulous Southern politician saw that it
offered a chance for them to push forward
and wreak almost irreparable harm to the
nation, if by so doing they could advance
their own selfish interests. Their idea was
to divide the Union. Says Benton “So
pursuing their course the 1st was nullifica-
tion; the 2nd secession, and the last
final separation.”
	The abolitionists immediately brought
themselves before Congress in two ways;
they presented petitions for the abolition of
slavery in the District of Columbia and by
sending to the Southern states pamphlets,
newspapers and ridiculous illustrated cuts,
the Southerners tried to pass laws prohibit-
ing these to be carried in the mail; prices
were set upon the heads of people publish-
ing these and the North gained strength
that otherwise they would not have had.
	Calhoun the leader of the South wanted
to refuse in Congress to receive the Quaker
petition to abolish slavery in the District,
Benton took the ground that the abolition
movement was of far greater danger to the
South than the Northern Senators were
willing to acknowledge. Calhoun claimed
that the question of emancipation affected
the states exclusively and that Congress had
no more jurisdiction over the District of
Columbia than over any other state.
Calhoun’s main object was the disruption of
the Union. He drafted a bill against the
circulation of abolition documents in the
South, claiming that the Constitution was a
mere compact between Soverign states and
that nullification and secession were
justifiable and constitutional; six Southern
Senators joined with the Northerners and
defeated the bill.
	A few Northerners joined with Calhoun
and were for ever after called "dough- 
faces.” Benton urged the admission of
Michigan as a free state, and Buchanan of
Arkansas, as a slave state The slavery

[Column  3]
question did not seem to enter into political
parties but their admission was objected to
upon the grounds that both would give
Democratic majorities to the approaching
presidential election, the Whigs therefore
both North and South opposed the admis-
sion.
	In the acknowledgement of the indepen-
dence of Texas and the trouble with Mexi-
co that sprang from it, slavery played a less
prominent part. The West went wild over
the acquiring of new territory and slavery
had little to do with this craze. The men
who went West as a rule were not slave
owners.
	American settlers pressed into Spanish
Texas before the treaty of 1819 was ratified;
they took their slaves with them and when
Mexico issued a decree liberating all slaves,
Americans refused to be bound by it, and
gave this as a reason for their revolt. Long
before slavery had been abolished in Mexico
the colony of Texas had made an abortive
attempt at insurrection, most of the in-
habitants had come from slave states, but
many had been born north of the Ohio
river. 
(Continued.)


WOMANS EXPONENT


ITEMS ABOUT SILK.

Dear Sister:
	AFTER a long silence I thought I would
drop you a few lines. I have been so busy
this winter; when I got home in the fall I
thought I would see if I could not make
reeling silk a success. I have proved that
I can make marketable silk. I sold some
yesterday to the tailors to work with.
	Sister Mary Judd, one of my counselors,
and myself have been to Washington to-
day to help them reorganize; I forgot to
get the minutes of the meeting to send to
you, but I will see that they are forwarded.
	The silk association have been quite
active in getting up parties to make means
to advance the industry; they have also
petitioned the City Council for some lots to
plant mulberry trees on; I trust they will
get it. I talked up the EXPONENT and
succeeded in getting six new subscribers.
	We have had a great deal of sickness this
winter. John Alger was buried yesterday
and there were three children dead also at
the same time; it has been a serious time
with the children here this winter.
	I have labored hard to get the silk indus-
try started but it is slow work. Enclosed
find a skein of silk of my manufacture, and
pass your opinion on it.
	Your sister, in the Gospel.
		ANN C. WOODBURY.


A LAMENTABLE confession from Christian
England Sir F. S. Powet “member for
Wigan.” in a speech said “He doubted
very much whether amongst the members
of the House there were three who could
write as many pages on the subject of the
trinity without falling into the most
horrible heresy.”
	So little did they know of their own faith.
	LADY ABERDEEN is to make the princi-
ple address at the meeting of the convoca-
tion of Chicago University on April 1.
	THERE are sixteen Young Women’s
Christian Temperance Unions in South
Africa, with three hundred members.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


TO MY NIECE DR. E. R. SHIPP ON HER
FIFTIETH BIRTHDAY.

THROUGH fifty years! and can it be, 
For half a checkered century
The trials of mortality
	Have been thine own ?
		That placid face, and brow serene,
		That restful air and queenly mien,
		Disclaim the years that thou hast seen,
	And all their cares disown!

The sunny days of youth are past—
Those blissful days that could not last,
By memory’s silvery veil o’er cast—
	And age comes creeping on.
		But calm and steadfast is thine eye,
		To face life’s future mystery—
		To fill thy noble destiny
	Until thy race is run.

Can we, who know thy stirling worth,
Regret thy fifty years of earth,
And wish the record of thy birth
	A lesser sum had given ?
		Can we who know thy love and truth,
		E’er doubt thy soul’s perpetual youth,
		Or think that time’s relentless tooth,
	Could make thee less of heaven?

Had I a wish and it were given,
A wish of earthly drosses riven,
A boon to rivet faith in heaven,
	And faith in constancy,
		The sweetest wish that I could name,
		Of woman’s worth or woman’s fame,
		The dearest hope that I could frame,
That there were more like thee.

	Oh, may thy onward path in life 
		Be crowned with all thy heart’s desires;
	And mind and lips, and eyes still glow
		With sweet religion’s holy fires.
	May “He, who doeth all things well,”
		Make all thy future birthdays bright!
	A wish in which thy myriad friends 
		In hope, and love, and joy unite.
								S. E. P.


[Column 1]
GOVERNOR DRAKE’S WELCOME.

[TO THE N-A. W. S. A., JAN. 27.]
	“I AM glad to greet and welcome you to 
the State of Iowa. No nation on the globe
entertains a higher respect and admiration
for its women than that of the United
States, and in the courtesy and devotion
due to the nation's fair daughters, the gal-
lant sons of Iowa are not behind those of 
any other state. They love their own and 
are so unselfish they admire them all. 
	“Of the organizations having a national 
or continental scope of operation that have 
met in Iowa, I can think of none to which 
our people will more cheerfully give wel-
come than the body which now honors this 
metropolis with its presence. 
	“Your association holds its meetings in a 
State the territory of which has a peculiar 
history in respect of the suffrage. Since 
the organization of this land as a part of 
Wisconsin, the right of suffrage has been
denied to no person because of the want of 
property possessions, or because of the non
payment of tax of some kind. 
	“Iowa shares with Wisconsin the honor 
of being a pioneer in freedom of suffrage, 
because in no territory or State whose his-
tory began prior to that of Wisconsin has 
such freedom always prevailed. Again, 
Iowa followed Wisconsin in the adoption of 
manhood suffrage, they being the only 
states outside of New England where such
suffrage obtained prior to the amendment

[Column 2]
to the Federal Constitution in conformity
to the same. Again, Iowa stands alone in 
all the Northwest in never lowering the
standard of the right of suffrage by permit-
ting it to be exercised by any one not fully
a citizen of the United States. 
	“At every election held within her pre-
sent borders, whether as a part of Michigan
or that of Wisconsin, or as the territory or 
state of Iowa, full citizenship has always
been a necessary quality for an elector.
	“You are engaged in the interest of the 
futher extension of the electorate. Your 
association has been working on this line
for years. You bring with you able advo-
cates, among them distinguished and re-
nowned veterans Your right to be heard
and for free discussion will neither be
denied nor abridged on the free soil of Iowa
where the intelligence of the people is 
sufficient to warrant the exercise of free
thought and free speech. Your efforts have
been rewarded in securing partial suffrage
in many of our States and the establish-
ment of universal suffrage in four of them; 
while in foreign lands the progress has 
been equally marked, in Great Britain ex-
tending, I understand, to the election of 
every officer except Representatives in 
Parliament. And you, no doubt, feel forti-
fied in the fact that where the electorate 
has once been extended, in no instance has 
the step ever been retraced. 
	“I congratulate your association on the
intelligence and brave women of which it is 
composed, and the persistency, energy and
zeal with which the work has been carried 
on. 
	“I trust that the association will have a 
pleasant and enjoyable session, that its
members will feel themselves benefited by 
the attendance and sojourn here, and that 
they will return to their homes with happy
recollections, and well pleased that the 
twenty-ninth annual session of the asso-
ciation was held in Iowa.”


LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.

		TUESDAY, Dec. 10, 1895.
	Continuing our journey via Como,
Lugano and the wonderful and famous
scenery of St. Gothard, through the tun-
nel which is more than 9 miles long, 26 ft.
broad, 21 1/2 ft. high and takes twenty
minutes to pass through. We had views
of the grandest Alpine scenes. It is an
elevated track in the central part of Switzer-
land between the Cantons of Wei, Valais,
Ticino and the Grisons is a circular plain
surrounded on all sides by some of the
loftiest summits of the Alps. Not far from
Hospice is the source of the rivers Rhone,
Reuss and Ticino. On the brink of a
steep hill was a little church which we
passed five times, the road winding in and
out through the tunnels and mountain
passes each time bringing the church to
view. At one Alpine village we saw a
lovely bride bid adieu to her friends and
drive away to a pretty Chalet on the
mountain side. We wished her all the joy
and brightness in her new home her
happy face seemed to anticipate.
	We had beautiful visions of snowy peaks
and vast fields of sun. While some of the
higher pinnacles were dazzling in sunlight,
in the distance was a snow storm, large
beautiful flakes silently and rapidly falling,
while on the top the sun tinted the snow
with rose, amber and violet; a most beauti-


ful sight which we often see at home. It
speaks of Omnipotence.
	We descend to the valley of the Reuss
where we have grand views of the Alps
and Lake Lucerne, one of the loveliest in
Switzerland, arrive at Lucerne where we
pass the night at Hotel Victoria Bale.
When I came before took a carriage over
the picturesque Brunig Pass to Lucerne,
situated on the Lake in full view of the
Rigi Kulen, Pilotus and other Alpine
peaks; the whole forms a beautiful panor-
ama, while the Lake shores are rich in
legends of Tell. The river Reuss empties
into the Lake, it has several quaint wooden
bridges; the historical are the Muchlen-
brucke, on the ceiling is the picture of the
“Dance of Death,” Longfellows (“Golden
Legend.”) The Lion of Lucerne is a lion
cut into the living rock and framed by vines
and overhanging trees; the dying lion
trans ixed by a broken lance defends with
pathos and grandeur the “Burbon Lily.”
This monument is to the faithful and brave
Helvatians. We ascended the Rigi Kulen
where we have a fine view of Eastern and
Northern Switzerland. The eye sweeps
over eleven lakes, plains and streams, to
the crest of the Jura mountains and over
the Bernese Oberland Alps, a circuit of
three hundred miles. As we ascend the
5,900 feet we see the valley dotted with 
blue lakes, while shining snow-capped
peaks rise one behind another until the
last is lost in clouds. In the distance the
Jura Freu Eiger and many other peaks.
On our return, near the end of the descent
we pass by the remains of the Golden land-
slide which buried all in its ruins.
							KIM.


MISS ANTHONY received an ovation on
Feb. 15, her birthday. The Rochester
Democrat and Chronicle says: “It seemed
as if the entire city turned out to shake Miss
Anthony’s hand and offer congratulations,
and probably Powers Hall never held a
larger crowd. The representative people
of Rochester were there, society, profes-
sional, literary and clergy, and the busi-
ness man and woman were all to be seen,
and a thoroughly happy, good-natured
gathering it was, without the formality that
often marks large social functions. No
one would take Miss Anthony to be 77
years old. She showed not a trace of
fatigue, but every energy was alert, and
happiness and pleasure at the demonstra-
tion of her townspeople seemed to be the
prevailing emotion. Near her was the
faithful sister, Miss Mary Anthony, and
Rev. Anna Shaw and Mrs. Ida Harper,
her guests. In every respect the reception
was a success. It was an ovation to Miss
Anthony, and probably gave her more
pleasure coming as it did from her own
townspeople, than any of the many func-
tions that have been given in her honor.


THE ladies of the Silk Association are
getting along nicely in their endeavor to ac-
quire land on which to plant a mulberry
forest. They meet with discouragements
occasionally, but so far are overcoming all
obstacles fairly well, and if they receive the
financial and moral support they need from
the community success will crown their
efforts, and a silk “works” in St George
will be an accomplished fact.—St. George
Union.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS	Editor
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, FEB. 15, AND MAR. 1, 1897.


SOCIAL GATHERING.

	ON Friday afternoon Feb. 19, a very
small but pleasant social dinner party was
given by Sister Zina D. H. Young, Presi-
dent of the Relief Society. The guests
felt greatly honored by the presence of
President Wilford Woodruff, the venerable
patriot and pioneer, to whom this people
owe so much as prophet, seer, revelator,
leader, Apostle, missionary and friend.
	Presidents George Q. Cannon and Joseph
F. Smith, Counselors in the First Presi-
dency were also present, Apostle F. D.
Richards, President C. O. Card of Alberta
Stake, Elder Oliver B. Huntington, Elder
H. A. Naisbett, Hon Joseph S. Kimball,
the hostess herself and her daughter Sister
Zina Young Card, Sisters Emma Woodruff,
Julina L. Smith, Jane S. Richards, Bath-
sheba W. Smith, Emmeline B. Wells and
Lathilla Kimball.
	The dinner was a perfect success and
social conversation most enjoyable; the
coming together socially of old-time friends
and acquaintances was most refreshing to
one’s spirits. Aunt Zina, as we love to
call her, can congratulate herself on the
success of the delightful feast she gave to
her dear friends brethren and sisters.
	The First Presidency have so many im-
portant duties and grave responsibilities
resting upon them to which they devote
their almost entire time, that it is quite a
rarity to meet them socially, and must be
somewhat restful to them as well. Sister
Zina Young was indeed fortunate in having
them gathered beneath her roof. It was an
especial privilege to see and listen to them,
knowing how wide have been their
opportunities for knowledge, and with
what pearls of wisdom their minds are
stored.


ABOUT THE CONVENTION.

	IT is difficult to decide in view of so
much material as has been furnished by the
National Suffrage Convention what to select
that would be most interesting to the
readers of this little paper.
	Perhaps we ought to tell you that one
of the problems introduced as business, was
what course to take to keep the enfran-
chised states in touch with the National
Association. One proposition was that the
convention hereafter should sit as an upper
and lower house, and the delegates from


enfranchised states sit in the lower house.
	No decision was arrived at but a commit-
tee was appointed to advise by letter or
otherwise with the women of these four
states and try to arrive at some conclusion,
and report to the National officers such
information as could be obtained. This
Committee consists of one woman from
each state, Mrs. Warren, wife of Senator
Warren of Wyoming, Mrs. Mary C. C.
Bradford of Colorado, Mrs. E. B. Wells
of Utah, Mrs. M. C. Woods of Idaho. 
	One of the “new women” at the Con-
vention, and one that made an excellent
impression upon individuals as well as
audiences, was Charlotte Perkins Stetson,
grand-niece of Henry Ward Beecher and
niece of Mrs. Edward Everett Hale. Mrs.
Stetson is a native of Hartford Conn., but
resides in California. She is a poet, writes
short stories and essays,and is an ardent and
zealous reformer; is also both witty and
satirical, yet very sympathetic and has a
most charming personality. The election
of officers resulted as would be expected in
the election of the same board Miss
Anthony receiving the entire vote of the
delegates from all the states. Mrs. Wells
of Utah was chosen to introduce Miss
Anthony to the assemblage. Dr. Shaw
was elected Vice-President at large with
169 votes, but Mrs. Colby had 12, Miss
Blackwell 8 and Mrs. Wells 3 for the same
position. Mrs. Avery Cor. Sec., Miss
Blackwell Rec. Sec., Mrs. Upton Treasurer,
Mrs. Chapman Catt, Chairman organization
Committee, Miss Laura Clay and Mrs.
Catharine Waugh McCullough Auditors,
Mrs. McCullough in place of Mrs. Sarah B.
Cooper, deceased.
	Everything that transpired during the
Convention showed unmistakeably that the
suffrage cause was gaining ground.


[Column 1]
LIVING PICTURES OF THE HOLY
LAND.

	LYDIA MAMREOFF VON FINKELSTIEN
MOUNTFORD has been delightfully enter-
taining her audiences in the large Taber-
nacle in this city during the past week,
commencing Sunday evening, Feb. 14.
The lectures were given under the aus-
pices of the Utah and Free Kindergarten
Associations and no one who has attended
but must feel much enlightened in regard
to the life, manners, customs, dress etc. of
the Orientals.
	The lecture Sunday night was Ecce
Homo, or from “Bethlehem to Calvary.”
Her wonderful power of delineation shows
her to be a living picture herself, capable of
many striking changes. One cannot but
be impressed by her remarkable originality,
and our first intuitive thought was, that
she had the creative or inventive genius of
her singular subject, and had herself devel-
oped and adapted it dramatically. Some
parts of it were exceedingly forceful and
yet pathetic. Her magnetic power to hold
her audience is super-abundant, if one may
be allowed the expression; one would know
nstinctively that she had a depth of
religious fervor almost unsurpassed. She
throws her whole soul into her subject, and
it is hard to believe one is not living among
the people of Nazareth and the vales of the
orient. To those susceptible of intense
reverence for the Savior, his birth, his life
among the people of his locality, his cruel
death upon the cross, the lecture must have
made an undying impression.

[Column 2]
	Mrs. Mountford’s magnificent figure and
royal costume, together with her tragic
manner in the last scenes of this world-
famous subject was a triumph in dramatic
art, such as is seldom if ever witnessed up-
on the stage, and the Tabernacle with its
immense auditorium and gigantic organ in
the back ground, was certainly an appropri-
ate setting for the living picture.
	The following day the lecture was given
in the afternoon on account of a previous
arrangement of the Utah Kindergarten to
give an entertainment in the Templeton
parlors at eight o’clock in the evening.
	A very large number of children were
present as well as older people. The
lecture was “Village Life in Palestine,”
and included many pretty and interesting
scenes of the home life of these peculiar
people of the East, who still maintain the
same habits and customs of the generations
long since departed, so that one recognizes
very easily the similitudes of the Scriptural
sayings of the early days. The shepherd
carrying the lambs in his bosom was one of
the most unique delineations of pastoral
life among the ancient people, who still
maintain these beautiful and picturesque
ways, and live in as simple a fashion as did
their celebrated forefathers and foremothers.
	Perhaps something still more interesting
was the coat of many colors Jacob gave
to Joseph described by her as the mark of
honor; the description given by Madame
Mountford throws much light upon the
scriptural rendering of this beautiful story,
handed down as it has been for many
generations.
	One must see her upon the platform,
however, to appreciate what is said of her
for no description we can give will do
justice to her peculiar line of acting and her
original style of dramatic art.
	The lecture on Tuesday evening was
“City Life in Jerusalem,” giving a hand-
some oriental parlor and a group of citizens,
of those we term the elite, their native
costumes, costly apparel and in fact a des-
cription of the city itself, its walls and
watchmen, the pass word, the lady herself
giving the call as it was transmitted from
one to another of the watchmen, the response,
the Pilgrims as they journeyed, proclama-
tions; the Eastern armies, the custom of
washing the feet, the Upper chamber
courtship, veiling, wedding procession with
its formalities, all these given vividly by
one familiar with the subject, born and
raised in the midst of the people and hav-
ing the rich clothing and resplendent jewels
with which to illustrate; in its tendency
this all partakes of the spiritual side of life,
as portrayed in the Holy Bible; and the
New Testament in many of its passages is
forcibly brought to mind. The songs of
the Daughters of Zion, the midnight cry
the Wise and Foolish Virgins was a picture
which could not fail to stamp itself upon the
memory of any one who had ever thought
seriously upon the actual enacting of the
scene. The marriage ceremony was very
significant, and especially when the sword
was drawn and sheathed again, and the
bride unveiled.
	Wednesday the last night of her engage-
ment at the Tabernacle, she gave the
Bedouins of the Deseret. This gave the
encampment, the tents pitched, Prince,
Princess and group of Ishmaelites etc., this
wasin itself picturesque but when given with
the beautiful rendering suited to the pic-
tures, it was doubly gratifying, it is impos-


sible to tell our readers in a short article all
this or any one picture contained, but to see
and hear it seems really almost marvelous.
There was much to admire in this, not
only the scenes when described full of
wonderful bursts of beauty and eloquence,
but the great hospitality, the angel visitants
—the baking of cakes upon the hearth,
even as the ancient mothers in Israel did,
and perhaps the most uplifting of all the
Song of Miriam and the war cry. The en-
durance of fatigue by Madame Mountford,
the elasticity, graciousness and perfect ease
with which she carried out the entire pro-
gram evening after evening was something
of a “marvel and a mystery,” she must
have very great reserve nerve force, to go
through all those gesticulations and chang-
es etc., and keeping her voice sweet and
clear so as to be able to sing, at the proper
moment without hesitation.
	Madame Mountford comes of a long line
of religious ancestry, and her father in his
lifetime made great sacrifices for the sake of
searching out the truth.
	His daughter considers it her life-
mission to try and make plain the Bible as
she comprehends it, and when one remem-
bers how many professed Christians there
are who do not accept the old testament one
cannot help feeling her work is grand and
noble in this generation of doubt and un-
belief, and the writer herself feels she
would gladly listen to the same lectures
again and again.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A PLEASANT AFFAIR.

	MRS. WILLARD YOUNG gave an after-
noon party to some of her friends on Tues-
day 23rd, at three p.m., which was a very
enjoyable affair. There were present Mrs.
Zina D. H. Young, Mrs. John T. Caine,
Mrs. David Calder, Mrs. M. M. Barratt,
Mrs. Sophia Sharp, Mrs. Maggie W.
Young, Mrs. Annie Calder, Mrs. Lizzie F.
Young, Mrs. James Sharp, Mrs. Chloe
Eldredge, Mrs. Henry Richards, Mrs. T.
G. Webber, Mrs. Marian Beatie, Mrs.
Sarah Dwyer, and the writer. The time
was happily spent in social conversation
until the call to the dining room; the tables
were decorated with scarlet carnations, the
linen and table adornments including tea
service and all the requisites were of the
choicest quality and excellence, and the
viands were partaken of with a zest and
relish such as one feels when congeniality
and sociability prevails.
	Mrs. H. H. Young is a charming hostess
and with elegant china, silver, cutglass,
fine linen and every other accessory, a
lovely home and furnishings one could
scarcely fail to entertain beautifully even
though not to the “manor born” as was
Mrs. Young.


A FAREWELL PARTY.

	THE sisters, about forty in number, met
by invitation on Saturday afternoon Feb.
20, at 3 p. m. at the handsome residence of
Mr. and Mrs. McCune in this city previous
to their departure for Europe with their
family. Mrs. McCune’s parents were
English and she has many relatives in that
country, and while absent, among other
things Mrs. McCune expects to do, will be 
to visit her relatives and to collect genea-
logical records of her family. The double
parlors were well filled with sisters all anx-


ious to say a good word for one who had
been associated intimately with them in
labors of love and who was also so gener-
ous in bestowing favors and charity to
those who needed a friend or kindly
assistance.
	After happy greetings and some general
conversation Sister McCune signified her
desire to have Sister Zina D. H. Young
preside during the afternoon, and call upon
whom she wished to speak or sing or pray
as she felt disposed.
	The first exercise was congregational
singing, “We thank Thee O, God for a
Prophet,” then an eloquent prayer was
offered by M. Isabella Horne. Sister
Young then made some congratulatory
remarks, speaking in praise of Sister Mc-
Cune’s labors and gifts, and of the great
blessings the Lord had conferred upon her
in giving her wealth, and rejoiced that she
was liberal in dispensing to the poor, felt
she would be blest abundantly because of
her humility and generosity, no good thing
would be with-held from her. Sister Zina
then called upon others. Sister M. Isabella
Horne, Sister Margaret Pierce Young,
Sister Maria Y. Dougall each spoke or sung in
the gift of tongues, blessing, comforting
and spiritually uplifting all present.
interpretations were given by Sister Zina
Y. Card and her mother. With one or
two exceptions every sister present spoke a
few words, some made more lengthy
addresses, all testifying to the kindness and
worth of Sister McCune and wishing
her every blessing of health, strength and
happiness for herself and family while
away, a safe journey to her destination
on land or on sea—and while absent that
her influence should be felt in the spread of
the truth, and that when she should return
home she might come in peace and in
safety, to resume her home duties and her
labors of love among the Saints.
	At the close of the little spiritual feast
the sisters joined in singing the Doxology
and benediction was pronounced by one of
the sisters.
	Refreshments were served to all the
guests, ice cream, cakes, chocolate and
other delicacies, and parting messages
interchanged, and the visitors departed
leaving their blessing with the household,
praying that we might all meet Sister Mc-
Cune again on her return in the enjoyment
of social life and sisterly love as when we
separated.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE Secretaries of Stake organization of
the Relief Society are hereby officially noti-
fied to send full and complete reports for
the year 1896—not later than Feb. 20, 1897
without fail—to Mrs. E. B. Wells General
Secretary Constitution Building Salt Lake
Utah.
	REPORTS have been received by the
General Secretary of the Relief Society,
Mrs. E. B. Wells from Beaver, Box Elder,
Cassia, Juarez, Kanab, Morgap, Oneida,
Panguitch, Sandwich Islands, San Luis,
Sevier, Star Valley, Summit, St. Johns,
St. Joseph, Uintah, Wasatch, Wayne.
Parowan, Davis. Reports from other Stakes
should be sent immediately without further
delay.
	PRESIDENT WOODRUFF’S 90th birthday
is to be celebrated Monday, March 1, in the
large Tabernacle in a public manner befit-
ting his position as President of the Church.

[Column 2]
The entire program will be in perfect accord
with his office and calling, and the oppor-
tunity given to the people for congratula-
tions will assuredly be appreciated by the
public who honor him as the pioneer
of Utah and a man above reproach, whose
life has been devoted to the good of others
and the welfare of the world.
	THE Relief Society Conference of the
Salt Lake Stake of Zion will be held in the
Fourteenth ward Assembly Hall in this
City on Saturday, March 6.—It is very
desirable that representatives should be
present from every branch Society in the
Stake. Meetings will commence promptly
at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m., as usual Bishops
and brethren are specially invited also all
the sisters who can possibly attend. It is
hoped it will be a time of rejoicing.
	THE visit of the Idaho Legislature to
this City must have been a pleasure socially
to those who participated in the festivities
of those few days. Senator Joseph Rich
who is, we believe President of the Idaho
Senate, must have enjoyed seeing his old-
time friends and the companions of his
boghead days, and the affair would be
calculated generally to promote a feeling
of reciprocity between the two adjoining
states. We understand the ladies accom-
panying them were much interested in
Utah. We were very pleased to met Mrs.
M. C. Athey, the very efficient secretary of
the State Suffrage Association of Idaho,
and also Mrs. Rebecca Mitchell, Chaplain of
the House in the Legislature and the first
woman ever appointed to that position.
	IT is very unpleasant to be obliged to
apologize for delays but in this instance it
is certainly unavoidable. The Book of
Poems by E. B. Wells so long promised is
not yet ready Even though the author
has made great exertions to get it out in
February. The poems are scattered and
some are, we fear, irretrievably lost, and all
have been carefully revised, which added to
other literary and editorial work is more
arduous than most people would imagine.
The steel engraving has not yet arrived
though we are informed it is upon the way.
We hope when the work is completed the
subscribers will not be disappointed either
in the contents or appearance of the book
itself. Trusting our friends will forgive
the delay and that we may obtain a suf-
ficient number of subscribers to cover the
expense of publishing, we crave the indul-
gence of our patrons and friends a few
weeks longer.


LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meet-
ing held in the 14th ward Assembly Hall
Saturday, Feb. 6, 1897, Counselor E. Webb
presiding. Singing “O, awake my
slumbering minstrel;” prayer by Sister
Mary Silver singing “Come Thou O,
King of Kings;” minutes of previous
meeting were read and accepted.
	Counselor E. Webb said she was sorry
Pres’t. Horne was not here today but felt
if we tried we could have a good time any-
how and have a time of rejoicing. She felt
those who had come out in this very dis-
agreeable weather were saints indeed, felt
to urge the sisters to be careful of what
they said, to be always prayerful; felt we
should always have a prayer in our hearts,
urged the sisters to be united in their en-


[Column 1]
deavors to help the young people felt much
concerned over them, also gave some excel-
lent advice; prayed that the Spirit of the
Lord might rest upon each one of us that
we might have a time of rejoicing.
	Sister O. Brown said she felt well and
felt thankful that we had one friend to
whom we could turn in every condition ;
urged the sisters to be ever prayerful and
watchful, said her heart was filled with
love for her sisters, she felt well and blessed
the sisters.
	Sister Maria Holt desired she might have
the Spirit of testimony, said nothing gave
her the joy and consolation like trying to
keep the commandments of God, felt we
were indeed a blest people we had much to
comfort us when we laid away our dead for
we were sure of meeting them again; urged
the sisters to persevere in their duties.
Referred to the Prophet Joseph Smith and
his wonderful work, exhorted the sisters to
be humble and true.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder said the spirit and
the burden of the Saints seemed to be for
the youth in regard to morality. Said she
was an earnest advocate of Sunday school
work, had always sent her children and
later had been a teacher, said she thought
it was better to neglect some part of our
work and to help to teach the children, felt
in this work we were “feeding the Savior’s
lambs.” Spoke of her Mutual Improve-
ment work, urged the sisters to more dili-
gent and earnest work among the youth of
Zion, referred to the signs of the times and
felt the end was nearer than we had any
dea of. Prayed we might be active and
awake to our duties.
	Counselor E. J. Stevenson said she had
learned the lesson that the Lord never put
anything upon us only what He gave us
the strength to bear; felt we had heard
some excellent sermons today. We must
improve each moment for we must give an
account of every one; what would be the
penalty of the neglect of duty? God was
Omnipotent and would help those who put
their trust in Him. Let us sustain those
who are over us; made some beautiful re-
marks. The parental roof was the grand-
est safeguard for the young people, she felt
to guard the virtue of her boys as much as
her girls. Prayed the Lord to bless and
guard us from this spirit of apostacy which
was in our midst. Singing “How firm a
foundation.” A sister said she had asked
the Lord many years ago to give her a
testimony of the truth of the Gospel that
she might praise Him in the congregations
of the Saints. Spoke of her gratitude for
her many blessings and of her Temple work
and how her parents appeared to her after
doing their work in the Temple; made
some excellent remarks.
	Sister Goss bore a faithful testimony, said
she lived very near these little people who
are called King David and the Virgin
Mary, gave a very interesting explanation
of them. Prayed she might have wisdom
to raise her family, said she would rather
lay every one of them away than see one
of them marry outside of the Church.
	Sister Margaret Steele felt there was a
good spirit among the sisters, said she felt
here was nourishment and felt it was good
to be here. Spoke of her blessings and her
gratitude for the same, gave her early ex-
periences in the Church and bore a faithful
testimony.
	Sister Jane James felt to rejoice, she had
been greatly blessed in this last year, bore a

[Column 2]
strong testimony; felt to pray night and
morning for the young people and wished
to do all the good she could for them.
Prayed we might all be humble. Another
sister bore her testimony, felt it was good
to be here. Sister Howarth bore her testi-
mony. Counselor E Webb felt we had
had a pleasant time notwithstanding the
stormy weather and the absence of Pres’t.
Horne; hoped the sisters would redouble
their efforts for the young people and the
Sabbath school work, made some closing
remarks. Adjourned for two weeks; sing-
ing “Lord dismiss us with Thy blessing;”
benediction by Sister Margaret Taylor.
			ZINA Y. BULL, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


FIRST ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
RELIEF SOCIETY.

NAUVOO, ILLINOIS.
	AS very many of the sisters have proba-
bly never seen this report, and because it is
well to preserve it on record in our own
woman’s paper—we herewith give a true
copy as published in the “Times And
Seasons” at Nauvoo, Ill., August 1, 1843.
We hope our sisters everywhere will keep
it as a memento of the small beginning of
this great and grand organization. —Editor.

FEMALE RELIEF SOCIETY.

	The first annual report of the Female Relief
Society of Nauvoo: being a correct statement of
the receipts and disbursements of the society
from its organization, March 16th 1842 to March
16th 1843, to wit.
Received in donation of money, cloth-
	ing, provisions &c. &c.				$507,00.
Expended in appropriations for the re-
	lief of the poor. 					$306,48
Leaving at the time aforesaid, a balance
	of								$200,52
as follows, to wit.
Cash								$29,00
Shares in the Nauvoo House				59,00
Note of hand by J. Emmett				12,00
Orders								19,00.
Cow, the use of which is appropriated to
widow H.							14,00
Shingles								7,50
Various articles of clothing, provisions
	&c. &c.							77,02

									$200,52
	An apology is due to the members of the So-
ciety for our delay in presenting this report.
We would only say, it was unavoidable in conse-
quence of circumstances beyond the control of
the Treasurer, Mrs E. A. Holmes, which render-
ed it impossible for her to make satisfactory re-
turns at an earlier period.
	We hope the Ladies of the Society will feel en-
couraged to renew their exertions, knowing that
the blessings of the poor are resting upon them.
We feel assured from what has passed under our
personal observation, that many during the in-
clemency of the winter, were not only relieved
but preserved from famishing through their in-
strumentality More has been acomplished than
our most sanguine anticipations predicted, and
through the assistance and blessing of God, what
may we not hope for the fnture ?
		By Order of the President.
			ELIZA R. SNOW, Secretary.
Nauvoo June. 30th 1843.


[Column 1]
PRESIDENT ANTHONY’S ANNUAL
ADDRESS.

	THE year 1896 witnessed greater succes-
ses than any other since the first pronunci-
amento was made at Seneca Falls, N. Y.,
July 19, 1848.
	On Jan. 4th the president proclaimed
Utah to be a state, with a constitution that
does not discriminate against woman.
Thus we have two states coming into the
Union with the principle of equal rights to

[Column 2]
all women guaranted by their constitutions.
	On Nov. 3rd by a majority of some 6,000
the men of Idaho declared in favor of wo-
man suffrage, and for the first time in the
history of judicial decisions upon the en-
largement of woman’s rights, civil and
political, the Supreme Court of Idaho—
Judges Houston, Morgan and Sullivan un-
animously decided that the amendment so
carried was constitutional. This decision is
the more remarkable because the constitu-
tion might as easily have been inferred to
require amendments to receive a majority
of the total cast at the election, as a majority
of the votes cast on the amendment. By
the former construction the amendment
would have been lost, notwithstanding that
of all who cared to express an opinion two
to one were in favor.
	If any one will go through the history of
our woman suffrage movement since the
days of reconstruction and the adoption of
the 4th and 5th amendments to the Federal
constitution—taking the decisions of the
Supreme Court of the United States in the
cases of Mrs. Myra Bradwell for the pro-
tection of her civil rights, and of Mrs. Vir-
ginia L. Minor for the protection of her
political rights, and the decision of the Su-
preme Court of the state of New York on
the law giving women the right to vote for
county school commissioners, and various
other decisions—he will find that in every
case the courts have put the narrowest pos-
sible construction upon the spirit and the
letter of the constitution. Whereas the
judges of Idaho did themselves the honor
to make a decision in direct opposition to
judicial precedent and prejudice. So the
Idaho victory is a great credit not only to
the majority of men who voted for the
amendment, but to the three judges who
made this broad and just decision.
	The National association furnished speak-
ers to Idaho—Mrs. Devoe in 1895, and
Mrs. Johns and Mrs. Catt in 1896, and they
with Mrs. Bradford and Miss Reynolds, of
Colorado, held meetings and organized
suffrage clubs in the different settlements
throughout the state. I have not yet learn-
ed how many of the resident women took
part in the campaign.
	We also had pending in California a wo-
man suffrage amendment Your president,
vice-president-at-large and National organ-
izer, together with Miss Yates, Miss Hay,
Miss Mills, Mrs. Sweet and Miss Lucy
Anthony gave more or less time to speaking
and working in that state for eight months.
Never have I known a more thorough and
effective educational work done in any of
the thirteen suffrage amendment campaigns
we have had since 1867. Could we have
counted out the two largest cities, San
Francisco and Oakland, the amendment
would have been carried by 500 majority.
And in this connection I want to call your
attention to the immensity of the state,
stretching nearly a thousand miles north
and south and with an area greater than all
New England, New York and Pennsyl-
vania combined. The railroad facilities are
very poor and long and weary stagings are
necessary to reach the men who are scatter-
ed over the ranches and mines of the great
territory.
	San Francisco is to California what New
York City is to the Empire State. All the
rural counties can be educated so that a
majority vote will be given for any measure
of justice, but the cities of San Francisco
and Oakland contain a very large ratio of
foreign born voters and native born China-


[Column 1]
men, who had just come of age, and these
weighted down the intelligence not only of
those two cities but of the rest of the state.
	But California’s defeat is simply victory
deferred, for the legislature is sure to resub-
mit the amendment and the educational
campaign carried on for the last two years
will be continued the coming two, when 
a large enough number will be converted
to overcome the slum vote, and November,
1898 will add to our flag the star of 
California.
	But friends, it is not only in California
that we are likely to have amendment cam-
paigns during the coming two years, but
Nevada and Oregon, and quite probably
Washington and Montana, and it behooves
us to study well the plans and methods not
only of the two campaigns of last year, but
of all those preceding, and to try to devise 
something better if possible. But I think
the one and only sure thing to carry an
amendment is through the organization of 
a club in every voting precinct of every
county of the state. For example look
again to California. In every county thus
organized, with an active committee in
every voting precinct, who visited every
voter and distributed leaflets in every fam-
ily, the amendment was carried. This 
ought to be sufficient to teach the women
of the states that what we want is house to
house educational work throughout every
voting precinct. We may carry an amendment
with education short of this, but we are not
likely to. I believe if the slums of San
Francisco and Oakland had been thus
organized even those men could have been
made to see that it was for their interest
and the interest of their wives and daugh-
ters to vote for the amendment. But while
the suffragists had no committees in those
low-down districts, the “liquor men” had
an active committee in every possible
saloon, dive, or gambling house throughout
the entire section. I am therefore more
and more convinced that it is educational
work that needs to be done. It is of little
use for us to make our appeals upon nation-
al political party conventions, or congress,
or the state legislature for resolutions in
favor of woman’s enfranchisement, while
no appeal comes up to them from the rank
and file of the voters.
	Our work, therefore, for the coming year
is to push local organization more thorough-
ly than ever before, and to do that work
precinct by precinct, even if we compass but
one county of a state during the year. Just
a suffrage club in one city and another
does not reach the voters. For instance,
in my city of Rochester, with a population
of 150,000, we have one club, whereas we
have some twenty wards and I do not know
how many voting precincts, but the business
of that one club should be to find persons
in each one of those precincts to take the
poll list and go from house to house, leav-
ing literature, holding meetings etc., etc.
within the boundary lines of that one pre-
cinct. Until we do this kind of house to
house work we can never expect to carry
any of the states in which there are large
cities. Had Idaho had San Francisco with
all its liquor men and foreigners banded to-
gether, she would have had as hard a
struggle to carry her amendment and would
probably have been defeated as was
California.
	So, friends, I am not in any sense dis-
heartened, and while I rejoice exceedingly
over Idaho, I also rejoice over the grand

[Column 2]
work done in California. It was a thou-
sand times more and better than that ever
done in any other amendment campaign.
So study the methods of California and 
Idaho, and improve on them as much as
you possibly can.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SKETCH AND RESOLUTIONS OF RFSPECT

	To the memory of Jane Hallows who departed
this life Oct. 28, 1896.
	Deceased was born Feb. 28, 1824 in Lancashire,
England, was married to James Hallows, March
18, 1845. embraced the Gospel in her native
country Dec. 19, 1831, emigrated to America on
board the Clara Wheeler, Brother Phelps was
President of the company, moved with her hus-
band to Ohio where she resided thirteen years.
They then removed to Nebraska where she re-
sided ten years, emigrated to Utah in 1877,
settled in Monroe, Sevier Co., Utah where she
lived until 1881 when she moved to Grass Valley
where she has since resided until her demise.
	WHEREAS The great and supreme Ruler of
the universe in his infinite wisdom removed from
among us one of our worthy and esteemed sisters
and co-laborers, Jane Hallows, and
	WHEREAS, The long and continual relation
held with her in the discharge of her duties
makes it eminently befitting that we record our
appreciation of her, therefore be it
	RESOLVED, That the wisdom and ability which
she exercised in the aid of our organization by
service, contribution and counsel will be held in
grateful remembrance.
	RESOLVED, That the sudden removal of such a
life from our midst will leave a vacancy and a
shadow that will be deeply felt by all the mem-
bers and will prove a severe loss to the society;
and with deep sympathy with the bereaved
relatives of the deceased we express our hopes
that even so great a loss to us all may be over-
ruled for good by Him that doeth all things well.
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
placed in our record book, a copy sent to the
bereaved family and one to the WOMAN’S EX- 
PONENT to be published.
		“At the resurrection morning
			We shall all appear as one
		Oh! what robes of bright adorning
			Will the righteous then put on.”
					SARAH BURR, Pres’t.
					JANE WHITEHEAD. Sec.
				In behalf of the Relief Society.


[Column 1]
THE NEW WOMAN.

AN ADDRESS DELIVERED BY MISS ELSIE
ADA FAUST.

At the Alumni Banquet at the University
of Utah.

	Following is the address made by Miss
Elsie Ada Faust at the University alumni
banquet last year:
	I was pleased indeed when I was called
upon to respond to the toast of the “New
Woman: the expectancy and rose of the
fair state.” The subject—truly a great
one—is one near to my heart, and the only
fault I had to find with it was in the
adjective new.
	The new woman, properly speaking, is
the female infant born today or yesterday
and to be considered on such occasions as
this some twenty years hence.
	Then there is the new woman of the
funny papers—not to be considered at all—
mythical monstrosities clothed in men’s
attire, endowed with men’s faults, equipped
for men’s work; without womanly beauty,
womanly dignity and wholly destitute of
human sense.
	A creature born of some over-tired brain
at a time of desperation, with the laudable
excuse that it were better to make people
laugh than to weep.
	The new woman we shall consider,
though, is not a new woman any more

[Column 2]
than the sun that shone today is a new sun
or the stars that shine tonight are new
stars To one who has only begun to see
they might all appear new, but they have
ever existed, conforming always to God’s
immutable laws.
	The smouldering thoughts and feelings
accumulating in woman since the time that
Eve and her husband were thrust from the
Garden of Eden began to make themselves
manifest when the Pilgrim Mothers and
their husbands severing themselves from
their old life, set out for the rocky shores of
America; became more tangible when our
Pioneer Mothers with their husbands turn-
ed their backs on old disquietude and
dauntlessly pursued their way toward the
setting sun here in this fair state to seek
peace and room for their greater needs;
and have culminated in a set of women
with opportunities to cultivate the brains
and muscles God has given them, and with
brains and muscles to cultivate greater
opportunities.
	The alarmist who with upturned eyes and
an ominous shake of the head fears that
woman is becoming too independent has
cause for his fears.
	She has only just begun to know her
strength, and she is going to try that
strength to the utmost.
	She is going to be just as independent as
her heart, conscience and soul will permit.
She will never rest until she has tasted all
the sweets and bitternesses heretofore re-
served for man only. She will know what
there is in life without any second hand
opinions from her brother.
	With such aids as this noble institution
she will seek the knowledge necessary for
her advancement, and, better still, she will
train her daughters into that much feared
independence and greater expansion of
spirit; but best of all, she will train her
sons that their love for the human race lies
not in the hindering, but in the helping of
woman’s progress.
	The idea that woman is not born with as
great mental attainments as man I will not
for one moment entertain; for so long as 
women are the mothers of their sons, they
must bequeath according to the laws of
heredity their mental, moral and physical
characteristics to those sons, and so long as
women have men for their fathers by those
same laws must they inherit so-called
masculine qualities.
	Writers and speakers have been so busy
separating the sexes and theoretically en-
dowing each with separate elements of
character that they have not had time to
see (and the misunderstanding of this sub-
ject depends largely on the lack of seeing)
that there is no difference, for if we look
well we will find that all the vanities
and faults supposed to be wholly feminine
may be found just as often in man as in
woman; and all the noble traits and attri-
butes of which men have assumed a
monopoly appear just as often in woman.
    *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *
	The new woman, or rather woman in
her new light, does not look down on her
fellow man as is commonly supposed; not at
all, for she knows however short he may
fall below the ideal, she may not do any
better.
	And you will find, though bicycle
mounted, with her voluminous sleeves set
to the breezes, she will not take more than
her half of the road. All she asks is equal
start and privileges down the race of life,


The question is often asked, Will the
world be any better for the new influence
women will have?
	As well ask if the world will be better
for the vapor high up amongst the lofty
peaks of the Alps condensing into pure,
white snow which crowds down veined
with denser crystal and loaded with impure
moraines to meet the warm kisses of the
sun, by which it is converted into tiny
rivulets that wend their way to the blue
lakes beyond, carrying life and joy to
millions of growing things.
	Better or worse though she may make
the world, she will have the satisfaction
that men have ever craved, that of gratify-
ing the ambition born within her.

	“A few can touch the magic string,
	   And noisy fame is proud to win them;
	Alas for those who never sing.
	   But die with all their music in them.

	Nay, weep not for the dead alone
	   Whose song has told their heart’s sad story;
	Weep for the voiceless who have known
	   The cross but not the crown of glory.”

	To me the heroes of history have always
been the heroines. They have been the
mothers by whose suffering the human
race has been propagated—the women who
in any great undertaking have bravely and
patiently, with willing hearts and helping
bands, been ever ready to bear their part.
	I can say, as the most of you can say,
that the best friend of my life has been a
woman. I might say more, that the best
friends I ever had have been women. The
greatest helps in mental, moral, physical
and social ways, and his is indeed an un-
happy lot which does not include such
friends; and he is indeed ungrateful, un-
worthy of being an American, much less
a citizen of our fair state, who can say he
has not drawn his best inspiration from a
woman.
	My faith in woman is great and I extend
my hand to all those who have helped her
to the added privileges conferred with the
coming in of the new state. She will
guard them well as she does her other
treasures, and, new or old, she will not be
found wanting in the future any more than
in the past.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
AN INTERESTING JOURNEY.

	Sister Ann C. Woodbury and Emma
Morris of the Stake Presidency of the Relief
Society, left St. George with the home
missionaries, Brothers Brigham Jarvis and
Charles Seegmiller. We traveled thirteen
miles and camped at the Indian Farm,
Bishop James Andrus and Thomas Judd
being on their way to the Muddy.
	The 21st of Sep. we went to Littlefield
and had dinner with Brother Albert Farmer
and family. We traveled on to Bunker-
ville, the distance of forty-three miles. We
were ready for a good night’s rest which we
had at Bishop Bunker’s.
	The 22nd we had a general meeting at 10
o’clock with the missionaries. We had a
very enjoyable time and a good turn out.
At 2 o’clock we met with the Primaries;
some of the brethren with the mothers filled
up the house, and we felt the Lord had
been with us. In the evening we held a
Relief Society meeting and had an enjoy-
able time, also had good encouragement
from the brethren; the house was full to
overflowing.

[Column 2]
	The 23rd Bishop Bunker and a young
missionary accompanied us to the Muddy.
We crossed the river many times and
traveled through a country where there
seemed to be nothing for either man or
beast.
	We arrived at St. Joseph in time to have
supper with Brother Huntsman and hold
an evening meeting.
	Bishop Jones with a number of the
people of Overton met us here and the
house was full. A number of families have
moved here from Dakota and several of
them were at the meeting; they paid strict
attention. One lady congratulated us and
thought we were doing a good work. I
understood there were sixteen families and
only six houses, the rest live in tents and
wagons. This valley is calculated to sus-
tain many people.
	The 24th was Sunday. In the morning
we went to Overton and met with the
Sunday school which is well conducted.
After the exercises the missionaries gave
some good instructions. At 1 o’clock we
met with the people and had an interesting
time, they meet in a large tent. They
have the rock ready to build a meeting
house. We dined with Brother and Sister
Johnson. Sister Morris and myself called
on Brigham Whitmore and family, he is
building a new store. We left in time to
hold an evening meeting at St. Thomas.
Here Sister Whitney kindly entertained a
number of Overton people who followed us
on.
	Here we had an interesting time, Bishops
Andrus and Judd, also Bishops Jones and
Bunker met with us, and we truly had a
time of rejoicing. Sister Gentry kindly en-
tertained us for the night.
	The 25th we left St. Thomas feeling re-
freshed, and turned our faces homeward.
Bishop Bunker being along we went up a
dry wash by a mine, to save crossing the
river so much, the mine is fifteen miles
from Bunkerville. Sister Morris and my-
self visited a mine for the first time, they
seem to be doing quite a business, I think
they are down a hundred feet, hope it will
be profitable.
	We got into Bunkerville late in the eve-
ning. The brethren were in a meeting and
we went to bed feeling the need of rest.
We were very kindly entertained by Bishop
Bunker and family.
	The 26th we met with the people of
Musquito Flat, we met at 10 o'clock after
traveling six miles, this belongs to the
Bunkerville ward Brother Nephi Johnson
is the presiding Elder. Here we found a
number of families striving to make homes
for themselves and their children. I think
there is a very good people here, judging
from the way they turned out to meeting.
	We went on to Littlefield and had an eve-
ning meeting, all that were able turned out
there are but six families located here, Bishops
Andrus and Judd joined us in this meeting,
having traveled from the Muddy that day;
they bore testimony to the good work that
was being accomplished.
	On our trip we have urged the necessity
of planting mulberry trees, and so lay a
foundation for the development of the silk
industry.
	One of the brethren and wife had a little
daughter born that morning and wished to
name her after us.
	On the 27th we reached home, having
traveled two hundred miles. We trust we
have done gome good in urging the saints

[Column 3]
to their duties. Ever praying for the wel-
fare of Zion I remain,
		Your sister in the Gospel,
			ANN C. WOODBURY.
St. George, Jan. 20, 1897.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	THE Committee on Elections has reported
adversely on presidential woman suffrage
in Kansas.
	THE fact that a man gives up his seat to
a woman in a street car is no evidence that
he does not let his wife bring in the coal.—
Syracuse Post.
	IN Lexington, Ky., Mrs. Allen Harrison
has been president of the board of education
for a year. Her administration has been
most successful. The board is composed of
nine men and three women.
	THE Iowa Capital says: “One of the
actions of the joint committee on elections
will greatly please the distinguished women
who visited Des Moines in January, and
that is the adherence to the recommenda-
tion of the code commissioners that at least
one trustee of every State institution hav-
ing children in its charge must be a
woman.
	THE Constitutional Convention of the
State of Delaware, on Feb 16, voted 17 to
7 against striking out the word male from
the section of the constitution relating to
general elections. Those voting in favor
of striking out were all Republicans.
Seven Republicans and ten Democrats voted
against striking out. Not a Democrat
present voted for equal suffrage.
	EN route from the Convention Miss
Anthony went to visit Mrs. Sewall at In-
dianapolis; Mrs. Catt and Miss Hay attend-
ed a meeting of the Chicago Political Club,
and on Mrs. Catt’s earnest presentation of
the needs of the organization work, over
two hundred and fifty dollars was con-
tributed by the members present.


DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
			WILL BEGIN HER
			Class : in : Obstetrics
	On Monday April 12th 1897 with improved
facilities for instruction in this important study.
Special terms are given to societies sending
students. For further particulars communicate
with
			ELLIS R. SHIPP M. D.
		75 Center St Salt Lake City Utah.
R. K. THOMAS
		Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
			SALT LAKE CITY.
			The Leading Retail
				Cash House
R. K.THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation. <H.O.>
Vol. 25.
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 15, 1897.
No. 18 <113>


CONTENTS:
	Slavery As A National Question—Mrs. I.
Cameron Brown. Silver Wedding—E. P. F.
Mrs. M. C. Woods Speech. In Memoriam. R.
S. Reports. U. W. P. C.—Orielle Curtis Sec.
Degrees: For Women.
	EDITORIAL:—The Childrens’ Jubilee. A
Tribute, Of Honor. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—A Vision—The Prophet Joseph
Smith.


[Column 1]
A VISION.

ANSWER TO W. W. PHELPS.
(Go With Me.)

I WILL go, I will go, to the home of the Saints,
	Where the virtue’s the value, and life the
		reward;
But before I return to my former estate
	I must fulfill the mission I had from the Lord.

Wherefore, hear, O ye heavens, and give ear O
		ye earth;
	And rejoice ye inhabitants truly again;
For the Lord he is God, and his life never ends,
	And besides him there ne’er was a Savior
		of men.

His ways are a wonder; his wisdom is great;
	The extent of his doings there’s none can un-
		veil;
His purposes fail not; from age unto age
	He still is the same, and his years never fail.

His throne is the heavens, his lifetime is all
	Of eternity now and eternity then;
His union is power, and none stays his hand,—
	The Alpha, Omega, for ever: Amen.

For thus saith the Lord, in the spirit of truth,
	I am merciful, gracious, and good unto those
That fear me, and live for the life that’s to come;
	My delight is to honor the saints with repose;

That serve me in righteousness true to the end;
	Eternal’s their glory and great their reward;
I’ll surely reveal all my mysteries to them,—
	The great hidden mysteries in my kingdom
		stored—

From the council in Kolob, to time on the earth
	And for ages to come unto them I will show
My pleasure and will, what my kingdom will do;
	Eternity’s wonders they truly shall know.

Great things of the future I’ll show unto them,
	Yea, things of the vast generations to rise;
For their wisdom and glory shall be very great,
	And their pure understanding extend to the
		skies:

And before them the wisdom of wise men shall
		cease,
	And the nice understanding of prudent ones
		fail!
For the light of my spirit shall light mine elect,
	And the truth is so mighty’t will every prevail.

And the secrets and plans of my will I’ll reveal;
	The sanctified pleasures when earth is renewed,
What the eye hath not seen, nor the ear hath yet
		heard;
	Nor the heart of the natural man ever hath
		viewed.

[Column 2]
I, Joseph, the prophet, in spirit beheld,
	And the eye of the inner man truly did see
Eternity sketched in a vision from God,
	Of what was, and now is, and yet is to be.

Those things which the Father ordained of old,
	Before the world was, or a system had run,—
Through Jesus the Maker and Savior of all;
The only begotten, (Messiah) His Son.

Of whom I bear record, as all prophets have,
	And the record I bear is the fulness,—yea even
The truth of the Gospel of Jesus—the Christ,
	With whom I conversed in the vision of heaven

For while in the act of translating his word,
	Which the Lord in his grace had appointed to
		me,
I came to the gospel recorded by John,
	Chapter fifth and the twenty-ninth verse which
		you’ll see.
	Which was given as follows:

“Speaking of the resurrection of the dead,—
“Concerning those who shall hear the voice of
“the son of man—
“And shall come forth:
“They who have done good in the resurrection
“of the just.
“And they who have done evil in the resurrection
“of the unjust.”

I marveled at these resurrections, indeed!
	For it came unto me by the spirit direct:—
And while 1 did meditate what it all meant,
	The Lord touched the eye of my own inte-
		lect:—

Hosanna forever! they opened anon,
	And the glory of God shone around where I
		was;
And there was the Son, at the Father’s right
		hand,
	In fulness of glory, and holy applause.

I beheld round the throne holy angels and hosts,
	And sanctified beings from worlds that have
		been,
In holiness worshipping God and the Lamb,
	For ever and ever, amen and amen !

And now after all of the proofs made of him,
	By witnesses truly, by whom he was known,
This is mine, last of all, that he lives; yes he
		lives!
	And sits at the right hand of God on his throne.

And I heard a great voice bearing record from
		heaven,
	He’s the Savior, and only begotten of God—
By him, of him, and through him, the worlds
		were all made,
	Even all that career in the heavens so broad.

Whose inhabitants, too, from the first to the last,
	Are saved by the very same Savior of ours;
And, of course, are begotten God’s daughters
		and sons,
	By the very same truths, and the very same
		powers.

And I saw and bear record of warfare in heaven;
	For an angel of light in authority great,
Rebelled against Jesus, and sought for his power
	But was thrust down to woe from his Godified
		state. 

And the heavens all wept, and the tears dropped
		like dew,
	That Lucifer, son of the morning had fell!

[Column 3]
Yea, is fallen! is fallen, and become, Oh, alas!
	The son of perdition; the devil of hell!
And while I was yet in the spirit of truth,
	The commandment was: write ye the vision all
		out;
For Satan, old serpent, the devil’s for war,—
	And yet will encompass the saints round about.

And I saw. too, the suffering and misery of those,
	(Overcome by the devil, in warfare and fight,)
In hell-fire, and vengeance; the doom of the
		damned;
	For the Lord said, the vision is further: so
		write.

For thus saith the Lord, now concerning all those
	Who know of my power and partake of the
		same;
And suffer themselves, that they be overcome
	By the power of Satan; despising my name:—

Defying my power, and denying the truth;—
	They are they—of the world, or of men most
		forlorn,
The sons of Perdition, of whom, ah! I say,
	’T were better for them had they never been
		born!

They’re vessels of wrath, and dishonor to God,
	Doomed to suffer his wrath in the regions of
		woe,
Through the terrific night of eternity’s round;
	With the devil and all of his angels below:

Of whom it is said, no forgiveness is given, 
	In this world, alas! nor the world that’s to
		come;
For they have denied the spirit of God,
	After having received it: and misery’s their
		doom.

And denying the only begotten of God,—
	And crucify him to themselves, as they do,
And openly put him to shame in their flesh.
	By gospel they cannot repentance renew.

They are they, who must go to the great lake of
		fire,
	Which burneth with brimstone, yet never
		consumes,
And dwell with the devil, and angels of his, 
	While eternity goes and eternity comes.

They are they, who must groan through the great
		second death,
	And are not redeemed in the time of the Lord;
While all the rest are, through the triumph of
		Christ,
	Made partakers of grace by the power of his
		word.

The mystery of Godliness truly is great;—
	The past, and the present, and what is to be;
And this is the gospel!—glad tidings to all,
	Which the voice from the heavens bore record
		to me.

That he came to the world in the middle of time
	To lay down his life for his friends and his foes,
And bear away sin as a mission of love:
	And sanctify earth for a blessed repose.

’Tis decreed that he’ll save all the work of his
		hands,
	And sanctify them by his own precious blood;
And purify earth for the Sabbath of rest,
	By the agent of fire, as it was by the flood.


[Column 1]
The Savior will save all his Father did give, 
	Even all that he gave in the regions abroad,
Save the sons of perdition: They,re lost; ever
		lost,
	And can never return to the presence of God.
They are they, who must reign with the devil in 
		hell,
	In eternity now, and eternity then,
Where the worm dieth not, and the fire is not
		quenched;—
	And the punishment still is eternal. Amen.
And which is the torment apostates receive,
	But the end, or the place where the torment
		began,
Save to them who are made to partake of the 
		same,
	Was never, nor will be, revealed unto man. 
Yet God shows by vision a glimpse of their fate,
	And straightway he closes the scene that was
		shown:
So the width, or the depth, or the misery thereof,
	Save to those that partake, is forever unknown
And while I was pondering, the vision was closed.
	And the voice said to me, write the vision for
		lo!
’Tis the end of the scene of the sufferings of 
		those,
	Who remain filthy still in their anguish and woe.
And again I bear record of heavenly things,
	Where virtue’s the value above all’s that’s
		priced—
Of the truth of the gospel concerning the just,
	That rise in the first resurrection of Christ.
Who received and believed, and repented Iike- 
		wise,
	And then were baptized, as a man always was,
Who asked and received a remission of sin,
	And honored the kingdom by keeping its laws.
Being buried in water as Jesus had been,
	And keeping the whole of his holy commands,
They received the gift of the spirit of truth,
	By the ordinance truly of laying on hands. 
For these evermore, by their faith and their 
		works,
	Being tried in their life-time, as purified gold, 
And sealed by the spirit of promise, to life,
	By men called of God, as was Aaron of old.
They are they, of the church of the first born of
		God,—
	And unto whose hands he commiteth all things;
For they hold the keys of the kingdom of heaven,
	And reign with the Savior, as priests and as 
		kings.
They’re priests of the order of Melchisedek,
	Like Jesus (from whom is this highest reward,)
Receiving a fullness of glory and light;
	As written: they’re Gods; even sons of the 
		Lord.
So all things are theirs; yes, of life, or of death;
	Yes, whether things now, or to come, all are
		theirs,
And they are the Savior’s, and he is the Lord’s,
	Having overcome all, as eternity’s heirs.
’Tis wisdom that man never glory in man, 
	But give God the glory for all that he hath;
For the righteous will walk in the presence of 
		God,
	While the wicked are trod under foot in his 
		wrath.
Yea, the righteous shall dwell in the presence of
		God,
	And Jesus, forever, from earth’s second birth— 
For when he comes down in the splendor of 
		heaven,
	All these he’ll bring with him, to reign on the
		earth.

[Column 2]
These are they that arise in their bodies of flesh,
	When the trump of the first resurrection shall 
		sound;
These are they that come up to Mount Zion in 
		life,
	Where the blessings and gifts of the spirit
		abound.
These are they that have come to the heavenly
		place;
	To the numberless courses of angels above:
To the city of God; e’en the holiest of all,
	And the home of the blessed, the fountain of 
		love:
To the church of old Enoch, and of the first born;
	And general assembly of ancient renowned,
Whose names are all kept in the archives of
		heaven,
	As chosen and faithful, and fit to be crowned.
These are they that are perfect throngh Jesus’
		own blood, 
	Whose bodies celestial are mentioned by Paul,
Where the sun is the typical glory thereof,
	And God and his Christ, are the true judge of
		all.
Again I beheld the terrestrial world,
	In the order and glory of Jesus, go on;
’T was not as the church of the first born of God,
	But shone in its place, as the moon to the sun. 
Behold, these are they that have died without 
		law;
	The heathen of ages that never had hope,
And those of the region and shadow of death,
	The spirits in prison, that light has brought up.
To the spirits in prison the Savior once preached,
	And taught them the gospel, with powers
		afresh;
And then were the living baptized for the dead,
	That they might be judged as if men in the 
		flesh.
These are they that are honorable men of the 
		earth;
	Who were blinded and duped by the cunning
		of men:
They received not the truth of the Savior at first;
	But did when they heard it in prison again.
Not valiant for truth they obtained not the crown,
	But are of that glory that’s typed by the moon:
They are they, that come into the presence of 
		Christ,
	But not to the fulness of God, on his throne. 
Again I beheld the telestial as third, 
	The lesser, or starry world, next in its place.
For the leaven must leaven three measures of meal
	And every knee bow that is subject to grace. 
These are they that received not the gospel of
		Christ,
	Or evidence, either, that he ever was;
As the stars are all different in glory and light,
	So differs the glory of these by the laws. 
These are they that deny not the spirit of God, 
	But are thrust down to hell, with the devil, for
		sins,
As hypocrites, liars, whoremongers and thieves,
	And stay ’til the last resurrection begins.
’Til the Lamb shall have finished the work he 
		begun;
	Shall have trodden the wine press in fury
		alone,
And overcome all by the power of his might:
	He conquers to conquer and save all his own.
These are they that receive not a fulness of light, 
	From Christ, in eternity's world where they are,
The terrestrial sends them the Comforter, though;
	And ministering angels to happify there.

[Column 3]
And so the telestial is ministered to,
	By ministers from the terrestrial one,
As terrestrial is, from the celestial throne;
	And the great, greater, greatest seem stars,
		moon, and sun. 
And thus I beheld in the vision of heaven, 
	The telestial glory, dominion and bliss, 
Surpassing the great understanding of men,—
	Unknown, save revealed, in a world vain as
		this.
And lo, I beheld the terrestrial too, 
	Which excels the telestial in glory and light, 
In splendor, and knowledge, and wisdom, and
		joy,
	In blessings, and graces, dominion and might. 
I beheld the celestial, in glory sublime:
	Which is the most excellent kingdom that is,—
Where God, e’en the Father, in harmony reigns;
	Almighty, supreme, and eternal, in bliss. 
Where the church of the first born in union reside, 
	And they see as they’re seen, and they know 
		as they’re known;
Being equals in power, dominion and might,
	With a fulness of glory and grace, round his 
		throne.
The glory celestial is one like the sun;
	The glory terrestrial is one like the moon;
The glory telestial is one like the stars,
	And all harmonize like the parts of a tune. 
As the stars are all different in lustre and size, 
	So the telestial region is mingled in bliss;
From least unto greatest, and greatest to least,
	The reward is exactly as promised in this. 
These are those that come out for Apollos and 
		Paul;
	For Cephas and Jesus, in all kinds of hope;
Enoch and Moses, and Peter and John;
	For Luther and Calvin, and even the Pope. 
For they never received the gospel of Christ. 
	Nor the prophetic spirit that came from the 
		Lord;
Nor the covenant either, which Jacob once had;
	They went their own way, and they have their
		reward.
By the order of God, last of all, these are they, 
	That will not be gathered with saints here
		below,
To be caught up to Jesus, and meet in the
		cloud:—
	In darkness they worshipped; to darkness they
		go.
These are they that are sinful, the wicked at large,
	That glutted their passion by meanness or 
		worth;
All liars, adulterers, sorcerers, and proud;
And suffer, as promised, God’s wrath on the
		earth.
These are they that must suffer the vengeance of
		hell,
	’Til Christ shall have trodden all enemies
		down,
And perfected his work in the fulness of times:
	And is crowned on his throne with his glorious
		crown. 
The vast multitude of the telestial world—
	As the stars of the skies, or the sands of the
		sea;—
The voice of Jehovah echoed far and wide, 
	Every tongue shall confess, and they all bow 
		the knee. 
Every man shall be judged by the works of his
		life,
	And receive a reward in the mansions pre-
		pared;
For his judgments are just, and his works never
		end,
	As his prophets and servants have always de-
		clared.


But the great things of God, which he showed
		unto me,
	Unlawful to utter, I dare not declare;
They surpass all the wisdom and greatness of 
		men,
	And only are seen, as has Paul, where they 
		are,
I will go, I will go, while the secret of life,
	Is blooming in heaven, and blasting in hell;
Is leaving on earth, and a budding in space;—
	I will go, I will go, with you, brother, fare-
		well!
					JOSEPH SMITH.
Nauvoo Feb. 1843


WOMANS EXPONENT


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
SLAVERY AS A NATIONAL QUES-
TION.

(Concluded.)
	The opposition to Texas coming into
the Union was mainly from the northeast,
the west, free states as well as slave states,
favored the movement. The Democrats
favored, the Whigs opposed.
	In 1844 the abolitionists had formed into
the Liberty party and ran Birney for presi-
dent, they polled about 60,000 votes
and so defeated Henry Clay, they simply
played into the hands of Calhoun and became
his willing accomplices, says Rosevaelt
“The Liberty party that ran Birney com-
mitted a political crime, they in no way
paved the way for the Republican party or
helped the anti-slavery cause.” The
Republican party would never have med-
dled with slavery, say’s the same writer,
but a war measure made it necessary.
	The men who made the effective fight
were men who stayed in their party lines,
Democrats like Benton and Wilmot, or
Whigs like Seward and Stevens. Like all
other men who really had a great influence
for good or bad on American politics, they
did not fight independently of parties, but
stayed strictly in party lines. From 1844
the slavery question became the “para-
mount issue,” dwarfing all others.
	The cause of Benton’s downfall was his
courage in defending the Missouri compro-
mise bill from the attacks of Southern slave
holders. The type of Southerners that
prevailed before the Revolution and the
type just before the Rebellion were two
different things. The admission of Missouri
was not completed until 1821; then the
question of slavery sunk out of sight for
fifteen years, but when it reappeared it
came to stay, until Lincoln’s emancipation
proclamation blotted it off the face of civili-
zation..
	Jackson’s struggle with the nullification
movement in South Carolina had nothing
to do with the slave question, it was the
tariff, and the tariff lines were not the slav-
ery lines. Dallas points out in the Senate
“that the South falling back with the
North was not due to slavery, but rather to
tariff.”
	Polk succeeded Tyler in 1845, Congress
had a strong Democratic majority. Texas
came into the Union, Polk thought that by
payment of money Mexico might let us
have land beyond the boundary of the Rio
Grande, then came the question “What
would be the Social and Labor System of
this new territory?” Louisiana—in so doing
Missouri had come to us slave holding from
France, Florida the same from Spain, Ala-
bama and Mississippi in like manner under
the laws from North Carolina and Georgia
from which states they were cut off.

[Column 2]
Texas had been colonized by Southerners
but Mexico twenty years before had
abolished slavery, and every acre that she
ceded to us beyond the Rio Grande would
come in as free soil. The burning question
was “should she remain free, or come in as
a slave state?” If a protest was not enter-
ed it was feared Polk would take Calhoun’s
views “that slavery went into every rod
of Federal territory when not excluded by
positive laws”
	David Wilmot M. C. from Penn., intro-
duced the following bill, it carried in this
House but failed in the Senate.
WILMOT PROVISO.
	Provided, That as an express or funda-
mental condition to the acquisition of any
territory from the Republic of Mexico by the
United States, by virtue of any treaty that
may be negotiated between them, and to
the use by the executive of the moneys
herein appropriated, neither slavery nor in-
voluntary servitude shall ever exist in any
part of said territory except for crime
whereof the party shall first be duly con-
victed.
	Although the Wilmot Proviso failed, it
marked a new policy soon to be victorious.
	Gov. Seward declared In 1850 that slav-
ery was the great living issue between the
national parties.
	Texas was the last slave state that ever
came into the Union. Then came in 1850
a group of compromises. The Missouri
compromise had fixed the lines in 1820 and
took the parallel of 36° 30’ as the dividing
line, prohibiting slavery north of it, it
settled the slave question for thirty years.
The credit of this belongs to Henry Clay.
	When California asked for admittance
into the Union, a large part of her land lay
south of this line, the South demanded
some equivalent for her coming in as a free
state. So Utah (including Nevada) and
New Mexico (including Arizona) were
organized without the Wilmot Proviso, and
the slave trade was abolished in the Dis-
trict of Columbia in return; stringent laws
were passed for the arrest of fugitive slaves
in the Northern States..
	In place of settling, the compromises
of 1850 only stirred up the slavery question.
Clay and Webster were dead, Seward,
Chase and Sumner took their places.
Calhoun was dead and Jefferson Davis
came to the front.
	The Kansas-Nebraska Bill gave occa-
sion for the South to try and repeal the
Missouri Compromise. Stephen Doug-
las to quiet the agitation advocated
that the New Territories themselves settle
the slavery question as to their own terri-
tories. Through his efforts the Missouri
Compromise was repealed in 1854, and
Squatter Sovereignty ruled in Kansas and
Nebraska, many voting for the bill upon
the grounds that this would forever end the
slavery question, but in fact it solidified the
North and South against each other and
led to the civil war. The Northerners who
opposed slavery extension, organized under
the name of the anti-Nebraska and later
of Republican party. This party was made
up of anti-slavery Democrats, Whigs,
and of Free Soilers, and their principles
based upon the Wilmot Proviso, the
absolute prohibition of slavery in the
territories. It did not propose to attack
slavery in the slave states, and for this
reason the abolitionists as a rule did not
join it.

[Column 3]
	The pro-slavery Whigs joined with the
Democrats. Through bitterness and blood-
shed Kansas and Nebraska were brought
into the Union as free states, the fight
lasted from 1855 to 1858.
	The election of 1856 showed that the
South was upheld by Northern Democrats,
but the large vote for Fremont by a party
not two years old alarmed the South, they
threatened secession in event of a Repub-
lican victory.
	The South aided by the “Dough Faces”
led by Buchanan and Pierce became so
aggressive by their extreme policy that
a great body of northern Democrats left
them and joined with the Rebublicans.
	The Dred Scott decision in 1857 would
make the whole area of United States soil
slave territory.
	In 1857 the slave trade was resumed
openly. Buchanan and a small party tried
to force from Kansas a slave Constitution
known as the “Lacompton Constitution,”
it failed and in so doing made the gaps be-
tween Buchanan and Douglas, this split the
Northern Democrats.
	In the famous debates between Lincoln
and Douglas in 1858 the opinions expressed
by Douglas against the Dred Scott decision
made him unacceptable to the South and
resulted in the election of Lincoln in 1860.
	The John Brown raid was in Oct. 1859
with twenty men he attacked the arsenal at
Harper’s Ferry to get arms to set up an
asylum in the hills beyond, where fugitive
slaves might find a retreat; the attack found
little sympathy in the North, but it influ-
enced the South with horrors of negro
insurrection. The Republican party of
1860 put “prohibition of slavery in the
territories,” in their platform.
	When the South seceded all the slave
states did not join them. The Vice-Presi-
dent Alexander Stephens declared that
slavery was its corner stone.
	England did not recognize the South,
not that she loved the North but she had
been fighting slavery for years wherever
her fleets sailed.
	The Northern Democrats loyally support-
ed Lincoln	Lincoln Sep. 22, 1862 issued
the famous Emancipation proclamation to
take effect Jan. 1863. This proclamation
was issued solely as a war measure, to
weaken the enemy and to prevent England
interfering in giving aid to the South.
		(MRS.) I. CAMERON BROWN.


SILVER WEDDING.

	Elder John C. Sharp, Bishop of Vernon,
Tooele Co., and his wife celebrated their
silver wedding by entertaining about fifty
relatives and friends at the Templeton
Hotel in this city, on Friday evening
March 12th. Among the guests were
Apostle H. J. Grant and wife, Mrs.
Catharine K. Palmer, who is almost eighty
years old and mother of Mrs. Sharp, Pres’t.
H. Gowans and wife of Tooele Stake,
Brother Samuel Woolley and wife of Grants-
ville, Brother Wright and wife of Nephi,
Brother Louis Stransbury and wife of
Vernon, Brother Thackerary and wife of
Croydon, and many relatives of this city.
	The evening was pleasantly spent with
music, feasting and conversation. The
Bishop and wife were the recipients of
many handsome presents and wishes for
a continued li e of prosperity and happiness.
							E. P. F.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00 one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time. $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z.C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
ccond-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, MARCH 15, 1897.


[Column 1]
THE CHILDRENS’ JUBILEE.

PRESIDENT WOODRUFF’S BIRTHDAY.
	No more beautiful sight could be seen
than the Sunday School Jubilee reception
on President Woodruffs ninetieth birthday.
it is understood generally that it was the
largest assembly ever gathered in the
Tabernacle. Not only were the seats all
taken but the aisles were packed in the
entire building. The electric current
turned into the globes forming the beauti-
ful double star and the word Utah in front
of the organ. The large star was of clear
light and the small star was composed of red
lights. The decorations were tasteful and
imposing. On the stand were the First
Presidency, Presidents Wilford Woodruff,
Geo. Q. Cannon and Jos. F. Smith,
Apostles L. Snow, F. D. Richards, B.
Young, F. M. Lyman, Geo. Teasdale, H.
J Grant, M. W. Merrill, A. H. Lund and
other authorities of the Church and of the
Stake. The General Superintendency of
Sunday Schools and Superintendency of
Stake Sunday Schools. President Geo. Q.
Cannon, General Superintendent presided,
Prof. Evan Stephens and Prof. E. K.
Bassett had charge of the music.
	In the rendition of the exercises, Elder
George Goddard sang “In our lovely
Deseret,” the children joining in the
Chorus. Elder Geo. Teasdale directed the
children in reciting the Articles of Faith,
Prof. Joseph J. Daynes rendered an organ
solo entitled “My Father’s Growing Old,”
Elder Geo. A. Smith gave a brief sketch of
the life and labors of President Wilford
Woodruff, related many striking instances
in his life, miraculous interpositions of
Providence in preserving him, spoke of
his acquaintance with Robert Mason famili-
arly known as the Prophet Mason, mentioned
that he once interpreted a dream of Brother
Woodruffs in which he said that in a few
years to come he would ally himself with a
new Church organization, which would
spring up in due time, which afterwards
came to pass. Brother Woodruff was then
quite a young man he also referred to his
being one of Zion’s Camp and one of the
Pioneers of 1847, and to other remarkable
occurrences, such as his having traveled
110,000 miles to preach the Gospel, had
baptized 2,000 souls, and had written a
journal of 7000 pages covering his work for
sixty-two years.
	After the congregation singing ‘‘Is

[Column 2]
There Anything That We Can Do.”
“Miss Rose Wallace in a happy speech
presented President Woodruff in behalf of
the Deseret Sunday School Union, with a
beautiful basket of ninety roses. Sister
Wallace used these words:
	“President Wilford Woodruff, our beloved
Prophet and leader: In behalf of the
Deseret Sunday School Union, I greet you
on this the ninetieth anniversary of your
natal day, and congratulate you that you
have reached this advanced age, and rejoice
that you are preserved unto us in all the
power of your glorious manhood and of
your high and holy calling.
	We hope and pray that your life will still
be precious in the eyes of our Father for
years to come; that you may be a blessing
and comfort unto His Saints; and that
they shall fill your soul with unspeakable
joy by their faithful, earnest efforts to do
God’s will, and that you shall live until
every holy desire in your heart is satisfied.
	We love you, we bless you Brother
Woodruff, with all our soul, and we thank
you for your gentle guidance; for you
have been to us “as a gentle shepherd
leading us through the gloom into the
bright and glorious day.”
	And since our feeble words cannot ex-
press the love we bear you nor the joy we
feel in your presence, we have brought
these beauteous messengers of love, ninety
roses, whose hearts are laden with the
exquisite fragrance from our heavenly
home where all is love.

	They are the roses Reverence and Regard
		That know no change.
	But bloom forever, though the storms be hard
		And ways grow strange.

	They are the roses that I bring to you,
		Your gaze to greet;
	To scent the way you take with fragrance true,
		And make life sweet.

	Roses to greet you with a wish from me,
		Though skies are drear,
	Still may the path you take all fragrant be
		Through all the year.

	Though roses born of sunlight and June showers
		fade fast away
	There are sweet roses grown in winterer hours
		That n’er decay!

	President Woodruff then addressed the
congregation. He said:
	“I want to say to my young brethren and
sisters and friends in the Sabbath schools
established here in the Rocky mountains,
God bless you and I feel to bless you, as
far as I have the power, I want to say that
this is a scene before me today that has
overpowered me—it has overpowered my
speech. I would rather not say anything,
still I feel I want to make a few remarks to
my friends.
	I never in my life have been in a similiar
position to that of today. The scene before
me has been a fulfillment to all my prayers
from my boyhood up to early manhood.
Eighty years ago I was a little boy ten
years of age attending school the same as
you are here in the mountains of Israel, I
read the New Testament. I read of Jacob,
read of the Apostles and the Prophets. I
could not find a man on the face of the
earth who taught the principles or believed
in them. I prayed to the God of heaven
that I might live to see an Apostle who
would say something that would satisfy me
like unto the principles I read of in the
New Testament.

[Column 3]
	Today I stand in the midst of ten thou-
sand young men and women of Israel—
sons and daughters of prophets, patriarchs
and men of Israel. Men who hold the
Holy Priesthood appointed by the God of
Israel; appointed in the last days to set up
and carry these laws and principles of God
into effect. It is these principles that we
were to look at in the last days. Now I
want to say to you as the rising generation,
I never expected to see a day of this kind
in my life, in my early days. I did expect
as it was promised to me to see a prophet.
I have lived to see him, I have traveled
with prophets and patriarchs and sons of
God, I have lived to see this body of intel-
ligence of the sons of the living God who
come here to the meetings of Israel.
	I rejoice in this for I see before me the
nature of the Latter-day Saints. We can-
not say the Bible is a novel—the Bible that
contains revelation. I have passed through
the periods of boyhood, early manhood and
old age. I cannot expect to tarry a great
while longer with you but I want to give
you a few words of counsel. You occupy
a position in the Church and Kingdom of
God and have received the power of the Holy
Priesthood. The God of Heaven has
appointed you and called you forth in this
day and generation. I want you to look at
this. Young men listen to the counsel of
your elder brethren. Live near to God;
pray while young; learn to pray; learn to
cultivate the Holy Spirit of God; link it
to you and it will become a spirit of reve-
lation unto you, inasmuch as you nourish
it. I feel thankful myself that I have lived
to see this day. I declare unto you that
there are many in the flesh that will re-
main so until the coming of the Son of
Man.
	This is about all I wish to say. I feel
thankful to my heavenly Father that I see
this scene before us this afternoon; that I
see the Gospel manifestations on the earth.
There has been, as it was stated by our
brother, two powers, one to destroy me and
the other to save me. And God in heaven
has willed to spare me to see this day. He
has given me power to reject every testi-
mony and reject every example that leads
to evil. I say to you children, do not use
tobacco, liquor or any of these things that
destroy the body and mind, but honor Him
and you will have a mission upon your
heads that the world know not of. May
God bless you. Amen.”
	Quartette, We Ever Pray for Thee,
especially written for the occasion by Prof.
Evan Stephens, was nicely rendered by the
little Misses Olga Peterson, Mamie Mills,
Annie Peterson and Gertrude Kelly, with a
refrain by Brother E. K. Bassett’s choir.
	President George Q. Cannon was the
next speaker. He said that this was a
most memorable occasion and one that
would live long in the hearts of those
assembled. Ninety years, said the speaker,
was a long space of time for mankind to
live upon the earth. It was gratifying to
know that President Woodruff had held the
Apostleship in this Church longer than any
man that lived in this dispensation. The
Lord had blessed President Woodruff and
spared him to do a mighty work in helping
to roll forth the Church and Kingdom of
God.
	President Cannon called the attention of
the children to the good work which had
been done by President Woodruff. He
had lived a righteous life upon the earth


[Column 1]
and had been miraculously spared to see
the desires of his heart made manifest.
The speaker exhorted the young to emulate
the example set them by President Wood-
ruff, as in their declining years they
would rejoice in keeping themselves
pure and unspotted from the sins of the
world. They should keep the Word of
Wisdom and God would add His blessings.
	The hymn, Song of Praise, was rendered
by the Sunday schools.
	The Lord’s prayer was recited in concert
under the leadership of Elder Richard S.
Horne of the Sunday School Union board.
	Madame von Finklestein was the next
speaker. She said:
	“We are gathered together here in the
name of Jesus Christ our Lord. This is
one of the greatest scenes I have ever wit-
nessed in my life. To see so many child-
ren is like coming into the kingdom of
heaven; and before the honorable President
here. He must feel today that he is in the
kingdom of heaven; for Christ said: ‘Suffer
the little children to come unto me for of
such is the kingdom of heaven.’ And as
these little ones are singing here, they
seem to have come from the heavenly hosts
above singing ‘Glory to God and peace on
earth.’ Long life and good wishes to our
noble President. I want to call him my
own President. I am one of the children
of the Lord Jesus Christ. This is one of
the memorable days of my life. I am the
daughter of that Zion—the ancient city
Zion—and have the privilege and honor to
be in this Zion of the Western hemisphere.
All that I can compare this gathering to is
the one that was held by those who were
led by Moses through the desert—the Child-
ren of Israel. While crying for bread
Moses said to them, I shall pray to God to
send you bread. The next morning when
the children of Israel rose up they expected
to see great loaves of bread lying ready to
eat. They cried, Where, oh where is the
bread? Moses said, There is the bread.
That was it, around like little seeds. They
said ‘Manora’, the meaning of which is
‘Do you want to starve us with this
bread?’ Moses said, Go, gather the bread
and eat. And they went and gathered and
ate, and they were filled. That bread from
heaven was called in the world, manna.
There is where the word originated—a
symbol of praise to the Maker. What is
this that God has sent us into the wilder-
ness? By His mighty power He has led
us forth by His servant, in the desert, in
the wilderness, and planted us to dwell in
this wilderness—brought the children of
srael like mighty Moses through the
wilderness. You have faith that with
many that came to this place and with
them this great man here, through great
persecution, yours are many to feed with
the breath of life the nations that are to
come to you in this Zion. In this we will
assemble together; and all that I can feel
to say is that I wish truly long peace to
this State, and give the glory to God of
srael. It is with you and the children
that are here to remember every one of
you that ye are the temples of the living
God. He is living in you every one.
May you live true to Him as our honorable
President. He is ninety years old, and it is
because he has kept himself pure and un-
spotted from the world, that he has lived in
the world and yet not of the world, in him-
self and with God, as His Prophet, that he is
honored now. May God preserve his life
to these children here, and may they from

[Column 2]
generation to generation observe his coun-
sel. May every blessing be with the
honorable President of this great movement;
and I hope that our President will live
long and that God’s love will rest upon
him.”
	The closing hymn, What Prize Shall Be
Your Reward, was sung by the Sunday
schools and benediction was pronounced by
Elder George Reynolds.
	At the close of the exercises many avail-
ed themselves of the opportunity to shake
hands with President Woodruff and there-
fore it was some time before the entire
audience was out of the building.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


A TRIBUTE OF HONOR.

TO PRESIDENT WILFORD WOODRUFF.
	PRESIDENT WOODRUFF is one of the
most unassuming men the world has ever
seen, nothing would be further from his
thoughts than to make a display of, or for
himself in any way or on any occasion.
But the Latter-day Saints delight in doing
him honor and are never weary of sounding
his praises. On the recent celebration of
his birthday in the large Tabernacle,
March 1st, in this City he was ninety years
of age. Before the hour set for the opening
10 a. m., the house was filled and nearly
every seat in the gallery taken. The
Tabernacle choir were in their usual places,
and Held’s band was stationed at the East
end of the gallery and played at intervals
very sweetly.
	When President Woodruff appeared on
the stand he received a magnificent ovation,
the entire congregation rose and waved
their handkerchiefs and joined the choir in
singing the hymn “Our God we raise to
Thee.” The proceedings opened by the
choir singing “Noble Chief,” prayer was
offered by President Joseph F. Smith.
Choir then sang “Hail Prophet, Brother,
Friend,” after which President Woodruff
made an,
ADDRESS OF WELCOME.
	I feel highly honored this morning in
meeting with so many of my friends upon
this important occasion. Yesterday those
who were present might have observed my
condition. I was perfectly overwhelmed in
consequence of the scene before me. It
was not what was said particularly, but it
brought to my mind with overwhelming
power my boyhood and early manhood and
my desire that I might live upon the earth
to find a people who would receive the
Gospel of Jesus Christ as taught by Christ
and the Apostles. In meeting with thou-
sands of the children of the Latter-day
Saints, it brought to my mind those scenes
and the fulfillment of my prayers and
desires before the Lord.
	I hope this morning I may be able to
make a few remarks. I will say this, it
has been a desire of my life, from my boy-
hood up, never to address any assembly of
people whom I could not make hear what I
had to say. I feel the same this morning;
I do not know whether I can make this
assembly hear me or not; but I will do the
best I can.
	As I can hardly expect to ever have the
opportunity of addressing the people of this
State and my friends in days to come, I
have a few reflections upon my mind that
I wish to lay before you. And I will say
that they are different from any of my pub-

[Column 2]
lic speeches that I have been in the habit of
presenting to the people. I have consulted
no man in regard to the course I should
pursue in my remarks here this morning,
and I do not know that I shall satisfy my
friends in the remarks that I may make.
	First I want to say a few words upon
politics. I hope that I will not astonish
you. I have not been in the habit of this
heretofore. But I feel desirous to say a few
things that are upon my mind. In the first
place there is not one item, not one sentence
in the Constitution of the United States,
nor in the laws of the United States, or of
the State of Utah, that deprives any citizen
of any name, nature, religion or politics in
the land, from joining any political party
he wishes or voting for whomsoever he
wishes. This is the right of every man
without hindrance. We have been accused
at times of using Church influence to guide
and direct the State. This is occasionally
presented to the public as our action. I
feel it my right and duty to say here today
that I was acquainted with Joseph Smith
and was acquainted with him from 1833
until his martyrdom. I have been
acquainted with Brigham Young and asso-
ciated with him for forty years of my life,
at home and abroad, under many circum-
stances. I have also been acquainted with
John Taylor and labored with him in every
capacity in which he was called to act. I
have also been a member of the quorum of
the Twelve Apostles for upwards of fifty-
srx years of my life. And I have presided
over the Church itself for a few years. I
have been associated with my counselors
and with the present Twelve Apostles.
And I want to say upon this occasion be-
fore God, angels and all men that are before
me, that I never in one instance have ever
known one leader in this Church ever
attempt to dictate and direct the affairs of
the State as members of the Church. At
the same time, when any man, no matter
who he is—Mormon, Jew or Gentile—goes
forth and uses money or any means to hire
men to vote for him, I think he steps out-
side his right, and stands in a measure
responsible.
	I want to say so much to my friends this
morning. I have officiated for twenty ses-
sions in the Legislative Council in the
Territory of Utah, and one session as a
member of the House, and it never cost me
one farthing for any office I ever held in
the Church or in the State or Territory.
And I never asked any mortal man on the
face of the earth to cast a vote for me that I
have any recollection of. As an example,
perhaps I may be permitted to say I am the
father of fourteen sons and have a number
of sons-in-law, and I believe they are pretty
nearly evenly divided on political party
lines—Democrats and Republicans. I will
give any man five dollars if in conversing
with them he can get any one of them to
say that his father ever told him who to vote
for. Some of you may try to make a little
money perhaps at that. (Laughter.) I
consider everybody is responsible for him-
self, and he has a right to vote for whom
he pleases.
	President Woodruff then spoke of his
early experiences in Sunday schools and in
reading the New Testament, his feelings
when he first saw some of the Elders of the
Church, his reading and testimony of the
truth of the book of Mormon, his baptism
into the Church, and continued as follows:
	At this point I will say upon the subject
of religion, what are the rights of men up-


[Column 1]
on religious subjects? I do not know that
I can do better than to quote Brother
Joseph Smith’s remarks before thousands
of people at a conference in Nauvoo, when
there were many non-Mormons present.
He said, “If I were the emperor of the
world and I had power to control the whole
human family, I would sustain every man,
woman and child in the enjoyment of their
religion.” Those are my sentiments today.
I believe every man—Jew, Catholic, Pro-
testant or anything—has a right to enjoy
his religion unmolested. I believe the
Constitution of the United States guarantees
this blessing and privilege to everybody.
	Now before I close I will again bear my
testimony that this work is of God. This
tabernacle that you are in today was seen
by the Prophet Isaiah and other prophets,
and they spoke of it, as well as the temples
that are built in the valleys of the
mountains. All have been pointed out by
the prophets of God and the Lord revealed
to Isaiah, Jeremiah and many other proph-
ets, our day, our history, our lives our
position in this immense barren desert
which has been occupied by the Latter-day
Saints, and is as we see it today through
the blessings of God. I will bear my testi-
mony to the world to my friends of the
Church and State, and to all men under
heaven that this is the truth of God. The
Lord Almighty has set His hand to accom-
plish this work. Joseph Smith was raised
up by the power of God and the revelation
of Jesus Christ to organize this Church
and kingdom in the dispensation of the ful-
ness of times. His life was short, as was
the Savior’s. But it was a great work that
he performed in the flesh. The Savior
lived about three and a half years after He
entered the ministry. Joseph Smith lived
some fourteen years from the time he re-
ceived the plates and translated them into
the English language. He laid down his
life, as did Christ and His Apostles,
for the word of God and testimony of Jesus
Christ. He will rise in his glorified celes-
tial body and meet again with his brethren
the Apostles and Elders of Israel and this
people, and will stand in days to come as
the leader among us in celestial glory. I
feel to bear my testimony to this. It mat-
ters not about the unbelief of men. They
cannot turn away the work of Almighty
God. The Lord has set His hand to carry
out these great principles which He has re-
vealed, the establishment of the Zion of
God and the preparation for the coming of
the Son of Man. What has been said
about the mountains of Israel will have its
fulfillment. The judgments of God will
follow in the earth in fulfillment of what
has been said, and no power on earth can
stay them. I am anxious, although my
life has been preserved to this great age, I
still am anxious that we as a people may
do our duty, may live our religion, may
keep the faith, may so walk before the
Lord that the Holy Ghost may be our con-
stant companion to lead us in the days that
lie before us. This is my prayer and de-
sire in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
	After singing by the choir and congrega-
tion President Lorenzo Snow bore testi-
mony to President Woodruffs remarks, and
stated he had been acquainted with him
sixty years, having known him in Kirtland,
and that he had always lived a life of
purity and holiness, spoke of the example
we could all take from President Woodruff.
	President George Q. Cannon addressed

[Column 2]
the audience, he stated that the vast assem-
blage reminded him of the year 1849, when
the people celebrated the advent of the
pioneers into the valley, there was feasting
and dancing etc. and thanksgiving to God
for the bounteous blessings bestowed upon
His people. Since then great changes had
been brought about in this intermountain
region. President Cannon alluded to Presi-
dent Woodruff as a husbandsman in his
day, and to him belonged the credit of
planting the first potato in the valley, said
this was a most momentous period in the
world’s history, spoke of the spread of the
Gospel in the land and how it would spread
and continue to grow and flourish in the
earth until God’s purpose had been accom-
plished. The entrance of the pioneers into
this valley would be dwelt upon more and
more a the years rolled on. The day
would come when it would make an epoch
in the world’s history and one of the central
figures thereof would be President Wood-
ruff, who was being honored today. The
speaker referred to the excellent qualities
and virtues of the man himself, and felt
that the sound of President Woodruff’s
voice should be engraved upon the cylin-
ders of a phonograph, that in after years
the young and rising generation might en-
joy the sweet and loving vibrations. He
was a man of the utmost integrity, and as
such would forever be held in loving re-
membrance. After the close of President
Cannon’s remarks the choir sang the
anthem "Let the mountains shout for joy,”
and the vast audience rose and sang the
Doxology, and Apostle Brigham Young
pronounced the benediction.
THE RECEPTION
	At the close of the exercises, there was a
reception held for President Woodruff and
Sister Emma Woodruff his wife, whose
birthday occurs on the same day as her
husband’s, though she is more than thirty
years younger. They were seated under a
canopy of bunting and beautiful flowers,
and shook hands with the multitude for one
whole hour. Many estimates have been
made of the number of people; but at all
events it was a constant stream of new
faces during the hour.
	Some very acceptable gifts were presented
to them, a silk quilt from the sisters of
Millville, Cache Co. which received the
first prize at the World’a Fair in Chicago,
it was accompanied by a letter that we
would very much like to use if we had
space. A beautiful bouquet from the
Latter-day Saints college was presented by
Miss Bertha Wilcken, with a very appropri-
ate, choicely worded letter signed by
“The Teachers and Students of the college."
Another suitable gift to President Wood-
ruff was a handsome silver-mounted cane
given by A. W. McCune Esq. of this City.
The Primary children also presented a bas-
ket of flowers little Veda Jones mak-
ing the presentation in a pretty childish
fashion. Several of the sisters presented
flowers and one handsome basket from a
number of sisters containing roses, lilies of
the valley and violets was presented to Sis-
ter Emma Woodruff by Sister Zina Y.
Card with a verse expressive of endearing
sentiments by Susa Y. Gates.
	The anniversary exercises were through-
out a tender and affectionate tribute to the
Prophet seer and revelator whom all Israel
delights to honor because of his intrinsic
worth, his life-long labors in the Church,

[Column 3]
his sterling integrity to the truth and his
many virtues as well as his crown of ninety
years in this probation, and many grand
characteristics too numerous to mention. A
poem by L. L. Greene Richards entitled
“Near The Gate” and dedicated to Presi-
dent Woodruff we shall publish in the near
future


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES:

	GOOD news comes from South Dakota
that the Equal Suffrage Amendment was
submitted by a good majority.
	IN the state of Washington the Woman
Suffrage bill passed the Senate by a vote of
23 to 11.
	THE bill making an appropriation to the
University for a Kindergarten training
school is a good measure, by all means
Utah should have her teachers trained in
her own state.
	ONE of our exchanges says, “If you
must economize, in the name of Christian
humanity do not withdraw your support
from the Kindergarten”—“so say we, all of
us” who are working in the interest of the
children.
	MADAME MOUNTFORD is still in this state
giving her world-famous lectures in the
larger towns outside Salt Lake City, and
we trust meeting with good success and be-
coming acquainted with our people and
conversant with our Church doctrines.
	AT some opportune time during the Con-
ference in April, there will be a business
meeting of the State Suffrage Association,
held at the EXPONENT office, to get an
opinion from the women of the state as to
what shall be done by the enfranchised
states to help other women to obtain suf-
frage, and particularly wbat the women of
Utah will do.
	MRS. HENRY WARD BEECHER whose
death has been for some time expected
died at Stamford, Conn., March 8, at 10.32,
on the tenth anniversary of the demise of
her illustrious husband. But very few par-
ticulars are given in the dispatches. Mrs.
Beecher devoted all her time and energies,
during her husband’s life to him and to her
family. Since his departure to the “ other
shore” she has become pretty widely
known throug her writings of him, pub-
lished in the Ladies Home Journal.
	THE executive inauguration exercises
etc. of Hon. Wm. McKinley as President
of the United States were said to be more
imposing, and on a grander and more mag-
nificent scale of elegance than any since
George Washington. However, we at a
distance know very little about it, but if
the money was put in circulation among
workmen and tradesmen, men and women
of the people it might be more effective of
good than to set an example of
ostentatious extravagance. It is better to
give work than to give charity. Certainly
all who are interested in the welfare of the
country would wish for the display to be
somewhat moderate because of the hard
times. Great hopes are entertained by
those who worked for the election of Mc-
Kinley that a more prosperous era will soon
come with the change in the administration;
for which results all who are mindful of
the public weal will ardently hope, and we
trust hope not in vain,


THE Legislature in which women have
been members in both Houses, and the first
woman Senator in any state has made her
debut closed without any calamity befall-
ing because women were elected; in fact so
far as we are aware the women were quite
as energetic and as far-seeing in committees,
and also in other ways, as men and
without doubt their influence in reference
to actual work done, was no doubt in be-
half of the best measures proposed accord-
ing to their conscientious views. If it was
an experiment, which in a certain sense it
was, no one can say it was a failure. It
seems as if it would be wrong to criticise
the first efforts in this direction; undoubted-
ly the lady members have done what they
could, and would like to have accomplished
very much more. It seems rather favorable
to the woman question, that among the
eighteen senators who drew for the long
and short term of office, the one woman
should have been among the fortunate
ones of the long term. Of this session of
the Legislature, the writer would wish to
be excused from commenting, as she knows
only what the newspapers have said, except
in conflicting reports of those who con-
strued all Democratic measures, according
to their own ideas of Democracy.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
MRS. M. C. WOODS SPEECH.

AT THE DES MOINES CONVENTION.

	MRS. E. B. WELLS spoke for Utah and
Mrs. Bradford for Colorado, after which 
Mrs. Woods of Wallace, Idaho, daughter of
Mrs. Wells, voiced the following eloquent 
greeting of Idaho to the Convention. As a
pen picture of that interesting country it is
incomparable: —Ed. Woman's Tribune.
IDAHO’S GREETING.
	As representing Idaho, first I wish to ex-
press the heartfelt gratitude of every equal
suffragist in our proud and happy State
to the National American Woman Suffrage
Association for the most generous help
afforded us in our two years’ campaign.
Without the aid of the devoted women,
Mrs. DeVoe, Mrs. Catt, Mrs. Bradford and
Mrs. Johns, who made the arduous journey
across the continent to organize our clubs,
plead the cause and teach us how to work
and win, we would not be celebrating
Idaho’s victory tonight.
	Mrs DeVoe, whom the National selected
to blaze the trail, came to us in the North
in June, 1895, and traveling southward
through the State—often taking wearisome
stage rides over dangerous mountain roads
to reach towns isolated from the railroad
line—to organize clubs in almost every
town of importance in Idaho, a State whose
area is 84,800 square miles, almost double 
that of New York and 28,775 square miles
greater than your beautiful State of Iowa,
(in which I claim a share, for my husband
was born a “Hawkeye” and served with
Iowa’s gallant troops the four years of the
civil war.)
	By the work of these clubs and others
organized later by Mrs. Bradford and Mrs.
Johns under the guidancs of the National
first, the State Assoc’n., next, with Mrs. 
Beattie and Mrs. Whitman at its head and our
devoted, untiring, self-sacrificing and most
efficient state secretary, Mrs. M. C. Athey, we
achieved the results we commemorate to-
night. Without being invidious, I wish to

[Column 2]
pay just tribute to Mrs. Helen L. Young,
Idaho’s only woman lawyer, for most
efficient work done in this cause.
	With her head pillowed on the lap of the
North, her feet resting on the orchards 
of the South, her snowy bosom rising to the
clouds, Idaho rests serene in her beauty of
glacier, lake and primeval forest, guarding
in her verdure clad mountains vast treasures
of precious minerals, the hem of her robe
embroidered in sapphires and opals.
	This is no overdrawn picture, friends;
on our northern line we touch elbows with
British Columbia; in the southern part
of the State are fine sapphire mines, while
one of our border counties (Latah) produces
the most beautiful opals on the continent,
and the output of silver and lead in Sho-
shone county, alone, for 1896 was $5,120,
000; this, too, in a country where for five
years past many of the large mines have
been closed down, awaiting the settlement
of the wage question. But if there are any
gold bugs present they need not worry
over our immense silver and lead produc-
tions, because Idaho is a large gold
producer and while no official record is yet
to be had it is estimated her production of
gold 1896 will be about 12,000,000, so you
see we are helping to keep up the gold
standard right royally although we are
called a silver State.
	But Idaho is not alone a mining State.
If we lack in comparison with the middle
States in area of cultivated soil, we have
our compensation in productiveness. The
great fields of the Palouse and Potlach
countries and other lands tributary to the
Clearwater and Snake rivers, yield annually
thirty-five bushels to the acre, this, too,
without rotation of crops, and the apples, pears
and prunes of Idaho are considered the 
finest in the United States.
	“A trail cut through the banks of snow
		Winds up and o’er the mountain chain
	To where the pines of Idaho
		Stand guard upon the Coeur d’Alene.”
	That part of Idaho called Coeur d’Alene,
and in which is my home, comprises the
two northernmost counties, Shoshone and
Kootenai. It is a nest of mountains with
beautiful lakes nestling among them and
streams of water coursing through every
gulch, except where tower the snow clad
peaks above the timber line; the mountains
are covered with a dense growth of different
varieties of pine, larch, hemlock and cedar,
and the timber interest of Idaho is not one
of the least of her resources. One of the
Des Moines papers characterized the four
enfranchised States as the “wildest and wool-
iest of the west.” We are proud that our four
equal suffrage States are joined together
and united by the ties of the grand old 
Rockies, and we will stand as a great bul-
wark of strength to the States around us,
higher in altitude and higher in attitude.
	I fancy few of you know much of 
the conditions existing in the mining
country, dotted here and there with mining
camps in every gulch, or canyon as you
would say, the preponderance of the adult
male over the women of maturity; the
power of the saloon element, and the cos-
mopolitan character of the people—men
from all parts of the world, ignorant and
cultured, refined and depraved seeking fame
and fortune in the far West—no reading
rooms, no lectures, no lyceums, no spelling
bee or corn-husking, the relaxation of the
farm hand; single men away from home

[Column 3]
and its influences, even if temperate, are
forced from the draughty lobby of the hotel
or tavern to the warmth and comfort of
every well-appointed saloon.
	The missionary suffrage work in such
places was obliged to be quietly consum-
mated without any apparent advocacy on
the part of men who were in reality ardent
supporters of our cause, lest the saloon ele-
ment should organize and by concerted
action, crush the movement as they did in
the State of Washington in 1889. And 
California, too, owes her defeat of the
amendment, at least, partially to this cause.
Yet you may go far to find nobler men
than we have in Idaho, and our cause did
not lack able champions. Our amendment
carried by more than a two-thirds majority
of the votes cast for and against it, the
largest majority any State has ever given
an amendment. And it is an evidence of
the chivalry of men to women voters that
in our legislature, now in session, Mrs. 
Rebecca Mitchell was elected by acclama-
tion to the position of Chaplain of the
House of Representatives. We think this
is the first woman to hold such a position
in the United States.
	We women of Idaho know that eyes out-
side our own State watch with intense
interest the effect of this added suffrage on
the body politic, and that it will add to
or detract from the work elsewhere as we
perform our duties as citizens well or ill.
Naturally we shall make mistakes, but
fortunately God has endowed women with
quick perception and strong intuition and it
will not take us long, I’ll warrant, to profit
by the mistakes made. With good men as
teachers we hope for much, fear little, and
look forward with enthusiasm to the
millenium of honest politics.


IN MEMORIAM.

SISTER LUCY WEBB WAGSTAFF.
	ONCE more we are called upon to record the
death of one of our number, Sister Lucy Webb
Wagstaff who departed this life Feb. 9, 1897, after
a long and lingering illness.
	Sister Wagstaff was born Feb 4, 1820 at Teteth,
Cambridgeshire, England, was baptized 1849 and
emigrated to Utah in 1862, crossed the plains with
ox teams and suffered many hardships incident
to settling a new country. She was the mother
of nine children, six sons and three daughters all
living except the eldest son who died soon after
the family came to American Fork.
	She was a faithful teacher in the Relief Society
of American Fork always prompt in the per-
formance of her duties, going around her district
in all kinds of weather, gentle and kind, friend
and peacemaker, beloved of her friends and
neighbors and universally respected by all who
knew her; her hand was ever ready and her
heart willing to help those who were within her
reach.
	May the Lord comfort the bereaved husband
and the sorrowing children in their hour of
affliction, and give peace to their aching hearts
and give them to realize a hope of a reunion be-
yond the vail, where there will be no more part-
ing.
	Her work is done, she has gone to her rest
and may we who mourn her departure emulate
her good deeds and prepare ourselves for a joy-
ful reunion on the other shore.
		ELLEN D. CLARKE,
		EMMA FEATHERSTONE, }Committee.
		JANE C. HINDLEY,
				In behalf of the Relief Society.


R. S. REPORTS.

SALT LAKE STAKE.
	MINUTES of the quarterly conference of
the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society held in
the Fourteenth ward Assembly Hall, March


[Column 1]
6th, 1897, President M. Isabella Horne
presiding. Present on the stand were
Elder O. B. Huntington, Elder Jacobs,
Sisters Zina D. H. Young, B. W. Smith,
M. A. Hyde of the Sanpete Stake, and
Counselor C. C. Cannon.
	Opened by singing “For the strength of
the hills we bless Thee;” prayer by Elder
O. B. Huntington; singing “Come, O
Thou King of kings;” minutes of last
meeting read and accepted. The statistical
and financial report read and accepted.
	President Horne spoke to the sisters on
their duties, and urged them to greater
diligence. Spoke of the great reward that
would follow the performance of good
works; raised a warning voice against the
sins that were among us; gave many words
of wisdom and counsel to the sisters.
	Elder O. B. Huntington and Elder
Jacobs spoke on the good work the society
was doing, and urged the mothers to look after
the rising generation with greater vigilance.
	Sisters Zina D. H. Young, B. W. Smith
and M. A. Hyde each spoke and gave many
comforting words and valuable instructions
to the sisters.
	Closed by singing “We thank Thee O
God for a Prophet.” Benediction by Elder
Jacobs.
	Afternoon session. Opened by singing
“Our God we raise to Thee;” prayer by
Counselor C. C. Cannon; singing “O ye
mountains high.” The Stake officers of
the Relief Society were presented and sus-
tained.
	There was a large attendance and the
meeting was addressed by President A. M.
Cannon M. I. Horne, Annie T. Hyde,
Julia C. Howe, B. W. Smith, C. C. Can-
non, M. Hyde and E. Stevenson. Many
important subjects were discussed and
strong testimonies borne to the latter-day
work, and a good feeling prevailed through-
out the assembly.
	Adjourned for three months by singing
“This God is the God we adore.” Bene-
diction by Pres’t. A. M. Cannon.
				M. Y. TAYLOR Sec’y.
DAVIS STAKE.
	THE Davis Stake Relief Society Confer-
ence was held at East Bountiful Jan. 28,
1897, President Susan Grant presiding.
Meeting opened by singing “Our God we
raise to Thee;” prayer by Counselor
Joseph Clark; singing “Prayer is the soul’s
sincere desire.” Present on the stand were
Pres’t. Zina D. H. Young, Pres’t. Hess
and Counselors, Pres’t Susan Grant and
Counselors, and others. Minutes of the
previous Conference read and approved.
	Pres’t. Susan Grant made opening re-
marks, said we did not come together to
advance new ideas but we have come with
a desire to be blest and thought we were
greatly blest in having Sister Zina with us.
“I have been connected with this Church 
for a long time and it is my testimony that
God hears and answers the prayers of the
faithful saints. When we are in deep
sorrow we can go to Him and He will hear
us. We have all enlisted in the service of
God. Our names are all enrolled in the
Relief Society, it is the duty of all the sis-
ters to attend their meetings.”
	Pres’t. Lucina Sessions reported East
Bountiful. Pres’t. Martha Fackeral, West
Bountiful, said they were getting along
very well in the Society.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young said “It makes
my heart rejoice to meet with the Saints, I
feel there is a good spirit here. It is now 60

[Column 2]
years since Hyrum Smith baptized me into
the Church of God.” Spoke of apostacy;
said one of the first things that lead to it is
fault finding. Spoke of visiting with
Brother Stevenson before his death, he was
filled with the spirit of the Gospel. It is a
great blessing to have a body dedicated to
the Lord. Spoke of the Relief Society,
said she sincerely hoped more of the young
ladies would join. “I was present when
Brigham Young organized the Young
Ladies’ Association, when he got through
with the organization Geo. A. Smith said,
‘If Brigham Young ever spoke by the
Spirit of God he has today.’ I feel to urge
the sisters to attend the Relief Society
meetings, but do not neglect your children.
I am thankful to meet with you and may
God bless you all.” Sister Randall reported
Centerville Society as doing well and im-
proving.
	Meeting was adjourned until two o’clock.
Singing “Lord dismiss us.” Benediction
by Bishop Lewis Grant.
	Afternoon session. Opened by singing;
prayer by Counselor Henry Rampton;
singing. Counselor Mary S. Clark made
some excellent remarks, said the Gospel is
what makes us happy. Spoke of Temple
work, we should attend to it and do all the
good we can for this life is short.
	South Bountiful, Farmington and West
Layton were well reported by their Presi-
dents as being in good condition.
	Sister Zina made some very interesting
remarks, said there are many here who can
testify to the gift of healing, the mothers can
intercede with our heavenly Father in be-
half of their children, they should teach
them the principles of the Gospel and
to be virtuous. “There is nothing gives
me more joy than to see children improving
and doing right.” Told several incidents
which occured in the days of Joseph that
were very interesting. Referred again to
apostacy, said no matter how many aposta-
tize this work will roll on for it is God’s
work. “May we ever be found faithful is
my prayer.”
	Counselor Jane Holt said she loved to
hear the sisters bear their testimony who
lived in the days of Joseph. “If we live
true, faithful and prayerful lives we will be
blessed. I feel to bear my testimony to
what has been said. May our heavenly
Father help us to be true and faithful.”
	Pres’t. Hess said, “I have experienced a
great many things in this Church and I
want to tell you the Latter-day Saints were
never on so dangerous ground as they are
today. The evil one is trying to have the
people give way and not trust the Priest-
hood, those who feel that way should re-
pent. Some told Joseph Smith they were
willing for him to advise in spiritual things
but thought they knew as much in tempor-
al things. This influence is now here and
a great many are influenced by it. I feel
my brethren and sisters we have been
silent long enough and it is time we should
rise up and warn the people. I have the
right as a citizen to speak my mind, let us
sustain ourselves and the Priesthood.”
	Referred to the remarks of the sisters,
said they were good. “Now sisters you
have just as much influence as the men and
use your influence for good. I ask the
Lord to bless you all.”
	Meeting adjourned for three months to
be held at Centerville. Singing Doxology.
Prayer by D. O. Willey.
			SUSAN GRANT, President,
			PHEBE C. SESSIONS, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


U. W. P. C.

	FEB. 27, ’97. The U W. P. C. held its
regular monthly meeting at the home of
Mrs. Ruth Fox, 261 W. 2nd South St.
	Meeting was called to order by the Pres’t.
and prayer was offered by Mrs. E. B.
Wells. Roll call, members responding
with quotations from Mrs. Emmeline B.
Wells. Report of Federation committee on
revision of Constitution read by Sec’y
Motion by Mrs. Wells that Federation be
held as formerly, in May.—Carried.
	Motion by Mrs. Dickinson that report of
Committee on Constitution be accepted as
read.—Carried.
	Program for the evening: Talk by
Mrs. Wells on her Eastern trip.
	Paper, “Three Lakes,” Mrs. Kimball.
	Poem, “A Woman’s Heart,” Mrs.
Lydia D. Alder.
	Dr. E. R. Shipp in behalf of the Press
Club presented Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells
with a birthday gift as a token of the esteem
and love felt for her by the club.
	Mrs. Wells made a fitting response.
Minutes read and approved, benediction by
Mrs Clark. Adjourned.
			ORIELLE CURTIS, Sec.


DEGREES FOR WOMEN.

	CAMBRIDGE, Eng., March 2.—The syn-
dics appointed by Cambridge university to
consider the question of granting degrees to
women has presented its report. While it is
not prepared to recommend that women be
admitted to membership, the syndics recom-
mend that the title of B. A. be conferred by
diploma upon women who have already
passed or hereafter pass the final tripos.
The Syndics further recommend that the
women may proceed in one course to the
M. A. degree and that the university be
empowered to grant degrees in arts, law,
letters, sciences and music to women who
have not fulfilled the usual conditions but
who have been recommended for such titles
honorias causa, by the council of the senate.


DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
WILL BEGIN HER
Class : in : Obstetrics
	On Monday April 12th 1897 with improved
facilities for instruction in this important study.
Special terms are given to societies sending
students. For further particulars communicate
with
		ELLIS R. SHIPP M. D.
		75 Center St, Salt Lake City Utah.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St,.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.


