VOL. 25.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JAN. 15, AND FEB. 1, 1897.		No. 14 & 15


CONTENTS:

	A Happy Birthday—L. D. Alder. A Mother In
Israel—Maria McRae.  U. W. P. C.—Orielle
Curtis, Sec. Relief Society In Chicago. Anni-
versary Party—Mary S. Christensen. Spring City
Relief Society—Nancy Acord. Mrs. Stowe’s
Monument. R. S. Reports. In Memoriam—M.
A. Hardy. Resolutions Of Respect. Letter From
Columbus, Kansas—E. A. Scammon. Obituary
—A. C. M. Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting—L.
D. Alder Sec. Washington Co. Silk Asso’n.
Lula’s Letter—L. L. Greene Richards. Notes
And News.
	EDITORIAL:—Annual Convention N-A.W. S. A.
Mary Houston Kimball Smith Re-organization
At Brighton. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—To Dr. Ellis R. Shipp On Her Birth-
day Jubilee—Emily H. Woodmansee	My Only
Sister—L. D. Alder. Selection From Times And
Seasons—President Joseph Smith.


TO DR. ELLIS R SHIPP ON HER BIRTHDAY
JUBILEE.

DEAR friend, your dainty messenger—
Welcome, as welcome—well could be,
Conveyed your wish—expressed in time,
“Come, spend with me an afternoon—
In honor of my Jubilee.”
As one of your untiring friends
I greet you on this festive day,
And certainly, it seems to me—
You’re passing by victoriously—  
The fiftieth mile stone in your way.
Sustained by God’s assisting grace—
You’ve seen the half of life’s hard race,
And made a record bright and clear;
And surely now, from friends sincere—
Congratulations are in place.
Such countless cares to Life belong;
Huge obstacles the path bestrew;
Dread influences around us throng;
One’s resolution must be strong,
Opposing forces to subdue.
So human like it is to fail,
So human like to faint and fall,
The best, are liable to slip:
And noblest ones must sometimes sip—
The dregs of vinegar and gall.
However beautifully clear—
Or brightly blue the present sky,
Full well I know in days gone by—
You’ve lived through trials most severe, 
That taxed and proved your courage high.
Praise well deserved, is near akin—
To compliments from flattery’s lip;
Much credit you have earned I ween,
And loving hearts reserve therein
A place, for Dr. Ellis Shipp.
Long may you live, nor weary grow;
Long may you needful help bestow;
Long may you soothe your suffering kind; 
What purer joy could mortals know,
What nobler task could mortals find?
At length when age, must o’er you creep—
Oh may you gently fall asleep—
Forgetful of all mortal strife;
And be by angels carried hence—
To reap, a glorious recompense—
Celestial joy—and endless life,
EMILY H. WOODMANSEE
S. L. City, Jan. 20, 1897.


[Column 1]
“MY ONLY SISTER.”

IN the gladsome Long Ago
	In the bright sunshining weather
There romped by my side a winsome lass
	As we strolled along together.
The light wind caught her flaxen hair
	And smothered the fair young face,
While her eyes of blue flashed in merriment
	As she and the wind kept apace.

I smiled at her glee and mischief
	She danced so much like an elf;
And though I tried to be serious,
	I laughed in spite of myself.
Oh, those happy days are gone forever,
	For my sister to womanhood grew,
Crowned with a beauty and gentleness,
	That were both strange and new.

Then came Love and she strayed from me
	Her loving only brother;
No longer we romped as in the old days,
	Her thoughts ever given to another.
Well, change must come to all the world,
	But my heart still true to its trust,
Only sighed when I saw the change in her,
	For our love of the Past seemed as dust.

But the love light looked so rosy
	As it shone upon her face,
Her eyes took on a thoughtful look
	Her form a tender grace.
And I felt that she loved another,
	With a love that never was mine,
But O, I thought of the future,
	Of the change that would come with Time.

And I prayed for her in passion,
	And wept as well as prayed,
That God would shield my sister
	And misery’s hand be stayed.
For she so bright and happy,
	Seemed all the world to me.
I shared her joys and wept in griefs
	And feared what the future might be.

But ’tis over, she has gone far away
	Past my prayers, my hopes, my fears,
And I sit in the home made empty,
	And my eyes fill up with tears.
Here is her picture, the dress she wore,
	Her trinkets, some old some new;
Her dainty belongings seemed part of herself,
	As though she must be there too.

But no! clothed in bridal array,
	In her casket I saw her rest;
Her heart was still, her lips were cold,
	Her hands lay white on her breast.
But peaceful and calm was the scene
	Like a Princess she rested there,
While the bridal flowers of spotless hue,
	Were twining everywhere.

They spoke of love, they breathed of hope,
	And whispered faint on the air;
“We bloom forever in Paradise,
	We never grow old and sere.”
Flowers and song, flowers and song,
	And a parting that seemed for aye,
Then deep in her bosom mother Earth,
	Hid my precious treasure away.

And I know she sleeps on the hillside,
	Where the whispering winds soft blow;
And will meet with us, no never again,
	While this life we live below.

[Column 2]
But O, I know she is living
	In a world where all is love,
And I gaze on the stars in the silent night.
	As they shine in the vault above.

And I think of how she is waiting,
	And watching for me to come,
And I feel that she knows how I loved her,
	While here in this earthly home.
And changes now will never come,
	Her heart and mine between; 
And never a tear will fall again,
	For the love that “might have been.”

She is still my little sister
	As in the far away days;
And I put out my hand to guard her,
	Again in her romping ways.
And I am still her brother
	For ever and for aye; 
And she with her dainty, snowy hand.
	Will lead me to Heav’n’s day.

I know it is just past the starlight,
	Where the beams are glimmering through;
It must be her glistening raiment,
	That shines through the vault of blue.
And I hear her voice as I listen,
	For the breeze is whispering low; 
And she trills again the merry songs,
	She loved so long ago.

But the music grows faint and fainter,
	As the stars fade fast from my sight;
And the clouds come thick and darker,
	And I feel alone in the night.
Thank God for the beautiful vision
	In fancy I see it o’er;
Thank Him for the sweet assurance,
	In heaven we’ll part no more.
				LYDIA D. ALDER.
Dec. 24, 1896.


A HAPPY BIRTHDAY.

AT HOME
Wednesday, Jan. 20, 1897.
From 3 P. M.

“Old friends and true: dear friends though new:
Come join me on mv natal day;
Through fifty years, of hopes and fears,
Through all my earthly joys and tears,
You’ve been, with God, my staff and stay.”
—ELLIS R. SHIPP.
	So read the dainty card that announced
the jubilee year of our esteemed friend.
	In response her friends came, about sixty
in number. At the door they were met by
her charming daughter Ellis; and further
in the hall of her spacious dwelling were
greeted by the hostess herself, looking
beautiful and radiant with happiness.
	The day was damp and cold without, but
within was warmth, a genial feeling and
the odor of many flowers; flowers on the
mantles, in the hall windows and other
conspicuous places, making one almost think
Summer had come again.
	These beautiful emblems of love were
the gift of Dr. Shipp’s children.
Accompanying them was this beautiful
sentiment:
“Mother dear we love you.


[Column 1]
	We half believe you know not how well.
Would you fully know? Then measure
out your love, and take a tenth; to love 
more is quite impossible. Capacity to love
comes with our years. Poor consolation
though it be, we are coming to know how
much we should have loved you.
	These flowers will fade—
		Not so our love for thee,
	Deeper, stronger will it grow
		Through all eternity.”
	The spirit of love reigned supreme while
each one greeted our hostess, wishing her 
many more happy birthdays and that she 
would continue to look young and graceful 
as now, though going down the shady side 
of the hill of life.
	Some time was whiled away in pleasant 
conversation, old friends meeting each
other, new friends greeting each other, the
voices of the aged and the young blending
musically together, and over and through 
it all a sweet feeling of love and peace.
	By request a beautiful poem written for 
Dr. Shipp by her aunt, who is much
younger than herself, was read by Miss
Ellis Shipp. Also a loving tribute from 
the pen of Emily H. Woodmansee was read
by Annie Wells Cannon.
	A few choice gems from the heart of our
honored sister, Zina D. H Young, were
expressed in love and praise to our friend. 
	Sister M. Isabella Horne followed, speak-
ing feelingly of some of the trials through
which Sister Shipp had passed, and pro-
phetically portrayed a future more bright, 
more happy than the past.
	Sister B. W. Smith added words of bless-
ing and encouragement. Dainty refresh-
ments were served by the younger members
of the family, while many were the wishes 
expressed that the future might be more 
bright and blessed for the one whom we
had met to honor. Sister E. B. Wells of 
the EXPONENT read a poem full of love; 
and expressions of praise were made by 
others present.
	Some of the responses to the graceful 
invitation were expressed in verse and read
during the afternoon by the authors them-
selves.

MY DEAR FRIEND DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP.
Thy jubilee? Yes dear we will come,
And meet thee in thy happy home;
And wishes bring that every year,
May blessings bring to aid and cheer.
May Peace and plenty crown thy days,
And morn and eve, bring sweetest praise;
May future trials soothe thy heart,
And to thy life new grace impart.
Love beams within thy kindly eye,
Where wells of truth serenely lie;
Wisdom is stamped on thy noble brow,
And Endurance is enthroned there now.
The sun sets in the crimson West;
And Nature sinks to needed rest;
As the floods of glory fill the air,
So may thy life be now more fair.
Till reaching out where the blue tints meet,
May all thy joys be full, complete;—
Thy aims, thy hopes, thy fondest dreams,
Be glorious, bright, as the sun’s last beams.
				LYDIA D. ALDER.

	Some very choice sentiments were sent 
from the Dr’s, medical class, also in rhyme.

[Column 2]
We have come to thee on thy natal day,
In response to a call in thine own sweet way,
Old friends, new friends,—bid sadness flee,
We are brimming over with blessings for thee.

Though true love cannot banish all thy fears,
Neither put to flight all thy sorrows and tears,
’Twill strengthen thy hopes, indeed be a stay;
’Tis such that we bring thee, and give thee alway.
Life truly has held its trials for thee
As for others, but now ’tis thy Jubilee;
Rejoice and be glad, thy sorrows have been,
Refining, exalting,—shall fit thee a queen.

	These sentiments written in a booklet of
Birthday poems were the offering of Ruth
M. Fox.
	As time drew on the happy assemblage
departed, amid strains from the piano of
“Home sweet home,” by Miss Olea Shipp.
						L. D. A.


WOMANS EXPONENT


A MOTHER IN ISRAEL.

THATCHER, Ariz., Jan. 10, 1897.
Dear Sister Wells:
	There was a very pleasant surprise party
held at the home of Patriarch P. C. Merrill
of Safford, in honor of his wife Cyrena on
her 80th birthday, Jan. 6, 1897, gotten up
by her children and members of the Relief
Society.
	At two o’clock the company numbering
between thirty and forty people, sat down
to a bounteous repast; following them came
the grandchildren and great grandchild-
ren. After dinner all re-assembled and a
patriarchal blessing of Sister Merrill given
under the hands of Joseph Smith Sen., was
read. Sister Merrill then gave a brief
sketch of her eventful life, having been
with the church from its early infancy,
patiently enduring the trials of the saints;
her life in Utah and her pioneer life in
Arizona, which was listened to with much
interest by her audience.
	Sister Wilmirth East, Relief Society
Stake President having come from her
home some ten miles distant to be with her
beloved co-laborer and counselor on this
her natal day, gave some very good and
interesting remarks during which she was
led to speak in tongues which she interpret-
ed; her words encouraged and strengthened
the faith of those present. She was follow-
ed by others of the brothers and sisters
present.
	Before the company dispersed Patriarch
Merrill gave them his blessing and all
went their way feeling the afternoon had
been pleasantly and profitably spent.
	During the afternoon the following
beautiful lines were read by their composer,
Sister Diana Allen:

[LINES TO SISTER CYRENA MERRILL ON HER
80TH birthday, Jan. 6, 1897.]
To our veteran Mother, who aged and white.
Has braved the rude storms, and fought the good
	fight,
With gladness we greet thee, this day of thy
	birth,
And noble indeed are your works on the earth.
Altho’ eighty years of sunshine and gloom,
Have chased from your face all its youthful bloom,
Your heart is still young to the laughter and glee.
Of the little ones prattling ’round Grandma’s
	knee.


Still your sons and daughters in sadness behold
Your footsteps more feeble, 'our mother is old;"
O, may the rich blessing of heaven thee attend,
And thy pathway be strewn with joy to the end.

Then when thy sun sets, may the morn's glorious
	light
Dispel with its splendors, the darkness of night.
The welcome plaudit may you hear, "'Tis well
	done
Enter into thy rest with the Father and Son."

Yet we supplicate still at the Throne of Grace
That thy days may be lengthened, all sorrows
	erased,
To counsel and bless the young and the gay,
And see many happy returns of your natal day.

Your sister,
MARIA MCRAE.


U. W. P. C. 

	JAN. 30, ’97. The U. W. P. C. held its
regular meeting at the office of the WO-
MAN’S EXPONENT. Pres’t. Ruth M. Fox
called the meeting to order at 7.30 p. m.
After prayer was offered, the roll was
called, the members responding with senti-
ments from Edwin Arnold. Minutes of
last meeting read and approved. Motion
was made and carried that club pay twelve
dollars a year for room rent, beginning Oct.
31, ’96.
	Report on membership book by Dr.
Pratt. Remarks made by Pres’t. for the
good of the club. Program as follows:
	“Late Kate Field” Dr. Pratt; “Cuban
War’’ Mrs. Harker; “Action of United
States on Cuban Question’’ Mrs. Hyde.
Each paper in its turn discussed by mem-
bers of the club.
	Motion made by Dr. Pratt and carried that
minutes be read and approved at end of
meeting.
	Motion made by Mrs. Dickinson and
carried that the treasurer pay the rent of
room for six months. Program for next
meeting read, minutes of evening read and
approved. Benediction by Mrs. Phebe C.
Young; adjourned.
		ORIELLE CURTIS, Sec’y.


RELIEF SOCIETY IN CHICAGO.

	A NOTABLE event of the new year is the
organization of a Relief Society in the great
city of Chicago—so near to the place and in
the same state where the first Relief Society
was organized by the Prophet Joseph
Smith. The following notice appeared in
the Deseret Evening News of Jan. 9, 1897.
	“A Relief Society has been organized
here lately with Sisters Bengta Benedict
president, Sister Charlotte Esterbloom and
Christena Soderland as first and second
counselors, and Sisters Erekson and Brum-
ley secretary and treasurer, respectively.
This part of the branch is also alive to its
duties, and it is to them the Elders,
students and friends owe thanks for the en-
joyable time spent.”


MRS. ELLEN C. SARGENT, of San Fran-
cisco, and her daughter, Dr. Sargent, sailed
for Naples Jan. 16, on the Werra (North
German Lloyd) from New York.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SELECTION FROM TIMES AND SEASONS.

62.	THESE are they that receive not a fulness of
light,
From Christ, in eternity’s world, where they
are,
The terrestrial sends them the Comforter,
though;
And minist’ring angels, to happify there.
63.	And so the telestial is ministered to,
By ministers from the terrestrial one,
As terrestrial from the celestial throne;
And the great, greater, greatest, seems stars,
moon; and sun.
64.	And thus I beheld, in the vision of heav’n,
The telestial glory, dominion and bliss;
Surpassing the great understanding of men,—
Unknown, save revealed, in a world vain as this.
65.	And lo, I beheld the terrestrial, too,
Which excels the telestial in glory and light,
In splendor, and knowledge, and wisdom and
joy,
In blessings, and graces, dominion and might.
66.	I beheld the celestial, in glory sublime;
Which is the most excellent kingdom that is,—
Where God, e’en the Father, in harmony reigns
Almighty, supreme, and eternal, in bliss.
67.	Where the church of the first born in union
reside,
And they see as they’re seen, and they know as
they’re known;
Being equal in power, dominion and might,
With a fulness of glory and grace, round his
throne.
68.	The glory celestial is one like the sun;
The glory terrestrial is one like the moon;
The glory telestial is one like the stars,
And all harmonize like the parts of a tune.
69.	As the stars are all different in lustre and
size,
So the telestial region, is mingled in bliss;
From the least unto greatest, and greatest to
least,
The reward is exactly as promis’d in this.
70.	These are they that came out for Apollos
and Paul;
For Cephas and Jesus, in all kinds of hope;
For Enoch and Moses, and Peter, and John;
For Luther and Calvin, and even the Pope.
71.	For they never received the gospel of Christ,
Nor the prophetic spirit that came from the
Lord;
Nor the covenant neither, which Jacob once had;
They went their own way, and they have their
reward.
72.	By the order of God, last of all, these are
they,
That will not be gather’d with saints here be-
low,
To be caught up to Jesus, and meet in the cloud:—
In darkness they worshipped; to darkness they
go.
73.	These are they that are sinful, the wicked at
large,
That glutted their passion by meanness or
worth;
All liars, adulterers, sorcerers, and proud;
And suffer, as promised, God’s wrath on the
earth.
74.	These are they that must suffer the ven-
geance of hell,
’Till Christ shall have trodden all enemies
down,
And perfected his work, in the fulness of times;
And is crown’d on his throne with his glorious
crown.

[Column 2]
75.	The vast multitude of the telestial world—
As the stars of the skies or the sands of the
sea;—
The voice of Jehovah echoed far and wide,
Ev’ry tongue shall confess, and they all bow
the knee.
76.	Ev’ry man shall be Judged by the work of
his life,
And receive a reward in the mansions prepared;
For his judgments are just, and his works never
end,
As his prophets and servants have always
declared.
77.	But the great things of God which he show’d
unto me,
Unlawful to utter, I dare not declare;
They surpass all the wisdom and greatness of
men,
And only are seen, as has Paul, where they are.
78.	I will go, I will go, while the secret of life,
Is blooming in heaven, and blasting in hell;
Is leaving on earth, and a budding in space:—
I will go, I will go, with you, brother, farewell.
JOSEPH SMITH.
Nauvoo, Feb. 1843.
	We desire to call the attention of our
readers to the fragment of a poem written
in Nauvoo by Joseph Smith the Prophet.
If any of our sisters have kept the old
volumes of Times and Seasons that contain
the poem complete, we should be glad if
they would send a written copy to the EX-
PONENT. It was published Feb. 1, 1843—
