Vol. 25. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 15, 1897.	H O	No. 20


CONTENTS:
	The Silk Industry—Ann C. Woodbury. Mary
Stuart. Hawaii—M. A. Lambert. Eighty
Years—E. E. P. F. A Biographical Sketch
—Lucinda Snow. U. W. P. C.—Orielle Cur-
tis, Sec. R. S. Reports—Sanpete Stake—Wayne
Stake.
	EDITORIAL:---The General Conference Re-
miniscences Of Pioneer Days. General Con
ference Relief Society. Editorial Notes.
	Poetry:—My Surest Trust—H. W. N. To
Ellis R. Shipp, M. D.—E. B. W. The Old Songs
—L. M. Hewlings.


For the Exponent.
		MY SUREST TRUST.

FATHER, Thou art my trust, my all,
To Thee in trials oft I call,
	My voice is hushed to friend and kin,
	But Thy great heart hath room within !

So I Thine ear would supplicate,
Though dwelling here in low estate;
	May sinful, weak and erring, 1
	Still love Thy name. My God Most High!

I sing Thy praises, read Thy word,
My prayers Thou Lord hast often heard;
	And I Thy servants will sustain,
	Long as Thy Spirit I obtain !  

Mercy from Thee I humbly claim,
Unworthy yet to bear Thy name;
	As I to all this boon extend,—
	So do to me, my own dear Friend !

When this life like a dream is past,
Give me a place near Thee at last,
	Whose Love and Truth and Life are one,
	Within the Kingdom of Thy Son !
H. W. N.


TO ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.

FIFTIETH BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY
		  (JANUARY 20, 1897.)

WE cannot bind upon your brow a laurel wreath,
	Though richly you deserve such honors here;
But we have come in love and blessing to your
		home
	And to our hearts you are most truly dear;
And we will celebrate with you and yours today
The anniversary of years now passed may.
Yet we can scarce believe 't is fifty long, long
		years,
	Since from celestial heights you came to stay
Awhile upon the earth, a mission to fulfill;
	Your face is still so fair, your spirit bright alway;
But you have labored long and well, we know;
And that is partly why, we love you so.
Your gen’rous soul is full of tender sympathy,
	And you have been a friend in very deed
Unto the destitute, as well as the distressed,
	Yea giving comfort in the hour of need.
The sweetness of your voice breathes gentle
		tenderness;
And may your days to come be full of happiness.
We bring to you today the sweetest thoughts we
	have,
We greet you Doctor—poet, singer of sweet
	songs,


We call you friend and sister, sacred names, and
		pray
	That every blessing which to saint belongs
May come to you, and yours, now and forever-
	more;
And that we all may meet, in love, when time is
	o’er. 
E. B. W.


[Column 1]
For the Exponent

THE SILK INDUSTRY.

	THERE is probably no industry that we
could have established among us that would
be more beneficial to the poorer classes of
people than silk culture. The work is 
comparatively light, and the capital neces-
sary to produce the cocoons and reeling the
silk is trifling.
	Our climate is remarkably well adapted
to the growth of the mulberry tree; much
of our soil contains more or less alkali, and
this has the effect of shortening the life of
the peach and almond trees, but this does
not seem to be the case with the mulberry
tree. It thrives here to a wonderful ex-
tent indeed. I have heard Europeans say
the mulberry will make a greater growth in  
one year here, than in six years in Europe.
Although this is probably an exaggeration,
it is nevertheless true, that if the success of 
the silk industry depends upon the success-
ful raising of the mulberry, success in that 
line would be already assured.
	Many mulberry trees have been planted
here, and many of them are in existance
now. Our climate is perhaps not less per-
fectly adapted to the growth of the silk 
worm. This has been proven to a demon-
stration, as it is attested by the fact that we 
have on hand now in this county about
eight hundred pounds of cocoons which
have been produced here, but for want of
a market could not be disposed of.
	Many people have learned how to care
for the silkworm, but not being able to dis-
pose of their cocoons, and not being able to
reel them or to put them into marketable
shape they have become discouraged, and
the only hope for the continuance and the 
development of this industry is either to
find a market for our cocoons, or to learn
how to reel them and to put the silk 
into a marketable shape.
	With this idea in view we have been
working and experimenting all winter, and
we have concluded that with a little in-
struction and experience we can make reel-
ing a success, and we can put our silk in a 
shape that will place it in the market. I
took some twist which we had made to
a tailor of this city, and after working with 
it he pronounced it good. At a trifling
cost for machinery, I am satisfied that the
silk can be worked up into many useful
articles, sewing silk, lace, neckties etc.,
can be made and that of silk of our own 
manufacture.
	Perhaps I may be considered an enthu-
siast on the silk question, but when I look
about me and see the thousands of young 
people that are growing up around me, and

[Column 2]
realize that the husbands and fathers are
struggling on the farms to sustain their
loved ones, and that there seems to be so 
few things that they can raise which will
command a ready sale and enable them to
obtain means for buying clothing and other
cash articles; when I realize that four 
pounds of cocoons that are worth only four 
dollars, can be worked up into a pound of
silk which will be worth eight dollars; that 
this silk will command a ready sale for 
cash and that the work can be done by the 
women and children, and at the same time
be light, and pleasant, and profitable.
	When I realize this may I not be pardon-
ed for being an enthusiast? Is it any won-
der that I have spent many anxious days
and sleepless nights endeavoring to solve
the problem of putting our silk in a market-
able shape?
	In my mind's eye I can see before me a 
vast field of good opening up. I see how a 
people may become self-sustaining; how
the widow and the fatherless may be found
employment that will make them no longer
dependents and paupers, but enable them to 
hold up their heads in the consciousness
that they are self-supporting. I see the 
possibility of adding to our list of exports,
another article which will assist in stopping
that constant drain of money that goes out 
to pay for the articles we import.
	In conclusion, Sister Alger, the President
of the Silk Association of St. George, has
secured land for planting out mulberry
trees, which we trust will be a blessing in 
the future. Now let us say that we desire
to enlist the services, and we invite the co-
operation of all interested in the welfare of 
our growing State, and her growing in us-
tries, to aid us in making the industry a
success. The State gives us encouragement
and aid; the silk commission is laboring
with its might, and now let the people not 
slacken their efforts.
	Don't refuse to raise more cocoons be-
cause of the discouragement of the past,
but believe, with us, that the "darkest
hour is just before the dawn."
	Let this year see a great increase in the 
production of cocoons, and believe that the 
way will open up so that they will be a 
blessing and a profit to us.
			ANN C. WOODBURY


“MOTHER” JOHNS, Mrs., Laura M.
Johns’s mother-in-law, is in her eighty-
sixth year. She spent last summer in
Colorado with a daughter on a ranch four-
teen miles from their voting place. She
was duly registered—all voters in Colorado
must register—and would have voted, but
for a failure in health which prevented her,
to her great disappointment and that of her
family. She took much interest in politics,
and read much during the summer. She
is now at her son’s home at Salina, Kan.,
and has an opportunity to cast a full ballot
for all municipal officers.
	WHEN Priscilla Delano Spooner went to
cast her vote for members of the board of
education at Kent, Ohio, she promptly
answered 101 years and 4 months.


WOMAN S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
MARY STUART.

READ BEFORE THE REAPERS CLUB
SEP. 1897.
	The beginning of the 16th Century found
Scotland suffering from domestic broils
which often led to war and bloodshed.
	The house of Hamilton contended for the
regency during the minority of James the
V. and resisting their claims were the
Clans of, Stuart and Douglas After a.
severe struggle of many years the regency
was given to the Douglas faction; and
quoting Miss Benger "Under their admin-
istration might was right.” Armed men
infested the halls of justice, and although
exempted from foreign war, the barons
maintained a petty warfare which in its
consequences was infinitely more calami-
tous. Each insulated castle inspired dis-
trust. The forest districts were occupied
by hordes of banditti; even in populous
towns the citizens were often disturbed by
the alarum bell, or trumpet calling to arms.
Every species of outrage was committed
with impunity upon the weaker sex;
throughout Scotland there, was no sanctuary
for innocence, no tribunal of justice. And
added to these troubles were the religious
dissensions caused by the rise of the Ref-
ormation, and the consequent hatred exist-
ing between the Reformers and the Papists.
in the year 1542 Henry. VIII. was on the
throne of England vigorously encouraging
Protestantism, and with the clergy as tools,
hurling defiance at Pope Clemant VII, and
his orders of excomunication.
	Amidst all this disquiet was born, Dec-
ember 7, 1542, Mary Stuart, as Bell says
“ the loveliest and most unfortunate wo-
man that ever lived.”
	Daughter of James the V.of Scotland and
Mary of Guise. She was their third child,
two sons having died in infancy. When but
seven days old her father James the V. died,
leaving her the legacy of a kingdom dis-
tracted with civil wars and threatened with
foreign invasion. The Earl of Arran was
appointed regent, and the infant queen was
crowned when nine months old. Henry
VIII. prepared to unite the two kingdoms
by marrying his son Edward to Mary. But
this offer was rejected by the Scots, and a
closer alliance was formed between Scot-
land and France for their mutual protec-
tion against England. Mary’s mother was
a woman of high intellectual and moral
qualities. As a foreigner she had little
sympathy with the parties around her but
sought to unite them. She was ambitious
for her daughter’s welfare; and when
through the influence of her brothers the
Princes of Guise, a treaty of marriage was
proposed between the Dauphin, son of
Henry II.and Catherine D,’ Medecis, it was
received by her with great joy and as part
of the treaty the queen was to be educated
in France, until the marriage could be sol-
emnized. For two years after her corona-
tion she was permitted to remain in Ster-
ling Castle under the control of the Earls of
Livingstone and Mar. Later being threat-
ened by the approach of the English Army
was removed for greater security to Dum-
barton Castle.
	Here her education was strictly attended
to. and over nurse, governess and tutors,
presided her mother, and knowing that it
would be more rapidly advanced in a class,
she selected four girls about her daughter’s
age, each bearing the name of Mary. First
came Mary Beaton, daughter of the Cardi-
[Column 2]
nal, Mary Fleming, daughter of Lord Flem-
ing, the third, Mary Livingstone and last
Mary Seaton whose father Lord Seaton was
a faithful friend of the royal family. She
remained at Dumbarton for three years
with these chosen companions, and at this
early age had commenced the study of Latin
among her other lessons, and by her apti-
tude in learning, and her gentleness and
docility, soon won the hearts of all around
her. In her sixth year she left Scotland
for France. “ From the hour of her birth,”
says Miss Benger, “until her embarkation
for France the heiress of James V. had been
surrounded as a prisoner with sentinels
and fortified walls, the symbols of subjec-
tion and captivity.”
	She arrived at Brest in July 1548, where
she was received with great honor. In
company with the king’s daughters she
was sent to a convent to be instructed, and
here was implanted within her mind that
ever abiding faith in Catholicism. So read-
ly did she comply with whatever was re-
quired of her, and so zealous was she in her
religious duties, that the nuns declared
Mary Stuart would be a saint on earth; and
began to cherish ambitious hopes that her
life would be a religious one. These re-
ports reaching the ears of Henry II. caused
her removal to the palace. Her Mary’s
were still her constant companions, and the
most eminent men of the day were her
instructors. She studied Latin under
Buchanan, the historian, one of the most
learned men of the 16th Century, poetry
under Ronsard, in which she had decided
talent, as the few poems which have been
preserved will show. French she spoke as
fluently as her native tongue and was
equally skilled in music and dancing.
	Some writers declare the court of Henry II.
surpassed all other times in looseness of
morals, and even say that Mary Stuart im-
bibed a disregard for chastity that influenced
her actions in after life. I would not ex-
cuse the life of Henry II.but ask you to re-
member that a monarch does not mirror a
people, and that his court appears bright
indeed compared a little later with that of
Charles IX. under Catherine, and although
his queen was set aside for Diana, we re-
member Elizabeth and the Earl of Leices-
ter; the Scottish court where woman of
rank did not hesitate to live openly with
nobles on whom they had no legal claim,
as instance Marian, the Mistress of Cardinal
Beaton. I do not wish to palliate these
crimes, but to add, that among the galaxy
of the talented men and women gathered at
the court, and so great a number has never
appeared on one scene, before nor since,
there must have been much that was up-
right and moral. This was the epoch of
learning in France, and it was considered
necessary for those desiring a finished, liber-
al education to resort there. Many women
of rank were under the tuition of scholars
and orators. Such names as Margaret of
Savoy, sister of the king, Anne of Este,
and Margaret of Navarre, all women of
superior education and undoubted morals;
of the former it is said she governed an em-
pire not inferior to that of the king, as she
reigned over the minds and affections of his
subjects, who in expressing their admiration
for her wisdom and uprightness gave her the
title of Minerva. History has given us the
lives of these women and they are noble.
Mary’s marriage with Francis was solemn-
ized with the greatest splendor, the festivi-
ties lasting for fifteen days. Never had
such magnificence been seen in Paris.
[Column 3]
	Mary was in her sixteenth year, and all
writers unite in praise of her beauty which
did not consist in the regularity of her fea-
tures alone, but in the soul that illuminated
them, and in the charm and sweetness of
her manner. She was above the ordinary
height, finely proportioned and in her
movements graceful and dignified. Her
complexion clear with beautiful brown
hair and eyes. Brantome compares her to
the sun at midday and declares that no man
ever saw her without losing his heart. It
was on this, the occasion of her marriage,
that great offence was given Elizabeth,
then on the throne of England. The arms
of England were placed with those of Scot-
land and France upon the royal Banners,
and Francis and Mary were given the titles
king and Queen of England; Elizabeth
never forgot this nor that Mary had ardent
supporters in the Pope and the powerful
political party of France, led by her uncles.
When we consider the claims of Mary Stu-
art to the crown of England they do not
appear so presumptive. As grand-niece of
Henry VIII. who had illegitimatized his
daughters Mary and Elizabeth; after the
death of his son Edward, Mary Stuart was
next in succession. Her claims were then
urged by the Scottish parliament, but with-
out avail. One year after the marriage of
Francis and Mary, Henry II. was killed in
a tournament and they were king and queen
for the short period of seventeen months.
Then Francis died leaving the young wife
a widow at seventeen. Charles IX. was
appointed king with his mother Catherine,
as regent. She made no effort to conceal
her dislike for Mary Stuart, whom she had
always opposed, and only through motives
of policy endured.
	Political and religious changes were now
rapidly taking place. Mary’s supporters
were no longer in the ascendant and she
was unfortunate in being an object of
suspicion to England, Scotland and France.
To Elizabeth who looked upon her as a
rival, and if opportunity presented an usur-
per of her throne. To Scotland for her Cath-
olic religion, as the Reformers were now in
the majority there. To France, who dread-
ed a foreign alliance, especially with Spain.
She realized that with all these changes
France was no longer her home, and that
duty and allegiance required her to return
to Scotland. In sorrow she departed from
France that had been a happy home to her
for thirteen years, and as the vessel left the
port she stood with streaming eyes watch-
ing the receding shore; as if in prophetic
vision she saw before her the prison and the
scaffold. And well might she sorrow; ac-
customed to the luxury and refinement of
the court. Her associates men and women of
letters and cultivation; courted-and flattered
on every side: educated as queen of Scot-
land and prospective queen of France and
England; and for a few short months to
have reached that giddy height, only to
feel now more keenly, all that had been
within her grasp. Where shall we look for
another instance that the future had prom-
sed so much? Now all this was in the
past.
(Continued.)


THE Young Woman’s Union of Phila-
delphia, composed of young Jewish women,
maintain a household school, kindergarten,
day nursery, shelter and library for Jewish
emigrants.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the Exponent.
THE OLD SONGS.

TO MRS. M. R. HUBBARD.
	[In reply to the question “Do you sing those
sweet old songs now you sung in days “Lang
Syne?”]
	Nay, I canna’ sing the old songs,
		You loved so well to hear;
	Sung oft in happy days now gone,
		When love and life were dear.
	Those charming days of “Auld Lang Syne.”
		Woven with sunshine round,—
	Adown the corridor’s of time,
		Now but in fancy found.

	Nay, I canna’ sing the old songs,
		There comes a rush of tears,
	And my voice fails to reach the notes,
		Soar’d o’er in bygone years. 
	I may not touch a broken lute,
		Nor strike a jangled string,
	Nor strive with tones forever mute,
		Those dear old songs to sing, 
	My harp is on the willows hung,
		Its strains of music o’er,
	Those dear old songs remain unsung,
		That oft thrilled hearts of yore.
	“Sweet highland Mary,”—“Bonnie doon,”—
		“Ben Bolt’’—and Nelly Bly,”—.
	“Raking the hay in merrie June,’’—
	And “Cornin’ thro’ the rye.’’—
	“O there’s ne’er made sic’ anither,”—
		“Annie Laurie,”—“ Ivy green,”—
	“Sweet Home” “The last rose of summer—”
		“Bonnie blue-eyed Kathleen,”—
	“Kate Mavourneen,”—“Rory o’Moore,”—
		“Jessie flower o’ Dumblane,”—
	“Young Mary across the moor,”—
		“When shall we meet again,”
	“Old oaken bucket,”—“Lochinvar,”—
		“Bide ye darlent, wi' me,”—
	“Pledged to union in peace or war,”—
		“Land of the brave and free,”—
	*“Now launch the boat upon the wave,”—
		“Do they miss me at home?”—
	“Here’s health bonnie Scotland to thee,”—
		“Westward our footsteps roam.”

	These are some of the old songs,
		Twined in a wreath for you;
	Souviner of days “Lang Syne,”
		With life’s bright roseate hue.

	They cheer my heart like summer rain,
		As I their names recall,
	I seem to hear each echoed strain,
		Now blending with them all.
							L. M. HEWLINGS
*Greek Emigrants Song.


[Column 1]
HAWAII.

		“ON the heaving of the ocean
		Like a loving mother’s breast,
	Lie the islands of Hawaii
		As an infant in its rest. 
	Sleep sweetly Hawaii
			The murmur of waves
		Is echo of music from coral formed caves.”
	Twenty years ago Hawaii was a little
land of mystery. The means of visiting it
were scanty, while the volcano and inter-
island trips were difficult and somewhat
dangerous. Mark Twain’s “Roughing
it” did much to awaken American enthus-
iasm, toward seeing and claiming the de-
lights of that “pretty little string of
pearls,” as Joaquin Miller calls them.
	“A string of rare and beautiful pearls,
in the sapphire center of the great American
sea. Some day we shall gather up this

[Column 2]
precious string of pearls and throw it mer-
rily about the neck of the beautiful big wo-
man, who has her handsome head on the
outside of the big American dollar, and then
they will be called the beautiful American
islands.”
	Until 1883 there was no regular round
trip steamer service, but since then the
semi-monthly steamers have carried a
steady growth of tourist trade until in 1889
and 1890 over one hundred first class pas-
sengers passed over the route each month.
	“There is but one Hawaii,” and but
one ocean whose smooth Pacific waters are
suggestive of Aegean beauty. Isles and
ocean are a two-fold enticement to tourist
and health seeker. Twenty years ago the
trip was accompanied by few of the advan-
tages, which are the outcome of social
growth and adjustment; but the discom-
forts that attended the necessarily long,
rocking voyage at that time, were quickly
compensated for, by the novel experiences
found in contact with this new and inter-
esting people, and the bewildering delights
of this peep into nature’s own garden.
Homes so beautiful, cosying and nestling
amidst such a variety of tropical growth
and bloom, bewildering and delighting with
the extravagance of color and odor. Nuu-
ani Avenue, the main street of Hono-
lulu threads up a gentle incline to
the sublime glory of the “Pali,” that
wonderful gorge in the backbone of Oahu.
Two thousand feet below the waters throb
and surge on the bosom of those fair
Aleutian Isles, from its precipitous verge
amidst its cloud-draped peaks the view is
impressive and inspiring, and away down
there where the tide is flowing and ebbing
is love and lovers, is joy and sorrow, and
life and death. Afar off is the gracefully
curved coast line where the differing green
of land and ocean meet and blend; there is
the shimmer and sheen of hills and valleys
in their luxuriant fern clad beauty, and the
entire romantic panoramic landscape spread-
ing its mantle far, far out until the round-
ing line of the Isle on the opposite side
loses itself in the gray sand and mist of
beach and sky. Up this lovely incline to
the “Pali,” or on the white beach whose
sands are packed and hardened by the lap-
ping waves the native equestrians are
at their best. The natives all ride well and
the side saddle is an object of contempt.
Astride their fleet-footed ponies, bare feet
in the stirrups and gay streamers floating
on either side, head and neck bedecked
with brilliant flowers, the native woman is
attractive, picturesque and daring. This
primitive and conspicuous costume has been
superseded to a great extent by the tasteful
short skirt, bloomer and gaiter, and on the
heel of the latter is sometimes seen the
pretty but cruel little spur flashing in the
sunlight.
	They are usually happy and hospitable,
with native cordiality sharing with their
visitor their calabash of “Poi.” To one
uninitiated the question will probably arise
whether to slight the hospitality of host or
hostess and refuse this peculiar “staff of
life,” or partake thereof in defiance of in-
clination and appetite and thereby win their
admiration and regard. The taro from
which the poi is made is a vegetable very
like the Indian turnip. It is cultivated in
“lois” (patches of standing water) and
cooked by steam process in underground
ovens or holes, lined with hot stones
After several hours steaming it is removed,
stripped of its rough skin, thrown into a

[Column 3]
large trough and pounded, kneaded and
pounded again to a spongy, doughy mass, then
set aside in calabashes to ferment for pala-
table eating with any of the many varieties
of delicious fish with which they may easily
supply their simple larders. In swimming,
diving and surf riding they seem to merely
play with the waves. Babes but a few
months old are taken upon their mother’s
shoulders and taught to love the water and
as they grow stronger, to ride upon the
waves on the daring surf board. While
American thoughts and customs are no
longer exotic yet the past with its myths
and legends, its customs and ceremonies,
while not paramount influences—still they
are dear to every Hawaiian heart.
	The gentle climate lends an influence to
good nature with a tendency to indolence
and deterioration.
	They are excessively fond of flowers and
music. Often memory recalls the balmy
moonlit evenings, the groups of dark-eyed,
dusky-skinned boys and girls decorated
with garlands of fragrant flowers, their
dreamy-toned voices rising in melody,
mingling with the mystical song of the
waves, and too, keeping time and tune
with their graceful movements in the
voluptuous Hula dance. Midst such
scenes we may so easily idealize them with
their dark beauty and languorous grace,
beneath tropical stars and night blooming
Cereus. Their feasts given in honor of
weddings, births, arrivals and departures,
are great occasions. The bride usually
dressed in white “holoku,” (mother hub-
bard) gaily decorated with blossoms of
brightest hues, sits on a fern carpeted floor,
and partakes of the roasted pig and poi
with the same eager appetite evinced by
her guests seated like Turks around her.
Upon occasions of death too a feast is sup-
plied and for days is heard rising over the
hills and floating on the ocean-blown winds
the loud, wailing “uwe” of the mourners
weird and uncanny in effect.
	Hawaii, “fair daughter of the ocean,”
is a world of strange pleasures and experi-
ences.  The beauties of cliff and waterfall,
the weird ruggedness of crater and coral
reef, the existence of human nature in its
aborginal simplicity, its generosity, ignor-
ance and innate love of beauty, will well
reward time and study.
	Her industries, commercial develop-
ments and political status, are generally
known, so much has been written thereon.
Of the details of their humble lives, their
habits, superstitions and language, so much
of interest can always be told.
	Heart and memory will forever hold,
tender, loving and grateful thoughts for the
dark friends of twenty years ago among
whom were spent four years of teaching
and being taught many of life’s serious
lessons.
			M. A. LAMBERT.
	Written for the U. W. P. C.


MISS GRACE PATTON, State Superinten-
dent of Public Schools for Colorado, is a
member of the Faculty of the State Agri-
cultural School at Ft. Collins. Her politi-
cal hobby is proportional representation.

	A BILL to licence the social evil is pend
ing in Oregon. Oregon women are send-
ing strong protests to the Legislature.
These attempts will continue to be made
from time to time, until women have a
vote.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	- 	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 &228 Constitution Build- 
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday. 
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
ccond-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, APRIL 15, 1897.


[Column 1]
THE GENERAL CONFERENCE

	THE annual Conference of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was held
in the Tabernacle in this city, commencing
Sunday, April 4th at 10 a. m. and closing
Tuesday, April 6th. President George Q.
Cannon presiding the first two days, Presi-
dent Wilford Woodruff not being able to
attend the services until the third day.
The people were very desirous of seeing
President Woodruff in his place on the
stand and of hearing his voice in the Con-
ference, and doubtless great faith was ex-
ercised in his behalf and on Tuesday morn-
ing, April 6th when the President of the
Church appeared the assembly rose enmasse
and saluted him silently with the waving
of handkerchiefs. A great wave of emo-
tion seemed to pervade the house. The
President responded to the salutation with,
“God bless you all;” and afterwards when
he arose to speak an intense sense of satis-
faction shone from the countenances of the
multitude.
	President Woodruff was the first speaker
His remarks were as follows:
	"I want to say to my brethren and sis-
ters and friends that through your prayers
and faith I am here this morning. I have
been considerably under the weather, as
the saying is, for a little time past, but I
am glad to meet with you and feel to say a
few words to you this morning. I know it
would not be wisdom for me to occupy a
great deal of time or say a great deal.
First, I will say I have followed the re-
ports and sayings of the Apostles and
Elders from the commencement of the Con-
ference until this morning; what I have
not read myself has been read to me, and it
has been a great deal of consolation to me
I want to say to the Latter-day Saints the
God of heaven is at work carrying out His
purposes in fulfillment of revelation and
prophecy and inspiration, which He has
given through His Prophets and Apostles
and Patriarchs from the commencement of
the work until this hour. And the Lord
is not going to fail on His part in any of
these things. It is for us as a people to do
our duty, to labor for ourselves and for our
fellowmen; to occupy the time that we
have here, to the best advantage we can, in
trying to honor the Priesthood and people,
to build up the kingdom of God, to set a
good example, and to establish righteous-
ness. And I want to say to the young
men and maidens, my young brethren and
sisters, who may be present here this morn-

[Column 2]
ing, I want you to make your aim high
and realize that you have your generation,
that you have your times granted in con-
nection with your fathers and mothers in
the building up of the kingdom of God.
Do not spend your time in the follies and
frivolities of this world, but try to improve
your time. You occupy one of the most
important dispensations and generations
God has ever given to men, and I have a
great interest for the rising generation. I
know for myself and not for another, that
the Lord has raised up our children, our
sons and daughters, to stand in the foot-
steps of their fathers in the winding-up
scene of the great work of the Zion of our
God. I realize that they do not compre-
hend, in fact there are very few who com-
prehend today the position we occupy, and
the responsibility we are under to God
and the Holy Priesthood, who have raised
us up and placed us here in the midst of a
generation of men and women, children of
men, upon whose heads are going to rest
great responsibilities, in the great events
which are to follow each other in quick
succession in the day in which we live.
	As far as I am concerned, I do not know,
it has never been revealed to me, why my
life has been preserved, while the Lord has
taken away Prophets and Apostles and
other men of God, who have spent three or
four, ten or twelve, fourteen or fifteen
years in the capacity of the building up of
the kingdom of God. Our Savior himself
was only three years and a half in passing
through his experiences of teaching the
people, the organization of the kingdom of
God, the choosing of the Twelve Apostles,
His crucifixion, His death and His resur-
rection. The Prophet Joseph spent about
fourteen years translating the Book of Mor-
mon, the history of the Jews, the House of
Israel on this continent, and the dealings of
God with that people. He performed that
work and brought forth the book of Doc-
trine and Covenants, a code of revelations
as great in language and principles, and in
the account of as great and important events
as have ever occurred on the earth. He
performed all this work in about fourteen
years and a half. My brethren, the Apos-
tles, two or three quorums, have passed
away since my ordination nearly all but
myself up to a certain peroid, have passed.
I am not speaking these things boastfully,
but I am here, and it is my duty while I
remain here, to try to say something that
will be of interest to the Latter-day Saints.
I am interested in your welfare, in the wel-
fare of Zion. It is the Zion of God, planted
here by the hand of God, and the Lord has
guided and directed it, and will continue to
do so.
	You have Apostles with you, you have
High Priests and Seventies, and the other
bodies of Priesthood, and they have great
responsibility resting upon them, in the
capacity in which they labor. I have a
great, desire, what time I do live, to see the
people progress, to become united, to com-
prehend and to understand the spirit and
power of God and their calling; you should
do this, and you have got to do something
of this kind, in order to carry out the pur-
poses of the Lord You stand here in the
mountains of Israel, raised up by the Lord.
You have done a great work here, and
there is a great deal more to do. You are
redeeming the dead and the living, and
sending abroad thousands of the Elders to
warn the nations of the earth of those events

[Column 3]
which are to come upon them and upon us.
Therefore the Elders should try to be faith-
ful, and we should watch over our sons and
daughters, give them good advice, and set
them a good example that we may have no
regrets of their falling into principles and
practices which are not right and righteous
before God, on account of our example.
	I say, God bless you; labor for the Holy
Spirit, labor for light and truth, for revela-
tion and inspiration, learn the mind and
will of God concerning yourselves and the
truth of the work of God on the earth.
Keep your eyes open to see, your ears to
hear, and your hearts to understand the
truth, and that you may see the hand of
God visible throughout the world, which
will be more and more visible from this
time to the winding-up scene. God bless
you. Amen.
	Other remarks were by Apostle Merrill,
and President Joseph F. Smith and Apos-
tle Lund who occupied the remainder of
the morning service. In the afternoon re-
ports were read by President Joseph F.
Smith from the Relief Society, Y. L. M.
I. A., and Primary Association. Members
of the Brigham Young Academy Board
were sustained by unanimous vote of the
Conference.
	President Smith then presented the Gen-
eral authorities who were all unanimously
sustained. The meeting was then ad-
dressed by Elder B. H. Roberts, who spoke
of his recent mission to the large cities in
the United States, and was followed by
Elder Samuel W. Richards, late President
of the Eastern States Mission.
	President George Q. Cannon then ad-
dressed the Conference, mentioning the
Brigham Young statue, and that it was de-
sirable that it should be completed as far as
practicable by the time of the semi-centen-
nial Pioneer Jubilee. Much of his sermon
was upon the delusive influences that were
used speciously to draw away the unwary
and deceive the Saints; warned the people
against these false doctrines and urged
them to be diligent and faithful that they
might not be led into error and darkness.
	President Woodruff spoke briefly on the
subject treated by President Cannon, re-
garding seducing spirits and delusive doc-
trines and characterized them as false, de-
ceptive and of a nature to lead those who
imbibed them to destruction.
	The choir sang the anthem “Glory be to
the Lord, our Deliverer.” Conference ad-
journed for six months. Benediction by
Patriarch John Smith.


REMINISCENCES OF PIONEER DAYS.
	THE effort being put forth by the semi-
centennial commission is calling in from all
quarters reminiscences of those early days,
which were so significant of the future;
and yet those who participated therein
could not foresee what has since been un-
folded to their view in the events that have
transpired.
	Those of us who were in Winter Quarters
at the time of the departure of the pioneer
company, and were cognizant of some of
the previous arrangements, only recall
those things that were of general interest
and perhaps incidents relating to their
own immediate families and their friends.
All of us are likely to remember the anx- 
iety that prevaded the entire settlement
when the decision was made public,
though it was very well understood that at


[Column 1]
the opening of Spring a company would
leave for the mountains etc.
	On Sunday, March 28, at the public
stand at Winter Quarters the pioneer
subject was treated upon in discourses by
Heber C. Kimball, Brigham Young, Orson
Pratt and Ezra T. Benson and the people
knew then that in a very few days the com-
pany would be moving on. During the
entire week following, the Apostles, Bishop
Whitney and some leading men were in
council day and night, and on Sunday,
April 4th, Heber C. Kimball preached
an excellent discourse on union as being
power, and that without it the people could
not obtain blessings, nor the spirit of God,
nor faith, nor accomplish the purposes of
God.
	On the same day, as recorded in the
journal of the writer, Bishop Whitney
blessed his two sons, Horace and Orson,
who had been called to go as pioneers.
They were both young men, Horace twenty-
three and Orson only seventeen the January
before. The following day, Monday,
April 5th, it rained and yet at our house
we were especially busy making every pre-
paration for the departure of the young men,
packing the wagon in which they were to
go “over the mountains” as we termed it,
cooking food for the first few days, etc.
“Mother Whitney” though full of faith
and desirous her sons should go, yet felt most
keenly the great risk, and her prayers were
constantly if silently offered for their pro-
tection.
	Conference April 6, (Tuesday) the 17th
year of the Church there was a large atten-
dance at the stand. Brigham Young preach-
ed a wonderful sermon. Word was given
out that the pioneers would start the next
morning, all things were prepared, Brother
Brigham said he wanted to get away where
he could rest his mind; he looked very pale
and worn. Some of the teams pulled out
that day. Thursday, April 8, our teams
were sent down into the country to buy
corn, and Brother Edwin D. Woolley start-
ed for St. Louis. Father Lott, as we called
him came to our house and blessed Horace
and Orson previous to their departure, and
as he gave them similar blessings to their
father, it increased their faith and was a
comfort to Mother Whitney and to Helen,
(Horace’s young wife.) Heber C. Kim-
ball and the Whitney boys and others left;
Bishop Whitney went out with them
to the camp but they came back that
night on horseback, leaving the wagons.
The same day Parley P. Pratt came home
on horseback; he had separated from the
company and hurried on.
	Brother Pratt brought news of Captain
Dan Jones who had formerly been in
Nauvoo, Captain of the Iowa, but had re-
turned to Wales and had wonderful success
in converting the Welsh people. Brother
Brigham left again that day and went
away singing,
“I love the way to Zion’s hill.”
	Bishop Whitney went out too, the same
day. The following day, Sunday, April
11, Parley P. Pratt preached at the stand.
	Monday, April 12, opened school in a
log room belonging to Bishop Whitney,
across the way from our house, had eleven
scholars the first day but soon after had
many more, (had a Sunday school in con-
nection with it.) Among the twenty-five
or thirty boys taught in that log house
were some who have since filled very im-

[Column 2]
portant positions. That afternoon the lead-
ing brethren returned from the pioneer
camp on the Horn river. Tuesday, April
13, the brethren were busy all day settling
some business matters. At evening Brother
John Taylor arrived, they held a council
and determined to start Wednesday, April
14, and on that day all was bustle and con-
fusion; the sisters made cakes and wrote
letters aud sent to the boys who were al-
ready in camp. Ellen (Saunders) Kimball
started off with Brother Kimball and Clara
(Decker) Young with Brigham Young,
Brother Wm. Clayton went with only a
few hours notice. Bishop Whitney accom-
panied them again as far as the Horn river.
Brother Jesse C. Little arrived the same
evening and a party was given in the
Council House in honor of his arrival; he
brought with him presents from Col. Kane
for those who had been so kind to the Col-
onel during his sickness among them.
Brother Little and Porter Rockwell went on
to the camp to join Brigham Young and the
pioneers. This really was the final start
and the brethren who returned, came back
with rather sad countenances.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
GENERAL CONFERENCE, RELIEF
SOCIETY.

	THE Relief Society Conference was held
in the Assembly Hall, April 3rd, 1897,
commencing at 2 p. m., Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young presiding. Opened by singing
“How firm a foundation “etc., Prof. C. J.
Thomas leader and Spencer Clawson Jun.
organist. Prayer was offered by President
Thomas B. Ricks of Bannock Stake, Idaho.
Singing “Now let us rejoice” etc. Roll
call by the Secretary, fifteen presidents of
Stakes present, a few were represented by
Counselors, making nineteen in all.
	President Young welcomed the sisters in
her own motherly fashion and spoke par-
ticularly to those who had come from a dis-
tance to attend Conference. She said in
her remarks we should keep ourselves free
from guile and refrain from speaking
against each other, and should walk in the
straight and narrow way and not be turned
aside by any influences that were mislead-
ing; reminded the sisters of the Prophet’s
words that the sisters little knew the
work that they were laying a founda-
tion for thought, we realized it now more
fully than ever; said in closing, “May
heaven bless us and sustain us, and may
we have the Holy Spirit while we are here
together that we may have a time of re-
joicing and go away feeling refreshed ”
	Minutes of October Conference were
read by the Secretary and approved. Sis-
ter B. W. Smith spoke of the good number
present and was glad to see the sisters, re-
joiced in the Relief Society; referred to the
minutes that had been read, said we have
talked about a house of our own to meet in,
but thought it was not the right time just
now, and we have no land, and so we must
wait till the right time comes. Spoke of
the work for the dead and how much she
enjoyed being engaged in the Temple.
	Sister Jane S. Richards felt we had great
reason to be thankful that we had health
and strength and a desire to come to meet-
ing; who is there that does not feel filled
with joy and energy to do and to help in this
great work; said she heard the Gospel
when seventeen years old, she was admin-
istered to by the Elders and the numbness

[Column 2]
from which she suffered was all taken from
her, she knew then and had known ever
since that the Gospel was true. Referred
to the good effect of a few kind words,
thought we should not talk much of hard
times, and alluded to the circumstances un-
der which the Nauvoo Temple was built,
and said her husband worked on it; the
people did not complain then even when
there was not bread for them, Sister Richards
spoke of her relatives in the East and the
kind feelings they manifested towards her,
and how she felt towards them.
	Sister Ann C. Woodbury, of St. George,
rejoiced in meeting with the sisters; she
had visited a part of the Stake since she
was here in the fall, and she took pains
wherever she went to urge the setting out
of mulberry trees, many sisters were will-
ing to take hold of the work, and hundreds
of children of the Latter-day Saints could
be employed in this industry; recommended
one child with a grown person, said it had
been her feeling ever since she came to the
country that silk culture could be made a
success; believed the Lord would bless us
in this work; thought we should teach our
children to be industrious and to grow up
in faith, to pray and to be prepared to stand
in the front in all good undertakings.
	Sister Zina urged the sisters to take the
mulberry twigs and plant them in by the
ditches, and they would soon grow and the
leaves could easily be gathered without
having to climb trees, and added “when
you do this, think of President Brigham
Young and his counsel in regard to silk.”
	Sister Lydia Rich reported Morgan Stake
in good condition in all respects and bore a
strong testimony to the truth, and spoke
very forcibly of the missionaries abroad in
the earth, and the remarkable work being
accomplished.
	Sister Annie U. Larsen, of Emery Stake,
reported the work of the Society in that
Stake. “Children,” she said, “ are taught
to fear the Lord and to obey the command-
ments, to be honest and to be respectful in
their behavior. We sisters have consulted
together in regard to silk raising; we don’t
believe we will always be able to get our
ribbons from Babylon.” Sister Larsen al-
so bore a strong testimony to the truth of
the Gospel.
	President Thomas Ricks, of Bannock,
Stake, said he felt very much out of place
being here to report, but as he had a writ-
ten report given him of the Relief Society
of that Stake, he would read that, which
he proceeded to do and he then told the
sisters how disappointed the sisters were up
there because Sister Young and Sister
Richards did not visit them when they
were in Idaho last year, (they were afraid
of the high water.) He thought the Lord
was pushing His work. “ There are twice
as many Elders in the field now as there
are people in this audience, and they are
seeking out the honest in heart, the work is
onward.”
	President C. O. Card, of Alberta Stake,
spoke of the representative women of the
Church of Jesus Christ that were present,
and said they belong to the Relief Society
and the Y. L. M. I. A. and they enjoy the
gifts of the Gospel. “ We have these in-
stitutions in our Stake and we have a goodly
land in our northern clime, we can raise
wool and flax, but it is not adapted to
everything. President Card spoke of hav-
ing superintended the building of the Logan
Temple and how liberal the sisters had been


in contributing to it, also that in all his
public life the sisters had been a great help
to the brethren in the Church. Reported
four wards in their Stake and said they
draw their support from the elements in-
stead of complaining of hard times. “Lit-
tle things put together make something
gigantic in all;” favored the laying up of
wheat, thought the war clouds several of
them now looked threatening. The same
good spirit is in the sisters meetings; testi-
fied to the spirit of the Conference.
	Bishop Thomas, of Idaho Falls, spoke of
humility, brought up the example of the
Savior when he was at the fire broiling fish
and asked his disciples to come and dine
with him; spoke of the Scripture which
says “He that is least among you shall be
greatest;” also referred to the society of the
Saints and quoted the words of Ruth of old
“Whither thou goest I will go, and where
thou lodgest I will lodge;” felt those were
his sentiments. “God bless you all,
Amen.”
	Sister M. Isabella Horne reported Salt
Lake Stake, spoke of having organized
new branches of the Relief Society this
year at East Jordan, Crescent and in a part
of South Cottonwood; thought the sisters
were doing a good work. “The women
who have labored faithfully and grown
old in the service need some who are young
and vigorous to come forward and help,
the work is an interesting one; said it
would be sixty-one years in July since she
was baptized, and had labored ever since in
the interests of Zion, her desire was to go
on laying up treasures in heaven, by look-
ing after the poor and needy which is pleas-
ing in the sight of the Lord.
	Sister Mary E. Lightner was the next
speaker, she stated that she was baptized
into the Church October 15, 1830, and had
passed through all the persecutions of the
Saints, and for all the adversities she had
experienced she was glad, “for so shall we
be perfected and prepared to enter into His
rest; we are yet to have the law of God
written in our hearts when Joseph turned
the key of knowledge for the sisters in the
Church, it was also for the women of the
world a portion of it, and they have been
awakening ever since.”
	Sister Mary L. Woolf, of Alberta Stake,
Canada, rejoiced to hear what had been
spoken, was glad to see Sister Young the
President of the Relief Society, and to hear
her talk to the sisters; knew many of the
women upon the stand through hearing her
mother speak of them. Sister Woolf said,
“I am living a long way from here but
possibly it seems farther off to you than it
does to me. I am glad we have been call-
ed to this land in the north, there will be a
good chance for our sons to make a start
and understand the Gospel in its true light.
Our children will go on and carry on this
work, it must be so.”
	Sister Susannah Booth, of Box Elder
Stake, was requested by Sister Widerborg,
the President, to report and was willing to
do so, as she could give a good report of
the sisters there, and they were good the
President is careful to attend to the poor
and visit the sick. The speaker said Sister
Widerborg often asked her to go with her to
visit around among the sisters; spoke of
the sickness in their midst, in the first,
second and third wards in Brigham City
they had the diphtheria and had to be quar-
antined; spoke of having been engaged in 
the work of the Relief Society ever since a

[Column 2]
Society had been organized in Brigham
City; made some good and encouraging re-
marks about sericulture and the land own-
ed by the sisters and the number of mul-
berry trees they had on it, said last year
the sisters came from Logan to gather mul-
berry leaves from their trees and take over
there to feed the worms. Sister Booth
spoke of the new Tabernacle built in Brig-
ham City, and how the Relief Society had
helped the brethren in the work of getting
it furnished etc.
	President Young made some closing re-
marks and gave notice of the evening
meeting at 7.30, invited all to attend and
hoped to see the house filled. Singing
Doxology; benediction was offered by
Elder Christian J. Larson.
E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Madame Mountford delivered her
new lecture “The Life of Jacob” in the
Tabernacle April 8. The rendering of this
subject was exceptionally fine.
	We desire to explain to our subscribers
and patrons that the Book of Poems is nearly
ready, the steel engraving has come, the
covers are finished and the remaining pages
will soon be printed. The delay has been
caused more on account of the revision and
copying of poems written long ago, many
o them scattered here and there that never
had been published, had to be collected and
corrected.
	Mrs. Emma J. McVicker gave a Ken-
sington tea to a party of ladies on Thurs-
day, April 8, in honor of her sister, Mrs.
Morgan, who is here on a visit. The after-
noon was very enjoyably passed in social
conversation, the tea was served in the
daintiest style, and the refreshments were
delicious. Mrs. McVicker is a most genial
hostess and knows how to bring the right
people together. These social entertain-
ments are certainly very pleasant and it
does seem a renewal of friendship to meet
and “break bread” together, and is re-
freshing to those who amid the hurry and
bustle of a busy life occasionally stop to
greet the friends they love, but seldom
ever see. And so we are particularly grate-
ful to Mrs. McVicker and other ladies who
have remembered us when making up a
social gathering.


EIGHTY YEARS.

	 SISTER KATHARINE K. PALMER, Presi-
dent of the Eighth ward Relief Society,
was pleasantly surprised on April 6th, by
the officers and teachers of that Society and
three daughters and a daughter-in-law of
Sister Palmer calling on her at the close of
the afternoon session of Conference, it
being her eightieth birthday. After par-
taking of supper the evening was spent in
reciting, singing and pleasant converse.
	Sister Palmer has a twin sister who is
still living, and who was also surprised on
that day at her residence in New Jersey by
many relatives who reside in the Eastern
states.
E.E.P. F.


[Column 1]
A BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH.

	ELIZA ANN CARTER was the daughter
of John Carter and Hannah Libby. She

[Column 2]
was born in the town of Newry, Oxford
Co., State of Maine, on the 28th of Septem-
ber in the year 1818. Her parents belonged
to the Methodist creed in which church she
was an active member, but her mind was
much troubled about what would become
of her hereafter. In the year 1834 Daniel
Bean and John T. Boynton, Elders of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
were preaching in the town of Newry and
called at the house of her father. At that
time her mother lay very sick, having been
given up by the Doctors. These Elders
told her of the new Gospel they were
preaching and said if she had faith they
would lay hands on her and she would be
healed. She told them she knew nothing
of their doctrine but if it were true, she
knew she would be healed; accordingly
they laid hands on her and commanded her
in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ to be
made whole. She immediately arose and
called for her clothes and said, “I must go
to the water;” at the same time some of
her children were praising and others con-
demning, and her husband, who never
embraced the Gospel, said, “ Well that
beats Doctor bills.” She walked one half
mile to the Bear river where she was bap-
tized and confirmed, and at which place a
large branch of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints was raised up.
	Her daughter Eliza Ann at once received
the Gospel and was baptized, and in the
year 1836 in company with her brother
John Carter, Mary Ann Stearns and Phebe
Carter started for Kirtland, Ohio, arriving
August 10th the same year. She was in-
vited into the family of Hyrum Smith
where she labored as an assistant in house-
work. There she became acquainted with
the whole Smith family. She was invited
into the choir by William Cahoon and there
became intimately acquainted with Emma
Smith and Zina Huntington (now Young).
I have quite a portion of history written by
her own hand, at the age of seventy-four.
	“I had my patriarchal blessing under
the hands of Father Joseph Smith, the
patriarch then, in the Kirtland Temple. I
and others were on the top of the Temple
and sung “The Spirit of God like a fire is
burning.”
	That was when I was eighteen years old.
I was in Kirtland when the Temple was
dedicated and when the stars fell from heav-
en and saw them when they fell.
	I ate and drank with the Prophet Joseph
and Emma Smith at the wedding of Elder
Goodson at Parley P. Pratt’s house.
	When I was living at Hyrum Smith’s
I thought that he was the best man I ever
saw, he was so kind to his family and he
prayed in his family three times a day.
	I married James C. Snow in 1838 and
started with William Carter, my brother
and his family for Far West, Missouri the
same year. It was cold weather and we
suffered much with the cold, but we travel-
ed until we came to Terre Haute, Indiana,
and one of our oxen died, leaving us with
one ox, so we were obliged to stop. We
had no money, no house to go in and we
got the privilege of going into a horse stable
and I cleaned it out and was glad to get in-
to a place out of the storms. After stop-
ping in Indiana a few weeks Hyrum
Smith’s company came along, and he being
acquainted with me said to me, 'If you
will ride in my baggage wagon I will take
you along and you can drive the team and


[Column 1]
the men can walk.’ I said I will do so.
We traveled until we came to Jacksonville,
Illinois; there one of Hyrum Smith’s horses
died and he had to leave us. There was a
branch of the Church near by but he did not
leave us penniless amongst strangers, with-
out home or friends but he called for the
President of the branch and told him to let
Brother Snow preside over the branch as a
missionary and to feed and clothe us until
the Kirtland Camp company came along in
the fall, and he did so. The President’s
name was Merrick, the brother that was
killed at the Haun’s Mill Massacre in Mis-
souri. While we were there in the branch
I looked out, and behold! there came my
brother William with the one ox that we
left behind. He had made a harness and
tackled him up and the one ox carried his
wife and three children to Missouri, and
when I saw him I rejoiced to see him have
so much faith, but the Gentiles made all
manner of fun of him. They said ‘There
goes a d—d Mormon with one ox,’ but he got
there just the same; and Father Joseph
Smith said it should be in the annals of his
history. After that the Kirtland camp
came along and we went to Missouri with
them. We went into an old log house
that we could poke a cat out between the
logs and there my first child was born; it
was the 30th day of October in the year
1838. Sarah Jane who became the wife of
Marshall Kindsman and afterwards wife of
President Joseph Young. It was cold and
snowed every day and the mob came into
Far West the very day of her birth, and we
were much excited. I could not keep the
midwife long enough to dress my child,
Sister Diantha Billings was her name, well
it known among our people. The mob was
blowing horns and firing guns all night
long. We were without bread or anything
to make bread of, but by the help of the
Lord we were preserved by the brethren
giving up their arms and promising to
leave Far West. We left in the month of
February the following year. There were
three families to one wagon and one span
of old horses, we took turns in walking.
There was Brother Winslow Farr and wife,
Gardener Snow and wife and James Snow
and wife. We traveled all day and at
night lay down at a camp fire as we had no
tent. We arrived in Illinois in 1839 and in
1845 I had my house burned down by a
wicked mob painted black, and I was forced
to leave and go to Nauvoo. Left Nauvoo
in 1846. Stayed at Council Bluffs until
1851 and arrived at Provo in 1852.”
	I will here add that when the call was
made for the Battalion her brother, Richard
Carter (who died in the Battalion) was one
of the volunteers. His wife died shortly
after, leaving three children whom Sister
Snow brought to the valley. She resided
in Provo from the time of her arrival here
and was ever energetic in the cause in
which she engaged. She always paid her
tithes and offerings and even within a few
days of her death donated to the Temple
Library. She departed this life March 9,
1897.
	She was a woman of much faith both for
herself and others; many times she was
healed by the power of faith and once when
she had been given up by the best physi-
cians and it had even been reported that
she was dead, she was healed.
	She was the mother of nine children and
at the time of her death had fifty-five grand-
children and fifty-one great grandchildren.

[Column 2]
She was always a faithful counselor to her
children and friends. Ever exhorting them
to faithfulness.
	Much more might be added to this his-
tory but as I did not intend a lengthy
sketch, will let this suffice.
				LUCINDA SNOW.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


U. W. P. C.

	AT its last regular meeting March 31,
the U. W. P. C. was entertained at the
home of Dr. Ellis R. Shipp. The evening
was an enjoyable one, Miss A. M. Beecher
being the guest of the club, and a large
gathering of friends and club members
being present to greet her.
	President Fox called the meeting to
order, prayer was offered and the roll called.
	The first part of the evening was de-
voted to Byron, the members responding
with quotations from Byron and Mrs. Helen
Vilate Kimball presenting a paper on his
life and writings. Mrs. Lucy A. Clark of
Farmington read an orignal poem.
	At the request of the ladies and in reply
to their questions Miss Beecher gave an in-
formal talk on topics of interest to all—
economics, the influence of women in poli-
tics, and the political status of the Eastern
women, all being touched upon.
	Dainty refreshments were served at the
close of the meeting. The next meeting as
usual at the office of the WOMAN’S EXPO-
NENT, April 30. Each member is expect-
ed to put on her thinking-cap and present
an original sentiment on that occasion.
ORIELLE CURTIS, Sec.

	MRS. HELEN M. GOUGAR was admitted
to practice before the Supreme Court of
Indiana on Feb. 19. She at once made
the oral argument in her test case, wherein
she claims that the present law, properly
intrepreted, is sufficient to permit women
to vote. All the Judges came down from
the bench and congratulated Mrs. Gougar
on the ability of her argument.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

SANPETE STAKE.
	MINUTES of the Sanpete Stake Confer-
ence of the Relief Society, held at Moroni,
March 12, 1897, President M. A. P. Hyde
presiding. Singing “We thank Thee O
God for a prophet;” prayer by Andrew L.
Jensen; singing “Guide us O Thou Great
Jehovah;” reading and adoption of the
previous minutes; the annual reports were
read by the secretary.
	President M. A. P. Hyde felt grateful to
meet with her sisters of Sanpete again.
Gave a short report of the R. S. Conference
of the Salt Lake Stake; spoke of corrup-
tion, the destroyer is going forth to destroy,
and those who are weak be approaches in
such a manner that it would throw them
off their guard. Prayed the blessing of the
Lord upon all.
	Verbal reports were given from Chester,
Ephraim North and South wards, Mt.
Pleasant. Written reports were read from
Manti North and South wards, Moroni and
Sterling.
	Counselor Alvira Cox gave instructions
concerning reports; said it was very im-
portant to have them correct as we are
making history. Singing “Lord dismiss
us with Thy blessing.” Benediction
Brother James Harvey.

[Column 2]
	AFTERNOON SESSION: After the usual
opening exercises the General and Stake
officers were unanimously sustained. Presi-
dent M. A. Hyde made remarks upon re-
ceiving members not of our faith, those
who are not for us are against us. Gave
details of a blessing given her by the
Patriarch Hyrum Smith. “We need to
prepare ourselves for greater times.”
Spoke of forewarnings; said we do not
know what a day may bring forth, but let
us listen to the promptings of the Spirit and
live near to the Lord.
	Sister Hannah Dorius of Ephraim said,
“let us take care of ourselves and children,
always heeding the wise counsel given us.
Our property is loaned us to help build up 
the kingdom and for the purpose of serving
God, therefore we should not forget and
worship that more than God.”
	Counselor Abigail Shoemaker thought
the sisters needed great praise for their
good works. Said the time to give our
wheat is immediately after threshing; we
are always blessed when we give our mites;
hoped we might be faithful and humble.
	Christina Thompson said to live so near
the House of God and enjoy so many
blessings was more than she had ever anti-
cipated. Sister Harvey said the sisters will
lose nothing by attending the meetings,
but will be able to accomplish much more
and will have more of the spirit which
every mother needs in order to teach the
children to pray and to be obedient.
	Benedicta Hansen felt when she em-
braced the Gospel that she must have been
acquainted with the principles always.
Spoke of the Primary work. “Mothers do
not neglect the children; they are our
Father’s children. Try to explain those
beautiful principles to them and have them
instilled in their minds.”
	Esther Anderson expressed her desire to
press forward, and bore her testimony.
Counselor Alvira Cox felt we were especial-
ly blessed with the presence of President
Hyde. Thought we lived in an important
time; Satan is ever striving to see whom
he can catch. “There has been a tendancy
to sit in judgment of the work of the lead-
ing brethren; if we once allow ourselves to
doubt we will find ourselves in the dark-
ness. There is a great anxiety in the duty
of parents to children; let us give them
innocent amusement and try and make
home pleasant. Follow them up with our
prayers, as there is so much of Babylon
right amongst us.” Encouraged the indus-
try of silk culture.
	Brother James Harvey said “We are the
salt of the earth and do not let us lose our
savor.” Sisters Maria Willardson, and
Maria Dorius made a few remarks.
	President M. A. Hyde spoke of the
signs of the times and among them must
be the great call for missionaries; desired
the mothers and sisters to aid and encourage
the young men when called. “Mothers
guard your daughters; they are pure and
choice. Have them trained and accom-
plished in housework first and foremost, as
a good housewife is much towards making
home happy.” Gave the sisters a mother’s
blessing.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
Singing “Praise to the man.” Benedic-
tion by James Jensen.
		MARIA WILLARDSON, Secy’.
WAYNE STAKE.
	THE Relief Society of Wayne Stake held


[Column 1]
Conference Feb. 26, 1897, at the Fremont
Relief Society hall, President Jane S. Cole-
man presiding. Choir sang “Earth with
her ten thousand flowers;” prayer was
offered by Patriarch E. N. Blackburn;
singing “All hail the glorious day;” min-
utes of previous Conference read and ap-
proved. 
	President Jane S. Coleman said she was
pleased to again meet in Conference, that it
was through faith and prayer she had been
able to attend, having had sickness in the
family; was grateful to have so many of the
brethren meet with us, said the aims and
desires of the Relief Society are to be one
with the Priesthood and to ever use a good
influence in the proper direction; prayed
the Spirit of God would rest on the speak-
ers that such instructions might be given
as were necessary for the general good and
advancement of Relief Society labors.
	Counselor Sarah S. Forsyth said “We are of
one faith and one gospel, the same that our
Savior taught. We should teach our child-
ren it is the true faith and guard them from
the wiles of Satan, who is on the watch to
turn them aside from the straight path.”
Spoke upon faith and the necesity of teach-
ing that principle to our children.
	President Louisa Taylor of the Fremont
Relief Society gave a good report; they own
a good house, well seated and carpeted,
their lot fenced and a granary with over
300 bushels of wheat.
	Sister Louisa Brown of Loa, felt happy
to meet with her sisters; came to be
strengthened in her faith; was thankful
for the organization of the Relief Society;
spoke of the temptations that beset the
youth. We are not all keeping the Word of
Wisdom, if we did we would enjoy greater
faith; spoke of the teachings of King Ben-
jamin to the Nephites, which if practiced
by us would result in great good upon our
heads.
	President Margaret J. Taylor reported
the Loa Relief Society in good condition,
said the sisters in turn visit the Y. L. M.
I. A. and Primary meetings, had also sub-
scribed for the WOMAN’S EXPONENT and
sent it to the sisters in England.
	Sister Nancy Blackburn was truly thank-
ful for the blessings and gifts of the Gospel,
for the healing of the sick and the privilege
of prayer said the evil one is on the alert,
we should teach our children the plan of
salvation prayed the Lord to bless and
comfort our hearts.
	The Lyman Relief Society was reported
by President Helen Maxfield as doing
well and they were greatly blessed in their
labors.
	Thurber Relief Society was reported by
Counselor Louisa Bunkerhoff, they were in
good condition; are now directing their
labors to build a Relief Society hall. Teas-
dale was also reported by Sister Coleman
as doing well.
	Patriarch F. W. Young said he realized
the sisters had influence and could exercise
it for good; some people in the world
thought the Mormon women were ignor-
ant creatures; showed the falsity of this
statement. The women go hand in hand
with their husbands; spoke of training
children, the evil of selling intoxicants in
our settlements, mothers should plead with
their sons not to touch them nor to use pro-
fane language. We should encourage re-
ligious classes; asked God to bless the Re-
lief Society.
	The yearly financial and statistical report

[Column 2]
was read. Singing “O say what is truth;”
benediction by Elder J. A. Taylor.
	AFTERNOON SESSION: Singing “Do
what is right;” prayer by Elder W. A.
Taylor; singing “Go ye messengers of
glory.”
	Sister Margaret Pace bore her testimony
and felt interested in Relief Society work,
was very desirous to see the youth cho[---]
the path of virtue and chastity. Sister
Sarah J. Morrell spoke well upon timely
subjects. Sister Mary Ellett spoke of her
love for the Gospel, and that temptations
should be kept from the youth. Sister
Sarah A. Robinson made good remarks;
hoped the counsels and instructions given
would be carried into practice.
	Stake President Willis E. Robeson wish-
ed an interest in the prayers of those pres-
ent while speaking; exhorted all to dot
what is right, as was sung in the firs
hymn; spoke of the great scope of woman’s
work, that their labors were just as exten-
sive as the brethren. The sisters are im-
portant factors in rectifying evil of every
kind; the influence of the mother, sister
and wife are very important in our midst;
referred to the remarks of President Cannon
about famine, was pleased to note the suc-
cess of the sisters in storing grain, gave
much credit to the sisters in their labors of
love.
	Patriarch E. W. Blackburn said he had
enjoyed the Conference very much. The
Prophet Joseph had organized the Relief
Society over fifty years ago; spoke of the
great good the sisters had accomplished;
spoke upon chastity, that mothers should
take their sons in kindness and exhort them
o keep themselves pure and guard the vir-
ue of their young sisters; spoke of how
<t>mproperly dancing is being conducted any
person that will oppose the authority of
God’s servants are apostates at heart. The
sin of profanity was also spoken of and the
sisters were urged to unite and use their
influence against every evil practice. He
sustained the Relief Society, felt honored to
meet with them and hear the word of God
and felt to bless them in His name.
	The officers of the Central Board and the
Stake officers were sustained.
	President J. S. Coleman gave some
general instructions pertaining to the Re-
lief Society work to aid the local Presidents
in their labors, that all may work in har-
mony and accomplish the best results
whether in spiritual or practical matters;
wished the sisters to subscribe for the WO-
MAN’S EXPONENT.
	Counselor Mary E. Hanks could not at-
tend Conference, her home being in the
eastern part of the Stake and the roads
very bad for traveling	Just before Con-
ference she visited the eastern part, namely
Aldrich, Caneville, Giles, Clifton, and re-
ported all in good condition. Conference
adjourned for six mouths. Choir sang;
benediction by Brother George Forsyth.
			ANNA COLEMAN, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


MRS. AMALIE B. POST, of Cheyenne,
Wyoming, has recently died. Mrs. Post
was vice-president of the National Wo-
man Suffrage Association for Wyoming for
many years, and as such had the honor to
sit beside the Governor of Wyoming and
participate in the ceremonies which cele-
brated its admission as a State.


NOTICE!
TO ALL WHO ARE INTERESTED IN
SILK CULTURE
IN THE STATE OF UTAH.
	The Utah Silk Commission desires
all who wish to engage in this industry,
this year, to send at once their name and
full address for pamphlet of instructions,
also a statement of your facilities for
raising cocoons and the number of silk
worm eggs you desire. Address all com-
munications to Margaret A. Caine, Secre-
tary Utah Silk Commission, Salt Lake
City, Utah.
	All county papers please copy.

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
WILL BEGIN HER
Class: in: Obstetrics
	On Monday April 12th 1897 with improved
facilities for instruction in this important study.
Special terms are given to societies sending
students. For further particulars communicate
with
			ELLIS R. SHIPP M. D.
		75 Center St Salt Lake City Utah.
[Picture of shield with writing]
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
[Text wrapped around bottom of shield]
WORLD'S PICTORIAL LINE

[Text to the right of shield]
The People's Favorite.

Trains leave and arrive Salt Lake City as fol-
lows. (In effect March 16, 1897):
DEPART.
“The Overland Limited’’for Chicaga,
	St. Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
	City, Denver and Park City			7:00 a.m.
“The Fast Mail,’’ for Chicago, St.
	Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
	Denver							7:00 p.m.
From three to twelve hours quicker to all
	above points than any other line.
ARRIVE:
“The Overland Limited,” from Chi-
	cago, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City,
	Denver and Park City				3:10 p.m.
“The Fast Mail,” from Chicago, St.
	Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
	City and Denver					3:30 a.m.
CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 MAIN ST.
	Telephone No. 665.
	The only line operating Through Pullman
Palace Sleepers, Library, Buffet Smoker, Dining
Cars, Tourist Sleepers and Free Reclining Chair
Cars.
			S. H. H. CLARK,
			OLIVER W. MINK,
			E. ELLERY ANDERSON,
			JOHN W. DOANE,
			FREDERICK R. COUDERT,
							Receivers.
		E. L. LOMAX, G. P. & T. Agt.
		E. DICKENSON, Gen. Manager.
			H. M. CLAY, General Agent.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House,
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation. 


