in Vol. 4, No. 6.
—ED.


ANNIVERSARY PARTY.

	ON the 23rd of December 1896, the
anniversary of the birthday of our beloved
Prophet Joseph Smith, was celebrated by
the Saints of the Fourth ward of Spanish
Fork. Meeting convened in the new
Society hall at 2 p.m., under the auspices
of the Fourth ward Relief Society, Pres’t.
Mary Baxter presiding. An excellent pro-
gram was rendered; the music by the choir
under the leadership of Morgan H.
Thomas was exquisite, and the themes
chosen appropriate and beautiful. Prayer
and opening address by Bishop A. E. Nel-
son; Brother Charles Monk gave a most in-
teresting account of the birth, life and labors
of that great and noble man, and related
many interesting and thrilling episodes of
his life and character, and held the audience
spell-bound by the vivid delineations of the
power and glory of this great and last dis-
pensation, and of the love and condescen-
sion of our Father and His Son Jesus
Christ, our great Redeemer.
	Counselor August Swenson and others
made appropriate remarks interspersed with
music by the choir and essays and recita-
tions by the young ladies of the M. I. A.
Benediction by Robert Holmes; and all
went home feeling that they had had a
feast in very deed.
		MARY BAXTER, Pres’t.
		MARY S. CHRISTENSEN Sec’y.
Spanish Fork, Jan. 18, 1897.


REV. OLYMPIA BROWN, president of the
Wisconsin W. S. A., has a son and daugh-
ter who are two of the most brilliant
young people in Wisconsin.
	ON motion of Mrs. Belva A. Lockwood,
Mrs Alice A. Minnick, of Beatrice, Neb.,
was admitted to the bar of the Supreme
Court of the United States on Jan. 18, 1896.


SPRING CITY RELIEF SOCIETY.

Dear Sister Wells:
	ACCORDING to promise I will give a
brief report of our Relief Society in Spring
City. The Society is in fairly good run-
ning order, the sisters are not only meeting
goers but workers, always ready to respond
to every call made by our Pres’t. Last
year we called committees to visit the home
of each member for the purpose of gather-
ing wool, or means with which to purchase
it; we gathered considerable, and the sis-
ters washed and cleansed it, and the sisters
carded it, and the sisters gathered and we
had the wheels and reels and had an old-
fashioned spinning bee in our ward meeting
house, and got the spinning done. The
yarn was washed also by the sisters and
taken to a sister in the ward who colored
some of it and wove it; when completed
we had 75 yds. of lovely cloth, half of
which was white for under clothing, the
other red and black check for dresses. The
cloth was 37 inches wide. We have made
four large quills and have stocking yarn,
all of which has been given to those most
in need, and we have wool gathered this
year to work up for next season and all
have our own home duties to attend to, and
could not gather wool and get it into cloth
the same season, as we have to wait until
the sheep are shorn and that is late in the
spring. There are many who have no
wool but they all give something, and the
means gathered on that day is all turned
into wool and each sister is credited with
the amount in wool. We gather wheat in
the same way; the sisters take a team and
go to every house and in that way we have
gathered 50 bushels in a day; all are ready
to give something in order to have their
names enrolled as a wheat donor, much can
be accomplished in that way and no person
will ever feel any poorer, in fact they will
have more instead, probably not of this
world’s goods, but a greater flow of the
Spirit of the Lord, and His blessings will
ever attend those who feed the hungry and
clothe the destitute. How blessed we are
to be engaged in so noble a work as the Re-
lief Society! and may we all press onward
until we attain to that perfection which is
within the reach of all who will strive for
it. Ever praying for the welfare of Zion
and the success of our valuable paper, (the
EXPONENT.)
				NANCY ACORD.


MRS. STOWE’S MONUMENT.

	THE children of Harriet Beecher Stowe
do not look kindly upon the proposition to
erect a public statue of their mother. Her
son, Rev. Charles E. Stowe, says it belongs
to him and his sisters to erect whatever
monument may be placed over his mother’s
grave. There are better ways of using
money, he thinks, than in erecting statues.
“If anything is to be done, why could not
money be raised to found a Harriet Beecher
Stowe scholarship at Hampton, Fisk or
Tuskegee?” he asks. “Such a memorial
would, I know, be quite in keeping with
my mother’s taste, and far more useful to
man and honoring to God than some brazen
monstrosity scowling the unfortunate be-
holder out of countenance from its ugly
granite pedestal. The ordinary bronze
statue ought to be regarded as a terrible
penalty, to be inflicted only on great
offenders.”—Woman's Journal.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT 

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z.C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
ccond-class matter.

	SALT LAKE CITY, JAN. 15, AND FEB. 1, 1897.


[Column 1]
ANNUAL CONVENTION N-A. W. S. A.

	LEAVING Salt Lake City (via) U. P.
R. R. at 7 a. m. Jan. 24, 1897—we arrived
in Des Moines, Iowa, after two days
journey at or just after midnight, ready for
the opening of the Convention at 10 a. m.
Jan. 26, and answered present when Utah
was called much to the surprise of the dele-
gates, and especially the delegate from
Idaho, Mrs. Woods the writer’s own
daughter. Of course it made a little stir in
meeting when Miss Anthony called us to
the stand and insisted on introducing us
as mother and daughter from enfranchised
states. Utah is accustomed to incidents of
a similar nature, but the Idaho delegate was
not and was somewhat timid, it being her
first visit to a Convention of the N-A. W.
S.A. though she has worked hard for the
ballot in various ways, and made many
speeches in her own state.
	Des Moines did herself proud in welcom-
ing the Convention, and every attention
was shown dear Miss Anthony and her fol-
lowing that could make them feel welcome.
Governor Francis M. Drake on behalf of
the State of Iowa and Mayor John McVicar
on behalf of the City of Des Moines, and Dr.
H. O. Breeden on behalf of the Churches,
Mrs. Mattie Locke Macomber for the
various woman’s clubs, and Mrs. Adelaide
Ballard State President W. S. A. Iowa,
each of these made speeches welcoming the
women to Iowa and Des Moines. So
mmense was the crowd on that evening
Wednesday, January 27, that an overflow
meeting was held in the rear hall, and hun-
dreds went away who could not get stand-
ing room in either the large or the smaller
hall. Thus you see friends, interest is
increasing in the work of equal suffrage.
	It was this evening after Miss Anthony
had spoken in the Convention hall proper,
that when she addressed the overflow meet-
ing she made the most pathetic speech
we had ever heard her make in a Conven-
tion. Her appeal to the audience was
sublime; after reviewing in brief some of the
hard work done during the last fifty years,
she referred to the results and remarked,
that having given fifty years of her life to
the cause, only four states were enfranchis-
ed, (how slow the work grew) and though
she hoped during the next ten years to see
others come in, and may be in fifty years
more all the states, yet she wished it might
be sooner: her magnificent appearance, the
majesty of her figure as she stood before the

[Column 2]
audience, and the pathos with which she said
those significant words brought tears to
many eyes in the assemblage. In her own
great empire state, would it not be a grand
culmination of her heroic efforts for the
emancipation of women, if before she passes
away, eqnal suffrage should be accorded.
How we wish it may be so if only for her
dear sake who has wrought so nobly for this
glorious cause.
	The opportunity given Miss Anthony
and her co-workers to appear before the 
senate assembled, was a rare occasion and
the President of the senate who is also
Lieut. Governor of Iowa was most cordial
in welcoming the ladies. As many as could
be seated on the platform were invited there,
and others were seated near; the room is a
handsome one in all its appointments. The
members were all fine looking men, and
paid the utmost deference to the ladies
who spoke to them. Miss Blackwell of
Boston, Mrs. Colby of Washington D. C.,
Mrs. Bradford of Denver, Mrs. Wells, of
Salt Lake City, Mrs. Woods of the Coeur
de’ Alenes, Mrs. Catt of New York City,
Rev. Anna II. Shaw and Miss Anthony
were the speakers, except that Mrs. Woods,
who was new to the work was simply intro-
duced, and Miss Anthony spoke for her,
though she reported Idaho in the Con-
vention, and made a speech on Friday
evening when the enfranchised states were
all represented on Idaho evening. A great
deal of executive work was accomplished
during the week, as much or more than we
have ever known of being done in so short
a time. Some of the speeches made were
par excellence: indeed Miss Anthony in her
palmiest days has never been more
applauded, and the love of her followers and
co-workers is something marvelous. Mrs.
Catt is brilliant and convincing, she is a
woman of fine presence and is very
“taking.” Rev. Ida L. Hultin carries her
audience away until they are spell bound—
her presence is very magnetic, her elocution
is perfect, and her whole bearing is one
of sublimity. Her subject on Friday eve-
ning Jan. 29, was “The Point of View,”
and she made it an impressive sermon.
Miss Hultin, Mrs. Catt and Miss Yates are
exceptionally grand both in presence and
every other qualification: of course Dr.
Shaw is always excepted when we make
these sweeping assertions.
	There are many other able speakers of
whom we are very fond including especially
Mrs. Avery, Miss Blackwell, Mrs. De Voe,
Mrs. Colby, Mrs. Upton, and many more,
so many they would fill these columns.
	Utah was celebrated last year, and this
was Idaho’s year, and Mrs. Woods had a
fine report and an excellent speech in
the evening which we hope to be able to
publish in our next issue.
	Utah, however, had full opportunity
although only one person was present from
the state to make the representation.
	Next year, 1898, will be the Jubilee year
for suffrage, the first Convention having
been held in Seneca Falls July 19 and
20, 1848, and every local society is request-
ed to celebrate on that day. At the general
Convention in Washington in 1898 there
will be a grand jubilee in which all states
are expected to participate.


[Column 1]
MARY HOUSTON KIMBALL SMITH.

	Sister M. H. Kimball, the subject of
this brief sketch, was born in Jackson

[Column 2]
Township, Stark Co., Ohio near Canton,
September 11, 1818, and was the daughter
of James and Mary (Ettleman) Houston,
who joined the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints in 1830. James Houston
the father of Sister M. H. Kimball, was
intimately acquainted with the Prophet
Joseph Smith in the early days, as also
were his family; he was a member of
Zion’s camp in 1833 and was always faith-
ful to the cause of truth; his daughter
Mary was baptized with her parents in that
early day and continued faithful to the time
of her death, which occurred Thursday,
Dec. 24, 1896 from paralysis, with which
she had been afflicted, having had a stroke
on Monday, Dec. 21st, from which she
never recovered so as to be able to speak.
She was tenderly cared for by her two sis-
ters, Susan Mitchell and Catharine Alex-
ander and their children; Sister Kimball
had no family of her own, and had conse-
quently lived many years alone.
	With her father’s family when a child,
she went from Ohio to Missouri, enduring
all the hardships the saints suffered in those
perilous times, and from there with them
to Commerce, Illinois, afterwards Nauvoo,
until the saints were driven from that
beautiful city.
	Mary remembered the occurrences of
Missouri with childish accuracy, and has
often recounted to the writer some of the
tragedies that transpired in her own
vicinity.
	While living in Nauvoo Brother Houston
died, and his widow and family came out
with the saints who left in 1846, but
previous to this Mary had been sealed in
the new and everlasting covenant to Joseph
Smith for eternity, and to Heber C. Kim-
ball for time, and came in the Kimball fam-
ily from Nauvoo.
	After the death of President Kimball
Mary resided for some years in the Seven-
teenth ward in this City, then exchanged
her property. or sold out and went to live
in Pleasant Grove, Utah Co. where she
continued to reside until last spring, when
she became strongly impressed it was her
duty to work for her dead and came to this
City solely for that purpose, and devoted
her time and energies ever since to that
work in the Salt Lake Temple.
	In Nauvoo Sister Mary had the oppor-
tunity of being closely associated with the
Apostles in a direct way, by waiting upon
upon and ministering to them, at the home
of Brother Jos. C. Kingsbury who lived
over the Tithing office, and where the
authorities of the Church were in the habit
of dining every day while the Temple was
being finished. In this case Mary was a
veritable Martha, as she was engaged in
the very troublesome occupation of cooking
and serving dinners, and if there is honor
in waiting upon the servants of the Lord
she will have a large share. The writer
recalls the fact that at one of these dinners
were assembled nine apostles and two of the
Presiding Bishops, not counting Elder
Kingsbury himself, but cannot now be
quite sure of all their names. That parti-
cular occasion is remembered by the writer
as a wonderful spiritual as well as temporal
feast
	In Winter Quarters, on the Missouri river
Mrs. Houston died of scurvy as did scores
of others, for lack of proper food, and now
after so long a period only two of the family
of James and Mary Houston who were
among the first to come forward and re-


ceive the Gospel are still living, though
there are a large number of grandchildren
and great-grandchildren who are members
of the Church, for which they endured
hardships and trials.
	Sister Mary had many excellent qualities;
she was full of integrity to the Gospel and
true as steel to her friends and to the cause
of truth; she was a woman of strong char-
acter, conscientious, and possessed that
fidelity both to the truth and to her
friends, which recommends itself in the
champions of religion, liberty, or the home.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
RE-ORGANIZATION AT BRIGHTON.

	ON Thursday Jan. 14, 1897 at 1.30 p. m.
a meeting was held at Brighton in this
County at the Branch meeting house for
the purpose of re-organizing the Relief
Society on account of the death of the Presi-
dent, Sister Mary Ann Hazen. Sister
Ottilie Schoenfeld who had been first
counselor to Sister Hazen presided. Sing-
ing “Earth with her ten thousand flowers;”
prayer by Bishop Frederick Schoenfeld; sing-
ing “Guide us O, thou great Jehovah.”
The Bishop made a few remarks in which
he spoke of the growth of the ward, and how
Brighton was divided now making seven
wards instead of one. Sister Schoenfeld
spoke for a few minutes, and then Pres’t.
M. Isabella Horne addressed the meeting
and alluded in a very sisterly and affection-
ate way to Sister Hazen, and of her energy
in attending the 14th ward meetings, and
how punctual she had been; and gave good
counsel to the sisters, exhorting them to be
faithful and diligent and pray earnestly for
the Holy Spirit to guide them.
	Sister E. B. Wells followed, dwelling
upon the advantages of the Relief Society
and the great work as a whole; thought
many did not realize what a magnificent
work had been done all over the world
through the small beginning; expressed
her love and appreciation of Sister Hazen.
	Elder E. John Nuttall made excellent
remarks upon the great charitable and
philanthropic work of the Society as a
whole, and explanations in regard to re
organizing. Bishop Schoenfeld spoke very
kindly and considerately of the sisters who
had labored in the Society there.
	Pres’t. Horne was called upon to preside
during the election of officers, and Sister
E. B. Wells to act as Secretary. Elder
Nuttall read the articles of Association, and
the result of the election was Sister Ottilie
Schoenfeld, President; Lydia A. Brown and
Elizabeth Sherwood, Vice-Presidents;
Agnes M. Jones, Secretary; Camilla Alex-
ander, Treasurer; Trustees, Hortense M.
Jones, Sarah Gedge, Ada E. Walk. The
following resolution was adopted.
	“RESOLVED, That the President be, and
is, hereby authorized and instructed to make
application to all persons whomsoever hold-
ing the legal title to real property belong-
ing to the Relief Society, to make and de-
liver good or sufficient deed or deeds of all
such property to Hortense M. Jones, Sarah
Gedge and Ada Walk.”
	After the organization was completed,
remarks were made by President Horne
upon the Prophet Joseph, President John
Taylor and the commencement of the work
in the early days, and exhorted each one
holding a position in the Society to mag-
nify her calling, and not envy any other or
intrude upon another’s rights, illustrating
her remarks by the humility of Joseph

[Column 2]
Smith the prophet when he came to Toron-
to, Canada, in the early days, and the
respect he showed to the presiding author-
ities in that branch, and comparing it with
a Dr. Allen who came there previous and
had shown no regard to the position occupi-
ed by John Taylor (afterwards President of
the Church) then President of that branch:
closed with a blessing upon the Society and
prayers for its progress.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde made some
pertinent remarks, urging the young wo-
men to take hold of the work and gave ex-
cellent advice, encouraging every one of
them to be enrolled as members.
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon made some
excellent remarks in appreciation of the
benefit resulting from being active in the
Relief Society.
	Sister Camilla C. Cobb was delighted to
see the sisters of Brighton ward and spoke
admiringly of the work done by the Relief
Society in love and charity.
	The Bishop expressed his appreciation of
the visit of the sisters and Brother Nuttall.
The Doxology was sung and meeting was
dismissed with prayer.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE secretaries of Stake organizations of
the Relief Society are hereby officially noti-
fied to send full and complete reports for
the year 1896—not later than Feb. 20,1897
without fail—to Mrs. E. B. Wells Constitu-
tion Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.
	IN the middle verse of the poem entitled
“The Year of Jubilee ” in Jan. 1, of this
year, the last word in the last lines hould be
seers instead of Love, and would as you
perceive rhyme with pioneers. It is simply
a typographical error.
	AS yet no complaint has reached us as to
the inefficiency of any of the ladies elected
to any office at the last election in Novem-
ber, when women were candidates on equal
terms with men. To be sure there were
but few nominated and fewer still elected,
yet there were enough to prove the fact
that women are competent to hold positions
of trust and emolument;and men are generous 
enough to admit their good judgment and 
capabilities. So far the women seem per-
fectly able to hold their own equally as
well as men on any question that comes
before the Assembly in either house. In
Committee work they are quite as compe-
tent we are told and will certainly as the
women of Wyoming and Colorado have
settled any doubts as to their being either
too weak, or too emotional to take part in
public affairs of the state or the nation.
	IN the evening, Jan. 19, the Y. L. of the
7th ward met at the residence of Mrs. Claire
L. Clawson. Her handsome parlors were
well filled with the young ladies of the
ward. The exercises were similar to those
of other meetings though this was a special
session; the roll was answered with beauti-
ful sentiments many of them original, an
essay on the Apocrypha by Edith Mc-
Lellan, was a part of the guide work;
readings from Eugene Field by Kate
Thomas; Lyle Jones, Laura Foster, Lillie
Webb and Alice Lambert sang a quartette,
which was very charmingly rendered,
“Waiting and Watching for me;” Poem
by Eugene Field, Rose Wallace; some
other exercises were creditably given and
Sisters Lambert and E. B. Wells addressed

[Column 2]
the meeting. Refreshments were served
by the fair hostess and her graceful young
helpers, and the company were treated to
views (through a stereoscope) brought by
Mrs. Clawson from the continent when she .
visited the holy land with Sister Eliza R.
Snow. The evening was a very pleasant
one as well as the afternoon, and we trust
profitable to all, as well as helpful to the
work.
	ON Tuesday Jan. 19, 1897 was the
annual meeting of the Seventh ward
Relief Society, held in the vestry of the
meeting house, Mrs. Mary Alice Lambert
presiding. After the usual exercises of
singing and prayer minutes of previous
annual meeting were read and accepted,
also the Treasurer’s report for the year.
Remarks were made by the President and
Mrs. M. Isabella Horne, President of the
Relief Society of this Stake; President
Zina D. H. Young of the General Relief
Society, and the Vice-President B. W.
Smith, Secretary E. B. Wells, Mrs. E. S.
Taylor, General President of the Y. L. M.
I. A., and Mrs. Horne’s Counselors Annie
Taylor Hyde and Clara C. Cannon also
Mrs. Lambert’s Counselors and Bishop
Wm. Thorne. The subjects touched upon
were faith, integrity to the Gospel, humility
obedience, early experiences in the Church,
the signs of the times, storing of grain,
home industries, the WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
and sustaining it as the official organ of
the Relief Society and the record
of woman’s work. After the meeting was
dismissed all repaired to the tables prepared
where Bishop Thorne asked a blessing, and
a bounteous supper was partaken of and .
conversation became general. Such annual
gatherings are productive of great good and
promote a spirit of sociability and union.


R. S. REPORTS.
BINGHAM STAKE.

Dear Sister:
	THE Quarterly Conference of the Bing-
ham Stake Relief Society was held at
Menan Dec. 12, 1896, President Emma J.
Bennett presiding. There were present on
the stand the Presidency of the Stake, also
Apostle John Henry Smith. After the
opening exercises, E. J. Bennett said she
hoped every society would be represented.
	Pres’t. Jardine reported the Lewisville
society as doing a good work and had con-
siderable grain on hand. Pres’t. Richard-
son reported the Ammon ward Society;
said meetings were well attended, they had
just completed their granary, had two hun-
dred bushels of grain on hand. Pres’t.
Shelley reported the Shelley Society in a 
fair condition. Pres’t. Green reported the
Menan Society, Pres’t. Morgan reported 
the LaBella Society as doing a good work
relieving the poor and gathering grain.
Pres’t. Barrett reported the Willowcreek
Society. Pres’t. Gorden reported the Rigby
Society as being in a prosperous condition,
had three hundred and thirty-nine bushels 
of grain on hand.  Sister Hanson, Coun-
selor to Pres’t. Dabell reported the Grant
Society as doing a good work.
	Pres’t. James Steel also R. L. Bybee of 
the Stake Presidency spoke to the sisters
and were much pleased with their reports,
and felt to sustain the sisters in their labors.
There were several other branches reported
by their Bishops or members of the Society.


[Column 1]
E. J. Bennett reported the Stake officers
as being fully united and holding their
officers meetings, and encouraged the sisters 
to attend officers meetings. 
	Apostle Smith felt to encourage the sis-
ters in relief work, urging them to help 
those who stand in need as far as possible, 
and thought the storing of grain a responsi-
ble duty resting upon the sisters, and gave
many good instructions to the sisters.
	The Relief Society Conference was
brought to a close by singing “Praise to
the Man;” benediction by Bishop Wintle. 
	E. J. Bennett, Pres’t.
	E. S. Brunt, Sec’y. 
	SANPETE STAKE.
	MINUTES of the Sanpete Stake Relief
Society held at Mt. Pleasant Dec. 11, 1896, 
at 2 p. m., Counselor Alvira L. Cox presid-
ing. Opened by singing; prayer by 
Brother Edward Cliff; singing “I know
that my Redeemer lives.” Counselor A. 
L. Cox said notwithstanding the series of
appointments she trusted that we might 
enjoy a full flow of the spirit. 
	Verbal reports were given as follows:
Pres’t. M. A. Frantzen, Spring City;
Pres’t. Annie Hardy, Moroni; Counselor
Rebecca Tucker, Fairview; Pres’t. Olive
Acord, Chester; Pres’t. Elizabeth Thomp-
son, Sterling; Pres’t. Matilda Olsen, May-
field. 
	Bishop Allred of Spring City thought
the sisters were more religiously inclined
than the brethren; they are a great help
and have a noble calling. Said to refrain 
from attending meetings for any length of 
time is almost spiritual death; found that all 
needed stirring up at times, and that 
encouragement as well as a special meeting
occasionally is a great help. 
	Pres’t. Helena Madsen represented the 
Gunnison Relief Society.
	Pres’t. R. N. Allred bore testimony to
the good effect in meeting together, also
to the greatness of the prophet Joseph. 
	Pres’t Canute Peterson spoke of the 
many experiences in privations that the 
Saints passed through in early days in this
county. Spoke of the divinity of the 
Savior, said “He undoubtedly had to suffer
the most severe pain on earth, as He had 
to suffer a portion of pain for every individ-
ual that was to come here. He trembled
and sweat great drops of blood. If God
dealt with us as He did in ancient days it
would sometimes be very severe; but since
the crucifixion of the Savior it is different. 
In coming down to live with us He found 
how hard it was, He also learned obedience
and is now our Mediator, and is pleading
for us continually or it would not be so easy
for us. We ought to appreciate Him; He
is and has been more to us than we can 
realize. Are we following in His footsteps? 
Do we bear the little trials (which are our 
crowns) as patiently as did He?”
	Singing “Praise God from whom all 
blessings flow;” benediction by Sister M. 
F. C. Morrison. 
	Evening session, 7.30 p. m. Opening 
exercises as usual. Counselor A. L. Cox
made opening remarks; felt that we were 
greatly blessed with the presence of the 
presiding sisters from the city. 
	Counselor Abbie Shoemaker said “we
come together to be fed with the bread of 
life. Let us be humble and seek for wis-
dom; if we have the spirit of God with us 
we will not have malice in our hearts, but 
will have a sisterly love.”

[Column 2]
	Pres’t. M. F. C. Morrison reported the
Mt Pleasant Relief Society. 
	Pres’t. Zina D. H. Young felt that the 
Spirit of the Lord here was a portion of 
the same spirit that is in the Temple. 
Spoke of the privilege of blessing and 
anointing the sick; those sisters having
received their blessings in the Temple have 
that privilege; the Lord is multiplying 
His blessing. “The Temple is the place
wherein you will be blessed and held in
safety. It is a foretaste, or a portion of 
Heaven when we can meet together and 
enjoy the spirit and each others society.”
	Sister E. B. Wells said “the Relief
Society is such a blessing to us, it has 
helped to elevate and educate us; it has 
brought the sisters closer together in sick-
ness, in death and in all things.” Spoke
of faith, that we shonld exercise it for the 
sick; spoke upon the subject of home indus-
tries, we should keep everything at home; 
encouraged the industry of silk culture
among the sisters, and of straw work, also
all other home industries.
	Pres’t. Canute Peterson in speaking of 
the poor said, “can you benefit the poor
unless you do equally as much for the 
wealthy, for it is more blessed to give than
to receive. None can tell the wants of the 
needy better than a good housewife.”
Thought the silk industry would be quite a 
useful one; sanctioned the idea very much. 
Supposing Babylon should leave, what 
would become of us, as it is so thick among
us? Felt grateful and appreciated the sis-
ter’s visit.
	Singing “Redeemer of Israel;” benedic-
tion by Edward Cliff. 
	Morning session 10 a. m., Pres’t.
M. A. P. Hyde presiding. Singing “O,
say what is truth;” prayer Brother R. N. 
Allred; sung “How firm a foundation;" read-
ing and approving of the previous minutes. 
	Pres’t. M. A. P. Hyde expressed her 
pleasure in meeting the sisters again, said
there was danger in lethargy in attending
to our meetings, prayed that we might have 
the Spirit of the Lord here and have a time
of rejoicing. “The Eord does not accept a 
lukewarm person; we should serve Him
with full purpose of heart. He says ‘Try
me and see if I will not pour out a blessing 
upon you’ As a key to safety Brother 
Joseph said ‘If you will follow the majority 
you will be right.’” Pres’t. Eliza Barthol-
omew, of Fayette; Pres’t. Esther Ander-
son, of Manti South ward; Sister Abbie
Shoemaker, of Manti North ward; Mary
Graham, of Milburn, represented their 
respective wards. 
	Pres’t. Zina D. H. Young said she was 
pleased with the exertions of the sisters in 
getting houses to meet in. “The Prophet
said the sisters little realized the foundation 
they were laying.” Told of a meeting of 
the sisters in the Salt Lake Temple, where
one of the sisters in speaking said she took 
her troubles to God and then left them
there; thought the idea so beautiful that it 
would be well for us to do likewise. “We
should be prayerful and humble.” Related
an incident which transpired at the Kirt-
land Temple, where the opposite power was 
made manifest. Gave the origin of the book
“Pearl of Great Price,” told experiences of 
the Saints of sixty years ago, to show how 
the Lord brings about circumstances.
"There could be chapters and whole books 
written from the experiences of the Saints.”
	Sister M. F. C. Morrison bore testimony 
to what had been said. 

[Column 3]
	Pres’t. Madsen of Mt. Pleasant said the 
complaint of the different presidents of a 
lack in attendance, was the same with the 
people in the ward gatherings; but those 
that remain at home are the losers. If our
people could only get a taste of the good
things they would want more. 
	Counselor Benedicta Hansen of Ephraim
North ward and Lana Anderson, Counselor
of Ephraim South ward, reported the wards 
in a good condition. 
	Sister Annie Taylor Hyde of Salt Lake
said if we would desire a double blessing
we should attend our meetings. This Soci-
ety was organized by the Prophet; we are
being blessed as well as blessing, and it 
makes us better Saints. 
	Pres’t. M. A. P. Hyde spoke in tongues
and Pres’t Zina D. H. Young interpreted 
it, giving blessing and words of encourage-
ment to the sisters. Conference adjourned
for three months. Singing “Earth with
her ten thousand flowers;” benediction by
Pres’t. Canute Petersen. 
	MARIA WILLARDSON, Stake Sec’y.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN  [-]EMORIAM.
	ELIZABETH TUFFLFY CUMMINGS, daughter of
Peter and Jane Tuffley was born in Chedworth,
Gloucestershire, England, Jan. 8, 1822; died in
Salt Lake City Utah on Nov. 7, 1896.
	She left a fond father and mother, brothers
and sisters also many tried friends to cast her lot
with the people of God. She emigrated in 1852
in Isaac Haight’s company, was married to J.
W. Cummings in 1853, was the mother of two
children, one son and one daughter.
	Surely she could say farewell all earthly honors
for they were as dross compared with her
religion. Late years from sickness she has not
been able to attend meetings which was a trial.
She has fought the good fight, kept the faith and
gone to receive the reward which her long years
of suffering and sacrifice entitle her to, and
with joy meet her husband and friends that have
preceded her.
	May she be found worthy of the blessing she so
much desired in our Father’s Kingdom, for it
surely can be said she died the death of the
righteous.
M. A. HARDY.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	To the memory of our beloved sister, Jane
Trelfall Gardner who departed this life Dec. 20,
1896. Sister Gardner was born at Lytham,
Lancashire, England, July 5, 1828; baptized Dec.
3, 1849 by Elder George D. Watt, was a member
of the Preston branch of the church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, emigrated from Eng-
land in Feb, 1855, and was married on board of
the ship Siddons to Brother James Gardner;
she crossed the plains in Captain Ballantyne’s
company, and arrived in Salt Lake City, Sep. 25,
1855; came to American Fork Oct. 23 of the same
year where she resided constantly until the day
of her death.
	She has been a member of the Relief Society
from its first organization, and a faithful energetic
teacher for more than twenty years, liberal and
earnest in all her labors, and a true, humble,
Latter day Saint. She leaves a loving husband
with whom she lived peaceful and happy in a
long married life; also six children, two sons and
four daughters who mourn the loss of a kind,
patient, self-sacrificing mother, and a host of
neighbors and friends who esteem her very high-
ly, and
	WHEREAS, It has pleased our Heavenly Father
to remove from our midst our beloved sister and
take her to a higher sphere, therefore be it,
	RESOLVED, That we consider it a just tribute to
her memory to say that we sincerely regret the
removal of our sister, and we mourn her loss as a
faithful and willing worker, and desire to emulate
her labors and devotion to the cause of truth, and,
	RESOLVED, That we tender our sympathy to the
bereaved husband and the sorrowing children,
and we pray our Heavenly Father to let the divine
influence of His Holy Spirit rest upon them, that
they may realize that though she has gone from
their sight for a moment, yet she enjoys the rest
t


of the faithful, and will come forth to a glorious
immortality. And,
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
placed upon the records of our Relief Society,
also a copy be sent to the bereaved family, and
one to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.
					ELLEN D. CLARKE,
					EMMA FEATHERSTONE,
					KAREN NIELSEN,
								Committee.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LETTER FROM COLUMBUS, KANSAS. 
Columbus, Kansas, Dec. 19, ’96.

COUSIN EZRA FOSS:
Our dear mother (Rhoda F. Scammon) passed
peacefully from earth to Heaven yesterday morn-
ing, 12 30 a. m. the 18th inst.
About a year ago she had a partial stroke of
paralysis which resulted so she could not walk
for about two months; she got better from this
but never was strong, was very feeble, and finally
died from age and weakness.
She, like your mother, was one of the best wo-
men. Her eventful life was one that made every
one who knew her better. She was a good
Christian woman and a faithful mother.
She thought much of your mother and aunt
Phebe Woodruff and only two weeks ago she was
talking of them and saying their example had
made many good young men and women.
She was always a great friend and defender of
all our relatives in Salt Lake City.
Will you be kind enough to inform cousin
Lizzie Fox and all the other cousins and
friends.
I have just written a letter to uncle Woodruff
which will go in this mail.
Thought I had better announce by a personal
letter to him.
Hoping to hear from you in the near future I
am.
Respectfully your cousin
E. A. SCAMMON, M. D.

The notice of the demise of Mrs. Scammon we
deem a just tribute of love to her and to Sister
Phebe W. Woodruff who was a good friend and
patron to the EXPONENT as long as she lived, and
was a devout worker in the Relief Society her
name should be remembered by the daughters of
Zion and they should study her life and emulate
her noble self sacrifice for the Gospel.
Sister Rhoda Foss her sister was also a valiant
sister in every good word and work, and has left
her name on record as an upright Latter-day
Saint.
Following is the formal notice of the funeral.
EDITOR.

FUNERAL NOTICE.
Died. At the residence of her son
W. L. Scammon on Friday, December 18, 1896, at 12:30 a. m.
MRS. RHODA F. SCAMMON
aged 87 years, 9 months and 6 days.
Funeral services at the Methodist
Episcopal Church, at Cherokee, Sun-
day, December 20 1896, at 12:45 p. m.
Friends of the family invited.


OBITUARY.

AFTER an illness of thirteen months, Mary
Johannah Christensen departed this life on Nov.
3rd, 1896, at Farmington, Davis Co.
	She has suffered much affliction for the past
26 years, though at times she would regain her
health sufficiently to attend to her household
duties and visit among her children.
	She was born at Lolland, Denmark, the 21st of
May, 1827. In her younger days she had a
strong, robust constitution and did very hard
work. Her father died when she was quite
young and she being the eldest of the family it
became necessary for her to labor for the support
of the family.
	In the year 1854 she was married to Mads
Christensen, and two years later she with her
husband embraced the Gospel and soon after
started on their long, tedious journey to Utah.
She was the only one of her father’s house that
received the truth of the Latter-day work, and
when she bade them farewell she never saw
them again in the flesh. They were very loath to
part with her and tried many times to persuade


her to remain with them and renounce her new
faith; but this she would not do, and after leav-
ing them in the hands of the Lord and bearing a
strong testimony to them, she left her native
country in the Spring of 1857.
She crossed the plains in the hand cart com-
pany, assisting her husband to draw the hand
cart containing her infant babe of a few months,
their provisions and the necessary clothing for
the journey. She plodded along through the hot
sand and in the scorching sun, of the long days of
summer without a murmur and when the com-
pany stopped a moment to rest their weary limbs,
she would nurse her infant at her breast and then
place it back in the hand cart and be ready to
start on again at the word march. This she did
for weeks when suddenly she was taken down
with a severe form of the cholera which came
very nearly taking her life; and as she lay on
the rough couch prepared for her in the very
throes of death, her husband called in the Elders
bearing the priesthood of God to lay hands upon
her head and rebuke the disease and the hand of
death, which was done and she was healed in-
stantly. She soon recovered her strength and
continued her onward march to the valley where
they arrived in Sep. 1857.
She passed through the hardships connected
with the settling of a new country. She was left
to provide for her family twice while her husband
was called on missions, and always labored
faithfully and devotedly for the cause of truth.
She was the mother of six children, three sons
and three daughters, they all survive her. May
they ever be an honor to her memory and be as
well prepared to go hence when the summons
comes to them. She was indeed a devoted
mother and a faithful companion and friend to the
needy.
Her faith in the Gospel was unwavering; she
died as she had lived, true to her covenants.
May she rest in peace until the resurrection
morn when we hope to be with her throughout
eternity.
A. C. M.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	HELD in the 14th ward Assembly Hall,
Jan. 8 ’97, Counselor Elizabeth Webb pre-
siding until President Horne arrived.
Singing “Once more we come before our
Lord;” prayer by Sister Clara C. Cannon;
continued by singing “All hail the new
born year;” minutes of last meeting read
and accepted. Pres’t. M. Isabella Horne
wished all the sisters a Happy New Year.
Last year we lost four of our good, true,
faithful saints, Sister Ellen C. Clawson,
Sister Helen Mar Whitney, Sister Hannah
Rawlins Pres’t. Draper and Sister Mary A.
Hazen Pres’t. of Brighton Society. “Let
us put our trust in our Father in heaven,
for we are all weak and have to wage war
against sin.” Spoke of our late conference,
said we had an excellent conference.
“Satan gathers his forces here where the
priesthood is; he has great power, places
stumbling blocks in our way and evil sug-
gestions, but everything good comes from
our Father. We are in the midst of trials
today, but God has given a key-word to be
faithful and humble in prayer. Let us
look over our actions each night and thus
strengthen ourselves day by day. We
must serve Him and keep His command-
ments; if we fail in this life we will fail in
the next; He scourges every son and every
daughter whom He receives. I can testify
that Joseph was a prophet of God, and his
blood was shed as a testimony to the world
of the truth of his mission. I desire to be
faithful to the calling where unto we have
been called.”
	Pres’t. Zina D. H. Young said “It is
over twenty-seven years since Pres’t. Brig-
ham Young organized these meetings and I
am pleased to see you, my sisters; we come
here and learn to love each other, and feast
on the good words of peace and salvation.

[Column 2]
I received a testimony of the truth of this
work before I was baptized and I have
never doubted its truth.” Spoke of the
falling away in the days of Kirtland, when
six of the twelve forsook Joseph. “O, my
sisters I have seen the sorrow of those who
have fallen by the way; the results of deny-
ing the faith are so terrible. I feel to bear
my testimony to the truth of this work, and
the truth of celestial marriage. I thank
my heavenly Father that the light has been
given; it is nothing to die if we have been
faithful. Keep free from finding fault and
you shall be blessed. May we meet here
for years and years to come, and be faithful
in all things.”
	Sister Laura Miner said, “I can say I
have never doubted the truth of this Gos-
pel.” Spoke of the Relief Society work in
Logan and made other encouraging re-
marks.
	Another sister bore an excellent testi-
mony to the truth of the Gospel. Sister
Margaret Brown spoke of her labors in the
Temple and desired to go on in such glori-
ous principles. Sister Julia Samson spoke
of the many things we had to make us re-
joice, and hoped we would be stronger in
another year. Sister Caroline C. R. Wells,
bore her testimony that the Gospel was true
and she had never doubted. A sister in
the congregation also bore a strong testi-
mony. Sister Nunn bore her testimony to
the truth of this work and the power of the
priesthood, and also the power of dreams.
	The sisters sang “Guide us O, thou
Great Jehovah.”
	Sister E. B. Wells thought it beautiful to
hear the sisters bear their testimonies,
spoke of the WOMEN’S EXPONENT; Pres’t.
Young was anxious that the sisters should
sustain their own paper. The women of
of this church should not let this paper fail,
spoke earnestly and impressively; spoke
about the silk, said the Commission was
appointed and twenty-five cents a pound
bounty is sure to you on every pound; also
spoke, of the kindergarten, also that we
should pray that the right one
should be sent down to Washington as
Senator. This matter concerns us; let us
pray about this matter that the Lord will
choose him. “I pray the Lord will bless
us.”
	Pres’t. Horne made closing remarks.
Urged the sisters to sustain the EXPONENT,
read from it at their meetings and sustain
it. Meeting adjourned for two weeks.
Singing “Come let us anew;” benediction
L. D. Alder.
		L. D. ALDER, Sec. pro tem.

	Minutes of Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meet-
ing held in the 14th ward Hall, Jan. 23,
1897, Sister Lydia D. Alder presiding.
Opened by singing “Come, come ye
Saints;" prayer by Sister Julia C. Howe
singing “Welcome best of all good meet
ings.” Sister Alder made some remarks,
urging the sisters to faithfulness, if we only
proved humble and prayerful. She hoped
the sisters that were wont to preside would
find that we had enjoyed a goodly portion
of the Holy Spirit.
	A sister in the congregation bore a faith-
ful testimony, hoped we would be careful
in what we had to say. Sister Morris sang
“Redeemer of Israel, ” also bore her testi-
mony; she had never seen the day she did
not rejoice in this work.
	Dr. E. S. Barney also made some re-
marks, said she knew this was the work of


God and the Spirit of the Lord was with
us, we should do better every day, if we
could not hear we could read and think,
thereby obtaining the Spirit of God.
Read some remarks made by Henry Ward
Beecher.
	Sister Mary P. Silver bore her testimony,
said she had always known this was the
work of God. A Sister in the congrega-
tion bore a testimony to the truth of what
Sister Barney had said, also spoke of bless-
ngs we derived from prayer.
	Sister Nunn spoke of her labors in the
Temple, of seeing her aunt whom she was
working for, and the many blessings she
was the recipient of day by day, also the
blessings derived by fasting and prayer.
	A sister in the congregation bore a very
faithful testimony, said she felt to rejoice in
the Gospel.
	Sister Young felt to rejoice in the Gos-
pel, had been in the Church forty-nine
years, desired us to pray for her sister who
was sick, prayed the Lord to bless us all.
	Sister Sarah Phelps also spoke of the
truth of the Gospel in this our day, she felt
we ought to pray to the Lord more ferver-
ently than we had ever done before.
	Sister Silver sang “How firm a founda-
tion.” Sister Wilkins felt pleased that she
had the privilege of meeting with us.
	Sister Mina Hardy bore a faithful testi-
mony. Another sister felt to rejoice but
felt she had a testimony to bear, and knew
we could call down the blessings of heaven
if we would only ask for them.
	Sister Mary A. Hardy also bore a faithful
testimony.
	Sister Held knew if she did not say a few
words she would feel condemned. Singing
“We thank Thee O, God.” Sister B. W.
Smith knew the Prophet Joseph was a true
prophet; she asked the Lord to bless our
young sisters who had spoken in our midst,
prayed for our aged prophet Brother Wood-
ruff.
	Pres’t Horne having arrived made some
remarks, was pleased to see so many
present, thought there was signs of a re-
vival, thought we should have to retire to
the Assembly Hall; she had often thought
of the Lord’s bringing forth this work
through his servants and handmaidens,
that the Lord knew whom he was choosing.
“Let us set an example before our young
sisters.” Sister Horne said she had been
attending a meeting ever since eleven
o’clock this morning. She hoped the sis-
ters would continue to come to these meet-
ings. The first patriarchal blessing she re-
ceived she was told she would have a great
deal of sickness which she had passed
through; she also had a letter read, after
which the meeting adjourned for two
weeks. Singing Doxology; benediction by
Sister E. S. Barney.
	MARTHA BARROW, Sec. pro. tem.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


THE WASHINGTON CO. SILK ASS’N.

	THE Washington County Silk Associa-
tion met on January 4th, 1897, at the resi-
dence of Richard Bentley for the purpose
of re-organization. Mrs. Sarah P. Alger
was re elected president, Hannah C. W.
Bentley vice-president, Julia A. MacDon-
ald, secretary and treasurer. The organiza-
tion purposes buying land and planting a
mulberry orchard, building a cocoonery and
going to work producing silk in a manner
for profit and pleasure, and we trust that
they will receive ample encouragement that


the industry may be made a success. This
climate is admirably adapted to the growth
of the mulberry and silk worms, there hav-
ing been as fine cocoons produced in this
vicinity as anywhere on the globe, and we
are sure that if the business is properly
managed it will not be long before our com-
munity can compete with the importations
from France and Italy, in quality, at least,
if not in price. The work of feeding and
taking care of the worms is light and can
be performed by women and children, net-
ting them a profit that cannot be earned in
other ways. It is hoped that Congress will
make an appropriation to aid in erecting a
filature so that there will be no need of ex-
porting the cocoons, but that everything
can be done here, even to the manufacturing
of the cloth.


LULA'S LETTER.

RICHFIELD, Sevier Stake, Utah,
			Friday, Sep, 18, 1896.
Editor Woman's Exponent,
	Dear Aunt Em:—Yesterday, as you are
aware, Sister M. A. Freeze and myself
came by appointment to attend the Relief
Society Stake Conference here.
	Today we have had one of the best con-
ferences I have had the privilege of attend-
ing for a long time. Verbal reports were
given of nine out of fifteen branches belong-
ing to this Stake R. S.
	The sister who reported the Salina branch
said, among other excellent things, that
each month their R. S. appoints certain
members to visit the meetings held by the
Young Ladies and Primary Associations
during the month.
	That struck me as being an example
worthy of imitation by every branch of
our R. S. everywhere. What better work
can our older sisters find than visiting and
encouraging our young folks and our little
ones, and helping the officers who labor so
hard to keep these associations in active
progression? To be sure, in our R. S.
meetings advice is often given to the effect
that it is a good thing for mothers and all
the older sisters to make such visits to the
younger associations; but the advice is not
so often taken as it should be, and would
be, if such appointments as are made in
Salina were made general.
	Sister E. Ogilvie, of Richfield, told us
that some time ago she felt impressed to
send the EXPONENT to a missionary in
England, to be given wherever he should
think best.  She spoke of this to the sisters
in her ward; some of them gave five cents
each to the enterprise, some ten, and the
paper had been sent and was doing much
good. This example might also be follow-
ed with profit by others.
	Good reports were given by all the sis-
ters who spoke;  the best of advice was
offered by President Bean and her counsel-
ors;  the work of the secretary shows great
care and efficiency, and we feel well satis-
fied with the present condition of this
branch of the Relief Society.
	An informal officers meeting was called
at President Bean’s house after the confer-
ence.   Some important questions were here
brought forth, talked over and disposed of
as effectually as Sister Freeze and myself
felt authorized and able to settle them.
				Sincerely yours,
		L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	MRS. ELLEN M. HENROTIN has joined
the ranks of women journalists. She is to
conduct a club department in one of the
leading New York Sunday papers.
	THE board of directors of the General
Federation of Women’s Clubs will meet in
Washington about Feb. 15 and decide
where the next biennial convention is to be
held.
	MRS. IONE T. HANNA, who was the
candidate for State Superintendent of
Public Instruction on the McKinley ticket
at the recent election in Colorado, is a
pioneer suffragist. In the spring of 1893
she was nominated for the school board of
the East Denver district, and elected by the
women, who turned out and worked for
her like beavers.
	MRS. CADWALLADER GUILD, an Ameri-
can, who has studios in both Frankfort and
Berlin, is the first woman commissioned by
the German Government to furnish an art
contribution to the public buildings. Post-
master General von Stephen has ordered
from her two statues representing the Post
and the Telegraph, to be placed on the new
General Postoffice in Berlin.
	MISS FREDERIKA HASSEL, of Stock-
holm, ex-manager of the pension fund of
the Swedish Women Teachers’ Association,
was tendered a public reception by prom-
inent women teachers on her eightieth birth-
day. Miss Hassel enjoys good health, and
is still able to lend a helping hand in
managing the fund to the establishment. of
which she has devoted herself for many
years.
	WHEN the Colorado House of Repre-
sentatives went into a committee of the
whole for the first time this session, the
trying position of chairman fell upon Mrs.
Butler, formerly of Massachusetts. The
Denver News says:
	“She acquitted herself with credit, though
requiring prompting in one instance. A
member placed himself in line for mobbing
by trying to tie her up on a parliamentary
question. The chairman found no lack of
members to fly to her aid and came through
smiling.”
							Ex.


R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
 
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.     1

