VOL. 25.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15—24, 1896.	NO. 12


CONTENTS:

	Thanksgiving Party At Parowan.—E. Crane
Watson. Titian’s First Works At Padua, And
Titian As State Artist—(Mrs.) L. S. D. A Friend
ly Letter—W. H. Beard. Leaves From My
Journal—Kim. Miss Snow’s Recital. Scandal—
Dr. Elvira Stevens Barney. U. W. P. C.—Orielle
Curtis, Sec. Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting—Zina
Y. Hyde, Sec. Bear Lake Stake—Louisa Tueller
Sec. Obituary—Robert Hazen. Sketch And
Resolutions Of Respect. Ceramics—S. L. M.
	EDITORIAL:—Editorial Notes. Christmas In
The Long Ago.
	POETRY:—An Allegory—M. C. W. Resurgam
—Hannah T. King.


AN ALLEGORY.

OUT of the East one radiant morn,
  Staunch and true, with the sea to cope,
A ship sailed far adown the bourne, 
  Freighted with love and faith and hope.
Blue was the sea and bright was the sky, 
  Sunbeams gilded each spar with gold; 
The dancing diamond spray leaped high, 
  And white sails spreading, fold on fold,—
Seemed like birds of promise hast’ning far
  To a home-nest beautiful o'er the Bar,
	What Port O, sailor? I cried!
“Hope love and faith, are my freightage,
  And I sail to the fair Western Gate;
To the land of promise and glory,
  Where love crowned with laurels doth wait.”
“Ah! but do ye not fear the tempest, 
  With its giant strength and power, 
When the sea shall rise in its fierceness
And crush thee as ’t would a flower?
When the heavens now blue and smiling
  Are black with the wild driving storm,
And deep ocean caverns are yawning
  To engulf thy fair buoyant form,
When the wild winds shall shriek around thee
  Like demons of the mighty deep,
And tear asunder thy white sails,
  And the mad waves shall o’er thee leap?
	O, sailor furl thy sails!
“Nay, for my ship is staunch in her youth, 
  My cargo though precious is light;
And Hope guides the helm, and Faith
  Tells me that love will outlast the night.”
"But the night cometh sudden and dark
  And the clouds go scurrying by,—
Winds call ’cross foam-flecked waters; hark
  Hear how the thunders crash in the sky!—
Now the ship breasts the highest billows,—
  Now sinketh adown in the main,—
Like Pharaoh, the waves engulf her,—
  Her sails are torn by the hurricane.
The storm comes in darkness and fury,
  The ship strains at every seam,
The sailor grows heart-sick and weary,
  And of sunlight there’s never a gleam:
She hath battled so long with commotion
  She is wounded and worn with the toil;
Let her rest on thy bosom, O, Ocean!
  Cease thy fury and warring turmoil,
	Be tranquil, thou Sea!


Afar in the west there’s a gleam of light,
	And the roar of the sea sinks to murm’ring sighs,
The stars of hope shine out i’ the night,
	And the ship reads her way in the skies
She has battled bravely, well and long,
	For her freightage of hope, faith and love;
The haven is near and true and strong
	She will anchor where naught can move.
		The tempest is o’er.
Now nearer comes the long’d for Port in sight,
	Where waters gently lap the shining sand;
Gone are the fears and dangers of the night,
	And love eternal, clasps thee by the hand,
		O, gentle sailor! 
                                                            M.C.W.
Oct. 15, 1892.


THANKSGIVING PARTY AT PARO-
WAN.

	WE are justly proud of our R. S. organ-
ization; a more earnest, united band of
sisters would be hard to find; their efforts
on Thanksgiving day only served to
strengthen our good opinion of them.
	Our society gave what is known to us by
the homely name of “a wood hauling
party,” the brethren (especially the young
portion) hauling wood for a Thanksgiving
dinner and dance ticket. Thiry-three loads
of excellent fuel was received and distribut-
ed amongst the needy, and many hearts
were thereby made glad and more thankful
than ever.
	Beside the wood haulers and ladies, all
over sixty-five were invited. Our tables
were arranged in our new Social hall, (plates
laid for one hundred and sixty at each
sitting,) and were filled three times. One
feature that added to the day’s success our
Bishop assisted from the beginning with a
will, both by work and financial aid; one
thing in particular, he personally paid for
all the turkeys for our feast, which was one
indeed, ’twas utterly surprising where so
many good things came from after such a
trying summer, not only these present
shared that bountiful repast but the sick
and the motherless children were richly
remembered.
	We had large committees of both breth-
ren and sisters who worked hard for three
days, yet all feel fully compensated when-
ever they think of the great amount of
good wrought by their labors.
	Our association is energetic and faithful,
we have our meetings regular and well
attended, our membership is one hundred
and twenty-five. We have been wondering
if there would be any change in the day of
our testimony meeting, as the general fast
day is on Sunday, would it not be allowable
for us to hold ours some evening? It would
be more convenient for every mother whose
children are in school, and more of the
young sisters would be apt to join us. God
bless the beautiful cause.
			{S. A. ADAMS, Pres.
			E. CRANE WATSON, Sec.


TITIAN’S FIRST WORKS AT PADUA
AND
TITIAN AS STATE ARTIST.

	IN giving an account of the paintings of
so great a master, it is only possible to 
speak of the most celebrated ones. In fol-
lowing Titian “the Prince of Colorists’’
into Padua, we find there, as well as else-
where, the proof of the great things that
have been said of him. In 1511 he went
to Padua, the center of Italian art and in
tellectual development, where he did some
Palace, and a great deal of Church Fresco-
ing, a work he always disliked.
	His best decorative work was done on the
Convent of St. Anthony and consisted of
descriptive scenes and incidents in the life
of that Saint.  One of the best Frescoes
painted at Padua was “The Triumph of 
Faith,” of which one of the critics of the
day said: “It is a Masterpiece and worthy
a Christian painter.” “The Three
Miracles,” of St Anthony was his best work
done at that time. While they were not
considered historical works they were noted
for their magnificently drawn figures, poet-
ical beauty and a glowing perfection of
color.
	Titian having been in Padua about six
months returned to Venice in the early
spring. At this time he was invited to
Rome by Pope Leo X., an invitation he
refused because of his higher ambition as
well as his love of more congenial society.
In 1513 Titian desiring fame more than
fortune, petitioned “State Council of Ten”
that he be allowed to paint in the Hall of
the Council leaving all financial matters to
the discretion of the Council, a proposition
the authorities were not slow in accepting.
Thus Titian became State Painter but on
account of the many delays caused by his
professional enemies, who were envirous of
the favors shown him, he did not finish
any of his first paintings for several years.
In 1516 Titian went to Favara and visited
with and painted the portrait of the Duke
Alfonso I., which was admired by Michael
Angelo and is now in the Gallery at
Madrid.  He also painted the portrait of
the Duchess, Alfonso’s first wife, who was
none other than the famous Lucrezia Bor-
gia. Titian was employed by this Prince
more than two years at this time, and paint-
ed some very fine pictures some of which
seem to embrace all the characteristics of
this great artist. In one of these paintings
there is shown over sixty figures in as
many different attitudes. It is said that
one of the great artists shed tears when
this painting was carried away from Italy.
Alfonso did not only pay Titian generously
for his paintings but bestowed on him all
the honors he would have shown a great
nobleman of a rank superior to his own.
After this Titian painted many pictures
that became celebrated. Two of the most
noted ones were “The Assumption of the
Virgin” and “The Martyrdom of St. Peter
Martin.” At this time Titian was filling
several important commissions for others.
Because of this the Venetian Government
became very angry at the artist and threat-


[Column 1]
ened to relieve him of his state duties, if he
did not devote all his time and talents to
the paintings wanted for the Doge Palace.
	Titian had five assistants, yet he could
scarcely fill the orders for paintings as they
came in, and through many of them ran a
thread of the love he still cherished for the
poetical scenes of his childhood. At this
time Titian painted a great many Court por-
traits and one of himself. That was called
by all his people “The precious gift of our
relative Titian.” In 1521 Alfonso invited
Titian to spend Christmas with him and
visit the Pope at Rome; he again refused
the Royal invitation, returning to his belov-
ed Venice, ‘‘the Home of all Artists.”
When asked why he did not accept the
invitation to visit the Pope he replied, ‘‘he
was tired of Courts and Princes,” but he
must have formed a liking for high life
while at Court for upon returning to Venice
he purchased a fine house and ‘‘lived
splendidly;” yet the possession of great
wealth and loss of companions did not pre-
vent his continuous painting, for it was in
these, the most brilliant years of his life,
in that Venetian studio, he painted some of
his best pictures, many of which occupy
prominent places in the great art galleries
of the world. Titian’s reputation had by
this time spread throughout all Europe, so
that some of the Kings beseeched the Vene-
tian Government to allow him to paint their
portraits. In 1523 he was permitted to
paint the portrait of the King of France,
and the letter of introduction he bore to the
King from the State Council of Ten ran
thus in part: "This is Titian, most excel
lent in art, but modest and gentle withal.”
	Then followed another long visit to the
Duke Alfonso where he painted several of
his finest Festive pictures. Then back to
the Council where in the latter part of 1523
he painted ‘‘The Entombment of Christ”
and the ‘‘Glorious Madonna.” that caused
Pardone, his most bitter enemy, to give ex-
pression to his admiration of this great
work.
	Titian’s favorite style of painting the
Madonna was as a true, loving, motherly
woman, getting the idea from the mother
of his own children whom he loved so well.
Titian finished “The Martyrdom of St.
Peter Martyn,” in 1529 after two years
work. For this great painting Titian re-
ceived the reward offered by the Brother-
hood of St. Peter. We next find Titian in
the winter of 1529 and 30 at Bologna ming-
ling in the festivities surrounding the
grand ceremony of crowning Charles V. by
Pope Clement VII. Though Titian was
tired of Court life his artistic pulse must
have quickened at the sight of the com-
bined splendor of this ceremony, and the
brilliantly arrayed company of statesmen,
soldiers and scholars with their retinue
from all Germany and Italy. The first
portrait he painted on this occasion was
that of Pope Clement, which is now in the
Bridgewater Gallery, London. The next
one was of Charles V. who was so well
pleased that he became the firm friend and
patron of the artist. This portrait became
celebrated and is now in the Royal Gallery
at Madrid.
	There was so much Royal praise and 
favor bestowed on Titian at this time that
he returned to Venice laden with honors
and rewards, envied of his artistic powers
by all. In 1532 Charles V. rode into Italy
to receive the homage of her Princes. The
Emperor himself was an enthusiastic col-

[Column 2]
lector of art treasures, and after having
seen some of Titian’s work, he sent off at
once a pressing invitation for Titian to
come to him, which invitation that inde-
pendent artist heeded not, except through
his relation to the Court, till 1533 when he
again painted the Emperor. In May of the
same year, Titian was made Count of the
Empire, and Superintendant of the collec-
tion of Art Treasures. In 1537 Titian
painted the portraits of twelve Roman
Emperors. All of these paintings became
celebrated. In the latter part of 1537 Titian
had some financial trouble with the State
Council of Ten, and was nearly losing his
position as State Artist, through the treachery
of his enemy Pardone; but he regained
the favor of the Council by painting one of
his best works. In 1539 ‘‘The Presenta-
tion in the Temple,” now in the Venetian
Gallery, was Titian’s next important and
most gorgeous work.
	In 1542 Titian painted the portrait of
Pope Paul III., that gained for him the
name of “The Character Painter.” This
picture was said to look so natural that it
was almost “life itself.” Sometime after
this he returned to his Mountain Studio
where he painted the “Ecce Homo” of
1543 for which the Royal owner refused
thirty-five thousand dollars. In 1544 there
was several copies made of the portrait of
the Empress, the beloved wife of Charles
V. that was painted by Titian when the
lady was only twenty-five years of age; one
copy was presented to the Emperor, and
was the dearest treasure of his heart. Titian
up to this time having served his State
about 31 years, finds himself just in the
prime of his wonderful manhood, at about
the age of sixty-two, with eye and hand
and creative abilities as clear and strong as
they were in his youth.
A DESCRIPTION OF SOME OF TITIAN’S FA-
MOUS PAINTINGS.
“THE CHRIST OF THE TRIBUTE MONEY.”
	Titian made this painting to prove to the
critics that he had the finest artistic touch
as well as the greatest power. It is said
that the most delicate veins are discernable,
and that each hair in the ringlets on Christ’s
shoulders can be counted. This is claimed
as the most perfect easel picture Venice
ever produced
“THE NOLI ME TANGERE.”
	This is now in the National Gallery and
shows perhaps more clearly than any other
the true spiritual thoughts Titian had of
Christ, when he painted this picture of
Christ turning from the Magdalen. This
painting is noticed for its tranquility and
its poetical beauty.
“THE VIRGIN’S REST,”
	Is a sunset scene, showing the Virgin
and Child in company with St. John and
St. Catharine, and is celebrated for its
heavenly pathos and solemn grandeur and
is now in the National Gallery.
“THE DUKE ALFONSO,”
	Is the famous portrait of the Duke
Alfonso De Estes, so much admired by
Michael Angelo and was painted by Titian
at the same time he painted Alfonso’s first
wife’s, Lucrezia Borgia.
“THE ANNUNCIATION,” 
Was painted before 1519, and is noted
for the light that shines from the face of the

[Column 3]
archangel as the Divine, message is deliver-
ed to the Virgin.
“THE ASSUMPTION OF THE VIRGIN,”
	Is one of Titian’s masterpieces, and the
best single oil painting in the world, ex-
cept perhaps one on the same subject by
Raphael. It is this painting that caused
the beholder to say “It reminds me of
music.” Though darkened and faded it
is still the pride of the Venetian Gallery.
“THE ENTOMBMENT OF CHRIST.”
	Was painted in the Autumn of 1523. In
the painting are seen the figures of Nicode-
mus and Joseph bearing the body of the
Savior to the tomb. This painting is
famous for its wonderful lights and shadows.
“THE MADONNA DI CASA PESARA.”
	Some of the characters in this painting
are St. Peter, St. Athony, St. Thomas and a
Knight bearing the Jeweled staff of the
Church. It waspainted in 1526 and is now
in one of the greatest churches of Venice.
“THE MAYTYRDOM OF ST. PETER MARTIN.”
	This painting combines all of Titian’s
best talents in the artistic line, and is one
of the most wonderful pictures in the world.
It was painted for, and won the prize offer-
ed by the Brotherhood of St. Peter. The
Venetian Government so loved this paint-
ing that they ordered any one put to death
who dared remove it from its resting place.
Upon beholding this picture the beholder
was said to feel as if the air were darkened
with grief; it was burned in 1867.
“THE MADONNA DEL CONIGLIO.”
	This varies somewhat from the usual
style of Madonna's; instead of presenting
a grave or sad appearance, it shows the
Madonna sitting on the green grass fond-
ling a pet white rabbit. It is now in the
Louvre at Paris, the greatest Art Gallery
in the world.
“THE ECCE HOMO.”
	To give the necessary amount of solitude
to paint so sad a picture as this, Titian re-
tired to his mountain studio and there in
1543 he painted the finest Ecce Homo ever
given to the world of art; it was said to
be as good if not better than the one paint-
ed by Correggio. For this picture the roy-
al owner refused forty-five thousand dollars.
“THE PORTRAIT OF THE EMPRESS.”
	This was painted when the lady was
only twenty-five years of age. She was
then the beloved wife of Charles V., and
when upon his death bed his last wish was
“one last look at his wife, the Empress.”
					(Mrs.) L. S. D.


WOMANS EXPONENT


A FLAG reception was held at the Parker
House, Boston, the afternoon before the
election, under the auspices of the Ameri-
can Woman’s Sound Money League. Mrs.
Marion McBride presided and read a report
from thirty-one states in which women
have been working for the cause. Mrs. J.
Sewall Read spoke for the Woman’s Relief
Corps. Mrs. Julia Ward Howe also spoke
for the women and recited her poem on the
flag written during the war. Prof. Augus-
tus Bedford delivered a lecture on the de-
velopment of the American flag, and
llustrated it with miniature flags. Among
the other speakers were Rev. E. A. Horton
and Rev. A. A. Berl.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RESURGAM.*
	I SHED not a tear
	O’er the dying old year!
I mourn not to see him depart—
	He has answered an end
 	Been my Mentor and friend,
And his Cenotaph hangs in my heart.
	I calmly look on
	As the requiem song,
Floats over my memory’s ear!
	Let the old year depart
	No regret’s in my heart,
And lachrymal cells hold no tear!
	My heart is at rest.
	And I fear not the test,
With which Time tries the children of Earth
	My all’s in the bank 
	Where the Saints ever rank,
And I fear not the desert or dearth.
	There is One up above,
	Whose Spirit is Love!
And through life I’ve experienced His care
	And a sure gurantee
	Shall the past be to me,
That of good things I’ll still have my share.
	But should the good things
	Be what poverty brings!—
May hope trim the lamp in my heart;
	For ’tis said those He loves,
	He most certainly proves,
To see if from Him they’ll depart. 
	Then let the year pass
	With his scythe and his glass,
Yet to Time—dear old Time, I owe much,
	He has ever been kind
	To my heart and my mind,
And has gently on each laid his touch.
	But the time has now come 
	For the year to go home,
And calmly we’ll lay him away—
	And hail the new year,
	With a welcoming cheer, 
And start for the years’ race today!
					HANNAH T. KING.
S. L. C., Dec. 31, 1876.
*Unpublished, found among some old papers
but remember its having been left over at the time
and think it will recall to mind one of our dear
departed sisters whose name often appeared in
the EXPONENT.
							EDITOR.


[Column 1]
A FRIENDLY LETTER.

SPICELAND, IND., Nov. 30, 1896.
	I acknowledge the receipt of a copy of the
Deseret Evening News of the 16 inst, con-
taining a well prepared sketch of the death
and life history of my esteemed and valued
friend, Mrs. H. M. Whitney. You may
be assured that I read this touching tribute
to the memory of my deceased friend with
feelings of inexpressible sorrow—not be-
cause I think she is not enjoying that rest
and peace that characterizes all our loved,
honored dead who have nobly and truly
filled their mission in life—not because I
entertain the idea that her present state is 
not better than when she lived, and hoped
and loved amid the changing scenes of
earth; but for the reason that we will
 never again be privileged to see her kind
face, or listen to her words of wisdom that
were always freely given in the interest of
justice and truth.
	In some respects I regard Mrs. Whitney
as a remarkable woman, a woman who has

[Column 2]
but few peers in moral and intellectual
worth. The large circle of friends she had
about her who had learned to love and
value her for her many worthy elements of
character, will, I am sure, revere the
memory, and strive to emulate the good 
deeds of the dear one who is now sleeping
in her windowless palace of rest.” Helen
Whitney has forded the “silent river”—
gone from among the scenes of a busy
world, but the good acts, the kind words
and the generous deeds recorded in her life
history will, in the course of time, become
jewels for all true womanhood. We will
all say of the deceased "gone but not for-
gotten.”
	During my travels in the distant west
sometime in the early spring of 1884, I
passed a brief interval in your famous
city enjoying the beautiful historic scenery
in and around the great Mormon metropo-
lis. I remember one bright morning I call-
ed at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Whitney,
told them I was a stranger seeking infor-
mation regarding the strange and peculiar
sect of which they were worthy representa-
tives. It is needless to say I received
a kindly greeting, I was warmly welcomed
to the hospitable home of these generous
people, and during my stay I had the
pleasure of a long conversation with the de-
ceased. Our discussion embraced many of
the leading topics, among which was the
“Mormon question.” I found my friend
familiar with the history of her church,
thoroughly conversant with every feature
of the “Mormon faith,” and fully conscious
of her duties as an advocate of that faith.
	The result of this interview was a warm
and lasting friendship that continued to
ripen with twelve eventful years of corres-
pondence. I have many letters of the de-
ceased that are highly prized for the broad
and liberal ideas they contain, and I have
had several of these friendly communica-
tions published through the Eastern press,
which received high editorial comment.
I trust the earnest life work of our dear one
will be a source of inspiration to those
who have had the privilege of familiarizing
themselves with it, and to the relatives I
take this method to extend my sympathy
and condolence in their hours of sorrow.
	Now I wish to thank you for thus re-
membering me by sending me your pen
picture of our mutual friend’s death, and
let me express a hope that some time in the
future I may visit your famed city, and
give you the grasp of a friendly hand. 
			With great respect,
				I am yours etc,,
					W. H. BEARD.


[Column 1]
LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.
	WE now drove to the Cathedral Santa Maria
del Fiore, it is of great extent and magnifi-
cence, the exterior is incrusted with prec-
ious marbles and filled with beautiful
sculpture, the northern porch is especially
fine, also the Southern door nearest the
apse with a garland of fig leaf by Pietro di
Giovanni, within it is paved with marble.
Behind the high altar is a Pieta unfinished,
and the inscription says the last work of
Michael Angelo executed in 1555, when he
was in his eighty-first year. The Crucifix
over the altar is by Bennedetto da Majano,
beneath the central altar of the apse is the
famous Shrine of San Zenobia, by Ghiberti,
1440. We now went inside the “Baptistery

[Column 2]
of my gracious St. John,” Dante—once
the Cathedral, its date is uncertain, it is
believed to have been once a temple of Mars,
the interior is dark. It is surrounded by
sixteen columns of which one is of white
marble and fifteen of gray granite. The
marble believed to be the column on which
the statue of Mars stood, near Ponte Vec-
chio. The Cupola is covered with Mosaics,
the high altar has a beautiful frontal of sil-
ver repousse’ work. The old font 1128
was a large basin for immersion, surrounded
by smaller basins; in the present one all
the children born in Florence are baptized.
The beautiful tomb of Pope John XXIII is
by Donatello.
	This afternoon we take the train for
Bologna, only a short journey—the rail-
way crosses the valley of the Arno, the
plains of Lambardy and the Appenines.
There are forty-five tunnels, ten of which
are more than a mile long, with galleries,
bridges, viaducts and embankments, the
scenery is very beautiful, one of the most
interesting places en route was Pistoja,
famous for its iron works, here the pistol
was invented. Soon we arrive at Bologna,
Hotel d’ Italie, the proprietor always wel-
comes us, and always comes to wish us
good bye and bon voyage—it is a pleasant
custom.
	Bologna City is the capital of the prov-
ince of Bologna, situated in a fertile plain
near the northern foot of the Appenines,
eighty miles of rail north of Florence. A
handsome city, the paved streets are lined
with varied colonnades which afford shelter
from sun and rain. The palaces of the
nobility are fine, it has 74 churches, they
are beautiful and richly furnished with
paintings by the old Masters. The church
of San Stefano, one of the oldest in Italy,
contains Greek frescoes of the 12th century;
the church of San Petronio is a fine speci-
men of the Italian Gothic style, adorned
with masterpieces of painters and sculptors;
the church of San Dommica has sculptures
of M. Angelo, and paintings by Guido, L
Caracci and Colorma; those with the Cathe-
dral, rich in works of art, were all we had
time to visit. A most curious custom is
burying some of their holy people in a
sarcophagus standing on pillars in front of
their churches.
	We now drove about the city, the fountains
are most curious, and in a square near the
centre of the city are the Leaning Towers,
the Torre Asinelli, built in 1110, is Ferne
Say, 256 feet high, others 320 feet and leans
4 feet; the Torre Garisendi is 163 feet high
and leans 10 feet. They were designed so
and are not wonderful like that of Pisa.
	We now drove outside the walls, about
three miles is the pilgrimage church, La
Madonna di S. Luca, built in 1731, named
from the picture of the Virgin said to have
been painted by St. Luke. A most inter-
esting place was the Campo Santo, the
building is an old Monastery, 14th century,
devoted to its present use in 1801 on the
site of the Etruscan burial ground. You
can be buried here for one hundred dollars,
they come in the night, you are not made
sad by the sight of a hearse in this city, nor
do your family go with you; so the Priest
told us who showed us the monuments.
	Bologna is the native place of many emin-
ent painters, Guido, the three Caracci, and
of Pope Benedict XIV. The city was taken
by Charlemagne in 800 A. D., and was the
capital of the most powerful Italian repub-
lic from 1118 to 1274.
							KIM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cs. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50 per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z.C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
 	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY DECEMBER 15—24, 1896.


EDITORIAL NOTES
	MISS S. J. Curns of Baltimore and Miss
Nellie Colburn of Kansas, two young wo-
men traveling, and taking in the sights,
called with letters of introduction. They are
interested in all that has been done in Utah
to build up the country, and especially wo-
man’s advancement.
	WE have had recently a very pleasan 
visit from Mr. and Mrs. Morton Lindley of
California, people of education and refine-
ment and entirely without prejudice against
our people; Mr. Lindley is interested in
mining operations and they spent three
weeks in Mercur, and took in the places of
interest in the City. Mrs. Lindley is a
literary woman, has published one book of
fiction and has been employed quite a few
years in heavy literary work on law books,
Thompson’s Law Review; was also proof
reader and so on at one time with. Bancroft
when he was preparing his history, Mrs.
Lindley had called on me before her mar-
riage, with her mother in 1892 when the
office was opposite, the Templeton behind
the old wall.
	THE play given under the auspices of
the Old Folks Committee in the Theatre on
Tuesday Dec. 15, was very enjoyable.
The Old Homestead is a very attractive
piece and the company deserve hearty com-
mendation for their generosity to the aged,
the widows and orphans. This custom of
remembering the old folks is a very praise-
worthy one and should be an example to
the young people for however young and
charming now the day will come when only
the beauty of the soul remains. The Thea-
tre was crowded and it is certain that there
were many who thoroughly appreciated the
performance. God bless the old folks, the
widows and orphans and may they have
many more such blessed opportunities. And
may those who waited upon them and con-
tributed to their comfort also receive the re-
ward that always follows a generous action.
	SISTER SARAH M. KIMBALL President of
the Relief Society in the 15th ward in this city
made a widow’s party in the afternoon of
Nov. 19 ult. The spacious hall was well
filled mostly with women, the Bishop of the
ward, Elias Morris, and the President of
the Stake, Angus M. Cannon and a few
other brethren were present barely a sprink-
ling. After singing and prayer Sister
Kimball made a neat little speech and then


Bishop Morris addressed the sisters followed
by Sister M. Isabella Horne, Zina D. H.
Young and Bathsheba W. Smith, all veter-
ans in the Church and in the cause of
charitable work. Brother Lovesay, recent-
ly from England, sang a humorous song
and Sister E. B. Wells spoke a short time,
followed by a returned Missionary and then
President Angus M. Cannon spoke to the
Relief Society. After singing the Doxolo-
gy the benediction being pronounced, re-
freshments were served to all, and conver-
sation became general, the delicate elderly
ladies were taken to and from the party in
carriages. This practice of entertaining
the lonely widows of the ward is very com-
mendable and we would humbly suggest to
others “Go thou and do likewise.”


MISS SNOW’S RECITAL.

	THE Hotel Templeton parlors were
crowded on Monday, November 23 ult, to
hear Miss Snow’s Recital. The audience
was highly appreciative. Miss Snow be-
gan with the early Christian Art as seen in
the Catacombs in Rome. The magnificent
Mosaic decorations in Venice; the Byzan-
tine school of art in Constantinople, closing
with Giovanni Cimoline, the Father of mod-
ern painting.
	Pictures were shown illustrating the dif-
ferent subjects. Following the lecture was
a talk on the Delsarte System of Expression,
Harmonic Gymnastics, gracefully illus-
trated. Excellent music was rendered by
Miss Oliver and Miss Della Daynes.
	Miss Snow is now giving a series of
Lecture Recitals in the Hotel Templeton
parlors every Wednesday afternoon at 3.30 p.
m., subjects, Art and Artists, illustrated by
pictures of great Masters. Each lecture is
followed by music and Delsarte Society
Gymnastics. 
	After the holidays Miss Snow will
begin another series of Lectures. For fur-
ther information see Miss Snow at her stu-
dio, Brooks Arcade, opposite Hotel Knuts-
ford.


SCANDAL.

	PERSONS who always take the oppor-
tunity to burlesque the mistakes of another,
are liable to disfigure their own physiog-
nomy permanently, as one that always
frowns wear, on their brow wrinkles. In
making pictures a good artist will favor the
posing of them with proper light and shade,
that when his work is completed he can
realize to the fullest extent, an enjoyment of
the Golden Rule, “Do to others as you
would have them do unto you.”
	Gossip is something like many sides to
a picture. To more clearly illustrate my
idea; suppose you place several minors in
a room in a circular position, and the indi-
vidual who is to be pictured to him or her-
self in standing in front of one will see the
different individuals in the several mirrors,
and will be astonished to know that they
are the identical and same individual in the
several mirrors, that is facing the one mir-
ror, and are so unlike the face view. Then
how unjust (and to the disadvantage of the
original) it would be to represent the back
or side pictures, as a perfect and front view,
which is the side of a person that the be-
holder obtains varied expressions, that are
not obtained or conveyed in the other repre-


sentations. Again life has its different
phases. The child is admired because of
its perfection of feature in its innocence,
though ignorant. Prime of life is appreciat-
ed because of its usefulness; old age is ap-
preciated because of its experience and
knowledge.
	“Man know thyself.” The acts of an
individual are an open expression of the
educated will. The child may be naturally
morose but it has forgotten its temper if
associated with its opposite. ‘‘Bad manners
corrupt good morals.” Children learn
in their childhood plays, to both build
up and tear down; but the individual of
maturity of mind and body, build a better
castle prior to tearing down the old one.
	Christmas will soon be here. Why not
feed the child’s heart and mind with proper
reading instead of the ridiculous caricatures
which are a detriment to the circulators as
well as a disgrace to the makers. Can it be
possible that any parent is so lost to the
duty to children, neighbors and friends as
to encourage the purchasing of anything
that is so exaggerated as to lose all sem-
blance of truth? If any disease is not
fostered by what it feeds on, it will die
naturally of itself. Burlesque and ridicule
will never elevate an individual; one that
is given to such propensities, as a remedy I
wonld suggest a daily reading of Jesus’
Sermon on the Mount. Again health knows
no pain, but what of sickness? The indi-
vidual is not the same in body nor mind— 
neither the same in poverty, as in wealth.
What of God’s laws? Perfection; just so
far when applied to the individual as they
have attained to it. In order to measure
arms with the Almighty, one would be
necessitated to stand upon the same exalted
pedestal of intelligence and power. O,
how futile is man!
		DR. ELVIRA STEVENS BARNEY.


U. W. P. C.

	NOV. 30, 1896 the U. W. P. C. was call-
ed to order at 8.30 p m., E. B. Wells in
the chair. The first business of the eve-
ning was the installation of the new officers;
before taking her seat as President, Mrs.
Fox made a motion, that a vote of thanks
be extended to Mrs. Wells for her efficient
work as president; the motion accepted
unanimously, and Mrs. Wells was made
Past President by society’s vote. Mrs. Fox
then accepted the presidential chair for the
coming year. After a short address by the
new President, the programme for the eve-
ning was given. A poem “Thanksgiving
Thoughts” by Dr. Shipp. A paper,
“Slavery as a National Problem” by Mrs.
Arthur Brown. Reading from the col-
lection of Poems, “ Shadows and Whisper-
ings” by Mrs. E. B. Wells. Paper
“Titian” by Mrs. Syntitha Dickinson.
Reading “Symmetrical Womanhood”
by Mrs Rachel Miller. A poem Pro
tanto” by Dr. Curtis. After the comple-
tion of the programme the motion was made
and carried that Mrs. McVicker be retained
as critic. Another was also carried that
Mrs. May R. Taylor be admitted as a mem-
ber of the club. 
   Time for the meeting of the club was
changed to 7.30 p. m. Adjournment was
in order.
			ORIELLE CURTIS, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
LADIES' SEMI-MONTALY MEETING.

	MINUTES of Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meet- 
ing held in the 14th ward Assembly Hall,
Saturday, Nov. 28, 1896, President M. Isa-
bella Horne presiding. Singing “O,
happy souls who pray;” prayer by Sister
Julia C. Howe; singing “Glorious things
are sung of Zion;” minutes of previous
meeting read and approved.
	President Horne felt it was good to meet
together and speak of the goodness of the
Lord, one to another. “We must be contin-
ually on the watch-tower, guard our speech
for Satan took advantage of our words, not
our thoughts, we should have good in our
hearts ‘for out of the abundance of the
heart the mouth speaketh,’ we should seek
to have the Spirit of the Lord always.”
Spoke on faith, repentance and baptism,
said when she thought of the privileges we
enjoyed she felt we are truly a blessed
people, related a vision of Brother Wood-
ruff’s wherein he saw Joseph and Hyrum
Smith, and seeing them in such a burry,
being very busy, he asked why this was.
They told him this was the last dispensa-
tion and they were getting ready for the
resurrection. Said we should use very great
wisdom in asking the Lord for spiritual
gifts especially the gift of tongues, thought
if God had a gift for us it was for a special
purpose and he would give it to us. Re-
fered to President Woodruff’s sermon on 
this subject and urged the sisters to live
their religion and prayed the Lord to bless
us all.
	Sister Leaker testified to God’s goodness
to her and felt to coincide with everything
said by President Horne, spoke of her Tem-
ple work; felt to praise the Lord. Sisters
Morris and Julia Samson bore faithful testi-
monies. Singing, "How firm a founda-
tion.”
	President Mary Ann Hyde in her re-
marks refered to the recent death of Sister
Helen Mar Whitney, also many other dear
friends who had passed away, spoke on
faith and told of a blessing given her by one
of these sisters in which she was told she
should have great faith. This had been
literally fulfilled, she and three young 
children had been healed by faith, urged
the mothers to watch carefully, made some
beautiful and encouraging remarks and
prayed the Lord to bless us, also warned
the sisters to be wise in asking for the gift 
of tongues. 
	President Horne related how she receiv-
ed the gift of tongues, also spoke of her
youngest daughter having this gift but that
they both came unsought. Refered to Sis-
ter Hyde who had this gift but always used
it in wisdom and by the Spirit of the Lord,
spoke strongly on this subject. Sister Zina
Hyde spoke on this subject.
	Sister Margaret O. Brown related an in- 
stance of the gift of speaking in tongues,
knew the Spirit of the Lord was the great- 
est comfort and blessing to her, alluded to
the goodness of the Lord and how His hand 
had been over her all the time for good, 
bore her testimony. 
	Sister J. C. Howe felt to testify to the
truth of what had been said in regard to
the gift of tongues, related an instance of 
engaging in prayer with her little family
and how she then and there received the
gift, felt this was a comforting gift; “there
is a book of remembrance kept and when the
sisters testify of the goodness of God this 
is recorded. President Horne made a few

[Column 2]
closing remarks and meeting adjourned for
two weeks.
	Singing “Satan’s power long has florish-
ed;” benediction by Sister Lydia D. Alder.
			ZINA Y. HYDE, Secretary.


[Column 1]
BEAR LAKE STAKE.
	MINUTES of R lief Society Conference of
the Bear Lake Stake of Zion, held in the
Paris 1st ward meeting house, Sunday,
Nov. 29, 1896. Opened by singing “ O,
God our help in ages past;” prayer by
Bishop Price; continued by singing
“When earth in bondage;” sacrament
was then administered under the hands of
the Paris 1st ward Bishopric. Sacramental
hymn “Ye children of the Lord.” Presi-
dent Julia Lindsay presiding, also before
receiving reports she offered a few timely re-
marks.
	Paris 1st ward represented favorably by
President Margaret Inness; Paris 2nd ward
represented by President Ashley; Bloom-
ington ward represented by Counselor L. M.
Hart, who afterwards said how she thought
we should all be truly sincere in our
religious duties, also related many beauti-
ful items of her experience while passing
through the Temple, told how her noble
and beautiful mother taught her to be
economical, neat and tidy, said it was
necessary and right for young ladies to be
careful in taking good counsel from their
loving mother and put aside ca elessness.
learn to make good bread, and mend their
clothing and shoes if necessary and prepare
for future usefulness. Also said how care-
ful young ladies should be in choosing hus-
bands, and not be too hasty to wed, said
how she looked forward for things she has
been deprived of in this life, that she can re-
ceive in the life to come if she is faithful,
advised the sisters never to speak indiffer-
ently of the Priesthood before their child-
ren or they will regret it all their lives, also
wished us to be liberal with our means and
cultivate charity, and help those who are
in need and try to be Saints in very deed.
	Sister Bagley reported the Montpelier
ward as being in a very fair condition, said
although Montpelier has had a bad name
and that people cannot possibly be Saints
that live there, yet they have a good Relief
Society and many of the sisters are very
liberal when called upon to aid the needy.
Also said how careful a mother should be
to cultivate the spirit of the Gospel and
prepare our families to understand the duties
required of them when about to start in
life for themselves, so as to have our child-
ren worthy members in the kingdom of God.
If we are members of the Relief Society we
will be able to get rid of false ideas, we will
also become better wives and mothers than
we would otherwise. How necessary it is
for us to be kind and thoughtful to the
orphan and help cheer those who are in
distress and downcast We should also
respect old age, and try to assist in sickness
Thanked our Heavenly Father for the
privilege of living in this last age and dis-
pensation, exhorted the young people to
respect their religion and live a good and
true life.
	President Lindsay said if we only put in
practice what we already have heard, we
would accomplish something great. Al-
ways had taken comfort to know that her
anchor of courage has been that she had a
standing in the Church and Kingdom of
God, always felt comforted when having

[Column 2]
prayed to our Heavenly Father and had
things brought to her mind that she had
not thought of before, many times when in
need of the same, also has been able to
overcome that fear or timidity that comes
upon us when we are called upon to speak
to the Saints, desired to live to do good,
although at times she had wondered what
good it was to live now her husband had
passed away and her family all raised.
Related her experience in her Temple
work, told how worried she was about her
work on account of some of the members of
her family not being able to go through
the Temple to work for dead relatives not
having time etc., said how the Lord
miraculously answered her prayers with re-
gard to getting her great genealogy, 1438
having been baptized for already and some
few endowed for. It was astonishing how
much baptizing her nephew got through in
a day, 300 baptisms. By the help of Sister
Spencer has been able to accomplish so
much genealogical work, felt how good it
was to be under the influence of the Holy
Spirit and feel the presence of the heavenly
beings, after having worked one day in the
Temple, felt repaid for all her life’s suffer-
ings and trials, would not change her posi-
tion in plural marriage for anything or on
any account. Be very careful how we
speak of the Lord's anointed because it is
not our duty to criticise their actions, but
be Saints in very deed. Never knew dur-
ing her experience in this Church such a
spirit of fault-finding as there is today.
	Our Relief Society is organized in all its
branches in order to exercise our charita-
table feelings to all who are in need, Mor-
mon or Gentile, and we believe that in the
near future we will be called upon to help
and assist many who are not of our faith,
asked the Lord to help us to remain firm
and steadfast, and reminded us that after
we become members of the Relief Society
we take upon ourselves great responsibili-
ties.
	President James Hart had enjoyed the re-
marks that had been made, felt to com-
mend the valuable instruction that had
been given, could not empahsize too much
the useful and timely remarks that had
been made in regard to respecting the
Priesthood etc. We are to much given to
say “I can’t do this, and I can’t do the
other, ” we should be willing to say“ I can
do all things through Christ’s strengthen-
ing my labors.” There are many things
required of us in the various stages of life;
we can do all things required of us through
asking the Lord’s assistance, rejoiced in
the great good our worthy sisters were
doing, and felt proud of being numbered
with the Latter-day Saints, said we should
be ready at all times to forsake everything
for the Gospel’s sake. We are privileged
to be heirs to the Priesthood, prayed that
the spirit of this meeting would go out to
all other wards in this Stake, and may the
Lord’s choicest blessings rest upon us all.
	Conference was adjourned for six months;
choir sang “Onward Christian Soldiers;”
benediction by President William Rich.
		LOUISA TUELLER, Acting Sec.


CHRISTMAS IN THE LONG AGO.

	SEATED around a wide open fireplace
where the great logs of wood burned cheer-
fully, and the tile hearth was bright and
shining, the strong brass fire-dogs flashing


[Column 1]
in the reflection of the blaze, and all things
else correspondingly neat and cosy, were a
family party in the comfortable sittingroom,
mother and children, all busy at the
evening task, making ready for the coming
Christmas.
	“Another lonely Christmas mamma
without father, how blue we shall all be,
and what a cheerless dinner even though
we all try to keep up appearances; wouldn’t
it be better to go to grandfather’s old place
in the country instead of staying here wait-
ing for the ship to come in when it has
been so long due, and we’ve had no news
of her?” said the eldest daughter Clara,
opening the evening’s conversation. Before
the mother could reply John looking up
from his book in the corner exclaimed,
“ Yes mamma let us go to the old home-
stead in the country, I’ve not been there
since I was a child, and it would be jolly
to trudge around there once again climbing
the stiles, and going through the hedges
hunting the lost turkeys and other farm
fowls; and the great barn was a fine place
for us to hide in when we were boys, do
you remember Frank, the fun we had there
the last time we paid a visit? When father
was home from the Mediterranean and
had'nt seen his old home for many years,
not since we were born anyway, imagine if
we were to do that what would mamma
say?
	“Evidently mamma is not going to get
a chance to answer any of your queries, but
if permitted to speak, mamma will say, that
if your father does not come to-night, and
we hear no news of him, or the ship, we
will go to Hillside and spend Christmas.” 
	"Good, good,” said the three boys all
in one breath; and Clara and Edith joined
in with "delightful, glorious!” "It is
stupid here,” said golden haired Edith,
"and I'm so anxious to see the country
again, even if there should be some snow
it would be the merrier, we might meet
some of those ‘honest country lads,’ grand-
pa always talks to us about with more vir-
tues than manners, not like the city-bred
fellows who pride themselves on their
broadcloth and fine style, so he thinks.”
	"Grandpa is right though girs, he
knows the world pretty well and the men
that make it,” said John. “ No donbt of
it," Edith replied “but who would want
to marry one of them, why we could never
think of having one for a husband, think of
a life time of it, settling down for year in
and year out with such a fellow, and no
amusements, nowhere to go.”
	"We will not discuss marriage just
now,” said Clara interupting, “you are not
out of your teens, but say Edith wouldn’t
it be better to have your husband home
tending the farm, and feeding the stock in
the winter time, than out on the high seas,
exposed to dangers, and never see him at
all, year in and year out, as you say, not
even at Christmas.” 
	“Don’t girls, don’t talk so, you make
everything so real, we’ll go to your grand-
pa’s and try to drive away dull care for a
day or two during holiday week, and may-
be there’ll be news of the ship Goodspeed
by that time,” said the mother pathetically.
	“Well one thing certain I’ll never go to
sea and leave my wife and children, if I
ever have them,” said John, “nor I
either,” echoed Frank, “nor me,” repeat-
ed Fred the youngest.
	“Perhaps you wont all be delighted
when father comes home after this long

[Column 2]
voyage and brings us all presents, then
you’ll sing another tune, and say how you
love the sea, and the ships, and what a
good thing it is to have a father who goes
sailing all around Cape Horn and Cape
Good Hope and all the other Capes, and
brings you home a jolly lot of curios and
things,” said Clara deprecatingly.
	But just then the front door bell rang out
loud and clear, and the mother anxious
with long waiting and hope defered, turned
deathly pale and almost fainted, while John
a stalwart boy of seventeen, sprang with a
bound into the hall, throwing wide open
the door and rushing into his father’s arms
buried his face in the great shaggy fur
coat, and by this time all were being kissed
and made glad, the seaman’s great coat was
cast aside, and the bronze face and shaggy
gray beard of Captain Tremont were visi-
ble; Fred climbed on his knee and began
thrusting his hands into his father’s capa-
cious pockets (of which there were many)
and while Clara went to see after supper and
the boys and Edith all talked at once, Mrs.
Tremont sat silent, too glad and too much
overcome to find utterance in words. By
and by supper over and the boys gone up
stairs to bed, Captain Tremont grew talka-
tive. “What had you planned for Christ-
mas, mother did you include me? We’ve
had some rough seas this trip, I’ve never
seen more storms, I knew how hard it
would be for you wife, with me away and
all these big boys and girls to look after,
and not much means, and a man don’t
know when he comes home after a long
voyage what he’s coming home to, we can’t
get much news on these long voyages you
know, when we come into port, we’re often
disappointed about letters, and sometimes 
there’s bad news and we dread getting
any, when we see one of the crew shocked
by the news he gets—and then when we’re
near home we hardly dare ask after our
own;—you’re nervous and pale wife, but if
you had seen me shake when I got out of
the coach up at Field’s-inn, you would not
have believed it was the same man that had
just come from port, and bade his men good
bye,—but never mind now I know all’s
well at home, how good that sounds when
a man’s been away nigh on to four years.”
	“We don’t care for Christmas now father,
this is good enough for us, the best Christ-
mas we could have is to see you well and
have you here with us, mamma thinks so
I’m sure, and Edith and myself will try to
make you as happy as though you were young
lovers again.” “And wont you want
anything else, what about Santa Claus,
does he come round nowadays when your
old father is not at home?” “O yes, you
remember the boxes we had last year all
the way from Spain, and they came a few
days ahead of Christmas, but we waited
until Christmas eve and we were so jolly,
the boys and all, even Polly and Tim.”
	“Well girls I’ve brought more presents
home than I could send, and one too big
for a box, that I hope you’ll like,” with a
knowing look at his demure wife.—“O,
father what is it a Kangaroo?” said Edith,
“What nonsense,,' replied Clara “of
course it is a native of some of those islands
his man Friday, undoubtedly.”
	“You shall see tomorrow I had to leave
it at the inn, because I didn’t know wheth-
er I should frighten you all with my shaggy
coat and unkempt beard; but as you kept
your wits pretty well at the surprise, for
you evidently did not expect me, I’ll ven-

[Column 3]
ture to bring the biggest Christmas box
tomorrow, let me see, this is the 23rd of Dec-
ember, and at evening we ought to be
at Hillside, what will your dear old grand-
pa say to a rough seafaring man like your
father.”
	“But hadn’t we better stay here now
you’ve come, and not go out in the cold,
you must be weary father after such a long
voyage and severe storms on the ocean.”
	“No wife, I think we’ll go, we might as
well all be happy together and father would
be glad to know I’m safe on land once
more; aye, but it does give one a queer
sensation, I fancy I feel the ship rolling,
and I’m swaying back and forth, yes we’ll
go by all means it’s only about ten miles
drive, and with a good team and if the
roads are not very rough, we’ll get there in
good time, its a roomy old house and Aunt
Bettie’ll make us all welcome.”
	The girls retired and Captain Tremont
and his patient, loving wife who had been
separated so many years from each other,
sat and talked until the fire went out, and
then the half had not been told of happen-
ings, and hopes and fears for each other
and their loved ones ; but “tired nature”
must have rest, and “balmy sleep” comes
to the relief of all ; what a boon to mortals
given.
	In the morning boxes were opened and
gifts distributed only a few reserved for
Santa Claus, but the great wonder too big to
put in a box had not arrived, and the fam-
ily were all guessing and asking numberless
questions; but the greatest surprise was
reserved for Hillside farm. 
	The ride was pleasant for the day was
very fine and the happy party thoroughly
enjoyed each other’s society. On their
arrival which was entirely unexpected (ex-
cept as the grandfather declared he had a
presentiment) a sumptuous repast was serv-
ed and the old home was decorated with
holly and evergreen, according to the time-
honored custom of Christmas eve. Aunt
Bettie the housekeeper was never without
Christmas preparations in the way of lux-
uries, and the boys found the barn as delight-
ful as in the days of hide and seek games.
The one subject that provoked discussion
was the Christmas box, which did not get
there, as the boys and girls had anticipated.
Supper over the family gathered into the
great sittingroom, full of memories for Cap-
tain Tremont and as he spoke of the familiar
articles and appearance of the room, and of
his mother’s “old arm chair,” father and
son so long parted, could not keep back the
tears of affection; how wonderfully these
thoughts rush in upon us at such times!
Fancy conjures up the visions of the past
and the very faces of those so near and dear
seem to shine out in the unreal picture.
	Edith breaks in upon the reverie which
followed the pathetic scene between father
and son, and turned the tide into one of
query aud chatter about the Christmas gift
too big to pack in a box. The guessing
was kept up for an hour or more, until fin-
ally the Captain’s father grown weary of
the nonsense, inquired about the ship and
the voyage from which his son had just re-
turned, and Mrs. Tremont interrupting,
asked her husband to tell some of his expe-
riences; she knew very well this would si-
lence further conjecture about the mysteri- 
ous Christmas present. While thrilling
stories of narrow escapes and terrible storms
at sea were being told in a graphic manner,
and the children were listening as if a spell
were upon them, Mrs. Tremont and Aunt


Bettie busied themselves in adjoining rooms
with Santa Claus in real earnest, for Mrs.
Tremont was in the secret and had received
her instruction.
	Finally when all was ready, and the sig-
nal given to the Captain, the doors were
thrown open and in walked a man as large
and heavy as the Captain himself, loaded
with baskets and boxes, his face hidden be-
neath a hat seemingly of snow, and a beard
long and dark partly concealed by a snowy
muffler; he was decorated with bells that
tinkled as he strode into the centre of the
room and began to set down his bundles.
	“ O, he’s a real Santa Claus,” exclaimed
little Frank, while the girls held their breath
lest he should vanish away, and matter of
fact John declared, he was his father’s man
Friday. But the old fellow did not speak
nor offer to explain, and graudpa who was
not in the confidence of the knowing ones,
asserted it was one of the country lads play-
ing a joke on them.
	“ Will you be seated and tell us your
errand here?” said the Captain as if he was
not aware of the stranger’s coming. ‘‘If
you please good sir I will deliver my mes-
sage and then depart if you permit me,”
said the stranger in a voice so deep-toned
and touching, that all started in amazement
for they knew instantly by his tones he was
a gentleman born and bred.
	Captain Tremont and his wife took the
various packages and bundles and handing
them to the members of the family who
trembling held them unopened, as though
afraid of the contents, and the Captain step-
ping up to the strange man said familiarly,
“It is midnight, remove your hat and coat,
let me introduce you," but the village
Church bells near the farn pealed out the
midnight mass, and silence reigned except
for the music of the bells; meantime the
girls awake to consciousness of the presence
of company, for quite a little gathering had
assembled noiselessly, and standing in the
centre of the group, Captain Tremont intro-
duced to the astonished girls, and to their
country cousins and friends, Mr. Mon-
tague alias Santa Claus. Then the pack-
ages were opened, and every one had some-
thing from a foreign port, but the interest
all centered upon the stranger, and all sorts
of guessing was indulged in among the
curious young people. Dancing and other
festivities, including kissing under the mis-
tletoe, were kept up till nearly daybreak,
but the stranger was quiet and reticent and
the disappointed crowd were compelled to
retire for rest, no wiser than they came con-
cerhing Mr. Montague.
	“Christmas however shall not pass,”
said Edith to her sister after they were safe
in their bedroom, ‘‘without my unsolving
this mystery. Why has father brought
this man here? Is he to remain at our
house or go to sea again when the ship
sails?" Clara was as puzzled as her sister,
and only replied by asking more questions.
	“Are you favorably impressed with him
Edith? Would you like him to stay? Or
do you prefer one of your country cousins,
or one of grandpa’s honest lads?” This and
much more in the same strain passed be-
tween the sisters until sleep visited them,
and when morning dawned, refreshed and
exuberant in spirits, they sought the break-
fast room with the gay greetings of youth
and innocence, Mr. Montague was there and
several of the guests, young men and maid-
ens; but the great attraction for all was the
stranger who had been so mysteriously in-
troduced into the house.
	Edith succeeded before dinner in catching
her father alone in the hall and plying him
with questions which he evaded but prom-
sed to enlighten them later on when he
had a good opportunity.
	After dinner Christmas day Captain Tre-
mont told the story of Fred Montague. A
terrific storm of wind and hail caught the
ship near the Baltic sea, and not being able
to see, when night came on the darkness
was so dense the Goodspeed collided with
the Friendly, which had only recently sailed
out of port; both vessels were injured, but
the Friendly seriously, so that she had to
be abandoned, the men on board took to
the boats, and as the sea continued high,
and the storm did not abate nearly all per-
shed. . Mr. Montague managed to sight
the ship Goodspeed, and when the pilot
discovered the boat like a speck, measures
were taken to find whether it was empty;
finding it contained a human being the
kind-hearted sailors brought him more dead
than alive on board. He revived under
the tender care of the ship doctor, and feel-
ing he owed his life to the crew he made
himself useful in every way possible. The
first mate was takeu ill and Mr. Montague
took his place and succeeded so well, with
the help of other men, that he continued
with the vessel, and when Capt. Tremont
finding a chance to send him home on a
ship they met bound for France, he refused
to go, saying he would stand by the ship
until she came into the British port. It
was quite evident a strong attachment had
sprung up between the two men, and Mr.
Montague determined to abide with the
Captain.
	The visit to Hillside farm was prolonged
and the merry party of young people did
not fail to enjoy the time in a round of gay
festivities. The preferences among the
young people came to be quite noticable be-
fore the holiday week was over, and the
anxious mother saw how interested Edith
and Fred were in each other, and mentioned
to the Captain what she observed. ‘‘It is
all right,” said he, “I informed myself of
his parentage and character before bringing
him home as a Christmas present. Noth-
ing would suit me better than to say yes,
when I am asked.” “Then suppose I
should tell you Clara is enamored of one of
her numerous country cousins?” “I should
not be displeased wife—we have not for-
gotten how easy it was for us to fall in love,
but two engagements Christmas week and
so soon after my return is not very flatter-
ing to the father, and it really is more
than we bargained for, however we must
make the best of it and it wont be very
hard work, two reputable young men in
the family will be an acquisition to be
proud of. I suppose its all owing to the
mistletoe and its powerful influence, we
must lay it to something you know."
“Its human nature I should judge,” said
his wife, “considering men and women
have been falling in love ever since the
creation in the Garden of Eden.”
	The dear old grandfather heard the en-
gagements announced before Captain Tre-
mont took his family back to the city, and
gave them his blessing and invited them to
come and celebrate their double wedding
the next Christmas.
	And so the Christmas looked forward to
gloomily by these two young girls brought
them many blessings, gifts from afar, corals
from the South sea islands, shawls from
India and fans of ivory fit for a Duchess,
besides bringing their father safe home,
and best of all perhaps, a sweetheart. And
so it often happens in real life the unexpect-
ed happens. Love begets love it is said and
so out of the love of doing good to others
and promoting happiness at Christmas time
that intense soul-love is sometimes born or
created that unites two happy hearts in a
mutual bond of blessing that lasts forever.
In this iustance. Clara married the honest
country lad whom Edith described as being
always at home year in and year out, and
Edith the sailor who stayed away year in
and year out, and both were satisfied, and
although this story is only a simple sketch
out of real life it is founded on facts, and
“truth is stranger than fiction.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S  EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.
MARY ANN BAINBRIDGE HAZEN.
    MARY ANN BAINBRIDGE HAZEN.
	Mary Ann Bainbridge Hazen of Brighton
ward, Salt Lake City who died on the 27th day of
November, 1896, of typhoid fever, after an illness
of several weeks, was the daughter of Samuel
Bainbridge and Elizabeth Allan and was born
Nov. 28, 1830, in New Castle on Tyne, England.
	She embraced the Gospel in her native city,
being baptized by Elder Robert Gillies in 1852,
and became the wife of Robert Hazen August 29,
853, they being married by Elder Thomas
Squires
	She emigrated to America accompanied by her
husband and an infant daughter and her aged
mother, leaving Newcastle for Liverpool on the
28th of March, 1855, sailing from there on the 31st
of that month in the ship Juventa, to Philadelphia,
arriving May 15th, sojourning in Pennsylvania
and in Bellville, Illinois where her mother died.
	In March 1859 she with her husband and child
left that town and took passage on a steamer
from St. Louis to Florence, and left Florence for
Salt Lake City on July 1859 in Feramorz Little's
company, arriving in the valley Sep. 10, and
locating two days later across the Jordan river
where her home has been continuously until her
demise.
	She was the mother of seven children, two sons
and five daughters, four daughters having pre-
ceded her to the Spirit World.
	On Oct 16,1896 her younger son who is now
laboring in Indian Territory, Mission, took leave
of his mother on her bed of sickness from which
she never arose, but sent a message to him with
her blessing and hoped he would fill a good mis-
sion. She also leaves 16 grandchildren.
	Sister Hazen was an earnest, quiet, humble and
unassuming worker in the Church, ever cheerful,
kind and very hopeful but never complaining.
The children will miss Grandma Hazen, as she
was called.
	She filled honorably the position of President
over the Relief Society of Brighton ward for 21
years, having been appointed Sep. 2 1875. She
also acted in the capacity of a Sunday school
teacher for many years.
	She died surrounded by her sorrowing kindred
and kind friends, and filled with the hope of a
glorious resurrection and exaltation and eternal
life.
                                     ROBERT HAZEN.
    P. S. Sister Hazen was charitable, merciful
and tender-hearted, a true friend and she was
gifted with an exceptionally fine voice in singing ;
she loved her religion and was faithful to the
meetings; she dearly loved the EXPONENT.
								EDITOR.
			RESOLUTIONS.
    RESOLUTIONS of respect to our departed Presi-
dent Maty Ann Hazen, adopted by the remaining
officers and members of the Relief Society of
Brighton ward of Salt Lake Stake of Zion.
	WHEREAS, An alwise Providence has called
from our midst to a brighter sphere our beloved
President and co-laborer in the Relief Society of
Brighton ward, be it,
	RESOLVED That in the demise of our sister we
have lost an unassuming, humble and willing
worker, also
	RESOLVED, That we cherish her memory from
the fact that God and her religion were foremost
of any worldly aims; that we do esteem her
faithful labors and devotion to the Gospel as


worthy of emulation by every member of our
society; further
	RESOLVED, That we sincerly sympathize wlth
the bereaved husband, children and friends in the
loss of a faithful wife, loving mother, sincere
friend and true Latter-day Saint; again
	RESOLVED, That these resolutions and obituary
be placed upon the records of the Relief Society
of Brighton ward, a copy sent to the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT and one to each member of the
family.
			OTTILIE M. SCHENFELD.
			LYDIA J. BROWN, 
						Counselors.
		HORTENSE M. JONES, Ass't. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SKETCH AND RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	[To the memory of Sister Martha Jasper who
	departed this life Sep. 8, 1896.]
	DECEASED was born Feb. 14, 1821 in Lambeter,
Breckenshire, England. She embraced the
Gospel between forty and fifty years ago,
emigrated to Utah twenty-three years ago last
July and settled on a ranch near Utah Lake where
she resided until four years ago last May, her
husband having died a few months previous, she
was left a lone widow. Her friends persuaded
her to sell the ranch and move into Goshen
where she has resided with Mrs. Elizabeth Davis
until her demise.
	She has been a very faithful and energetic
teacher and member of our Relief Society for the
last four years, and a liberal donater. She was
very zealous in working and having work per-
formed for her progenitors in the Manti Temple,
and she spent a great deal of means in that direc-
tion, and if she had made a proper will the princi-
pal part of her property would have gone to the
Manti Temple.
	WHEREAS, It has pleased our Heavenly Father
to take from our midst our sister and co worker,
we realize our loss is her gain. [-]herefore be it,
	RESOLVED, That we emulate her energy in the
performance of her duty as a teacher, and her
zeal in laboring for her dead, for her whole soul
was in the work of God. Therefore be it,
	RESOLVED, That we record a copy of th
resolutions upon our records and send one to
WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication
						ELLISON GOURLEY,
						AMELIA GOURLEY, 
						LUCY TAYLOR,
								Committee


[Column 1]
CERAMICS.

(Read before the U. W. Press Club.)
	[HERE is a specimen of porcelain made
in Syracuse, N. Y., called Flowing blue,
to me much handsomer than Delft.]
	[Here is another made in East Liverpool;
this is called the Lotus ware, as fine as the
finest French ware.] 
	[Here is a specimen of Beleek made by
the Ceramic Art Co., Trenton, N. Y. It is
as fine as any Irish Beleek that was ever
made. There are many other factories that
make as fine goods as these, so we need not
cross the Atlantic to find the beautiful por-
celain.]
	That there is a brilliant future in store
for the Ceramic art of America may be in-
ferred from the rapid stride forward it has
made. With a limitless wealth of material,
gifted with enterprise, originality and taste,
the American artist can look forward to
taking his place with the best the world
has produced. 
	There are many obstacles in the way,
however, with a heavy protective tariff
our manufacturer is barely able to compete
with the foreign cheap labor producer.
The import duty does not cover the greater
expense of working in this country.
Statistics show that in labor and material
the American manufacturer labors under
the disadvantage of about 100 per cent. In
works of art the disadvantage is vastly in-
creased. The makers of the tariff make a
distinction of only 10 per cent between

[Column 2]
white granite and decorated porcelain; a
difference of 5 per cent is drawn between
decorated and undecorated porcelain. Art
work is benefited to the extent of ⅛th. more
than plain goods. Art is less protected
than workmanship, since the cost of skilled
and unskilled labor is greater here than in
Europe. Consequently there is little to in-
duce manufacturers to turn out art unless
some profit can be drawn from the reputa-
tion it brings. I do not intend to discuss
the question of protection versus free trade,
I only speak of the tariff to show the diffi-
culty of building up something worthy to
be called American art. To illustrate.—A
porcelain plate was made at Greenpoint,
N.Y., on a challenge. It was a copy of a
plate in the possession of Mr. George Luck
by whom it was purchased at the sale of the
effects of Louis Phillippe. The plate was
from Sevres, decorated chiefly in gold.
The Greenpoint copy was made to test the
question whether American decoration
might not in time be made to equal the
Sevres. Those who saw both had great
difficulty in distinguishing the original from
the copy made and many could not do
so without examining the ware. The
challenge was fully met, and should it
be asked why such work could not be done
here continually, the reply is, the state of
the market so far as the demand for Ameri-
can art is concerned, is such that prices will
barely cover the cost of production. Presi-
dent Smith at the convention of Potters
Association, says foreign clays can be put
down cheaper in New York than Penn.
clays by 15 per cent. Expense is not the
only drawback. It is a fact that while 
native manufacturers advance and find
ready reception, native art must force its
way to recognition; its first honors must
be won abroad; it must bear a foriegn
stamp to be accepted in the home of its
birth.
	This is so good a market that foreign
artists send their works here, sure of a wel-
come. Competition by an American
though a superior is difficult.
	A foreign artist comes branded as a gen.
ius and home critics hesitate to give a ver-
dict in favor of their own countryman; they
lack confidence in their own judgment and
prefer to take another’s opinion than give
their own. On one side is the work of one
who has won praise in Europe; on the
other that of one who makes an appeal to
their own judgment. Under such condi-
tions the American artist is discouraged.
	French art is to a Frenchman the finest
in the world; Englishmen support English
art because it is their own. They are satis-
fied with it if all the world wonder at the
thing they cherish; it is good to them and
that is enough. American art may be
good, equal to the best, but it is American.
Receiving no notice the artist loses the
benefit of criticism and concludes that his
own people complement themselves by be-
lieving that no work of art can be produced
among them.
	This may seem overdrawn but facts are
eloquent. It has been said Americans take
pride in their manufactures; that of pottery
is an exception. Almost everywhere
granite ware can be seen bearing as mark
the royal arms of England and with the
mottoes in full Uni soit qui mal y pense,
which in this case seems to be very appro-
priate. The ware may have been made in
Trenton or anywhere else in America, but
the dealer will not buy it without the

[Column 3]
English mark. It is a strange mark for an
American potter, and a sad and shameful
comment on American flunkeyism.
	Inquiry brings out the fact that their
customers look for the English mark and
finding it buy; thus there is no question of
superiority but simply of a name. In the
matter of porcelain, that made in this
country is sold every day for French, Ger-
man and English. No objection is made
to the finish, durability or decoration, but
its parentage must be concealed in order to
sell it. Art grows slowly, especially in a
country so largely commercial as America,
so when it does make its appearance it
should be treated with respect to hasten its
growth; America is in this respect an ex-
ception to the nations of the earth.
	In France, Germany, Prusia, Russia, Italy
China and England the Ceramic art receiv-
ed the support of Government and w[-]althy
patrons. In America such support is
neither given nor required, only apprecia-
tion is desired. In a Republic the people
are the rulers and patrons. Prejudice in
art is the end of criticism; prejudice in
commerce is suicidal. The materials for
making every kind of ware are found in
this country. As early as 1766 American
clays were taken to England, and the great
Wedgewood at that time, more than a hun-
dred years ago, expressed fears for the
earthern wares of England, because of some
“new pot makers,” as he expressed it, in
South Carolina. It is to say the least
amusing to think that after one hundred
years of pottery we still patronize
Europe.
	The greatest progress in making porce-
lain in America has been made since 1860,
and now there are more than one thousand
potteries in the United States. The capital
invested by the forty firms of the American
Potters Association is $4.000,000. One of
the oldest firms the Robertsons, have mas-
tered the secret of the Howland process of
applying colors upon unbaked clay and
have produced some fine specimens.
	Thus it will be seen that we neither lack
material or ability to cope with the best
foreign productions, all that is necessary is
for the people of this country to divert
themselves of the idea that a foreign stamp
is necessary to make a thing good, and
wear the mantle of their Americanism as
proudly and as independently as a Roman
wears his toga.
	In this brief paper upon Ceramics much
has been omitted that would be interesting
to the students of porcelain, but I could
only touch upon different points that have
led us down through the centuries, from
the sun-dried bricks of Egypt to the beauti-
ful porcelain of Greenpoint, N. Y.
						S. L. M.


R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

A Happy New Year to All our Friends and Patrons.	


