[WomansExponent | Vol41 | 1912 | February | Issue: 14 | Title: After Long Years | Author: Unknown]

		AFTER LONG YEARS.
Amid the grand old woods of oak and pine.
I sit me down, ’mong mosses, flowers and
	ferns,
And thought, with magic pow’r almost divine;
Unconsciously to other days returns.
	An excess of joy must always be tem-
pered with sadness, or at least blended, as
the minor notes blend with those that are
high and shrill, and while nature revels in
its glorious beauty, and the spirit rejoices
in accordance therewith, there are also low
tones of music sweet and clear that thrill to
the very center of the human heart and
stir its deepest fountains, with a something
indefinable, but which harmonizes with the
twilight, and the soft murmur of the brook-
let, and the song of the nightingale. And
in the train of thought that comes with
twilight shadows, soft murmuring waters,
and the songs of thrust and nightingale,
there steals athwart the soul a pensive ten-
derness, that stirs the oldest memories, and
all unconsciously, we stand as ’twere in
places where our feet have trod many
“long years ago,” and vividly before us, as
by enchantment all the realisms coeval
with the very hour, live again within our
hearts ;we see the wood-path where we
wound our way through tangled vines and
broke the rotten wood, and hear perchance
the woodman’s axe again, as though its
echoes lingered in our souls these forty

[Column 2]
years, and pushing onward through the
tangled copse pierced with the briars, gath-
ering here and there a wild-flower, we feel
the conscious touch of some soft hand with-
in our own, and, blessed memory! it thrills
us now as it did then, and we might dream
of bliss like this forever, were it not that
some fierce night owl with red eyes, glares
at us, or screeches its horrid notes, and
wakes us, as it were, in terror; or a serpent
hisses beneath our feet and warns us that
life’s path’s beset with danger. Yes even in
our memory of the past, the reveries of
blissful thoughts, these horrid phantoms
glide and mock at human happiness.
	And thus in the brightest moments of
our lives we are pursued by shadows; and
tis well, for we cannot bear too much of
sunshine and graciously the shadows inter-
vene, and sadness blends with joy, as shad-
ows with the sunlight, and the stars shine
in the darkness, as hope mingles with our
sorrows; and we know all things by con-
trast; and after toil and weariness there’s
rest, and thus we learn life’s lesson, and if
we’re wise we’ll gather precious treasures
by the way, and enshrine them in our hearts,
that we may feast upon them in our lonely
hours. The harvest of good fruit sewn by
kind acts, and loving words and deeds of
simple unaffected charity. These are the
gems that will adorn the brows of those
who live to bless their fellow beings.
	How many such, who now have passed
away our memory can recall and they will
live forever; and every spring the fair
green earth shall see, shall be the sweeter,
fairer, fresher, purer and more fragrant, be-
cause of these dear ones, whose deeds of
holy love have consecrated them to God;
and in the blessed morn of the eternal
spring when heaven shall crown the earth
with that ecstatic kiss that thrilling
through every fiber shall wake the dead,
and breathe into their re-awakened souls,
the consciousness of all they are and were
and are to be ,then shall we know what
gave us this keen sense of all the beautiful,
this power to draw such perfect imagery
and call up memories that long years have
buried deep; and all the magic and un-
known, will be revealed to those whose mis-
sion has been nobly filled.
	None should sit idle while there are
flowers or gems to gather, though they
must plunge into the thicket to obtain
them, or dive into the ocean’s depths, and
if we let our fear of thorns and briars daunt
us, or even the creatures beneath; then we
must be content without the blessing, for
none can conquer but the brave. And
when the victory is won we can sit down
and count our sorrows o’er, but till that
time, we must push on, and yet there are
some pleasant pastures by the way, and
healing waters where the thirsty traveler
may drink; and if we are diligent who
knows but we may reach the everlasting
hills that tempt us in the distance, that
seem so near until we try to reach them.
					AUNT EM.


