[WomansExponent | Vol41 | 1912 | February | Issue: 14 | Title: Early Literary Women of Utah | Author: Unknown]

EARLY LITERARY WOMEN OF UTAH.
	The hardships of pioneer life are not gen-
erally very conducive to the cultivation of
the finer qualities of the mind and soul. The
making of new homes and conquering desert
wastes naturally calls forth all one’s energy,
and the tired work-worn body would nat-
urally require all the faculties of the mind
to assist in providing life’s necessities. For
many years after the settlement of these val-
leys, there was a dearth of literary work,
and it is not hard to find the names of those
few who found solace and comfort in the
use of the pen. The pioneers of Utah are a
very different type of people, to those who
generally seek new homes in unclaimed ter-
ritory. They were, as is well known, a peo-
ple of strong religious sentiment and innate
refinement. There were many men and
women among them of high intellectual at-
tainment. The pioneers brought with them
across the plains a printing press, and within
three years after their advent into the desert,
established a newspaper—The Deseret News
—and founded a university. In the early
columns of this paper and the Millennial
Star, printed in Liverpool, England, may be
found an occasional poem or article by Eliza
R. Snow, Emmeline B. Wells, Hannah T. 
King, and Sarah E. Carmichael. There was
established as early as 1854, a literary so-
ciety known as the Philosophical Society, “a
gathering for social, literary, and general
cultivation of mind and manners.” This so-
ciety was founded by Lorenzo Snow and the
meetings were held in his home, a handsome
residence for those days on the corner of
South Temple and Third East streets, known
to most of this generation, as the Clawson
residence.
	Poems and prose articles prepared for this
society often found their way to the columns
of The Deseret News, and thus was given an
incentive for the cultivation of literary tal-
ent. 
	Eliza R. Snow ranks as our first literary
woman. We know that as a girl she was
the author of a prize story published in
Gody’s Ladies Magazine, and was also re-
quested by a committee to write a requiem


[Column 1]
on the death of John Adams and Thomas
Jefferson, which occurred on the same day—
July 4, 1826—the nation’s birthday. These
with some other literary efforts, marked
Eliza R. Snow’s young womanhood and the
talent for writing and the taste for literary
work was always predominant with her,
though she is known as an expert needle
woman, a neat and thrifty housekeeper, a
teacher and prophetess among her people.
She found her greatest delight in quiet soli-
tude, penning songs for the Saints to sing,
or writing treatises containing words of ad-
monition and encouragement. As a historian
she is also known, having published those
very interesting books, “The Palestine Tour-
sts” and “The Life of Lorenzo Snow,” her
brother. Eliza R. Snow’s poetry is pub-
lished in two volumes and varies in its na-
ture. Her style is doctrinal and lofty rather
than musical and tender. Her great hymn
called “The Invocation,” better known, how-
ever, as “Oh my Father,” would immortal-
ize her name among the Latter-day Saints,
had she written nothing else, but as a song,
“Awake my slumbering minstrel,” is prob-
ably more more popular and musical. Eliza R.
Snow has contributed twenty hymns to the
Latter-day Saint hymn book, most of them
frequently sung in the congregations of the
Saints. Her prose writings, with the ex-
ception of the two books mentioned, are not
in collected form, but most of them are in
the different numbers of the WOMAN’S EX-
PONENT, and contain many interesting and
instructive paragraphs. Eliza R. Snow was
born in 1804, in Massachusetts, and her
nature, so full of integrity and spirituality,
was doubtless an heritage from her revolu-
tionary ancestry. In her childhood, her
father moved his family to Ohio and it was
there she and her father’s family accepted
the Gospel. She was a true Saint, as her
long life of vigorous spiritual teaching
proves and bears out her own words when
she so beautifully writes:
“And am determined now to be a Saint,
And numbered with the tried and faithful ones,
Whose race is measured with their life, whose joy
Is everlasting and whose happiness
Is God’s approval. And to whom ’tis more
Than meat and drink to do his righteousness.”
	Perhaps the fire of poetic genius has
burned in no woman’s soul more freely than
in the soul of Sarah E. Carmichael. Miss
Carmichael came to Utah with her parents
when quite a child. She was born in New
York. Even as a school girl she wrote
beautiful verses. In fact, her most beau-
tiful poems were written in her young days.
	A little volume of her writings was col-
lected and published by some of her friends
for private distribution. It is now very
rarely seen and is held most precious by
those fortunate enough to own one.
	Her poem, “The Stolen Sunbeam,” which
is the story of the discovery of gold, was
selected by William Cullen Bryant for his
collection of American poetry, thus giving
her a wider field of readers than most of our
literary women attained in early days. Her
beautiful poem, “Dead Roses,” is most ten-
der and touching, and breathes in its last
lines this hopeful thought:
“I have dreamed of a shore to the soundless
		Death River,
	Where love proves its moral of Never in Vain;
Where ’tis not the cross, but the crown of the
		giver,
	And the dead roses gather their incense again.”

[Column 2]
One poem of Miss Carmichael’s which
was not included in the volume, found its
place some years later in the WOMAN’S EX-
PONENT.” It was inscribed to President
Brigham Young and was written in the
Bowery, August 8, 1857. In her girlhood
she was a great admirer of the President
and his leadership, as were all the people,
but later she did not associate herself with
the Saints and found a circle of friends out-
side the faith. She married Dr. William-
son, a successful practicing physician, and
not long after her marriage she was seized
with a mental malady. Thus the promise
of her youth for a brillant career in the
literary world was not fulfilled. The poem,
“Dead Roses,” was also not in the collection
but was printed in a daily paper at the time
of her death.
	Emmeline B. Wells may well be classed
among our early literary women, having
written a great many stories and poems
which she styles fragments, in her early days,
even when a little girl. Her first published
poem, however, is called “Friendship,” and
was printed in the Millennial Star in 1844.
About 1853 she wrote an ode to Deseret in
which the wind on the desert is beautifully
described. Neither of these early poems, as
well as many later ones, are in her book
called “Musings from Memory,” the only
collection so far of her writings.
	In the hymn book we have four of her
songs, the best known of them, “Our Moun-
tain Home So Dear.” Her poetic nature is
shown in almost all her writings, whether
prose or poetry, but probably her greatest
poetic achievement is one of her last poems
written after she had attained the age of
84 years, for the dedication of the Maeser
Memorial, at Provo, May 30, 1912. When
one considers the long life work and the
advanced age of the author, to have written
so beautiful a poem, of such length, is cer-
tainly quite wonderful. The late A. C. Nel-
son, immediately after hearing it read, con-
gratulated the author and said he consid-
ered it a perfect epic, as did also Professors
Brimhall, Cummings, and others. The
poem is called an Ode. It contains nineteen
verses. The style is lofty, reminiscent and
prophetic, as these few lines will testify.
“Could we but catch the echoes of the past
	Reverberating through these flinty moun-
		tain walls,
As in our fancy vividly they’re singing,
What shadows o’er us would these memories
		cast,
What scenes of pleasure could the heart re-
		call—
Now, glad, now minor chords of music sing-
		ing.
“Some who are old today, and once were
		young,
Through patient years have hoped the day
		would come
When Zion’s youth with flag unfurled
Might fling the challenge to the world,
That here, in these sequestered vales
The highest, purest thought prevails
When lo, before our very eyes,
Today our dream we realize.
	Mrs. Wells’ literary work has been con-
fined almost altogether to the columns of
the WOMAN’S EXPONENT, the periodical
which she has edited and published for the
past forty years, and within its pages are
stories, editorials, histories, treatises, and
verses, all showing the versatility of the
author. Mrs. Wells is an adept in the art
of letter writing, as hundreds of men and

[Column 3]
women throughout the land can testify,
an art almost obsolete in this day of type-
writers, telephones, telegrams and wireless.
Born in New England and reared by a
puritanic mother, she also is of that strong
type of womanhood which faces all oppres-
sion for a cause she feels to be just, and
deems no sacrifice too great in the cause of
righteousness. Her artistic, sensitive, and
romantic temperament, has made life’s
struggle doubly hard, but she has valiantly
fought the battle, and, the Lord be praised,
is with us yet to give us words of encour-
agement and love. Mrs. Hannah T. King
contributed largely to Utah literature in
some fine prose writings. She also read
some poetic effusions before the Polysoph-
ical Society. She published two small books
in paper covers, which are much treasured
by the few who possess them. One is a
collection of verses called “Songs of the
Heart,” and the other is a book of essays
called “Women of the Scriptures.”
	Mrs. King was an English lady of fine
education and accomplishments. She was
most dignified in manner, and took quick
offense at any remark or act in her pres-
ence which in any degree flavored of rude-
ness or ill-manners. Her later writings
were also confined to the columns of the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT, to which little paper
she was a frequent contributor. Mrs. King
was born in Cambridge, England, the home
of the great university, and she was reared
among its classic shades and bowers. In
her youth she published two books, one for
girls and one for boys, called “The Toilet”
and “The Era” respectively. She was also
a fine letter writer, and cherished among
her many letters from noted people, one
from the great author, Victor Hugo.
	Hannah Cornaby is another gifted Eng-
lish woman who joined the Latter-day
Saints in her early girlhood. She was born
in Rose Hall, an ancient mansion on the
banks of the river Waverly, in Suffolk,
England, and was reared in the Episcopal
church. In her one published book, called
“Autobiography and Poems of Hannah
Cornaby,” she narrates in beautiful style her
whole life, which is more interesting than
fiction, for it abounds in inspiration and
faith. Mrs. Cornaby was a member and
contributed to the Polysophical Society, and
at one time a regular contributor to the
EXPONENT. She was a modest, retiring
woman, and sweet to look upon. The
writer shall never forget a summer morn-
ing spent with Mrs. Cornaby in her wild
and picturesque garden in the town of
Spanish Fork. Here, in this garden, were
written many of Mrs. Cornaby’s poems, and
she loved it very dearly. She was a dear
sweet woman, and the following verse from
her pen is like her.
	“I never wished for wealth or fame
		For I have understood
	How poor and valueless are these
		Compared with being good.”
	Emily Hill Woodmansee, still another of
our English women who has given many
splendid thoughts clothed in poetic phrase
to the people, found place for her ex-
pressive thoughts through the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT and Deseret News. She has
written twenty of our finest hymns, and
her songs are sung in many lands. Her
themes are mostly religious, and her style
lofty. Whenever she was in doubt or fear,
sufficiently to resort to divine guidance, she


[Column 1]
seemed to receive an answer to her petition
in verse, which, on the inspiration of the
moment she would indite. One of her last
hymns is the one called “The Day of Re-
demption.” This hymn was written during
those dark days in Utah known as the “un-
derground days.” Just before going away
from the midst of the people, our honored
and revered president, John Taylor, preach-
ed a very powerful sermon in the Taber-
nacle, I believe it was his last public ser-
mon to the people, and after counseling the
Saints, he said to them, words to this effect:
“No matter what happens, remember The
Lord God Omnipotent reigneth.” These are
the words Mrs. Woodmansee took for her
theme, and each verse of the hymn ends
with that phrase—The Lord God Omnipo-
tent reigneth.”
	Mrs. Woodmansee’s life was no bed of 
roses. She had many struggles and hard-
ships early and late, though for a time she
was quite prosperous in business, and
seemed to be acquiring more ease for her
later years. Financial difficulties appeared
again, still she was always hopeful, cheer-
ful and industrious. Mrs. Woodmansee
was one of those undaunted spirits which
feared nothing in the cause of truth—prov-
ing this statement beyond a doubt when I
tell you she was one of that memorable
company who pulled or pushed a handcart
from Iowa to Utah, walking every step for
1,000 miles.
	Louisa Lulu Greene Richards, beloved
among the people for her children’s stories
and poems, was the first editor of the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT, then a young woman
just beginning her literary work. Mrs.
Richards has written a great deal for the
public, and published one volume of poems
called “Branches that Hang Over the Wall,”
surely a most poetic name. She conducted
for many years the department for little
folks in the Juvenile Instructor, and has
been a frequent contributor to the Children’s
Friend, these two periodicals being the or-
gans of the L. D. S. Sunday Schools and
Primary Association. She has also con-
tributed to the hymn book and to the Sun-
day School Song Book. The beautiful hymn
called “One Hundred Years” was the prize 
hymn written for the one hundredth anni-
versary of the birth of the Prophet Joseph
Smith. The Sunday School Union offered
three prizes for the three best poems to be
set to music, the theme to be connected
with the Prophet Joseph, and Mrs. Richards
won all three of the prizes.
	Augusta Joyce Crocheron is another of
our early women writers who has contrib-
uted both of poetry and prose, and pub-
lished one very valuable little book of bi-
ographies called “Representative Women of
Deseret.” Her poetry is very touching and
tender. Her life has been somewhat seared
with sorrow and misfortune, but she always
has a hopeful and cheerful word for her
friends. She was one of that memorable
company who reached Utah by coming all
the way from Boston to San Bernardino in
the ship Brooklyn, around Cape Horn, and
was with the members of the Battalion in
California at the time of the discovery of
gold.
	Miss Sarah E. Russell has written for
many years, both prose and poetry, under
the nom de plume of Hope. She was surely
one of Utah’s gifted daughters, and her 
work is of a high order. That she died an 
exile, driven from her home in Mexico dur-

[Column 2]
ing the present war, seems to be a tragic
fate for one so full of hope and faith.
	Helen Mar Whitney, mother of our gifted
poet and historian, Orson F. Whitney, pos-
sessed marked literary ability, and pub-
lished many strong articles and letters,
mostly on doctrinal subjects.
	Mary J. Tanner, Martha J. Coray and Lu-
cinda Lee Dalton have all written some fine
essays and poems, thus contributing to the
field of literature.
	Another writer of beautiful verse is Miss
Miller, known to the public as “Ruby La-
mont,” never having consented to the use of
her own name.
	Lydia D. Alder, Ellis R. Shipp, and
Lillie T. Freeze have all long been engaging
in literary work, and are still among the
writers. Mrs. Alder has published a book,
the History of the Holy Land, and Mrs.
Shipp has issued an artistic volume of
poetry called “Life Lines.”
	Mrs. Susa Young Gates began her lit-
erary work quite early, and still continues.
She was the founder of the magazine, the
Young Woman’s Journal, and for many
years its editor. Her work consists largely
of short stories. In the issue of her inter-
esting book, “John Stevens’ Courtship,” she
claims the distinction of having written and
published the first work of fiction by a Utah
woman.
	Mrs. Mary A. Freeze wrote some inter-
esting articles and poetry, and we must not
forget our sweet writer, Ruth May Fox,
whose poetry is most tender and musical.
	Among the later writers whose work is
widely recognized, Mrs. Annie Pike Green-
wood claims a prominent place. Her poems
having been published in The Century and
other magazines. Utah very proudly claims
her. Also Miss Josephine Spencer, whose
stories and poems have found a place in
The Youth’s Companion and St. Nicholas
magazine. Miss Spencer’s best work has
been probably somewhat retarded by the
constant grind of newspaper work.
	There are a host of women writers now
of splendid literary ability whose names
deserve mention in this article, though it
is called “Early Women Writers,” because
they are contributing to the field of home
literary work and giving encouragement to
others as well as interesting many thousands
of readers—Mrs. Kelsey who has won the
prize poem in the Christmas News more
than once, as has also Mrs. Bertha Ander-
son Kleinmann who published a beautiful
Indian story in verse. May Booth Talmage,
Ann M. Cannon and Mary Connelly, who
have edited the Young Woman’s Journal
and contributed largely to the contents of
that little magazine; Edith E. Read, Maud
Baggarley, Grace Ingles Frost, Kate
Thomas, Alice M. Horne, Christine D.
Young, Mrs. Greenhalgh, Ada Patterson,
Mrs. Coray and doubtless many others
whose names I do not now recall.
	Many times during this narrative, men-
tion has been made of the little periodical the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT, which in this issue
closes its career. The paper has been the
medium through which many of the Utah
writers first came to public attention, both
men and women, and has formed in its ser-
vice the medium through which nearly all
those mentioned in this article have ex-
pressed their best thoughts.
		ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


