portrait of one American poet and that poet was Edgar Allen Poe.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 539
It is not difficult to realize why the French love Poe. They are the artists of the world. Whatever will conduce to loveliness of form, to beauty in color or tone, makes marvelous appeal to them; consequently Edgar Allen Poe's extraordinary power in the choice of words was sure to bring to him an unusual amount of praise from them.
Edgar Allen Poe's philosophy might be stated something in this wise: He said, as a poet, "I should write about the most beautiful thing in all the world." And then he put the question, what is the most beautiful thing in all the world? And concluded that a beautiful woman was the most beautiful of all God's creations, one who has passed into the spiritual world and is numbered with the angels, is even more beautiful than a living woman. This may seem a strange philosophy to us, but the 19th century was peculiarly sentimental over the death of a beautiful woman; consequently, even Poe was reflecting the feeling of his own age.
There is one observation in relation to this matter that we should not miss. In our early literature, men did not admire women for their beautiful soul qualities but rather for their physical beauty. One of the first stories in British literature, the story of King Arthur and Queen Guinevere, is a tale that elaborates a good deal on the physical beauty of the queen but is nevertheless a tale of guilty love. So from one point of view we should appreciate Edgar Allen Poe, for in appreciating the beauty of a woman who has gone to the spirit-world, he is placing emphasis on spiritual rather than physical beauty.
This philosophy will explain such poems as Annabel Lee and The Raven. We include Annabel Lee because it is typical of his philosophy, and quote a few stanzas from The Raven that carry something of the same thought.
ANNABEL LEE
It was many and many a year ago, In a kingdom by the sea, That a maiden there lived whom you may know By the name of Annabel Lee; And this maiden she lived with no other thought Than to love and be loved by me.
I was a child and she was a child, In this kingdom by the sea, But we loved with a love that was more than love? I and my Annabel Lee? With a love that the winged seraphs of heaven Coveted her and me.
And this was the reason that, long ago, In this kingdom by the sea, A wind blew out of a cloud, chilling My beautiful Annabel Lee;


So that her highborn kinsmen came And bore her away from me, To shut her up in a sepulchre In this kingdom by the sea.
The angels, not half so happy in heaven, Went envying her and me? Yes!?that was the reason (as all men know, In this kingdom by the sea) That the wind came out of the cloud by night, Chilling and killing my Annabel Lee.
But our love it was stronger by far than the love Of those who were older than we? Of many far wiser than we? And neither the angels in heaven above, Nor the demons down under the sea, Can ever dissever my soul from the soul Of the beautiful Annabel Lee:
For the moon never beams, without bringing me dreams Of the beautiful Annabel Lee; And the stars never rise, but I feel the bright eyes Of the beautiful Annabel Lee: And so, all the night-tide, I lie down by the side Of my darling?my darling?my life and my bride, In the sepulchre there by the sea? In her tomb by the sounding sea.
THE RAVEN
Much I marvelled this ungainly fowl to hear discourse so plainly, Though its answer little meaning?little relevancy bore; For we cannot help agreeing that no living human being Ever yet was blessed with seeing bird above his chamber door? Bird or beast upon the sculptured bust above his chamber door, With such name as "Nevermore."
But the Raven, sitting lonely on the placid bust, spoke only That one word, as if his soul in that one word he did outpour. Nothing further then he uttered?not a feather then he fluttered? Till I scarcely more than muttered, "Other friends have flown before? On the morrow he will leave me, as my hopes have flown before." Then the bird said, "Nevermore."
Startled at the stillness broken by reply so aptly spoken, "Doubtless," said I, "what it utters is its only stock and store Caught from some unhappy master. Whom unmerciful disaster Followed fast and followed faster till his songs one burden bore? Till the dirges of his Hope that melancholy burden bore Of 'Never?nevermore'."
But the Raven still beguiling all my fancy into smiling, Straight I wheeled a cushioned seat in front of bird, and bust and door; Then, upon the velvet sinking, I betook myself to linking Fancy unto fancy, thinking what this ominous bird of yore? What this grim, ungainly, ghastly, gaunt, and ominous bird of yore? Meant in croaking "Nevermore."
GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 541
Thus I sat engaged in guessing, but no syllable expressing To the fowl whose fiery eyes now burned into my bosom's core; This and more I sat divining, with my head at ease reclining On the cushion's velvet lining that the lamplight gloated oer, But whose velvet violet lining with the lamplight gloating o'er, She shall press, ah, nevermore!
Then, methought, the air grew denser, perfumed from an unseen censer Swung by Seraphim whose foot-falls tinkled on the tufted floor. "Wretch," I cried, "thy God hath lent thee?by these angels he hath sent thee Respite?respite and nepenthe from thy memories of Lenore; Quaff, oh quaff this kind nepenthe and forget this lost Lenore!" Quoth the Raven, "Nevermore."
Another very important side of Poe's realization of the beautiful in art is found in his selection of words in his middle rhymes and all that combines to produce very unusual and most extraordinary verse from the standpoint of music. Poe instinctively selected musical words but if he could not find a word in the language musical enough to suit his refined ear, he would coin a word to suit the case at hand. Examples of his choice in words and the rhythm can be found in such lines as: "And the silken, sad, uncertain rustling of each purple curtain, Thrilled me?filled me with fantastic terrors never felt before."; "For the moon never beams without bringing me dreams, Of the beautiful Annabel Lee."; "Hear the sledges with the bells?Silver bells! What a world of merriment their melody foretells! How they tinkle, tinkle, tinkle, In the icy air of night! While the stars that overgone All the heavens, seem to twinkle With a crystalline delight." There is much of color and much of tone in the examples given in the line, "And the silken, sad, uncertain rustling of each purple curtain." We have both 'music and color and the other lines quote very much music. Few poets have ever been able s* to combine language that it produced as much real music as we find in the poems of Edgar Allen Poe. Edgar Allen Poe wrote our first detective stories, and was a medium through which many people obtained peculiar and haunting physical thrills. This type of literature seems always popular. The mystery play of today caters to the same trait in human nature as Edgar Allen Poe's stories catered to. Such plays as The Bat, The Cat and the Canary, and The Thirteenth Chair all aim at producing situations that will cause intense physical and mental excitement, thereby producing what the modern pleases to call thrills. If you are unacquainted with Poe and wish to put this matter to the test, read The Fall of the House of Usher, The Pit and the 542. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Pendulum, The Black Cat, Murders in the Rue Morgue, and The Gold Bug, and see if the mental stimulation and physical reaction is not similar to that produced by the modern mystery play. Questions and Problems 1. Go to some manual on American Literature, or the encyclopedia and find a few biographical notes, on Edgar Allen Poe, and give them to the class.  2. Select the middle rhymes to be found in Annabel Lee. 3. If the time will permit have some one read The Raven to the class. While it is being read listen to the music of the words and the music of the verse. 4. Select from The Raven twelve of the most musical words used in the poem.. 5. Is the weird feeling so much a part of Poe's stories as a part of The Raven? 6. Which class of poetry do you prefer, the class that is written to express moral ideas, or the class that is created for the purpose of representing and expressing beauty? LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in December) PROBLEMS OF INCOME A measure of economic security is essential to satisfactory family development. The burden and worry of debts may be the cause of much unpleasantness and unhappiness. Financial insecurity, too, may deprive the members of a family of certain needs ?sufficient food, clothing, health care, education, etc. Economic security is dependent on two factors: first, the nature and the amount of the income, and second, the manner in which the income is spent. This discussion will deal with some of the problems of income and the subject of the next lesson will be family budgets and expenditures. It is impossible to state in actual figures what the income for a family of a certain number should be. The amount necessary to maintain a family varies with the ages, the state of health, the educational standards of the group, and on the living costs in different neiyhborhoods, localities, and in different seasons of the year. To determine, then, what income is needed to maintain a GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 543 family, it is necessary to study its standard of living; that is, to determine what things all of the members of the group hold to be essential to their well-being and for which they are willing to sacrifice. If there is a discrepancy between the available income and the proposed budget, either the income must be increased or the expenditures curtailed. If an increase in income seems to be necessary to maintain a family properly, it may be that the man, who usually provides the family income, can be placed in a better position. It is possible that he is not suited to his work and is, consequently, not advancing financially as his family responsibilities increase. Or, it may be that the nature of his occupation makes regular employment difficult. He may prosper certain years or certain seasons but at other periods find himself financially distressed. A family whose. Income is based on seasonal occupations must necessarily plan more carefully than one whose income is fixed and regular. But even with the regular income of a man suitably employed, a family's needs may be greater than the man's earnings. The pressure of an inadequate income, together with increasing vocational opportunities, have made many a woman seek a place in the industrial world. It is difficult to decide just how completely a woman's activities should be restricted to the home. Many women succeed very satisfactorily in rearing a family and, at the same time, pursuing some study, or career, or occupation. There is, however a great need of social protest, if family life is made to suffer because of women's activities outside the home. This protest should be especially strong, if it is the lack of an income that forces a mother to shoulder the double load of supporting the family and managing her home. To place children in industry in order to supplement an inadequate income is now looked upon with disfavor. It is obviously poor economy to sacrifice health, education, and normal development of children merely to add their pittance to the family budget. Although there still are children who are placed in factories and shops and in the fields before they are physically able to perform such labor, and although many children are taken from the schoolroom with only the most rudimentary training, the prevailing public sentiment is to prohibit child labor and to extend the period of required school attendance. _ In some of the manufacturing centers, certain types of handwork that can be done away from the factories are taken home by the employees. This home work is difficult for labor inspectors to supervise and consequently many women and_ children are engaged in this uncontrolled occupation. The work is usually tedious and poorly paid, but is frequently resorted to as a possible means of adding a few dollars to a meagre income, With a growing realization that thrusting women and children 544. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE into industry carries with it grave social dangers, has come to more general understanding that the community has a responsibility to care for families who are deprived of a normal income. Under some circumstances it is sound social economy for the state, or church, or private agencies to assist certain families, perhaps even for a long period of time. When such assistance is deemed necessary and wise, it should be based on a carefully thought-out plan, and should be adequate to meet the needs and standards of the family. Ref. Normal Life, Edward T. Divine, pages 111-116. ? QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Under what circumstances piety a family be deprived of its normal income? 2. Why is an inadequate income demoralizing to a family? 3. What type of employment is undesirable for women? 4, What might a woman do to add to the income without neglecting her family? 5. What are the chief dangers of having a child enter employment too early? 6. Why should some children have opportunity to attend school longer than others? Teachers' Topic for December LOVE "To love abundantly i is to live abundantly, and to love forever is to live forever." "Charity is the true love of Christ." Moroni 7:47. Read and discuss chapter referred to in Book of Mormon; also I Corinthians, chapter 13. Callaways The greatest gift and Dinnerware Store in the West. You are most cordially invited to visit us?no urging to buy? come in and see the. Wonderful display of. Attractive articles for Christmas Gifts Immediately following the Saturday afternoon Conference 'we will give FREE Souvenirs to all our lady friends who visit our store. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine All Up-To-Date Libraries Both Public and Private Contain Bound Volumes of the Relief Society Magazine Following are the bound volumes we have on hand: 5 vols. 1915, leather bound..... $3.50 2 vols. 1916, leather bound.... At ae 3.50 2 vols. 1916, cloth bound 25 5 vols. 1917, leather bound...  3.50 3 vols. 1918, leather bound......3.50 1 vol. 1919, cloth bound.. 2.75 5 vols. 1919, leather bound)... 3.50 10 vols. 1920, leather bound... 3.50 7 vols. 1921, leather bound...  3.50 6 vols. 1922, cloth bound. 5 vols. 1922, leather bound...