Law Enforcement in America In this issue of the Magazine we have had the good fortune to publish an article on law enforcement in the state of Massachusetts by Mabel Walker Willebrandt, U. S. Assistant Attorney General. It is one of the best addresses on law enforcement that we have seen during the period of stress through which we are now passing. ?. ': In this address Mrs. Willebrandt says, 'There are two heedless groups that destroy reverence for law in America. They are the 'upper crust' and the 'dregs' of American life; the families of wealth and standing, who feel that they are above the law, and EDITORIAL ee "SOS the immigrant agitator who skulks beneath, seeking to undermine it from below." We think that this statement, on the part of the Assistant Attorney General, will not be a very great surprise to persons interested in this phase of our social life. The middle class has always been | the backbone of society, and even the casual observer may note the fact Mrs. Willebrandt draws attention to, in relation to the trend of crime in America. As we dictate this editorial, the trial of Leopold and Loeb is in progress in the city of Chicago. Within the year we have been reminded once again that Harry Thaw is of the wealthy criminal class, and two years ago the newspapers of the city of New York were fairly captured by the proceedings of the trial of a young criminal by the name of Ward, the son of a wealthy baker of New York. Those of wealthy families who are charged with crime are always played up in a conspicuous manner in the newspapers, yet the majority of our criminals are of the "dregs" of the country, as Mrs. Willebrandt pleases to call them. "Tt is a strange paradox," says Mrs. Willebrandt, "that Armer-. Ica, which stands out in relief against the background of all the countries of the world as offering the greatest liberty and greatest business opportunities, at the same time should have the greatest percentage of crime." It is a distinct disappointment to those who are filled with loyalty for our great republic and for our national ideals that this should be true. It is the business of the great law abiding middle classes to do whatever is in their power to reduce crime. Let it not forever be said that America leads the world in crime. Age and Youth By Bertha A. Kleinman A sear leaf severed, winter stained and rusted, A wilted shard that yesterday was gold, A feeble tread adown the dim steps groping, A-faint, a-weared?this is to be old. 'A pulsing vine amid the dank stalks clinging, Anon the impress of celestial day? - Each tendril blade uplifting to fruition, Nor doubt betiding?this is youth for aye!