[WomansExponent | Vol1 | 1872 | August | Issue: 6 | Title: TRUTH WITH CHILDREN. | Author: Unknown]

﻿TRUTH WITH CHILDREN.
				—
	“Suffer little children to come unto me,
and forbid them not; for of such is the King-
dom of Heaven.”
	These beautiful words of our beloved Re-
deemer, are worthy the contemplation of
every intelligent mind. After living twenty
or thirty years upon the earth, how far have
we receded from the innocence of infancy,
and how carefully and faithfully must we
watch ourselves, to recall its charitable, un-
suspicious and confiding trust!
	How thoughtless are parents ever to take
a course to change and embitter that pure,
heavenly trust in their children! Yet it is
often done, and in various ways. For in-
stance: A mother promises to dress her little
girl’s doll, presently. How often hour after
hour slips away, and still the promise is not
fulfilled. Still the child’s perfect trust in her
mother’s words, keeps her hopeful; and the
little task is postponed, laid aside for some-
thing of more importance, until the entire
day passes, or perhaps two or three days;
and although the promise may be often re-
peated, it is still unfulfilled.
	From such unwise examples children learn,
not only to be distrustful of others, but also
to make promises themselves that they do i
not even intend to perform. In many cases,
older people make a practice of telling chil-
dren what they may consider “white lies,”
to persuade or frighten them into being obo-
dient. But every falsehood that is calcula-
ted to implant within the bosom of a child
seeds of deception and distrust, is a black
one and should be studiously avoided. It is
better to enforce discipline among children
by the firm exercise of parental authority
than to inculcate the poison of deceit into
their young, guileless minds. But to control
them by the gentle powers of firm, cheerful,
yet earnest and truthful persuasion, is better
still.									LUNIE.


WE should guard against small vices as  
well as great errors.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

	LOUISE L GREENE, Editor.

    Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine.  Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Address all business communications to
						Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, AUGUST 15, 1872.


