REPORT OF TRIP NORTH.

	By special invitation from our sisters of
Hyrum to attend their Annual Meeting of
the Relief Society, Sister E. R. Snow and
I left home, August 6th, for that purpose.
We visited Mendon on our way, and at-
tended two meetings. Met with our faith-
ful sisters in Wellsville, and attended one
R. S. meeting, and two meetings of Y. M.
M. I. A.
	We reached Hyrum August 9, and spent
a pleasant time with our sisters in speaking
of the goodness of our Heavenly Father to
us His children. Sister Snow gave some
excellent counsel to the sisters, pertaining
to the order and government of Relief So-
cieties, which I hope they may profit by
and put in practice.
	We also visited Paradise, and were kindly
entertained by Bishop Smith and his estim-
able wife. Sister Snow organized the Y.
L. M. I. A., and we also attended a meet-
ing of the R. S. The sisters in both of the
last named places are striving to be self-
sustaining, by making all they can for home
wear.
	Sister Snow returned to Brigham City on
the 11th, and attended an interesting meet-
ing with the sisters on the 14th. They
are preparing themselves for raising silk;
the First Ward has nearly 5,000 mulberry
cuttings out, and the other three wards
have nearly as many more. They also
manufacture handsome artificial flowers.
It would be well for us if many more of
the settlements followed their example, at
least, from every county there should be
one or more sisters sent to learn flower-
making, straw-braiding, sewing and dye-
ing, making the hats and bonnets needed
for home wear; if they could not export
they would never need to import, and bless-
ings would attend our labors, and we would
be furnishing employment for the young.
	On the 15th and 16th we attended the sis-
ters' two days Quarterly Conference, Ogden.
We truly enjoyed a rich feast: the reports
read were very encouraging, Sister Richards
can surely rejoice over the result of her
labors and the prosperity of woman's work
in that part of the vineyard.
	Saturday, 17th, accompanied by Mrs. M.
I. Horne we were escorted by Sister White
and son to Morgan; we attended the two
days Quarterly Stake Conference also a
meeting held by Y. M. M. I. A.
	Monday, 18th, we visited Richville, West
Porterville and East Porterville, and met
with the sisters in each place. Sister Snow
organized the Y. L. M. I. A. in Richville,
and re-organized the Association in West
Porterville. 
	Tuesday, 19th, we met with our sisters
in Milton and Enterprise, and we found
the sisters, under the wise counsel given
them by Bishop J. K. Hall, trying to sus-
tain the name; here they braid and make
all the hats worn in the settlement. May
they be prospered in their every effort of
enterprise.
	Wednesday, 20th and 21st, attended two
meetings, one in North and one in South
Morgan Wards.
	Friday, 22d, we started for Croyden; al-
though it was raining and disagreeable, the
children of the settlement came some dis-
tance out to meet us, and cheered us by
their song of welcome. We were escorted
to Bro. Thackeray's by Bishop Hopkins and
many of the brethren and sisters who had

[Column 2]
come out with the children to meet us, one
brother carrying a banner with the inscrip-
tion, "Welcome to Croyden." Sister Snow
organized the young ladies at the evening
meeting; the afternoon meeting was a
general meeting and attended by brethren
and sisters, old and young.
	Saturday, 23d, we visited Henneferville-
attended meeting in the afternoon, and at
the request of Bishop Richens, we attend
ed meeting in the evening, and Sister Snow
assisted in re-organizing the Relief Society;
of Henneferville, also gave excellent in-
structions to the sisters, and encouraged
them to persevere in every good word and
work. Sister Horne explained the object
of our organizations, and the order and
government of Relief Societies.
	Sunday, 24th, we attend Sacrament meet-
ing at Echo. Found the Saints, although
few in number, doing their best to be one
both the brethren and sisters. In the eve-
ning we were invited, by Bishop Asper
and Counsel, to address the Saints. On
Monday we met with the sisters, and Miss
Snow and Mrs. Horne assisted in organiz-
ing a Relief Society. We were honored
with the presence of President Cluff and
family, Elder Alma Smith, and Sisters
Wilde, Reed, Robinson, and many others
from Coalville, also Bishop Richens and the
Choir of Henneferville.
	Tuesday we called on our friends at Coal-
ville, and attended meeting at 10 a. m.
Dined with many of the Saints at the resi-
dence of President Cluff. Although our
visit was short, we shall not soon forget the
enjoyable time we spent in Coalville; the
Spirit of God was beaming from every face,
and every one present could say it was good
to be there.
	We were delighted to be present at the
Morgan Co. Relief Society Stake Organization
with Mrs. Lydia Rich, President, Mrs.
Amanda Rollo and Jane Tanner, Counsel-
ors, Cordelia Smith, Secretary. Mrs. Sarah
A. Rawle, Superintendent of the Stake for
Y. L. M. I. A.
	Every settlement we visited the brethren
honored us with their presence; they left
their harvest fields and attended meeting,
sustaining and blessing us with their faith
and society. Elder W. G. Smith, President
Morgan Co. Stake, and wife accompanied
us to four settlements, Peterson being the
last, where we had a good meeting and an
enjoyable time with our friends.
	We thank the brethren for their confi-
dence and respect, and for every kindness
shown us on our tour, and our sisters for
their entertainment and kind attention.
