CONTINUED.
 My husband traveled with Joseph the
Prophet, through many of the Eastern cit-
ies, bearing their testimony and collecting
means towards building a Temple in Kirt-
land, and also to purchase lands in Missouri.
During this journey the Prophet Joseph of-
ten prophesied of the destruction that
would come upon the cities of the Eastern
States, and especially New York, that in
that city there would not be left a vestige
of its grandeur. That wars would soon
commence in our own land, which last has
since transpired; he said to my husband if
they reject us they shall have our testi-
mony, for we will write it and leave it up-
on their door-steps and window-sills; he
prophesied of the desolation by fire, by
storms, by pestilence and by earth-quakes.
After their return from the East they trav-
eled together up to Missouri, and while up-
on this journey my husband had his ankle
broken, and through the power of the ad-
ministration of the Gospel-ordinance and
faith, he was relieved from all pain; but by
Joseph's counsel returned home. During
all these absences and separations from my
husband I never felt to murmur or com-
plain in the least, and although heretofore
my husband's time had been devoted to
the business he was engaged in, and his
hours of leisure to his family in private
yet I was  more than satisfied to have
him give all, time, talents and ability
into the service of the Kingdom of God;
and the change in our circumstances and
associations which were consequent upon
our embracing the Gospel, never caused me
a moment's sorrow. I looked upon it as a
real pleasure to give all for the sake of my
faith in the religion of Jesus, considering
all as naught in comparison with the exam-
ple of our blessed Savior. We had a very
fine orchard and garden, all planned and
arranged according to our own taste and
skill, among other fruits we had a very
great quantity of the red currants, from
which we had ourselves manufactured wine
of a very superior flavor and quality, al-
though purely domestic, or home-made,
this wine we had appropriated for the sac-
rament, and was the first wine used by our
people for that purpose. It was about this
time my husband was ordained a Bishop by
revelation and commandment from God.
He was willing to accept the position know-
ing, as he did, that Joseph was a true
prophet, and that the only sure way to bo-
tain blessings and promises was through 
obedience; yet he felt that it would require
a vast amount of patience, of perseverance,
and of wisdom to magnify his calling.
We had always been in the habit of enter-
taining our friends and acquaintances gen-
erously and hospitably, but after we re-
ceived the Gosepl we did not feel like using
our means and time in a way that would
only benefit those who had an abundance
of this world's means. According to our
Savior's pattern and agreeably to the Proph-
et Joseph's and our own ideas of true char-
ity and disinterested benevolence, we de-
termined to make a Feast for the Poor,
such as we knew could not return the same
to us; the lame, the halt, the deaf, the
blind, the aged and infirm.
To be continued.


Now brown October comes, with russet
face and crown of autumn leaves, and va-
riegated garments rustling in the wind,
and keeping time to music of the forest
boughs.


[Column 1]
						[For the EXPONENT.
