NOTES AND NEWS.

	CONGRESSES ON many subjects have been
held in Paris this summer, but none so im-
portant for the readers of this Journal, or
for the social needs of our generation, as
that on woman's rights, which met on the
25th of July in the Salle du Grand-Orient
de France, 16, Rue Cadet. The different
sections have, we understand, been at work
throughout the past month. Detailed re-
ports both of the inaugural meeting and of
the subsequent transactions will not be pub-
lished until the close of the proceedings,
but the accounts which have reached us
show that the meeting on the 25 of July
was one of unusual interest. Mdlle. Maria
Deraismes, whose name is familiar to the
readers of the "Avenir des Femmes," made
a preliminary speech on the special pur-
poses for which they had met; after which
Monsieur Antide Martin, a member of the
Municipal Counsel of Paris, and Mrs. Julia
Ward Howe were elected presidents. The
regular proceedings then began by an ad-
dress from Mdlle. Maria Mozzoni, of Milan,
who attended as delegate from the Demo-
cratic Association of Milan, and was, more-
over, charged by her Government with the
official mission of preparing a report of the
proceedings. This double mission height-
ened the interest with which her paper was
listened to; it dealt with the inequalities
of the French Code, and was received with
continual hearty applause.
	Very cordial, too, was the reception given
to a paper, on the broader moral aspects of
equal right and justice, from Mrs. Julia
Ward Howe. Miss Graham Jones, of Chi-
cago, representing the National American
Women's Suffrage Association, was also
warmly received.
	The meeting was marked by one melan-
choly feature: the announcement made by
Monsieur Richer of the death of the Count-
ess Malliani de Trave[-]sari, who died sud-
denly at Bergamo as she was on the point
of starting for this congress, in which she
had taken a most earnest and active inter-
est. A telegram of condolence was de-
spatched to the Count Malliani, as a mark
of the sympathy felt by all present at this
loss to the cause of the advancement of
women.
	The Congress has, we understand, at-
tracted considerable attention from the
French press; the Bonapartist section of
which treat it mainly with ridicule, while
the Republican section, for the most part,
show their sympathy with its object.—Wo-
men's Suffrage Journal.


MRS. JULIA Ward Howe is going to
Egypt. Mrs. Howe was one of the presi-
dents of the Woman's Congress in Paris.
She lectured in Florence, Italy, before the
Philological Association and received great
applause, as well as the highest encomiums
of praise from the press.


