	           SALT LAKE STAKE.

The Third Quarterly Conference of the Re-
lief Society of this Stake was held in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Satur-
day, Sept. 21st, morning session commenc-
ing at 10 o'clock. Coun. E. S. Taylor pre-
sided, the President, Mrs. M. I. Horne,
being unavoidably absent. In the stand
were some of the most prominent ladies of
of this city, Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs. Zina D.
Young, Mrs. B. W. Smith, Mrs. S. M. Kim.
Mrs. S. M. Heywood, Mrs. Phebe Woodruff,
Mrs. E. Howard, and the Editor of WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT. On the platform around
the stand were the presidents of the vari-
ous branches of the Relief Society of Salt
Lake Co. After the usual exercises of
singing and prayer, the Secretary read the
minutes of the last Conference; then fol-
lowed the reports from the various branches
of the Stake, with very few exceptions.
	The 7th, 11th, and 21st Wards, Herriman,
South Cottonwood and West Jordan were
not reported. The reports were creditable,
showing the energy, enterprise and in-
creased interest on the part of the sisters,
in the duties and responsibilities resting
upon the women of Israel in this day. Af-
ter the reports had been read, Miss Snow
made a few remarks on woman's work and
the organizations for her special advance-
ment, and then the presidents of the dif-
ferent branches were called upon to give
verbal statements of the condition of the
Society in their respective localities. This
gave variety and interest, each speaker oc-
cupying only a few minutes. Meeting ad-
journed at 12 o'clock until 2 o'clock p. m.
	In the afternoon, Mrs. E. A. Whitney
was among the ladies in the stand. Mrs.
Whitney and Miss Snow are associated to-
gether in the minds of the Latter-day
Saints, from the early days of Kirtland,
and they are revered as pioneer women
who have ever been valiant in the cause of
truth, and their names will be held in hon-
orable remembrance for the many good
words and works which have brought joy
and comfort to the hearts of many thou-
sands of the Saints from time to time.
	Most of the afternoon was occupied by
the presidents in reporting verbally the
condition of the societies, after which Miss
Snow nominated Mrs. Mary P. Freeze as
Superintendent of the Y. L. M. I. A. of
Salt Lake Co. Mrs. Freeze nomination
was unanimously sustained. Miss Snow
then proceeded to nominate for Primary As-
ciations in the 16th, 17th, and 18th Wards,
with the following ladies as officers: 16th
Ward, President, Mrs. M. J. Thompson;
Counselors, Mrs. Drucilla Parker and Mrs.
Maria Singleton. 17th Ward, President,
Mrs. E. Groesbeck; Counselors, Mrs. C. L.
Williams and Mrs. Sarah Burbage. 18th
Ward, President, Mrs. Mary Schettler;
Counselors, Miss Anna M. Duncan and Mrs.
Ann Hart. These nominations were sus-
tained by the vote of the ladies of the Con-
ference. The business of the Conference
being completed, Miss Snow arose with
Mrs. Whitney, and making a few explana-
tory remarks, announced that if the sisters
would unite their faith, Mrs. Whitney
would sing "A song of Zion," which she
did in a most melodious voice and impres-
sive manner, every heart seemingly in-
spired with the inspirational hymn. Mrs.
Taylor then moved the adjournment until
the Wednesday nearest the 21st, which will
occur on the 18th af December. The con-
gregation then arose to their feet and sang

[Column 2]
"The Spirit of God," and Mrs. Whitney
dismissed the meeting.


[Column 1]
For the EXPONENT.
