HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE HAVE on hand for publication reports
from Millville, Wellsville, Clarkston, Hyrum,
Tooele, Deweyville, Honeyville, Wanship,
Peoa, Holden, Glenwood, Ephraim, Morgan,
Bloomington and Santaquin; also poems and
prose articles; but we are always glad to re
ceive contributions, that we may have a va-
riety to select from.

	THE QUARTERLY Conference of this Stake
of Zion will be held on Saturday. Oct. 5th, in
the Tabernacle, commencing at 10 o'clock a.
m. At the last Quarterly Conference, many
of the sisters did not understand that they
were expected to attend, but thought it was
especially for the brethren; we trust it is not
so now, and that the sisters will show their
earnestness in the interests of Zion by coming
out "enmasse."

	THE SEMI-ANNUAL Conference will com-
mence on Sunday, Oct. 6th. The sisters will
surely need no urging to attend Conference, al-
though this is the season for housewives to be
drying fruit, preserving, pickling, etc., but do
not let these household cares hinder you from
attending meeting. Be so judicious in manag-
ing that you can go and hear the teachings of
the servants of God. Sickness or the care of
little children, should be the only real hin-
drances.

	WE WERE favored with a call from Elder Eli
H. Pierce, of Brigham City, who has recently
returned from a mission to the States. Although
only a young man, this was his second mission.
He left here Aug. 2d, 1877, and arrived at home
Sept. 14th, 1878. The first few months of his
mission were spent in Iowa and Nebraska; af-
terwards he went to Pennsylvania, in company
with Elder B. M. Young, where they labored
successfully. Elder Pierce baptized, during
his absence, 24 persons, re-baptized 1, blessed
9 children, held 75 meetings, and organized two
branches. In the former mission of Elder
Pierce he baptized quite a number, making al-
together 87 persons baptized, 21 re-baptized, 33
children blessed, 6 branches organized, and
over 200 public meetings. Elder Pierce re-
turned in good health and spirits.

	MISS MATTIE H. Paul, a young lady just
twenty-one years of age, who has been setting
type for the EXPONENT nearly five years,
started for Ann Arbor University Saturday,
Sept. 21st. Miss Paul has been qualifying her-
self for some time past in the study of medi-
cine and surgery, preparato[-]y to going East,
with the intention of perfecting herself in
these attainments. She has educated herself
by her own energy, industry and [-]conomy,
and earned money to defray her college ex-


penses; and her example of diligence and per-
severance is worthy of imitation. Miss Paul
is a young lady of exceptional ability, and de-
serves to succeed. We trust, though she has
gone out alone, she will win her way, and re-
turn thoroughly qualified to take an honorable
position as a lady physician. We were sorry
to part with her, as she was an efficient typo,
but she shall have our best wishes for the at-
tainment of a higher position.

	THERE WILL be a Territorial Fair held in
Salt Lake City under the auspices of the D.
A. and M. Society, in which the ladies are so-
licited to take part. The following ladies have
been appointed a committee to take charge of
the department of woman's work. Mrs. Pris-
cilla M. Staines, Mrs. Sarepta M. Heywood,
Mrs. Priscilla Jennings, Mrs. Abba Rumell,
Mrs. Ann Dewey. The ladies of the Relief
Societies are solicited to contribute silk and
other goods which are manufactured by them,
also all kinds of fancy articles, ornamental
needlework, hair-work, drawing, painting, or
any of these classes of work, as well as domes-
tic manufactures of all kinds. The ladies of
the Territory should take pains to aid in mak-
ing this Territorial Fair the best that has ever
been held, and will thus be conferring a public
good by contributing to encourage home pro-
ductions and home-talent. The Fair will com-
mence Oct. 2d, in the City Market.

	IN ACCORDANCE with a call made by the Peo-
ple's Central Committee for Salt Lake County,
a mass oonvention convened on Saturday, Sep-
tember 28th, at noon, in the Court House, for
the purpose of electing delegates to the Terri-
torial Convention. There was a fair represent-
ation of the people, though not nearly as many
as we expected to see. David O. Calder, Esq.,
rose and called the assembly to order, and the
business of organizing the meeting was effected
by electing Hon. John T. Caine, President; Bi-
shop John Henry Smith and Emmeline B.
Wells, Vice-Presidents; David McKenzie and
Hannah T. King, Secretaries. President Angus
M. Cannon offered the opening prayer. The
Chairman then read the call and declared the
meeting opened for business. The first busi-
ness transacted was the appointing of a com-
mittee to select delegates for the approval of
the convention. This committee consisted of
five gentlemen and two ladies, who withdrew
for consultation, having been instructed to
make the selection so as to equally represent all
parts of the county. A speech was called for
from C. W. Penrose, Esq., who responded
in a few concise remarks upon political
duties, the selecting of wise and judicious
men to office, the consistency of recognizing
women in politics, etc. Judge Snow was
called and made some remarks upon the rights
of citizens, duties of the people's delegate, the
total impropriety of Congress in seeking to con-
trol mind, conscience or religious principles.
The committee returned and reported the
names of the 18 delegates selected; and as we
have not room to publish the names, we will
state that the delegation consisted of 14 gentle-
men and four ladies. The secretary read the
names, and on motion they were sustained by
the vote of the convention. The chairman
then nominated nine alternates, among whom
only one lady's name appeared; these were
also sustained by vote. The president and
secretary were authorized to furnish the dele-
gates with credentials of election. C. W. Pen-
rose, Esq., then offered a "Preamble and Reso-
lution," which was read and adopted as the
sense of the convention. We regret we have
not space left to publish it, but express our
hearty recognition of its sentiments. A vote
of thanks was given to all the acting officers of
the convention, which adjourned sin[-] die.
Prayer by Prest. A. M. Cannon.


