OBITUARIES.
DIED, at Fillmore City, Sept. 8th, 1878, Re-
becca Jane, beloved wife of Thomas E. King,
and daughter of Robert and Rebecca Murrey,
aged 37 years and 22 days.  She leaves a hus-
band, five children (the youngest four weeks
old), an aged mother and numerous friends to
mourn her absence.
Deceased was born Aug. 17, 1841, at Wood-
stock, Ulster Co., N. Y. Became a member of
the Brooklyn Branch of the Church at the ago
of fifteen.  Emigrated herself and mother to
Utah in I860, making a permanent home in
this city, where she has won the esteem and
affection of all who knew her; and by her su-
perior talents as teacher and writer, though
unassuming, has memorized her name in the
hearts of many never to be forgotten; many of
her excellent articles have enriched the papers
of the Mutual Improvement Association.  Three
weeks previous to her death, not feeling well
as usual, she wished the Elders to administer
to her; after the administration we left her
resting comfortably.  On returning she seemed
quite overcome, and said a messenger of the
Lord had talked with her and showed her
many things concerning this Gospel.  Her
happiness was unspeakable, and the testimony
she bore was that Plural Marriage and the
United Order were true, and her desire was to
live to carry those principles out to the very
letter; exhorted those present, as they valued
the truth and their honor, never to speak
against them.  The following day she told us
she could not live; called the family together,
giving instructions to her children, and dis-
tributing presents to each; blessing her little
children, she affectionately bade us goodby.
The vision of her mind was then opened, and
she was permitted to see and realize the beauty
and grandeur existing, beyond the vale, and
when she became sensible of her surroundings
again she shed tears of regret, for the idea of
coming back to dwell here was loath ome to
her. But by faith and careful nursing we were
permitted to keep her with us three weeks
longer, when she departed this life, realizing
the approach of death, though unable to talk
with us.

May angels guide thee with truth and love
To that peaceful home in the realms above;
Where loved ones are waiting, with outstretched hand,
To welcome thy coming to that beautiful land.

May thy spirit, freed from mortality,
Seek knowledge throughout eternity,
Till thy crown be studded with purest gems,
Far brighter than earthly diadems.
						D. K. O.

DIED, in the First Ward, Sept. 13th, 1878, of
consumption, Sarah Rachel, daughter of the
late Henry Smith and of Martha Smith, aged
20 years and 6 months.
Deceased was born at Human’s Park, South
Africa, and came to Utah in the year 1865.  For
nearly seven years she has been a Sunday
School teacher, was a regular member of the
choir, and Secretary of the Y. L. M. I. A, all
of which positions she faithfully filled, until
her illness prevented her from doing so, which
was a source of deep regret to her.  She was a
kind and loving daughter and sister, a true
and sincere friend, was beloved by all who
knew her, and mourned by a large circle of
relatives and friends; but while we deeply
mourn her absence, we feel that our loss is her
eternal gain.  Too pure for earth, she's gone to
Heaven.
One sweet flower has drooped and faded,
One dear form is laid at rest,
fair brow the grave has shaded,
But her soul is with the blest.
She has gone to heaven before us;
See, she turns and waves her hand,
Pointing to the glory o’er us,
In that holy, happier land.
Resolutions of Condolence, offered by the
Young Ladies’ Mutual Improvement Associa-
tion to the bereaved family of Sarah Rachel
Smith.
Whereas, He who doeth all things for the
best hath bereft us of our dearly beloved sister,
friend, and faithful Secretary, and we are de-
sirous of expressing our sincere affection, sor-
row and sympathy for the sorrowing mother,
brothers, sisters, and relatives who are bereft of
her presence for a short season,
Resolved, That it is but a just tribute to the
memory of the departed to say, that in regret-
ting her loss, we mourn for one who was over
an example of purity and goodness, worthy of
our emulation, and who has endeared herself
to us by her many Christian virtues and en-
dearing qualities.
Resolved, That we sincerely sympathize with
the family of the deceased in their bereave-
ment, and commend them to the care and
mercy of Him who seeth and knoweth all
things, and whose hand we feel to acknowledge
in this their affliction.
 Resolved, That we forward to the family of
the departed the heartfelt testimonial of our
sorrow and sympathy for the loss of her whom
we loved.
SARAH A. GRAHAM, Pres't.
AMY H. ADAMS, Sec'y.
