	MEMORY AND OBSERVATION.

	As I sit and think, my memory takes me
back to my childhood days, and I think
with pain what a wilful, quick-tempered,
naughty girl I was. I think how much
trouble it caused my darling mother, and I
think, too, of her gentleness and patience
with me, how, instead of beating me, as I
have seen some mothers do their children,
she would talk to me in kindness; with
tears in her eyes, and no matter how hard I
was to conquer, she would always win the
victory; and nothing else would have done
it.
	Memory also brings to my mind how,
with an infant babe only two weeks old,
she forsook father, mother, kindred and
friends, home and all things dear, but her
own immediate family and the love of
truth, and endured, with heroic courage,
the hardships and trials of the Saints, and
then crossing the plains laid down her life
striving to obey the Gospel. I was then
only seven years old, but my dearest recol-
lections are of her, and her gentleness and
sweetness; and of dear father, too, for I
never remember hearing them disagree.
	To them, with the help of my Heavenly
Father, I owe all I am, and I can say, in
humbleness and thankfulness, I have tried
to cultivate an even, cheerful disposition,
and the trial has not been an entire failure.
	Dear mothers, my observation teaches
me that it is much better to rule with love,
kindness and firmness. When I see a
mother deliberately double a rope and whip
her daughter until her flesh is bruised for
weeks, I cannot help thinking, poor, igno-
rant soul, it must surely be for lack of wis-
dom that you act thus, for I know you de-
sire to do the child good. O how infinitely
much depends upon the character of our
children, and this upon the training they
receive from us. Mothers in Israel, actual
and prospective, the duties now incumbent
upon you might well make angels falter,
nor can you become mothers without incur-
ring those respousibilities, but if you are
wise, and properly train your children, how
great, how glorious are your privileges. O
mothers, I fear and tremble when I think
how imminent is our danger, and when I
see so many of our youth growing up in
ignorance and lawless rowdyism. My
greatest hope is in the mothers—may God
open our eyes and stir up our souls to our
momentous duties, and help us to properly
train our children, and may He enable us
to be what we ought, for as we are, so will
our children be.
	And let us exhort our girls to be wise in
choosing their husbands. Do not choose
for the father of your children men who
will get drunk, and spend all their earnings
for strong drink—men who will come into
your presence using obscene and profane
language and abuse you in every way. But
choose, rather, men of refinement and cul-
ture, and men of God. You have as much
right to demand virtue, honesty and sobri-
ety from them, as they from you. And if
they are not such men, can you expect your
sons to be? if you choose for their fath-
ers men of vice and degradation, can you
expect them to be wise and virtuous, de-
spising all that is low and vulgar, and
searching and grasping for all that is good
and pure? No, indeed. Then, I repeat,
be wise, and raise up children that will
honor and obey the priesthood, and be as
priceless gems in the kingdom of God.
But I fear I am trespassing. May God help
us to be all we desire in righteousness.
