EDITOR EXPONENT:

	We were favored with a visit from Sisters
E. R. Snow, M. I. Horne and E. Davis,
Aug. 19. We met in our schoolhouse,
which was filled to overflowing with men
and women. The President of the Relief 
Society, Mrs. Angeline Porter, presiding.
Meeting opened with the usual exercises.
After a few introductory remarks by our 
President, Mrs. Horne addressed the audi-
ence; said she was pleased to meet with us;
said we were all in the same school, and
should be apt scholars. Said the first time
that she ever spoke in public President
Young, some of the Twelve Apostles and
several Bishops were present; thought her
feelings could be better imagined than de-
cribed. She hoped every woman in this
settlement belonged to the Relief Society;
also hoped the brethren were willing their
wives should belong. Thought the mothers
should attend to family prayers in the ab-
sence of their husbands. Instructed the 
mothers in regard to rearing their children
and having the proper watch-care over
them; parents were responsible in a great
measure for the acts of their children; spoke
of her own experience, and encouraged
home-manufacture.
	Miss E. Snow said, when we first came
to these valleys we had not the chance for
education that we have now; the first thing
to be thought of then was the bread and
butter, and after we had got that, the next
thing was a schoolhouse wherein to educate
our children. In early days of the church,
the children were taught to believe the 
Gospel fully; they then had faith; said now
some young men were called to go on mis-
sions before they had opened their mouths
in prayer at home; true, they were honest
in their hearts. And when they first spoke
in public it was very brief, because their
minds were not trained as they ought to be.
Spoke to the girls concerning the fashions
of Babylon that are introduced in our midst,
and have been drank into by our young
girls. Said instead of meeting together to
praise their God, their minds were lured
away with fashion. Said she, with other
sisters, was appointed to organize the 
young ladies of Zion, that there might be a
mutual improvement among the young;
that there had already been a great change,
and this was only a beginning. She en-
couraged education, but the most important
thing to obtain for our young people was
spiritual knowledge. Asked the mothers
if they wanted to have their children grow
up in honesty; if they did to beware them-
selves, and practice the principles of hon-
esty and truth. Encouraged the young in
their associations, showing the path they
should walk if they took the right course.
Asked the sisters if they realized the sa-
credness of these societies; said we had
our own souls to save, and have we time to
look at each other's failings? No, we have
not. Man never knew, ear never heard of 
the blessings the Lord has in store for those

[Column 3]
that love Him. Spoke to quite a length on
home affairs, touching upon a good many
different subjects, including home manu-
facture. Requested all those who had on
homemade hats or bonnets to stand up;
said she felt proud to see so many.
	Mrs. Davis said: "Sister Eliza has been
instructing us on home manufacture, and 
she wished us to sustain the EXPONENT, as
it is all made at home." Spoke about the 
right we had to vote; as we had the privi-
lege of the ballot given us, we should be
dutiful in this particular as voters.
	Bishop Porter said he fully endorsed every
word, and hoped we would carry out the
remarks of the sisters.
	President Angeline Porter felt to tender
a vote of thanks to those who had so nobly
entertained us this evening; said if we 
wanted to be benefitted we must put in
practice their counsel in our lives.
	Singing. Benediction by our Patriarch,
Alma Porter.
	MRS. ANGELINE PORTER, Pres't.
