		BY HANNAH T. KING.

	This being seems to be the theme, the
problem of the 19th century. The queries
concerning her are—What are her rights?
What her position? What are her capabili-
ties? Is she equally accountable with man
in her sphere? What was she sent on earth
for? The Lord said, "It is not good for
man to be alone, I will make him a help-
meet for him." She came from His hands
a perfect woman—and I would observe here,
in the penalties they afterwards incurred,
their punishments were entirely distinct;
labor was laid upon the man, on the woman
a far severer trial—"In sorrow shalt thou
bring forth children, and thy desire shall
be to thy husband, and he shall rule over
thee!" shewing plainly that this was not
the original position in either case. In
meditating on the life of woman, we must
be certain that God has been with her
from that day and hour; for, without the
power of His Spirit, she must often utterly
have failed; instead of which, her "cove-
nant of suffering" has been borne with dig-
nity, with patience, with meekness, with
passive endurance, kissing the rod, bowing
beneath the hand, worshipping the Judge!
The exceptions to this character are so few,
comparatively, that they simply establish
the rule. When my mind runs back into
the irrevocable past, as in open vision, and
I realize the incalculable amount of suffer-
ing, mental and coporeal, more especially
the latter, she has ever passed through, she
rises before me a being like our Savior,
bearing her cross, and crowned with thorns!
	But I pass—she has indeed been in
school, and generally exhibits the rigid
training through which she has come up—
yet "through much tribulation." But God
has said in these last days: "Arise, daugh-
ter of Zion, put on thy singing robes;
God is thy Father and thy husband! and
He will make thy righteousness clear as
the noon day. His Spirit shall go with
thee to the end of time! Lean on Him, and
He will direct thy steps, and be thy friend
and counselor." Is woman aware that it is
God who has enfranchised her? Does she
realize that He has mapped out her destiny,
past, present, and to come! The Spirit of

[Column 2]
God is moving upon the waters, the Angel
of Truth has descended "with healing in
his wings," and the torch of ireedom liv-
ing in his hand; and liberty shall reign
upon the earth. Half the world has ever
been woman! shall she be forgotten?  Ver-
ily no! Verily no!! Man recoils from grant-
ing freedom to woman, fearing his premier-
ship may be endangered; but surely he
must know enough of the character of wo-
man to have seen that the best educated
are those who never intrude on the boun-
dary of another, be it man or woman.
When I speak of education, I mean those
who are schooled in home tuition, which is
always the most powerful and enduring.
	As I write on this subject, a character
rises up in my mind, which may illustrate,
and certainly will embellish my remarks—
one who has lived in our day, but who has
been gathered to his fathers prematurely;
one descended from and trained in a proud,
dogmatical, punctilious old country. Prince
Albert! a name revered by the English na-
tion to-day, and will illumine her history!
Did he feel that he tarnished the glory of
his manhood when, in accordance with the
laws and customs of England, and all her
nobles who hold offices under the crown, he
had to bow the knee and take the oath of
allegiance to the Queen of England, as her
loyal subject, and, rising, stood ever after
side by side with that regnant lady, as her
liege lord, husband and friend, beloved and
appreciated by her, to almost a species of
idolatry, to the last hour of his life; one
whom she mourned so devotedly and so
long, that she caused almost a jealous anger
in her people, who, after leaving her in
silent seclusion for two whole years, felt
then she ought to remember she was their
Queen-Mother, and again resume the im-
perative duties of her high and exalted
station. All this spoke loudly that he lost
no prestige, no respect, no dignity, by the
act of allegiance, and that other she was
constantly called upon to perform, but will
ever stand as an exemplar of a noble
prince, a devoted and wise subject, a faith-
ful husband and a tender and and most watch-
ful Father. Had he been living on the
earth to-day, I feel that his voice would be
heard, favoring the enfranchisement of
woman, and emancipation from many of
her disabilities. Victor Hugo has raised
his voice in public in favor of this effort,
also Gladstone, and Beaconsfield, and many
other far-seeing minds. God works by in-
struments, and such are these I have named.

	It is good to have friends, good to feel
they hold us in their hearts, give us their
sympathy, and throw their influence into
the scale in our favor, but the lever-power
must spring from ourselves—we must be
ready and willing in the day of our power!
Hence, my sisters, let us walk wisely, cau-
tiously, but yet unsleepingly in this mo-
mentous era of woman. Let us endeavor
to prepare ourselves (especially the young
sisters) for whatever may be ahead of us,
that if a wider field of usefulness be opened
for us, we may be enabled to maintain an
equilibrium, a cool, calm dignity, that shall
disarm sarcasm and ridicule. Increased
freedom induces increased responsibilities,
and in all the affairs of life, humiiity is th

[Column 3]
only safe road. To have the power to do
good is a blessed boon, and blessed are
those who, having the power, have the
will also.


