			WOMAN'S LOVE. 

	How great a woman's love! How un-
bounded and truly self-sacrificing! How
noble, pure, refining and elevating! It is
stamped in her every feature. Every
movement, look, word, or action, portrays
the great love she bears humanity. It is
her greatest charm, her grandest endow-
ment. With it she governs the world. By
this great gift she refines and elevates all
mankind; all succumb to it, and love and
praise the possessor. Woman can never
sufficiently thank God for this great bless-
ing, nor fully realize nor admire the great
wisdom and beauty He exercised in be-
stowing it on her. Without the pure love
possessed by woman, what could she have
accomplished? How much influence would
she have held over the world? What
pleasure could have been felt in her pres-
ence? Or what effort would she have made
to gain the love and approbation of God?
None whatever; her life would have been
devoid of pleasure and usefulness—her
creation would have been almost in vain.
	Incaculable good has been brought about
by the ties of true friendship; sad hearts
have been cheered, oftentimes, by the sym-
pathy of a true friend. In every time,
Christian heart-friendship is prized and
cherished, and all those who have ever felt
its blessed influence, can not choose but
cultivate it. Life, to me, would be bereft
of its greatest charm, if the effect of friend-
ship were not felt. By a law of our being
we are compelled to love one another, but,
through carelessness and not adhering to
the laws of nature, we have grown to disre-
gard the importance of this great relation-
ship, and allowed ourselves to become our
first care and claim our greatest attention.
But this should not be. We must cultivate
love for our fellow-creatures, and strive to
more strictly keep God's commandments,
and "love our neighbor as ourself." With-
out friendship there is no union, and with-
out union there is no strength. We are all
sisters in feelings and objects, and now all
we require is to unite, and merge our ef-
forts into one community of kindred souls.
	O how great should be our struggle to
gain such a consummation!
	In life there is nothing sweeter than the
pure and confiding love which woman gives
to her husband. No ties on earth are so
sacred and binding as those of virtuous
wedlock. True love and chastity between
husband and wife are indispensable to hap-
piness; where this does not exist, there is
no true refining influence, no joy. The
Spirit of God is far away, and all is deso-
late and degrading. Oh, let us carefully
guard ourselves, that we may not be en-
gulfed in that fearful abyss. Let us keep
both body and soul perfectly pure and holy,
and plead constantly with God to keep us
from all wrong thoughts and actions.
	The love which God has given to moth-
ers, for their children, outreaches all other
feelings. It springs spontaneously from the
heart. It is a natural, pleasant duty, which
none but a mother can perform. No pas-
sion is so pure, so free from guile, so tender,
devoted and enduring as a mother's love.
None but a mother can experience that
heartfelt joy, on greeting a child just re-
turned from a long absence, or grieve over
its sorrow, as she can. God has made this
a law of our being, and no one can become
a mother without feeling maternal yearn-
ings; therefore, no one can fill her place,
either in their affection for their offspring,
or their influence over them. O mother,
what a great responsibility rests upon you!

[Column 2]
The characters of your children are in your
hands; to a great extent their destiny is
under your control; the plastic clay is in
your arms; oh, be careful in molding them,
and wisely use your power.
	Especially must mothers mold or fashion
the MORAL characters of their children;
they are the main educators, and without
home-education all other is useless; unless
they learn good manners at home, they will
be coarse and vulgar through life. Unless
they are taught refinement of sentiment
and delicacy of thought and feeling at
home, they will never possess it in any de-
gree. Their intellects mest receive an
early maternal direction, and their minds
be developed and drawn out, and a thirst-
ing after knowledge exercised by their
mothers. You plead a want of time. But
should you not attend first to that which is
most important! And what other duty has
God given you that is as momentous as
this? O think of It! No mortals fill any
relation to be compared with yours. The
vice or virtue of your children depend most
on the training they receive at your hands.
It should awaken the deepest emotions of
your hearts, and cause you to awaken from
your lethargy, and put forth every energy
of which you are capable. Pray earnestly
and constantly for wisdom, for grace, to
guide your children in paths of nobleness
and purity. Educate yourselves, that you
may be able to better educate your chil-
dren. Show them by practice that what
you teach them by precept is correct. Oh,
when I see so many of our youth growing
up in ignorance—when I think how easily
so many are carried away willing captives
by corrupt and degraded men, I tremble for
the future. But if the mothers would be
more careful, and teach their daughters in
their youth to guard against all such evils,
and store their minds with pure and true
knowledge, this would be remedied to a
great extent, and much good would be
done. I know that a mother's love is not
deficient in the quantity, she loves her child
enough, but not aright. But mothers must
learn to love their children intellectually
and morally. Love them, but guide their
maternal yearnings by enlightened intellect,
and govern it by high moral feeling.
	I would say to the unmarried, don't spend
your time in arraying yourself for the con-
vivial ball, or party, or changing the fashion
for your n[-]w dresses; you [-]ave other more
noble and higher duties to perform. Pre-
pare yourselves to become wives and moth-
ers. Study diligently, and embrace every
opportunity to improve your minds and
lend you new grace and wisdom. Culti-
vate in your hearts a love for everything
that is refining and beneficial, and never
think you are too good to assist your mother
in any household duty, or honorable labor
of any kind. Lay aside all affectation, and
adorn yourselves becomingly in nature's
loveliness. Be yourselves as God created
you, and you will be most happy and lova-
ble. O then, let us strive, in all our walks
through life, to be worthy of the great,
all-controlling love we receive from God.
It is the most blessed gift He can bestow.
Let us carefully nourish love for all God's
children, and constantly seek the benign
influence it exerts. Without it we would
become low and degraded, and lose all de-
sire for intelligence and purity. But the
more we possess, the greater will be our in-
fluence, the more glorious our achieve-
ments, the purer our lives, and the nearer
we shall be to God.
	It is the fulfillment of the law.
							C. E. [-].


