BY CLARA B. HEATH.
Lost! in the city lanes and streets,
A hundred girls with their faces white!
Once they were fair, and pure, and sweet,
Guileless and true, and they loved the light;
Now in the fog of unbelief,
Stained with many a crimson stain,
Careless, defiant, grown blind and deaf,-
Pitiless, too, in their self-disdain--
Surely they need a warning word,
Friendly smiles and a helping hand;
Shall they look in vain to the Christian church,
That blessed light of a Christian land?

Lost! by the Ganges, years ago,
A hundred girls with their faces dark!
They never knew of a Savior's love,
They never knew of a sheltering ark.
Cradled in infamy, dark and deep,
Minds uncultured, and hearts unfed,
Passion awake, and conscience asleep,
What did it matter, living or dead?
Hundreds more tread the self-same track,
Leading down to the gates of death.
What can we do? O sisters fair,
Pray! It is never a waste of breath.

Lost! for the want of a little faith,
Many a flower in quaint disguise;
Dying a painful, lingering death,
Slowly, like hope from a maiden's eyes.
Lost, for the want of a little care,
Many a bud of hope and trust,
Some that would have been wondrous fair,
Wither and crumble away in dust.
Lost in Christian and heathen lands,
Many a noble, generous aim,
All for the want of a helping hand,
Looking for succor that never came.

Mothers, and sisters! the harvest white,
Lies about us on every side,
Waiting the reapers; and earnest cry,
Comes from over the ocean wide,
"Come and help us, we need your aid;
Come where the sun is warm and high;
Strengthen the hands that weary grow,
Fill the places of those that die;
Give us your prayers; our need is great!
Give of your goods; the Lord will provide.
Patiently, bravely we toil and wait;
Send us workers; the door is wide,"

Surely a blessing your efforts will crown,
Never will perish one grain of good;
No one need fear the Master's frown,
If she has simply done what she could.
Who of us all cannot strengthen the band
Tolling afar that the dead may live?
Who can measure with puny hand
The interest which the Lord will give?
And one has talent, and one has gold,
And "all have something," the record saith.
Give of your best to the Savior's cause,
Pray! it is never a waste of breath.
						-Ex.


