			R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment Meeting in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Saturday, Sept. 14, was well attended.
Coun. E. R. Snow presided. After the ex-
ercises of singing, prayer and reading of 
minutes from Junior Associations, Coun. E.
R. Snow made the following remarks: "I
am well pleased with the minutes we have
just heard; we have listened to good prin-
ciples; and these meetings are a power, and
it is growing. If you could have heard
Elder Lorenzo Snow preach in Ogden, it
would have gladdened you. He spoke of 
the effort of the sisters, and appreciated
our works, and prophesied of our future.
The sisters feel weak now, but the time
will come when they will speak with the 
eloquence of angels. I attended the Quar-
terly Conference of Box Elder Stake Relief
Society. Every branch of that organization
in the county was reported. The various
Presidents reported verbally in the after-
noon.
	"In these meetings our young ladies'
minutes form a very interesting portion. I
have just been thinking what a vacancy it
would make if they were left out. The
minutes of the Children's Association, read
by Mrs. B. W. Smith's grand-daughter,
were as interesting as though spoken by an
Elder. They foreshadow the future abili-
ties and positions of these children.
	"While in Brigham City, we selected the
President and Counselors over the Primary
organizations for each ward, and the Elders
set them apart. The next day about two
hundred and fifty children attended a spe-
cial meeting. I told them it was their 
meeting, to worship God. They sang
standing and prayed kneeling. They paid
good attention to all they could understand.
They expressed themselves glad to have
an organization of their own, so they would 
not be afraid to speak. We consulted with
the brethren, they were favorable and gave
us all necessary aid. Committees visited
each house, to ascertain the number of 
children between five and ten years of age.
—we thought that the best period to begin
work with. As the work progresses, we
shall have older children included. Mrs.
Harriet Snow, President of Box Elder Stake
Relief Society, and I went to Willard City,
and with the brethren organized the Pri-
mary Associations. We took a vote tose-
cure the aid of the mothers. In their at-
tire it does not matter how plain or ordi-
nary it is, cleanliness is the main point. I
would like to know how many in this con-
gregation are willing to unite with us and 
sustain the Primary Associations here. (On
motion the entire assembly rose to their 
feet.) Thank you, sisters, we will have it.
We want to take the hearts of the young
while they can be impressed. Many of our
young ladies have not been trained so that
they were anxious to unite with the Young
Ladies' Associations. We want it different
after this; we want them to grow up in
such faith that they need not rely upon
doctors. Many of our mothers have not
time, above the things of the world, to
train the immortal soul. We want to train
such mothers. It is hard to dispel the
spirit of the world. I have conversed with 
two Bishops, who favored these move-
ments."
	Mrs. Louie Felt was called to the stand,
and was nominated to preside over the Pri-
mary Association of the 11th Ward, Mrs.
Lizzie Felt and Louie Morris as Counselors.
These sisters were unanimously sustained.
	Miss Snow resumed her remarks, and re-

[Column 2]
ferred specially to the coming Territorial
Fair.
	Mrs. Watmough, Mrs. Julia Howe, Mrs.
E. Thomas, Mrs. M. Wilcox, Mrs. E. Steven-
son, Mrs. M. R. Thompson and other sisters
occupied the afternoon in speaking on the
duties of mothers, the training of children,
the principles of the Everlasting Gospel,
the blessings received from day to day, the
gifts and manifestations of the goodness of
God to His children who obey His com-
mandments.

