BANGED HAIR AND CLOSE DRESSES.

[Correspondence of the Woman's Journal.]

	Every day I meet in the streets of Boston
young ladies, who would otherwise look in-
telligent, reduced to the appearance of
idiocy by a peculiar method of combing
the hair down over the forehead. The
hideous deformity is evidently copied from
the patients of lunatic asylums and schools
for the feeble-minded. The effect is shock-
ing. Although not fastidious, I shrink
from these ladies as children shrink from a
hideous mask. It is a protest against being
considered strong-minded that the young
women thus assume the garb of idiocy. I
am told that a young lady thus degraded is
said to have her hair "banged." But it
seems to me that her sanity must be badly
banged to thus deform herself.
	The present hot weather is made more
intolerable by the spectacle of women with
dresses which cling to their forms with a
closeness positively indelicate — dresses
drawn back by some strange attachment
behind which fetters every movement.  If
the "banged" young woman has made my
blood run cold, the pulled-back lady throws
me into a profuse perspiration out of sym-
pathy with her self-inflicted martyrdom.
Will the ladies of the New England wo-
man's club kindly inform me why women
thus make guys of themselves?


[Column 1]
New Goods for the Fall and Winter 1878,

AN Immense Stock of those cheap and durable white
and red, twilled and plain FLANNELS,
just recieved from the Provo Mills. Also Dress Flannels,
Waterproofs, Linseys, Blankets, Jeans, Yarns, Cloths,
Double, Single and Shoulder Shawls, Trunks, Brooms,
Tinware, Shoes, Dixie Cotton Batting, and other goods,
at the Commission House.
OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDING.
MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.
Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
MRS. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to accommodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and
Saler[-]om to
NO. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
invites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, [-]o call and examine: her stock of Hats made from
the latest Parisian style and shape. Ladies will also find
a variety of Imported Hats and Bonnets, with every,
thing pertaining to a first-class Millinery Establishment-
at moderate prices.
and Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
and Altered.

[Column 2]
The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency.

	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jennings' corner. Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail filled promptly.
							GEO. A. LUKE & Co.,
									Proprietors.

