WOMEN AS EDUCATORS.

	A great deal is said of the duties of mothers,
and in many instances much blame is attached
to them for the immorality, lack of honesty
and uprightness, and want of high moral tone
in society at the present time.  It is said that
mothers neglect their children for dress, to
follow fashion and outrival their associates,
that another class desire to take the place of
men, and are unfitting themselves for domestic
life and home education; and altogether that
"the times are out of joint," and as in the days
of Adam down to the present time it is wo-
man's fault.
	"What we want is better mothers," is heard
on every hand; "those who are contented in
their sphere, and not assuming more rights and
privileges than belong to them."  Are you so
sure they have got all their rights?  "Certainly;
haven't they got men to protect them, to work
for them, to nourish and cherish them?"  This
answer implies a great deal and covers a wide
area; but what are the facts?  Every one ac-
quainted with the existing state of society in
the world knows how far this is carried out in
the lives of men and women.  That there are
promises of this nature, solemn covenants too,
all are aware, but how frequently are they pro-
faned and broken until confidence is lost, and
the very structure upon which society is based
has become unreliable.  The relation of men
and women to each other is an ever underly-
ing principle of the great human problem,
which mankind are all engaged in solving.
	It has become quite a common practice with
people now a days to cry out against evils, from
the pulpit, the platform, and the press, to de-
nounce, to criticize and censure all without
offering any remedy that can be grasped by
the multitude - any potent healing balm for
the many grievances and errors that are con-
stantly being developed.
 When the imperative need of some
certain element is felt, the usual method is to
search for and apply it.  The world has become
aware that there is a deficiency in society now
that wants remedying, and they desire better
mothers.  The desire is good, and would no
doubt be of great benefit, but what are the con-
ditions of the sex at this time, what the facili-
ties conducive to a higher moral tone, and the
prospects for a change for the better. Do men
consider how much they themselves owe to
their mothers?  Do they know that she who
bore them went "down into the dark valley of
of the shadow of death" to endow man with life,
and in all tenderness she nursed, tended and
cherished her offspring through all the perils
incident to childhood, which imply all sorts of
self-denial, toil and patient endurance.  The
proudest man, in all his might, and strength,
and wisdom has the same peculiar history.
	Is it not indeed necessary that woman, upon
whom the bearing, rearing, and intellectually
developing the child rests, should be endowed
with all the advantages of education and con-
dition it is possible for her to enjoy?  Can wo-
man be too well qualified for the position of
mother? The highest and holiest relations of
life should certainly be worthy our strongest
efforts, and claim our best thoughts.
 It is customary to call woman a teacher, an
educator; - what the children imbibe in early
life strongly marks, or mars, their future;
mothers are expected to lay the very founda-
tion of virtues, on which the man, or woman,
bases the whole edifice of human character;
then ought not woman to be prepared, to be
qualified, to be surrounded with all the most
favorable conditions for such an education as
shall strengthen and endow her, physically,
mentally, morally and spiritually, for the high-
est phase of woman's life - Motherhood?
	But while woman strives to aid mankind,
may she not be privileged not only to dispense
good around her own private hearth-stone, but
to others extend a helping hand: reach out to
those who have not the same great courage,
the same understanding, whose conditions,
perchance, have not been so favorable to a
higher life, or who may have been misguided?
If even a little good can be done to others who
are hungering for it, or who stand in fearful
need, why should woman be debarred from
crossing her own threshold in her mission of
good works.  If there has been a great mistake
made, and society is to-day degenerated, why
should not woman, in connection with her
brother man, assist in regenerating?  Is it not
woman whose heart is agonized by the evils
with which the earth is filled?  Are not her
maternal instincts strong in regarding the suf-
fering of all humanity?  Does not her bosom
glow with a maternal love that is universal to
some extent, as well as individual!  Can man
redeem the world without woman's assistance?
He knows he cannot; he knows that in con-
nection with the strength and power of his
manhood, woman's gentler and kindlier ele-
ments are necessary to a high state of civiliza-
tion.  In countries where women are only sub-
ordinate and servile, what is the effect upon
society?  A constant tendency to barbarism.
Then, the more generally intelligent woman
is, the more influence she will be able to exert
through all possible avenues, towards improv-
ing social life; then so much deeper, and high-
er, and broader, and stronger will her system
of educating be.  If society is ever to be ele-
vated to a higher moral or spiritual condition,
then the power of woman must be sensibly
felt in its renovation.  That the world wants
better mothers there is no doubt, women who
regard sacredly the condition of motherhood,
women who make more thorough preparation
for duties than they do to dance, or sing, or at-
tract admiration, women who will choose their
husbands, for their sterling integrity, honesty
and uprightness.  The large majority of women
are not so trained and educated.  Our heart
goes out warmly to those women who have
much poverty and prejudice to overcome; they
need sympathy and teaching, and who can be
their educators, who  so well adapted as woman
herself, who, knowing all the longings and
needs of woman, all the suffering and pain in-
cident to maternity, knows how to enter into
the subject with a special inspiration.  Men
have no reason to fear the help of woman in
the great battle-field of life, for if she becomes
more self-helpful, more capable of standing
alone, she will be all the better qualified to
assist man in the many heavy burdens that
devolve upon him.
	Let us not forget to thank all noble men who
generously protect and defend women; and
also all brave, true-hearted women, who incur
ridicule, and opprobrium and frowns, who,
though wounded at every step they take, still
press forward in the path of conviction, and
seek to educate woman up to a higher standard
of intelligence.  Woman's part in the great
programme of creation is not only an essential
but a lofty one, and she should so consider it.
"To bear the souls of men" and women.  What
greater honor need she aspire to, except to
educate them in the path of duty.  And the
very sorrow through which woman passes in
fulfilling this great law of her being, should
make her a thousand times dearer to man, for
there is a sacredness about motherhood that
stands alone in its sublimity; and there is a
glory attending it, of which the weakest and
most unsophisticated of mothers possess a
timid sort of consciousness. 
							E. B. Wells


