[Vol48 | May 1961 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Article | Title: International Singing Mothers Concert Tour | Author: Tour Belle S. Spafford]
The programme consisted of a varied selection of three and four-part choral items, solos by Jewel Cutler (soprano), and Annette Richardson Dinwoodey (contralto), a violin solo by Blanche Wilson and two organ solos. Some of the accompantments were played on the organ by Dr. Frank W. Asper, who provided adequate support without ever being too loud, in spite of the temptation of the large organ, the power of which he rather devastatingly demonstrated in his solos. The rest were in the hands of the pianist, Zesta T. Geisler, whose playing was excellent.

INTERNATIONAL SINGING MOTHERS CONCERT TOUR

289

Her accurate accompaniments were helpful to choir and soloists alike.

Of the contribution of the choir to the programme one can only speak in the highest terms. Helped by the absence of copies, there was absolute unanimity in everything they did, with constant attention centered on their conductor, whose clear and meaningful leadership ensured splendid precision. They sang with artistic expression and never lost vitality, whether in vigorous and strenuous passages or in the quietest parts. But while praising highly their tone and the general interpretation of the music, it was that rare quality im singing, splendid enunciation, which struck me most. Such clarity, such care with adequate stresses, left the audience in no doubt about the words.

Classical, English, and American composers were represented. Only to mention a few — Handel's ""Come Unto Him' was beautifully sung, as was Elgar's ""The Snow." We were given an unaccustomed staccato rendering of a Bach chorus, but it was effective. An Irish song, "I Have a Bonnet Trimmed With Blue" was very taking, and Landon Ronald's "A Southern Song" was given an interpretation which warranted the repetition demanded.

Courtesy Fox Photos, Ltd.

Dr. Madsen, the conductor, had one composition and two arrangements in the programme, all bearing the stamp of expert musicianship, and her "Come, Ye Blessed' was given a sincere and moving rendering.

Remarkable achievement of Dr. Florence Madsen, and one which received considerable attention and commendation, was the perfect blending of the English, Scotch, Irish, Welsh, and Western American accents into an harmonious oneness.

'This, however, was not the only blending. The lives of the sisters were blended as one. From the hour when the Queen Mary docked at Southampton bearing the American group until farewells were spoken at Liverpool, a spirit of love and _ sisterhood prevailed. The welcoming song, "Come, Come, Ye Saints," sung by sixty British singers, came ringing across the water as the ship docked and was promptly answered by "Now

THE SINGING MOTHERS AT HYDE PARK CHAPEL

290

Courtesy J. Walter T AOE 'Ltd.

ARCHITECT'S DRAWING OF THE HYDE PARK CHAPEL
Exhibition Road, Kensington, London

Let Us Rejoice in the Day of Salvation, No Longer As Strangers on Earth Need We Roam." This glorious and heartfelt singing formed a favorable beginning for loving friendships.

The most impressive and memorable of the many long-to-be-remembered occasions in which the chorus took part, was, without doubt, the dedication service of the Hyde Park Chapel in London, on Sunday, February 26, 1961, at ten A. M. The building features many new advancements in chapel design. The spacious and attractive chapel houses a concert organ of 2,545 pipes, forty-three stops, and three manuals of sixty-one keys each. A large recreational room with a stage adjoins the chapel and may be opened to accommodate overflow congregations attending meetings in the chapel. There is a large and beautifully decorated Relief Society room, a_ spacious kitchen' with modern kitchen equipment, and

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1961

twenty classrooms. The building also has a baptismal font. Of great convenience is a basement garage designed to hold forty cars.

'The outside of the building is equally as beautiful as the interior. A ninetyfoot tower capped by a gold leaf covered spire, rising an additional forty feet to place the spire top 130 feet above the street level, and with a narrow panel of colored glass running vertically up the tower face, is illuminated at night. It may be seen long distances, an eye-catching and inspiring sight on the London scene.

With the entrance of Presideat and Sister McKay for the dedicatory service, accompanied by Elder and Sister Hugh B. Brown and Elder and Sister Nathan Eldon Tanner, the great gathering of saints and friends who had assembled early for the service, rose aS one and stood in silent and reverent respect until our distinguished Prophet and President and his beloved and honored wife were seated.

'The joy of the sisters in having Sister McKay present when the women of the Church were being honored by having Relief Society Singing Mothers provide music for this auspicious occasion, was apparent in their faces as Sister McKay entered the building.

THE chorus sang with sweetness, clarity of tone, and a soul quality that were deeply moving, the following anthems:

"The Morning Breaks, the Shadows Flee," by P. P. Pratt and George Careless.

"Send Forth Thy Spirit," by Schuetky, arranged by Frederic F. Smith.

"Peace I Leave With You," by Roberts.

"Thy Blessing on This House, Dear Lord,"' words by Alberta H. Christensen and music by Florence Jepperson Madsen.

INTERNATIONAL SINGING MOTHERS CONCERT TOUR

291

The impressive address of President David O. McKay, and the inspired dedicatory prayer pronounced by him, will live on in the hearts of the listeners. President McKay outlined the indispensable conditions to the attainment of peace. "Only by adherence to the fundamental principles of righteousness can peace come to individuals or nations," he said. He told the listeners that ""The mission of the Church is to establish peace — peace in individual hearts, peace and _harmony in the home, cessation of war and discord among nations." He said that peace cannot be found in external things, it always comes from within.

The following words spoken by President McKay in behalf of Relief Society as he referred to the Relief Society room, made a deep impress upon the hearts of the Relief Society sisters there assembled:

We dedicate the Relief Society rooms and kitchen and all that pertains thereto. Bless the Relief Society and the service they are rendering, the significance of which is now becoming mote clearly understood by the people of the world. Holy Father, guide the members and keep close to them, and may all the people realize what it means to have our mothers rendering service, not only to their loved ones and children at home, but through their ability as leaders of the women of the world.

The organization of the London Stake at the Sunday afternoon session, during which the Singing Mothers again sang, was a second glorious occasion of this Sabbath day.

The tour of the International Singing Mothers Chorus seemed appropriately concluded with a special temple session at the London Temple arranged by President and Sister Selvoy Boyer. A spirit of peace and well-being pervaded the soul of everyone and seemed as a benediction upon the momentous undertaking.

There were mixed emotions the morning of March 8, when sisters of five different countries who had lived together and sung together for a fortnight said their adieus. 'The sorrows of parting were alleviated only by the joys of returning to home and loved ones, enriched by the experiences and strengthened by the blessings that had attended the sisters throughout the tour.

These sisters of different nationalities, but with the same ideals, standards, beliefs, and eternal goals, had formed deep and abiding friend

Cunard Line Photograph

PRESIDENT BELLE S. SPAFFORD AND HER HUSBAND W. EARL SPAFFORD
Aboard the "Queen Mary" on their way to England for the Singing Mothers Tour

292

ships. In the heart of each was sincere gratitude to the Lord for the opportunity that had come to her to be a part of this unique missionary endeavor. In the heart of each was a deepened appreciation for the gospel of Jesus Christ as restored through the Prophet Joseph Smith, and an increased determination to further the work of the Church. There was a firm resolve in the heart of each sister to rear her children in the love of the truth. There was an awakened desire to further develop her talents and to use them in building strong and ever-growing Relief Societies. There was a greater understanding of the true meaning of sisterhood.

To attempt at this time to measure the values that will accrue from this international Singing Mothers

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1961

activity, entered into by invitation of the First Presidency, would be fruitless. Many values already shine out with crystal clearness. Others remain yet to be identified. The full measure of the value of the undertaking must be determined by time and eternity.

That the Lord looked with favor upon the undertaking is attested by the abundance of the blessings which he showered upon the sisters as they traveled from place to place on their mission of love and song.

The General Presidency expresses deep felt appreciation to the First Presidency for the glorious opportunity afforded Relief Society Singing Mothers, and prays that Relief Society sisters may ever be found worthy of the trusts placed in them by the Church.
