[Vol48 | May 1961 | Sequence: 10 | Category: General Feature | Title: Notes | Author: Parker]
[Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Hulda Parker]
FROM    THE    FIELD tl 
General  Secretary-Treasurer  Hulda  Parker 
All  material  submitted  for  publication  in  this  department  should  be  sent  through 
stake  and  mission  Relief  Society  presidents.  See  regulations  governing  the  submittal  of 
material  for  "Notes  From  the  Field"  in  the  Magazine  for  January  1958,  page  47,  and 
in  the  Relief  Society  Handbook  of  Instructions. 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  ACTIVITIES 
Photograph   submitted  by   Ada   K.   Sneddon 
RENO  STAKE    (NEVADA),  MOUNT  ROSE   AND  MOUNT   ROSE   SECOND 
WARDS  JOIN  IN  "NURSERY  IS  FUN"  PROJECT 
Ada  K.  Sneddon,  President,  Reno  Stake  Relief  Society,  reports:  "The  day  the 
Mount  Rose  Ward  moved  into  its  new  chapel,  the  ward  was  divided.  Right  then  the 
Relief  Society  sisters  decided  that  they  would  improve  their  nursery  program.  Since 
both  wards  would  be  using  the  same  facilities  in  the  new  building,  they  agreed  on  a 
joint  project.  Dagna  MacGill  became  chairman.  She  arranged  two  parties  for  the 
nursery  children.  Each  child  brought  a  gift  of  a  new  or  good  used  toy,  nicely  wrapped, 
to  give  and  share.  These  were  placed  under  the  Christmas  tree  on  arrival.  After  a 
story  and  singing  period,  the  gifts  were  distributed.  Each  child  unwrapped  and 
showed  his  gift  to  the  others,  then  placed  it  in  its  proper  place  in  the  toy  cupboard 
or  box.    Lunch  was  served  immediately,  then  the  children  played  with  their  new  gifts. 
Page  330

NOTES  FROM  THE  FIELD 
331 
"Each  week  the  nursery  teacher  prepares  a  program  of  interest,  learning,  and 
activity,  using  these  toys  and  equipment.  Gradually  more  items  are  added,  permitting 
more  flexibility  in  the  program.  The  result  is  interested,  happy  children.  Happv  chil- 
dren make  happy  mothers.  Attendance  at  Relief  Society  is  improving,  since  children 
are  reluctant  to  leave  the  nursery  when  meetings  are  over." 
Photograph  submitted  by  Gertrude  M.  Richards 
TIMPANOGOS  STAKE    (UTAH)    VISITING  TEACHERS  HONORED   AT 
CONVENTION,  January  27,   1961 
Left  to  right:  Gertrude  M.  Richards,  President,  Timpanogos  Stake  Relief  Society;. 
Mabell  Webb  Jense,  President,  Pleasant  Grove  Second  Ward  Relief  Society;  Lucinda 
N.  Pearce,  who  has  served  as  a  visiting  teacher  for  fifty-eight  years;  Elder  Boyd  L. 
Fugal,  President,  Timpanogos  Stake. 
Sister  Richards  reports:  ''The  Timpanogos  Stake  Visiting  Teachers  Convention 
was  held  in  Pleasant  Grove,  January  27,  1961.  The  convention  centered  on  the  theme 
'Am  I  my  brother's  keeper?'  and  featured  music  by  the  stake  Singing  Mothers  chorus, 
and  an  address  by  Stake  President  Boyd  L.  Fugal. 
"Specially  honored  were  thirty-two  sisters  who  had  served  thirty  years  or  more  as 
visiting  teachers.  The  eldest,  in  point  of  service,  was  Sister  Lucinda  M.  Pearce,  with 
fifty-eight  years.  Sister  Pearce  was  called  to  be  a  visiting  teacher  at  the  age  of  twenty- 
three,  and  has  served  also  as  ward  president,  counselor,  and  class  leader,  but  in  all  these 
callings  continued  as  a  visiting  teacher.  While  living  in  Vernal,  Utah,  her  district 
covered  a  distance  of  nine  miles,  round  trip,  which  she  traveled  by  team  and  wagon, 
horse  and  buggy,  or  by  walking.  Left  a  widow,  with  eight  children,  she  was  married 
to  William  A.  Pearce,  and  helped  to  rear  his  eight  children  with  her  own.  As  part 
of  her  Relief  Society  work,  she  has  put  the  first  clothing  on  more  than  fifty  new  babies, 
and  helped  prepare  the  dead  for  burial.  She  was  released  as  a  visiting  teacher  only 
because  arthritis  has  made  walking  difficult  for  her. 
"As  an  expression  of  appreciation  for  the  devoted  service  given  by  Sister  Pearce, 
her  ward  Relief  Society  President  Mabell  Webb  Jense  gave  a  tribute  to  her,  and  Presi- 
dent Boyd  L.  Fugal  presented  her  a  potted  chrysanthemum."