[Vol48 | May 1961 | Sequence: 09 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorial | Author: Sharp]
EDITORIAL SEL VOL. 


 Srain Up a Child As an Yndividual NE of the greatest responsibilities of a mother is to train and equip her children for life. As she watches them developing in their tender years, she is often impressed with the differences in their dispositions, attitudes, and abilities. The words of Holy Writ declare "Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it" (Proverbs 22:6). A mother comes to understand that while the training she gives her children is turned toward the same goal, it requires different training for each individual child to attain the goal. Even as babies a mother notes that one has a sunny disposition while another is silent and serious. As small children she finds that one child will assert himself and grab away toys, while another will retreat within himself and make small effort to maintain his rights. Thus she must train her children differently to have them grow to adulthood living righteously and bulwarked with the inner strength and independence which will cause them to continue to do right after they have left behind the family environment. A mother therefore studies the strengths and weaknesses of each child individually and seeks to spend a little time alone with each child, as circumstances permit. She accepts him as he is and prayerfully trains him at his point of greatest need. Page 304 Sometimes the most indifferent appearing child who responds rather rudely to overtures on his mother's part, is secretly longing for affection and hiding his need for attention behind an outward hard shell. Some children seem to have innate good manners and breeding, and to be thankful for everything; others seem to feel that they are constantly misunderstood and are ever ready to voice opposition. It was noticeable in one family that one child was always happy and contented with his Christmas presents; however, his brother always acted as if his own presents weren't as good and that the other child was especially favored. 'Their mother had the same objective in her training for the two — to make them appreciative of gifts which were given them, but what an extra amount of love, attention, and understanding were poured out by her on the discontented child before he arrived at the happy acceptance and appreciation which was inherent in his brother's character! There are at least two resolutions which a mother may make which will aid her in the proper training of her children. One is to keep an open mind and find out all the circumstances of any misunderstanding before she quickly blames a child who, atfirst glance, may seem to be the culprit. The great example to keep before one is the perfect jus- EDITORIAL tice of the Heavenly Father. Many times in life unfair conditions can be endured only because one has the knowledge that justice will be done in the end. The second resolution is to keep one's word. 'The Lord promises "I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise" (D & C 82:10). A mother relies on this promise of the Lord and she should, in turn, earnestly seek to have her children look upon her promises as binding. Brigham Young felt this keenly when he admonished mothers, "What did you promise your little girl if she would do so and so? If she does ill have you promised her a chastise- 305 ment? Did you keep your word? You have not, and the child forms the conclusion in its own mind directly that the mother tells that which is not true..." (Discourses of Brigham Young, 1941 Edition, page 210). Children have a keen sense of justice and it is disheartening and confusing to them when mothers do not keep their word. The example set by a mother is all important. Heavenly Father has given to his daughters the rearing of his spiritually begotten children. No other work takes precedence over the training of each individual child so that when he is old he will not depart from that training, but be welcomed back to the celestial family circle. —M. C. S. Suburbs Christie Lund Coles Houses are similar along this street, The yards are much the same in landscape, yet Each differs from the other to complete The total image picturesquely set On this avenue of suburbia, where Trees bordering the walk, flowers in bloom, Touches of various colors here and there Transform each small house into one called Home. Here life seems calm and good; bright water sprays Upon the lawns, while ginghamed neighbors go To the corner store; while a small dog strays Behind them, moving lazily and slow. While clean and happy children jump the rope, The visitor looks on, renewing hope. Spring Housecleaning Hattie B. Maughan Wwiat has become of that good old institution spring housecleaning? Many of you will say, "It is still with us. We all have to clean off the winter's grime." Others will say, "It isn't necessary, with modern cleaning methods and conveniences, we can keep clean all the time." Others — I hate to mention the others — will just say, "Housecleaning — what's that?" I realize I place myself irrevocably in the generation where I belong, when I recall those good spring housecleaning days of my childhood. In our big seventeenroom house where I was born and lived until I went away to teach, spring housecleaning was a mammoth undertaking. It called for organization, co-operation, skill, and stamina. Mother was the executive who taught us the skills and supplied much of the stamina. My father had a distinct dislike for this upsetting of the order of things. He had his own idea of order — when he left his shoes on the oven door to dry and his clothes draped on various chairs, he liked to find them there when he returned, not hidden away in closets where you had to search for them. Fortunately, he had a legitimate escape at this time of the year, for his cattle and sheep ranch about 100 miles away always needed his immediate attention when mother got that cleaning glint in her eye. He knew when it was safe to return and came laden with freshly killed beef and lamb. It wasn't just guesswork that timed his return so perfectly, for Page 306 through all the busy years of many separations, while my father ran his various enterprises, he and mother kept up a constant and devoted correspondence. For housecleaning, one other cooperation besides that of the family and the hired help was necessary — the weatherman. With the carpets on the line to be _ beaten, clotheslines filled with the clothes from the emptied closets, and furniture lined up for a new coat of paint or varnish, you prayed for sunshine and not storm. From attic to cellar, every room was stripped and cleaned, curtains washed, carpets taken up and old straw padding removed; woodwork was scoured and every year or two repainted. In our household we learned to wield a paintbrush almost as soon as we did a toothbrush. Do you remember the rag carpets of those days, woven on the hand looms of the local weaver, the miles of rag strips that had to be torn and wound into balls to make enough of the carpeting to cover a big floor; and the clean golden straw that was spread on the floor for padding before the carpet was nailed down? I can still smell that clean, fresh smell of scrubbed pine boards and fresh straw. And how nice and soft and crunchy it was to walk on a carpet with straw padding. Cleaning the pantry and the cellar with their shelves of bottled fruit and bins of other supplies was a job mother liked to supervise personally to be sure that the cans of lye for homemade soapmaking and SPRING HOUSECLEANING the poisonous medicines got safely put back on the top shelf, where no child could touch them. She also wanted to be sure that the mousehole behind the flour bin was still safely plugged with the plaster of Paris she had put in it. The boys took care of the heavier manual tasks, such as beating the dust out of the carpets and rugs, taking down and cleaning the stovepipes, and sometimes they could be induced to engage in such effeminate tasks as window and woodwork washing. However, they much preferred the more manly tasks of piano moving or removing the leaves from the dangerously high roof and rain gutters. This was the annual spring housecleaning and not to be confused with the weekly or Saturday cleansing which also went from upstairs to cellar, but more superficially. Just as after a Saturday's cleaning you feel good and worthy to ask the Lord to be a Sabbath-day guest in your home, as you rest from your labor and worship him, so we felt that the Lord would look with 307 favor on our clean and orderly home and bless us throughout the year. Today, many of our people are apartment house dwellers who know nothing of the joys of a general housecleaning splurge. Cleaning and redecorating are the responsibility of the landlord, and, if he doesn't attend to it, how simple to move to another apartment already clean and in order — simple, but stunting to the imagination and initiative of a true home lover. Unfortunately, many people who are more permanently situated and should enjoy the pride of ownership of their homes no matter how humble, allow the disorder and accumulation of the years to pile up around them without ever digging out. Cleanliness is next to godliness and order is the first law of heaven. So great is the effect of cleanliness upon man that it extends even to his moral character. Virtue never dwelt long with filth; nor do I believe there ever was a person scrupulously attentive to cleanliness, who was a consummate villain. —Rumford This book of quotations has a film of dust upon it! Hmm — time for spring housecleaning. -~<>-° Ynside the Locket Lorena A. White Father's heavy old watch chain Was eighteen carat gold. He wore it spread across his vest, As in the days of old. And on the chain a locket hung, With hand-cut cameo, But all those years, what was inside, We children did not know; So, after he had passed away, And never more would care, We looked and found, enclosed in silk, A lock of Mother's hair.