[Vol1 | January 1914 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Literature | Title: Literary Department]

LITERATURE Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin (Thirty Minutes.) The object of this course is to give Relief Society members an opportunity to study from first hand sources the life of one of America's greatest men.
This can be done by reading the story of his life as he himself has told it.
In reading the book itself we achieve two things: first, we learn from Franklins own words how he won his way from the humble walks of life to positions of trust and fame; second, we acquaint ourselves with one of the best books ever written.
The Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin is regarded by eminent critics as a literary masterpiece.
In speaking of Franklin one writer says: "Benjamin Franklin is the best example of a self-made man that history affords.
No other American has achieved greatness in so many directions.
He was a writer, a scientist, an inventor, a statesman, a diplomat and a philosopher. "In science he made the discovery that electricity is the cause of lightning and he wrote papers on electricity that won the admiration of Europe.
He invented the stove, the lightning rod and the water organ.
He organized the first police force and the first fire company.
He was one of the greatest statesman of his age and is perhaps the ablest representative our nation ever sent abroad." The autobiography was written in Franklin's 79th year.
It tells the story of his life up to the age of 51 years and is intensely interesting from start to finish.
It has been so popular that over 50 editions have been disposed of in this country and it has been translated into French and German.
This course of study will consist of ten lessons.
The first nine will be taken from the autobiography and the tenth will consist of a discussion of the great things Franklin did for this country after his 51st year.
The edition of the book used by the committee in arranging the lessons is published by the Henry Altinus Co. of Philadelphia, and can be had at the Deseret News Book Store for 25c per. copy; 30c postpaid It will be necessary for each ward association to have at least one copy of the book and it would be gratifying if every member of the Relief Society would purchase A copy for her
12 own library.
Money could not be invested in a better book.
Every school boy reads it or parts of it, every parent should read, study and own it.
Sentiments will be placed at the head of each lesson and should be learned by everybody.
They will be taken from "Poor Richard's Almanac," by Benjamin Franklin, and are known the world over as Franklin's Proverbs.
Ancestry, Parentage and Youth.
Reference: Chap.
I.
Autobiography. "Early to bed and early to rise.
Makes a man healthy, wealthy and wise." 1.
Ancestry  (a) Origin of family, (b) Nationality. (c Type of People. 1.
Religion. 2.
Occupation. (d) Franklin's Father. (e) Franklin's Mother. 2.
Parental Training and Direction  (a) Father puts children out to learn trades. (b) Studies them to see where their inclinations lie. (c) Franklin's love of books leads father to make printer of him. (d) Corrects son's style of writing. (e) Establishes custom of instructive table talk. 3.
Schooling  (a) Grammar school. (b) School for writing and arithmetic. 4.
Learning a Trade  (a) Taken from father's shop and apprenticed to his brother, James, in the printing business. (b) Advantage of change. 1.
Contact with well-informed men. 2.
Access to books. 3.
Through being allowed to board himself saves money to buy books and gains time in which to study. (c) Disagreement of brothers and separation. 5.
How Franklin Taught Himself  (a) Studied "Spectator" (by Addison and Steele), and imitated it.
 (b) Studied Arithmetic, Navigation, Philosophy, Rhetoric and Logic. (c) Studied Socratic method of discussion and practiced it. 6.
Anecdotes  (a) Building a wharf. (b) Anonymous writing for newspapers.
Questions. 1. "Why did Franklin write the story of his life? 2.
How does he acknowledge God? 3.
Discuss Franklin's ancestry. 4.
Describe character of his father. 5.
Describe character of his mother. 6.
Discuss method of Franklin's father in bringing better table talk into his home. 7.
What do you think of plan Franklin adopted to educate himself? to become an author? 8.
How may the method of Socrates be used to advantage by all? 9.
What does Franklin say about vanity? 10.
How did Franklin show honor to his parents?
ART AND ARCHITECTURE "The Bungalow" (Ten Minutes.) "Is your house honest?" Utility the necessity of Art.
Derivation of the name, "Bungalow." How adapted by the English.
The California Bungalow.
The essentials of the true Bungalow in regard to character of openings, shelter, etc.
Compactness in kitchen and adjoining parts of the house.
Study of pleasing proportions; the element of art in the placing of windows, doors and chimneys.
Accessories and surroundings that add beauty to an artistic Bungalow.
The motive which should dominate all home building is a feeling of domestic architecture.
A sense of privacy should be expressed in every home.
Not only should this idea be conveyed through the individuality shown in the selection of furniture14 pictures, floor coverings, light fixtures, etc., but the exterior should impress even the passerby with dignity, good breeding and in a measure, with the sanctity of the family circle within its walls.
The main lines of a successfully-built home should (if built with the best art), indicate frankness, honesty in construction and even directness of purpose.
All this very naturally tends toward the making of a beautiful home life and such influences reach out to all those who pass under its roof.
The spirit of honesty, characteristic of Pioneer land marks appears to be again entering into its own.
Utility is and has always been the foundation of all true art and no more beautiful types of architecture can be found in the length and breadth of the state than the historic Lion House, "White House, Beehive House or the old Historian Office, which were built during a period of study of fitness and when simplicity and originality, and an undivided purpose abounded in the hearts and homes of the Saints.
Reference: Young "Woman's Journal for January, 1914.
Assignments.
What is the derivation of the word, "Bungalow?" What application did the English make of the East Indian name and idea of the Bungalow?
By whom was it borrowed from the English?
How was the California Bungalow developed?
What are the essential characteristics of the true Bungalow?
Illustrate as to openness, shelter and compactness.
What means do we of the mountains employ to adapt the California Bungalow to our own uses?
What are the effects of the steep roof on height of ceilings, house-work and economy?
What is the real foundation of the best architecture?
What materials would be most profitably used in building a Bungalow in your town?
Plan a Bungalow to suit your own family needs.
What opportunities for beauty are afforded by such openings as windows, doors and the placing of chimneys?
Sketch surroundings that you would like that you could make for your home.