The Importance of Standardization in County Welfare Work By Joseph A. Geddes Professor Sociology Utah State Agricultural College (Address delivered at Relief Society Conference, April 4, 1933)
Through its volunteer service the L. D. S. Relief Society is performing an important service to the intermountain area by developing wide-spread interest, information and practical experience in welfare work. The also provides a medium through which a continuous program of education is maintained. The semi-annual conference as contrasted with the annual gatherings of the State and National Conferences further provides an opportunity for improving standards and for the maintenance of that solidarity of spirit on which fruitful group effort depends so much. The development of a satisfactory relationship between volunteer and professional social work is one of the genuinely important problems which the no distant future seems ready to require of our leadership. It is the purpose of this paper to indicate why further standardization is imperative.
Meaning of Standardization
Standardization is to social work what machinery is to production. In the welfare field it means the acceptance and use of evolving social work standards in the fields of (1) research (2) personnel (3) administrative machinery (4) methods of work (5) system of record-keeping and (6) use and development of community resources. It will be of profit to observe the process of standardization in the productive field where it has been carried further than anywhere else. Here according to the National Encyclopedia it means "the making of each commodity in units of absolute uniformity in so far as it can be mechanically attained and the reduction of manufacturing processes to a uniformity as nearly perfect as tools, working conditions and men will permit. This has been accomplished by drawing exact specifications, measurements and descriptions of the goods to be produced and by defining exactly the processes and often the motions in production." Standardization in industry is criticized on the ground that without adequate leisure it kills initiative and induces monotony.
Technical Production has Outstripped Other Fields
In only one great field of living has the methods of science and science's god-son, standardization, been taken in, adopted into the family and made extensive use of. This field is technological or machine production. Many times more money and more brains are employed in research in this field than in all the other fields combined." Every large business concern has its technical staff of well paid experts who are cutting down costs and improving processes. Please bear in mind that standardization in machine production took giant strides forward when the three great inventions—the spinning jenny, the power loom and the steam engine made their appearance during the latter half of the 18th century. But while these great inventions opened up the way and started production along a different trail, the process of standardization has gone on steadily since. We are still in the industrial revolution. Effort has been moved from the large to the small. Thousands, tens of thousands, of small parts of the productive process have come under control. As a result an entire floor of a factory can now be operated by a very few people. Standardization in some fields has meant an increase in productive power of a thousand fold. Progress has been faster during the past 15 years than ever before. Today production per capita is represented in the United States by 30 units, China 1 unit, British India 1¼, Italy 2¾, Japan 3¼, Poland 6, Holland 7, France 8¼, Russia 2½, Austria 8¼, Czecho-Slovakia 9, Germany 12, Belgium 16, Great Britain 18, and Canada 20. In America where standardization has progressed farthest production has increased fastest. It is the acceptance and use of standardization as a continuous growth that has meant so great an increase in efficiency in this country.
The Social Fields are Far Behind
 
A social worker cannot afford to work in the dark. The second possibility in the rural counties where the people are exclusively L. D. S. is for all of the agencies including the county itself to go out of the business of handling welfare work and turn it over entirely to the Relief Societies. This does not mean that the several agencies could not continue to raise funds, but having raised them good results can come only if they are turned over to one organization to plan their expenditure and to formulate a unified program. If one agency does all the work it is not necessary to clear names. If this development were followed it would be necessary for the county to go out of the welfare field much more fully than it has done up to date in any of the counties where the so-called combination plan has been adopted. Let me cite an example. In a combination county the commissioners rule that they will not place anyone on the county roll who has not been recommended by the bishop. In this way they hope to get a good county relief list. Do they get it? Several obstacles stand in the way. 1. Bishops differ, some want a large number of people from their ward on the County list. Other bishops want only a few or none. Again the County Commissioners retain final control for they do not put everyone on who is recommended by a bishop. While on the surface it looks as though the bishops would have considerable say-so as to who goes on, they really have very little control. As a matter of fact, the County roll in the counties where the combination plan is in effect is a very much unstandardized, unsatisfactory roll. The making up of the relief roll whether it be by the County, the ward bishop, or the Relief Society President is a most important thing and should be based on adequate knowledge. This knowledge should include satisfactory information on: (1) income (2) ownership of property including particularly house, garden space and farm (3) indebtedness (unsecured, mortgaged, interest rate and time due, payment obligation, etc.) (4) size of family (number now at work and number available for employment, number of dependents, etc.) (5) location and financial situation of relatives. So if the development takes the form of withdrawal so that all agencies withdraw from administration and direct their financial support to the Relief Societies, it will be necessary for the counties, the bishops, the Elks, the Rotary, Lions, Kiwanis, B. P. W., etc., to withdraw in a much more complete sense than they have yet conceived of, if a unified, standardized program is to be developed. If this is not done there is only one other answer. A county case worker must be employed and some clearing machinery developed if the "spinning jenny" of social work is to be started. 4. Local divisions need a trained case working agency. If we call the social service or confidential exchange the "spinning jenny" of standardized social work, I am going to designate the trained case-working agency the steam engine. Should a rural county have a trained case-worker? I do not see how a rural county is going to get very far with social work standardization if it has no one in it who is adequately trained in this profession. In the older professions of medicine, law and teaching, the state does not allow one to practice without adequate training and an examination to attest minimum knowledge. Now although social work is one of the newer professions and
WELFARE WORK 345
the state has not yet prohibited practice to those who are without minimum training, it is nevertheless true that a profession has arisen and a considerable portion of those who are in it are as highly trained as any in the older professions. The extent to which these trained workers have come into possession of knowledge that is helpful to rural people represents the measure of their desirability. No standardization is possible without knowledge. If trained people are brought in, then we appropriate the developments that have been made elsewhere. When America was settled we brought the civilization of Europe with us and began not at the bottom but on the pinnacle to which the most advanced nations had slowly climbed. If rural people want to hold their own it seems reasonable to say that they must learn to so shape their social organization that the stores of knowledge on which progress depends is open to them. In some lines such as the consolidated school this is being done.
If there are in a county 100 volunteer workers who are spending from 1/10 to ¼ of their time in welfare work; if there is being spent in this county, through all sources from $50,000 to $75,000 a year, it looks reasonable that such a rural county should employ a qualified case worker to join with the volunteer workers in setting up necessary machinery. 5. Community service institutions are necessary. Among the dominant developments which standardization is dependent upon and one which I shall liken to the power loom of the Industrial Revolution, is the development in the local area (in most cases the county) of welfare service institutions on which the social worker relies for help to carry out her program. Among these are hospitals where those who cannot pay may 346 be served—clinics, prenatal, well-baby, pre-school, child-guidance, venereal and tubercular, which carry at minimum expense, to those who stand in need, preventive and curative knowledge—classes for the handicapped—access to institutions for orphaned and dependent children—welfare work in the schools through the school physician, the school nurse and the physical education departments. Some cities have made a great development in this field. Rochester, New York, for instance, employs 20 full time doctors, 40 full time nurses, 31 visiting teachers. In addition special classes for the handicapped are provided and an employment service aids older children who must leave school for work. A local area needs further an efficient Juvenile Court system with a well trained and well developed probation department—a visiting teacher service to assist parents and teachers with problem children—a well managed Y. M. C. A. and Y. W. C. A., Y. M. M. I. A. and the Y. L. M. I. A.—a Boy Scouts unit, 4H Clubs, Future Farmers, all representing community organizations which the well trained social worker can use. But they are also tremendously important to the social worker who must draw heavily on them to assist the family that is sinking down into a financial morass. You see good social work is pretty closely associated with healthy community life. 6. Systematic Record Keeping. Now I want to mention one more item that needs badly to be standardized and that is an adequate system of keeping records of essential data. Record keeping is the waterloo of the volunteer social worker and of the average probation officer and yet adequacy in record keeping is one of the greatest needs in welfare work today. Everywhere planning is dependent on records, and it is in planning that our great hopes for the
 
future lie. A 4H Club boy knows that he must keep a record of every item of cost in his project. A competent housewife knows the value of her budget. To a welfare worker, the essential facts about a case represents the foundation on which she begins to build. These facts must be written down. A volunteer worker needs a simpler system than the professional worker. A decided improvement here is greatly needed in rural areas right now. The development requires an increase in efficiency and training on the part of those who keep the records as well as an improvement in the recording system. It is interesting and encouraging to note that the Relief Societies are working hard on this problem and are making commendable progress.
Conclusion
Progress in the counties in welfare work then is dependent on a standardization of the principal basis on which the profession of welfare work has developed. These are: (1) Separation from entangling alliances with politics. (2) Acceptance of and encouragement of research. (3) The development of a satisfactory case working agency. (4) The devising of a uniform system of records and (6) the keeping alive and healthy of community organizations and agencies through which the case worker can supply her clients with the sustenance spiritual and recreational as well as material on which their health as citizens depends. For it is her task and her joy to keep alive and healthy the action springs and the drives, the ideals, and the ambitions, the hopes and the faith which enable one to say in his heart, as he faces the opportunities and the demands of the fast fleeting days—I shall not fail.