[Vol8 | March 1921 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Guide | Title: Literature - Emmeline B Wells Poems]

LESSON III Literature. (Third Week in May) Before turning to Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells' poems specifically, we shall. Discuss, in brief, poetry as distinguished from prose. Any subject that one cares to discuss may be a topic for prose discourse; while poetry must be select in its choice of subject. The thought, the feeling, and the form in poetry are usually lifted above what we regard as ordinary. A scientist might write a very acceptable article on sawdust, or an ash can; but it would take a genius of the highest order to lift such subjects into the realm of poetry. The diction of poetry is heightened. It is all very well in poetry to say: "What hands are here? Ha! They pluck out mine eyes! Will all great Neptune's ocean wash this blood Clean from my hand? No, this my hand will rather the multitudinous seas inqgarnadine, Making the green one red." Such language would be little short of sheer nonsense in prose. The musical or rythmical quality is insisted on in poetry. This does not necessarily mean rhyme. Such poetry as is used in the writing of a drama, or a narrative poem, frequently omits the rhyme, that the verse may be free. The song, or lyric poetry usually employs the rhyme. 7 Some one has, rather cleverely, described prose as one's mental content presented in a business suit, while poetry makes its appearance in a dress suit. "Sing the Sweet,' is a song of the Christ, in five stanzas. The author takes us from the birth scene to the great Mediator who stands before the throne of God, seeking the salvation of those he had shed his blood to redeem. "Aunt Em" says that the beauty and deep significance of the Christ life and mission inspired this hymn. The first two stanzas are devoted to the birth story, beginning: 
 "Sing the sweet and lovely story," etc. We always think of this scene with great tenderness, this thought is emphasized by the author. One author might have chosen one detail, another, another, in bringing that picture into being. Mrs. Wells chooses the morning star of glory. Nature certainly makes large appeal to her in all of her poetry. "Birds had nests the foxes roaming," etc. - This stanza beginning thus was undoubtedly inspired by the passage of Scripture beginning, ""The foxes have holes," etc., an effective allusion to a very beautiful passage. "Now for us He's interceding," etc. It is the vision of Christ, the Mediator, that catches the eye of the imagination as we read this stanza. One of the chief merits of the hymn is its conciseness. In five brief stanzas we have gone from the cradle to the throne of the Eternal. Aunt Em's second hymn. Might fittingly be used as a funeral hymn. It was written while she struggled with the pangs incident to the loss of her daughter Emmeline. Emmeline Wells, the daughter of Emmeline B. And Daniel H. Wells was born Sept. 10, 1853, and died at the age of twentyfour. She was a school teacher, having assisted Miss Cook in her work in Salt Lake City. She was a beautiful singer; a most attractive young woman. Her mother felt her death with a keenness that she has never forgotten. The hymn begins: "We lay thee softly down to sleep," etc. The first stanza takes us to' the grave of the beloved, where angels vigils keep. Death is looked upon as a sleep, and the hope of meeting is sure. The second stanza breathes a note of sorrow, as well as words of perfect resignation. We are still at the tomb by the loved earthly remains, but hope is there. In the last stanza, flowers are being strewn on the grave, in gentleness and deepened sorrow; again hope pierces the gloom, with the thought of the realm where sorrow and parting are no more. This hymn is infinitely tender throughout, and possesses the two prime requisites of a funeral hymn, resignation and hope. Indeed it is a notable fact that each stanza contains a reference to the life beyond life. The tenderness, is produced first of all by the emotional quality, and secondly by the diction. The music of the stanza is one of the pleasing and poetic features of the hymn. It would be a most extraordinary and incredible thing if some of the Latter-day Saint hymns did not reflect our natural environment. It is a matter of great interest, that President Charles W. Penrose and President Emmeline B. Wells should have written two of the best, as well as the best known Mountain hymns in our now rather large collection of hymns. Unlike President Penrose's beautiful hymn, Mrs. Wells hymn was written in the valleys, and takes first place among her poems set to music. "Our Mountain Home so Dear." The outstanding beauty of this hymn is found in the fact that it is absolutely true in its local color. It is not the mountains of Switzerland, nor the Berkshire hills, far famed in the state where "Aunt Em" was born, that are imaged and written of in this poem, but Our Mountain Home. In proof of this statement let us follow some of the details that give local color. One of the features that has distinguished the intermountain cities, and particularly the cities of Utah, has been the streams that have coursed through the streets giving life to the trees, which grew on their banks, The second line of the first stanza speaks of "crystal waters clear." The second line of the second stanza, refers to the "sparkling rills,' and the first line of the fourth stanza speaks of the streamlet, this time giving the spiritual meaning. Nothing is more characteristic of the desert we have settled, than the sunshine of the summer time. It makes us think of the poet Wordsworth's famous lines, "The sunshine is a glorious birth." This brilliant sunshine is found in "Aunt Em's'" poem. In the last line of the second stanza the author writes of "sunshine everywhere.' Even the expression "sparkling rills" suggests sunshine, for it is the sunlight most of all that makes the rills sparkle; and certainly it is the sunshine that makes the landscape "bright and fair." The second stanza begins: "We'll roam the verdant hills," etc. Does that not take us on to some mountain side, or into some canyon where such experience is ours every hour? "In Sylvan depths and shade," etc. The last two stanzas not only give the spiritual meaning of the poem, marking "Aunt Em" as a true child of New England, and a natural daughter of the Latter-day Saints; but they give religious significance to what might otherwise be a nature lyric pure and simple. In other words, back of the pure joy we have from nature for her own sake, is the great and tremendous fact that all these things are the handiwork of God, who is the Creator of the heavens and the earth. This, the poet tells us, in her beautiful climax, is the "art divine." 
 This truism is the wonderful message of the third and fourth stanzas. "Where'er we pass,- The hand of God we see In leaf and bud and tree," etc. In the last stanza the emotional quality is heightened. Variety is obtained by using the word bespeak, instead of repeating the word she used in a former stanza. A grand climax is suggested at the close combining all the works of God bespeaking his divine power and divine art through the smiling face of nature. The diction in this poem fits the thought, and the verse becomes part of a stanza that suggests with every word God's great outdoor world, in lines that please the ear. Lines that have been set to music, which echo and re-echo "in the Valley Home" "Aunt Em" loves so well, by the throngs of Zion's children, and the sweet singers that dwell in this cherished spot, where "crystal waters clear flow ever free. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Devote as much time as the lesson period will permit to a biographical sketch of President Emmeline B. Wells. 2. A. Suggest some subjects that you think would be worth the heart, brain, and pen of a poet. B. Suggest some subjects that you think would be unworthy the pen of a poet. 3. A. Under what title is Emmeline B. Wells' book of poems published. B. Give the titles of her three hymns included in the Latter-day Saints hymn book. 4, Give the full quotation beginning, "Foxes have holes, etc." 5. What event in her life prompted the writing of, "Sing ye of a home?" 6. Find the phrase in each stanza that gives hope of a life beyond. 7. Indicate how the noble faith and resignation, expressed in "Aunt Em's" poem, would help others bowed down with sorrow and a sense of deep bereavement, to bear their losses nobly and with resignation. 8. Select words and phrases that go to show that the writer is intimately acquainted with "Our Mountain Home." 9. Give some reasons showing that "Aunt Em," above all other women in the Church, is best equipped for the writing of "Our Mountain Home." 10. How has Emmeline B. Wells love of nature assisted in her religious life? 11. What spiritual message is contained in "Our Mountain Home''?