[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | February | Issue: 17 | Title: BINGHAM STAKE. | Author: Unknown]

BINGHAM STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of Bingham Stake convened at
Lewisville, December 17, 1898, President
E. J. Bennett presiding. Opened by sing-
ing “The morning breaks.” Prayer by 
Bishop Jardine. Singing “Now let us re-
joice.” President E. J Bennett made a
few opening remarks, minutes of the pre-
vious forenoon conference were read and 
approved.
	President James E. Steele explained to
the sisters the necessity of sending in
their charitable reports to the Bishops.
	President E. J. Bennett said we should
give what we have to give through the Re-
lief Society that we may have credit on the
books, and then forward our half yearly re-
ports to the Bishops that the sisters may
have credit for what they do, and when 
the teachers go around they should try and 
find out if there are any who are in need,
and those who may need assistance should
not be too proud to receive help. We should
be careful not to make our business too 
public so as to hurt any one’s feelings.
	Reports were then given as follows:
Lewisville, President Jardine; Menan,
Counselor Mary Stephens; Iona, Secretary


[Column 1]
Hall. Each society was reported as doing
a good work.
	President James E. Steele said he was
pleased to meet in Relief Society conference.
He always liked to be on time so as to hear
the petitions that go up to the Father and
partake of the spirit that we may be in pos-
session of it in our conference. It is neces-
sary that we should come together that the
people may be instructed and encouraged.
The Lord sees the needs of His people and
thus we have these privileges. He could
see in meeting with those who did not at-
tend these conferences and did not partake
of the spiritual food, that they were not so
energetic. It looked as though the re-
sponsibility of this work were resting upon
a few. An object in coming to meeting
should be to be fed spiritual food and in-
structed. The reward is to those who are
faithful all the day long. Spoke upon the
storing of grain; hoped the sisters in this
Stake would add two thousand more bush-
els this season to their grain. Urged the
sisters to use their surplus quilts in blessing
the poor and keeping them from suffering
with the cold. Said the more he became
acquainted with the organization the broad-
er and grander it was, prayed God to bless
us that we might enjoy this conference.
	President E. J. Bennett wished there had
been more present to hear the words of
President Steele and the spirit they were
given in, said we were making a record for
time and all eternity.
	Meeting then closed by singing “Lord
dismiss us.” Benediction.
	Afternoon session opened by singing
“The time is far spent.” Prayer was of-
fered by Patriarch O. Harmon. Singing,
“O, ye mountains high.” Minutes of the
afternoon session of the previous conference
were read and accepted, after which Sister
Kate Bennett was released as Stake treasur-
er of the Relief Society, and sustained and
set apart as assistant secretary, and Sister
Alice Boomer was released as assistant
treasurer, and sustained and set apart as
Stake treasurer to the Relief Society. Re-
ports were then called for and the Ammon
society was reported by President Richard-
son. She said meetings were not attended
so well of late on account of sickness. They
had built a granary, had 235 bushels of
grain.
	Counselor Dabell reported the Grant soci-
ety. Said they had paid out fifteen dollars
of late for charitable purposes.
	Labelle society was reported by Sister
Clifford, secretary; Rudy society, by Presi-
dent Clark.
	Emma C. Rushton, Stake counselor,
thought we had good reports in today,
but they could be improved. Noticed the
sisters who attended these meetings were
generally on hand, it was those that did not
attend to these duties that needed waking
up. Felt we had none too much time and
we should try and visit those who were
neglectful.
	Stake Secretary E. S. Brunt thought we
did not study sufficiently so as to be able to
instruct our children in the Gospel, let us
keep good books in the way of our children,
and not the light literature of to day. The
Lord desired to see our children saved and
He was sending fishers and hunters to
bring them in the path of their duty.
	President E. J. Bennett spoke of the
storing of grain, said we should store it for
a time of need and not to loan and specu-
late on, and the sisters should build good

[Column 2]
granaries and have them dedicated. Spoke
against raffling, instructed the teachers to
go around with a good spirit and have com-
forting words for the sisters. Recommended
lectures in our society from the Bible and
our Church works. Said that at our late
conference in Salt Lake City it was decided
that the 17th day of March should be the
annual day of the Relief Society, and ad-
vised the sisters to make it a good and
profitable day.
	The officers of the General Board, also
Stake officers were unanimously sustained.
Conference was then adjourned for three
months Singing, “An angel from on high.”
Benediction by Elder Benjamin Bennett.
