MRS. MARGARET GADDY.
	Mrs. President and Ladies:—I am
pleased to meet with you today, although I
did not come with the calculation of mak-
ing a speech; but I always respond to any
call made upon me to speak in behalf of
woman, and their great deeds; for their
footsteps can be traced from prehistoric
times to the present, although she has
worked under great disadvantages. It can
be shown that among all primitive people, 
she was the originator of most of the
industrial arts, and when they became
lucrative, man appropriated them, and wo-
man was pushed aside. While man, the pro-
tector, was engaged in fighting and hunt-
ing, woman constructed the rude
semblance of a home; she dressed the game
and cooked it; she ground the grain between
two stones and made the bread; she dressed
the skins of animals and fashioned them
into awkward garments. Impelled by the
necessity for its use, she invented the
needle. She twisted the fibers of plants in-
to thread. She invented the shuttle and
used it in weaving fabrics, in which she
often mingled feathers, wool and down,
which contributed both to the beauty and
warmth of it. She was the first potter and 
moulder of clay into jars and other utensils
for domestic use, and dried them in the sun.
She originated basket making. She was
the first to give encouragement to Columbus
after he had solicited aid for years from
man. She shamed man into doing his duty,
by offering to  pawn her jewels, then she
was pushed aside. Man said, “No, keep
your jewels, this is our business; and we
will attend to it.” She stepped aside, but
watched with great anxiety the progress 
made by man: and when a new country
was found, and men were going to make a
colony, or lay the foundation of a nation,
women were ready to come with them,
knowing that man could never build a
nation without her help. They worked to-
gether a long time, and grew independent.
They paid taxes to mother country, but
were not allowed to say what should be
done with the money that they sent to
their mother country. The men got mad
and the women got mad too. They de-
clared that taxation without representation
was tyranny, and that they would stand
it no longer “No!” said woman, “I
would fight for your independence, and we
will help you.’’ She did help him in every
way she could, and they gained their
independence, and the mother country was
compelled to acknowledge them an in-
dependent nation.
	Then a few men went to themselves to
make a constitution to govern this indepen-
dent nation, but they never asked woman
to go with them. No, woman was pushed
to one side again, and she has been so used
to being pushed back that I believe today
that women are the worst enemies we have
to suffrage.
	John J. Ingalls said when all the women
asked for the ballot they would get it, but
they did’nt wait for all the negroes in the
South to ask for the ballot, but they gave it
to them whether they wanted it or not. I
believe if the women would all be
Democrats the Democratic party would
work for their principles, or, if they would
all be Republicans, the Republican party
would work for their franchise; but let us
be citizens, honest, upright citizens, work-

