[Column 1]
woman in describing her grief for “her late
lamented husband” said “my grief was
so intense that the hem of my veil was half
a yard deep and touched the bottom of my
dress!” Delicacy would suggest retaining
the only part of the mourning apparel of
any utility, the veil, which however need not
necessarily be black, and its service is of no
avail if worn fluttering down the back, as
the present style demands. As for mourn-
ing ornaments, who ever saw black flowers?
Fashion and style may outrage nature, while
true art imitates it; and to wear black
flowers is in my opinion an insult to the
lovely hued flowery kingdom, none of which
were ever known to turn black even on the
most solemn occasion—the death of their
own kindred. While I deem it a duty to
seek consolation and happiness from all 
sources, and place ourselves under pleasant 
and cheerful influences, I have mentally ex-
claimed, “Consistency thou art a jewel!”
while watching stylish mourning suits with
crape trimming gracefully waving through
the gay dance, while the smiling faces of
the wearers betoken more joy than sorrow.
	On pleasure excursions and at places of
public amusement the mourning dress ap-
pears out of season. When one's feelings
are under sufficient control to allow the
habitual mingling in gay society, good taste
and sincerity would suggest the wearing
of a more suitable costume. There are
many good reasons for discarding this
fashion. How often does it mislead in re-
gard to the feelings which it is supposed to
portray? For instance, one widow whose
matrimonial experiences has been one scene
of conflict, unmarked by respect or affection,
and perhaps while sueing for a divorce,
death kindly releases her instead of the
law, while her neighbor loses a congenial
affectionate partner and is overwhelmed
with genuine grief. Both wear mourning.
Which is the mourner? The heart broken
mother lays her dearest treasure in the
grave, and the woman, who has waited
impatiently for the death of some distant
relative whose money she will inherit, both
don mourning. Which one mourns?
	Then the expense and inconvenience of
the custom is enough to relegate it to the
past, especially by the masses. The sup-
port of the family is taken away, sickness
has already incurred debt which the family
must still increase by getting the mourning
outfit, or be considered lacking in respect
for the dead. Extra and unnecessary ex-
penses are thus laid upon the widow when
she is least able to sustain the expense
which must become an injustice to children
among the poor, for the purchase of the
mourning outfit would, in some instances,
be sufficient to pay a year’s schooling for a
family. Can a wife or daughter show re-
spect for a husband or father by bowing to
the dictates of this fashion, while the name
of the deceased is whispered hopelessly
among his creditors?
	Above all things, let us not crush the
natural, carefree cheerfulness of the chiidren
between the folds of this dismal garb, after
any sorrow, help them to recover a happy
frame of mind as quickly as possible.
Children’s grief often arises from witnessing
that of others. Sad realities will come soon
enough to check their fountain of happiness.
Let it flow while it can without restraint.
It may require some effort for parents to
entirely abandon the custom of wearing
mourning, when they have been taught
from childhood to regard it as a necessity in

