[Column 2]
Vernon, Rockport. The reports indi-
cated that the branches were in
fair condition and a general good feeling
prevailing among them.
	President Atwood spoke of the blessings
derived from meeting together, it was a
duty and a privilege; we should show good
examples before our families, teaching them
to do right; we should visit with each
other and talk of matters pertaining to the
Gospel and comfort and sustain each other.
	Sister Woolstenholme, of Kamas, said
though she was 74 years of age she felt de-
sirous of attending conference, and was
thankful for the privilege, spoke of the
blessings to be derived from observing the
Word of Wisdom; was thankful that her
heart’s desire was to still continue in the
good work.
	Sister Boyden spoke briefly upon matters
pertaining to our religion and bore her
testimony to the truth of the Gospel.
	Sister Crook of Wanship, referred to her
experiences in the Primary Associations,
and urged upon parents and all concerned
to see that the children attended the Pri-
mary meetings. Spoke of the evil conse-
quences and abuses of card-playing. Sing-
ing, “Come, O thou King of Kings.”
Benediction by Elder Amos Sargent.
	Afternoon Session:—Singing, “Softly
beams the sacred dawning.” Prayer by
Elder Leroy Holt. Singing, “O’er the
gloomy hill of darkness.”
	President Jane Lemon, of Morrell, and
Counselor Hannah Eldredge, of North
Coalville, reported their respective branches
favorably.
	Sister L. Roundy of the Primary As-
sociation was much interested in the move-
ment being made to advance home indus-
tries; thought it a movement that we should
all encourage by patronage and support; we
should make and foster home employment
as far as lay in our power, which could be
done in many and various ways.
	Counselor Ruth Pack spoke of our
mission to do good, to be kind to each
other, comfort the sick, aid the poor and
needy, and to labor for the advancement of
God’s Kingdom. We should cultivate the
Holy Spirit which would sustain us in time
of trial and difficulty, and enable us to
overcome evil, and it would assist us in
discharging our duties as officers and mem-
bers in the society.
	Sister Mary Wolstenholme briefly ad-
dressed the conference. President M. J.
Atwood spoke at length upon our duties as
members and officers, and of the necessity
of placing good examples before our child-
ren, we should learn what is right for us to
do, and knowing it should do it fearlessly.
We should observe the counsel given to
store up our grain, she was impressed that
this was a duty that should require our im-
mediate attention. We should discounten-
ance the practice of card-playing and round
dancing, and use our influence with the
young people to refrain from participating
therein. The speaker referred to the sub-,
ject of  “home manufacture,” it was our
duty to encourage it, our present condition 
required it, and our future prosperity large-
ly depended upon it.
	Bishop Sargent of Hoytsville and Bishop
Atwood of Kamas, each spoke of the teach-
ings that had been given and advised the
people to carry them out in their lives and
all would be well. Bishop Atwood invoked
the blessings of the Almighty upon those
who had prepared so nice, comfortable and
pleasant a place to meet in.

[Column 3]
	Adjourned to meet at Kamas on the first
Thursday in September. Singing. Bene-
diction by Elder A. Peterson. 
	J. C. Boyden, Sec.


