[Column 2]
and gave the sisters great credit for the
relief given to those in needy circumstances
and their general labors, spiritual and tem-
poral.
	TUESDAY, April 24th, we attended the an-
nual meeting of the Y. L. M. I. A. in the
7th Ward of this city, Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas
presiding. The hall was tastefully ar-
ranged and the decorations were superb,
flowering plants and early fruit blossoms.
Miss Rose Wallace gave a most interesting
sketch of Emma Smith, wife of Joseph the
Prophet, the first President of the Relief
Society. Other speakers were, Sisters M. I.
Horne, E. S. Taylor, M. Y. Dougall and
E. B. Wells. Refreshments were delicious
and gracefully served by the young girls.
Certainly the Young Ladies Association in
the seventh Ward is making great
spiritual progress.
	THE Woman’s National Press Associa-
tion, in acknowledging courtesies received
during their trip to the Golden Gate, Mid-
winter Fair, Woman’s Congress etc., pub-
lished in the Washington Times, Washing-
ton D. C., mention in connection with rail-
roads to whom the Association was in-
debted for kindness and liberality, the gene-
rosity of the "Saltair Railroad company at
Salt Lake City for a trip to the noble
pavilion at the Lake,” thanking them with
others for the favor. “Likewise they re-
turn sincere thanks to the Utah Woman’s
Press Club of Salt Lake for its generous
greeting, for a drive throughout the city
and for other courtesies." This notice is
officially signed by Mary S. Lockwood
President and M. E. Torrence, Secretary,
and is published in other leading papers of
the capitol and other places throughout the
country.
	THURSDAY, May 3rd, was the anniversary
of the birthday of two of our dear sisters,
Susan H. Wells and Bathsheba W. Smith,
and as they are intimate friends, a tea party
was given in honor of the day at the resi-
dence of Sisters L. A. and S. H. Wells
which was a very pleasant affair. The
guests were few but all dear old friends,
whose greetings were sincere and heartfelt.
Miss Kate Wells and her sisters Miss May
Wells and Mrs. Annette Culmer did the
honors in a very graceful way, and the
delicacies served at the tea were most de-
licious, and highly appreciated. These old
fashioned home-like visits are far more
enjoyable than the crowded tea parties
where everybody meets everybody and
that’s all. The friends whom one has
known to be ever true in adversity as well
as prosperity, should hold sweet converse
now and then from the busy world apart,
for the saying of George Eliot is indeed true.
	"The deepest hunger of a faithful heart
	Is faithfulness."

	TUESDAY, May 29th, a very enjoyable
dinner party was given by Brother and
Sister Laron Pratt at their residence. The
principal guests present were, President
Woodruff, wife and daughter; President
George Q. Cannon and wife; President
Joseph F. Smith and wife; President Angus
M. Cannon and wife; Dr. J. M. Benedict,
wife, son and daughter; John Q. Cannon
Editor Deseret News, and wife; Sisters Zina
D. H. Young, Bathsheba W. Smith, E. B.
Wells, Mrs Thomas Holgate, Mrs John
Cowley, Dr. E. S. Barney and Miss Ada
Patterson. Besides the pleasant social con-
versation and excellent and well served
dinner, there was an appropriate
after-dinner speech by President

[Column 3]
George Q. Cannon, and later, singing
and instrumental music by Miss Maude
Pratt and her sister Hermie, and some
pleasing exercises of the instruction given
to the Deaf and Dumb in that department
of the University and the Sunday School.
Mrs. Annie M. Cannon, gave two very
pleasing recitations in her usual genial style
and manner, but the sweet spirit that was
manifest throughout the entire gathering
was restful and inspiring, and the party as
a whole was a perfect success.
	MONDAY, April 30th, was the quarterly
Conference of the Utah Stake Relief
Society held at Lehi, the President Mrs.
Z. D. H. Young and Mrs. E. B. Wells at-
tended. Arriving at Lehi we found Sister
Mary John with her Counselors and Secre-
tary, Sisters M. Daniels, D. Billings and C.
Daniels, had already arrived. We had a
most enjoyable time. The sisters at Lehi are
indeed spiritually minded. After meeting we
called on Sister Evans, widow of the former
Bishop, went on to Provo the same evening.
Next day Convention of the W. S. A. was
held there, President E. Bullock presiding.
Speeches and exercises were very fine,
great progress is being made in the county.
A choir of young girls came up from Spanish
Fork to sing for the Suffrage Convention.
A fine dinner was served in the hall, to
which all were invited, and it was a very
enjoyable affair. The same evening Sisters
Young and Wells met with the Relief
Society in American Fork and had a very
interesting time, Mrs. M. S. Hindley who
has presided there about twenty five years
was present, though on account of her hav-
ing a severe cold and cough Mrs. Ellen
Clarke conducted the exercises of the
meeting.
	WEDNESDAY, May 2nd a sociable enter-
tainment was given in the 14th Ward Hall
by the Guide Class, under the auspices of
the Y. L. M. I. A., of Salt Lake Stake,
Mrs. Mary A. Freeze presiding. The hall
was beautifully fitted up and the decor-
ations of plants and flowers were simply
magnificent, apple blossoms everywhere in
great profusion, but more beautiful still
were the intelligent faces of the young wo-
men assembled there. The roll call was
responded to with brief sayings from
President Wilford Woodruff's sermons
certainly a delicate compliment to our vener-
able leader. After music and prayer
Mrs. Emma Goddard successfully
illustrated the work of the class; Miss Rose
Wallace gave a brief sketch of Joseph
Smith the Prophet, his life and mission.
Dr. Maggie C. Shipp spoke interestingly
upon the circulation of the blood as part of
the physiological lessons the class had
taken. Mrs. Alice K. Smith read an
original poem specially spiritual and up-
lifting in tone and sentiment. Addresses
were then given by Presidents Wilford
Woodruff, Joseph F. Smith and Mrs. E. S.
Taylor, General President of the Y. L. M.
I. A. Delicious refreshments were served
to the invited guests by the young ladies of
the class. One specially pleasing feature
of the occasion was the presentation by the
class to each of those who had been their
instructors of an exquisite bouquet of lovely
flowers. Mrs. Minnie J Snow, Mrs. May
B. Talmage, and Mrs. Emma Goddard.
Among the invited guests present were,
President Lorenzo Snow, Apostles F. M.
Lyman and H. J. Grant, Elder B. H.
Roberts, several Bishops and dis-
tinguished ladies and gentlemen who are


interested in all progressive movements.
The Guide class have done very effective
work in the attainment of higher and
deeper spiritual training.


