[Column 2]
“Since thou hast that important question Un
	masked,
Tell me, should woman with the ballot be task’d?”
He spoke, "From the decree of Heaven I this
	quote:
In the affairs of men, on earth remote,
It is woman’s right, yea,duty to vote.”
“And man,” he added, “does her shamful wrong
To steal this right and keep it from her long,
Because he is politically strong;
“Go, tell all humankind, on earth below,
Heaven is displeased with this evil they sow,
Which threatens the whole sphere to overgrow.”
And he was ceased. Silent, awhile I thought,
Pleased with the favorable decision, wrought
In favor of woman’s, using the ballot.
And delighted indeed, to hear he’d said
I should go, bear the news, with reversed tread,
To where the man dwelt whom I should wed.
But, catching a whisper from Reason’s tongue,
I said, “kind being, thou dost ken I am young,
And when I return humankind among,
"Unless I have reasons for this epigraph,
Earth’s wise men will call it naught more than
	chaff, 
And at its bearer deridingly laugh;
I pray thee (allow me so to intrude,)
Some reasons with this thy message include—
Reasons plain, clothed not in similitude.”
Awhile he deeply thought, and then he spoke:
“When ask’d the whyfore, by earth’s learned folk
Tell them—the Allwise says woman should vote
“But, if reasons further are desired,
Say the only requisite required,
A lone one but in rarity attir--
“To enable one to cast votes -ith sense
In the proper basket of the b--ance,
Is good, sound, mental intelligence.
“Now, the most ignorant man who treads life’s
shore,
Because he is born man and nothing more,
Is allow’d to cast his vote against or for.
Then why should not woman of sense born,
Yea, many capable Congress to adorn,
Be allow’d to vote on election morn?”
“Thy reason is very fine,” I then said,
“And it seems to me of such good logic bred
That it should convince the most stubborn head.”
“But,” I continued, “what will I say
When worldly wise men into my ears bray— . 
Politics are not for women to weigh.
“Woman’s duty is with her children, at home,
To see that they in the fields of learning roam,
From books and men all usefulness to comb?”
Observing me much fatigued, he then said:
“I see you are tired, both limb and head,
Set yourself down on the verdure there spread.”
So I did as bade, his heart good as great—
Sat myself down on the lawn by the gate,
And when I was seated his voice did state:
“Tell them that it is true woman’s place
Is the marble halls her homelo grace,
Teach her children to shun everything base,
Mould them into upright men and women pure:
In short, make them as near perfection’s picture
As is possible for effort to procure.
Then ask, but how can she this duty fill—
The highest to which motherhood can thrill,
To think of it causes my blood to chill.
Educate her sons in such wisdom wise
That they may be enabled to arise
To the statesmen and leaders nations prize,

[Column 3]
Without herself understanding, at the best,
Governmental affairs either East or West,
How the nation either lives or builds its nest. 
Then say—no, she cannot. She must understand
Every plank on which governments stand,
To well teach her sons to govern the land.
And say when all this nation lore she must learn;
With all this set and ready her tongue to turn,
Think you she knows not whose best fit to
	govern?
Think you such intelligence so encompass’d,
To be with aliens, savages and beasts class’d,
It should not be allow’d a vote to cast?
And odd—after she has thus trained her son,
Ever since his infancy begun,
For statesmanship or leadership to run:
“Then, would you deny her, at the end,
Him into his long-hoped-for place to send,
The privilege her vote to him to lend?”
“Truly, kind sir,” I said, “thou dost discourse
	well— . ,
Arguments mighty enough an oak to fell,
And the most sturdy in the forest dell.”
Yet, realizing what a golden chance
Was now before me, what matchless intelligence,
I desired the being’s mental lance
Down the skull of every question to cut
Which were to men’s eyes on earth ever shut;
And ope them up; so I this query put,
After being assured I did not intrude;
In asking further question, I was not rude:
Perchance, when I am in earthly habitude,
Some arrogant person should unto me say,
Suppose we grant it thee that woman.may
Cast her ballot on fair election day,
She would the very selfsame ticket vote
As the judgement of her husband did denote  
So would do every woman in wedlock’s boat.
Thus no side would have over the others a 
	gain,
Neither candidate would have the longer train, 
Than tho’ woman should disfranchised remain.
Moreover, and allow woman to vote,
Domestic discord, yea, wrath does promote,
By putting debate in the household afloat;
One will say this is right: the other, no,
And the sequel will be discord’s painful woe—
Fiery anger exchanging blow for blow.
If she’ll not hand in hand with her husband go,
We’ll from her possession the ballot throw
And, thus far, compel her to do so.”
No sooner had I ceased than he began,
From the knowledge I have of earthly man,
With unerring truth, I think I say can,
That to allow woman her vote to cast,
Will not of necessity the household blast
With matrimonial discord’s cruel frost.
Wherever it does brew some little discord, 
There contention ever holds a ready sword,
And red-eyed quarrel lurks behind every word.
Let us assume discord it does produce:
Is woman more than man the evil deuce?
Should the wife more than the husband beg excuse?
Now I beheld come o’er the speaker’s face
Pleasant expression, bearing distinct trace,
