		UINTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of conference of the Relief
Society of the Uintah Stake of Zion, con-
vened in the Stake House, March 4, 1894.
Sister Sarah Pope presiding. Singing.
Prayer by Bishop Freestone. Singing.
Minutes of previous conference read and
approved. A statistical and financial re-
port was read. The local and general
authorities were sustained by the conference.
President S. R. Bennion delivered a very
interesting discourse to the people: he said
the sisters were engaged in one of the
greatest works there is in the Church.
Spoke of the grain they are laying up ac-
cording to President Brigham Young’s in-
structions, and also spoke on the education
of the young, said he felt to bless the
sisters in their labors, and asked the Lord
to bless us all.
	Counselor A. Bartlett said the Relief
Society was organized by the Prophet
Joseph for a wise purpose, and also spoke
at some length on the subject of virtue.
Counselor Mary Hall bore her testimony.
Advised the sisters to read and study good
books that they might store up knowledge
and have something to talk about, besides
talking about their neighbors, and asked
the Lord to bless us in our work.
	Conference then adjourned until 7. p.m.
Singing, “Hard times come again no
more.” Benediction by President Sarah
Pope.
	Evening session:—Opened with singing, 
prayer by counselor A H. Bartlett. Sing-
ing. Sisters Abby Oaks, Mary O’Niel,
Sarah Coltron, Julia E. Dillman and Phebe
Hislop all spoke very interestingly on
different subjects, especially on the way we
should rear our children and the example
we should set before them.
	Sister Robison spoke a few words to the
young sisters. Said they must be very
kind to the aged, remember they were the
ones that cared for us when we were
small, be kind to them and take their coun-
sel and the counsel of parents, for remem-
ber we will all be old some day ourselves.
	“President Pope felt like saying a few
words to the sisters in the Relief Society.
It is our duty to look after the poor and
needy, take care of everything we have
that we can use, if it is something we can-
not use ourselves we can find some one else
that can. It is but a few years from the
cradle to the grave, and let us do all the
good we can. It is hard times there is 
plenty in the country but no money to get
anything with—it was much worse in the 
early days of Utah, for there was neither
money or clothing.”
	Brother Robert Pope spoke a short time
on the early days of Utah and crossing the
plains, and said he wished the brethren
would speak to the people as plain as the
sisters did. Hoped the sisters would be
blessed in their labors. Conference ad-
journed for six months. Singing. Bene-
diction by Counselor Mary Hall.
	SARAH POPE, Prest.
