[Column 1]
Follow’d a tremendous chaotic crash—
The carriage was o’erturned—with awful clash,
Away with shatter’d carriage the horse did dash
To my escort I clung in wildest dismay,
A telephone post I now saw did lay
Right afront of us, right in the steed's way—
Yes, and the buggy swift into it smashed:
I felt my poor body against it lash’d— 
But knew no more—perhaps all cut and gashed.
Somehow and strange I carried far away was,
Where infamiliarity keeps its laws,
Where I knew neither space, time, nor cause.
And it seemed to me I lightly went 
Along a narrow path which never bent,
Which led us onward thro’ the firmament;
Nor was I alarmed at this trip so strange,
E’er farther from where my knowledge did range
But all within me was calm as the change.
Now seem’d to confront me a huge gateway,
Built of polished stone and architecture gay,
Enshrouded in effulgence of brightest day.
And something to my mind seemed to state—
Here is where mortals, seeking Heaven. wait
For the Judge Supreme to decree their fate.
Without impulse, reason, or notice, 
All by unconscious volition passive,
Three raps, to come in at the gate, I did give;
Thereupon the mighty gate opened up wide—
A form, in pure white clad, stood inside
And gazed on me in silence, deified,
As if to question me from whence I came,
What was my business there and what my name,
I stammer’d out, with speech somewhat lame.
For I, myself, knew not what I would there:
“Oh, pardon my disturbance, thou so fair!
But, what name dost thou give this place of the
sir?
He answer’d, without a moment to wait,
-' In tones whose sweetness could intoxicate: 
“This is the Celestial City Gate.”
What, I thought to myself, then am I dead?
Have I from my earthly body fled?
Then, I, in wild anxiety, said:
“Can I return no more to my beloved land?’’
All who enter this gate,” quick came the com-
   mand,
“Nevermore ruturn to the mortal strand.”
“Oh, let me not enter then,” my quick tongue
   ran,
“I am in love with a mortal man!”
And my poor heart sigh’d, as anguish can.
Oh, how did I pass to this place of shade
Without knowing from my true love I strayed
Without a last kiss upon his lips laid.
Without his face so true at my dying bed!
“Kind sir, I am betrothed,” I then said, 
“I love: Oh, I must return to be wed!”
The personage, heedless, unto me spoke,
As if not seeing thro’ my speech’s cloak
The grief which was about my heart to choke.
As if he had heard not one word I utter’d
From my grief burden’d heart which flutter'd
I in palpitating anguish as it mutter’d:
But, as if aware and knowing full well
The exact locality where I did dwell
In the Womau Suffrage Question dell;
Spoke unto me in these words aliquot:
“Your mind in restless broil is toss’d about,
To know whether or not woman should vote.”
Surprised I was that the stranger knew my mind
I wonder’d in wonderment of vacant kind,
Stared on him with all the eyes I could find;
Soon, recovering back myself, I ask’d,

