LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	THE semi-monthly meeting held in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall, May 6,
1894. Counselor E. Stevenson conducted
the meeting. Meeting opened by singing,
“O, my Father.” Prayer by Counselor E.
Webb. Continued by singing, ‘‘Welcome,
best of all good meetings.” Minutes of
last meeting read and approved. Minutes of
Primary Association of Fifteenth Ward read.
	President M. Isabella Horne said she was
pleased with the minutes read by the little
girl. Thought mothers should be careful
and prompt in sending the children to the
Primary. We should be careful of pride,
and dress the children plainly. A proprietor
of a store said he sold more gingham to
clothe the children of the rich, by far, than
to clothe the children of the poorer classes.
Children should be taught to respect their
parents. Young mothers be wise and
humble. We are all God’s children, and
should be wise and humble, striving to
raise our children to fear God. Told of the
sad fate of a Prophet, because he did not
restrain his children. President Woodruff
has said that when the Temple was dedica-
ted the angels had been told to reap down
the earth, and the spirit of destruction was
everywhere except in Zion. Spoke of the
many virtues and good deeds of Sister
McMaster, President of the Relief Society
of the Eleventh Ward, who had passed
away since our last meeting; also Sister
Player, one of the Counselors to the Presi-
dent of the Relief Society of the Nineteenth
Ward; they were noble women, valiant for
the truth, and had passed to the great be-
yond, to mingle with loved ones, and enjoy
the reward of the righteous.
	A sister in the congregation testified that
this was the Church of God. Sister Julia
Pack bore a strong testimony to the truth
of the Gospel, spoke of the Prophet Joseph,
how his face shone with glory when he told
of the truths of the Gospel, and also spoke
of seeing the murdered Prophet and Patri-
arch side by side in death.
	Sisters Rawlings, Forsythe, Morris,
Phelps, Clark, Brown and Nunn, each
spoke upon healing and concerning faith,
promises fulfilled, and the testimony of the
Gospel and its gifts and powers.
	Sisters M. W. Wilcox, Mary Ann Hardy
and Williams, each bore strong testimonies
and were pleased with the sentiment of the
meeting. Sister J. C. Howe said the sub-
jects treated upon had been timely. “I am
thankful that my kind parents taught me
to revere the Sabbath day. God has an-
swered my prayers in a remarkable manner."
	Sister Jane James bore a faithful testi-
mony, then spoke in tongues.—Interpreta-
tion given by Sister Phelps.
	Counselor Stevenson—Is this not the
school of the prophets to us? Spoke at
some length on the duties of mothers, mak-
ing many good remarks. President Horne
made a few closing remarks. Meeting ad-
journed for two weeks. Singing, “This
God is the God we adore.” Benediction.
Sister L. D. Alder.

	Ladies’ semi-monthly meeting held in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall, May 19,
1894. Sister M. Isabella Horne presiding.

