IN MEMORIAM.

	DIED, March 8, 1894, in Uintah, Weber Co.,
Utah, after a lingering illness, of consumption,
Maria Eveline Keyes, aged 48 years 5 months
and 29 days. Deceased was born in Kane Co.,
Illinois, September 10th, 1846; her father’s name
was Joseph Terry, her mother’s maiden name
was Hannah Bemis. On April 27,1862, in Oregon,
she was united in marriage to Alma Keyes, and
came to Utah with her husband in 1866, and set-
tled in Ogden. She was the mother of thirteen
children, five of whom preceded her to the
spirit world; five sons and three daughters are
still living. The family settled in Uintah, April,
1884; Sister Keyes joined the Relief Society the
same year and was chosen treasurer in 1888,
which office she faithfully filled until she was
called away by our Heavenly Father to a higher
sphere; she was a faithful wife and a loving
mother, and made many friends, always kind and
ready to do good to anybody whether in the
Church or not. She remained true to the
end of her mortal life. Her father and mother
were members of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints when she was born. Peace be
to her ashes.
	Resolved, that while we feel the deepest sorrow
in the loss of our departed sister, yet we know
that our loss is her gain, and we, therefore,—bow
submissively to the will of Him who doeth all
things well and say, "Thy will, O Lord, be done.”
	Resolved, that we cherish her memory and
emulate her virtues, and strive to carry out in our
lives her motherly counsel, which was ever so
wise, in temporal as well as spiritual things.
	Resolved, that we extend our heartfelt sympathy
to the bereaved family, especially her husband,
sons and daughters, who so lovingly tended her
during her months of sickness, and who need that
counsel which a wife and mother alone can give.
	Resolved, that one copy of these resolutions be
presented to the family, a copy be entered upon
the record of the Relief Society, one copy be
sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.
RACHEL GALE, President.
