[Column 2]
in place, and Sister Kimball remarked that
they had a gloomy and chilling effect upon
the spirits of those present, and she said in
earnest appeal; “When my worn and weary
spirit has entered its rest there will be no
occasion to mourn for me, and please let
the drapery at my funeral be WHITE,” My
judgment approved her choice, and I have
watched with satisfaction the growth of
this sentiment among the Latter-day Saints
whose faith teaches them to mourn with a
“glorious hope.”
	The women of our faith have been called
“the remodelers of society,” and it is true
that we aim to adopt all improvements con-
sistent with the spirit of true progress, and
we are striving to discourage all customs
that have not the support of sound reason. 
We claim to have received, through direct
revelation, superior intelligence regarding
death, and draping ourselves in the folds of
the mourning apparel is not in harmony with
the glorious light and hope beyond the
grave given to us by the religion of Jesus
Christ. Then why should we cling to a
false custom of our forefathers so suggestive
of the dark ages in which it originated?
	In a recent number of the EXPONENT I
read with interest the following paragraph:
“A dispatch from London says:—One of
the  largest conferences in the interest of
funeral reform ever held opened in West-
minister. It is under the auspices of the
Burial, Funeral and Mourning Reform As-
sociation, and its object is to advocate the
exercise of economy and simplicity in all
funeral appurtenances, and the disuse of
crape scarfs, feathers, velvet trappings and
similar emblems of mourning.” Perhaps
the beautiful example of Henry Ward
Beecher has had some influence in forming
or reforming public opinion on this subject. 
It was his request that a wreath of flowers
instead of crape be hung on the door of his
residence after his death, that the blinds re-
main up and the rooms be lighted, and at
his funeral his family should appear in their
usual Sunday attire. Instead of the cus-
tomary dismal drapery of his casket, it was
laid in a bed of white flowers. To be con-
sistant with our belief we, as a people,
should gather the bright and beautiful about
us, and when sorrow enters our hearts and
homes it is our duly to court all cheering
and comforting influences. One young
mother, when asked why she did not wear
mourning at the death of her child, ans-
wered, “Because I feel sorrowful and
gloomy enough without it."
	That grief is most sincere which shuns
observation. There is a natural delicacy in
the human heart, especially of sensitive and
refined natures, which shrinks from exhi-
bitions of great joy or sorrow, and such
would gladly dispense with all the
paraphernalia of mourning, but have not
the courage to defy a long established
fashion. Is not our sorrow as sacred as our
love? Then why display it to the public
gaze? The idea of fashion limiting the
length of time that we should appear to
mourn for our loved ones! or designating
the intensity thereof by “deep mourning,”
“half mourning” etc, as our fashionable


