[Column 1]
BEAR LAKE STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the
Bear Lake Stake convened at Paris, Idaho,
December 2, 1893. There were present on
the stand, President Wm. Budge and Coun-
selors James Hart and Wm. P. Rich, and
the presiding ladies of the Stake—Sister
Julia Lindsay presiding.
	The President stated that she, with her
counselors, had visited all the branches of
the Stake and felt well satisfied with the
progress they were making. The Relief
Society of the following named Wards were
then reported as in good running order:
	Paris, First Ward, Margaret James;
Second Ward, Sarah Ashley; Ovid, Martha
Carlson; Liberty, Margaret Morgan; Len-
ark, Jane Toomer; Bennington, Margaret
Vanorman; Dingle, Ruth Sparks; Bloom-
ington, Josephine Nelson; St. Charles, Jane
Gallaway; Thomas Fork, Mary Dalton.
	Sister C. Collins made many good and
timely remarks. Counselor L. M. Hart
spoke at some length on the duties of par-
ents to their children, after which meeting
adjourned by singing, “Guide us, O thou
Great Jehovah.” Benediction by Brother
J. H. Hart.
	Afternoon session:—Commenced with
singing “Come, Come ye Saints.” Prayer
by Counselor W. L. Rich. Singing, "Re-
deemer of Israel.”
	Sister Mary Bagley spoke of the improve-
ment made in the society, and also on the
force of example; thought no one had a
greater mission to perform than the mothers
in Israel. As members of the Relief
Society, the labors of the sisters were in-
creasing, spoke impressively on the storing
of grain.
	President Lindsay endorsed the remarks
of the former speaker, and gave many good
instructions. President Wm. Budge felt
confident and gratified that the sisters would
desseminate truth, that they were one of
the aids of government, and he felt sure
that their labors would be rewarded to their
complete satisfaction. He gave excellent
instructions in regard to storing grain.
	President Lindsay then said that we
would be called upon for one report a year.
She also stated that it had been counseled
that they should hold the meeting in each
Society every two weeks. Conference was
then adjourned by singing, “Our God we
raise to Thee.” Benediction by J. H.
Hart. ROSE HILLIER, Sec.

