Sparkling in his eyes, up his cheeks running
	race,
As if this question of wedlock’s discord
Had nigh cast arguments overboard,
But now he had victory o’er them scored.
He went on, “As to the mischievous stone
Which might be as argument at you thrown, 
You a few moments since to my ears made
	known—


That, should woman to cast vote allow’d be,
Vote the ticket her husband did would she,
And thus would be better’d neither nominee.

Hurl back into their faces this mighty blow—
We who would have woman to the polls go
Wish her the same vote, as her husband does
throw;

Thus far, neither candidate would better’d be;
But within our fair nation’s boundary,
According to the census, referee,

Many million more women than men dwell,
Who have no husbands whom they can tell
To vote the wishes which within them swell.

Now, should all these go to the ballot box,
To vote the decision their good sense unlocks,
Politics would be clad in different frocks."

Furthermore, the fiery debater did say,
‘‘All these masses of womankind yearly pay
That with which our nation its debts does defray.

Yes, their taxes the men’s salaries pay
Who would the nation’s laws, of reason’s clay,
Who enforce them, who interpret what mean
they,

But are not allow’d a ballot to cast—
Not allow’d to say they want he who last
Marches—the good man in virtue encompass’d.

What would any private employer think,
Who pays the hands who weld link to link
Of the commodity which brings his chink,

If he could not say that man I will hire;
This man, when his term of office does expire,
I will bid from my services retire?

Why, he would declare it such an outrage
On human liberty that no savage
Would tolerate it, lived he in any age."

As the personage this last sentence said,
I felt something shaking and shaking my head;
Soon I heard my name call’d—Winnefred!
Winnefred!

Louder and louder the calling then seem’d;
I oped up my eyes from sleep—bright morn
gleam’d,
In surprise I look’d around—I had dream’d.
J. S. ROBINSON.
April, 1894.


