[Column 2]
of Women. If one were to follow out the
idea of our dear departed Sister Eliza R.
Snow, one would say it was organized, a
head without a body, but as the child’s
head is always presented first in nature, one
need not be blamed for following nature’s
example.
	The formation of the International Coun-
cil originated with a few grand, women,
and was the result, one might say, of forty
years experience in “a demand for equal
educational, industrial, professional and
political rights for women,” the forty years
dating from the convention held at Seneca
Falls, New York, in 1848.
	The call for the convening of the Interna-
tional Council of Women says:
	“To celebrate the fortieth anniversary of
the event an international Council of
Women will be convened under the auspices
of the National Woman’s Suffrage Associa-
tion in Albaugh’s Opera House, Washing-
ton, D. C., on March 25, 1888.”
	There is not space to give all the call
here, but it was signed by the officers of the
N. W. S. A. under whose auspices it was
convened, and an extensive program pre-
pared. The Council lasted eight days and
held fifteen public sessions.
	The Constitution of this Council in respect
to its “General Policy” reads:
	“This International Council is organized
in the interest of no one propaganda, and
has no power over its auxilaries beyond
that of suggestion and sympathy. No
National Council voting to become auxi-
liary to the International shall thereby ren-
der itself liable to be interfered with in re-
spect to its complete organic unity, inde-
pendence or methods of work, or shall be
committed to any principle, or method of
any other council, or to any utterance, or
act of the International Council beyond
compliance with the terms of this Constitu-
tion.”
	This great International Council has five
general officers—president, vice-president-
at-large, corresponding secretary, recording
secretary and treasurer. Each president of
a National Council is ex-officio vice-presi-
dent of the Iniernational Council.
	The first president of the International
Council was Millicent Grant Fawcett, Eng-
land; Vice-President-at-Large Clara Barton,
American; Corresponding Secretary Rachel
G. Foster, America; Recording Secretary
Kristine Frederickson, Denmark; Treasurer
Isabelle Bogelot, France.
	The first officers of the National Council
were:
	President Frances E. Willard, Vice-Presi-
dent-at-Large Susan B. Anthony, Corres-
ponding Secretary, May Wright Sewall,
Recording Secretary Mary F. Eastman,
Treasurer M. Louise Thomas.
	The National Council of Women has
the same Constitution as the Interhational
except such differences as must naturally re-
sult from what would be natural in one
country, and what all countries combined
would make. The National Council of the
United States holds triennial sessions and
is composed of national organizations, while
the International holds quinquennial ses-
sions and is composed of National Councils
of different countries.
	The preamble to the constitution of the
National Council reads, “We women of
the United States,” the International pre-
amble reads, “We women of all nations.”
	The first quinquennial of the Interna-
tional was held at Chicago in 1893, and the
next in London in 1899. The next quin-

[Column 3]
quennial will be held in Berlin, Germany,
in 1904.
	All triennials of the National Council of
the United States have been held in Wash-
ington, D. C. The next triennial of the
National Council will be held in 1905.
	The Relief Society joined the National
Council of Women of the United States at
its first triennial in 1891. The National
Council holds annual executive sessions in
different states, the last one was held in
New Orleans in March of this year, the
next one will be held in Indianapolis in
1904.
	The International Council also holds an-
nual executive sessions in different coun-
tries. This year the I. C. W. held its an-
nual in Dresden, Germany. Last year it
was held in Copenhagen, Denmark.
	A single paragraph from the speech of
the Countess of Aberdeen, president of the
International Council at its opening session
in London in 1899 will give a good idea of
the Council. “It will be asked how in the
world can such a conglomeration of associa-
tions existing in so many different countries
and formed for so many various objects,
some actually opposed to one another and
comprising hundreds of thousands of
women of different religions, different races
and upbringings, have an intelligible pur-
pose and work together for a practical end?
	“And yet we claim that in the very var-
iety of opinions and ideas and methods of
work, which exist among us, lies our raison
d’etre, the centre and kernel of our being.
For the unity which it is our aim to seek
after does not lie in identity of organization
nor in identity of dogma, but in a common
consecration to the service of humanity in
the spirit of that love which we hail as the
greatest thing in the world.”
	The motto of the Council is the golden
rule, “Do unto others as you would they
sholud do unto you.”


