[Column 2]
labor under many difficulties, but are not
discouraged.
	President Rebecca Standring, Alpine
Stake, made a most excellent report, they
have many young mothers enrolled mem-
bers, they have a granary and about four
thousand bushels of grain stored. This is
really one of the banner stakes, and Sister
Standring is a very capable president,
though only one among the many. She
closed her remarks by blessing Sister Smith
and her aids.
	President M. Isabella Horne, Salt Lake
Stake, expressed her great joy at being
present and seeing so many assembled in
conference, spoke forcibly upon storing
grain and not keeping the money the So-
ciety had for that purpose in the bank
thought filling our granaries should be our
first work after looking after the sick and
the poor. Thought there was no greater
work in Zion than the work of the Relief
Society gave a statistical and financial as
well as general report of the condition of
her stake, and closed by saying, “I want to
be among the number of the true and faith-
ful in the cause of Zion.”
	Counselor Sarah Call, Bannock Stake,
and Counselor L. M. Hart, Bear Lake
Stake, Idaho President C. C. Shepherd,
Beaver, each made excellent reports of
work accomplished, conferences held, grain
and granaries; told us how they managed
the visiting and many exceedingly interest-
ing things, although they were limited to
five minutes.
	Counselor Avilda Dixon of the Big Horn
Stake (a new tract of country, stake only
organized three years), gave us some idea
of colonization over there, described the
city of white tents before the houses were
built, they had similar experiences to our
early pioneers she realized that the Lord
had blessed them abundantly and the land
for their sake, though they had been called
from different localities and came together
there to build up a stake of Zion, yet they
had become strongly attached to each other
and union and harmony prevailed. Sister
Dixon referred to their very capable and
lovable president. Sister Lucy F. Grant
she also spoke of the interest the sisters
had taken in the young boys who had
come there away from their homes to work
on the canal and the railroad.
	Sister Mary L. Morgan represented Juab
Stake by request, President Lilyus C. Page
Nebo Stake, Sister Mary A. Standiforth
Snowflake Stake, Arizona, Counselor
Annie B. Kennington Star Valley Stake,
Wyoming, Counselor Selina Phillips St.
Joseph Stake, Arizona, gave many good
items concerning their society work, condi-
tions of the people and other matters per-
taining to material progress and spiritual
growth of Zion.
	All those who spoke expressed the hope
that Sister Bathsheba, our president, would
live long to cheer us with her good words
and bright, cheerful face.
	Sister Maggie C. Hull with her beautiful
voice sang, “Save one bright crown for
me.”
	Benediction, Counselor Sarah Jane Can-
non, Salt Lake Stake, and conference ad-
journed until 2 p. m.
	Afternoon Session: A large congregation
assembled and many representatives from a
distance and a number of brethren: Presi-
dent B. W. Smith presiding, Professor C.
Thomas, Temple choir leader, and some. 
of his best singers rendered, “Oh, say what
is truth.” Prayer was offered by Zina


