[Column 2]
of her organization and in any part of the
country, whose culture, and achievments
would indicate the propriety of their being
invited to take part in such a meeting.
	Mrs. Swift invited her correspondents to
send their answers to her communication
before October 15th, so that she might find
them awaiting her arrival. Mrs. Swift
arrived in New York on October 20th. She
will come directly to Indianapolis where her
correspondents were invited to address their
replies to her official communication, and
where she will make up the lists of speakers
and writers to be sent to the German Com-
mittee of Arrangements. Mrs. Swift has
invited me to assist her in this work. It is
the desire of both of us that a large number
of American women shall be present in
Berlin during the Third Quinquennial of
the International Council, and the Interna-
tional Congress which will follow it. It is,
moreover, our desire that the American point
of view on every question discussed at both
the Council Quinquennial and the Congress
shall be ably presented. We unite in solic-
ting suggestions concerning the best pos-
sible speakers, writers, and participants in
discussions etc. from all sources. Any one
who reads this article, and is interested in
its contents is invited to send her sugges-
tions concerning American representatives
on the program of the Congress, either to
the President of the National organization
to which she belongs, which in turn is affil-
iated with the National Council of Women
of the United States, to the President of the
Local Council to which she belongs, or di-
rectly to the President of the National Coun-
cil of Women of the United States who dur-
ing October may be addressed at 633 N.
Pennsylvania St, Indianapolis, Indiana.
	One very important decision was reached
at the Dresden Executive which should be
mentioned here. The German Committee
of Arrangements gave notice that it was
their purpose that no one should speak in
the public meetings whose voice can not
easily be heard in the largest auditorium,
and that no one should be either invited or
permitted to read papers or take part in dis-
cussions in the sectional meetings, who can
not speak in a voice to be heard easily in a
hall of ordinary size adapted to a sectional
Congress meeting. People who have suf-
fered (and who has not?) the agony of strain-
ing to hear weak, wavering, unpenetrating
voices, will rejoice at this decision, and I
make no doubt that women of such firmness
of character as constitute the German Com-
mittee of Arrangements will carry out their
purpose.
	I am often asked what language will be
used at the Congress. According to a de-
cision made in 1900 in Paris, any speaker or
writer may present her views in English,
German, or French. So far as papers are
concerned, in as much as the audiences will
necessarily be largely composed of Germans,
if papers are to be given in French or Eng-
lish, it seems proper that German transla-
tions should be made, and distributed to the
audience.
	Long ago when the National Council of
Women of the United States was organized,
the question arose as to whether an organi-
zation which was committed to the policy of
making no propaganda for any cause that
did not command the unanimous vote of its
Executive, could ever do anything of any
consequence. The founders of the Council
then said: “Let all organizations that are
committed to a definite propaganda enter

[Column 3]
the Council, let the Council itself remain a
non-partisan, meeting ground and the result
will be that it will become a more efficient
agent in the promotion of Woman Suffrage
than a Suffrage organization itself ever can
be.” It would seem as if this declaration
was justified by what has happened in the
short space of fifteen years—even in the
short space of four years. In 1899 a diffi-
culty arose as to having a public meeting
on Suffrage held under the auspices of the
International Council. Now, the Commit-
tee of Arrangements for an International
Congress in the country that has always
been regarded as the peculiar realm of the
house-frau provides for the same recognition
of Woman’s Suffrage as of the Higher Edu-
cation of Women. This simple fact is sig-
nificant of much.
	The chairman of the Committee of local
arrangements for both the Quinquennial of
the Council, and the International Congress
is Frau Hedwig Heyl. Frau Heyl who is,
I understand, aided by a most admirably
selected committee, announced at Dresden
that the Philharmonic Hall in Berlin would
be available for the meetings of both Inter-
national Council, and International Con-
gress. Frau Heyl was herself in attendance
upon the Executive at Dresden, and par-
ticularly asked that each National Council
should make a collection of the photographs
of their leading pioneer women, and of its
members who would necessarily be absent,
for the decoration of the rooms in which the
meetings will be held.
	At Dresden, just as much social pleasure
as was compatible with the heavy work on
hand, was provided for the entertainment
of the delegates. On the evening of the
16th, the officers of the German Council
entertained the officers of the International
Council, and the members of the Executive
with a company of selected guests from
their own National Council at a beautiful
banquet. Monday, Tuesday, and Wednes-
day, the members of the Executive were
entertained together at luncheon; a function
which in the length of time it occupied,
might well have been called a banquet. On
all of these occasions, conversation was en-
livened by toasts, clever speeches and
music. On Thursday, after the late adjourn-
ment of the Executive, its members were
entertained by the officers of the German
Council by a trip to Meissen, and given a
beautiful luncheon in the garden overlook-
ing this picturesque old suburb. Arriving
at Meissen, before repairing to the garden
for luncheon, the guests were conducted by
their hostesses through devious ways up
and down streets that are rugged to the
point of being precipitous, to pay their rev-
erent respects to the memory of Louise Otto,
by looking at the house where she lived for
many years, and where her death took place
in——. As a tablet placed by the German
Council shows Louise Otto was the founder
of the woman’s movement in Germany, and
if one may credit the statements of her ad-
mirers, she must have been a woman most
richly endowed; erudite and eloquent, a re-
former and a poet, she united the culture
which can only be gathered in retirement,
with the passion for humanity which often
summoned her from her retirement to the
forefront of publicity. Louise Otto is re-
garded by German women as Lucretia Mott,
Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Susan B. Anthony
and Lucy Stone are regarded by Americans,
and as they will increasingly be regarded
as American women come more and more


to seek the roots of the tree of knowledge
and opportunity whose fruits they now so
freely pluck.
	If the International Council has already
a vitality which will compel women to come
together from widely scattered countries at
the expense and fatigue incident to journeys
of thousands of miles, merely that they may
confer three or four days in business ses-
sions, we may anticipate that public meet-
ings like the Quinquennial of 1904, and the
International Congress incident to it, will
not be lacking in participants, or in auditors.
May the United States of America, furnish
its full quota of both!
	The increasing growth of the Council
may be inferred from the fact that the Pres-
ident was authorized to name Honorary
Vice Presidents for Peru, Chili, Mexico,
Japan, and Turkey; in each country steps
having been taken looking toward Council
organization.
	Hoping that the business core of commu-
nication will not be lost by its readers in
the digressions which have been made, and
hoping that prompt responses may soon
come from every Council worker who would
have a voice in suggesting names for the
programs of next summer’s meeting, I con-
clude a communication written for Mrs. Swift
as well as myself,
		(signed) MAY WRIGHT SEWALL,
	President of the International Council
				of Woman.
October 20, 1903.


