[Column 2]
said, “we have invited the sisters to join us
on priesthood day, all come together in the
morning in the Sunday School Union, and
at noon all the officers meet, and at 2 o’clock
we have the sisters meet with us, and there-
by they have the key to the work of the
Lord; the sisters sometimes out number the
men, after the roll call and preliminary
work, the sisters retire to other rooms and
the brethren go on with their detail work.
Our sisters are all humble and are like our
mothers, and we all love them. I am much
interested in the mother’s work, we cannot
take too much care of our sisters”
	Counselor Alice R. Woolley reported
Tooele Stake as in a very encouraging con-
dition, mother’s work had been started in
almost every branch gave some figures of
membership etc., said it was the first time
she had attended a Relief Society Conference
in seven years, as her lot had been cast in
the Hawaiian Mission. The Relief Society
on those islands is very flourishing the
sisters take great interest in their meetings
and their work. We have home-missionary
sisters there who spend almost their entire
time visiting in different districts, and many
have been brought out to the meetings,
who had not attended for years; and many
had been converted to the faith through
these missionary sisters. Our white sisters
visit all the Islands at least once a year, she
was happy and contented to labor on the
Islands the seven years she was away, and
would have gladly stayed longer had her
health permitted.
	President Lydia Rich, Morgan Stake
gave some facts and figures of the work in
that stake, said they held conferences twice
a year besides each branch was represented
once a year in Ward Conference; they had
held one meeting with the priesthood, and
realized it did them good. The Bishops
helped them look after the wheat, thought
what they had was in good condition; they
had started the lectures in Mothers’ work
and felt they would be a blessing; the So-
ciety was onward and upward in caring for
the sick and needy; she hoped we would be
mothers to those around us as well as to
our own.
	General Treasurer Clarissa S. Williams
read the financial report for the year from
Oct. 1902 to Oct. 1903; Sister E. B. Wells
moved the report be accepted, seconded by
Sister Emma S. Woodruff put before the
meeting by the President and carried un-
animously.
	Counselor Annie S. Hyde addressed the
conference, she had felt quite encouraged
by the reports that had been given and es-
pecially the reports about the Mothers’
work; she hoped the young mothers would
come out and appreciate the effort that was
being made for them; she loved to hear the
reports from the far away stakes, those that
were young and struggling like the Big
Horn. She felt the sisters were getting
their reward as they go along by doing good.
	Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry, felt glad
the brethren were taking an interest in our
work; related an incident of her experience
in meeting with strangers on the train, who
had questioned her concerning Salt Lake,
the Temple and our organizations, and were
perfectly surprised to hear about the great
number of women engaged in our organiza-
tions. Sister Dusenberry spoke particu-
larly of the duties of the teachers, and
thought there was no more important posi-
tion in the society than that of teacher; she
had been much grieved to hear from one
stake of a sister, who had suffered want un-

[Column 3]
known to her society, and she wondered
where the teacher was who could have given
the needed comfort. “If the teacher does
her duty she will keep in touch with the
sisters around her and will enter into a
knowledge of their conditions, through her
sympathetic nature, and be the means of
doing good in her calling.
	President B W. Smith felt we had en-
joyed a splendid conference; she had felt
diffident about her position when she was
called to preside, because she felt her work
was in the Temple, but she sent her miss-
ionaries out to represent her in the different
stakes, she rejoiced in the work and felt we
had listened to many good reports in this
conference, her blessing was with the sist-
ers who were laboring zealously in this great
work.
	The Secretary Sister E, B. Wells made
some annoucemeuts of meetings, etc.
	President Emma S. Woodruff of Granite
Stake, gave a concise statistical and finan-
cial report of the stake and among other
items stated that the society had paid over
four hundred dollars to the stake house.
Meetings are held regularly every two
weeks and once a month with the presidency
of the stake. Two sisters from each ward
are called to work in the Temple every
week, they also send sister missionaries
from one ward to another; and to visit those
residing in the vicinity who are not of our
faith.
	Lovely singing “The End of the Way”
by Sister Maggie C. Hull, Professor Thomas
and other singers joining in the chorus.
Meeting adjourned until 7.30 in the evening.
Benediction by President Andrew Kimball.

	At the close of the afternoon conference
an informal meeting was held by the general
superintendent of nurses Emma A. Empey
and the instructor, Dr. Margaret C. Roberts.
An excellent talk by superintendent Empey,
and definite instruction given by Dr. Rob
erts, also remarks by the secretary and trea-
surer, Phebe Young Beatie, in which she
spoke particularly of the origin of the nur-
ses class etc., and what she realized it had
meant to the students and the communities
who had the benefit of this practical train-
ing for the sick room.

	Evening session of the conference com-
menced at 7.30, President B. W. Smith pre-
siding. “Guide us O, thou great Jehovah,”
Prayer by President Ann C. Woodbury of
St. George Stake, singing, “O, Jesus the
Giver.”
	Counselor Rebecca Eames, Cache stake,
made a favorable report of conditions and of
active work; the Mother’s work had been
started and they felt it was bringing out
some of the young mothers.
	President A. C. Steele, Bingham Stake,
Idaho—This is a very large stake, seven
hundred miles to travel, mostly by team, in
visiting the society branches; about two-
thirds of the branches have good substan-
tial granaries; mother’s work has been in-
troduced, and when Dr. Ellis R. Shipp and
Sister Lydia D. Alder came to our confer-
ence, they gave us good instructions on this
and other subjects.
	President Maria B. Hyde, Pocatello
Stake, Idaho, had been very recently ap-
pointed to the position, and this was her
first experience in reporting the stake, felt
the work was very new to her, knew they
had some good workers, thought if the
teachers would do their duty that great
benefits would ensue; they had taken up


the mother’s work, but realized that they
must not lose sight of the charitable work,
for which the organization was formed.
	President Ann C. Woodbury, St. George
Stake, gave some statistics, and an idea
of distances that they had to travel—one
thousand miles—in visiting the Stake; once
a year they go all the way around; the peo-
ple are scattered and have many hardships
to contend with, but they are striving with
all their might to do right; the men have
to word very hard and the sisters have to
help them. Many families do not raise 
their bread and the young men have to go
away, and there are many inconveniencies;
they are building a canal, and if the water
can be brought on the land, it will become
fruitful; they are willing to work and the
Lord has blessed them.
	President Temperance Hinckley, Fre-
mont Stake, Idaho—We visit around the
stake twice a year, all do their duty, have 
officers meetings once a month, have not
yet started the mother’s work, have held
back until they could get proper instruction;
felt that we had been blessed in this confer-
ence, and that a good spirit had prevailed.
	Sister Zina Young Card reported for Can-
ada. The officers there hold meetings every
Quarterly Conference; they find the mother’s
work a drawing card for the young mother’s
and they are seeking to make the best of
it, recently had a visit from Sisters Dusen-
berry and Little, which was fully apprecia-
ted, she felt the sisters were doing the best
they could in a new country; they had two
granaries and are endeavoring to save some
more grain this year. They have not sent
any nurses to study, the laws up there make
it difficult to do some of those things. The 
EXPONENT was not very broadly taken, but
they intend having more copies, as the sis-
ters cannot get along without it. There had
never been a ripple in the Stake Board,
have avoided all discord and worked to-
gether in the greatest harmony, the sisters
respond cheerfully to every call and help
one another. Sister Card said: I never ex-
pect to report Alberta Stake again, as we 
have moved to Cache Valley, but I hope
the sisters will continue to be united and
increase in good works.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith made a
few remarks and gave the sisters from a
distance liberty to ask questions if they so
desired. The subjects of storing wheat,
woman’s building and mother’s work were
the principal topics, the President explain-
ing and giving such informaticn as seemed
needful, and speaking words of comfort and
of cheer to the sisters, and blessing them
with peace and love. The Secretary gave
notice of the annual business meeting of 
the society, to be held in that hall, Monday,
October 5, at 4:30 p. m.
	Congregation sang “Redeemer of Israel”
and conference adjourned six months, un-
til April, 1901. Elder C. J. Thomas pro-
nounced the benediction.
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON,
		Secretary pro tem.,
	E. B. WELLS,
		Secretary.


