[Column 2]
news concerning the progress of the Council
movement.
	In writing upon this subject, I always
feel like, “harking back” to the significance
of the phrase “Council Movement.” What
does it mean? It means the movement
whose object is to draw together people
who are to a degree unlike; who have hith-
erto thought themselves too unlike to unite
in any common work:—to bring such
people together with the conscious and
avowed intention of finding some common
work in doing which they can unite.
	I need hardly remind American women
that this movement originated in Washing-
ton in 1888 with a convention International
in character, called to celebrate the fortieth
anniversary of the movement on behalf of
the political enfranchisement of American
Women. This is only fifteen years ago,
and surely, the results, of the effort then
inaugurated to make the influence of that
organization felt beyond the limits which
had hitherto bound it, are far from being
discouraging. Further recapitulation here
is unnecessary—suffice it that the Council
movement in its International application
has reached a state where it is necessary in
order to carry on its work to hold annually
a meeting of its Executive Committee. Such
a meeting was held in Dresden in August
of this year.
	During my own administration, Execu-
tives have been held previously in 1900 in
Paris; 1901 at the Hague 1902 in Copen-
hagen. The one at Dresden in 1903 was
convened with a view to its occupying the
17th, 18th, and 19th of August. As a
matter of fact, it ran over into the 20th, and
made that day as busy and as long as any
one of its predecessors. It was not un-
natural that the Dresden Executive should
have been better attended than any of the
preceding annual Executives of the Coun-
cil, for we were within a year of the meet-
ing of the Quinquennial which back in
1899 was set for Berlin, and then seemed a
long way off.
	When the International Council, ad-
journed in London in 1899, it was com-
posed of ten National Councils, three of
these having been voted in that same year.
It now includes nineteen National Councils
two having been voted in at Dresden. At
Dresden, all of the general officers except-
ing only the Recording Secretary, Mille.
Camille Vidart of Switerland, were present;
and all but two of the Councils were repre-
sented either by their own president, vice-
president, or a bona fide proxy. The
sessions, though devoted strictly to busi-
ness and requiring a great deal of hard
work were very interesting, and some im-
portant decisions were arrived at in which
all Council women will be interested. The
most important were in relation to the
Quinquennial at Berlin, and to summarize
these as briefly as possible, it may be
stated: That the Quinquennial proper of
the International Council will occupy the
week beginning June 6th. The Executive
will be convened on Tuesday morning
June the 7th. Besides the Executive ses-
sions, which will run through the week,

[Column 3]
probably occupying all of the mornings,
the Council will hold three public meetings
on the evenings of June 11th, 12th, and
13th.
	The International Council will be con-
vened according to the laws and customs of
Germany under the auspices of the Na-
tional Council of Germany whose President
will give the address of welcome. This
will be responded to by the president of the
International Council, who will then take
charge of the meeting, and present the
President of each National Council, or her
proxy, together with the general officers of
the International, and the honorary vice-
presidents who are beginning the organi-
zation of the National Councils, in count-
ries where such are not yet formed. The
theme of this meeting will be what the
President of the International Council
sometime since named “The New Inter-
nationalism,” and its object will be both
demonstration and propaganda. The sec-
ond evening will be a continuance of the
discussion of Internationalism, the subject
being illuminated by reports from every
one of the twenty-two National Councils
that it is believed will at the time, compose
the International. The theme on the third
evening will be Peace and Arbitration
which will be discussed in three formal ad-
dresses; one in English which Lady Aber-
deen has been invited to give, the second
in German by Baroness Von Suttner, and
the third in French is to be given by some
member of the French Council elected by
that Council to perform this noble task.
	The International Congress, all prepara-
tions for which will be made by the Na-
tional Council of Women of Germany will
be opened on Monday June 13th, and will
occupy the week adjourning on Saturday
the 18th. The committee of Arrangements
for the International Congress is composed
of the officers of the National Council of
Germany together with the associates that
have been elected for the purpose. The
Congress will be conducted in four sections
running simultaneously, so far as day ses-
sions are concerned during the week. The
sections will be convened under the follow-
ing titles:—
	(1) Women’s Education and Higher
Culture (under general charge of Fraulein
Lange, and Fraulein Baumer).
	(2) Women in Social Aims and Institut-
on (founded either for or by women for
the improvement of social conditions). This
section will discuss such questions as Tem-
perance, Social Purity, etc., and is under
the general charge of Frau Edinger.
	(3) Women’s Professions and Industries
(under general charge of Fraulein Alice
Saloman).
	(4)The Legal and Political Position of
Women (under the general charge of Freien
Von Beschwitz.)
	Baroness Von Beschwitz is the chairman
of the standing committee of the Inter-
national Council on Laws concerning Do-
mestic Relations. She has had great diffii-
culty, as every one must have who under-
takes International work in organizing a
committee which shall include an active


