[Column 1]
representative from every one of the affilia-
ted Councils. The Baroness has, however,
worked with as much tact as diligence, and
the experience which she has had in organ-
izing her committee will enable her to do
most effective work as the leader of this
section of the International Congress.
	The present intention is that these s[---]-
ions shall meet for six days from 6 a. m. to
2 o’clock p. m. An effort will be made to
have the present position and work of the
women of every country within the Council
properly presented. The discussions will
be limited strictly to the rights and duties
of women in connection with the various
subjects indicated. The afternoons of Con-
gress week as well as the evenings will be
occupied by large public meetings and social
gatherings. The subjects for the public
meetings are as follows:—
	(1) Education
	(2) Suffrage for Women
	(3) Equal Pay for Equal Work
	(4) Women in Science and Art. 
	The phrasing of these titles will doubt-
less be altered as preparations go forward
before any formal program is printed, but
the general themes are plainly indicated in
the foregoing statements.
	The Committee of Arrangements includes
a large number of Germany’s most able
women. These women are fired by a legi-
timate ambition to demonstrate to the world
how German women can convene and pre-
pare for an International Congress on a
scale large and generous enough to justify
its title.
	Many questions have been asked as to the
possibility of enjoying such freedom of
speech as a program including the subjects
named would imply. I am constantly in
receipt of letters questioning the possibility
of this. I am assured, however, on the
very best authority that there will be no
limitation whatever on freedom of speech,
excepting such limitation as good sense and
good breeding would indicate. According
to German law the meetings must be con-
vened by the Germans themselves. Once
convened all legitimate liberty will be en-
joyed. The German women are illustrating
the energy, patience, and capacity for work
characteristic of their countrymen. They
began their work long enough in advance
to justify the conviction that strangers will
find the arrangements perfect in every detail.
There is no doubt that the members of the
Committee of Arrangements are united in
their intention to be just and impartial in
the apportionment of time and opportunity
to the representatives of different countries to
set forth their views on every subject. 
	The President of every National Council
has been invited to send a list of the names
of persons whom it would seem most suita-
ble to invite to speak in meetings of such
International importance; and in every
country so far as heard from, the President
of every Council in preparing such a list has
followed a method similar to that adopted
by Mrs. Mary Wood Swift, the President of
the National Council of Women of the
United States. Some time ago Mrs. Swift
issued a letter to the President of every
National organization and every Local Coun-
cil belonging to the National Council asking
her to nominate women to present papers,
and to participate in the discussion of the
International Congress of 1904. Each such
President was invited to nominate (first)
such members of her own organization as
seemed desirable; (second) women outside

