THE CHILD’S RIGHTS IN THE HOME.
	The lecture was finely given in excellent
voice and contained many helpful suggest-
ions for those who are engaged in Mother’s
work in the Relief Society. A number of
good points were brought out, and alto-
gether it showed much serious thought and
careful preparation.
	President Jane S. Richards of Weber
Stake was the first speaker after the lecture.
Sister Richards expressed herself as having
been edified by the lecture and spoke favor-
ably of the mother’s work in her own stake,
and eloquently of her great love for chil-
dren, little and big. She thought we should
never be cross to them. “The Lord is so
kindly and forgiving with us that we ought
to be forgiving with our children. The
younger the sisters can be taught these
things the better. There is no better thing
that we can do in this world, than to teach
our children to grow up good and true Lat-
ter-day Saints.” The speaker referred to
meetings in her own stake, and the exertion
she had made where a dilatory feeling had
existed in regard to holding meetings, and
the Bishop had become discouraged; she un-
dertook to help and had met with good suc-
cess in visiting as a teacher from house to
house. “Kind words from the sisters are
comforting, and are pleasing to the Lord.”
	President Mary John, Utah Stake, said
they were a band of faithful workers in that
stake, she gave some statistical and financial
figures, and mentioned specially the storing
of grain, she thought theirs was well taken
care of and was keeping good. Explained
what had been done in mothers work and
the satisfaction it had given, spoke of the
booklet published which had been very
helpful; she wanted the children to keep in
the straight and narrow path.
	President Mary E. Schofield, Union
Stake, Oregon, felt they had a small be-
ginning; the organization had only been
completed about three years- and the
branches were quite scattered: nevertheless
they had held officer’s meetings, and were
commencing the mother’s work; the sisters
met in the different homes; had not yet
stored much grain, although they lived in
a good grain country, the Bishop had ad-
vised every one over twenty-one years of
age to give a bushel of wheat; in their
stake they were mostly young sisters with-
out much experience. They had just held
a conference and were visited by Sisters
Annie Taylor Hyde and Emma S. Wood-
ruff.
	President Sarah Pope, Uintah Stake,
said they were not so far away, but it was
hard work getting there; the sisters were
helping to build meeting houses and a
Stake Tabernacle. Sister Emma S. Wood-
ruff visited them this year and they had a
good time. The Relief Society has four
granaries and two meeting houses; some
of the granaries were lined with tin and the
grain screened on the top with wire to pro-
tect the grain from mice; had introduced
mother’s work; always visit each ward
once a year, and sometimes three or four
times.
	President Andrew Kimball of St. Joseph
Stake, Arizona, addressed the conference;
spoke well of the country down there, and
highly of the sisters in the Relief Society;

