GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	The general conference of the Relief
Society was held Saturday, October 3, 1903,
in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall in this city.
There was an excellent representation from
the several stakes of Zion. President Bath-
sheba W. Smith and all the general officers
and a majority of the board were present.
	Congregation sang, “Our God, we raise
to Thee” prayer was offered by President
Susannah P. Booth of Box Elder stake
continued by singing, “Redeemer of Is-
rael.”
	Roll call responded to by thirty-five
stakes.
	President B. W. Smith welcomed the au-
dience in a cordial manner, with a happy
greeting, it was very cheering to her to see
so many interested enough to come out on
a Saturday morning. Sister Smith felt she
would like to embrace them all, but would
be content with shaking their hands. She
said, “I love the Relief Society, we have a
great work to do if we only perform it. I
want to see the young mothers and grand-
mothers join this Society and learn from the
older ones. I love all the societies, but feel
this one to be the most important of all.
it is the oldest Society organized by the
Prophet Joseph, and what could be greater
and nobler than trying to carry out his
wishes? I think we understand our duty
fully. I trust we all try to keep the Sab-
bath day and keep the Word of Wisdom
train our children to grow up pure and vir-
tuous we want to please our Prophet and
have him meet with us. We have our
duties to perform, and one is to take the
EXPONENT, it will help us in our work, es-
pecially in our mother’s work and the
presidents must take care of this matter
and not let them go to extremes, but pre-
side over and watch this part of the work
more than anything else. It is necessary
to take good care of our families.”
	President Smith said art and science are
all right, and it is nice to take care of our
appearance, but these were not all. She
recommended reading the Book of Mor-
mon, Doctrine and Covenants and all our
Church works. I hope we will have a
good time together, that we may go home
rejoicing and try to live so that we may be
worthy of all our blessings. God bless you,
Amen.
	Counselor Sarah M. Pomeroy, Maricopa
Stake, Arizona, made an interesting report.
They could not have meetings during the
hot weather; she spoke highly of the pres-
dent, Sister Mabel A. Hakes; it was a very
rough country to travel over, but visited
all once a year the Indian sisters were very
good, had great faith, she never knew of
such faith as was manifested among the 
Laraanites they dress their children well
and fast becoming civilized; the people

