[Vol22 | March 1935 | Sequence: 31 | Category: Article | Title: Article by Lydia Burrows]

By Lydia Burrows Music. READER: "Music, God is its author; and not man. He laid the keynote of all harmonies. He planned all perfect combinations and He made us so that we can hear and understand." Music: "Oh, How Lovely was the Morning." (1827. Joseph Smith in attitude of Prayer.) CURTAIN Music: "Praise to the Man." (1830. The Organization of the Church. Joseph Smith and counselors.) CURTAIN Music: "The Morning Breaks, the Shadows Flee." (1842. The Organization of the Relief Society. First Presidency with Joseph Smith standing.) REAVER: "March 17th, did you say? The Relief Society was organized and we commemorate the day. God's laws seemed to raise woman to a higher plan, She was needed in his cause And must work along with man. So she seemed to lead the race When she found again her place, And from that day in 1842, her work began." CURTAIN Music: "Come, Saints." (1847.
Pioneers with Brigham Young around camp fire singing. Eliza R.
Snow prays, using "Prayer of the Trail," prize poem; Jan. Mag., 1934.) Come, Ye CURTAIN Music: "In Our Lovely Deseret." (Beehive, State emblem, on stage, center back.) READER: "Gathering from all corners of the earth Come saints from every tongue and clime, To us, they bring their gifts divine." (Nations, in couples, come on stage in native costumes and go into hive, while their National music is played.
America goes into hive last and returns with flag.) Music: "Star Spangled Banner." (Congregation) (Couples come out of hive dressed in civilian clothes, and stand on sides of stage.) READER: "Our church is a composite of all peoples, all lands, all ages. Its fundamentals are beauty. One aim, one faith, one goal, the hand of fellowship is extended to all. 4. Music: "Love at Home." (while verse is read) READER: HUMAN TOUCH "°Tis the human touch in this world that counts, The touch of your hand and mine, Which means far more to the fainting heart Than shelter and bread and wine. For shelter is gone when the night is o'er. And the bread lasts only a day. But the touch of the hand and the sound of the voice Sing on in the soul alway." "The L. D. S.
Church is a wonderful organization considered from a sociological point of view. Our Word of Wisdom, so say scientists, 170 is an exceptionally fine document and if observed, people would become famous for their physical and mental vigor. "Relief Society members look with pride at our church organization, and the opportunities it offers for self-expression and growth. The door has been opened for woman.
Although we are chiefly concerned with home and our children, it is impossible to forego the frequent mention of the Greeks and peoples of ages back, who have bequeathed to us models of architecture, and sculpture, as well as models of the drama, and other literary types, which have served as "'well-springs" of inspiration to all subsequent ages. "Man is that he might have joy.
Experience teaches us that service to others, that type of unselfish ser-. Vice, which expects no reward, brings real joy.
Such as our angels of mercy who go from house to house, (enter two visiting teachers) who care for the sick, bless the old, help the ones in need, no matter who or where they are, but to them all give heed." (One teacher kneels down by child with bandaged head, then they cross the stage and one pins a rose on an old lady.) READER: "The Relief Society in 1902 felt the crying need for department work as our organization stands out from all others, not because it's the oldest, not because it was organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith, not because of its size, others may be larger; but primarily because of its effectiveness and efficiency. The spirit of Relief Society is the spirit of service in its broadest and finest sense. It grips those who come under its influence and lifts them heavenward. All women are welcome, all are needed. "The richness of our programs make it interesting to young as well as older ones. It will make woman RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE more attractive, more charming, more successful in her sphere of action. The training she gets in this organization will make her a better wife, better mother and a happier woman. "In 1923 the E. R.
Snow memorial poem contest was established in honor of this pioneer poet and great woman leader, not only to perpetuate her memory by bringing it before the readers of our wonderful magazine each year in January, her natal month, but to encourage our ladies to cultivate the gifts of poetic expression and high ideals as she so beautifully exemplified them. 96 poems of quality and worth were sent in.
Each year a notable improvement in quality of composition is seen.
Most all are worthy of publication in our magazine, which has a circulation of 31,000." (Prize Poem if you want tt.) (Song, "Our Magazine," by chorus dressed in R. S. Colors. Dec. Mag., 1933.) READER: "The magazine comes once a month as a messenger of inspiration and consolation, filled with rare gems, poems, short stories, making us realize today as never before that we must constantly readjust to changing conditions.