[Vol22 | March 1935 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: Happenings Cannon]

Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Ida P. Beal Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Katie M. Barker Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Cora L. Bennion
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor: Mary Connelly Kimball Manager: Louise Y. Robison

Vol. XXII MARCH, 1935 No. 3
MARCH seventeenth records many experiences and accomplishments of Relief Society. To you, dear members, for the achievements of this year, congratulations and hearty thanks. Your efforts inspire confidence, your devotion indicates reliance upon divine aid which always insures success. Louise Y. Robison
IT is a source of keen pride and pleasure to me to be associated with the multitude of faithful workers in the Relief Society. Their devotion to the great Relief Society cause, and to the church itself; and their helpfulness to one another and to humanity in general at all times and under all circumstances distinguishes them as true followers of our Lord and Master. Amy Brown Lyman
HONOR and gratitude to the women of Relief Society, who are the living embodiment of the two great commandments upon which hang all the law and the Gospel?to love and serve God and fellowmen. Julia A. F. Lund
Relief Society: For my membership in this organization I am truly grateful. The opportunity it offers for unselfish service, as well as its educational value to all who will work for it cannot be over estimated. Also among its many blessings are the priceless friendships it has given me. God bless the Relief Society. Emma A. Empey
THE influence and teaching of the General Board of  
GREETINGS to the women of 182 GREETINGS to the woman who "looketh well to the ways of her household, and who eateth not the bread of idleness," who increases her efficiency by study and participation in Relief Society activities. Jennie B. Knight
"Go take to the lowly my blessing and peace. As I cared for the poor so do ye, And if ye do good to the least among these Ye verily do it to me."
SURELY they whose untiring and ceaseless efforts to maintain the high ideals and standards of Relief Society have done just that. All praise and honor to them for their supreme loyalty and devotion. May there be peace, happiness and contentment in the souls of those whose love and understanding have helped scores to travel the highway of life. May vision, courage and faith in the cause they represent come to those whose responsibilities are new and problems many. Lalene H. Hart
"THE beauty and breadth of Relief Society work is seen at its best in the activities in the Wards. I wish to pay my tribute of appreciation to the Ward Presidents, Counselors and Secretaries, who are doing a splendid work. Every week someone who has been forgotten is found and brought into the fold. God bless the Ward Officers! Lotta Paul Baxter
DURING the coming year. May we all realize that it isn't the size of the thing we do, but the way in which we do it that is the ultimate test of our usefulness. Wishing you continued success in your work. Cora L. Bennion
FROM its small beginning so long ago our Relief Society has RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE grown until its message now goes to its organizations in 21 foreign countries and to every state in the Union. On this its 93rd birthday greetings to its members everywhere and may God bless each one. Amy W. Evans
IN the great cosmic universe of our Heavenly Father every atom has its place, and is inter-related with every other atom. So, in our Relief Society, each member has her place and adds her strength to the whole organization. Rosannah C. Irvine
With joy I recall my visits to your Stakes. The cordiality, the sincerity and the love of our Relief Society workers has ever been an inspiration to me. May heaven's choicest blessings always be yours. Nettie D. Bradford
TO all members of the Woman's Relief Society on this the ninetythird birthday of its organization, Greetings: I cherish the most pleasant memories of all you whom I have contacted and hope to meet you all again and many more of my loyal coworkers during this coming season's activities. Elise B. Alder
MAY Relief Society women be blessed by ever keeping in mind that loving His children is the way to love God. Inez K. Allen
OUR earthlife is significant. Opportunities are daily afforded us for service and improvement. Our Relief Society is a medium of education for women. It is our great opportunity! I sincerely appreciate our great organization. Ida Peterson Beal
WE all have spiritual hungers?for selfexpression, for the EDITORIAL beautiful, for friendship, for the gospel message of hope and peace. I am very grateful for my membership in an organization which satisfies these longings. Kate M. Barker
TO all my Relief Society Sisters?love and appreciation. With John Greenleaf Whittier in The Eternal Goodness, may I say? "O Friends! With whom my feet have trod The quiet aisles of prayer, Glad witness to your zeal for God And love of man I bear." Marcia K. Howells
I AM grateful for the opportunity Relief Society has been to me, for the friendships I have formed and for the noble women with whom I have associated. They have been an inspiration to 183 me. May we look forward in this great work with hope and courage. Hazel H. Greenwood
IN memory of the founders of this great Relief Society we send greetings to the officers whose untiring efforts direct the plans and most of all to the vast army of selfsacrificing, uncomplaining workers, who relieve the suffering, comfort the sorrowing, and cheer the despondent. Emeline Y. Nebeker