Miracle on a March Day By Vesta Pierce Crawford shining white enamel, said Shannon Heath as she set the frying pan over the blazing wood fire in the kitchen range, "and pancakes instead of waffles." The pancakes bubbled up and Shannon turned them skilfully. She could do without household conveniences if she had to, but there were certain things that she could not do without. She knew exactly what these things were, but no one else could possibly understand—no one in Utah anyway. Not even Dan. And he really wanted to understand. She heard him out on the porch splashing water over his face. She could tell when the water spattered on and how it trickled off, and she knew just when he would seize the towel and when the water from the blue granite wash basin would land on the ground. Some men have such an irritating way of washing their faces and soaking their hair. Sometimes Shannon felt that she could not endure the snorting. Maybe, though, it wasn't his way of washing that was so bad. Just the general lack of culture, absence of the finer things. Dan slammed the door shut. "Is that some March wind, not cold, but fierce, a snow-eating wind. I'll be plowing come tomorrow." A' ugly black stove instead of Come tomorrow. He had even forgotten the kind of language he had used when he was a law student back east. The kind of language he had used to impress Shannon when he first knew her back there at the University. Lawyer turned farmer. What a change! Well she hated farms—especially Utah farms. And Utah people. She was glad that she didn't know many of them. The fewer the better. Two years on the Fremont and she was acquainted with only a few of the neighbors. But if they were a fair sample of the rest it was just as well to have very little to do with them. "Bring on the hot cakes. Do they look good, and Shannon, you're a beaut. That hair. Them eyes." He thought he saw anger flare suddenly in her dark blue eyes. He looked at the magnificent coil of red hair on the small regal head. A smile now and then and she would be priceless. "What you going to do today. Honey? It's a swell day—snow almost melted, ice broke loose in the creek and crashing down. Hans Gunderson digging a ditch. What you going to do?" "Clean the lamp chimneys. Wash the separator. Sweep up some mud. Tend the chickens. And if I get time I'm going to read." 140
Shannon read too much, but he didn't want to tell her that. And such peculiar reading. Not the plain kind of words he liked. Her books were different. A few days ago he had opened one of her volumes of poems and read a little. The phrases puzzled him.
They didn't seem to mean anything.
Strange how Shannon enjoyed such books, sitting hours alone reading them over and over again. "Shan, dear, why don't you come out of the kinks and see a little more of the neighbors. Get acquainted with our native Utah stock. We farmers along the Fremont may not be polished much on the outside but we're solid clear through." "Well, sometimes I'd prefer a little polish." "Shan, don't try to be.
Someone you're not. You were never cut out to be a cynic, a darling like you. I'd like my wife to understand my friends and find out what they're really like." "The more I see of them the less I like them."' Shannon pushed back her chair and looked out at Mill Valley—a stretch of hills navy blue with cedars and patched here and there with snow; a canal skirting the hills; then the patterned fields sloping down to the creek. It was rugged and yet peaceful—strange combination. Far away towards the blue mountains she could see the canyon gash—the place where the pioneers had come through when they first saw the Fremont. So Dan had said. And the pioneers thought this the fairest valley under heaven. Well, they were pioneers with the ability to see paradise in any valley that meant an end to wandering.