[Vol22 | March 1935 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Miracle on a March Crawford]

The girl in the road turned. Flossie Nielson! But she might as well. Act grateful. MIRACLE ON A MARCH DAY She climbed into the front seat and the car lurched forward and leaped along over the ruts. I've been more than busy today," explained Flossie. ''Had to put the finishing touches on the lesson. And right the last minute Tommy pinched his finger in the door and that man of mine brought two cattle buyers home for dinner." "I don't see how you get time to work in the Relief Society."
Shannon was trying to make conversation. "Time! I don't have time, but I take it. We farm women need Relief Society. It's about our only chance for lovely things. Why I wouldn't have read a poem these last fifteen years if it had not been for our literary lessons." Poetry!
Shannon looked at the dumpy little woman beside her.
Certainly there was nothing romantic in her sandy hair and pale blue eyes. Her hands on the wheel were red and knotty. The car swerved around a load of hay and chugged into the main street of the town. A row of miscellaneous automobiles and two old buggies stood in front of the meeting house and groups of women hurried along the sidewalk. "THEY went in together, Shannon and Flossie, and took their seats.
Shannon saw the friendly smiles directed towards them. The opening song was one that Shannon had never heard—"For the strength of the hills we bless Thee, our God, our Father's God...." For the strength of the hills.
Through the window Shannon could see the gap in the mountains where the pioneers came through in the early days. "Thou hast made thy children mighty by the strength of the mountain sod...." The music filled the chapel and floated out into the March sunshine.
When it was time to give the lesson 141
Flossie stood up quietly with 10 apparent nervousness. Yet her cheeks were flushed and her eyes shining. She held a little sheaf of notes in her hand. "I noticed the cedar trees today as I was coming to meeting.
They are beautiful. At the forks of the road there is a cedar tree taller than most of the others. It grows ona side hill and you can see its roots spreading out among the rocks."
Cedar trees—almost against her will Shannon loved them—navy blue where they congregate in dark companies on the hillside, raggedly beautiful where they stand in silhouette alone. Flossie's clear voice continued: "Utah literature is like this cedar tree with its roots in the rocks of this land and its branches reaching skyward. Not mature, a growing thing.
Perhaps years will pass before our tree of literature stands superbly grown. The arts are slow of growth. But today, my dear sisters, I want to talk about some examples of Utah literature that 1] think are worthy of the traditions of our State."
Shannon looked at the women who listened.
Some of them she knew. Old Marcia Gudmundson, without chick or child, who lived alone in Cottonwood Lane.
Expectancy and eagerness flooded her wrinkled face. She had not been born in the mountain valleys but she had learned to love them. Angeline Nagley whose large family had married and moved away to the city, Angeline who might have been very lonely indeed. But she did not look lonely. She smiled and there was a light in her brown eyes. She had come to the meeting to be filled with beauty and inspiration.
Shannon saw it in her face.
Flossie spoke of the literature that flowered early in the Utah valleys, the writings of Eliza R.
Snow and i42 the other sisters who edited the church magazines. "And the pioneers," said Flossie, ''even the leaders who laid the foundations of our inland empire were poets too. I think you will like these words: 'I found a large room canopied by the sky and walled in by these mountains.' Thus Brigham Young described the Salt Lake Valley, in these very words.
They are poetry — earthy poetry."
There was not a sound in the room.
Expectantly the women waited.
Flossie read again: " 'Their habitation is the munitions of rocks, and they ask no odds of the world, but they are subject to the God who has redeemed this basin....'" Flossie folded a sheet of paper as she explained, "These words were uttered by Daniel H.
Wells who felt deeply the surging pulse of the desert land."
Shannon looked at Trena Olsen, a young woman who had seen little of the world beyond the Fremont. She was married to a farmer and already the mother of a large family. She stared fixedly at Flossie and her eyes were eager.
Flossie glanced again at her notes. "Since these valleys were first settled Poetry has flowered in the desert; singers have lifted up voices of purity and power. One of our living poets, a woman, wrote these lines. I love them: “Over the knees of the mountains Indian summer lies Like the golden haze of remembered days Over a woman's eyes....” For a moment Shannon held her breath, drinking in the beauty of the words. At her side Helga Anderson RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE sighed, "them's the prettiest words I've heard since my Margaret died. She was a school teacher and could read real nice."
Shannon seemed to feel the emotions of all these women. A strange communion seemed to fill the room. She knew that everyone was remembering thoughts too deep for words.
Flossie folded up her notes and sat down. The lines of the closing song assailed Shannon with their lofty melody—"O, ye mountains high where the clear blue sky arches over the vales of the free...", "THE women lingered at the door.
That was a good lesson. We enjoyed it. You did yourself proud, I can live a long time on that. Vaguely Shannon heard their words of praise.
Flossie deserved everything they said. As the car jolted along out into the farmlands again Shannon sat very still.
When they reached the Nielson yard she got out slowly, thoughtfully: "Flossie, that lesson helped me out so much—so much more than I can say..." "Oh, that's all right, Sister Heath. I haven't much ability but we all have to do what we can and I like the meetings." All her arrogance, all her stupid superiority seemed to have vanished as Shannon walked along a road that meandered pleasantly through Mill Valley. The March wind whipped her cheeks and she heard the roar of the creek as it tumbled boulders and melting ice along its twisted channel.