[Vol25 | September 1938 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Article | Title: Ruth]

Ruth cleavin' to Naomi. Christy can't tear away from Heartha, at least not in one sudden jerk. It's like this, Hap, you're young. You're not a mind-reader. It takes the mellowin' touch of time to be able to discern the inside workin's of a woman's mind. Comes like a gift to some few men."
HAP'S eyes were aglow with a strange illumination. He grabbed up his hat and said, "I'm off, Uncle Alec. I'm going to beat that interurban car into Cedarville."
"It's goin' to be a race, Hap. The train has half an hour the start."
So the glossy, blue roadster went zooming down the lane. It was already eleven o'clock and Hap sped along as if trying to overtake ten-thirty a. m. The train was due in Cedarville at noon. Hap managed to reach the station a minute and a half before it pulled in. His alert eyes soon caught a glimpse of Christy as she falteringly descended the platform steps.
"Christy!"
She looked up and they stood face to face. He grasped her hands and said in low, clear tones, "The sun didn't go into a total eclipse, girlie."
She glanced up into his sparkling blue eyes with a dazed, wondering smile. Gently and quickly he ushered her into the glossy, blue roadster and they soon reached the wee, gray cottage of Heartha Wylie. Here they found the snow-path swept to the door. Aunt Heartha was seemingly unsurprised to see them. She was accustomed to their various quirks and whims. At the same time they were totally unaware that Uncle Alec had interceded for Hap in a telephone conversation with Heartha—the most lengthy indulgence of the kind he had ever allowed himself.
"Aunt Heartha, will you ride over to Riverbend with Christy and me?" importuned Hap. "We want to show you some improvements on Grandma Worth's old home."
Gallantly, almost tenderly, Hap escorted Aunt Heartha into the little blue roadster. She seemed as bright-eyed as a snowbird ensconced between the two. The white fields were a-glitter stretching to right and left on the highway. It didn't seem long until they were back at the little homestead. Uncle Alec was still there. He stretched out warm, welcome hands to Heartha, and kissed Christy's forehead. Christy hurriedly gathered up the sketches Hap had scattered here and there in the room.
"You'll excuse us, Aunt Heartha, while we carry this case of art material upstairs," said Hap.
"Go right ahead, you two," said Uncle Alec. "I'll take care of Heartha."
"I wonder what's on Uncle Alec's mind?" queried Hap of Christy when they reached the landing.
"Oh," said she, "they're old pals and neighbors. Just glad to see one another. That's all!"
"Aunt Heartha's a dear soul," said Hap warmly.
Christy sought his arms and he enfolded her for one long, blissful moment.
"Aunt Heartha will want to see the house," reminded Christy.
They found her and Uncle Alec in the kitchen pouring chocolate and spreading sandwiches.
"Oh, I just tucked a whole-wheat loaf and a pat of butter into my satchel," explained Aunt Heartha. "Folks are sure to get hungry."
"Aunt Heartha's a knowin' soul," spoke up Uncle Alec. "And we may as well tell you youngsters out and out—"
"Come now, what's all the hurry?" asked Heartha, looking up quickly into Uncle Alec's face.
"Can't they stand a bit of a shock?" asked Uncle Alec.
"What do you mean?" asked Christy.
"Just one thing. Your Aunt Heartha and I have agreed to set up our own housekeepin' back in my old home in Cedarville."
"You've made up your minds in a hurry!" gasped Christy.
"I'll say so!" rejoined Hap.
"It's all on natural principles," explained good old compromising Uncle Alec. "You young folk need to climb the stairs step by step while we of the older generation find it a heap handier to take the elevator."