WANDERINGS.

	In wandering where one seeks forgetfulness,
and so far as possible avoids all commonplaces,
it is sweet to glide leisurely along such rivers as
the Rhine, where every stone and mound has a
gaunt or thrilling legend; or to climb an alpine
mountain, where every step must be taken with
caution, and every backward look fortells a
danger, or to travel to some spot where great-
ness dwelt and tales of those famous in the
pages of history, whether as monarchs, warriors,
or geniuses are told. In his works we forget
an author lived and breathed and loved and
died, we study not the man, but his productions,
and in after years when we chance in our
travels over the earth to seek the early homes
of greatness, little do we learn of the man's
true life; they tell us, perhaps, that here he
lived, or here he wrote, or here he died and
there he lies buried. A stone marks the spot,
and in a neighboring town, may be, a statue
stands in memory to his greatness, or in a
neigboring church or abbey can be found a
monument to his fame. The truly great need
no monuments, their works live forever in the
hearts and minds of the people. What could
be built to Shakespeare's memory that could

[Column 2]

speak to us of his fame, and there are others;
each country has its own. It is not the country
that attracts and draws a people to wander
from native shores, it is that country's genius.
True, some lands far exceed others in beauty
and lovliness, yet each has its own peculiar
phases. We admire Ireland for its verdant
beauty, and Scotland for its highlands and
rocks and lakes, England for its wondrous
cities, its magnificent parks, its forests and
"green lanes," Norway for its pines and firs,
Switzerland for her stupendous, snow-clad
mountains and crystal lakes, Italy for her
glorious sunsets, her delightful climate, but
these things alone do not render countries great.
Nature has been so impartial that her bounties
have been bestowed in every clime, and it needs
more than a beautiful sunset, an exhilerating
air or a fine mountain scene to tempt man to
wander over miles of land and sea, it is the
romance of a land that renders it interesting,
that lures the stranger to her shore.
	When we enter a land where any author
lived we look for the homely details of that
author's life; we visit the home where he was
born, we walk in the paths he trod; we cull a
flower or a leaf from his grave, and we ask,
"What of him? What know you of his early
life?" Who would think of going to Scotland
and not visiting the home of her favorite bard,
Robert Burns, and with that name how in-
stinctively do we couple the name of his High-
land Mary. When we turn from Shakespeare's
home, how naturally we wander towards Ann
Hathaway's cottage, and after visiting his
grave what more can be done than to seek for
her's. Yearly hundreds of travelers go over
the same hallowed spots, think over the past of
great men's lives, and as they stoop to pluck a
flower, perhaps a few drop a tear over the
graves of their early loves, whom they know
to be the themes of these great men's songs.
How little does the world know of these maids
who so enjoyed their confidences, and may be
had the happiness to assist, or at least suggest
with some of the works that now give us such
delight. Of the men themselves, everything
remains; they have become to the world through
their genius immortal; of the women what—a
grave—only a grave, yet that grave is a
memory, not because the one who lies beneath
achieved for herself any greatness, but because
she was of greatness the beloved.
	If England had no other fame more than
that she was the home of Shakespeare, that
alone would be sufficient to draw the stranger
to her home, for in himself is he not a study?
Italy attracts for many things, but she needs
none other when she claims a Dante for her
son, and Germany ranks with England and
Italy, great among greatest, for she has in
Goethe a genius as great as either. And these
are the men of whom men write; that each was
in himself a department of knowledge, one be-
longing to the medeival world, one to the
great epoch of the Renaisence, and one to
modern times, and that a study of Dante,
Shakespeare or Goethe would be worthy the
best seasons of a man's life. And these men
loved and were like others, softened by the
gentle influences of womankind.
	As we traverse the broad country of Ger-
many on every side in all her largest cities and
in almost every hamlet, the eye rests on monu-
ments and statues erected to the memory of
her greatest genius—Goethe—art has excelled
itself in honor to his fame, but there lies in a
more touching memory, a monument to his
affections near the little village of Sessenheim
stands on a wooded hill a pretty arbour, where
the young poet spent many hours in happy
converse with his early love, a place for that
very fact now almost a sanctuary, where the
many admirers of Goethe make their pilgrim-
ages, and a few wander farther on that beautiful
way where the mountains of the Black Forest

[Column 3]

cast their sombre shadows o'er the valley of the
placid Neckar to the little cemetery of Meissen-
heim to stand by the tomb of Frederica Brion
and indulge in fanciful thoughts of this young
German maid whose name is now almost for-
gotten but, who once shared the affections of so
great a man.

	Man's greatness, fame and goodly deeds
		Sweep the earth like a triumphant wave;
	But his heart, his dreams, his inner life—
		Lie buried in the grave.

