TO LOUISE.

I sing of a gown that was old ere 'twas new;
'Twas commenced, I believe, in eighteen eighty-two;
		Aunt Mell she began,
		Upon grandma's plan,
To make for her niecc, (every stitch was by hand,
From whipping of puff to hemming of bend,)
		A dress, if you please,
		For little Louise;
A dimpled young darling, who then was perhaps,
The age of eighteen months; and who took daily naps.
		I said she began it;
		Some unlucky planet,
Interrupted the making, when 'twas but cut out;
What with clubs and with topics, and gadding about,
	The gown was neglected and lay in a basket;
		Her mamma did not ask,
		Mell, to finish the task,
Being quite too polite to suggest "'twould not fit
If she waited much longer ere finishing it;"
		But she thought, I am sure,
		The making a failure,
	And wondered what planet had seen fit to blast it,
		But ah! Well, a day,
		How time slips away,
	'Twas two years—yes, three,—I'm ashamed to confess it,
	Ere this gown it was finished, from neckband to gusset,
And time; without warning, had played us such tricks,
	Louise had outgrown the original fashion,
	The skirt must be lengthened, the belt have a sash on,
As years had elapsed and the child was near six.
	
		So, at length, Auntie Mell,
		(For the gown it was well)
	Remov'd to the mountains, in seclusion to dwell;
And thinking the quiet would aid her endeavor
To finish this gown, (better late, friends, than never)
		She "fell to" again,
		With might and with main.
	She stitched every seam, and hemmed every ruff,
	She scratched all the gathers, and whipped every puff,
'Tis finished, at length, to the very last stitch,
Ev'ry button is fast, and I scarcely know which
	To admire the most, the patience or pattern;
	One thing's plain, in sewing, Aunt Mell is no slattern.
		The most critical eye
		Would fail to descry,
          A stitch to put in, take out, or gather awry.
		The victory's won!
		At last it is done!
	And I verilly believe, never under the sun,
	Was a gown, so long making, so early begun.

These rhymes are indited in love and contrition,
To my niece; who never, by voice, or petition,
Or spoiling her beauty by a tear or a frown,
Has entreated her Auntie "to finish that gown!"
	Murray, Oct. 27th, 1888.


[Column 1]

