VISIT TO EMERY STAKE.

	In company with Sister Jane S. Richards, we
made a visit to Emery Stake in October last from
this city to Price on the D. & R. G. train. We had
an interesting conversation on the way with the
Rev. Wm. Irvine and wife; the gentleman is a
celebrated divine, of New York City, and had been
west in the interest of the home mission work of
the Presbyterian Church. His wife was a very
refined and cultivated lady, who had seen much of
the world, and could converse intelligently of
foreign lands, works of art abroad, and natural 
scenery of those older countries, a woman one
would always recollect as having said something
worth remembering; she had called at the office of
the EXPONENT, when we talked for a couple of
hours, most of the time upon "Mormonism." She
had heard all the dreadful tales that are told con-
cerning our people, and had evidently come to Utah
filled with prejudice. I explained many principles,
and related experiences to illustrate the faith and
sincerity of the Mormon women, and especially
dwelt upon the freedom they enjoyed, and the
happiness that existed in families previous to the 
enforcement of the Edmund's law.
	The natural scenery through Castle Gate ab-

[Column 2]

sorbed our entire attention after reaching that
part of the journey; it was a time of the day that
hightened the beauty of the "everlasting hills,"
and the glory of the setting sun reflected upon
the peaks and craggs was something ever to be
remembered. One who has not seen the natural
scenery upon this wonderful road has missed an
entertainment interesting and effective. The men
who built this railroad deserve great credit for the
enterprise they have shown in doing such a won-
derful work, in the midst of a desert land sandy
and barren, and for the pleasure to the many
travelers in natural beauty and grandeur, they
deserve unbounded praise. It is too grand for
words, and there is no language adequate to its
expression.
	Arriving at Price, we went direct to the Bishop's
house, and failing to find any one at home, we in-
quired for the President of the Relief Society.
Sister Richards was much gratified to find in her
one of her old time Ogden acquaintances, and it
was quite opportune for we needed rest and
refreshment, and some one to conduct us further
upon our way. We were shown every attention
possible by Brother and Sister Cox and their
daughter Sarah; their hospitality can never be
forgotten. Several friends and neighbors came in
through the course of the evening, and the time
passed quickly and agreeably.
	The following morning we took leave of Sister
Cox, whose duties would not permit her to attend
the Sisters' Conference, and in company with
Brother Cox and daughter and Sister Pace, we
drove away towards Huntington, the next settle-
ment. The ride was a very tedious one, over
such dreadful roads, and a perfectly barren tract
of country. One traveling there would wonder
how the people subsisted, for there seemed little
or no vegetation. We reached Huntington about
noon. This is rather a more prosperous looking
place, but all was so quiet we soon saw there was
no conference being held there, as we had ex-
pected. However at the house of a friend we
were most warmly welcomed, and our team and
our party carefully cared for. We sent for the 
President of the Relief Society, whom we after-
wards learned was away from home, but we
succeeded in seeing one of her counselors. An
appointment was given out for a meeting in the
evening, at which time the meeting house was
well filled; there were many brethren as well as
sisters in the audience, and the larger number
were young men. We slept at the house of Sister
Sophia Pulsipher Burgess, and early in the morn-
ing pursued our way to Orangeville, where we
arrived in time for the Conference of the Primary
Association, the first one that had been held in
Emery Stake. Here we met with Sister Josie E.
Childs, First Counselor in the Relief Society of
Emery Stake, and with whom we felt somewhat
acquainted, having had some correspondence
heretofore. We were greatly disappointed to
learn that the Relief Society Conference was
already over; however, the Primary Conference
was a very good one, and we felt a good spirit
prevailing in the meeting. Miss Bessie Harvard
was nominated as Secretary of the Primary
Association of Emery Stake and sustained by
unanimous vote. We dined sumptuously at the
residence of Brother Reed, and started off directly
to attend the Conference of the Y. L. M. I. A. at
Castle Dale, drove straight to the meeting house,
which was crowded with people; many young men
were present, and two of the leading brethren
from Salt Lake City. The meeting was a very
good one, the brethren occupying part of the
time, and as soon as the Conference adjourned
we were again upon our way towards Huntington.
We lodged at the residence of Bishop Pulsipher,
whose wife is also counselor to the President in
the Stake organization of the Relief Society. She
was also an old-time friend of Sister Richards,
which made it pleasant for us both. The morning

[Column 3]

found us again on our way back to Price, over the
dreadful roads, but our great consolation was we
had such a careful charioteer. We arrived in 
Price in time to take dinner and keep our appoint-
ment made for a meeting there in the evening on
our return. Here as in Huntington and Castle
Dale there were a large proportion of young men
in the audience. The following morning we bade
our host and hostess, the Bishop and others good-
bye, and took the train for Salt Lake. Passing
through Castle Gate we had another opportunity
of admiring the magnificent grandeur of the rocky
cliffs, and contemplating again the wondrous works
of the Creator of the Universe. This was the
first visit either Sister Richards of the writer had
paid to Emery County, but it was a very pleasant
one; we were cordially welcomed everywhere,
and no pains spared to make our visit satisfactory
to all. The sisters so far removed from the centre
Stake of Zion feel that they need encouragement 
and instruction, and they really appreciate the
counsel and teaching of those who go as home
missionaries among them. Their labors there to
subdue the desert and make the waste places 
habitable, that the Saints may dwell therein, are
commendable indeed. The country looks barren,
unfruitful and forbidden, and only people of enter-
prise with undaunted courage, would ever think
they could endure the hardships incident to such
an undertaking. Success to their efforts in making
the desolate places desirable homes for the people


