DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	President Annie L. Ivins requested me to
give you a sketch of our trip to the western
settlements.
	President A. L. Ivins, with her Counselors,
M. B. Eyring and A. C. Woodbury, left St.
George on the 15th of Oct. about 8 o'clock in
the morning. We passed through the Santa

[Column 2]

Clara settlement, as we had visited that settle-
ment a short time ago. We traveled up the
Clara stream, as the road runs through the
stream most of the way to Gunlock; the
scenery is quite romantic. This road is quite
dangerous in stormy weather, owing to floods.
We arrived at Gunlock about 4 o'clock, ex-
pecting to hold meetings with the Relief So-
ciety and Primary. Our notice having been
delayed we had no meeting, as there were
some sick and others very busy.
	16th we started to Pine Valley. About four
miles from Gunlock is the famous Big Hill; it
is a wonder how loaded teams ever get over it.
I have often wished I had the eye of an artist,
that I could sketch some of the scenery in this
mountain region. We arrived at Pine Valley
and held meeting with the Relief Society at
4 o'clock, Sister Slade presiding. In the
evening met with the Primary, Sister Julia
Cox presiding; had a very good meeting.
	17th traveled to Pinto. It rained through
the day, so we met with the Young Ladies in
the evening, and the Relief Society sisters in
with them, Sister Lizzie Harrison presiding.
	18th went on to Hamblin; met with Primary,
Sister Mary Westover presiding. Here they
had not held meetings on account of the death
of some of their brightest children. There are
very few families here, owing to the scarcity of
water through floods. One family, Bro. Cam-
field, lost four children out of five. Sister
Westover chose Sister Tessa Camfield as First
Counselor, and Philena Emmet as her Second
Counselor; Olive Emmet, Secretary, and D. C.
Emmet Assistant Secretary.
	19th went on to Hebron, and met with the
R. S. at 2 o'clock, Sister Hester Pulsipher pre-
siding. The settlement all turned out here.
This settlement labors under a great disadvan-
tage, owing to the flues being washed away that
brought the water to the city. When we were
here last year they talked of moving to the
water, but I believe they concluded to rebuild
the flume. They have nice brick houses, but
quite a number of the people have decided to
move to Colorado. After meeting we drove
over to Bishop Terry's Ranch, where we were
kindly entertained by Sister Terry.
	20th traveled on thirty-five miles to Panacca.
Here we left Utah and went into Nevada; at
the summit we crossed the line staked out for a
railroad. I think about ten or fifteen miles
from Panacca there is no water on this route
till we get about ten miles from Panacca.
Here we were kindly entertained by Bishop
Lee and pleasant family.
	21st we met with the Sabbath School, Bro.
Samuel Lee presiding. He kindly turned it
over to the Primary; had a very nice meeting;
at 4 o'clock we met with the Relief Society.
22nd returned to Bishop Terry's ranch;
23rd traveled to Sister Camfield's and
had dinner; then went on to Bro. Frank
Foster's where we were kindly entertained by
their daughter. 24th returned home after
being out ten days and traveled about two
hundred miles.
	Trusting we have done some good for the
advancement of God's kingdom upon the
earth, ever praying for the welfare of Zion, I
remain, your sister in the Gospel.
