ONEIDA STAKE.

	The Relief Society of tho Oneida Stake
held their annual conference at Franklin, Sept.
9, 1888. Prest. Elizabeth Fox presiding.
After the opening exercises Sisters Mary Hawks
and Mary J. Hendricks were set apart as
counselors to Prest. Fox.
	The Presidents of the different wards gave
in their verbal reports which were very favor-
able. 
	Coun. M. Hawks said: "we should not be
ashamed to bear our testimony. We are a
blessed people, we should attend our meetings
and learn useful things."
	Coun. M. J. Hendricks: Her motto was to
be on hand at all times. Felt honored to
have been in "plural marriage," to bring up
sons and daughters in the same. Related her
daughters dream. Bore a faithful testimony.
	Coun. M. F. Cowley felt pleased to address
the sisters; spoke encouragingly to mothers to
teach them everything timely and good.
Dwelt at some length on "charity." Those
who stand at the head of families should be
very careful in all their actions.
	Sunday, 2 p. m., Singing. Prayer by W.
L. Webster. Singing. Sacrament was then
administered; minutes of previous conference
read and approved.
	Sister Richards felt to exhort us to lay
aside all pride, "and train the minds of our
children; not spend so much time in adorning
their body, but adorn their minds with truth
and virtue and they will bless you in your old
age; cherish charity, and learn forgiveness to
all men and the lord will forgive whom he
will. It is the duty of the Relief Society to
administer to the needs of the poor. We
have been instructed to lay up grain; we shall
he called upon to feed many people from all
nations. Do we keep all the commandments
given us ? I think not; or we would not be as
we are to-day. But the time will come when
Zion will arise and shine; put away every-
thing that is evil and the Lord will bless us.
	Sister Clark said: "what is a mother in
Israel ? It is to teach their children by pre-
cept and example. We must bring ourselves
in subjection to the laws of God. If the older
classes will serve the Lord we will soon lead
the young into the path of duty." Spoke
with power of the great blessings she had re-
ceived and wished to encourage the sisters unto
faithfulness.
	Bishop L. L. Hatch made a few remarks,
praying that we might be able to put into
practice what we had heard to-day.
	Prest. Elizabeth Fox said: "we have had
an enjoyable time; our societies are a blessing
to the poor. Do not be slothful in doing
good." Desired the sisters to be dilligent in
attending to the duties that devolve upon them.
	Singing,  Benediction by S. R. Parkinson.
