DEAR EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I wish to give you a short sketch of our trip
around the Oneida Stake of Zion. On the 12th
of October myself and Sister Mary Hawkes,
counselors, started from Franklin by team to
go to Mink Creek to hold meeting with the
Relief Society at 3 p. m., and of course the
brethren were not excluded. It being twenty
miles from Franklin, and that considerable of
the distance rising higher and higher, till we
appear to be right on the mountains. We think
none but the toiling, industrious Mormons
would make farms and homes here. But here
we are on time, with sharpened appetites to do
justice to lunch provided by Sister Rosenbaum,
and then to meeting, where we are pleased to
find a good turnout of the sisters, and also the
bishop and others of the leading brethren.

[Column 3]

Suffice to say we had a splendid meeting, the
Spirit of the Lord being with both speakers
and hearers. After meeting we go with the
President of the Relief Society, and other
sisters whom she invited to her home. We have
a good sociable time besides partaking of the
hospitality of our hostess. We stayed all nigh
here.
	13th.—We go over the divide into Gentile
Valley. When we finally reach the top
of those hills, the views we have of Bear
River are Grand in the extreme. I think every
soul who beholds them cannot but acknowledge
the handiwork of an Allwise Creator. Now
we go down into the valley, and arrive in time
to hold meeting with the sisters in Mound
Valley Ward, eat dinner with the President of
the Relief Society, after which we travel on to
Mormon Ward and put up with our former
co-laborer, Sister Ann Hale, in this stake. We
received a kind welcome, and put up for the
night.
	14th.—This being the Sabbath day, we at-
tended school this morning. The Superin-
tendent is Brother Sol Hale, Jun. We were
much pleased with the exercises and the good
order of the bright, intelligent looking children.
In a little while after school the meeting was
held owing to the people being so scat-
tered. After the opening of the meeting and
sacrament had been administered, the bishop
gave us the opportunity of occupying the time
we wished, in speaking to the sisters. There
needed a re-organization of the Relief Society,
the former president, S. Richards, having
removed. The organization was effected with
Sister Julia Pond President, Jane Bolwinkle
and Agnes Harris Counselors. We had a good
visit the day out with our friend, Sister Hale,
and stayed the night here.
	15th.—Our teamster says, all aboard for
Oxford, so, bidding our friends a hearty good-
bye and thanks for kindnesses, we take our
departure from this pretty little valley. We
arrive at Oxford in plenty of time for our
meeting at 3 o'clock p.m. Here we put up at
M. J. Hendricks, our second counselor, she
having been put in place of Sister Hale, who
was honorably released, owing to her having
other local duties to attend to. We had a good
meeting here with the sisters of the Relief
Society. We also had a few good remarks
from Bishop Lewis and Patriarch Milo Andrus.
We stay here all night.
	16th.—Sister Hendricks now accompanies us
to Marsh Valley. We hold meeting at 2 p. m.
at Woodland, and at 6:30 in the evening at
Garden Creek. Stay here all night.
	17th.—Hold meeting at Nine Mile at 11 a.
m., after which we return to Oxford, having
traveled about sixty-five miles since we left here.
	18th.—This morning we leave Oxford to go
to Clifton, and I must say the mountain scenery
on our right is beautiful indeed; the rich
autumn tints of the foliage have to be seen to be
appreciated The dwelling houses on this bench
have the grand old mountains for a back-ground
and quite a long stretch of meadow-land in
front, which makes it a lovely situation for
homes. We hold meeting here at Clifton at
10:30 a. m., after which our friends kindly
provide us with refreshments. We afterwards
continue our journey on to Weston, where we
are to hold meeting at 4 p. m. We arrive in
time, and are pleased to find a goodly number
of the sisters gathered, and also Bishop Clark
and other brethren. We spend the night at
Sister Clark's, President of the Relief Society,
where we are entertained in the evening with
a nice selection of music on the organ by their
daughter, Miss Clark.
	19th.—We leave here this morning for
Preston, our meeting to be held at 11 o'clock
a. m. There was also a good attendance of the
sisters here, and Bishop W. C. Parkinson, who
gave us good instructions during our meeting.


Afterwards we were invited to spend a few
hours with our genial friend, Mrs. Nellie
Parkinson, with a few other sisters. It was not
long before dinner was announced, when we all
sat down to a well spread table. Traveling in 
these mountains as a general thing makes
people enjoy their food; it was so with us in this
case. Now we bid our kind friends good-bye,
and this being our last place to visit on this
tour, myself and Sister Hawkes return to our
homes in Franklin, Sister Hendricks having
left us before, and we feel very grateful to our
heavenly Father that he has assisted us in our
weakness by His good Spirit to perform our
duty in trying to encourage our sisters to live
up. to the great privileges they can enjoy in
their Relief Societies. We have traveled about
one hundred and seventy miles by team, and
held ten meetings. The sisters treat us kindly 
in every place. May the Lord bless them in
their responsible duties is the desire of their
sister,		ELIZABETH FOX.
	Franklin, Idaho, Nov. 8, 1888.


