R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., & P. A. REPORTS.

	(Minutes of the Relief Society conference of
Sanpete Stake, held at Ft. Green, Sept. 14,
1888. Prest. M. A. Hyde presiding.)
	Singing, prayer, singing. M. A. Hyde
spoke. Felt thankful for the opportunity of
again beholding the faces of her sisters in con-
ference assembled.
	"The last time we met here we had with us
our Prest. Sister Eliza, but since, she has been
called to labor in a higher sphere, and others
have been chosen to fill her place. Much de-
pends upon the spirit of the congregation what
kind of meetings we have. God is always
willing and ready to bless His daughters as
well as His sons if they will but seek Him
earnestly and prayerfully, and they will re-
ceive blessings far beyond their anticipations."
	Statistical and Financial reports read. Ver-
bal reports were given from Prests. and repre-
tentatives of Ft. Green, Mayfield, Mt. Pleasant,
Spring City, Ephraim and Manti; showing that
the sisters were always willing, ready and on
hand to do whatever was required of them in
providing for the sick, emigrating the poor,
storing wheat, raising silk etc. etc.,
	(Sister Precinda L. Kimball was next to ad-
dress the conference.) Was very thankful to
be with us it being her first visit to Sanpete.
Had been with the Saints in every move; been
through every trial and hardship that they
had passed through, but had never felt to mur-
mur or complain. (In times of scarcity and
famine she had prayed to God to take away
her appetite so she could give to those who suf-


[Column 1]

fered.) Wondered if it was a judgement again
coming on us as the crops had not yielded in
full; "we should live very near unto God, be
humble and prayerful every day of our lives,
that this judgement might pass us by.")
	Spoke of the great blessing the Relief So-
cieties were to the Priesthood. Was very much
pleased to see the plainness here among the
people; hoped they would continue so. Ad-
vised parents to make their homes pleasant
and attractive and keep their children home at
night as they knew not the wickedness and sin
that is going on in our midst. Hoped the
young girls would be modest and virtuous in
their dress, conversation, habits and associates.
Urged upon the sisters the necessity of being
washed and annointed preparatory to their con-
finement as it is a great blessing to both mother
and child.
	Spoke of the principal of "Celestial Marri-
age," what a blessing it was for men to have
more wives especially if they were like Sister
Hyde and Vilate Kimball who had been so
kind and generous to their husbands children
and family. Hoped we would be kind to the
poor and the aged as it was a dreadful thing
to be poor and old. It is they who need our
aid and sympathy and not the rich. Prayed
God to bless the sisters of Sanpete with His
choicest blessings, and all who labor for the
building up of His work.
	Sister M. W. Snow Spoke: Was highly
pleased with the instructions we had received
this afternoon; hoped we would carry them
out. Knew that the spirit of the Lord had
been with the sisters during conference. Al-
ways enjoyed meeting with the sisters of this
Stake; loved all who loved the Lord; While
sitting and listening she had thought of the
goodness of God in making the desert blossom
as the rose. How necessary it was for Mothers
to set good examples before their children; if
that should they err they cannot say "mother
did that." How essential it is for
them to set good examples that are worthy
of imitation. Spoke in relation to the Manti
Temple and how the Spirit had been working;
what a great work had been going on for the
dead. Spoke of the sisters being baptised for
their health; if they would go in faith what a
blessing it would be to them. Knew that
every principal we had been taught was from
God, even the principal of "Celestial Marriage;"
we should never allow ourselves to speak lightly
of it. Prayed God to bless, strengthen and
help us all to do right.
	(Prest. M. A. Hyde had been greatly in-
terested in the remarks, and also the reports.
Thought the sisters deserved great credit for
their industry and perseverence.
	What beautiful times we are living in for
a faithful Latter-day Saint. Spoke of the
good times they used to have in early days,
exercising the gifts, prophesying, comforting the
sick etc., closed by speaking in "tongues."
Sister Kimball giving the interpretation.)
	Closing remarks were made by Prest.
Canute Petersen. Related some of the ex-
perience he had had in his early days; of the
goodness of God to him, and the gifts and
blessings he had enjoyed. Exhorted the sisters
to continue in their good work, and be help-
meets to their husbands instead of help-eats.
To do all the good they could in helping to
carry on the glorious work.
	A letter was read from the Prest. of the
Silk Association by Coun. S. Petersen. Sing-
ing, "Oh My Father thou that dwellest," etc.,
Benediction. Conference adjourned to meet
at Spring City Dec. 15, 1888, at 10 a. m.,
	The sisters have on hand in cash: $849.13;
in Property, $1,066.89; in Real Estate, $8,786.
95; in Wheat, 8,147 bushels 47 pounds; Mul-
berry trees 572.
