EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I thought I would send you a synopsis of
our trip to conference, which was held at
Monticello, Utah, last month, as it might prove
interesting to some of your readers, who, like
myself, have been raised in the city, and accus-
tomed to going no further than the Tabernacle
to attend conference.
	As my husband could not very well leave
home, it was decided that I should go, and I
was particularly anxious to do so, for the
reason that my two brothers (one of whom
had been here two years, and the other ten
months), were going home to Salt Lake on a
visit, and I wanted to go as far as Monticello
with them, so arrangements were made for me
to go with a Bro. and Sister B.
	Now, although I was desirous of going, I
was on the point of giving up the idea several
times, for it seemed such an undertaking to
travel ninety miles by team, and I am afraid if
it had not been for the boys I should have
backed out at the "eleventh hour," but they
persisted in saying it would be such a good
chance to see the country, and the trip would
do me good; so, feeling very much like a
martyr, I said, "Yes, I will go," and the morn-
ing of the 22nd found me with valise and
lunch basket packed ready for the ordeal.
The weather was anything but inspiring, for it
had rained all night, and was still raining, and
the mud was ankle deep. Just about the time
Bro. B. and Co. should put in an appearance,
I hear my brother say, "Why, there are Bro.
B's horses!" and sure enough there they are;
they have strayed from home during the night,
and are about four miles from where they are
wanted. Just as my brother has started after
them to take them back, Bro. B's boy comes
along after them, and a pretty tramp he has
had through the mud.
	I take things quite coolly now, for I know
they will not be after me for some time to come,
so pick up the last Deseret News and scan its
pages o'er, to see how matters are going on at
home. While I sit reading, three wagons be-
longing to our company go by, and about
eleven o'clock my wagon comes along, so my
little girl and I say good-bye to "papa" and
"brother" and creep under the wagon cover
into the back end of the wagon, by Grandma
P. (another passenger), I feeling sure that by
night I shall be as "sick as a dog" with bilious
headache. We have not traveled more than a
mile before the clouds roll back and the sun
shines out beautifully, and continues to do so
the whole trip.
	Our first stop is made about 3 o'clock, at
Margon's saw mill; here we overtake the other
wagons. The symptoms of sick headache
have left me by this time, and I am hungry
enough to do justice to my dinner. After
dinner we all start out together. Our journey
lies through a pleasant strip of country, and
over a very good road. About sundown we
come to a Mr. Johnson's place, situated near
the Dolores River. This is the first house we
have seen since leaving Margon's; it is quite a
nice place, and is owned by a stock man.
About two miles further on we conclude to
camp for the night, and soon all hands are
busy, the men taking care of the horses, pull-
ing sagebrush and making fires, and the
women getting supper. I am a "green hand" at
cooking on a camp fire, so try to be useful by
taking care of Sister B's baby; feel more at
home in that line. As I sit there taking in the
scene, I am reminded very forcibly of that
long journey across the plains, when I was
but little older than my little daughter, and I
look at her and wonder if in twenty-five years
from now she will be able to remember this trip
as clearly as I do that.

[Column 2]

	While supper is getting ready I will tell you
who some of the members of our party are.
That pleasant looking man, holding the frying
pan over the fire, is our Bishop, and the one
who stands by his side, looking as though he
was absorbed in a "brown study," is his brother
William, one of the Stake Presidency; those
two women a few feet beyond, unpacking that
provision box, are their wives; a little farther
on in the circle sits a pale-faced, dark-eyed
woman, that is the President of the Relief
Society, and—well, supper is ready, and I
could not describe them all, for there are
twenty-six men, women and children, and a
happy little crowd we are as we sit around the
camp fire, cracking good-natured jokes at each
other's expense, relating scraps of personal ex-
perience, or discussing the principles of the
Gospel. About nine o'clock it is proposed
that we have prayers, so that those who wish
may retire. Peculiar feelings thrill through
my being as I kneel down in that lonely spot,
with the beautiful moonlight shining down up-
on us, while we offer up the gratitude of our
hearts to the Giver of every good and perfect
gift, for His loving watchcare that has been
over us during the day, and implore a continua-
tion of the same over our little band, and that
it may extend to the dear ones left at home,
and my heart is filled with thanksgiving for
the blessed privilege of being associated with
the people of God.
	The next morning we were up bright and
early, and are soon on our way again, and
travel fifteen miles before dinner. About four
o'clock in the afternoon we pass Alkali Springs,
and from the taste of the water I should say
they were rightly named. After leaving there
the road is rather rough and hilly, and in order
to make it lighter on the animals, we get out
and walk up the worst places. During the
afternoon we travel for miles through dry
timber, that has been killed by fires, and we
think what a prize it would be if only situated
near to some of our Utah towns. At seven
o'clock we arrive at Dove Creek. Here on a
little spot as green and level as a lawn, and
surrounded by hills, we camp. Some of us
not feeling very well to-night, probably the
effects of change of water, but it proves to be
nothing serious.
	Friday morning we are on the road again
at an early hour, and are not sorry that to-day
will bring us to our destination. About half-
past ten we cross the State line, and after an
absence of two years and a half, I once more
breathe the air of Utah. We are now near-
ing Piute Springs, and when almost there we
pass a grave, close by the roadside. Some one
says it is the grave of a man who was found
dead at one of the houses at the Springs, and
that sets one to wondering who he was, where
he came from, whether he has a mother or a
wife living, and if so whether they ever learned
what became of him. Some friendly hand
has covered the grave with flat stones, and
stood one at the head. Well, here we are at
the Springs; there are two or three log cabins
here, and I am surprised to see a woman and
child emerge from one of them, for I supposed
none but men lived in such a wild, out of the
way place. The water here is the best we
have had since leaving home. We fill up the
kegs and water the horses, for we will have to
make a dry camp at noon. About half-past
four p.m. we begin to strain our eyes to catch
a glimpse of Monticello, for we are almost
there, and pretty soon we can discern a build-
ing, which proves to be the meeting house, and
then four or five more log houses and two or
three tents come into sight, and these make up
the town, which is not more than six months
old. In that short time, the few people that
are there, besides building their houses, have
fenced a field of 380 acres, put in their crops,
and done considerable work on the water ditch.

[Column 3]

The town is very pleasantly situated, and in a
few years, if all is well, will be a fine place.
As we approach the houses the folks come out
to greet us, among the rest Grandma P's
daughter, a former resident of Mancos, who
has been here about a month; she is very much
pleased to see us all. Our team and the
Bishop's drive down to her place. After clean-
ing ourselves up and eating supper, we attend
choir practice, which is held at one of the
neighbors'.
	The next day conference commences; it is
held in the new meeting house, which  is not
yet completed, for there is no floor, and the
seats are only temporary; but the Spirit of the
Lord is there, and we have an enjoyable time.
In the evening a number of us are invited to
Bro. Walton's to supper. After supper others
of the visitors drop in, and we spend a very
pleasant evening in listening to songs, recita-
tions, etc. During the evening two young 
ladies sing, "Must I leave the old home,
mother?" which touches a tender spot in my
heart, and I steal out in the moonlight to in-
dulge in thoughts of home and mother, and
the dear ones who dwell in the "City of the
Saints."
	Sunday there are three meetings, as the
Y. M. M. I. A. hold a meeting in the evening.
	Monday the Relief Society meets at half-
past nine a.m., the Y. L. M. I. A. at half-past
twelve, and P. A. at three o'clock, and thus
ends our conference. The young folks think
they must have a dance in the evening to
finish up with, so a floor is laid down in one of
the unfinished houses, and their desire is
granted. The most of the older ones are glad
to go to bed and get rested, ready for an early
start home on the morrow.
	Tuesday morning all are on the move at an
early hour, and soon after breakfast we bid
good-bye to all and start for home.
	Our journey thither need not be described,
as it was similar to the one going out; suffice it
to say, we reached home in safety, well satisfied
with our trip.
		L. M. W.
	Mancos, Col., September 28, 1888.


