THE DEL MONTE & MONTEREY.

	From San Francisco along the Southern Pacific
line to Monterey the scenery is very picturesque.
The first station is Ocean View, a handsome
little place. Passing on through small towns
with pretty little cottages, trees, vines and shrub-
bery, one comes upon San Mateo, a town older
and larger than most of the others and which is
spoken of as a place desirable to see, but one
has no chance to observe much from a railway
train in motion and the stopping is almost always in
an uninteresting part of the town. On and on
again, we arrive at Menlo Park where there are
very handsome grounds laid out and beautified,
that are a delight to the eye of the traveler.
Further on is Mayfield, which one would presume
has the appearance of May all the year round,
flowers always fresh, and leaves green; then after
two more waits at commonplace towns we
reach Santa Clara, where there are some large
and handsome residences and grounds, and the
fruits are very fine.
	The next place is San Jose, and here we had
decided to stop off a few hours, wait for the next
train, and hunt up some cousins. Here we
walked around up and down making inquiries etc.
for as we had heard much of the fame of San
Jose, we were anxious to see for ourselves. It is we
are told, a town of about 30,000 or more inhabit-
ants, many of them very wealthy. An elegant
new City Hall has been built recently, and a large
hotel called the Melville; there are street cars
running there, and altogether, it seemed to be a
prosperous and thriving city. We dined at the
Lick House, and indeed felt anxious to stay over
and go up to the Lick Observatory, but, learning
that it would require one whole day's time, we
denied ourselves the pleasure, as time was an ob-
ject in making this journey.
	After dinner we started out again and succeeded
in finding one of the relatives we had been search-
ing for; we had to introduce ourselves, of course,
but we were graciously received notwithstanding
we were from Utah. The lady soon harnessed
her horse and went with us to what is known
there as "The Willows," just at the outskirts of
the town, where there is a great deal of fruit-dry-
ing and packing done. We were looking for Mrs.
Marilla M. Ricker, of Washington, we learned
from her cousin, a sweet Quakeress, she had
gone down to Santa Barbara, so we left our
cards and drove back to the centre of the town.
Mrs. Reese pointed out many places of interest,
and drove out to the district or streets occupied by
the Spanish Mexicans, so we had a chance to see
and hear something about their life and habits,
from one well acquainted with her subject. Hear-
ing and seeing reminded the writer strongly of
Helen Jackson's story Ramona.

[Column 2]

	After returning with Mrs. Reese to her home
we conversed upon current topics, and discussed
woman-suffrage and equal rights etc.,
	Miss Olive Reese an Ohio girl from Willoughby
was quite an advocate of advanced ideas. but
seemed to think California people were scarcely
prepared for woman's advancement. She had
been trying to organize societies of the W. C. T. U.,
and had met with some opposition, and a great
deal of ridicule and sarcasm. We took tea with
our new found cousin and family and immediately
after bade good-bye, and proceeded on our way to
the train, arriving just in time to catch the evening
train for Monterey. From San Jose to Monterey
the ride was uninteresting on account of the
darkness, and as we were very weary it added
much to our discomfort; therefore, we rejoiced
when we came in sight of the Del Monte station.
When we allighted and filed into the Hotel buss
along with about twelve or fifteen others as tired
seemingly, as we were. Entering by a few wide
steps under a portico, we were ushered into a
large hall where an immense open fire-place was
blazing with light from huge pine logs on large
old-fashioned fire-dogs. The brilliancy of the
gas light from the chandelier added to the cheer-
ful effect, and we waited in silence for our turn to
register; as we were only two ladies traveling
alone we were the last served, but finally our turn
came; and after some inquiries as to prices etc.
we registered from Salt Lake City. The clerk,
in a business like manner, informed us that dinner
would be over at eight, and it was then half past
seven; so we took the elevator to the third
story, hurridly made our evening toilet and de-
scended to the dining-room. We were seated at
one of the tables with some of our fellow-passen-
gers, and as one invariably does among strangers,
we began to take notes, in a quiet way, of the
party. There was an elderly man and his wife,
some years younger, which I knew the moment I
saw them, and a boy of perhaps eight or nine,
two young women and a gentleman with iron,
gray hair; they were a very jolly crowd, and evi-
dently come to have a good time. Our idea was
that the old gentleman was entertaining the other
party, who were having a good deal of fun at his
expense, in more than the way of eating and
drinking, and drink they did. There were not
more than fifty guests in the house, and none of
them seemed to be permanently located, all tran-
sients. That night there was a jollification at
Monterey, which is about a mile or two farther on,
and the fireworks and the cannon kept up a
tremendous nolse all night.
	Early on the following morning we went down to
breakfast where we were seated at the same table
with the same people and had still another oppor-
tunity for observation. They have elegant silver
at the Del Monte, each piece marked Del
Monte which we did not quite understand, and
no one seemed able to explain. After breakfast
we went out upon the spacious and elegant grounds
which one cannot possibly describe to do them
justice, one must see for himself. It would be
easy to imagine ourselves, for the moment, in
fairy-land; on every side are the most beautiful
flowers, in blossom, in every variety of form, hue
and shades. Trees magnificent in height and
grandeur of appearance; walks and roadways
laid out artistically winding around, summer
houses, boat-houses, bath-houses and large
hostelry, all in the most perfect order, yet bewil-
dering to the newcomer. After wandering about
for a short time we arranged for a horse and
buggy to drive to Pacific Grove and along the
far-famed seventeen mile beach. Mrs. Whitney
being a good horsewomen, we decided it would
be better than hiring a carriage and driver, who
would, perhaps, tell us more than we wanted to
know, as some guides do, and we preferred our
own company.
	We drove out past the bathing resorts, and

[Column 3]

soon reached the old town of Monterey, a quaint
old place indeed it is, and well worth seeing.
Three miles further up hill all the way and in sight
of the glorious sea, we come to a delightful grove,
with some small and neat cottages and other large
and handsome residences. The town is laid off
in streets, though it appears the arrangement is
rather new. There is a church there, Catholic it
seemed, as the name was St. Joseph. The houses
are built clear down almost to the very shore of
the sea or bay, and those so near must have the
wierd music of the waves constantly. O it was a
grand and inspiring scene to view, even from the
distance, but when we alighted and walked away
to the point of a rocky cliff, the effect was beyond
expression; we were just meditating descending
upon a large flat rock that lay part way down the
steep ascent towards the sea in order to hear "the
music of the waves" more distinctly in the solemn
silence that surrounded us here, when a great
wave dashed fiercely over it as though it would
wash it from its very foundation, and so we aban-
doned the idea, as we did not wish to be swept out
into the great billowy tossing sea. We gazed and
thought, scarcely speaking to each other, until we
felt we must go on our way again. Resuming our
ride we drove up a long hill through what was
really more a wood than a grove, stopping once or
twice on our way to ask some questions about the
direction to take. In the woods we met a gentle-
man who seemed inclined to talk, and finally we
learned that he had visited Salt Lake and stopped
a few weeks during the past summer, at the
Spencer House. We drove on through miles of
woods where we could hear the roar of the ocean
surging and moaning, and the sighing of cypress
and pines, and we recalled all we had ever read
of the sea, but nothing we could remember seemed
to equal the reality; everything was quiet, no
carriages were near us, though we had seen one
or two on our way, and the absence of human life
made the effect of the sea and the forest more
impressive to one whose very soul was wrought to
an exultation of feeling by the solemnity and
grandeur of the hour amid such haunts of nature.
All that the poets had ever written, all the songs
that had ever been sung, sank into insignificance
for the time, and only one of the verses of the
"Apostrophe to the Ocean" seemed at all expres-
sive of the consciousness felt, which could find no
language.

	"There is a pleasure in the pathless woods,
		There is a rapture on the lonely shore,
	There is society where none intrudes,	
		By the lone sea, and music in its roar."

	At last after a lonely ride, but one full of the
most exquisite melody of feeling, we reached what
is known as "Cypress Point," a neck of land
reaching out into the open sea upon a high bank
that carriages may drive upon and turn, but we
walked, and gazed our fill, in part, for who could
tire of such wondrous and awful grandeur; here
we could hear the roaring of the sea lions in the
distance, on the rocks; we looked down where
the shore or bank curved hundreds of feet below;
a carriage full of guests from the hotel drew up
while we were there, but we knew they had no
feelings akin to ours, from their very manner;
they were off again in great haste, while we lin-
gered as long as we dared, to take in all that the
heart could contain, of the divine rhythm and
melody of the "murmuring sea." On our way
back to the Del Monte we drove past the Chinese
fishermen's huts, a very curious place, unlike any-
thing else we have seen here; there were quan-
titles of shells and curiosities for sale, little
Chinese girls soliciting us to buy, but as we did
not want to be overburdened with baggage, while
away from our lodgings, we did not invest in many,
though we afterwards wished we had as we had
no such opportunity again. After dinner at the
Del Monte, we asked to be shown through the


house, and the clerk sent a hall-boy to show us
the entire building. On the same floor with the
entrance hall on the south, leading along a wide
hall that opens to another entrance is the ladies'
billiard room (now being nicely frescoed) and the
ladies' parlor; the parlor is very elaborately fitted
up, and a bright wood fire showed off the mantel
and brass furnishings handsomely. On the oppo-
site side of the wide hall opening to a portico on the
south is the new annex, which contains suits of
rooms on the first floor and also on the second
and above single rooms in the third story, the house
itself is peculiar in its shape, and has more the
appearance of a large pavilion than a hotel. It is
said to accommodate about 750 or 800 guests. At
present there are very few in the building, and we
were told that on the previous Sunday there were
only five persons, that it was not the season yet,
but that the house would be filled before Christmas.
Everything inside was in good taste and in keeping
with the outward appearance as nearly as possible,
but we cannot help expressing more admiration
for the beauty of the grounds around the Del
Monte than for all the elegance, luxury, glitter and
display within. It must be a charming place to
resort to in summer time for restfulness, where in
a few moments walk from the hotel one may find
the cooling and grateful shade of those magnificent
trees.
	Early the following morning we were awakened
by the electric bell, and soon after we drove to the
station, only a few rods off, and with other travel-
ers awaited the coming of the train. It was
barely light, a solitary bird or two were flying on
the opposite side where the shrubbery was heavy
on a hillside, and the passengers walked impatiently
up and down the paths around, or sat on the
benches outside, as there was only a sort of min-
iature depot, just large enough for the clerks to
stand and attend to the necessary business.
	The ride was dull for the sun shone not. The
first station out was Castoroville, a little village;
where those around the depot seemed to have a
sort of Spanish look, only a few minutes waiting
and a few miles farther on, we reach Pajaso, then
we must change cars for Santa Cruz. In this
part of the country the people cultivate straw-
berries for the markets; we also saw miles, it
seemed to us, of rasberry bushes. The land is
worth from $500 to $600 an acre; the season for
these small fruits is nearly over, as the rainy sea-
son is daily expected to set in.
	Our next article will be the trip to Santa Cruz
and the big trees.


