LUCK IN HORSESHOES.  

	The old superstition of nailing a horseshoe
over the door of a house as a protecrion against
evil spirits and an assurance of good luck is as
widely spread in the United States as it is in
England or Ireland. It also prevails among
nearly all Teutonic and Scandinavian races
and flourishes largely in the East and West
Indies and Hindoostan. There are three
elements united in the horseshoe—in the first
place it is crescent shaped; secondly, it is a
portion of a horse, and lastly it is made of iron.
Popalar superstition has long endowed iron
with protecting qualities. During the time of
the plague in Rome the inhabitants of the
Eternal City drove nails in the walls of their
houses as a safeguard against the dread dis-
ease. When the Arabs in the desert are over-
taken by the deadly simoon they seek succor
from heaven by crying,  "Iron! iron!" Celtic,
Finnish and Welsh superstitions all agree that
against witchcraft iron is considered the only
guard. Custom even recites that it has always
been considered a good omen to find old iron,
and particularly to find an old horseshoe. In
the mythology of England horses were and are
to this day looked upon as luck-bringers. In
some parts of England nowadays it is still
thought that many forms of disease can be
cured by burning a horse alive. A horse's
hoof placed under an invalids' bed is con-
sidered a specific for many complaints in the
north of Scotland. Many years ago in Ireland,
so it is said, upon the death of a horse its feet
and legs were hung up in the house, and even
 the hoofs are kept sacred. All of which, it is
claimed, serve as a preventative of ill luck or
disease.
	Even in New York, among a certain class,
the horseshoe may be seen nailed up over many
a house or shop door. The well-known song
which was sung by Edward Harrigan a few
years ago made a lasting impression, and
served to remind many of the luck attending
old iron shoes. One of the stanzas was:

	"There's a story that is told in Irish history,  
		Far beyond the days of King Boru,
	That luck will surely always wait upon you 
		If you pick upon the road a horse's shoe."

	On account of its form historians state that
the qualities formerly accorded to the crescent
have been transferred to the horseshoe. The
Chinese build their tombs at the present day
in a semicircular form like a horseshoe, and the
Moore use it in their architecture. Lord
Nelson nailed a horseshoe to the mast of his
flagship Victory, and guarded it as if it had
been a citadel.—Selected.


London, Nov. 3.—Lord Tennyson is seri-
ously ill from a rheumatic attack. The Gov-
ernment physicians pronounced him last
Thursday as recovering. Yesterday he had a
critical relapse.
	The Empress of Japan has established a
college for women, to be superintended by a
committee of foreign ladies. Two of these are
Americans, two English, and the other two
French and German respectively.


