PICTURESQUE UTAH.

	In 1847, Brigham Young, with one hun-
dred and forty-two adherents ended their long
and toilsome journey across the plains, at the 
spot where Salt Lake City now stands. It is
devoutly believed by the Mormons that their
leader was divinely guided in the location of
Zion. Viewing the beauty and fertility of this
basin to-day it must look even more probable
than when this was an arid desert where eleven
plowshares were broken in the attempt to turn
the first furrow.
	Along the eastward side of this plain are the
Wasatch mountains, and on the west the
Oquirrh range. A scene of marvelous beauty
is spread out before the observer from Prospect
Tower, a sightly point of view north of the town,
which brings in a harvest of dimes to its en-
terprising builder. Mountain, lake and distant
fields add their beauty to that of the city lying
at our feet, with its hundred miles of streets,
and every tree-lined avenue a hundred and 
twenty feet wide allowing each fine architec-

[Column 2]

tural point its full value. Each block con-
tains ten acres, and the city is watered by
channels through which a creek is conducted.
The Mormons always mark their residences
with trees. Their old farms in Missouri and
Illinois are pointed out to-day by the locusts
that they planted. So all through the valley
their towns are beautified with shade, and in
Salt Lake City many of the homes are em-
bowered in the locust, the alanthos, and the
elm.
	The oldest residences in the city are of adobe,
and these plastered and vine-covered are by no
means unpleasing. The buildings first used
for Mormon worship and including Brigham
Young's residences, are surrounded by a quaint,
rude, high wall of cobblestones and mud, and
this still partly standing gives the city quite a
foreign appearance. In this enclosure is the
tithing office, which includes a huge market
for the sale of the produce which is brought in
as the voluntary contribution to the service of
the church—the restitution to Jehovah of his
share. This method has its advantages. Many
persons in other denominations religiously de-
vote the tenth of their substance, and attribute
their worldly prosperity to this observance,
just as the Mormon does. When a whole
church follows this custom it has this advan-
tage: there is no begging or dunning, or in-
debtedness and the contribution box is un-
known.
	Behind this wall with its massive gates is
the office of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, a paper
that reflects great credit on the literary and
poetic ability of its editor, Emmeline B.
Wells.
	The houses of the prophet, named the "Bee
Hive" and the "Lion House" from the orna-
ments over them, are here, and between these
are the church offices. The office of the
Deseret News, for many years the only journal
between San Francisco and the Missouri river,
is in the same block.  Next to the "Lion
House" the old wall stretches across the street
and an archway through which carriages pass,
is called the "Eagle Gate," from the bird
which spreads its wings above. We pass
through this to go to President Young's grave,
which is in a private lot fenced around by an
iron railing. The grave is also enclosed in the
same manner and covered by a massive granite
slab of many tons weight. There is no inscrip-
tion and no head stone. The graves of five of
his wives are in the same enclosure, and are
marked with the names: Mary Ann Angel
(the first wife); Augusta Adams Cobb; Eliza
R. Snow; Mary Van Cott, and Emeline Free.
How much of tragic history lies silent in these
graves. Eliza Snow, who is revered as a
prophetess and saint, was the widow of the
Prophet Joseph Smith, as was Zina D. Young,
who is still living, and is second only to Eliza
Snow in the hearts of the Mormons. She is
universally called Aunt Zina. To Eliza Snow,
who was a poet of no mean rank, is attributed
the first enunciation of the idea of the mother
element in the God-head, and her poem voicing
this thought is one of the favorite devotional
hymns in use at this period.
	The Tabernacle, Assembly Hall, and the
Gardo House were mentioned in the last letter.
The Temple is the central point of interest.
Its corner stone was laid in 1853, and knowing
what the architecture of this country was at
that date it seems strange to find a design of
such marvelous simplicity, beauty and grandeur,

[Column 3]

as is embodied in the wonderful granite of
which this building is being erected. It has
already cost over $2,000,000. Its foundations
are sixteen feet thick; its walls eight feet of
this solid sparkling granite; and its pillars,
partitions, and even its floors are of solid stone.
The carvings on the outer walls represent the
sun, moon, and stars.
	The most important structure connected
with business is the Zion Co-operative Mercan-
tile Institution, familiarly known as the Co-op.
Z. C. M. I. are initials that become familiar, as
they are not only on every article of merchan-
dise, but on the badge of all branch co-opera-
tive institutions in other Mormon towns. One
hundred and fifty emloyees are needed to con-
duct the business, which amounts annualy to
nearly $5,000,000, and which includes, beside
the salesrooms, a shoe factory, a tannery, a
clothing manufactury and drug store. It was
the intention at first that every member of
the church should be a stockholder. Gradually
the stock has passed into comparativley few
hands, but it is still conducted according to
the same principles. It points with pride to
that fact that it never makes "a corner." Not
long since every store in the city was out of a
certain article, except the Co-op, which sup-
plied the others without advancing the price.
	The city possesses churches of every denomi-
nation, including the Josephites, who are Mor-
mons—with a difference. The St. Paul's
Episcopal church is an attractive sight, being
covered with ivy. The whole business part of 
the city is solid, well-built and handsome.
There are long streets of residences, artistic,
spacious, with large yeards and exquisite flowers
and shrubbery, This way of being independ-
ent of the clouds and making the rain come at
will along the stone canals which thread the
city ensures abundant verdure and fruitage,
especially where the sky is as clear and the sun
as bright as in Utah.
	Liberty Park was the property of Brigham
Young, but was bought of his heirs for public
use. It is a mile around, and of its several
artesian wells, one is decidedly sulphurous, and
is much esteemed.
	The Exposition building, which was ap-
proaching completion, is a fine structure. The
public school buildings are surrounded by
lovely green sward and ornamental trees.
there are but few saloons, and the streets are
noticeably clean. The Mormons are opposed
to the use of liquor and tobacco. They have
no rule against it but their "Words of Wisdom,"
discountenance it, and these are regarded in
all the affairs of life. There were no saloons
in Utah previous to the incoming of the Gen-
tiles. In fact to the absence of these, and
their twin sister, the Salt Lake Tribune, six
years ago apparently attributed the devotion to
thier faith; for it said what was wanted to
educate the Mormon hoodlum was the intro-
duction of the saloon and the brothel. It is a
sorry fact that a belief in the efficiency of
these institutions is still held by the represen-
tatives of this leading paper, for on calling the
attention of one of them to the stand which
had been formerly taken, he replied: "Well, it
has educated them to some extent; it has given
them some good horse sense."
	Hearing from these people, to whom we were
talking temperance and purity, thier laments
that they could not keep the saloon entirely
from their midst, we inquired, "Why not, see-
ing the Mormons are in the majority the in city


[Column 1]

council?" "Because the courts always construe
the law in favor of the saloon." "Then why
not make a law to prohibit, or to enable you to 
prohibit?" was asked, "seeing that the Mor-
mons are in a majority in the legislature." At
last we found the answer in the fact that such
a bill had been passed by the last legislature,
and vetoed by the governor. By special legisla-
tion of Congress, the governor of Utah has an
absolute veto. His will can over ride that of
all the inhabitants in the territory, for from
his veto there is no taking a measure back to
the legislature. A bill relating to city govern-
ment, containing the clause enabling the coun-
cil "to license, regulate, tax or absolutely pro-
hibit the manufacturing, selling, giving away
or disposing of in any manner, any intoxicat-
ing, etc., was passed by a legislature of whom
31 out of 36 were Mormons, and when it went
to the governor, he drew his pen through the
words "absolutely prohibit," and so it became
a law, leaving the friends of temperance of all
faiths powerless to prevent the existence of the
saloon in their midst.
	The only charitable institution we had time
to visit beside the Home referred to in the last
letter, was the day nursery, which had nine-
teen children in its care. This appeared to be
the only benevolent work in which Gentile and
Mormon were united, it being managed by one
lady member from each church, including the
Mormon, of which Mrs. Emily Richards is the
representative. It is used for children of both
classes.
	Great Salt Lake is the "Mecca" of all tour-
ists, and a never-failing delight to the inhabit-
ants of the city. It is thus described in
Picturesque Utah, a lovely art book which has
just been issued from the press of Frank S.
Thayer in Denver, of which the text is by M.
Virginia Donaghe, a Denver lady, and which
is exquisitely illustrated by the albertype pro-
cess from original photographs by C. R. Savage,
a leading artist of Salt Lake City.
	"The sides of the near hills are girded by a
gleaming, unbroken line, and several hundred
feet below is a wider line—these are the water
marks of the great sea which once covered the
region and of which the lake is but the saline,
shrunken remnant. These ruins are made of
countless cobble stones and pebbles, round or
oval, and smooth from the action of the waves.
Below are the very ripple-marks of these an-
cient billows. This old, old lake-bed has been
traced for a distance of 250 miles, and embed-
ded in its forgotten shores have been discovered
large quantities of fresh-water shells; for this
body of water, then as large as Lake Huron,
and covering one fourth of Utah, once had an
outlet: This has been discovered at the head
of Cache Valley, passing out through Red
Rock Gap, thence to the Snake, and so to the
Columbia and Pacific. The upper beach line
is 900 feet above the present level of the lake,
and is even with the outlet. Then during the
changes and conclusions of the geological past,
the lake sank, and became dry, and filled
again, again to be swallowed up, and then yet
again to be a lake. But never could the new
sheet of water attain the level of its former
outlet. Therefore, hemmed in by impassable
barriers, it shrank within itself, and life in its
waters died away. Through constant evapora-
tion, the lake became more blackish—a veri-
table Dead Sea."
	Salt Lake is now more than fifty miles wide,
and a hundred and twenty-five miles long, di-
versified with mountain-top islands, which are
spurs of the Oquirrh and Aqui ranges. The
first description of the lake is given by Wash-
ington Irving, who chronicled the adventures
of Captain Bonneville, who is said to be the
first white man to see it. In 1859 Captain
Stansbury explored it. Fremont sailed it in a
rubber boat, and Kit Carson in a hollow log.
Every body has heard and read of this wonder-

[Column 2]

ful sheet of water, yet it is more strange,
beautiful and fascinating than words can de-
pict. Mrs. Saxon and I saw it under pleasant
circumstances. Although late for the bathing
season, the recent warm weather and the per-
fect sunny day rendered the water very com-
fortable. A party of friends accompanied us
into the water, and speedily initiated us into
the mysteries of floating. Of all the ridiculous
objects that the human frame is capable of
presenting, that of a person with head and feet
only out of water is the most laughable. Yet
who cares for the crowd in the pavilion above
as long as there is enough in the water to di-
vide the attention, and one can enjoy the bliss-
ful sensation of lying upon that briny bed. It
seems almost impossible to believe that even a
novice can rest so easily and completely with
only an occasional movement of the out-
stretched arms to maintain the equilibrium.
Garfield Beach is the finest of all the points
where the lake is used, and here are very fine
accomodations. After the bath we ate our
picnic supper, which was prepared as if by
magic on one of the long tables which are for
the use of visitors, and then we watched the
lake in the glory of the setting sun. That ex-
quisite word-painter before quoted has described
a sunset on the lake, just such a one as we saw,
in such fitting phrase that I quote it for the de-
light of the Tribune readers:
	"Salt Lake has its share in the proverbial
rich beauty of the Rocky Mountain sunset.
Bright and cheery by day, and subtly, sadly
mysterious by moonlight, it is all glorious at
setting sun. Its wide waters are aflame with
lances of scarlet and gold, gleaving the green
expanse, and its mirror reflects every fleck of
rose or band of salmon in the sky, where inter-
spaces of blue still linger. The shining sum-
mits of cloud land are flanked below by the
irradiated mountains; the Black Rock tones the
splendor with its sombre masses, til—evanes-
cent as beautiful—the glory vanishes; shadows
sweep down from the darkening peaks, and
the shimmering liquid plain fades to ashes of
roses."
	As we stood there watching the gulls
fly over the sunlit sea, one of those incidents,
and they are numerous, in the history of the
Mormon people, which led them to believe
they were specially guarded by a divine pro-
vidence, was related to us. During the early
days of the settlement, when the first crop was
growing, and nothing remained between the
colony and starvation during the coming
winter, but this promise of a plentious harvest,
the locusts came upon them in such numbers
as to threaten absolute destruction of every
growing thing. We that have watched the
sun darken with the silvery wings of this de-
vastating foe and the fruitful field become a
desert in a day, can realize with what feeling
these people gazed upon the scene. So far
from home and help, no possibility of com-
municating with the land of plenty, 1800 miles
overland from the supplies, what could save
them in such an hour. They resorted to prayer,
when lo! the west wind brought from the Aqui
mountains beyond the lake the gulls that dwell
there in innumerable quantities, and they set
upon and devoured the grasshoppers before
any considerable damage was done.
		C. B. C.


