[Vol12 | December 1925 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: The Home Alfred Osmond]

The Home
A college president speaking at the inauguration ceremonies of another college president is credited with the following statements in relation to women and their work in the world. Speaking of the highest place a woman can occupy, he said: "I do not say that they should not be fitted to help do the work of the world in the various colleges?quite the contrary. I do not say that they should not go into politics, although from my point of view that can be overdone; I am not even hinting that a woman shall not go into any activity for which she is fitted or even unfitted, I am only raising a thin, piping voice to express the Victorian opinion that, whatever else a woman may do, the highest purpose of her life always has been, is and ever shall be, world without end, to strengthen and beautify and sanctify the home."
We believe that the Latter-day Saints will recognize in this statement of the college president, good sound common sense.
HOME By Alfred Osmond, Head of the English Department of the Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah
No other spot on earth is half so dear As that which we have fondly called our home. The stars of fortune, shining bright and clear, Will safely guide us to that peaceful dome. And e'en when fate has forced our feet to roam And holds us captive on a foreign shore, Our fancy leads us from the towering tome To wend our way towards the cottage door, In quest of modest joys that love and light adore.
For mother's love is there and, weeping waits, To lift the latch and let the wanderer in From all the bitterness that strife creates, To shelter him from danger and from sin. The fairest crowns of glory that we win Become but ashes in a withered hand Compared with greetings of our kith and kin Who always seem to know and understand The longing of the lives that they with us have planned.
The world is pitiless, but home, sweet home, Is laden with the treasures of the soul. If fickle fortune tempt our feet to roam, When we have won the glory of her goal, We turn again with feelings that control The worldly wisdom that is rich and rare; And splendors that extend from pole to pole Have lost the native charms that can compare With those delightful scenes that distance makes more fair.
We see again the meadows and the lake, The hills and valleys of the golden west. The crags and cliffs that eaglets will forsake To give their growing wings their maiden test. The groves that childhood sought for shade and rest When weariness had forced it to retreat. The blackbird's willows and the robin's nest Combine to fashion pinions for the feet That fancy speeds along to where all highways meet.
That place is home?not build of bricks and stones, But fashioned in the regions of the skies Where sin is not and sorrow never groans, The habitation of the good and wise. The home was founded there and in disguise It has descended to a mundane base; But in a future day it is to rise And meet the God of glory face to face, To grant eternal bliss and claim its rightful place.