SCENES AND INCIDENTS AT
WINTER QUARTERS
BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY. 
(Continued.)
	The same date Horace wrote, "This evening
Porter arrived, bringing Emmeline’s sisters and
brother,their mother having died on the way.”
	Emmeline, the present editor of the Ex-
ponent, was then the wife of Bishop Whitney,
and her liitle sisters and brother were received
and cared for, as were other members of his
family—being under the charge of Sister Em-
meline and Mother Whitney.
	“Saturday, the 21st.		*	*	This
evening Brothers Egan, Stephens and Gulley
came in from the army.  Brother Egan in-
formed me that they had been to Santa Fee,
and that most of the brethren in the army had
gone from there to California.  These brethren
came back for counsel.” The same day a
number of teams came in from St. Joseph with
goods.
	The next day, Sunday, Brother Woolley ar-
rived.  Meeting was held at the stand.  The
main subject, was the sending off of a lot of
men in the spring, also, a few families, and the
remainder to stay at Winter Quarters.  The
evening of the 24th Horace says: “Brothers
Kimball and Brigham met with two men
(mountaineers) from the Salt Lakes,where they
have been settled for sixteen years.  They
narrated their adventures and gave an account
of the climate, etc , which was quite interest-
ing.”
	The same day in speaking of the weather
he said, “There seems to be a particular dis-
position of Providence in our behalf, for al-
though we have,had several cold, frosty nights
the weather has been remarkably mild for win-
ter, and we have not, as yet, experienced the
first snow storm, as is usual in other coun-
tries." 
	The night of the 24th he speaks of experi-
encing the heaviest frost of the season.
	The next day he wrote: “Most of us, viz.,
Howard Egan, John Davenport, Dan Davis;
Jacob Frazier and myself engaged in cutting
and drawing wood from the bottom close by.
Brother Kimball cautioned the folks this even-
ing against using our wood lavishly, sitting up
late at night and keeping a fire burning, as, he
said, before the winter was out it would be
a very scarce article.” We had previously
learned that the Pottowatomie agent had for-
bid us to cut any more timber on the other
side of the river.  He wrote:
	Friday, the 27th.  This evening Brother E.
Benson got back from the eastern country,
where he has been on business.  I learned that
a brother who went with him, and who had
some pecuniary expectations from some of his
friends, was taken up for insanity, because he
belonged to the “Mormons,” and in order to
cheat him out of his property.”
	“Sunday, the 29th.		*	*	Meeting
was held at the stand, at which it was deter-
mined that every man should immediately turn
out and assist in making the race way, in
order that the mill may be finished speedily.
“Brother Kimball called his family together for
the purpose of giving them good instruc-
tion."
	The 1st of December there came quite a
change in the weather—the wind blowing
from the north.  That day Horace mentions
being at work with some of father’s boys, lay-
ing up the logs to Brother Wallace’s house.  A
day or two later they were engaged in putting
up another house for Sister Miller, how Sister
Finch, whose husband had died a short time
previous.
	On the 7th, Abigail Pond, a wife of Bishop
Whitney’s, died.  Two of her sisters had died
a day or two before.  They had lately arrived
from Nauvoo, and were still living in tents. 
Trading commenced at the store that day.
	“Wednesday, the 9th,” Horace wrote, “warm
day for the season.  This morning, early,
learned that during last night a party of'
Indians came from the other side of the river,
which they crossed on the ice, and attacked a
small party of the Omahaws, who are en-
camped near us, and severely, if not mortally
wounded two or three of their number, viz.,
“Big Head,” the chief of the nation, and his
squaw.  Mary, an Indian interpreter with the
Omahaws, says that it was the Iowas who com-
mitted the outrage.  The Omahaws being very
much frightened, to-day moved their encamp-
ment and pitched their tents near Brigham’s
house on Main Street.  The two invalids were
taken to his house to have their wounds dressed.
“Big Head” was shot through the head and
arm; his wife through the arm only, which is
considerably mutilated, and I understood that
it was the intention to have it amputated.
	On the evening ot the followirig Saturday
the Indians “had a great pow wow among them,
screeching and yelling in a horrible manner,
on account of their having just received the
intelligence that a large number of their war-
riors, who went on the hunting expedition a
short time since, had been killed off by the
Sioux.”
	Sunday, the 13th, being a fine day, meeting
was held at the stand.  Brother Luke Johnson
was present.  He had, just come on—had
buried his wife at St. Joseph.  There was 
quite a rejoicing among the old Kirtland
Saints, to see Bro. Luke Johnson among, them
again.  He stayed one night at father’s house.
His'sister, Marinda Hyde, who was living on
the river, came there with him.
	On the 14th Horace wrote, “Brigham, Heber,
E. Benson, Father Cahoon and Ira Eldredge
went down the river about eight miles to the
place where Sarpee used to trade, to make ar-
rangements for the building of houses for the
Omahaws; that being deemed a proper place
for them to settle themselves—it is so well
fortified by nature, that they can discern the
approach of an enemy at some distance.”
	“Sunday, the 20th,” he says, “meeting was
held at Bro. Kimball’s house. Bro. Joseph
Nobles, the Bishop of this ward, presiding, at
which arrangements were made to relieve the
poor, and for establishing a school, etc.”
	Friday, the 25th, was a most beautiful day,
and being Christmas, at evening we had a lit-
tle party at father’s, which, was very enjoyable
and passed off finely.


