EDITOR EXPONENT: 

	As it has been quite a length [-]f time since
there has been a word from Manti, I thought
I wou[-]d improve the present opportunity of 
writing you a few lines. 
	The Saints, generally, manifest increased de-
sires to go forward in the great and glorious
work in which we are engaged, notwithstand-
ing our enemies are on the alert trying to bring
to naught that which our Father has decreed


He will bring to pass in the day in which we
live.  I often think how true was the saying of
our Divine Master to His disciples, and also
how true it is in our day, that if we were of the
world the world would love us.  But history
repeats itself, and it is the same now as it has 
always been when the Lord has had a people
on the earth.
	I sometimes think that it cannot be that we 
are living in this great and glorious Republic
—the land I have loved so well, the home of
my ancestors for generations past, even to the
earliest settlement of New England.  When I
was a little girl my greates delight was to hear
my grandfathers tell tales of the Revolution,
for they were both engaged in that great strug-
gle for liberty for their land; they also told me
of the great rejoicing throughout the land
when the war was over, for they fondly hoped
to leave the pricelss boon, for which they had
endured so many privations, to their posterity;
but to-day, when I reflect upon the situation of
my country, I feel that we, as mothers and
grandmothers, should tell the story of our
wrongs to our children and granchildren; yes,
let us tell them of our troubles in Missouri and
the sorrows of Nauvoo—how we were forced to
to leave our homes and the beautiful temple
which we had reared under such difficulties, as
only those who were there can realize or under-
stand.  Our beloved Prophet and Patriarch
had been massacred, and that, too, under the
promise of protection of the Governor of
Illinois. 
	We know and realize that the special care of
our Father has been over His people, and we 
have faith in Him for the future, that the
beautiful Zion which the old prophets had so
much pleasure in contemplating will be built
in her beauty and glory, when the oppressors
shall cease to oppress.	R. W.
	Manti, Feb. 21st, 1885.


