MIND IN MEDICINE.
	I have just laid down a small book bearing
the above title; and think it would be quite as
appropriate to call it medicine in mind. I have
read it through twice, and dipped into it fre-
quently besides; I felt from the first perusal it
was worthy a study. The author is metaphysi-
cal, and his thoughts flow so rapidly that he tel-
escopes his ideas; consequently the book must
be read closely to read it understandingly, that
the reader may take in his original and unique
assertions. Much truth is embodied within its
leaves, which, without close attention, we
should fail to realize.
	A deep thinking mind is exhibited through
its pages, and I have read parts over and over
again to make myself sure that I comprehend-
ed the author's meaning. I feel that it contains


much that will benefit its readers if reduced to
practice. To those who read that they may be
edified and instructed, such writers as the author
are public benefactors, and such should be the
motive-power of all readers.
	He vividly portrays the effect of imagination
with regard to ailments and disease upon an
over-sensitive and excitable nature, fear produc-
ing the disease so much dreaded; as prophecy,so
called, has often been known to be the cause of
its own fulfillment. The author evidently pos-
sesses one of the greatest gifts of God, viz. com-
mon sense! and his book should lie on the writ-
ing table of all, that it may be taken up in
spare moments, and its ideas will be found to
have a fructifying influence, more or less, on all
who study its contents to be instructed, it is de-
cidedly a book of reference, a wise monitor whom
the wise will appreciate.
	Even the strong and well balanced mind has
clouds flitting over it at times. The sun itself
has its spots,and the brightest day its little float-
ers ranging over its glorious concave, hence a
friend as “Mind in Medicine” is a friend in
need.
	I will give a brief extract or two from his
unique ideas: “Is sickness a sin? Yes, often
through some of our antecedents—‘some one has
blundered that line of Tennyson’s is true of all
aches and pains! Every saint by his or her
sanctity cleanses themselves and their off-
spring.” “A healthy body is a sign of a holy
life."
	“Mental medicine is not only sure, but often
wonderfully swift; a ray of light from a kind
countenance, a conviction that you are dear to
somebody, gives an impulse of courage from a
Christ like reassurring WILL—a word may be a
medicine, a letter, a piece of paper thrown into
the mall, a white-winged messenger,more beau-
tiful than doves, flying thousands of miles on
its errand of love, across the continent, on the
mighty ocean; but it reaches me, I touch it, and
I feel the warm current of life rushing through
my heart and veins—It is a cordial, but from no
bin or flask—it is a comforter, but not of silk or
elder-down or wool.

[Column 2]
were perfectly at ease in their very difficult
parts. Their singing, their acting and their
witticisms all merited the enthusiastic applause
they received from the audience. Mrs. Leviberg
as Lady Jane sustained the part with all the en-
thusiasm of a professional. Her voice is good
and thoroughly cultivated. Both Patience and
Lady Jane received quite a number of floral of-
ferings. Angela, Birdie Cummings, and Saphir,
Louise Wells, both looked and acted their parts
with becoming grace and dignity. The sex-
tette, in which Edna Russell, Louise Wells and
Lucy Young, and Messrs. Pyper, Crawford
and Barnes sang, was one of the gems of the
evening Fred Clawson created considerable
enthusiasm whenever he appeared, and added
to the humorous character of the play. The or-
chestra played exquisitely and was warmly ap-
plauded.
	Prof. Krouse has labored assiduously while
training the young people for Patience, and de-
serves great credit for the success of the per-
formance. Altogether it was quite a notable
event, quite as much so, if not more than Pina-
fore. The whole affair was very well arranged
and admirably managed.


