EDITOR EXPONENT:
     Having a few moments to spare I thought I
would jot down a few of my reflections upon the
reading of the minutes of the “Woman Suffrage
Convention, lately held in the City of Washing-
ton, D. C., and published in your issue of  Feb-
ruary 15, especially the following on page 150:
"Whereas the dogmas incorporated in religious
creeds derived from Judaism, teaching that wo-
man was an afterthought of creation, her sex a
misfortune, marriage a condition of subordina-
tion and maternity a curse."  And concluding
with the words, "that in true religion there is
neither male nor female, bond nor free, but all
are one."
     I am writing now not for the purpose of pro-
voking discussion with the estimable ladies of
the East who are so earnestly advocating and
working for the rights of their sex, but for the
women of Mormondom, who, above all the rest
of womankind, have need to understand correct-
ly the relation that man and woman, especially
husband and wife, sustain to each other; be-
cause their religion (which Mrs. Stanton after-
wards claimed had a debasing tendency) teaches
some principles which, if true, involve eternal
consequences, but if false, then are we most
grossly deceived.
     What are the facts?  Adam was the first man
and Eve the first woman;  no matter whether
she came in company with him or followed af-
ter.  We find the two together living in har-
mony and peace; we have no record of conten-
tion, jealousy, or distrust manifesting itself dur-
ing their entire residence in the Garden of Eden.
Although history is silent in regard to the time
they spent together in this happy state, yet it is
evident from records that some time did elapse,
also that they were familiar with the Almighty
and received visits from Him during that
period.
     But a change is wrought.  By whom?  By the
serpent.  First seriously affecting Eve, because
she yielded to his wiles, afterwards Adam, be-
cause he voluntarily partook; and through these
the entire creation involving consequences and
conditions that are beyond the power of argu-
ment to reason away or philosophy to disperse,
no matter how profound.
     The f[-]at of the Almighty (Jehovah) goes
forth--read the third chapter of Genesis from
the ninth to the nineteenth verses, inclusive.
Nearly six thousand years of our time has
elapsed since then, exhibiting humanity, in fact
all creation, in every possible phase and condi-
tion.  Tell me, has God's word as pertaining to
the earth, to the serpent, to Eve, to Adam,
failed in any one particular?  Does the serpent
crawl upon his belly; is there enmity between
him and man?  Does woman still bring forth
in sorrow?  Is the ground still cursed; and does the
thorn and thistle still grow spontaneously, in-
volving constant labor to keep in check?  Does
the sweat drop to-day from the brow of the hus-
bandman, and does man finally die, and woman
too?  All nature answers with one united voice,
"'Tis true."
     Now we come to one little clause contained in
the text: "Thy desire shall be to thy husband,
and he shall rule over thee."  Shall we patient-
ly submit to all the rest because we are unable
to alter and fight against, protest, ignore, and
finally defy the Almighty to pronounce these
words?  No.  We will accept of the penalty in
its entirety, for it is a penalty. We will submit
to the ordeal and thank God for the privilege,
because it is the road to life, immortality and
eternal glory.  But this rule of man, in what
does it consist?  Can its powers be defined?  Is
woman necessarily man's slave; is there left to
her no right to reason, no power of choice?


[Column 1]
﻿Because she was deceived by the serpent must
she be deprived of will power during her mortal
career? Mormonism inculcates no such princi-
ples, teaches no such doctrine.  If woman at-
tains to exaltation with man, it will be because
she merits in her own right that exaltation. If
she ever strives at a condition of glory it will be
because the elements necessary to such a condi-
tion dwell within herself.
   But can woman be advised, counseled and di-
rected by man, and yield thereto without sacri-
ficing in the least her womanhood?  Most cer-
tainly. As man can yield to his fellow man and
stlll retain his manhood.
   Can man attain to a fulness of exaltation
without woman?  No, verily.  For as the race
cannot be perpetuated upon earth without wo-
man, so the lives cannot be continued hereaf-
ter without her.  Then is she not necessary to
man, both here and hereafter?  Most truly.  As
woman would be utterly helpless without man
in accomplishing her destiny.
   Then instead of claiming"that in true religion
there is neither male nor female,” we assert
that, it is most essential that the sexes be pre-
served intact with their peculiar gifts, qualifica-
tions, endowments and rights, operating and la-
boring in their peculiar sphere to accomplish and
bring to pass the purposes of Jehovah in their
creation, and this labor should be entered upon
and continued harmoniously without jar or dis-
cord.  The man who is jealous of woman in the
exercise of all the powers that belong to her is
an object of pity; the woman who presumes to
perform the functions of man unsexes herself.
   But is woman man’s equal? This seems to be
the grand culminating point in all discussions
upon this subject.  Viewed from the woman’s
suffrage standpoint I would answer the ques-
tion, most certainly.  She should vote in com-
pany with man at every election untram-
melled and free, for if the sentiments of
Rev. Olympia Brown, as expressed in the Con-
vention, be true concerning man, then is woman
not only his equal but more than his peer.  But
from a Mormon standpoint I would answer the
question more fully.
   The fact of woman enjoying the right of fran-
chise in Utah for so many years past, and that,
too, a voluntary gift of our Legislature without
her asking, is a proof positive that we have no
fear of our wives and daughters, and we shall
fight most determinedly against any infringe-
ment in this regard  All who are acquainted
with Mormon customs know that from the first,
woman has had the right to vote in common
with men upon all public matters, and especial-
ly so in regard to the exercise of priestly author-
ity and rule, thus carrying out the will of the
Almighty that“all things shall be done by com-
mon consent.”
   But is man the head of the woman? Paul says
that he is, as Christ is the head of the Church.
There is no authority or office of the Priesthood
but man can receive of himself without the
woman, and exercise its powers and functions
independent of her.  Whereas, if woman ever
receives any degree of Priesthood it will be in
connection with and because of her relation to 
man. To use some familiar terms by way of il-
lustration: If a woman ever becomes a queen it
will be because of her relation to a king; if a
Priestess, because she is the wife of a Priest, he
having preceded her and received of himself his
authority, she following in possession first be-
cause of merit; second, because of right of in-
heritance by virtue of relationship to the man,
their union having been sanctified by the pow-
ers of heaven. Their increase inheriting all that
belongs to both father and mother.  Such a
union of man and woman perpetuating eternal
dominion in which is incorporated all the glory

[Column 2]
that is possible to conceive.  Child submitting
to parent, wife yielding to husband, man bow-
ing down to the Savior, and that Savior giving
up all to the Father, that “God may be all in
all.”  Each one while thus yielding, still retain-
ing their individual power and place unimpaired,
filled to a fulness according to their position and
calling, without one feeling of distrust or jeal-
ousy in regard to the other. Can man, woman
or child ask for more than this?
   While we sympathise, with the women of
Christendom in their earnest endeavors to ob-
tain their rights, and while we sense the wrongs
of which men are guilty and the terrible condi-
tion of the world viewed from every standpoint,
should we not be thankful for what we have re-
ceived of the true knowledge of God and the
principles of eternal life thst renders unneces-
sary any argument or contention in regard to
individual br sexual rights, for is not our calling
and election made sure?
						  J. E. TAYLOR,
   Salt Lake City, Feb. 22, 1885.


