WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LOVE. 

	This is a little word of only four letters, yet
how potent, how powerful, and with it comes
our liberty or bondage. If we love right, we
are free; free in our souls, pure in our hearts, let
come what may, though oft through surround-
ing circumstances and worldly influence we are
swerved from the right, not having the moral
courage to resist evil, or know for ourselves the
sad results of weakness and hatred until too
late.
	Love, not fear, prompts the Latter-day Saints
to take upon them this title of honor. God so
loved the world that He gave His Son as a ran-
som; and in all His life and attributes we find
nothing but the purest love and the greatest self-
sacrifice for us. Can we be ashamed to own our
Lord? Never.
	History gives but few exceptions where man
who held power loved his fellow man better
than himself, even science must see her advo-
cates give their lives for the self-evident truths
she blesses mankind with; and when once cus-
tom sets her foot in a certain channel, woe to
those who divulge therefrom, whether it be
right or wrong. From Abraham to Washington,
divine ravelation has told the Saints of these
men and their mission, end no where in this
fair land are Columbus and Washington appre-
ciated and understood as here in Zion. The
legacy of freedom given us by our noble ances-
tors in this goodly land, we prize and mean to
maintain, here where the oppressed can find a
refuge, here where a nation has grown from in-
fancy to manhood in so short a time, we would
naturally expect liberty to live a life of vigor
for hundreds of years, but we find feeble old age
has come all too soon in some portions of the
land, and poor Idaho is evidently letting her
standard of liberty sink into an untimely grave.
	Is it for the love of their fellow men that citi-
zens of the United States are declared slaves in
Idaho? Let the world read and judge what men
love to do with the rights of their fellow men
when ones their souls are fettered with hate in-
stead of love for those who are walking in a bet-
ter and purer atmosphere than their own easy,
downward road. Behold how crooked can they
make the straight and just way of constitution-
al liberty bond.
	Because the Saints believed that God had
spoken from the heavens again and in His love
for His children had revealed the truth were
they branded and driven. Again comes the
voice of our Father that there is a higher and
better law. Will we obey it? Yes; the noble

[Column 2]
men and God-fearing women would honor the
source of their being, would honor the cause of
social regeneration, and be the noble pioneers of
a higher and holier life; for this are they ac-
cused of crime, yet will they contend to protect
virtue and love to bestow all the rights the fair
daughters of Eve are entitled to through their
obedience to the laws of God.
	It has become popular to hate the Mormons,
but do those who revile know what the Gospel
we have embraced is? We answer it in two or
three words—a consistent life. We love the
truth and control ourselves, for this are we as-
sailed on the right and on the left.
	The men that love to defile the daughters of 
Eve are unworthy the name of men, and no
man has the right to lay the weight of his
hand on a woman, "except in the marriage re-
lation." Would to God the women of the world
had the same protection that we, the Mormon
women, have: the blighted lives and sad hearts
that are seen by our Heavenly Father caused
by the lust and inconstancy of lustful Mormon-
hating men is enough to cause the very heavens
to weep.
	Where can we find pure love? In the homes
of the Latter-day Saints; there ir sits enthroned.
If sorrow and death visit such a household there
is comfort and relief at hand. A friend of mine
was called to part with his first wife. When
she was dying he said, "Mother, what do you
wish to say about the children?" With a look
of love and confidence she replied, "Anna will
do just as well by you and the children as I."
And there are thousands of such instances that
prove our confidence in and love for each other.
Is this love or lust?
	Another instance--In conversation with a 
brother who has thirty-six children, he said not
one ever gave him a saucy or unkind word; his 
descendants, all told, number over one hun-
dred. Lust kills the evidences of its crime, love
saves, cherishes and rears them to become noble
men and women, and claims the wives and
children as his own wealth for time and all eter-
nity.
	Over 4,200 lovely, bright, intelligent children
partake of the Lord's Supper every Sabbath, and
there are over 3,200 little ones under eight years
of age in their dear native Utah. And when we
look around among our noble boys and girls,
who can help exclaiming, surely the Lord is
with His people. Proud might any nation be
of such treasures. Is this the sign of decay, of
degredation, of disloyalty to our government?
Not to any right-minded, reasonable person. Our
principles are perfect, and we will continue to
love them and strive to live them,God being our
helper, protest the rights of others, envy no
one, be pure in our daily walk in life and leave-
the result in God's hands.
Zina D.H. Young


