EDITOT DESERET NEWS:
     I went to see Patience last evening, and was
amply repaid, as was every body else, I am sure,
who saw it.  One feature of the performance
was yery noticeable, and indeed, very enjoyable
to me, as it must have been to every person of
age and experience, who had the pleasure of
witnessing it. namely, that sweet, that inno-
cent refined look of purity that filled the stage
from the beautiful Mrs. Leviberg to the charm-
ing little Miss Thatcher—a feature, I am sorry
to say, seldom adorns the stage of to-day.  This,
Mr. Editor, to such as I who have traveled and
known the world for many years now, proved a
treat never to be forgotten, and on this account
homes and that same country which should
have protected them.
     Mrs. Sessions continues: “3rd. Bro. Brig-
ham took dinner with us.  Next day went
back three miles to where Parley P. Pratt was
camped, his wife had a daughter born.  On
the 4th, Independence Day, the Indians rode
out in style, came to the camp and danced for
us.  It was a war dance, and they were paint-
ed after their fashion.  6th. Crossed the Mis-
souri River; we are here situated between the
mountains, in the valley, no road cut yet, but
the men are at work making one as fast as
they can.  Wednesday, 8, the team has gone
back to fetch up Bro, Call, Tuesday, 14.
Eliza Lyman was taken sick, I was sent for;
she has a son; also on the same day Sophia
Dame with a daughter,”
“Thursday, 16.  A meeting in the morning
and counsel given to all who are ready, to go
on to Grand Island for the winter, others to re-
main."
     On the 20th she writes: “Peregrine put some
projection boards bn to our new wagon.” This
may not seem much of an item to the readers,
but if they had traveled as the saints at that
time did, and felt the inconvenience of narrow,
close wagons where one scarcely seemed to
have air enough to breathe, they would realize
what a luxury six or eight inches more in
width would be for the inmates. “Thursday,
23, Orson Pratt, his wife and children came
over the river and took dinner with us.  Fri-
day, 24, I start for Grand Island, go nearly all
he way on foot, found gooseberries and choke-
cherries.  27, the men have gone to work on
the bridge,” and so they continued until it was
completed.
     On Thursday she says the girls gathered
uantitiesof wild grapes with which-Sister
Sessions made wine.  On the 31st she speaks
of being very lonely, she says, “We are here
almost alone, only three tents,Holman’s, Ever-
ett’s and ours; and she adds, “I want to see the
rest of the company so much that I am quite 
discontented."
     Sister Sessions and family returned to the
camp at Winter Quarters in September, she


ary she had a few friends to celebrate her
birthday, and the afternoon was spent in a very
happy manner in blessing her, etc.  This shows
how the saints could enjoy themselves even un-
der the most trying circumstances and difficul-
ties.  "Sister Eliza called in the evening to in-
vite me to a little party, and when I told her
it was my birthday and wished her to bless me,
she said if I would go to the party they all
would bless me.  After going and attending
one of the sisters who had a child born, I went
to the party and had a good time singing, pray-
ing and speaking in tongues; but before the
party broke up I was called away to attend Sis-
ter Morse and from there to Sister E. A. Whit-
ney's, who was not well.  Friday, 5th, I went
to see Sister Joanna Roundy, she said it was
the last time I would ever see her in this world.
I gave her a message to carry to my children
who had died in their infancy and childhood.
In the evening I went to the party of the 'Sil-
ver Greys,' Sister Eliza went with us.  Sister
Joanna Roundy died this evening.  Saturday,
6th, attended to my household work and made
a quantity of soap.  Sister Whitney sent for
me again, I went to wait upon her, she had a
son born at eleven o'clock p.m.'
	This son was the little boy that many of our
readers will remember, a little sufferer all the
days of his life, who lived to be nine years of
age and never walked. Sister Whitney sent for
me again, I went to wait upon her, she had a
son born at eleven o'clock p.m.'
	This son was the little boy that many of our
readers will remember, a little sufferer all the
days of his life, who lived to be nine years of
age and never walked. Sister Whitney called
him "a child of promise," in answer to her
prayers to have a son born in the fulness of the
new and everlasting covenant.


