	SALT LAKE CITY. 

	The Ladies' regular semi-monthly meeting
was held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms, Saturday, February 7th, Coun. B. W. 
Smith presiding.  Opened with singing. 
"Arise, my soul, arise."  Prayer by Coun. E. 
Howard. Singing, "Mid scenes of confusion, 
and creature complaints."  Minutes of last
meeting were read and accepted; also minutes
of P. A. of 21st.  11th.  4th and 5th wards. 
Counselor Smith made opening remarks; said
we want to live near to God, and follow what
Prest. Taylor said—"If we get into a storm, 
round up our shoulders and face it the best 
we can, for it cannot last forever."
	Sister Lula Richards said we all know that
God can inspire us; we want to be obedient
and try and sustain our brethren in their hours
of trial;  said she knew that the prayers of the
Saints availed much; exhorted the sisters to 
teach their children to pray, for their innocent
prayers would do much for this people. 
	Sister Bird expressed her gratitude that she
lived in this day and was numbered among
the Saints, and her desire to be ever faithful 
to the cause of truth. 
	Sister Ann Odell of Ogden, spoke of her
joy in being associated with the sisters; alluded
to her having been President of a Primary As-
sociation for six years, and felt grateful for 
that experience; exhorted the sisters to be 
faithful to God's cause and He would protect 
us to the end. 
	Sister Elizabeth Stevenson gave good advice
to mothers in regard to bringing up their
children, and advised them to be wise and
cautious and watchful of what they said, and
pray for our brethren. 
	Sister Lawson bore a faithful testimony and
expressed her gratitude for God's care over the
Saints: Sister Friel also bore her testimony. 
Sister Richards related an anecdote that would
be well to teach the children. 
	Coun. S. M. Kimball said, we are truly liv-
ing in perilous times, and while I feel that the
Lord "doeth all things well," we must fit our-
selves to meet whatever may come to try us. 
We will each be tested that we may prove our-
selves before God.  Made many other good re-
marks. 
	Coun. E. Howard spoke of the word of wis-
dom, and urged the sisters to observe it. 
Thought we should be wise in our conversa-
tion; gave very good instruction to the young
girls in regard to truth and virtue. 
	Sister Smith, Sister Jones and other sisters
spoke a short time, and meeting adjourned for
two weeks.  Singing, "The Spirit of God like
a fire is burning," etc.  Benediction by Sister
Julia Howe.


