[Vol51 | April 1964 | Page 251 | Special Feature | Darlene C. Dedekind Appointed to the General Board Irene | W. Buehner]

Darlene C. Dedekind Appointed to the General Board

Irene W. Buehner
Member
General Board of Relief Society

DARLENE Christensen Dedekind was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society, January 15, 1964. She has accepted this responsibility with a sweet spirit of humility and willingness to serve our Heavenly Father. Her wide background of rich spiritual experience in Church service ably qualifies her for her new position.

Sister Dedekind is the daughter of Emilius A. and Ellen J. Pehrson Christensen. She was born in Fairview, Utah. Her father was a convert from Copenhagen, Denmark. These two devoted Latter-day Saints endowed their children with an abiding appreciation for the gospel, as well as a gift for gracious living. The family has lived in Salt Lake City, Kansas City, Minneapolis, and Chicago. After one year of college she was called to serve in the Texas Mission under President ElRay L. Christianson. She has attended the University of Utah and the University of Minnesota.

On July 25, 1941, in the Salt Lake Temple, she was married to Dr. Kenneth L. Dedekind, an oral surgeon. They are the parents of three lovely daughters, Kendra Lyn, a junior at the University of Utah; Deborah Ceanne, a freshman at the University of Utah; and Sandra Jo, a junior at East High School.

During the years Sister Dede-

[PHOTOGRAPH]

kind has demonstrated her love for the gospel and her leadership ability by serving in YWMIA ward presidencies, Hillside Stake Primary presidency, and ward Relief Society presidencies. At the time of her appointment to the General Board she was serving as a Monument Park Stake missionary, as well as a ward social science class leader.

Sister Dedekind, faithful to her heritage, has created a completely gracious, charming home for her family. She embodies and radiates the sterling qualities of dignity, gentility, and humility. Surely these attributes, coupled with her sincere testimony of the gospel and earnest desire to serve, will enable her to magnify the call which has come to her and add great strength to the General Board.

251
