[Vol51 | April 1964 | Page 252 | Special Feature | Cleone R. Eccles Appointed to the General Board Jeanette | M. Morrell]

Cleone R. Eccles
Appointed
to the General Board

Jeanette M. Morrell

[PHOTOGRAPH]

CLEONE RICH ECCLES was appointed to the General Board of the Relief Society on January 15, 1964. She has a noble heritage, a fervent testimony of the gospel, a charming personality, and a background of travel and experience.

She is the granddaughter of apostle Charles C. Rich, and the daughter of Dr. Edward I. Rich and Emily Almira Cozzens, pioneers in the professional and cultural development of Weber County. Her mother was Mount Ogden Stake president of the Relief Society for twenty-three years, so she was reared in an atmosphere of the highest ideals of Relief Society.

She attended the New England Conservatory of Music, where she received professional training on the violin. During her entire life she has been most generous in sharing her great talent.

She married Royal Eccles in the Salt Lake Temple on August 22, 1918. He passed away February 5, 1963. They are the parents of six children: Maren E. Hardy (Washington D.C.); Cleone E. Yeates (Salt Lake City, Utah); Claire E. Matthies (Ogden, Utah); Edward Rich Eccles (deceased); Myrelle E. Thomas (Salt Lake City, Utah); Justin Rich Eccles (Los Alamitos, California).

She has been active in civic affairs, serving as a member of the Weber County Welfare Board from 1937 to 1955.

In musical circles she served as a member of the Utah State Symphony Board. She was active in bringing the Community Concert Association to Ogden, and was vice-president of that organization from 1935 to 1956.

Her Church activities have included seven years as Sunday School teacher; four years as stake president of the Mount Ogden YWMIA; four years as president of the Twelfth Ward Relief Society; four years as president of the Mount Ogden Stake Relief Society; and five years as literature class leader in her home ward Relief Society.

Her capacity for sympathetic understanding and her unselfish desire to serve in any capacity, will make her a valuable member of the Relief Society General Board.

252
