[Vol51 | April 1964 | Page 300 | Home | Cover-Ups for Older Tots | Adelle Ashby]

Cover-ups
for Older Tots

Adelle Ashby

SOMETIMES middle-sized children need to wear some kind of a protection over their clothes when eating, but would rebel at the suggestion of a bib. On a Sunday, for instance, when you want your children to stay fresh and clean between meetings, it is a great convenience to have some kind of an aid at mealtime.

Here are three "cover-up" ideas that are so eye catching and different, that the roughest, biggest, little cowboy in your family will love to wear one.

[ILLUSTRATION: Simple line drawing of a young boy wearing what appears to be a bib or cover-up with decorative elements]

CANDY CANE COVER-UP:

The first cover-up is for the child just above the tiny tot in age. It is a candy-cane bib. The best material for this bib is a heavy terry cloth. If you have a worn bath towel, there is likely to be enough good material left to make this bib.

To cut the candy-cane bib, first cut a rectangle of about twelve inches by fourteen inches. These bibs should be quite large, so as to cover well. Now cut a neck curve in the center of one of the 12" edges. The curve should be about 4½ inches wide, and about 1⅝ inches deep at the lowest point. Bind the bib with bright red bias, leaving the neck curve. Now bind this curve with the same bias tape, leaving about ten inches on both ends for ties.

To make the candy cane, take a ten-inch length of red rickrack and also a ten-inch length of white rickrack. Interlock the two colors so that they look braided. Make another smaller cane of seven-inch rickrack lengths. Now stitch them on the bib in a candy-cane shape, adding a bright red bow on each cane. Candy canes

300

are popular with the children at all times of the year.

SISTER'S BLOUSE COVER-UP:
If you make a cover-up for sister, she will love one that looks like a blouse. This bib could be made from an old white shirt, or from a white or light-colored discarded towel. Make it the same size as the first bib, or as long as her dress, for added protection. Cut the neck curve as before. This time, hem all around with a narrow hem. Now make a make-believe collar, pocket, and center strips, and also bind the neck with the new bright striped bias that is on the market, or use any you have on hand. If you add the realistic touch of four shirt buttons down the front, any little girl would be proud to wear it.

BROTHER'S VEST COVER-UP:
This cover-up bib is for the young man of the house, who has trouble keeping his white shirt spotless for church going. Cut the bib as indicated in the diagram. If you will clip a little ¼-inch mark into the upper and lower V, it will be easier to stitch on the bias tape.

First, hem both long edges with a tiny hem. Now bind this bib also with a bright striped bias tape, and sew it on in this order: tie string and upper left V, then lower left V. In one operation, bind lower right, continue with tape up front (folded) and bind upper right, leaving a tie. Add fake pockets and four shirt buttons.

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a young girl in a blouse-style bib with raised finger]

[ILLUSTRATION: Pattern diagram showing a rectangular shape with measurements]

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a young boy wearing a vest-style bib]

301

Sarah C. Bowles
