[Vol51 | April 1964 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: 252 Cleone R. Eccles Appointed to the General Board Jeanette M. Morrell]
Cleone_Morrell.txt) ===
only know pornography as commonplace, but, worse almost than that, the innocuous articles in women's magazines that tell of the "thrill" of young mothers g0- ing back to school to get their degrees, and mothers leaving famitake positions that are etc. Every i0- fluence is exerted to take mother love, her presence, and her constant teachings. Stands The Relief Society Magazine, combating the influences of the evil one and fighting the fight down here where the battle still rages for men's souls. APRIL 1964 In 1959 in Great Britain, when we organized the district auxiliary boards to help prepare our people for stakehood, a challenge was issued to each division of the mission board. The first instructions to the Relief Society Board were, "The Relief Society Magazine should be in every member's home to increase the spirituality, to combat evil influences, to improve the attendance at Relief Society, and to help the family to be homecentered in its life." It was suggested that The Relief Society Magazine was the mortar that would hold these objectives together and build a strong building of preparedness for stakehood. It was outlined that The Relief Society Magazine would be the stimulator, the motivator, and the blueprint for perfection and progress in personal lives, in family life, and in organizational accomplishment in the mission. How well the sisters succeeded in their objective is seen in the fact that, for the first time in British Mission history, in 1960, 107% of the members' families took The Relief Society Magazine, and the mission was on the Honor Roll. In 1961, the British Mission led all missions of the Church, with 147% of the families taking the Magazine. And as far as accomplishing the purpose of preparation for stakehood, where there were no stakes in 1959, there are now six stakes in the original British Mission. Out of this wide circulation came some wonderful stories that show The Relief Society Magazine is great for husbands, that it is an ideal missionary, and that the Magazine reactivates members 254 and brings within them a desire to serve. For example: Roy Caddick, now in the stake presidency of the Manchester Stake, is a schoolteacher. He had completely forgotten his assignment to be the teacher-speaker at a faculty meeting on Monday morning. When he awakened to his assignment early on Monday morning, all he had in his pocket was his wife's copy of The Relief Society Magazine. He became absorbed reading the literature lesson on Shakespeare's Hamlet. Standing to give his talk, he repeated what he had read in the Relief Society literature lesson. When he had completed his talk, the headmaster arose and said something like this: "We want to compliment Mr. Caddick on his excellent preparation. I don't know how many books he must have read to give us this comprehensive and fresh talk on Shakespeare's Hamlet, but I do know it has been the finest faculty talk we have had this year. We commend him for his example, and for his study." As a missionary, The Relief Society Magazine has no peer. One of the ardent solicitors in the British Mission saw a new sister in church. She asked her to subscribe to The Relief Society Magazine. She did so, even though this was her first visit to a strange church. With each succeeding copy she became engrossed in this great women's Magazine that taught every good facet of life. She was inspired by the theology lessons. She was engrossed in the social science lessons. She was interested in the culture of the literature lessons. And she was really excited about the work meeting suggestions. Surely, the Church that published such an uplifting and wellrounded Magazine must be inspired. She began coming to Relief Society, and her discussions with the missionaries were merely perfunctory; she had already been converted by the Magazine. AS a means of binding one to the Church, fellowshipping a new convert, or even bringing one back into activity, The Relief Society Magazine stands alone. For instance: a new member went to