Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 1964 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act. Of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from Sleep Iris W. Schow) ===
WORLD'S FAIR — APRIL TO OCTOBER — 1964 Both Individual and Group Tours There will be several tours to the World's Fair including the Hill Cumorah Pageant. MEXICO — JUNE, 1964 EUROPE — AUGUST, 1964 HAWAII — MONTHLY TOURS Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 Idaho Falls 522-2581 SACRED MUSIC FOR LADIES THREE PART CHORUSES —sCOME YE BLESSED OF MY FATHER—Madsen 20 =. IlFORTH IN THY NAME, O LORD I GO—Schumano 20 a. GRANT ME, DEAR LORD, DEEP PEACE OF MIND—Stickles 25 wae llHEAVENS ARE TELLING—Haydn 000002 00. 25 a. IN THY FORM—Madsen.20 —LET ALL MY LIFE BE MUSIC—Spross ~ 00 ee..30 ey. LET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT FOR JOY—Stephens.20 LORD, GOD OF OUR FATHERS—Armbruster 25 iLORD'S PRAYER—Gates.20 «illMY REDEEMER LIVES—Gates.20 oo. OMNIPOTENCE—Schubert _.20 Use this advertisement as your order blank Music Sent on Approval I DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY ——SCS 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 Please send the music _ indicated above. [} Money Enclosed Name.. Address i I I 1 i! I [J On Approval [] Charge!! I 1!! 15 E. Ist South I / Salt Lake City 11, Utah I The New Magna-Vu % A little marvel for reading, crocheting, and knitting... 3% Hangs around your neck and sits on your chest comfortably. % Leaves the hands free for working. %& Comes in a leather case. % Magnifies a large area beautifully ideal for fine $5.27 in money order, check. I have an work and for looking at detail. Account, please charge. Name Address. 2++s+:10805+) 0 City 2 2. Zone... State! Glass! $4.95 plus 32 cents postage. Esere COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY Asa SS = a SS SSS aie Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah. Please send me a Magna Vu Glass. Enclosed is Residents of Utah include 3'2% sales tax. WORLD'S FAIR TOURS 21 days — June 21 to July 11: World's Fair, Church historical places (does not include pageant). Ae Thank You Loretta Hanson 27 days — July 13 to August 8: World's Fair, Church historical places. Includes Hill Cumorah Pageant. Also, Thank you for your kindness, For thoughtful things you've done; Quebec and Montreal, Canada. A 24 days — July 23 to August 15: World's Fair, Church historical places, including Hill Cumorah Pageant. = All tours include: Show at Jones' Beach, Rockettes, Top Broadway Show and a special event ticket at World's Fair, ete. Oo Esther James Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051 318 For always knowing what to say, When darkness hides the sun. Thank you for your friendship, A true and priceless gift; For always being close at hand, When spirits need a lift. Words can never tell you, But you may know some day; The comfort you have given, Along life's rocky way. I pray to God in heaven, That I may some day be, The help and guide to someone, That you have been to me. Zaccheus Linnie F. Robinson Unbelief was desert in him While rumors fought the dried abyss; Until at last one step forthcoming, He said, '"'I'll see how false he is."' Then crowds came stumbling up the road Men clamored much to see and talk; Within a tree he waited long Where Jesus' sandaled feet would walk. But Jesus stopped and called his name, "'Come down, I must abide with thee!" And Zaccheus ran to make a feast, Then waited for his guest to be. When Zaccheus looked into his eyes He knew above his heart's surmise — "Half of my goods I give away —"' So reads his love unto this day. BEAUTIFUL JOIN OUR QUALITY HANDY TOURS TO sok oee HOLY LAND March and October BOOK OF MORMON LANDS April—June—Nov.—Jan.—Feb.—March CHURCH HISTORIC PLACES and HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT July New York World's Fair — Daily Departures via Bus-Air-Train HAWAII June and September EUROPE June Contact MURDOCK TRAVEL, INC. 14 South Main Street Salt Lake City 328-3161 A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $2.75; Leather Cover — $4.20 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Up to 150 miles.35 1000 to 1400 miles.64 150 to 300 miles _.39 1400 to 1800 miles.76 300 to 600 miles.45 Over 1800 miles.87 600 to 1000 miles.54 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Phone EMpire 4-2581, 33 Richards St., S. L. C., Utah, 84101. A 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 319 SO tbhidey Onipraliletion Two N inety-two Mrs. Elizabeth Jane Russell Day Mrs. Flo Gregory Behney unter, Uta Stockton, California Mrs. Anna Glackemyre Agee Mrs, Elizabeth Worthy namia, Minnesota Prince Albert, Saskatchewan, Canada Oneehicase d Mrs. Katie Taylor Dansie Mrs. Hanna Salt Lake City, Utah h Stubbs Jones Salt Lake City, Utah Miss Addie Walsh Bellville, Ontario, Canada Mrs. Mary C. Reeg Burlington, Wyoming Ninety-one N inet, "A: Mrs. Dozinda N. Burretesen Wilkerson Salt Lake City, Uta Mrs. Hattie RushnelI Foster Mrs. Annie Smith Lamb Bellville, Ontario, Canada St. Hubert, Quebec, Canada Miss Alice q. Smith Mrs. Sarah Rosina Pomeroy Brewer Logan, Utah h Mrs. Ruth 5 Maxwell Foote Safford, Arizona Mrs. Catherine Heggie Griffith a Clarkston, Utah any Mrs. Lucy Maude Bliss Walsh ea = akersfield, California Mrs. Delta Weeks McKowen Mrs. Tina v. Dorp Va Orem, Utah nN der Ende Redondo Beach, California Mrs. Ella J. Seegmiller Ninety-three Snowflake, Arizona Mrs. Eva Elnora Jensen Jensen Mrs. Rosa Cc Wa Rexburg, Idaho Mrs. Nellie Carter Osborne Mrs. Julia Straaberg Murray, Utah Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Florence Oyler Blackburn Mrs. Leah Dunford Widtsoe Loa, Utah Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Christine Olson Olson Mrs. Edith Maude Ellerby Langlois Bergland, Ontario, Canada Salt Lake City, Utah 320 Seek Ye Out o the Best Books TWO NEW VOLUMES - LATTER-DAY PROPHETS and the DOCTRINE & COVENANTS Volume II. Sections 42 to 76 by Roy W. Doxey An amazing and informative book that is a worthy successor to the very popular Volume I. Elder Doxey is an Associate Professor of Religion and Chairman of the Department of Undergraduate Studies in the College of Religious Instruction at Brigham Young University. Fascinating insight into Iter -day prophecy. Oe 79 JUST OFF THE PRESS! * - a F 1 ~ - ( i K k THE LORD SPEAKETH by Alvin R. Dyer This well-known Church author, an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, traces the history of the gospel 1 in a volume that is without precedence in Church Literature. From Pe and Moses through Huss, Calvin, and Luther to the Prophet Joseph Smith, this volume blends all the pieces into one enlightening whole. I Deseret Book I COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA << Deseret Book, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City — Please send me the above numbered books 1—2— for which I enclose §. Money order, check. I have an account, please charge MM ee En es MESS eee EE MM ee eesZone -State 0 ee Residents of Utah include 312% sales tax. Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Dr. John T. Harris held fast to a dream a dream that was about to be fulfilled. Eagerly on a Monday morning he went to check on the progress of his new clinic building. The boards and bricks put The I dress ' I and in place by the workmen were not merely boards and bricks— the they represented years of hard ubstance — work in a small community, serving the people of his town and surrounding towns with excellent dental care. Little did the doctor realize as he walked up the makeshift board ramp to the side door of the structure that he would never see the building completed. Noticing a pool of water on the floor, indicating a problem below, John Harris, age 35, crawled under to investigate. He came in contact with electric wiring which, then grounded against his body, snuffed out his life. Seven months prior to this tragic mishap, Dr. Harris had wisely added a $50,000 Beneficial Life Insurance policy to his estate. Mrs. Harris and their children were spared an unbearable financial burden which otherwise would have been added to their burden of grief at the loss of a young husband and father. Total premiums of $791 returned $50,000 to help reara family of youngsters who must now manage without a father. Here, again, the wisdom and the miracle of life insurance! From the Beneficial Life files BENEFICIAL LIFE Ss Virgil H. Smith, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah Over 590 million dollars of life insurance in force.

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from Thank You Lorretta Hanson) ===
BEAUTIFUL JOIN OUR QUALITY HANDY TOURS TO sok oee HOLY LAND March and October BOOK OF MORMON LANDS April—June—Nov.—Jan.—Feb.—March CHURCH HISTORIC PLACES and HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT July New York World's Fair — Daily Departures via Bus-Air-Train HAWAII June and September EUROPE June Contact MURDOCK TRAVEL, INC. 14 South Main Street Salt Lake City 328-3161 A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $2.75; Leather Cover — $4.20 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Up to 150 miles.35 1000 to 1400 miles.64 150 to 300 miles _.39 1400 to 1800 miles.76 300 to 600 miles.45 Over 1800 miles.87 600 to 1000 miles.54 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Phone EMpire 4-2581, 33 Richards St., S. L. C., Utah, 84101. A 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 319 SO tbhidey Onipraliletion Two N inety-two Mrs. Elizabeth Jane Russell Day Mrs. Flo Gregory Behney unter, Uta Stockton, California Mrs. Anna Glackemyre Agee Mrs, Elizabeth Worthy namia, Minnesota Prince Albert, Saskatchewan, Canada Oneehicase d Mrs. Katie Taylor Dansie Mrs. Hanna Salt Lake City, Utah h Stubbs Jones Salt Lake City, Utah Miss Addie Walsh Bellville, Ontario, Canada Mrs. Mary C. Reeg Burlington, Wyoming Ninety-one N inet, "A: Mrs. Dozinda N. Burretesen Wilkerson Salt Lake City, Uta Mrs. Hattie RushnelI Foster Mrs. Annie Smith Lamb Bellville, Ontario, Canada St. Hubert, Quebec, Canada Miss Alice q. Smith Mrs. Sarah Rosina Pomeroy Brewer Logan, Utah h Mrs. Ruth 5 Maxwell Foote Safford, Arizona Mrs. Catherine Heggie Griffith a Clarkston, Utah any Mrs. Lucy Maude Bliss Walsh ea = akersfield, California Mrs. Delta Weeks McKowen Mrs. Tina v. Dorp Va Orem, Utah nN der Ende Redondo Beach, California Mrs. Ella J. Seegmiller Ninety-three Snowflake, Arizona Mrs. Eva Elnora Jensen Jensen Mrs. Rosa Cc Wa Rexburg, Idaho Mrs. Nellie Carter Osborne Mrs. Julia Straaberg Murray, Utah Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Florence Oyler Blackburn Mrs. Leah Dunford Widtsoe Loa, Utah Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Christine Olson Olson Mrs. Edith Maude Ellerby Langlois Bergland, Ontario, Canada Salt Lake City, Utah 320 Seek Ye Out o the Best Books TWO NEW VOLUMES - LATTER-DAY PROPHETS and the DOCTRINE & COVENANTS Volume II. Sections 42 to 76 by Roy W. Doxey An amazing and informative book that is a worthy successor to the very popular Volume I. Elder Doxey is an Associate Professor of Religion and Chairman of the Department of Undergraduate Studies in the College of Religious Instruction at Brigham Young University. Fascinating insight into Iter -day prophecy. Oe 79 JUST OFF THE PRESS! * - a F 1 ~ - ( i K k THE LORD SPEAKETH by Alvin R. Dyer This well-known Church author, an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, traces the history of the gospel 1 in a volume that is without precedence in Church Literature. From Pe and Moses through Huss, Calvin, and Luther to the Prophet Joseph Smith, this volume blends all the pieces into one enlightening whole. I Deseret Book I COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA << Deseret Book, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City — Please send me the above numbered books 1—2— for which I enclose §. Money order, check. I have an account, please charge MM ee En es MESS eee EE MM ee eesZone -State 0 ee Residents of Utah include 312% sales tax. Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Dr. John T. Harris held fast to a dream a dream that was about to be fulfilled. Eagerly on a Monday morning he went to check on the progress of his new clinic building. The boards and bricks put The I dress ' I and in place by the workmen were not merely boards and bricks— the they represented years of hard ubstance — work in a small community, serving the people of his town and surrounding towns with excellent dental care. Little did the doctor realize as he walked up the makeshift board ramp to the side door of the structure that he would never see the building completed. Noticing a pool of water on the floor, indicating a problem below, John Harris, age 35, crawled under to investigate. He came in contact with electric wiring which, then grounded against his body, snuffed out his life. Seven months prior to this tragic mishap, Dr. Harris had wisely added a $50,000 Beneficial Life Insurance policy to his estate. Mrs. Harris and their children were spared an unbearable financial burden which otherwise would have been added to their burden of grief at the loss of a young husband and father. Total premiums of $791 returned $50,000 to help reara family of youngsters who must now manage without a father. Here, again, the wisdom and the miracle of life insurance! From the Beneficial Life files BENEFICIAL LIFE Ss Virgil H. Smith, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah Over 590 million dollars of life insurance in force.

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from Zaccheus Linnie Fisher Robinson) ===
14 South Main Street Salt Lake City 328-3161 A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $2.75; Leather Cover — $4.20 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Up to 150 miles.35 1000 to 1400 miles.64 150 to 300 miles _.39 1400 to 1800 miles.76 300 to 600 miles.45 Over 1800 miles.87 600 to 1000 miles.54 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Phone EMpire 4-2581, 33 Richards St., S. L. C., Utah, 84101. A 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 319 SO tbhidey Onipraliletion Two N inety-two Mrs. Elizabeth Jane Russell Day Mrs. Flo Gregory Behney unter, Uta Stockton, California Mrs. Anna Glackemyre Agee Mrs, Elizabeth Worthy namia, Minnesota Prince Albert, Saskatchewan, Canada Oneehicase d Mrs. Katie Taylor Dansie Mrs. Hanna Salt Lake City, Utah h Stubbs Jones Salt Lake City, Utah Miss Addie Walsh Bellville, Ontario, Canada Mrs. Mary C. Reeg Burlington, Wyoming Ninety-one N inet, "A: Mrs. Dozinda N. Burretesen Wilkerson Salt Lake City, Uta Mrs. Hattie RushnelI Foster Mrs. Annie Smith Lamb Bellville, Ontario, Canada St. Hubert, Quebec, Canada Miss Alice q. Smith Mrs. Sarah Rosina Pomeroy Brewer Logan, Utah h Mrs. Ruth 5 Maxwell Foote Safford, Arizona Mrs. Catherine Heggie Griffith a Clarkston, Utah any Mrs. Lucy Maude Bliss Walsh ea = akersfield, California Mrs. Delta Weeks McKowen Mrs. Tina v. Dorp Va Orem, Utah nN der Ende Redondo Beach, California Mrs. Ella J. Seegmiller Ninety-three Snowflake, Arizona Mrs. Eva Elnora Jensen Jensen Mrs. Rosa Cc Wa Rexburg, Idaho Mrs. Nellie Carter Osborne Mrs. Julia Straaberg Murray, Utah Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Florence Oyler Blackburn Mrs. Leah Dunford Widtsoe Loa, Utah Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Christine Olson Olson Mrs. Edith Maude Ellerby Langlois Bergland, Ontario, Canada Salt Lake City, Utah 320 Seek Ye Out o the Best Books TWO NEW VOLUMES - LATTER-DAY PROPHETS and the DOCTRINE & COVENANTS Volume II. Sections 42 to 76 by Roy W. Doxey An amazing and informative book that is a worthy successor to the very popular Volume I. Elder Doxey is an Associate Professor of Religion and Chairman of the Department of Undergraduate Studies in the College of Religious Instruction at Brigham Young University. Fascinating insight into Iter -day prophecy. Oe 79 JUST OFF THE PRESS! * - a F 1 ~ - ( i K k THE LORD SPEAKETH by Alvin R. Dyer This well-known Church author, an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, traces the history of the gospel 1 in a volume that is without precedence in Church Literature. From Pe and Moses through Huss, Calvin, and Luther to the Prophet Joseph Smith, this volume blends all the pieces into one enlightening whole. I Deseret Book I COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA << Deseret Book, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City — Please send me the above numbered books 1—2— for which I enclose §. Money order, check. I have an account, please charge MM ee En es MESS eee EE MM ee eesZone -State 0 ee Residents of Utah include 312% sales tax. Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Dr. John T. Harris held fast to a dream a dream that was about to be fulfilled. Eagerly on a Monday morning he went to check on the progress of his new clinic building. The boards and bricks put The I dress ' I and in place by the workmen were not merely boards and bricks— the they represented years of hard ubstance — work in a small community, serving the people of his town and surrounding towns with excellent dental care. Little did the doctor realize as he walked up the makeshift board ramp to the side door of the structure that he would never see the building completed. Noticing a pool of water on the floor, indicating a problem below, John Harris, age 35, crawled under to investigate. He came in contact with electric wiring which, then grounded against his body, snuffed out his life. Seven months prior to this tragic mishap, Dr. Harris had wisely added a $50,000 Beneficial Life Insurance policy to his estate. Mrs. Harris and their children were spared an unbearable financial burden which otherwise would have been added to their burden of grief at the loss of a young husband and father. Total premiums of $791 returned $50,000 to help reara family of youngsters who must now manage without a father. Here, again, the wisdom and the miracle of life insurance! From the Beneficial Life files BENEFICIAL LIFE Ss Virgil H. Smith, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah Over 590 million dollars of life insurance in force.

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from Birthday Congratulations) ===
Deseret Book I COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA << Deseret Book, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City — Please send me the above numbered books 1—2— for which I enclose §. Money order, check. I have an account, please charge MM ee En es MESS eee EE MM ee eesZone -State 0 ee Residents of Utah include 312% sales tax. Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Dr. John T. Harris held fast to a dream a dream that was about to be fulfilled. Eagerly on a Monday morning he went to check on the progress of his new clinic building. The boards and bricks put The I dress ' I and in place by the workmen were not merely boards and bricks— the they represented years of hard ubstance — work in a small community, serving the people of his town and surrounding towns with excellent dental care. Little did the doctor realize as he walked up the makeshift board ramp to the side door of the structure that he would never see the building completed. Noticing a pool of water on the floor, indicating a problem below, John Harris, age 35, crawled under to investigate. He came in contact with electric wiring which, then grounded against his body, snuffed out his life. Seven months prior to this tragic mishap, Dr. Harris had wisely added a $50,000 Beneficial Life Insurance policy to his estate. Mrs. Harris and their children were spared an unbearable financial burden which otherwise would have been added to their burden of grief at the loss of a young husband and father. Total premiums of $791 returned $50,000 to help reara family of youngsters who must now manage without a father. Here, again, the wisdom and the miracle of life insurance! From the Beneficial Life files BENEFICIAL LIFE Ss Virgil H. Smith, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah Over 590 million dollars of life insuranc

=== OVERLAP TRIM (from V51_04_06_SpFt_Cleone_Morrell.txt) ===
only know pornography as commonplace, but, worse almost than that, the innocuous articles in women's magazines that tell of the "thrill" of young mothers g0- ing back to school to get their degrees, and mothers leaving famitake positions that are etc. Every i0- fluence is exerted to take mother love, her presence, and her constant teachings. Stands The Relief Society Magazine, combating the influences of the evil one and fighting the fight down here where the battle still rages for men's souls. APRIL 1964 In 1959 in Great Britain, when we organized the district auxiliary boards to help prepare our people for stakehood, a challenge was issued to each division of the mission board. The first instructions to the Relief Society Board were, "The Relief Society Magazine should be in every member's home to increase the spirituality, to combat evil influences, to improve the attendance at Relief Society, and to help the family to be homecentered in its life." It was suggested that The Relief Society Magazine was the mortar that would hold these objectives together and build a strong building of preparedness for stakehood. It was outlined that The Relief Society Magazine would be the stimulator, the motivator, and the blueprint for perfection and progress in personal lives, in family life, and in organizational accomplishment in the mission. How well the sisters succeeded in their objective is seen in the fact that, for the first time in British Mission history, in 1960, 107% of the members' families took The Relief Society Magazine, and the mission was on the Honor Roll. In 1961, the British Mission led all missions of the Church, with 147% of the families taking the Magazine. And as far as accomplishing the purpose of preparation for stakehood, where there were no stakes in 1959, there are now six stakes in the original British Mission. Out of this wide circulation came some wonderful stories that show The Relief Society Magazine is great for husbands, that it is an ideal missionary, and that the Magazine reactivates members 254 and brings within them a desire to serve. For example: Roy Caddick, now in the stake presidency of the Manchester Stake, is a schoolteacher. He had completely forgotten his assignment to be the teacher-speaker at a faculty meeting on Monday morning. When he awakened to his assignment early on Monday morning, all he had in his pocket was his wife's copy of The Relief Society Magazine. He became absorbed reading the literature lesson on Shakespeare's Hamlet. Standing to give his talk, he repeated what he had read in the Relief Society literature lesson. When he had completed his talk, the headmaster arose and said something like this: "We want to compliment Mr. Caddick on his excellent preparation. I don't know how many books he must have read to give us this comprehensive and fresh talk on Shakespeare's Hamlet, but I do know it has been the finest faculty talk we have had this year. We commend him for his example, and for his study." As a missionary, The Relief Society Magazine has no peer. One of the ardent solicitors in the British Mission saw a new sister in church. She asked her to subscribe to The Relief Society Magazine. She did so, even though this was her first visit to a strange church. With each succeeding copy she became engrossed in this great women's Magazine that taught every good facet of life. She was inspired by the theology lessons. She was engrossed in the social science lessons. She was interested in the culture of the literature lessons. And she was really excited about the work meeting suggestions. Surely, the Church that published such an uplifting and wellrounded Magazine must be inspired. She began coming to Relief Society, and her discussions with the missionaries were merely perfunctory; she had already been converted by the Magazine. AS a means of binding one to the Church, fellowshipping a new convert, or even bringing one back into activity, The Relief Society Magazine stands alone. For instance: a new member went to Relief Society for the first time and subscribed to the Magazine. The woman giving the lesson evidently was unprepared, and our new member was very disinterested to the point that she thought she would not go again. Shortly, the Magazine began arriving in her home. She read it from cover to cover. When she came to the lesson material that the unprepared sister had poorly given, she read it and thought, why this is beautiful. I guess I didn't understand it. She decided she must be a part of the discussion of the lessons which she was enjoying reading. The Magazine had aroused her interest, rejuvenated her spirit, and rekindled her desire to be a part of the kingdom. Yes, The Relief Society Magazine is a great power, an influence, and a factor of worth in our fight with Satan. I have been reading it for thirty-five years. When on my first mission to Switzerland, as a young boy, I was given the assignment of working with the Relief Society.

=== OVERLAP TRIM (from V51_04_11_SpFt_Springtime_Miner.txt) ===
formance in any art. Especially is it necessary for one to set a high standard in Church service. Only excellence is worthy of the Lord. 270 Lt. Colonel Harriet W. Worley, of the United States Army Nurse Corps, received the Legion of Merit award, the Nation's second highest peacetime award, at Fort Douglas, Utah, in January. Authorized by the President of the United States, the citation reads: ''With rare foresight, mature judgment, keen and analytical ability and resourcefulness, she developed the first Army Nurse Corps Career Management program, and was the innovator of formal nursing research and development in the Army." Mothers in Utah have the lowest infant mortality rate (20.3 per 1,000 live births) in the United States, according to Dr. Joseph P. Kesler, Director, Department of Children's Services, Utah State Department of Health. Among the factors involved in this record, Dr. Kesler lists the following: a higher educational level of the mothers, resulting in better infant care; a relatively low rate of cigarette smoking by mothers; relatively good hygienic and sanitary standards in the home; and the birth of more than ninety-nine per cent of all Utah babies in hospitals. Mary G. Roebling, who is a bank president, predicts, ''Within the next decade we will see a tremendous increase in the number of women occupying top managerial positions." Queen Frederika of Greece and her daughter, Princess Irene, twenty-two, arrived in New York January 22, for a brief visit in the United States. The Queen, a highly intelligent and well educated woman, received. An honorary doctor of laws degree from Columbia University, and observed American television programs. Margaret Chase Smith, senior Senator from Maine, on January 27, entered the race for the Republican nomination for President of the United States. First woman to enter actively such a campaign in a major party, her name will be presented in primaries. In' New Hampshire and Illinois and probably in the District of Columbia and Oregon. Mrs. Smith served in the House of Representatives from 1940-1948 and in the Senate since 1948. She is noted for faithful attendance at Senate sessions and committee meetings, being a member of two powerful committees, the Aeronauticat and Space Sciences Committee and the Armed Services and Appropriations Committee. There are 57,926,000 women of voting age in the United States. That is approximately 3,828,000 more than the men of voting age in the country. Women could actually control political situations, but they rarely vote as a block. Polls show that more men than women are favorable to the idea of having a woman president.

=== OVERLAP TRIM (from V51_04_14_GenFt_Notes_Magazine.txt) ===
Warblers Dorothy J. Roberts They brought a song, a wisp of thread, They scanned the pine outside my sill For nesting a perennial mate, And something moved my wintering will. Song grew until. A symphony Rose from the neighborhood of trees, And something, listening, aroused My waning wonder, hearing these Who weave their hopes above the street, Paired for flight into songful teams, Who build the bits I throw away Into a dwelling for their dreams.