PROGRAMS of Inspiration The music of the great Tabernacle Choir and Organ, heard each Sunday for more than 18 years, is but one of the five-hundred KSL programs of inspiration, information, and entertainment which are yours for listening every week in the year.

SALT LAKE CITY KSL

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

VOL. 35 NO. 5 MAY 1948

Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD
Belle S. Spafford President
Marianne C. Sharp First Counselor
Velma N. Simonsen Second Counselor
Margaret C. Pickering Secretary-Treasurer
Achsa E. Paxman
Priscilla L. Evans
Evon W. Peterson
Lillie C. Adams
Mary G. Judd
Florence J. Madsen
Leone O. Jacobs
Ethel C. Smith
Anna B. Hart
Leone G. Layton
Mary J. Wilson
Louise W. Madsen
Edith S. Elliott
Blanche B. Stoddard
Florence G. Smith
Aleine M. Young

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor Marianne C. Sharp
Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford
General Manager Belle S. Spafford

Vol. 35 MAY, 1948 No. 5

Contents

SPECIAL FEATURES
Let Every Day Be Mother's Day Camilla Eyring Kimball 292
Relief Society Building News 295
Seven to One Geneva E. Wright 303
What About Cancer? Jess H. Rolph 306
Planning Food Buying for Health and Economy Bernice Stookey Linford 312
Nahaka Branch, New Zealand Mission, Sends "Big Canoe" Quilt 305
Created by Your Demand One-Stop Garden and Landscaping Headquarters Grace T. Kirton
Apple Blossoms

SERIAL
Questing Lights Chapter 2 Belle Watson Anderson 340

GENERAL FEATURES
Sixty Years Ago 308
Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 309
Editorial: A Blessing for Women Marianne C. Sharp 310
Notes to the Field: Summer Work Meetings 311
Magazine Subscription Percentages for 1948 311
Magazine Subscriptions for 1947 Counselor Marianne C. Sharp 314
The Magazine Honor Roll for 1947 318
Notes From the Field: Flower Shows, Handicraft, and Other Activities General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering 349
From Near and Far 360

POETRY
Lullaby Frontispiece Margery S. Stewart 291
Treasures Mabel Jones Gabbott 294
Small Boy With New-Born Kittens Katherine Fernelius Larsen 304
Too Deep the Peace Marijane Morris 311
For the Bereft Christie Lund Coles 346
Legacy Gene Romolo 348
Freedom's Loaves Hallie Grigg 348
There Is Music Alice Whitson Norton 357
Friend Grace B. Davis 358
Mother's Scrapbook Ida R. Allredge 358
The Eternal Feminine Again Olive C. Wehr 358
Secrets Ella J. Coulam 359
Summons Marion Garibaldi 359
Father in Heaven, I Thank Thee Arabella Hoke 359

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28
Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741: Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. 
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE LULLABY Margery S. Stewart Tuck the coverlet of night Around all small and helpless things, Babies in their broken cribs, Babies in their silken beds, While the wind in locust sings Lullabies for nodding heads. Let the tumult of the day Be folded now and put away; Let the troubles and the fears Be lost with the unsolaced tears. Light the lamps of little stars, Let new clouds float by to see That no small one cries in vain, That the reaching hands are filled And the lost held tenderly; Every anguished sob be stilled, Moonlight kiss the cheeks of boys, Leave them silver dreams for toys. Through the braids of little girls, Weave your white and fragile pearls. The Cover: "Fish Lake, Utah," by Glen Perrins. VOL. 35, NO. 5 MAY 1948
Let Every Day Be Mother's Day Camilla Eyring Kimball HE observance of Mother's Day has become an impressive outward demonstration of the latent love and gratitude to mothers. It comes by a gift, words of appreciation, acts of kindness, or letters on the part of everyone.
Mother is a magic word, calling forth a train of memories in_ the mind of each individual, accompanied by a variety of emotions depending upon how some woman has fulfilled this sacred trust.
Motherhood is a career of the first magnitude and is the instinctive ambition of every girl.
Nature may endow her with the physical potentiality of motherhood, but to become an ideal mother will take the combined training of home, church, and school.
Above all must come her own realization of the tremendous responsibility which this sacred calling entails. Her physical, mental, moral, emotional, and spiritual development are of prime importance to the generation she mothers. To be daughter, mother, and grandmother, is to make the destined cycle of womanhood and to know the joys, responsibilities, and development which these experiences bring.
Because they call for personal sacrifice and self-mastery, their value is enhanced. The child accepts the care and devotion of a self-sacrificing mother as his birthright. But the law of life exacts full payment for everything we get.
This nurturing of our childhood may be repaid in part by loving devotion to parents, but the debt is never paid in full until the child Page 292 becomes the parent and so in tum cares for a succeeding generation. The laws of God operate in perfect justice and bring happiness so long as we live in accordance with them. It is only when we selfishly seek to thwart them that troubles and disappointments come. The l