      AFFECTIONATELY DEDICATED TO
				HAL.

	What shall I say? I am afraid I can't
say anything. Here I am in the school-
room, with my spectacles all awry, and a
half dozen little urchins pulling at my cap-
strings to attract my attention; and one of
the little wretches actually had the audac-
ity to plant a solid little foot exactly on my
worst corn! Oh, but didn't I give him a
good shaking! He was aware that he had a
pair of ears for some time afterwards.
	Such things are so trying to the nerves;
especially when a person has arrived at the
age of thirty or thirty-five. Not very old
to be sure, but considerably past the age of
"sweet sixteen."
	Pardon me, I am digressing from my sub-
ject—Oh, but I hadn't selected a subject
yet, had I?
	Let me see! I am to write in a more se-
rious strain. You would prefer that my
communications indicated a sober and re-
flective mind. Now I am most desirious of
pleasing you, and feel confident that you
will experience the agreeable sensation, (of
being pleased) when you learn that I am
very sedate. In fact, scarcely ever smile.
You don't know: why I sit hour after hour
and study and reflect on such sublime and
elevating subjects, as Astronomy, Philoso-
phy Hygiene, and Matrimony. Don't you
see what a vast expanse of intellect I have?
I was going to say something right here,
but have forgotten what it was. Let it pass,
and perhaps I will think of it at some other
time. Unfortunately, the paper containing
your last article has been mislaid, and no
amount of searching will reveal its where-
abouts; so I am afraid I can not reply to
your questions in logical order. I believe
POLITICS was one of the subjects on which
you asked me to express my opinion. I

[Column 2]
take a little interest in politics, enough t
read most of the reports published in the
daily papers.
	Don't you pity poor Mrs. Belknap? It
must have been so humiliating to fall from
her high estate to such distress and shame.
I am rather Democratic in my tendencies,
but must confess that I am not well enough
posted at present to discuss the subject in-
telligently.
	I must confess a weakness for poetry.
Tennyson and Longfellow are my favorite
authors, my admiration being about equally
divided between the two. Tennyson's
"Elaine" is a sweet sad story, and "Enoch
Arden," especially the dramatization of the
poem, is really very touching, judging from
the lively manner in which the pocket-
handkerchiefs were flourished at the recent
presentation of the play before the Salt
Lake public. There were some very sus-
ceptible and sympathetic hearts beating in
my vicinity, I knew by the half subdued
sobs and pathetic sighs which I frequently
heard. I greatly admire Longfellow's
"Evangeline," but would like it better if
the termination was less sorrowful, and if,
instead of  finding the object of all her
hopes and affections only when she was dy-
ing, they had been allowed to end their
days in happiness. It seems too bad to suf-
fer them to remain so long apart when
Evangeline was seeking her lover in every
part of the globe, and he so near her some-
times that, had they only known it, they
might have spoken. The ending of the
"Courtship of Miles Standish" was so very
different; and left the principal parties so
happy. That was its chief attraction for
me.
	Don't you agree with me? I hope you
do, for I should feel perfectly distracted if I
thought you would disagree with me on
any subject.
	Music I can not say much about, except
that I am passionately fond of it. It recalls
by-gone days when I had a beau and he came
under my window one rainy night and
commenced playing "Captain Kidd" (that
was a popular song then,) on a cracked flute.
But sorrowful to relate, I mistook the float-
ing melody for the wail of a friendless and
forlorn member of the feline race, and as I
entertain a high regard for all such, I
thought on this occasion to entice the noble
animal to come to me, and for this purpose
opened my window and called in a melodi-
ous voice "puss! puss! puss!" To my in-
tense surprise I discovered that it was some
one serenading me, and endeavored to ex-
plain matters, and even offered an apology
for the mistake, but all to no purpose. The
gentleman seemed much offended and
would not listen to reason, and so departed
in high dudgeon. I wish I might add that
he went through life a lonely old bachelor,
but such is not a fact. He was married the
very next Sunday to "Aramantha Pepper-
corn," an awful 'or'nary young woman. But
as the poet states: "Such is life," and "We
all do fade as the leaf!"
	I entertain firmly grounded religious con-
victions, and my place at church is seldom
vacant, and then only when I am detained
at home by sickness. But how malicious
and envious some people are. Once when
I was detained at home by an attack of my
old foe, the rheumatism, it was whispered
that the real cause of my absence from
church was the loss of my set of new teeth.
The idea! Though of course they were
gone, and when my neice, 'Mandy, saucy
jade, came in and said she had found them
in my drawer, I had my own opinion; for
only the week before I had lectured her on

[Column 3]
the worldly-mindedness of this generation
and scolded her soundly for thinking o
staying at home from church just because
she hadn't her new dress finished, and told
her that on no account would I stay at
home.
	That I admire painting, my frequent vis-
its to the Art gallery attest. Botany is a
favorite study of mine. How do you like it?
	My article is already rather more lengthy
than I anticipated making it when I com-
menced. I will only add, that if you have
any pet theories to advance on any subject,
from the probability of an eclipse to the la-
test styles of spring hats, please give them
an airing, that I may decide how they co-
incide with my own opinions.
	Sincerely hoping that I have said nothing
to offend the nice sense of propriety I see
you possess.
				I remain as firm as ever,.
		THE OLD MAID IN THE CORNER.
	April 23, 1876.


