				GOOD-BY.

	It is a simple innocent expression; one
would hardly think it could imply such
wondrous meaning, and veil behind it so
much of heart-ache and sorrow; carry so
much real pain into the hidden recesses of
the human soul. It is often lightly and
heedlessly spoken in a casual way, without
meaning, almost; and without thought.
For myself I prefer for common occasions
the more unpretentious good morning, or
good evening when parting for compara-
tively short intervals.
	Who has not felt the pang occasioned by
this little word when in parting with a be-
loved one, perchance to enter upon new
scenes, to tread other paths, (it may be
thorny ones) we see them go out from us
and we can only murmur "Good-by—God
bless you;" and we know that henceforth
we are not to be near to soothe, to bless; to
restrain, by influence, or affection. Reflec-
tion comes at such times to all, how or when
they will meet again. All the tenderness
of nature rises involuntarily to the surface,
and the best and finest feelings of the soul
go out after the dear one who is leaving us,
and in the great agony of our hearts we fal-
ter out the honest good-by.
	We would fain say more, the words well
up to our lips, our hearts throb painfully,
the tears are ready to gush forth unbidden,
restrained by our resolve to be brave we
force them back, though the torrent is ready
to burst; and clasp the hand to say the sim-
ple words of parting.
	How many good-bys can we recall when
no thought of death or estrangement has
[-]ashed upon the mind intuitively, each

[Column 2]
have gone their separate ways and have
met no more; or a[-]ter long intervals, when
all trace of the trust that once existed had
faded out, and the meeting was of strang-
ers; new incidents had crowded in their
path, new occupations and new scenes had
engaged their attention, and one or both,
had canceled the histories of the past days.
It is not easy to resume associations after
long years of separation, one can scarcely
take up the thread of life where they laid
it down; and tracing it through and through
bring it evenly down to the present.
	There are many good-bys that chill the
heart and freeze the current of of warm blood
for the moment, many that are only record-
ed by the guardian angels, so silent and un-
complaining the grief. We can all realize
more or less the infinite meaning of this
simple salutation; it often implies more
than it would seem to convey; and we can
not be too careful; in parting with those who
are dear, be sure and do so in kindness.
If there has been a mis-spoken word, a lack
of warmth or confidence, put it all aside,
hide it away never more to be brough for-
ward, bury it where no corresponding in-
fluence can ever arouse it, and let the time
of parting only call up memories of ten-
derness in its place. Never manifest indif-
ference at times like these, there is no vir-
tue in it, we are not a whit the less brave
because we express emotions.
	It is not disparaging either to man or wo-
man to be touched deeply at parting with a
dear friend, or relative. Many a warm
heart has been unwontingly chilled at the
indifference manifested at parting, when
perhaps underneath the cold exterior beat
true and honest love. We can only judge of
persons by their acts, it is impossible to
sound the depths of another's heart; and if
we would bestow happiness and leave pleas-
ant impressions in the minds of others and
have them carry with them recollections of
happy days that will always be comfort-
ing in absence, then say good-by not
in coldness, but with earnest sincerity ex-
pressing the good wishes it would convey
to the heart; that there may be no after-
pang should that good-by even be the last
on earth.
							AUNT EM.
	May, 7th, 1876.


[Column 1]
