CHARITY.

	There is a vast deal said in this day about
charity, and judging from the writings of St.
Paul it was much-talked-of in his day. He al-
ludes to it as paramount to all the other gifts
of the Gospel. But is not this subject, like
many others, paraded before the world in a false
light? Probably there never were so many
charitable institutions and so much money
and means expended in this way as in this
age, which is called the age of enlightenment.
But that true charity which is full of compas-
sion for another's weaknesses and faults, of this
there seems to be a lack. To visit the sick, and
soothe and cheer them, to administer to want,
these are virtues; but to guide the erring, to
lift up the fallen, minister to the soul bowed
down by its own infirmities is a priceless bless-
ing. The principle is given, but little of the
practice. Propriety forbids it, (the world's pro-
priety) but the seeds of true and undefiled re-
ligion produces among other good fruit, a sen-
timent for which we have the Highest Exam-
ple, that of the Savior's life upon the earth.
	Giving money freely in a lavish way is not
always real charity; indeed it often leads to
serious evil and harm those upon whom it is
bestowed. It is easy charity; but to encourage
with kind words and deeds the unfortunate, is
food to the hungry soul. There is certainly a
lack of genuine charity now-a-days though
there is so much ostentatious parade about
it, and one cannot but feel ashamed to confess
like many other late inventions it is hard to
find the genuine article, but there are quanti-
ties of shams. It is worthier of a noble mind
where failures occur, to give credit for good in-
tentions, rather than for bad.
	These crude and cursory remarks may open
up to the reflecting a field of thought; but let
this suffice good friends, and as quaint old
Norris said: "These are our thoughts, we might
have spun the subject to a greater length; but
we think a little plot of ground, thick-sown, is
better than a great field that for the most part
lieth fallow."


[Column 1]
		HOME AFFAIRS.
	THE TABERNACLE opened for the summer
season on Sunday May 7th, Elder Orso[-] Pratt
preached to the people. There were many
strangers present.
	We have received more reports of Relief So-
cieties and Retrenchment Associations than
we can publish at present, but will do so as fast
as practicable.
	THE FAMOUS minstrel troupe Billy Emerson,
the Paragon of mimics, Ben Cotton and others,
have again made Salt Lake a visit. Those who
have a taste for negro melody have been well
entertained.
	MRS. OATES is another contributor to our re-
cent entertainments. She is a lady of very
fine presence and well-grounded reputation in
the theatrical profession.
	THERE WAS a grand excursion to Lake Point
on Wednesday, May 10th, and a pleasant sail

[Column 2]
on the steamer to points of considerable dis-
tance. These excursions are very pleasant af-
fairs usually, and do one good after the tedious-
ness of confinement within doors during the 
winter.
	PRESIDENT YOUNG and party left the city on
their Southern tour on Monday morning, May
1st. A large number of relatives and friends
attended them to the terminus, returning on
the same evening. Saturday evening they
were in Parowan. And on Tuesday afternoon
the party arrived at St. George.
	The health of President Young has improv-
ed very much during the journey. The people
expressed great pleasure at their arrival. They
held a conference of three days commencing
on Friday, May 12th.
	THERE ARE a very great number of stran-
gers passing through and stopping to visit Salt
Lake and see points of interest in and around.
The probability is, being the Centennial Year,
we shall have many visitors during the season;
among some of the late arrivals were Senator
Sharon and party; Mr. Shillebar of Boston the
humorist etc. (Mrs. Partington).
	THIS NUMBER completes the fourth volume
of the EXPONENT. We would say to our friends
and patrons that we had anticipated making
some change, but circumstances will not ad-
mit of it at present. We hope our agents and
those interested in the Woman's paper will be
prompt in renewing their subscriptions for the
fifth volume.
	In regard to its outward appearance, politely
alluded to by one of our profession, we can only
answer that we patronize the home production
of paper, and believe it to be to our best inter-
est, although we acknowledge our taste would
lead us to choose a superior quality; but we
hope ere long the paper made in Utah will
equal that imported from abroad.
	WE HAVE received through the politeness of
R. Matthews & Co., a specimen of writing fluid
which is equally good in color and quality to
any imported ink in the market; indeed we
would prefer it to Arnold's celebrated fluid.
Also a bottle of Jamaica Ginger carefully pre-
pared under the same Chemical Director, Prof.
J. L. Barfoot, well known as a man of science
and skill. We feel safe in saying that it is
as good a preparation as any of the kind we
have ever used, and we take pleasure in recom-
mending to the public these articles prepared
at home feeling it is the duty of the Latter-
day Saints to lend their influence and support
to encourage as far as it is possible every de-
partment of manufacture which will help to
make this people self-sustaining. Otherwise,
it will be impossible to build up Zion for there
is a vast amount of temporal work to be done.
This manufactory also make the famous toilet
sand soap. We wish them success in their no-
ble enterprise and hope they will receive the
patronage of the people.


