HONOR AND DISGRACE

	A popular sentiment, and one which is often
earned so far as to be productive of grievous
wrong, is that which ensures worthless and
hurtful individuals, good positions in society,
because of their bearing relationship to honor-
able and illustrious persons; and condemns or
casts aside innocent and useful ones, because of
evils committed by family or other near rela-
tives.
	"He is really an estimable young man, and I
am sure he thinks a great deal of you," says
an elder sister to one younger, "but I would
not have you marry him for anything, because
of the disreputable character of his brother."
	And the mother says she knows "the other
young man is rather wild, smokes, and drinks
a little too freely sometimes, but he comes of
such a respectable family and is liked so much
among his friends and is so young, she believes
that in a few years he will steady down and be
a good a man as either of his brothers; and a
mild, loving wife would help him so much in
overcoming his boyish ways."
	Under these and similar circumstances, many
a blooming girl is led to bestow the wealth of
her fresh young heart upon, decidedly the
wrong suitor. Most likely honest, upright
man is cheated of the bride he might have
won and rendered happy; while she, poor, pa-
tient soul, is doomed to the terrible fate of a
drunkard's wife.
	In reflecting upon these points we may con-
sider what the Scriptures teach us concerning
God the Father, His Son Jesus Christ, and Lu-
cifer who was once a son of the former and
brother of the latter. Can we feel that any
honor attaches itself to the Evil One through
this family connection? Or is the lustre of the
glory which belongs to the Holy Ones dimmed
in the least degree because of that unworthy
member of the family who was cut off and
cast from their midst? We think not.
	Here arises another feature which being ta-
ken into careful consideration, proves the val-
idity of the assertion that "there are exceptions
to all general rules." A wose man said "Train
up a child in the way he should go, and when
he is old he will not depart from it." And tak-
ing this view of the subjuct, we blame the par-
ents for the child's misconduct. If parents
have failed to teach their children true princi-
ples, the beauty of holiness and the folly of
sin, then they are inexcusably to blame if the
children fall into error. But shall we believe
it impossible for one who has been carefully
and prudently reared, to loose self-control and
become a criminal?
	It frequently occurs that a man or woman
who has through some inadvertency or other
weakness, earned and reaped dishonor and self-


reproach, may be afterwards seen, striving
through humility and a well ordered life to re-
gain the lost treasures, respectability and peace
of mind. Then does it become the true gen-
tleman or lady, who may have had acquaint-
ance with the former life, to refer to, or seek to,
remember the blemishes thereof? Ah no!

	When scandal sleeps, Oh pray revive it not!
	Recall thou not sad memories else forgot:
	Let present good for evils past atone,
	Give honor where you may, let disrepute alone.


