WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MRS. Sartain and Mrs. Wormley, of Col-
umbus, Ohio, are both celebrated for en-
graving upon steel.
	MRS. Captain McCoy teaches practical
navigation. She resides in Madison Street,
Mew York City.
	MRS. D. B. Merrill, of Anamosa, Iowa,
has been appointed Chaplain and teacher at
the Anamosa Penitentitary. This is the
first instance of the kind on record.
	MRS. Mary A. Livermore, has been lec-
turing in the Western States on "Superflu-
ous Women," and other like subjects. She
is said to be one of the most impressive and
pathetic speakers, and a woman of the high-
est tone of cultivation and refinement.
	MISS Edith Story, daughter of the sculpt-
or, and granddaughter of Judge Story, re-
cently married Signor Peruzzi of the king's
household at Rome. Being a Protestant her
marriage could not be recognized as lawful
without sanction by the Pope; which it is
said is the first instance of the present Pope
granting such a request.
	MRS A. M. Diaz at the meeting of the
Moral Educational Society held recently,
read a paper, entitled "Can Nations
Stop Fighting and Shall We Continue to
Foster the War Spirit? Her ideas were to
show the inconsistency of Christian nations
warring, and that all difficulties "should be
settled by international arbitration."
	MADAME Guy-Lassac who has just died at
an advanced age, was a remarkable woman
in many respects. She opened a shop while
a young girl to support her father and fam-
ily who had lost their property in the
French Revolution. Her husband was then
a student at the Polytechnic school and be-
came acquainted with her through going to
the shop to make some purchases. He
found her intently reading a book, and in-
quired its title. She informed him it was a
"Treatise on Chemistry." He became in-
terested, fell in love, proposed, and was ac-
cepted. He was only a poor young man
then with a membership of the Academy;
but afterwards became a peer and a celeb-
rity. The lady was beautiful, witty and be-
came distinguished in society for her many
graces of mind; she was her husband's pri-
vate secretary.


OUR dead are never dead to us until we
have forgotten them.


