MISCELLANEOUS.  

	TRAINING the hand and the eye to do
work well, leads individuals to form correct
habits in other respects; and a good work-
man is in most cases a good citizen.
	BE brave always. Misfortune, sorrow and
obstacles call for all the courage of human-
ity; to be brave is to be beneficial; it is in
time of trouble that we most need courage,
for by it we not only strengthen ourselves,
but can help others. The dross of the met-
al is always eliminated by the fire through
which it passes. So should sorrow purify
and strengthen us; they are the bravest
hearts who go to the front.
	IT is very common to meet blind men in
the streets of a Chinese city, but blind wo-
men are seldom seen. "Why is this?"
asked a traveler of an old missionary one
day. "Oh," was the answer, "when a child
becomes blind if a girl, it is almost sure to
die, for no care is taken to preserve the life
of such a worthless creature. A boy can be
taught to do more things for a support, so
he is allowed to live."
	PLATONICS.—Mr. G. Lewes (Geo. Eliot's
husband) says that the common notion of a
Platonic attachment is the affection which
a man has to a girl whom he cannot and
will not marry. What Plato says is, that
the soul goes forth in its search for Beauty
—which seems sentimental enough—but
then Plato identifies Beauty with Truth,
which is not so sentimental. Plato does not
introduce any consideration of sex into his
theory. In the Phaedrus and elsewhere
Plato gives us his notion of matters, and if
any one thinks that Plato's dialogues are
enlightened with much love talk, he can
have done but little in that wilderness of
dialectics.
	THE woman that is a happy wife need
not long to be courted again. There is no
need—she is won. Nor are many compli-
ments necessary. Mutual devotion is an
ever appreciated compliment. Yet, still,
you who are married do not quite forget
those old days which drew you to each oth-
er. Be lovers always. Many people are;
and those who love are safe. The meeting
and parting kiss, the kind look, the appre-
ciative word—never forget these. Never
let marriage degenerate into the common
place. So surely as you do worse will fol-
low; for the husband and wife who have no
tender sentiment towards each other will
become foes.


ENGLISH TITLES:—The lowest rank is
that of a knight and is dignified by the ti-
tle "Sir;" only, it not being hereditary.
Next comes the baronet whose title de-
scends to heirs. Knights and baronets are
not counted as belonging to the nobility,
but only to the aristocracy. The first in the
scale of nobility is the baron, to which rank
most of the English nobility belong. The
viscounts come next, and both viscounts
and barons are known in politics as lords;
earls are higher; then marquises; then
dukes; the last being the highest rank to
which subjects can attain. The younger
sons of dukes, earls and all the sons of sim-
ple barons, claim the prefix honorable.


THE school boy who needs most encour-
agement, generally gets the least. And so
it is the world over. If you owe a poor
man and also a rich one, you will be sure to
pay the rich one first. Of course the poor
one is best able to wait your convenience.


