				GENERAL
	Horace Greeley's homestead at Chappa-
gua was burned April 14th; the loss was
small; it was untenanted......A. J. Stuart's 
will left $1,000,000 to Judge Henry Hilton,
and the remainder to his wife except some
small bequests......The Harlem Railroad
Campany will put on ten extra trains daily
between the Grand Central Depot, (New
York City) and Williamsbridge, after May
15......The Centennial Exhibition will not
be open on Sundays......Kentucky is ship-
ping black-walnut to Europe......The small-
pox is prevailing to an alarming extent in
Perkinsville New York......The Irish citi-
zens of Albany will parade through the
streets of Philadelphia July 4th, in an or-
ganization called "Mitchell Guards"......
The establishment of a Chinese laundry, at
Roseburg, Oregon, is causing great excite-
ment there, it is said the Celestials are arri-
ving rapidly......The Mohawk Woolen Mills
were closed three days in respect to the late
A. T. Stewart......The Missouri river is
higher at Burlington, Iowa, than in the
great flood of 1858......Mr. Moody has closed
his labors in New York......Mr. August Bel-
mont, of New York opened his gallery of
paintings on the 25th and 26th of April for
the benefit of the Woman's Centennial
Union......Immense damage has been done
by the overflow of the Missouri river to
railroads and other property......Prarie fires
are destroying the timber lands of West-
ern Texas......The recent census of Phila-
delphia gives a population of 817,448......A
new station has been opened on the Hudson
River Railroad, called "Oscawana," located
between Croton and Crugers.
				PERSONAL.
	Mrs. Scott Siddons sailed from San Fran-
cisco for Sydney, Australia, on the 30th of
March......Miss Braddon the novel writer,
thinks of making a tour in this country and
giving public readings......A plaster cast of
the features of the late A. T. Stewart was
taken directly after his death......Mr.
Charles Reade will be one of the contribu-
tors to the "Belgravia Magazine" under
the new management......President Prado
of Peru arrived at New York City Apr. 11,
he was escorted to his hotel by a delegation
of the most eminent citizens......Hans
Christian Andersen's books, manuscripts,
autographs etc. will be sold at auction in
Copenhagen for the benefit of the "Ander-
sen Children's Home"......Count Favernery,
long Secretary Legation at Washington,
has been appointed French-Minister to Bra-
zil.
				FOREIGN.
	The plauge has again broken out in Asia-
tic Turkey......It is said by leading members
of the Moderado party that Queens' Isabella
and Christina will soon return to Spain and
occupy the Palace of Alauyez......Col. En-
sique Lara is appointed Secretary of the 
Peruvian Legation in London......The ar-
mies of Guatemala and San Salvador are
near each other at Justiapa, the former with
8,000 the latter with 9,000 men......A school
of mines is to be founded in Peru to for-
ward the mining interests of the Republic
......A contagious disease among cattle is 
prevailing in many parts of Europe......It
is rumored that Montenegro has declared
war against Turkey......Russia, Prussia and
Austria have decided to leave the Eastern
question as it is for the present......V. R.
B. E. I. I. are the new Initials of the
Queen—"Victoria Regina Britannia et ln-
dor[--]n Imperatrix......Liverpool, Eng. is to
be supplied with water from Lake Winder-
mere at an enormous cost.


