				A DEFENSE.

	My object in this short article is to do what
my poor ability can, in taking up the cudgel,
(the pen) in support of my sisterhood. Not
that I would infer for a moment women were
angels—far from it; much less wonld I echo
the prevailing cry in this country, at the pres-
ent time, that "woman's extravagance is ruin-
ing the nation." It is the self-same tale oft
told, that of sneaking behind woman's skirts to
hide their sins. Who has held the reins of
power in this nation, and with despotic sway
crushed woman into littleness, talked of her
"weakness, her frailties, her proneness to fall,
bah! It is sickening. This is man and manli-
ness; women are not accountable; this is man's
creed; but when trouble comes women are at
fault.
	In juxtaposition with woman's jewels, dia-
monds etc., place man's "debts of honor, and
Champagne," and I will venture to say that
they will overbalance by a very considerable
sum.
	When one takes into consideration all the
ways and means men have of spending money
outside of woman's precincts, they are not few
I assure you; betting, horse-racing, Champagne
suppers, and all sorts of specculations in stocks
etc., with many other MANLY amusements
and occupations; woman's dress falls low in the
scale of expenditure.
	Apropos of woman's dress etc. Why do wo-
men dress so elaborately? I would ask the
question, answer it who will. How much in-
fluence can women have in the world without
this outside attraction? Even here at home in
Zion where we profess to live under a better
and higher influence, those (who have eyes)
can see every day enough of this Babylonish
custom to discourage such as are not self-de-
termined enough to face opposition, and do
right let what will transpire. Then what can
be expected of those who cannot look forward
to the future for the reward of self-denial?
These women have been trained to live for ad-
miration, and man sustains it by his own vol-
untary practise. It takes a vast amount of
courage to be economical under such circum-
stances; but notwithstanding, women are ever
more ready to make sacrifices than men.
	If husbands and fathers were more commu-
nicative with their families it would be vastly
to their interest in many instances where fail-
ures occur through extravagance. Wives and
daughters are often kept in total ignorance of
the looked-for emergency, and in the last ex-
tremity are perchance informed of it through
the press, or by indiscreet persons.
	Whether it is pride or fear that makes men
silent towards those who must suffer most un-
der pecuniary embarrassment, I am unpre-
pared to say; but I will say, though I believe
in woman fulfilling every duty and obligation
so far as it is possible for her to understand, I
also believe that a man should allow his fam-
ily to understand his circumstances pecuniarily,
that they may not involve him in embarrass-
ments ignorantly. To indulge a wife or daugh-
ter in luxuries and elegancies which are incon-
sistent to one's resources is as much a fault as
to indulge children to their injury, simply, be-
cause one is too weak to say no, and persist in
the right.
	If men believed women were ther equal part-
ners in the matrimonial union, then they
would be willing surely to give them their
confidence in all matters pertaining to the fam-
ily interest. Long continued custom and false
education have made it otherwise and it will

[Column 2]
take time and untiring efforts to accomplish
this much to be desired purpase.
	There are earnest workers in the field who
with all the sublime and magnanimous cour-
age of heroes are laying the foundation of re-
form; willing if necessary to incur the odium
of the opposite sex, that they may benefit their
own, hoping and praying that ere long men
may see it is for their best interest that wo-
man should become a responsible party.
									EMILE.
	S. L. City, May 10th, 1876.


