PLAIN WOMEN.

	Among women of exalted rank who have
been wanting in beauty are Margaret of
Sweden, Matilda, Empress of Germany, and
Christina of Sweden. Fulvia, wife of An-
thony, had few personal charms; nor had
Terentia, wife of Cicero, if one may trust
to the majority of historians; but most of
these have found some admirers among bi-
ographers. Neither Anne of Cleves, nor
Catherine of Aragon was good-looking; still
for a while they swayed the fickle heart of
their Bluebeard husband. Queen Anne was
a dowdy, graceless woman in her best days.
Cromwell's wife was plain. When Queen
Anne of Bohemia came to India as a bride,
there was a pageant at Cheapside of a cas-
tle with two towers, from both sides of
which ran fountains of wine; and we are
told that the beautiful girls who blew gold-
leaf in the faces of the king and queen
caused the plain bride to look plainer; yet
she made her way in the good graces of
king and people.
	In France the gay and pleasure-loving,
plain women have gained many laurels.
Madame de Stael is a memorable instance,
though no one was more conscious of her
personal defects. Even her name was a
power in itself. The great Napoleon conde-
scended to be so jealous of her influencethat no persuasion would induce him to al-
low her to return to France. Mademoiselle
de Lespinasse, one of the most fascinating
women of her day, who exercised a mar-
vellous influence on those around her, was
marked with small-pox. Madame Geofirin
was a plain woman. Madame d'Epinay was
neither beautiful nor clever, but most at-
tractive. Madame de Mailly was the plain-
est woman of the Court. Maria Leczinski,
daughter of Stanislaus, King of Poland,
wife of Louis XV., was plain, but interest-
ing; and that famous Palatine Princess, sec-
ond wife of Philip, Duke of Anjou, brother
of Louis XIV., and mother of the Duke of
Orleans, the regent during Louis XV.'s mi-
nority—a woman who exercised more sway
than any of her time—was coarse of fea-
ture, and so ungainly that her large hands
passed into a proverb. She was of mascu-
line habits, clinging to the customs of Ger-
many, and wore a short, close wig like a
man's.—Ex.


