HYGIENIC NOTES.

	Darkness in the Treatment of Small-Pox.—If a
patient in the beginning of the attack, be put in-
a room from which absolutely all light is excluded,
save that of a candle, the effect is to arrest the
disease in the papular or vesicular stage; the skin
between the vesicles is never inflamed or swollen;
the large scabs of matter never form over the face;
there is no intense pain and only trifling itching,
and the smell is either very light or altogether
wanting.
	Celery for the Nerves.—A writer who is famil-
iar with the use of celery says that he has known
several men and women, who, from several caus-
es, had become so affected by nervousness that
when they stretched out their hands they shook
like aspen leaves on windy days, and by a moder-
ate daily use of the blanched footstalks of celery
as a salad they beeame as strong and steady in
limb as other people. He has known people
cured of palpitation of the heart by the use of
celery. Everybody engaged in labor weakening to
the nerves should use celery daily in its season,
and onions in its stead when not in season.
	Cure for Cancer.—I have known several that
have had cancers cured by the following remedy:
—Take ashes (those from red oak bark are the
best) a[-]d get lye that has been filtered through
them twice. Now boil the lye down until it be-
comes as thick as mush and take as much as may
be needed and add six grains of corrosive subli-
mate. Stir it well and let it remain until it is
done blubbering. Now take it off the fire, and let
it stand till it is cool enough to handle with the
fingers. It will be something like grained sugar.
In handling it the hands should be very dry. Now
break it in pieces and put in a glass vial, keeping
it from the air and from all dampness. In ap-


plying it to the cancer, put it on cotton or a sponge
and hold it to the cancerous part, say ten minutes.
The cancer will be killed and come out gradually.
—J. B. W.

	Sleep the Best Stimulant.—The best possible
thing for a man to do when he feels too weak to
carry it through, is to go to bed and sleep for a
week if he can. This is the only true recupera-
tion of power, the only actual recuperation of
brain force. Because during sleep the brain is in
a state of rest, in a condition to receive and ap-
propriate particles of nutriment from the blood
which take the place of those which have been
consumed in previous labor, since the very act of
thinking consumes, burns up solid particles as
every turn of the wheel or screw of the splendid
steamer is the result of consumption by fire of the
fuel in the furnace. The supply of consumed
brain substance can only be had from the nutritive
particles in the blood, which were obtained from
the food eaten previously, and the brain is so con-
stituted that it can best receive and appropriate to
itself those nutritive particles during a state of
rest, of quiet, and stillness in sleep. Mere stim-
ulants supply nothing in themselves; they only
goad the brain, force it to a greater consumption of
its substance, until that substance has been so ex-
hausted that there is not power enough left to re-
ceive a supply, just as men are so near death by
thirst and starvation that there is not power enough
to swallow anything, and all is over.


