		BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

	"Home, gentle name, I woo thee to my song,
	To thee my praise, to thee my prayers belong;
	Inspire me with thy beauty, bid me teem
	With gracious musings worthy of my theme:
	Spirit of Love, the soul of Home thou art[-]
	Fan with div[---]thoughts my kindling heart;
	Uphold me, bless me to my holy task."

	This subject is one which should interest
every living person; for it is one which has
power to touch the intricate depths of the
human heart. It is worthy a niche in the
immortal temple of Fame.—Nay I am well
aware that the subject has been descanted
upon by the most learned and proficient
writers and poets; and artists have design-
ed, sketched, and illustrated in every vari-
ety of form, phase and surroundings, its
beauties and physique. Nevertheless though
the ground has been pre-occupied, though
the flag of other nations of writers has
floated over it; yet who shall hinder the
free exercise of one's thoughts, and even if
they bear a similarity to another's they are
none the less our own.
	"Prose and verse are allowed to have
some distinguishing differences, at least in
termination."
	When some pretty fancies, of the pleas-
ures or pains of home come crowding upon
the mind, who shall say we may not enter
the same field of labor, and indulge in ran-
dom thoughts, taking our own view of the
homes of the multitudes, with some of the
elements of comfort to be sought by all.
We may bring together a few shreds of
thought which perchance may awaken in
other hearts, feelings and impulses sympa-
thetic with ours, which now lie dormant, and
which, perchance they have not the force to
bring into being and and clothe in words.
	It is not alone wealth or its appendages
that will supply the real substantial ele-
ments of a true home. One will say it is af-
fection, granted that is requisite, there is
another talisman whose absence from his
post will leave home comfortless—it is duty.
If one does not look upon home as a place
in which there is not only pleasure and
peace to be found, but duties to be perform-
ed; then farewell to contentment at home.
These duties and obligations may devolve
more largely upon the wife and mother,
than other members of the household, but
none are exempt, it is a part of all. There
are certain duties in the home relations,
which unfulfilled leave the heart and home
both desolate; affection dwindles to a liv-
ing death, more exquisitely painful to the
sensitive soul, than the physical death of
the body.
	What earthly interest is more sacred to
husband and father than to make his home
the dearest spot on all the earth by adapting
himself to the surroundings of the home-
sphere, and elevating it to the embodied
ideal of the home which all long to rest in
when tired with the bustle, fatigue and ex-
citement of the "work-a-day world."
	Should any person allow themselves to
devote all their energies and time in pur-
suit of any external object or influence so
far as to ignore, or lose their interest in
home life? Who has a better claim to
know something of the SOUL of the man
whose name they bear than the wife and
children?
	The most important questions of the day
(so considered by the world at large) "Re-
[-]or[--], Temperance, The Woman Question,',
as well as many others, all point significantly

[Column 2]
to HOME; and whatever evil transpires is
traced almost invariably to the mother and
the home influence. Then in the name of
justice, reason and common sense, let WO-
MAN be fortified and strengthened by every
possible advantage, that she may be ade-
quately and thoroughly fitted not only to
grace the drawing-room, and manage every
department of her household, but to per-
form with skill and wisdom the arduous
and elaborate work of molding and fash-
ioning the fabrics of which society is to be
woven.
	We are all mortal, and more or less sus-
ceptible to outside impressions, and those
who strive diligently and faithfully to do
their duty, need sometimes a word of com-
mendation and encouragement. There are
a class of women, true hearted, and unap-
preciated, who devote themselves unself-
ishly, soul and body to household duties
ONLY; never allowing themselves pleasure
or recreation outside their domestic avoca-
tions, who live a life of abject slavery, nev-
er seeming to find a sure path out of the
labyrinth of darkness, doubt and uncer-
tainty in which circumstances have envel-
oped them. I will not take time to enumer-
ate causes, they are well-known, and IN-
TEMPERANCE is one of the worst causes;
yet there are many others, too numerous to
mention. I would not draw the picture of
these desolated homes, it is too soul-harrow-
ing—where broken vows and aching hearts
are the result of duties unperformed and
obligations unfulfilled. Such homes are
scattered broadcast all over the land, and to
all who are interested in humanity it is
painful.
	No wonder that sharp-sighted, far-seeing
and high-minded women are "beginning" to
seek out some remedy for the injustice
done their sex. Woman should be suffi-
ciently capable of protecting her true inter-
ests and allow no invasion of her God-giv-
en rights.
	Men are every where willing to acknowl-
edge home is not home without the pres-
ence of WOMAN. Ask the poor out-casts
whom the world turn from in scorn, what
would give them most satisfaction, they
will tell you a home. Then after all is not
one of the most important questions of the
day, the HOME QUESTION?
	About our homes let our best affections
centre, make them attractive to our child-
ren and friends, be courteous and polite to
those of our own household, cultivate cheer-
fulness and good humor; and let the inter-
ests of home devolve upon all, let it be mu-
tually shared, and the burden will be light-
ened; let duty, stands guard, as a sentinel,
whispering to us at all times the obligations
we owe each other. The better in every
respect the homes of the people, so in pro-
portion will society and governments be, for
from these homes must the future rulers of
the nation come.
	S. L. City, May 4th, 1876.


