	CENTENNIAL INFORMATION.—Arrange-
ments are being effected under the super-
intendence of General Norton, of the Cen-
tennial Bureau, to supply information to
the country press. What he desires is to
have a copy of each paper sent to his de-
partment, commencing May 1st, and in re-
turn lie wil[-]supply information and electro-
types of the buildings for publication. Ad-
dress Gen. C. B. Norton, Centennial Bureau,
904 Walnut street, Philadelphia.

	A NEW building has been erected in Bos-
ton, situated on East Concord Street, called
the "Masachusetts Homoepathic Hospital.
It has been paid for, also the ground on
which it stands, mostly by the Ladies' Aid
Association and their friends, in fairs and
gatherings and by donation, during the last
few years. One of the Professors, Dr. Mary
J. Safford Blake, was elected during the
last year on the Medical Staff of the Hom-
oeopathic Hospital. This was done in re-
sponse to an appeal from the officers of the
Ladies' Aid Association, whereby patients
so desiring, could be attended by a woman
physician. Women students are accepted
upon the same conditions as men. In the
graduating class so far, women have carried
off the honors.

	ONE OF the admirers of the talent-
ed and celebrated English authoress,
George Eliott, gives a portraiture of her
appearance and surroundings. Her house
is surrounded by a high brick wall, and is
far from the street. The hall is furnished
in a foreign fashion lik[---] parlor and has a
grate and bright fire in cool weather; there
visitors leave their cards and wait to be an-
nounced. This hall opens into a large draw-
ing-room—here, the visitor says, Mr. Lewes
(the husband) met him at the door, led him
forward and presented him to his wife.
She is described as slender and of medium
height, an oval face, an abundance of hair,
doubtless, once fair, but now almost gray,
and questioning light eyes. Her dress was
of black velvet, finished at the throat and
wrists with rare lace, her only ornament a
Cameo pin surrounded with pearls. She
has a remarkably sweet and harmonious
voice, and her talk is most charming, though
decided and definite, yet she expresses her
feelings and opinions with a sincere defer-
ence to those of others. Her face in conver-
sation is wonderfully illuminated.


