[Vol26 | February 1939 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Article | Title: Article by Paul Popenoe]

By Paul Popenoe, Sc. D. (Director Institute of Family Relations, Los Angeles, Calif.) EN and women differ from each other not merely,?literally,?in every cell of their bodies, but in their behavior 1 every relationship of life.
Successful family life depends upon an understanding of these differences. Woman's understanding of herself is often confused by what Alfred Adler called the "masculine protest'.
From as far back as she can remember, the girl has been led to feel that this is a man's world, and that she is prevented from doing a lot of things that she could do perfectly well, not by her inability but by the mere accident that she was born a female instead of a male. All her life, it seems to her, she has heard, "Little girls don't do such things," and "That's all right for boys, but you're a girl," and so forth and so on.
Through years of this she grows up with the feelings that this Man's World is organized to the disadvantage of women, and that therefore she is unfortunate in not having been born a man.
Studies show that the great majority of educated women have at one time or another wished they had been born boys. It would be hard to find an educated man who ever wished that he had been born a girl.
This simple difference produces far-reaching results in the behavior of many women, leading them (for the most part quite unconsciously ) to be dissatisfied with life, dissatisfied with themselves, and more or less antagonistic toward men as the supposed authors of their misfortunes. The adult woman should make sure that her own outlook on life is not being confused by such an unconscious attempt to be a secondrate man,?which she can never be! ?instead of a first-rate woman, which she can be. She must then make sure that her daughters are brought up in a realistic way, protected as far as possible from injustice, and prepared for marriage and motherhood rather than for failure and frustration.
Among sex differences to which particular attention should be paid are the following: I. Men tend to be more aggressive than women.
Terman and Miles in their recent study, Sex and Personality, consider this the fundamental and most important distinction. It goes back millions of years in the history of the race. Women, therefore make a mistake in adopting too aggressive a manner in dealing with men,?either before
140 FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE or after marriage. One of the commonest complaints of unhappy husbands who come to the Institute of Family Relations is that their wives are too aggressive; one of the commonest complaints of unhappy wives is that their husbands are not aggressive enough! Unfortunately, modern life tends to override this ancient pattern. In the city, a boy sometimes sees little of his father, has little association with his father's work or with the work of other men in the world. He is dominated first by his mother, then by his school teachers, nearly all of whom are women; then (at adolescence) by the girls in his class, who are the same age chronologically but a couple of years ahead of him in their biological, emotional, and social development (because the female matures more rapidly than does the male).
Hence the boy grows up without normal masculine initiative, in dealing with the other sex. The girls have taken it away from him and too often become used to exercising it themselves. The result, after marriage, is not satisfactory to either one.
More association of boys with their fathers and other men in the work of the world (an association that is natural and almost inevitable on the farm) will help to remove this handicap from city life.
More men, real men, happily married and successful fathers, would also be a desirable addition as teachers in the public schools. II. Men are excessively egotistical. The successful wife has learued (or knew by instinct) that she must spend much of her time protecting her husband's self-esteem and building it up.
This does not mean that women lack vanity, but at least there seems to be a difference in the quality of the egotism of the two sexes. It has sometimes been said that men are egotistic, women narcissistic (after the legend of Narcissus, the Greek youth who fell in love with his own reflection in a pool, and pined away from unrequited affection). III. Men have a feeling of sex solidarity, of "gang sociality', which is less pronounced in women.
Perhaps it is associated with the fact that for millions of years men have worked together in hunting and fighting, occupations that depend largely on discipline, teamwork, and cooperation.
Women have tended to work more individually. Men have little enough capacity for cooperation, but at least (in their own opinion) they have somewhat more of it than women.
This individualistic tendency sometimes leads to friction in the management of women's clubs and other organizations.
Possibly women have developed, through a long process of evolution, a greater instinctive feeling of loyalty to the home than to other women. IV. On the whole, woman has more "social intelligence" than man. For hundreds and thousands of years her ancestresses have had to study human, and particularly masculine, nature. A woman would not leave any offspring to perpetuate her characteristics, unless she acquired not merely a husband, but a fairly good husband (and perhaps such were as scarce a thousand years ago as they are now!). RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 141
Yet she had to do this by indirection and strategy, since the man had the initiative and was expected to be the aggressor. In general, therefore, and if she has not received a misleading education, woman understands man better than man understands woman. Unfortunately, this social intelligence, desire for the best possible home, concern over keeping up appearances, and the like, sometimes becomes perverted into snobbishness and "social climbing". It is the wife, not the husband, who is most concerned with "keeping up with the Joneses". At the other extreme, when she lets herself go and ceases to care for appearances, a woman seems to lose morale all around.
Terman and his associates, in their recent exhaustive study on "Psychological Factors in Marital Happiness" discovered that slovenliness in a wife was more distressing to the husband than dozens of factors that might at first sight have seemed more serious. In conclusion, neither sex should allow itself to be annoyed at peculliarities of the other that are simply characteristics of the sex. Girls, however, should be brought up to understand their own natures. In particular, they should know that all studies show the importance to a woman of normal marriage and child-bearing, as a fulfilment of personality and as an aid to physical and mental well-being. Actually, the longest-lived and most vigorous women in a normal group will be found to be those who have borne the most children, not those who have borne the fewest or those who are childless. The vital statistics of the single woman, still more of the divorcee, are highly unsatisfactory, showing shorter expectation of life, greater expectation of insanity, of imprisonment, and of suicide. Boys, similarly, should be brought up to be first-class boys rather than poor imitations of women.
Since they must inevitably be exposed so much to feminine influence while they are growing up, care should be taken that these various women,? the mother, the kindergarten teacher, the music teacher, the Sunday School teacher, and the long list of others,?do not try to mould him too much in their own pattern. Dr. Goodwin Watson has lately called attention to the fact that women school teachers tend to get along best with the boys who are really "sissies", and look upon them as models of deportment. Ifa boy has normal masculine patterns, they are apt to call hima "behavior problem".
Neither sex is inferior to the other.
They complement each other.
Each depends on the other.
When each is at its best, both will get the most out of life.
Questions and Problems 1. Mrs. Chase Going Woodhouse questioned 250 highly educated and very happy wives as to their greatest problem in marriage. A large part of them said it was trying to understand their husbands.
What could be done to help them? 2. Dr. Will Durant says, "Woman surpasses man in love and is surpassed by him in friendship." Do you agree? Why? 3.
Make a list of 10 differences in behavior between the sexes, not mentioned in this lesson, which you
142  FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE think might be of importance in understanding personal relations. 4. In the light of the psychological differences between the sexes, what advice would you give to a young man who wants to know how he can become more popular with the girls? 5. Similarly, what advice would you give to a young woman who wants to know how she can increase her popularity with men?
Literature for the Missions TYPICAL WOMEN OF THE CHURCH Lesson 7 A Review and A Summary THE foregoing brief outlines of the lives of seven typical women in the Church could, obviously, present only high lights in the lives of these worthy ladies.
Even so, each one is seen to be a distinct personality. No two of them are alike.
There are, however, many qualities of character common to them all. In a general way there is a typical Latter-day Saint character, as is illustrated by these seven lives. The philosophy of Mormonism must of necessity leave its imprint upon sincere adherents of Mormonism. Let us somewhat expand and pass some of these things in review: 1. The Maesers were descendants of cultured and educated people.
They themselves were educated and cultured. How do you explain that they accepted Mormonism and heroically endured all the consequent poverty, suffering and humiliation that befell them? 2. In a general way would this same explanation apply to Anna Widtsoe? Explain. 3.
Outline the general features of a typical L. D. S. Character. 4.
Compare this typical character with the average character of a worldly woman, that is, a woman motivated by the usual ideas of worldly people. 5.
Show why you think the typical L. D. S.
Character is worth all it costs. 6.
What influence did want and suffering have on the character development of the women studied in the foregoing lessons? 7. As the foregoing lessons indicate, show that this L. D. S.
Character exists in every land and among every people who accept and live the restored Gospel of Jesus Christ. 8. The American poet Longfellow wrote the following lines: "Lives of great men all remind us We can make our lives sublime, And, departing, leave behind us Foot-prints on the sands of time." A Psalm of 'Life.
Point out to what extent the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 143 thought of these lines applies to any or all of the women studied. 9. The Belgian pessimist thought there could be no God in heaven for the reasons he stated.
What is your explanation of the point he raised? 10. In former days ostracism and persecution followed those who joined the Church in the world. To what is due the change between those days and these? 11. The question is sometimes asked "does blood count?"
After reading the foregoing lessons what is your answer?
Give reasons for it. 12. Jeannette D.
Crane is said to have been a "'natural-born" teacher. If she were such, what qualities and skills did she exercise to succeed in teaching? ' 13.
What must a person do if he is to be a_ successful class-room teacher? 14. In Lesson 5, speaking of the Cannons, reference was made to the "Donner Party".
Relate the circumstances of this ill-fated party on its way to California. 15.
Also in Lesson 5 reference was made to the coming of Johnston's army to Utah and the "move south," etc.