[Vol26 | February 1939 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: The Valentine]
The Valentine By Alice Morrey Bailey
"Mother, don't get cross if I ask you something, will you?"
"Well, go ahead. What is it?" Marian raised her head from the pillow to look at Tommy.
"Mother, I— Well, Mother, it's like this. You see, all the kids are giving all the other kids valentines. I haven't enough to go around."
"Oh! Is that what you disturbed Mother for, Tommy? Couldn't you see I have a headache?"
"I'm sorry, Mom. You've always got—" Tommy bit his lip on the last word and left the room, his face drained of the hope it had held.
Marian sighed. Tommy should have known better than to intrude on her when she was in this mood. His steps had sounded so like Hervey when he walked to the bed. It was cruel never to know Hervey's steps coming toward her again like that, to see his bright, impish face. Her eyes filled with tears again, and she buried her face in the pillow. She had had the "blues" all day, beginning in the morning when she had run across Hervey's brown school oxford in a box in the closet. The mate to that oxford had been lost in the accident that had taken him forever from them.
She heard Therese come in and put her school books on the table in the hallway. "Goodness!" she thought. "Is it that time?" Alf would be home in less than an hour and nothing done towards dinner. Arousing herself she went into the kitchen. She decided that she'd better prepare the vegetables before she started the lunch dishes, stacked not too tidily on the sink. Oh dear! What could she have for dessert? Too late for anything except a bottle of fruit and some wafers—if there were any left.
Therese came from her room. With a glance at her mother's face she attacked the dishes, her lovely mouth a little grim, her eyes rebellious.
Dinner was a heavy meal. Alf looked at her sharply and fell to eating silently. It seemed to her he was not sympathetic lately. There were times when expressions of distinct annoyance flitted across his face. She looked at the other four members of her family: Therese, nineteen, Isabel, seventeen, and Janice, fifteen—Alf used to call them his "stepping stones"—and Tommy, nine. Hervey had left a gap. He would have been twelve now. Marian smothered a sob with a sigh.
"Mother, the funniest thing happened in school today," recited Janice, her eyes sparkling with reminiscence. "You know old Funnyface, our Algebra teacher? Well, I was sitting by Marie and he—" Janice's story died a natural death. No one laughed, and she, too, fell to eating silently.
"By the way, Isabel, where were you last night?" said Therese suddenly.
"Wouldn't you like to know?" tossed Isabel.
"What do you mean by that?" said Alf.
"Nothing," said Isabel blandly. She looked at her father with clear, unreadable eyes.
"Well, Daughter, where were you? Didn't you go to Mutual?"
"Probably running around with Gib Spencer again," put in Therese.
"Therese!" reproved Marian.
"You haven't answered my question, Isabel," reminded Alf.
"Well, I wasn't doing anything out of the way. Gib is nice—as nice as Dewey." Therese widened her eyes at this blasphemy, but held her tongue.
"That isn't the point, Isabel. You should have been in Mutual; and we'd like to make Gib's acquaintance."
"Yes, imagine bringing him here," said Isabel under her breath.
"What?" said Alf.
"Nothing," mumbled Isabel.
"May I go out to play after supper?" asked Tommy.
"Yes, an hour," granted Marian.
After supper Alf dispatched Isabel and Janice to the kitchen to take care of the dishes. Therese took the vacuum and the dust cloth to the living room. By that token they all knew that she was expecting Dewey. Dewey, a bright young lawyer, and Therese had been engaged for over a year.
"What in the world is that?" said Alf, putting down his paper. Outside there was a rising clamor of angry little-boy voices. Alf stepped to the door. Tommy, paper-white and sobbing, was holding at bay on the front sidewalk a mob of jeering, shrieking boys. When Alf opened the door they fled.
"Yes, the old cowards!" Tommy sobbed. "Why don't they come and fight me on my own property?"
"What's the matter, son? Calm down now so that you can talk."
"Well, they said I—I didn't hold up my end of the bargain. They aren't going to send me any valentines 'cause I didn't give a present on the school tree at Christmas. I don't care. I don't want their old valentines. They're my enemies. Everybody's my enemies—my teachers, and even my own mother."
"Tommy! Tommy!" said Alf, shocked. Oh dear! Thought Marian, distressed. What a terrible child he is growing to be—a problem child.
"You'd better apologize to your mother, now," said Alf sternly.
Tommy choked. "Well, I'm sorry. Only I don't get a handkerchief, and I can't remember to brush my teeth and our row doesn't get a gold star on account of me."
"That's enough! Now why didn't you give a present at Christmas?"
"Well, I didn't have one to give and we drew names, and I told Mother, but she didn't give me one."
"I forgot about it," said Marian. "But I've been so nervous and upset. You just can't imagine—"
"Yes, I know," said Alf. "Well, surely you can see where all this is leading to, Marian."
"I can see where all what is leading to?" said Marian. "I'm sure I'm not to blame. Tommy will have to learn to brush his teeth without being told. You know what I've been going through this last year."
The inference disquieted her, however, and later she asked Alf what he meant by it, but he only grunted and retreated behind his paper.
Dewey came. "I suppose you are all aware of my designs," he said after his greeting, slipping an arm about Therese. They all laughed but Isabel, who looked at them with silent distaste. Dewey was quick to notice it. "Do I hear a dissenting vote?" he bantered. "What are your objections, my girl."
"I'm not on the witness stand," flashed Isabel, but she laughed.
"Mother, come and see what Tommy has done," wailed Janice from the kitchen. "Cut up my pictures for my Home Ec. Scrapbook. And just look what he's done to the kitchen."
"You'll have to pick up every scrap of paper," scolded Marian. "Why don't you ever ask? What did you do that for?"
