[Vol8 | August 1921 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Frontispiece | Title: Mme. Curie in her Laboratory in Paris Frontispiece]

MME. CURIE IN HER LABORATORY IN PARIS
Madame Curie
A Great Woman and a Great Event.
We are fortunate in presenting to our readers this monlli
an interview with Dr. Samuel H. Allen, of this city, who was
present in Washington, D. C, at the time of the presentation
of a gramme of radium to the French discoverer, Madame Curie.
Most Americans are familiar with the name of this famous
woman, and her husband, who died recently leaving the Madame
with the care of their two daughters and the no less great
care and responsibility connected with their French labora-
tory now of world-wide fame. Madame Curie shares with
her husband the distinccion and the great honor of the discovery
of radium. Since her husband's death she has steadily pur-
sued further investigations and demonstrations as to the appli-
cation of this rare element to human needs. The radium, as
she and other scientists and physicians have found will in
minute quantities destroy diseased tissues, and its power of pene-
tration is almost unbelievable. No known substance, not even
the human body, is entirely proof against its action and reaction.
In the late war it was invaluable and was used extensively for
. the benefit of wounded soldiers.
Dr. Allen has been spending some time in the Dr. Howard
A. Kelly laboratory at Baltimore, investigating the recent
methods of using this all powerful curative agency. Dr. Howard
A. Kelly himself owns five grammes of radium which is the
largest amount possesed by any individual in the world. This
amount of radium is worth over a half-million dollars and yet
in substance it would not be over a teaspoonful. Dr. Kelly, it
might be said in passing, has visited this city and is always
liberal and fair to our people. He was present also at this event
in the White House. Dr. Allen, as has been said, was in the
East at the time of the presentation, and he received from Seira-
tor Smoot a cordial invitation to be one of the guests at the re-
ception. We are happy to know that Utah was so gallantly
represented on this occasion.
It should be stated here that radium is never by any chance
taken as a medicine nor used as a poultice; all advertisements
that carry the idea are plain frauds. An amusing instance
of this was brought out in the White House reception. One of
the physicians present exhibited a pound of so called radium
pills which he presented to Madame Curie with the caustic re-
mark that if the advertisement on the box was correct as to
the amount of radium necessary to cure the ailments advertised
the patient would need to eat four thousand, four hundred and
four one-hundred pound barrels of the pills to get the amount of
radium advertised on the pill box.
Dr. Allen not only attended the presentation reception in
the White House, he was likewise a guest at her reception given
later in the National Museum in Washington; -and he also went
up to the Philadelphia Woman's College, when the president
of that famous woman's pioneer medical college conferred the
honorary degree of Doctor of Medicine on Madame Curie. It
will be recalled that this is the college where Dr. Romania B.
Penrose and other Utah women physicians graduated.
Many people ask if Madame Curie, who looks fragile and
worn, does not have very poor health. These are the facts about
this celebrated woman :
When the war broke out the men who were working in the
laboratory with her went to the front leaving her and her daugh-
ters to manage the laboratory, where she did such marvelous
work; she handled the great masses of coal, tons of rock from
which the radium is extracted and worked as hard as any
miner could work; in addition to this there was the constant
menace of the Germans entering Paris while the great carnage
among the French soldiers affected her very deeply. These
things will enable our readers to understand why she needed a
rest and why she is nervous and spent with the events connected
with her American trip.
It is said that she gave up all of her radium to be used by
the physicians of the French army, and that in doing this the
lives of fifty-thousand soldiers were saved. A great-hearted
American woman, Mrs. William Maloney, of New York, who dis-
covered these conditions and found Madame Curie discouraged
and almost worn out with her severe labors during the war, de-
termined, through popular subscription, to give a gramme of
radium to the famous discoverer, and the splendid reception to
Madame Curie in Washington was the result.
• MADAME CURIE
We call the attention of our readers to the graphic speech of.
Pres. Warren G. Harding, part of which, in the opinion of Dr.
Allen, will be used in our school books as a tribute to the mother-
hood of America, second only in importance and literary beauty
to the speech of Abraham Lincoln at Gettysburg. It is a chaste,
eloquent tribute to a woman and to women, the like of which
has seldom been uttered. The relations of woman's life is there-
in measured in most accurate and inspired values. Dr. Allen
himself calls attention to the emphasis placed upon the moth-
er's calling ; and his keen eye measured to the full the modesty
of the great woman's simj^le and plain apparel. Xot much behind
her example in I his respect are the seemly gowns worn by the
From left to right; Mrs. Malony, Mrs. Harding, Mme. Curie, Prest.
Harding, Miss Curie, ^liss Curie, Mens. Jusserand. Mme. Jusserand.
White House in the background. At the extreme right near top of pic-
ture, Dr. Allen.
1-eading women of the nation who were grouped about l;er.
The following is the story of this wonderful event as re-
lated by our well-known physician. Dr. Samuel H. Allen :
"The women of America, through President Warren G.
Harding, gave one gramme of radium to Madame Marie Curie
on ]\Iay 20. 1921. at^Vash^ngton, D. C.
"The simple but ever memorable ceremony of presenting
this generous gift took place in the Gold Room of the White
House. It was an exclusive affair and for my invitation, sin-
cere thanks are due to Senator Reed Smoot. The inscription
the card said: 'Be present at the White House at 4:00 p. m.,
sharp.'
"It has been my privilege to see the Pope of Rome, the
King and Queen of England, and six of our United States
Presidents ; I have also seen many other noted people in my
time — noted generals and admirals; people who have won fame
in every line of human endeavor; but I do not remember ever
being quite so keenly interested in seeing any other noted per-
son as I was in seeing the woman who, with her husband, dis-
covered radium. Perhaps this is the most wonderful discovery
of this wonderful century, or any other century for that matter.
"At 4 p. m., the Gold Room was comfortably filled; at
4:30 all the standing room was taken and there appeared to be
about three-hundred people present.
"Ambassador Jusserand of France was an early and promi-
nent guest; other ambassadors and foreign^ diplomats were
pointed out as they arrived. Members of President Harding's
cabinet with their wives, also Mrs. Harding, were on time. Sec-
retaries Hoover and Hughes, Doctor Alexander Graham Bell,
Senator Depew, General Sawyer, Mrs. William Maloney, the
President's physician and our only woman congressman, Mrs.
Robinson of Oklahoma, were easily recognized. Then there
were presidents of many state and national women's organiza-
tions, physicians, chemists, physicists, and radium workers from
all over the United States.
"At 4 :45 p. m., a deep silence fell on that noted but noisy
gathering as President Harding came in with Madame Curie
on his arm and took their places. All eyes were focused on the
guest of honor. What a contrast between this plainly dressed
little woman and some of the wonderfully gowned ladies in the
room. She wore a small, neat, black hat, with lace collarette,
a thin shoulder wrap of light material over a plain, high-necked
and long-sleeved black dress. Half a century of time and hard
work have silvered her hair, made some wrinkles in her kindly
face, but have not dimmed her dark flashing eyes. What a rare
mortal ! An original thinker, a discoverer of miracle-working
metal to bless mankind !
"As soon as the President and Madame Curie were seated.
Ambassador Jusserand arose, and with deep .emotion in his voice,
said,
" 'Mr. President, I have the distinguished honor of presenting
to you the discoverer of radium — Madame Curie. [Prolonged
applause]. France again wishes to say she sincerely appre-
ciates the generous friendship of America. This occasion tes-
tifies in a most eloquent way that the great-hearted women of
America are always doing noble and worthy deeds.' (Applause.)
"Mrs. Maloney of New York, the moving spirit in this great
and humanitarian presentation, then arose, placed her hand on
the box which contained the precious metal and said : 'Mr. Presi-
MADAME CURIE
•dent, in behalf of the women of America I present to you this
gramme of radium for Madame Curie.' (Applause.)
"President Harding then came forward, saluted the guest
of honor and made a brief, but very eloquent presentation
speech. Madame Curie was affected, but remained calm while
she responded in plain but broken English with a few words,
thus accepting this wonderful gift. Pres. Harding said in
part:
" 'On behalf of the American nation,' said Mr. Harding, 'I
greet and welcome you to our country, in which you will every-
where find the most cordial possible reception. Wfe welcome you
as an adopted daughter of France, our earliest supporter among
the great nations. We greet you as a native born daughter of
Poland; newest, as it is also among the oldest, of the great na-
tions, and always bound by ties of closest sympathy to our own
Republic. In you we see the representative of Poland restored
and reinstated to its rightful place, of France valiantly main-
tained in the high state which has ever been its right. We greet
Prest. Harding and Mme. Curie in Center of Group

Mme. Curie in Center of Group 
 you as foremost among scientists in the age of science, as leader among women in the generation which sees woman come tardily into her own. We greet you as an examplar of liberty's victories in the generation wherein liberty has won her crown of glory. In doing honor to you we testify anew our pride in the ancient friendships which have bound us to both the country of your adoption, and that of your nativity. It has been your fortune, 'Madame Curie, to accomplish an immortal work for humanity. We bring to you the meed of honor which is due to pre-eminence in science, scholarship, research and humanitarianism, But with it all we bring something more. We lay at your feet the testimony of that"4ove which all the generations of men have been wont to bestow upon the noble woman, the unselfish wife, the devoted mother. If, indeed, these simpler and commoner relations of life could not keep you from great attainments in the realms of science and intellect, it is also true that the zeal, ambition and unswerving purpose of a lofty career. Could not bar you from splendidly doing all the plain but worthy tasks which fall to every woman's lot.' "The president then led the way to the Blue Room, where he introducecd each guest to Madame Curie. This over, the party stepped out on the lawn where the camera artists had their part to perform, when the reception was over. "Madame Curie sailed for France Saturday, June 25, on the White Star liner Olympic, which also carried the radium which was presented to her in this country. "The radium, which she carries with her as a gift from the women of America, will be contained in a beautiful mahogany box which is lined with lead and steel, the lead being an inch thick, the steel one and one-half inches thick. Although it is a small box, for the gramme of radium it contains, is only the size of a peanut, the total weight is 130 pounds. "Directly in the center of the box are several small compartments, formed of lead, and strrrounded by steel, each one the right size to admit a small glass tube containing a portion of the radium salts, the form in which the metal is handled for shipment. These compartments are covered with heavy, bellshaped lead and steel. The lid of the mahogany box is inlaid with a gold plate, marked with the following inscription: 'Presented by the President of the United States on behalf of the women of America to Madame Marie Sklodowska Curie, in recognition of her transcendent service to science and humanity in the discovery of radium. The White House, May 20, 1921.' "The preparation for shipping the radium in the box was carried out under the direction of W. H. Wadleigh, acting chief of the radium laboratory of the Bureau of Standards. The MADAME CURIE et shipment is valued at something more than $100,000. An ounce of radium, at the same rate, would be worth $3,120,000. Ts produce this 'thimbleful' of radium which is going out on the Olympic, five. Hundred tons of carnotite ore were treated, requiring 500 tons of chemicals and 1000 tons of coal in the process. Carnotite is a low grade ore resembling sandstone, combining uranium and vanadium. The presence of radium in the ore was discovered by Madame Curie. The ore is found in this country chiefly in Colorado and Utah. "Our readers willl be interested to know that some very rich camnotite ore is now being mined at the Kearns property near Monticello, Utah. In June of this year, Mr. E. V. Woolley a miner of this city dug up a fossil tree on that property that was'so rich in uranium and radium that it brought the company $12,500.00. Mr. Woolley says the richest ore is found in fossil trees and fossil bones that lie near the surface in a soft yellow colored sand stone formation. "Tt will be asked: what is radium? It is one of the ninetyfour known elements—such as bismuth or barium, gold, silver or tin—discovered in 1898. Radium gives off heat and light all the time and in 1700 years half of its strength is gone. It sounds most miraculous to say, but it is a fire that burns up one-half its substance in 1700 years. You do not give it more fuel in that time and it only loses about one-half of its life and energy. "Tt draws its supplies of energy from an hitherto unknown source, and obeys as yet undiscovered laws. There is something sublime about its aloofness from, and its indifference to its external environment. It seems to claim lineage with worlds beyond us, fed with the same unquenchable fires, urged by the same uncontrollable mechanism which keeps the great suns alight in the heavens over endless periods of time.' _ "This mysterious metal goes on disintegrating, breaking up, giving off heat and light until it is exhausted in about 4000 years. In breaking up or burning up it gives off three kinds of rays—alhpa, beta, and gamma rays. The infinitesimal sparks or rays fly off into space at the rate of 186,000 miles per second; that is, one of these rays travels around the earth seven times in one second. It is these rays that, sometimes used, instead of surgery, in the treatment of a number of patholigical conditions—such as cancer, uterine fibroids, uterine hemorrhage, growths about the nose and in the throat, and even on the eyeball itself. It has performed many most wonderful cures, and, as we learn more about it, it is probable that it will prove to be a still greater blessing in the future than it has been in the past. We are trying to learn when it should be used, and when it is 
 not proper to use it; because it is a most powerful agent and can do harm as well as good. "Tt should be remembered also that there is always a gang of unscrupulous quacks advertising radium pills, radium waters, and radium pads for the cure of all human ills. These are swindles and do not contain a particle of radium. "The world's supply of radium comes mostly from the carnotite ore which is mined in Colorado and eastern Utah. "The chemist analyzes all known substances and separates them into their fundamental parts or elements. He finds these parts or elements to be different, the one from the other, and yet, he is unable to convert the one into the other. "In analyzing a piece of rock, for example, the chemist may find that it contains several elements, such as gold, silver, copper, lead, bismuth sodium, uranium, or radium. New elements are being discovered all the time. "The elements, copper, gold, lead, sulphur, iron, tin, carbon were discovered before there was any human history written. The names of their wonderful discoverers are always interesting, but they have been lost in the mists of the far off ages before history began. The element platinum was discovered in 1741 by the chemist Wood. Chlorine was discovered in 1774 by Schule. Hydrogen was discovered in 1766 by Cavendish. Oxygen was discovered by Priestley, in 1774. It is the most abundant of all the elements. Oxygen and its compounds forms one half of the earth's crust. "Silicon from the Latin silex or flint is the most abundant element after oxygen. It forms sandstone, sand and glass. Aluminum, discovered in 1888 by Wohler, is the most abundant of all the metallic elements. It is found in many rocks. Some of the elements are gases, some are solids. Nitrogen was discovered in 1772 by Rutherford. Oxygen and hydrogen are gases. When two atoms of hydrogen and one atom of oxygen unite water is formed. "Potassium and sodium were discovered by Davy, in 1807. Helium was discovered by Ramsey, in 1895, and radium by Madame Curie and her husband in 1898. Nearly all the ninety or more elements have been discovered since the year 1800. Light is growing in the world, and light is truth, truth is light."