[Vol8 | August 1921 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: Manifestations to Mrs. Mary Hyde Woolf Zina Y. Card]

Manifestation to Mrs. Mary Hyde Woolf By Zina Y?.. Card Mrs. Woolf was a Canadian Pioneer who lived in Cardston many years. In 1914, she came down to the Latter-day Saints Hospital for a serious operation, and after it was over her life was despaired of. She rallied, however, and for twenty-four hours felt much better. One night, after a sweet sleep, she became very restless and knew that her spirit was passing away from her body. After the spirit withdrew from the body she saw a Guide by her side who said to her, "Come with me." They traveled into far places and came repeatedly to spheres, some of which seemed very dark and then, as it were, they began to have twilight surrounding them. Through the semi-twilight she could see groups of people, many of whom bowed to her as she passed with glad reverence and respect. All were busy, but the people in the different places would bow to her as she passed by. Sometimes they were so engaged that they took no notice of her. As they rose upward from sphere to sphere, which grew lighter and more beautiful, they passed glorious mansions and spacious grounds, at length they came to a broad road bordered with trees. Through the openings of these trees came groups of people mostly women who stood respectfully some distance away with hands folded on their breasts as they bowed to her in passing. After she and her guide drew near what seemed to be the end of the road a larger group of women awaited her coming. These hastened toward her and met her with open arms and smiling faces. In an ecstasy of joy they held her as their friend and Savior. She felt. She could never depart from them so great was her happiness. The guide read her thoughts and said, "You must return for a brief season." Reluctantly, she turned away to obey the messenger. As they took their departure she turned to the guide and asked him, who were the beings that met her and did not approach her? He replied, "These are your kindred still in prison." "And who were those," she asked, "who came close to me and bowed reverently but still did not offer to speak or reach out their hands?" "These are they," he replied, "whose names you have re- MANIFESTATION TO MRS. WOOLF. 493 corded in your book and they rejoice at the prospects of their deliverance but their work in the temple has not been done." "And those who embraced me?" she asked. "They are those," he replied, "who have received at your hands all of the ordinances in the house of the Lord, and you beheld their joy. She returned to the earth with her guide and took up her work for a little season, but passed away a little while ago, and one wonders if her kindred will remember the work which she - charged them to do. Individual Sacrament Sets Now in Stock Best in the Market WILL "LAST A LIFE TIME?