"Judge Not' By Marguerite Johnson Griffin MISTER GIBSON turned her weary steps in at a little rosetwined gate which beckoned invitingly to a cheery white cottage beyond. She was coming in the capacity of Relief Society Teacher. Her companion was very ill, and, as the ward was small and workers few, she was covering her district alone. The day was warm, and as she stood upon the small porch ringing the bell she brushed a stray lock from her moist brow and lifted her flushed face to a cool breeze made fragrant by myriads of brightly blooming flowers. Soon a young woman, looking cool and crisp in a dainty housedress, met her with a welcoming smile, and at her invitation Sister Gibson gladly relaxed in a deep cozy chair. "And how are you and your husband, Sister Cook?" she began. The younger woman's radiant face and sparkling eyes bespoke the, happiness which they had found in their few short months of marriage. Then Sister Gibson cleverly maneuvered the conversation from the preliminary common-places and presented many of the beautiful thoughts suggested by that month's Teachers' Topic, and almost before she knew it, the time had been spent and she felt she must go. "I have just one more call to make this warm afternoon," she said. "By the way, it's to Sister Woods', a few blocks down this street. Do you know her? I have called there several times, but I have never yet found her home," A faint shadow of scorn crossed Martha Cook's face. "Oh, yes. I know her. That is, not very well. I don't know as I would particularly care to. She works. I guess that is why you have never found her home. She is having her vacation now, though, so you might find her today." "I hope so," returned the other kindly. "I don't believe I have ever met her." "No? Well, she is a widow, you know. Her husband died less than a year ago, and he was hardly cold in his grave before she was going about wherever she pleased and all dressed up fit to kill. While he was living she just went around in home-made things, and never looked very nice." Sister Gibson was feeling very uncomfortable. The least bit of gossip always distressed her, and her own home-made dress made her feel ill-at-ease. "Lots of times a limited budget makes it necessary for a woman to do her own sewing, especially if there are several children," she returned gently. "And you know, somewhere in the Doctrine and Covenants it says something about letting the "beauty of your garments be the work of your own hands." "Oh, that is all very true," returned Sister Cook. "I admire anyone who can sew, but honestly she didn't have a new dress once a year, I don't believe. Of course, she has three children, but then—He must not have been very good to her or 672 she would have grieved more, don't you think?" "People grieve in different ways. Some weep with their eyes, some with their hearts. Lots of times we are too quick to judge from appearances." "Yes, I know," said the younger woman with a hint of bitter prejudice in her voice. "But she must have married so young. She is scarcely older than I, and has three children. So I'm sure she must not have loved her husband so very much, for since he has been dead she is better dressed and looks years younger. I knowif I should lose my husband—" and her face softened with the blush of young love—"I'd just die." "No, you wouldn't," returned the older woman softly. "We have to just keep living on, and no matter how our hearts ache we have to accept the lessons in life that come to us, with faith in our Heavenly Father Who knows what's best. Now I must be running on." "T always enjoy your visits so much, Sister Gibson, and I'll be looking for you again next month." ONCE outside, the Relief Society Teacher was now oblivious to the blinding sun whose white heat glared up at her from the hot sidewalks. The latter part of her visit with Sister Cook had placed her in a turmoil. Gossip always did. Perhaps all she had said about Sister Woods was true. Perhaps she had married too young, and had mistaken infatuation for true love. Perhaps her husband had been stingy with her. Perhaps she was happier, more care-free, now that she was' alone. But even so, what good did it do to pass on such bitter thoughts to anyone, even if they were true? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE And on the other hand, what proof does anyone ever have that their critical judgments of another's heart are true* The Master said, "Judge not," and His counsels are always wise. Hardly before she knew it, Sister Gibson was at the humble little home of Sister Woods. Yes, she was home today, for the door was open, the busy whir of a sewing machine greeted her ears, and soon the little widow herself was smiling at her, inviting her to come in. It was very true. Sister Woods, the widow, was very little older than Sister Cook, the recent bride, but Sister Gibson could read things in the little mother's face which the younger woman, with her lack of knowledge and experience, could not. There was a wistfulness about the deep grey eyes which told of a heart that suffered. There was a firmness about the mouth which bespoke determination to face life and provide for her children. There was a little upward tilt to the head which bespoke a depth of courage to carry on. Sister Gibson felt something tighten in her throat as she read the heroism marked in that little wan face, and before long the younger woman was pouring forth some of the things which she had kept bound up in her heart for so long. "It's hard to understand why he had to go," she was saying, while her eyes misted but did not overflow because of the strength of determination evidenced. "We were always so happy. Oh, we didn't have much to get along with, but we managed to pay for our home, such as it is. And we always met our bills, because we planned for them. It's been very lonely without him." Her eyes looked far away, and JUDGE NOT Sister Gibson could find no words to express what she felt in her heart. The little widow turned back to her and smiled. "T don't believe it's so bad right at first. You go numb, somehow, from the shock of it all, and so many cluster around you to help you, to think for you. People are kind. You do not feel so all alone then. But it's afterward, when it's all over and you have to go on living, and trying to find some way of earning a living, with only failures to confront you. But I can't complain. It was only a few months until I found this job, even if it did seem like eternities. But I'm boring you with my troubles,' she ended abruptly. "Not at all," returned Sister Gibson. "One needs to let things out once in a while. It isn't good to keep them bottled up too long at a time." "That's sweet of you," returned the other appreciatively. "But I do this very seldom, for I always think everybody has enough troubles of their own. You don't know how I've enjoyed your coming today. 1 feel better already." "Tm afraid I have interrupted your sewing." "Oh, no.I’ll have plenty of time for that. I am spending my two weeks' vacation sewing. Working, you know, I have to keep dressed up all the time, and it takes an awful lot of dresses. If I watch bargains I can get them for me almost as cheap as making them, and then when I wear them out I make them over for the little girls." "How old are your children?" "Jean is nine, and such a little help. I don't know what I'd do without her. Then Alice is seven, and Billy not quite five. The lady next door takes care of him while the girls are in school, and then they 673 look out for him after that. We get along quite well, you see," and she smiled bravely. "You are a heroic little mother, Sister Woods, and you have been a great inspiration to me." And for that little fatherless household, Sister Gibson's heart swelled with the sincere and humble prayer of the Relief Society Teacher. "Peace be to this house." N the year that followed she faithfully visited her district, month by month, sometimes with one companion, sometimes another, and sometimes alone. She had no further visit with Sister Woods, for her work kept her away from home, but quite often coming later in the afternoon, she would find the children there with Jean getting things ready for Mother's supper. So, for them, things were going along in the same old way, just a matter of living, learning, and carrying on. Her visits with Sister Cook were perhaps more eventful, first being colored by the young woman's glowing anticipation of the coming of her first baby and her eagerness in displaying this new little dress she had made, or this dainty little sweater some friend had given her. And at last had come the glorious fulfillment of those months of bright hopes in the birth of a tiny son, and then— disappointment, as the little life flickered for only a few days and was taken on the wings of Death back to the God who gave it.. Following this the Relief Society Teacher's visits were subdued and saddened by the countenance of the pale little woman who seemed crushed to such an extent that she did not get well fast enough, and for nearly four months Sister Gibson, seemingly powerless to say or do anything to help her, watched her pine and brood and suffer, 674 At length on one hot summer day, while she and her companion were making their call, Sister Cook, reclining on her couch, saw Sister Woods coming up her front walk. "Well of all things!" she said petulantly. "What's she coming here for? I wish she wouldn't. She doesn't know what it means to suffer." Sister Gibson found time to pat the younger woman's thin white hand and say, "Be nice to her, I'm sure she means well." And then the little widow woman stood before them. "I hope I'm not intruding, but this is the only time I could come." She seated herself by the young woman on the couch and impulsively took her cold hand in hers. "I just had to come," she said simply. "I thought perhaps the lesson I have learned might help you get a grip upon yourself and ° get well and strong again. For if you regain your health, then some day you can have another baby. Of course, you will never have one that will take the place of this one you have lost, but others will bring you happiness, and after all—you still have your husband." Her voice broke slightly and Sister Cook's eyes, now opened by her own suffering could see that the little Widow's face was drawn and white, could understand that what she was saying was tearing open again the raw ache within her heart. "You know," went on Sister Woods, while the firmness of her chin forced her voice to be steady, "no matter how we fight against the things fortune sends us we cannot change them, we cannot bring our loved ones back. Why fight, then? It is a waste of effort that devastates our bodies and makes all those RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE around us, who have a right to happiness, unhappy on our account. No matter how hard it is to do, it is better to try to become reconciled, and to appreciate the things we have left to us. You have your husband, I—I have my children. Some day you will have other children. I know it's hard to do. It's hard to smile when your heart is breaking, and there are times when you're all alone that all the old ache will come back and for the moment, perhaps, you will have to give way. But God is good, and to those who really try to submit to His will without bitterness in their hearts, He gives added strength and helps them take up their crosses. I know." 'Abruptly she arose, kissed the other woman on the brow with lips that were hot with anguish, and then she left. AFTER she was gone Sister Cook at last found her voice, and the whole torrent of her soul's regret mellowed every word. "How blind I've been! She has been brave. She has not wasted her time with useless grief, but has fought it back and made her little family as happy as possible. She has not allowed her sorrow to obsess her, while I— Oh, I've been a coward. My lot is not as hard as hers, and how I've misjudged her all this time." Once outside, Sister Gibson's heart rejoiced for she knew that the little widow's seeds of courage had been planted in fertile soil, and again her thoughts were busy as she went her way. She mused on how close to the living, pulsing, throbbing things of life the Relief Society Teacher comes. Close, not only to joys but heart-aches as well. And what a responsibility is concealed in her humble task! "For just think!" mused Sister Gibson. "If I had carried that bit of gossip from Sister Cook to Sister Woods, I would have embittered the heart of the very one in whom JUDGE NOT 675 she was to find the message of comfort, courage, and the ability to carry on. Indeed the Master knew what "we needed when He said, 'Judge 999 not.