Lesson Department Theology and Testimony (First Week in January ) Tue Word of WISDOM 1. Its Origin. The Word of Wisdom was received early in the history of the Church, indeed scarcely three years after its organization, at a time, February 27, 1833, when the Saints were living principally in Ohio and Missouri. The Prophet himself was residing at Kirtland in a house owned by Bishop Whitney. 2. One month earlier, a revelation was received by Joseph commanding him to organize the School of the Prophets in which the elders of the Church were to "teach one another the doctrine of the kingdom," including a knowledge "of things both in heaven and in earth, and under the earth." They were to "establish a house, even a house of glory, a house of order, a house of God." Only worthy members of the Church were to be admitted, and they were to be received by the ordinance of the washing of feet, 'for unto this end was the ordinance of the washing of feet instituted." (D. & C. 88:118-139.) 3. Already in February, 1839, the School of the Prophets was under way. The house of learning commanded by the Lord had, of course, not been completed, but a temporary meeting place had been selected in an upper room of the Prophet's residence. In this humble quarter the Prophet had done everything possible to comply with the requirements of the Lord. President Brigham Young relates, however, that occasionally when Joseph entered the room he found the air filled with tobacco smoke and the floor soiled. (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, p. 705.) This, of course, occasioned the Prophet no little annoyance, since it seriously detracted from the spirit and purpose of the School. Joseph sought the Lord for guidance in this difficulty, and received the revelation known as the Word of Wisdom. 4. Principal Features. The principal features in the Word of Wisdom are too well known to require lengthy discussion. They embody a warning primarily against the use of spirituous liquors, tobacco, hot drinks, and excessive amounts of meat, the latter more particularly in hot weather. The Lord says that he gave the revelation for the temporal salvation of the Saints, "in consequence of the evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men in the last days." The revelation is also accompanied by a promise of far-reaching effect. Several of these features will be considered more fully later. 5. Scientific Standing. Considering the time at which the Word of Wisdom was given and the very limited knowledge that then existed concerning the subjects therein treated, this document alone may well be regarded as proof of the Prophet's claims to revelation. More latterly science has repeatedly proved every one of its admonitions. The use of liquor is now regarded as one of the most vexatious problems confronting civilization; and tobacco, especially 682 since its consumption has become widespread among certain classes of women, may be placed in much the same group. Tea and coffee are also known to be injurious to the body, especially to the nervous and excretory systems. The use of excessive aniounts of meat is also regarded by physicians and dieticians as conducive to various forms of ill health. 6. Thus, it is no longer necessary to adduce evidence proving the scientific accuracy of the Word of Wisdom. There is probably not a single member in the Church who is not convinced of it. Our present problem is not one of converting the Saints to the truthfulness of its claims, for this has already been done. Rather it is a problem of inducing them to do what they know to be right. Ina measure, our problem is similar to that of the antiliquor forces throughout the world. There are very few drinkers, indeed, who do not know that the habit is injurious, and yet they lack the stamina, perhaps in some cases the selfcontrol, to desist. Among the Latter-day Saints the problem concerning the Word of Wisdom is not greatly different. It is well known that the Lord had advised against the use of these substances; it is well known that this advice is supported by scientific truth; and yet there are some people among us who would rather satisfy their appetites than obey the word of God. 7. In Consequence of Evils and Designs. One hundred years ago when the Word of Wisdom was given, the liquor and tobacco interests were scarcely in their infancy. Today they form perhaps the most aggressive and powerful monopolies in the world. They are provided with wealth practically unlimited, and are apparently determined to sell their products to the public regardless RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE less of the consequence. For the past few years in America the liquor demon has been partially suppressed, but it appears that just now he is about to break forth into one of the most violent and debasing orgies of all time. Liquor interests are determined that the American people shall consume their products, and apparently there are many who are anxiously willing to do so. Tobacco interests have exhibited a similar disregard for the welfare of mankind. For many years their efforts were limited primarily to men, but more recently women have received a large part of their attention. Little regard has been exhibited for the welfare of those who use the products. A broken home, a drunken father, a wasted mother, a hungry child apparently mean nothing to liquor and tobacco trusts in comparison with their greed for gold. The Latter-day Saints have been warned and forewarned by the Lord concerning this evil, and, therefore, are left without excuse. 8. Not by Commandment or Constraint. It has been repeatedly offered as an excuse by members of the Church who disregard the Word of Wisdom, that it was not given by "commandment or constraint," but rather as the "will" of God. This excuse, however, has but _ little weight, since we are commanded to observe every word that proceeds from the mouth of God. Moreover, no one will scarcely argue that he can ignore the "will" of God with safety. Surely Deity is not, concerned with matters that are not vital to the welfare of his children. Finally, God has said that certain things are not good for man, and has promised great blessings to those who abstain from them. No Latterday Saint who understands the genius of his religion, will quibble LESSON DEPARTMENT as to whether the Word of Wisdom is a "commandment" or the "will" of God. Even a suggestion from Deity should be followed by willing and implicit obedience. The Lord does not expect his children to be commanded in all things, "for he that is compelled in all things, the same is a slothful and not a wise servant; wherefore he receiveth no reward." (Doc. & Cov. 58:26.) 9. Promise for Obedience. Although the Lord plainly states that the Word of Wisdom is given for "the temporal salvation of the Saints," yet the reward that he mentions is distinctly dual, namely, physical, and intellectual (or spiritual.) To those who "keep and do these sayings, walking in obedience to the commandments,' the Lord promises almost unlimited health and wisdom. (See verses 18-21.) It should be noted that these blessings are predicated upon compliance not only with the Word of Wisdom, but with "the commandments" as well. Moreover, it should hardly be expected, except perhaps in special cases, that obedience would be followed immediately by the entire blessing. In the first place, in his present state of development, it would be difficult, if not impossible, for man to comply fully with the commandments of God. In the second place, many of his ills are inherited and therefore not the result of his own disobedience. 10. On the other hand, there can be no doubt that compliance with the Word of Wisdom and the '"commandments" of God is followed quickly by an increase of both physical and intellectual strength. The outstanding health of the Latter-day Saints is attributed, in part at least, to this cause. Thousands of Latterday Saints bear testimony of blessings which have come to them through obedience to the Word of 'on decline. 683 Wisdom. In course of time the blessings promised by the Lord will be fully realized. It is not difficult to understand that the blessings at present received are in strict accord with the degree of compliance. 11. Latter-day Saints have certainly -not overstressed the remarkable spiritual strength derived from obedience to the Word of Wisdom. The very act of adherence to the counsel of God results in spiritual growth; whereas disobedience brings In these days it would be a rare experience, indeed, to find a breaker of the Word of Wisdom with marked spiritual acumen. 12. Self-Indulgence us. Self-Control. Self-indulgence is the act of gratifying one's own inclinations, appetites, or desires, without regard to the rights of others or the effect upon one's self. It is at once an act of encouraged weakness, destructive of ambition, and unworthy of anyone who hopes for self-mastery and success. The outstanding difference between man and the animals is the ability of the former to will and act for himself. Whenever man submits to the dictates of his passions and unrighteous appetites, he weakens and otherwise injures the very thing that makes him man. To the Latter-day Saint, who entertains ambition for endless progression, self-indulgence should be unknown. It is the antithesis of success; it is the signal of danger; it is the reverse of progress. 13. It is doubtful that many of the Latter-day Saints, for example, who gratify their appetites by the use of tea and coffee, understand the extent of the moral injury thus wrought. The will to do as one chooses is strengthened by acts of self-control and weakened by acts of self-gratification. For this reason, acts of self-indulgence, if often re- 684 peated, commonly result in general decrease of resistance to wrong. To the Latter-day Saint self-control is absolutely essential to success. Indeed, his entire religion is largely one of self-mastery?intellectual, physical, spiritual. Self-control lays at the very foundation of the development of man; without it progress is impossible. 14. Faith to Comply. It is not enough that the Word of Wisdom appeals to the reason and is supported by indisputable scientific fact; Latter-day Saints must have the faith to comply with its teachings. There are large numbers of people both within and without the Church who are thoroughly convinced of the accuracy of the Word of Wisdom, and yet they do not follow its admonitions. Themselves in things that they know to be injurious than to restrain their appetites. 15. Faith to do right is the most potent factor in overcoming evil. It is stronger than reasoning, or belief, They would rather indulge RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE or even knowledge; indeed, it exceeds them all. Without it, men weaken and fail; with it, they grow strong and succeed. It is God's greatest gift of strength to man. Latter-day Saints who are disregarding the Word of Wisdom should seek God for this priceless gift, and if they seek with a real desire, he will not turn them away. Suggestions for Discussion and Review 1. Why is a suggestion from the Lord equally as important as a command? 2: What can you do in your community to develop faith to comply with God's "will?" 3. Why do you regard the Word of Wisdom particularly important at present? 4, In what way do the liquor and tobacco trusts fulfill the warning of the Lord? 5. Why is self-indulgence destructive of strength of character? Acme Photo Ca.