OLD GRIST MILL THAT ONCE STOOD WHERE LAFAYETTE SCHOOL NOW STANDS LESSON DEPARTMENT 685 Teachers' Topic SELF EFFORT Individual soul growth and development depend upon the law of self effort. All men have received the great gift of free agency through which they merit rewards for service or punisament for disobedience. "For behold, it is not meet that I should command in all things, for he that is compelled in all things, the same is a slothful and not a wise servant; wherefore he receiveth no reward. "Verily I say, men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness: "For the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves. And inasmuch as men do good they shall in nowise lose their reward. "But he that doeth not anything until he is commanded, and receiveth a commandment with doubtful heart, and keepeth it with slothfulness, the same is damned.' Doctrine and Covenants 58:26-29. References?Doctrine and Covenants 6:3; 6:13. Man is God's masterpiece of creation, and he should realize what a wonderful soul he possesses, and that there is need for its salvation. Man should also realize that the greatest achievements are made when he sees and feels 'nis own possibilities, and that growth and development come only by self effort. Sorrow and disappointment awaits the individual who expects to get something for nothing. We must pay nature's price. Zoroaster said: "Nature abhors and is ruthless toward those who will not help themselves." It is only through persistent effort that we build character, place ourselves beyond the destructive tendencies of life, and gain salvation. Mastery brings to the human intelligence the greatest joy and satisfaction, for it is not what we have, but what we do and what we are that is important. Could salvation come to man unless he had the inherent power to chose for himself? 2 Nepni 2:15. Covenants 29:34-35, Explain why not. The Lord requires of all men that they do all in their power to bring to pass their own salvation, and he has done, and does for man all things which are beyond the power of man to do. Why is this so? Explain the justice of God in granting to all men according to their works. See Matt. 7:24-27; 2 Cor. 5:10; Romans 2:6; Rev. 2:26. Discuss tne proverb: 'There is no excellence without labor," also, "What is worth doing is worth doing well." Lowell has written: "No man is born into the world whose work Is not born with him, there is always work, And tools withal, for those who will; And blessed are the horny hands of toil." The Savior said: "Do not be deceived, the Kingdom of God will not come by observation. The Kingdom of heaven is within you." The great goal of existence, we have learned, is to become perfect as our Father in heaven is perfect. This requires constant labor, both now and hereafter, until this perfection comes, and then. We will be prepared to go forth in the greater work of creation which will endure forever. Doctrine and  Literature (Third Week in January) LIFE AND LITERATURE THE BIBLE?A RECORD OF THE LIFE AND THOUGHT OF THE ANCIENT HEBREWS "Thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory for ever." The Bible is the supreme book of religion. The sacred books of the world's religions have recorded Man's experiences as he has sought to understand the nature and purposes of God, the Creator. Man's concept of God is the noblest product of human thought. The Bible, the record of an inspired race, has for its dominant note God's grace to Man, his offspring, with the everrecurrent refrain, "Thine is the Kingdom, and the power, and the glory," running like a golden thread through every book binding all together to make it the world's greatest epic. The Bible, 'A Divine Library," is an epic of immortality. From Genesis to Revelation it has recorded the struggle of the Hebrews for national and moral integrity to merit their heritage as the chosen people of God; it records Man's struggle for individual happiness; also, God's efforts in the perfection of Man. The significance of the Bible in the modern world is expressed thus: "The Bible is not a book but a library; the product not of one mind and age but of many minds and many ages; the record not of the fixed but of the progressive revelation of God; designed not to teach nistory or science but morals and religion; whose inspiration is not verbal but personal; and whose authority rests not upon tradition, infallibility, or churchly sanction but upon its own intrinsic value as the supreme religious literature of the world." The Old Testament As A Record The Bible grew out of the life of a people never reckoned among the great nations of the world, the Hebrews. Interest in the Bible has changed with the ages. The great interest that carried it from the earliest days until the last century was the divine element it contained. Then came the critical age challenging the authenticity of dates, authors, and manuscripts. The present age is one of appreciation, the result of a new approach, of historical and literary study. The literary study of the Bible is a study of its literary growth and literary content. The literary approach to the Bible, as an anthology collected from the vast body of the national literature of the Hebrews and representing over a thousand years of creative activity, has resulted in the organization of the books according to their natural chronology and recorded according to their literary forms? history, biography, essay, epistle, drama, oratory, lyric poetry, and law both civil and ecclesiastical. In other words, it nas revealed to the modern reader the world's greatest classic. The historical approach to the Bible has invested the life and times recorded with a new vitality. For centuries the history of the civilizations of the past has been shrouded in mystery. The archaeological researches of the past century in the countries mentioned in the Bible have uncovered buried cities, temples, tombs, and monuments bearing inscriptions which when deci- LESSON DEPARTMENT phered verified many events of Biblical times. The magic spade of archaeology in Egypt, Palestine, Arabia, Persia, and Babylonia has provided many fascinating bits of evidence for the historian to use in recreating the life and times of those civilizations. Among the most interesting are numbered; the ancient city of Ur of the Chaldees, the home of Abraham; the Epic of Gilamesh, the Babylonian epic containing an account of the Flood; the Moabite stone, a commentary on II Kings; the Black Obelisk of Shalmaneser, bearing the story of Jehu paying tribute. When man learned to write he placed his records in many places; the walls of his temples, and tombs bore his early records. In the course of time tablets and papyrus were used for sacred and personal records. The modern science of palaeography (the study of ancient writing) is the magic key that has unlocked the secrets of many ancient documents. Modern linguistic study in its turn has marked and noted discrepancies that have crept into the records as the old documents have been copied from time to time, or as they were translated from the original Hebrew to Aramaic, to Greek, to Latin, to Anglo-Saxon, to English. Today the English Bible unlocked for the reader by historical, scientific, and literary study is in reality the greatest book in the world, The Book of Life. Hebrew Life as Recorded in the Old Testament The history of the ancient Hebrews, a Semitic race, is the story of a people maintaining their individuality in the midst of conflict. Ages of nomadic life on the desert between the valley civilization of Egypt and Mesopotamia fashioned the genius of the Hebrews. The race developed early a distinctive individ- 687 uality. Keeping themselves tribally aloof, three factors shaped their genius, their religious temperament, their racial purity, and the rigorous discipline of a life of hardships. Always across the desert "East" and "West" was a land of plenty in the rich valley civilizations. When Egypt became the rich granary of the ancient world many migrations led westward. About 1500 B. C. Abraham of Ur of the Chaldees led the small tribal band westward to find a new home in Palestine near the land of plenty. The Canaanites there established were hostile to the newcomers. Another migration under Joseph led them into the Nile valley wnere they remained enslaved to the Egyptians. During this period of tribal history the Hebrews developed a greater capacity for endurance, a stronger sense of racial unity, and a greater dependence upon God. The Biblical account of the Exodus of the children of Israel from Egypt is consistent with historical records. Moses as the prophetic leader of the Exodus became the saviour of his people as well as the nation's founder. A new epoch in human history opened when Israel emerged from bondage to become a nation. From Goshen they were led by Moses across the Red Sea to Sinai. A renewed allegiance to Jehovah, their deliverer, the Decalogue given by Moses, and the preparation of the sacred Tabernacle to house the Ark of the Covenant were the cementing factors preparing the race for a great national history and later an unparalleled world influence. Unable to enter Palestine from the south because of the fierce Amalekites, they passed round the east of the Dead Sea through the land Moab. With the conquest of Heshbon, the Amorite capital came territory for a new home. Joshua, the 688 fearless military leader who followed Moses, through bitter warfare accomplished slowly the conquest and colonization of the land of the Canaanites. From a nomadic race the Hebrews were transformed into an agricultural people, the camp gave way to the village as a new nation was born. The story of the early colonial life of the Hebrews has been told vividly by the historian of the books of Deuteronomy and Judges. Of great significance was the distribution of the tribes of Israel in the new home. The northern territory was separated from the southern by a chain of Canaanite strongholds. This division of the tribes together with the influence of the Baal worshipping Canaanites provided the first great national crisis. Deborah, a valiant woman, arose to save Israel. Realizing the grave danger, with spiritual insight and moral courage, she challenged every son of Israel to "come up and help Jehovan against the mighty." The famous song of triumph of Deborah in the book of Judges recounts the struggle and ultimate victory. The consequences of this victory were far-reaching, the chief being the preparation for the establishment of the Hebrew kingdom. Out of another great crisis, the menace of the military power of the Philistines, grew the establishment of the Hebrew kingdom. The prophet Samuel arose to inspire Saul, the Benjaminite warrior, to deliver his people from this enemy and become their king. The later disobedience of Saul, the persecution of David, and the tragic death of Saul make a doleful picture of Israel's first king. To David, the hero of Saul's army, fell the task of completing the subduing of the Philistines. Later as the king of the combined RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE kingdoms, David was the builder of the empire. Jerusalem was made the central capital, a military organization was maintained to keep peace, and diplomatic relations with bordering nations, was established, all helped to usher in the Golden Age of Israel. David, king, military genius, and diplomat became a benefactor to his people; David, the man and the po et, left the record of his deepest emotions and spiritual experiences for mankind in the Psalms. With the great King Solomon the Hebrew kingdom reached the peak of its glory, wealth, magnificence, and extravagance reigned. The great temple erected by Solomon, 950 B. C. Strengthened the spiritual life of the people, while an excessive system of taxation became a factor of dis integration. The separation of tie kingdoms, Israel and Judah, provided a new crisis. Ahab, the king of Israel, made alliances with the Canaanites and the Phoenicians, as a result the debasing worship of Baal entered Israel. Only the heroic efforts of Elijan and Elisha saved Israel from religious degradation. The kingdom, however gradually weakened under the government of foolish kings until the Assyrians were able to enter and occupy Samaria, the capital. Judah, as an independent kingdom, fared a little better than did Israel. Rehoboam's extravagance and resultant taxation impoverished the people. The Egyptian invasion, 945-925 B. C. Despoiled the temple and disneartened the people. Out of the turbulence arose a great leader, Isaian. A statesman, philosopher, and _ poet Isaiah's moral grandeur and human understanding did much to renew the courage and faith of Judah. Tae martyrdom of Isaiah and the shameful idolatry of Manasseh mark the LESSON DEPARTMENT last days of the decline of the kingdom. The Assyrian invasion, successful in Israel, passed on to Judah. Only a miracle saved the besieged Jerusalem. The Assyrian conquest, however, was short-lived, The powerful king of Babylon, Nebuchadnezzar, became the new conqueror of both countries, 586 B. C. Half a century of exile led to a purification of the spiritual life of the Hebrews. During the period, one of suffering for all, those carried away to exile and those left isolated at home, came a spirit of regeneration which gave birth to Judaism, a religion. A chastened people took up the national life upon the return of the exiles after the fall of Babylon. The prophetic leaders, Haggai and Zechariah, gave their people a new hope, the promise of a new and glorious age, the Messianic age; Malachi, the sage, convinced them that God was long-suffering and would still remember them as His chosen People. A new age for the entire world began with the conquest of the ancient world by Alexander the Great, the Greek. East and West met for the first time, two widely differing civilizations with two systems of ideas. Alexandria in Egypt became the centre of the new culture. Under Greek directorship Greek learning permeated Palestine. The Pharisees grew out of Hebrew life as a sect vigorously opposed to the mingling of Hellenic and Hebraic ideas; the Sadducees, another sect, sponsored the liberal acceptance of Greek culture. This was the most severe crisis in the history of Hebraic thought. The influence of Greek life, manners, customs, and wisdom, was far-reaching. The Jewish Sanhedrin was established on the pattern of the city-state government of 689 the Greeks. The period 250 B. C.- 70 A. D. Witnessed many persecutions for the Jews. The Greeks attempted to make Palestine a Greek colony and the temple at Jerusalem a pagan sanctuary. Rising in rebellion many Jews were massacred. Judas, a Maccabee, gathered an army and fought valiantly to liberate his people.. The hard earned freedom under Maccabean rule was soon lost when Rome became the master of the world. At the close of the Old Testament era, Palestine was governed by Herod, a despot and a pagan, enslaving and degrading his subjects to a degree unprecedented in the nation's history. Yet now more brightly than ever there burned within the Hebrew the belief that he was of God's chosen race, and as such with eager longing he awaited the Messiah. The New Testament Age. Palestine is a holy land to both Jews and Christians throughout the world. At the opening of the Christian Era racial 'boundaries were gone, Jews and Gentiles mingled under the jurisdiction of Rome speaking a common language, the Aramaic dialect of Hebrew. The two forces, Paganism and Judaism, fighting for supremacy in Palestine formed the background for the life and teachings of Jesus. The ruthlessness of Roman rule, the discontent of the Pharisees and Scribes. The Jewish nationalists, and the corruption of priests and Sadducees, made the lot of tne peasant a difficult one. Religion had become purely ceremonial dominated by the Scribes and Pharisees; superstition was rife, ignorance abounded. To this chaotic life came Jesus, not as the Jews expected from their interpretation of the Messianic prophecies, a king to deliver them from the oppressor. 690 The humble and lowly understood the message of Jesus and accepted it; the Jews crucified Jesus. After tne death of Jesus the Apostolic age in Palestine was short-lived. A series of injustices and persecutions by Jews and Romans continued until the destruction of Jerusalem 80 A. D. Now Christianity was severed from Judiasm. The larger horizon of the Mediterranean became the home of the scattered followers of Jesus and the recipient of the missionary activities of the apostles. In a world dominated by Greek thought Christianity came into being. Paul, the apostle, in the Epistles sent out to the world the teachings of Jesus, not as a narrative as did the Gospels but in the form of a new philosophy of life, Christianity. The Romance of the Bible. The story of the triumphs, tragedies, and adventures of the greatest book in the world and the heroes who fought and died for it is a romance in. Itself. The Bible we possess has existed in its form littke more than three hundred years, yet it had its beginning over five thousand years ago when Abraham left Ur of the Chaldees carrying with him the stories of tne beginnings of things and kept them alive in the oral literature of his people to be incorporated later into his nation's record. The Hebrews recorded their national and religious life in a vast body of literature: (1) Historical Books: (2) Books of Prophecy; (3) Books of Song and Devotion; and (4) Books of Wisdom and Religious Philosophy. The organization of the Bible, first the Old Testament canon out of the sacred literature of the Hebrews and later the New Testament canon out of the early writings RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of the Christian era, is a story all its own. The greatest material treasures of the Christian Church are the manuscripts and Bibles its adventures have discoverd and produced. Looking at them as tney are housed in the great museums and churches of the world, eacn has added its chapter to the romance of the life of the greatest book in the world. In the early days of writing with what pride did the Hebrew record the hero tales and war songs of his race; the glories of his empire, the splendor of his temple. During tribulation, exile and dispersion, persecutions and massacres, how he guarded with his life the parchments bearing the records of his beloved race. Let us pause and dream over some old Bibles. The first Greek translation of the Old Testament, - the Septuagint, was translated by seventy-two Jews of the dispersion for the great library at Alexandria, 250 B. C. In the first centuries of Christianity with what care did the early fathers read and copy any word that came from the beloved Paul or the other apostles telling of the Master's teaching? If by chance a little band of Christians obtained a copy of one of the Gospels it was held more sacred tnan life. When the Bible became the sacred book of organized Christianity under the rule of the ancient Catholic Church the first great need was the most accurate version obtainable to be written in Latin. The wisdom and piety of Jerome, the hermit scholar of Bethlehem, became known. To this great saint was given the sacred task. Years he labored to translate the "Divine Library," so that man could have an accurate version. Several versions were made before the Latin Vulgate was completed. This version became the official document LESSON DEPARTMENT from which all others were copied for many centuries. What stories could be collected from the monasteries of the Old World as for ages they were the libraries of nations. Years and even lifetimes were spent in making copies of the sacred word. From the dawn of Christianity in England we get the beautiful story of Caedmon. A humble servant in the monastry at Whitby, he listened to the reading of the Bible. Being a peasant the Latin word could not be read by him. Brooding and sorrowful over his 'limitations his soul yearned. In a vision the story of the beginning of things, the history of Israel, and the mission of Christ, was given to him. As he sang it to his comrades the next day in his native tongue, he made the first simple version of tne Bible in the English tongue. One by one the books of the Bible were translated. The great scholar, the Venerable Bede, spent his last breath giving to a scribe the words of the Gospel of St. John. When the Danes invaded England many of the monasteries and the manuscripts were destroyed. Some of the monks fled carrying their precious records with them. The Norman Conquest brought a measure of security for religion. Culture was given an impetus. The great cathedrals of Europe are a silent testimony of the place of Christianity in medieval life. Realizing the value of the manuscripts of the early Bibles, the search for them goes on today. Tree Bibles of the Septuagint translation in existence, the Vatican Manuscript, the Alexandrian Manuscript, and the Sinaitic Manuscript, all had dramatic discoveries. The most interesting discovery, however, being that of the Sinaitic Manuscript. A German scholar searching for old 691 manuscripts in 1844 found it in a basket of old parchments being used for fuel in St. Catherine's Convent at the foot of Mt. Sinai. Strangely enough these three oldest Bibles are now in the possession of the three branches of the Christian Church; the Vatican Manuscript in the Vatican library at Rome, the Alexandrian Manuscript in the British Museum at London, the Sinaitic Manuscript in the Greek Church at Leningrad (St. Petersburg.) There is yet another episode in the great story of the Bible, one fraught with suffering and magnificent courage, the making of the English Bible. The Bible, the Latin Vulgate, was the book of the priest and the scholar in England. After six hundred years of Christianity in England a spirit of hostility was slowly growing to the use of this Latin document. Then came John Wycliffe, a scholar and a preacher. In sermons and in pamphlets he made the claim "that the Sacred Scriptures were given to man." A band of traveling teachers, the Lollards, went through the land preaching the Gospel. Wycliffe made the first English translation of the Bible. One hundred years later John Tyndale arose to carry on the work started by Wycliffe. His translation was the first printed translation of the Bible in English. Opposition and persecution followed him, driving him from place to place until he was burned at the stake in 1536. The Bibles were burned whenever found and the owners and the readers severely punished. The liberality of Henry VIII and the Reformation gave rise to other versions of the Bible made from the Tyndale translation. The best known of these Bibles being Coverdale's translation known as the "Great Bible." The story of the Bible would be 692 incomplete without mention to the German chapter of its romance. The whole world is indebted to Johann Gutenburg, the father of printing. He used his magic art in making copies of the Latin Bible. The beautiful Gutenburg Bible exists today a monument in itself to its maker. Martin Luther, the Morning Star of the Reformation, gave to his people the German translation of the Bible. This great work did as much for the liberation of thought in Germany as the English translation did in England. With the reign of Queen Mary came a period of persecution for the English Bible and its advocates. The attempt to restore Catholicism as the religion of England drove many Bible scholars to the continent to avoid death. John Calvin gathered the exiled scholars at Geneva; the Geneva Bible was issued by them in 1560. The English Catholics now gave to their followers an English version of the Bible, a literal translation of the Latin Vulgate of St. Jerome. When King James came to the throne of England in 1603, he found the Protestant in bitter strife over the translations of the Bible extant. Calling a conference of bishops he gave them the task of making an authentic version. It took six years and was the work of scholarship using all previous versions as guides. The King James translation of the English Bible was produced when the language was at its best; it sought to retain the noble simplicity of Tyndale's Bible with the accuracy and strength of the original Hebrew and Greek versions. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "As a literary monument the English version of the Bible is the noblest example of the English tongue." "East and West met in the matchless phrases translated from Hebrew and Greek and Latin into the Bible; and the heart of the East there answers the heart of the West." Thus was made tne Bible, the world's greatest book. Suggestions for Study. A. Materials: 1. The Story of the World's Literature. Chapter 4?Macy. 2. The Modern Reader's Bible. ?Moulton. 3. The Outline of Literature.? Drinkwater. 4, How We Got Our Bible ? Smith. 5. The English Bible As Literature.?Dinsmore. B. Program: 1. Music. Selections from the oratorios, "Elijah", "Messiah", etc. 2. Discussion. A. The Ancient Hebrews. 3. Review. A. The Story of the English Bible. 4. Reading. A. Selections from 'The Song of Deborah." b. Selections from "The Book of Ruth." C. Method: The lesson has two objectives: to present a brief yet concise account of Hebrew life and thought; to present a brief account of the history of the England LESSON DEPARTMENT 693 Social Service. (Fourth Week in January) Foops AND EATING HABITS LESSON XIII Scientific work in the field of nutrition has done wonders in making it possible to furnish food in proper quantities and proper varieties to children of all ages. Second in importance in knowing wnat to feed children is knowing how to guide them into willing happy eating of this proper food. To help parents. Solve this latter question is the purpose of this lesson.. Suggestions for Procedure: Assign the reading guide at a previous meeting. A class member may be assigned to investigate the "Nutrition Teaching" given in the public schools as suggested on page 176 of White House Conference, 1930. A review of needed information regarding diet can be had at the beginning of the class period by using the section on "Nutrition and Diet" on pages 60-61 of White House Conference, 1930. Class members may be asked to answer the questions given in the reading guide and the application as called for in the questions on page 24 of "Habits." Reading Guide for Habits pp. 20-24. Keep clearly in mind the fact that you are reading about child behavior in regard to food. The author assumes as is stated on page 21 that the reader knows what good habits of eating are. If the second paragraph on page 20 is not clear go back and review the material read from Lesson XI, Habits pp. 8-14, Members: The emphasis in the chapter is on the positive point of making correct eating habits pleasurable. Looking for the answers to the following questions will help in interpreting the material. 1. Is hunger natural? 2. Are 'having an appetite' and 'being hungry' the same? 3. Does too long continued use of a simple diet fix habits that make it difficult to introduce other foods later? 4. How do you prevent this tooearly habituation to menus? 5: Will children get real pleasure from feeding themselves? 6. What shall we do with dietary rules? 7. In what way does telling children they must eat affect their response to the food in question? 8. Do children sometimes learn to refuse to eat because refusing gets them satisfaction in other ways? In reading the constructive rules on page 23, notice that No. 1 calls for a substitute for force. This substitute is found in the suggestions for creating natural appetites, numbers 5, 6, and 7; and in attractive serving, number 4. Number 3 is especially important and needs to be illustrated by all of the foods that are specially flavored or prepared artificially in order to create appetites. Appetizers are habit forming. Number 2 refers to the possible danger of letting eating habits form the center around which the child satisfies his natural craving for attention. The problems on page 24 are worth solving. 694 Supplementary Material. "Habits of eating, sleeping, and elimination are directly concerned with the physical well-being of the child." (Thom; Every Day Problems of the Every Day Child, p. 50.) Parents may make mistakes in two ways (1) They may ignore the importance of these early habits or (2) they may become unduly anxious and worried over them and thus do more harm than good. Some basic facts will help establish the proper point of view. As given below they are adapted from Thom, Chapter 14, p. 30., 1. Action in the digestive tract is affected intimately by emotional status: "Physiological research has established the fact that emotions of various kinds. Such as fear, anger, or excitement, influence directly the flow of secretions that have to do with the digestion of food." 51. 2. Loss of appetite due to physiological ill-health is serious but calls for no forced feeding or undue emotional response on the part of the parents. 3. All children do not require the same amount of food. There is danger in over emphasizing the lightweight standardization. All cnildren do not need to eat spinach or carrots every time it is served any more than they should eat other foods without exception. 4. Emotional activity at meal time may give the child a sense of power which he uses for dominating his parents or attracting attention to himself. Vomiting may be an expression of this. 5. Many children with bad eating habits are not undernourished. "Investigation discloses that the child is getting a sufficient amount of food. The problem usually resolves itself into, first, the quantity of food taken; secondly, the method RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of taking it and the time of taking it; and finally, the necessary outlay of energy and effort on the part of the parent in getting the child to take adequate nourishment. (55) They would not, of course, wish to minimize the importance of the state of nutrition as a useful indicator of the child's general health and well-being. It is necessary to emphasize the fact, however, that a child's food cannot be too highly standardized; that all children need not necessarily be the same weight or height at a given age; and that no harm will follow if they fail to measure up to the so-called 'norms', or if they happen occasionally to miss a meal or two. One would emphasize the fact that it is the anxiety on the " part of parents over some trivial matter that frequently precipitates and perpetuates feeding difficulties in children." (56) 6. The attitude with which a child comes to meals should be cheerful and free from the demands of other activities. It is quite desirable to call children to meals early enough so that the play or reading may be stopped logically without creating any excitement or resentment. 7 In early learning to eat the child should probably be by himself where the spilling and splashing won't attract the attention of others and where the variety of foods of the adult will not distract tne child. If the mother sits by the child she should read or sew and not be an audience for the child's eating antics. 8. In order to teach a child to eat a new food two rules will help: Serve it daintily and attractively; do not force a child to eat it on first appearance but let him observe others eating it. 9. Let meal time conform to social custom. Have meals regularly. Use only a reasonable time for meals a LESSON DEPARTMENT maximum of 30 minutes is suggested. Then remove food and let children leave the table. Suggestions from Goodspeed & Johnson: Care and Training of Children. "It is one thing to be well informed as to the best foods for body growth and the maintenance of health. But to feed these foods successfully to members of a family is quite another matter. It is nota rare occasion when one hears a young mother say 'I simply cannot induce Peter to eat the vegetables he should, but for that matter, I never eat carrots or cabbage myself." 138 "Said little Sue's sister, "The hard- -est job we have is to make Sue eat; we have done everything suggested, but, it always ends in mother's patience flying out of the window, and Sue getting punished. I'm ashamed of it, but, often I find myself just shouting commands to eat.' 128 "We have said before that example plays a large part in the learning process. If big brother John, who goes to high school, refuses tne spinach, and father says, 'No carrots for me, please,' how can little Sue be expected to want them." 138 "Avoid Food Discussions?One of the greatest mistakes made is to discuss the family food dislikes, and those of the child in his hearing. The latter gives him a feeling of importance. The fact that he does not want to eat is important enough to be talked about?constantly worrying and fussing during the meal hour to induce the child to eat is just another way of making a child realize his power. He likes to have the older folks concerned with his affairs instead of absorbed in their own." 139 "Fear, anger, and excitement are known through science to stop the secretions of the digestive tract. Is 695 little Mary in any condition to enjoy, digest, and assimilate food? In this mood she may even form a dislike for the bowl of bread and milk offered, because she was emotionally upset on coming to the meal. 139 "The food should be simple, well seasoned, and attractively served in not too large amounts. A plate too full of food is a task which some children cannot even attack. Learn the correct portions for children of different ages and be consistent in using them. Serve even smaller portions of foods which are not well liked until the child has learned to accept them. 139 "Let the equipment at meal time be suited to the child. 139 "A Happy State of Mind is Necessary.?The state of mind in which a cnild comes to the meal is important. Give him enough time to bring his play to a point where it can be left with a certain sense of completion; and see that between the washing of the hands and the meal there is about ten minutes for a rest, just a few minutes for relaxing in a roomy chair, on a couch, or on a soft rug. Unless the person who serves the meal and who remains in the room to give needed help, is in a cheerful mood, the meal will hardly be a success. But, it is wise for the server, whether mother, sister, or aunt not to give undivided attention to the child. "Place the food on the table, do not hurry him, do not nag, scold, nor bribe him to eat. Give helpful suggestions stich as 'Eat some of the carrots, they are better hot;' 'push the food toward the middle of the plate, then it can't spill'; "when I eat tapioca I take this much on a spoon, then I do not get it on my cneek or dress.' Talk occasionally about his play. It is not necessary, however, 696 to keep up a constant run of conversation." 140-141. "Try to show no worry or concern if he does not eat all of the food, but, see that some of all the food served is eaten. If the main meal is not all eaten, serve no dessert; let that be understood from the start. It is not wise to emphasize the dessert by giving it any particular importance in the meal, but it should be plain that we do not go to the dessert, until the main plate is empty. Twenty minutes is sufficient time for breakfast and supper and thirty minutes for dinner. At the end of that time remove the tray, whether the food is eaten or not. The meal is over. Don't talk about it." 141 "The next important step is, that no food is given from that meal until RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the next, no matter how much it is requested." 141 "Points to Remember in Building Good Food Habits?The main points to remember in helping a child to form good food habits are?serve simple, appetizing, attractive food in correct amount at regular periods in the day. Allow no food between meals. Let it be understood that we eat all food put on our plates. The meal time is to be a pleasant one, free from scolding, threats, or evident worry on the part of parent or big sister or brother, who is serving the little one's food. A tired, angry, or worried child will have but little appetite for food. There must be no discussion of food dislikes before the child; finally, all members of the family should train themselves to good food habits."