Apostle Charles A. Callis By Joseph Quinney, Jr. ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS, richly endowed with the great gift of spiritual power, was unanimously sustained an Apostle of the Lord, Jesus Christ at the general conference of the Church October 6th, 1933. The choice of this greatly beloved man, meets universal approval. Elder Callis saw the light of day May 4th, 1865, in the city of Dublin, Ireland. He was baptized at the age of eight years in the city of Liverpol, England. Two years later he and his mother's family immigrated to Utah and settled in Bountiful. He was married to Grace C. Pack in September, 1902, in the Salt Lake Temple. They are the parents of eight children, six living and two who died in Jacksonville, Florida. He served the Church as a missionary in England during the years 1893-1894, He was Stake Superintendent of the Y. M. M. I. A. For some time after his return from a mission to England. He was County Attorney of Summit County for six years. He served as a city councilman in Coalville, Utah, for a number of years. He was a member of the 2nd Utah State Legislature and filled the place with honor. He was called to serve the Church as a Missionary in the Southern States in the year 1906. He succeeded the late Ben E. Rich as the President of that Mission and has served in that capacity for a quarter of a century. HE spiritual life of Elder Callis stands out as a great sentinel light, and the depth of his convictions to truth carry a power that stirs the souls of all who come within range of his strong and convincing personality. His faith in Jesus Christ the Lord is most vivid. The life of the Saviour has ever been his great ideal and through the power of the master he has ministered among his fellowmen. It is said that "We judge of a man's wisdom by his hope, his faith and actions." The life of Elder Callis thus judged shows great wisdom. Elder Callis carries always the thought that, "to know God is the controlling passion of life." Hence, the fine artistic qualities in his life are, and always have been, susceptible to all the Saviour taught. His interpretation of the Master is broad, sympathetic and fine. His love for the Christ is exemplified in his very thought, word and action. His "faith is a spiritual extension of vision, a moral sense that reaches out toward the throne of God and takes hold of verities that the mind can not grasp." The most exalted meaning of the gospel to Elder Callis is to love the Lord with all our souls, and then a consideration of our fellowmen with the same character of love. He has never been known to falter in his efforts to impress his fellowmen with the saving graces of the Lord and Master, Jesus Christ. Eternal life is, and always has been his goal, and the passion of his life has been to proclaim this mighty truth to all the world. ELDER CALLIS has impressed every missionary that has labored under his presidency with the thought that, "the path of truth, 662 higher living, truer development in every phase of life is never shut from the individual until he closes it himself." He would have every missionary feel the power of this statement; have him make it a great faith, a real and living factor in his life so that there would be no limits to his progress. The sincerity with which he conveyed this truth was ever impressive and went to the heart of the individual. He would have them think, and pray, and work. The missionaries love and respect Elder Callis and will feel highly | honored in his elevation to the exalted position that has come to him, not alone because of their love for him, but because of his great ability and worthiness. Perhaps it is proper to say that no Mission President was ever more loved by the elders and lady missionaries than President Callis. It is a high tribute to any man who places his expectations of reward on a solid foundation of service rendered and who is willing to pay the price of success in honest effort. And this is exactly what Elder Callis has always done. The poise and power with which he has moved among the people of the south will be the same power with which he will move among the saints at home and will be felt in all of the Stakes of Zion and wherever he travels and is known. He is greatly endowed with spiritual warmth and his ability to impart the spiritual side of the gospel will, without doubt, in spire the people everywhere to higher levels of apreciation for the saving graces of the Church. His Loyalty to a cause—the cause of the Church which he has so nobly and ably represented, is outstanding and complete in character. He has always held sacred the Authority and good name of the General Authorities of the Church, and has spoken of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE them always with appreciation and praise, realizing the great trust imposed in them by God in leading and directing His mighty work. If he were to have a Guide for the conduct of his life, it would read something like this,—"To respect and love my God, His Son Jesus Christ and His work; to uphold and sustain His authority and never permit myself to be untrue to them or the great cause they represent; to be honest and square to my fellowmen, as I expect them to be honest and true to me; to be a loyal citizen of the United States of America; to speak of it with praise, and act always as a trustworthy custodian of its good name; to be a man whose name carries weight with it wherever it goes— this is my aim." THE ministry of this good man has been aided by a fine and noble wife; both have shared the joys and great honors that have come to them. Sister Callis has nursed and mothered the missionaries as they have come to her in the mission field. She has understood their needs and has supplied them. Her apreciation for the great responsibilities that her husband carried gave to her an interpretation of life that, like her husband, was very sympathetic and real. To her "conduct, culture and character are graces that go through life hand in hand, never separate or alone," and she has more than a speaking acquaintanceship with each of these noble qualities of life. Her great weapons for the defense of truth have been humility and prayer. She has been in touch with God. And the power and light of His holy spirit has given her the light of wisdom. No man has appreciated a woman more than President Callis has his devoted wife. If he should "seek to touch the greatness of this MRS. GRACE PACK CALLIS fine woman, he would lay his hand upon her heart." To him, she has been all that could have been asked; she has not only been virtuous, but virtue itself. As she has been with him in the ministry abroad, she will be with him in his new and exalted calling and march on with him in the ministry of God throughout Zion— a strength and an inspiration. ELDER CALLIS has been a great soldier of righteousness, true to God and a fragrance in the path he has traveled. He loves the beautiful in human life and in the great creations of God. He is tolerant to those who do not share the same beliefs as he does. He has a keen sense of humor and is always ready to listen to a good wholesome story, and, at the same time, is ready to tell one. He is very charitable to all and will take time to listen to their stories and troubles. He never sees failure, "because the golden sun of ambition is always shining in his face, blinding his eyes to the impossibilities. He doesn't heed the warnings of discouragements, because higher and clearer than the little noises of the little people he hears the call of suc+ cess. He must be what he is. He's filled with the mightiest message given to man—he has been touched with the God-Spark that blazes into achievement." He is a man of God, a lovable companion, a true friend worthy the confidence of all. He comes into the Apostleship of the Church with the blessings of a grateful people.