Merrill Priesthood and Womanhood By Leah D. Widtsoe UESTIONS numbers six and seven, regarding man's possible arrogance or lack of chivalry, may be answered together by saying that a man's attitude to woman depends largely upon the mother who trained him in youth and the women who have most influenced his life. True, IT father's attitude to mother influences. The growing lad, but some woman trained father! If boys are brought up to a full realization of the importance of motherhood and its power for human good or ill they will naturally reverence every potential mother and wish to guard her powers. So thata chivalry deeper and truer than merely polished manners will be felt by men who exercise righteously their Priesthood. A proof of this statement is the fact that the men of this Church granted woman her religious and civic independence without her even having to ask for it. No other group of men on earth have done that! In some cases women have had to fight and suffer imprisonment for just those privileges that were granted women of this Church as their inalienable right. However, the training for true chivalry as evidenced by an outward respect and true courtesy should be given every lad in his home. Girls must be trained to merit and reciprocate that courtesy. The right attitude of the sexes toward each other depends fundamentally upon home training, and woman strikes the key" note of the home. QUESTION number eight implies that the women of this Church may have an "inferiority complex" but it has not been made evident. However, it is often asked and may be answered only by each woman individually. The general reply would be that if woman sensed fully the full scope of her power for human progress or retrogression there would be danger of her having a "superiority complex." or there is no greater power on earth than Motherhood! A knowledge of its full scope and possibility should make women feel neither inferior nor superior but truly humble, and willing to learn that they may exercise that power increasingly for the improvement and uplift of mankind. If they will but grasp the full meaning of their privileges they will have no time and less inclination to feel themselves either inferior or superior but will be happy and joyously content to do their share toward making their own little world a better place in which to live. AS to the next question, which concerns the home life of the people of this Church, the answer is conclusive. The homes of today, as of the past, in which the Priesthood is held and exercised by the fathers and sons and honored by the mothers and daughters are the ones where, almost without exception, peace and mutual understanding make life a continuous round of progressive accomplishment and joy for all. This condition is so general that it may be given as arule. Exceptions there may be, but they are extremely rare. The rule is so general, in fact, that it should be taken by the women and girls of today as a guide for future success in home PRIESTHOOD AND WOMANHOOD building. If you would have a truly happy home in which children may be nurtured for future progress, then do your full share to this end but in addition encourage your menfolk to honor and exercise their Priesthood. It is in reality a key that may unlock the door of joy and accomplishment so that all may progress together. Here it must be understood that girls and women should participate in those Church auxiliaries that fit their age and capacity for they were designed to prepare women to study, learn, and progress toward the ideal of Eternal Motherhood as the exercise of the Priesthood causes man to reach upward toward his Father in Heaven. It should be understood also that all official acts performed by men or women in the Church auxiliaries or in Temple ceremonies are performed by certain powers being delegated by the Priesthood— those who have the right to direct these activities. So that women officially appointed do exercise on their own behalf a measure of that delegated Power or Priesthood; this is done always under the authority of those who directly hold the Priesthood. THE next question, that of possible sex-rivalry, concerns deeply the women of this Church for therein may they be able to set an example to all the world. When the Priesthood is understood and exercised righteously there can be no "sex antagonism"—it is impossible. Let some of our leaders of the past express themselves on this subject: On one occasion Brigham Young said, 'We have sisters here who, if they had the privilege of studying, would make just as good mathematicians or accountants as any man; and we think they ought 667 to have the privilege to study these branches of knowledge that they may develop the powers with which they are endowed. We believe that women are useful, not only to sweep houses, wash dishes, make beds, and raise babies, but that they should stand behind the counter, study law or physics, or become good bookkeepers and be able to do the business in any counting house, and all this to enlarge their sphere of usefulness for the benefit of society at large. In following these things they but answer the design of their creation." On another occasion he said, "Now, sisters, I want you to vote, because you are the characters that rule the ballot box." Again, "Every man or woman that has talent and hides it will be called a slothful servant. Improve day by day upon the capital you have. In proportion as we afe Capacitated to receive, so it is our duty to do. Go to school and study, have the girls go, and teach them chemistry, so that they can take any of these rocks and analyze them. The sciences can be learned without much difficulty. I want to have schools to entertain the minds of the people and draw them out to learn the arts and sciences." A later prophet, our beloved Joseph F. Smith has said, '"Motherhood lies at the foundation of happiness in the home, and of prosperity in the nation. God has laid upon men and women very sacred obligations with respect to motherhood,. And they are obligations that cannot be disregarded without invoking divine displeasure. The word and the law of God are as important for women who would reach wise conclusions as they are for men; and women should study and consider the problems of this great latter-day work from the standpoint of God's 668 revelations, and as they may be actuated by His Spirit, which it is their right to receive through the medium of sincere and heartfelt prayer. If there is any man who ought to merit the curse of Almighty God it is the man who neglects the mother of his child, the wife of his bosom, the one who has made sacrifice of her very life, over and over again, for him and his children. That is, of course, assuming that the wife is a pure and faithful mother and wife. I have often said, and will repeat it, that the love of a true mother comes nearer being like the love of God than any other kind of love. The father may love his children, too; and next to the love that the mother feels for her child, unquestionably and rightfully, too, comes the love that the father feels for his child. There are people fond of saying that women are the weaker vessels. I don't believe it. Physically, they may be; but spiritually, morally, religiously and in faith, what man can match a woman who is really convinced? Daniel had faith to sustain him in the lion's den, but women have seen their sons torn limb from limb, and endured every torture satanic cruelty could invent, because they believed. They are always more willing to make sacrifices, and are the peers of men in stability, Godliness, morality and faith. No man will ever enter heaven until he has consummated his mission; for we have come here to be conformed to the likeness of God. He made us in the beginning in His own image and in His own likeness, and He made us male and female." When men, our leaders, express such sentiments regarding women one must know that such a feeling as sex-jealousy is set aside. Individual exceptions may occur but that proves nothing. If women are expected to exercise all their faculties and magnify every gift they may RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE possess, and that without any feeling of prejudice; if men and women admittedly stand equal before the bar of man's and God's judgment, then what more is there to be desired—and of what may either one be jealous? Indeed a woman who would sacrifice the greatest of all earth professions, that of Motherhood which is hers by right of sex, for the senseless reason of proving that she could do a man's work as well as any man, or for any other reason, is something less than a true woman and is to be pitied as well as condemned. While on the other hand it is but a small and puny-souled man who could wish to humiliate woman as a class and keep her as the inferior sex. For men can never rise superior to the women who bear and nurture them. The man who fears the dominance of woman or suspects that she is now attempting to take revenge on man for the centuries that her sex has been held in thralldom before the law—such a man admits his own inferiority, and condemns his own beginnings. WHEN women are recognized as the equals and partners of men in the good game of life and given the privilege of traveling side by side with them while sharing equally the load, they will be more than willing to accord man the presidency of all domestic councils, and will always look up to him as a leader —when, only when, he is a worthy leader. The history of family life in this Church is ample proof of that statement. The normal woman is glad to be led—in righteousness; she craves the companionship of a man, a real man; one whom she may honor and respect and on whose wise judgment she may lean. There are times when a man desires the same support from a good wife. So that PRIESTHOOD AND WOMANHOOD in the last analysis, life to be complete must be shared by well matched "team-mates" each one carrying a full share of the load, but with a comfortable understanding that man is the leader for his is the final responsibility for family integrity. When this relation is understood and practiced there can be no room for sex-rivalry; it is just crowded out of the picture. HERE the thinking woman may remark, "All this is very well, if all men were righteous and natural leaders and if all women were rather shrinking by nature and glad to lean on someone and be led. But what about the countless cases where unquestionably women possess greater powers of leadership than their husbands or where the husband is unable to lead or even provide for himself to say nothing of the family?" It is undeniable that there are weak men as well as weak women, and it is equally true that such men are often attracted by and marry strong capable women and visa versa. What then 4 Brigham Young partly answered the question when he said on one occasion, "I have counseled every woman of this church to let her husband be her file leader; he leads her and those above him in the Priesthood lead him. But I never counseled a woman to follow her husband to hell!" Families in such cases must make their own adjustments. The wise woman, however, will place her motherhood above every claim and not allow it to become secondary to anything. The wise man will accept the situation and be content to be the titular head of the family only, giving his best so far as his capacity allows. If a man is vicious or unwilling to do right that brings in another 669 factor which is not within the scope of this discussion. Women are weak and fall into error, too, but that is another question. In the Church, however, it is different. There, no adjustment can be made. The Priesthood always presides and must, for the sake of order. Some of the women of a congregation or an auxiliary organization may be wiser, even greater in mental power, or in actual power of leadership than the men who preside over them. That signifies nothing. The Priesthood is not bestowed on that basis but is given to good men and they exercise it by right of divine gift as they are called by those who have authority so to do. However, woman has her gift of equal magnitude also. Sex enters here and is indisputable. It is eternal—so why quarrel with it? A wiser Power than any on earth understands why a spirit in the far off beginning was male or female. On earth there is waiting work for each to do. The important thing to consider here is that there is scope in this Church for every woman to exercise all her greatest powers and talents. If she is a natural leader then in her own field she may demonstrate and use her powers to the utmost. No one could or would hold her back. NEVER in history have women enjoyed the freedom of thought and action accorded the women of this Church. In the Temple and sacred buildings of the past women were not permitted to enter beyond the outer court. In the Jewish Synagogues to this day women are not permitted to worship with the men; they are separated by a distinct wall or barrier. While in the Temples of the restored Gospel a 670 man may not partake of the highest ordinances without his wife and in life pursuits she is given her entire independence. This gives to woman a mighty responsibility which if she honors and uses will be increased in power upon her; but if she ignores it or treats it lightly or fails to magnify it she may lose that which she now possesses and thereby forfeit her birthright. For this great privilege women in this Church should be eternally grateful and willing to use and cherish this precious and priceless relationship. Where much is given, much is expected. A final question may be asked: "With the restoration of the Gospel in its fulness, all righteous men of this Church were given the right to hold the Priesthood—a privilege unknown for ages and not shared by men outside this Church. No commensurate gift was bestowed on the women, for motherhood is a universal gift for woman in every age, the heathen and degraded, as for the women of the Church. Where is the justice?" The answer to this question summarizes the entire discussion. Indeed the women of this Church are equally honored, for they share with father or husband all the resultant privileges and blessings of Priesthood. "Neither is the man without the woman nor the woman without the man in the Lord." Exaltation is impossible for man alone. The full understanding of this privilege should sober every woman in this Church and cause her to pause when RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE any temptation to worldliness or weakness comes her way. She may be a real support and inspiration to one who literally holds a measure of authority to act. For God on earth; or she may be the opposite. Which shall it be? She surely has a privilege not shared by women outside of this Church. Indeed, hers is the gift supreme: to be the mother and guide of priests and men of God! Hers is the privilege of teaching the lad to honor or despise the great gift which awaits him; she it is who implants his desire to honor or disregard his sacred calling. As the girl grows she retains the same privilege: as sister, sweetheart, or wife she may ridicule and taunt or encourage and bless the lad or man who is to hold this sacred power. So who may decide as to the greater gift? HE womanhood of modern Israel have a joyous responsibility. They must never lose sight of their greatest privilege—to be the mothers and companions, hence the inspiration, of righteous men who hold the Holy Priesthood. They must ever hold to the ideal of the Mother of the Gracchi: while scorning the wiles and temptations of the world they must gather round their own or potential children with the joyous thought "These are my jewels!' When woman understands her full and complete power for building righteousness on earth she will sense that the gift of motherhood direct or vicarious is the greatest of all gifts and will be forced to exclaim "My cup is full; I cannot ask for more!" Do you want to know how to obtain temporal salvation? Not only the Latter-day Saints, but all the world would have the solution of that problem if there were no tea, coffee, liquor nor tobacco used in the world. Peace, prosperity, and happiness would come to the entire world. —President Heber J. Grant.