EDITORIAL NOTES.
	If any of the sisters have extra copies of the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT of Sep.1, 1889, or May 15,
1890, they will confer a great favor by sending them
to this office and will receive double price in re-
turn for each copy.

	Sister Elizabeth Howard attended the Confer-
ence of the Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A. of
Morgan Stake at Morgan on the 9th and 10th of
May, and also attended a general meeting of both
organizations at Croyden, Morgan Co., in com-
pany with Sister Lydia Rich, President Relief
Society of that Stake, and Susannah Hiner Presi-
dent Stake Y. L. M. I. A.
	Sister Elizabeth Stevenson and Lillie Freeze
visited the Summit Stake Relief Society Confer-
ence held at Rockport on Thursday the 14th day
of May, and also the Primary Association meet-
ing held the next day. At both these Confer-
ences there was a good spirit prevailing and
much interest manifesed in the onward progress
of woman’s work.

	June first is to be known hereafter as Children’s
Day among the Primary Associations, in honor of
Brigham Young the founder of the Territory, and
to perpetuate his memory in the hearts of the
rising generation. It will be a beautiful tribute to
him in all the years to come to celebrate his birth-
day anniversary in childish sports and songs of
rejoicing.

	This is the time to renew the membership of
the Deseret Hospital Association,in May. It has
now been established nine years. During that
time about nine hundred members have been re-
corded, but comparatively few of them have kept
up the membership fee of one dollar a year. The
beautiful attribute of charity is praised by all,
yet how few there are who put it to practical use,
and in what way can we better show our faith by
our works, than in bestowing charity upon the
sick and the afflicted. To alleviate distress is
one of the-most excellent things, and to do it in
a way that will be a public benefit, and without
knowing whom we are serving seems to us to be
an excellent method. We all give of our sub-
stance to feed the poor; we as a people donate
liberally, but when we help to support a Hospital
we are indeed lending to the Lord. Our sisters
and brethren should come forward with the mem-
bership fees, at least that we may know that
those who are carrying this heavy responsibility
are in a measure supported by members of the
association as originally organized. The Board of
Directors remember with pleasure when Presi-
dent John Taylor moved forward in this matter,
and himself became a regular member of the
Association, with other Apostles and leading
men of the Church. His example is worthy of
imitation.


