BOX ELDER STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief


[Column 1]

Society of Box Elder Stake convened in the
Tabernacle in Brigham City, March 10, 1891.
Sister Olivia Widerborg presiding, singing
"Earth with her ten thousand flowers," prayer by
Bishop Janson, singing "High on the mountain
top." Minutes read and accepted, reports read
by the secretary. Pres. Olivia Widerborg
made some explanation concerning the reports;
exhorted the sisters to diligence in their duties
as wives and mothers.
	Mary Watkins president of 4th ward; said
"May we when our time comes, be worthy that
welcome, 'well done, thou good and faithful
servant,' let us do good when we can, both in
our own family and in others, let our hearts
be lifted in prayer to God."
	Nancy A. Bigler, counselor in 2nd ward,
felt to do all in her power to help roll on this
work.
	Sena Gregerson, counselor in 3rd ward,
spoke of the assistance rendered by the girls,
they were great helps in sickness and making
clothing for the dead, said; "we should strive
to make home attractive for our children and
guard them from evil.
	Coun. Mary Wright: "We need faith and
need to sustain each other, to enable us to
pass through our trials, although they are
nothing compared to what our Savior endured,
Let us build each other up.
	Bishop Janson said the sisters are doing a
great work and much good, knew they were
as true in teaching doctrine and principles as
the brethren, spoke of faith in sickness, and
upon other subjects.
	Pres. O. Widerborg; "sisters let us keep the
spirit by which our brother has spoken, it will
exalt us in the presence of God. Singing
"The sun that declines in the far western sky,"
benediction by Elder Crawford.

	Afternoon session, singing "How great the
joy that promised day," prayer by Counselor
Adolph Madsen, singing, "An angel from on
high." Sister Hubbard president of Willard
City; "we can not be thankful enough for our
blessings, we have our name enrolled with our
brethren and sisters, we need constantly to pray
that it may always be so, spoke of the sickness
and death of Sister Cook, she was a faithful
saint, may we eventually be worthy to inherit
the blessings we set out for is my prayer.
	Sister Harper, president at Calls Fort, "I
think the sisters in our ward are doing a
little better than formerly, we have had a
great deal of sickness, but it has been said the
calamities should commence at the house of
the Lord.
	Condensed report read by Annie Wixom.
Coun. Adolph Madsen, warned the sisters
against the use of concentrated lye, also the
use of coal oil in making fires, I beg your
pardon for speaking of this, but terrible acci-
dents have occurred, mothers should be care-
ful with matches.
	Pres. Rudgar Clawson; "These meetings
bring about a spirit of union, the sisters have
a decided influence for good or evil, just as
they choose, it does not always manifest itself
in a direct way, nevertheless it is felt.
	Pres. Olivia Widerborg; "you and I can not
afford to lose an opportunity to listen to the
teachings of the Relief Society, we are called
to give relief, let us look well after the sick
and poor, in such a manner that we may gain
the approbation of our Father in heaven; teach
your children to honor the priesthood; let us
take good care that our conversation and
actions at home may be such that angels and
our Father in heaven may hear; do not feel
discouraged, whatever may be placed upon
our heads, let us not murmur, He will give us
power to bear it."
	Apostle Lorenzo Snow; "looking upon this
assembly I see a very peculiar people, 'Mothers
in Israel,' I hope this is understood that you

[Column 2]

realize you 'Mothers in Israel,' that we are the
people of God, Joseph Smith said so; we are
sifted out of the nations, the Lord says "they
shall assemble together and He will raise up
teachers to them," I see it verified here to-day
you are gathered two of a family one of a
city. As your president has said, you have
sorrows and trials, you feel sometimes that you
have not a friend, even the Lord seems to for-
sake you, but so it was with the Savior, Jesus
Christ, we are not better than him, it seems
we must suffer, but how well we feel when it
passes and friends come; spoke of Job and how
his wife counseled him in his great trouble
saying "dost thou yet hold fast to thine in-
tegrity? curse God and die." We see this
spirit in the world, people suicide to get out of
trouble; but the mothers of Israel seek for the
comforter, what is the comforter? the Holy
Ghost; it is a principle of light, it is the principle
by which all things are made, even the Lord
on His throne, and according to our diligence
in living pure lives we shall enjoy and com-
prehend this principle. It is your privilege to
reveive as great blessings as any women since
the beginning of the world. Spoke of Rebecca
and of the mother of Samuel and the
prophetess in the temple who was told the
Savior should be born. You can have influ-
ence in your homes for a great deal of good in
connection with your husbands. Emma Smith, she
was a very peculiar woman, Joseph was perse
cuted on the right and on the left, he would
come home despondent she would tell him,
"this is the work of God, He will sustain you,"
how is it with you? when your husband comes
home, do you say, "stay at home and keep me
company," or will you encourage your hus-
band to do his duty? you sisters are making
a record, sending your children to school, and
Sunday School, what pleasure for a woman to
look back at a well-spent life, you need comfort,
many of you perhaps are farther advanced
than you know, I presume; what a beautiful
thing it is to be a Latter day Saint, what a
lovely thing it is to be a Latter-day Saint;
what ever we fail to receive in this life we shall
obtain in the next life, attend your meetings.
you sisters who hold office don't feel discour-
aged, we all do sometimes, stick to the truth,
stick to the Gospel, to your duties, all will be
well, God bless the Relief Society, God bless
the mothers in Israel."
	Pres. Widerborg made a few closing re-
marks, singing, "Great God attend while Zion
sings." Benediction by Bishop Jansen.
