ROSA BONHEUR.

	Rosa Bonheur, the greatest animal painter
of her time, is sixty-seven years old, yet she
says she has still work enough in her mind
to fill two lifetimes. In 1850 she bought a
house in the little village of By, on the banks
of the Seine, not far from the forest of Fon-
tainebleau. There she has lived and wrought
ever since. She has added stables and a studio
to her house. In the stables and grounds she
has had from time to time a veritable
menagerie of animals, including lions chamois,
bears, gazelles, and an elk. It is refreshing
to read that her studio contains not an article
of bric-a-brac and scarcely anything that is
not needed in the work of the great artist.
No "kickshaws" and no trash. She has al-
ways been an early riser. She says the morn-
ing is the best time for work. Her animals
are also more docile then. She spends much
time out doors, walking or riding in a little
carriage, which she herself drives. At her
work and out-doors she wears a man's clothing
with a peasant blouse. Her life has been
devoted to her art, pure and simple, and rich
has been her reward. There are wrinkles in
her face, but her enthusiasm keeps her
young.


Washington is the only city in the United
States that can afford to pay a Charity Com-
missioner three thousand dollars per. annum
to distribute fifteen hundred dollars to the
poor of the District. "The poor you have with
you always says the Lord" and the office hold-
er as well.  Let the poor trust in God, while the
Charity Commissioner draws his salary, the
poor are entirely unselfish as well as helpless
in this respect, but they are handy to have
around in the creation of Professors of Econ-
omy and chairs of Political Science etc., with
the title of PH. and GG. Professors of soft
snaps at the expense of the people. It is
enough to make the elements weep and the
earth to quake occasionally and go on a ram-
page but unfortunately the office holders are
never swallowed up in the avalanches or
chasms, for behold we have them with us for
all time.—The Working Woman.


