A PLEASANT PARTY.

	A very pleasant party of ladies met by invita-
tion at the residence of Mrs. Bathsheba W.
Smith on the evening of the second of May to cele-
brate the 69th anniversary of her birth. All those 
assembled were particular friends of hers, and
some of them had been associated with her for
many long years in labors of love; several of
these sisters had been acquaintances or neigh-
bors away back in Nauvoo in the early days of
the Church.
	"Sister Bathsheba" as she is best known, (that
name being more distinctive than the other) has
had in many  respects a serene and happy life,
owing mainly to her even temperament and cheer-
ful disposition. She is one of those well-or-
ganized or evenly balanced persons, that little
things do not ruffle, and that even great troubles
do not overwhelm with doubt and melancholy. In
fact she is amiable and self-reliant.She has passed


through trials that many women would have sunk
under, and yet she always looked upon them with
heroism and fortitude, and now in her seventieth
year, she stands alone, as independent as the 
evergreen, tree, youthful in her spirit, cheerful in
demeanor and gentle and gracious as though her
grand and noble husband were still by her side
to lean upon, though he has long since passed to
"the other side."
	I need not enumerate those who were present
only to say among the most distinguished guests
were Zina D. H. Young, President of the Relief
Society and Jane S. Richards her first Counselor,
Bathsheba W. Smith herself being the second
Counselor, and Sarah M. Kimball, the veteran
Secretary; also Mary Isbella Horne; Treasurer
of the Society, all of them grand Apostles of the 
faith. There were others present whose very
presence was an inspiration and a charm, two of
our sweet women poets Lula Green Richards and 
Emily Hill Woodmansee, and Mrs. Smith's 
daughter Mrs. Bathsheba Merrill, now a silver-
haired matron, and granddaughters Alice and 
Maud, who waited upon the guests in the most
delightful way, serving the appetizing viands and 
delicious fruits, cakes and creams in a natural, 
easy and dainty fashion.
	The evening was spent in conversation upon
various topics, also the renewing of old acquait-
anceship, and congratulations to the hostess
whose long years of service in the Church have
only added dignity and saintliness to her appear-
ance. A happy and peaceful spirit always pre-
vades her home, and she ever has a smile and a
cheerful face, and words of encouragement to 
greet her friends and co-laborers. 
	May her peaceful life continue to flow on in the 
same even channel, until she shall have finished
her allotted time here on earth, and her useful-
ness increase with her years in giving counsel and
imparting instruction and blessing the daughters 
of Zion in her calling, as a Priestess in the House 
of the Lord.


