	ANNA ELLA CARROLL.

	We have just received the work entitled “A
Military Genius” “Life of Anna Ella Carroll of
Maryland, by Sarah Ellen Blackwell.
	It is a book of 168 pages,in nine chapters neatly
bound, and contains a steel engraving of Miss
Carroll when a young girl, a striking face, and
displaying a beautiful neck and arms, being taken
in the low neck and short sleeves, the fashion of
the period, also the picture of Kingston Hall at
Rohoboth Maryland where she was born, and
portraits of Thomas H. Scott and Benjamin F.
Wade. This lady now quite in years, having been
born in 1815, claims to have greatly benefited the
leaders of the late civil war, and has the papers
to prove her work, but her claims to any compen-
sation so far, have been ignored, or set aside,
though they cannot be disproved. The author
has collected together this material and published
it, that the world may know how much was done
by one woman to preserve the union intact. We
have not yet had time to read the book but know-
ing much of the work of this wonderful genius,
can safely recommend it and hope it, may find a
place in the homes of the people all over the
country, that at least she may have some little
remuneration for valuable services from the sale of
the book. And there may, through the circula-
tion of this work telling what she has done, come
a time when positive recognition of her labors
may be made by the Congress of the United
States.
	The book is for sale at the Woman's Journal
Office 3 Park St., Boston, Mass., and at the
Rooms of the Woman’s Suffrage Society, 1406;
G. St., Washington, D. C. Price $1.10 forwarded
free on receipt of Price. 
	YELLOW RIBBON SPEAKER.
	This little book “The Yellow Ribbon Speaker,'
contains Readings and Recitations suitable for
Woman Suffrage Associations, parlor-meetings
and entertainments compiled by competent judges
of articles on this subject. Rev. Anna H. Shaw,
Alice Stone Blackwell and Lucy E. Anthony, all
young women of practical judgment and relia-
bility. The matter is collected from the writings
of men and women most of them of national repu-
tation, for instance Wendall Phillips, Lucy Stone,
Susan B. Anthony, Phebe Carey, George William
Curtis, Henry Ward Beecher, Thomas Went-
worth Higginson, Zerelda G. Wallace, Grace
Greenwood, Hon. John D. Long, Harriet Stanton
Blatch, Harriet H. Robinson, and many others
“Three Dreams in a Desert,” by Olive
Schriener, is alone worth the price of the book.
All woman’s associations and those who want
posting on these questions will find in this little
work suitable prose and poetry, containing sound
logic; and some of the recitations are very
humorous. The book is published by Lee and
Shephard, Boston, Mass., price 50cts. All suff-
rage associations should keep a supply of suffrage
literature.


