SOCIETY.

	How pleasant to me is the sunshine of thought
and a devoted desire for the good of all humanity;
it dispels the clouds and the gloom that naturally
hover around us selfish mortals.
	Did not all those, who were favored to be at
the General Conference of the Church this
month partake of the comforting influence that
was so freely given to all present? and offered to
the whole world of mankind.
	We are taught "to call upon God while He is
near and seek Him when He is to be found." I
most humbly trust that my sisters will do this,
those who through toil and expense came from a
distance being hungry spiritually, were fed with
the bread of life, and I hope have taken home
with them sufficient to impart to those who were
not blest to be present. May we not forget these
precious things, like looking in the glass and
turning away forget what we saw therein, but be
able to treasure up the words of wisdom we heard
and continue to be even more faithful in all things
that another Conference may bring us still nearer
in spirit to become what our Father in heaven
wishes us to be, and has given us the privilege to
attain to aided by His spirit, faithful to the end
of our lives, that the sunshine of truth may ever
light our path and we as a band of sisters be
united in attending to all our daily duties, that we
may be one in our desires, and firm in our pur-
poses, and as President Taylor used often to say
for us "the kingdom of God or nothing." God
has truly manned the ship of Zion with order and
strength, that she has thus far out-rode the storms
and has made headway against the waves of per-
secution that have rolled high around her threat-
ening swift destruction. The invitation has been
extended to many of the peoples of the world, to
come and see what God has done for His people,
here in the mountains; and although the govern-
ment has lessened our family circles, the affec-
tion and true love that has, and does exist, is a
portion of heaven, that will produce its effect;
and by peace in our hearts amidst heavy respon-
sibilities, we shall not be forsaken. With the
changes that have been brought about many of
my sisters are now left lonely, with their precious
children; do not be discouraged, be faithful in
your prayers, true to yourselves in virtue and in-
tegrity, and you will not be cast down, for the
promises are for you and for your little ones, fear
not.
	Excessive pride has been and is a great snare
to many people, to be humble before God and
grateful for His blessings, is the safe path to walk
in, for through our deepest afflictions, if we will
not murmur at His providences, come the bright
rays of the sunshine of His Holy spirit. Ex-
perience is wealth, is knowledge, let us toil on
and faint not by the way; oft gather with our
little ones, in their Primary meetings, hear their
sweet voices singing the songs of Zion, seek to
elevate their pure minds, teach them true princi-
ples, tell them there are no mothers or children
so perfectly organized, watched over and pro-
tected as among the Latter-day Saints. If their
dear fathers have to be absent from them,or even
go to prison for the principles they have embraced
blessings are in store according to the things they
suffer. Mothers who have to toil on with their
little ones lonely, God will be with them, and if
they are patient and humble, He will pour out
rich blessings upon them; and their children will
grow up to be good and honorable men and wo-
men. Sisters let us not be discouraged, we are a
practical people and must prove our faith by our
works of obedience, as it is a world of toil and
hardship for a saint indeed.
	We as a Society are engaged in a labor of love,
in looking after the poor, comforting the mourner
and all who are cast down through force of cir-


cumstances; let no just complaints go up to our
Father in heaven of suffering that we could alle-
viate, either of the body or the spirit; we have
many duties to perform, many calls are made
upon us, and here let me say how I appreciate
the noble and liberal response made by our
sisters in the several stakes of Zion to the call for
means to send our Delegates to Washington, D.
C. to attend the Woman's National Council.
Please accept from me and the sisters who were
sent our most sincere thanks for your generosity
in contributing for this purpose. It was to bless
all, a general and unselfish cause, and will re-
move prejudice and spread the light, we have re-
ceived, that we may be known for our good works
among the nations. My sisters, I pray that you
all may be blest in your earthly treasures, and in
every gift and grace, with knowledge and wisdom
and an abiding faith in the truth.
	Let us sustain our home institutions and home
literature and especially the EXPONENT; our only
organ for the Relief Society in all its Stakes and
branches, to hear of our meetings, our Confer-
ences and to be informed of the workings and
condition of the Society as a whole.
	I very much regret having to be absent from
home for awhile in Canada. I wished to have
visited the sisters here and there in the various
localities, and in the lonely little branches at a
distance from head-quarters, I had greatly de-
sired to visit them this season; but there is great
comfort and satisfaction in knowing, that the
same sweet influence is with all the saints in
every land and clime; and may the good spirit be
given in rich abundance that the good seed sown
at the last Conference may bear much fruit, in
more perfectly uniting us in the bonds of love
and union which is to be enjoyed to all eternity.
	I shall surely remember my sisters, hoping they
may visit each other's branches and their Confer-
ences, and annual meetings, strengthening the
young people in the Improvement Associations,
and in the Primary; to bless this one,strengthens
all; comforts the parents, helps the Bishops
lessens his labors; all are honored in observing
these things.
	It is more than earthly treasures to care for
the poor, let no sigh of the needy ascend to our
Father. When I return home I hope to meet
often with my sisters and may our Father's bless-
ing abide with us all.
		Affectionately Your Sister
			ZINA D. H. YOUNG.
	President Relief Society, April 21, 1891.


