CARDINAL GIBBONS' PAPER.

	That distinguished prelate utters words
which ring with truth and sincerity, and calls
the unthinking to a realizing sense of their per-
sonal obligations. He sounds a note of warn-
ing. too, which must not go unheeded, if the
peace of the nation and the security of the
home are to be maintained. He says: "If we
may believe those who stand upon the watch-
towers and scan the signs of the times, a tempest
of war, to which all former wars were holiday
tournaments looms big upon the horizon aud
threatens to overwhelm the world in the horror.
Wealth and poverty, they say, stand more
and more apart, and glare across the widening
chasm more fiercely. 'While the wicked are
proud, the poor man is set on fire!' Capital
and labor, after severe skirmishes with varying
success, are arming for the supreme conflict.
How imminent the struggle may be no man
can affirm precisely, but signs there are which
may well fill us with disquiet. The rich are
daily becoming richer, the poor, poorer; luxury,
high living and the pride of life are on the in-
crease. The thirst for wealth becomes daily
insatiate; the cries of the distressed more sharp
and loud and poignant."
	"The economic conditions of the United
States are fast approaching those of England.
The homes of the poor are more marked by
destitution and squalor; the light of heaven
is being closed out from miserable tenement
room and attic; flesh and blood and becoming
more cheap, and bread more dear; the well-
being of the car-horse is more solicitously
watched  than that of the driver. Small
wonder that strong men, maddened by the
tears of wife and cries of starving children,
band themselves together, and sometimes re-
sort to deeds of violence.
	''It is high time, then, that Gladstone, Man-
ning, and Hughes, in England, should with
grave anxiety review the situation and sound
a note of warning. Most opportunely, here,
does a millionaire like Mr Carnegie declare it
to be the duty of a man of wealth, first, to set
and example of modest, unostentatious living,
shunning display or extravagance; to provide
moderately for the legitimate wants of those
dependent upon him; and, after doing so, to
consider all surplus revenues which come to
him simply as trust funds which he is called
upon to administer; the man of wealth thus
becoming the mere agent and trustee for his
poorer brethren."
	"What, then, is the duty of all good men
to avert the crisis? The answer is simple and
all-embracing. Back to Christ, his example
and practicable to all. There is enough, and
more than enough, within the pages of the

[Column 2]

four Gospels to disarm at once this array of
class against class. The sacred pages teem
with warnings to the rich. They are the words
of eternal truth. About their meaning there
is little substantial difference of opinion among
Christians of all shades. The bane of our
times is that the voice is no longer to many
a living voice, in the rush and clamor of
money-getting; the sacred characters are over-
laid and well-nigh obliterated by the daily-
gathering dust of worldliness. Yet, the Rev.
Hugh Price Hughes is right in affirming that
in the Bible the spirit of wealth and of greed
is oftener inveighed against than the crime
of adultery or drunkenness.
	"In the evening of careers of unexampled
brilliancy and distinguished public service
two of England's greatest men, seer-like, lift
hands and voices of warning. The conditions
which have come upon that land are, it is to
be feared, fast assuming shape and consistency
here. Let, then, the leaders of opinion and
the directors of conscience in this great re-
public strive earnestly and fearlessly by ex-
ample and precept, to avert the coming strife.
	"Above all, like the French workmen of the
Val-de-Boise and that great Christian socialist
le Comte de Min, let employers and employed
come together in amity, with a view to mutual
understanding. Let them state their mutual
grievancss and ascertain their mutual demands
and temperate Christian counsels reigning, the
result will be lasting peace."


