THE GIFTS OF THE GOSPEL.

	Not long since I was told by a person of
my acquaintance that the gifts of the Gospel
did not prevail in this Church to day as they
did years ago, I listened with astonishment.
"Do you think so said I? I believe you are
mistaken, and I hope so at least. I know we
are humiliated by the human family many
times. But may God forbid that we should
grieve the Holy spirit that has blest us to the
full capacity of our faith in our Heavenly
Father.
	Did He ever leave us when we went with
relying confidence to Him for His aid and
assistance, in any trouble whatever? No never.
To this I can testify and so can many others
that are living to day, besides those who have
gone home to rest in heaven.
	I would here add. We can afford to lose
wealth and our good name in the world when
we know that we do not deserve to lose it;
since humility makes us acceptable to God.
But we cannot afford to lose the gift of the
Holy Ghost which will show ns things to
come and bring all things to our remembrance.

[Column 2]

That gift which enlightens the mind and
enlivens the soul: and gives that peace of
mind which the world can neither give or take
from us. Did not the Apostle say "ye are
temples of the living God, when His spirit
dwells in you.
	This spirit was promised to be given to those
who observe to keep the laws given by Jesus
the Savior of the world. What does Moroni
say upon this subject? (Section 7—verse 4)
	The Angel Moroni says, "The Lord prepareth
the way that men may have faith in Christ
and the Holy Ghost may have place in their
hearts according to the power thereof. And
Christ saith if ye will have faith in me, ye
shall have power to do whatsoever thing is
expedient in me. And he hath said repent
all ye ends of the earth, and come unto me,
and be baptized in my name, that ye may
have faith in me that ye may be saved.
	Moroni says "Now my beloved brethren if
this be the case that these things are true
which I have spoken unto you God will show
unto you with power and great glory at the
last day that they are trne: and if true has
the day of miracles ceased? or have angels
ceased to appear unto the children of men—
or has He withheld the Holy Ghost from them
or will He so long as time shall last, or the
earth shall stand, or there shall be one man
upon the face thereof to be saved."
	"Behold I say unto you, nay; for it is by
faith that miracles are wrought; and it is by
faith that angels appear and minister unto men;
wherefore if these things have ceased, wo be
to the children of men, for it is because of
unbelief, and all is vain."
	"No man can be saved according to the
words of Christ save they shall have faith in
His name; wherefore if these things have
ceased, then has faith ceased also and awful is
the state of man: for they are as if there had
been no redemption made."
	"But behold my beloved brethren I judge
better things of you: for I judge ye have better
faith in Christ because of your meekness; for
if ye have not faith in Him then ye are not
fit to be numbered among the people of His
church."
	Will these words apply unto us? are we
meek and humble? or do every day affairs
occupy all our time. Well every day affairs
must and will occupy our time: but with an
eye single to the glory of God we shall have
greater light, is the Savior's promise and per-
form our duty acceptable. We cannot afford
to grieve His Holy spirit and cause it to
depart from us. We must seek that we may
find; and in the first place seek to know what
we are in the sight of God our father: for He
saith Mat. 7' chap. 25 ver. "Not every one
that saith unto me Lord, Lord shall enter into
the Kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the
will of my Father which is in heaven." 22nd
verse also says "Many will say unto me in
that day, Lord, Lord have we not prophesied
in thy name? and in thy name done many
wonderful works?" 23 verse "And then I will
profess unto them I never knew you; depart
from me ye that work iniquity."
	When we lose the gifts of the gospel, we
may know of a truth that we have grieved
the Holy Ghost which was given us after
baptism by the laying on of hands. The most
precious gift of all: because we need the light
and intelligence it so freely imparts to all who
in sincerity have faith in Jesus and His
teachings.
	We need it when we offer up our prayers,
that we may ask not amiss, but ask for those
things most expedient for our good and this
great preparatory work of meeting the Lord of
heaven; yes and of earth also.
	Yet there is another who claims the earth
and all that is on it. You will remember he
took Jesus up into an exceeding high

[Column 3]

mountain, showing Him all the kingdoms of
the world and the glory of them, and said "all
these things I will give unto thee if thon wilt
fall down and worship me."
	Without any contention Jesus only replies
"Get thee hence Satan: for it is written Thou
shalt worship the Lord thy God, and Him alone
shalt thou serve.  Mat. 4 chap. 8, 9, and 10
verses.—Can any one doubt, that those who
will measure themselves by the pattern that
Jesus gave the human family to live by, and
live in accordance to it, will be tested every
whit as Jesus was. Yes, like gold tried by the
fire.
	Accordingly we need those gifts and graces
that the ancient Apostles had; that onr
prayer may be offered in an acceptable manner;
for the Apostle says the effectual, fervent
prayer of a righteous man availeth much.
We have known this to be true and shall we
doubt it now?
	We need to pray for the heads of govern-
ment. Look at the precarious times awaiting
us to day. Italy is insulted and offended.
The working men have an uprising. What will
be the result of all this, and where shall we
go for wisdom but to the fountain of light
and intelligence?
	St. Paul says, in Corinthians 12 chap 4 verse
"There are diversities of gifts but the same spirit.
There are differences of administration, bnt
the same Lord. And there are diversities of
operations but it is the same God which worketh
all and in all." He then speaks of eight gifts
given by the same spirit. For by one
spirit are we all baptized into one body. and
the foot shall not say, because I am not the
hand I am not the body, or shall the ear say
because I am not the eye I am not of the body.
Is it not of the body? The eye cannot say to
the hand I have no need of thee: or again the
head to the feet I have no need of you. Now
ye are the body of Christ and members in
particular, 27 verse. And God hath set in
the Church first apostles secondarily prophets,
thirdly teachers; after that miracles, then
gifts of healing, helps, governments, diversities
of tongues.
	He then asks "are all apostles? are all
prophets? are all teachers? are all workers of
miricles? have all the gifts of healing? do all
speak in tongues? do all interpret? But covet
the best gifts and yet I show unto you a more
excellent way." He then speaks of charity, as
the greatest gift of all; he also says "these gifts
are for the work of the ministry, the edifying
of the body of Christ, until all come into the
unity of the faith."
	How can we come into the unity of the
faith only in the straight and narrow path
that Jesus marked out and followed himself.
He also says "Take my yoke upon you and
learn of me for my yoke is easy and my
burthen is light." With this Spirit the
Holy Ghost it is easy and the burthen is
light. Without it we find dark and con-
fused minds, and a dreary and cold world,
when destitute of that loving spirit of truth
the Holy Ghost. May we never consent to
grieve this Spirit or cause it to leave us to
ourselves while we stay upon this earth.
