LETTER FROM NEVADA.

		Overton, Nev., May 9th 1891.
DEAR EDITOR:
	Some time ago I saw a piece in the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT written from our quiet little town
which to do justice to the people and the place
should be corrected. We live in a small settle-
ment on a beautiful stream of water called Moapa,
which empties into the Rio Virgin River we have
plenty of land and more room for good settlers;
we have quite warm weather in summer but
generally a pleasant winter; we can raise almost
any kind of grain, and plenty of fruit such as
peaches, grapes, plums and almonds and any
other kind that may be cultivated. Generally the
health of the people is splendid, new settlers
sometimes have chills when they first come; we
have had some cases of la grippe and mumps here.
I have lived here for almost ten years and have
seen but one death of our people that being a
small babe. We are thankful to our Father in
heaven that we are not afflicted with diseases as
they are in a great many other places; you can
buy dried peaches at 8 & 10 cts. per pound,
raisins 12 1/2 cts., butter is generally 25cts. per
pound, we have a good flour mill, can buy flour


as low as $2.50 per hundred, we are a long way
from any saw mill and of course lumber is scarce,
and a valuable thing with us, some have shingle
roofs on their houses and others have them
covered with a kind of flag, we all afford a good
lumber floor, we have beautiful shade trees in the
summer they almost make a house for us being
so cool we prefer them to the house, they are
cottonwood, poplar, and locust trees not much of
a variety, but we look for the time when this
place will be more thickly settled then we will
prosper better. We have Sabbath School and
meeting every Sunday, also Primary, Relief
Society and Church Class in which old and young
take an active part. The children I can say are
very prompt in attending Primary and Sabbath
School, we have as good young men in our place
as one would wish to associate with; we have no
tobacco, strong drinks or bad language used
amongst them, they are well respected; we live a
long way from any large settlement the nearest
being St. George and it is a quite a rough road
to get here: hoping that this little article will find
a place in your paper.
		I am Very Truly &c.
			E. C. C.


[Column 1]

