W. S. A. SALT LAKE CO.

	The W. S. A. of this county held its regular
monthly meeting in the 13th Ward Assembly
Rooms, Tuesday March 17, 1891, Pres. E.
Howard in the chair; prayer by the Chaplain,
Eliza Platte. The Sec. being absent Adella
W. Eardley was elected Sec. pro tem, the Sec.
read the by-laws of the W. S. A. of Utah.
Pres. Howard made a few opening remarks in
which she observed that we were all interested
in the great work being done by the women
of the world, and we should work for the same
political interests, and for suffrage for all;
thought when women had power we would
have better governments and purer society;
when the right people are in positions of trust
we will have a reformation in many respects;
urged the ladies to study politics more than
they had done; referred to its being St. Patrick's
day, and the way in which politics had been
run many years ago. Hoped members of the
association would be punctual in attending the
meetings, and study carefully the woman's
movement; "we ought to attend to every duty
faithfully, for time is precious and we all want
to improve."

[Column 2]

	Frances Smith, Louisa, Spencer, Mrs. Bar-
ton, Dr. Maggie C. Shipp, Margaret Caine,
Adella Eardley and Mary Silver each spoke
briefly but earnestly in defense of woman's
rights, defining what they considered her privi-
leges and advocating earnestness and deter-
mination.
	Ch. Ex. Com. Elizabeth Mc'Farlane thought
we would have all the rights we wanted if we
would only prepare ourselves for them; mean-
time men would have to be converted; if wo-
men attained to a higher plane,  men  would
correspondingly rise higher.
	May Talmage, said she was interested in
suffrage; recalled with pride the last time her
mother voted; she walked five miles to deposit
her ballot; she thought women were advancing
all over the world; realized there were some
positions women could fill better than men."
The suffrage in the hands of women will not
detract from woman's duty at home; we should
have a programme for our meetings and study
and prepare ourselves at home.
	Elizabeth Price. related some of the ex-
periences and difficulties Lucy Stone had to
contend with when first starting out in wo-
man's cause; but opposition as we well know
is greater evidence in favor than against a
cause; woman suffrage had been agitated a
long time and the cause will go onward and
never fail, thousands of women have to make
their own living and they need the ballot,
ability and quality should be the test and not
the sex, for office, all women could not get
positions neither can all men.
	Emma Finch made a short but interesting
speech. Meeting adjourned, subject to the
call of the President.
		A. W. EARDLEY, Sec., pro tem.

	Minutes of the W. S. A. of Salt Lake Co.
held in the 13th Ward Assembly Rooms April
21st 1891, Vice Pres. Louisa K. Spencer in
the chair. Prayer by Frances Smith.
Minutes of the two former meetings read and
adopted. Roll called.
	Ch. Ex. Com. Elizabeth McFarlane ad-
dressed the assembly, said that Mormon wo-
men are and always had been religiously and
socially free, they also wished to be politically
free.
	Sarah M. Kimball, Pres. of the Ter. Ass'n.
and one of the delegates to the late convention
held in Washington D. C. asked if it was not
power, that women wanted, said that she for
one wanted power! woman should seek to ex-
ercise all the powers which God has endowed
her with, and not be contented to deplore her
situation and bear it, but take measures to
better the conditions. Recommended that we
lay systematic plans at each meeting, for our
next meetings work, thought that the exchange
of thought and sentiment of the delegates at
the Washington Convention had been mutu-
ally beneficial.
	Phebe Y. Beattie delegate to the Convention
from Salt Lake County gave a very pleasing
report of her labors, said they had been both
pleasant and profitable, and that she had been
highly complimented on the orderly manner
in which our reports had been compiled and
presented to the Convention.
	Honorary Vice Pres. Z. D. H. Young said
that we should exercise all the powers that
we possess to educate our children up to a
higher standard, than we a present have
reached, learn where power emanates from,
and use it to benefit the world; not merely our
own and ourselves; one drop of water alone is
of little worth, but a union of a large volume
of tiny drops makes a mighty power.
	Mary A. Freeze, Frances Smith, Caroline
Dye, and Dr. E. S. Barney, each made a few
pleasing remarks, after which the meeting was


adjourned until the third Tuesday in next
month, at the same place, at 2 o'clock, p. m.
