IN MEMORIAM.

	Mary E. Taylor, daughter of John and Elizabeth Bailey,
and wife of Fred Taylor. We the sisters of the Relief
Society of the Fourth Ward, S. L. City, unanimously
adopt the following resolutions:
	To the memory of our esteemed sister, Mary E. Taylor,
who departed this life March the II, 1891.
	She was born in Salt Lake City, Christmas day 1853, in
the Fourth Ward where she resided until her death.
	She was a faithful member of our Society, being Secre-
tary for 18 years, and always took an active part in what
ever she was called to do. She took an active part in the
Sunday School and other societies, until the cares of her
family prevented her. She had a kind and cheerful dis-
position, and was benevolent to those in sickness and
distress.
	She was an affectionate wife and daughter, and an in-
dulgent mother.
	Whereas it has pleased our Heavenly Father, to call
from our midst by the hand of death our beloved sister
and friend.
	Therefore, be it resolved that we recognize in the death
of our sister the loss of a friend and co-laborer in the
Relief Society.
	Resolved that we esteem her goodness, patience and un-
complaining endurance worthy of our imitation.
	Resolved that we extend our heartfelt sympathy to the
family of the deceased and with them acknowledge the
hand of our Father in heaven.
	Resolved that these resolutions be recorded in the
records of the Relief Society, and also be published in the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and that a copy be forwarded to
the family of the deceased.
			SUSAN SPERRY,
			M. A. HADLEY,
			C. C. KIRK,
				Committee.

	April, 10, 1891.

		Mary thou wast kind and gentle,
			Good and noble, brave and true;
		And thy spirits gone to heaven,
			Where we hope to meet with you.

		We must part from thee dear sister,
			One we've known and loved for years;
		And it grieves us all to sadness,
			But we must dry up our tears.

		Bless and comfort her dear mother,
			May she live for many years.
		To her children prove a blessing,
			As she has in all past years.

		And her husband; God will bless him,
			If he puts his trust above;
		And his children prove a comfort,
			Though bereft of mother's love.

		All her friends and all her kindred
			Loved her tenderly and well;
		She was good and sweet and patient,
			With the ransomed she will dwell.

				C. C. KIRK, Ass't. Sec., R. S.


