BY CLARA SELLECK.

	"My wife is the smartest woman living. I
don't believe there is another in the country
like her," and Farmer Jones leaned on his
rake with a satisfied air, and took off his hat
to wipe the perspiration from his brow.
	"If she was like other women, a-gadding
about and spending all a man earned, I'd
never get rich." He rubbed his hands together
complacently and went to work again raking
the hay, from which he expected to realize a
generous sum.
	The young man to whom the conversation
was addressed, said to himself, "For my part
I'd rather be poor all my life than to have
such a toiling, tired-looking slave for my
wife. Its none of my bread and butter, only
I do hope he won't keep me waiting for my
pay when Saturday night comes, for I want
to take Sallie on that excursion next week.
	The young man kept steadily at work for
Farmer Jones had no idlers in his vineyard,
while he whistled to the time of his rake.

"No slave my wife will ever be
To scrub, and work, and dig for me,
With ne'er a kiss, a laugh, nor smile
To light the labors of her toil.
Her face with love will shine, will shine,
And sweet to know that she is mine."

	Yes, Farmer Jones' wife was a smart woman.
Before she was married she possessed many
accomplishments, besides thoroughly under-
standing the mysteries of housekeeping. She
was considered quite the smartest girl in town,
and when she married a poor farmer, she did
so with the expectation of placing her shoulder
by the side of his against the wheel of poverty.
	With the advancing years, as prosperity
smiled upon them, her burdens grew heavier.
The piano was never opened except for com-
pany. Her heart found no music in the glad
songs of old. No hired girl ever darkened her
door. "They were too expensive," her hus-
hand said.

[Column 2]

	When the children were sick with the fever
she asked him to hire a girl, but was met with
such a rebuke she did not repeat the request.
	His tendernhss had been swallowed up in
his eagerness for wealth.
	"If he would only give me a kiss, or an
encouraging word, sometimes," she would
sigh, "I would toil on without a murmur, for
love lightens labor."
	"Only a few years more," he would say, 
"and then we will take it easy, and the 
children will be able to take care of them-
selves, for I've brought my children up to
work."
	After a while the "few more years" passed 
and he did "take it easy." He could look over
the broad fields and claim every acre of
ground. The waving grain and fields of tas-
seled corn were all his. His pastures were
well stocked with cattle. He could look into
his house and see his children, most of them
grown. He could look for the counselor and
helpmate, who had helped to accumulate all
these good things, at his side, and look in
vain. He could sit in the firelight and weave
financial webs, but he could not see the patient
woman, either knitting or sewing, and ever
ready with wise suggestions, who had been the
light of his home.
	Yes, he could "take it easy" now, but it
was alone; for one day he came home to find
the tired soul, who had so longed for rest, at
rest. The dimmed eyes were closed to awake
in a glorious dawning. The care-worn hands
had ceased their labor; they were crossed
upon her bosom, while her sealed lips seemed
to say reproachfully: "I have done what I
could; angels could do no more."
	Mr. Jones alludes tearfully to the myster-
ious ways of Providence in removing such a
"smart woman" from the world. But does
he never think in the hour of retrospection
that he had something to do with her too
early taking off, and that a fitting sentiment
for her tombstone would read:
		"Worked to death."
	The Answer.


