THE MUSICAL FESTIVAL.

	Salt Lake City has already become somewhat
famous as a musical centre in the West, partly on
account of its great organ, and immense choir,
and one might believe the rich natural voices of
the boys and girls born in this mountain region.
That climate and conditions of country have
much to do with voices as well as temperaments
the writer firmly believes, but be this as it may,
the Latter-day Saints are a musical people and
the cultivation of talent has been greatly encour-
aged by those who have had influence and abil-
ity in this direction.
	The writer well remembers in the time of the
exodus from Nauvoo when journeying through
Iowa, the Nauvoo band, and singers, were such
an attraction that they were asked to hold con-
certs in the little new towns through which the
Pilgrims passed on their way.
	Evan Stephens the present leader of the choir
and President of the Choral Society, is a musical
genius, both in teaching and in leading a great
number of voices. Gifted beyond the multitude
he is able to bring into harmony hundreds of
voices and train them to follow his lead. He is
not only a fine interpreter of other men's compo-
sitions of high quality and power, but is also a
composer of considerable merit. His talent in
composition has been acknowledged by men of
experience in the musical world.
	Utah is fortunate in having such a rare genius
and one who has so many other admirable qual-
ities of character that make him so useful in
bringing out the latent talent of others
He has labored incessantly here to develop local
talent, and has succeeded in accomplishing very
favorable results, if he has not wrought out his
ardent anticipations. Last year the musical con-
cert given in the large Tabernacle in this City,
was composed entirely of local talent, and the
rendering of difficult, classical music exceeded
the expectations of those who knew how short a
time had been spent in training the singers.
	This coming month, June, will witness an event
of importance in the history of musical cultiva-
tion in this Territory unequalled here. Prepara-
tions have been going forward for some weeks,
and to make it a most thoroughly enjoyable and
delightful affair, Mr. Stephens has secured for the
occasion two of the most noted singers of our
day and time, Emma Thursby and Myron W.
Whitney. Then we have some local singers with
superb voices, Bertha Bayliss, Agnes Olson
Thomas, Bessie Deane Allison, R. H. Easton
and Heber Goddard soloists, and these with three
or four hundred or more trained voices, will cer-
tainly create a deep and grand enthusiasm, such
as nothing else in the world except good music
can awaken.
	Salt Lake may well be proud of the musical


talent developed here at home; the Tabernacle
choir when rendering a grand inspirational
anthem, or even hymn, lift the congregation to 
sublimest heights of emotional solemnity.
	For the expression of those deeper feelings of
the human soul where language utterly fails
music is the only perfect interpreter. The ap-
preciation of this divine art will be found in the
crowded audiences that assemble on the rare oc-
casions such as the coming June Festival. The
people from all the country round about will avail
themselves of this grand opportunity to hear the
rendering of choice selections by celebrated
artists, and home talent. The building itself is a
great advantage and then the organ second to
none in this country, adds wonderfully to the
effect of the whole.


