NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN.

	At the meeting of the Executive Committee
on Tuesday afternoon Feb. 24, 1891, the fol-
lowing officers were elected for the ensuing
year.
	Mrs. May Wright Sewall, Indianapolis,
President; Mrs. Ella Dietz Clymer, New York,
Vice-President; Mrs. Rachel Foster Avery,
Philadelphia, Corresponding Secretary; Mrs.
Isabella Davis, New York, Recording Secre-
tary; Mrs. Lillian M. N. Stevens, Maine,
Treasurer.
	At the final Executive Session of the Board
of the National Council of Women the follow-
ing resolutions were passed:

	Resolved: First, that the National Council
of Women of the United States send a memorial
to the clergy of the Methodist Episcopal
Church, asking, inasmuch as 62 per cent. of
the membership of that denomination has al-
ready by formal ballot expressed a desire that
women be admitted to the General Conference
that the clergy shall, in accordance with the
will of the laity, grant the admission of women
to that body.
	Second: That the Council ask that women
be placed on the Sunday School Lesson Com-
mittee, and on all committees appointed in
the various churches for the revision of their
creed.
	Third: That the Council urge upon the
National Reform Divorce League the eminent
fitness and consequent obligation of placing
women on its Board.
	Fourth: That the Nation Council of Women
shall present to the proper authorities a formal
request that in all departments of its service
the Government shall pay its employees equal
wages for equal work, and that both in engag-
ing and promoting its employees it shall con-


sider efficiency and not sex, and thus set a
standard for the country.
	Fifth: That inasmuch as the Columbian
Exposition of 1893 will afford an exceptional
opportunity for convening representatives of
all countries, the officers of the National
Council shall invite the officers of the interna-
tional Council of Women, Millicent Garrett
Fawcett President, to hold its first meeting in
in the Summer of 1893.
	RESOLVED: That the general officers shall
appoint a committee of women whose duty it
shall be to report within a year suggestions for
a business costume for women which shall
meet the demands of health, comfort, and good
taste.
	RESOLVED: That the Council approves the
movement for preventing the slaughter of birds
for the sole purpose of ornamentation, and
that it asks American women to imitate the
example of the Princess of Wales, who has
forbidden the use of the plumage of singing
birds on her toilets.
	The Council also resolved to furnish a block
of stone or marble, suitably inscribed, to place
in the monument to be erected over the grave
of Mary, the Mother of Washington, and
voted to commend to all organized bodies of
women the objects of the Mary Washington
Society.
	Before adjourning, the Executive Committee
passed a cordial vote of thanks to the musicians
whose gratuitous service had enhanced the en-
joyment of the meetings, and to the press,
local and throughout the country, for the
splendid service it has rendered the Council
during its session.


