SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of Zion was
held in the 14th Ward Hall March 12, 1891,
Mrs M. Isabella Horne presiding. On the
stand with the president were Mrs. Jane S.
Richards, Mrs B. W. Smith, Mrs. E. S.
Taylor, Mrs. E. T. Webb, Mrs E. Stevenson,
and the Secretary, Mrs. E. Howard. Con-
ference opened by singing "Once more we
come before our God," prayer by Mrs. E.
Stevenson, singing "Our God we raise to
thee;" Roll called, fifteen Presidents, and
eight Counselors responded. Minutes read
and accepted, reports from twenty-two
branches read.
	Mrs. B. W. Smith spoke of the labor of
love the sisters were engaged in, and urged
the necessity of faith for the sick that they
might recover, exhorted the sisters to faith-
fulness and diligence.
	The secretary then read twenty more reports.
Pres. Horne wished the reports condensed as
it took up so mnch time; said we want to be
faithful in visiting the sick and the needy, if
we keep the commandments of God we have
a claim upon Him and He will hear our
prayers for the sick and distressed. Send for
the elders to administer instead of relying
upon Doctors, let us use mild herb medicines,
and entreat the Lord to spare our loved ones;
I fear we have too much pride and vanity
among us, let us humble ourselves and be
united in everything; and let us patronize our
own institutions, sustain our woman's store;
and do our best to make a success of this
undertaking, we should work together in
temporal affairs as well as spiritual, whatever
tends to build up Zion, let us take hold with
energy and assist in. Sister Horne blessed
the sisters and asked the Lord to bless them.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. singing
"Do what is right etc.", benediction by Mrs.
M. W. Wilcox-
	Afternoon sesaion commenced with singing,
"We thank thee O, God for a prophet,"
prayer by Mrs. E. T, Webb, singing, "O my
Father thou that dwellest." The general
officers of the Relief Society were sustained
by the Conference and also the afficers of the
Relief Society of Salt Lake Stake.
	Pres. Horne expressed herself gratified to
have one of the Apostles present and knew
the sisters were also thankful for his presence;
hoped to recieve counsel from him; but first
would like to hear Mrs. Jane S. Richards

[Column 2]

give an account of her representing the
Relief Society in the Woman's National
Council in Washington.
	Mrs. Jane S. Richards expressed herself
happy to meet in Conference with her beloved
sisters, had been well instructed with Sister
Horne's speech in the morning. The ladies
East she said had treated the Delegates from
Utah well and were as kind as they could be;
spoke of her dreading to go, and of the en-
couragement she recieved from her husband;
now that she had been and returned she was
thankful, she was thankful it was over; explain-
ed how hurried and yet how long the Council
meetings were; she had been favored in con-
versing with many ladies and explaining our
position, felt she would like five huudred copies
of the manifesto to distribute among them;
thought to many of them it would be interest-
ing reading; related items of interesting conver.
sations she held with many influential ladies.
There were quite a few gentlemen present on
the third day of the Convention to hear what
we had to say about Utah. Felt glad to be in
the meeting, though she hrd seen many fine
places and people while away, yet she felt at
home here among the Saints; though she
testified these ladies were working for the
welfare of humanity the best they conld; she
had invited many of them to come here, and
hoped they would, and if they did they would
be received with love and hospitality; told
them when coming to Utah to mix among the
Mormons and not go to outsiders to get in-
formation to prejudice them against us.
	Apostle F. D. Richards expressed his pleasure
in attending the Conference,men and women he
thought could not either of them get on very
well alone, therefore he felt the sisters were
entitled to some share of the very best attention
in the church; husbands and wives received
blessings together in the House of the Lord,
which were to endure for all eternity; and they
could be mutually helpful in performing their
various duties. Spoke of our  being gathered
together now and growing and increasing; that
the nations were looking to us and talking of
us. Pres Richards represented to the sisters
in a very able manner the great good that had
been accomplished in sending the Delegates
down to Washington, and what good seed had
been sown that would yet spring up to their
honor, thought the association of the sisters
among the influential women gathered from
the different States would be beneficial,and the
knowledge that the Rellef Society had branches
in many nations would become widely known,
thought the sisters should not regret anything
they had done to accomplish this great purpose.
	"The press throughout the world are talking
of the Mormons and wondering what we are
going to do; they are anxiuus to know all they
ban about us, we should pursue the course that
will help to bring about the time when the
Lord will come to reign over all, never forget
our religion, remember and always move on-
ward etc."
	Counselor E. S. Taylor made excellent re-
marks upon faith and the gift of healing, and
other important subjects. Mrs. E. Webb and
Mrs. E. Stevenson each spoke briefly and gave
good counsel testifying to the goodness
of God and urging the sisters to exercise
greater faith.
	Some business was transacted and Pres.
Horne made a few closing remarks, hoping the
good instructions which had been given
might be a blessing and a help to all. Con-
ference adjourned for three months, singing
"Praise to the man etc." Benediction by
Apostle F. D. Richards.
		E. HOWARD, Secretary.

