	MR. AND MRS. JOSEPH HORNE.

	It is very rarely the case that husband and
wife both live to celebrate their golden wedding,
though it does seem that there are more of these
half-century weddings celebrated than there used
to be or perhaps it is because they get published
in the papers more than formerly.
	On the evening of May 9th, 1891, Joseph
and Mary Isabella Horne celebrated their fifty-
fifth wedding anniversary with a party of friends


at their beautiful new cottage on Third Stree
in this City. Both Mr. and Mrs. Horne are re-
markably well preserved for their years, and no
one would have judged the bride of fifty-five years
to have been nearly the age she is, three score and
twelve; she has a fine bright complexion and her
hair has no tinge of gray. It is pleasant to con-
template such a long life of married happiness,
and looking back over the years that are passed
this venerable couple must have much to be grate-
ful for, although in the changes that have taken
place in this Church and they are both veterans
in the cause, they have had much to endure, in
toil and privation. They have had a very large
family fifteen children; twelve grew to manhood
and womanhood, and they have a great many
grand children, in fact a numerous posterity upon
the earth, all residing in the Rocky mountain
region, and quite a number settled around them.
	The party consisted of a few comparatively of
their most intimate friends, those with whom they
had been associated in neighborhoods and in
bonds of brotherly and sisterly love.
	During the evening remarks were made by
several brethren and sisters present, President
Angus M. Cannon being the first speaker; he re-
ferred to his boyhood when he had first known
the host and hostess, and his pleasnnt recollec-
tions of Sister Horne’s associations with his
favorite aunt Leonora Taylor; he brought up such
reminiscences of the past as were suited to the
occasion and congratulated Brother and Sister
Horne on their success in life, and especially in
regard to their children. Thought it an example
in Israel. Elder Edward Stevenson followed in
a similar strain and Bishop Geo. H. Taylor made
a few remarks also, each one complimenting
Brother and Sister Horne and offering the most
hearty congratulations. Sister Sarah M. Kimball
who had, Sister Horne thought, known her longer
than any one of the guests present, spoke briefly
and naturally enough touched upon the subject
of woman's position, and made some very good
points. Sister Elmina S. Taylor followed her
speaking tenderly of the motherly advice and in-
struction she had given to her that had been
such a blessing and help. Sisters Smith and
Richardson spoke in a sympathetic way also of
the affection they cherished for her and the.
family. Mrs. Martha Horne Tingey, their
daughter, recited “The New Church Organ," and
their son Richard Horne sang an old-fashioned
mirth-provoking song.	
Delicious refreshments were elegantly served
by the daughters and grand-daughters and a lively
stream of conversation, mostly upon the scenes of
the past and the changes that had taken place,
was kept until a late hour, when the party was
dismissed with a benediction by President Angus
M. Cannon.


