The Passing of Apostle Hyrum M. Smith. 
By Susa Young Gates. 

In the death of Elder Hyrum M. Smith, on January 23, 1918, there passed from this earth one of the great leaders in Israel who was also a well-nigh perfect son and ideal husband and father. Because of Elder Hyrum M. Smith's great prominence in the Church, as well as for the wonderful opportunities afforded him for noble development, his life and character stand out as a beacon for all men in this Church. Mothers might well seek to mould the characters of their sons upon this model; wives might wisely aim to imitate the virtues and charms of the wife of this able Apostle. 

Hyrum M. Smith is the eldest son of President Joseph F. Smith and the first born of his mother Edna. He was born into a sheltered home where both parents guarded their offspring with the rigid care and a loving solicitude surpassing all known precedents. He spent his childhood and youth in the glow of constant affection, and basked continually in the light of inspired guidance. From his youth up his mother followed his every footstep, taught him the principles of the gospel, inculcated the fear of the Lord in his soul, and helped him to overcome all youthful temptations, turning errors into experience and making of conquered temptation a bent circle of protection for the future guidance of his own children. His father's exquisite personal attention to each of his children focused itself in the pride and longing for the welfare of this his eldest son. 

Poverty was a spur to Hyrum's ambition. Stern duty won his keenest incentive. An apt student with quick mind, he absorbed learning and assimilated the education of life with passing efficiency. Matthias F. Cowley writes of him: "Hyrum grew up, developing to a marked degree the boundless love and impartial affection which he had been accustomed to see his father and mother mete out to their children, and his 

126 . 

father to his wives. Until he left the paternal roof of his parents he would be visited by that ever-loving father who must still kiss him and tuck the covers snugly around him. Even today, whenever father and son meet, in the home, on the street, in the office, it matters not where, they meet with an affectionate and holy kiss. Hyrum was taught to love his home, and there he could always be found when no duty called him away." 

Married on the eve of his departure for Great Britain November 15, 1895 Hyrum found in his partner, Miss Ida Bowman of Ogden, his soul-mate in very truth. She was his complement and a helpmeet indeed for him; gifted with a sweet, engaging personality, amiable to a fault, she returned the ardor of his constant and pure affection in kind. Rarely hath Israel seen so perfect an example of marital devotion and constancy as this remarkable couple manifested from the first day of their betrothal to the day of his untimely death. No romance was ever written, no idyl ever conceived in the brain of poet which throbbed and pulsated with the charm and purity of heavenly love shown by this devoted pair of married lovers. 

When the Utah women went to Rome, in 1914, Sister Ida Smith accompanied the party from Liverpool. Before leaving her home she remarked to her husband that her motherly fears were concerned about her children whom she was leaving behind. 

"Be at peace," he replied, "for they shall never leave my sight while you are away," and he kept his word. Each day a letter arrived by post from him while his wife was in Rome, and on her birthday, which happened while she was there with us, a lovely basket of flowers came to her room, ordered by telegraph as her husband's greeting of that auspicious day. His letters, too sacred for curious eyes, breathed the tenderest solicitude possible for man to experience or express. As a son his devotion was no less marked and loyal. His mother and his father represented that which he might hope to find in his heavenly parents beyond the veil. In his dying hours he remarked that he was blessed indeed in such a wife and in such a father and mother. As his spirit was about to take its flight he told his watchers that he was weary and would rest. Told that his father had sent word that he must live, he roused himself momentarily and said firmly, "If father says I must live, then I must." Brother Hyrum M. Smith was ordained to the quorum of the Twelve Apostles October 24, 1901, and for sixteen years he exercised his calling with unselfish devotion and the sternest sense of duty. His missionary labors in Great Britain, during the outbreak of the war, permitted the exercise of his highest and best gifts. The sharp edges of his character were mellowed and tempered by the terrific blows of adversity and want which spread about his public ministry there in ever-widening circles. His keen sympathy with suffering and pain, with helpless children and want in any form stretched his heartstrings with quivering response in that maelstrom of war-torn Europe. He received with delight the initial offering of the Salt Lake Temple sisters, raised by his own honored mother, and later the munificent charity of the Church itself, amounting in all to tens of thousands of dollars. He and his wife distributed these amounts with impartial justice to every branch in the mission with as keen delight and as much personal happiness as marked any act of his life or ministry. Much may be learned from the study of the lives of our great leaders. We commend to our sisters everywhere a perusal of the labors and ministry of this great son of a greater father; and in the consideration of Elder Hyrum M. Smith forget not to incite a noble imitation in the breasts of your own children of his tender qualities as a loving son and devoted husband and a true and wise father to his children. All Israel mourns their own loss which perhaps is even greater than that of his sorrowing parents and his bereaved wife. May the sweet peace of heaven temper every grief and recompense Israel in the loss of this mighty leader.