Current Topics. By James H. Anderson. Two United States Senators died in January Senator Brady of Idaho and Newlands of Nevada. As women's pets in the United States, poodles are giving way to knitting needles, to good purpose. Mexico is considerably disturbed by native Indian uprisings there, occasional raids being made over into the United States. Earl Reading, lord chief justice of England and the newly appointed ambassador to the United States, is a Jew Rufus Isaacs. The selective draft law has been held to be constitutional, the United States Supreme Court passing on the question in January. Woman suffrage has become a factor in politics in Germany, with fair promise of being an important topic of public discussion. German girls are being enlisted to be trained by the government in both professional and household avocations, it was announced in January. Spain is having something of war on its own account, over 400 persons having been killed in suppressing the uprising in Catalonia alone, in January. Streetcar fares in and around Salt Lake City have been increased by the order of the public utilities commission, in some cases as much as 66 per cent. Alfalfa meal, or ground lucern stalks and leaves, is being used in bread in Chicago. Nebuchadnezzar ate grass, but it may have been milled differently. Moslem women in southeastern Russia are said to have abandoned the veils which have hidden female beauty there from the public gaze for centuries. 148 . Five days' embargo on industries in the United States was enforced in January, as a means of conserving the coal supply in the Eastern and Middle States. Finland has been recognized by other nations as one of the new governments growing out of dismembered Russia; but its term of independence is insecure. Japan has agreed to preserve the peace in east Russia and if necessary take a large slice of territory in furtherance of Japanese continental-empire ambitions. Numerous disastrous fires in the eastern part of the United States occurred in January. The government concedes these were the work of spies or anti-war agents. The constituent assembly recently elected in Russia was forcibly dissolved by the Bolsheviki the electors not having voted in the way to suit their new masters. Austria is greatly disturbed by strikes and other internal troubles, but these are likely to quiet down for a time when the spring season permits renewed war activities. Premier Lloyd George of Great Britain made specific announcement of the Entente allies' war aims, in January, and was followed in the same line by President Wilson, a few days later. Food-saving in 1918 may be preventive of intense and unsatisfied hunger in 1919 a hint that is not without evident necessity.

Yet Utah housewives have learned the lessons of economy long ago. Important among the war developments in January is the attitude of the socialistic and laboring forces in Germany and Austria, presaging the overthrow of the Hohenzollern and Hapsburg dynasties. The Italian front was materially improved to the Entente allies in January, by a brilliant and successful attack by French troops on the Austrians, who were forced to fall back from important positions. Equal suffragists won a victory in the United States House of Representatives on January 10, when the resolution to submit a constitutional amendment passed by a vote of 274 to 136—just enough to carry it. Pneumonia has been the cause of two-thirds of the deaths in the United States army thus far this winter. As it is claimed this was preventable, it is the chief reason for the accusation of incompetency made against the war department. A million bags of beet sugar in the west without a market, as announced by western producers in a dispatch to Washington the last week in January is a significant criticism on the national food administrator's assertion of a national shortage of sugar at present. Abe Majors, when 18 years of age, was convicted of murdering Captain Wm. A. Brown, of Ogden. Majors has served eighteen years in the State prison, and has been paroled to see if he can live a better life than he did before the commission of his crime. Ex-President Roosevelt went to Washington in the latter part of January, to use his influence in "speeding up the war" from his point of view. This caused the anti-Roosevelt newspapers to give place to much editorial comment angry beyond reason. Many wish the Colonel had been there earlier and all the time. Guatemala, capital of the republic of that name in Central America, was destroyed by a series of explosive earthquakes which occurred from Dec. 29 to Jan. 3, and about 1000 people were killed; the city and several adjoining villages were completely wrecked. The Utah federal food administrator recently made an order limiting the purchase of flour and sugar to inconveniently small quantities, at the same time admitting there was no shortage here; the direct effect of the order is to increase the cost to the consumer. John F. Stevens, head of the American railway commission to Russia, returned to this country in January; he reports that women in Russia are working in the shops and fields, and even as brakemen on the railways, and that where there is one woman working, there are 500 men loafing. Samuel Gompers, head of the American Federation of Labor, advocates a seven-hour day without reduced wages for the labor unions. The proposition does not sit well on the farming communities who are being urged to conserve time by longer working hours than now, to produce food for the others. Senator Chamberlain, Democratic chairman of the United States Senate military committee, wants a war council board to do the work in which he says that Secretary of War Baker has failed. Mr. Baker objects, and President Wilson upholds the latter official—all resulting in an unpleasant controversy at Washington. David Lloyd George, the British premier, did not wait to consult his nation's allies when the German Christmas peace offer proposed that Turkey should "remain intact" by keeping Palestine; he responded quickly and pointedly, "Palestine never will be returned to Turkey;" and the sentiment of Christianity said "Amen." In Turkish waters, in January, a British squadron drove the noted German raiders Goeben and Breslau—which had been converted into Turkish cruisers—into a mine field, where they were destroyed. In the same month, German submarines sank two British steamships in the Mediterranean, causing a loss of 718 lives. Turkey's refusal to adopt the German recommendation for a vigorous attempt to retake Jerusalem from the British is significant as indicating that the Turk has concluded to relinquish Palestine, and also foreshadows that the crest of the present great conflict has been reached and hereafter there will be a steady trend to the overthrow of the Teutonic allies in this war. Great Britain's policy in making campaigns against the Turks in Palestine and Mesopotamia as "distant theatres of war," instead of concentrating all her forces on the western front, was vigorously criticised by several English papers during the last week in January. Yet that policy is notably one of the most beneficial and providential for Britain that the war has developed.