Notes from the Field. By Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary.

New Stake Organized. The Montpelier stake, Idaho, was organized December 23, 1917. This stake was formed of twelve wards taken from the Bear Lake and Rich stakes. Edward C. Rich was named as President. The following are the Relief Society presidency and officers: President, Agnes Pearce; first counselor, Elizabeth Quayle; second counselor, Permillia Clark; secretary and treasurer, Mary J. Swensen; chorister, Angie Arnold; aides, Phebe Christie and Elizabeth Cook.

Eastern States Mission. Miss Elizabeth Thomas has been appointed President of the Relief Societies of the Eastern States Mission, succeeding Miss Margaret Edward. Miss Thomas is manifesting a great interest in her work and will no doubt maintain the high standard set by Miss Edward.

North Weber Stake. On account of her removal from Ogden, Mrs. Lucy A. Steers was honorably released from her position as President of the North Weber stake. The presiding authorities were very fortunate in being able to secure, for the position vacated by Mrs. Steers, the services of the former Stake President, Mrs. Georgina G. Marriott. Mrs. Marriott was appointed to this position on Thursday, January 24, 1918. The General Board is delighted to welcome Mrs. Marriott back into the ranks of stake officers.

Relief Society Veteran Called. Mrs. Marilla Miller Daniels passed away on January 27, at Provo, Utah. Mrs. Daniels was the daughter of Aaron Johnson, former bishop of Springville. She was born October 12, 1830, in Connecticut. Mrs. Daniels went to Nauvoo when a small girl where she became intimately acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith and wife, Emma. Mrs. Daniels was an active member of the Relief Society in Nauvoo and has continued a faithful and devoted member for over seventy years. She was formerly a member of the Stake Presidency of the old Utah stake, where she was thoroughly appreciated and greatly beloved. Mrs. Daniels was also prominently connected with woman suffrage and was a delegate to the twenty-seventh annual convention.

German Genealogy. The General Board is very pleased to announce the publication of a genealogical lesson book written in the German language. The book is entitled Genealogisches Aufgabenbuch und die Deutschen Familiennamen. It was translated, compiled and arranged by Mrs. Gertrude L. Baird, one of our earnest, energetic and devoted genealogical students. The book is divided into two parts. The first part is, with a few exceptions, a translation of "Lessons in Genealogy," published by the Genealogical Society of Utah. It includes also sample pages of the Family Record (for the living), as well as instructions on how to gather and record information in the Temple record, and sample pages of Temple sheets. It also includes a diagram, showing Relationship (page 20) and a diagrammed pedigree. The book contains an explanation of the German books in the library of the Utah Genealogical Society and of other printed German books. The experiences of our Swiss agents, Julius Billeter, Carl Nemelka, and Miss Marie Haselmann, who have done considerable research work in Germany, are described. The second part of the book tells of the origin and evolution of German names and gives a general surname history. It also includes a list of German names of old Virginia settlers, which were changed in this country. The book was commenced the latter part of March, 1917, and completed before August. Information was gathered mostly from the German books of the Genealogical Library (outside the translation), from research and actual experiences of the author, and from the series of lessons given under the direction of the Genealogical Society and the General Board of Relief Society. The money for printing the books was raised by a loan from two German sisters and from advanced subscriptions. One thousand copies have been printed; price 50 cents apiece, 55 cents postpaid. The books are sold at the Genealogical Society of Utah.

Cottonwood Stake. The Cottonwood stake Relief Society held their monthly officers' and teachers' meeting on Tuesday, January 29, 1918. There were 150 in attendance. Among the reports was that of Red Cross work.

In all of the wards of this stake, the women are holding all-day sessions every Tuesday. The forenoon is devoted entirely to sewing for the Red Cross and the afternoon to the regular meeting, where the lesson work is considered. Liberty Stake. A very interesting story comes from the Liberty stake, where a dear grandmother takes her knitting and goes regularly to the home of a young Relief Society woman to tend the babies and knit for the soldiers while the young mother goes to the Red Cross to make surgical dressings. Portneuf Stake. Mrs. Dicy W. Henderson, president of the Portneuf stake Relief Society, reports that the stake has arranged with the University of Idaho to have the University demonstrator, Miss Bullock, spend a month in the various wards of the Portneuf stake talking on Home Economics and demonstrating war foods. Tahitian Mission. One of the most interesting yearly reports received by the General Secretary is that from the Tahitian Mission, where Venus R. Rossiter is in charge of Relief Society work. The average attendance in this mission is almost two-thirds of the membership and is the best that has been reported so far this year. There are several unique items in the letter which are delightfully interesting. Mrs. Rossiter writes: "The work is progressing very nicely in this field. You will notice we have organized one more society since last report and have a steadily increasing membership. Also a marked increase in all activities. "The sisters have been very enthusiastic the past year making quilts and weaving hats and also diving for pearls to increase their funds. "Each society has bought a chest of medicine for the use of their respective branches, the ministration of which is under the supervision of the white elder in charge of the branch. "The native sisters were delighted to see their picture published in the Magazine, and were also very much pleased with your letter which I translated and read to them in our October conference." Report of the Relief Society of the Tahitian Mission for the year ending December 31, 1917: