When the ancient archers trooped forth to try 
their skill with taut-drawn bows and feather- 
tipped arrows, they were charged sternly by the 
Captain of their host: "Keep your eyes on the mark!" 
They were to look neither to the right nor to the left, 
to allow no soft allurements, no confused motives, 
no internal or external irritation to interfere with 
the steadiness of gaze and the fixity of alignment. 
Keep your eye on the mark, was their watchword. 

In the olden days of this people's history, 
the pulpits rang with stern advice to the 
Saints in Kirtland, in Nauvoo, in Winter 
Quarters, across the trackless plains, and in the 
dreary forbidding vales of Utah: Saints, keep your 
eye on the mark! Let no worldly voices, no 
contention about you, no selfish striving within, 
blind your eyes or dull your souls. Keep your 
eye on the mark! 

So now in the midst of wild and confusing 
issues, worldly plaudits and fierce personal 
desires and ambitions, we mothers and wives in 
Israel must constantly cry out aloud, 

"Keep your eyes on the mark!" There is only 
one mark for us—the mark of perfection in Christ 
Jesus, according to His own revealed plan. Love, 
meekness, unselfishness, and above and beyond 
every other striving, obedience to the priesthood 
in whatever rank of life we live and struggle! 
This is our mark. 

What are the motives of those who cry in the 
market places, lo here, and lo there. Here, follow 
my plan and war will cease. Help in this, join in 
that, and thus win the war. There is a voice, a 
still, small voice that sounds not in the thunders 
of war nor in the pelting rain of pitiless personal 
ambition; in the stillness of the night whispers 
that Voice: "Come, follow me!" Help me to save 
souls—on missions—in the sacred temple courts— 
at the altar of birth—in the ranks of consecrated 
war where panoplied with pure lives and holy 
motives—building Zion and strengthening her 
stakes—"Come, follow me, ye pure in heart, for 
ye shall see God!" Are we keeping our eyes on 
this mark? 

I was weary of bearing my heavy load, 
I was worn with my burden of care. 
So long had I trudged on life's dreary road, 
I abandoned myself to despair. 
I was faint and weak and weary, 
My courage and strength seemed gone, 
When a precious message came to me. 
That said, "Just keep on keeping on." 

In an instant my cares all vanished, 
I was filled with faith and joy, 
I decided to "keep on keeping on," 
Regardless of ills that annoy. 
Though life's skies, at times, seem dreary, 
I drive care away with my song. 
Go "cast on the Lord thy burdens," 
And "keep on,