The Magic of Song 
Lucy May Green. 
Mrs. Parley Nelson. 
Moderato 
1. When the heart is sad and lonely, 
And the day seems 
2. When life seems to have no bright side, 
And you fret and 
[Musical notation] 
Faster. 
[Musical notation] 
lilting song, 
Of a lilting song?

Eyes begin to sparkle, clouds sail by, 
As the clouds sail by. 
Sing a joyful stanza, 
Lips to smile ere long, 
For they can't resist the magic 
Of a lilting song, 
Sing it clear and strong, 
For the heart forgets its burden 
In a lilting song, 
Of a lilting song, a lilting song. 
In a lilting song, a lilting song. 

Little All-Aloney. 

Little All-Aloney's feet 
Pitter patter in the hall 
And his mother runs to meet 
And to kiss her toddling sweet 
Ere perchance he fall. 
He is, oh, so weak and small! 
Yet what danger shall he fear 
When his mother hovereth near 
And he hears her cheering call 
All Aloney. 

Little All-Aloney's face 
It is all aglow with glee 
As around that romping place 
At a terrifying pace 
Lungeth plungeth he! 
And that hero seems to be 
All unconscious of our cheers 
Only one dear voice he hears 
Calling reassuringly 
All Aloney. 

Though his legs bend with their load 
Though his feet they seem so small 
That you cannot help forebode 
Some disastrous episode 
In that noisy hall 
Neither threatening bumps nor fall 
Little All-Aloney fears 
But with sweet bravado steers 
Whither comes that cheery call 
All Aloney. 

Ah, that in the years to come 
When he shares of summer store 
When his feet are chill and numb 
When his cross is burdensome 
And his heart is sore! 
Would that he could hear once more 
The gentle voice he used to hear 
Divine with mother-love and cheer 
Calling from yonder spirit shore 
All Aloney. 

Piano Seeds 
Are a surety if they come from Bailey's 
Increase your acreage this year with 
Send for samples and prices 
Salt Lake City 

Established 1860 Incorporated 1908 
"The Utah State National Bank features quick, and efficient Service. One feature is the Unit System which greatly simplifies transactions. 
Officers: 
Joseph F. Smith, President 
Heber J. Grant, Vice-President 
Rodney T. Badger, Vice-Prest. 
Henry T. McEwan, Cashier 
George H. Butler, Asst. Cashier 

S. M. TAYLOR & Co. 
Undertakers and Embalmers 
Successors to Joseph E. Taylor 
The Pioneer Undertaker of the West 
Fifty-three years in one location 
251-257 East First South Street 
Efficient Service, Modern Methods 
Complete Equipment 

100 Calling Cards Engraved For $1.50, Postage Paid 
Everyone should have a nice calling card, and we want you to call on us for same. 
The Home of Fine Stationery and Engraving 
22-24 East Broadway, Salt Lake City, Utah 
Kindly mention this magazine when ordering. 

A New Book on Gospel Doctrine 
"The Way of Beauty" 
Is the title of a new book just issued. 
It is written especially for young people by Bishop Edwin F. Parry. 
It is different to any other work on the gospel in that it not only explains the doctrines of salvation, but gives the reasons why the ordinances of the gospel are to be observed, and offers suggestions as to how they may be obeyed. It is just the right book for young Latter-day Saints. It will give them a very comprehensive understanding of the gospel, as it is written in a simple, plain, yet dignified style. Those who have read it speak highly of it as a book for the young. Your children should have it. Send for a copy and present it to them. It is neatly bound in cloth with gold title, and beautifully printed in large, clear type. A very appropriate present for a young man or a young woman. 
Price, Postpaid, 75 Cents 
Send orders to E. F. Parry, Jr., 
217 Templeton Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. 

Family Record of Temple Work for the Dead. 
A simplified form, with complete instructions for properly recording this work. 
L. D. S. Family and Individual Record 
Arranged specially for recording in a most desirable and concise form, important events in the lives of the members of the Church. 
These books are sold at $1.25 each. 
Deseret News Book Store 

Send No Money I Pay Freight 
Wherever you live in the Western States I'll send you this world famous Columbia Grafonola with the true "Tone of Life" that simply can't be imitated, and your choice of records from a list of thousands. Place them in your home and use them exactly as though they were your own, for 5 days. Enjoy them as much as you like—invite the neighbors—hold dances and happy parties.

Then if you aren't entirely sure you want to keep the outfit, return it at our expense and the trial won't cost you a copper cent. Easiest terms if you do keep it. Send coupon for free books COL. JOSEPH J. DAYNES, Jr., President, Daynes-Beebe Music Co., Salt Lake City, Utah. Dear Sir: You may send me FREE and Postpaid, beautifully illustrated Catalogs, showing ALL styles of GRAFONOLAS (in colors) and giving LOWEST FACTORY PRICES and Terms. Also Big FREE 424 page Record Book and full details of your FREE TRIAL OFFER. This does not obligate me in the least. Name Address ADMINISTRATION BUILDING TEMPLE BLOCK SALT LAKE CITY . Three Things I Have Seen Under the Sun, Nay Four. Stake Presidents Who Know Their Duty. A Left-Handed Violinist With Both Faith and Courage. A Father Who Had His Innings. And a Great Woman Whose Will and Indomitable Faith Kept Her on Earth to Celebrate Her Ninetieth Birthday. L. D. S. GARMENTS LOOK FOR THIS LABEL IN THE NECK OF GARMENTS The Sign of Comfort The Sign of Quality If your leading dealer does not have the garments you desire, select your wants from this list and send order direct to us. We will prepay all postage to any part of the United States. Samples submitted upon request. Style Style 75 Cotton, medium wt., bleached $2.25 1 Unlabeled Special gauze wt. $1.25 90 Cotton, heavy wt., unbleached 2.50 15 Cotton, spring needle gauze, 100 Cotton, heavy wt., bleached.. 2.75 bleached 1.50 107 Merino wool, medium wt 3.00 10 Cotton, light wt., unbleached 1.75 3 Cotton, gauze wt., bleached.. 1.85 109 Merino wool, heavy weight.. 3.50 25 Cotton, light wt., bleached 2.00 120 Imported wool, medium wt... 4.50 50 Lisle, gauze weight, bleached 3.00 305 Wool and silk, medium 4.50 65 Mercerized, light wt., bleached 3.50 The only approved Garments made with wide flaps at back, button holes for better fastening down front, and set in shoulder pieces to prevent sleeves stretching. SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE 70 MAIN STREET, SALT LAKE CITY Salt Lake Artificial Limb Co. (INCORPORATED) Successors to Artificial Limb and Brace Co. J. F. CORDELL, President Largest Manufacturer of Artificial Limbs in the West Fit guaranteed or no sale Patent "Cordell" legs, which have the motion of the natural limb in walking Remodeled and improved We manufacture every style Catalog free Phone Wasatch 8128, 134 W. South Temple, Salt Lake City, Ut. UTAH'S "AMATRICE" BEAUTIFUL PRECIOUS STONE Genuine "Amatrice" differs from beautiful colors, no two stones being alike. malachite, verascite, azurite, turn more beautiful example of turquoise and other copper-stained nature's handiwork were ever offered stones as the genuine diamond offer to lovers of refined jewelry. differs from imitations. Amatrice never fades, takes a fine May we send you gratis a pamphlet polish, and has a wider range of describing more fully this Utah gem? McConahay 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City Solid Gold Rings set with genuine Amatrice $6.00 to $12.50 The Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. CONTENTS APRIL, 1918. Group of Relief Society Presidents Frontispiece Charity (A Poem)