The French Boulanger GUIDE LESSONS. Ill furnished the surnames Bullinger and Pullinger.- The French word Fournier has also furnished the surname Furner. Banister, the keeper of the bath; from the French bain. Barber. Till the year 1745 every surgeon was a member of the Barbers' Company. The surname Surgeon is not often met with, but that of Barber is very common. Blacksmith. This trade has constituted the surname Black and Smith, Smyth, Smeyt, Smijth, as well as Faber, Fabricius, Ferrier, Ferrers, Fervour, Fearon. Caird, a tinker. Carpenter needs no explanation. Cartwright, maker of carts. Chandler, candle-maker. Chapman, a traveling merchant. Cheap-Jack takes his name from the word, so does Cheapside. Chaucer, from Chausseur, a shoemaker. Clerk, one who could read, and plead the benefit of the clergy. Hence Clark and Clarke. Cobbler, a mender of boots and shoes. Collier, although originally a charcoal-burner, the name came to be used for the dealer in the town in charcoal and in sea-coal. Cook enters into many combinations, as in Norman-French LeCoc, Badcock (Bartholomew the Cook), Hancock (John the Cook), Wilcox (William le Coq), etc. Cooper, a maker of vats and barrels. Cooper or Couper, a maker of cups. Cryer, a town bellman. Currier, the curer of skins; hence Curry. Cutter, a cutter of cloth for the tailor. Cutler, properly Scutler, a shield-maker, from the Latin Scutum. Dyer or Dister, also Dexter, Dwyer. Flaxman, dealer in flax. Fletcher, an arrowsmith; French fleche. Fuller, already described. Girdler, a maker of girdles. Holder, an upholsterer, or stuffer of mattresses, bed, and cushions. Hooker, a maker of crooks. Hooper, a maker of hoops for casks. Launder or Lavender, a washerman. Layman, lagman or lawyer. Lorimer, maker of straps, bits, and girths. Malster, for Malster. Merchant, also Marchant, from the French, in place of English "monger." Ostler, hence Oastler and Hostler; but Oseler, as already said, is a birdcatcher. Packer, a woolpacker; also Pack as a surname. Painter, often as a surname Paynter. Platner, a maker of dishes and plates. Surname Piatt. Plumber remains in surname as Plumer and Plummer. Potter, maker of common pots. The name remains both as Potter and Potts. Quiller, also Keeler, the dresser of quilled ruffs and collars, such as were worn in the reign of Elizabeth. ' Salter, also Saltman, as salt-boiler. Sawyer, self-explanatory Sexton, also as Saxton, for Sacristan. Skinner, one who 
 prepared skins for the tanyard. As a surname. Skiner. Smith, a general term. There were Whitesmiths, i. e.. Tinmen, Goldsmiths, Brownsmiths, Blacksmiths. Arrowsmiths, Spearsmjths, Nailsmiths, etc. Spooner. maker of spoons in wood and horn# Sreyner, the maker of steenes, or stone jars, out of white clay. The surname remains as Steyner or Stayner. Tailor, variously spelled as a surname, in the vain hope to disguise its humble and somewhat despised origin. Tanner needs no explanation. Tapiser. a tapistry worker, contracted to Tapster. Turner, spelled as a surname also Tumour. Tyler, tilemaker; sometimes Tittler. Walker. Cloth before the introduction of the roller had to be trodden underfoot. In Wyckliffe's version of the transfiguration he describes Christs' raiment as shining so as no "fullers or walkers of cloth" could whiten. Wayte, a watchman (Old French, guet), hence the surnames Wade, Gates, Yates, and Wakeman. Weaver, came as Webber, and Webster. Whittier. a white Tawier; one who prepares the finer skins for gloves. LITERATURE. . Third Week in March. the song or lyric. A song or lyric is an expression of emotion in musical words. It usually bursts forth when "the heart is so full that a drop overfills it." At such times, one is most likely to pour out one's feelings in a song of joy or sorrow, according to the emotion that fills the heart. Most of us depend on others to create for us the songs we sing, but few persons like Bobbie Burns and Stephen Foster, or our own Eliza R. Snow, Chas. W. Penrose, Emily Hill Woodmansee, Emmeline B. Wells, Parley P. Pratt, Orson F. Whitney, Henry W. Naisbitt, John Jacques, and Evan Stephens, have the gift to sing like the meadowlark, their own feelings in their own way. Such gifted persons become a voice for all, expressing the emotions of others, stirring their souls, and shaping their sentiments. It is truly a wonderful gift  this art of song writing, and it is one that may be used for good or for ill. Three things characterize the best songs: music, feeling, and word beauty. In our choicest lyrics, the words seem to flow like liquid silver. Read aloud these lines and listen: GUIDE LESSONS. 113 "Soft o'er the fountains, Lingering falls the southern moon, While o'er the mountains Breaks the day too soon."  From Juanita. And to these: "O my Father, thou that dwellest In that high and glorious place, When shall I regain thy presence And again behold thy face?" Voice these songs in full, or take other sweet songs, such as "Annie Laurie," "O awake, my slumbering minstrel," "O ye mountains high," "Down on the Suwanee River," "Love at Home," and observe how the words melt into one another, as the beautiful sentiments and pictures of life are expressed. The true song does not tell a story. It simply sings. Nevertheless, a story is usually suggested by the song. For example, in "My Old Kentucky Home" are these lines: "Bimeby hard times comes a knockin' at de door, Den my old Kentucky Home, goodnight. Weep no more, my lady, Oh weep no more today, We will sing one song for my old Kentucky Home, For my old Kentucky Home far away." No story is told here, yet between the lines one can read the tale common to the times of slavery, when the negroes were sold from a happy home and sent far away down the river. In their song, they are trying to console their mistress. BALLADS. In some songs the story is even plainer than this. It is sketched for us. Such songs are called ballads. The ballad is a song story, or a story told in song. In earlier times, the ballad was very popular. Many of our old legends like those about Robin Hood have been brought down to us in the form of ballads. A fairly good illustration of the ballad is the old song, "Mistletoe Bough" or "Nellie Gray," beginning, "Oh my darling Nellie Gray, they have taken her away," etc. But whether the story is sketched, as in the ballad, or merely suggested as in other songs, this seems true: Back of every song there lies a story. It may be so hidden that one cannot easily find it, nevertheless, it is there. Some incident of life, some train of events, generally leads up to the writing of a song. Instances to illustrate this point are numerous. 
 We feel the pathos and the pain of renunciation as well as the calm of death expressed in the exquisite hymn of Henry W. Xaisbitt  written on the death of his close friend, President Joseph Young: Rest for the weary soul, Rest for the aching head. Rest, on the hillside, rest, With the great uncounted dead. When Cardinal Newman was once returning from a visit to the Holy Land, he lay on his cot one night on the deck of the steamer as it was plowing its way through the Mediterranean sea. The good man had been distressed with religious doubt and uncertainty; was now ill of body. As he lay there tossing in discomfort, he saw off through the gloom a little star towards which the vessel seemed to be going. As he watched it, a feeling of sweet calm came over his soul, and out of it came this beautiful expression: "Lead, kindly light, lead thou me on, The night is dark, and I am far from home, Lead thou me on." Find the remainder of these two great songs and enjoy them with the story just told to help enrich the meaning of its musical lines. One gets an added beauty with any song when one knows something of the story that lies back of it. Our appreciation of "Home, Sweet Home" is enhanced when we know that John Howard Payne wrote the song while he was wandering alone in a foreign land. We get a keener thrill from the stirring lines of the "Star Spangled Banner," when we realize that the author, Francis Scott Key, wrote them while he was a prisoner on the deck of a British warship. He had watched all night with anxious heart the fate of the battle that was raging around him. When the morning broke to show the old "red, white and blue" still waving above the ramparts, he drew from his pocket a letter, and on this he penned the words that have thrilled the hearts of true Americans ever since. The beautiful stories that lie back of many of our own hymns give them new light and meaning "Come, Come, ye Saints" was written by William Clayton, at the request of the great Prophet-leader, President Young, as a song of cheer to shorten the weary stretches of the plains, and to give added courage to those hearts to dare the hardships of that desert march. The soul-stirring history of the Latter-day Saints is easily read in their hymn book, when one learns how to read the story that is between the lines of their songs. So, too, may we hear the heart beats of the Hebrews of old GUIDE LESSONS. 115 in the songs that inspired the Bible. When Moses, for example, had delivered Israel from bondage, when Pharaoh and his host had been destroyed, the people, under the leadership of Moses, broke into an anthem of praise and rejoicing beginning thus: "I will, sing unto the Lord, for he hath triumphed gloriously,  Exodus. The horse and the rider hath he thrown into the sea." When Hannah is given a son, in answer to her pleadings with the Lord, she breaks forth into a song of rejoicing and praise. David, too, when Saul and Jonathan are slain, expresses grief in a great song of sorrow. And Deborah sings her martial strain of victory while Mary voices motherhood for all time in her Magnificat. All through the Holy Book are found other songs that reveal the feelings of the people. "Our sweetest songs," says Shelley, "are those that tell of saddest thought." There is much of truth in what the poet says. Songs like "Old Black Joe," "Way Down Upon the Suwanee River," and many others of our most beautiful songs are suggestive of sorrow. We love to sing these sadly sweet songs; but there are many other songs we should also sing that are not at all sorrowful  songs like "The Lord is my Shepherd" and "O my Father" are sublimely beautiful and full of comfort. We need more pure songs of good cheer. A rollicking song of innocent fun is a tonic to the weary heart. The trouble with our so-called funny songs too often is this: they are suggestive of evil and are sometimes vulgar. Such songs are out of place anywhere; yet, they frequently find their way into our homes, where they sow their poisoned thoughts and false sentiments. There is no more important work before the parents than that of selecting the music that goes into their homes. In these days when the choicest songs are available, there is no excuse for feeding our hearts on any but the purest and the best. In choosing the songs for our homes, we should always put them to this test: What pictures of life, what sentiments, do they bring to our minds and hearts? Music may lead us to heaven or to evil places; it depends upon the music. "Give me the privilege of writing the songs of a people, and I care not who makes their laws"  a saying of one great philosopher. Let this be our third guiding principle: The songs that find their way into our homes mast suggest pure stories and uplifting sentiments. LESSON OUTLINE. 1. What is a song? 2. Why may the song-writer be called "a voice for all?" 3. Who among our own people have earned this title by 
 creating beautiful songs? Name some of these poets and tell what are their most popular songs. 4. What characterizes the words of a beautiful song? Illustrate by quoting a line or two from some song you love. 5. What is meant by this remark? "Back of the song there lies a story." Illustrate by telling the story that some song suggests to you, or by telling how some author came to write a certain song. For example, what story is suggested by "School thy Feelings," and "Oh, say what is Truth," and "Hail to the Prophet." 6. How does it help a song to know the story that is connected with it? 7. Show how the history of the Latter-day Saints is reflected in some of their hymns. 8. Show how the song is used in the Bible to express the feelings of the people of Israel at certain times. 9. What is the danger in many of the songs that are being sung today? Where do they come from? 10. What practical steps can be taken to get purer, more uplifting songs in our homes? LESSON IV. Home Economics. Fourth Week in March. A. Bottle-fed Babies. In the preceding lesson I emphasized the necessity of maintaining the baby on the breast during the first year of life. In the Great Ormond Street Hospital of London, England, statistics taken over a long period of time show the death rate from dysentery during the hot summer months to be ninety-six per cent in bottle-fed babies. These same statistics will be borne out in all congested districts. The treatment of dysentery in breast-fed babies is a comparatively simple proposition, but with the bottle fed babies the physician is taxed to his utmost ingenuity. Mother's milk is the natural food. It contains unknown elements which we cannot analyze and, therefore, cannot duplicate in any of our milk modifications. Perhaps the principal source of trouble with bottle babies comes from the frequent contamination of the food. In spite of the most extreme care exercised on the part of the mother in the preparation of the food, bacteria will find their way into the milk and produce subsequent trouble. A bottle of milk allowed to stand in the sun for one hour will develop millions of GUIDE LESSONS. 117 organisms which will cause dysentery or other intestinal disorders. Mothers frequently make complaint at the extreme caution eoforced by the physician in the. preparation of food for the babies if they will just keep in mind this rapid development of bacteria they will realize the necessity for the greatest of care. In order to avoid contamination as much as possible the food for the entire twenty-four hours should be prepared at one time. Six or seven bottles should be obtained, preferably the narrow neck bottles, for reasons that will be seen later. The food should be prepared and put in the bottles and then placed on ice and kept there until feeding time. They should then be placed in hot water to bring them to the proper temperature, and fed immediately. If these directions are followed there will only be necessity for handling the milk once, thus lessening the danger of contamination. A plug of sterile absorbent cotton should be placed in the neck of the bottle to serve as a cork. This keeps out bacteria but allows the entrance of air. The large neck bottles are easier to be kept clean than the narrow neck but you cannot properly cover them with absorbent cotton and are compelled to pour your food from a large container into the bottle at each feeding. The bottles should be scalded thoroughly each morning before filling with the food and rinsed out with a solution of borax water. Nipples should be scalded every day and kept in boric acid solution. If these directions are followed out carefully in the preparation of the bottles and the nipples the danger of contamination is reduced to a minimum and the death rate from dysentery would be greatly reduced. B. Modification of Cows Milk: When the baby has reached proper age for weaning, or when from any cause your physician deems it necessary to wean from the breast, nothing but a modified cow's milk mixture should be considered. The child's food should contain in proper proportion all of the good elements  carbo-hydrates, fats, salts, proteins and water. If any one of these food elements is neglected, although the child may apparently be well, he will, in time, show signs of trouble to the experienced eye. Fixed formulas for the modification of milk are impossible because every child has to be fed according to its weight and condition of nutrition. Guess work in the feeding of babies is responsible for more deaths than the iofectious diseases. A careful estimation should be made by the physician as to the exact number, of calories of food the child requires during the twenty-four hours and the formula should be worked out from this basis. The condition of nutrition must be considered carefully, otherwise, one is very apt to include in the formula too much or too little of one" of the food 
 elements  for example, a fat, flabby baby, slow in teething, slow in walking, yet of over-weight for its age, should not receive as much fat in its food as the child that is thin and emaciated and under-weight. The reason why mothers so frequently have difficulty in feeding their babies is because the formula is not worked out along these lines and the result is that they try every food that is recommended. For a delicate babe they modify cow's milk; they try Eskay's, Mellan's. Horlicks and all of the rest of the proprietary infant foods until finally the child reaches a stage where the physician has to take the case in hand, and there is no more difficult case in medicine than the feeding of such a child. Rickets and scurvy, the common diseases of the second year of childhood  the causes of lowered vitality  are the results of these errors in feeding. A few simple rules will help mothers with normal children. The child should be fed from one to two ounces more than its age in months at each feeding. With the minimum of three ounces and the maximum of eight to the feeding  for example, a child three months old should be given from three and one-half to four ounces of food every three hours; a child six months old should be given from six to eight ounces of food every three burs. The younger the child the greater the dilution of the milk should be. With babies under four months of age I usually begin with the two-thirds milk and one-third water mixture. As the child increases in age the strength of the milk can be increased until at the age of one year the child is getting all milk without any modification. The sugar to be used should be some form of malt, since it is much more easily digested than any other form of sugar. Milk-sugar has been too widely recommended and used. It is very frequently the cause of severe nutritional disorders in childhood. Dextrimaltose is a very excellent form and is most easily assimilated by babies. For the average child from one to one and one-half ounces of sugar should be given in twenty-four hours. Other than these few points no definite rules can be given. A careful record of the weekly gain in weight should be kept with all bottle-fed babies since the scales are the most reliable guide as to when the baby is getting enough or when we are over-feeding. C. Proprietory Foods: There is no doubt but that the proprietary foods play a part in infant feeding. By proprietary food, I mean Mellen's, Horlick's Malted Milk, Denno's, Eskay's, Nestles, Eagle Brand Condensed Milk and the numerous other prepared foods on the market. These foods are all standardized to meet the requirements of babies in general. Since each child must be fed in GUIDE LESSONS. 119 dividually according to its actual bodily requirements, the impossibility of successfully feeding all babies on these foods can be readily seen. Babies' have a higher tolerance for carbo-hydrate than for any of the other food elements. As a result, these proprietary foods contain in excessive amounts this ingredient at the expense of the others. Occasionally we see a perfectly normal baby that has been fed on one of these foods, but in that case it was just the food that was adapted to that individual condition. Mothers must not feel that because their babies get fat and look well on these foods that they are well. Invariably defects in development can be found. I often have a baby brought to me with the mother boasting that it is a baby reared on proprietary food  careful examination invariably reveals defects of physical development the which lower the child's of vitality. And I might add here, that most obstinate cases dysentery that a doctor is ever called upon to handle are those that have been raised upon the proprietary foods. We get a one-sided development from a one-sided food. In feeding them we shape the baby to meet the requirements of the food instead of shaping the food to meet the requirements of the baby. Look at the pictures of the babies in the literature that you have received from these proprietary food concerns. They are fat babies with large heads, large abdomens, large joints, and almost invariably they have slight deformities of the chest, are slow to walk, slow in teething, and in the second year of life are the first ones to contract the iofectious diseases upon exposure. For these reasons the necessity for careful modification of cow's milk can be readily seen, where it is absolutely impossible to secure mother's milk. A wet nurse will often save a child's life. questions. 1. What is the reason for the higher death rate amongst bottle-fed babes than breast-fed babies? 2. How would you proceed to prevent contamination of the food prepared for your baby? 3. Take an imaginary case of a baby six months old, weigh Discuss in detail how you would prepare his food. fourteen pounds. ing 4. What has been your experience with the proprietary foods? . 5. Have you noticed that the teeth decay early in babies that have been fed on the proprietary foods? Have you noticed that they are slow in walking; that their teeth are slow in appearing; that they have large abdomens, with very frequently naval ruptures? 
 6. Do you not think the proverbial difficulty of getting the baby through the second summer is often due to these mistakes in diet? 7. Let some mother study up the different food ingredients  carbo-hydrates, fats, proteins, salts and water and conduct a discussion. SOME DAY YOU'LL MEET. By Miss Leah Brozvn. Are you lonely in your cottage, Little home so dear to you? Are you lonely, as you think of How in love 'twas built for two? Now, in death, you two have parted And have left the cottage here, For one alone to love and cherish Thinking of her mate elsewhere. CHORUS. Lonely On a heart, distant some day shore. silver you'll meet him. Lonely heart, when you shall meet him. He will greet his love once more. He will take you to a cottage He is building there for you; Built of gold and precious jewels, Just a cottage built for two. In the solemn twilight hours. When the long day's work is done, Do you sit down by the fireside Thinking of the days now gone? How you stood there, in the doorway, Holding out your hand to one Who came home so gay and joyous When his own day's work was done? Lonely heart, your days of longing For the tender, thoughtful care Will be met in fullest measure When you meet him over there. He is eagerly awaiting For that glorious, happy time When his arms can close eofold you, In that perfect, heavenly clime. TO GENEALOGICAL STUDENTS. Finding that the book on Surnames by Baring-Gould is out of print, our Genealogical Committee have decided to print a book on Surnames, under the auspices of the Genealogical Society of Utah. We are working very hard to get this out in a month or six weeks. We ask your patience until then. Susa Young Gates, Amy Brown Lyman, Lillian Cameron. Committee on Surname Book. MAGAZINE AGENTS. Kindly add the name of your stake to your lists. It saves much work in our office THE Relief Society Magazine MARCH, 1917 Moll SPEGIAL ARTIGLES An Interesting Outgrowth of the Relief Society in Nauvoo J. M. Monroe From Times and Seasons. Anniversary Day Programs  The Relief Society Ward President Annie Wells BE SPECIFIC When you order sugar, be particular to specify that "made by the Utah-Idaho Sugar Co." These words are stamped on each bag for your protection. You want the purest, whitest and sweetest sugar produced. EXTRA FINE Table and Preserving Sugar ABSOLUTELY PURE is the standard of sugar perfection. Order it by the bag 10, 25, 50 and 100 pounds. We also put up a 48 pound bag for parcel post orders. Order from your dealer. MADE BY UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR CO. JOSEPH F. SMITH. President THOS. R CUTLER. VICE-PRES. AND GEN'L Man. TWO BOOKS Family Record of Temple Work for the Dead. A simplified form, with complete instructions for properly recording this work. L. D. S. Family and Individual Record Arranged specially for recording in a most desirable and concise form, important events in the lives of the members of the Church. These books are sold at $1.25 each.