Renunciation of Dorcas By Ivy Williams Stone The Warner front gate protested creakily as it struck Gail Towers' protruding leg instead of the rusty clutch. "There, Miss Dorcia Warner, I was too quick for you that time," said Gail airily as he stepped inside the yard and leaned against the gate. "You didn't get a chance to shut me outside to-night. You don't dismiss me with one of your polite little speeches of thanks for a pleasant evening, either. And no number of excuses about having bread to bake, or separators to wash, or chickens to feed, will get you off until you have listened to my little speech. Do you really understand me, Miss Dorcia Warner?" Gail folded his arms and looked the provoker of his speech squarely and unflinchingly in the face.' The full June moonlight showed his set, determined face, eyes that could be serious and mirthful at'the same time, and a countenance full of hope and desire for the better things of life. Altogether it was a good face, belonging' to a very nice young man, as Dorcas Warner well knew. An inner, secret voice continually told her that Gail Towers was the nicest of men. But conversation of the sort which Gail had commenced is dangerous en. June evenings, when the whole world seems tuned to romance. So Dorcas Warner tried to relieve the increasing tension of the moment by answering Gail as lightly as she could. "You silly boy," she replied, 'people don't feed chickens and bake bread at this time of night. And the separator was washed before we even left home. And my name is Dorcas and not Dorcia, as you very well know." "But Dorcia is prettier," answered Gail, persistently sticking to personalities. "It's more romantic and youthful sounding. It's girlish—somehow you don't seem half so much of a school teacher with that name," he continued. "But Dorcas you were christened, Dorcas was written in queer old script on your diplomas, and so it will appear on your marriage certificate. And as this conversation has to do with your wedding, I'll call you Dorcas now, just this once. And so Dorcas," continued Gail, his voice suddenly changing from light. Bantering to seriousness, "you forget all about household duties for the present, sit on this bench under the lilac bush—so—and listen to me. Are you ready?" Gail sat beside her, still with the folded arms. "Oh," answered Dorcas, fully realizing how utterly inadequate her answer was. "Really, Gail, I must—" "I am going to Chicago again this fall to finish my course," interrupted Gail, ignoring her weak protest, "and I'm going to "| RENUNCIATION OF DORCAS 401 harvest dollars this summer by acting as guide for an anthropological party going down to the ruins of the cliff dwellers. I have to leave in the morning in order to meet them. And— and—well, if there is the slightest reason in the world to come back here in September, before going on to Chicago, I'm coming post haste, soon as I'm through. But if there is no inducement to return, I'll go on to Chicago by the shortest route. Chicago is a big town to be alone in, though, and—and, I'd like to take you with me, Dorcas. Will you go, and be my little housekeeper, in a little kitchenette? Will you be ready to go with me in September?" The voice was nearer, more personal, and the arms were not folded quite so rigidly. Dorcas did not look Gail frankly in the face. She turned away her head that he might not see the tears which moonlight made alluring, rather than disfiguring. Only the subdued rustle of the lilac boughs broke the silence. "T'm waiting Dorcas," Gail finally said when the silence became oppressive. 'Don't you want to go? Surely you have known—have guessed—" Dorcas nodded assent from her corner 'of the bench. "I want to go Gail. Oh, so badly, but I can't." Gail suddenly abandoned every trace of military bearing. He unfolded his arms and laid the right one along the bench, nearest to the drooping figure in white. "I love you Dorcas girl," he said simply. 4 "O Gail," Dorcas sat upright, "don't make refusal and denial so hard for me. I know you love me, I've felt it for some time, and I want to reciprocate your affection, but I cannot. You know, I—sort 'of—promised Mother before she died that Id never leave Father as long as he needed me. It has been three years now, Gail, and I've kept my word." "T should say you have,' Gail answered vehemently. "You've been faithful, sticking at that stuffy school teaching job and keeping house at the same time." "It has been hard work at times," admitted Dorcas, "but I've cared for him just as Mother used to do. She wanted me to do things so that he wouldn't miss her. He's so dependent and helpless, I even polish his shoes and press his clothes. I've been a regular housekeeper for him, because Mother asked me to be. She was a wonderful woman, Gail, I wish you could have known her."; "She must have been," replied Gail quietly, "to be the mother of a girl like you. But I need a housekeeper, too, Dorcas," he continued. "Can't you imagine how much nicer it would be to come home evenings to you in a cozy little apartment, with home. Cooked meals, than to bunk in those evcrlasting dormitories and patronize endless cafeterias?" "Please, Gail,' the averted voice was unsteady. "I know. / 
 Can't you imagine how much nicer it would be to go with you and cook your meals, to see the world and people, and hear good music and lectures, than it will be to stay on in this sleepy little village and teach school and keep house? But don't coax me, or I may weaken, and if I do, I will never reap the full measure of happiness which I expected. It was Mother's lifework, Gail, to care for father, and she passed it on to me. She thought it ought to mean as much to me as it had meant to her. I was only a girl to her—she didn't realize how soon I would grow up. She loved father to a point of servitude—she made him helpless." f "Why, Dorcas," Gail leaned toward her beseechingly, "your father would never hold you to such a fancied promise. He doesn't need half the babying you give him. It isn't as if he were old or an invalid. People consider him merely a middleaged man. He's apt to—and I honestly hope he does—live twenty years yet. Do you intend to stay single until you're forty-five or more? Are you going to keep on teaching the rising generation until they, in turn, bring their children to your school? Are you going to cook all through each hot summer, just for your father? Honest, Dorcas, are you going to wash separators every night of your life?" This speech immediately put Dorcas on the defensive, as Gail had hoped it would. She straightened up from her drooping attitude, in defense of her own kin. "Life here won't be so unbearable," she defended. '"Miiss Althea is coming again this summer, and father is not to blame for the condition of affairs at all. He doesn't insist upon my staying. J'm merely keeping a request made by mother. And you remember meeting Miss Moore, don't you? She is the primary supervisor for this entire county. She spent nearly all last summer with us, and we both enjoyed her visit so much. She's coming again soon. She makes a splendid companion, and I get loads of suggestions from her for my primary work. Father seems anxious for her return, too." Dorcas felt that she had exonerated her father from all shadow of blame for her prospective life of sacrifice. "I don't doubt Miss Moore's attainments," Gail was indulging in fine sarcasm, for youth feels resentment when proffered love is rejected, "but I didn't think a young, healthy, pretty American girl would be satisfied with the exclusive society of a maiden lady of forty, anyway. They usually find them too cultured," he finished with ill concealed rancor in his tone. Dorcas did not answer. Her emotions were divided between love and an exaggerated sense of duty. She felt that nothing she might say could relieve the situation, and an oppressive silence followed, which the impulsive Gail could not tolerate. RENUNCIATION OF DORCAS 403 "T say, Dorcas, dear," he broke out boyishly in his old familiar manner, "turn your face to the moonlight, so I can read things in your eyes which your lips won't tell." Gail took Dorcas' face between his two hands and turned it to the light. "There," he continued, pressing her cheeks gently with his large palms, "that's better. Now then, for some statistics. Your father isn't fifty years old yet, is he?" Dorcas shook her head as much as the two hands would permit. "And Miss Althea is coming for a second visit, after a prolonged first one?" Again a diminutive nod 'of assent. "And your father has purchased a new runabout with which he is jeopardizing the lives of all the peaceful residents, as he tries to steer it around?" This time only the hazel eyes answered. "And you still believe and contend that your father needs you to bake his bread and polish his shoes?" "He is so dependent and helpless, Gail," Ar ieqded Dorcas. "T know he ought not to be, but Mother made him so. She really enjoyed 'babying him." "O you dear, little, unsuspicious, unseeing school teacher, where are your glasses?" finished Gail, releasing her face and staring at her incredulously. "Dorcas," he continued, leaning toward her very imploringly, very loverlike, for the slight ficure was unconsciously charming, "I want you. Let me come for you in September—I really don't think your father will mind it so terribly." Something like a grasping, choking grip rose in Dorcas' throat. It was not pleasant to renounce youth and love, and all that young life holds dear. But only for a moment did Dorcas stop to look at the alluring vision, and then she made her brave attempt at denunciation. "Gail," she whispered solemnly, "it seems as if I can see mother's face now, sorrowful and beseeching." "No Gail, no," as he impulsively moved to take her in his arms, "I must play the good daughter—I must keep my pledge." Gail, feeling injured, but greatly impressed with the sincerity of her decision, again assumed his military carriage. "I'm sorry, Dorcas," he said with emphasis. 'Here is a sort of itinerary of the post offices at which that exploring party is going to stop for mail. I had hoped to get a real love letter from you at each station, but that being forbidden, I shall look for a letter at the last stop. We'll be there in about six weeks. After that, we don't know just where we're going, but it will be far away from any post office, of that much I'm certain. Will you promise to write me your final answer there?' "You have it now Gail. It will only make it harder for 
 both of us to go over it all again." Dorcas' voice was strained and unhappy. "Do you promise to write me there for the twentieth of August?" persisted Gail in his old, stubborn way. "I promise'-—Dorcas raised her face with eyes suspiciously glistening, and as if she were called upon to make one more pledge. "And, goodbye, Gail. When I'm free, if you should still care to come, but I won't ask you to wait—it's too uncertain. So goodbye." "Goodbye, dear little Saint Cecelia."" And Gail with an air of reverence and veneration, leaned over and gently kissed her brown hair. Still with his military bearing and scorning the creaking gate, he bounded the board fence and strode off through the quiet dark. Only the voice of a sleepy cricket audibly mourned his departure, but up in the privacy of her quaint old fashioned bedroom, Dorcas Warner bade farewell to all her dreams of happiness, and sought solace and justification from the portrait of a gentle-faced mother, who, from an exaggerated sense of kindness, had requested the service which was altering her daughter's life. After Gail's departure, Dorcas settled into the routine of her daily life with unresentful resignation. It all seemed most simple. Her mother had requested—she had voiced no objection, and her father still needed care, Gail's part in the little drama had no weight on her decision. But she took no joy in her daily tasks. She experienced no thrill of housewifely pride as she removed the golden brown loaves from the oven. She did not even bother to count the glasses of sun-preserved strawberries. A vision continuously danced before her eyes of a crowded dormitory, of Gail forming one of the file of humanity that patronizes the cafeterias. She saw him, alone-in the crowded city, studying far into the nights, and she longed with all her being to go with him, to share his work, to study herself, to keep the inviting kitchenette, to cook the thick-crusted bread which he liked. In order to quell the insistent call of youth for youth, Dorcas filled her days with fatiguing tasks, even separating the heavy buckets of milk. But her days were dull, listless and uneventful. In fancy she saw the months stretching on into years, her father becoming more absorbed in his auto, less conscious of his exactions, seemingly unconscious of the sacrifice she had made. For some unexplained reason Miss Althea postponed her promised visit until mid-August. The day before her expected arrival, Dorcas aired the seldom used parlor, prepared the guest room, got out the best linens. She cooked tempting dishes and then apathetically watched her father as he washed and polished his car. Somehow the coming of Miss Althea had lost its thrill. Instinctively Dorcas knew she would have to fill the car with gas before her father started—he was so impractical and undepend- RENUNCIATION QF DORCAS 405 able. He never thought that the car might need water and oil. And Dorcas was even too engrossed to. Notice the interest her father evidenced in Miss Althea's arrival. She saw no significance in the fact that he was going into town to meet her, instead of letting her come on the interurban, as other people did. Dorcas felt no slight that she was not to be included in the little party. She felt content to remain at home. That was the way her mother used to do—hers had always been the path of service. But late that night, Dorcas sat writing the promised letter to Gail, that her father might post it while in town the next morning. It was a pitiful little letter, merely the written score for the lilac bush scene. But though its writing had required new courage, Dorcas showed no sign of her struggle as she tucked the envelope into the pocket of her father's best coat. "Be sure you post this letter while at the depot, father," she admonished, just as her mother had always done. Mrs. Warner had invariably done his remembering for him. 'Better get it right on the train Miss Althea comes on, if you possibly can,' " she cautioned, as he fidgeted to be off. "It's very important." "T will, daughter, I will," replied Mr. Warner absently, anxious to get started. "Would Gail Towers collapse if he failed to get it?" he asked jocularly. 'Mind the place, daughter, and don't worry if 1 am late getting back. Miss Moore's train might be late—I might have tire trouble on the road, or something else might happen to delay our return," he finished ambiguously. Notwithstanding, Dorcas did worry. When seven o'clock brought no father, Dorcas began to watch down the road anxiously. The route from town included a long narrow dugway, and Dorcas had misgivings about her father's skill at driving over, it after dark. At eight o'clock she set a tempting meal, at nine o'clock, she cleared it away. Unable to content herself in the house, she left the separator unwashed and walked down the lane and watched the road until a distant beam of light separated into two wavering headlights, and the vehement churning of an overtaxed engine announced her father's return. Dorcas did not wait to greet them at the gate. She hurried into the house and lit the kitchen stove—after so late a ride a warm drink would be refreshing. Her mother had always provided for a guest's comfort. So Dorcas was on her knees, blowing at the refractory stove when her father and Miss Althea came into the kitchen. Hand in hand, diffident and self-conscious, they faced her. "Y'm sorry we're late,' began her father bravely, his voice weakening like that of an erring child who faces the maternal court. 'But it took so long to convince Althea that you wouldn't 
 care, that you had your own plans, and longer still to get the license anid find a minister. So forgive us, daughter," he finished lamely. "And bless us, too, Dorcas dear,' added Mrs. 'Althea, "we are so happy." But Dorcas neither forgave or blessed. She rubbed her soot stained hand across her face, confusedly, leaving a little smudge on her nose. She had a vision of runaway cafeterias, of long narrow dugways, of thick crusted bread, of Gail hunting love letters in the cliff-dwelling ruins, of her mother's face no longer beseeching. "Do you mean to tell me that you two children have gone and eloped?" she finally gasped. "IT guess that's about it,' answered her father. "No one knew a single thing about our engagement, so you see your old dad can keep a secret about as well as anyone—even as well as you and Gail Towers, don't you think?" Then Dorcas remembered. Her stoical indifference, which she had cultivated for two unhappy months, gave way to hysterical excitement. "Where is my letter?" she demanded, almost savagely. "The letter I put in your coat this morning, and reminded you to mail on the train?" Mr. Warner thrust a guilty hand into the designated pocket. It's still here,' he answered shame-faced. I forgot all about it. Soon as I saw, Althea I forgot everything else, even the oil you said I needed 'fore I started home. Come to think of it, guess that's what ailed the car. But you won't hold it against your father, will you, Dorcas, for forgetting to mail a letter on his wedding day? I have to go to town again first thing in the morning, to get the trunks, and I'll tend to it then sure. I guess one day won't make much difference, even though love is young." "Much difference!" echoed Dorcas, the soot smudge emphasizing her indignation. "It means just enough difference to alter my whole life. One day! It means happiness or solitude— a school room or a kitchenette," she added, and then continued vehemently, "it also means that you will take me back to town this very night to send a message so it will reach Gail Towers before he goes off into the sagebrush, hunting another Dorcia. I'll take no chance on a letter now, it's too late. I am entitled to the happiness I nearly lost. That letter would have sent Gail on to Chicago alone. I told him I couldn't leave you, and now I'm—the—give me the letter, father," she ordered tersely, "and go see if you have water and gas enough in the car. Oil or no oil, we're going back to town tonight." And before her astonished elders Dorcas took the portentious letter, tore it into bits, and dropped them into the stove. RENUNCIATION OF DORCAS 407 "Why Dorcas, you're sure a true daughter of your mother," muttered Mr. Warner in a tender, reminiscent tone. 'Sacrifice was her middle name. I never dreamed you were sending your sweetheart away. I took it for granted you would marry Gail. Your mother would have wanted you to. She didn't really mean you should give up your life for me, she was always over-kind to me, that's all. About that message though, I don't want to go back to town again tonight," he protested. "It's late, and I'm sort of nervous about driving after dark. Tomorrow morning early—" "T think James," interrupted the new mistress of the house, who was accustomed to issuing tactful, gracious orders, "that you really ought to go. Dorcas is entitled to happiness, the same as you and I. She can watch for the bad turns in the road, and I'll manage to while away the time. I can read, or watch the moonlight—" "You can wash the separator," put in Dorcas with new authority, tinged with new freedom. "Every little piece has to be rinsed in cold water and scalded twice. Then you may prepare a lunch for us all.". And from' the look which came over the new Mrs. Warner's face, Dorcas had a presentiment that her father would thereafter polish his own shoes—press his own suits. Two days later, precisely at midnight, the Warner telephone tinkled its arousing summons. Dorcas, who instead of sleeping, had been gazing at a certain creaky gate, hastened downstairs. Her father was already there, sleepily stupid. "No," he was saying, "no person lives here by the name of Dorcia. Guess you've got the wrong—number. "No they haven't," interrupted Dorcas, appropriating the telephone, "that's my moonlight name. "Yes," she called, "this is Miss Dorcia Warner. I am ready for the message." And over the buzzing wire, in the monotonous twang of the operator came the message: "T will never cross the threshhold of a "Chicago cafeteria. 'Gail." "That's all there is to it,' finished the voice apologetically. "Tt must be sort of a code. I can't make any sense out of it. Can you?"? % "T certainly can," cried Dorcas to the distant operator, to her bewildered father, the moonlight and anything and everything else in creation that might care to listen. Notes Bee the Field Amy Brown Lyman Parowan Stake. Cedar City Relief Society Hall: No other Relief Society organizations in the Church, as far as is known, are established on a firmer financial basis than the three Cedar City ward Relief Societies. The women of these organizations own the two-story brick structure which formerly served as Cedar's public school building. They rent three modern apartments in the north wing; RELIEF SOCIETY HALL, CEDAR CITY, JANUARY, 1927 and since the division of Cedar City into three wards, January 1, 1927, the building has come to be a temporary ward chapel and amusement hall. Every other organization now pays rent-to the Relief Society. The women are very proud and happy to be able to serve their wards so efficiently, and the community is grateful to have a building in the hands of such able managers. Were it not for the Relief Hall now, the East ward would be seriously handicapped. But these days of prosperity did not always exist. Nineteen years ago, when Cedar was divided into two wards, June, 1908, the sisters, against their will, met separately; the West ward in the tabernacle, and the East ward in the old Ward Hall. In severe weather they were forced by disagreeable circumstances, to meet in one another's homes. For four years the two ward organiza-