GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 413 LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in September) TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR OCTOBER—CIVIC PRIDE Fall Cleaning and Planting I. Attention to yards, gardens and sidewalks. During Fall and early 'Winter months yards, gardens and sidewalks should be cleared of weeds, flower stalks, fallen leaves and other rubbish. II. Enlist services of young boys' and girls' clubs and societies in cleaning up streets. III. Fall planting and transplanting—bulbs, peonies, iris, etc. LESSON III Literature (Third Week in October) LIZETTE WOODWORTH REESE Baltimore is one of the old cities of America. It has on the one hand a flavor of British aristocracy and on the other hand more than a decided leaning toward that hospitality for which the people of the South are so justly noted. Lizette Woodworth Reese has passed her life in this city, expressing in many of her well wrought lines the beauty of the country that surrounds it. She was born January 9, 1856, in Waverly, Baltimore county, Maryland, and is one of the oldest of the women whose verse is attracting attention at the present time. Her education was obtained mainly in private schools. Very early it was discovered that she had more than ordinary talent as a student of English, consequently she was very much prized on the faculty of the Western High School in Baltimore where she taught for a score of years. When she severed her connection with the institution, the Alumni, together with teachers and pupils presented the school with a bronze tablet on which was inscribed her well known poem, "Tears,"' which is often referred to as one of the most famous sonnets written by an American. Her poetry has been published under the following titles and at the following time. A Branch of May, 1887, A Handful of Lavender 1891, A Quiet Road 1896, A Wayside Lute 1909. The country about Baltimore is woody. The trees and shady nooks that the poet enjoyed as she rambled through these lovely woods made strong appeal to her. "Spring Ecstasy" 
 reveals both the "madness" and the "gladness" of her soul as she came in contact with nature. SPRING ECSTASY. Oh, let me run and hide, Let me run straight to God; The weather is so mad with white From sky down to the clod! If but one thing were so, Lilac, or thorn out there, It would not be, indeed, So hard to bear. The weather has gone mad with white; The cloud, the highway touch. White lilac is enough; White thorn too much! "Wild Cherry" is another poem that bespeaks her fondness not only for nature but for primitive wild nature. She regrets that the wild cherry grows in places so remote that few eyes see it. WILD CHERRY. Why make your lodging here in this spent lane, Where but an old man, with his sheep each day, Twice through the forgotten grass goes by your way, Half sees you there, and not once looks again? For you are of the very ribs of spring, And should have many lovers, who have none. In silver cloaks, in hushed troops down the sun Should they draw near, oh, strange and lovely thing! Beauty has no set weather, no sure place; Her careful pageantries are here as there, With nothing lost. And soon, some lad may start— A strayed Mayer in this unremembered space— At your tall white, and know you very fair, Let all else go to roof within your heart. Even "Tears" reaches out to nature in an attempt to make clear its hopeful message. TEARS. When I consider Life and its few years— A wisp of fog betwixt us and the sun; A call to battle, and the battle done Ere the last echo dies within our ears; A rose choked in the grass; an hour of fears; 
 Love came back at fall o' dew, Playing his old part; But I had a word or two That would break his heart. "He who comes at candlelight, That should come before, Must betake him to the night From a barred door." This the word that made us part In the fall o''dew; ~ This the word that brake his heart— Yet it brake mine, too. Many of her poems reach the very acme of simplicity. Can you conceive anything more simple than the lines: This the word that made us part In the fall o' dew; This the word that brake his heart— Yet it brake mine, too. 'There is not a word of two syllables in the stanza. She has a-deeply religious nature. In "Spring Ecstasy" she says "Let me run straight to God." In "A Girl's Mood" "1 love a prayer-book." A good example of this feeling is to be found in "A Christmas Folk-Song": The little Jesus came to town; The wind blew up, the wind blew down; Out in the street the wind was bold; Now who would house Him from the cold? Then opened wide a stable door, Fair were the rushes on the floor; The Ox put forth a horned head; "Come, little Lord, here make Thy bed " Uprose the Sheep were folded near; "Thou Lamb of God, come, enter here." He entered there to rush and reed, Who was the Lamb of God indeed. The little Jesus came to town; With ox and sheep He laid Him down; Peace to the byre, peace to the fold, For that they housed Him from the cold! In concluding this lesson we shall emphasize two important features by way of summary. First, the directness and simplicity GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 417 of the poet's style. Of her volume A Wayside Lute, published in 1909, Louis Untermeyer writes: "Here are no verbal tricks, no false postures; here are' the qualities which are never dependent on literary fashion." And Mary Colum says: "This poetry of hers will persist, not because the author was cleverer or more original-than other writers, but because in some way her nerves were more subtle in response to the kinds of life and experiences that came her way." The second feature is the religious thought expressed in her poetry. At a period of time when so great a state as the state of New York grants a charter that the doctrines of atheism may be spread; when atheist chapters have been established in twenty colleges and preparatory schools in the United States; and a book like Elmer Gantry is said by some "to give concrete expression to the mind of the day" poetry such as Lizette Woodworth Reese writes is wholesome and refreshing to the last degree. Questions and Problems. 1. Name other American poets as well as Miss Reese who have served on the English faculty of various colleges and schools. 2. Point out some lines in "Tears" that give evidence of the poet's appreciation of nature. 3. What does the title "A Wayside Lute" suggest. 4. Would you classify "A Girl's Mood" as a love poem? If so, why? Does the poem reveal a normal and wholesome girl? If so, why? If not, why? 5. Count the words with one syllable in "A Christmas FolkSong" and the words with more. 6. What quality does a preponderance of words of one syl-' lable give to a poem? Give proof of the poet's belief that Jesus and His mission were of divine origin. LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in October) SOCIAL PROBLEMS OF CHILDHOOD—Harold and Henry An analysis of the problem of Harold and Henry is a continuation of the study of social problems of childhood. The two preceding lessons outlined certain behavior problems which pre-. Sent themselves in the conduct of children, the causes of which are not inherent in the child's physical, mental or emotional makeup, but which are the direct result of the environment in which the child is placed. The story of Paul in the last lesson revealed o 
 the dangers of a child placed in a foster home to which he was not suited. The necessary treatment was not to change Paul. The change in him came naturally when his social setting was revised to meet his desires and capacities. The studies of Harold and Henry reveal that the same type of treatment is needed. Both boys have had difficulty—one was failing in his school work and the other was ill-tempered and cruel to his family. Both boys were given medical examinations, were given mental tests, and observed for emotional instability. In both instances the source of the difficulty was found in the home environment. The problems had their roots in an unhappy social life.; Harold presents a pathetic picture. He is an alert boy of ten (I. Q. 100), but he was so shy and timid that his teacher considered him stupid. He made many mistakes in his school work and did not try very hard to improve his work. He was constantly threatened with non-promotion which only added to his timidity. The mental examination showed he had the ability to do good school work. Besides he was a friendly, truthful, sincere young boy who wanted to do well. Harold's trouble was his home life, but he was not aware of this and did not like to discuss it. It was only when the home was visited and the attitude of parents towards the boy was discovered that the real cause of his timidity was found. Harold's parents were excellent, intelligent people, with high standards of conduct. The father had definite ideas of proper behavior for his son, and adopted severe measures to enforce his ideas. The father, in his effort to discipline the boy, did not "spare the rod," but resorted to corporal punishment frequently. The severity of such punishment, as our author observes, depended not so much onthe nature of the offense, as on the excitement and irritability of the father at the time. Parents often relieve their own anger and frustration, even though the cause may be something entirely apart from the child's offense, by the unintelligent act of whipping a child. Harold's mother did not punish him. She kept account of his offenses during the day and reported them to the father in the evening. It was difficult to determine how fair her reports were, for she was a nervous semi-invalid, easily annoyed by trifles, such as the noise and untidiness that young boys can make in a home. It was not much wonder that Harold spent more time thinking of ways to avoid punishment than in applying himself to his school work. It is also little wonder that he became quiet, timid, and reséntful. He even resented the freedom given his sister, who was four years older, and felt that his parents were less fond of him than of her. GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 419 To change the attitudes of parents is often a difficult undertaking. Parents usually have opinions of their own of the type of discipline that is good for children. These opinions are not often based on any knowledge of child life or psychology, but are a continuation of the methods employed by their parents. In the parent-child relationship there is a real danger of the parent, all unknowingly, to control and dominate the child to compensate for some failure or feeling of inferiority he may have in his own emotional life. In the casé of Harold's parents, they were told Berein they were making mistakes in their treatment of Harold. They were intelligent and interested enough to change their attitudes and try the suggestions offered them. The whippings were discontinued. The mother was put under treatment for her nervousness. The father was encouraged to work and play with the son, and to teach him useful, practical things at the new work bench. Family games were played, and the home became a harmonious, pleasant place for a young boy to be, rather than a place to be feared and avoided. Naturally, he overcome his unhappiness and timidity. Just as naturally, he took new interest in his school work and progressed satisfactorily. The problems of the other boy, Henry, were also the result of unhappy factors in his home life. His difficulties were not so easily adjusted, as the direct cause was the death of his father and the change of the boy's status in the home. Henry was only thirteen years old, but he was the oldest of the children and he had come to think of himself as head of the family. He was a very bright boy (I. Q. 127) and was in his second year in high school. He was ambitious to go to college and train himself to be a forester. Many things must have passed through the boy's mind in the days following his father's death. He naturally missed the companionship and guidance that only a father can give to a young adolescent-boy. He, perhaps, felt a thwarting of his own ambitions to continue with his college plans. Besides, he undoubtedly felt keenly the fact that his mother had to go to - work to support the family., He perhaps identified himself with his father, thinking he might take his place as the breadearner, the protector and the head of the family. In his immature way, he attempted to play the role. He could only earn a small amount at odd jobs, but in his imagined part as the father of the family he attempted to discipline the younger children and ended in trying to dominate his mother—quarreling and fighting with her. In treating Henry's problem, it was not possible to restore a normal family life. A substitute for the advice of a father was secured for the boy in finding a man counselor and friend. The mother was advised to be less critical and nagging in her attitude. \ 
 and was encouraged to share her plans and problems with him. She gave him her confidence and invited his advice. She tried to develop a family cooperation, which in the end satisfied him more than his childish attempts to dominate the family.; Perhaps some of this difficulty would have been avoided if the mother had not been forced to leave her family to earn the living for the children. In a home where death removes the bread-winner often many undesirable social problems arise. The mother is left without a companion and advisor. The need for earning a livelihood takes her away from her children during the day. Whether the children are with neighbors, or in day nurseries or in institutions they are deprived of the supervision of their mother, and the natural care and guidance of a normal family life. Usually the income is lower and the whole standard of living is changed. A widow who must supply the income and maintain a home for her children has more than she can do successfully. At the end of a day's work she is naturally fatigued and her energies must then be spent on household tasks—cooking, sewing, mending. It is quite possible that the attention, and guidance and sympathetic understanding that the children need is entifely neglected. It is not difficult to understand that the normal family life, which is broken because of the father's death, has within this changed environment the seeds of many possible childhood problems. The need of the widowed mother to be subsidized in order that she can remain at home and care for the children has been recognized for some time. Many states grant mothers' pensions in ordér to give the children an opportunity to be cared for in their own homes. Such a pension should be adequate to maintain a good standard of living and should be administered by persons trained for this kind' of service. References: Challenge of Childhood—Dr. Ira W. Wile, pages 259-267.; Questions and Problems 1.. Account for Harold's timidity. 2. Why did corporal punishment have a destructive effect on Harold? 3. How was the attitude of the father changed? 4, What was the effect on Harold? 5. What opportunities do parents have to learn more about intelligent rearing of children? 6. Why did Henry wish to be the head of the family? 7. How did this desire affect his behavior? &. How was this desire turned into a constructive channel? 9. Why is it advisable to have pensions for dependent widows? 10.° What provision does your community make for widows without an income? REPUTATION It's a great thing for an institution to have a reputation of sincerely endeavoring to be of the greatest possible service to all who depend on it for their foods, and each O. P. Skaggs System Store enjoys this distinction. It is not by accident. Ecither, but is the result of constant effort and the absence of selfishness. Everything possible has been done by our organization to eliminate waste and inefficiency. Every honorable means 'of securing our supplies at a saving in price is employed. All such advantages are passed on to our patrons through conservative low prices throughout our stores. If you have never tried our store, do so at once and you'll readily notice that advantages out of the ordinary are yours at every turn. 0. P. SKAGGS Officient Service.; System gmhmis Sf Call Your Dealer K MILK Z King Coal is the great fuel for SET furnace or heater—full of heat, with little ash. The Utah Milk for Panther Coal is quick-starting and intensely hot—ideal for cookall People Leads ing or heating. For many uses it takes the Mined exclusively by place of cream at about one-. Third the cost. It is alUnited States Fuel Co. Fe safe, pure gndatonLargest Producers of Domestic venient. Ask for Sego Milk Coal in Utah and be sure you get what you ask for. A, fWhen Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Special Sale of VANITY Full Fashioned Hosiery 42 GAUGE, OF FINEST SILK An all over silk chiffon stocking—a real $1.95 value at the special price of $1.59. Box of three pair $4.55. Extra heavy service weight, silk to welt. Mercerized heel and toe. A real value at $1.95, special price of $1.59, a box of three pair $4.55. A semi-chiffon stocking, silk to welt. Mercerized heel and toe. A real value at $1.85, special price $1.49, box of three pair $4.25. All new goods. All the new spring shades.