[WomansExponent | Vol3 | 1874 | January | Issue: 16 | Title: HOUSEHOLD HINTS | Author: Unknown]

HOUSEHOLD HINTS

	Grandmother's Gingerbread.—Cup and a half of
molasses, cup rich sour cream, teaspoonful salara
-tus, tablespoonful ginger, mix a little stiff.
	German toast.—To one egg, beaten well, add one
cup sweet milk or cream, season with a little salt
and pepper. Cut in slices. stale bread, and dip in
the milk to moisten, and fry in butter on a griddle.
This we think is an extra nice dish for breakfast.
	Good Johnny Cake.—Beat up one egg eith one-
third of a cup of sugar, add one tablespoonful of
melted butter, and one pint of sweet milk, two
and a half cups of meal, half cup of flour, rea-spoonful of cream-of-tartar and half teaspoonful of
soda.
	Sponge Gingerbread.—One cup of sour milk,
one cup of molasses, one-half cup of butter, two
eggs, one-half teaspoonful of salaratus, one table-
spoonful of ginger, flour to make it thick as pound
cake. Put the butter, molasses and ginger together
and make them quite warm, then add the milk,
flour and salaratus and bake as soon as possible.
	Sponge Cake.—The following recepie for sponge
cake is pronounced excellent: Ten eggs; the same
weight of sugar and one half the weight of flour.
The grated rind and juice of one lemon. Beat
yolks and sugar to a cream; then stir in gradually
and very gently the flour, and the whites of the
eggs, well beaten; add lemon.
	Doughnuts.—One teacupful of sugar, one tea-
cupful of sweet milk, one egg, one teaspoonful of
soda, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one tea-
spoonful of sweet cream or lump of butter the size
of a hickory nut and spice to taste, roll thin and
cut with a round tin, making a hole in the center
with a thimble; fry until a light brown.
	Breakfast Cake.—In absence of potatoes; or, to
be eaten with butter while warm. Equal parts
sifted corn meal and flour; stir or sift in carefully
while dry one teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Dis-
solve in milk (sufficient to mix, and form a batter
that will pour easily into baking tins), one level
teaspoonful each of carbonate of soda and salt;
sweeten to taste. Lastly, add one or two (accord-
ing to supply) well-beaten eggs to one cake, and
bake in a quick oven to a nice brown. Do not
scald and spoil your meal.
	How to Cook Oatmeal.—First, be sure to get new,
fresh oatmeal, as if it becomes damp or old it is
bitter. Put one quart of water into a tinned stew
pan; salt sufficient to be palatable; stir in carefully,
so as not to have it lumpy, three or four handfuls of
oatmeal. Put it over the fire and stir continually
until it has swollen all it will, using care not to
have it burn on the bottom. When it has swollen
all is will, add more water, and then put the stew
pan into a kettle of hot water and leave it cooking
several hours—the longer the better, as the longer
it is cooked the softer and more jelly-like it becomes.
Having the stew pan in another kettle of hot water
prevents its burning on the bottom, and you are re-
lieved from constant stirring, It is good with
milk, syrup, or sweetened milk; or even with but-ter alone.


[Column 1]
