[WomansExponent | Vol32 | 1903 | June | Issue: 1 | Title: Editorial Notes | Author: Unknown]

EDITORIAL NOTES. 
	There are fifty Stakes to be visited annu-
ally by officers of the Relief Society or mis-
sionaries officially appointed. So far in 
this year the conferences that have been 
visited are Granite Stake, Uintah, Pan-
guitch, Nebo, Box Elder, San Luis, Emery 
Oneida, Salt Lake, Pocatello, Malad, Sevier, 
North Sanpete, South Sanpete, Cassia,
and Benson.
	The sisters who have visited are Presi-
dent B. W. Smith, Counselors Annie Taylor
Hyde, Ida Smoot Dusenberry; Elizabeth
Williams, Carrie S. Thomas, Rebecca E.
Little, Elizabeth S. Wilcox, Mary T.
Smith, Alice S. M. Horne, Phebe Y. Beatie,
Margaret A. Caine, Ellis R. Shipp, L. L.
Greene Richards, Lydia D. Alder. Only
sixteen Stakes so far and leaves thirty-four
more to be visited during the remaining
four months of the season.


The mothers’ work is beginning to be a
delight and pleasure in the several
Stakes and wards where it has been
properly understood. Women of intelli-
gence and ability have been invited to give
the lecture, and others to assist in discuss-
ing, commenting, or explaining so that
more benefit may be derived from the in-
formation contained than would be if not
discussed afterwards. In some places the
president gives the lecture out in parts to
more than one sister, for instance the sub-
ject is given to the principal person to
prepare a lecture, (a) to another sister (b)
to another (c) to another. This is all left
to the discretion of the president of the
society who is expected to take entire
charge of the meeting. It is well to have
the lecture advertised well through the
ward beforehand and all the women in
the ward young and aged invited.
	We have several articles left over for the
July number that will be of interest to our
readers. The Relief Society Reunion of
Jordan Stake, which was a most enjoyable
gathering, including the banquet and in-
deed all the exercises, one essay will be
published in full. The Old Ladies’ Party,
given by Mrs. Frank J. Cannon, of Ogden,
the annual meeting of the Daughters of the
Revolution, and the meeting of the Daugh-
ters of the Pioneers at the Bee Hive in May
and June 24. We also have for publica-
tion minutes of Relief Society confer-
ences from one or two Stakes in Zion and
 plan of lectures from Alberta Stake for
mothers’ work, Brigham Young’s birthday
celebration, Mrs. Jennings Temple sisters’
party, the graduating exercises and recep-
tion of the nurses’ class under Dr. Margar-
et C. Roberts and Emma Empey.


[Column 1]
