[WomansExponent | Vol32 | 1903 | June | Issue: 1 | Title: THE NEW VOLUME THIRTY-TWO. | Author: Unknown]

THE NEW VOLUME THIRTY-TWO.
	June has come again and with its advent
many things transpire and many anniver-
saries are celebrated and also very many
weddings. It has been said, and we are
inclined to believe it is true, that there have
been more marriages solemnized this June,
1903, than ever before in any preceding
month of June. At any rate June is to
most people the favorite month of all the
months.
	Salt Lake City, the Mecca of the West,
puts on its best and most becoming attire
in June, roses in the hedges, roses by the
wayside, roses on the hill tops, in the gard-
en, on the lawns, wherever you turn,
are roses, roses for the sick and poor, in the
hospitals, the sickrooms and even the dead
are literally buried in roses.
	It was in the beautiful month of June
that our dear little paper, the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT, came into existence, and every
June since has added a year to its age. Now
it commences its thirty-second volume. In
that time much has been accomplished,
great changes have taken place in various
parts of the world; certainly progress has
been made along many lines of thought and
action in our own and other lands.
	The cause of woman has grown wider,
larger and stronger since that first issue of
the paper in June 1872. Development on a
large scale has manifested itself and the
EXPONENT has been helpful in its advance-
ment of breadth and culture. Especially
has this been so in the establishment and
extension of the Relief Society, the greatest
organization of women in all the world. In
its pages from first to last the history of this
society is given, much of it in detail.
	The biographies of the greatest women
in the Church are recorded in its columns;
and short stories, (true ones) poems and
essays, written by the sisters young and
old, express with more or less exactness the
sentiment and feeling pervading the home
life of the women of the Church, also rem-
iniscences and experiences of the early days
of the Latter-day Saints.
	It cannot be amiss to say that this little
paper has been a household help that it has
come into the home with words of good
cheer, with the spirit of peace, bringing
encouragement to the weary, stimulating
the faith of the weak and urging them to
the performance of everyday duties.
	The EXPONENT has been a messenger of
the Gospel to those afar off, telling the
wondrous truths of salvation in simple lan-
guage, easily understood, explaining wom-
an’s work in the home, with the children,

[Column 2]
teaching lessons of love and devotion, vir-
tue and goodness in simplicity with earnest-
ness and sincerity, that cannot fail to reach
the hearts of those who peruse its pages
from time to time
	The EXPONENT has always been kept
free from details of sin and crime. It has
striven for a higher plane of thought and
purity of purpose.
	It is greatly to be desired by those inter-
ested in the best welfare of the work of the
Relief Society that those who are engaged
in promoting its interests will try to in-
crease the circulation of the EXPONENT in
order that it may be more independent and
self-supporting, and that its outward appear-
ance may be materially improved. All
these things require money and the sisters[-]
if they realize the importance of a paper of
their own, which stands for the best ideals
and principles, should be anxious to have a
magazine which they would be proud to
send out to the people as an evidence of
good taste and business ability, filled with
truth and messages of love and good will
and enlightenment to women of the world.
	May the year be a prosperous one, sub-
scriptions so increase that there will be no
occassion to plead for better support for the
paper that stands for the women of Zion,
proclaiming truth and righteousness and
every principle that tends to a higher and
better life in the home, the State and the
nation and especially in the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints.


[Column 1]
