General Conference of Relief Society By Amy Brown Lyman. The semi-annual Conference of the Relief Society was held Wednesday and Thursday, October 3 and 4. 1917. A change was made in the order of Conference meeting's, the two officers' meetings being held the first day of the Conference, and the regular sessions the second day. The officers' meetings were held in the Bishop's Building on October 3, and the general sessions were held in the Assembly Hall October 4. Four special genealogical meetings were held at 4:30 p. m. on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday. A reception for all stake officers and delegates was held in the Hotel Utah, on Wednesday, October 4, when the members of the General Board acted as hostesses. All of the regular and special meetings were well attended. On Wednesday and Thursday, a cafeteria luncheon was served to the out-of-town representatives, by the General Board. At the opening officers' meeting, there were 296 representatives in attendance and in the afternoon 294. At the general session on Wednesday morning, in the Assembly Hall, there were 1,256 in attendance: in the afternoon of the same day the number reached 1,450. Roll call at the officers' meeting showed the following official representation: General Board members, 20; stakes represented, 61  1-0 by stake presidents and 23 by other officers; there were beside these 47 stake counselors, two mission presidents. 19 stake secretaries and 12 stake treasurers in attendance while 12 stakes were not represented. The missions represented were the Central States. Eastern States, Northwestern States. California, and Western States. The music of the Conference was under the direction of the General Chorister Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, with Miss Edna Corav at the organ. At the officers' meetings, there was conerre- 
 gational singing. In the general sessions, the Relief Society choir furnished all the numbers excepting one. A special feature was the singing by the choir of the New Freedom song, the words of which were composed by one of our Relief Society women, Mrs. Lucy A. Clark, and the music by Prof. Evan Stephens. Dr. Worley sang a tenor solo, "Comfort Ye." from the "Messiah."' As the audience was leaving the Assembly Hall, at the last session, the choir sang "The Star Spangled Banner." GENERAL OFFICERS' MEETINGS. Morning Session. President Wells was absent on the opening day of the Conference, due to a slight coil. hut was in attendance at the general meeting's on the second day. In the absence of President Wells. Counselor Clarissa Smith Williams presided at the officers' meetings. She expressed regret over the illness of the President, and in behalf of the President and the General Board extended a hearty welcome to those in attendance. The first speaker was Counselor Julina P. Smith who gave an account of the Burial Clothes Department of the Relief Society. She stated that the department has been enlarged and now occupies the suite of rooms formerly used by the First Presidency and known as the President's Office. Mrs. Smith invited the stake officers present to visit the department between the hours of four and six of each day of the general Conference. Reports were given by representatives from the Northwestern States Mission, the Pastern States Mission, and the following stakes: Marico Rear River and St. George. Mrs. Melvin J. Ballard, President of the Relief Societies in the Northwestern States, with headquarters at Portland, reported the Societies in her mission as being in a flourishing condition. There are in all 2 branches, with a membership of 838. Some of the officers are new converts to the "Mormon" Church, but are rapidly becoming acquainted with the methods of conducting the work of the Relief Society. Mrs. Ballard spoke very highly of the Relief Society Magazine, stating that it is a real inspiration to those who are away from home. She expressed an appreciation for the visits of the ciencral Hoard members to her mission. She urged the mothers to strive diligently to teach the gospel to the boys and girls so that when they are called to go upon missions they will be well prepared for the work. Miss Margaret Edward, who was until her release, president of the Eastern States Relief Societies, gave a very inter GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 667 crying" account of conditions on the Atlantic coast. Miss Edward made a plea for the arrangement of a special course of study for the missions. Conditions are very different in the mission field from what they are at home and a set of outlines particularly fitted to the missions would he greatly appreciated. One of the interesting features of Miss Edward's report was that the charity work in the Eastern States is done on the unit plan. There is one general charity fund which is used wherever there is need for it, thus the branches who have no needy assist those which are less fortunate. The subject of genealogy has been taken up with a great deal of interest and the missionary girls have made it a point to visit the genealogical libraries to do research work. Miss Edward suggested that an exchange be established between the Societies in the East and those at home, that the women in the East might do research work for Western women in exchange for temple service. Mrs. Bertha E. Wright. President of the New York City Society, stated that the cramped flat life at the big Eastern cities keeps the women from a practical knowledge of real home life with all its variations, and being so far away from the Church itself they do not enjoy the man}- advantages offered for Church work. Many difficulties beset the Relief Society president in a city so large as New York. One of the most inconvenient things is the great distance to be traveled by the members in attending meetings, and the cost of carfare, the latter usually amounting to twenty cents. Mrs. Wright herself spends one and one-half hours each way on street cars in attending a Relief Society meeting. For these reasons meetings are held only once in two weeks. Another difficulty is that members are largely transient, and still another is the adapting of the regular course of study to the classes. Mrs. Wright felt that if the members in the mission field had as good an opportunity as the members at home the results might be as satisfactory. She expressed an earnest desire to be of service in the Relief Society cause. Mrs. Emma Rollins. Secretary of the Maricopa stake Relief Society, told of the work in her district. She said that as a rule the summer work of the Society is not as intensive as that of the cooler months, but during the past summer, not only the regular work has been done but a good deal of additional work for the Red Cross. One emergency hospital was equipped by the combined women of Mesa, in addition to the doings of a great deal of hand work. Mrs. Rollins spoke of the benefits of the cotton industry recently established near Mesa, that one company alone has 10,000 acres of cotton under cultivation. Some interesting" information  was given with regard to the Papago 
 Indian Relief Society of the Maricopa stake. The work in this branch is mainly along practical lines. Cooking and sewing are taught and as a result the women are making comfortable clothing, quilts, etc. All material tor practice work is furnished by the stake board and whenever possible the young Indian women, who have been educated at the Indian school at Phoenix, are secured for teachers. Margaret W. Manning, President of the Bear River stake Relief Society, reported that during the last season the attendance in her stake has been a little over one-half of the membership. She when spoke all those of the goldstake in the folks" over socials  and given by the Relief the widows Society and widowers were guests of the Relief Society. Conservation work has received a great deal of attention in the stake; gleaning parties have been very popular. Each woman in the stake has promised It. donate to the Relief Society one pound of beans or its equivalent, and also dried vegetables and fruits. The St. George stake was reported by the President, Emily (' Brooks. She expressed her appreciation for the educational value of the Relief Society work, stating that the work 'does more for the individual than the individual does for the work. Mrs. Brooks reported that the women in her Society have worked incessantly all summer in the interest of production and preservation of food, and as a result a large quantity of fruit and vegetables has been stored. Mrs. Brooks spoke very enthusiastically of the benefits derived from the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE low to Increase membership in the Relief Society," was the subject of an address by Miss Sarah Eddington. Miss Eddington urged a membership campaign for the coming winter. She stated that out of the 75,000 adult women in the various stakes, irrespective of those of the missions, 43.85M only are members of the Relief Society. The membership should be increased, she declared, in order that the work might be made a part of the lives of all the women in the Church. She stated that the first requirement for successful work is leadership. In order to attain this the officers must have spiritual preparation and a practical knowledge of the affairs of the Society. officers should seek first the kingdom of God and ask for wisdom and enlightenment. They should adopt the advice of Dr. Karl G. Maeser: "I will be what I would have my followers be. No one will be more exacting of me than f will be exacting of myself." No officer can give inspiration unless she is on the tiring line. When an officer fails in her duty, part of the illumination is turned off. There is plenty of material for increased membership GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 669 and plenty of interesting work outlined for study, two factors which should increase the organization fully lOO^ . With a view of increasing the membership, Miss Eddington suggested than an enlistment committee be appointed whose duty it should be to work actively to secure new members for the Society. All women residing in the ward who are not members of the Relief Society should be visited personally. They should be invited to join the Society, and it should be explained to them that their services are needed in the work. The Relief Society needs every mature woman in the Church to help carry on the work, and the women themselves need the help and inspiration that is attained through association in the Relief Society. A personal appeal is often very effective. The courses of study for the guide work should be made attractive. In the first place teachers should be selected who are specially interested in the various lines of work, and who are willing to make the necessary preparation to present the lessons intelligently. It is impossible for the best teacher, even a professional teacher, to get good results from presenting a lesson with which he is not familiar. It is, therefore, highly important that our teachers should he thoroughly prepared. An effort should be made to secure for class work the services of educated women where possible as they understand teaching methods. The charity work in the Relief Society is one of the most important features and is very attractive to the large majority of women. Counselor Clarissa S. Williams spoke on the subject of "Relief Society work and war problems in the Relief Society." She stated that although it is only six months since war was declared there is hardly a home in Utah which has not opened its doors to send some member to take part in the conflict, and conditions now face us which we once thought were impossible. The greatest factor for practical help in this world emergency is the Red Cross organized by the Government for war service. The speaker called attention to the fact that Ex-president Taft, Chairman of the Red Cross Central Committee, reports that thousands of sheets, pillow-cases, mufflers, sweaters and helmets are badly needed by the Red Cross, to say nothing of bandages and surgical dressing's. Mrs. Williams declared that the women of the Relief Society will be privileged to give and to work to their utmost capacity. Two branches of relief work taken up by the Red Cross are military Relief and civilian relief. The department of military relief is designed to furnish aid to the sick and wounded of the army and navy. The department of civilian relief is designed to carry on a system of relief among the families and dependents 
 of soldiers and sailors and other non-combatants during the war, and to mitigate suffering caused by national calamities, such a pestilence famine, fire, floods, etc. The Relief Society has already done much work along lines of military relief, and as the war progresses the Society will, no doubt, become active in civilian relief work. All work that is taken up by the Red Cross must be done according to the official plans. Therefore, the women who direct the civilian relief work must receive special training. In all probability the mountain division will establish an institute for study of home service work at the University, where representatives will be sent from the county Chapters to take the course. Relief Society women being long experienced in neighborhood relief work will make very good helpers in the civilian relief department. They have been trained in charitable work since 1842, and have reached a great degree of efficiency. These women should stand solidly behind this movement, as in such service even more than any other war work they may prove the value of their previous training. Mrs. Williams commended the work of the Relief Society along the lines of conservation during the Summer months, and stated that the call would still be sounded for the saving of every morsel of bread, fats and other foods. The suffering in the world, she declared is not all talk, and she closed by urging the women to donate both their time and their means to assist the nation in the great struggle for liberty. WEDNESDAY, OCT. 4. 1917. Afternoon Session. After the devotional exercises, the following announcements were made by the General Secretary, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman: Stake Reorganizations. Salt Lake Stake, reorganized May 5. 1 ' >1 7, with Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford as president, to fill the vacancy made by the resignation of Mrs. Hattie C. Jensen. St. Joseph Stake, reorganized June 6, 1917, with Mrs. Sarah E. Moody as president, to fill the vacancy made by the resignation of Mrs. Elizabeth W. Lay ton. Raft River Stake, reorganized September 18, 1917, with Mrs. Cclia Harper as president, to fill the vacancy made by the resignation of Mrs. Lucy Eames. Millard Stake, reorganized August 11, 1917, with Mrs. Susan Thompson as president, to fill the vacancy made by the resignation Mrs. Adeline B. Smith. Juarez Stake, reorganized May 22, 1917, with Mrs. Fanny C. Harper as president. GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 671 New Stake Organized. Tintic Stake, organized April 22, 1917, with Mrs. Elizabeth Boswell as president. Slake Conferences. Mrs. Lyman announced that the Conferences for the near by stakes which are held independently of the quarterly Conferences, would occur in November. The presidents of these stakes were asked to set their own dates for Conferences during this month and to report the same immediately to the General Office. Annual Reports. Attention was called to the fact that report forms will be sent out to the stakes on November 15. Stake presidents were urged to see that the ward report forms are in the hands of the ward secretaries as early as possible, and to impress upon the ward secretaries the importance of attending to their work promptly. Teachers' Books. The stake presidents were asked to see that the organization of teachers' districts is completed in order that they might be able to report, upon request, the number of teachers' books required for 1918. Mrs. Lyman spoke on the subject of Liberty Bonds, stating that the nation is in need of men, munitions and money, but at the present moment the greatest need is money. She enumerated the many things that have already been accomplished since war was declared, and stated that much additional work must be done. Of the two methods of raising money, national borrowing is the most satisfactory to the majority of the people, rather than by direct taxation. Mrs. Lyman emphasized the fact that it is a loan the Government is asking for, and not a gift, and that plans are arranged whereby small wage-earners may take bonds. The money invested is absolutely safe and the market value of the bonds is always good. The Government plan and the installment plan were explained and the women were invited to make an effort to assist in this undertaking by the nation to raise funds. According to the announcement in the program, this session of the Conference was devoted to a general discussion on Relief Society problems, led by Counselor Clarissa S. Williams. The officers had been asked in the morning meeting to hand in questions for discussion, and these, with impromptu questions, were profitably discussed. GENERAL MEETINGS. Morning Session. President Emmeline B. Wells presided at the general sea- 
 sions of the Conference. The time of these sessions was devoted to short addresses by members of the General Board. In her Opening remarks. President Wells expressed her gratitude in being permitted to be in attendance at the general i seetings of the Conference. She spoke of the wonderful events happening in the world today, not dreamed of by the majority of mankind, and of the tears of sorrow which are being shed in all countries. She urged the Relief Society women to pray and work, and to strive to live up to their highest ideals, in order to be able to endure the trials which are to come. Counselor Clarissa S. Williams commented on the wonderful work of the women of the Society during the last six month-. along the line of food production and conservation, and predicted thai there is still much work to be done. Mrs. Williams spoke of the Temple Penny Fund collected by the women of the Relief Society to assist in the completion of the Hawaiian and Canadian temples, and recently presented to the First Presidency of the Church. The fund was suggested a little over a year ago, by Mrs. Susa Young Gates, and arranged for by the Genealogical Committee under the direction of the General Board. It was raised by subscription of a penny a week by Relief Society women, and amounted to the astounding total of $12,072.33 Mis. Williams read the following letter from the First President gift and expressing heartfelt appreciation dency, for it: acknowledging Salt Lake City. Utah. Oct. 1. 1917. The Presidency and General Board of the National Woman's Relief Society. Salt Lake City. Utah. Dear Sisters: It is with more than ordinary pleasure that we acknowledge in writing the receipt of your check for $12,- 072.33, representing donations from the Relief Societies in all the stakes of Zion for the benefit of the Canadian and Hawaiian Temples, collected through what is designated as the "Penny Temple Fund," and you will find enclosed a formal receipt for the same. In accepting this good gift we desire to express our high appreciation of it and to thank the donors, one and all. Our thanks arc also tendered to those who conceived the happy idea. as well as to those who carried it out. and achieved such splendid results. Your Brethren. Joseph F. Smith, Antiion H. Lund. Charles W. Penrosk. First Presidency. GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 673 Counselor Julina L. Smith spoke of the great responsibility resting on mothers in the matter of rearing children and directing their courses in life. She deprecated the fact that young girls are allowed to go about unprotected and unchaperoned, and stated that Latter-day Saint women who are careless in this fact are failing in their duties. She referred to the sad conditions existing on account of the war, and spoke words of comfort to the mothers, whose sons have gone to the front, expressing the hope that their boys will return unharmed from the ordeal. Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman attributed the marvelous amount of work accomplished by the Relief Society to the fact that the women are absolutely loyal, that they are united in their efforts, and that they forget themselves in the work for a cause. The regular work of the organization has all been well done, nothing has been neglected, and in addition, much creditable work has been done for the war. Mrs. Lyman stated that war work for the organization for the coming year, would probably include civilian relief work. She urged that the women learn to conserve their own strength in order to accomplish big things, watching out for three signals of overwork  worry, nagging-, and bossing. Mrs. Susa Young Gates endorsed the suggestions of the Presidency to pray and work and to take care of the boys and girls. She elaborated on the thought of conserving strength and the avoidance of unnecessary worry. She appealed to the mothers to write letters to their own sons and to the sons of other mothers; not to preach too much to them; not to worry or nag them; but to influence them by kindly sympathy. She felt that everybody should strive for that broad sympathy and generous love, that spiritual insight, all of which help people to appreciate and understand each other. Mrs. Emma A. Empey spoke of the Relief Society Nurse School, and the part the Relief Society nurse will necessarily play under the present conditions when the supply of nurses for home purposes is depleted by the sending of the most ancient women to the front. Dr. Romania B Penrose urged her hearers to take the greatest care of their daughters, to preserve them, for they are to be the women of tomorrow. She made a plea for girls to have the opportunity to take up studies which have for their object the preservation of life and health. Tn order to develop properly, girls need responsibility, and should be taught to share the responsibility of the mother in the home. She asked everybody to unite in prayer for the safety of the boys who have gone to war, that they may be preserved from wickedness and sin. Mrs. Emily S. Richards stated that in the present national 
 crisis, women must learn to be brave and to Stand all tribulation with the courage of soldiers. She made a plea for the young people who falter by the wayside and urged Relief Society women to help them Up and to be an inspiration toward advancement. Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry said the shadow of war must presuppose a glorious light: that the women present must remember that every boy going to the war would go with his mother's prayer for his safe return, and that faith and prayer would count even in the height of conflict. She quoted Charles Frohman's characterization of death as life's greatest adventure, an 1 said that it is not the end. and the boys carrying the standard of their faith to the field are serving under the banner of glory. She asked the mothers to put their faith in the Lord, emphasizing the fact that the Lord will never desert any mother who appeal to him afternoon Session. Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas was the first speaker at the afternoon session. She spoke of the value of time, saying that there will come a day when every idle moment must he accounted for. Those who improve their time and talents in righteous doing will he added upon and glorified before the great Maker. Mrs. Rebecca \. Nibley was very emphatic in urging u|>on the audience the importance of prayer  both secret prayer and family prayer. She felt that when the family unite in bowing before the Lord to ask for his assistance, the children will be Strengthened in their faith and protected from harm. Mrs. Nibley spoke briefly on the subject of charity and forgiveness; no man is great in his own strength and he has no right to judge others. She asked that we sympathize with those who arc tempted beyond endurance, and be merciful to them. If the Lord in his superior greatness and perfection can forgive the sinner, how necessary it is that man in his weakness and ignorance should forgive his fellowmen. If we would heed the advice of the Sou when he said. "Let him who is without sin among you, cast the fust stone," much of the sorrow and suffering in the world would be done away with. Miss Edna May Davis spoke on the qualification of the Relief Society visitor, emphasizing the importance of optimism and good cheer. The Relief Society worked should look after the large and important things in life: they should seek good in others and strive to uphold character. Miss Sarah M. McLelland paid a tribute to the Prophet Joseph Smith, declaring that women of the nation are indebted to him for bis stand with regard to her cruel rights with men. She cited the fact that K'O years ago, not a college of the country GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 675 would open its doors to women, and declared it to be a common belief in the Orient that woman's only hope lay in the fact that she might be reincarnated a man. She also pai 1 tribute to the wonderful influence of women in the homes of the nation, and declared that mothers sending their sons into military service should be proud of the fact that they had boys sufficiently valiant to stand up for the right. Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon spoke on the unconscious radiation of personality; the honest, sincere, kindly, helpful individual creates an atmosphere for good wherever she goes and is unconsciously an inspiration to ail with whom she comes in contact. She asked the women to cultivate trust, simplicity, loyalty, sympathy and honesty, that through these traits they might be a power for good in the world. Mrs. Janette A. Hyde declared that mothers are not alone responsible for the conduct of their children, but that on the father rests equal responsibility. Parents are by no means always to blame for their children's waywardness, for human beings reared under exactly the same conditions with equal opportunity do not all benefit equally by such privileges. Mrs. Hyde thanked the women for their hearty support of the Relief Society Magazine, and asked for continued support during the coming year. Miss Sarah Eddington stated that the hours of Gethsemane that come to human beings but help them to understand more clearly the Savior's hour in the garden. Miss Lillian Cameron spoke of the blessings derived from the unselfish work done by the Relief Society, and urged the utilization of the younger women of the Church in the organization work. Dr. Margaret C. Roberts, teacher of the Relief Society Nurse School, made a plea for generosity and a helping hand for the wayward. She stated that the most glorious principle of the gospel is forgiveness. A feature of the afternoon session was the presentation by the choir members of a handsome bouquet of chrysanthemums to President Emmeline B. Wells. Mrs. Wells acknowledged the gift with appropriate words of gratitude. In her closing remarks, Mrs. Wells stated that the Saints had passed through all sorts of tribulations and that the present war crisis was no harder to endure than were the sad hours at Nauvoo. She urged her hearers to be faithful and true to their religion which she characterized as being more precious than jewels and all of the riches in the world. 
 RELIEF SOCIETY GENEALOGICAL MEETINGS. The opening meeting of the four genealogical sessions held during the October conference by the Genealogical Committee of the Relief Society and the representatives from all the stakes of Zion, was carried forward as a discussion and problem meeting. The subject of stake problems was dealt with by Mrs. Lottie Paul Baxter, President of the Liberty stake Relief Society, who took the negative side of the question, giving a clear, definite resume of the difficulties met by the genealogical class leaders in the wards. She was followed by Mrs. Jessie Penrose Jones, first counselor of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society, who gave an excellent talk on the affirmative side of this problem. She made a number of valuable suggestions in the handling of the difficult subject of study. Mrs. Nellie T. Taylor spoke interestingly and enthusiastically of the ward problems, taking as her subject, "How the Study of Genealogy can be made Profitable and Pleasant by Ward Class Leaders." The services were conducted by Mrs. Susa Young Gates, chairman of the Genealogical Committee of the General Board, and the general discussion which followed was lively an. I profitable. Thursday afternoon the meeting was conducted by Mrs. Susa Young Gates. Miss Lillian Cameron opened with prayer. The lesson was given by Mrs. Donnette Smith Kesler on "Race History in Ancient Times." The speaker followed the line of descent from Adam through Seth. Abraham and Israel. The Ten Tribes in their migrations were dwelt upon, with the breaking off of the people of Jared, of Lehi and of Zarahemla. This lesson is given in the November number of the Relief Society Magazine, as a part of the course. President Emmeline B. Wells came into the meeting and listened attentively, and with keen appreciation, to all that was said. Within six months of her 90th birthday this remarkable woman set an example to all the women of the Relief Society, of the possibilities of continued growth and acquisition of knowledge as long as life lasts in the human frame. She dismissed the meeting in clear, ringing tones, and pronounced beautiful blessings upon those present and upon the cause of genealogy and its study by all the Relief Society members. She was present at all the succeeding meetings and gave close attention to the lesson work which was given. Friday afternoon the meeting was conducted by Miss Lillian GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 677 Cameron, and it was opened by President Emmeline B. Wells with prayer. The lesson on "Race Beginnings in Europe," was given by Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman who dwelt upon the incursions of the Teutonic hordes, following them down through their various subtribes to the time of William the Conqueror and his conquest of Great Britain. At this meeting the splendid Granite Stake Relief Society choir was in attendance, under the baton of Mrs. Lucy May Green, accompanied by Mrs. Ida Home White. The choir gave two charming selections from the cantata, "The Open Door," written by Mrs. Lucy May Green and Mrs. Ida Home White, in collaboration, both music and words, under the suggestive inspiration of the Granite Stake Relief Society president, Mrs. Leonora T. Harrington. This choir also furnished music for the following day at the same time and place. Saturday afternoon the convention was conducted by Mrs. Donnette Smith Kesler and the opening number was a duet from the cantata, sung by Sisters Green and White. Prayer was offered by Sister Melissa Summerhays. "Surname Beginnings" was the title of the lecture given by Mrs. Susa Young Gates, placing the origin of surnames in the Domesday Book and Battle Abbey Rolls, through the various developments into surnames, place-names, trade-names, occupation names, and nick names. A roll of the stakes was called at this meeting by the General Secretary, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, which showed a representative present from twenty-eight stakes. The Granite Stake choir sang another extract from the cantata, "Blessed is he that Considered the Poor," after which the congregation joined in singing the "Doxology." The benediction was offered by President Emmeline B. Wells. The attendance was excellent, the attention was good, and great, benefit was derived from these meetings. OUR PICTURE GALLERY We present to our readers, as our frontispiece, the seven presidents of the Salt Lake valley stakes: Salt Lake, Pioneer, Liberty, Ensign, Granite, Cottonwood and Jordan. These are truly