[Vol2 | June 1915 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Current Topics | Title: Current Topics — James H. Anderson,]
Current Topics. By James H. Anderson. During the first four months of 1915, 60,000 tons of Canadian made steel rails were brought into the United States duty-free. Canada places a duty of $7.84 per ton on steel rails from this country. Herr Steffens, a German inventor, noting that present European conditions had limited the supply of lubricating oil in Germany, says he has discovered a method of making lubricating oil from molasses. "Sweet are the uses of adversity." Another terrific wind and rain storm took a large toll of deaths and destruction of property in Texas and Oklahoma on April 22. The "valleys of the mountains" are a desirable place of abode when compared with regions which are subject to such disastrous natural disturbances. The exhibition of the moving picture drama "Hypocrites" has been stopped in several States, and properly so. The film was presented in Salt Lake City for a week, without protest. Those who approve as permissible the "nude-in-art" in a moving picture film of an undraped woman show a lamentable lack of knowledge of youthful human nature. French and German antagonists in the European conflict each complain that the others are using nauseating asphyxiating bombs. These may be new to war, but they cannot be said to be more objectionable than the main game. To the neutral spectator it is a pity that the noxious gases do not reach the leaders who are responsible for the war rather than merely to the men in the trenches. Two Arizona officers have been jailed for murder, because one of the men to whom they administered the "third degree" in an effort to compel him to confess to a crime died under the treatment. The "third degree" process frequently applied by sheriffs and police officers to obtain confessions is quickly coming under the ban of an enlightened public sentiment. In an address at Phoenix. Arizona, Vice President Marshall made the statement that the Mormon Church was an efficient organization and that therein "the individual is subservient to the organization." Of course, in the United States and in all governments the individual is necessarily subservient to the organization to an extent that constitutes the public welfare; but a man of such
