[WomansExponent | Vol15 | 1886 | October | Issue: 9 | Title: EDITORIAL NOTES. | Author: the Prophecies of the Old and New Testa-]

	EDITORIAL NOTES.
	WE expect some notes , from the funeral ser-
vices of Mrs. King for the next number of the
paper.
	THE minutes of the Y. L. M. I. A. Conference

[Column Two]
of this Stake have not yet reached us, but will
likely be published in our next issue.

	"THE Final State of Mankind, as Demonstrated
by the Prophecies of the Old and New Testa-
ments, also the Book of Mormon and the Doc-
trine and Covenants of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints," by Elder John
Sears, is in pamphlet form, neatly gotten up, and
published by Joseph Hyrum Parry and Co. The
contents have been carefully examined by compe-
tent authority, we are informed by the author, and
webelieve it may do much good. It plainly sets
forth important truths, of which corroborative testi-
mony is given in the three books mentioned. Our
young people should take pains to gather such
information for their own benefit and the good of
others, that they may be able, when called upon,
to bring forth strong reasoning. This little work of
36 pages is excellent reading, and cannot fail to 
be interesting to all who delight in spiritual things
and in obtaining a knowledge of the dealings of
our Father in Heaven with His children. It opens 
with a poem by the author in five verses, which
gives an idea of the contents of the book, and is
very well and smoothly written. There is a neat,
well-written preface, in which he states that he
does not set himself up as a "teacher of some
newly discovered truths, but to place in a simple
and honest manner, those glorious principles em-
anating from the Fountain of Light, which he
trusts will have a tendency to illuminate the path
of those who may peruse it, opening up to their
minds the prospect of a happy future, and the
rich reward in store for those who serve God and
keep His commandments while passing through 
this state of probation."
	WE have received, with the compliments of C. 
R. Savage of the Art Gallery in this city, a very
handsome little book, entitled, "In Memoriam"—
Helen Hunt Jackson (H. H. ) It is printed on
exquisitely fine paper and tied with white ribbon.
It looks outside like an emblem of purity, and it
contains in its leaves a picture of the lady herself,
though it is not half so good looking as Mrs.
Jackson—she was a magnificent woman in person-
al appearance—and a picture of her grave at Pine
Hill Forest in the Cheyenne Mountains, another 
of the Cheyenne Mountain near Colorado Springs
and the late residence of this celebrated author.
The description of the place was written by Mr. 
Crawford, and is in the most beautiful language,
but as we have already published two or three
descriptions of her resting place from different 
writers, we will only select the closing lines from
her own gifted pen:

	"Dear hearts whose love has been so sweet to know,
	That I am looking backward as I go.
	Am lingering while I haste, and in this rain
	Of tears of joy am mingling tears of pain;
	Do not adorn with costly shrub or tree,
	Or flower, the little grave which shelters me.
	Let the wild, wind-sown seeds grow up unharmed,
	And back and forth all summer unalarmed,
	Let all the tiny, busy creatures creep;
	Let the sweet grass its last year's tangles keep;
	And when remembering me you come some day,
	And stand there, speak no praise, but only say,
	'How she loved us! It was for that she was so dear;
	These are the only words that I shall smile to hear."

	TUESDAY, September 21st, the Y. L. M. I. A.
of Union Ward held their annual meeting, Mrs.
Sarah Buxton presiding, assisted by her Counsel-
ors, Mrs. Della Brady and Miss Mary L. Charles.
After singing, prayer and singing, the Secretary,
Miss A. M. E. B. Sharp read the minutes of the 
organization, and the statistical and financial re-
port for the two years past, it being a complete
report since the date of its organization. The
showing was very good both in the interest of im-
provement and practical benevolent work. The
Secretary also read written resignations from the
Assistant Secretary and Treasurer, who were no


longer able, on accout of circumstances, to fill the
positions, and Mrs. E. B. Sharp was appointed
Assistant Secretary, and Miss Ellen C. Anderson
Treasurer, which made the organization again
complete. A mannscript paper, called "The Well
Wisher." Vol. 2, No. 10, was read by Mrs. Sarah
Forbush. It contained some good articles, and
was well read, followed by a recitation, "The Gam-
bler's Wife," by Laura Thayne; essay, "Obedi-
ence to Parents," by Ellen C. Anderson; singing
by the choir, "Utah, the Queen of the West;"
recitation, Martha Brady, a poem by Mrs. M. J.
Tanner, Dedicated to Mrs. Martha Nichols, and
published in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT of August
15th, 1886; Questions and Answers by Lillie Moul-
ton and Ellen Lundberg; select reading by Mrs.
Harriet Phillips, "Sketch of Amanda Smith;"
song, by Mary A. Ball and Mary Richards, "He
is Coming Home To-night;" essay, by Mrs. Mary
A. Smart, "The Life of Christ;" song by the
choir, "Beautiful Day." Prayer by Elder Charles
Sharp. Afternoon session: After the usual exer-
cises, the meeting was devoted to speaking, and
addresses were made by Mrs. E. B. Wells, Miss
Nellie Colebrook and Dr. Maggie C. Shipp of this
city, Mrs. Elizabeth Richards, Counselor Della
Brady, the Bishop's Counselor, Marian Brady and
Elder Charles Sharp; also President Sarah Bux-
ton. Meeting dismissed by Coun. M. Brady.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

