The L. D. S. Children's Hospital By Vera P. Wahlquist "That broken and twisted little bones may be straightened and, healed; that faltering little feet shall walk; that listless little hands shall wave; that dull eyes shall sparkle; that cries of pain shall be turned into glad song and laughter; to that end and to the children themselves this hospital is dedicated." HE L. D. S. Children's Hospital, the pioneer institution of its kind in the state of Utah, had its beginning in 1911. Inspiration for such a movement grew out of some surprising and pathetic conditions referred to the Primary General Board. This institution is maintained by an unusually unique plan. During the months of March, April and May every person in the Church, both old and young, is invited to contribute one penny for each year of his age. These contributions are called "birthday pennies." This annual collection, together with special donations of food, clothing, etc., from the various ward and stake organizations, make possible the continuation of this free hospital service. From 1911 to May, 1922, before the Convalescent Hospital was established, 52 cases were given treatment in the Dr. Groves L. D. S. Hospital. During the following eight months, from May to Dec., 1922, 53 applications were made and the necessary treatment rendered. I 1923, the first complete year in our report, 82 cases were recorded. All of them, except one, were successfully treated for the following ailments: Osteomelitus, (bone trouble), 21; Hip Trouble, 9; Infantile Paralysis, 14; Spinal Abnormality, 6; Tonsil Infection, 5; Heart Trouble, 3; Club Feet, 4; Lung Trouble, 1; Accidents, 1: Wry-Neck, 1. The one exception was a case of too long standing previous to hospital registration. Up until November, 1930, over one thousand children have received professional assistance in The L. D. S. Children's Hospital, at a total cost of $178,250.03. During the current year $18,269.38 has been contributed for the maintenance of this institution, by our Primary Associations. L. D. S. CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL 19 TT General Board is especially grateful to everyone that has helped to make this undertaking a success. Although the hospital can comfortably accommodate but twenty-five children, an average of forty is the regular registration. While the institution was established primarily to care for Primary children whose parents cannot meet the financial obligation, its hospitality is extended to all who are in need of such care. When the capacity permits, remunerative cases are also accepted. "The majority of patients are brought to Salt Lake City and taken to the Dr. Groves L. D. S. Hospital for major operations, then are moved to the Children's Hospital for convalescence. Minor operations are performed at the Children's Hospital. Leading physicians and surgeons give their service free of charge. Where it is possible patients are taken care of in hospitals established in their own communities. In such cases, bills for room rent, operating services, etc., are sent to and paid for by the General Primary Association." Registration of Cases Bc a child can be placed as a Primary Association patient in any hospital, the following preliminaries must 'be made: 1. The case must be thoroughly diagnosed by a competent physician to see if the condition is remedial. (Feebleminded, epileptic, contagious and incurable cases cannot be considered. ) 2. A hospital blank must be secured from the office of the General Primary Board, filled out and forwarded to that office if possible before the child arrives. However, emergency cases may be received without it. 3. A letter announcing the time of the child's expected arrival should be sent to the General Office. 4. The child, together with the blank properly filled out, should be brought to the General Office. This blank should be signed by the Ward Primary Superintendent, the Ward Bishop and the President of the Stake. If convenient, the Stake Superintendent of the Primary Association should sign it also; if not, she should be given the necessary information regarding the child that she may keep in touch with it and have a complete record of all children who receive help from the L. D. S. Children's Hospital. The Sunny Side A LITTLE boy five years old had cataracts on both eyes. He had never seen a ray of sunshine; not even his mother's face. After one operation by a competent physician, his sight was restored. The grateful mother, with tear dimmed eyes, said it~ was like a miracle, almost too good to be true. Before coming to the hospital, he was cross and fretful; afterward, he showed symptoms of a cheerful disposition. Another boy, eleven years of age, had not walked since babyhood. He crept on his knees around the house. Whenever he desired to go some distance, his older brother carried him on his back. An operation was performed on his legs and after being in a cast for six months, he could stand upon his feet. Later by the use of braces he walked with crutches. A tiny girl eight years of age, had not been able to go to school because of cataracts on her eyes. After the second operation, she, too, could see. She visited all the other children of the hospital and related 20 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to them the good news. With her rosy face beaming with joy, she told them that on that day she had seen her first airplane. On Christmas after she returned home, she called on the Bishop of her ward and the Superintendent of the Primary to thank them for signing the application. The Superintendent of the Primary Association said that the child's expression of gratitude to her was the best Christmas present she had ever received. 'The little girl also wrote to the General Board to thank them for what had been done for her. Amid all her rejoicing she did not forget to say, "Thank you" to her Father in Heaven. Educational Opportunities FA year these boys and girls have the opportunity of pursuing their regular school work under the direction of the Salt Lake City Schools. Thrcough the kind cooperation of Superintendent G. N. Child, every possible educational advantage is offered to the patients of the Primary Hospital. Not all of these children are handicapped to the extent that they cannot attend school. Such cases are enrolled either in the grades of the Lafayette School or the classes of the West Junior High School. Little children who are too seriously afflicted to go to these schools are taught at the Hospital by an especially appointed teacher of the Salt Lake Schools. During the past year, each child completed the standardized course of study for his particular grade, and in each instance, at the close of the school year, a certificate of promotion was presented. This seems an unusual achievement for children who are so physically handicapped. It also bespeaks words of praise for those loyal teachers who so efficiently carried on this work. "Red Letter' Days HROUGH the efforts of the Granite Stake Primary under the direction of Sister Josephine G. Goff, a moving picture machine was installed by an enthusiastic patron, Mr. David Neff. The splendid work begun by Sister Goff was later continued by Sister Margaret Jensen. As a result of this interest in the happiness of the children at the Hospital, a film has been presented each week by one of our local picture houses. In most instances the pictures have been attractive and of a character promoting nature. Once each year the children of the Hospital are given a day's outing at one of our parks. On this occasion the Police Department of Salt Lake City offers ambulance service for the transportation of the most seriously afflicted ones. In fact, at any time this service is at the disposal of those who have these children in charge. The Primary Board greatly appreciates the willing cooperation of this department. Religious Training HE children's auxiliary organizations of the Seventeenth Ward of Salt Lake City, help, too, in bringing sunshine to the lives of these unfortunate boys and girls. Every Sunday morning some of the Sunday School officers and teachers conduct exercises for these children. The opportunity -to partake of the Sacrament is hereby afforded them. Under the untiring and capable leadership of Sister Rebecca Carr, Primary Superintendent of this ward, Primary is likewise brought L. D. S. CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL 744 to the Children's Hospital. The activities of this organization bring week day religious instruction, training in the fundamentals of health, and opportunities for appropriate leisure time activities, They are taught the common little courtesies of life, the gospel message in terms which their youthful minds can grasp, and how to offer up to their Father in Heaven their own little prayerful petitions. As a result of one type of leisure time instruction, one of the boys won two first prizes at the recent Utah State Fair. Our story would be incomplete without a word of commendation for the spiritual influence of those in charge of this institution. Each morning Miss Anna Rosenkilde, the Superintendent, asks the blessing on the food. At the noon and evening meals, she asks one of the children to offer thanks. At bedtime she gathers them all around her and calls upon one of the older ones to offer the goodnight prayer. Whenever a little child is seriously ill, Miss Rosenkilde calls Sister Carr. As soon as possible the Elders are summoned and accompanied very often by Sister Carr, herself, go to the bedside of the af. Flicted one. Sister Carr delights in serving these unfortunate children who always enlist her wholehearted sympathy and motherly affection. Again, when a patient is to be operated upon, Miss Rosenkilde sends the name to the Temple, and there in the special prayer circle in the House of the Lord, these sick children are remembered. This atmosphere of spirituality seems to be contagious, for very often a little child makes its own personal request for the administration of the Elders. One little girl who came from a Catholic family said, after her recovery, "I knew I'd be better for the good men laid their hands on my head and blessed me. How could I help but be well and strong again!" "Little bodies here are made Straight and strong and well, Little minds are taught to Know Truths the Gospel tells. Little hands learn how to do Many a useful thing. Little hearts and voices ever Songs of gladness sing."
