XVIII JANUARY, 1931 No. 1 EDITORIAL 1931 Welcome Cl bells are ringing out a requiem mass for the old year and a welcoming challenge to the new. Nineteen thirty with its joys and sorrows, its achievements and failures, has passed into history, and 1931, with its hopes and promises and possibilities is here. There is something sad in the passing of the old; there is something mystic in the birth of the new. W* send hearty good wishes and Happy New Year Greetings to all our officers, members. And magazine readers. We deeply appreciate the many greetings and good wishes we have received during the Holiday Season. It is sweet to be remembered and to know that there is a feeling of good will and fellowship existing between those who labor together in this great cause. The past year has seen much suffering. The way people have given of their time and money and substance to alleviate the hardships of the unemployed has shown that never heretofore were so many people socially minded, so deeply interested in the welfare of the unfortunate and needy. The largess has been unprecedented. Farmers, merchants, coal dealers, milk distributors, and bakers have given as never before to agencies for a wise distribution to the needy The employees of many firms have given a day's salary a month that work might be provided for the unemployed. Mayors, governors, congressmen, senators, the President of the United Editor Mary Connelly Kimball.  48 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE States, have been deeply concerned and anxious that public work be undertaken to lessen the suffering. Cities, counties and states have undertaken public improvements that work might be provided for the unemployed. Our Relief Society officers and members have worked more diligently than ever in helping the hard pressed. MAY the year which has just been ushered in bring a return to normalcy. May people learn through the pressure of the past few months to provide in the days of prosperity for the time of unemployment and sickness and financial depression. May all emerge from the clouds which have been so lowering into a saner and more stable way, of living. May your opportunities for service be greater than ever before and may your work be more efficiently done. May blessings unmeasured be yours. May your cup of joy be full. May peace and wisdom be your portion during 1931. Louise Y. Robison, Amy Brown Lyman, Julia A. Child, General Presidency of the Relief Society. Whitehouse Conference on Childhood Health and Protection THE United States is greatly blessed in having as its chief executive President Herbert Hoover, a man who is so vitally interested in human beings. His love for children is deep, and his interest in their welfare is one of his marked characteristics. Shortly after he became president, he announced that he would call a conference on child health and protection, with the object in view of finding out what ought to be done and the best way of doing it. At his call in 1929, the body met, and after several sessions adjourned to carry on a year's research. Twelve hundred experts have delved into the subject and in November, 1930, brought with them their printed report to the White House Conference on Child Health and Protection. For the use of this conference, foundations, educational institutions, and commissions have carried on investigations and have made surveys throughout the United States. This conference is not a governmental affair but is an unofficial service rendered in response to President Hoover's call. It is financed by funds given by those who, like the President, are interested in child welfare, and by grants from foundations and associations that are interested in child study. Secretary Wibur said these twelve hundred investigators are assembling all that it is possible to find out about children, to be sifted, sorted, and given back to those who have practical every-day dealings with them. President Hoover himself opened the White House Conference on Child Health and Protection. He said: FROM your explorations into the mental and moral endowment and opportunities of children will develop new methods to inspire their creative work and play, to substitute love and self discipline for the rigors of rule, to guide their recreations into wholesome channels, to steer them past the reefs of temptation, to develop their character and to bring them to adult age in tune with life, strong in moral fiber and prepared to play more happily their part in the productive tasks of society. "The problems of the child are not always the problems of the child alone. In the vision of the whole of our social fabric, we have loosened new ambitions, new energies; we have produced a complexity of life for which there is no precedent. 'With machines ever enlarging man's power and capacity, with electricity extending over the world its magic, with the air giving us a wholly new realm, our children must be prepared to meet entirely new contacts and new forces. They must be physically strong and mentally placed to stand up under the increasing pressure of life. Their problem is not alone one of physical health, but of mental, emotional and spiritual health. "These are the problems that I charge you to answer. This task that you have come here to perform has never been done before. These problems are not easily answered, they reach the very root of our national life. We need to meet them squarely and to accuse ourselves as frankly as possible, to see all the implications that trail in our wake, and to place the blame where it lies and set resolutely to attack it." President Hoover told the conference that the problem falls into three groups: "First, the protection and stimulation of the normal child; second, aid to the physically defective and handicapped child; third, the problems of the delinquent child." He said that of 45,000,000 children, 10,000,000 are deficient, with more than 80% of these not receiving the necessary attention, and that "we must get to the cause of their handicaps from the beginnings of their lives; we must not leave one of them uncared for." In dealing with the complex problems of the delinquent child, "we need to turn the methods of inquiry from the punishment of delinquency to the causes of delinquency. * * * It is not the delinquent child that is at the bar of judgment, but society itself.", * * * "Any labor which stunts growth, either physical or mental, that limits education, that deprives children of the right of comradeship, of joy and play, is sapping the next generation." * * "In the last half a century we have herded 50,000,000 more human beings into towns and cities, where the whole setting is new to the race. We have created highly congested areas with a thousand changes resulting in the swift transition from a rural and agrarian people to an urban, industrial nation. Perhaps the widest range of difficulties with which we are dealing in the betterment of children grows out of their crowding into cities." * * * "Problems of sanitation and public health loom in every direction. Delinquency increases with congestion. Overcrowding produces disease and contagion. The child's natural play place is taken from him. His mind is stunted by the lack of imaginative surroundings and lack of contact with the fields, streams, trees and birds. Home life becomes more difficult. Cheerless homes produce morbid minds. Our growth of town life unendingly imposes such problems as milk and food supplies, for we have shifted these children from a diet of 10,000 years' standing. ''Nor is the problem one solely of the city child. We have grave responsibilities to the rural child. Adequate expert service should be as EDITORIAL 49 50 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE available to him from maternity to maturity." LDER DAVID O. McKAY, on his return from the conference, said: "The conference fulfilled its purpose in bringing to the attention of the American people conditions that need remedying, but the great problem of how to do this is still unsolved. To translate theory into activity and practice is now the responsibility and duty of states and local communities. May these earnest seekers soon find the way to aid children whether they are normal, physically defective or delinquent, to a finer and fuller life. Man does not live to himself alone. He is part of the social order, '"'verily, he is his brother's keeper." His duty is to minister to his fellows. Now, however, people are realizing that it takes training to constructively help the unfortunate. Ofttimes, well-intentioned people have, in their methods of giving, hindered rather than helped. To lead people to help themselves is the keynote of modern social work. Many in the past have been pauperized by the methods used. He who would intelligently help the needy, the unfortunate, the afflicted, should have an understanding heart, a deep sympathy, ability to make a correct diagnosis, and ability to keep things to himself. One Hundred Years "One Hundred Years" briefly crystalizes in permanent form the achievements of the century that began April 6, 1830, and closed April 6, 1930. The following subjects are treated: "The First Century of the Restoration," "Why We Build Temples," "Centennial Conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints," "The Message of the Ages," "The Relief Society of the Church," "Latter-day Saint Sunday Schools,' "Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association," "Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association,' "The Primary Association," "Latter-day Saint Missions," "Community Life Among the Latter-day Saints," "Latter-day Saint Women", "Outstanding Events of the Century," ""How Centennial News was Circulated." Excerpts from addresses delivered by the First Presidency, Council of the Twelve, and Patriarch at the Centennial Conference and a few excerpts from newspaper editorials are also included. The book is a fine example of the printer's art and is beautifully illustrated. George D. Pyper, under whose able editorship it was issued must feel delighted with the outcome of his efforts. This souvenir will be treasured in the homes of the Latter-day Saints. It will be enjoyed by those who love the beautiful. It will be of deep interest to all who like to mark progress and survey the genesis of great movements.
