The Neighborhood House By Ellen Taylor HE work of the Neighborhood House was begun in 1894, when the Board of Managers started a free Kindergarten on the East Side of town. After many changes of locality the work was centered at 753 West 1st South in 1911, and there it remained until 1928 when a beautiful new building was erected at 727 West 1st South which now houses the various activities. The Day Nursery, for care of children whose mothers must work for their living outside the home, is open every week day at seven in the morning. The members of it range from nine months to nine years old. They come from all parts of town. They come in autos, trucks, street cars and on foot. Their rooms are furnished as memorials, more helpful than those of marble. The Rosemary Room is full of little green beds, each one inscribed with the name of the giver and of the one in whose memory it was given. The playground was supplied by the city with the best possible equipment, including junglegym, sandbox and wading pool. The meals served are what the children need and enjoy with plenty of fresh vegetables, fruit and milk. It is a day home for those who come. The average attendance in October, 1930, was forty-six. Each application is signed by the parent with the understanding that the child will be vaccinated, take diptheria anti-toxin and have whatever medical or dental care is needed. The enrollment for the year April 1, 1929, to April 1, 1930, was one hundred and eighty-one children, coming from one hundred and fifteen families. HE Board of Health 'Clinic makes it 'convenient for the West Side mothers to bring their babies without a trip to town, and the crowded room shows how this service is appreciated. The Public Library keeps a lending station and reading room open three afternoons a week. Many gifts of books supplement those the library can buy. The nationality, especially of the youngest readers, is varied: Chinese, Italian, Greek and Austrian have a common 28 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE interest in stories and go off with books that introduce them to good English literature. The Kindergarten, a branch of the Franklin Public School, is in the house, supported and directed by the Board of Education, for the use of the nursery children and others who live near. The room was beautifully equipped 'by the School Board when the house was opened. The Girl Scouts and Brownies have each a Neighborhood House Troop to the advantage of the House and the girls, who often find here needs for their services. The art of sewing is taught to girls at the Saturday morning Sewing School and many of them give up their holiday for their improvement and pleasure. The teachers are all volunteers who are glad to help. For several years, two of them were Public School teachers giving their leisure morning to serve these children. HE Handicraft class is for women to help them earn money while at home. It is carried on by two board members. 'Orders are taken for embroidery, table and bed linen, and for careful mending, lace, sweaters, etc. One of the women who was taught at home in Norway, has filled orders for mending delicate fabrics very satisfactorily, as well as doing the other work of the class. There are evening and afternoon clubs for girls and women. The Employment Office is carried on to find work for the women who go out to do housework, cleaning, etc., and to provide the housekeepers of the town with their service. Many of the nursery and other mothers, have supported themselves and their families for years through this office. This last year has been very difficult, as there have been fewer calls for workers and many more demands for work. Where so many men are unemployed, or only on part time, the women must help to keep up the home, pay the incidental expenses of home life besides the food and clothes needed by school children. On this account, friends of 'the Neighborhood House have helped with clothing for some of the families, so that the boys and girls may use the advantages of the city schools. It is hard to see a promising young girl give up the work and play of High School to take a position as houseworker for the support of her parents and the home. Yet the girls who have done so. Feel that the help they give is their reward. A BAZAAR was held one day. Years ago, to raise additional money needed for the support of the Neighborhood House, and it was so successful both financially and in giving to the neighbors what they could not buy at the same price in the stores, that out of this experience developed the Neighborhood House Shop. It was housed in various places until it was convenient to buy a little corner building that had been a laundry. A retired business man gave of his time and skill in directing it until his oath." Open three afternoons a week with four saleswomen, it reaches not only neighbors but people from quite a distance. Gifts for sale are sent from other Utah towns, as donors have become interested. Tomatoes and apples from outlying farms have been sold at prices that cover the cost of hauling and give unemployed truckmen a small wage. Furniture has helped THE NEIGHBORHOOD HOUSE 29 families to start a permanent home after a wandering existence of furnished lodgings. Clothing of all sorts is for sale, from pretty, fresh things that are occasionally given, to materials good only for quilts or rugs. Flannels, children's clothes and shoes are always needed. Toys and costumes are sold or rented for occasions and at Halloween several were happily outfitted. The money 'raised by the shop helps materially in the support of the Neighborhood House. THE Neighborhood House is one of the Salt Lake Community Chest agencies. The State of Utah makes an appropriation chiefly so that by bringing their children to the nursery its widowed and other needy mothers may feel free to work to support the home. The shop receipts, nursery fees, the State and Community Chest appropriations, support the work of the Neighborhood House. The building of the new house and its equipment was done altogether through special gifts. The old house was given up for the larger, better one, but still has its place in West Side work. It, is now used as a Club House during the winter and a Playground Center during the summer months, supported by men's service clubs and the City through its Park and Playground Departments. HRISTMAS _ festivities last over a week, and many different groups enjoy the good cheer. Thanksgiving time is really a time of rejoicing—the nursery children with some big brothers and sisters celebrate first at their "day home" and later with their mothers at their own homes. Last year a_ real Thanksgiving dinner was given by a friendly club to all our nursery mothers, who fully appreciate the great treat of being served at table. For all the holiday entertainments, parties, picnics, gifts, etc., we are indebted to schools, clubs and interested friends of all ages, rich and poor. Volunteer service helps in every phase of the Neighborhood House work, sewing, working with the pre-school children, carrying ion clubs, friendly visiting, music, auto service, etc. By its location, by its many contacts with its neighbors and by the present advantages of better equipment, Neighborhood House hopes for a future of greater usefulness. THE NEIGHBORHOOD HOUSE THE CLINIC STAFF THE PHYSICAL AND DENTAL EXAMINATON TEMPORARY HOSPITAL WARD
