HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
			
  TO COLOR SLATE COLOR.—Boil yellow
oak bark in an iron kettle till the strength is
extracted. Take out the bark, then add a
very little copperas, and you have a pretty
color with no expense.
  SCALLOPED CHICKEN. — Mince chicken
with lean ham and a little pepper mixed, in
scallop shells or a flat dish, add two large
spoonfuls of cream, cover with crumbs, set
before the fire to brown, with a little butter
on top.
   APPLE FLOAT. —One pint of stewed ap-
ples ;  when cold, sweeten and flavor to
taste. Just as you want to send to table,
add the beaten whites of four eggs, lightly
stirred into it.  With cream this makes a
nice dessert.
   BATH, CAKES.—Mix well together a quar-
ter of a pound of butter, half a pound of flour,
two large eggs, and a tablespoonful of yeast;
set the mixture before the fire to rise, and
when this has been effected, add two ounces
of finely powdered sugar, and half an ounce
of carraways. Roll the paste out into little
cakes; bake them on tins.
   DOLPETTES OF COLD MEAT.—Prepare the
meat as for a hash—or some hashed meat
that has become cold will answer the pur-
pose—add to it some bread-crumbs, enough
to stiffen the consistency, mix it together
with the yolk of eggs, shape it into small
balls, dip them into egg, roll them in bread-
crumbs and grated cheese, and fry them
brown. Glaze them, or serve them with
tomato sauce.
   THE FOLLOWING dressing for salad is very
much liked by some, but does not suit the
taste of others. It is also said to be excel-
lent over sliced tomatoes in the Summer.
Take the yolk of one fresh egg and mix with
it two tablespoonfuls of olive oil very slowly;
add one and one-half spoonfuls of mustard,
three spoonfuls of salt, a little pepper, and
last of all two spoonfuls of vinegar. Beat
the white of the egg to a stiff froth and
lightly stir in.
   DUCHESSES.—-Take half a dozen potatoes,
boil them, pass them through a sieve, and
work into them in a bowl one gill of cream
and the yolks of three eggs; add pepper, salt,
and nutmeg to taste, and some parsley chop-
ped fine. When they are well mixed and
smooth, take them up by tablespoonfuls, roll
each in a ball, flatten it, and flour it slightly;
lay them all in a sauce pan with plenty of
butter melted, and cook them slowly ; turn
them over when one side is done, and serve
hot as soon as both sides are colored.
  OYSTER PIE.—Cover a.well-buttered deep
plate or tin—a soup plate answers perfectly
—with puff paste ; lay an extra layer around
the edge of the plate, and bake it very
nearly enough. That done, fill the pie with
oysters, seasoning with nutmeg, pepper, salt
[next column]
and butter; dust in a little flour amongst
them, and cover all with a thin puff paste.
Bake quickly ; when the top crust is done
the oysters will be done also. If to be  eaten
cold, let it cool untouched, in the plate or
pan. It is quite as good in this way as hot,
and is excellent for picnics or for traveling.
  MISS BEECHER has remarked that there
is nothing which so distinctly marks the
difference between weak and strong minds
as whether they control circumstances or
circumstances control them. And Mrs.
Abell says that with many well meaning
women, eating, drinking, clothing, cleanli-
ness and order of a household constitute the
sum total of all life ; while the moral, the
social and intellectual interests are wholly
neglected. But, with assistance suitable to
the labor, a proper improvement of time
and wise arrangement of plans, these best
and most exalted duties need not be slight-
ed, and will not unless an undue importance
is attached to the grosser and lower pleas-
ures of the appetite and personal adornment.
There are some so rigid in their adherence
to a system that they never allow anything
to interfere with it. Even the sacred claims
of friendship and hospitality must be sacri-
ficed to "washing on Monday ;" and a cold
and frigid reception is often given to a friend
whose visit might interfere with the iron-
ing on the succeeding day.
  But a true, right-hearted woman will not
take upon her one or two virtues only, but
will in kindness embrace them all, reflecting
always that “ it is not all of life to live.”


