THOUGHTS.
			       ____
FOR A BRANCH OF THE RETRENCHMENT
			ASSOCIATION.
			       ____
	Do we realize and  keep in mind, that
most of us, if not all, have formed many
good resolutions and covenanted before the
Lord to try and carry them out? What is
it to try to do a thing that the Lord has cer-
tainly commanded, and which our sense of
morality and our knowledge—though limited
—of the ways of God, teach us is pleasing in
His sight?
	To really try, trusting in the Lord for
power to accomplish His purposes concern-
ing us, is virtually to consumate the thing
designed. We may think we try—we may
say we have tried—to put away some idle
habit, some vain fancy, unwise passions, un-
due and perhaps causless jealousies, while
in reality we have merely been wishing,
and that not very strongly, that such and
such imperfections existing in our present
organizations, were overcome, or that we
had never possessed them. If a very quick-
tempered person realizing the folly of being 
easily provoked, says that she would give 
anything if she only could control her tem- 
per, and in a moment afterward flies into a
passion, on little or no provocation; and when 
cautioned against giving way to anger and 
saying unreasonable things, is silenced there- 
by, or expresses penitence; she thus shows 
her sincerity in desiring to overcome this 
natural failing. And you may be sure, if
she will not allow herself to become discour- 
aged, but continues to try, she will by and 
by reap the reward of a happy conquerer.
	But if, on the other hand, when reminded
that she must first use all her exertions to 
govern herself if she wishes to become able 
to do so with ease, she proves ungrateful for 
the interest taken in her welfare, and disre-
gards the kindly advice given, then you 
may justly suppose that the declaration con- 
cerning her temper was inconsiderately 
uttered, and that she does not really care to
overcome it or she would anxiously endea-
vor to do so.	
	These and similar rules for self-govern- 
ment are applicable to all proclivities of hu- 
man nature, as well as to the temper; and 
any propensity that flesh is heir to, may 
prove either a curse or a blessing to its pos- 
sessor, as it is governed or allowed to govern.
	To each of us is granted the inestimable 
privilege of working for and obtaining all
the blessings and rejecting the curses. But, 
in order to enjoy this privilege to the fullest
extent, we must never cease striving to
overcome, while there remains within our
beings one perceptible fault. Neither should
we take offense at kindly-offered criticisms,
which, if properly received, may prove of
much value to us, and for which we should
be grateful.
	We wish to attain to that perfection which
will fit us to dwell in the presence of our
Heavenly Parents, and to be associated
“with the noblesse of all Eternities.” It is a 
great object to achieve; and none of us will
be able to bear more than our own infirmi-
ties. We cannot overcome the least imper- 
fection for a neighbor, nor can we trust a
neighbor to do anything of the kind for us.
Yet, we can often greatly assist each other,
by gently and wisely criticising at the right
time and in the proper manner. Except in
some rare cases it is always unnecessary, and
unwise to speak of faults to any except those 
who possess them, and who alone can and 
should overcome them. And in doing this
we should be careful to, if possible, never
wound the feelings of the person we desire
to benefit.	
	When criticised, instead of seeking to ex-
culpate ourselves, let us look more closely 
to our thoughts and ways, and see if the 
hint is not really applicable; ever bearing in
mind that “it is easier to mend a fault than
to hide it.”			F.S.


In a paper read before the British Associ-
ation, Dr. Wilson argues that habitual crim-
inals do not possess such an amount of in-
tellect as to enable them to discriminate
between right and wrong, and that the
majority of them are devoid of common
sense; they are of a low type of intellectual
development, and some of them are unable
to surmount even the rudimentary difficul-
ties of education. Dr. W. states that he has
made several hundred separate measure-
ments, and all showed a cranial deficiency,
especially in the anterior lobe of the brain.
It is easy and charitable to believe the
Doctor’s logic correct.


