WHY I DO NOT CALL.
			
Dear “Exponent:”
   Having a little explanation to make to a
couple of my friends, and thinking it might
prove rather a good hint to some others, I
would like to offer the same through your
columns, if not objectionable ; and will en-
deavor to be very brief and explicit.
  A short time ago, Miss Alice---(a friend
who was and is very dear to me) and myself
were walking along the street together and
chatting in a lively manner, when suddenly
Alice stopped short and said in a low tone,
“Hush, let’s walk more slowly!”
  “ Why ?” I asked, and she answered,
“ Because there’s Mrs. K. crossing the street
and I do not wish to meet her, for I don’t
like her, and she always makes so much of
me.”
   We walked slowly, but Mrs. K. saw Alice
and waited at the corner to speak to her. I
was a little surprised at Alice’s remark, for
I had got it into my head that she was so
good and charitable that she never allowed
herself to dislike anyone. I was still more
surprised presently.  As we came up Mrs.
K. held out her hand with a smile ; Alice
smiled back again, warmly clasped the prof-
fered hand, and said, as if delighted at the
meeting, “ How do you do ? I haven’t seen
you for such a long time !”
    “ I know it,” said Mrs. K. “ Why don’t
you come over and see me?”
   Alice replied, “Simply because I can’t
find time to go anywhere; but you must
come and see me, won’t you ? Do come !”
   Mrs. K. said she would, and we passed on.
  “That’s the way she talks to folks she
don’t like !” I said to myself, “That’s just
the way she talks to me!”
  Yes, when she left me, it was with an af-
fectionate and persuasive injucntion that I
should come very soon to see her. She al-
ways did so.
   The more I reflected on it the more it
seemed to me that if. my dear, loving little 
[end of column]
friend could speak as she did about Mrs. K.,
and then meet her so cordially, and say such
pleasant things to her, she might do the
same by me. I don’t know but she means
it all when she says “come and see me ! now
do !” in such emphatic tones; but I’m afraid
she does not; so I have not been to see her
lately.  She has been anxious to know why.
I have kept it to myself till now, not telling
even my mother; but if Alice reads this she
will be in doubt no longer as to why I did’nt
call.
  The other part.of my explanation is for 
the benefit of Mrs. R. (an elderly lady) in
particular; and to all who may need a like
hint in general. Mrs. R. is such a good-na-
tured, affable, kind-hearted woman, that it
always did me good to call on her. All for-
mality was laid aside, and I could be so much
at home in her house, and always felt that I
was welcome there ; for her words were kind
and motherly, just such as put one at ease,
because they carry with them the assurance
that the speaker means what she says.
  I went there one day, not many minutes
before dinner time, feeling very weary and
faint, having taken a long walk, and having
still a longer one to take. Mrs. R. was par-
ticularly glad to see me and wanted to know
why I had delayed calling so long. I sat
down, threw my hat on to the center table,
and took up the album.
   “O ! ma, here comes mother N.,” called
out Mrs. R.’s little daughter.
  “Well I won’t have any mother N. here
to-day ! I’ve had enough of her lately, and
can’t put up with her any more !” said Mrs.
R. with much earnestness, and I could see
she meant what she said, or thought I could,
though I had never before seen her so
moved.
  Mother N. appeared at the door. “How
do you do, mother N. ? Sit down, dinner
will soon be ready ; how tired you look !”
   How surprised I was ! Mrs. R. had re-
gained her usual cordial manner and pleas-
ant tone, and greeted mother N. the same as
she had greeted me.	
   I turned the leaves of the album over in a
hurry, and arose with hat in hand just as
dinner was announced.
  “You’re not going?”
  “ Yes, I must !”
  “ Oh, not before dinner; it’s all ready.”
  “ But I must hurry; mother will won-
der—”
  “You ! O, now!”
  “ Good bye.” And I haven’t called on
Mrs. R. since, though I often meet her and
she professes to feel real bad because I do
not come and see her. Of course as  can-
not tell whether she means it or not, I do
not like to be suspicious, yet have no wish
to be so credulous as to be silly.
							FRANK.
   The explanation seems to be plain enough
Miss Alice and Mrs. R. will doubtless under-
stand it.—[ED. EXPONENT.


It has been found that the clothes fitted
to  new recruits in the English army soon
become too small across the chest, owing, it
is stated, to the increased development given
by gymnastic and military exercises. It is
very probable that the same result is pro-
duced upon fashionable .ladies’ brains, by
the wonderful exercises they undergo upon
desultory subjects. Many of their hats are
unbecomingly small.


﻿Professor Goltz, of Konigsberg, in his ex-
periments upon the nervous centre of frogs,
finds that if you take out the brain, the
creature will croak as if pleased. Frogs
must be as easily pleased as some men.


