   	HOME AFFAIRS.
				______
	A GRATIFYING novelty in judicial proceed-
ings in Salt Lake County, just now, is the ses-
sion of a grand jury summoned according to law
by the Probate Court.
	WILL COUNTY School Superintendents be
kind enough to furnish for the EXPONENT re-
ports of the condition of education in their
several counties?
	THE HIGH waters have fallen throughout the
Territory, leaving abundance for irrigation; and
the prospects for the coming harvest are ex-
ceedingly cheering.   
	A COMMUNICATION from Goshen Valley was
received too late for notice in the present issue.
The same explanation applies to the report of
the Third Ward, F. R. Society of Provo, which
will appear in the next number.
	THE BERGER Family of bell-ringers, with
Sol Smith Russell, are to appear again at the
theatre this week, and will without question be
largely patronized. They are chaste and artistic
performers, and one attractive feature of their
programmes is the appearance of a highly ac-
complished cornet band of ladies.
	IN THE general Retrenchment meeting held in
this city, June 22nd, the President, Miss E. R.
Snow, recommended each Society to have a
Secretary and assistant Secretary, so that in
case of indisposition or other hinderances occur-
ring to prevent either one from attending a
meeting, the other might be there and the min-
utes be regularly kept. This rule is a good one
for Societies outside this city to adopt, as well
as for the different Ward Societies in the city.
	BY A judicial blunder, or for ulterior reasons
not given to the public, the term of the Third
District Court of Utah has been permitted to
lapse. The ad interim Judge, Strickland, ad-
journed it by telegraph, from Provo, until to-
day, instead of attending personally as the stat-
uto requires. Not a few imgaine that the Judge
could not be ignorant of a law so well known,
and that personal chagrin and malice and not
the public interest, were only consulted In the
matter.
	“INDEPENDENCE DAY” is close at hand, and
yet little is said of it. The people of Utah are
warm in their feelings of loyalty to the Consti-
tution and the country, and reverence for the
founders of this great Republic lies shrined in
their heart of hearts; but they desire to cele-
brate the anniversary of freedom as a free peo-
ple, or would prefer not to celebrate at all. By
proclamation they where prohibited from doing
so a year ago, and that proclamation, illegal
and insulting as it was, has never been an-
nulled. We presume they can observe the
day in a quiet fashion, with less outward show
yet as much genuine honor for the occasion, as
their fellow citizens in any part of the country.
	ILLUSTRATIONS of the astounding liberality
of thought evinced by many people, where
“Mormonism” is concerned, now and then crop
out. A man a few days ago stepped into the
store of Messrs. Campbell & Patterson, general
agents for the EXPONENT, and seeing copies of
this periodical on the counter lifted one and in-
quired: “Is this in favor of the Mormons or
against them?” “Rather in their favor,” was
the response; on which he threw it indignantly
down, remarking, “Then, I don’t want it.” In
justice to the stranger—for he was one—the rest
must be told. A sharp remark from one of the
firm called him to a sense of his want of polite-
ness, when he purchased a copy of the first
number, took it away with him; and soon after
returned to secure a copy of the second number,
It improved to his taste, evidently, with the
reading.
	A TERRIBLE tragedy occurred in this city
during the past week, lengthy accounts of
which appeared in the daily papers. Charles
L. Dolson, a married man, sought a divorce
from his wife, and endeavored to have Mary
Obey obtain a divorce from her husband, who
was his partner, that he might marry her.
Whatever relations existed between Dolson and
the woman have not yet been made public, hut
she had left her husband and was residing in
St. Louis, where Dolson corresponded with her.
She refused to accede to his desires, upon which
he became as abusive as he had been beforetime
endearing. Oliver C. Obey, the husband, ob-
tained a knowledge of the facts, and feelings of
violent anger between the men, who were both
gamblers, was the result. Dolson circulated a
printed card, reflecting in gross terms on Obey
and his wife. On Tuesday night last the men
met in the post office in this city, near the de-
livery windows, when Obey killed Dolson,
shooting him with five bullets from a pistol.
He was arrested, stood an examination before
Judge Clinton, and was held to bail in $2,000 to
appear for trial. It was a case of ungoverned
passion, unbridled lust, and sanguinary revenge
from begining to end; and on the part of one a
fearful termination to an unenviable life.
		 ___________________________
﻿


