ABOUT WOMEN.
	Young ladies have now the necktie
mania.
	“Pooh ! who cares for Beecher,” says
Fanny Fern, “I used to go to school to his
sister.”
	A Burlington, Iowa, girl got show-
struck while a circus was exhibiting there,
and went off with it.
	A “woman’s rights” man, rather bashful,
and a little religious, asks his wife to “ say
grace” when they have company.
	Twenty thousand women keep body and
soul together in Switzerland by their skill
at the finer work of watch-making.
	Ida Lewis having married or otherwise
sacrificed her claims to public attention, a
Mrs. Clifford appears as her successor in the
capacity of an aquatic heroine.
	Mrs. Woodhull speaks freely of the abuse
and misrepresentations of which she had
been and is yet the victim, but says these
persecutions have but purified her.
	Mrs. Drummond, the Quaker preacher,
was asked whether the spirit ever inspired
her with the thought of getting married.
“No, my friend,” said she, “but the flesh
has.”
	Miss Kellogg is said to have a larger
repertoire than any living prima donna.
She is letter and note perfect in twenty-
five operas, in most of which she has sung
with success.
	A German woman, living in Goodhue
Co., Minnesota, yoked herself along side of a
cow this spring, and the two together hauled
a drag during the day after a seeder, which
was run by her husband with a span of
horses. 
	Mrs. Charles Kean, of London, was so de-
lighted with Kate Field’s elocution that she
besought the fair lecturer to adopt the stage.
But she does not propose to forsake the lec-
ture Field for the uncertain triumph of the
Boards quite yet.
	A medical college for the education of
women has been chartered by the New York
legislature, and two or three women of
wealth have agreed to furnish the college
with buildings, and secure its future useful-
ness by liberal funds.
	Somebody has said that life is an epigram
of which death is the point. Kate Sanborn
thinks it would be well if many of our novel-
ists would consent to starve the public for a
few years, and devote their diluted energies
to composing epigrams.
	The whole story of man’s regard for wo-
man, in countries where she is uneducated,
is told in the simple language of the-Modean
of Siberia, who, at the marriage ceremony,
places the bride on a mat, saying to the
bridegroom there, “Wolf, take thy lamb!”
	A servant girl at Pittsfield, Mass., it is
related, was so much impressed the other
night by dreaming that some one was robbing
the clothes line, that she got up and looked
out of the window, when she saw a man car-
rying off some clothes.  She was so over-
come by the singularity of the affair that she
let him go and did not tell the story till the
next day.
	Mrs. Olive Logan Sykes has come back
from the south-west, bringing with her, it
is said, the MS. of a volume which will ut-
terly demolish Stephen Pearl Andrews’ so-
cial pantarchy and Mrs. Woodhull’s conjugal
theories.  Those who have hesitated to
marry for fear that the institution would
collapse just as they had fairly invested in
it, may now take courage and apply for a
certificate.


