NEWS AND VIEWS.
		    
  DIED at Geneva—Indirect Damages.
  SENSATIONAL preaching continues fashion-
able and attractive.
  THE Hyers sisters led the colored chorus
in the Boston Jubilee.
  MORAL Massachusetts has an average of
11,000 prisoners always on hand.
  LONDON is said to have 2,000 “Christian
Jews.” They keep store open on Sundays.
  THE “Big Jamboree” is the Washington
style of speaking of the Boston Jubilee. Is
Washington jealous?
  CONVICTS in Detroit write dime novels,
which is little better business than they
were engaged in before.
  POLITICAL corruption is being exposed to
the scorching light of critical exposure, which
reveals a large amount of previously con-
cealed rotteness.
  GEORGE SAND is now at work upon a
“Life of Christ.” Novel readers and lovers
of romance will probably learn something
new of the Scriptures now.
  THE BAND of the British Grenadier
Guards warmly welcomed to Boston on the
anniversary of the battle of Bunker Hill, is
one of the events of the times too notable to
be overlooked.
  IN LONDON alone, since last August, there
has been nearly 10,000 deaths by small-pox.
Nor has that dreadful disease been confined
to England and the United States, but has
ravaged Europe as well. Job’s complaint is
becoming widely known.
  A CHANGE in-the Utah Federal officials,
it is intimated, is likely to be made after
the November elections. Blessings of such
magnitude should be carefully announced
in advance to prepare the public for receiv-
ing them with a moderate degree of enthu-
siasm.
  A FEW prominent Free Traders reject Dr.
Greeley, because of his protection views,
and having hammered together a platform
of the old materials have set up candidates
thereon, the principal difficulty about the
matter being that the candidates decline to
accept.
  ONE HALF of the servant girls in the city of
Philadelphia are said to be drunkards. If
true, give them a chance to become honest
wives and keepers of their own houses, in-
stead of having to keep irregular hours wait-
ing on fashionable mistresses, and that evil,
like many others, may disappear.
  ON THE 9th inst. the National Democratic
Convention will meet in Baltimore, and the
indications are strong that it will make no
nominations, but endorse those made at
Cincinnati. In this matter the Democratic
leaders have been led by the rank and file of
the party which is evidently tired of follow-
ing the same men to defeat through years
coming on years.
  WHAT a terrible commentary is that on
the manner in which justice is administered
in New York, conveyed in the following
from a paper published in that city? “Three
hundred and fifty murders last year, and but
one man suffering the extreme penalty of

the law. He, poor Jack Reynolds, half-
witted, without money or friends, was hung
as an awful example!”
  A NEW fire-arm of terribly destructive
power, and called the “Magazine rifle,” is
announced as the latest addition to life-
destroying inventions. Invented by Captain
Meigs, of Lowell, Massachusetts, weighing
only half a pound more than the regular
Springfield rifle, it is capable of discharging
fifty bullets in fifty seconds; and promises to
be as effective in reducing the population as
railroad accidents or steamboat explosions.
  ANOTHER PRESIDENTIAL ticket, and no-
body injured! Groesbeck, of Ohio, and
Olmsted, of New York, were nominated by
a small band of Free-Traders on the 21st ult.
The latter declined the honor immediately;
the former, with an evident hankering after
the post of standard-bearer, intimated that
the Democratic convention at Baltimore
must speak before he would listen. The
nominating body was. respectable but not
strong enough.	
  TWO TERRIBLE disasters have occurred on
this continent since the last issue of the
EXPONENT. A steamboat explosion on the
Mississippi river hurled thirty-five human
beings into eternity; and a railroad accident
in Canada bruised, battered and butchered
sixty-five more, of whom over thirty died,
most of them in horrible agony. A weak
boiler, or a defective rail, and nobody to
blame, is the usual verdict; while death in
horrid form mocks at the advances of science
as recklessness disregards or defies them.
  PUBLISHED dispatches last week accused
Mrs. Emily Pitts Stevens of drawing a pistol
on a gentleman at an anti-Woman’s Suffrage
meeting in San Francisco; and subsequently
stated that she had published a card deny-
ing the allegation. While regretting that
the agitation and discussion of so important
a subject is not conducted with less acrimo-
ny and more courteous good feeling on both
sides, we await a more lengthened statement
of the affair in the next number of the
“Pioneer,” of which Mrs. Stevens is editor,
before accepting as correct that which has
been telegraphed concerning it.
  TO TEMPT a woman to evil and then seek
a divorce because she has fallen before the
temptation, has been the cowardly and
criminal course pursued by more husbands
than court records have shown. But a late
decision on the matter will mar its future
efficacy. A suit for divorce was recently
tried in London before Lord Penzance, when
the woman showed that she had been led
into evil through the plots of an agent of
her husband. Lord Penzance ruled that the
husband was responsible for the acts of his
agent, and refused the divorce. A wise and
upright Judge!
  TENNIE C. CLAFLIN has gained the
coveted position, and is now a full-blown
Colonel. She was elected to that position by
a colored regiment of New York. There
have been women wno have led armed men
to conflict and victory, as did Boadicea the
ancient Britons and Joan of Arc the dis-
pirited French; but they were moved to ac-
tion by other impulses than a morbid passion
for notoriety. Tennie C. Claflin is a sad
spectacle of a talented woman setting mod-

esty, purity of feeling, and womanly grace
at defiance, that she may secure the ap-
plause of the reckless and the indorsement
of those who set proper restrictions at defi-
ance.
  THE practical character of the present ago
is fatal to many ancient and venerable theo-
ries. Rev. James R. Dunne, of Boston, who
has been traveling in Palestine announces
that the Dead Sea is not the sad, sluggish
sheet of water it has been represented. Its
waters though heavy and bitter are clear
and rippling, its wavelets sparkle on the
beach, and its “shores are green with shrub-
bery and bright with flowers.” So too the
idea that Great Salt Lake is untenanted with
life is proved a fallacious illusion. A mem-
ber of Professor Hayden’s scientific explor-
ing expedition announces that it teems with
animal life.  The Dead Sea of the cast, and
its counterpart in the west, it appears, have
both been misrepresented.
  THE JESUITS have been deprived of all
rights of citizenship in Prussia by recent
statutory enactment. There is a bitter strag-
gle going on in Germany between church
and state, the government proving itself the
stronger by the passage of this statute.
Bismarck is determined that no ecclesiasti-
cal authority shall successfully lift itself
against the secular government, and in this
he is sustained by the “Old Catholic” party
which does not accept the dogma of infalli-
bility. He sees that the Jesuits are insinu-
ating and aggressive, yet he gives them
strength by the very act which deprives
them of citizenship; for when men are thus
punished for simply belonging to a religious
order, sympathy is evoked in their behalf
and their logic becomes irresistable when
their opponents thus admit their inability
to meet it by counter-argument.
  THE following communication was re-
ceived and read at the National Republican
Convention on June 6th, as appears by the
minutes of that day’s proceedings: No. 333
Walnut street, 6th month, 5th, 1872.—Dear
Friend: I am assured that over sixty of the
ablest women of the land are ready to take
the field for the Republican party If the Con-
vention now in session will adopt some plank
that will even allow them this opportunity
as honest, serious workers for human rights.
Below you will find a copy of the plank,
which, if adopted; will be the occasion of an
enthusiasm only equalled by that of 1856 for
Fremont.		Very respectfully,
					E. M. DAVIS.
To Robert Purvis, Delegate to the Republi-
  can Convention.
  Headquarters Woman’s Suffrage Dele-
gates, No. 333 Walnut street, Philadelphia,
June 5th, 1872.—To the National Republi-
can Convention—Gentlemen: In behalf of
the women of this nation, one-half the entire
people, I ask you to put a plank in your
platform that shall assert the duty of the
National Government to protect women citi-
zens in the exercise of their right to vote,
and thereby make it possible for women
possessed of true self-respect to advocate the
claims of the Republican party to the suf-
frages of the people.
  Respectfully,   	SUSAN B. ANTOHNY.
President National Woman’s Suffrage Asso-'
clation.


