A SENSIBLE WOMAN.
			
  A New England girl twenty-seven years
of age, who was disappointed in a love affair
in early life, and had afterwards steadily re-
fused the least attention from any man, sur-
prised her friends a short time ago by get-
ting married.
  Being an only child at the death of her
parents, which took place some five years
ago, she was left sole inheritor and manager
of a handsome fortune. She asked no aid
from anyone, but with two old and trusty
servants, a gardener and housekeeper, she
lived on quietly in her own home, and in a
highly creditable manner conducted her own
affairs. Soon after entering upon this new
stage of life, she loaned quite a large sum of
money to a young merchant, then almost in-
solvent.  He struggled bravely to redeem
his pledges, and very much care-worn, he
at last became almost discouraged and would
have yielded to bankruptcy, he says, had it
not been for his frequent visits to his fair
creditor and the cheering advice she always
gave him. At last, after having vainly
striven for more than four years to rise
above his misfortunes, he relinquished all
hope. The first one he called upon, to make
this anounccment, was his lady creditor.
Old Sharkey, the gardener, witnessed their
interview; for she never allowed both her
servants to withdraw when a gentleman
was present.
   She still tried to encourage the merchant
as before, but could not succeed this time;
he was too far gone. She offered him more
money, which he refused to take; also . to
forgive the debt and the interest then due on
it, which was likewise manfully declined, in
part, with promises for some future .time
when all would be refunded.
  After he had taken his leave of the lady,
she said to the gardener, “Call him back,’
Sharkey, I’ve concluded to .become his
wife.”
  “His wife!” repeated Sharkey, “why, he
has never said anything of the kind . to
you!”‘		-	’
   “I know it,” replied the lady, “and-that's
the reason I like him. He looks love at me
all the time, but never ventures to speak;
and he has proved himself honest, grateful
and noble. Call him back, Sharkey, and
then go and ask the parson to step over here
a few minutes.”
  Sharkey obeyed, the parson came, and
the wedding took place. The merchant’s
debts are all paid up, and he and his heroic
bride live very happily in their peaceful
and beautiful home.
   Women are not all fools, are they?


﻿A San Francisco journal, states that more
than half that city is given up to demoraliz-
ing practices, more ruinous to the souls and
bodies of the unfortunate than is any system
of savagery among the wild men of the
desert.  We do not dispute the sad state-
ment.  But what an atmosphere to live in!


