MISCELLANEOUS.
			    _____
	THE four principle smelting works for
the treatment of gold and silver ores in the
United States, and outside of Colorado, are
at San Francisco, California, Reno, Nevada,
Omaha, Nebraska, and Newark, N. J.
	THE yearly revenue of the Order of Odd
Fellows in the United States is now about
$3,500,000, and the average annual outlay
for purposes of relief is $1,000,000. The re-
mainder is reserved as a fund to be called
into use whenever required. The latest of-
ficial statistics of the Order are as follows:
Number of members, 757,941; number buried,
49,019; total relief paid, $16,542,256; total
receipts, $40,234,417; amount invested and
funds on hand, $23,690,170.
	FLORENCE NIGHTINGALE is said to be a
plain, simple woman, quite destitute of ro-
mance, poetry, or sentiment—no “Evangel-
ical” in belief or habit, no “professor,” least
of all a devotee—yet when she is thinking
how she can help the sick and wounded,
how she can improve the administration of
hospitals, her face takes on an expression of
pure, spiritual beauty, her eyes kindle with
enthusiasm, she is transported out of her-
self. The soldiers in the hospitals at Scutari
adored her as an angel, were happy if they
could but touch the hem of her garment,
and sent imploring looks after her shadow.
	HENRY WARD BEECHER says : “ Work.
There is some tendency among the laboring
classes to reduce the hours of work to eight.
I like it, and I abhor it. I like it, because
it is a sign of the growing intelligence of
the working classes; and I abhor it, because
it would seem that work was hateful. I
don’t believe that common people are going
to work out their fortunes by collusion, ex-
cept by hard knocks. I don’t believe that
the majority of them will be able, at eight
hours’ work, to educate their children and
to leave their families in a better condition.
I do not wish to say anything against the
working man—I who have the blood of
blacksmiths in my veins; but I want to
praise work.”
	LARGE TELESCOPE.—There is in process
of manufacture at Cambridgeport, Massachu-
setts, for the use of the United States Naval
Observatory at Washington, the largest re-
fracting telescope in the world. The object
glass is twenty-six inches in diameter, and
the telescope when completed will cost $46,-
000. McCormick, of McCormick reaper
fame, has ordered an instrument of the same
size, to be presented by him to the Lee and
Washington University of Virginia, his
native State. The next refracting telescope
in point of size is owned by Newhall, of
Gateshead, England. The telescope so
much prized by Harvard University has an
object glass of about fifteen inches diameter,
and the one connected with the Chicago
University has a diameter of eighteen and a
half inches.
	WILL MOTHERS heed the following:	A
very distinguished Paris physician says: “I
believe that, during the twenty years I have
practiced my profession, 20,000 children
have been carried to the cemeteries, a sacri-
fice to the absurd custom of exposing their
arms. Put the bulb of a thermometer into
a baby’s mouth, and the mercury rises to
ninety degrees. Now, carry the same to its
little hand; if the arm be bare and even
cool, the mercury will sink to fifty degrees.
Of course, all the blood that flows through
these arms must fall from ten to forty de-
grees below the temperature of the heart.
Need I say, when these currents of the
blood flow back to the chest, the child’s vi-
tality must be more or less compromised?
And need I add that we ought not to be
surprised at the frequently recurring affec-
tions of the tongue, throat, or stomach?”
	HERE is how Theodore Tilton talks in
the “Golden Age” of the woman recogni-
tion plank in the Philadelphia platform :
“It is something that the women got a rec-
ognition at the Philadelphia Convention.
Of course everybody knows that the woman
plank is the thinnest bit of pasteboard imag-
inable, and means about as much as “ Very
truly Yours,” at the end of a letter; and we
never heard of a woman’s basing a suit for
breach of promise on this complimentary
appendage to an ordinary epistle. The wo-
men who see the dawn of the millennium in
the nebulous generalities of the Philadelphia
platform, must be in a desperate plight, and
like the ancient maiden we hear of, and al-
ways regarded as apocryphal, who exclaimed
out of her impatience, ‘Anything in the
shape of a husband, good Lord !’ If Mrs.
Livermore and Lucy Stone and Miss Gordon
can wax eloquent over Grant, their enthusi-
asm must be irrepressible.”
	"THERE ARE so many of us. We are
like ‘the blades of grass,' as Red Cloud says.
We cannot all be supported, depend and
cling as we may. We must look out and do
for ourselves.
	“It is now pretty generally admitted that
a woman may know something of business
—of bookkeeping, banking, and even law—
without loosing the peculiar charm and
beauty of her womanhood ; that such stud-
ies as are pursued here do not necessarily
rub the bloom from the peach of maidenly
innocence, the frost from the plum of mod-
est reserve, the gold-dust from the wing of
the feminine soul. True womanhood is not
to be essentially changed by changed pur-
suits and conditions. There is a tough vi-
tality about tender womanhood. It is a
tree, whose roots take hold on eternal life.”
	[Extract from Grace Greenwood’s address
in behalf of the Lady Graduates of the
Washington Business College, June 17,
1870.]
	THE "GOLDEN AGE" says: When the
Englishman wants money for a charitable or
religious purpose he collects together a large
number of wealthy old gentlemen, and after
getting them into a good humor by good
feeding and warming their hearts to a glow
of generosity by plenty of wine, depletes
their purses to an important extent. The
public dinner is really a gentle kind of gar-
roting. At these dinners, which are for the
most part insufferably dull, no woman is under
any circumstances admitted, though of late
years, by a daring innovation, ladies have
been admitted to the galleries to look down
and see their male friends eat, themselves
being regaled by a little wine and sand-
witches handed around. It was into one of
these solid and stupid dinner parties that
our brilliant countrywoman, Miss Kate Field,
was smuggled the other day, without being
scarcely noticed by any one present, until
after the usual heavy toasts and heavier re-
sponses about the Queen and Royal Family
and Army and Navy; then the usual senti-
ment to women was proposed and our fair
revolutionist rose with easy grace, and with
sparkling wit, with winning voice, and
twinkling eyes, won them from their first
stupor of fright; then one and another began
to snicker at her sallies; then followed one
or two hearty laughs, and finally the whole
table was in a roar. The effect of her speech
was electrical, and already some of the solid
Englishers who attend those dinners confess
that they would be more attractive were
ladies invited to partake of them, and then
to open their lips afterward.

