OBJECTS OF DRESS.
			      ______
	
	If women had but one object in selecting
and arranging their costumes—to make a
pleasing display, how far short of meeting
that object the fashionable ladies of to-day
would come, with their puffs and panniers,
their bends and bawbles,false hair,disfigured
forms, cramped feet, paint-spoiled complex-
ions and general bogus apppearance !
	But there are, really, two other objects in
dress, which should be held paramount to
this one, yet they are not generally so looked
upon.  The first object should be health, and
next to that convenience.   Yet these two
features are now so entirely overlooked in
ladies’ toilets, as to be trampled on and mar-
tyred without mercy ; merely for the sake
of adopting fashions that are absurd and
only serve to make their foolish votaries ap- 
pear ridiculous ; so that not one object, nei-
ther health, comfort nor true adornment, is
obtained.
	What time and means are spent for no
purpose except to make of ourselves exactly
what we do not wish to be ; poor, wretched,
unsightly invalids! If we had in view no
future, and lived only in and for the present
moment, would there not be more sanity in
our spending the little time alloted us here
in doing as much good in the world as we
can, taking measures to promote health and
happiness while we stay and to preserve life
as long as possible, than in taking the oppo-
site course as many are now doing ? And
if we look forward to another and higher
state of being than we now live in, how
shall we be prepared for it if we fritter away
our present existence in experimenting on
how the person may be arranged to carry
the most gewgaws and look the most
distorted ; working ourselves to death to
obtain all this fashionable nonsense, or
drawing the money for it from the pockets
of our fathers, brothers, or husbands, who
are sufficiently yielding to honor our whims,
while they may mourn over, our mania for
dress while being driven into bankruptcy
and despair!
	Daughters and sisters, where are your
hearts ! Wives and mothers, where are
your brains !
	Can not a consistency be arrived at and
held to in these matters, which will aid
greatly in bringing about a general reform ?
Or has the majority of womankind become
too selfish, sordid and heartless to conceive
of any higher aim than that of bringing dis-
grace upon herself, her lineage and her sex
by committing suicide by means of a slow
and miserable process!


