WOMEN INVENTORS.
				____
	Why women do not invent, is a problem
an anonymous English writer has solved, to
his own satisfaction at the least. He thinks
that the cause of feminine uninventiveness 
is to be found in hereditary laws.  Women
have always been drudges.  Men have been
the explorers, the inventors, the actors of
the world from the first, while women have
simply looked on, followed and obeyed. Con-
sequently they inherit an uninventive con-
stisution, and the inertia of a thousand gen-
erations has descended in entail upon the
women of to-day. All of which is exceed-
ingly plausable, provided the fact corres-
ponds with the assumption. But is it a fact
that woman is naturally less inventive than
man?  We have no proof that she is not.
True she makes few inventions. But she
has few occasions and still fewer opportuni-
ties for making them. She does not get that
practical knowledge of machinery that comes
only from long and constant usage, which is
necessary as the first condition of making
improvements.  As she is not an artisan she
fails to get the requisite mastery of tools to
enable her to see how to put them to yet un-
known uses.  And still further, the stress
of necessity and the spur of mechanical am-
bition are not laid upon her. Scarcely one
mechanic in a hundred ever invents any-
thing. Until a hundred women are thor-
oughly trained to mechanical arts and spend
years in actual mechanical labor it is unfair
to expect one woman to invent anything.
Yet in our Patent Office there are some fifty
models of inventions made by women. In
her own familiar work of making dresses
and ordering the household, woman shows
inventiveness of a high order, which if it
had had the requisite training and field for
its exercises might have achieved brilliant
results. The hereditary theory failing
to account for the fact, the theory and as-
sumption drop together.  We have known
not a few women who have invented noble
traits and amiable qualities for men who
were intolerably stupid and vulgar, and had
their inventions return to plague them ever
after.—“Golden Age.”


A correspondent of the New York
“Tribune” predicts that central Illinois will
become the garden spot of the world. One
of them most likely.


