F. R. SOCIETY REPORTS.
			
  THE Female Relief Society of the Six-
teenth Ward of this city, held its annual
meeting on June 15th, in the Ward school
house; and the following summary of the
minutes will be found interesting:
  After singing the second hymn, Mrs. Z.
D.  YOUNG made remarks: “Obedience is
better than sacrifice, and to hearken than
the fat of rams.” I feel my inability to in-
struct; yet, we are all dependant on one
Father. Although, according to the flesh,
we have different parents, brothers and
sisters, kindred ties and associations, by
which we are linked together here; yet, in
the grand chain of the Eternities we all be-
long to one family, and all look to the same
great God for aid and comfort. If there ever
was a time when we should be faithful,
watchful, and careful, it is now. Mothers,
look after your daughters; teach them to be
modest, industrious, and virtuous; to honor,
with all the other principles pertaining to
the Priesthood of God, the law of celestial
marriage, which is for the redemption and
salvation of many. I pray God to bless you,
my sisters, both young and aged; and help
us all to keep the faith.
   ELDER JOSEPH F. SMITH, being present
by invitation, was requested to address the
meeting. A very brief synopsis of his re-
marks is contained in the following: I may
say,  my sisters, I hardly expected to be
here I look upon these Societies and their
work as things of great importance; and some-
times wonder why so long a time elapsed after
the break-up at Nauvoo, before a reorganiza-
tion was made. I look at it as being just as
essential as any other organization of the
Priesthood. Upon mothers in Israel devolve
great responsibilities. To them belongs the
care of their children; to nourish, feed, dress
and instruct; and in a great measure to edu-
cate. Upon you, mothers, depend the train-
ing of the future generation. You form their
minds, thoughts, aspirations. I know by
experience you can destroy or make. You
can tell what a mother is when you see her
children at play. In Cache valley, there was
a number of little girls playing keeping-
house and making mud-butter. One was
playing mother and dictating. When there
was a nice, large, roll of butter made, she
laid it on one side, and said, “Now, that is
to go to the Tithing Office, it is better than
the rest.” That told a great story for the
little girl's mother. The child showed her
teaching. If children treat each other kindly

and courteously, it is the spirit that is in-
stilled into their hearts by their mothers at
home. We often hear children speak in a
cross, commanding way. What does that
argue? That it is the way the mother does.
The father is away, the mother at home,
where she may teach her children to be
mild and loving, honest, gentle and good.
Mothers have a better chance to lead their
children in the proper way than the fathers.
They have opportunities afforded for cutiva-
ting the blessings of faith. I love to hear a
woman pray. They can approach nearer to
the Lord than men can, as a general thing;
or my mother did. I could not do as my
mother could. These societies are not only
calculated for a means of relieving the wants
of the poor, comforting the afflicted etc., but
to correct and improve yourselves and each
other.
  Much more valuable instruction was given
by Elder Smith and others, followed by sing-
ing and prayer after which the meeting ad-
journed.
  The Society financially is in a sound con-
dition, as we note by the financial report
presented by the Secretary, Presendia L.
Kimball. It shows that during the four
years $727.65 was received in cash, mer-
chandise and produce, of which $201.86 was
disbursed, leaving $527.79 in the treasury
at date of report. Among the disbursements
for the fiscal year ending June 15th, 1872,
was one item of $50 donated to assist the
poor to immigrate; and other items for
clothing bestowed upon those who needed
it.
  We are indebted to Mrs. Mary A. Maughan,
of Logan, Cache county, for the following
interesting report:
  “The anniversary meeting of the Female
Relief Society was held in the Logan Hall
May 18th, Mrs. M. A. Maughan, President
of the Society, presiding. There was a good
attendance of the members, but in conse-
quence of sickness in the family of the Secre-
tary, the financial report was not read.
  Spirited and interesting remarks were
made by Bishop W. B. Preston, and Elder
Moses Thatcher on the duties of mothers in
rearing and educating their sons to become
good and wise men in the Kingdom of God;
and the daughters to acquire the accomplish-
ments necessary to enable them to become
useful as helpers in the great work which is
before us; and instructing them how to be-
come ornaments in society. They also spoke
in commendation of the great good that laid
been accomplished by the F. R. Society of
this place; and felt to encourage and bless
us in our efforts to relieve the needy.
  The meeting was then adjourned until
the monthly meeting of the Society, which
was held on the first Monday in June, when
the financial report was presented, showing
that since the organization of the Society
$1,453.02 had been gathered by donations,
profits on labor, etc., of which a great
amount had been disbursed to the poor; and
for other charitable purposes, in helping to
sustain the Kingdom; leaving a balance in
the Treasury. It is the purpose of the So-
ciety as fast as possible to make the adorn-
ment of their persons the workmanship of
their own hands.
   I heartily congratulate you on the able
manner in which your little paper is
gotten up, wish you great success, and can
assure you that your paper, will be warmly
welcomed and highly appreciated by the
ladies of Logan.”
  Accompanying the report nnsa handsome
subscription list.
				
MRS. M. A. BOICE and Mrs. Emily Hep-

worth, President and Secretary of the F. R.
Society at Oxford, Cache county, kindly
forward a report of their little Society,
which shows that although few in numbers,
they take an active interest in the promo-
tion of good, relieving the wants of the des-
titute among them; helping to immigrate
the poor from other countries, to send mis-
sionaries abroad to preach the gospel, to
build railroads, etc. A meeting was held
on June 16th, at which Bishop Lake and
others made appropriate and interesting, re-
marks.
   They also send congratulations on the
favorable debut of the EXPONENT.


