THE "ENSLAVED" WOMEN OF UTAH.
				______

	Much lachrymose and silly sentimentality
has been uttered and published relative to the
"enslaved" condition of the women of Utah. It
dates back to before the time that Buchanan
sent an army and a Governor here to inflict
punishment for the distruction of court records
that are still intact, and to free the "oppressed
women" who were held in "servile bondage"
by their "male-tyrants." That Governor came
and found the records untouched. Issued
his proclamation offering protection to the
"enslaved women" of the Territory, yet they
neglected to avail themselves of his aid, though
it had a strong military force to give it effect.-
Years passed, and still the cry was raised that
these poor women were trammeled and held in
bonds; and the necessity of extending the elec-
tive franchise to them above all the sisterhood
of the United States was loudly urged. Pos-
sessed of that weapon with which to fight their
oppressors at the polls, it was held that a won-
derful revolution would be speedily manifested
in Utah; for were not the women disgusted with
their condition, desirous of fleeing from their
husbands, fathers and brothers, and eager to 
adopt the fashionable follies, vices, and wicked-
bess wich "adorn" the civilization of the 
century!
	The right of suffrage because theirs, not 
through the efforts of these purely philanthropic
souls who were so eager for their emancipation,
but by the act of the representatives of the "ty-
rants," in legislative body assembled; and still
the ardent natures of those zealous individuals
who were so anxious to "befriend" the women
of Utah were not satisfied. They became as
anxious to have deprived of the elective
franchise as they previously had been that it 
might be bestowed upon us. As the gubernatorial
proclamation referred to had been neglected by
the women to whom it was addressed, so their
votes were cast with and for the men whom in
long years of trial they had proved and found
worthy. And when in February 1870, they
met in mass conventions all over the Territory, 
before the right to vote had been conferred upon
them, the voice of nearly twenty thousand wo-
men-wives, mothers, sisters and daughters of
these "tyrants"-was a united protest against
the calumnies of years heaped upon the men of
Utah, whom they honored and in whom they
had confidence. 
	Now the manner of attack has changed, but
the object is the same; the sentimentality is not
so lachrymose, yet the venom accompanying it
is as malignant as ever. The women of Utah
having destroyed the force of the previous
charges made, are themselves attacked, their
veracity impugned, and their honesty of purpose 
questioned. A few busy-bodies, by means dis-
reputable because dishonorable, have brought
themselves before the attention of the country
as representing the women of this Territory, 
and have published statements which will not 
bear the scrutiny of investigation. Their prin-
ciples are repudiated by nineteen-twentieths of
the women of Utah, while their alleged facts
are exaggerations, misconceptions, and direct
mistatements. Yet when the evidence of their
disingenuousness are published, they seek to
shelter themselves veracity, and claim that they, only,
of all the women of Utah, are to be believed.
	We have lived in Utah a number of years,
have had ample opportunity of understanding 
the situation here, have participated in this 
"slavery," have exercised the franchise being
legally authorized to do so, and are better in-
formed on the views, feelings and sentiments of
our sisterhood in this Territory than those who
eagerly parade their sentimentality before the 
country. With the knowledge thus obtained
through years of experience, we denounce the 
incorrect and vindictive statements still made
concerning men, women and matters in Utah;
and regret that any woman should be engaged
in such work. If the women of Utah are "slaves"
their bonds are loving ones and dearly prized.
They are to-day in the free and unrestricted ex-
ercise of more political and social rights than
are the women of any other part of these Uni-
ted States. But they do not choose, as a body
to court folly, pander to senseless passions, en-
courage vice because it may come with smiling
visage and polished exterior; which make mankind
happy in any condition of existence, for the
tinselled covering of hollow sentimentality, and
the guidance of unstable theorists, or creatures
of romance and slaves of passion.
	Life is a solid reality, drawing its existence
from the past, having its influence on the future. 
As such we view it, and labor to exert that in-
fluence for the elevation of human-kind, ment-
ally, morally and physically.-


