[Vol4 | December 1917 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons]
GUIDE  LESSONS.  713 
How  many  .sets  of  plates  did  Nephi  prepare? 
What  were  Zarahemla's  plates  and  what  did  they  contain  ? 
What  can  you  say  of  Mormon's  abridgment? 
What  did  Moroni  write? 
How  many  sets  of  plates  were  there? 
1  low  many  historians  were  there  ? 
What  became  of  the  first  116  pages  translated  by  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  ? 
History  Preparation.  Students  are  requested  to  read  I  Nephi 
s.nd  report  readings  at  the  next  lesson  for  general  discussion. 
NOTICE  TO  OUR  STUDENTS. 
The  General  Board  of  the  Relief  Society  have  decided  to 
present  as  this  year's  and  next  year's  theology  lessons  the  study 
and  history  of  the  Book  of  Mormon. 
The  genealogical  lessons  which  will  continue  as  usual  will 
take  up  the  following:  Racial  history  lessons:  Gentile  Semites, 
Desendants  of  Ham,  Japheth,  Racial  Beginnings  in  Europe, 
Further  Racial  Divisions  in  Europe,  and  Race  History  in  Great 
Britain. 
The  Home  Science  lessons  will  treat  on  conservation  of  food, 
taking  up  as  subjects:  Plain  Facts  about  Food,  Spring  Vege- 
tables, Economy  and  Methods  of  Preparation;  Cereals:  rice, 
v/hole  wheat  flour,  rye  and  corn  bread,  and  bread-making;  Pro- 
ducts and  by-products  of  the  Dairy;  Review  of  Canning  and  Dry- 
ing lesson ;  Beans,  peas,  lentils  and  meat ;  Conservation  of  Cloth- 
ing; Textiles  and  Fabrics,  Choice  and  Care;  Shoes  and  Hose; 
Conservation  of  Health  of  Children :  Health  the  Best  Gift ;  Con- 
servation of  Peace  within ;  Christmas  and  the  Prophet's  Birthday. 
Because  of  the  pressure  upon  our  time  and  energies  through 
war  activities,  added  to  the  regular  heavy  responsibilities  of  our 
Relief  Society  work,  the  Board  has  decided  to  relieve  the  situation 
somewhat  by  discontinuing  for  this  year,  at  least,  the  study  of 
Literature.     We  hope  the  result  will  justify  our  action. 
Very  few  books  need  be  purchased  in  the  lesson  work  for  the 
corning  year.  All  our  people  have  the  sacred  history  of  the  Ne- 
phites,  and  we  trust  that  all  of  our  members  have  in  the  home,
