[Vol4 | December 1917 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons]

GUIDE LESSONS. 
 Home Economics. Fourth Week in January. Plain facts about food. Food values in 100 calorie portions. References: Feeding the Family, Rose. Laboratory Manual, Rose. Principles of Cookery, Greer. Food for the Worker, Stem and Spitz. Good Bulletins: No. 142, "Principles of Nutrition and Nutritive Value of Food." No. 128, "Eggs and Their Uses as Food.'' No. 34, "Meat Composition and Cookery." No. 413, "Care of Milk and Use." LESSON I. PLAIN FACTS ABOUT FOOD. Education in food values is not only necessary for the mother let also for the father. Mothers have carried the food responsibility a long way in silence, and to a certain extent in self-pity because we have held to the tradition that all women can cook. Some of us are brave enough to say that there are many exceptions to that old tradition for experience has taught that all women cannot cook well. There has also been a belief among men that food which was made especially pleasurable on feast days and holidays was a somewhat isolated factor in the well-being of the household. Fathers need to be interested and given some responsibility in the vital question of feeding the family. Many cases of lowered vitality in adults are directly traceable to bad food habits. Many of these bad food habits are directly due to the example set by adults. One child has not learned to eat gravy, another does not eat vegetables, while a third refuses milk because father has limited food tastes. Responsibility of parents must include efficient training of their children in selection and eating of proper foods as well as proper nourishment of their own bodies. The progress of many women has been hampered in their food study because of lack of co-operation or harmony with all of the members of the household. Variance from established custom has been difficult to establish when potatoes for example were $3 per bushel and rice 10 cents a pound, which in some cases made the housekeeper's attempt in potato substituting unsuccessful. Food traditions which placed rice in puddings made it easy 
 for some members of the family to refuse rice as a vegetable. Such extreme conservation discouraged mothers in trying new combinations in food besides destroying the harmony or balance in the meal which had been carefully planned. This offers an illustration of one of the many difficulties which are possible in the well ordered co-operate home. We need harmony in any attempt to improve home conditions for an enthusiastic, progress sue spirit is just as necessary as in municipal progress. Food cooperation will probably not be difficult in most cases as the writer's experience places men as most interested listeners on food topics. Parents must be converted to the fact that the taste for any article of diet can be acquired at will, and conquered at pleasure. Because we have so often purchased the year's supply of coal in one lot. the tradition used burning it is "coal is coal" rather than "coal is money." Just so is the attitude on food substitutes. Many people have never acquired the power to mentally taste new foods or taste old foods prepared in new ways. Such people are food cripples. Let the word he carried that we should eat 99 out of every 100 foods and get pleasure from the variety afforded. Such intelligent food habits will give US a better chance fur balanced meals. Another ancient theory shared by many people is that, primarily, "eating is a pleasure." Pour hundred years ago among the Gourmands it was a pleasure. The more recent theory, however, is that primarily, "eating is a duty." The busy mother whose cooking and sewing responsibility rests heavily on her mind at mealtime, should make this latter text a working principle in her life. Many nervous, irritable, broken down mothers are so because of eating insufficient food. Mothers should try to measure the food they consume with the required daily amount and determine if their day's supply has been sufficient. One busy mother whose energy requirement was 2.500 calories was eating only about 1,100 calories which is less than enough to obtain body equilibrium in bed. During the season of heavy work on the farm great care should be exercised in order that sufficient food may be supplied to meet the extra energy demands. The housewives in the older countries seem to have met this need by serving bet ween -meal lunches. These may be very simple and may not be more than a bowl of bread and milk or bread and cheese or milk and cookies, or fruit beverage and sandwich. Sometimes the food supply is not regulated to the body demands. Many colds in winter are the direct result of overeating. Men who are working only part of the day should eat less food than if they work long hours. Many men and boys during the winter months of partial inactivity thus suffer needlessly from colds because they have not good food habits for periods of low GUIDE LESSONS. 721 energy output. Doctors say they can well afford to be extravagant in gift-giving at Christmas time because their harvest comes immediately after the holidays. Excessive stoking of the body engine has filled it with clinkers which must be removed in order to restore harmony to the body processes. "Health is the harmonious relation and activity of all parts of the body." The right kinds of food in proper amounts is a very important health factor. Children who are under-nourished either from organic causes or under-feeding, are not in harmony with themselves or others. Much irritability is directly traceable to the alimentary canal and most of the disturbances, in what Dr. Wiley calls the most dangerous canal in the world, are unquestionably due to bad selection of food, improper cooking or careless eating. We must give full value to the fact that good food habits in children are quite as important as are the so-called ''manners" and the multiplication table. Imperfect nutrition should reflect just as much discredit on the family as ignorance in the common school branches. By the time a child is five or six years old he should know and like most simple well cooked dishes, make proper combinations and eat carefully. Such training will mean much in body building for the succeeding twenty years when growth is attained. Good health in adult life is founded in childhood. Malnutrition often shows itself in so-called fits of temper which in high strung children are really "nerve storms." At signs of possible outbreak of a fit of so-called temper it is a good thing to give the child some hot, light refreshments such as broth, soup, or hot milk and put the child to bed until equilibrium is restored. There seems to be a general misunderstanding as to the food requirement of elderly people. The demands for energy are lessened and only a necessary body-equilibrium process is carried on so that the food requirements are considerably less than in youth and middle age. The fuel requirement for a person between 70 and 80 is only about 1,800 calories which is about the same as required for the eight-year old. Calorie is simply the food unit of measure and need not be more confusing than the yard, gallon or quart. The food requirements have been studied carefully and devices called calorimeters or calorie measures make it possible to estimate food requirements. By means of the two kinds of calorimeters food values have been measured both inside and outside of the body. In figuring food requirements the following factors are considered: size, age, shape, sex, height, weight, habits, work, surface. A tall, thin person needs more food per weight than does the short, plump one. The active growing boy, 7 to 14, frequently needs more food than his mother. The man who is doing heavy 
 manual labor requires twice the food that is necessary for the man doing light work. The cheapest source of heat and energy and building material is found in the cereals, but the proportion of protein in them is insufficient for the day's supply. When a quart of milk for each child under 8 is allowed, and a pint for each adult where a reasonable number of eggs are used, meat need not be served more than once a day. The cost of cereals when bought in large amounts should be about one-half cent for 100 calorie portion. Protein foods cost from two cents to five cents more per 100 calorie portion. Vegetables and fruits vary as to season, but cost from one-half cent or less to twenty cents per 100 calorie portion, e. g.. when potatoes at sixty cents a bushel to celery or asparagus at fifteen cents a bunch, we get the two extremes of cost. However, the careful housewife will spend as much of the income for fruits and vegetables as she will for meats and cereals. In order that those under her charge shall not lack in animal salts and vitamins, considerable thought needs to be given to fresh foods in the day's diet. The old Italian proverb, "An apple a day keeps the doctor away," might well be paraphrased into ''Fresh fruit and vegetables each day keeps the doctor away." Cabbage salad, raw onion, apples, (ranges, celery and lettuce all have a place in the winter diet. QUESTIONS. use 1. in their Any own threesome. members of the Three other class to give to compare members day's meals with suggestive meals in lesson. 2. Mow is it possible to arrange for different amounts and kinds of food to suit varying conditions of family al a meal? 3. Give substitutes for the following foods: Meat, bread, sugar. 4. In what ways have you changed your meal service to meet present conditions? (See Nome Science Department.) RELIEF SOCIETY IUTREAC OF INFORMATION  AND EXCHANGE. A bureau of information  with headquarters in this office has been authorized by the General Board of the Relief Society between stake and ward organizations who desire to exchange or sell food products and supplies. A lady in Salt Lake stake wishes to buy home bottled corn and peas.