Mother's Day By Fontella S. Calder MARY BRIGGS set the two heavy water-pails down on the cobble stone curbing of the spring and dropped to a seat beside them. It was quiet and peaceful with the warm, sweet fragrance of early spring.  There was an angry light in Mary's dark eyes. "Dairy cows, indeed! Oh, John, and you promised—at least you let me believe—you said you'd see after the taxes were paid—and those lovely sets, orchid, pink, green—and I said, 'Oh, I would never expect anything one half so nice as the very plainest of these.' " Startled by her outburst, Mary glanced hastily around to see, if perchance, anyone had overhead. A sudden whirr of wings convinced her that not even a pair of bluebirds, busily constructing their summer residence under the eves of the rude spring-house had been witnesses to her emotion. Thus reassured, she fell to watching the two mites of feathered blue, as with happy trill, they wove, bit by bit, their 'tiny home. "Build thee more stately mansions, oh, my soul," she softly whispered. Then sne smiled. That smile was characteristic of Mary Briggs, and it cleansed her heart of all resentment. With a sigh she relaxed her tense nerves and leaned back against a supporting post. It was lovely here;. All. Around were the broad acres of their fertile farm. To the north she could see the little winding creek, outlined with the tender green of spring; the pasture land bordering it dotted with the dazzling white of newly sheared sheep. To the west, the rich brown earth, freshly turned, that would yield its harvest of wheat and barley, corn and oats, in a few short months. To the south, the rich green acres of fragrant alfalfa. And to the east, a few yards, their residence—the plain square structure that had, somehow, achieved beauty by the addition of surrounding porches covered with virginia creeper, and the skillful planting of shrubs and flowers. A tightness came into Mary's throat as she contemplated tie joys and sorrows that had been hers while she had lived and borne her six children, beneath the shelter of its roof. An added tightness came as she thougnt of how she had been forced to scheme and save, in order to bring into that home the little touches of beauty and convenience which her soul had craved. DE&8 kind John, so methodical, so industrious and  practical, never had understood why Mary would upset things with her new ideas. Twenty years ago the house had been completed, as he saw it. Four large, square rooms downstairs; four large, square rooms upstairs, each with two windows, and a door leading into a long hall. Even the grandeur that such a structure had presented to their country neighbors in those days nad never satisfied Mary. Somehow she would always have a vision of numerous closets and cupboards, and cosy vine-clad nooks. "John, dear, what do you think about a porch for the east side of the house?" she had ventured. "A porch, Mary? And why a porch? Would we live on a porch?" "It would be plesaant in the summer MOTHER'S DAY, John, covered with vines, and would make the house look better," she replied.; Then characteristically, John had said, "But it takes money, Mary, remember that." "Yes, John, I have a little saved. I believe enough to build the porch." Mary was smiling happily. "Very well, have the porch if you want it." Then Mary took a key from behind the kitchen door, crossed a few feet of door yard, descended some steps and unlocked the cellar door. From behind the rows of jams and jellies she slid an old brown stone jar. Removing the cover she emptied the contents into her apron—a little pile of silver dollars, half dollars, quarters, dimes and nickels—money from ner chickens. Joyfully she counted out the even dollars, put the odd cents back into the jar for a "nest egg" and slid it once more behind the jams and jellies. The porch had been built and covered with vines. But not all of Mary's plans had been so easily accomplished. She smiled as she thought of how many times the contents of the old stone jar had been despoiled for purposes other than household conveniences—piano, music lessons, mission, college, appendicitis operation, taxes, etc. In time, however, there had been other changes here and there, but the thing she had wanted most had not been achieved. For ten years it had been a constant desire. This cool, gurgling spring at her side was down a slope of some five or six rods from the house. To have this water lifted into her kitchen with a sink and accompanying drain had been her wish. During the last few years she had even planned a bathroom, partitioned off from the large kitchen. In vision, the sink 303 and cupboards had been placed in various positions. One year she had a color scheme worked out, and tne next year she had changed it in keeping with new ideas. This year she had even created the bright border of nasturtiums she would stencil on the plain muslin curtains. Perhaps, while thus dreaming, Mary would find that she needed a fresh rinse for the twins silky underthings, or more water for the soap she was making. Then, with the water pails she would make a trip to the spring. Thus, brought to reality, she would murmur—"just a tap and the plainest of sinks, is all I ask." LAST fall, while on a trip to tie city, she and John had visited Leon, their young and promising second son, at the large department store where he worked. They had looked at pumps and pipes and sinks, bathroom outfits in lovely pastel shades and in plain substantial white. For once, John had seemed interested. "After the first of the year, Mary, when things are settled up, we will see what we have left, and, perhaps, we can install the pump. While prices are low will be a good time to buy, if we can get the cash. But we must have the cash, Mary. That has always been my policy, and that is the reason our farm is free from mortgage today." "Oh yes, John, I know," Mary had replied. But joy had sung in her heart all the winter—and now, this disappointment—he had forgotten! MARY was serving the dessert when John had said, rather bluntly, "Cramer wants to sell his dairy herd." "Can't make a go of it with prices so low, eh?" responded David, their 304 second child and first born son, so like his father and a partner with him in everything. "Bought when prices were high, went in debt. Good young stock, dirt cheap," added John. "Well," David replied, "it's a good buy for some one. Chance to make some money when things pick up." A brief silence, during which, Mary unsuspectingly, nad wondered at the fate of the Cramers—and then, the thunder-bolt had fallen. "Dave, my boy, I think we had better buy those cows." Mary was glad she had been removing the dinner plates at the time. Lor one incredible, long moment, she stared at her husband's back, while tap and sink faded to oblivion, and then, she had fled through the back door and with the water-pails to the spring. This had always been a habit of Mary's, this trip to the spring, when under the stress of sudden great emotion. Psychologists would tell us that it was, precisely, the thing she should have done. Mary didn't know so much about psychology, but she did know that she was always able to return witn serenity. Indeed, no trace of emotion was present now as she arose and lifted the water-pails. THAT evening, when John asked for her opinion, she was able to say, in all sincerity, "John, dear, if you and David consider it a wise investment, get the cows by all means." Anyway, she knew there was a little pile in the old stone jar, how much sne was not certain, but she would keep on adding to it, and dream a bit longer. John and David did a great deal of figuring during the next few days. Several trips were made out to Cramers. Things were not coming out as they had hoped. They were afraid they couldn't raise the money. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Mary was sympathetic but there were firm lines about her mouth— funny how she kept thinking of the old stone jar. The deal must be closed by Saturday. It was Friday. John returned from a trip to Cramers looking very gloomy. 'Well, Mary, I guess the deal is off," were almost his first words. "I haven't quite enough money and I won't borrow." "Are you greatly disappointed, John?" Mary asked cautiously. "Yes, I am. The more I have thought about it, the more convinced I have become that it would be a good investment. Dave will be married in the summer, you know, and build right next to us. It would be a big help to him in getting a start." 'Why, of course, I hadn't thought of that," Mary was contrite. "How much money do you need, John?" "If I had fifty dollars I could close the deal, might as well be fifty hundred," and John laughed resent fully. "Oh, well'—he shrugged his shoulders to rid himself of the affair and settled in a comfortable chair to look over the morning mail. Mary took a key from 'behind the kitchen door, went to the cellar and unlocked the door. From behind the rows of jams and jellies she removed an old brown stone Jar. An exclamation of surprise escaped her lips as she emptied the contents into her lap—'I didn't think there would be this pile. I took every cent out last fall to start Florence on her music career in the city, and now, all this!' She counted out exactly sixtv-five dollars and forty-nine cents. She would give John the fifty dollars ne needed. Five she would send to Florence to get something for her spring wardrobe. Margaret should have five. Margaret was her first born child and now happily settled in MOTHER'S DAY a home of her own; but things were going hard with them. Five dollars would buy Margaret and baby John a new pair of shoes, which they needed badly.—''And tomorrow she would go into town and get two of those dainty print dresses in Fowlers, for the twins—high school girls need so many. Then, perhaps, she could find a nice collar and cuff set, for a dollar, to freshen up her old Hat crepe, for Mother's Day, just', one week away." Thus, happily musing, Mary dropped the fortynine cents back into the old stone Jar and slid it into place behind the jams and jellies. On Saturday the new dairy herd was established on the Briggs' farm and Mary assumed the responsibility of caring for the extra cream. HE week that followed was a busy one. Preparatory to the general house-cleaning, which was delayed until the twins were out of school, Mary began on cellar and cupboards, closets and drawers, with her customary fervor. Chickens and garden also claimed her attention. During the execution of these physical tasks she was thinking of Mother's Day on Sunday—how she had loved her own dear mother— what a blessing this, of motherhood —what a responsibility, to return these spirits back to the kingdom of God. She thought of Leon, that impulsive, dark eyed son; had she done right to encourage him in a business career, when he nad showed dislike for the farm? She hadn't liked the painted, loud voiced girl she had seen him with in the city. She had hoped he would see much of little Ella Winters, while she was in the city for school. She was such a dear child. SATURDAY came all too soon. Dusk had begun to gather ere 305 Mary Briggs found time to stitch the new collar and cuffs on to the old flat crepe. She drew her chair close to the window. She didn't want to turn on the light. She didn't want anyone to see if she cried just a little, it might loosen the lump that had been in her throat all the afternoon. But she didn't want anvone to know. Tomorrow was Mother's Day, and the mail carrier had passed this last day without leaving her any word or token from Florence and Leon— "Oh, I knew they wouldn't have the money to come home, but I thought they would remember. Have I schemed and saved, to give them their chance in the city, only to have them forget the old home and me?" Everything else would be as it nad always been. David would come, in the early morning, with a lovely bunch of violets, gathered fresh from the creek bottom. The twins would try their luck with some elabprate cake for dinner. There would be Sunday School. Then Margaret and her family would return with them for dinner; Margaret with a lovely bit of nand-work and deft fingers to prepare a favorite salad for dinner. She must not let them know how she felt. There had been some cause for delay. Perhaps on Monday she would hear—Yes, on Monday would come a letter of gushing affection from Florence and flowers or candy from Leon. She closed her eyes to brush away all trace of tears, and as she opened them again, was dazzled by the brilliant lights of a car. Just turning in their drive-way. "Well, for goodness sake, I wonder who can be coming this time of day." Mary leaned farther over the boxes of tomato and cabbage plants for a closer view. "Looks like a loaded truck—hm-—-hardly like'a truck ' 306 either. Well, it's stopping at the side gate—some one getting out— a young man, two girls, strangely familiar"—With a sob of joy Mary hastened to the door, only to be preceded by the twins, with their noisy snouts of—'"Leon! Florence! You old scouts, why didn't you send word you were coming?—why Ella Winters, this is good." But Mary Briggs was almost speechless with joy as she was folded in the arms of. Her son and daughter. She gave Ella a welcoming hug. John and David had arrived on the scene and there was mucn noisy chatter and a great deal of laughter. The twins were poking at mysterious packages and crates. Mary still in the shelter of Leon's arm looked up to say, rather fearfully, "Leon, what have you got tied all over your car?" Leon looked, with tenderness, at his mother, for a ful] minute, before he replied, 'A present for the best little mother in the whole world, and I wasn't trusting it to freigint trucks either." "Something you have wanted for a long time," Florence supplied eagerly—and Mary whispered—"not —not a tap and sink." "A tap and sink, absolutely, and all the fixings to go with it, including a bath-room outfit, in the creamiest yellow you ever saw. Just made to be yours, mother, and I know, because I picked it out.'' Florence was enthusiastic. "But Leon, you couldn't—no you couldn't have done all this yourself." Mary was incredulous. Leon laughed, "Well I should say not. Witness Florence's approval and if there were more light you could see how sheepish Father and Dave are looking. "Father and David?' Mary asked bewildered. ''Come into the house, my dears, so I can get this straight." "Tonn Briggs. Don't tell me you RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE have known about this all the time." "I'm afraid I have, Mary. It was Leon's idea but we all promised to help all we could." "Got a check for the last necessary fifty from Dad last week. He didn't know we were iucluding the bathroom. But gee, I couldn't pass it up. The company made me such a good price, so I just wrote and said, if you could spare another fifty—" "Last week? Why John, you were bargaining for the cows then. Were you and David going to sacrifice the cows—to do—this?" 'Oh, come, mother, don't make us out martyrs,'' Leon hastened to say. The twins were sulking. "We think you are all down right mean, not to let us in on the secret." "Little girls who are freshies in high school aren't supposed to keep secrets,' Leon was teasing. "Well, old smarty, that only goes to show how much you know. We have been keeping a secret ever since Christmas. We knew mother was saving fora tap and sink. We found where she had the money, so we have been saving fifty cents out of our allowance every month and adding to it, so there!" The family gazed in surprised admiration at the twins; but Mary, her voice trembling with emotion, could only say, "Oh, my darlings, you are all so kind and thoughtful—and— what a surprise!" Then in order to gain her composure she became practical. "For land sakes, Ella, I'm forgetting to take your wraps. Leon, why do you stand as though in a hurry to leave" "Well, Mother, I was going to drive on over to Winters to take Ella home. We have another little surprise for you before we go." He led the now blushing girl, to his mother MOTHER'S DAY and father, as he said, "Meet the future Mrs. Leon Briggs," and turning to David, "We thought we might make it a double, eh old boy °" With exclamations of happy surprise, warm hand shakes, and affectionate kisses, sweet, little Ella Winters was welcomed into the Briggs' family. "You won't go one step until you have had something to eat. We have some claim on Ella, now. Girls, 307 finish setting the table. Take the milk from the top shelf, and be sure, to stir in all the cream." Mary Briggs then disappeared through the kitchen door and out into the night with the water-pails. Down by the spring there was soft moonlight and apple-blossom fragrance. She raised her eyes—'Dear Father, I thank Thee, for this great blessing of being a wife and a moth" er.