OFFICERS' DEPARTMENT WEDNESDAY MORNING PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON T is a wonderful sight to see all of you sisters, many of you having come from a great distance. We have a number of new stake presidents and officers, wnom we greet. We havea bit of a heart-ache that some of the fine sisters who have met with us for many years are not here this morning. We have had a most beautiful response from all of the stakes. I think 102 out of the 105 have answered the questionnaires, which have been most enlightening, and we have received valuable information from them. I must tell you how thankful we are for you and for your loyal, supporting spirit, and for the wonderful work that you have carried on during the last stx months. No matter now much we have asked you to do (and we have asked a great deal since last October), we have never had a failure On your part, so we want to thank you and to pray that the Lord will bless us during this conference. I have been in the Temple several times lately, and always with a prayer in my heart that our Father in Heaven would graciously give us a rich outpouring of His Spirit. I believe the thing we need now most of anything in the world, is the Spirit of God, to enable us to meet life with trust and faith. THE RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE I pray that you will get what you need during this conference, and those of you who have come witn trouble in your hearts, and I know you have, will find comfort. I pray JULIA A 265 that our Heavenly Father will lift these troubles, and give you courage to go on, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.. F, LUND, General Secretary T gives me great pleasure, Sisters, to give you the following summarized report of the Relief Society for the year 1933. The complete report will be publisned in the May issue of the Relief Society Magazine. Total balance on hand, January 1, 1933, $132,681.71; Total Receipts during 1933, $207,014.53; Total Balance on Hand and Receipts, $339,696.24; Paid for Charitable Purposes, $83,853.27; Total Disbursements, $211,362.21; Total Balance, December 31, 1933, $128,334.03; Total Assets, $969,648.20; Ward Conferences Held, 1,423; Number of Visits by Visiting Teachers, 918,663; Number Special Visits to Sick and Homebound, 220,188. Membership in 1932, 67,382; in 1933, 68,796, an increase of 1,414; the membership includes: Executive and Special Officers, 11,372; Visiting Teachers, 24,144; Other Members, 33,280. Average attendance, 1932, 28,790, in 1933, 32,485, an increase of 3,695. Paid for Charitable Purposes in 1932, $111,343.23, in 1933, $83,853.27, a decrease of $27,489.96. I would like to call special attention to the fact that while we have not, from our organization, spent so mucn money for charity, the service angle of the organization has greatly increased, showing that the sisters are keenly alive to their responsibilities in the matter of our work. Relief Society Libraries Jennie B. Knight, Member of the General Board SPEAKER at a recent convention described a situation similar to this, aptly, when she said that she was reminded of the delightful story "Alice in Wonderland" and the famous lines, "The time had come the walrus said, to talk of many things, of ships and shoes and sealing wax, of cabbages and kings." Among the many interesting things that we are to discuss this morning are the Relief Society libraries. When women are snown the needs of a community, they arise to the occasion to meet that need, whether it be for food or clothes or books. Other women's organizations as well as our own are renewing their effort to supply books to be read by the people of the community. According to a recent report of a Library Association of Ameri¢a held in Chicago last year, 38% of tne population of the United States are without library service of any sort. A gratifying discovery in the survey by the library committee disclosed that book circulation has increased 40% in the past three years. More young people than old, more uneducated than educated people use libraries. Aliens read more seriously than United States born. Is this not significant of a growing need for increased 266 library service and a challenge to every community? We are satisfied that the efforts of our officers and class leaders are responsible in a measure, for the increased numbers of library users in our section of the country. We desire to compliment them on their successes and know that the many fine things now begun will continue. Speaking of public libraries, we urge that our women take more interest in them and do more reading than ever before. We wish also to express our sincere appreciation to the librarians who have been instrumental in securing the text books for our reading courses and placing them on the reserved shelves in the libraries. We are gratified at the information given in our recent survey of the library situation in our Relief Societies. We especially appreciate those reports which gave definite information in answer to the questions, "Have you done anything towards establishing libraries?" "What method do you use?'. We find almost a unanimous opinion that the library project is worth while and in the report there is an expression of willingness, and an anxiety to have more and better Relief Society Ward Libraries throughout the Stakes. We have replies from a hundred and one Stakes. 12 reported that special instructions concerning libraries 'nad been given to the wards since the conventions of 1933. 7 reported "not much has been accomplished." 8 reported nothing had been done about the matter. 19. Stakes had Relief Society libraries in all of the wards. 42 stakes have libraries in one or more wards. 19 stakes have stake but not ward libraries.  stakes have botn ward and stake libraries. 11 stakes have Relief Society books on shelves in their public libraries. 3 reported books in school, seminary or Parent Teachers' library. 30 stakes reported no Relief Society libraries, of these five gave as their reason, access to splendid public libraries. 10 stakes reported having no access to any libraries of any sort and very few books in their societies. One stake reported "Two years ago we used all of our books in the way of a traveling library, giving ten books to a ward for a month. Much reading was done by our women, it was also gratifying to our librarian wno took the score for record of books read." Which of all our stakes would like to have said of it, that in proportion to its membership it is the most bookless stake in the Church! How much more we would all like to have it said of us, that our stake furnishes "The best reading for the largest number at the least cost." We cite particularly the method adopted by the Cache stake, which has been a great success, a detailed account of which may be found in the Relief Society Magazine, Vol. 20, page 43. One of the first steps in establishing a library, is to provide a suitable place to keep the books, a shelf or shelves, where they can be seen is better than a box. Then some system of cataloguing the books is necessary, this may be done alphabetically, by authors, or by subjects. All books should be listed eitner on cards or ina record book. A card 5 inches by 3 inches with the author's name and title of the book written at the top may be placed in each book. The best lrbraries write the surname first, also giving the name of the publishing THE RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE company. These cards may be placed in each book. When taking a book out of the collection the borrower writes her name on the card, also the date, and gives the card to the librarian, who files it. When the book is returned the name is checked off and the card replaced in the book. We are pleased to announce that markers may be obtained at Relief Society headquarters for the books, free, thus all of the Relief Society books of the Church may have a uniform marker. Do not be surprised if you are asked for the number of volumes in your libraries, in the future, or perhaps the number of volumes read. We recommend that where there are large public libraries, the stake presidents and librarians advise with the ward officers about their libraries and ascertain just now accessible the books are to their members, and then use their best judgment in establishing Relief Society libraries in those towns. We hope, and urge that some method be devised whereby all members of the various wards may have access to good books. We recommend also, that we resolve to have 267 wo the books already in our possession, read by more of our members, and that we make an effort to add to our small nucleus such books as will answer the injunction found in the Doctrine and Covenants, "Seek ye out of the best books, words of wisdom, seek by learning, by study and also by faith," and endeavor to have a system for the proper care and distribution of the books established in each stake and ward. To stimulate reading, monthly reports might be made of tne volumes read by each member. Let us remember that there are in our communities many young and many older people who have had leisure hours forced upon them. May we not be of inestimable service to them, by making it possible for them to get books to read during these hours. The standard of our conversations and tne ideals of our families will be raised and our understanding enlarged if we do more reading. How about a resolution? "Less time consumed in making pies, pickles and preserves, more time spent with poems, paragraphs and pages." And remember, "The best reading for the largest number at the least cost." Relief Society Magazine Campaign "HAZEL H. GREENWOOD, Member of the General Board T is a natural impulse for us to share with others the fine things we enjoy, this adds to our own pleasure. There is nothing in moral or religious life that we experience or make a part of our lives that does not inspire a desire to acquaint others with it. While we are doing this we are the beneficiaries. That desire to impart it to others demonstrates more than anything else, an appreciation of high fine principles. ganization works. The whole genius of tne Gospel is not only to live it, but to impart it to others. We would have all women experience the joy and the satisfaction that we have in Relief Society, and we never tire in trying to convince them of this pleasure, and getting them to join in the activity. The Relief Society Magazine is the medium through which the orIt is a pleasure 268 and a profit, and we are anxious that all should share it. It is a necessaty organ for the operation of our Society. In order to keep in touch with its spirit and purpose it is necessary that we have access to this official guide and instructor. As a text book is to a school, so is the Magazine to our Relief Society. Our aim is to have every woman 4 subscriber to the Magazine. We wish first to make our people Magazine conscious, then to devise ways and means to make it available. Last year a Magazine drive was suggested to extend from September 15 to October 15, this drive to be Church-wide. In defense of this choice let me say that November was taken by another Church publication, and September was considered superior to December for various reasons. So many things have to be paid, taxes, tithing, Christmas, at the end of the year, and our year really begins with September. When we get into the swing of things, it is as easy to subscribe then as at any other time. A report received shows that 86 %o of the stakes had a drive in September with various degrees of success, the majority, however, reporting substantial gains. There are several arguments in favor of a concentrated drive. One stake president voiced this when she said, "It gave our Magazine representative public recognition and had the approval of the Bishop." A drive concentrates effort over a shorter period, and can be more intensive. There must be preparation for this, and here is an opportunity to develop the ingenuity and resourcefulness of our officers. In order to advertise the M agazine these means have been used: Ward Conference made up from the Magazine. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Talks in Meetings. House to house canvas (quite general and varied in form). Special Magazine programs parties. Departments in Union Meetings. Salesmansnip classes in Union Meeting. Personal contact by M agazine representative, president or other officers. Contests of various kinds in wards, districts or stakes in which the losers treat. All these methods have helped to get results. It seems to be the consensus of opinion that most people can pay in small amounts more easily; so penny boxes, banks, installments in various ways are used. In some stakes a sacrifice month was observed where some few things were given up to meet the expense of the Magazine. Children were made conscious of the needs of mother, etc. Special parties were arranged to raise money for those unable to pay At some parties every member was given 50c credit on the Magazine, and she paid the other 50c. These are just a few suggestions gathered from the results of the survey. Any plan must be carefully thought out and well organized. It is well for us to understand salesmanship, but 'igh pressure salesmanship should be avoided. Be enthusiastic but let it be from a thorough knowledge of the worth of what you have to sell. No one should be made to feel delinquent because she cannot subscribe. Make it easy and make it possible. Many people pride themselves on having all tne Magazines bound. Every stake should have them. We cannot afford to antagonize people; we are coming back next year. Sometimes too much said is a bad thing, continuing until it beand THE RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE comes monotonous. We want our women to be loyal, and tney are! But people resent doing things from a sense of duty alone. This is a practical age; people want something for their money, and if we lead them to see they are getting value, then it becomes a privilege to subscribe. We have. In a year's subscription to the Magazine 27 educational lessons and 9 Teachers' Topics, which is worth 269 much more than the price asked for the year's subscription. If the lessons are studied, and a part of the suggested supplementary material read, it takes all the time I can devote to formal study. Tnese are unusual times. You Relief Society sisters have done well. We wish to congratulate you on your success and thank you for your support. May you achieve greater success in the future. PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON WHILE these sisters have been telling of the fine things about the libraries and the Magazine, 1 have thought of anotner avenue where you women have done beautiful work. With a desire to disseminate the fine material in the Social Service Pamphlets, and hoping that they could be of greater service in the stakes, we sent to each of our stake presidents a set for eacn ward in the stake. The report that has come in is most encouraging. A few of the stakes have said they had no use for them, but perhaps in the. Stakes adjoining would come the request for more. We sent the same allotment to Fremont stake as we did to the others, and by return mail came the reply, "We hope we can get 25 sets more before union meeting, as we can dispose of them." Before the month was up we had a check and another order for 100 sets. I believe that was the banner stake, but we have had very fine reports from many others. We still nave some of these pamphlets, and if the Presidents feel that there are any mothers in the stake who would be benefited, and who cannot afford to pay for them, we will be pleased to give them. We also would like to call attention to the fact that we fave some of our literary books, "The Story of the World's Literature," by John Macy. This is the same text in literature that we used this year, so you will be under no obligation to change, and we shall be glad to supply any who may need them. The Doctrine and Covenants work will be continued as it has been, so there will be no change in theology. 'A very fine course of study is being outlined for the social service lessons, but these will not require a book. * At the request of Sister Emily T. Merrill, president of the European Mission Relief Society, a simple course in "Home Hygiene," is being prepared. This course, called "Health and Home Nursing," will be published in our Magazine. We hope that the stakes who have the teachers available, and who have been carrying on our three major topics, will continue to do so. We want our theology carried on everywhere in the world. We hope those who can carry on the literary work, will do so; the same with the social service lessons, which you will find easier tnis year. Not only in the European Mission, but in all the missions, if you feel there is a greater need for "Home Nursing," use these lessons, which we hope will be very helpful. This year we have had in the Relief Society a very great number of reorganizations. Of course we know it is for the best, and we welcome  dear faces of some wno have been with us through many years. You new Presidents, women of integrity and faith, but we miss the REORGANIZATIONS Date Stake Released Appointed President Aug., 1933 Bear Lake Eliza B. Cook Hazel Shepherd Dec., 1933 Benson Ethel B. Webb Ruey Bernhisel Sept., 1933 Boise Mary C. Martineau Mabel S. Nokes June, 1933 Burley Luella Wright Dora Pickett Aug., 1933 Garfield Ida H. Steed Esther B. Mathews July, 1933 Lethbridge Mildred C. Harvey Ida Wood July, 1933 Logan Bessie G. Ballard Ada E. Morrell Mar., 1934 Morgan Sophia Anderson Elizabeth Geary Oct., 1933 Odquirrh Marie B. Tygeson Phoebe Ridd Aug., 1933 Pocatello Martha E. Pugmire Vera Rich Horsfall Sept., 1933 St. George Josephine J. Miles Juanita Brooks Nov., 1933 San Luis Martha E. Haskell Mary K. Bagwell July, 1933 Taylor Julia E. Ririe Allie R. Jensen Mission Released Appointed President Central States Eastern States Charlotte T. Bennion Alice D. Moyle Nellie D. Woodruff Grace S. Colton European Leah D. Widtsoe Emily T. Merrill Mexican Vilate R. Ivins Anna H. Pratt New Zealand Jennie E. Magleby Polly Duncan Southern States Grace E.. Callis Ina A. Richards Nellie D. Woodruff ORGANIZATIONS Dec., 1933—Wells Stake, Marie H. Tanner, Appointed President. Oct., 1933—South American Miss ion (two branches), Reinnold Stoof, President. We have asked you if you prefer nine lessons prepared in our course of study, or if you think eight would produce better results. Some of the stakes feel that the month of June is a difficult month to hold their work as scheduled, and there were a number of good reasons advanced. In answer to our questionnaire, out of 102 answers, 67 want nine montns continued, 24 want eight months, and 11 said either way that was decided would suit them. According to our rules in the Church, the majority expresses all of our opinions, so we are all now in favor of nine lessons. If there are problems that arise that cannot very well be taken care of in those stakes who wanted the eight lessons, we will consider them later. We are better prepared now than ever before to give educational work in social service. Sister Lyman is in charge, with her assistants, and they are not only giving a course at the Brigham Young University in Provo, but four of our near-by stakes are now taking the course of social service. This is for stake officers, ward presidents, and where they have ward aids for them also, and especially for the Bishops, if they can spare the time to meet with us. It is an excellent program, and Dec., 1933 Grant Jan., 1934 Hollywood June, 1933 Star Valley Kittie D. Burton Western States Winnifred B. Daynes Amy E. Neff Katherine R. Stewart Zatelle Sessions Pearl B. Holbrook Winnifred B. Daynes THE RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE we are fortunate in having Sister Lyman, who is not only qualified as a teacher, but so well prepared in social welfare and in Church standards. I believe that this is one of the richest opportunities that we are offering to Relief Society. There may be groups brought into headquarters, as we have done before, for the longer courses, and short institutes can be arranged in the stakes. Our one regret is that these trained women are not used more extensively. We urge you to give careful thought in making your selection of these sisters, and we are wondering if, after taking the training, you see that they are put into service in the stakes. They are most valuable. We have been a bit disappointed that these women have not been used more extensively on the Federal Committees out in the counties. The question arises, have the stake presidents stood firmly enough behind these social service aids, and made it known that they have had training? They are sometimes the only persons who have had training in the county, and yet they have not been used. If Sister Lyman arranges to come to your stake, we hope that you will be careful in the selection of women, and choose those whom you think will be able to serve you for the greatest length of time. It takes a great deal of effort on the part of Sister Lyman and her assistants, to give this course, and it is quite a heavy responsibility for you in the stakes, and we want the best results to follow. We never have, before this year, had a month when we could have an official Magazine Drive. This does not mean that we do not want you to take subscriptions the whole year through, but when we met with Brother Ballard and those in charge of the publications of the Church, we had second choice of the time that 271 we could use. The Mutual Improvement Association had already selected from October 15 to November 15, and we felt that from September 15 to October 15 would be the best time for us. This is the time for the public drive—concentrate on it as you have been told. "What shall we do on our Work and Business Day?" is a very general question. The women are tired of quilting and sewing carpet rags. We know that to be a leader of the Work and Business group is one of the hardest places to fill, and it is difficult to prepare attractive programs for the Work and Business Day. I hope that in this session of our conference many of you will get inspiration from the demonstrations that will be given here during the whole week. We had one of our fine presidents ask if it would be permissible in her stake to take up the lesson on genealogy on Work and Business Day. We do not want to discourage anyone; we feel that genealogy is one of the most important things we have to consider, but there is organized in the Church a Genealogical Society, and they of that organization are carrying on their special work. We have the three meetings in Relief Society now that are educational, and we feel that in adult work an educational program is not complete unless we learn to use our hands. I hope that the fourth Tuesday will be used for doing helpful things. I just happened to see in the things that were brought into us during the week, a curtain which looked like Monks Cloth, and a wool design had been worked on it so beautifully. I believe if you could see it, you would all like to have curtains made that way. There are so many things that are beautiful and useful. We want to discourage expensive things, but cultivate taste and make Cane the best use of what we have at hand. On some of the questionnaires the wards say that Work and Business Meeting is held any time the women take a notion to have it. I believe this is a problem for the stake president to settle, and best results follow from a definite time for all meetings. We are still having questions RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE about raffling. When an article is given with a chance it is raffling— when you sell a chance on anything, it is raffling. The Relief Society has not changed its standards, and is unqualifiedly against any compromise of the right, and any form of gambling. Work and Business Department WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON Lotta Paul Baxter, Chairman HIS Department work was opened by a meeting of those cnarged with the conduct of this very important phase of Relief Society activity in the stakes and missions, An Institute covering four days was planned, in response to many requests from the stakes for help in this particular part of the work. Mrs. Glenn J. Beeley was director of the Institute. Experts in the various lines were in attendance to advise and demonstrate the various phases of Interior Decoration, Arts and Crafts. The most complete cooperation between the business men and Relief Society was exemplified. Great assistance was rendered by local Relief Society women, under the direction of Mrs. Elfleda L. Jensen, Relief Society Stake President of East Jordan. Mrs. Glenn J. Beeley spoke on "The Tricks of the Trade," and "Application of Ornament," illustrated with lantern slides. Demonstrations included wall paper, curtains, drapes, slip covers, refinishing old floors and linoleum, refinishing old furniture, painting walls, dyeing, machine-made rugs, lamp shades, embroidery and numerous suggestions for bazaars, always keeping before the sisters good taste, simplicity and economy. Each stake leader was supplied with a portfolio filled with instructions and suggestions for projects in the Work and Business Meeting. Choristers and Organists' Department Ida Peterson Beal, Chairman LARGE and an enthusiastic group met in Barratt Hall, Wednesday, April 4, 1934, for instructions in music for the organization. Professor Tracy Y. Cannon, director of the McCune School of Music and Art, clearly outlined the value of interpretation of our songs; the proper combination of words and music. He stated that the words and their meaning would suggest the tempo or speed of a song. Organists and Choristers should read carefully the words of a song so that tne proper interpretation may be given. Mrs. Florence Jepperson Madsen, professor of music at the Bigham Young University, gave many helpful suggestions on tone; the development of proper breathing; the relaxing of the throat muscles, etc. Mrs. Madsen illustrated her work by a trio of voung girls from the Brigham Young University. THE RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Mrs. Elise B. Alder spoke on Music Appreciation, and the music program for the coming year. Mrs. Charlotte Owen Sackett, assisted by Mrs. Alta B. Cassity, gave a demonstration of hymn work from the "L. D. S. Hymn Book," in which the entire group participated. The music program for the year was given and demonstrated by a 273 group of singers from the Relief Society Chorus. The songs for the year are: "Though Deepening Trials; "God Moves in a Mysterious Way;" "I Think When I Read That Sweet Story of Old;" "Sleepers Wake:" "The Lost Chord." Suggestive list: "Prayer Perfect;" 'Teach Me to Pray;" "As the Dew from Heaven Distilling." Social Welfare Department Counselor Amy Brown Lyman, Chairman LARGE group of Relief Society women who are charged with the responsibility of directing the Social Welfare work in the stakes, met in the Assembly Hall, Temple Square, on Wednesday, April 4, 1934, at 2 p. M., to hear questions of great importance to them, discussed. Dr. Dorothy B. Nyswander, Associate Professor of Psychology at the University of Utah, and Director of the Woman's Division of the C. W. A. In Utah, spoke on "Woman's Place in the Reconstruction Program of the United States." Mrs. Ruth Lohmoelder, Assistant in the Relief Society General Welfare Department reported the results of the questionnaire from the Department. The "Analysis of the Social Service Survey" covered (1) the source of funds for relief; (2) the part the Bishops and Ward Presidents take in administering the rehef; (3) the extent to which Stake Registration Cards are used. Counselor Amy Brown Lyman spoke upon the Registration Cards: the duties of the Relief Society General Welfare Department; the institutes and general plan of educational work. Miss Evélyn Hodges; of the Relief Society Social Service Department gave a paper on "Emotional Reactions to Unemployment and Relief." Reception for Stake Officers WEDNESDAY EVENING Lalene H. Hart, Chairman HIS very happy social feature of the Conference was held in the Relief Society headquarters, second floor of the Bishop's Building, at 7:30 p. M., Wednesday, April 4, 1934, The spacious rooms, fine music, dainty refreshments, served by the daugnters of the General Board~ Members, and the hospitable spirit of Relief Society, all combined to make a most delightful event, where approximately 500 stake, mission and general officers met to visit and renew acquaintances.  Stake Presidents' Breakfast THURSDAY MORNING Cora L. Bennion, Chairman HE important meeting of Stake and Mission Presidents, with the General President and Board Members was held in the Supper Room of the Hotel Utah, Thursday, April 5, 1934, at 7:30 a. M. President Louise Y. Robison presided, and many important problems pertaining to Relief Society work were discussed. Ten missions and one hundred and three stakes were here represented.