The Living Flame By Vesta P. Crawford
SHEILA flattened her nose against the window pane. Her mother, watching, could see only the back of the child's head, a mass of hair so fine that its shining strands were a golden maze.
"I can't see anything," said the little girl. "Not anything!"
The mother moved to the window. "See, Sheila, all those tall buildings with windows that look like a thousand eyes in the high gray walls."
"Buildings aren't anything."
"But look, there are people. A little girl, Can you see her down there? She has a red cap. She takes a few small steps and then a little skip, just as you do."
"She doesn't look like Midge. Oh. Mama, can you remember Midge?"
Sheila turned from the window, her brown eyes glowing. "Oh, if I could just see Midge for one little minute. Remember how she carried her doll under one arm. It had a blue print dress."
"Would you like to write Midge a letter?"
"No. I can't tell her anything that we are doing. We aren't doing anything. We don't know anyone. Cities are too big. Too far away."
Margaret Ashton, holding back the blue window drapes with slender hands, looked at the blank walls and the staring windows and the street below.
"Mamma, would you mind very much if I cried just a little. Not more than five minutes. It's for Midge mostly."
Margaret came to her swiftly and put her arms around the little quivering body. She understood too well. She wanted to cry. Too.
"Mostly for Midge. I wonder if she still lives on the corner across from the Sunday School House. Not loud crying, mumsy, and just the fewest tears."
Margaret searched desperately for something comforting to say. Strange how she must say something to make Sheila feel better when she was so desperately lonely herself.
"Sheila, let's play a game. We'll imagine that daddy had never been transferred to this big city at all. We'll play that he is still engineer for the power plant back in Watsonville."
"How do we play that?"
A faint glint of interest glowed in the velvet brown eyes. Sheila lifted her head! But the little pointed chin still quivered. Well, for right now, we'll play we were back home again on the shady street. I'll describe it first, Then you describe." 262 'And let's compare home things with what we can see out of this very window. Begin, mumsy." Margaret settled back into the soft depths of a rust-red chair. The folds of her pale yellow dress were light and lacy and her small hands moved up and down on the dark mohair. "Well, in the first place it's morning time. The steep hills east of Watsonville are blue-gray and ever so misty. Veiled, they are, and exactly the color of the furthest building that you can see from here. And the fields at the end of the street are as golden as that gleaming window where the sun strikes. The grass along the street is green, mostly green. But it is worn some in places where little girls play or sit and cut paper dolls in the long afternoon." "Mumsy, the rope from the swing hangs down, worn out and raggedy like. It broke the day I was nine, just before we moved. The zinnias are on the east side of the house and they are so—so many colored against the white wall. The roof of the house is red. It has exactly four front steps. That's how J learned to count. Now you, mumsy." "It is about five o'clock on Tuesday. Mama has been to Relief Society meeting and she is sitting on the front porch thinking that it is time to get dinner. Then she sees Sheila coming home from Primary. Look out of the window now, Sheila, look at this very street. The little girl in red is you. See, she's tall like you and slender, and the other two little girls are friends of yours, little girls you play with. "No, mumsy. People don't play with me, here." "Sheila, you forgot. Watsonville.": "Oh, yes. Imagination is hard when you know it just can't happen. But T'll try. Look, mumsy, look now. Two ladies are coming down We're in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the street. One is tall and she wears a brown suit and a hat with a buckle —see it shine, on one side. The other one is little, like you, mumsy, just wispy, and she's wearing blue. We'll play they are Relief Society teachers. And see, just see! There's a little girl with them. She looks like Midge. She does! Oh—oh— she looks just too much like Midge Margaret drew the long-legged little girl up into her arms and buried her face in the shining hair. If only they hadn't come so far away. If they hadn't had to leave their friends. If they could just have in this city one little scrap of something like home, just a shred of something familiar. "Oh, mumsy, she did look like Midge. I can't play the imagining game any more. It hurts worse than to just do nothing at all." Margaret felt hot tears run down over her hands that cupped the little face. Again she searched desperately for something to say. Oh, for one illuminating thought.. HEN the door bell rang with a reverberating jingle. It echoed in the still room. "It couldn't be anybody at all," sobbed Sheila. Margaret arose unsteadily. Her hand trembled on the door knob. She opened the door slowly. "How do you do.'' Then she stepped back with amazement in her eyes. Why these were Sheila's ladies! The ones she had seen on the street, the tall one in brown and the wispy one in blue. And there was the little girl that looked like Midge —just her size. Straight brown hair. Sea blue eyes. So like Midge. Sheila sat upright in her chair, her back tense. Then she tiptoed quietly to her mother's side, half hiding. THE LIVING FLAME The woman in brown held out her hand. "Sister Ashton, we are Relief Society teachers. I am Sister Allen and this is Sister Bronson." "Relief Society Teachers!" Margaret Ashton swayed a little. It was too unbelievable. "Here!'' she exclaimed, "why I didn't know there was a branch of the Church here." Margaret motioned them to chairs. Sister Bronson, the wispy woman in blue explained, "There isn't a real branch, but we few sisters who are members have a Relief Society. We want you to become acquainted with us, for we are your neighbors." "Do you live near?" "Oh, no. Miles away on the other side of the city. But Relief Society sisters are neighbors the world over." Margaret settled back into her chair. A great contentment engulfed her. Almost she was sitting in her little house back in Watsonville with the dark mountain spires a vista through her window. Sister Allen held a magazine in her hand, but sne did not open it. "Our topic for today is: 'For your Father, who is in heaven, knoweth 263 that you have need of all these things.' " What great need she had felt. Oh, the unifying, comforting power of the simple words. Someone remembered her even in a strange city far from home. Someone had sought her out. Suddenly she thought that neighborliness and love were like a shining girdle around the world and the Relief Society teachers walked along that shining path. At the window Sheila stood with the little girl, their hands linked together, brown head close against the shining golden one. The little girl probably belonged to the tall woman dressed in brown, Margaret thought. Sister Allen spoke again. Her voice was low and friendly. "The Church, you know, is a living flame that seeks us out wherever we are and lights our way." That was it. Margaret's face glowed with some of that inner fire. The Church organizations, she thought, were reflections from that central living flame. And the Relief Society sisters were truly bearers of the glowing spark.