The meaning will typify two things, the color scheme, our national colors, also its ability to bring joy and beauty from earliest spring to late autumn. This border was planned last summer. I must have early blooming Howers in this particular border. It had held my tulips for several seasons. I had moved my tulips to a new location, and J must substitute some other early flowering plants. [ decided to have in this border only low growing varieties, none to be over eight inches tall. To achieve real beauty the plants must all be of uniform height. Pansy plants are reliable early bloomers, the English daisy, in my mind, is always a close companion to the pansy. For the first planting | chose these two flowers. Their blooming season is over about the time the annual plants would need their place in the bed, for there must be a successive planting to make the border of lasting beauty. I sent to my favorite seed man for two packets of extra special giant pansy seeds and one of English daisy seed. I planted my pansy seed in shallow boxes the latter part of August using quite a heavy unbleached muslin tacked securely over each box leaving a two inch space between the soil and cloth cover. By doing this I could turn a spray from the garden hose on as often as needed without disturbing the soil. The soil must be kept damp and not too much sunshine, so I placed the boxes near a shrub where they were partly shaded during the hottest part of the day. The plants were up good by the second week in September. The width of my border allowed room for three rows of plants without crowding. There would be two rows of pansies and one of English daisies. Two weeks before planting I worked the soil and added a light dressing of well rotted cow manure and lawngrass clippings. The little plants were set out about the middle of October. I set the rows about ten inches apart and planted the pansy plants about that same distance in the rows, the daisies somewhat closer. This gives room for the plants to spread without crotwding. I sprinkled a light dressing of the manure over the bed in December, as we had very little snow this year, to protect the young plants. For the national color border | chose the following free blooming, low growing annuals which I shall add to my border the last of April. Weather conditions being favorable. The red "Phlox Drummondii," a compact long blooming flower. For white, Alyssum "Little Gem." This lovely little white flower is fragrant, hardy, very compact in growth, and literally covered with bloom. Do not buy "Ocean Spray" or "Carpet of Snow" alyssum as these varieties are of trailing spreading variety and would soon cover your border. For the blue Ia chose the beautiful blue Lobelia. There are several named varieties, all good, all low growing. The phlox and alyssum may be 310 planted in the open ground where they are to grow. There will be room by moving the pansy foliage aside to make a shallow trench to plant these little seeds. Before planting them, I believe [ would work in still another light dressing of well rotted fertilizer. This can be done with a small garden tool without disturbing the pansy roots. The beauty of your border will depend on soil conditions. The heavy planting will demand much food, and these little plants are heavy feeders. The lobelia is more tender. Requiring a little more care. These seeds must be started in either window boxes or hot beds, then transplanted later to the bed. I suggest a heavy planting as the annuals must make a rather wide row. These can be thinned out as needed., You, too, can have an N. R. A. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE border of lovely national colors this summer. Your florist will be able to furnish pansy and daisy plants, or you can make one of your tulip border. Tne annuals are so easily grown. Surely there never could be a more lovely or enchanting sight than this border of red, white, and blue with its faithful beauty to gladden all beholders. We who do the planning and planting of course enjoy the greatest amount of pleasure and delight. For it is true that, "Whoever makes a garden Has, oh, so many friends! The glory of the morning, The dew when daylight ends.
"For wind, and rain, and sun, And dew, and fertile sod, And he who makes a garden, Works hand-in-hand with God."