GENERAL SESSION THURSDAY MORNING PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON E are very happy to greet this great congregation of women this morning, and also the brethren who are here with us. We pray that the Spirit of the Lord will be witha us, and that these returned Mission Presidents will tell you mothers who have sons and daughters in the mission field, things that will build up and bless you and make you feel that the sacrifice you made in sending these fine young people into the mission work has been a very great reward to you, and a contribution to the Church. LEAH D. WIDTSOE Former Relief Society President of the European Mission I AM sure that whenever the Gospel has been upon the earth in its fulness, there has been active work for women to do. We do not know the detail of the work that was done by the women of Ancient Israel, but we do know from our study of the Old and New Testament that women were active in those days, for we read that there were priests and priestesses in those times, and they could not have been isolated exceptions. Then we come down through the ages when the Gospel of Jesus Christ was taken from the earth, not by an arbitrary act of God, but through the slothfulness of man himself, losing that power, and we find through all the dark ages that woman was held more or less enthralled. Her voice was still, she was inactive in any public sense, and was held in submission to her husband, her lord. One of the great contributions of the Prophet Joseph, our modern propnet, was the restoration of the rights of woman, of her independence, and the right to exercise her free agency. I never tire in telling, and I always have joy in thinking of the fact that this great privilege was given to woman in this dispensation as a gift. She did not have to ask for it, sne has never had to fight for it, it came to her with the restoration of the Gospel in its fulness. For this gift, if we shall call it that, this privilege, we should show our gratitude, and we try to do so through our works. I am convinced that there is a work for the Relief SoTHE  ciety to do in the world today as never before in its history. That has been the thought in mind in emphasizing the work of the women in the European Missions, and it is here at home. The Relief Society has been organized for many years in Europe. In Europe there are eleven missions speaking eight different languages. The office of the President of the European Relief Society is supervisory only, attempting to correlate the work of the Society in all these missions. The total membership of the Relief Society in the missions is about 4,375, with an average attendance at meetings of 58.8% of the enrollment. Practically all of the Societies are following the prescribed outline of study. In making my report of conditions in the missions, I desire to pay a tribute of respect to the sisters who preceded me as European Mission Supervisors of Relief Society, also to note the intelligent help given in the work by the Mission Presidents of Relief Society who have served in the different missions while I nave been in the mission field, as well as to the conscientious and willing activity of the local members in each mission. The fine cooperation of these sisters, one and all, has made possible the progress that has been made. The Relief Societies in our newest missions, those of CzechoSlovakia and Palestine-Syria, are undertaking the Relief Society work in earnest and witn much intelligence. Their leaders are well qualified and great progress will be made there as elsewhere in the mission field. Formerly the great ideal of the people who joined the Church in the missions was to gather to Zion, but during the last decade Uncle 'Sam nas closed his doors, and our members have had to stay on the other side whether they would or not. This has been a hardship to some, for they have longed for years, and saved tneir money in the hope that they might come to Zion. With this change in policy it has been necessary to establish the auxiliaries of the Church with greater activity, so that the people may carry on tneir religion in the mission field, the auxiliaries are operating there much as they do at home. That has meant a very great responsibility added to the wife of the mission president if she nas been the one to carry on the work of the women's auxiliaries. Sometime ago a request was made for lady missionaries in Europe. Our leaders answered by urging us to train the local women to officer their own auxiliaries, and during the last three years that has been consummated. In practically all of the eight very active missions in Europe, there have now been formed boards of local women over the tree women's auxiliaries. One of the first projects that we set ourselves was to gather the histories of the different missions. It had been undertaken before, and the mission presidents' wives preceding me have done splendid work, but we undertook as a special centennial project the gathering of Relief Society histories in each of the missions, and then used our roll book for the keeping of that data up to date. This has meant a great deal of work, but has given much encouragement to the sisters, for they all found that they had histories of which they may be proud. Another of the contributions and projects was the attempt we made to bring our study courses in harmony with those you are using here in Zion. While the missions were sending their active people to Zion, it was rather difficult to have any uniform courses of study, but we at276 tempted, and have succeeded for the last two or three years, in bringing all of the European Missions (eight of them, we have had two new ones added since) into harmony with each other, so that we all were studying the same lessons and working from the same program. It has given them a great deal of satisfaction to feel that they are in unison with this great sisterhood of women throughout the world, and are studying what you are studying. They do feel that our Society is now an International as well as a National Relief Society. For the last thirty years there have been no lady missionaries in Europe, but as a result of prayer, we were given two lady missionaries a year ago last October, and two finer girls never lived than those who were sent over to work with us. They are there now and they have proved a very great blessing. They are doing work that in some cases our missionary boys could not do, and they are helping us so much with our auxiliary work, which is so necessary. It is impossible for the mission president's wife to do it all. We need more missionary girls. I have lived in Europe for six years, have visited all the countries, and I cannot see that our girls are not just as safe in Europe as they would be in any of the missions in the States. Of course we need girls who are spiritual minded, and who will be able to stand on their own feet, but that is the type we need in all of the missions, and so I hope that it may be possible for us to receive more lady missionaries in Europe.
I should like to report too how much we have enjoyed the Relief Society Handbook. It has been a very great satisfaction to us when any question came up to be able to turn to the handbook and say this and so it is, and the service of this handbook has been inestimable in our work.
Another activity is of the Singing Mothers. We had no way of knowing anything about this activity except through the Magazine, but we read of it, and the sisters of the different missions liked the title. It had rather a singing sound, and as we spoke of it, it brought to mind busy mothers who had time to leave their fireside and sing, and if they would sing in a chorus, they would surely sing to their growing children. In practically all of our missions now we have Church Singing Mothers. We did not make any request for it, the missions adopted it.
These are times, when, as never before, the contribution of the mothers of men must be felt, and I do feel that upon the shoulders of the Relief Society—the mothers, the women of our Church, rests the responsibility of carrying Christianity. It is bigger than all the machinery of our organization, great as our accomplishments may be. The world is starving for understanding, for sympathy. The greatest help that can be given by our Relief Society sisters is the spiritual uplift for men and women who have to struggle against adversity. I am sure that most of us feel that our greatest need is for the bread of life, the bread of life that Christ gives. While we do feel that it is necessary to have actual food for our bodies, let us not forget that the food for the spirit is equally important.
I remember a story that was told by my husband's mother. It was about one of the leading men whom my husband saw as a little lad soon after he came to this country, permitting an indiscretion, and he came home in great sorrow to tell his mother that he had seen this leader do this act. His mother said, "Well now it is of no matter to you what brother so and so does, that is his affair, what matters to you a great deal, is what John does." I feel today that the Relief Society mothers must not allow the criticism of others in their presence, and must encourage the expression of love and trust and understanding of our leaders from our Bishops to the head of our Church. If we will do this, and dedicate our lives to this service, and prove to our Heavenly Father that we are worthy of the great organization He has given to us, I feel that His kingdom on earth will spread to that extent.
In closing I would like to tell you of the great thrill it has been to me to visit the Relief Societies which I have visited, and to see how they have grown during the last six years. It makes me happy to see our younger women come out. It is a great tribute to our General Board to know that these groups are growing, for if these younger women did not appreciate the lessons, they would not come out in the numbers they do. Beyond measure I am grateful for this restored Gospel, for the privilege that is given the daughters of Israel to walk side by side with their husbands who hold the Priesthood. I am grateful for the testimony I have of the truthfulness of the Gospel, and pray that we shall instill it into the hearts of our youth until it shall crush out of their hearts the evil that the evil one desires to implant there. That our work shall grow, that it shall encompass all needs, spiritual and physical, and social and economic ambitions is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
GRACE E. CALLIS Former Relief Society President of the Southern States Mission
WE have recently completed a mission of 27 years in the Southern States, a land of happy memories. This morning, as I see a few faces of my missionary daughters who have become lovely mothers in Israel, I feel a little more at home.
In our early missionary work in the Southern States most of the converts were in the valleys and the hills, where the families lived miles apart, so our Church population was scattered. As a matter of fact they would not suffer the missionary work to be done in the cities, and even in the country our people were harassed, persecuted and mobbed. Under special instructions from the First Presidency, certain cities were opened up in the South for missionary work, and here small Sunday Schools were organized, which later grew into branches. Relief Societies were organized, and the Southern women, with grateful hearts, accepted the call of this grand work. Their hearts were filled with happiness and joy that they might be of service to the poor.
In the country one or two families formed a nucleus, and as these were added to, the sisters were organized into a Relief Society. Soon all over the mission our sisters assembled in chapels and in country homes with one desire and purpose in their hearts, to be of service in the upbuilding of the work of the Lord. We find that even today when we have chapels, sometimes if our Relief Societies are held in the homes of our sisters and the neighbors are invited in, our attendance is greatly increased. In nearly all of our meetings we have those who are not members of the Church. This is a stimulus to us, for we do desire to let our lights shine and glorify the work of our Father in Heaven. Much to our delight, the non-members will often see the good works of their "Mormon" sisters. Friendships are formed, and there is a broadening exchange of ideas, for we know that where women are, there is going to be a little talk. They become friendly with each other, and we know that through these associations women have come into the Church. It is hard for us to say just how many women have entered the Church through our Relief Society meetings as well as our other services.
I am happy to report too that our sisters find favor in the civic organizations. Their counsel and advice is sought, and the recommendations of the sisters concerning the poor is acted upon. We are given a recognition that betokens confidence and authority and standing along with the other people. Our sisters have been entrusted with the distribution of large supplies from these civic organizations. When I think of the many charitable acts that are done through our Societies, I know our women are imbued with true religion, for they visit the sick and attend to the needs of the poor by giving food and provisions and helping them along with medical attention. Through our organization many cripples have been sent to surgeons of renown, and blind people have been taken to oculists who have given them treatment. I might mention that one of our Relief Society organists is a blind woman, and it is certainly an inspiration to see her faith, and note how well she plays the hymns of Zion, and how much good she does. All feel that if she can work under these difficulties, they too must put forth very great efforts.
In all our acts of kindness to the poor we are assisted by the non-members who give liberally of their provisions and other things that amount to a great sum yearly. The Prophet Joseph Smith outlined most beautifully the spirit of Relief Society work. It is not only to take care of the poor, but it is to save souls. We are admonished to be pure in heart, to be charitable. In the South people are religious, so this spiritual, this soul-saving part of the work has a great appeal. We like to think of the influence that the mothers of the Church can, and do, have upon the people, especially upon the youth. A mother's life is consecrated in giving life. She does not bring sons and daughters into the world to be destroyed by hideous sin. God loves good mothers. I think the mothers of the two thousand Lamanites must have instructed their boys to acknowledge the Lord in all His ways and He would direct their paths, for when they told them that if they did not doubt the Lord would deliver them, these youths, these young boys testified, "We doubt not our mother's word." The influence that you good mothers have over your sons and daughters in the mission field cannot be measured. I have heard many a young elder say, "I only hope I can be the missionary that my mother thinks I am." This faith that you have in your boys and in your girls encourages them to go on with their noble work. Many of these noble mothers have laid down their lives while their sons were in the mission field, but it has been their last request that their sons stay and fill their missions. Oh, I think that when the Savior comes He will look for this sublime faith, for never in the history of the world has there been more willing sacrifice, more sublime faith than is shown by the Mothers of Israel.
There is a tradition that God was displeased with the inhabitants of the world because of their sin, and that Abraham and Moses appeared before Him and interceded for the children of men, but that they were ordered from His divine presence. Then, so the tradition goes, Rachel appeared before the Almighty, and He said, "By what right are you here?" Rachel humbly answered "By the right of a mother," and it is said that God listened to her.
We know today that intoxicating liquors weaken the reason; that evil-doing obscures the sense of God; that absence from Sunday School and meeting takes off the relish of spiritual things, and that unlawful pleasure increases the authority of the body over the spirit and leads to destruction. The better way for us to help our youth is to make a spiritual appeal to their conscience, to help them look within themselves, always remembering, as the poet Browning said, that when a fight begins within himself a man is worth something, God stoops over his head. In the strength of perseverance we must help them to stir up their conscience, to have control over their minds and their bodies. Abraham Lincoln said that he would rather walk with his conscience than with the crowd, and our young people, walking with their conscience, will walk with God, even as Enoch of old did. Every righteous prayer of a mother will bring an answer of peace, and so by a good example we should teach our children what is righteous and what is unrighteous, letting them know unlawful things spell sin. Every true Latter-day Saint woman desires to be a mother of sons and daughters who will honor God. You will remember in reading the story of Ben Hur how his splendid mother instilled into him the glorious deeds of his noble ancestors, the prophets Abraham and Moses, and how she aroused in him a desire to live that he might be worthy of these noble progenitors. So it should be our desire to teach our children that faith in God is the way to success, and let them feel that if they will follow the examples of Jesus Christ and all the wonderful leaders, and if they will live near to the Lord, if they will put themselves on the Lord's side, they will have no need to fear the consequences. I feel that my life has been enriched in the Relief Society work, and by these wonderful, gentle, refined Southern women. They live near to the Lord, and in their daily lives reflect the glory of the Gospel. Industriously and with patient faith they are building up a glorious womanhood. With splendid hospitality they give to the poor; they regard the unfortunate as their own flesh, and to your missionary sons and daughters they are loving mothers. Under the guiding influence of the spirit of the Lord they are willing at all times to take upon them the responsibility of carrying out the spirit of the Relief Society work.
CHARLOTTE T. BENNION Former Relief Society President of the Central States Mission
MY call came in December, 1906, shortly after my husband was called to preside over the Central States Mission. Two years later, I joined him in Kansas City, Missouri. The mission then covered six states, Kansas, Ohio, Arkansas, Louisiana. Texas and Missouri. In 1908 I was called to take charge of the mission work of the Relief Society in the Central States Mission. I began my work in organizing the Relief Society in that Mission, and although many of them were small groups, yet as opportunity offered, we organized and instructed women in Relief Society work, which was quite new to our converts. When the time came that the mission was divided the states of Texas and Louisiana constituted the Texas Mission. There were 38 active Relief Society organizations in the mission as a whole, and 5 inactive organizations. The Relief Society organizations were nearly equally divided between the two missions, Texas and Central States. Some of the Relief Societies were 1,500 miles from Kansas City, making it necessary for me to do a great deal of my work through correspondence.
Although during my 25 years of service with the women of that mission I visited them a number of times personally, it is not possible for the work to be carried on as we would like to have it without personal contact with the different women and the organizations. It is very gratifying, however, after these sweet women were set apart and received a blessing, to note how efficient they became as presiding officers in the different organizations. They always become enthusiastic in the work, and try in their humble way to enrich every woman in the organization. As Sister Callis has said, a number of our members in the mission are not members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. We have had many women enrolled in our organization, who, through the faithful efforts of the Relief Society sisters were converted to the Church. Our visiting teachers are very efficient in their work, and I feel, my sisters, that it is a great responsibility to be a teacher in the Relief Society. These sisters have the privilege of going from door to door, as do our missionaries, and carrying into the homes the topics outlined so beautifully in our Magazine, and they have the privilege of teaching the Gospel of Jesus Christ and bearing their testimonies in the homes, because they contact the people.
I am very proud of the organizations of the Central States Mission, and the work that has been accomplished by the women. Never has there been a call of any kind made upon them to which they have failed to respond in taking care of the needy and unfortunate. Many a family they have clothed, so children might be able to attend school. We have become affiliated with the social service work in many of the organizations in our mission, and the advice and counsel of our Relief Society women is sought, because people know it is wise. In some places we labored under disadvantages, because we dealt with a moving population. Many of our branches were organized in the small farming districts, where people rented farms for a year, at the end of the year, they moved to another county, and many times our groups were not large enough to continue the work. We had to disorganize until more families moved in, then we reorganized and put them to work, with most gratifying results. Women love the work because they have a firm testimony of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and when they join the Church, as many of them do, they refrain from habits formed in childhood. The use of tobacco, tea and coffee, breaking the Word of Wisdom in any way after the Gospel of Jesus Christ comes to these good women, is not to be thought of, and they live and keep the covenants they have made with their Father in Heaven, and for that reason they become efficient Relief Society workers.
We have been quite successful in gathering the history of the different organizations, and by placing the Relief Society Handbook in nearly every organization in our mission, we have realized great benefits. I want you to know, my sisters, that I have indeed enjoyed laboring with your missionary boys and girls in the Central States Mission. We have had over 2,500 of your boys and girls in the thirty years we have been there. Brother Bennion and I have tried to make our mission home a home for our missionaries, as we realized they were a long way from their loved ones in the valleys of the mountains, and they needed a home. We have welcomed the friends who have visited us in Independence, as that city is a very important spot in Church history. Many people came to Independence to visit that temple spot. You might be surprised to know that we have entertained on an average of ninety people a month, and this last year has been a very busy one for us in Independence. So many people have traveled by automobile to the Fair, and they have called at Independence. In three months we entertained nearly three thousand people. Aside from my Relief Society work, being out with the sick and taking care of the missionaries, I led a very busy life, but it was a life of joy and pleasure, because I loved to labor with the missionaries. It is a very sad experience to have to sit by the bedside of one of your faithful missionaries, and have her hold your hand and tell you how she loves you for your kindness, and to see her life taken. That has been one of my sad experiences which I have had to meet. My experience of so many years in the mission is full of faith promoting stories of young and old, men and women. President Bennion and I had great joy in participating in the erection and unveiling of the Relief Society monument in Nauvoo, Illinois, and the splendid entertainment of the companies visiting Independence was sponsored by the Relief Society of Independence. We have excellent cooperation on the part of the social agencies who have become acquainted with us. Now sisters, be kind and loving to your families. Appreciate these beautiful spirits that have been given to you by your Father in Heaven. Hold them sacred.
AUGUSTA W. GRANT
WHEN I saw the time going I thought that I would be relieved from this little task given me, but I certainly appreciate the privilege of speaking to this lovely audience. It is not required of me to say very much, and I wish Sister Bennion had taken all the time, so that I would not have had to make any talk at all. I came as a quiet listener, and I have certainly been repaid for sitting here and listening to the beautiful testimonies which these sisters have given. I have known these three good women very intimately, and been in their homes, and appreciate all that they have done. What Sister Bennion has said about making a home for the missionaries is certainly true, and the same can be said of Sister Callis and Sister Widtsoe. We did not get a chance to go over and see Sister Widtsoe. We were invited and would have been pleased to go, but we did not have the opportunity. I will give you my message, and that is that you Relief Society sisters keep on with the splendid work you are doing. Your work is growing all the time, and I could not say anything better than that—keep on with the good work you are doing.
I ask the blessings of the Lord upon you all, and upon all that you do, and I ask it in the name of His Son, Jesus Christ. Amen.
THURSDAY AFTERNOON
PRESIDENT ANTHONY W. IVINS
WHEN Sister Robison asked me several weeks ago if one of us could be present at this meeting, I told her that if reasonably possible we would come. The President was called away to an important meeting, from which I have just come, and had only returned when I came away, and he released me for a few moments to come over and meet with you. I cannot tell you how I appreciate this opportunity, not that I have anything special to say to this body of women, members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I do not know of another congregation of people who could be called together who are better able to take care of themselves than this body of sisters, and who have less necessity for the attention of the Presiding Authorities of the Church. Of course we all need it and must have it, but judging from the reports that come to us, and our own knowledge and acquaintance of this organization, it has fewer troublesome problems than any other in the Church. It is made up of women of experience, who are not easily swayed and moved by existing conditions which might not be desirable as are other auxiliary organizations. They are all doing splendid work, but those that deal with the younger members of the Church, it appears to me, have more serious problems to contend with than has the Relief Society, and I suppose they have them coming all the time, we all have them, we have them in our private lives, we have them in our local associations in the wards in which we live, and we have them in the Church as a whole.
The Relief Society is the fourth oldest of these auxiliary organizations that exists in the Church, and as I have stated is made up of people of greater experience, older in membership, older in experience, than those in the other organizations. The Primary deals with the little children, the Sunday School and the Mutual Improvement Association takes them and has to deal with them at the most critical period in their lives, then after they are married and assume the responsibilities of life they naturally gravitate toward the Relief Society, and there they find an environment to which I have referred, experience, long years of devotion, long years of service—service in the particular field that calls out the very best instincts of the human heart, to help those who are in need of help, to minister to the sick, to help the needy, to call the wayward back into that narrow path which leads us back to the presence of God, our Father, from whence we came, for we were all with Him on one occasion.
I have had long experience with comparatively uncivilized people. I never have been among a tribe of Indians, and I have known them all from here clear down to the interior of Mexico, that has not had faith in life before they came to earth. They have not a proper conception of God and Christ, His Son, as we have, but they have the conviction of a great Father somewhere up there; that his home was once their home; that they came from that place to earth, and after they have finished their mortal lives they return back to it. They tell you how difficult it is to get back there, and the reason always is that there is a serpent in the way, there is an evil spirit disputing the way. You know that according to the Bible it was in the form of a serpent that Lucifer, who was a Son of the Morning, an angel in authority, who rebelled against God, and was cast down to earth with those who followed him, came to Mother Eve, and induced her to ignore the command of God and partake of the forbidden fruit, telling her that she should not die, but should be made wise, and thus proved himself to be a deceiver, a falsifier, and he is represented among these people to this day in the form of a serpent. These Indians will not kill a snake, they make friends with it. They will take it in their hands and coil it around their neck. Every year they have a ceremony in which they do this. They mark the earth on which we live by a circle in the sand, and all around that circle they put the mark of a rattle snake, with his tongue and dripping fangs exposed, and his rattles very near to the head, and they make a mark in the sand that goes between the head of the snake and its tail, back to the great governing planet up here, and tell their children that this was their former home, and they know this serpent has come down to earth, and has encircled it, and assumed dominion over it, and in order to get to earth we must pass between its head and its tail. Then they make tracks coming down on the side of that mark and going back on the other. The trails are very straight, and there is only one way to get back, and that is to follow this narrow path that is marked out by their father, who is above. This is a simple story, but how expressive. It is because of this that they never destroy a snake—not because they love it, but because they fear it, knowing that it is the author of evil that comes to mankind and seeks to destroy him and lead him into error, bitterness and wickedness. The good spirit is life, law and order; it is everything that is good. The bad spirit is darkness, death, it is Satan, so they tell you. He is here today, my sisters, working with us, striving with us, young and old, to lead us away from Christ our Lord who seeks to draw the hearts of men and women to him, who believes in the message which was told to our parents in the Garden of Eden, when God said, "This man has become as one of us, knowing good and evil." He thus becomes an agent to himself. If he has been a sinner, and will repent and come back to his Father, with a repentant heart, he may become a recipient of the law and redemption through repentance, and find his way back to God. The other spirit tells him that he may be saved regardless of his character, regardless of what he does; he may be wicked, he may be opposed to all that is good, but if he will only worship at the shrine of Lucifer he will be saved in the life to come, regardless of the works done in the body. That is the problem we have before us, and one happy thought to us is that in this dispensation light has come to the earth by which we know that by His doctrine of love and fraternity and mercy and repentance the Son of God will win. The evil one interrupted His ministry during the meridian of time, and temporarily stayed that which might have been accomplished, but in the day in which we live we have the promise that things from the beginning are to be realized by us in this last dispensation that the earth has known.
I have come to add my faith and my testimony to the work which you are doing, and to bring my blessing to you, and the blessing of President Grant, the President of the Church, and the blessing of Brother Clark. You have our confidence, you have our support, we thank you for the work which you are accomplishing, and pray our Father in Heaven that He will direct you aright, that you may not only be able to follow the straight and narrow path which leads back to your former home, which is the home of your Father, in peace.
ANTOINETTE B. IVINS Former President, Mexican Mission Relief Societies
CHRIST told His apostles to go forth into all the world and preach the Gospel to every creature, and these words apply to us today as much as they did to the time of Christ. Almost three years ago now we were called to come from Hawaii and labor in the Mexican Mission and this is the work that I have been called upon to report today, for it is the duty of the mission President's wife to carry on the Relief Society mission work.
Many times Mexico has had to leave Mexico many times, and cease preaching there. At the present time part of our mission is in Mexico, and part in the United States, although the work in Mexico is carried on by the local brethren, and is not directed by the missionaries from Zion, except through correspondence. When three-quarters of the missionaries were transferred at one time two or three years ago, we were thrilled to visit the people, who have been left so long to themselves and see how they were carrying on so well under the most trying circumstances. Sometimes we wondered how some of our remote districts would get along; we did not have someone assisting them from headquarters. It was the spirit of the Gospel that had sustained them.
I am not able to say when the Relief Society work was started in Mexico, but I do know that after 1922 the work was started on this side of the border, and I know that in Mexico we have at the present time several organizations carrying on by themselves. They write to us and send their reports, and they show that they are doing an excellent work, carrying out their program, and they are able to make out the reports and ask questions. To me it is a testimony that the Gospel changes us. It has changed these people—the Mexican and Hawaiian people—and it makes a change in every one of us who are filled with the spirit of the Gospel.
We have in the United States seven Relief Society organizations, in Los Angeles, California; Mesa, Arizona; El Paso, Texas; San Antonio, Texas; Laredo, Texas; Brownsville, Texas; and Corpus Christi, Texas. Some of these organizations are officered by our Elders. One young man who was in charge of a district was very bashful, but he wanted to organize a Relief Society. He was the president and his companion was the secretary. He wrote to me a little while after, and said, "Sister Ivins I always thought the Relief Society was a very necessary thing. I know it is today because I have a testimony that it brings about peace and harmony wherever it is organized." Later several of the other organizations copied that one, and the elders officered the associations, but I do not want you to think that our Indian sisters—the Mexican people—are not glad to do it. In most of the places they take care of their own Relief Societies, and do it very well. They are anxious always to do the thing that is right. They are anxious to progress, and I want to testify to you people here today that I know in the three years I have been in the mission, not from my assistance, but only because they have been attentive to the Gospel, they have advanced greatly. While I have been in the Mexican Mission I have seen many of these people learn to read and write. They like to read in their association meetings. They stand up and read the scriptures, and they have learned to do it only through the spirit of the Gospel that permeates their bodies.
We are not able to report that we have been following the outline because we have so many obstacles to overcome. We have not until last November, had the Doctrine and Covenants in Spanish, and our people in the Relief Society speak and understand only the Spanish language. The Doctrine and Covenants is now translated into Spanish, so we will be able to follow the theology lessons as you have them outlined. We have not been able, so far, to follow the social service or literary work, but we have had two theology lessons, one work and business meeting and a testimony meeting. A part of the time is divided for testimonies, but at the beginning of this Relief Society year we started to have the teachers' topic translated into Spanish and many copies made of it, and we use that on testimony day for a lesson. This gives our Mexican sisters a subject to talk on in their testimonies, and prevents them from giving the same testimony all of the time. Then it serves also as a preparation for the teachers when they make their visits. We give them enough copies of the topic to leave one in each home. Our missionaries think the topics are so fine that many times they use them when tracting, and leave them with the investigators. Our visiting has increased since we started to use these teachers' topics. The sisters like to know that they are doing things as they are at home. They appreciate this, and not only have the visits increased, but the teachers have grown more efficient.
Our missionaries, your sons and daughters, are magnified in their callings as missionaries. Last year we wanted the different associations to have on hand a quilt, and so I suggested to them that each one of them make a quilt. They obtained some pieces and made an old-fashioned patch-work quilt. In some of my travels through the mission I asked the missionaries if the sisters knew how to make a quilt. I doubted if any of them knew how to put it on the frame, and one missionary, a young man, said, "I know how, I helped my mother. We will not have any difficulty here because I know how to put the quilt on the frame." We went back again a little later, and I was surprised to find that he, with the aid of the sisters, had made more than one quilt. We have in another district a young man who is very nervous and bashful, and he does not have a mother to teach him how to make a quilt, but he, too, knew how to do it. We have had other missionaries in the field who have taught the sisters how to darn. I want to tell you that we had one missionary who darned his socks so well that I was afraid to darn them. These missionaries have been truly sons and daughters to me, and I wonder sometimes if I could feel any different for children of my own than I do for these missionaries. We have had the joys and sorrows of a family. They come to the mission mother as they would go to their own mother, and I have tried in my weak way to make my home a true home to them, a home that they could come into no matter where they labored, when they came to Los Angeles.
I bring to you here greetings from the Mexican sisters, and also the brethren, because they are all anxious for your welfare, and I know you are anxious for theirs. We are all brothers and sisters in the Gospel of Christ, and whether they speak a different language, whether their complexion is different from ours, it does not make any difference, they are trying to live the Gospel.
COUNSELOR AMY BROWN LYMAN
IN my remarks I desire to make a few observations regarding some phases of our present-day problems and to remind ourselves that women can be constructive helpers in a crisis as well as in ordinary times. There has probably never before been a time when so many of the people of this country have needed help, not only material help, but help in the way of encouragement and sympathy, in the way of moral support, in the way of spiritual comfort. Of course the greatest help and comfort that can come to anyone in any kind of distress is faith in Divine Providence—faith in God, whom we believe, will surely protect and help those who love and serve Him and put their trust in Him. This is our conviction at the outset and all the way through. The Lord says, "Come unto me all ye that are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest." So we do have this great source of comfort always. However, this does not mean that we should do nothing ourselves. As Latter-day Saints know, we have always been taught that the Lord helps those who help themselves, that faith without works is dead. And so we are committed to the idea of work and service as well as faith.
It is no wonder that people today are worried and discouraged. Taxes are unpaid; homes and farms are mortgaged or have already been lost; many have been without regular work for several years; savings have been used up; insurance policies have lapsed; debts have accumulated. The world itself is in a state of uncertainty and confusion. Some nations are disturbed politically and others are disorganized economically. Some are upset religiously, others are upset emotionally, and all are more or less low in morale. In our own country the government is confronted with so many complicated problems that it becomes the most serious condition it has ever known. To recount these conditions may savor of gloom and pessimism, but the thinking people of the nation feel that every citizen should know for himself conditions as they actually are and should inform himself to the best of his ability regarding possible means of recovery.
There are those who refuse to be serious over present-day conditions, feeling that somehow, some way, we will come out without any special effort on the part of anyone, that things will right themselves. There are others who are so overwhelmed with gloom and discouragement that they can see no way out. These are both extreme positions to take. There is nothing helpful nor constructive in living in a fool's paradise, nor on the other hand, in giving up hopelessly to discouragement and despair. The wisest course is to take a middle-ground position, and the majority of the American people today are following this plan, and while trying hard to understand and to be helpful, and to make adjustments, they are waiting patiently though anxiously, and are supporting the government loyally in the heroic efforts it is making in untrodden paths to correct economic and social evils and to restore opportunity and security.
Of the many reasons given for our present dilemma, we shall mention only a few: selfishness and greed; the World War; the incurrence of debt, nationally, locally and individually, to the point where the nation, as well as communities and individuals, is in a pathetic condition. We are told that in 1912 the average per capita income in the United States was $410 and the average indebtedness $663. In 1933 the average per capita income as of March, 1933, was $300, and the average per capita debt was $1,400. In 1912, we owed nearly two-thirds more than our income, and in 1933, our debt was nearly five times as much as our income. Other reasons are: We have produced much more than we could consume; while production and consumption should run parallel we have had increased production and diminished buying power. Another observation is that our theory of social economy is obsolete. We are trying to run a new world today on plans that are a century old. Mr. Pitkin in his book "More Power to You," predicts that during the next ten years we Americans will have to reorganize our lives, and learn new ways of work and living; that ten million of us who have had white collar jobs will in all probability have to do manual labor; that fifteen million more skilled laborers must seek new tasks; that in all probability ten million of us who have passed our 45th year, will have to drop out of the working world to make way for younger, more strenuous toilers; and that fifteen million others will be compelled by law to ease up to a shorter working week.
No government has ever tried harder to meet a situation than has ours, and many remarkable things have already been accomplished. The government has consulted experts freely economists, scientists, practical hard-headed business men, and laborers. The following are some of the accomplishments: the Civil Works Administration program, by which 4,000,000 men were put to work, almost immediately was wholesome business. It helped people materially and raised morale everywhere. The Civilian Conservation Camps took care of thousands of boys and men from 18 to 25. The care of transients in camps and the effort to get them located in their own communities is another fine piece of work. The Housing program by which our largest cities with slum districts may borrow government money at a low rate of interest and build decent apartments which can be rented reasonably to working people. The Federal Aid for adult education has helped educators who are out of employment as well as furnished opportunity for others out of work to have training. The provision in the National Recovery Act, providing that children under sixteen cannot be employed in industry, released thousands of children from factories and work shops and sent them back to school. In the cotton industry in one large city, 1,000 children were thus released.
In any discussion of our present situation, the question naturally arises, How can we be most helpful? And particularly our query is: What can women do to help? Women generally are not aggressive in public life, and do not desire to force their opinions upon others, nor to replace men in any field of thought or action. Still they should and do feel a responsibility as mothers and as full-fledged voting citizens, and a deep concern as property owners and tax payers.
The normal woman in the normal home is conceded to be the household manager, and a real home is a living, pulsating institution, varied in scope. She is not only the household manager, but the housekeeper, the nurse, the dressmaker, and most important of all, she is the family buyer. If she succeeds in this varied role, her experience certainly qualifies her in a measure for either community or government housekeeping, or at least to act as a judge or an adviser in these matters. It is only in recent years that women have been used at all as board members in public institutions where much of the work of such institutions is housing, housekeeping, sewing, cooking, purchasing supplies, etc. There is no doubt that there are some phases of public life where women could do as well as has been done, and surely the world would be at least as well off as it is today if they had had more of a voice in our public affairs. Thousands of women—lone women—are at the heads of growing families and are faced with all the problems with which men in the same position are faced. Mothers are familiar with and have an understanding and a comprehension of the problems of their grown-up children who today are discouraged, who have been prepared by training for specialized work and can secure no work at all, young people who are ready to marry and settle down but who are absolutely without TC sources. Much of the property in the country is owned by women. Many of the taxes are pal women. Women can certainly understand many of our problems as well as men, €. &+ what intemperance does to our boys and girls; what wat does to the family and civilization; wnat THE RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE unjust taxation is; they know what it means to mortgage the home; what it means when the family bread-winner is without a job; they know also what kind of public officials we should have; who should go to the legislature, etc. I believe it is apparent that there is a place for women among the world's thinkers and doers. In an address recently given by Governor Blood he complimented the women of Utah for their helpful and constructive work at the present time, stating that the women have been responsible for two state-wide programs: the nursing project, which employed more than one hundred nurses, and the nutrition program which has been carried out in every county. He said, "The work of the women of this State has been a revelation to me. Their work gives assurance that they will aid in executive capacities of the Government in the future." And indeed, women are aiding the government in most important positions. The League of Women Voters announces there are more than 80,000 women employees in the service of the executive branch of the government. The list includes many bureau and division chiefs, Frances Perkins is our Secretary of Labor, the first woman to occupy a cabinet position; Ruth Bryan Owen is our Ambassador to Denmark; we have two women federal judges, Genevieve Kline and Florence Allen; six women have passed the State Department examinations and been appointed to posts in the foreign service. With this encouragement, women in general need not feel inferior, nor that they have nothing to contribute. On the other hand, they should feel encouraged and inspired to go on. They should feel not only their 289 major responsibility as bearers ot children, as trainers of children; as home-makers; but also their responsibility as full-fledged voting citizens; and as contributors to world affairs. They should study and become more interested in social economics; in production and consumption. They should become better acquainted with our tax laws and other laws. They snould become more active politically —they should attend the primaries and political conventions and help select good men for office who are brave enough to enforce laws and to do their duty. They should concern themselves with the present-day conditions which are undermining the character of our youth, such as indecent moving pictures; with the declining morality which seems to be evident; with the lack of adequate religious training for young people. 'There is no substitute for religion and religious faith as a force and as a support. As L. D. S. Church members and Relief Society women our interest in the Church should not be superseded by any other interest. It is within the power of L. D. S. Women and L. D. S. Families to make a great contribution to the nation by upholding the standards of the Church, for there are none higher nor more effective in contributing to happiness, success, good citizenship and righteous living. We can do tais by example and precept; by conforming strictly to these standards in every detail; by being loyal to the Church and its leaders and upholding them in their earnest and righteous endeavors; by uniting with them in their effort to spread the Gospel, for no better plan of life can be offered anywhere for improving the world than the Gospel Plan of Life and Salvation.  PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON DURING tne sessions of this conference I have been thinking of the splendid work that has been accomplished by the Relief Society since last April. It may be well to hastily review the outstanding successes of the past year, and to express our gratitude to you dear sisters for your faithful service. First I want to tell you that 1 have prayed most earnestly that our Father in Heaven would bless us with a rich outpouring of His Spirit, at tnis conference. I thank Him that He has heard my prayers and your prayers, for I believe you have pray ed too. We know that the success of our plans and outlines depend entirely upon the blessings of our Father in interpreting them to our sisters. You will recall that at April Conference, a year ago, we had the remarkable display of articles made by your dear hands. It was so lovely that immediately after conference we received a letter from President Grant, complimenting us upon our beautiful display. We were very happy about it. We had contact with the International Council of Women in tne congress at Chicago, and through the singing of these wonderful women. Which came to us over the air, our cultural program was evident, and we had the opportunity of explaining our work to women from almost every nation in the world. I wish we had time to speak at length of the monument at Nauvoo, because it is a real, living force. A prominent physician of Salt Lake, who was on his way to Europe visited Nauvoo. This is a part of the letter he wrote to Sister Child: "I feel I must send some greeting to you and others working with you, after seeing the monument and reading its inscriptions, at Nauvoo. The Relief Society still has the fortitude that carried the pioneers to Utah in 1847. We all recognize and appreciate, more than we voice, this good work that you still carry on." The visit of Relief Society Executive Officers to Nauvoo and Independence in July of last year was made memorable by many beautiful experiences. Outstanding was the gift of a marvelous portrait ot Emma Smith—our first President— graciously given to us by Dr. Frederick M. Smith, a grandson ol Emma Smith. The portrait is a copy of a painting made in 1842, the year in which Relief Society was organized. It is a real acquisition to our Society to have this lovely picture. Since October conference the Relief Society of the Australian Mission, under the presidency of Sister Hazel H. Tingey, has sent to our headquarters a beautiful collection of handwork, consisting of rugs, embroidery and elegant wool afghans. Soon after tnese articles were received, the Hawaiian sisters sent articles of their handwork, composed of beautifully woven fans. Luncheon sets, fruit baskets and cornucopias, with greetings from the Relief Society on the Islands. Their president, Sister Verna F. Murphy writes: "As General Conference is approaching, a fervent desire comes over me to be with you in these wonderful inspirational meetings, but as it is impossible, I want you to know that I will be with you in spirit, and my prayers will be with you for your success in all that you undertake for the good of the Relief Society. I am confident that much good will result, for I know that the meetings will be inspired of God. Give my sincere Aloha to tne sisters assembled." We have received from the European Mission a program of the 17th THE RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE of March celebration in many languages, with greetings from the sisters. We have also received a letter from a sister in Indiana, from which I quote: "I am far away from any Relief Society organization. We have not an organization anywhere near, but I want to belong to the Relief Society." She sent in her annual dues for two years, and asked us to give her credit. I think it is a very fine thing that the Church officials have given us one month, September 15 to October 15, as our official month for getting subscriptions to the Magazine; it has been a very great benefit. You are to be congratulated upon the way you have collected your annual dues. I know this is the result of enthusiastic effort of the Relief Society ward and stake presidents. So much depends upon capable leadership. In our General Board meeting a few weeks ago we were discussing some extra work we wanted to do. The General Board members carry a very heavy load, and I asked if. They could do more. I wish I had time to read all the answers, which were written in—such expressions as this: "The more I can do the happier I am." "Thanks for the opportunity to do more." "I consider each opportunity a privilege." I believe this is the spirit throughout the stakes and wards in the Relief Society. The events of last year are most encouraging. What are we to do next year? What are our standards? Not long ago an educator was discussing Alcohol Education. Agreeing with her excellent program, 1 said, "The Latter-day Saints not only believe what you say about alcohol and tobacco, but we believe tea and coffee are not good." The question was asked, "What per cent 291 of the Latter-day Saint people observe this?" I pass the question on to you. Wouldn't you be proud to say every Latter-day Saint? Why can we not say, "Every Relief Society member?' If it is of sufficient importance that our Heavenly Father speaks to His children about it, and asks them to live these health rules, isn't it important that we obey? I believe Relief Society women are observing this better than any other group, but wouldn't we be proud of our record if in a year from now we could say, "We have seventy thousand members in our Relief Society, and all of them keep the Word of Wisdom." We seem to love to argue about the values in life, or ask "Why?" Strange, too, that women should do this, because we are so tired when our children want to know "Why?" Why they snould not climb on the piano, they have never fallen off, their shoes do not scratch; why is it any worse to climb on the piano than to climb on a chair? Do you notice the similarity of these questions? Why is it worse to take a cup of coffee than to overwork? Why is a game of cards more objectionable than rook? What is wrong about raffling a quilt if we give a paper flower or a pencil when selling chances? Why should 1 clothe my body properly when other women do not? Have we not grown above this childish evasion of meeting an issue? When our Heavenly Father speaks, and when His Propnets advise, why shouldn't we love to listen, especially when these instructions are so easily observed? The encouraging part is, that by living these small requirements willingly and joyously, higher standards become easy. We are asked by the General Authorities to speak of Tithing in the montn of May. I wonder how 292 your tithing record would compare with one of whith I heard Brother Widtsoe speak. He said in one part of England where the missionaries had not been for a number of years, they found a man who was a member of the Church, in dire poverty, living in a very numble home. This man lifted a board in the floor and took out his tithing, which he had kept religiously even though he had been hungry during that time. Is such a standard worth living for? Do you ever take time to teach your children honesty? You cannot begin too early. A recent number of the Millennial Star carries a report of an interesting interview between a young missionary, Franklin S. Harris, Jr., who is the son of Dr. Franklin S. Harris of the Brigham Young University, and a reporter on an influential London newspaper. Commenting on the interview the reporter said, "Harris said that he would prefer that I did not smoke while we were talking. His religion was against tobacco." There is no question about the standards of this young missionary! Important as these standards are, our responsibility reaches even farther. There are many vital issues to which women can give powerful assistance. The road is wider for us than it was for our mothers. We have opportunities they made possible for us. Last Fall I was invited to attend a Woman's Conference on Current Problems, held in New York under the auspices of the New York Herald-Tribune. I could not be at tne convention, but was most happy to receive a report of the meetings. The subjects discussed were Peace, Youth, Spirituality. I wish I might review the whole report, but I shall quote from some of the addresses. Lena Madison Phillips, President RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of our National Council of Women was one of the speakers. I quote from Miss Phillips' address: "Women, not men, are the primary preservers of the race, its culture, and its happiness. They are the mothers of men. They are the centre of the home. They are that age-long channel through which our cultural and' spiritual force flows. They, above all people, must care if human welfare be sacrificed, if justice be overthrown, and if our civilization perisn." All who read and think, must be alarmed over the preparation being made for war in many countries. But who wants war? No nation can ever be victorious unless victory means desolation, sorrow, poverty and misery. Ina peace meeting held in Salt Lake City last Sunday a speaker referred to one of the Ten Commandments, ''Thou shalt not kill," and said that commandment should be just as binding on nations as upon individuals. It is unthinkable that any Relief Society mother would want to risk the life of her son merely to kill the son of a Relief Society member in any foreign country. Let me read a paragraph from an address delivered before the United States Senate, January 15, 1934, by Senator William H. King: "Nearly all nations of the world having pledged themselves to renounce war and to settle all disputes by pacific means, it is astounding that there should be so much talk of war and military preparations. Billions of dollars are annually wrung from the people in order to build military fortresses and forge weapons of destruction. Millions of the flower of the world are drawn from the paths of peace and trained and disciplined in methods for the destruction of human beings. "Some nations are organizing for THE RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE war. Too few are organizing the world for peace.... "Nineteen hundred years ago there came into the world One whose life has been an inspiration to millions and who laid the foundations of a faith which will ultimately conquer the world. He was born in an obscure place in Palestine and lived in obscurity until He attained the age of 30 years. His surroundings were humble and His associates were among the poor of the earth... He proclaimed the gospel of love, of peace, of salvation.... "Military heroes have come and gone; nations have risen to eminence and wasted away; persons who held high station and were acclaimed in their lifetime, are forgotten; but the humble Nazarene, the Great Prince of Peace, the Apostle of Love and Righteousness—He lives and the progress and advancement of humanity will be in proportion to the acceptance by the people of the sublime teachings of the crucified Master. "Ts it not time to again and again challenge the world to His example; to His teachings, to the principles which He announced, and to the importance of tneir acceptance and incorporation into our lives?..." A beautiful example of how youth would interpret this message is told in Francis Harmon's description of a boys' camp in Toronto. He said, "Lads from fifty nations piled fagots in one great heap and lighted a fire of friendship around which transcended the prejudices of race, and creed, and nationality, in accordance with the great revolutionary doctrine of world brotherhood which a Galilean youtn so clearly proclaimed." 293 We all realize that "Age makes wars; youth fights them." My dear Sisters, last Fast Day, in my Ward meeting, we sang a song familiar to you all, "I Know that My Redeemer Lives." When you go home read that and see what you are grateful for, that He lives to plead for us; that He lives to calm our fears; and all these beautiful things, but He does that only to tne extent that we are true and loyal to Him. It is not enough for us to have a testimony of the Gospel, we must do more than just know it, we must live it, and I humbly pray our Heavenly Father will bring into the lives of the Latter-day Saints the peace of the crucified Savior; that He will bring to us the knowledge that war and destruction is wrong, and that only by living the peace of his Son Jesus Christ, who came and gave His all for us, will we ever be able to quell these terrible fears and the destruction that is upon the earth when war exists. I pray that in your homes you will have this peace, and will live so that you may have a greater portion of the Spirit of God with you. I pray that you may have strength to do this, and when you go home, take the message of God with you. This is the most important thing that ever came into your lives or my life. Ags President Ivins said today, "It is not enough that we should live, but let us help others to live," and we can do it better by example than by precept. May our Father in Heaven bless you sisters for coming out. We do love you and appreciate the efforts you make. May you have satisfaction in your work, and be comforted in all that you do, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.