An Ode to Mothers By Mary E. S. Abel Dearest Mother! Earth was not her goal— It's vanities and wealth. Her soul Was on the thingy of God. Her great delight Was to do the things well pleasing in His sight. Unbounded joy was hers when she could see Her children, clothed in sweet humility, Seeking His ways. Her cup of joy ran over. Twas all she asked of them. She craved no more, O Mother, could you feel and know How much we prize your life with us below Your sweet example, your faith sincere, You'd feel '"'Twas not in vain," sweet mother dear. Your prayers of faith have reached our Father's Throne And brought the greatest joy to mortals known. Your faith, your true devotion makes us see That God was kind to grant us such as thee. Your memory is the sweetest thought we claim For you we dearly love and bless your name. And hope to live that your expectations may Be realized in that Eternal day. The Relief Society Conference April 4 and 5, 1934 By Julia A. F. Lund, Gen. Secvy. HE Annual Conference of the Relief Society was held April 4 and 5, 1934, in Salt Lake City, Utah. President Louise Y. Robison presided. The following sessions were held: an Officers' Meeting for General, Stake and Mission Officers; three Department Meetings; a Reception for Stake and Mission Officers; a Breakfast for Stake and Mission Presidents; two General Sessions in the Tabernacle; and an Institute of Arts and Crafts, for Stake Work and Business Leaders. All the meetings proved to be most instructive and satisfactory. The Conference was well attended by enthusiastic workers from 103 of the Stakes, and from the Mexican Mission and nine of the Missions in the United States. The following is the attendance at the Officers' Meeting, held in the Auditoritm of the Bishop's Building, Wednesday, April 4, at 10 a. M.: Mission Presidents 10; Stake Presidents 78;. Counselors 110; Secretary-Treasurers 45; Board Members 333; total 576. The music was under the direction of the Music Committee of the General Board. The Relief Society singers, with the very able leadership of Mrs. Charlotte Owen Sackett, were excellent, while the superb organ music, rendered by Frank Asper, lifted these features of the Conference program to a high degree of inspiration and artistry.