[WomansExponent | Vol36 | 1907 | June | Issue: 1 | Title: MOTHER’S WORK | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

		MOTHER’S WORK
		BEAVER STAKE.
	Lesson I. Industry.
	(a) For children to realize that home
is the dearest place on earth, they must
be taught to make it so by their own in-
dustry. (b) Teach them to take pride in
their surroundings and in the way they
care for them, (by precept or example).
(c) Let them share responsibility, (why?).
(d) Teach them the value of time in all
their undertakings. (e) Value of method.
(f) Their work should be arranged so
they will have time for study and recrea-
tion, (by whom?). (g) Encourage men-
tal development, (how?). (h) Aid them
in harmless pastimes, (how?). (i) As the
sapling is bent so it will grow, so the in-
dustrious boy makes a good husband and
the industrious girl a thrifty wife, (give
example). (j) A mother’s duty is not
wholly fulfilled in working for her chil-
dren, but in teaching them to work for
themselves, (why not?). (k) Fit your
children for the work they must do in la-
ter life. (l) Teach them that while they
are assisting you, they are preparing
themselves for similar positions of respon-
sibility. (m) To train our children to
work for others will foster in them a
spirit of love and unselfishness particular-
ly for those dependent on us—true love is
self-sacrificing. (n) Evil effects of idle-
ness. (o) Bad habits formed in the idle
moments. (p) Degenerating acquaint-
ances made. (q) Vulgar tastes cultivated?
	“For idle hands some mischief still will
ever find to do.”
	Lesson II. Hospitality.
	(a) True spirit of hospitality. (b) From
a social standpoint. (c) From a religious
standpoint. (Titus 1:8). (d) True hospi-
tality does not look for a return. (e) To
whom should be extended our hospitality?
(f) Social indebtedness. (g) Christian
indebtedness. (Rom. 12:13; I Peter 4:9).
(h) Better err on the wrong side than
to turn away hungry a fellow creature.
(Heb. 13:2). (i) Why should we en-
courage our children to be hospitable?
(j) Reward of hospitality. (Matt. 25:
31-46).
			Beaver East Ward R. S.
	Lesson III. Influence of Prayer in the
Home.
	“Prayer is the key with which the door
of each day should be opened and closed.”
	(a) Prayer secures divine aid for parents
in their home management. (b) It de-
velops in the hearts of the parents and
children a trust and confidence in God’s
power and promises, that bring peace and
contentment in the home. (c) Prayer
gives courage and strength to perform
faithfully the duties of life. (d) It is by
prayer that we express gratitude to God
for blessings, and supplicate from a con-
tinuation of mercies. (e) The prayer of
righteous parents has and can turn way-
ward children from the error of their
ways. (Book of Mormon, Mosiah 27:14).
(f) Prayer is a safeguard that protects
from sin and gives strength to resist evil
influences. (Book of Mormon, Alma 36).
(g) Joseph Smith unlocked the heavens
by prayer—we can have the same key—
God is no respector of persons—the great
and the small can approach Him through
the prayer of humility and faith. (h) Give
instances where prayer has been answered

[Column 2]
and its beneficial effects in the home.
(Gen. 17:20; I Kings 18:36; Ex. 17:4, 32:
11).
	Lesson IV. Proper Home Ideals.
	“The love of the beautiful is a handmaid
of civilization.”
	“For as a man thinketh in his heart, so
is he.” (Prov. 23:7).
	“Be ye perfect, even as your Father in
heaven is perfect.” (Matt. 5:48; II Sam.
22;31).
	(a) An aspiration to excel in every thing
that is good or praiseworthy should be
instilled and encouraged and developed
in our children. (Why? Articles of Faith
13). (b) The love of order and clean-
liness should be so highly developed that
every member of the family would be un-
comfortable when conditions were other-
wise, (Why?). (b) The spiritual and moral
atmosphere is kept pure and healthy and
invigorating, (Why?). (d) Willing cheerful
obedience to wise, just impartial home
rules and regulations. (e) Polite courteous
consideration for each other and their
rights. (Show how it refines and ennobles).
(f) A deep love for honesty, purity, truth,
justice and mercy. (What kind of char-
acter does it develop?). (g) Unquestion-
ed loyalty to God, country and home.
(What are its fruits?). (h) An affection-
ate reverence for the aged; and sacred
places and things. (How does it effect the
public?).
			Beaver West Ward R. S.
	LESSON V. Father’s Mother’s, Chil-
dren’s Rights in the Home.
	(a) Father’s privilege to provide a home
and preside over it. (b) To the love and
respect and co-operation of the mother.
(c) To the love and obedience of the chil-
dren. Why? (d) To counsel and instruct
and direct the household. (e) The moth-
er’s right to preside over the home in the
absence of the father. Why? (f) En-
titled to the support, to the confidence, to
the love and courtesies of the father.
Why is she? (g) To the affection, obedi-
ence and help of the children. (h) Chil-
dren have a right to be well born. What
is well born? (i) To be cared for tenderly
and intelligently in infancy. (j) To a
cleanly, comfortable, peaceful home. (k)
To spiritual, moral and physical training.
(l) To the best educational opportunities
that the parents are able to give. (m)
To be disciplined, by precept and ex-
ample, in honesty, purity, truthfulness,
industry, economy, perseverance, kind-
ness, gentleness, and patience. (n) To
be treated kindly, courteously and affec-
tionately by their father and mother. (o)
To sympathy, compassion, and forgive-
ness when overtaken in sin and transgres-
sion. (p) To be reproved, corrected and
controlled. (q) To be encouraged, trust-
ed and made self-reliant. (Give the good
results that follow granting children’s
rights and the evil effects where their
rights have been disregarded).
	LESSON VI. Patience and Persever-
ance.
	“Our greatest glory is not in never fall-
ing, but in rising every time we fall.”
		If a task is once begun
		Never leave it till its done.
		Say I can, and then stick to it,
		That’s the only way to do it.
	“He who has no patience is poor in-
deed.”

[Column 3]
	Patience is one of the chief virtues.
Ref. Luke 21:19. (a) Give the best
method of teaching it to children.
(b) Can parents without self-control teach
patience effectively? (c) Give the value
of patience and perseverance in the home.
(d) How do they assist parents in manag-
ing wayward children? (e) Show how
children trained in perseverance and ap-
plication go far ahead of those not so
trained. (f) Patience and perseverance
the most valuable elements in foundation
of character. (Explain how). (g) To
what extent do they overcome the oppo-
sition and difficulties of life? (h) Name
some of the powers acquired, and bless-
ings obtained, by repeated effort. Matt.
24:13; I Cor. 15-58.
					Milford R. S.
	LESSON VII. Social Purity.
	“To be socially pure, one must store
the mind with pure, ennobling thoughts.”
	“Blessed are the pure in heart for they
shall see God.” Matt. 5:8. (a) Avoid
slander, vulgar language and impolite-
ness. (b) Overcome selfish tendencies.
(c) Cultivate truthfulness, integrity and
goodness, pure thoughts. Eph. 5:3, 4.
(d) Kind words and gentle actions. (e)
The foundation should be laid at home.
Ref. Young Woman’s Journal, Vol. VI,
page 512. Be first in the field.
	Lesson VIII. Harmful Effects of Evil
Speaking.
		“Nay, speak no ill, a kindly work
		Can never leave a sting behind.”
	“In this day of advanced thought, each person
seems to be the self-constituted judge of his asso-
ciates, passing opinion blindly and thoughtlessly
upon their actions, little knowing sometimes what
the result will be—never pausing to consider that
these hasty, imperfect judgments so universally
and forcibly expressed, may possibly mar a life,
or place a dark blot on an otherwise unsullied
name.”
	(a) Of the many beautiful precepts
taught by Jesus none is more important
or less regarded than “Judge not, that ye
be not judged.” (Matt. 7:1.) (b) “A
good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit.”
(Matt. 7-18.) (c) How does evil speak-
ing influence children? (d) How does it
harm the speaker? (Psalm 34:13; I Peter
3:10, 11.) (e) Explain how it may mar the
life or place a dark blot on the char-
acter of the one spoken of. (f) What in-
fluence has it on the public? (James 3:5,
6, 8; Prov. 25:23; 26:18, 20.)
		“If you’re the first a fault to see
		Be not the first to make it known.”
	(g) Why not?
					Minersville R. S.
	Lesson IX, Cheerfulness.
	“’Tis cheerfulness that lights the world’s dark
		ways,
	And drives away the shadows with its rays.”
	(a) Name some of the potent influences
for good of cheerfulness, that are con-
stantly made upon us, as we pass through
the daily school of life. (b) Is it the duty
of parents to cultivate and develop in
themselves and their children a cheerful,
sunshiny disposition? Why? (c) Can
parents give their children a better herit-
age than the faculty to appreciate bless-
ings and see the bright side of life? (Prov.
17:22.) (d) Tell why the true Latter-
day Saints’ hearts will be so full of hope 
and faith and trust in God that there will
be no room for sadness and gloom or de-
spondency. (Prov. 15:13, 15.) (e) How
does sunshine in the heart melt away the


[Column 1]
cares and trials and worries of life as rap
idly as the sun does snow? (f) Illustrate
how smiles and mild answers will disperse
dark clouds and turn away wrath, that
at times threaten to mar our home peace
and happiness, (g) How does cheerful-
ness invigorate, mentally and physically?
(h) Is it not the important duty of all,
Latter-day Saints in particular, to be
cheerful, and scatter generously smiles
and encouraging words? (II Cor. 9:7.)

Lesson X. Worry.
	“It is not the work, but the worry,
		That makes us sober and sad;
	That makes us narrow and sordid,
		When we should be cheery and glad.

	“It is not the work, but the worry,
		That makes the world grow old, 
	That numbers the years of its children,
		Ere half their story is told.”

	(a) Worry—what is it? (b) Its effect
upon the parents. (c) Upon the chil-
dren. (d) Upon our associates. (e)
Name some of the causes of worry. (f)
How does it affect us physically and men-
tally? (g) What are the fruits of fretting,
repining and useless complaining? (h)
Can worry deepen the lines of care on the
face, rob the form of its grace and elas-
ticity, and take the sparkle and lustre
from the eyes? (i) Show how it antici-
pates and magnifies evils that never come.
(j) Is it work or worry that drives away
sleep and causes us to toss and tumble on
our beds, unfitting ourselves for the duties
of today? (k) Is worrying a habit partic-
ularly with womenj If so, can it be over-
come: and how? (l) Ought care and sor-
row to be accepted as inevitable and the
necessary discipline of life? (m) Show
how patient resignation and being thank-
ful that things are no worse, and letting
our thoughts go out to others more un-
fortunate, restore peace and thankfulness
to the disturbed soul and drive away the
evil spirit of worry and discord.
				Adamsville R. S.

Lesson XI. Charity.
	(a) Definition. (Ref.: Book of Mor-
mon, Moroni 7:45-48.) (b) Importance.
(I Peter 4: 8; I Cor. 13: 1-3.) (c) Christ
our great exemplar in charity and com-
passion, expressed in healings, raising
the dead, restoring sight and hearing,
cleansing lepers, rebuking evil spirits, and
releasing sinners. (Ref.: John 11: 11:44;
Luke 7: 12-15; Matt. 8:28-32.) (d) Show
how we can manifest our charity toward
mankind. (e) Feeding the hungry and
clothing the naked is not the highest type
of charity—it is only a temporary relief;
while to provide ways and means for self-
help is a permanent blessing. (f) Show
how one drags down to pauperism, and
the other develops self-respect and man-
hood. (g) Explain the difference between
charity and benevolence.

Lesson XII. Home Economy.
	“Economy is the magic door
	That leads to wealth’s accumulated store,”

	(a) Show the benefits of children be-
ing trained while young in habits of econ-

[Column 2]
omy. (b) It will not depart from them
in after life. (c) It is a safeguard against
poverty, and an insurance of plenty.
Why? (d) Necessity of training them to
realize the value of money—the good that
might be accomplished with it—that they
will not have a desire to spend it in friv-
olous things that could be done without.
(e) Explain how method of performing
work will economize time. (f) Importance
of improving the precious moments and
not wasting the time God has given us.
					Greenville R. S.
	Alice Gunn White, Mary A. White,
Frances L, Jones, Clarissa E. Parkin-
son, Committee.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
