[Vol55 | May 1968 | Page 362 | General Feature | Say Peanut Butter Janice | T. Dixon]
A Say Peanut Butter ——— en gaping hole smiled back. "Oh, no! Toothless for the photograph!" I washed three-year-old Lucy's golden curls and was brushing them until they glistened when I heard loud fighting noises outside. I ran to the door just as the neighbor boy gave Charles a black left eye. "He called me a _ cricket!" Charles muttered. "Nobody wears their hair this short unless they're a cricket!" "Everybody in Mrs. Vaterlaus' first grade wears it butch, except me," Steven chimed in. I put cold cloths on Charles' eye and hoped it wouldn't swell. It did. The next morning it was dark and puffy and swollen. I considered his wearing dark glasses or a pirate patch over his eye for the picture. "What is all of this hair doing on the floor?" my husband called. It was the remains of Steven's "boy's hair cut." "All the kids in Mrs. Vaterlaus' first grade have butch hair cuts," he explained. "Ronnie has a butch, Mike has a butch. Just everybody." Hacked, uneven wisps stood on end in an inverted Mohawk. I gasped, grabbed a hat for him, and dashed for the barber. "You want me to shave his 

363 May 1968

 head, lady?" the barber asked. My precious child, bald at seven! "No," I answered, calmly, "Just trim it." "Trim, she says!" the barber muttered as he tried to even up an impossible job. He gave Stevep a "close cut." I considered adding a wig or painting his head with brown shoe polish. "Just like Ronnie and Mike," Steven said, satisfied with his efforts. I arrived home just in time to wave my husband off to work. "By the way, Lucy got into the Vaseline," he said as he backed out the driveway. She had, indeed. Thick Vaseline jelly coated her golden curls until they stuck straight down in greasy globs. I started washing. Every fifteen minutes I washed her hair, but it was still coated. Finally, I gave her a marcel and it stuck fine. "Hurry and get into your Sunday clothes," I instructed the children, then turned my attention to the baby. "Such a doll!" I crooned to him, pulling his thumb out of his mouth. I changed him and put him in his new knit crawlers. He stuck his thumb back in his mouth. "I can't find my shoe," whined Danny. 364 "My white shirt is in the ironing," cried Charles. "My tie is dirty!" said Steven. Lucy just smiled, peanut butter all over her face. One-yearold Doug crawled into the room with peanut butter all over his clothes. "Dougee hungry," Lucy said. I found Danny's shoe in the dirty clothes hamper; ironed Charles' shirt; sponged Steven's tie, washed Lucy's face, and changed Doug's clothes. Then I put cake make-up on Charles' eye to cover up the deep blue crescent. "Now sit and don't move until the photographer comes," I ordered. The doorbell rang. What a relief! All five were still clean! "Danny says I can have my picture taken instead of him," said five-year-old Joey from three houses down. "Not today, Joey." "But I washed my face and hands," he explained. I turned back to untangle Charles, Steven, and Danny from a wrestling match, and to wipe the peanut butter from Lucy's face. Doug was sitting in a pool of milk calmly sucking his thumb. "Dougee thirsty," said Lucy. I changed Doug's clothes just as the photographer came. "These all yours?" he asked in an insulting tone. "Of course! Except for Joey" He sat smiling by Danny. I sent him home with a popsicle. "Let's get it over with." He arranged the children, then rearranged them, and rearranged the rearrangement. "You, there. Open both eyes." Charles winked back. "He has a black eye. Can you retouch?" "Well maybe. Cost a little extra. Take the baby's thumb out of his mouth. Too bad about the second boy's short hair," he said. "High fever?" "No. Low scissors." I pulled the baby's thumb out of his mouth. "Could you possibly retouch his hair?" "Possible. Cost extra." He turned on his bright — lights. "Smile," he ordered. The children all looked glum. "Say cheese." They remained sober. "Say ice cream." Silence. "Say peanut butter." They grinned, except Say Peanut Butter for Lucy who headed for the peanut butter. "Do you usually fix your little girl's hair that way?" he asked, as I washed the peanut butter off Lucy's face and pulled Doug's thumb out of his mouth.. "Make them smile," the photographer said. I danced around the room and made faces at the children. They burst into hilarious laughter, except Doug who burst into tears and stuck his thumb in his mouth. I pulled out the thumb and suggested to Danny not to smile too big—no teeth, you know. I resumed my monkey antics, and the photographer flashed his pictures. I'm sure the pictures will look lovely. After all, I have perfectly beautiful children. If you don't believe me, just ask my photographer. And it only cost $68.40. I wonder how much it would have cost if it hadn't been free. " I DO NOT WALK ALONE Some say that I am going blind Because I grope, my way to find. They do not know; they cannot see That there is One who walks with me. Though the way be dark and filled with pain, He comes to take my hand again, For he hath said in olden days, My child, I am with you always. » —Lucy S. Burnham 365 agic of For getting Sylvia Probst Young =» When I stopped at her home one evening last week, my neighbor, a silver-haired, wiry, little woman of eighty-four, was making cinnamon rolls. The sweet, spicy smell that filled the kitchen, and the look of contentment on the face of my friend, as she rolled and cut the soft dough, made me glad to be alive and to bask in the warmth of a personality made more beautiful with the years. Later, when we sat on the porch enjoying the rich, warm rolls, and watching the setting sun paint the sky in pink and gold, I asked her what magic had given her so much zest for living.