[Vol55 | May 1968 | Page 361 | General Feature | Annie Bodily Roberts a Shining Example to All | ]
Annie Bodily Roberts, Layton First Ward, Layton Stake (Utah), is a shining example to all who know her. At a very early age, she began to do handwork, and she learned to knit with a nail at the age of five. She has been an expert seamstress ail her life. She has won top honors in national contests with her quilts and crocheting on two occasions, and her State and county ribbons are numerous. Her pride and joy is a large doily which won first prize in a national crochet contest. Sister Roberts has served in Relief Society as a first counselor and a visiting teacher. She seldom misses a Church meeting, and has been described by her stake president as an outstanding temple worker in the stake. She has done initiatory work for more than 12,000 souls and endowments for 1,300. She is the mother of eight children, twenty-three grandchildren, and forty-three great-grandchildren. All of them describe her as an ideal mother, housekeeper, and Latter-day Saint. 361 ) Peanut Butter. Janice T. Dixon a I have perfectly beautiful children. Everyone says so—my mother, my. Mother-in-law, my grandmother, my _ sisters—even. Total strangers. A total stranger came to my door a couple of weeks ago. "What perfectly beautiful children you have," he said. Ae — ag WP I aia Gf;: for posterity," he said. I agreed. "Tf I could only take their pictures—free, of course." "Free!" "Of course." Now, I am not lke most mothers. I see my children clearly for what they are—perfectly beautiful children. My husband 362 id, Wp "They deserve to be pictured says I am prejudiced, but if a professional photographer offers to photograph my perfectly beautiful children free, who am I to stop him'? "Tomorrow," he said. After he left, I took a look at my three older boys, Charles, nine; Steven, seven; and Daniel, five, and decided that their hair was across between Daniel Boone and the Beetles and rushed them, protesting all the way, to the barber shop. "T like my hair long," said Charles. "All the boys wear it over their eyes." "A boy's haircut," I instructed the barber. "I'll catch cold if you cut it," Charles insisted. "I wanta butch," said Steven. "A boy's hair cut," I insisted. "Oh, brother!" Charles muttered, "I'll look like a cricket!" "Ronnie has a butch, Mike has a butch. Everybody in Mrs. Vaterlaus' first grade has a butch," Steven protested. "Next time. This time you have a boy's hair cut!" On the way home, Daniel said, "Tomorrow, I'm going to be rich!" "That's nice. Why?" "Cauth I jutht lotht a tooth. The tooth fairy ith going to bring me loth of money!" I looked at him, horrified.