[Vol55 | May 1968 | Page 393 | Lesson | Homemaking Rehabilitation | Cathleen Hammond]
392 Lesson Department Wi Development Through HOMEMAKING Homemaking Education Discussion 11—Rehabilitation Cathleen Hammond Faculty Member, Brigham Young University, College of Nursing Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, August, 1968 OBJECTIVE: To teach the hom Southern Hemisphere: January, 1969 e nurse ways in which she can help family members to resume their daily activities after an illness. INTRODUCTION The term rehabilitation means to put back in good condition or reestablish on a firm, sound basis. This is a very broad term encompassing many areas. 'The purpose of this lesson is to acquaint the homemaker with several basic rehabilitation procedures necessary to restore the sick patient in the home to a useful life. REHABILITATION PROCEDURES Much can be done in the home to help the sick person: a. Proper positioning in bed will prevent the formation of contractures (stiffness of muscles and joints). B. Good skin care will prevent the occurrence of bed sores. In caring for elderly patients or those who must remain bedfast for a long period, it is important to give proper attention to the skin to avoid bedsores. These sores develop most often on the base of the spine, elbows, hips, heels, and toes. They may occur in any area where two surfaces of the skin come together. These precautions can prevent them: 1. Keep sheets dry, clean, and smooth. 2. Keep patient's clothing dry. 3. Prevent skin chafing by rubbing it carefully with a skin lotion or cold cream at least twice each day. 4. Change position of patient frequently to prevent irritation on pressure points such as heels, elbows, buttocks, etc. 5. In using bed pan, slip it under buttocks gently. If the skin is moist shake talcum powder on the bed pan. A soft pad placed between the patient's back and the pan will avoid irritation of the skin. C. Range of motion exercises will help to discourage deformities and maintain or improve muscle strength. D. Interest and encouragement in the patient's attempts to help himself will help to prevent the onset of apathy and loss of motivation. 

393 May 1968

 e. The use of the proper type of bed for the patient speeds recovery and makes it easier to care for him. The basic bed equipment should include a firm mattress, a bedboard placed between the springs and mattress, and a footboard. F. A firm mattress and bedboard help support the segments of the body and prevent sagging of the patient's hips. Also, it makes it easier for a patient to move and turn in bed and to sit up or maintain balance. G. A footboard ts used to support the feet at right angles to the legs when the patient is lying on his back. This position prevents development of a foot-drop deformity where the feet tend to drop. Forward. It also helps to keep the bedcovers off the patient's feet and prevents pressure on the toes and bedsores on the heels. THE PATIENT'S COMFORT, CHANGING POSITIONS To keep the patient comfortable and help prevent bed sores, it is important to change the patient's position often. The illustration shown in Figure 1. Demonstrates proper positioning for the patient lying on his back in bed. Figure 1. Back lying Patient lying straight. Shoulders level. Hips level. OAORWN Flat pillow under head, neck, and shoulders. Feet against footboard. Toes pointed straight up. Heels of the feet rest over the space between mattress and footboard. Figure 2. Face lying 1. Feet against footboard. 2. Toes hang over edge of mattress. 3. No pillow under head. 4. Flat pillow placed under patients abdomen. 394 Lesson Department Figure 3. Side lying 1. Hips and knees slightly bent. 2. Rolled pillow supporting back. 3. Leg on upper side brought forward slightly on pillow. 4. Upper arm supported on pillow. 5. Prevent dropping of the shoulder. When a patient is lying on his back with his legs relaxed, the legs have a tendency to roll out to the side. A trochanter roll should be placed on the outer side of a patient's leg to prevent this rotation. Figure 4. Demonstrates the proper placement of a trochanter roll. Figure 4. Trochanter roll. 1. Roll is placed at the hip on the involved side. 2. The edge of the roll is placed under the hip. 3. It is under-rolled firmly against the thigh and tucked slightly under the hip: to hold the leg in good alignment. When positioning a paralyzed patient, it is important to place a roll in his hand. The hand roll is used to maintain functional position of the hand. Figure 5. Demonstrates the proper positioning of a hand roll. Figure 5. Hand roll 1. Position the thumb in opposition to the fingers. 2. The wrist should be extended. 3. Hand roll is placed diagonally across palm of hand. 

395 May 1968

 The doctor wil tient j! Tell you when the pa. € aim of ¢ erapeutic to achieve a each individ therapeutic exercises is very broad. It includes exercises to: Improve Coord ination, Prevent deformit Keep the Patient's Muscles from Wast ing and becomin. Ep the joints in the feet, legs, hips, ands, and arms from 8etting Stiff. Improve Posture. Such that the pat t is given the Oppore tunity and Motivation to do as Much for himself as is Possible Day Provement 3. Work Slowly. Ach exercise should be do Number of times on both sj body. 0 ocks attached, Roll two washcloths t aterials: % inch Plywood Measured with maski to fit the SPECcific bed. Ogether ang Secure king tape. The roll should be firm but not hard. AdditionaI Material for this lesson ma € obtaineg from the booktet Strike Back 1. Foldg Cotton bath blanket or a sMooth Printing Office an Available from the IN mattress Pad the long Narrow Way Superintendent of ocuments, United and roll. T € finished roll should be States Government Printj inches I € and 4.5 jn i i 6 nting Office, Wash. Ngton D. C. 20402, for 40¢. 396 elieve Pain. Help the Patient relax, he regime of treatment Should be TROCHANTER ROLL BEDBOARD 1. One solig board the full size of the Mattress js Satisfactory.