The Relief Society Magazine - May 1968, Vol. 55, No. 5

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MAY 1968

Day Dreams Lucille R. Perry When I stayed so late beside the willow, Whose slender wands held summer in a spell, And thrust my chin in dandelion yellow, Did you think me idle? Should I tell About the afternoon I watched the swallow And mused his going, though I could not view His higher flight nor, grounded, follow, Except to yearn hour long to cleave the blue? All dreams do not weigh anchor near a pillow, Some seek the quiet inlets of the day, Where fragile sails can catch fresh winds and billow Across the wave and bear one far away.

The Cover: [Lake information appears cut off in document] Utah Transparency by [cut off] Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press

Frontispiece: [Not fully specified in document]

Art Layout: Dick Scopes

Illustrations: Mary Scopes

From Near and Far

Anyone who has been exposed to the Magazine has learned to love it because it is a building Magazine. It builds faith, love, understanding, unity, respect, and consideration for others. It lifts the spirit and encourages.

Fern L. Hatch, President Philadelphia Stake Relief Society

May I say at this time how much I appreciate our Magazine, especially the beautiful color photographs. The December issue is particularly enjoyable, allowing us to see the Christmas decorations in so many homes. As a Spiritual living class leader, I find the lessons most inspiring. The Magazine is indeed a small treasure.

Kathleen Peace Gregory Dewsbury, Yorkshire, England

I treasure The Relief Society Magazine, and I will sit for hours reading through old, as well as new, copies. The inspiration I receive and the influence on our home are immeasurable. I thank my Heavenly Father that I, with my husband and children, are members of this great, true Church and privileged to have such stories, poems, and counsel from the pages of the Magazine to draw strength over a number of years.

Pamela H. Gardner Lilanfallteg, Whitland, Carmarthenshire, Wales

In the February issue of The Relief Society Magazine I read the short story "Eddie," by Mickey Goodwin. I enjoyed it very much as I am interested in life in the Northern Indian Mission.

Nancy Smith Lakeland, Florida

I appreciate having my story in the Magazine ("Mrs. Pleasant," January 1968), and I wish to express my thanks for the splendid illustration. You sisters add greatly to the real pleasure of gaining knowledge. It is an honor to be published on the Magazine's choice pages.

Nelda P. Litchfield Calgary, Alberta Canada

I want to express my thanks to Sister Venda B. Castleberry for her wonderful, inspiring, and important message in her story "Where Did My Happiness Go?" (March 1968). The story has helped me to put greater meaning and higher goals into my family's home life. It is truly an inspiring story.

Veda Foster Ogden, Utah

I would like to pay tribute to Mary Scopes for the very fine way she portrays, by her illustrations, the message and content of The Relief Society Magazine stories. My daughter Louise Harmon, of Provo, Utah, had her Christmas story published in the November issue "A Miracle at Christmas." It was a real life experience which happened in our home in Alberta, Canada, when the children were young. The picture which accompanied the story was so real it looked like a photograph the four children standing watching were completely natural. We gave subscriptions to the Magazine to some of our children at Christmas.

T. Ralph LeBaron Salt Lake City, Utah

I would like to say how much I enjoy The Relief Society Magazine. I have attended Relief Society regularly since joining the true Church and have enjoyed every minute of being associated with this good cause. It has helped me in my home and as a mother in so many different ways. I am now president of the South Birmingham Ward, and am looking forward to this assignment. In the December 1967 issue of the Magazine, I especially enjoyed "The Wonderful Work of Women," by President N. Eldon Tanner, of the First Presidency. It was so inspiring.

Eunice Y. E. Lake Stechford, Birmingham, England

322

The Relief Society Magazine

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1968 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.