[Vol55 | May 1968 | Page 342 | Special Feature | Answer to My Daughter Amy | Giles Bond]

Answer
to My
Daughter

Amy Giles Bond

My dear daughter, you say you can't understand why the Lord has sent so much illness, heartache, and sorrow into my life. With the help of the Lord I shall try to give you my answer to your question.

I won't say I haven't asked myself this same question, because I have asked it, many times. As I understand it, life was never meant to be filled with only good things and good happenings. We were sent into this world to taste the bitter to know the sweet; if we only tasted the sweet, how could we really appreciate it, unless we have partaken of some bitterness?

There are some days that come along that are so filled with sorrow and heartache we feel we won't be able to accept them. These experiences are similar to the darkness of night, but before long we see the rosy light of dawn as darkness turns into light. It is when light returns that we know we have but passed through another period in our preparation to return to our Father in heaven. How we

accepted and reacted to the experience just passed through will determine how well we are preparing ourselves for the greatest of all experiences.

These things we are called upon to bear are not sent to us by way of punishment by the Lord, but to give us greater strength to overcome all things; where much is given, in knowledge or anything else, much more is expected of us, and the way was never meant to be easy.

Each day I pray for strength to accept and face whatever may come that day, and, dear, if we have faith, the Lord does bless us with an inner strength to help us when we feel we can bear no more.

The fact that I have been called upon to suffer a great deal physically bothers you, also, and you say you don't think a just God would do this to me. I hope I can impart to you my feelings concerning this. There have been times that I, too, have asked why, but I think I know the answer. Each time I have been ill some good has come from it; I have

342
