[Vol55 | May 1968 | Page 321 | Article | Day Dreams Lucille | R. Perry]
Dreams Lucille R. Perry When I stayed so late beside the willow, Whose slender wands held summer in a spell, And thrust my chin in dandelion yellow, Did you think me idle? Should I tell About the afternoon I watched the swallow And mused his going, though I could not view His higher flight nor, grounded, follow, Except to yearn hour long to cleave the blue? All dreams do not weigh anchor near a pillow, Some seek the quiet inlets of the day, Where fragile sails can catch fresh winds and billow Across the wave and bear one far away. The Cover: [Lake information appears cut off in document] Utah Transparency by [cut off] Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: [Not fully specified in document] Illustrations: Mary Scopes

From Near and Far Anyone who has been exposed to the Magazine has learned to love it because it is a building Magazine. It builds faith, love, understanding, unity, respect, and consideration for others. It lifts the spirit and encourages. Fern L. Hatch, President Philadelphia Stake Relief Society May I say at this time how much I appreciate our Magazine, especially the beautiful color photographs. The December issue is particularly enjoyable, allowing us to see the Christmas decorations in so many homes. As a Spiritual living class leader, I find the lessons most inspiring. The Magazine is indeed a small treasure. Kathleen Peace Gregory Dewsbury, Yorkshire, England I treasure The Relief Society Magazine, and I will sit for hours reading through old, as well as new, copies. The inspiration I receive and the influence on our home are immeasurable. I thank my Heavenly Father that I, with my husband and children, are members of this great, true Church and privileged to have such stories, poems, and counsel from the pages of the Magazine to draw strength over a number of years. Pamela H. Gardner Lilanfallteg, Whitland, Carmarthenshire, Wales In the February issue of The Relief Society Magazine I read the short story "Eddie," by Mickey Goodwin. I enjoyed it very much as I am interested in life in the Northern Indian Mission. Nancy Smith Lakeland, Florida I appreciate having my story in the Magazine ("Mrs. Pleasant," January 1968), and I wish to express my thanks for the splendid illustration. You sisters add greatly to the real pleasure of gaining knowledge. It is an honor to be published on the Magazine's choice pages. Nelda P. Litchfield Calgary, Alberta Canada I want to express my thanks to Sister Venda B. Castleberry for her wonderful, inspiring, and important message in her story "Where Did My Happiness Go?" (March 1968). The story has helped me to put greater meaning and higher goals into my family's home life. It is truly an inspiring story. Veda Foster Ogden, Utah I would like to pay tribute to Mary Scopes for the very fine way she portrays, by her illustrations, the message and content of The Relief Society Magazine stories. My daughter Louise Harmon, of Provo, Utah, had her Christmas story published in the November issue "A Miracle at Christmas." It was a real life experience which happened in our home in Alberta, Canada, when the children were young. The picture which accompanied the story was so real it looked like a photograph the four children standing watching were completely natural. We gave subscriptions to the Magazine to some of our children at Christmas. T. Ralph LeBaron Salt Lake City, Utah I would like to say how much I enjoy The Relief Society Magazine. I have attended Relief Society regularly since joining the true Church and have enjoyed every minute of being associated with this good cause. It has helped me in my home and as a mother in so many different ways. I am now president of the South Birmingham Ward, and am looking forward to this assignment. In the December 1967 issue of the Magazine, I especially enjoyed "The Wonderful Work of Women," by President N. Eldon Tanner, of the First Presidency. It was so inspiring. Eunice Y. E. Lake Stechford, Birmingham, England Mary R. Young Member, General Board of Relief Society = She was just a little girl— much too young to make important decisions and, yet, she wanted to be heard from during the family home evening hour. As this incident was told to me, this young child first expressed the desire to be a schoolteacher when she grew up, then she changed her mind and said she wanted to be a nurse; then, looking fondly over at her mother, she said, "No, I have decided I want to be just like mother—nothing!" She meant her mother had not followed a career as a teacher or a nurse, she was just a wonderful mother and homemaker. What a lovely compliment to pay her mother, to want to be like her. I feel honored and complimented when a person says, "You remind me of your mother." I remember how delighted my mother was when friends told 324 her she resembled her mother 'in many ways. I will be eternally grateful for the guidance and teachings of a good mother; for her strength of character; for the example she set by living the principles of the gospel; for her great courage, faith, and honesty, her deep reverence for the priesthood and desire to sustain and follow the counsel of the Authorities and prophets of the Lord. My mother, Mary Romney Ross, lovingly called Aunt Mamie by her nieces and nephews, was both mother and father to her five children. My father, George John Ross, was killed in 1908, in what was believed to be the first fatal auto mobile accident in the State of Utah. My _ youngest brother Charles was born some months after the accident, so mother had five young children to rear alone. She always said her Heav- enly Father blessed her with added strength and health to carry out her many responsibilities as a widow for fifty-four years of her life. Some of my earliest recollections and memories of home were those of hearing mother sing. She had a beautiful soprano voice. I would sit and listen to her practice a solo she was preparing to sing at church; or she and her friends would practice duets or quartets to sing at funerals. It was such fun to hear them make their plans. As children, we enjoyed hearing mother tell us about her childhood, how Brother C. R. Savage called her "little canary" when she sang as a very young girl. How thrilling it was to sing in the Tabernacle when Utah was made a State, and then, with great feeling, she would relate the impressive occasion of singing with the Tabernacle Choir at the dedication of the Salt Lake Temple.