[Vol55 | May 1968 | Page 388 | General Feature | Notes From the Field: Relief | Society Activities]
[Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities]

Chadwick Magazine Honor Roll for 1967 Relief Society Cumorah East Central States Florida Great Lakes Gulf States Enroll: 498 1704 774 210 333 No > Relief Society Activities Las Vegas (Nevada) Stake Singing Mothers Present Music for Large Convention Audience Officers of the Las Vegas Stake, front row, left to right: Ferren W. Bunker, High Council Representative for Relief Society; Theodore M. Peterson, Counselor; Harold C. Anderson, Counselor; Clifford Wallace, Regional Representative of the Council of the Twelve; Lucy B. Bunker, Relief Society chorister; Reed Whipple, Stake President; Illean W. Peterson, President, Relief Society; Velma H. Stewart, Education Counselor; Helen C. King, Homemaking Counselor; Phyllis P. Tonks, Relief Society organist; Blanch Dalby, assistant organist. Sister Peterson reports: ''The Las Vegas Stake Singing Mothers participated in a Sunday morning non-denominational worship service with the National Automobile Dealers of America at a convention held here recently. There were some 15,000 delegates in attendance, making this one of the larger annual conventions. "The chorus consisted of 225 voices from nine wards of the stake. Many of the sisters had to travel fifty miles one way for weekly rehearsals. The sisters furnished music for the Stake Quarterly Conference prior to accepting the opportunity to perform for the convention. "By request, they sang 'The Lord's Prayer,' and thrilled the audience with their own selections of 'God of Eternity' and Florence Jepperson Madsen's beautiful 'Still, Still With Thee.' '' Southeast Mexican Mission Holds Relief Society Conference September 8, 1967 Mission Relief Society officers, second row from top, beginning with second sister: Ruth C. Romney, Mission Relief Society Supervisor; Bertha Morales, Mission President; Irma Dominguez, First Counselor; Adelina Caraveo, Secretary-Treasurer; Antonia de Castillo, cultural refinement class leader; Alicia G. De Llitheras, visiting teacher message leader. Top row, left to right: Lucila Vargas de Peréz, chorister; Paula J. De Lopez, spiritual living class leader. Sister Romney reports: '"'This was the second all-mission Relief Society Conference held. It was held in Veracruz. A special display of handmade articles was set up. Later, this display was taken to each district in the mission, and a workshop was held. Instruction booklets were printed, and each sister received one. "The mission is growing in spirit and in numbers. The Magazine printed in Spanish has been a great help to us here." Notes From the Field All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake ief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be ressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City. Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Color pictures are not used in this department. May 1968 Perth Stake (Australia) Relief Society Plans Variety of Activities Perth Stake Relief Society officers, left to right: Elizabeth J. Alcorn, SecretaryTreasurer; Joyce Pixer, Second Counselor; Mary C. Dawson, President; Eileen N. Crosbie, First Counselor. Sister Dawson reports: ''Our stake is newly organized. Our first monthly leadership meeting was held recently, and we were gratified both by attendance and by the spirit which was there. We have had a full district board organized for many years, so now we feel we are really ready to forge ahead in the service of the Lord. "We are now working on plans for an annual visiting teacher convention, a musical evening, and a mannequin parade, among other activities. We are eagerly looking forward to regular visits from members of the General Board.'' Seven Canadian Stakes Singing Mothers Combine to Present Centennial Concert September 3, 1967 Montez Cooper, President, Calgary Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Calgary Stake acted as host to seven Canadian stakes Singing Mothers, who presented a concert in the beautiful Alberta Jubilee Auditorium, which seats nearly 2,800 people. "Sister Florence Jepperson Madsen, of the General Board of Relief Society, conducted the choir. The sisters put in an excess of eighty hours practice, mostly in the early morning. "This was a missionary effort, and the missionaries report that they have made many wonderful contacts through people who were impressed by the concert. The music was so appreciated that a standing ovation was given the performance." French-Polynesian Mission, Papeete Branch Holds Opening Social September 8, 1967 Standing, left to right: Martha Taerea, Chairman of bazaar; Elisa Sam You, President, French-Polynesian Mission Relief Society; Elsie L. Richards, Mission Relief Society Supervisor; Tetua Tehani, First Counselor; Ninirei Maro, Second Counselor; Marie Wong, Secretary-Treasurer. Seated at left: Tererai Airima; Tiaki Menemene; Erena Taamino. Seated at right:. Nadege Richmond. Sister Richards reports: ''The Relief Society in Papeete held an opening social on President McKay's birthday, and it took the form of a testimonial in his honor. It was a very inspirational meeting. "Work in our mission is moving along well, and with the aid of lessons printed both in French and Tahitian, greater interest and participation are evident. We feel special blessings are being showered upon us with so many added facilities."' 390 Sogye cee wry & eee: S46a so ox ds Minnesota Stake Bazaar, ''Christmas Around the World" December 2, 1967 Thelma Hatton, standing in the Germany Booth, sponsored by the Minneapolis Fourth Ward. Arthella Basinger, President, Minnesota Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The efforts of twelve wards and branches resulted in a gala evening of shopping and entertainment. 'Advance publicity on radio stations in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, newspaper articles, and enthusiastic support from the participants made people aware that a holiday bazaar was taking place, and insured a good turnout. 'Each ward chose a country as the theme of its booth, and music and costumes from that country enhanced the beautifully decorated booths. Each booth was filled with many lovely hand-made articles, and each ward and branch felt that the financial success was adequate to meet their needs for the coming year. "A trumpet fanfare and a narration of a particular country's Christmas customs was followed by traditional Christmas carols, many of them sung in native languages of the countries represented. 'A Fantasy of Carols,' presented by the stake Singing Mothers, 100 in number, was thrilling indeed. "Hungry shoppers were made welcome at the smorgasborg table, sponsored by the stake board. They were served by young people dressed as Santa's elves, and a great variety of food was available. "The cooperation and joint effort of the wards and branches made this international bazaar an inspiring success."