[Vol34 | January 1947 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: New Years Miner]

Re ee ee NEW YEAR's RESOLUTION Caroline FE yting Miner 
Award Winners Eliza Roxey Snow THE Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the names Tee prize winners in the 1946
Eliza R. Snow Memorial Prize Poem contest, is contest was announced in the June 1946 issue of the Magazine, and closed September 1 5, 1946. The second Prize of fifteen dollars is awarded to Eva Willes Wangsaard, 818 28th Utah, for her poem "Release From the South Seas." The third Prize of ten dollars is awarded to Miranda Snow Walton, 165
West 5th South, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her poem "Centennial Conversation," This poem contest has been conducted annually by the Relief Society General Board since 1923, in honor of Eliza R. Snow, second general president of Relief Society. The contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, and is designed to encourage poetry writing, and to in-crease appreciation for creative writing and the beauty and value of po-etic verse. Prize-winning poems are the property of the Relief Society General Board, and may not be used for publication by of theirs except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. There were sixty-six poems sub-mitted in t his year's contest, entries coming from many of the states, as well as from several foreign countries. Many of the poems were written on the suggested subject, the Utah Centennial. Of the three winners, one had not previously placed in the Eliza R. Snow Memorial Prize Poem contests. The General Board congratulates the prize winners, and expresses appreciation to all entrants for their interest in the contest. The General Board wishes, also, to thank the three judges and all who assisted, for their care and diligence in selecting the prize-winning poems. The efforts of the poetry committee of the General Board are very much appreciated. The prize-winning poems, together with photographs of the prize winning contestants, are published here-with. Prize-Winning Poems Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Prize Poem Contest
ETHEL NEWMAN ECCLES