[Vol34 | January 1947 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Article | Title: General Conference]

General Relief Society Conference October 2 and 3, 1946 THE annual general Relief Society conference was held October 2 and 3, 1946, at Salt Lake City, Utah, with President Belle S. Spafford presiding. All departments and phases of Relief Society work were considered at this conference due to the discontinuance, announced in January 1946, of the holding of a semi-annual general Relief Society conference in April. Henceforth, an annual general Relief Society conference each year will be held just preceding the general semiannual Church conference in October. The following sessions were held: On Wednesday, October 2, morning and afternoon meetings were held in the Assembly Hall consisting of departmental sessions, which were presented consecutively to allow stake and mission officers and board members the opportunity of becoming acquainted with all phases of the year's work. The chairmen of the respective General Board committees introduced the work of their various departments. Elder H. Wayne Driggs, writer of the theology lessons, delivered an address "The Final Year in the Church History Course." A ward literature lesson demonstration was presented under the direction of Leone G. Layton, chairman of the literature committee, with the assistance of ward and stake leaders. A panel discussion "Family Problems of Today," under the leadership of Leone O. Jacobs, chairman of the social science Page 28 committee, was given, with Mary G. Judd, Anna B. Hart and Blanche B. Stoddard also taking part on the panel. Counselor Marianne C. Sharp gave general instructions on the educational work for the coming -year. President Amy Browm Lyman extended her greetings and blessing near the close of the morning session to the Relief Society officers present. In the late afternoon, departments in music, Magazine, and secretarial work were conducted simultaneously in the Assembly Hall, General Board rooms, and Barratt Hall, respectively. A reception for stake and mission officers and board members was held Wednesday evening in the Lafayette Ballroom, Hotel Utah.. On Thursday morning, October 3, in the Assembly Hall, an officers' meeting was held for stake and mission officers and board members. At this meeting, President Spafford gave "Official Instructions"; Elder Joseph Fielding Smith delivered an address "Hearken to Counsel"; and Elder Harold B. Lee spoke on "The Place of Relief Society in the Welfare Plan." All but one stake in the Church was represented at this meeting, and seventeen missions. Thursday afternoon, a general meeting was held in the Tabernacle for Relief Society members and the general public. This session was addressed by the General Presidency of Relief Society, and President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Spoke on "Our Wives and Our Mothers in the Eternal
GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
Plan." Other members of the General Church Authorities, members of the General Church Welfare Committee and specially invited guests were in attendance at the Thursday meetings. The music for the conference was under the direction of Sister Florence J. Madsen, member of the General Board. A duet was sung by Iris Taylor and Janet B. Peterson, with Sister Madsen as accompanist. Sister Iola Petersen played the prelude and postlude music at the three officers' meetings. Thursday afternoon at the general session in the Tabernacle, a combined chorus of Singing Mothers from the nine stakes of the Jordan Valley Region rendered the music under the baton of Sister Madsen, with Brother Alexander Schreiner at the organ. This same group was asked by the First Presidency to furnish the special music for the first two sessions of the 117 semi-annual general Church conference, held the following day on Friday, October 4, 1946. The opening and closing prayers 2 at the first three meetings were offered by Relief Society stake presidents. President Amy Brown Lyman offered the invocation at the general meeting on Thursday afternoon and Sister Jessie Evans Smith gave the benediction. On Monday morning, October 7,. In the Relief Society  , a meeting was held by the Relief Society General Presidency, members of the General Board mission committee and other General Board members, with the mission Relief Society presidents of sixteen missions. The addresses of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. "Our Wives and Our Mothers in the Eternal Plan"; "Hearken to Counsel," by Elder Joseph Fielding Smith; and "The Place of Relief Society in the Welfare Plan," by Elder Harold B. Lee, were printed in full in the December 1946 issue of The Relief Society Magazine. Digests of some of the talks given at the general Relief Society conference are printed in this issue of the Magazine. The addresses of the General Presidency of Relief Society will appear in the March number of The Relief Society Magazine.