[Vol34 | January 1947 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Release From the South Wangsgaard]

PRIZE-WINNING POEMS  EVA WILLES WANGSGAARD Second Prize Poem Release From: the South Seas Eva Willes Wangsgaard I I'm going home to trees unleafed, each bud Hooded from cold, clean limbs that web the sky; And when the wintry down escapes and whirls, My long heart hunger will be fed by storm. Ain-rivered skies, farewell. Again I'll know Fine-needled balsams feathered white with snow. 

  JANUARY 1947 II I'll see the spring creep back through lilac buds And smell brown furrows fresh from snow's retreat; The ivory-petaled cherry's fragrant suds Will vie with peach tree coral, cool and sweet. The tall, clean tulip stems will speak of lands Fertile, but frugal as my grandsire's thumb; I'll warm a snow-damp clod in grateful hands, And kneel in bluebells till the kind tears come. Some day, shut-eyed, I'll view this tropic isle, Bathed in warm rain, and be a little fond Of leaves too lush and hues too loud, and smile At endless waves and all that lies beyond. Tonight, my heart resents the hours between Me and my home, where wand-slim aspens lean. Eva Willes Wangsgaard, Ogden, Utah, is the author of three books of poetry: Singing Hearts, Down This Road, and After the Blossoming. One of the best-known literary women of the West, Mrs. Wangsgaard has had her poems published in many magazines and newspapers of national circulation, including the Saturday Evening Post, the New York Times, Washington Post, and in such poetry magazines as Wings, Spirit, and the Florida Magazine of Verse. She has won first place in several national poetry contests, and has four times received the award in the Deseret News Christmas Poem Contest. Mrs. Wangsgaard has placed four times in the Eliza R. Snow Memorial Prize Poem Contest: 1939, 1942, 1946, and 1947. She is a member of the League of Utah Writers, and of the Sonneteers. Mrs. Wangsgaard, the mother of three children, has several grandchildren. Her oldest son, a lieutenant, served in the Pacific area during the war. The poem "Release From the South Seas'' is woven around the homing thoughts of this son. Miranda Snow Walton was born in 1900, in the Bear River country, Wyoming, a daughter of Henry Brooks Snow and Anna Danielson Forbes. Writing poetry has, for many years, been a great joy to Mrs. Walton. In addition to the Latter-day Saint Church publications, her work has appeared in Railroad Magazine, the Utah Magazine, Our Army, The Vet, some twenty-five poetry magazines, and five anthologies. Mrs. Walton is the mother of a daughter Vivian (Mrs. Delbert Owens), and two sons, Jack and Claude Walton, who were the fourth generation on one line, and the fifth on another, to serve their country in the armed forces. Mrs. Walton, now a resident of Salt Lake City, is interested in writing about the Bear River Valley, in poetry and fiction. PRIZE-WINNING POEMS if
MIRANDA SNOW WALTON