[Vol34 | January 1947 | Sequence: 35 | Category: Article | Title: Winter Chadwick]
Anyone who lacks dependability should strive assiduously to cultivate it.  WINTER BOUQUET Ruth H. Chadwick Star flowers of hoary filigree Flank the heavy, crystal plumes, While frosty snowdrops guarantee Spring violets and crocus blooms. 
  JANUARY 1947 LESSON DEPARTMENT Work Meeting Sewing (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 7
Buttonholes and Fasteners Work Meeting Committee, Velma N. Simonsen, Chairman Objective: To complete the garment, using proper fastenings and buttonholes. Textbook Reference: The Complete Book of Sewing, Chapter 109. Buttonholes Buttonholes should be one sixteenth to one eighth of an inch longer than the diameter of the button. Ball buttons require a larger buttonhole than flat buttons, to allow for their height or thickness. Determine the proper size by cutting a test buttonhole in a piece of waste fabric. Measure accurately for the placing of buttonholes. Use a ruler, notched cardboard gauge, or mark through the perforation in your pattern. Indicate the position and the length of the buttonhole by a line of running stitches. If the buttonhole is to be made through two or more layers of fabric, baste the layers of fabric firmly together, to hold them in place, before cutting the buttonholes. It is an artistic accomplishment to be able to make perfectly horizontal, tailored, vertical, bound, corded, two-piece, or welt buttonholes. A buttonhole can either add to or detract from the general effect of an article. Snap fasteners, hooks and eyes, zippers, and flat buttons are all used for concealed garment closings. Shank-stem buttons, covered buttons, linked buttons, decorative buttons, tiny buttons, tape and decorative cord fastenings, and plackets, are for practical as well as decorative purposes. The closing of a garment may be concealed or emphasized for decoration, depending upon the type of garment and individual taste. Fasteners In choosing the fasteners, it is just as important to understand the uses of the different kinds of fasteners as it is to know how to put them on. Fasteners should be sewed securely with a heavy cotton thread (unless used on a delicate fabric). For a large button, which will receive hard wear, use linen thread. Never use a rayon or silk thread for buttons, snap fasteners, or hooks and eyes. BOUND VOLUMES Those desiring to have their 1946 issues of The Relief Society Magazine bound, may do so through the office of the General Board, 28
