[Vol34 | January 1947 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Unveiling of the Sharp]

Garff General Presidency Unveiling of the Portrait of President Belle S. Spafford Counselor Marianne C. Sharp T was a pleasant and memorable | occasion for those assembled on Wednesday, November 6, 1946, when the portrait of President Belle S.
Spafford was unveiled, in the Relief Society  , by Mary Spafford Kemp, daughter of President Spafford.
Others in attendance at the unveiling were members of the General Board of Relief Society, Brothers W. Earl Spafford, Earl Spafford, and Clarence W. Kemp, husband, son, and son-in-law, respectively, of Sister Spafford, and other relatives and close friends of Sister Spafford.
With the completion of this portrait, Relief Society now owns a gallery of portraits including all of the nine women who have presided over Relief Society since its organization in 1842. The portrait of President Spafford was painted by the young London artist, Alvin L. Gittins, a member of the Church. He and his wife were present at the ceremony. Secretary-Treasurer Margaret C. Pickering, during her remarks concerning the painting of the portrait, compared a portrait to a "biography done with a brush instead of a pen." It was the consensus of opinion of those who were present, that this portrait is not a mere likeness but that it is, in truth, a "biography done with a brush," revealing the Page 4 great strength of character possessed by President Spafford, tempered by her spirit of obedience and humility. All who saw the portrait seemed to be in agreement with Sister Pickering, that "Brother Gittins has clearly portrayed Sister Spafford's intelligent, alert expression that we all know so well and admire so much; bright eyes that look out calmly, see clearly, and are unafraid; and, withal, a personality of charm, courage, and capability, befitting the leader of a great woman's organization."
Following the unveiling ceremony, an informal reception was held for former members of the Relief Society General Board who have served on the Board since Sister Spafford was called in 1935, - and members of the General Board staff.
Members of the general committee in charge of arrangements for the occasion were Leone G. Layton, Blanche B. Stoddard, and Leone O. Jacobs, of the General Board.
Former president Amy Brown Lyman and Tessie Smith Johnston, sister of President Spafford, presided at the refreshment table. Relief Society members throughout the Church will be interested in calling at the Relief Society headquarters when they are in Salt Lake City, and viewing this portrait of President Spafford.