[WomansExponent | Vol3 | 1874 | January | Issue: 16 | Title: HOME AFFAIRS. | Author: Unknown]

HOME AFFAIRS.

	People residing in the Southern settle-
ments of Utah county will enjoy the conve-
nience of passenger trains running daily on the
Utah Southern Railroad, between this city and
Payson, on and after the 20th inst.
	KING KALAKAUA the Hawaiian sovereign, it
is expected will soon be in our midst on his re-
turn west. The city council has instructed
Mayor Wells to invite his majesty to visit and
accept the hospitalities of the city.
	THE MUSICAL association, which comprises
the best musical talent in the city, we under-
stand has in preparation the "Oratorio of the
Messiah;" one of the finest productions of that
great German master of harmony, George Fred-
erick Handel.
	A NEGRO woman in Ophir, called Fanny
Payne, was recently arrested for the shooting
of another woman by the name of Bennett.
The ball was extracted, and Mrs. Bennett was
likely to recover at last accounts.
	BECAUSE SLEIGH riding is a healthful, lively
and exhilerating amusement, we do not see
the necessity of horses being driven to death
in executing their part of it. Yet such has
been the case in several instances in this city
during the past two weeks; which is, to use the
mildest term, shameful.
	Mr. James Dwyer has favored us with Jan-
uary numbers of the “Popular Science Month-
ly,” “Scribners Monthly," the “Atlantic
Monthly" and "Harper's New Monthly Maga-
zine." These books contain some excellent
reading, and can be obtained, any one, or all of
them, at Dwyer's Book Store, Main Street.
	The subject of closing balls and parties by
midnight has been under discussion in some of
the counsel meetings in this city. We suggest
to our young lady friends, the propriety of giv-
ing their escorts to understand that eleven or
twelve o'clock is their time for retiring from
such places of entertainment; thus lending
their influence to assist in a good cause.
	A gentleman of Santaquin pays us a pleas-
ant compliment. He writes, enclosing sub-


scription money, and says: "Although I am
an old bachelor, I delight in reading your ex-
cellent paper, and would go without a new hat
rather than do without it. It is brim full of
good common sense reading; wish every body
would take it." We return thanks, and think
our bachelor friend deserves to become the hus-
band of some good, loving, faithful fair one.
	THE SAINTS at St. George celebrated New
Year's day by meeting in a general grand gath
ering for religious worship. They were ad
dressed by President Geo. A. Smith and others
and extracts from various works were read, in
cluding writings by Col. Thomas L. Kane and
Captain Codman, relating to the Mormons.
President Young sent greetings and blessings
to the people, and desired a continuation of the
prayers of the Saints that his health might
continue to improve.


[Column 1]
