[WomansExponent | Vol3 | 1874 | January | Issue: 16 | Title: RETRENCHMENT ASSOCIATION. | Author: Unknown]

RETRENCHMENT ASSOCIATION.

	In attempting to speak in behalf of our
Young Ladies' Society, I will endeavor to
portray the feelings of all. Should I, per-
chance, say aught they can not approve, I
trust it will be overlooked.
	My subject shall be what we have been in
the past and what we wish to be in the fu-
ture.
	Let memory carry us back say five or ten
years, or as long as we can remember, and
it will readily be seen how often we have
missed the mark. How and for what has
been spent, a great portion of our past life.
We have been too careless, too idle, too in-
different in regard to everything that might
have proved a lasting benefit had we shown
ourselves more attentive. In stolid igno-
rance of the great and important duties as-
signed us by the Author of our existence,
we have let pass the months and years with- 
out even a struggle to gain the knowledge
now so much coveted.
	How many hours have been wasted. How
many days allowed to sink into oblivion, in
which much might have been added to our
store of information. As it is, it can only
be said they are lost days, lost hours to us,
for in them no good was accomplished. Bet-
ter far better that we had never lived them
than to have to say God gave us time to
learn but we would not and squandered it
not thinking nor caring why he gave that
precious time. Can it not be understood
that we will be held accountable for this
useless waste of life?
	In the future, we wish to become great,
good and noble. Not to gain the admiration
of worldly-minded beings, but of God who
never respects the unworthy. The aim is
to spread sunshine and not shade. To help
those who are in need, not merely to pity
them. To promote the welfare of all man-
kind, with disinterested and truly unselfish
motives, thus securing happiness for our-
selves while making others happy.
	Many do not seem to understand the good
to be derived from meeting together and ex-
changing ideas with each other. Nor do
they comprehend retrenchment in its true
sense, and it may be well to say a few words
on this subject. We are organized in a re-
trenchment or mutual improvement society,
it matters not by which we are called. Such

[Column 2]
ested, if it is properly carried on. We do
a society cannot fail to benefit those inter-
not wish to be too strict all at once, lest we
frighten our young friends away at the on-
set. And it is our belief that when fully
entered into, the spirit of our high and holy
calling as daughters of a Heavenly Parent,
the wisdom we then possess will teach us
what to wear and how to wear it. By Heav-
en-born authority we have been forbidden
to follow the foolish and downward leading
fashions of Babylon, and it is according to
our professions to appear in neat and plain
attire. Still we are equally obliged to for-
sake many other things, to give envy and
avarice no place in our hearts, shun every
appearance of evil and not barter our souls
for the fading things of life, but cling to the
principles of right and justice. Thus ren-
dering ourselves worthy the society of the
good on earth, and to dwell with God and
His angels in the world to come.


[Column 1]
