THE STAR-SPANGLED BANNER O say, can you see, by the dawn's early light, What so proudly we hailed at the twilight's last gleaming, Whose broad stripes and bright stars through the perilous fight, O'er the ramparts we watched were so gallantly streaming? And the rockets' red glare, the bombs bursting in air, Gave proof, through the night, that our flag was still there. CHORUS. O say, does that Star-spangled Banner yet wave O'er the land of the free and the home of the brave? .On the shore, dimly seen through the mists of the deep, Where the foe's haughty host in.dread silence reposes, What is that which the breeze, o'er the towering steep, As it fitfully blows, now conceals, now discloses? Now it catches the gleam of the morning's first beam. In full glory reflected, now shines on the stream; CHORUS. Tis the Star-spangled Banner; O long may it wave O'er the land of the free and the home of the brave! And where is that band who so vauntingly swore That the havoc of war and the battle's coofusion A home and a country should leave us no more? Their blood has washed out their foul footsteps' pollution. No refuge could save the hireling and slave From the terror of flight or the gloom of the grave; CHORUS. And the Star-spangled Banner in triumph doth wave O'er the land of the free and the home of the brave. O thus be it ever, when freemen shall stand Between their loved homes and the war's desolation! may the heav'n-rescued land Blest Praise Powerandthatpeace, withtheyict'ry hath made and preserved us a nation! Then conquer we must, when our cause it is just; And this be our motto: "In God is our trust!" CHORUS. And the Star-spangled Banner in triumph shall wave O'er the land of the free and the home of the brave. Francis Scott Key. 
 JUNE, 1917. A Widow Mother to Her Son When He Told Her He Would Enlist (A True Incident) My son, O listen to these words I speak  Nor shame is mine that tears bedew my cheek  Tho' deep the anguish in thy mother's heart, She knows that duty bids us now to part. Ah! fathomless that love a mother feels, Divine, unselfish, soul to soul it seals; My son, thou art my One, thou art my All, Yet through my love I hear our country call. A prayer for thee shall be my every breath  0 spare my