The Shining Heart
By Sibyl Spande Bowen
CHARACTER DESCRIPTION AND RESUME?2ND INSTALLMENT
In the moldy decay of the Carey family mansion on Puget Sound lives "MISS BRILL" CAREY, spinster of 55, who once had wealth but now earns a meager living as a seamstress for herself and her lovely niece, red-haired NELL CAREY, who longs to be an artist, but lacks the money to study, and so has drifted into an engagement with FRED NAGLE, successful, unromantic young chicken farmer, whose bank account is dearer to him than is Nell. He strenuously opposes Nell's artistic ambitions. Miss Brill humbles her Carey pride to ask her father's old friend, Philander Maddox, to give Nell a job in San Francisco, hoping the girl will forget Fred in her zeal for study. Miss Brill is convinced Nell does not love Fred. The old lady walks several miles in the rain to get some sewing, overdoes, and is found on the road in a dazed condition by Nell and Fred, who are returning from a movie. Nell's joy over the new job is unbounded, but that night Miss Brill has a stroke that halts the plans for art study. Nell is mystified by her aunt's mutterings about a "shining heart". Fred openly hopes Miss Brill's illness will hasten his marriage to Nell. But the girl, unwilling to give up the career so easily, asks him to wait, knowing the news of the marriage she hoped to avert will upset the sick woman. Fred grudgingly agrees to wait until the end of summer, but Nell has secretly determined that she alone will bear the burden of Miss Brill.
CHAPTER THREE
At the sound of voices Nell ducked hurriedly into a thicket of dogwood. Fred, there in the Maddox' poultry yard talking with the man who cared for Mrs. Maddox' prize chickens, she saw, as the two men crossed the grounds to the stables. Not until they had gone in did Nell come out of hiding. She did not want Fred to know she was definitely giving up San Francisco?yet. Later, of course. It did not occur to the girl that all her thoughts for Fred were built around that "later".
The Maddoxes were not on the terrace this evening. There was too much wind and chill in the air from last night's showers. Nell rang timidly, and was told to go into the library. She was almost afraid as she stepped over the thick-piled Oriental rugs of the big hall to the open door of the library. Old Philander was dozing by an open fire, his white head just showing above the enormous puffy back of a red leather chair. Nell sat down on the edge of another such chair and watched the old man blink his hard, blue eyes awake. He looked at her with the round stare of an infant.
"Hello, hello. Who are you?" he barked abruptly. Nell jumped. "I'm?I'm Nell Carey, Miss Brilliant's niece," she stuttered. He was the first millionaire she had ever seen in the flesh, and a fairly startling one he was. Mr. Maddox grunted and stared at her. Suddenly he gave a cackling laugh. "Nellis Adair Carey! If that isn't just like a balmy old maid!"
"I just came to tell you," Nell said stiffly, "that I won't be able to accept that job offered me yesterday. Aunt Brill had a stroke last night."
"What job?"
"The one you offered me in San Francisco. You told Aunt Brill about it," Nell answered precisely.
The old man's pink skin fascinated
260 - APRIL, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
her; it was so babyish beside his upstanding white hair. He stared at her again. "A stroke?" Then he laughed. "At her age? Young lady, I'll be eighty-six next birthday, and I've never had a stroke in my life." He slapped his knee and chuckled to himself. Then he looked intently at Nell. She sat quietly under his scrutiny, for she realized now that Philander Maddox was indeed old. For all his brilliant career, for all his money, he was sinking gently down into a vague, unremembering, selfish childishness, though he thought himself still so powerful.
"You're a pretty girl. A pretty girl like you can always have a job in my buildings. You've nice manners, too. Here, I'll give you a note." He had completely forgotten the one yesterday. He fumbled in a drawer of the small table beside him and found paper and pen. He wrote a letter to his superintendent that was surprisingly clear and businesslike, telling him that Nell was to have a job with him. Nell accepted the note and thanked the old man for it. It was no use trying to explain again. Besides, the note might be useful some day.
Mr. Maddox looked curiously at the girl again. "Where did she get you?" he asked abruptly. Nell had risen from her chair. She sat down again in her surprise. "Whom do you mean?"
"Old Brilliant. She did a good job when she picked you up," he said. "Pretty as an almond blossom, and I'll bet you're smart, too."
"I'm Aunt Brill's brother's daughter," Nell explained. "He died before my mother did. She died when I was born."
Old Philander threw back his head and roared. "She's a good picker I say." Then he sat up. "Man and boy," he said, wiggling a finger at the girl, "I've known Tom Carey and all his family after him. I was there when he died, and I'll swear he never had chick nor child but the girl, Brilliant."
Nell wondered if she had heard him aright. She was dizzily sick. Behind her the buttery voice of Phoebe Maddox sounded, as she came noiselessly in on the thick carpets. "Why, Father, what are you saying?" She whispered to the girl, "Don't pay any attention to him, Nell. He's getting so old he doesn't remember." Aloud she said, "It's time for your warm milk, Father."
But Nell had paid attention, and so, it appeared, had the woman she encountered in the doorway as she ran blindly to the hall. A tall woman, this, with enormous, disturbed, gray eyes, and perfectly white hair framing her youngish, beautiful face. "Oh," gasped Nell, "I'm so sorry!"
The woman's face was rigid, frozen with a sudden fear. She stood stock still and looked at Nell. "Why Sally! Sally Delavan, how nice of you to come way out here," cried Mrs. Maddox, her tone unemotional, soft. Nell said again, "I'm sorry," and rushed to the front door.
"Who," she heard the white-haired woman say sharply to Phoebe Maddox, "is that girl?"
SHE was not Miss Brill's niece! She had old Philander's word for it that there had been no Carey son. He hadn't lied. He was old and queer, but his mind was still sharp. He still remembered?things of long ago. Nell stumbled along the road unseeingly until a warning toot from a car restored her alertness. Since the Carey house was the only one at this end of the Cove road, it had come from there. Not the doctor's car, nor Fred's, this small black roadster. Then she let the matter of the car slip from her mind. She remembered only old Phil's chuckling "she did a good job when she picked you up". Just as if she had been something cheap from a bargain counter!
But bitter as this new knowledge was, it made things clearer. Really, there had never been anything definite about the supposed parents?no pictures, never any souvenirs. She remembered Miss Brill's evasive, "Don't ask me, child," to early questions. Finally, the subject was dropped. If Nell supposed anything, she no doubt thought her aunt's loss had been too painful to discuss, and had not cared much. Miss Brill had been all the family she needed.
She remembered when she had been scarcely old enough to toddle, following in the wake of Miss Brill's long calico skirts through the raspberry patch, into the thickets of black caps that fringed the wooded summer camp grounds to the north of the gray house. Of filling her small pail with the low berries, staining her little fingers with their dark juice! At the end of the berry season, when the last jar of jam had been made and sold, a large, gorgeous doll had come mysteriously. "From Fredericks," Miss Brill had said
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, APRIL - 261
proudly, naming the magic department store as she placed the doll in the little girl's arms. Bought with the hard-earned berry money, Nell knew now. Tears stung her eyes. She brushed impatiently through the long grass beside the road. And there had never even been the claim of kinship to such gifts.
There was the time Miss Brill had sewed until morning on somebody's dress so Nell might have the money to take a boat excursion to Victoria with her class. And Nell's graduation dress, that delicate thing of many ruffles and frosty lace, that the tall, aging woman had bought and made herself! One of Tom Carey's Chinese chests had disappeared just before the advent of the dress. Miss Brill had been evasive about it, and Nell had taken the sacrifice lightly. Carey chests for Carey graduates' finery, she would have thought, if she had thought at all. And now she was not a Carey. A waif without any rights?that was what old Mr. Maddox had meant.
"I'll make it up to her," Nell thought yearningly, as she opened the kitchen door. "I don't know where, or why, she got me, but she's been wonderful about it." Even giving up San Francisco was not too much, now.
THE house was dark but for the flicker through the mica of the stove door. Mary Kelly whispered tensely out of the gloom, "I'm glad you've come, Nell. Somebody's been prowling around. I've been in a fever for fear your aunt'd hear him. He looked in the Alaska house windows, walked all around this place, poking around. I didn't dare light a lamp."
262 - APRIL, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
The man in the black roadster! Nell said, "Didn't he knock?"
"Of course not, with the lights out. The idea! Now you go about and see that every single window in this big gloomy pile is locked tight, or I won't be able to sleep a wink."
Nell lighted a lamp at once. "Oh, nonsense, Mrs. Kelly. There's nothing here anyone would want." And she thought immediately of the precious little hoard in the chest upstairs. That anyone might be interested in the big, closed rooms full of carved walnut, old satiny silver, and the intricate glassware of days gone by did not occur to the girl. She took a lamp and mounted the stairs in the waterfront side of the tall house, examining window and door catches faithfully, even to the third story. When she reached the door to the steep stairway that led to the cupola, she opened it and went up. Night was over the land, but it was still light in the watery west.
Nell took Grandpa Carey's sea glass down from the little shelf above one of the eight windows that sided the little tower room and looked out over the Sound to the wide Straits of Juan de Fuca. She rolled the name slowly off her tongue, aloud. It had an adventurous, foreign lilt to it that stirred her blood. The wide waters merging into the sky always brought to her mind a drift of lovely words from a poem, "Ulysses," a picture of that hardy old soul's longing to fight again the pounding waves in his stout ship. "To seek, to find, and not to yield." That was a stirring thought! It lifted your head, somehow, and made you brave inside. You didn't shrink quite so much when you heard in memory old Phil's high voice, "She did a good job when she picked you up". Up from where? It would come out sometime, somehow. The thing now was to care for Aunt Brill as best she could?even if she had to let Fred Nagle help her.