The Women's Field Army for Control of Cancer
By Mrs. J. L. Gibson
THE National Women's Field Army for the Control of Cancer was organized in 1936 under the slogan "Cancer is Curable. Fight it with Knowledge". Each state has a Commander with local units in counties and cities. The Army conducts an intensive educational campaign which reaches a climax in April of each year. That month has been set aside by Congress as "Cancer Control Month". Through meetings, forums, newspapers, magazines, radio, posters and all other means at its disposal, the Army seeks through education to teach people that cancer in its early stages is curable; to replace fear with facts and superstition with sound information. This is a woman's war for two reasons: Tradition has made it her duty to care for the health of the family and also, because of the large number of cancers of the breast and the uterus, more women than men die from cancer. The Utah division of this Army was organized a little more than two years ago. All women's organizations were invited to participate. We were told that we must do nothing without the advice and the approval of the State Medical Association. Their members have cooperated in every way. They have given generously of their time to attend committee meetings, to speak before various organizations and over the Radio, and to diagnose and treat indigent patients. We have also had wonderful cooperation from the press and the radio. As our slogan implies, we are primarily an educational organization, but we must also be self-supporting. With the assistance of members of the L. D. S. Relief Society, the Parent-Teacher Associations and women's clubs, 400,000 pieces of literature have been distributed in Utah in the past two years. One or more of these organizations has representatives in every corner of our state. Through our literature we urge people to consult their physicians immediately about any persistent lump or thickening, especially about the breast; any irregular bleeding or discharge from any of the body openings; any sore that does not heal, particularly about the tongue, mouth or lips; persistent indigestion, especially when accompanied by a distaste for meat; sudden changes in the form or rate of growth of a mole or wart; that pain is a late symptom and not to wait for it; that most early cancers are curable if treated by a qualified physician, by using X-ray, radium or surgery; that it is very important to visit a physician for an annual physical examination.
In "Civilization Against Cancer" by Dr. C. C. Little, I found what he calls a few simple rules concerning the prevention of cancer.
244 - APRIL, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
He says: "Form and maintain habits of mouth hygiene, wash the mouth, clean the teeth and gums. Remove or correct jagged teeth. Correct all artificial dentures that press, rub or chafe. If smoking irritates your lip or tongue, stop it. * * *
"Discuss with your doctor the advisability of removing warts or moles, especially deeply pigmented ones and those that are rubbed or irritated by clothing or during shaving.
"Keep the skin clean and protected from undue or excessively prolonged exposure to sun and wind.
"Do not abuse your stomach. Avoid extremely hot food, overeating, or any type of food or drink that causes distress.
"Establish and maintain regular habits of emptying the bowels; avoid constipation.
"Avoid tight clothing which rubs or chafes, especially brassieres which do these things.
"If a woman has borne children, she should check with her gynecologist to be sure that any tears or injuries to the womb have been repaired. * * *
"Drink plenty of water to avoid the unnecessary irritating effects of too concentrated urine on both the kidneys and bladder."
Members of the medical profession are reporting that more and more people are coming for physical examinations. Dr. Ogilvie, director of the Wasatch Laboratories, tells us that until recently most of the cancer cases referred to them for biopsies were in such an advanced state that they could not be treated successfully, but that now they are coming early enough that he thinks fifty per cent of them can be cured.
After two years' experience in trying to give a message of hope to cancer victims we learn that it is not enough to simply tell the patient that early cancer is curable. In many instances some kind of financial aid must also be furnished. Many of our best citizens go through life caring for themselves and very often lending a helping hand to a less fortunate neighbor, but when cancer strikes they are in no position to meet such an emergency. As I said earlier, we must be self-supporting and for this purpose conduct a membership drive each April. The money we received in 1937 paid our expenses for 1938. We propose to use that collected in 1938 ($945) as follows:
Literature $400 Commander and vice-commander expenses 150 Nine district captains' expenses 90 Thirty county lieutenants' expenses 150 Part-time secretary 120 Miscellaneous 35
This year we hope to interest more people and collect, in addition to the amount needed for necessary expenses, enough money to start a loan fund so that when we receive an appeal for help from someone, important days may not have to be wasted while we contact county commissioners or welfare boards. Ours is a work that should challenge the interest, the imagination and the enthusiasm of all public spirited men and women.