VISITING TEACHERS, TOOELE STAKE MUSIC DEPARTMENT THE SINGING MOTHERS By Ruth May Fox Sing on, Singing Mothers, sing on and sing on; Lift your hearts in rejoicing all the day long For the Organization which leads you in ways Of noble endeavor to honor your days. Sing on, Singing Mothers, sing on. Sing in the morning when over the hill The sun sheds his glory o'er meadow and rill; Awaking the earth to a newness of life, Revealing such beauty one marvels at strife. Sing on, Singing Mothers, sing on. Sing to your babies as they cling to your breast; Sing to your children when you lay them to rest; As the shadows of twilight over them fall Sing softly?the Shepherd is guarding you all. Sing on, Singing Mothers, sing on.
Sing when you're weary, sing when you're sad; The song of the righteous will make the soul glad; The Father will listen, your sorrow He knows; His tender compassion forever o'erflows. Sing on, Singing Mothers, sing on.
Sing ye in triumph as did Miriam of old; When evil is vanquished God's wonders unfold. E'en in your wilderness, grim though it be, You may walk on dry land through the midst of the sea. Sing on, Singing Mothers, sing on.
THE above tribute, The Singing Mothers, was penned by Sister Ruth May Fox, former General President of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, February, 1939, shortly after celebrating her eighty-fifth birthday. When questioned regarding the circumstances which prompted the writing of these verses, Sister Fox said: "Well, it is a good subject. Then, think what it means to have a 'singing mother' in the home. I have always been proud of the Singing Mothers. I have always regarded the Relief Society as a strong religious organization and have felt that I should contribute my best efforts to it whenever possible."
These verses were thought out completely and memorized before they were placed on paper. Sister Fox expressed it in this way: "I just think words out and remember. These words did not see paper until the whole thing was finished." She says her writing ability has come through practice and that if people will only work hard enough they can accomplish almost anything. Sister Fox writes from the fullness of her heart and from actual experiences in life. "Why shouldn't I write about singing mothers?" she said. "I have a singing heart myself. I go to bed humming and rise each morning
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, APRIL - 277
with a song in my heart. Beautiful music keeps one young. Some people say, 'Life begins at forty'; but I say it begins at seventy. I don't think 'old'. I am willing to admit my years but unwilling to admit I am old."
We are indeed indebted to Sister Fox for this inspirational poem. We are proud of the eighty-five years she has so generously shared. Such years of wisdom, encouragement and youthful enthusiasm will ever keep alive the spirit of music in our souls.
By Janet M.