RESTORATION
By Lee Stokes
The youth and the angel Alone on the hill In the glory of sunset In the peace and the still;
And the dust of the ages Has spoken at last, While the light of the Gospel On error is cast.
The records of gold By the angel defined Are freighted with hope For the good of mankind.
And Joseph the Seer, No longer a youth, Descends from the hill-top A prophet of Truth.
Adventure With Books
By Sidney B. Sperry
ONE summer evening a few years ago the class in Hebrew gathered as usual in my office at Brigham Young University. Brother Howard Salisbury brought a book which made this particular evening unusually interesting and profitable. It was a Hebrew Bible that had been used by President Heber C. Kimball in the School of the Prophets just one hundred years before. The Bible was bound in dark leather, and President Kimball's name was printed in gold letters across the front of it. Rich in historical associations, the book gave us all a thrill as we examined it. It was to prove, however, a forerunner of surprises.
Some evenings later Brother Jessie Washburn, Principal of the Provo Seminary and one of the veteran teachers of the Church, came to class and casually tossed two old books on the table around which we were seated. One of the books caught my eye. It was a Hebrew Bible about the size of President Kimball's, but not as attractively bound. I found the Bible to be the same edition as the other. Hastily turning to the front of the book I searched for a signature. There was one. A tingle went up my spine as I read: "Horace K. Whitney, May, 1836." Here, without any doubt, was another Bible that was used in the School of the Prophets.
I then examined the other book Brother Washburn had brought and read on the cover the following:
A Manual Hebrew Grammar, For the Use of Beginners By J. Seixas Second Edition enlarged and improved.
I knew this was a copy of Prof. Seixas' Hebrew grammar such as had been used by Joseph Smith and his brethren in the School of the Prophets. Turning to the inside of the book we found Horace K. Whitney's name and the date, as in his Hebrew Bible. All of us by now were intensely interested.
"Brother Washburn," I asked, "where did you get these?"
"Oh, in an old bookstore in Salt Lake today. I asked them if they had any Hebrew books for sale, and they brought these out. They gave me both of them for fifty cents!"
Brother Washburn had not yet had time to examine the books, and our discovery of the signatures made us all realize the value of his purchase.
After a few days I came to Salt Lake and acting on a "hunch" went to a bookstore that dealt in second-hand books. I asked the lady who waited on me if she had any Hebrew Bibles or grammars for sale. She replied that she wasn't sure there were any left because a man had purchased several a number of days before. But in a few minutes she returned with three books. Two of them I quickly discarded as being of no particular value and turned to the third. To my surprise and satis-
224 - APRIL, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
faction it was another copy of Professor Seixas' Manual Hebrew Grammar. Hiding my excitement as best I could I turned over the cover and there on the fly leaf somewhat covered up by childish scrawls in red crayon was the following:
N. K. Whitney June 1836
I had in my hands the very Hebrew grammar used by Newel K. Whitney in the School of the Prophets. Brother Whitney was the father of Horace K. Whitney and the grandfather of the late Apostle Orson F. Whitney.
I turned to the lady who was waiting on me and asked, "How much do you want for this?"
She looked at the listing in the book and said, "It's marked fifty cents, but I'll let you have it for a quarter."
Needless to say, the book is one of the principal treasures of my library.
Subsequently Brother James R. Clark, now Library Assistant at Brigham Young University, not to be outdone, picked up in a Salt Lake bookshop a copy of Riggs' Aramaic Grammar with the name of W. W. Phelps inscribed on an inner leaf. The date, 1832, was also indicated. Brother Phelps was closely associated with the Prophet Joseph Smith in the early days of the Church, and the Aramaic grammar is a remarkable commentary on the breadth of his interests.
SPEAKING of Bibles—the reader will note one of my hobbies— about 1930 while teaching Hebrew to a few students at Moscow, Idaho, I sent an order for several inexpensive Hebrew Bibles to a book dealer in Chicago. In due time they arrived. They were of many editions and sizes. There was one edition in two volumes beautifully bound in leather. It was too bulky for student use, so I put it on a shelf in my office and promptly forgot it.
Some months later I was perusing a volume dealing with various editions of the Bible. It contained a picture of two pages from the first American edition of the Hebrew Bible. The general make-up and style of these pages vaguely reminded me of a Hebrew Bible I had seen before. Getting up from my chair I pulled down the two volume Hebrew Bible from the shelf where it had reposed for so long and examined it carefully. Turning to the title page in the first volume, I found myself the happy possessor of a set of the first American edition of the Hebrew Bible printed in Philadelphia in 1814. The invoice from the Chicago book dealer showed that I had obtained the set for fifty cents! I am informed by a New York expert that it is worth twenty times what I paid for it. The satisfaction one gets from obtaining a book of this kind lies not so much in its pecuniary value as in the fact that it has made history. Few persons realize the tremendous influence the Bible has had in shaping American democracy.
BOOKS have personality. Sometimes one can take a book with an ordinary personality and completely transform it in a very short time, and usually an adventure accompanies the transformation. Let me give an illustration:
On the afternoon of April 6, 1929, I attended a reception at the University of Chicago in honor of Professor Adolf Deissmann, who had been a towering figure in New Testament scholarship for a generation. He was professor of New Testament at the University of Berlin. Scholars came hundreds of miles to meet him. It was a memorable occasion, and I determined to make the most of it. Before leaving my study room I pulled down from my bookshelves a copy of Professor Deissmann's New Light on the New Testament, which had been published in 1908. It was a little out of date, but suited my purpose. Taking it in my hands, I proceeded to the reception room where the crowd was gathering. After a short program we all lined up to meet Dr. Deissmann. I was astonished at the height and breadth of the man. He was a giant physically as well as mentally. When it came my turn to meet him he cordially shook my hand, and I asked if he would autograph the little dark blue volume I extended to him. He looked at it, and his face beamed with pleasure. Stepping to a near by table he autographed the book in old German script and added the date. Meanwhile I could hear several around me expressing their regrets that they did not bring books to be autographed.
Occasionally one may acquire almost by accident a book having an unusual personality. One day I stepped into a London bookstore not far from the British Museum. In an obscure corner I discovered a number of old Syriac New Testaments, grammars, histories and other works of interest to specialists. I made a number of purchases including a copy of William Cureton's Four Gospels in Syriac.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, APRIL - 225
This book, published in 1858, reveals the text of an ancient manuscript of the Gospels found by Dr. Cureton in the Nitrian Desert in 1842-47. The manuscript is now in the British Museum. Not until I returned to America did the book receive a careful examination. On the inside of its cover I made an interesting discovery. Written in fairly heavy ink was the following:
Francis Teluy Basett (spelling of last two names uncertain) Dulverton Vicarage
Immediately below this in lighter ink was another name and notation in a feminine hand as follows:
Agnes S. Lewis bought April 11, 1893
Mrs. Agnes Smith Lewis was probably the greatest woman Bible scholar of all time. She was the wife of S. S. Lewis, a distinguished English archaeologist. With her learned sister, Mrs. Gibson, she discovered in 1892, at a convent on Mt. Sinai, a very ancient manuscript of the Gospels in the Syriac language. She published a translation of it in 1894 and a new edition in 1896. The copy of Cureton's work in my possession is evidently the very one used by Mrs. Lewis in making preliminary studies of the Syriac manuscript she and her sister had discovered. It is another of my very prized possessions.