Out-of-Door Development of the Home Beautiful
By Rachel B. Morris, Landscape Architect
OUTDOORS into areas or units suited to different uses, just as indoors we have bedrooms, kitchen and such, according to the needs, is the only satisfactory way to enjoy fully our home outside as well as within the four walls.
The wonder of our not-too-distant past is that our "desert was made to blossom as the rose". If we are to build on that heritage in a manner worthy, we must not be content to do the same things that our forebears did, for they knew many handicaps difficult for us to realize, as they struggled from day to day for existence. Grandmother may have had a flower because it was the only one that grew from the few seeds the stranger gave her in exchange for a loaf of bread. Father may have planted the tree where it is because it was the only place he was sure to reach it with water and keep it alive. But for you and me there are the seed catalogs seductive with every color and kind of plant, and the nurseryman willing to supply the requested plants in any stage of growth, or nearby friends who are complimented if we ask for a "start" of some attractive flower that they have been successful in growing. The responsibility that is ours is not to grow something—anything—but to select that which is best suited for our particular purpose.
What might this purpose, this special effect, our individual problem of beautification be? The answers to these questions come only after we have carefully analyzed each situation. Planning outdoor property with the thought of making it more beautiful will first have to do with making it more
[PHOTO CAPTION: WHEN A VIEW LIKE THIS IS AVAILABLE FROM THE INSIDE OF THE HOUSE, THE GARDEN BECOMES A BIT MORE A PART OF THE HOME.]
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, APRIL - 229
[PHOTO CAPTION: AN EXAMPLE OF A HIGHLY SATISFACTORY USE OF OUTDOOR SPACE WITHOUT CENTERING THE HOUSE.]
Tification be? The answers to these questions come only after we have carefully analyzed each situation. Planning outdoor property with the thought of making it more beautiful will first have to do with making it more useful, for beauty without usefulness seems artificial and affected. | Best results will come for the average home when three aspects: are duly studied: first, that of the semipublic, the view seen by all passersby; second, the service, which consists of necessities used for living in and maintaining the house; and third, the private garden, which may vary widely in size and development. The location of the house on the property, the floor plan or arrangement of rooms, and the outdoor plans should all be considered simultaneously. A common opinion is that the house should be "centered" on a town property so as to present a balanced effect. This is more often untrue than not, and often the cause of wasteful and disappointing use of outdoor space. The front facade is balanced by the proper planting of enframing trees or groups of shrubs. If the interest of the house, possibly a doorway or important window, is far to one side, the picture can be made to balance by planting a large tree somewhat to the other side and a much smaller tree on the crowded side—never, of course, in front of a window or door. These trees serve as a frame for the main part of the picture, which is the house. Shrubs, chosen with the size of the house definitely in mind, will help to join the trees, the green grass of the foreground, and the house into a unified group. These shrubs, to be in good taste, will not 230 - APRIL, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE be individually too conspicuous either in foliage or shape or they will draw attention away from the house rather-than enframe it. The distance of the house from the street is largely determined by the houses already existing in the neighborhood, because an harmonious note is reached when there is not too great variation. 'The ideal is to allow just enough room for a simple approach, without robbing the ownance of all adjoining lots, is to reserve this space for the setting of the house, which the landscape architect calls the semi-public area. Because this area is semi-public, it is definitely unsuited to any development of a flower garden or useless architectural features such as benches, free standing lattices or other ornaments, which only detract from the main interest of the house and all in all result in an effect a bit THIS ILLUSTRATES THE USE OF HIGH PLANTINGS TO OBTAIN A DEGREE OF PRIVACY FOR YOUR GARDEN. Er of any of the private area that might be developed in the rear. HE charming American tradition which makes the most pleasing impression in the residential sections of our towns and cities is that of wide shady streets and open green lawns. It expresses that very democratic freedom which is America. Rather than push a high wall parallel with a public walk, or hide the house far back in the property, the friendly, good-neighbor expression, which improves the general appearridiculous. Nothing will improve this already well established front lawn tradition in our country so much as keeping lawns neatly cut and green and uncluttered with a number of shoddy ornaments or incongruous flower beds. The next problem is to so arrange the service—kitchen entrance, garage, coal chute and deliveries—so that they are all easily accessible from one driveway.