Many unsightly little sheds or old barns are left (Continued on page 281) When It's Springtime By Barbara Badger Burnett JUST as soon as there's a tinge of spring in the air we all want to do things, scratch around in the garden, bring pussy willows and violets and hyacinths into the house, and entertain our friends. The hospitality of every American household, whether it is a simple one or an elaborate one, centers about its dining table. A luncheon is a delightful way of extending this hospitality. A hostess who does things "just right" plans carefully every detail of her luncheon. The menu, of course, is of importance. There is a steady demand for menus, and they are always suggestive; but they seldom fit the case exactly. They depend on times and seasons, localities and pocketbooks, community customs and individual notions. They are helpful but cannot be made wholesale, and slavishly followed. Every luncheon menu, no matter how simple, must be balanced. It must contain adequate amounts of each kind of fodd needed by the body. There must be contrast in texture, harmony in color; and repetition of distinctive flavors must be avoided. A simple rule to follow in planning the menu is to select an appetizer, an entree, a salad, bread in some form, a beverage and a dessert. To this may be added extra dishes to accompany the entree—relishes, candies, and nuts. The entire luncheon may be served hot or cold, depending upon the season, the weather, and the foods selected. Hot and chilled foods may also be mixed. If this is done, it is better to serve them in separate courses. It is important to serve dishes intended to be warm, piping hot, and the chilled ones very cold. Luncheon appetjzers are so versatile that a whole book could be written on them alone. Chilled and jellied bouillons, iced tomato juice — and fruit juices, tart fruit salads, molded or frozen, and strawberries with the stems left on arranged around a mound of powdered sugar are attractive for spring luncheons. All kinds of scalloped dishes make excellent entrees. Scalloped fish baked in individual shells garnished with lemon is a good spring dish. Then there are all kinds of creamed concoctions served in patty shells, timbale cases, and even on toast points. Spring is the very nicest time of the year to make salads. The first onions, tomatoes, radishes, and cucumbers seem to taste the best. Let your salads be festive. Arrange them attractively, mold them, and garnish them gaily. Mint sprigs dampened with cold water and dipped in powdered sugar are delightful for fruit salads. Breads of all kinds, shapes, and - sizes are served with luncheons. Quick breads and dainty tea_biscuits are favorites. Have you tried date muffins and orange biscuits? Spring and summer call for chilled drinks. Long, cold, fruit punches in frosted glasses garnished with cherries and mint add to any menu. They should not be too sweet. Fruit flavors are delicate and are easily spoiled by too much sugar. Besides, a sweet drink ruins the appetite for other foods. 232 - APRIL RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The dessert can be the climax of the meal. If you want to hear "Ohs" and "'Ahs" from your guests, serve a lovely ice cream mold garnished with fresh fruits, or a Baked Alaska. But if you are all on a "slimming" diet, serve a dainty fruit ice. After all, we must remember that a luncheon is a light meal served between breakfast and dinner. We have a tendency to serve more and heavier foods than we should. When you serve at one o'clock, let it be lunch. As to texture, liquid foods such as soups, beverages and sauces, along with chewy foods and crisp ones, make the menu more interesting and palatable. A scheme of one or more harmonizing colors is more interesting than one color alone. Foods are more appetizing in their natural color. Occasionally a touch of violet, or blue, for example, may be added in the form of a decoration or a garnish to carry out some special theme. Coloring of foods is permissible but must be done with care, as over-coloring is unattractive and distasteful. Garnishes are added for decoration, to give color toa dish and often to add flavor. All garnishes must be edible. Crab claws have no more place on the salad plate than paper flowers have on the ice cream. Garnishing can be very easily overdone. A simply garnished dish is generally much more attractive than one which is completely disguised with decorations. Contrasting flavors are just as important as contrast in texture and harmony in color. How unpalatable a luncheon would be if every dish served was bland or if all had a sweet taste. Bland foods need salty or spicy accompaniments. Some foods need a tart sauce. One food or flavor should not appear twice on the menu, such as tomato soup and tomato salad, or onion in the meat and also in the salad, or lemon with fish and lemon pie. IN planning your menu take into consideration the help you will have in preparation and serving; also your equipment for both cooking and serving. Then make a list of all utensils and supplies needed. If possible this should be done several days in advance to give time for ordering if certain foods may not be on the grocer's shelf. Make a working schedule and time chart, and pin them on the kitchen wall or put them some place where you can see them easily as you work. You will find such charts of great value in preparing dishes in their order so that all may be assembled at once and on time. The simplest of menus can be made fit for a king by the way in which they are served. The table appointments and service should be perfect and in keeping with the type of luncheon. If formal, the table covering and dishes are more elaborate, and the food is all served from the kitchen. If the luncheon is one of those happy, informal kinds, the table may be covered with dainty colored linens, fewer dishes may be used, and part of the food may be served from the table by the hostess. Have the table large enough to comfortably seat the guests. It is a good idea to place the chairs around the table first and then lay the covers to correspond. Allow at least twelve inches for each cover. Beautiful linen is the pride and Photo by courtesy of Z. C. M. LUNCHEON SERVICE joy of every hostess. The dignity and beauty of white linen damask make it appropriate for any table, and it forms an exquisite background for glistening silver, glassware, and china. Lace table covers and lace and linen combinations iay also be used. They are more formal, however, than tinted damasks, handblocked linens, 'and fringed runners that are so colorful and attractive for informal use. Some of the most attractive luncheon sets today are made from pastel organdies with appliqued flowers and fruits. Napkins, of course, should match the cloth, and are smaller than the dinner napkin. Styles in table coverings change as all styles do, but a "thing of beauty is a joy forever." - Only silver and dishes which are to be used should be placed on the table. Unnecessary articles are confusing and do not add to the attractiveness of the table. All knives and spoons are placed on the right side of the plate; all forks and the napkin on the left—in the order in which they are to be used, the first used being on the outside. The water glass is placed at the tip of the knife, and the cup and saucer and side dish, if used, to the right. The bread and butter plate, which may be a combination salad and bread plate, is placed at the tip of the fork. If a separate salad plate is used, it is placed directly above the luncheon plate. Since the club plate has been so universally adopted most of the food may be served on the one plate, thus eliminating dishes and service. Table accessories include the centerpiece, place cards, salt and pepper shakers, relish dishes and any other form of decoration which may be 234 - APRIL, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE used. The centerpiece adds charm and color to the table and should be chosen to harmonize with the linen, dishes, and the foods. It may consist of flowers, fruits, a beautifully decorated cake or a lovely ornament. It should be arranged so that it does not inconvenience the guests or interfere with their view. Candles really have no place on a luncheon table unless the room is dark, and they must be used to give light. Place cards afford a graceful means of seating guests. They may be of various forms from fresh flowers to paper. Unless they are of a favor type they belong to the hostess and are left on the table. They may be placed on the napkin, at the top of the cover or against the water glass. Any other decoration used should not interfere in any way with eating or serving. The type of service most acceptable today is the left-hand service. All foods are served, removed and passed from the left, except the cup and saucer and water, which are served from the right. "Happy is he who sits down to the luncheon provided for him with a mind free for social pleasure, secure in the skill and knowledge of his cook." Happier still is the hostess whose luncheon has been so delightful that her guests remember it and ask for her menu and recipes for their own use. RX HEAVEN IS NEAR To share the rising sun with you, To feel the sunset's glow, To see a rosebud open full, Watch summer come and go; To roam through autumn's golden lanes, Or pause on wintry night And know that spring will come again— Then life seems good and right. To ease a body wracked with pain, To soothe an aching heart, To lift a care-worn brother's load, To do a neighbor's part, To dry an orphan's trembling tear, To cheer the sad, depressed, To serve my God and fellowmen— Then life is at its best. To know the joy that working brings, To walk with ease and grace, To hear the song of birds at morn, To look in your dear face, To feel your hand firm clasped in mine, To say, "I love you, dear."