the huge, old-fashioned woodbox behind the stove to save sweeping the shavings. As he grew, he continued with this hobby of his boyhood, learning all he could of woods, of methods used in building, cutting, carving and glueing. His hobby turned out to be his occupation in life, and for more than thirty years he has been teaching woodwork in the schools. He still loves to make lamps, magazine stands, tables, book ends, candle sticks and all sorts of gifts for his family and friends. I have a neighbor who enjoys flowers and very modestly began growing a few bulbs and shrubs. She now lives entirely surrounded by a beautiful garden of all varieties and types of flowers, blossoming from RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, APRIL 265 early spring until late autumn. She has developed a small business selling bulbs and blossoms. But the greatest pleasure that comes to her is through the flowers she bestows upon the sick, the lonely and sad. She keeps her church continually supplied with lovely bouquets the year around. I know another person who paints in his spare time, another who makes delicious candies, another who raises pure-bred dogs, one who keeps a most interesting family history, and still another who is a genius with her apparently magic needle. Day by day I see pleasure derived from the pursuit of interesting hobbies. I believe that this individual hobby idea is bound to take care of many of the nation's problems in the immediate future. Hundreds of thousands of our citizenry have been thrown out of jobs in recent years, others have been forced to change from one job to another. Now we are living in a period of readjustment, struggling in every conceivable manner to obtain a sensible balance again. Let us adopt the slogan, "A hobby for everyone". TRUTH TRUTH never dies. The ages come and go; The mountains wear away; the seas retire; Destruction lays earth's mighty cities low; And empires, states and dynasties expire; But caught and handed onward by the wise, Truth never dies!