Hence, it is depicted in gold, because each of the present members is as FROM THE FIELD By Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary priceless to the organization as is the large gold nugget to the prospector. Through the common interests and activities of the Organization these individual units have been molded into a strong, enduring base or foundation which is capable of supporting the structure that is to be built during the next four years. "To give each ward its identity the base was divided, each division representing a ward. The number of gold nuggets (members) comprising each portion of the base was specified. Each ward must not only support its share of the arch but must set about mining the gold with which to build it, for when completed it will be built entirely of gold. "All present members are designated as gold prospectors, to be led and directed by the coordinators. Their first duties are to learn how to reach these gold mines and how to extract the gold they find. To accomplish this they must be alert to the likes and interests of their prospects. Sometimes these gold nuggets will be found close to the surface and will necessitate little effort in discovery. Other times they will be found buried deep with much worthless mineral mixed with them, but still well worth the time and effort necessary to bring them to the surface. "A miner may choose to prospect in territory never before mined, or he may use more intensive and thorough methods in reworking old claims. So in our membership drive we will have two fields in which to prospect: one among persons not 272 - APRIL, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE acquainted with the Organization, who are entirely new to the work; the other, with those who were once active but for some reason are now inactive. 'This second field may be compared to the miner reworking old claims. As with the miner, in order to make this work worth while, new, more varied and intense methods will have to be used to rekindle the interests of these indifferent prospects. "Mining prospectors must have certain tools and provisions to help them in their labors; so must membership prospectors. The pick may represent a firm conviction that the gold nuggets necessary to complete our structure can be found and obtained. The shovel may represent a determination to work. In the knapsack must be had, as bread, a thorough knowledge of our Relief Society organization?its aims, purposes, ideals, program, benefits and obligations. In the canteen must be carried a rich abundance of enthusiasm for the work. "As each ward searches out and gathers the precious gold nuggets from within its boundaries, it will be made a part of the arch structure. By accepting membership and its responsibilities in the Relief Society organization the nuggets will become like gold bricks that fit into the structure, performing a definite and important role in its building. Thus each n?w gold nugget (member) will be represented by a space filled in with gold in its respective part of the arch. "The variation in size of these golden blocks is significant, too. In some very small wards the limited resources make the product rarer and more valuable. As can be seen, it will be necessary for each ward to supply its share of the gold to com- | plete the structure of the arch." The stake is confident that with such a well laid foundation and a capstone built of friendly service, supported by cultural growth and spiritual joy, each ward will diligently work and add the nuggets necessary to complete an atch of gold by 1942 for the Nevada Stake. Oneida Stake ROM the Glencoe Ward of the Oneida Stake the following picture was submitted. Among the group is the first president of the Organization, who is now eighty-four years of age and still active. This ONEIDA STAKE, GLENCOE WARD group is of interest because it shows the wide age range of people who are active in Relief Society work, from young mothers with tiny children to mature women who have had the advantage of years of experience in the Organization. The Preston First Ward is submitting the picture below, as it is quite an unusual one. In this enterprising ward an old-fashioned corn husking "bee" was held. The sisters of the Relief Society gathered, husked, and cut from the cob the corn RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, APRIL 273 1938 was a very busy one for members of the Parowan Stake. The full allotments of canned fruits, vegetables and meats, as well as the dried fruits and vegetables for the Church Welfare Program were more than filled. The members donated funds to purchase drapes, dishes, and cooking utensils and made rugs to furnish the four apartments of the Parowan Stake court at the St. George Temple. One new organization was effected, creating the Modena Branch. CORN HUSKING "BEE," PRESTON FIRST WARD produced on one-eighth of an acre. Each sister dried as much of the corn as she could care for at her own home. To quote from the letter: "We all worked hard, but it was a novel experience, and we all had a delightful time. A number of batches of corn were dried for a share by people who did not have their own gardens and who needed cor. Altogether more than 300 pounds were dried." Parowan Stake N interesting report shows the work in progress in one of our Southern Utah stakes. The year This makes twelve Relief Society organizations in the stake. In this stake, distance is a problem. Wards are scattered over a large area, but the loyal members travel in all kinds of weather?through winter storms, summer heat, rain and wind?to attend the Union meetings. All phases of the Relief Society program are going forward. The women are eager to gain knowledge, and enthusiastically and faithfully study the different lesson outlines. They are interested in the opportunities for musical development now offered in Relief Society, and the health program provides a splendid field of activity. 274 - APRIL, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE BENSON STAKE MEMBERSHIP PARTY Benson Stake HE above beautiful picture was taken on the thirty-seventh anniversary of the organization of Benson Stake. The Stake Board celebrated the occasion by launching the Membership Drive. There was also a wonderful exhibit of handwork and flowers on display. A cake contest was sponsored. Between four and five hundred women participated in the happy event, which was felt to be an excellent beginning for the very important work of recruiting members. Lethbridge Stake E are indebted to Sister Ida Wood, president of Lethbridge Stake, for the following interesting statement of the Relief Society work in her stake. The Lethbridge Stake Relief Society Board is composed of seven members?all mothers. Five of them live on farms from two to seven miles apart. These mothers have sixty children in all, ranging in age from three to thirty-three years. They all take care of their own homes in addition to the stake Relief Society work, and they also work in ward auxiliaries. 'The president and counsellors each have a son on a mission., The stake is scattered over a large area. 'The wards and branches are far apart, one of the most distant being 350 miles away from the center. The president says: "When making our visits to ward conferences, our total traveling amounts to 1,400 miles. This does not include the distance traveled to our newest branch in Edmonton, the capital of our province, which is 350 miles from Taber, where our board members all live. We are happy in our work and want to give to it the best we have. We feel that we work under difficulties, but we are willing to carry on because we know that the Lord blesses us abundantly, and the sisters in our stake are most wonderful. 'They are all anxious to do their part and help the work along." Shelley Stake ROM the Shelley Stake comes a most interesting report of the Work and Business program as planned for the year 1939. Beginning with January the program gives attention to the balanced diet; February, the curing of meats; March, cereals and grain products, and as it is then nearing the housecleaning season, hints to aid in that important work are included; April, dairy products, also an exchange of quilt patterns and some actual quilting; May, the study of fats and sugars, and an exchange of bulbs and seeds; June, eggs?their treatment and uses, also bookbinding and special hobbies; July is set aside for the year's outing; August, vegetables are to be considered, also attention given to remodeling of clothing; September, fruits and aprons; October, serving food attractively, and attention to the Church Welfare Program; November, cookies and candies, also Christmas suggestions; December, a display of the year's work and a Christmas party. We feel that many helpful sugRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, APRIL - 275 gestions are contained in this material, and all phases harmonize in the making of better homes. Tooele Stake HE project for the year 1938 was one hundred per cent visiting teaching. The picture below is of a group who accomplished this objective and faithfully carried through the project. Not only did they make their regular visits, but they used the Messages and carefully and wisely reported the condition of people in the districts visited. There are thirteen districts in this ward and in most of these there are three teachers for each district. Seven of the teachers in this group made the visits every month during the year. This fine work has enabled the officers to give needed assistance in sickness, also to supply food and other commodities where necessary, and to capably render service in homes where death reigned. At Christmas time a splendid piece of work was accomplished; new underwear and other clothing were made and given to those in need.