All In A Day
A PLAY IN ONE ACT, AND TWO SCENES
By Rosannah C. Irvine
RUTH ARMSTRONG, a discontented young wife. HARVEY ARMSTRONG, her husband, a struggling young lawyer. SISTER PORTER, a wise old lady and Relief Society visiting teacher. SISTER BALDWIN, a pleasant, middle-aged woman, also a visiting teacher. SISTER ARMSTRONG, an understanding mother-in-law.
(The names of the characters in this play are chosen at random. If they belong to real people, it is merely a coincidence.)
SCENE I
The curtain rises on the living room which also serves as a dining room in the home of Harvey and RUTH ARMSTRONG. It is breakfast time. A small table is set for two. The room is comfortably furnished but disorderly. Papers, books, and clothing, left out of place the night before, are scattered about. Many of the things in the room are evidently wedding presents, indicating that the Armstrongs are newlyweds. Harvey is seated at the table sipping a glass of tomato juice and reading the newspaper. He is dressed for the office. He becomes impatient and shows it.
Harvey: (calling) Ruth, I'm waiting, and I'm in a hurry.
RUTH: (from kitchen sharply) I'm hurrying as fast as I can.
(Several moments elapse before RUTH makes her appearance. Harvey fidgets, rattles his paper, and shows signs of irritation before she finally comes in. When she enters she has a plate of toast in one hand and a small platter of ham and eggs in the other. She puts them on the table in front of her husband and goes into the kitchen again, returning almost immediately with two glasses of milk, putting one at each place. RUTH is dressed carelessly in a pretty kimono or lounging robe, utterly impractical for housework. She has on a pair of fancy bedroom slippers. Her hair is in curlers, covered by a net. RUTH is very young, pretty and sweet, but she has a fretful frown on her face and a sharp tinge to her voice.)
RUTH: (seating herself) You forgot to take out the garbage again last night.
Harvey: Is it garbage day again? I took it out about yesterday.
RUTH: No, you didn't. Tuesday's garbage day?every Tuesday.
Harvey: I can't ever seem to remember. But I know that like rent day it comes around oftener than any other day. Did you take it out?
RUTH: (indignantly) I did not! What do you think I am?
Harvey: Well, you're the "filler upper."
RUTH: Well, I'm not going to be the "carrier outer" at any rate.
Harvey: (eating and trying to avoid a quarrel) All right, darling, I'll try to remember next time.
RUTH: Aren't you going to ask a blessing?
Harvey: I asked it before you came in. I prayed long and earnestly that I might have a breakfast and not a burnt offering.
RUTH: (angrily and on the verge of tears) I told you before we were married that I didn't know how to cook. You said you didn't care; you wanted me just as I was. You ought to have married one of the Harper girls if you wanted a cook.
Harvey: Oh, skip it, honey. I was only joking. I didn't want a cook. I wanted a companion. I wanted you.
RUTH: If that's your idea of a joke, it's certainly a poor one. And I'm getting tired of hearing about my poor cooking.
Harvey: Well, seriously now, hon, I'm asking in all love and kindness, why don't you learn to cook? Anyone with your brains can learn anything.
RUTH: Yes, if you like it well enough. But I hate cooking and housework. By the way, I had a call yesterday from Mr. Smith. He says I can have my old position back again if I want it. I'd love to take it, Harvey.
Harvey: Nothing doing. I want a companion for a wife, not a stenographer.
RUTH: Well, I'm not a good cook and not a good housekeeper, but I am an "A-1" stenographer. I could hire a girl to do the work and have a good share of my salary left.
Harvey: (firmly) Nothing doing, I said! You gave up that job to be a wife. A wife's place is in the home. No woman can be a good
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, APRIL - 253
business woman and a satisfactory home maker at the same time. When a woman marries, that's her job! Before we were married you said that you'd love keeping our little home, and you didn't ever want any more office work. You change your mind rather frequently.
RUTH: Well, it's the only thing under the sun, moon, and stars that I can change. I ought to have that privilege.
Harvey: (sotto voce) You might try changing your disposition. (He finishes his breakfast, folds his napkin, and gets up from the table. He takes his hat and stands hesitating. RUTH glumly sips her milk and nibbles toast as if unconscious of his presence.)
Harvey: Come on, honey. Can't you give a fellow a goodby kiss? (RUTH grudgingly turns her cheek to him. He kisses her lightly.) Goodby, darling. And don't forget about a job. You have a full-time one right here looking after me. (RUTH remains cross and unfriendly. Harvey feels her antagonism. He pats her shoulder gently.)
Harvey: Cheer up, sweetness. Times are going to brighten up. I'm not always going to be a poor, struggling lawyer. We'll soon be through the starvation period. It won't be long before you can have all the money you want to spend without worrying about having to earn it yourself. (RUTH remains unresponsive. Harvey hesitates a moment, then with a sigh he puts his hat jauntily on his head.) Well, be grouchy if it makes you happy; but you certainly make yourself about the most childishly
254 - APRIL, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
disagreeable person I've ever seen. I don't see what you have to be cross about. You surely don't get any kick out of it yourself, and it is anything but pleasant for other people. And just remember this, young lady, as a partner you're nothing to write home about. (RUTH remains silent. After waiting a moment, HARVEY goes out slamming the door. Ruth attempts to eat but chokes over every bite. She is weeping softly in self-pity. Before she has finished, there is a knock at the door. She goes to the door and opens it. SISTER PORTER and SISTER BALDWIN enter. They are smiling and friendly. RUTH is none too cordial.)
RUTH: Oh, how are you, Sister Porter? How do you do, Sister Baldwin? (She shakes hands with them.) Won't you sit down? (The visitors sit near together. RUTH sits a little way from them.) You see I haven't done my morning work yet (with a deprecatory gesture around the untidy room).
SISTER PORTER: (apologetically) We shouldn't have called so early, my dear, but we are very late with our visiting this month. I was too lame last week to get around, and Sister Baldwin was out of town. You'll excuse this early morning call, won't you?
SISTER BALDWIN: As Relief Society visiting teachers we have an especially interesting and timely message today?
RUTH: (Interrupting) Oh, yes, I know all about your topic. I heard Mother Armstrong talking about it to her partner.
SISTER PORTER: (kindly) Then we do not need to discuss it with you, of course.
RUTH: (shortly) No, I know it off by heart.
SISTER BALDWIN: That's a very good idea. It's a wonderful thing to have in your heart and think about every day. We especially want to invite you to our meeting this afternoon. We are having a particularly good program today. We are inviting all our young women to join our Organization. We want to enroll every woman young and old who is not actively engaged in some other organization. "Every Latter-day Saint woman a member, and every member active," is our aim. We are working to have 100,000 members by 1942.
RUTH: (indifferently) Yes, my mother has told me all about it. But I haven't time to go to Relief Society.
SISTER BALDWIN: It won't be a very long meeting today, and I'm sure you would find it interesting.
RUTH: (firmly) I can't go today. I told my mother I couldn't.
SISTER PORTER: (mildly) Well, my dear, the old women in the Society, like myself, are rapidly passing away. We need the young, active girls to carry on in our place. You young ones are as necessary to the success of the work as we older ones are. You know the old Greek adage, "Old men for counsel and young men for war".
RUTH: Well, I don't think that you need me yet awhile when there are women like you two, and mother Armstrong and my own mother. I'm really not interested in Relief Society. I'm not going to join till I'm an old woman, maybe about thirty-five or forty years old. (Her visitors exchange amused glances. Even SISTER BALDWIN is past forty, and still considers herself a young woman.) But I want to make a donation for your charity fund. (She gets her purse and hands Sister BALDWIN fifty cents.)
SISTER BALDWIN: Thank you.
SISTER PORTER: I hope, my dear, that your heart will be as touched with an interest in the work as it is with generosity toward it. (The visitors shake hands and exeunt.)
RUTH: (with a sigh of relief) Thank goodness that's over! (She throws herself down on the couch and reads the newspaper. She is quite oblivious of her appearance and the untidy room. There is a gentle knock at the door. RUTH doesn't hear. The knock is repeated.) Why does everybody have to come visiting in the morning? Come in. (SISTER ARMSTRONG enters. She is intelligent and sweet.)
RUTH: (rising in embarrassment) Oh, Mother Armstrong, come in. I'm ashamed of this mess, but I've been lazy all morning, and then the Relief Society teachers called, and that hindered me. Here, have this easy chair. (They sit down close together.)
SISTER ARMSTRONG: Yes, I met the teachers. They're sweet women, aren't they? Ruth dear, I came to see if you wouldn't like to go to Relief Society meeting with me today.
RUTH: (laughing, her natural sweetness overcoming her ill temper) Say, what is this, a campaign? You and mother, and Sister Porter and Sister Baldwin have all been after
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, APRIL - 255
me. I'm too young. I'm not quite in the old ladies' class yet. Oh, I don't mean any offense, Mother Armstrong.
SISTER ARMSTRONG: I'm sure you don't, dear. I understand. Any woman over thirty seems old to you. (They both laugh.) There are many young girls joining the Society now, some even as young as you.
RUTH: Well, they must be hard up for something to do.
SISTER ARMSTRONG: As a matter of fact, they are all busy girls; but they find Relief Society a pleasure and a benefit.
RUTH: I can't imagine such a thing. (Then more courteously) You're wasting your time, Mother Armstrong, in trying to sell Relief Society to me. Mother has been at me ever since I was married. I'm just not interested.
SISTER ARMSTRONG: I think that you would be today. It's Sister Porter's birthday. She doesn't know it, but we are going to pay a lovely tribute to her, besides the program. Your mother is going to present her with a lovely bouquet and give a little talk of presentation. I thought you might sing for us?one of Sister Porter's favorite hymns. It would please your mother and give us all a great deal of pleasure.
RUTH: (affectionately) You're sweet, Mother Armstrong, but I couldn't possibly go today. I'm going to wash as soon as I get my work done.
SISTER ARMSTRONG: Harvey stopped in for a minute on his way to the office this morning. He seemed quite worried about you. He
256 - APRIL, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
asked me if I didn't know of a girl who could come in once in a while and help you. You've got a mighty good husband, Ruth, if he is my son.
RUTH: Being your son is what makes him so good, Mother.
SISTER ARMSTRONG: That's sweet of you, even if I don't deserve it. He's very much in love with you, my dear.
RUTH: Well, he ought to be. My mother thinks I'm an awfully nice girl.
SISTER ARMSTRONG: (laughing) I think we form rather a complete admiration association. We all like each other and are happy in our relationship.
RUTH: Mother, I have a chance to work for Mr. Smith again. Harvey won't hear of it, but don't you think I ought to? I try to be a good wife, but I'm a lot better stenographer than housekeeper, and my check would help out a lot right now. You see, when we were married I was earning more than Harvey is making. And two people can't live as cheaply as one, no matter what folks say. I used to spend more on myself than we have now for everything.
SISTER ARMSTRONG: I know it's hard on you, Ruth. But Harvey is working up a business, and that takes time. Marriage means cooperation and sacrifice. Harvey had more to spend on himself, too, before you were married. I think it would be a mistake for you to go back to Smith's. It would undermine Harvey in his business. It would give people the idea perhaps that he couldn't earn enough to keep you?that he was not a good lawyer. Be a good team mate, dear, and do your part by being a good home maker. Now, how about going to meeting with me today?
RUTH: (laughing and relenting under the kindness of her mother-in-law) I see where Harvey gets his "go-get-it-iveness". Yes, I'll go if I can rush through my work.
SISTER ARMSTRONG: I think that I can get Aggie to come over and do your washing. She has tomorrow free. She's a good worker, and she needs the work.
RUTH: That would be grand, if you think we ought to afford it. I hate washing and ironing next to cooking, and I hate cooking next to dish washing, and I hate dish washing next to sweeping and dusting and bed making, and, (With a comprehensive gesture around the room) most of all I think I hate tidying up a room and keeping things in order. Somehow things just won't stay put. (Then seriously) I do want to be a good wife, but you see I'd never done much housework until I was married, and Harvey's the first husband I've ever had. Mother, it's surprising how much time anyone can spend on a husband. In terms of time they're very expensive luxuries.
SISTER ARMSTRONG: (laughing) Every woman passes through that phase of marriage. When you have a large family of small children you'll look back on these days as a time of child's play. I think it would be all right to have Aggie come in once a week to help you with the heavy work. You can go to fewer movies every month or cut down on your gasoline, perhaps. There are many ways of saving. It's a good thing to save on unnecessary things in order to take care of the essentials. It's astonishing how many little things you can do without, and how much pleasure you can get out of seeing your bank account grow if you make a game of it instead of considering it a hardship. But I didn't come here to lecture you on economy. Can you be ready to go to meeting at one-thirty? I'll call for you then.
RUTH: (kissing her impulsively) You're a darling, and I'll be ready. What would you like me to sing?
SISTER ARMSTRONG: I believe Sister Porter's favorite song is?(they decide on a suitable song.) I must rush home now. Goodby, dear. (Exit.)
RUTH: Goodby, Mother dear. (She begins briskly to do her work, as the curtain falls.)
SCENE II
The same room, but now it is orderly and attractive. The table is daintily set for dinner. RUTH is well dressed and well groomed. She has a dainty apron over her pretty dress. She moves about smiling and singing. She puts Harvey's house coat on his easy chair, a pair of slippers and a leg rest near by. A bouquet of flowers is on the table. The entire atmosphere of the place is changed. There is a slight noise at the door. RUTH goes to it as Harvey enters.
RUTH: (smiling and with affectionate concern) Hello, darling. How are you tonight?
Harvey: (hesitating?surprised) Why?hello?
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, APRIL - 257
RUTH: (sweetly) Let me take your coat and hat, dear. Your house coat and slippers are right there at your chair.
Harvey: (bewildered) Thanks?darling?I?
RUTH: Have you had a good day?
Harvey: (astonished) Why?yes?fine?that is?pretty good?but (anxiously) are you all right, dear?
RUTH: (cheerfully) Never better! (She helps him off with his coat, takes his arm and walks with him to his chair. Harvey is rather bewildered. A great deal of the humor and interest in this scene depends on Harvey's acting.) Now you sit there and read, darling, while I serve the dinner. It's all ready except the meat, and it's going to be good tonight, and I do mean good! I made a lovely apple pie, and I have a scrumptious steak and a?
Harvey: (really alarmed) Ruth, are you sure you feel all right?
RUTH: Yes, dear, I'm fine.
Harvey: Your face is flushed. Are you feverish?or something?
RUTH: Not a fraction of a degree. My face is red because I've been working over a hot stove.
Harvey: (hesitating, but still anxious) Well, you seem different?somehow. As if you were happy?or something.
RUTH: (laughing) Of course I'm happy. Why shouldn't I be? Didn't I marry the best man in the world?
Harvey: Why, of course. Everybody knows that. But lately you haven't seemed to think so. You and Mother agreed on that before we were married.
RUTH: Yes, and we discussed it again
258 - APRIL, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
today and reached the same decision.
Harvey: (seriously) You and Mother ought to get together often. But, dearest, I can't understand. You're so different?so pepped up?and so sweet?somehow. What's happened to you today?
RUTH: I can't tell you now. Dinner's all ready except broiling the steak.
Harvey: (sternly) You come right here, woman, and sit down. Obedience is better than beefsteak. (RUTH meekly sits down beside him. Harvey puts his arm around her. She snuggles against him. He gives a sigh of satisfaction.) Ahah-ah! This is like old times. Now tell me what's happened?
RUTH: I went to Relief Society.
Harvey: You what?
RUTH: I went to Relief Society meeting today.
Harvey: That old ladies' club? That couldn't make you happy. What's the joke?
RUTH: (indignantly) It isn't an old ladies' club! And it's no joke. I enjoyed myself.
Harvey: I'll bet you did!
RUTH: I did, really, Harvey. It was nice. I sang for them.
Harvey: How come? Did you sing them to sleep? Lullabies?
RUTH: Harvey, behave yourself! They had a wonderful meeting. It was partly in honor of dear old Sister Porter.
Harvey: But how did they happen to rope you into going?
RUTH: Lots of young women belong. Peg and Amy Hutchins are both members; and Norma Alston's the chorister. She's not much older than I am.
Harvey: Well, what do you know about that! Did you sew carpet tags or stitch quilts? That's all they do, isn't it?
RUTH: Harvey! Shame on you! You know better than that. Your mother has been a Relief Society worker all her life. You know perfectly well the good they do in carrying comfort and relief and happiness to people. And then besides that they have lessons and socials. You learn a lot of things?how to sew and cook; you get new recipes and patterns and new ideas about lots of things, and then they have a good time, too.
Harvey: Well, it must be something. (Pause. Then seriously) How often do they meet?
RUTH: You ought to know that, too. They meet every week, on Tuesday afternoon. Garbage day, you know. That might help you to remember.
Harvey: (thoughtfully and with deep affection) Dearest, how would you?I mean?wouldn't you like to join the Society?
RUTH: (laughing) They invited me to join today, and I'm going to.
Harvey: (with a deep and happy sigh) Oh, darling, that's great! I'm so glad! I do want you to be happy! (They beam fondly at each other as the curtain falls.)