THE PROPHETS SPEAK
Joseph Smith: "No official member in this Church is worthy to hold an office after having the Word of Wisdom properly taught him, and he, the official member, neglecting to comply with and obey it."
Brigham Young: "The constitution that a person has should be nourished and cherished; and whenever we take anything into the system to force and stimulate it beyond its natural capacity, it shortens life."
John Taylor: "And in regard to drunkenness we will not be contaminated nor disgraced with infamy of such conduct—and as the honesty of a man can only be tested by his having temptation within his reach, so no man can be considered as acting properly who cannot let liquor alone, when that is within his reach."
Wilford Woodruff: "And when counsel comes we should not treat it lightly, no matter to what subject it pertains, for if we do it will work evil unto us. We have been called upon by the Lord and His servants to keep the Word of Wisdom; it is time we did it."
Lorenzo Snow: "Our mission is to the world and not simply to carry the Gospel to the people, but to establish plans and lay schemes for their temporal salvation. Our object is the temporal salvation of the people as much as their spiritual salvation."
Joseph F. Smith: "When I see a man professing to be a Latter-day Saint, or even professing to be a member of the Church, though not making any great professions of being a Latter-day Saint, befouling his breath with intoxicating drink, with the fumes of tobacco, or unnecessarily indulging in stimulants, it grieves my spirit, my soul goes out for him in pity and in sorrowful regret, and I wonder why it is that we, individually, cannot realize our own folly, our own degradation in yielding to these pernicious habits that are neither useful or ornamental, nor in the least degree beneficial, but indeed harmful." —Conference Address, April, 1908.
"During all my lifetime since childhood I have never known of one man or woman who was an honest, conscientious tithepayer, who observed the Word of Wisdom and who attended his or her Fast meetings and Sacrament meetings and partook of the spirit of those meetings, to lose his or her faith." —President Heber J. Grant.
The Relief Society Magazine
Vol. XXVI APRIL, 1939 No. 4