The Miracle of Carthage Jail
By Joseph A. And Eunice McRae
ILLINOIS was admitted to the Union in 1818. Hancock County, situated on the western side of the state, bounded on the west by the Mississippi River, was organized in 1825. At the time it was organized it was dependent upon Adams County, to the south. However, it became independent in 1829. There was considerable controversy in the beginning over the location of the county-seat. The first four sessions of court were held at the home of James White, who lived on the river shore near the ferry landing, directly west of what later became Commerce and then Nauvoo. Two sessions were held in the home of Hazen Bedell, further south along the river shore. A log court house was erected in the town of Montebello, six miles south of where Nauvoo is now located, where court was held until the close of 1832.
In 1833 the three commissioners of Morgan County, on the north, were appointed by the legislature to select a site for a Hancock county-seat. Two of these men met with the Hancock County commissioners and, after making a thorough investigation, selected the site on township 5 north, range 6 west, the northwest quarter of section 19. Their report was signed March 21, 1833. One of the committee had been reading ancient history, especially that of the Punic wars and the founding of Carthage in Africa. The history stated that Carthage is a Phoenician and Hebrew word, meaning "New City". So our Carthage came into existence as a "New City". The town at the present writing has a population of 2,200, with beautiful homes and seven churches.
THE historical center of interest in Carthage is the "Old Jail". Silent and awe inspiring it stands, and few buildings in the vicinity are as old. The contract for the jail was let to William Metcalf in the year 1839. Samuel Dickinson was associate contractor. The building was constructed of a peculiar limestone slightly yellow in color. The oldest residents do not agree upon the location of the quarry from which the stone was taken. In an effort to locate similar stone to fill a small space below a window, we hunted through several quarries in vain. At last, matching
218 - APRIL, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
stone was secured from the foundation of an old barn. However, the owner did not know where it originally came from.
The building, which faces south, is two and one-half stories high. There are three rooms on the ground floor. The dining room in the northeast corner is perhaps the one where the Prophet and his brother ate their last meal on earth. The southeast corner room was a living room and has a spacious fireplace. Looking at the smoke-stained rocks on either side, one can well imagine the many tales here told of heroism in hunting bear, wolves and other inhabitants of the forests as well as tales of Indian encounters. The hearth was made of brick, much worn during the years. The other room on this floor is in the northwest corner of the building and is known as the "debtor's" room. It is approximately 12x12 feet, about the size of the dining room. On the floor of this room the Prophet and his companions spent at least one night. This room is the only one in the building showing any evidence of bars on the windows.
There are two rooms on the second floor. The north room was a cell room where the more dangerous prisoners were confined. Just how many cells were in this room is not known, for the records are not in existence. This room is the one into which Elder Willard Richards carried Elder John Taylor after he had been so cruelly wounded. Elder Richards calls this room "the dungeon"; hence, there was perhaps but one window—at the present there are two windows. The floor and ceiling joists of this room are made of hand-hewed oak logs, eight inches thick and placed close together. The floor and ceiling were doubtless covered with 1¼ inch oak, tongued and grooved. There was a cage at the entrance, but the cells and the cage have long ago been taken away. The entrance is directly facing the head of the stairs.
To the right and east of the stairway is a door leading into the room where the tragedy of the Martyrdom occurred. This room has a fireplace and three windows, two on the south side and one on the east. Through the east window the Prophet jumped to his death. The shot which wounded Elder Taylor came through this window, the ball striking his silver watch and throwing him back into the room. In this room President Hyrum Smith's body was found on the floor, his head toward the east. The shot came through the door—the bullet hole still remaining. Another shot was fired through the edge of the door, but this piece has since been removed and a piece of pine fills the place. The piece that was taken from the side of the door is here in Carthage, and we have hopes that some day we shall be able to have it replaced. This room was evidently the jailor's bedroom, for we read that Elder John Taylor rolled under the bed. Blood stains on the floor are mute evidence of what happened there. The two rooms in the attic were doubtless used as storage rooms.
IN 1866 the building was sold to Bryant F. Peterson. He remodeled the inside and used it for a residence. The cells were removed and also the bars from the windows of the "debtor's" room. Mr. Peterson paid
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, APRIL - 219
the county $1,100 for the property. He sold it to J. M. Browning for $1,500, who in turn deeded it to his wife. Mrs. Browning purchased another lot on the east, giving her one-fourth of the block. In 1903 Mr. Browning died, and Mrs. Browning sold the property to President Joseph F. Smith, Trustee-in-Trust for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, for $4,000.
During the occupancy of the Brownings several changes were made. One window on the south was removed and
[IMAGE: ARTOIS HAMILTON, OWNER OF THE HAMILTON HOTEL. HE TOOK CARE OF THE BODIES OF JOSEPH AND HYRUM AT HIS HOTEL DURING THE NIGHT OF JUNE 27, 1844 AND ACCOMPANIED THEM TO NAUVOO THE NEXT MORNING]
a French window installed, which opened into a conservatory. A little kitchen on the east was removed and a larger addition took its place. The well was filled and flowers planted over the spot. Considerable difficulty was experienced by us in locating the old well. The oldest inhabitants were not agreed as to its exact location, but we began digging, and, though we removed enough soil to have dug several wells, at last we found a place which seemed to be earth filled. We went down with a hole six feet in diameter to a depth of 19 feet before the wall of the well was encountered.
At the bottom we found two and one-half feet of the old brick wall. The well is now all walled up. There is a curb on top, and we intend putting in an old-fashioned windlass, as was there in the beginning, with an "old oaken bucket".
After the Church came into possession of the place, it was left vacant for a long time, then it was rented and turned into a rooming house. This continued for about eighteen years until the present occupants arrived.
220 - APRIL, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
During the past year considerable work has been done on the outside and some on the inside. The corners of the building have been reinforced by concrete footings extending ten feet each way. There has also been a reinforced concrete wall constructed around the building, which extends from below the bottom of the foundation to the soil line. This should secure the building for another hundred years. The crevices between the stone on the outside have all been repointed with lime and cement. Paint has been removed from the doors and windows on the inside. There are six original doors in the house, and they are all made of solid walnut. The door casings are made of oak, walnut and butternut. Some of the door frames have been made out of logs, hand hewed. Being full of knots, they required considerable work to shape. Those who shaped them were men with plenty of time and patience. This hardwood, after all these years of seasoning, takes on a beautiful polish. The hardwood used in the jail we found difficult to match, for a number of places had been eaten by rats, and we had to find wood for repair. On the whole we were quite successful, though the task required much time, some of the wood having to be ripped from larger pieces. Some of the solid walnut seats in the windows are 25 inches wide, and they have plenty of knots, too.
Carthage Jail has a peculiar record. Some of the noblest and choicest of God's servants were housed here, and also some of his Satanic majesty's most diabolical demons. The Prophet had a premonition of coming doom. Elder John Taylor, who left his blood on the floor but was miraculously saved to later preside over the Church he so courageously defended, said: "We all of us felt unusually dull and languid, with a remarkable depression of spirits. In consonance with those feelings I sang a song that had lately been introduced into Nauvoo, entitled A Poor Wayfaring Man of Grief.
"The song is pathetic and the tune plaintive and was very much in accordance with our feelings at the time, for our spirits were all depressed, dull and gloomy, and surcharged with indefinite, ominous forebodings. After a lapse of time Brother Hyrum requested me again to sing that song. I replied, 'Brother Hyrum, I do not feel like singing;' when he remarked, 'O, never mind; commence singing, and you will get the spirit of it.' At his request I did so. Soon afterwards I was sitting at one of the front windows of the jail, when I saw a number of men with painted faces, coming around the corner of the jail and aiming toward the stairs." (See Roberts' Rise and Fall of Nauvoo.)
CARTHAGE JAIL is known throughout the world. The register of visitors has names from England, far-off India, Brazil, Australia—in fact from the farthermost parts of the earth. Some come to ridicule and make light of the events that have made the historic house famous, but usually they go away with a quiet demeanor and reverential respect for the participants of that terrible tragedy. Some give way to denuncia-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, APRIL - 221
[IMAGE: A VIEW OF THE OLD CARTHAGE JAIL SHOWING THE WELL IN PROCESS OF RESTORATION. THE SECOND STORY WINDOW IS THE ONE THROUGH WHICH JOSEPH WAS SHOT AS HE WAS ABOUT TO LEAP. JOSEPH A. McRAE STANDS NEAR THE WELL]
tions against the deed which was committed. One gentleman said: "I can tell you why those men were murdered. They were too prosperous; they were too high-minded and had too exalted ideals to suit the surrounding populace, who were made up of the 'riff-raff' of humanity. Such people cannot look at the success of others without envy." So, various opinions are advanced, not always unprejudiced, but those who are unfair show how little they know about what they say, when confronted with the facts.
The "Old Jail" stands a monument to the past and a testimony to the children of the future. Finished only four years before the tragedy that stained its floors with the blood of martyrs, the only important event ever happening in the old structure marks it from the thousands of jails throughout the world. The tragedy of the Martyrdom marks the beginning of a great migration which almost parallels the march of the Children of Israel. Joseph Smith's name was little known at the time of his death; now it is known in every part of the earth. His teachings are broadcast throughout the world. Those misguided men who took part in the assassination that deprived the world of two of God's vicegerents thought they had destroyed the work of those men, but they only gave it stimulus that hastened it to greater heights. Carthage Jail was the beginning, not the end.
Reputed to have numbered about 20,000 at the time of
222 - APRIL, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the Martyrdom, the adherents now approach nearly 800,000 in number. And where are the men who painted their faces for disguise and took part in the terrible deed? Gone, and their posterity do not boast of the deeds of their fathers; some of the principals died unenviable deaths. Carthage Jail stands as a "Miracle" of a past age, in the midst of a changing world, when buildings of the yesterdays are razed to make room for more modern structures. In the midst of the thought that the "old must pass," the old stone building has weathered the storms of one hundred years, bearing mute testimony that the ways of men are not the ways of God. We are happy in our work in this historic monument; we love it, and we have many opportunities to defend the faith of our fathers. We have made many friends and have received many letters of appreciation for the information we have given.