Spring Tonics
By Dorothy Nell Mair
ONCE again springtime arrives in the Rockies. Mystifying changes occur daily in our mountains. Majestic peaks and rocky ledges, rounded out by deep drifts of winter snow, become sharply pointed and more craggy. As deep ravines and crevices are revealed, shadows shift and change in hue to weave fantastic patterns on canyon walls. Skies become more blue; clouds become whiter. Creeks and rivers swell and race in tumbling foam to the irrigation canals in the valleys. The hillsides are green and beckon to outdoor campers; the fishing is good in the streams. Each day winter's curtain is lifted a bit higher as Nature entices us in subtle ways to take our regular dose of spring tonic, for she knows the only cure for the drowsiness and the inertia we call spring fever.
Spring fever is the weariness that follows the indoor confinement imposed upon us by cold weather. It is the tiredness that comes from too much social activity and too much work as well. We do need a spring tonic, a pick-me-up, to restore our ambitions. Certainly, no objections are raised against the kind Nature proffers, but being slaves to commercial interests we postpone the taking. However, Nature, also being a wise mother, directs us to her liking. Come the warm days when we sit at our desks and yawn, and that midafternoon drowsiness which tortures us. The sound of nesting birds calling one to another outside, and the fragrance of fruit blossoms in the breeze that stirs the papers we are trying to peruse—all are weapons against which we have no defense. Our thoughts stray from operating costs and budgets to camping equipment, to shady places among tall trees, to twisting trails, to crystal lakes. We give up, pack the car, don hiking togs and hie away to the playgrounds where exist the best spring tonics worth taking.
AH, but spring tonics have not always been so easy to take. A few of our old-timers, who were school kids back in the early 1870's will recall the old sage tea remedy— with a shudder, too. In some of our Utah towns (and one in particular) during those colonization days, the beginning of spring signified the time of year when one's blood needed "purifying". The teacher of the little village school that snuggled on the foothills of the mountains did not trust to the pupils in her charge getting this "purifying" at home. She had ideas of her own about that, together with unlimited faith in the preventive and curative qualities of sage tea. Through the sagebrush scouted this dynamic force—the teacher who felt so responsible for the community's health—with a basket on her arm. She gathered the leaves from the brush, returned to the village and searched further for a brewing pot. For want of a better vessel, she appropriated a five-gallon oil can, scoured it, and brewed the sage tea on the school house heating stove.
246 - APRIL, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
As long as the sage tea held out, it was part of the morning ritual for each child to drink a tin cupful before taking his place in the school room. And so it was done with daily wails and sullen smirks and inventive schemes to be absent. If you have at any time tasted the bitterness of this brew, you know what those poor children were in for. The teacher certainly had the welfare of the community at heart, if her methods were not quite sanitary. She owned but one tin cup, and each child took his turn drinking his dose from it, and some of them had to be held by the ears.
Gone are those old sage-tea days, but sagebrush still is part of our spring tonic. Growing in the lowlands and on rolling hills, it affords good rabbit nesting, and where there are rabbits there are hunting and long hikes. It perfumes the air after a warm spring rain. The dry bark and trunks provide wood for our camp fires. It shields the pheasant, the grouse and the quail. Yes, it is still part of the formula.
Unlike the teacher in the little rock school house, Nature cannot take us physically by the ears and compel us to drink our spring tonic from a tin cup. But she does know when we need the solitude that brings comfort and rest to tired bodies and weary minds. With a subtle finesse she bids us lay aside our money-making and "look up unto the mountains, for the mountains bring peace".