Vol. XXVI APRIL, 1939 No. 4
EDITORIAL
A Record Shall Be Kept
MISTAKES are repeated and repeated not only in the lives of men but in the history of nations. A thoughtful study of the past is potent in enabling the race to avoid mistakes and thus go better forward. If we had to learn everything through our own experience, our lives would be spent mastering the primary principles of living. But through acquaintance with the experiences of others, through heeding the advice and following the instructions, our horizons broaden, mistakes are avoided, and we acquire skill in the art of living. Books are the reservoir for the experiences of men and nations. The wise person searches them for understanding and as a guide in the conduct of his own life.
The Lord has always recognized the necessity of truths being preserved for the guidance of his people and has instructed his people to record their acts whether they be good or evil. Adam was taught to write through inspiration that his counsel and his prophecies might be handed down for the benefit of generations yet unborn. We are told that his children preserved these records and added to them, and thus were the acts of men recorded from the first. When the records were lost or destroyed, God restored them through inspiration and revelation to such men as Moses. When Lehi left Jerusalem, the Lord deemed the history of their fathers of such importance to them that Laban's life was sacrificed lest a "nation should dwindle and perish in unbelief".
A vivid illustration of the value of a recorded history to a nation is contained in the Book of Mormon. Contrast the people of Lehi with the people of Mulek who, fleeing for their lives, escaped to a new land with no records and under the stress of caring for their immediate bodily safety began a new nation without recording its experiences. Nearly 400 years later these two nations met. The record-keeping nation, led by King Mosiah, though few in number compared with the Mulekite nation, was culturally advanced and became the leader of the combined nations; and the Mulekites were brought back from an extremely low state of civilization to one of advancement and culture.
The Book of Mormon, representing as it does a thousand consecutive years of recorded history of one people, shows to a remarkable degree the fact that those people who keep records, study them, and give heed to their lessons are a great and righteous people. But when people either fail to record their acts or when they disregard the experiences of the past and depend upon their own wisdom, they repeat the mistakes of the past and degenerate in direct ratio to their disregard.
The Lord has placed upon us a responsibility to keep records for the
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, APRIL - 249
benefit of those who come after. "Behold there shall be a record kept among you." (Doc. & Cov. 21:1.) He has wisely preserved ancient records for our use and profit, that our horizons may be broad, that we may avoid mistakes, that we may live effectively. He has commanded us to study these records "... Study my word which hath gone forth among the children of men, and also study my word which shall come forth among the children of men, or that which is now translating, yea, until you have obtained all which I shall grant unto the children of men in this generation, and then shall all things be added thereto." (Doc. & Cov. 11:22.)
Recorded life experiences of men and nations, carefully studied and intelligently applied in the solution of our own problems enables us to go beyond a mastery of the primary principles of living to a mastery of the complicated technique of abundant living.