HAPPENINGS
By Annie Wells Cannon
APRIL—Nothing makes so deep a wound as "Unkindness where there is no remedy at law".
ELEANOR ROOSEVELT because of her high sense of justice has withdrawn her membership from a popular patriotic society. One wonders if she knew when she became a member of this same patriotic organization that it carried a resolution barring members because of religious affiliations.
SUSAN B. ANTHONY, grandniece of the great suffrage leader, is crusading for suffrage in the District of Columbia.
PRINCESS FRAWZIA of Egypt met her bridegroom for the first time when he came to claim her and take her back to his Persian throne.
OSA JOHNSON, who knows Africa perhaps better than any other living person, declares the plan considered in London of moving Germany's harassed Jews to that country most fantastic.
HORTENSE B. ODLUM, president of Bonwit-Teller, says, "The greatest asset of the business woman is feminine charm and feminine clothes." She evidently would admire the prevailing styles of "Up-Do" hair with all its shining ornaments.
JANE GILES and Rachel Rader, Iowa's oldest twins, age 94, are both recovering from recent falls, having sustained cut hands and broken shoulder blades. Age seems no bar to endurance and fortitude. Hannah O'Connor of Ireland, 111, and Mary Adleman of Poland, 109, who recently died, were both mothers of large families.
KATHRYN LEWIS, distinguished and helpful delegate to the recent Pan-American Peace conference at Lima, Peru, is the daughter and efficient secretary of the great labor leader John L. Lewis.
PHYLLIS BENTLEY, British novelist, expresses admiration for American women—particularly their ability to combine efficiently domestic and public affairs.
MRS. DWIGHT DAVIS and associates of Washington, D. C., in their efforts to awaken art-consciousness at the National Capital, gave a preview of modern pictures one Sunday afternoon. Fashionable Washington dressed in glamorous gowns, silver fox furs and orchids, making the air redolent of tropical climes, came. The pictures were outshone; they only formed a background for life in action with art looking on.
EDNA FERBER'S autobiography "A Peculiar Treasure" is perhaps the most publicized of the new books. The life story of a Jewess, so colorful and successful as Edna Ferber, is particularly apropos at this time.
GEORGETTE HEYER'S "Royal Escape," an historic romance of Charles II, and Sylvia Townsend's "After the Death of Don Juan" are among the late books by women.