[Vol8 | July 1921 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Our Music Forces]
402  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
nacle  choir,  under  the  same  director,  and  was  not  long  in  at- 
tracting attention  to  the  beauty  and  purity  of  her  voice.  How- 
ever, it  was  her  appearance  in  a  Cantaita  as  "Queen  Esther"  in 
the  Tabernacle  choir,  under  the  direction  of  Professor  George 
Careless,  that  gave  proof  of  her  superior  qualities ;  still  more 
when  she  appeared  as  "Arline"  in  the  opera  of  the  "Bohemian 
Girl"  and  as  "Martha"  in  the  opera  of  that  name,  bath  under 
•  the  direction  of  Professor  Evan  Stephens — to  whom  she  gives 
chief  credit  both  for  her  advancement,  training,  and  encouraging 
directions  into  so  m'any  branches  of  musical  service  in  the  Church. 
Under  him  she  has  rendered  parts  in  both  solo  and  chorus  work, 
not  only  in  the  tabernacle,  and  in  home  music  affairs,  but  in  the 
leading  cities  of  America,  from  San  Francisco  on  the  Pacific,  to 
the  Atlantic,  and  in  Washington,  where  she  sang  in  the  White 
House,  as  soloist  at  the  program  given  there  by  the  Tabernacle 
choir  upon  their  tour  to  New  York. 
Never  in  all  the  years  has  she  stinted  or  spared  her  lovely 
voice  in  the  choir  to  keep  or  preserve  it  for  her  solo  work ;  and 
yet  so  blessed  has  she  been  for  her  liberal  service  in  this  and 
other  lines  that  her  voice  has  never  been  marred,  or  in  the  least 
injured  thereby. 
Her  voice  has  a  bell-like  roundness  and  purity  that  is  in- 
deed rare,  and  is  capable  alike  of  "dramatic"  or  "coloratura" 
work.  Her  finest  efforts  have  been  heard  in  the  "Inflammatus" 
with  the  choir,  and  in  the  highly  difficult  selection  "Polonaise" 
from  the  "Mignon."  During  a  -visit  of  Mme.  Nordica  to  Salt 
Lake  so  delighted  was  the  eminent  cantatrice  with  Sister  Ed- 
ward's rendition  of  this  her  favorite  aria  that  she,  Madam  Nor- 
dica, insisted  upon  the  two  being  photographed  together. 
The  occasions  when  her  sweet  voice  has  been  heard  at 
funerals  she  could  count  by  thousands ;  her  talented  pupils  are 
numerous,  and  last  of  all  she  has  organized  and  trained  a  real 
Relief  Society  chorus,  of  such  excellence  as  to  stand  out  as  a 
credit  to  the  organization  and  the  Church.  This  is  not  easy  to  do 
with  the  older  voices.  Her  best  efforts  come  from  the  group 
voices.  Only  a  brief  period  of  ten  months  has  she  ever  spent  in 
study  away  from  her  home,  and  that  under  Mme.  Fosc,  of  the 
Zeigfield  musical  classes  in  Chicago. 
Her  schooling  has  been  closely  connected  with  home  service 
to  and  among  her  own  people.  Her  heart's  joy  is  to  contemplate 
especially  her  association  with  Professor  Stephens,  and  the  Taber- 
nacle choir  events  for  years,  and  the  numerous  side  branches  of 
service  the  Church  calls  for  from  this  ever-willing  ever-faithful 
Latter-day  Saint  talented  woman.