[Vol45 | March 1958 | Sequence: 32 | Category: Special Feature | Title: Relief Societies in Primitive Times? | Author: Spencer W. Kimball]
RELIEF SOCIETIES IN PRIMITIVE TIMES?
Spencer W. Kimball

ited me: I was in prison, and ye came unto me.

Then shall the righteous answer him, saying, Lord, when saw we thee an hungred, and fed thee? Or thirsty, and gave thee drink? When saw we thee a stranger, and took thee in? Or naked, and clothed thee? Or when saw we thee sick, or in prison, and came unto thee?

And the King shall answer and say unto them, Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me,

Then shall he say also unto them on the left hand, Depart from me, ye cursed, into everlasting fire, prepared for the devil and his angels:

For I was an hungred, and ye gave me no meat; I was thirsty, and ye gave me no drink:

I was a stranger, and ye took me not in: naked, and ye clothed me not: sick, and in prison, and ye visited me not.

Then shall they also answer him, saying, Lord, when saw we thee an hungred, or athirst, or a stranger, or naked, or sick, or in prison, and did not minister unto thee?

Then shall he answer them, saying, Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye did it not to one of the least of these, ye did it not to me.

And these shall go away into everlasting punishment: but the righteous into life eternal (Mt. 25:31-46).

HE new Relief Society worker was deep in the spirit of her calling. She believed in Relief Society work. There was more and the bishopric was interested. She continued:

"The Redeemer visited _ his friends at Bethany often, and upon one occasion taught a great lesson to these two women and others. 'The spiritual life to him was most important. The homemaking and other duties had their place, but Mary had chosen the 'good' part when she listened to every word which came from her Savior. If a local Relief Society had not been yet organized in Bethany, at least the teachings of the organization were being planted deeply there. The Lord had reminded the one sister:

Martha, Martha, thou art careful and troubled about many things:

But one thing is needful: and Mary hath chosen that good part, which shall not be taken away from her (Luke 10:41-42).

One of the counselors mentioned that he knew many women who were immaculate housekeepers and who let the temporal crowd out the spiritual. He recalled that the Savior did not condemn Martha for her concern about household duties, but emphasized the fact that there was a time for all things and this Relief Society women are taught.

The other counselor half facetiously asked: "But, Sister Jones, didn't Paul tell the women to keep silent in the churches?"

"IT do not believe that Paul, or any other leader, ruled out women from important work in_ the Church," said Sister Jones with a gleam in her eye. She was one who appreciated the blessings of women in the Church and the high pedestal on which the gospel and the Church placed them. "I know that woman's work is all supervised and directed by the Priesthood, but I am sure the Lord never intended that women should be inferior or silent or inactive.

"One of the Church commentators explained this in a way I liked," said Sister Jones. "He said that the women of that branch were likely quarrelsome, gossipy, noisy, and dominating, and Paul's idea was to have them be quiet and wait for direction from the Priesthood. Whether or not such an interpretation is accurate I do not know, but it sounds reasonable to me.

"Priscilla was assisting her husband Aquila in preaching the gospel. 'Today, we have husbands and wives proselyting together as stake missionaries.

"It seemed quite proper to the Prophet Joel as he prophesied that not only the sons but the daughters also should prophesy, and that the Lord would pour out his spirit on the daughters of Zion as well as upon the men. And in Acts 21:9, we learn of four virgin daughters of Philip who had prophetic powers. The Lord gave one of his most powerful parables using ten women as the characters and their works as the criterion for their acceptance."

"You really are converted to the Relief Society work, Sister Jones," commented the Bishop. "You make us feel that you will give yourself devotedly to the welfare of the sisters of this ward and through them to all the people."

ES, Brethren,' and she continued, "I'd like to know if I am thinking clearly in this matter. There is the 'elect lady' spoken of in the Second Epistle of John. If there was not a Relief Society organization, at least this sounds like Relief Society work. He speaks to the 'elect lady and her children, whom I love in the truth. I rejoiced greatly that I found of thy children walking in truth" Then he repledges them to continue walking after his commandments. I wondered who was an 'elect lady,' Brethren, until I read what the Prophet Joseph gave in clarification. He wrote:

I gave much instruction, read in the New Testament, and Book of Doctrine and Covenants, concerning the Elect Lady, and showed that the elect meant to be elected to a certain work, &c., and that the revelation was then fulfilled by Sister Emma's election to the Presidency of the Society, she having previously been ordained to expound the Scriptures (D. H. C., IV, pp. 552-553).

As the bishopric gave her instructions, they had explained her part in the welfare work of the Church, and she asked again: "Don't you think they had women to assist in the distribution of relief assistance in the days of the early Church, Brethren? I read where they had all things in common and none suffered. Is it not likely that there were sisters there also to help? I learn that as the Church grew and the Grecian brethren were much occupied with Church service, even to the neglect of their families, they and others of the saints complained and, as a result a conference was called, as the result of which seven holy, active, and wise men were called especially to look after the temporal service. 'The scripture does not say they were to do the work, but speaks of them as men 'whom we may appoint over this business.' Surely the Priesthood would organize and direct it, but, Brethren, do you think that men could properly look after all the needs of the multitude including the wants of children and women?"

The bishopric chuckled a little and one said, "Now, Sister Jones, we know full well that when there is hard and specialized work of that kind to do, the sisters do it."

GISTER Jones was quite serious and asked: "Don't you think that there must have been women to investigate needs, to look after women and children and widows in their affliction, and, if so, don't you think they could do it better if organized? It wouldn't matter much what the name was but 'Relief Society' is a good name. And James says:

Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, To visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction (James 1:27).

"Now, don't you think that the sisters would naturally be employed to do much of that? James again Says:

What doth it profit, my _ brethren, though a man say he hath faith, and have not works? Can faith save him?

If a brother or sister be naked, and destitute of daily food,

And one of you say unto them, Depart in peace, be ye warmed and filled; notwithstanding ye give them not those things which are needful to the body; what doth it profit? (James 2:14-16).

"Isn't this the work of the sisters also?"

"We're interested, Sister Jones. Go on," the bishopric said as they relaxed a bit in their chairs.

She continued: "Then, there is the case of the lovely lady 'Tabitha, one of the disciples who lived at Joppa, which seems to have been a stronghold for the faith. Perhaps there was a strong branch there. And there were groups also at nearby Saron and Lydda (Acts g). 'Tabitha was also called Dorcas, and she was known for her 'good works and almsdeeds which she did.' 'The disciples at Joppa were mourning deeply when the sweet, public-spirited woman passed away. 'They prepared the body for burial by washing and laid it out in state in an upper room. 'There was much weeping while two messengers hurried to Lydda to induce the great apostle Peter to come to them. When Peter came, he went alone into the death chamber, knelt, and prayed and by his Priesthood said to Dorcas, "labitha, arise.' She opened her eyes, sat up, took the outstretched hand of the Church leader, and was presented by him to all the saints. 'They were awe-stricken. Now, Brethren, this woman was no ordinary person. She was known to all as a public figure. She was benevolent. She made clothes, for with great sorrow they had laid out before Peter 'the coats and garments which Dorcas made.' The joy was universal when she was returned to them.

"BRETHREN, there must have been many women among the disciples at Joppa, and wouldn't they have been organized? And doesn't this incident reveal Relief Society work?"

"You've been thinking about and preparing for your work a great deal, Sister Jones, since you were called. We commend you for your devotion."

"Yes, Brethren, I am eager to serve well. In order to do so I want to learn all I can about the work. Of course, I could be wrong," continued the new woman leader. "But it sounds to me as if the apostle Peter might have been addressing a Relief Society conference or pethaps a quarterly conference, when he said:

Likewise, ye wives, be in subjection to your own husbands; that, if any obey not the word, they also may without the word be won by the conversation of the WIVES;

While they behold your chaste conversation coupled with fear.

Whose adorning let it not be that outward adorning of plaiting the hair, and of wearing of gold, or of putting on of apparel;

But let it be the hidden man of the heart, in that which is not corruptible, even the ornament of a meek and quiet spirit, which is in the sight of God of great price.

For after this manner in the old time the holy women also, who trusted in God, adorned themselves, being in subjection unto their own husbands:

Even as Sara obeyed Abraham, calling him lord: whose daughters ye are, as long as ye do well, and are not afraid with any amazement (I Peter 3:1-6).

"Am I completely wrong, Brethren?" asked the Relief Society President. "Have I speculated too much?"

"Your observations have been most interesting, Sister Jones," Bishop Smith answered. "I do not know if the early Church had a Relief Society, but I am sure that it needed one. I read the objectives of the organization as mentioned by the Prophet Joseph as he organized the first group in this dispensation as a call to all women to be chaste, pure, and virtuous; righteous but not self-righteous; to be tolerant, forbearing and forgiving even to the 4goth time; devotion, but not a zeal running to fanaticism. 'The Prophet says to women to be still, be prudent, repent, reform, put a double watch over the tongue, an unruly member which oppresses, injures, and destroys.

"The women of the association formed by the Prophet were to bring the guilty to repentance but never to repeat even truthful guilt im the open where it could hurt. They were to 'rather spare ten iniquitous among you, than condemn one innocent one. They should be full of tenderness, kindness, sympathy, and let their mercy run hand in hand with reproof; to 'feed the sheep, and not destroy them' and save souls, bringing them unto Christ (D. H. C. V, 19 ff.).

And if the organization was to function as it seems to have done, there must have been auxiliary organizations to assist the brethren to carry on the work. Whether there were formal organizations of sisters or not, undoubtedly they were called and taught to do the work now given Relief Society sisters.

The Bishop blessed Sister Jones for her devotion and interest. "We appreciate your willingness to serve, Sister Jones. We predict a brilliant leadership from you and much progress with the organization while you are in leadership."