[Vol45 | March 1958 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Fiction | Title: Yellow]
Yellow Padding Leone E. McCune OMORROW was the day! For T two weeks now, my sister Alice and I had heard Mama talking with Papa about it. Papa had to hire a man in his place to go to the farm. And Mama had set the time for Liza, the hired girl to help. It was the only time Liza came, except when Alice was born and I was born. Alice and I could hardly go to sleep that night for thinking about it. Housecleaning time was the most exciting time of the whole year, except Christmas and the Fourth of July and threshing time. In bed we whispered together, lower and slower, and then tomorrow was today. Bright sunlight streamed through our open windows, where the curtains had been taken down to be washed and ironed. I woke up first and nudged Alice awake. We listened a minute to the noise of furniture being moved about in Mama's and Papa's bedroom. 'Then we jumped out of bed and began to dress, each one trying to beat the other. Soon, Mama, brisk and smiling, came into the room. "So, my darlings, you are already up?" She kissed each one of us. "As soon as you're dressed, go down to the kitchen and Ill give you your breakfast." Then she called to Papa to help take the mattress off our bed. Papa's face was wet with perspiration, when he gave us his morning kiss. 'They carried the mattress to their room, where a door opened onto a little porch, and dropped it to the lawn below where theirs had Page 196 already been dropped. Then Mama hurried downstairs. But who wanted to eat on such a morning? Papa had gone back to pulling tacks out of the gayly colored woven rag carpet. Giggling and bumping into each other, we descended the stairs. In the kitchen, Mama helped us wash, then she combed our hair. Liza, the hired girl, a tall, gaunt, pale woman, greeted us. "Good morning girls," she said pleasantly. "Good morning, Liza," we said politely, as Mama had taught us to do. Liza went on dipping hot, soapy suds from the big boiler heating on the stove, to take outdoors to the washtub. We climbed into our chairs at the breakfast table, and Mama brought us cereal from the back of the stove. Mama waited while I said grace. We ate as quickly as we could and then ran out to watch Mama and Liza. But they had already emptied the old straw from the ticks, so we watched them rub and rinse and put the ticks through the wringer. 'Then they hung them on the lines in the hot sun to dry. We raced across the grass under the apple trees and ran back upstairs to watch Papa. He had the carpet all untacked and ready to be taken up, when we got upstairs again. Alice and I kept getting in the way, and patiently he would urge us back. He brought each corner of the carpet to the center of the room in a heap, gathered it up and dropped it to the lawn YELLOW PADDING below, where the mattresses had one. Then, carefully, he began to push, sweep, and gather the faded trodden straw into an old sheet Mama had given him.; When both carpets were up, Papa went down and swept and beat them until there was no more dust in them. While he did that, Mama and Liza cleaned the floors and woodwork and furniture, then left the rooms to air and dry, while we had dinner.: By that time, Mama told us our dolls were so sleepy they needed a nap. She spread a quilt under the apple tree and gave us a blanket and pillows. FTER awhile we went inside and tagged along after Papa, when he went to the barnyard. There in a shed was a fresh, clean straw stack. He spread the sheet that he had emptied of the old straw, and laid it over the wheelbarrow. Alice and I carried our arms full, while Papa heaped it on with the pitchfork. It was clean and sweet smelling and as yellow as the moon that came up over our valley. We helped wheel the barrow to the house and then Papa took the straw upstairs to spread evenly on the floors. We left Papa to tack the carpets down again and went with Mama and Liza to fill the ticks with straw. Alice and I wanted to help fill them, but Mama said the dolls should watch so we stood and held them. When the ticks were as full as they could get, Mama and Liza sewed them together right down the middle. Then carried them upstairs to make up the beds. 197 Right after supper that night, Mama told us to get ready for bed, and this time we were happy to go early. We undressed and put on our long outing-flannel nightgowns. While we waited for Mama to come back to hear our prayers, we walked slowly and happily about the room. We listened to the crunching sound as our bare feet sunk into the padding of the carpet. Laughing and squealing with delight, we climbed over the foot of the bed in order to reach the top of the high mattress. What a wonderful feeling it was to sink our small bodies into the soft crunchiness of the straw, and to pull the clean crisp sheets and the clean homemade patchwork quilt over us. Mama soon came back to hear our prayers and blow out the light. "Sleep tight, now," she said, "so you can wake up early in the morning." The last thing we saw before it was day again, was moonlight streaming through the lace curtains at the open window, making lovely patterns of light and shadow on the floor. The next day's work was much like the first, only there were no beds to be made up. When evening came the parlor was the prettiest room of all. The sofa, the chairs, and table legs made lovely imprints of puffiness in the thickly padded carpet. The center table held the coal-oil lamp with its flowered glove. When it was lighted it cast a lovely glow on the family album and the Holy Bible. Again that night, and for many nights to come, there was delight in the new mattresses and the thick yellow padding of the carpets. Elizabeth's Children Olive W.. Burt CHAPTER 3 Synopsis: When her sister Elizabeth died, Carol Wilson, an artist, who was unmarried, felt great sympathy for the motherless children. Several months after Elizabeth's funeral, Carol, who had _ returned to her magazine work in the city, received a letter from Kathy, the eldest niece, saying that the children were lonely and unhappy, and the grandmother ill. Carol decides to go to the children. AROL had never been welC comed anywhere as joyously as she was that Saturday morning at the little Wyoming airport. Fred had brought the children with him to meet her. As she came down the steps from the plane, she heard their shouts and saw their waving hands. 'Then, when she reached the gate, they swarmed over her with hugs and kisses. Behind them, her brotherin-law Fred 'Trent, stood beaming. "It's mighty good to see you, Carol!" he said. "Watch out, children, or you'll smother her! Back up, Stevie! Give your Aunt Carol a chance to get her breath." Carol raised her face from the bobbing heads of the youngsters. She was flushed and happy. "Oh, Fred!" she cried. "I've missed them all so much! How are you? And how's everything at the ranch?" "Okay to both questions, Carol. Oh, Mother's been down with arthritis, but I have an_ excellent housekeeper, who looks after us all." Beneath the hearty assurance, Carol wondered whether she detected the same note of loneliness Page 198 and unhappiness that she had read in Kathy's letters. "Well, I'm here to cheer you all up a bit!' Carol said cheerfully and squeezed Kathy's thin shoulders. She would say nothing, as yet, about the tear-blob on the letter. They clambered into the station wagon, all four maneuvering frantically to sit next to their aunt. It was a laughing, happy group that went into the big ranch house, where Fred's mother sat in her wheel chair by the window, waiting for them. Carol went to the frail, suffering woman and kissed her. As Carol glanced quickly about the big living room she thought, there's something wrong with this picture! She had expected to find the children sad and unkempt, the house a shambles, everything just waiting for her magic touch to set it right. But the house was neat and orderly, the children well-groomed, and now the fragrance of a hearty meal greeted her nostrils. Carol shook her head. How could she have been so wrong? 'There was that tear-blob on Kathy's letter and Stevie's unmistakable hints, but now these seemed to have lost a good deal of their poignancy. Just then Mrs. Cartwright came into the room and was introduced to Carol. She was a tall, spare woman in her middle fifties, very neat and clean and efficient-looking. All through the noisy, delicious meal, Carol kept wondering where ELIZABETH'S CHILDREN she had gone astray in her interpretation of the situation. The next morning, Carol asked, "Do you want me to drive the children into the village for Sunday School?" Fred smiled. "Oh, no, Carol. We all go — even Mother. It's been such a comfort to us—Church has, and Bishop Glover has been a pillar of strength." He brought the station wagon to the front door and gently carried his mother out and placed her in the front seat. Her wheel chair, folded, went into the back. Mrs. Cartwright sat beside the older woman, solicitous for her comfort, and Carol was again surrounded by the children. Carol was scarcely conscious that she was observing everything so closely, trying to discover why Kathy and Steve had given her the idea that they were so miserable. They looked perfectly happy this morning, dressed in the pretty spring outfits she had sent them. HE had no opportunity to question Kathy until that afternoon, after dinner. The little girls had been put down for their naps and Stevie was swinging in the hammock, reading. Kathy snuggled close to her aunt as she sat on the wide porch, drinking in the beauty and peace of the still, Wyoming countryside. Carol slipped her arm around the little girl and drew her close. "Kathy, darling, do you know something? Somehow Aunt Carol got the idea that you were crying when you wrote that last letter." Kathy raised her clear, honest eyes to her aunt's face. "I guess I was, 199 Aunt Carol," she admitted, unashamed. "What was wrong, dear? Thing special?" "Oh, no!" Kathy answered. "It's just that when I write to you I get to thinking about Mommy — you are so much like her, Aunt Carol. And then I feel bad and the tears come." Carol's brow wrinkled. "But I thought...." She stopped. How could she tell the child the anxiety that had gnawed at her? "Pm glad you did, Aunt Carol. If that's why you came to visit us. Honestly, we get so lonesome sometimes we just about die!" "But darling! You have your Daddy and Grandma Trent and Mrs. Cartwright. How can you be so lonely?" "Theyre not Mommy, Aunt Carol. And they're not you! Don't you see — you treat us different — you take us on walks and tell us stories, the way Mommy used to. It makes us sort of forget — oh, we don't really forget, but it makes it easier to remember." Carol drew the child closer. "I see, darling. Well, I am glad that I can do even that much for you children." But she was somewhat taken aback. She had built up such a picture of Elizabeth's children, with tear-streaked faces, needing her. Oh, yes, they did need her, but, after all, would an expert in child training think she spoiled them? That their Grandmother Trent had some such idea Carol learned that evening. 'The older woman said carefully, "We're all so glad to have you with us again, Carol. The children adore you so. And it's Any- 200 good for them to be spoiled a little now and again. How long can you stay this time?" Carol looked at the pain-drawn face of the invalid. How long can you stay or how soon will you go? Which did she mean? But one thing was certain, Mrs. 'Trent didn't expect her to stay indefinitely. Vo don't know, Mrs. Trent," Carol said slowly. "Not too long, I guess." "Well, as I said, it doesn't hurt them to have a little special attention now and then, though ['m a firm believer in teaching children to be self-reliant and independent. I've seen too many children ruined by too much attention." Carol smiled. "I'll try not to spoil Elizabeth's children, Mrs. Trent. Anyway, they'll be in school most of the time. I won't have many hours with them.' She couldn't keep the edge of bitterness out of her voice. Mrs. Trent stretched out a frail, wrinkled hand and laid it on Carol's arm. "Don't take my _ words amiss, Carol. It's just that I need a lot of attention — and 1 hate to be a burden — hate to see Fred burdened, not only with me, but with all the responsibility...."" Her pain-dimmed eyes begged for understanding. Carol, touched, bent and kissed the wrinkled forehead. "I understand, Mrs. Trent," she said gently. AFTER the children left on the school bus next day, Carol felt like a fifth wheel. She didn't dare pay too much attention to Trudy, the only one at home, and there was little to do in the house, so efficientRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1958 ly managed by Mrs. Cartwright. She was glad she had brought her painting kit with her. She gathered her equipment and went out into the field to paint the 'Tetons towering above the narrow valley. As she worked, she was thinking how Brent Gibson would love this pce Brent! She ought to be ack at her desk — the magazine needed her more than Elizabeth's children did. Then she shook away that thought. No, she was needed here, too, for awhile at least. Anyway, she could not go back and face Brent and say, "I was all wrong. They don't want me up there." Brent would smile his amused, understanding smile and tell her as he often had, "You'll learn, Carol. The only true peace in this world comes from work — work you love." The week passed uneventfully, but Saturday was to be a big day. The children and Carol were huddled over the table on Friday evening, making plans for the morrow's picnic, when the phone rang. Fred answered it, and as he listened an expression of delight brightened his face. He hung up the receiver and came to the table, his step light and buoyant, in spite of his six feet and well-matured frame. "Forget the picnic, kids!" he said excitedly. "Something better has come up. Guess what it is!" "What, Daddy? What could be better?" they asked. "Mrs. Graham and Tony are back! 'They'll fly in tomorrow. We're to meet them at the airport!" "Oh, goody! Goody!" Kathy cried. "She promised to bring me a doll from England!"
