[Vol45 | March 1958 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Article | Title: Editorial Feed Sheep]
154 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— MARCH   1958 
the  490th  time;  devotion,  but  not 
a  zeal  running  to  fanaticism.  The 
Prophet  says  to  women  to  be  still, 
be  prudent,  repent,  reform,  put  a 
double  watch  over  the  tongue,  an 
unruly  member  which  oppresses,  in- 
jures, and  destroys. 
'The  women  of  the  association 
formed  by  the  Prophet  were  to 
bring  the  guilty  to  repentance  but 
never  to  repeat  even  truthful  guilt 
in  the  open  where  it  could  hurt. 
They  were  to  'rather  spare  ten 
iniquitous  among  you,  than  con- 
demn one  innocent  one.'  They 
should  be  full  of  tenderness,  kind- 
ness, sympathy,  and  let  their  mercy 
run  hand  in  hand  with  reproof;  to 
'feed   the   sheep,   and   not   destroy 
them'  and  save  souls,  bringing  them 
unto  Christ  (D.H.C.  V,  19  ff.). 
And  if  the  organization  was  to 
function  as  it  seems  to  have  done, 
there  must  have  been  auxiliary 
organizations  to  assist  the  brethren 
to  carry  on  the  work.  Whether 
there  were  formal  organizations  of 
sisters  or  not,  undoubtedly  they 
were  called  and  taught  to  do  the 
work  now  given  Relief  Society 
sisters. 
The  Bishop  blessed  Sister  Jones 
for  her  devotion  and  interest.  "We 
appreciate  your  willingness  to  serve, 
Sister  Jones.  We  predict  a  brilliant 
leadership  from  you  and  much  prog- 
ress with  the  organization  while  you 
are  in  leadership/' 
oLet  cJhere   uje  Siu ence 
Miranda  Snow  Walton 
Let  earth  be  silent,  let  the  trumpet  die; 
The  screaming  chaos  of  the  highways  rend 
The  ether;  from  above  the  jarring  cry 
Of  roaring  jets  and  sonic  booms  descend. 
The  raucous  coughing  of  deep-throated  mills 
Merges  with  divers  engines'  droning  beat. 
Clamor  invades  the  cities,  blasts  the  hills; 
Let  mighty  silence  walk  with  quiet  feet. 
Confusion  rules  the  council-halls  of  state, 
Each  nation's  agent  shouting  to  be  heard; 
T'he  babble  of  the  blatant  potentate 
Strangles  the  wiser  statesman's  quiet  word. 
Oh,  world,  confused  and  sick,  just  for  this  day 
Let  sacred  stillness  surge  within  your  breast; 
Let  manmade  eagles  fold  their  wings  in  rest. 
Let  quiet  meditation  bring  the  peace  you  seek. 
For  God  is  in  his  holy  temple  and  would  speak.