[Vol45 | March 1958 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Fiction | Title: Bday | Author: Congrats]
many  of  us  go  on  preaching  missions. 
All  this  is  "taking  part."  It  is  the  day-by-day  way  to  happiness  and 
eternal  progression.  It  is  part— an  important  life-long  part—  in  living  our 
religion  for  our  own  good  and  for  the  greater  good  of  others. 
So— young  men,  young  women  of  the  Church— don't  be  satisfied 
with  just  belonging.  Start  today  to  take  part  because  it's  smart.  In  other 
words— 
BE  HONEST  WITH  YOURSELF 
^yCnnouncing  the  Special  J^pnl  Short  Storif  Ussue 
The  April  1958  issue  of  The  Rehei  Society  Magazine  will  be  the 
special  short  story  number,  with  four  outstanding  stories  being  presented. 
Look  for  these  stories  in  April: 
"To  Be  a-Queen,"  by  Myrtle  M.  Dean 
"The  Apricot  Tree,"  by  Mabel  Harmer 
"The  Request,"  by  Ruth  M.  Ostegar 
"To  Have  the  Peace,"  by  Betty  Ventura 
LLniifnited 
Alice  Whitson  Norton 
I  watched  with  awe  the  high  tides  of  an  ocean 
Come  beating  in  against  a  ragged  shore, 
And  though  for  miles  I  viewed  them,  I  was  conscious 
Beyond  the  far  horizon,  there  were  more. 
Likewise,  the  treasures  from  my  Father's  storehouse 
I  take  them  in  yet  never  count  the  score, 
Beheving,  though  my  days  are  filled  with  blessings, 
Beyond  life's  great  horizons  there  are  more.

LKecipes  CJroni  the  cJanitian    1 1 Lission 
Suhmittcd  b}  Dowthy  P.  Cluistcnsen 
Pickled  Fish 
4  tomatoes  i  lb.  fish  (tuna,  sole) 
1  cucumber  i   tsp.  salt 
/4    onion  i   c.  lemon  or  lime  juice 
2  hard-boiled  eggs 
Put  one-half  inch  square  pieces  of  fish  (raw)  in  a  bowl  and  cover  with  a  solution 
of  lime  or  lemon  juice  and  salt.  Let  stand  in  solution  for  twenty  minutes.  Then  pour 
off  the  lime  or  lemon  juice  and  salt  solution  and  rinse  in  cold  water  to  remove  excess 
salt.  Drain  and  place  in  salad  bowl.  Cut  up  tomatoes,  cucumbers,  and  onion  into 
small  "salad-size"  pieces  and  mix  with  the  fish.  If  desired,  coconut  milk  can  be  poured 
over  this  mixture.  Sprinkle  grated  eggs  on  top  and  garnish  with  lettuce,  sliced  to- 
matoes, and  parsley.     Serve  six. 
Coconut  Milk 
Grate  the  meat  of  a  fresh  coconut  into  a  large  pan.  Put  the  grated  meat  in  a 
jelly  sack  and  squeeze  until  the  milk  from  the  coconut  is  drawn  out.  Note:  Coconut 
milk  is  the  dressing  for  most  Tahitian  dishes. 
Banana  Poi 
6  bananas  !4    c.  sugar 
/4   c.  cornstarch  (pia)  i   tsp.  vanilla 
Mix  together  very  well  the  mashed  bananas  and  cornstarch.  Then  add  the  sugar 
and  vanilla  and  mix  thoroughly. 
Put  poi  mixture  in  a  bowl  or  pan  to  fit  inside  a  large  pan  on  top  of  the  stove  or 
better  yet,  inside  a  well  cooker.  Place  about  two  inches  of  water  in  the  bottom  of  the 
large  pan,  place  a  rack  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan  and  set  the  bowl  or  pan  of  poi  on  top. 
Cover  with  waxed  paper  and  steam  for  thirty  minutes.  Place  poi  in  serving  bowl,  make 
a  well  in  the  center,  and  pour  coconut  milk  over  the  poi.    Serves  six. 
Q>piing  Show 
Pansy c  U.  Powell 
Nature's  preparing  a  special  treat, 
Free  for  the  eyes  of  all  to  meet — 
Someday  soon  in  the  early  spring 
The  tulips'  annual  opening! 
Page  181

cJ^f  the  cJkumb  S/s   C^ 
re  en 
C.  W.  McCiiIJough 
MAN'S  life  history  began  in  a 
garden.  Down  through  the 
ages  since,  people  have  gar- 
dened from  necessity  for  food.  It 
is  only  in  most  recent  times  that 
gardening  has  been  recognized  as  a 
hobby,  where  a  garden  is  made  for 
sheer  pleasure  and  self-satisfaction. 
But  whether  for  pleasure  or  neces- 
sity, the  instincts  of  a  gardener  are 
in  us  all. 
Not  that  we  always  follow  our 
deep  inborn  tendencies.  In  the  case 
of  gardening,  the  trend  is  definitely 
away  from  admitting  to  such  a 
heritage.  As  populations  move  away 
from  rural  areas  toward  urban  con- 
gestions, fewer  and  fewer  answer 
the  intimate  call  of  the  soil  and  the 
mystic  challenge  of  growing  things. 
But  the  instinct  for  the  intimate 
participation  in  seedtime  and  har- 
vest, the  love  of  the  soil,  still  cling 
to  a  great  host  of  the  knights  and 
ladies  of  the  rake  and  the  hoe.  As 
their  number,  relative  to  the  over- 
all population,  decreases,  the  fra- 
ternity becomes  more  selective, 
more  skilled,  until  the  ranks  are  in- 
creasingly made  up  of  those  who 
garden  primarily  for  pleasure.  And 
because  they  love  the  soil,  seed,  and 
the  wonders  of  plant  growth  so 
deeply,  nature  responds  in  a  special 
way  to  their  care,  until  the  world 
says  to  them,  ''They  have  a  green 
thumb." 
Because  of  gardening  primarily  for 
pleasure,  the  question  of  profit  or 
loss  seldom  is  the  most  important 
factor  in  today's  planning.  The 
profits  the  gardeners  seek  are  often 
in  the  coin  of  satisfaction,  health, 
exercise,  pride.    They  glory  in  hav- 
Page  182 
ing  their  tables  laden  with  right- 
from-the-garden,  vitamin-rich  dishes 
—and  so  often  the  tables  of  their 
neighbors,  as  well.  A  successful 
gardener  is  invariably  vague  as  to 
the  actual  cost  of  his  prize  cabbage 
or  the  biggest  pumpkin  at  the  fair, 
just  as  the  true  sportsman  closes  his 
eyes  to  the  real  cost  of  a  basket  of 
trout  or  a  brace  of  pheasants. 
Thus  it  is  that  most  gardeners  to- 
day are  perfectionists.  Whether  they 
raise  vegetables  or  flowers,  the  plot 
of  ground  that  they  till  becomes  a 
veritable  work  of  art. 
A  good  garden  is  never  a  hap- 
hazard thing.  To  serve  seedtime 
and  harvest  properly  requires  plan- 
ning. The  successful  gardener,  par- 
ticularly the  novice  with  limited 
space,  will  find  it  a  wise  practice  to 
plant  the  garden  first  on  paper.  This 
will  help  not  only  to  insure  econ- 
omy of  seed  purchases,  but  more  im- 
portantly, will  make  for  an  all-sea- 
son crop  balance.  Thought  can  be 
given  to  proper  row  widths  and 
length  of  rows  to  be  devoted  to  each 
variety.  Many  seed  houses  print  on 
the  packet,  not  only  the  recom- 
mended depth  and  distance  apart 
to  plant  the  seeds,  but  also  the  num- 
ber of  feet  of  row  the  contents  of 
a  packet  will  plant.  Wherever  sea- 
sons are  long  enough  to  permit  sec- 
ond plantings,  early  maturing  crops 
can  be  located  where  they  can  be 
cleared  away  and  the  ground  pre- 
pared for  replanting  with  least  dis- 
turbance to  the  slower  maturing 
plants. 
Where  flowers  are  to  be  grown, 
many  striking  and  pleasing  effects 
can   be  worked   out  on   paper  be-
