[WomansExponent | Vol19 | 1890 | August | Issue: 6 | Title: MEMORY’S MIRROR. | Author: Unknown]

MEMORY’S MIRROR.
In the shadow of age, sad, weary and worn,
	On memories fair mirror gazing intent,
Feeling stricken, forsaken, friendless, alone.
	In the garments of mourning tattered and rent.
Soon familiar footsteps are heard drawing nigh,
	Some one mysteriously enters the door,
And quietly seats himself down by her side,
	Commences to talk as in past days of yore.
Of the changes of weather, times and the tide,
	Hopes of his manhood, great bargains he’d made,
Then back to the days of his love and his bride,
	Thence to his boyhood, of the pranks he had played.
Then there floated out voices, prattling and sweet;
	Many glad voices, of children at play,
And the glad welcome sound of pattering feet,
	Were greeted with joy, from a long ago day.
Sweet red rosy lips were held up for a kiss,
	Soft golden curled heads, bright laughing blue eyes,
Cherub faces, dimpled with smiles of pure bliss,
	And the touch of soft hands, with joy she descries.
The play is over, tales told, and songs sung,	
	Eve'ning drifts in from the shores of day,
Quiet broods over busy brains, buzzing tongues,
	While each dear white-robed child is kneeling to pray.
Now the soft sweet good-nights float out on the air.
	And earth seems heaven, transfigured by His grace,
The long years roll back, with their changes and care,
	Time’s weary worn garments, have all been effaced.
The tenderest light sifts and quivers and falls,
	Flits all over thro’ flowers, and vine made screens,
Over garden, and grasses, and tree-tops tall,
	Entrancing her soul in a fairy like scene.
The dear little cottage, the home she loved best,
	Hid among the grasses, vines flowers and trees.
The orchards, and meadows in beauty were drest.
	Sweet summer retreat for the birds and the tees.
Memory's Mirror wrought a wonderful charm!
	Dissolved the dark shadows, so sombre and gray,


Brought soft summer zephyrs, with healing like balm,
      Breath of sweet clover, scent of newly mown hay.
								L. M. HEWL1NGS.


