[WomansExponent | Vol19 | 1890 | August | Issue: 6 | Title: A MIDSUMMER DAY IN THE | Author: E. T]

A MIDSUMMER DAY IN THE
COUNTRY.
		"See	the glowing sunlight now
		Tint the mountain's misty brow.”
	Who ever does see the first gleam of sun-
light, is well repaid for the effort, for it re-
quires an effort to shake off our drowsiness
on a summer’s morning. It is not only the
rosy gleam that first “tints the mountain” and
then steals across the valley and bursts upon
us with a glory only surpassed by heavenly
brightness, but it is all nature, from the wee
innocent flower half hidden by the green damp
grass, to the tall towering mountains that form
the background to all the scenes so dear to us
the mountain people.
	All living creatures rejoice in the beauties
of life, and dull must be the brain,and callous
the heart, that does not as the lark
		"Tune its first lays to its Maker’s praise.”
	We must rejoice with nature but there is
work for all, and, by the time a farmer’s wife
has prepared the morning meal she is so tired,
and a sweet piping voice reaches her she al-
most wishes the baby had slept until after
breakfast, but when a vision of white-robed
figures fill the door, with eyes beaming with
pleasure at the thought that they have brought
the baby, all thoughts of murmuring vanish,
and as warm loving arms encircle, and baby
kisses are showered unsparingly, there comes
to the tired mother the greatest happiness
that life has to give.
	As the mid-day sun glances down upon us our
weariness increases, and we do not see so much
beauty in nature, as in the mid-day of life we
feel the heat and the burden, but when the
long lingering afternoon passes over and we
have had time for a little rest, we begin again
again to enjoy living, but not with the same
buoyant happiness of the morning, for many
disappointments have darkened the bright
dawning, a long-expected letter; a long-wished
for friend has not arrived, with many other
petty, but annoying vexations, but with a
calm, almost holy feeling, akin to awe, we
realize that with all our hopes, joys, fears and
disappointments we have  drifted one day
nearer eternity.
		"Sweet is summer's evening hour,
		Soothing in its magic power,
		Gentle whispers seem to say
		Life is but a summer day;
		And its close if spent aright
		Tranquil as a summer night.
								E. T.
July' 1890.


[Column 1]
