Mysteries the Canyon Conceals By Annie Tanner HAVE you ever sat on a davenport in a cliff dweller's home? If you have not, then you cannot appreciate the magic thrill experienced by Ali Baba when he said, ?Open Sesame," and the hidden door yawned open before him. All day I had been watching the shifting shadows, and their tie and dye effect on the colors of Lady Mountain. At last the time for our hike came, and the park naturalist guided us across the rocking suspension bridge and up one of the many well built trails in "Zion National Park." Soon we were passing through the different vegetations as we climbed from one life zone to another. Just as I was getting a wee bit shaky the naturalist said, "Do you see that picture writing high up on that cliff?" There, on a broad, bare cliff we could see the queer figures that make up the writing of an ancient people. Beckwith INDIAN WRITINGS ON CLIFFS OF UTAH We were very curious to know what these crude drawings meant, and asked our guide who told us, laughing as he did so, that in the language of the modern Utahn, this picture writing said, "This is the place." It was the place. Our climbing soon took us around a sharp turn, and there under an over hanging cliff, was the home of the cliff dweller. Gratefully I sat down on a huge rock, much the same shape as our davenports of today. As I sat there, I thought, "This must have been exactly where Mr. Cliff Dweller sat after a weary day's chase for rabbits on the lower floor of the canyon, or where Mrs. Cliff Dweller eased her tired body after climbing the steep mountain walls for haws or elder-berries." "So this is the cliff dweller's home," I said, "I never thought I should sit in such a home and gaze down on a modern and picturesque lodge so recently built on the old 484 hunting grounds of prehistoric man." There below me, at the foot of this magnificent mountain, were the results of the intellectual and physical powers of civilized man. Here by me were the crude walls that made the shelter for men who lived before the dawn of history. Just over my head were the black smoke stains, still very easily seen. Under the sand at my feet were the ashes of his last fire. The passing centuries had failed to obliterate these traces of his life. Under a rock in the corner were pieces of yucca fashioned for a sandal and over there on the floor was a chipped flint, its shape telling us that it was an arrow-head half made. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The large hollowed-out stone on its rock shelf relates its own story of the laborious task of grinding corn. All these mute witnesses told us the story of the cliff dweller; but who could tell us what strange event took him from his home in the cliffs? Did famine wipe out the entire family? Did they grow venturesome and go down the canyon on an exploring trip and meet the enemy they had guarded against for years, or did some more terrible catastrophe take them away from these glorious cliffs of safety? If Mr. Cliff Dweller could just step for a few minutes from his "Happy Hunting Grounds" what 2 wonderful tale he might tell us!
