How to Stage a Flower Show
By Maud Cheguidden
Every year we residents of the Rocky Mountain region are becoming more and more conscious of the importance of the finer things in life, those adjuncts to a fuller and more cultured existence. Music and art, poetry and the beauties of nature, are all needed if we intend to make most profitable our years on this earth. Beautiful gardens have been cared for by the choice people since God first planted a garden and placed Adam there. Solomon speaks in exquisite language of his garden, and it was in a garden that Christ spent some of his most poignant hours. The gardens of history have passed away, but it is our blessed privilege to make gardens today just as lovely. There is no surer way to get the gardening fever than through a visit to a flower show, and I know of few ways of giving universal pleasure better than through the assembling of the garden flowers of a ward or a stake, where blue ribbons will encourage all to bring their best blooms, and where, after the day's exhibit, the fragrant, bright blossoms may be carried to old and sick folks whose days will thus be brightened and comforted. It is not an easy job to stage a flower show, if it is to be a worthwhile effort. Forethought and careful preparation are needed. In the first place, the show must take place in a hall which is large enough to accommodate long tables with plenty of space between for visitors to pass comfortably. I have seen tables placed so closely together that passersby knocked over the vases. There should be good light for the daytime, and ample provisions for lighting at night, for this is when the largest crowds will come. Do have enough table space, too. Flowers in vases should each have enough space between them that the graceful arrangement may be noted and enjoyed. I have judged at flower shows where the exhibits were so crowded that it was impossible even to see many of the vases. This is unfair to those who bring their flowers to the show. Although white coverings are almost always used on tables, a neutral grey or green is much better. Besides being more artistic than a dead white, the soft background color shows off the delicate tints and forms of the flowers to best advantage. White detracts from the hues of the blooms, and absorbs too much light. Advertise that flowers will be received at the hall up to a certain time only, and stick to your word. Ten in the morning is usually a good time. After this lock the doors, so that your judges may work unimpeded and so do their difficult task as quickly and fairly as possible. It is no sinecure to judge a flower show and every consideration should be shown those who freely give their time in this work. Be sure that you have enough assistants but do not have so many that they are in each other's way, causing a needless confusion. If possible, flowers should be received by the reception committee in an anteroom to the large hall where the show is to be held. In this small room water should be provided, and a large tub or box to receive the broken blossoms and papers and other rubbish. Here entrants may arrange the flowers in the vases which they have brought themselves, and it is a wise plan for the committee to have a number of extra
HOW TO STAGE A FLOWER SHOW
containers on hand, as some people will be sure to come without. At the entrance to the large show room from the small room you should have a table with a couple of good penmen, who will assist exhibitors to write the names of their flowers and their own names on the cards provided. Other members of the committee will now take the vases and place them on the tables. This is most important to the success and beauty of your show. All flowers of one variety should be next to each other, to facilitate judging. It is too bad to expect the judges to hop all over the room, looking for other vases of zinnias in order to make comparisons. Have vases no more than two deep if possible, so that visitors may see all without having to strain their necks and eyesight. Of course you will keep the short-stemmed flowers in front and the tall ones behind. It is best to give blue ribbons for first place, red for second and light green for third, as these colors are uniformly used in large shows. Sometimes public spirited citizens or business men, especially those in the nursery business, will give merchandise for special prizes, and this gives added interest to the show. In staging a flower show, try to get people away from the old-fashioned idea of bringing mixed bouquets of flowers. Each variety should be displayed alone, both for the best effect and for ease in judging. Only the natural foliage of the flowers should be used, ferns and other greenery having no place in a flower show. Encourage exhibitors to know their flowers by name. Roses all have names such as Radiance, Claudius Pernet, or Etoile de France. You wouldn't have much opinion of a mother or father who
457
couldn't remember the names of their children, would you? Flower children should be known just as intimately by their growers. A flower show may be held at almost any time, but during the very hottest weeks of summer it is hard to keep blooms from wilting. May is a fine time to hold a spring flower show, for at that time there are tulips, some early irises, some late daffodils, bleeding hearts, some of the flowering shrubs, and a few of the alpine plants. Every community should hold a rose show in June. The world has no flower more universally beloved than the rose, and we here in the western states have much in our favor for growth of fine roses. Besides roses, at this show one may have delphiniums, candidum lilies, late peonies, and dozens of other perennials; but the rose should reign supreme. In early fall a flower show may feature dahlias, gladioli and late blooming perennials. House plants may always be included in shows, for there are many months of winter when these form our only horticultural delight, and a good collection of pot plants is something to be proud of. A word should be said about containers for the flowers, for many a pretty bouquet has been spoiled by being thrust into a milk bottle. Don't use these narrow-necked bottles; they crowd the flowers and hold them in unnatural positions. Flowers spring from the ground and spread outwards, and vases or bottles should be used which approximate this form as much as possible. If one with wide spreading mouth cannot be found, one with straight up-and-down sides is all right. Plain glass pickle jars have frequently got very good lines, and a coat of enamel in a neutral color
458
will make a splendid vase. Black enamel is very smart at the present time, and shows off most flowers to excellent advantage. Ivory, tan, soft green are all good colors for any tint of blooms, while pinks, lavenders and yellows should be used only for flowers of the same color.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
If you have never put on a flower show in your community, try one this year and help to make yours a garden city. Only by spreading the flower gospel from town to town will we make this a nation of beautiful gardens surrounding happy homes.
A PRETTY FALL SCENE IN IDAHO

