[WomansExponent | Vol4 | 1875 | February | Issue: 17 | Title: SEND HIM THE PROOF. | Author: Unknown]

SEND HIM THE PROOF.
	Governor Emery in his message, as re-
ferred to by us yesterday, made a statement
about the young men and women born and
reared in Utah, which ought not to pass with-
out further notice. In addition to our de-
nial of the Governor's charge of their ignor-
ance, we now take occasion to say that we
could produce a great number of young
men, born and reared in Utah, who could
read the message he delivered on Tuesday
in a far better manner than the Governor's
own style of communication. And further,
that there are many young ladies, born and
reared in Utah who excel the Governor in
the art of reading, and equal him in the art
of composition.
	The gentleman may not believe this. We
should like him to be convinced. It is not
probable that he will accept our statements,
in opposition to the allegations of those who
have taken the trouble to influence him by
misrepresentations. We propose that he
shall receive convincing evidence. We rec-
ommend that a number of young men and
ladies, born and reared in Utah, write to the
Governor over their own signature, and
prove to him whether, upon entering on the
duties and obligations of life, they are "des-

[Column 2]
titute of the simplest rudiments of educa-
tion." If they will furnish copies to the
Junction, we promise to publish them, un-
less they pour in too great numbers, in
which case we will refer to them and pub-
lish the names of the writers.
	We know that there are a great many pu-
pils of the Ogden Seminary, of both sexes,
who are fully competent to give any reason-
able person ample proof that the Gover-
nor's statement is incorrect, and that he has
been wrongly informed.
	Utah has no reason to be ashamed of a
large portion of her youth, nor of their ed-
ucation. Driven from their possessions by
ruthless mobs, the early settlers of this Ter-
ritory could offer few facilities for the edu-
cation of their children. But such as were
possible, under the peculiar circumstances
which surrounded them, were extended,
and the wonder is that they did so well.
As years rolled on and conditions changed
and improved, the cause of education ob-
tained greater attention and assistance, and
during the past few years opportunities
have been placed within the reach of the
rising generation to become acquainted, not
only with the "simplest rudiments" of edu-
cation, but with the higher branches of
learning, such as are not afforded in little
country villages, of similar size and popu-
lation to ours, in older settled districts.
	The hue-and-cry that has been raised
about education in Utah, and the animad-
versions of a few brawlers who are on the
lookout for an official position to secure that
bread and butter which they will not earn
by the sweat of their brows are as unjust as
other calumnies against the old settlers of
this Territory; and we hope the Governor,
on better information, will refuse to be in-
fluenced by the reports of the people's en-
emies.—Ogden Junction.


[Column 1]
