[Vol5 | July 1918 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial In the Work Not of the World]

EDITORIAL . Motto  Charity Never Faileth  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. V. July, 1918. No. 7 IN THE WORLD NOT OF THE WORLD When the Lord Jesus Christ, just prior to His Not of the departure for Gethsemane, offered up prayer World. for his twelve apostles he used these significant words: "I pray for them; I pray not for the world, but for them which thou hast given me; for they are thine. * * * And now I am no more in the world, but these are in the world, and I come to thee. Holy Father, keep through thine own name those whom thou hast given me, that they may be one as we are. * * * I pray not that thou shouldst take them out of the world, but that thou shouldst keep them from the evil. They are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. Sanctify them through thy truth: thy word is truth. As thou hast sent me into the world, even so have I also sent them into the world. And for their sakes I sanctify myself, that they also might be sanctified through the truth. Neither pray I for these alone, but for them also which shall believe on me through their word." (John 18:9,11,20.) The Master clearly recognized the fact that those who bear His name are not as the world. They do not speak nor act as the world do, and in this difference lies largely the antagonism of the world to the former and Latter-day Saints. This is a fundamental principle of the gospel, and our sisters who lead out in the various communities as officers of this Society should understand the operation of this principle. EDITORIAL. 421 Questions have been raised as to our Relief Society sisters joining with Red Cross activities in What Shall the various units where tea and coffee may be We Do? served and where raffling is indulged in. The universal answer to such questions is the statement that such things are forbidden by the Lord through His servants and, therefore, this Society cannot enter into them in any degree. We quote from President Joseph F. Smith's editorial in the Improvement Era, Vol. 6, as follows: "Raffling is a game of chance, and hence leads to gambling; for that reason, if for no other, it should not be encouraged among the young men of the Church. President Young declared raffling to be a modified name of gambling; said that as Latter-day Saints we cannot afford to sacrifice moral principles to financial gain, and advised the sisters through the Woman's Exponent not to raffle. President Lorenzo Snow endorsed and approved of these sentiments; President Joseph F. Smith has also expressed his unqualified disapproval of raffling; the General Sunday School Board have declared against it; and finally the state law makes it unlawful to raffle with dice; and if it is unlawful with dice, in principle, is it not just as illegal with any other device? With all these objections, should it not be clear to anyone that raffling horses, quilts, bicycles and other property is not sanctioned by the moral law nor approved by the general Church authorities." The principles of the gospel are always founded The Wise upon law, but our individual application of the Course. law is quite another thing; some of our people think it is all right to be a little lax in keeping holy the Sabbath day or in the observance of the Word of Wisdom, or in this question of raffling, for one reason or another; and if they can satisfy their own consciences in such matters, that is entirely between them and their God. We have no right whatever to interfere with an individual's belief, or his application of principle. All that the general authorities of this Society may do is to state facts, explain or expound the laws of the gospel as applied to the conduct of our Relief Society affairs, and the results are entirely with those who receive these instructions. It is true that we are now very much mixed up in our relation with the outside world, in all this war work, and individuals may find it necessary from time to time to permit themselves to act upon more license than they would do if they were associated strictly with our own people. Personally, I cannot agree with such license. It would seem the most wonderful opportunity in the world to proclaim our principles though word and action and thus convince, if not convert, our non-believing associates to the 
 value and divine importance of the principles revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith to the modern world. We would not want our boys to give comfort or countenance to the enemy over in the trenches, nor would we have them allow false motives of sympathy and personal humanity to prevent them from firing their guns straight at the enemy, leaving the results with the God of battle. Principle is one thing, yet our individual loyalty and integrity is always measured by our characters and our environments. So far as this Society is concerned, we shall abide by the rules and laws of the Church. In no other way can we succeed as individuals, or as a Society. We are pleased to add the following letter from Washington, D. C., on this subject: "RED CROSS OFFICIALS DISAPPROVE OF RAFFLES. "April 30, 1918. "Mr. John W. Morey, Manager Mountain Division. "National headquarters have been asked to define definitely the attitude of the Red Cross toward raising funds by means of lotteries, raffles, and any other form of appeal which involves in any way the question of gambling. "We wish to state that national headquarters definitely opposes any games, lotteries, raffles, or any other form of appeal which possesses gambling features. This form of gambling is contrary to the laws of many of the states. "We believe that the appeal of the Red Cross is so great, and that the people of the country are so anxious to have it fulfil its obligations as interpreter of the nation's sentiments that it is unnecessary for any community to have to resort to such methods to raise funds. "We have asked for a ruling on this subject by several of the division managers and give it to you for your information and for use wherever it may be necessary. "G. E. Scott, "Assistant General Manager." "LOVE AND THE LIGHT." In Apostle Orson F. Whitney's recent poem, once more Utah's poet laureate presents to his countless admirers a charming poetic idyl which he calls "Love and the Light." Rich in musical concept, colorful in phrase, measured and stately in form, the lovely story unfolds before the enthralled imagination, yet with all its charms and beauties nothing is so glorious about it as the undercurrent of spiritual truth and inspired testimony which informs every page. The book is beautifully presented through the Deseret News, publishers, and is illustrated with suggestive pen. We commend this for both study and pleasure to all our readers. POEMS BY DR. JAMES L. HUGHES. Dr. James L. Hughes, long-time philosopher and educator of Toronto, Canada, famous in his own country as author and publicist, has now devoted the remainder of his busy life to the exercise of his delightful and touching poetic gifts. Two books, "Songs of Gladness and Growth," and "Stories and Musings," will reach the day-spring of every sensitive heart. Scarce an emotion or an aspiration which is not here voiced, while the exquisite poetic dedication to his handsome soldier son, Chester Hughes, wrings tears from the coldest eyes. "His life-story began in Toronto, Canada, March 31, 1888, and ended in Belgium, November 15, 1915," so says the monograph, while the closing illustration marks the grave of the youthful hero, "Somewhere in France." Dr. Hughes has a host of admirers in Utah and none of his friends is more touched over his own consecrated attitude to life and life's present terrific struggle than is the Editor of this little Magazine, Susa Young Gates. EXCHANGE BUREAU Mrs. Rebecca C. Allen of Hyrum, Utah, has some very good dried apples for sale at $.15 a pound. Orders should be sent directly to Mrs. Allen. Mrs. K. Deen Reynolds, Tropic, Utah, is anxious to know where she can sell crocheted yokes, colors, etc. For information, write Mrs. Reynolds. Mrs. A. C. Hansen, Boulder, Utah, has 700 lbs. of alfalfa seed at $.15 a pound; mailing expense extra.