[Vol5 | July 1918 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Red Cross Workers Louisa M. Johnson]

Red Cross Workers. By Louisa M. Johnson. (Marching Through Georgia.) We're working for our soldier boys, so valiant, brave and true, The soldiers in the trenches, and on the ocean, too; The Red Cross chapter have enough of work for all to do, We are busy workers in the Red Cross. Hurrah, hurrah, come join our happy throng. Hurrah, hurrah, join in our cheerful song; No matter where your home may be, come help the work along, You willing workers in the Red Cross. We know there's lots of work for maids in Italy and France, A nursing of our Sammies who have fallen on mischance, But other women stay at home, their comfort to enhance. And they are working for the Red Cross. Hurrah, hurrah, there's plenty here to do. Hurrah, hurrah, you'll find out this is true. No matter where your home may be, there's work for all to do, You willing workers in the Red Cross. By Amy Brown Lyman. St. George Stake. At the request of the Stake Presidency, the Ward Relief Society choirs in the St. George stake have for some time past furnished the singing at the fast services held each month. In Memoriam. In the passing of Mrs. Harriet Eden, of Eden ward, Emery stake, Mrs. Fannie E. Moyle, of the Alpine stake, and Mrs. Ellen K. Christensen of Bear River City, of Box Elder stake, the Relief Society has lost three faithful and devoted workers. Emery Stake. In the passing of Mrs. Harriet Eden, of Eden ward, Emery has passed away. She was the first secretary of the Eden ward Relief Society, and held this position until her health failed her. Mrs. Eden was the mother of eleven children, and at the time of her death, she had eighteen grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren. Alpine Stake. On February 8, 1918, Mrs. Fannie E. Moyle, one of the active Relief Society workers of the Alpine stake, passed away. Mrs. Moyle was a woman of high and lofty ideals, wise in counsel, careful in judgment, and was a courageous worker in the cause of truth. Her example has been an inspiration to the Alpine Relief Society, where she has long and faithfully labored. Oneida Stake. The Relief Societies in the Oneida stake have been very active during the past year in Red Cross work, and although they have done an immense amount of work, they report that their Red Cross activities have not interfered in any way with the regular work of the ward societies. The Relief Societies of the Oneida stake conducted their Red Cross drive in Franklin county. Two thousand dollars was apportioned to the county, and $2,355.07 was collected, $1,700 of which was collected in five days. Responding to an emergency call for hospital supplies, the Relief Societies made up 1,200 pil- 
 lows, valued at $900, paying $48.42 for shipment for same. Thirty Christmas boxes for the soldier boys at a cost of $45 were sent to Camp Lewis. From a dance and musical entertainment $242.42 was raised. This stake was also interested in the last Liberty Loan campaign. The Stake Board and fourteen of the wards purchased each a $50 Liberty Bond, amounting in all $750. Liberty Stake. The Liberty stake Relief Society has accomplished a great deal for the Red Cross during the month of February. They have made 368 bandages, 153 bed shirts, 21 pajama suits, 175 towels, and have knitted 29 sweaters and 275 pairs of socks. One day a week, this stake sends workers to the Red Cross gauze room; they average thirty-five women each day. One day recently fifty women made 935 surgical dressings. The women of this stake will work in the future every Friday in the gauze rooms at the Newhouse Hotel. South Sanpete Stake. The preparation and care of genealogical records, and the active service in Temple work are receiving greater attention in the South Sanpete stake than ever before, due, in a measure, to the efforts of the Relief Society. In the last Liberty Loan campaign, the South Sanpete stake Relief Society purchased Liberty Bonds as follows: Ephraim North Ward $100.00 Ephraim South Ward 200.00 Manti North Ward 150.00 Manti South Ward 100.00. Sterling Ward 50.00 Mayfield 50.00 Centerfield 50.00 Total $700.00 Tintic Stake. The Stake Board recently conducted a fruit sale at Eureka, and with the proceeds purchased a Liberty Bond and 500 copies of War Time Cook Book published by the Utah Stake Relief Society. The fruit sold was the surplus of the fruit conserved last summer. Snowflake Stake. The women of the Snowflake Stake last year succeeded in collecting 1,009 pounds of beans, most of the women donating ten