[Vol5 | July 1918 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman]

NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 413 pounds each. As not much wheat is raised in that section, the women felt that a supply of good old Arizona beans would be worth while: 40,275 quarts of fruit was conserved for family use. St. Joseph Stake. We are very pleased to publish the following very interesting letter from Mrs. Josephine C. Kimball, President of the St. Joseph Stake Relief Society, believing that other stakes may be able to get some valuable suggestions from it: "Since our recent reorganization, we have held Relief Society conferences in all of the sixteen wards of the St. Joseph Stake. Carrying out suggestions of the Stake Presidency, the sessions were held on the regular meeting day  Tuesday. "To all the wards was previously sent a letter of instruction. and a suggestive program, which proved of material assistance to the local presidents. For the smaller wards, we divided the members of the Stake Board, and held three conferences in one day, on two occasions; but for the larger wards, the whole Board attended in a body. "The lessons  Genealogy, Theology and Home Economics  were given on the regular day by the class leader, with explanations and help from one of the Board members, so that no lesson was interfered with, and no deviation from the established order was made. Besides this, there were other features, both instructive and entertaining. "Without an exception, one member or all of the Stake Presidency, Bishopric, or High Council met with us in Conference, which aided and strengthened us, and gave greater zest to our meetings. "There was. throughout, a very good attendance of the sisters. In one ward they have ninety enrolled and seventy-two were present, which was the best average we had. Many who would have been there were kept at home through sickness, or a fear of it, as we have had, and are still threatened with, an epidemic of smallpox. But a warm, kindly feeling pervaded each meeting, and we feel sure that an added interest is established all through the stake in regard to Relief Society work. The sisters served light refreshments between our business and general meeting, and it had the effect of our getting better acquainted and a more sociable and "homey" feeling among us. Our meetings resembled reunions or home-comings, and I believe every sisters present felt built up and strengthened in this great work of the Lord. "We have reported, nine hundred eight members, and have 
 given ourselves one year to make up a thousand, or until our next report is due. "Our Red Cross work is in better shape than it has ever been. We now have the Mt. Graham Chapter, headquarters at the county seat, Safford, but previously all our work has had to be sent to the Globe Chapter, which was attended with some little difficulty. The officers of this  the Mt. Graham Chapter  include one of the Stake Presidency, one of the presidency of the Relief Society, and one of the presidents of the Y. L. M. I. A. Each Bishop's ward in its completeness is made an Auxiliary, the chairman of which is one of the Bishopric, vice-chairman one of the presidency of the Relief Society, also vice-chairman one of the Y. L. M. I. A. Each Church auxiliary participating keeps a Church record of its activities. As a stake we have done a great deal of work, every woman in the stake being anxious to do not her bit, but her utmost." The program arranged by the Stake President for the ward conferences follows: BUSINESS MEETING. 12:30 p. m. Arranging Corps of Teachers and Officers Talk, "Teachers' Work" Stake Officer Talk, "Annual Fees and New Members" General Instructions Stake Officer GENERAL CONFERENCE. 2:00 p. m. Opening Exercises Greetings Ward Counselor Report of Ward Activities Local President Sustaining Stake and Ward Officers Secretary The Lesson Class Leader Suggestions by Stake Board Member General Remarks Stake President or Board Member Remarks by Visiting Brethren Closing Exercises Original Organization of Relief Society. "America's First Woman's Organization" is the title of an article published in one of the Illinois newspapers under the name of Mr. J. Frank Pickering. In this article the story is told of the organization of the National Woman's Relief Society in Nauvoo, Illinois, on March 17, 1842. A list of the first officers is given and also the aims and purposes of the organization. A quaint picture appears with the article showing the original eighteen members of the Relief Society dressed in old-fashioned full skirts, NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 415 wearing shawls and shakers, and sitting around the table at which the president stands in the act of presiding. Three men are featured in the picture, representing the Prophet Joseph Smith, John Taylor and Willard Richards. Benson Stake. In the Benson Stake during 1917 in practically every ward, statistics show that the teachers' visits were 100 per cent. Relief Society School of Obstetrics and Nursing. The commencement exercises of the Relief Society School of Obstetrics and Nursing were held on Wednesday, May 22, 1918, in the parlors of the Relief Society at General Headquarters, with Counselor Clarissa S. Williams chairman of the evening. The rooms were filled with the relatives and friends of the class. The following very interesting program was given: Hymn Opening Prayer Richard R. Lyman Soprano Solo (Selected) Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward Accompanied by Prof. J. J. McClellan Address Introduction of the Graduates Dr. John C. Z. Roberts Address to Graduates Dr. Margaret Brown "Our Duty to Humanity" Miss Priscilla Layton Conferring of Certificates to Graduates. Pres. Emmeline B. Wells Closing Address Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams Benediction W. N. Williams A pretty feature of the evening was the presentation of a handsome bouquet to Dr. Roberts from the members of the class. Following the program a reception was held in the parlors where light refreshments were served. The number graduating this year was eighteen; eight of this number took the examination in obstetrics given under the direction of the State Board of Health, and all of them passed successfully. Fifteen students completed the course in nursing, five of this number being students who took both courses and passed both examinations successfully. Following is a list of the graduates: OBSTETRICS. Stella Stephens Salt Lake City Louise Taylor. Salt Lake City Mattie G. Smith Salt Lake City Kittie Craig Idaho Falls, Idaho Vivian Proband Salt Lake City Hazel Lewis Richmond, Utah Julia Purser Lorna, Colorado Elizabeth Gibb Alberta, Canada 
 PRACTICAL NURSING. Edna Anderson Oak City. Utah Leona Bowen Salt Lake City Kittie Craig Idaho Falls. Idaho Olive Gedge Salt Lake City Rachel Gurney Lehi, Utah Jennie Larsen Manti. Utah Priscilla Layton Thatcher. Arizona Hazel Lewis Richmond. Utah Florence Lyman Salt Lake City Mary Parker Salt Lake City Hettie Sainsbury Bountiful. Utah Mattie G. Smith Salt Lake City Stella Stephens Salt Lake City Louise Taylor Salt Lake City Eva Wayman Murray, Utah OBSTETRICS AND NURSING. Stella Stephens Salt Lake City Louise Taylor Salt Lake City Mattie G. Smith Salt Lake City Kittie Craig Idaho Falls, Idaho Hazel Lewis Richmond, Utah Tahitian Mission.. . . To raise money for Relief Society purposes, the women in the Tahitian Mission have conceived the idea of donating cocoanuts to the Society, each member volunteering to give an allotted number of cocoanuts each week. In the Takaroa Branch $30.00 has recently been raised by this unique method and has been donated to the Taenga and Hekuern branches to assist in paying for their new chapels under construction. Star Valley Stake. Relief Society recently gave a "get-acquainted" party in the ward hall at Afton, Wyoming, when more than four hundred people were in attendance. The exercises consisted of a program which began with an address of welcome by the president, Mrs. Martha H. Roberts, a dinner, a dancing party at night. Around the hall were placed placards telling of the various Relief Society activities. The aged people of the ward were especially invited guests of the Relief Society. A committee consisting of two gentlemen was appointed to escort them to and from the party. A cozy corner was arranged for their convenience with rugs and easy chairs.