What Did the Prophet Joseph Smith Do For Women? By Ruth May Fox
THE difference existing between the status of women industrially, socially, and economically a hundred years ago, and the present time has been, and is being discussed so frequently that the subject is worn almost thread-bare, therefore we pass by that phase of woman's advancement. The purpose of this article is to bring to the attention of Latter-day Saint women, especially, what they owe to the Prophet Joseph Smith for blessings and benefits that have come to them during the last century. As I contemplate the question, it looms so large that I am almost overwhelmed with amazement, and feel to exclaim?what has Joseph Smith not done for women? And I wonder whether my vision is clear enough, and my understanding keen enough to in anyway give an adequate answer.
A CENTURY ago America offered great inducements in a material way to any who wished to better their condition but had it not been for the teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, many thousands would have remained in the old world. Through the faith and prayers of the Prophet, the gates of Heaven were unlocked, and a great light illuminated the world. Through him the Gospel of Jesus Christ was restored, and there came to those who accepted it a regeneration, a newness of life that displaced tyranny with love. This great blessing reacted upon women. Thousands were brought from a condition of arduous labor, and servitude to a land of liberty and freedom of conscience, where the very atmosphere taught them that they were individuals. This was but the beginning. Their posterity for generations to come will receive the benefits flowing from this God inspired movement.
WHEN the Prophet organized the Relief Society on March 17th, 1842, there were few, if any groups of women working in a public capacity, therefore it was a marvelous innovation for women to be given the responsibility of building up and managing an Institution which was eventually to become a system of organized charity throughout the Church, and also a means of educating and broadening their field of activity. True, it was natural, as the Prophet said, for women to have feelings of charity and benevolence, and that now they were placed in a situation in which they could act according to those sympathies God had placed in their bosoms. He very wisely told them to not go too fast, but to proceed cautiously, select their members with scrupulous care, for "zeal without knowledge was always dangerous." This organization was to be conducted with intelligence and faith in God, thus adding divine power to their own abilities, judgment, and initiative. Nevertheless the leaders were faced with grave responsibility. Without definite training they must pioneer the way, learn by experience to use powers and capabilities that they scarcely knew they possessed. Thus their energies were stimulated and there came a feeling of independence and a righteous ambition to develop their talents for the good of God's children, and their own happiness. Surely a mighty uplift had come to women.
In the beginning, according to the Bible, the Lord made woman to be a helpmeet to her husband, which plainly shows that man needed her assistance. And the woman that can help her husband most is the one who in addition to her family duties will develop her mind, and keep abreast with him religiously and intellectually that she may have sympathy for him and strengthen him in his work. The husband of such a woman "shall be known in the gates," which means that he shall be appointed to positions of trust and honor. Never at any time has the Lord branded his daughters as being inferior to his sons. But because of the prevalent idea that might made right, man subjugated woman. The Prophet Joseph Smith elevated her, placed her in her rightful position by the side of man. Indeed he explained that no man was perfect without the woman, neither is the woman perfect without the man.
COMMON consent is the rule in our Church. When the Church was organized, women voted independently as did the men. When the Prophet received revelations for the whole Church, it was for the benefit of all members. Moreover, the women were blessed?set apart to their various callings. Some were given the right to "expound the scriptures and exhort the Church." Indeed the Church could not be complete without man and woman working together. Therefore, the whole plan of salvation is for women, as well as men. There are no restrictions as to who may participate in the Temple services because of sex. The laying on of the hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost is also for women to receive if they are worthy. The reception of this spirit is a gift beyond price, verily a gift of God. It will lead, guide, and direct in every emergency if humbly sought for. It will explain and testify of the truth. Women do not receive the Priesthood, but a woman is privileged to be the companion of a man who does, and is entitled to the blessings of this holy order. To receive a blessing under the hands of one holding the holy Priesthood to do certain work is no small thing. No women outside of the Latter-day Saint Church have such a privilege.
WHAT woman knew that God was a personal being as also His Son, Jesus Christ, until that knowledge was revealed through Joseph the Prophet? What woman knew anything about pre-existence, where she came from, why she was here, or where she was going after death? What woman knew anything about eternal progression, that the righteous knowledge she obtained here would be the foundation of her further advancement in the next sphere of action? What woman knew anything of marriage for eternity or the reunion of family relationships in the hereafter?
HUNDREDS of years ago millions of mothers?I am not sure that there are not that many now?suffered untold agony because they had been taught that infants who died without baptism would go to an everlasting hell. A short time ago a poor mother, who had taken refuge with hundreds of others in the supposedly impregnable Fortress Alcazar, Madrid, Spain, was watching her two weeks old baby die with that awful fear in her heart. It so happened that a priest gained admission to the Fortress for a short time, and in answer to her pleadings: "Won't you baptize my baby?" responded to her request, which modified at least one agony. If the Prophet had done no other thing for women than to explode the fallacy of such a pernicious doctrine, his name should be immortalized.
TODAY thousands of women hold executive positions in the L. D. S. Church and have become real helpmates to the Bishops. Thousands of others visit the homes of the Saints and are veritable ministering angels in their several communities. That wonderful organization, The Singing Mothers, which is bringing joy and uplift to thousands of women, is an outgrowth of the teachings of the Prophet. Again I am led to exclaim, "What has not the Prophet Joseph Smith, through and by the authority of our Lord, Jesus Christ, done for women?"