Lesson Department
(For First Week in February)
Theology and Testimony
Lesson 5 THE NEW RELIGION VERSUS THE OLD
Helpful References
In the Bible: Exodus 20:13; Deuteronomy 5:17; Matthew 5:17-18, 21-26. In the Book of Mormon: 3 Nephi 12:17-26; 15:1-10. In the Doctrine and Covenants: 84: 20-27. Talmage: Jesus the Christ, p. 234. Findlay: The Realism of Jesus, Chapter 7.
1. Law of Moses Substituted for the Gospel.
In this and the succeeding lesson we wish to illustrate how the Savior handled and interpreted two of the five basic principles of the law of Moses. It should be kept in mind that Moses, the great Hebrew lawgiver, on leading the tribes of Israel from Egypt had attempted to teach them the law of the gospel and to bring them into the presence of God. The result was unsuccessful because they hardened their hearts. Therefore, the Lord "took Moses out of their midst, and the Holy Priesthood also; and the lesser priesthood continued, which priesthood holdeth the key of the ministering of angels and the preparatory gospel; which gospel is the gospel of repentance and of baptism and the remission of sins, and the law of carnal commandments, which the Lord in his wrath caused to continue with the house of Aaron among the children of Israel until John." (Doctrine and Covenants, Sec. 84:25-27.)
2. The Savior Came to Fulfil the Law and the Prophets.
The Savior pointed out to the men of his generation that he had no desire to abrogate the law or the prophets. "I came not to destroy, but to fulfill." (Matthew 5:17.) While preaching to the Nephites, He made a statement that is of singular significance. "Behold, I am he that gave the law, and I am he who covenanted with my people Israel; therefore, the law in me is fulfilled, for I have come to fulfil the law, therefore it hath an end." (3 Nephi 15:5.) The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints proclaims to the world that the Christ in his preexistent state was the one with whom Israel made covenant, and also the one who gave the law. In his earthly ministry among the Jews Christ prefaced His deeper interpretation of the five basal principles of the law by saying: "For I say unto you, that except your righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, ye shall in no case enter into the kingdom of heaven." We doubt not that in the literature extant at the time of Christ high ethical principles were taught. The Savior points out, however, that the scribes and Pharisees with whom He was in contact were not living them. His exposition of the law was applicable to the Jews and is also applicable to those now living in the world. Too much of our conduct today smacks of the law of an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth. In fact, many social investigators of our time would be willing to say that too often it smacks of the law of two eyes for an eye and two teeth for a tooth. Now, what did the Christ mean when he said he came to fulfil the law? We believe He meant to declare its deeper and less obvious significance.
3. The Sacred Nature of Human Personality.
The first great principle underlying the law had relation to the taking of life. The Savior said: "Ye have heard that it was said by them of old time, Thou shalt not kill; and whosoever shall kill shall be in danger of the judgment: but I say unto you, That whosoever is angry with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment." Here, the Christ points out that merely to refrain from slaying is not a sufficient guiding principle. We are to get at the root of the matter by refraining from the unreasoning anger that leads up to slaying. "Jesus is here speaking of our unreasoning antipathies, of our dislike for the people who irritate us merely by going on being themselves. An anger that cannot explain or justify itself is not just the outcome of incompatibility of temperament; it is an offense against personality; for the person to whom we consider ourselves antipathetic has as much right to be himself as we have; it is an outrage upon the soul, as attempted murder is an outrage upon the body; in God's code of justice these misdemeanors are classed together."
The Savior still further expounds the doctrine of the sacred nature of human personality by giving three or four homely illustrations. "Whosoever shall say to his brother, Raca, shall be in danger of the council." "Raca" was a term of contempt and probably had the connotation of "wicked" or "worthless." Such words may not be lightly bandied about. They are sharply barbed, and they hurt not the body but the soul. We may conceive of justifiable anger, but upon the man who exhibits scorn against his brother lies the responsibility of proving his case. If we understand the Savior aright, anger against one's brother, unless justified, is contempt of God, because man is a child of God. The man who has anger in his heart is on trial, not the one against whom the spite is directed.
"Whosoever shall say, Thou fool, shall be in danger of hell fire." The word translated "Thou fool" in our ordinary versions has as well the meanings of "stupid," or "dull." When men so far lose control of themselves as to allow their anger to be carried over into the realm of personal abuse, they are breaking down the natural ties that ordinarily bind men together. This is an offense that God cannot readily overlook, because men also have a common relation to Him.
The Savior then makes plain, in no uncertain terms, that if men are to find God they are first to find each other. "Therefore if thou bring thy gift to the altar, and there rememberest that thy brother hath aught against thee, leave there thy gift before the altar, and go thy way; first be reconciled to thy brother, and then come and offer thy gift." This injunction would seem to imply that we are bound to give our brother, who has some real or imagined grievance against us, a courteous hearing. We are to find with him a common ground for agreement. The spirit of reconciliation is the leaven that will bring peace and happiness into the world.
The Savior adds again, "Agree with thine adversary quickly, whilst thou art in the way with him." Men are here commanded to do everything possible to avoid widening rifts that separate each other. "You find yourself involved in a lawsuit, and are actually on the way to court when you meet your opponent going there too; you ought to be able to discover some way out, while you are walking together the short distance left before you get there. The natural thing for most of us to do, if on that day of all days we saw the man who was causing all the trouble coming up to us, would be to turn down a side-street to avoid him. But obviously this accidental meeting gives us a last chance of avoiding a final breach, and all the vexation of the law's delays."
Men who continue to bear ill-will against their fellows, no matter how right they are at the beginning of a quarrel, usually pay "to the uttermost farthing." The loss of a clear conscience is poor remuneration for the privilege of bearing a "grudge."
Thus the Savior sets up anger side by side with murder, teaches reverence for one's fellows, and ends by showing us the way out?the doctrine of reconciliation.
Questions
1. Why is the Savior's teaching respecting the sacredness of human souls of particular importance to us today?
2. What way has the Lord provided in the Church to adjudicate serious differences between members? Why don't we use these facilities more? If available, consult Keeler's Lesser Priesthood and Church Government, chapters 30-33.
3. What is the Lord's estimate as to the worth of human souls? See Doctrine and Covenants, Section 18:10-16.
Problems for Further Study (Treat only those that time and circumstances permit.)
1. Let the class discuss the practicability and advisability of nations settling their disputes in much the same manner that the Savior commanded individuals to do so. (See Matthew 5:25.)
2. Show that the Savior's teaching respecting the principle of reverence for human personality underlies social advance in every field today. Suggestion: Make inquiries respecting industry, rights of children, war, position of women, education, and politics.
3. Relate a story or incident illustrating the fact that one who continues to bear ill-will, in the end "pays to the uttermost farthing."
4. Show that President Robert M. Hutchins, of the University of Chicago, realized the sacred nature of human personality when he made the following statement to the 1935 graduating class: "'Getting on' is the great American aspiration. And here the demoralizing part comes in: the way to get on is to be 'safe,' to be 'sound,' to be agreeable, to be inoffensive, to have no views on important matters not sanctioned by the majority, by your superiors, or by your group. We are convinced that by knowing the right people, wearing the right clothes, saying the right things, holding the right opinions, and thinking the right thoughts we shall all get on."
Teacher's Topic (For February)
THE PARABLE OF THE FRIEND AT MIDNIGHT (Luke 11:5-10)
"And he said unto them, Which of you shall have a friend, and shall go unto him at midnight, and say unto him, Friend, lend me three loaves;
"For a friend of mine in his journey is come to me, and I have nothing to set before him?
"And he from within shall answer and say, Trouble me not: the door is now shut, and my children are with me in bed; I cannot rise and give thee.
"I say unto you, though he will not rise and give him, because he is his friend, yet because of his importunity he will rise and give him as many as he needeth.
"And I say unto you, Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you.
"For every one that asketh receiveth; and he that seeketh findeth; and to him that knocketh it shall be opened."
The three loaves mentioned are probably similar in size and shape to those found at the present day in the East. They are made in the form of small round cakes about the thickness of one's finger and were not cut with a knife but broken. Three of these little loaves were the allowance for one person's meal.
Jesus further says: "If a son shall ask bread of any of you that is a father, will he give him a stone? Or if he ask a fish, will he for a fish give him a serpent?
"Or if he shall ask an egg, will he offer him a scorpion?
"If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children: how much more shall your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to them that ask him?"
The parable belongs to the instruction on prayer and is joined directly to the shorter form of the Lord's prayer. This example as many others was taken from every day life and could be easily understood by all. During the hot season of the year it was customary in the East for people who were going on long journeys to wait until the great heat of the day had passed and then travel far into the night. They often stopped on their way at the home of their friends to rest. Friendship and hospitality demanded that they be offered refreshment, no matter what hour of the night they happened to arrive. And so the parable relates he had not sufficient food in the house and went to borrow from his neighbor.
If we pray constantly, and keep the spirit of prayer in our hearts always we place ourselves in a condition to receive the good gifts the Lord has in store for us. "Prayer is the central and determining force of a man's life." Our prayers must be sincere and marked by patience and humility. Christ said, "Pray always that ye enter not into temptation." Prayers should be simple and direct and we should have faith in their fulfillment. While we pray with faith our patience is perfected and our humility deepened.
"Prayer is the soul's sincere desire Unuttered or expressed; The motion of a hidden fire That trembles in the breast."
Discussion
What was the spirit of prayer as exemplified by Jesus in Gethsemane? Read the Lord's prayer.
Work and Business (For February)
CONVENIENT KITCHEN AND HOUSE LIGHTING
MANY homes have been made to look like new with only a few small changes. You may get that "new house thrill" by creating new convenience and beauty. Start with the vital working parts of which the kitchen is the most important. Ugly and inharmonious surroundings breed discord and inefficiency and tire one's nerves. Every kitchen should radiate cheerfulness. Unsightly worn patterns in the linoleum can play havoc with the loveliest room, but old linoleum matched and patched and the whole floor treated with paint and varnish or waxed can lay the foundation for an interesting room. Cream and green linoleum, bordered with black, is a good combination. Paint is the most practical and the cheapest wall treatment, although the so called "washable papers" are preferred by some. If the room has a sunny exposure, use the cool colors, as green, blue; if on shady side of house use the warm colors, yellow, orange or red. Cream painted walls help to diffuse the light.
Everything that makes the modern kitchen beautiful should make it equally easy to keep clean and convenient to use. No longer need it be a haphazard assorted assemblage of fixtures. Equipment resistant to wear by cracking or chipping, that requires minimum time and effort in caring for it, step-saving devices, plenty of drawers, shelves and storage space should all be considered in the plan. Stainless steel-top tables, sinks, work surfaces at convenient heights, quick-heating electric coils to speed cooking, power mixers, electric dishwashers and many other gadgets serve to make kitchen work easier.
Studies and experiments of the time which the average woman spends in preparing meals and washing dishes show that even though she doesn't do a complete cooking job, she spends at least two hours per day in her kitchen. It is the use of modern appliances which makes possible this great increase in efficiency and saving of time. The electric range and electric refrigerator make it possible to do a very much larger volume of cooking with ease than is possible with old-fashioned kitchen equipment. It is true that a kitchen thus equipped represents a large investment in appliances, but it is an investment that pays dividends. If it pays to use power and machinery to bake bread in a bakery, it pays to use them to bake bread at home.
The grouping of equipment into the work centers to save waste motion and keep different jobs moving along in smooth sequence is important. This depends, as does the size of the kitchen, upon the number in family and kinds of work to be done. Built-in equipment without legs to clean around and floors that are smooth and sanitary are big conveniences. Many sections or parts of equipment may be obtained, then put together as needed, like the old-fashioned bookcases. The stove, refrigerator, sink, cupboards, will fit together to form one working unit. Shelves are adjustable and both drawers and doors are interchangeable. Do not follow the same casual method in buying equipment for kitchen as in other rooms. It is a workshop and scientific manufacturers have seen to it that there is no excuse for having it otherwise. If it is now cumbersome and inconvenient, a comparatively modest sum invested can bring about great improvement.
A great deal of time and energy may be expended in a most convenient kitchen if utensils used require much care. Cleaning and scouring become an important factor in the daily routine, but with proper methods no extra time or work should be necessary. Care begins with cooking. Avoid spilling food on the outside or burning on the inside of utensils or stove. A good sudsy wash soon after utensils are used, with thorough rinsing and drying will mean less scouring and stain removing. Good scouring soaps and powders that don't scratch are on the market and are quick and effective for stained, burned utensils. Aluminum is popular, as it never rusts, doesn't chip or break, is a good conductor of heat and light in weight. When darkened by alkali, it may be cleaned by boiling water and vinegar or acid fruit. Enamelware in white or bright colors is decorative, good conductor of heat and the smooth glaze is resistant to acids and it seldom stains, but chips with too rough usage. Stainless steel is an attractive and practical metal. It is more expensive than other metal but gives years of service without becoming shabby and dented. Fewer good utensils is far better than many gadgets that require more care and storage than they give service.
Good lighting is a requisite for the convenient kitchen. Plenty of light doesn't mean glare. Spotty lights irritate, give headaches and react on nerves. We need two kinds of light ?general and special. Every room needs general illumination, ample in quantity and of proper quality, not necessarily light enough in every corner for close work but enough for the ordinary and usual routine of the home. This may be achieved in various ways?direct or indirect. By means of ceiling or wall fixtures the light should be diffused so there are no dark spots. Special light is needed for special places and special tasks which is brighter at a given place than general light. The work-centers in the kitchen, as table, sink, stove, the laundry tubs, the stairs, the basement, the attic, the reading and sewing centers, need this special lighting. Light on both sides of the dressing table mirror or bath room are best and should be of right height to light whole face.
With size to meet family needs and standards, with equipment placed to eliminate waste of time and energy, with work-centers the proper height for worker, with few good and easily cared for utensils, with bright cheery colors in wall, floors or curtains, with lights properly placed and adjusted to relieve strain, the kitchen becomes most restful though the most active room in the home. New equipment and expense are not always necessary to achieve this. Rearrangement and elimination will work wonders for convenience.
Handicrafts For Every Woman, pp. 50-58.
Literature (For Third Week in February)
Lesson V ABRAHAM LINCOLN
WE pass from the childhood to the youth of Abraham Lincoln. When Abe reached seventeen he was six feet. These were the years he was handling the ax. "The inside of his hands took on callous thick as leather." He cleared openings in the timber, cut logs and split firewood. On winter mornings he wiped the frost from the ax-handle, then followed blow after blow on the big tree, which felled he would use for a seat while he ate his dinner of corn bread and fried salt pork. He had strong shoulder muscles and steady wrists. He walked twenty-four miles one day to hear a lawyer make a speech.
Growing from boyhood to manhood he was often alone. His stepmother told him "she didn't mind his bringing dirt into the house on his feet; she could scour the floor; but she asked him to keep his head washed or he'd be rubbing the dirt on her nice whitewashed rafters." His mother said: "'Abe never spoke a cross word to me in his life.' As time went by the stepmother became one of the rich, silent forces in his life."
"He wanted to learn, to know, to live, to reach out." He said to Denis Hanks, "the things I want to know are in books; my best friend is the man who'll get me a book I ain't read." Sometimes his friends would reply, "Well, books ain't as plenty as wildcats in these parts of Indianny."
John Hanks, who worked with Abe, said, "When Abe and I came back to the house from work he used to go to the cupboard, snatch a piece of corn bread, sit down, take a book, cock his legs up high as his head, and read." All the boys read The Kentucky Preceptor, said Hanks, "but Abe picked out questions from it, such as 'Who has the most right to complain, the Indian or the Negro?' And Abe would argue about these things while pulling fodder in the cornfield." It was such things as these that made Dennie Hanks say there was "suthin' peculiarsome" about Abe.
Besides reading the Bible and figuring his way through the arithmetic, he read Aesop's Fables, Pilgrim's Progress, Robinson Crusoe, and The Life of George Washington, by M. L. Weems. In 1825 Robert Owens, a rich Englishman, had made a speech in Congress, saying that he hoped to find a better way for people to live "where work would be honorable yet there would be time for play and learning and where they would share and share alike, each for all and all for each." This scheme heartened the hungry soul of Lincoln. "There's a school with thousands of books," he said, "and fellows that knows everything." The schooling would have cost $100 a year perhaps, but Tom Lincoln had other plans for Abe. He wanted him to take a flatboat down the Mississippi River and trade flour, meal and bacon for cotton, sugar and tobacco. So Abe began cutting oaks to make a boat. Later it glided down the Father of Waters to New Orleans where the trade was made. New Orleans was a new world to him as people from many nations lived before his eyes. That year Indiana University printed its first catalogue and while the institution was to be no part of the young man's life, still nothing could keep him from reading, between the plow handles, The Revised Laws of Indiana, to which had been added the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution of the United States. Then, too, from the Louisville Gazette, which came weekly to Gentryville, he learned of the great orator, Henry Clay, of Kentucky, who came from a family of poor farmers. He also learned that the Erie Canal was finished and that it cost seven and a half million dollars.
Tom Lincoln now resolved on another move. Both men and animals had been coming down with the "milk-sick," so he moved to Illinois. But Lincoln carried with him a peddler's stock, which he sold along the road. He wrote back to Gentryville saying he had doubled his money, and incidentally he made his first speech. John Hanks put him on a box to answer a man opposed to improvements of the Sangamon River, and John told the neighbors "Abe beat him to death!"
When he reached Illinois, he helped build the cabin, put in the crops, and split the rails for fences. Many things contributed to hard times in the new state, where for days families lived on parched corn and where some died of cold and others of hunger. The Lincolns had a hard time. When the winter "eased up," they moved a hundred miles to Goose Nest Prairie in Coles County. Once again Abe took produce down the Mississippi. On his journey he saw many notices involving the sale of negro slaves. He saw an auction in New Orleans "where an octoroon girl was sold after being pinched, trotted up and down, and handled so the buyer could be satisfied she was sound of mind and limb." Lincoln was now twenty years old so he decided to go on his own.
"Saying good-bye to his father was easy, but it was not so easy to hug the mother, Sally Bush, and put his long arms around her, and lay his cheek next to hers and say he was going out into the big world to make a place for himself." Soon after he had left his father said to a visitor: "I s'pose Abe is still fooling hisself with eddication. I tried to stop it, but he has got that fool idea in his head, and it can't be got out. Now I ain't got no eddication, but I get along far better'n if I had." And the visitor left saying Thomas Lincoln was "one of the shrewdest ignorant men" he had ever known.
Industrialism was spreading. Cotton mills were the "industrial phenomenon" of the period. Each year tens of millions of pounds were produced. In 1820, cotton goods worth $2,500,000 were produced and in 1831 the total worth was estimated at $15,500,000; at the same time woolen mill output had increased from $1,000,000 to more than $15,000,000. It was a process that shook up culture, religion, and politics in New England and so mixed the currents of its destinies that Daniel Webster wrote: "We are disgraced beyond help or hope; there is a Federal interest, a Democratic interest, a bankrupt interest, an orthodox interest, and a middling interest; but I see no national interest, nor any national feeling in the whole matter." The spinning-wheel was consigned to the attic: "Spinning was to be done in cotton and woolen mills and clothes were to be cheap."
Lincoln found his way to New Salem, a trade center. Denton Offut opened a store and put Lincoln in as clerk in charge. Here Abe gained a reputation for honesty. One story ran "that counting the money a woman paid for goods he discovered she had paid six and a quarter cents more than her bill; so that night he walked six miles to pay it back."
A literary society was formed in New Salem, where Abe made speeches, and he heard that James Rutledge, father of Ann, was saying there was "more than wit and fun in Abe's head; he was already a fine speaker; all he lacked was culture" to enable him to become a distinguished man. Then, too, he had a lucky day. "It was the day that a mover prevailed on him to pay fifty cents for a barrel." Abe merely did it to oblige the man, but in the bottom he found Blackstone's Commentaries on the Laws of England. By accident he was owner of the one famous book that young men studying law should read first. Then Jack Kelso, the poet, who knew Shakespeare and Burns came into his life. Lincoln boarded at the Rutledge Tavern where it was said he never drank nor smoked nor swore.
When the Illinois legislature met at Vandalia in 1834 Abraham Lincoln was one of its members. He was twenty-five years old, holding his first elective office and being paid three dollars a day. He had to borrow the money to purchase the suit he wore, but he was serving his state, and he was also away from Ann Rutledge. It is just about one hundred years ago now that Lincoln lay taking Peruvian bark for chills and fever, when Ann Rutledge, who lay "fever-burned" sent for him. They spent an hour alone together. Two days after she died. Lincoln was back from the Legislature surveying in Sangamon County. In June, 1836, he again announced himself as a candidate for the Legislature, and was reelected. He came out for the enfranchisement of women and for moving the capital from Vandalia to Springfield. At this time the moral fiber of the man is revealed in the statement: "You will never get me to support a measure which I believe to be wrong, although by doing so I may accomplish that which I believe to be right."
Lincoln saw something of the civilization of his time as he rode into Springfield in March, 1837, to begin his law practice. About this time he appears to have proposed to a lady who rejected him, for in melancholy fashion he writes: "I have come to the conclusion never again to think of marrying, and for this reason: I can never be satisfied with anyone who would be blockhead enough to have me."
But in 1840 there came from Kentucky Mary Todd, "plump, beaming, with ready answers. She had smooth soft skin, soft brown hair, and was a center of likes and dislikes," among those who met her. "She was the first aggressively brilliant feminine who waylaid him with resources known to an accomplished and vital woman. To Mary Todd he lost his head." During her first year in Springfield both Abraham Lincoln and Stephen A. Douglas took turns at being entertained in the parlor at the Edwards house, where she lived. The story goes that she was asked which she intended to marry and she replied, "The one that has the best chance of being president."
In 1840 Lincoln and Mary Todd became engaged to be married. "The months passed, Lincoln was busy. He couldn't go to all the parties Mary Todd was going to: she flared with jealousy. And went with other men. They fell out, made up again. The wedding was set for New Year's Day, 1841. The bride was ready and the groom didn't come."
On the day set for the wedding Lincoln again took his seat in the State Legislature, which lasted two months. He made himself believe that he did not love Mary. His friend Speed said he should tell her so. He left to see her saying he would be careful not to say too much; but he was gone two hours and when he returned he said: "When I told Mary I did not love her she burst into tears and said something 'about the deceiver being deceived!' It was too much for me. I found the tears trickling down my own cheeks. I caught her in my arms and kissed her." Speed said "he was a fool and that he had renewed the engagement again." Lincoln replied, "Well, if I'm in again, so be it. It's done, and I shall abide by it."
On November 4, 1842, they were married. Lincoln was thirty-three and his bride was twenty-three. Much has been said about the marriage of Abraham Lincoln and Mary Todd, but Gamaliel Bradford, thought of as an especially keen biographical analyst, thinks they were always fascinated with each other. Four years later, Lincoln, who was now the father of two sons, Robert Todd and Edward Baker, was getting ready to go to Washington. True, there were still some debts from the New Salem Days "when his grocery store winked out into bankruptcy," nevertheless he had managed to buy a house on Eighth and Jackson street a few blocks from the public square. Yes, it was all quite true, Abraham Lincoln, the boy who wore deerskin moccasins and a coonskin cap was a successful lawyer in Springfield, Illinois, and he was going to the nation's capital to be the only Whig congressman from the state of Illinois.
Note: You will find additional material from chapters twelve to chapters eighty-two in "Abraham Lincoln, The Prairie Years," by Carl Sandburg.
Questions
1. S. Marion Tucker, an authority on Drama, says: "The supreme achievement of drama is the creation of character." The highest aspiration of the dramatist "is to form human beings as real and convincing as if nature herself had moulded them." What is true of the drama is in large measure true of the realistic novel, and also of the literary biography because it has adopted the technique of the novel. A biographer mainly interested in presenting facts might be satisfied with writing: Mary Todd, who came from Kentucky to Illinois, in 1840, married Abraham Lincoln in 1842. But a literary biographer does not do it that way. He paints such a picture of Mary Todd that you can see her. He also tells you so much about her that you know her. Turn to chapter fifty-two and read to the class the description there given and decide if Sandburg has been successful with his portrait. What do you like about her? What do you dislike about her? Are you interested in the description of her costume? Do you think she had ambition? Do you think she had insight? Chat about her in any way you feel inclined.
2. C. Alphonso Smith, of the English department of the U. S. Naval Academy merely brings to mind what all students of literature know when he says: "Literature can restore the past to you." It is characteristic of Sandburg's Lincoln that it is reconstructing the Prairie Years for you. Recall how he makes you feel the thrill of building the Cotton and Woolen Industry in the picture he paints. Cite other examples of a restoration of the past through pictures or other means.
3. Literature is always concerned with style. A writer without feeling for style might be content to say, There was something peculiar about Abraham Lincoln, but Sandburg has Dennie Hanks say: There was "suthin' peculiarsome about Abe." Sometimes when Abe asked for books to read his friends replied: "Well, books ain't so plenty as wildcats in Indianny."
4. Did you laugh as you read any part of the book? If so, it was because of the presence of humor. All novels are supposed to possess humor, and as the literary biography is akin to the novel it is that much more complete if it also possesses humor. Have you sometimes felt like weeping as you have read this story? If so, it is because it possesses pathos. Feeling enters largely into all branches of artistic writing and the author is conscious of seeking to affect the feelings of his readers. Can you cite examples of passages, that make especial appeal to the emotions?
5. In what way does Robert Owen's plan resemble plans we hear of today?
6. Under what circumstances, and in what year did Lincoln declare that women should be enfranchised?
7. Name some of the books Lincoln read. Which book is said to have been his favorite book?
Social Service (For Fourth Week in February)
Lesson 4 ADULT EDUCATION
Text: Civic Sociology, by Edward A. Ross; Chapter IX.
AT the heart of the problem of living well together is the task before all adults of adjusting to the social, economic, and spiritual requirements of the day. In a stationary society it would be possible to establish duties and responsibilities which would remain effective indefinitely. But in a changing society such crystallization is not only out of the question but attempts to effect it are dangerous to any kind of progress or development. It is true that the fundamental values and morals of life remain unchanged. Truth, honor, spirituality, and virtue will never cease to be the cornerstones of right living. But customs, manners, and methods of living do not remain the same even from one short period to another in any society which looks forward to growth and progress. However, it is all too easy for adults to evade the responsibility of meeting this changing world with a feeling of self-sufficiency and a satisfied reliance on the past. But yesterday's formula has lost its power to meet the problems of today just as the time will come when today's solution will prove inadequate for the questions of the future. It is the object of this lesson to point out that adults should strive to make an intelligent approach to the present through an understanding of contemporary problems, and that they should sense the responsibility of contributing to the needs of society as the result of such education. Their maturity and wisdom should not be lost to society through failure to do this.
The following specific purposes will be discussed:
1. The great need in the world today of adult education.
2. Intelligent participation in adult education movements.
3. Contributing to community welfare as one result of adult education.
Attention today is being constantly directed toward the changes sweeping over the educational system in all countries. Education for a new social order has taken the schools by storm until school curricula seem to have little resemblance to those of a generation ago. In the first part of the chapter pertaining to this lesson the text cites many of these changes. Attention is specifically called to the increasing equalization of educational opportunity for children, the greater proportion of young people attending schools and colleges, and the greater variety of studies being offered in the effort to train pupils to meet the everyday problems of life.
Parents are indeed pleased to see the constant changes in the school program which bring increased opportunities to their children. Wide fields of endeavor which were formerly considered beneath the dignity or entirely outside the scope of the educational system are now included. Often, they are found to be more closely related to successful living than mere knowledge of the three "R's." But the changes from theoretical and restricted schooling to the inclusion of the crafts, technical and vocational subjects, and more extensive study of manual training and home economics, are creating a real challenge to parents to keep abreast of the times. Mothers must realize that children thrive better on a well-balanced diet, and that knowledge of such a diet comes only with a study of the latest findings along that line. Fathers should understand that the methods of all kinds of mechanical work are constantly being improved and revolutionized. These are the skills of livelihood. They are the basis of our physical needs. But of equal importance to the changes that are constantly taking place in these lines and bearing a very close interrelation to them is another phase of our existence?the art of living together in group life. Of necessity, the science of human relations has undergone simultaneous changes because of the interdependence of the two phases of living. The mechanical changes may be easier to measure, but the social changes are just as marked if we but perceive them. Although technology may seem to have changed the world more for the benefit of the few than the good of all, the unmistakable ideal of social betterment is gradually replacing the past ideals of American freedom which were ruled by the theory of catch as catch can, and may the best man, win regardless of the harm done to others or the evil of exploitation. Human living is now on a plane so entirely different from that of a generation ago that adults must renew their studies in the light of the present. However, despite this fact, many homes are maintained in an atmosphere belonging to the past while the children are being taught the latest social developments in school. Is it any wonder that misunderstandings arise and points of view between parents and children are strained? The challenge of increased educational facilities and enlarged opportunity is bound to conflict with the ideas of adults, unless adulthood keeps in step with the times. Such a conflict LESSON DEPARTMENT is bound to create confusion in the minds of youth. The following quotation supports this point of view: "Unless adults learn to reshape their ideas in relation to the work they are trying to do in providing opportunities for growth for their children, youth, itself, will not be prepared to meet the complexities of the modern world which they must share with adults, and adults must share with youth." (White House Conference, p. 37.) Adults who persistently cling to the traditions, habits of discipline, and obedience to the regulations and customs of a passing period which they acquired in their o&n youthful days are at times quite incapable of meeting youth with any degree of understanding. But they should realize that they must keep in tune with the changes in the social world if they are to continue to hold the respect of young people and to be of constructive service in their guidance. "We cannot bend the ideas of youth back to the old order, nor restrain the advance of a society so swiftly changing. We must make ourselves a creating part of this onward moving stream." In regard to the necessity of adult education leaders are formulating statements of trends and policies of social changes. Three generalizations drawn from the "Charter of the Social Sciences," by Charles A. Beard, point out the burden of our educational practice today. First, the society in which we live is rapidly changing. The old order under which adults were schooled is giving way to new interpretations of life. If adults are to adapt to the new conditions of life, the problem is one demanding constant attention. Its solution requires ability to meet changing situations with a knowledge of scientific facts. The new adult 793 education is planned to provide such knowledge. It has been organized to help people as far as possible to understand these challenging situations so that changes may be made intelligently. The fact must be recognized that the economic individualism of pioneer days is being replaced by different types of social and economic planning, dependent upon collective efforts. According to the principles of democratic governments the wishes of the people cannot be overlooked if they are intelligently defined. The second conditioning factor of life today is the organization of life on a basis of science and machinery. Our civilization may be called technological as distinguished from one founded on agriculture and handcraft. But the present state of economic and social confusion is evidence that some form of social, economic planning is essential to the continued functioning of the newer means of production. Skilled artisans can never be certain that a new machine will not render their craft useless before they have reached middle life. The obligation of all adults to adapt to these new conditions of life also demands constant solution. And here, again, knowledge of scientific facts is necessary. Third: Whatever solution is evolved must be in harmony with the basic principles of human rights and should contribute to the end of political, economic, and social democracy. Unless the present generation continues to cultivate the practice of thinking critically and constructively upon these questions of social reform it will be inadequate in rendering intellgient judgments. But the individuals who decide policies of government as a result of well thought out conclusions in place of popular hearsay are too few indeed. 794 The agencies provided for the enlightenment of adults are constantly increasing. Each is trying to provide a broad intellectual preparation for modern life. A marked tendency is shown for older people to seek opportunities for self-improvement. Public schools conduct evening classes for instruction for those who had limited educational opportunities. Citizenship classes prepare for more intelligent participation in the affairs of government. Night schools, extension courses, and correspondence courses furnish additional training in vocational and allied fields. The extent to which people are availing themselves of these facilities is revealed by the fact that in 1930 approximately 1,000,000 people were registered in night classes in elementary schools, high schools, and vocational schools. Since that time the number has increased remarkably. Extension and correspondence courses offered by universities have so increased the number of available courses that the earnest seeker can now secure instruction in almost any line of learning desired. While much that is offered over the radio is still far from educational it is growing to be an important educational agency. The world's finest music is brought to all the people as part of their everyday life. Aesthetic and cultural opportunities are not stinted. Talks on art are brought to every one. But many people refuse the best that is offered for the more popular forms of entertainment. But the radio would provide greater and greater opportunities for broadening educational experiences if the desire were evidenced. No broadcasting company would dare to sponsor a program that did not meet the popular approval of the average adult audience. The type of movie sponsored is the one where adults render RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE their approval at the box offices. The press is always responsive to its readers. Until adults further cultivate ideals tempered by social welfare and express those ideals in tangible forms the need for further adult education will continue to be one of the most important needs of the hour. To the Latter-day Saint, education is viewed as a continuous process, a part of the great scheme of eternal progression. It begins with birth and continues not only for life, but, we believe in the hereafter. The Prophet, Joseph Smith, has given us a splendid understanding and goal to achieve as shown by the following statements taken from his teachings: "If one man, by his diligence obtains more knowledge than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come." "Whatsoever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life will rise with us in the resurrection." "Knowledge saves a man, and in the world of spirits no man can be exalted but by knowledge." '"'A man is saved no faster than he gets knowledge." "Tt is impossible for a man to be saved in ignorance." "The glory of God is intelligence." (Joseph Smith, The Prophet Teacher, p. 65.) Activities 1. Determine the relative number of adults in your community who are continuing their education by means other than. Attendance at Church organization meetings. 2. Prepare a list of the available classes open to adults in your community. 3. What trend is indicated by the subjects offered and the relative enrollment in the various subjects? "Does the trend indicate a healthy choice for social welfare? Child Guidance Lesson V JEALOUSY FEW emotions are experienced by man which from a social point of view are more important than jealousy, and perhaps no emotion is so dependent upon early environmental conditions for its development. It arouses anger and frequently hatred toward the object of jealousy. It causes the jealous individual to feel disregarded and inferior to his friends and neighbors, it damages his pride, and it lowers his self-respect. This may produce a desire for revenge and retaliation or may cause him to withdraw and hide his true feelings under a mask of indifference. We are all familiar with one or more of our friends or acquaintances who have what we call a jealous disposition. Not only are they jealous in reference to their love and friendships, but also of good fortune which falls to others. Pleasure and happiness can be only temporary for this type of individual. Their satisfaction with life is constantly being interrupted by their attitude toward the achievement and happiness of others. One of the most common situations which stimulates jealousy in the child is the birth of a new baby. This is not surprising when quite suddenly and unexpectedly this child of 3 or 4 finds his mother devoting practically all her time to the intruder. It may be that the child has been through a period of worry and upset. Often the older child is sent away during the mother's confinement. This may be the first time he has ever been away from home, and adults can little appreciate what this may mean to him, even though he ty be with the most well-meaning of relatives. His entire world is in upheaval. How can he know that it will ever come right again? He puzzles his little head over this, is told time and again that he is going back to mother and daddy, but when he gets there he appears to be supplanted. Or it may be that he stays at home, and mother is taken away to the hospital with little or no explanation to him. Again he is faced with an upset world. Why has mother left him? Will she really come home again? Then she comes, but not with undivided attention for him. Mother's love and attention must be shared; small wonder that feelings of hatred for the baby are aroused. However, this attitude toward the new-born baby can invariably be overcome if the older child is confided in and told that he may expect a new little brother or sister. He then awaits its arrival with interest and pleasant anticipation. Handled wisely, what might be a most unpleasant event in his life becomes a real pleasure which will mean companionship and a new playmate, some one to care for and protect. This sense of responsibility will work out to the advantage of both children. If, in the course of events, the older child does become jealous of the baby, never foster this attitude by teasing or encouraging it, or by looking upon it as something that is "funny" or "cunning." The emotions of childhood are far too dangerous to be toyed with in this way. Intelligent parents will find numerous ingenious ways to convince the child that he is still just as much loved and as important a member of 796 the household as he was before the "usurper" arrived. It is simply a matter of giving the older child a little more time and attention and a little assurance that he still holds the affection of those he loves. Often a child will become markedly jealous when the parents show affection for each other or for children outside the family circle. Unfortunately parents not appreciating the gravity of such a demonstration are frequently flattered by the child's resentment. This interesting and unusual display of emotion appeals to them and they term it "cute," making every effort to perpetuate and exaggerate it and even arousing it for show purposes when visitors come in. In one case the daily delight of the father of a little girl of 2 was to incite her to wrath on his return from work by cuddling the baby sister and ignoring the older child. This continued treatment has so warped her outlook that at 5 she stands at odds with the world, disliked by family and playmates, defiant, belligerant, and frequently inaking vicious attacks upon the sisters by whom she feels she has been supplanted. This, of course, is an exaggerated instance, but situations of this sort are far more common than most people suspect. Again, jealousy is aroused in one child by the constant praising and holding up of brother or sister as a model or persistently pointing out shortcomings and defects in the child who is inclined to be jealous. Nothing is more disastrous than playing the merits and abilities of one child against those of another. It causes feelings of bitterness, resentment, inferiority, and inadequacy. No family is big enough to play favorites or show partiality. In order to avoid as far as possible the development of jealousy in the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE child it is necessary to deal with that common characteristic of childhood called selfishness. The chlid must learn that he has certain obligations toward his family and later toward the community in which he lives. As early as possible he must begin to think of what he does and what he says in relation to other individuals and how his words and acts affect them. He will be repeatedly told that such and such an attitude in a given time or place is right or wrong. He will live in an environment where he can see that his pleasures and those of others are being considered by each member of the household. Thus, long before he can reason why, he will have acquired certain habits, developed largely through suggestion and imitation. The jealous child is apt to be one who in early life has not had the opportunity of developing interests outside himself. The only child is in a position to become self-centered. This is especially true if this child has been brought up in a crowded section of the city where he is confined to limited quarters with no companionship except that of his mother. He is, to be sure, monarch of all that is within his reach, but his field is far too limited. He has no knowledge nor chance to gain knowledge of the interests and activities of other children. The same holds true in a greater or less degree with a child who, by illness or accident, has been prevented from making early contacts with other children and has had only the companionship of an oversolicitous mother. He, too, becomes impressed with his own importance. Not infrequently one child in a family is especially favored by one parent or the other, being protected not from experiences but from the natural LESSON DEPARTMENT consequences of those experiences. Such children in later life are of the type who fail to recognize superiority of others and are intolerant and resentful toward authority. It is fairly safe to assume that if a child can be taught habits of unselfishness in the home, where his personal attachments are strongest and where he would naturally have more provocation to jealousy, and can learn to meet successfully the situations which develop there, he will encounter little or no difficulty from this emotional handicap when he gets outside. If it so happens that there are no other children in the home, every effort should be made to bring the child into association with children outside, even at the risk of physical dangers in the street and the chance of picking up some of the vocabulary of the alley. The child should be taught to share his toys and playthings, his candy, books, and pennies with other children. In games he must learn to strive for the good of the group and not for personal achievement. If defeated, he must learn to acknowledge better playing and take it with a smile. Children should learn to play many games with fair ability rather than to excel in one particular game. 'There is a great tendency, not only on the part of children but on the part of adults as well, to cling to the things they do exceptionally well and retire from the field of activity where they do not excel. Unselfish conduct should always be rewarded by commendations and occasionally by something of a material nature. There is certainly no disadvantage in the child's learning from experience that, selfishness is not a paying proposition. It is the jealous child who becomes the jealous man or woman. As a 797 child he encounters innumerable difficulties in getting on with his playmates. Because of this he develops a sense of failure and shame which is a tremendous handicap. He feels wronged and neglected; he has missed a "square deal." His selfcenteredness becomes more marked, and he draws away from his playmates and the activities of life thoroughly discouraged; or he may become domineering and pugnacious in an effort to gain attention for himself. Later in life this emotion causes an inability to share in the joys of others and makes it impossible to see others succeed without manifesting open resentment. The jealous person becomes an object of dislike. Often he develops the idea that he is unjustly treated or persecuted, and all too frequently this idea causes uncontrolled resentment and disastrous results. Study your child. Find out why he behaves as he does. Is he aggressive, belligerent and defiant? Is he sullen and resentful, or does he explode in outbursts of temper which clear the atmosphere? It may be that he is shy, quiet, and always a model of good behavior, letting life slip past him without taking an active part. Think the thing over; try to see his reasoning. Remember that the attitude he is showing may be the very opposite of what he really feels. Aggressiveness and defiance may be a mask for feelings of failure and discouragement; passive indifference may cover deeply wounded feelings. On the other hand, the child's conduct may be only the result of limitation and may be patterned after an admired "grown-up" or child with whom he comes in contact. Take time to know your boy or girl; it will prove in later years to be time well spent.