(Concluded on page 776) Notes from the Field By Julia A. F, Lund?General Secretary Czechoslovak Mission HE picture below is of the Czechoslovak Mission Relief Society. This picture was taken on the fifth anniversary of its organization. It is the first Relief Society to be organized in Czechoslovakia, and also the first among the Slovak people. This very fine accomplishment was made by Sister Martha Gaeth, while President of the Relief Societies of the Czechoslovak Mission. The organization now has as its President, Sister Joza Komarkooa, who was a great help to Sister Gaeth in Prague. She is a local sister and will conduct the work under Sister Martha S. Toronto, the new mission Relief Society President. The sisters in this group are thoroughly organized, and carry through the educational programs and the social activities for which they have ample opportunity in the Relief Society work. German-Austrian Mission W ORD comes from Sister Elizabeth H. Welker, in charge of the German-Austrian Mission Relief Society, that very splendid work in this progressive Mission is accomplished through the medium of the Relief Society. Sister Welker has had very fine cooperation in her educational program, particularly in her welfare work. An excellent message she sent out to the branch organizations of her mission, was full of helpful suggestions covering all phases of Relief Society work. No finer type of educational program can be put into effect than is made possible through these fine efforts of our sisters. New York Stake FROM one of our new and rather distant Stakes comes this delightful information from Montclair, THE FIRST RELIEF SOCIETY ORGANIZED IN CZECHOSLOVAKIA NOTES FROM THE FIELD N. J., from Sister Leone Amott Rose: ''We are having such success with our canning project that I want you to know about it. Then, every time you hear a grumble from some one, you can think of us, and smile. "The women here are cheerful, hard working, Holland and American converts, with a few of us from Utah. Many of them had never before canned anything?not even a bottle of jam. We have already filled over four hundred tin cans, and we have hardly begun peaches and tomatoes. We sliced our string beans, and they are perfectly elegant. Most of the corn is whole kernel style, and; confidentially, it's plenty of work putting up corn, but my goodness, it tastes good! We also have a big trunk full of clothing ?mended, folded, listed as to size, etc., and de-mothed. With such cooperation as all my officers are giving me, it is no wonder I am enthusiastic." Boise Stake ROM many parts of our organization we have had the most amazing reports of the Scripturereading Project. Literally our sisters have gone "back to the Scriptures." We also have very gratifying reaction from the Teachers' Topic; it correlates so well with the Project. From Boise Stake comes this very delightful report of the manner in which the Teachers' Topic and the Scripture-reading Project can be worked out together. Mimeographed copies of the explanation of the parable and the Visiting Blank are left at each home. From the plan submitted by Sister Mabel S. Nokes, President of the Boise Stake Relief Society, we quote the following: "Mother, what is a Parable?" "A parable, dear, is a story." 775 "Just any kind of story, Mother?" "No, dear. A parable is a very special kind of story, with a very special meaning, a lesson to learn." "Do you mean a story like 'The Hare and the Tortoise?' That has a lesson to it." "No. That is a Fable and the animals in it talk things over. That isn't natural, and parables always follow the natural order of things. The lesson in a parable is a spiritual one, too." "We couldn't call a Myth a parable, either, then, could we? Because a myth makes such things as Honesty and Victory have beautiful bodies and Greed and Laziness have ugly bodies when they really aren't Persons at all." "That's right, dear. And a parable isn't quite like a Proverb because it tells a whole story and lets the listener figure out how it would apply to him. And it isn't an Allegory because an allegory isn't natural and a parable is always natural. It is an Earthly Story with a Heavenly Meaning." "Nobody ever tells parables today, though, do they, Mother? Jesus was the only one who ever told parables, wasn't He?" "Mercy no, dear. Many times Mothers and Fathers who are wise, tell parables to their loved ones. It is a sweet way of letting the loved one figure out a way to make himself better. Teachers know that is a very good way to teach, but it takes time and patience. Jesus was the best Teacher of all and He loved to teach by parable. He knew others would listen to Him if he talked of sheep and grain, ships and other things they knew about, and He knew they would remember His stories. He loved tact and kindness, too. Jesus loved parables." "Oh, Mother, so do I!" 776 "Would you like to read to me one of my favorite parables? It is found in Luke 15, verses 1 to 7. See if you remember the name of it." "Let me see, Luke 15. Oh, yes, here it is. 1 to 7. Oh, Mother. That is about the Lost Sheep. I know about that one." "Yes, dear. The Parable of the Lost Sheep. Ward Boise Stake Relief Society Visiting Teachers (Date) As this demonstration is so fine we feel that other mothers might like to try it, so we are therefore giving it wider publicity through our Magazine. Bear Lake Stake A VERY fine report has reached the office, of the work accomplished through the Bear Lake Stake and especially the educational convention held during the month of September, at which the Stake Board members and a large number of Ward officers were in attendance. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE A preview of the coming year's work in the Literary Department was had. Instructions were given in reference to the Magazine Drive, and many of the Agents had unique suggestions for soliciting Magazine subscriptions. In the afternoon session a pageant was given demonstrating the use of the Teachers' Topic and also the value of the ten minutes' singing practice. The handwork of the different Wards was displayed. The Ward acting as hostesses for the occasion served a delicious luncheon. All parts of the program were presented by Ward members, and the musical numbers were furnished by the Singing Mothers. The spirit of love, unity, goodwill and fellowship was greatly increased by this meeting together of the Ward groups. Curlew Stake ON September 5, 1936, Sister Rebecca N. Cutler, President of the Curlew Stake Relief Society, was honored by an entertainment held in the Ward Recreation Hall. Her Stake Board acted as hostesses, and the M.I. A., and Primary Presidencies, as well as the Priesthood Presidency, were the guests, andjoined in extending to Sister Cutler congratulations and best wishes on her birthday anniversary. A THOUGHT (Continued from page 773) A thought is such a simple gift, Its price is just an eager thrift Of mind, a yearning of the heart To share, its beauty to impart. A thought is such a precious thing No gift of gold could ever bring The joy eternal and the light, O pause and send a thought tonight! Christ had no wealth to give away, And yet the world is rich today Because His wisdom had divined The grace of thought to save mankind.