Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon DECEMBER?Never more than at Christmas time are we grateful to the Lord for the blessing of little children. HE printer's art is at its finest touch in producing beautiful books for children at this season. The new books with their bright colors and quaint stories will delight the little folks, but the old time favorites from Mother Goose to Gulliver's Travels are appearing in wonderful new dresses, with fanciful designs and glorious colors, like a maple tree painted by Jack Frost. CORNELIA OTIS SKINNER has chosen another role in which she attains her usual success. As author of a new book, "Excuse It, Please!' she amuses and entertains equally well as she did as an unrivalled monologuist. Miss SALLY SALMINEN, a New York house maid, recently won a $25,000 prize for a novel written after hours and sometimes on the back stairs. Her own story of struggle and determination to accomplish this is as interesting as her book. FANNIE HURSTS' new novel, "Sister Act," has already been purchased by Warner Brothers for the screen. MME. FLAGSTAD, Norwegian | soprano, will make her first appearance in America in the role of Senta in Wagner's "Flying Dutchman" at the Metropolitan this winter. DORIS LESLIE has just had published a remarkable novel, "Fair Company." The book is a narrative so true in its historical incidents and descriptive tapestry that the reader can scarcely draw the line between the real and the imaginative part of the book. It covers the long period from 1796 through the Napoleon and Victorian eras down to the aftermath of the World War. Special emphasis is laid upon the women of these periods and the reviewers give the book much praise. JEWELS which formerly were reserved mostly for evening wear are worn this winter on tweed suits for street and office and are even seen sparkling on hats. MRS. BURTON W. MUSSER, of Utah, woman appointee of President Roosevelt as a member of the United States delegation to the Inter-American conference at Buenos Aires, Argentina, is a fine linguist and ardent social worker. The conference convenes in December. Mrs: ANNIE SULLIVAN MACY, teacher and companion to Helen Keller?"'The world's most remarkable woman'?died last October. Was not this patient, intelligent, skillful woman equally remarkable? Mrs. ELIZA SLADE BENNION, who died late in October, was a member of the General Board of the L. D. S. Primary for over 30 years. She was a devoted mother and a loyal friend.