(To be continued) Why Build Monuments? By Mary Grant Judd Part II FROM a consideration of the purpose of the recently unveiled monument at Winter Quarters, it is fitting, especially at Christmas tide, to think upon the significance of the statute to the Angel Moroni which crowns Cumorah?hill sacred to an ancient and modern people. Here God, working in his own mysterious way, brought forth, through the instrumentality of a resurrected being, a witness for Christ on this American continent. But for the Book of Mormon, the world would not be cognizant that the promise from Christ of a future visit to the "other sheep" had been fulfilled. As part of our Christmas worship, it would not be amiss for Latter-day Saints to re-read each year the beautiful story contained in the book of Third Nephi. Here is just a glimpse of that ever impressive story as told in the book of Mormon: "And now it came to pass That there was a great multitude gathered together Of the people of Nephi. And behold! They saw a Man descending out of Heaven; And he was clothed in a white robe; And he came down and stood in the midst of them; And the eyes of the whole multitude were turned upon him; For they thought it was an angel. And he spake unto the people: 'I am Jesus Christ; I am the light andthe life of the world. Behold, I have come into the world to bring redemption; To save the world from sin; I have laid down my life, And have taken it up again.' 'If ye will come unto me, Ye shall have eternal life'. Ad T is natural that the Hill Cumorah, as well as the country-side immediately adjacent to it, should have a magnetic pull of interest for all true Latter-day Saints. Here, within a short distance, is the quiet farm where Joseph Smith lived as a lad, and close by, is that secluded spot, where the drowsy-sounding insects still intone their rhythmic chant and where the great trees still shelter that most hallowed spot of ground, on which the boy knelt to make his supplication. The story of modern Cumorah is a gradual unfoldment. From an almost mythical hill, sought out by a few zealous individuals, it has become, through the importance attaching to the monument, a center of interest, attracting, in this year alone, upwards of fourteen thousand people. PRESIDENT BRIGHAM H. ROBERTS, when presiding over the Eastern States Mission, conceived the idea of commemorating the event by having all the missionaries under his direction make a pilgrimage to Cumorah and there hold their annual conference. The occasion proved so inspirational that from it came the custom of making the conference at the hill a yearly event. WHY BUILD MONUMENTS? It was in 1928 that the Church Authorities, largely through the efforts of Apostle George Albert Smith, purchased the Hill Cumorah, as well as the Smith Farm and the Sacred Grove. With the permanent occupancy of the farm by one of our own people, it became increasingly easy for those who desired to visit these scenes so rich in Latter-day Saint history and tradition. AFTER the purchase by the Church of this property, Presidents Ivins and Roberts were giving a radio address in which the fact of the transfer was noted. Torlief S. Knaphus, Norwegian sculptor and convert to Mormonism, was listening in. With breath-taking suddenness there flashed into his mind the thought of a monument to the angel Moroni atop the hill Cumorah. Then and there the general plan of the sculpture took shape in his consciousness. He visualized a granite pillar supporting the figure of a man holding the sacred record in his left hand, his right arm extending upward in an attitude of exhortation. Excitedly calling his twelve year old son, before the impression escaped him, the artist had the boy pose with arm outstretched as he quickly sketched the figure which he had conceived. For a year he worked on a small model, getting the proportions correct, before he raked up courage to place his idea before the first presidency. When he did, his plan was accepted, President Anthony W. Ivins being particularly enthusiastic, and he was given a commission to go ahead. After several years of painstaking effort, the work was completed. Connoting, as the monument does, the message of Mormonism, which if heeded will draw men's thoughts towards heaven and God, it was not 769 by chance that the sculptor chose for his expression of art a pillar with upward leading lines. Just as the encircling green hills in the surrounding country-side seem to sweep upward to this highest eminence and culminate in the white shaft piercing the blue, so human aspirations towards the divine rise to their highest point when man, glimpsing heaven, gives heed to the Gospel plan. Then his soul is flooded with light, even as the shaft shines forth out of the darkness each night attracting the beholder for miles around, as great search lights play over the hill. And just as the monument, crowning the hill, becomes the focal point of all the surrounding country, so the message which it symbolizes is the pivotal point of the religion known as "Mormonism"'. With the belief in the reality of modern revelation, our, religion stands or falls; there is no middle ground. The statue to the angel Moroni announces to the world that God has spoken to man in this generation and that personality persists after death. This is the only piece of sculpture ever erected by an enlightened people to commemorate deeds done on this earth after the doer had ceased to be mortal man. "This," says Elder Bryant S. Hinckley, "is a most remarkable thing. And the fact that gives emphasis to it, is the character of the people who did it. The Latter-day. Saints are not a highly emotional people, on the contrary they are a matter-of-fact, practical, thoroughgoing people. To know that they have implicit faith in all that the monument commemorates is a marvelous testimony in a day of unbelief and skepticism." Thus it was right and proper that the commission to execute this work of art should be given to a convert 770 to our faith?one who had accepted the testimony of Moroni himself in the closing chapter of the book of Mormon wherein he says that if those reading the book in the future would do so prayerfully, asking for a witness of the truth of the work, they would receive it. This Torlief Knaphus had done years before in his native Norway, when, at the age of twenty-one, he was baptized in a river thick with ice in Oslo, the capitol of Norway, where he had gone on his own resources to further his study of sculpture and where the gospel found him. It was far from easy for young Knaphus to link his fortunes with the misunderstood people whom he joined. He was the only member of his family to embrace the gospel at that time. He knew how disappointed his parents would be to have their hopes in his artistic future shattered. But he felt such an urge to come to the Rocky Mountains that he gave up a free scholarship to study in Rome and came to Utah. He says that the Book of Mormon has always been a source of great inspiration to him and that he has read and re-read it many times. In speaking of the monument he says: "I trust that my inperfections in not more gloriously arranging this wonderful subject shall not be an RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE offence but that, of the millions who see it, many thousands will be deeply impressed by it and many will be led to investigate the Gospel through its erection." THOSE who attended the services incident to the unveiling of the monument in July of last year were deeply moved by the solemnity of the occasion. Impressed with the possibilities of declaring the message of the book of Mormon from this significant spot, President Don B. Colton of the Eastern states mission arranged to have a suitable pageant written. At the regular conference in July of this year, a dignified portrayal titled, "Truth from the Earth" was given. So successful was the effort that it is now planned to repeat it each year. It will be given out-of-doors so that great crowds can be accommodated with very little effort. Remembering the marked success of the centennial pageant in the Salt Lake tabernacle it may not be too much to anticipate that this event at Cumorah may become nationally known and that, perhaps in the life-time of some of this generation the words of Moroni himself shall be fulfilled wherein he said: "And now I speak unto all the ends of the earth."