[Vol24 | November 1937 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Guide | Title: Literature L]
Literature Lesson 5
LOG CABIN LADY
"It isn't done in England." That statement or one like it was a constant reminder to Mary, "the log cabin lady," that her social education had been sadly neglected. You will remember that she had engaged a Scotch lady of aristocratic birth to act as tutor for her. This arrangement, however, lasted but "one terrible week." The Scotch lady was, perhaps, just a bit too insistent upon what "is done in England."
Mary, as we have called the author of "Log Cabin Lady," pictures the break with the Scotch Tutor rather well, and at the same time, gives the reader a glimpse into her own American heart. In the presence of her husband and two important visitors, Mary had spoken to her chef waiter and had given him presents for the children.
"When we were alone," she wrote, "the Scotch lady turned to me. 'In England,' she said, 'ladies never converse with their servants, particularly in the presence of guests.'
"Then she sealed her doom. 'Ladies never make gifts to their servants,' she added. 'Their secretaries, housekeepers, or companions disburse their bounty.'
"I remembered the old U. S. A. An American chef waiter might hope to be the father of a President...
"I would learn table manners from an English lady of aristocratic birth and social experience; but when it came to the human act of a little gift to a faithful servant, I declared my American independence.
"I was homesick for Wisconsin, homesick for real and simple people. I wanted to go home!
"That night Tom and I had our first real quarrel, and it was over my dismissal of the Scotch lady of aristocratic birth."
Mary felt friendless and lonely in England chiefly because she did not know how to get along well with people. She was self-conscious and diffident. She had dreamed much of England and its famous places and people, but she found herself unhappy among the shrines of her dreams,
A week-end in the country where Mary evidently thought she would find rural life such as she had known in Wisconsin and where, instead, she met dignity and form, added to her troubles. Unused to English country ways she had taken only bare necessities with herself and husband for the stay.
Upon her return to London, however, Tom insisted that she get another companion. This time she was more fortunate and got not only a lady of splendid breeding and standing, but a friendly companion as well. Her name was the Honorable Evelyn, "but we quickly got down to Mary and Eve," Mary declared. With this lady as her companion, Mary went to France with her husband where the free and easy manners of the French aided in restoring her poise. Eve proved to be a priceless asset and the two women became warm friends instead of tutor or companion, pupil or mistress.
In writing of her French experience, Mary says: "There is something in being born on a silken couch. Nothing surprises you. You are at ease anywhere in the world. Eve fitted into Paris as naturally as in her native London. I began to feel at home there myself....
"My new friends in Paris discovered my happy secret," wrote Mary. (She was to become a mother.) "It was my all-absorbing thought and I was delighted to be able to discuss it frankly.
Motherhood is the great and natural event in the life of a woman in France, and no one makes a secret of it. I was very happy in Paris. And then ?Tom had to go to Vienna." In Vienna Mary found form and ritual and dress even more rigid than in England. The acts of important people were governed entirely by the clock. She, having a mind of her own, rebelled and made Tom do the social honors while she and Eve enjoyed the museums. She was not sad when after a short time Tom was called back to England.
Upon her return to England Mary made her last "bad break.'' Upon being told by Mr.
Gladstone that she looked tired and needed to go to Harwarden Castle for a rest, she replied: "... It isn't that?I'm not tired. It is such a happy reason!" "I felt Eve gasp. Mr.
Gladstone opened his kind eyes very wide and his heavy chin settled down in his collar. "Tt was the last bad break I made," she said. "But it was a blessing to me, for it robbed all social forms of terror. For the first time, I realized that custom is merely a matter of geography. One takes off one's shoes to enter the presence of the ruler of Persia. One wears a black tie until eleven o'clock in Vienna?or doesn't. One uses fish knives in England until he dines with royalty ??then one must manage with a fork and piece of bread. One dresses for dinner always, and waits for the hostess to say it is time, and speaks only to one's neighbor at table. In France one's guest speaks to any or all of the others; all one's friends extend congratulations if a baby is 745 coming; one shares all his joys with friends. But in England nobody must know, and everybody must be surprised. No one ever speaks of himself in England.... "With the aid of Eve I made a thorough study of the geography of social customs...." The remainder of the page, at least, should be read in class, for it not only gives a statement of the understanding of this girl who had suffered with a "social custom inferiority complex" but also of an easy way to become at home among all people. "Fear is the destroyer of peace," Mary continued in chapter six. "I knew no peace until I learned not to be afraid of conventions. The three most wretched years of my life might easily have been avoided by a little training at home or at school."
After their baby was born Mary and Tom made a hurried trip to the United States.
While they were over here, Tom sent for Mary's mother and the twins. ".... And they arrived at the Waldorf Hotel, where we were staying. Dear, simple mother, in her terrible clothes, and the twins got up with more thought of economy than beauty!"
Mary shopped with the twins, but was surprised to find that her mother liked best to remain at home with the baby. "With all the children she had brought into the world one might think she had seen enough of babies. But she adored my little son. How near she seemed to me then! How hungry I had been for her without realizing it! I felt that she loved my baby boy as she had never loved me or any of her own children." The remainder of page 72 as well as pages 73 and 74 might well be read. It is touching in its beauty. A little later the trio?Tom, Mary and the baby?returned to Europe where life was still somewhat bitter for the lady who, on account of the 746 vacancies left in her education, was unable to adjust.
Mary lays her finger on her trouble in the following words: "A hard and bare youth had made me supersensitive and suspicious and narrow. I wanted to measure people by the standards of my own primitive years. I resented good manners because I believed they were a cloak of hypocrisy."
While they were still in England, the baby died. Tom asked for a leave and the couple went back to Wisconsin to visit Mary's folks. It was then she discovered that Tom was genuine through and through despite the fact that he had good manners. He was perfectly at home on the farm and among the farmers with whom he associated. "Tom was natural," says she in describing that visit. "It was just a part of him to be kindly and gracious to everybody." Tom and Mary, now a bit older, returned to England and Europe where they lived many years, Mary knowing at last how to conduct herself upon every occasion.
Then came the World War. She includes here a few interesting pages dealing with the young ladies, especially, who went from America to perform their parts heroically, but?to break many, many social customs.
Mary lived to see the signing of the Armistice when in the emotional upheaval of that day all men became suddenly equal and social customs and empty form for a while, at least, were forgotten. "Then I came home and went to Newport." In her final chapter, Mary, after relating a beautiful story of barriers swept away in England, tells of their erection by the newly rich in America?at Newport.
There she saw people aping the ways of European aristocrats. "The Far West still keeps the
American inheritance of open-hearted hospitality and its provincialism. The West inherited some of the finest virtues of our country, and if it is not bitten by Back Bay, Philadelphia, Virginia, or Charleston, it will grow up into its mother's finest child," Mary concludes. "President Harding has said that he hopes niore and more people will learn to pray in a closet alone with God. There are many people like that in our Middle West. "I say this because I hope it will help other American women who love their country to fight for honesty and purpose in our national life, and for tolerance and respect for the simple things in our private lives." That concludes the picture of this American woman as she has given it to us in this brief book. Has she succeeded well in presenting herself to her readers? Has she had a worthwhile message and has she stated it adequately in this little book? Questions and Problems for Study 1. What sort of person is Mary as you get her picture from this book? Was the fault of not being able to get along better all with her? Where do you place some of the blame; where did she? 2. In what way is custom?social usage?a matter of geography? Ilustrate by means of examples from your own lives. In what way did the discovery that custom is geographical help Mary to adjust? 3. Discuss?''Fear is the destroyer of peace." Relate the discussion, of course, to the book and to social usage. 4. In what way did the World War and the Armistice affect the social customs of all nations? Relate instances if you can.
