[Vol24 | November 1937 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Article | Title: ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND ACTIVE MEMBERS BY 1942]

IN 1916 the total membership of Relief Society was 43,894. For the year ending December, 1936, the total membership was 73,062. These figures indicate that within the past twenty years there has been an increase in membership of 29,168—approximately 1,458 new members annually.

An enrollment of 100,000 active members by 1942 would mean an increase in membership of 26,938 within the next four and one-half years—approximately 5,986 new members per year. If each member would be willing to assume the responsibility of enrolling one new active member within the next four and one-half years, the total membership would far exceed our expectations.

There is a fertile field to draw from. In stakes only, there are 127,248 families. With Relief Society totaling 59,725 members in stakes, and 13,337 in the missions, we have some idea as to what the future promises.

It might be of interest to give some statistics of various wards: In one large ward there are 544 families. Of this number 160 are represented in Relief Society, with an average attendance of 64. In a ward of average size—150 families, 52 are represented in Relief Society with an average attendance of 26. In a small ward of 78 families, 36 are represented in Relief Society with an average attendance of 11.

Total number of families in these three wards—772; number represented in Relief Society 248, average attendance 101; this indicates less than one-third are represented in Relief Society, that less than one-half of those enrolled attend regularly. If the records of other wards are comparable to these (we have every reason to believe they are) some consideration should be given to increasing active members.

In one ward a certain President keeps accurate check of those not attending. After roll is called, mention is made of those not present and certain individuals are appointed to keep in touch with absentees. This method stimulates attendance.

IT has been said "A great purpose is magnetic, it attracts resources." If this be true we can attract resources to build the organization, to recruit the ranks and make safe the goal. Some available resources are—Ward Clerks, Inactive Members, Class Leaders, Work and Business Supervisors, Visiting Teachers, Enlistment Committees, Special Program Committees, Ward Conferences, Daughters' Day, Musical Activities, Special Stake Days.

It might be well to appoint special chairmen to supervise the work that will necessarily arise. If a division of responsibility is made, it should result in no one person being overworked. The President might prefer to be responsible for contacting the Ward Clerk, the Inactive Members and Visiting Teachers; one Counselor—the Class Leaders, including Work and Business Supervisors, Enlistment Committee, Special Program Committee. Another Counselor might use the Ward Conference, Daughters' Day and Ward Musical Activities for recruiting members.

From the Ward Clerk definite information can be obtained as to number of families in ward, number in family, ages, etc. He can also furnish periodically names of new members in the Ward.

A definite program for interesting inactive members might be considered—not an intensive one-year program—but one that is extensive, one that will sustain through the years.

Class Leaders and Work and Business Supervisors can cooperate by featuring the lessons and work days, by providing special days for guests, by inviting them to assist with programs, by keeping in constant touch with those whom they consider prospective members.

Visiting Teachers have a splendid opportunity to recruit the ranks. They can take a very definite message into the home each month—one that will stimulate and help members and non-members to feel the importance of Relief Society.

Enlistment Committees can be most helpful in strengthening the ranks.

Special Program Committees can accomplish much in interesting non-members.

Attractive high-class programs usually reach individuals sometimes considered disinterested.

Relief Society Ward Conferences are invaluable. Special effort can be put forth at that particular time to bring before the public the real values of Relief Society, to inform them of its many advantages, of benefits to be derived through active participation.

Of all our resources probably the greatest is Daughters' Day, which provides a rare opportunity to honor another generation—future members—and to acquaint them with Relief Society functions. If a special committee were given the responsibility of planning for this day, preparation could commence early in the year, a check made on number of daughters, with a view to securing as many as possible to participate on the program. A Daughters' Chorus might be used.

We cannot over estimate the value of musical activities. Music can reach the hearts of individuals where nothing else will, for it speaks a universal language, it unites humanity, makes "ordinary living glorious living."

Stake Boards can support and strengthen the endeavors of Ward Members. A special Stake party might be held once a year to encourage prospective members—to welcome new members. A Stake Daughters' Day might be featured.