[Vol24 | November 1937 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Article | Title: THE CHARACTER OF JESUS]

IN the life of Christ we have depicted a character of unusual proportions and sublimity. It is worthwhile to see with our spiritual eyes and with great care. It is possible out of 2,000 years to get some idea of the proportions of a personality—size, magnificence and quality! I emphasize quality. Here is perhaps the most graphic description of Christ, given by a man named J. A. Francis, of Los Angeles.

"Here is a man who was born in an obscure village, child of a peasant woman. He grew up in another obscure village. He worked in a carpenter shop until he was thirty, and then for three years he was an itinerant preacher. He never wrote a book. He never held an office. He never owned a home. He never had a family. He never went to college. He never put his foot inside a big city. He never traveled two hundred miles from the place where he was born. He never did one of the things that usually accompany greatness. He had no credentials but himself. He had nothing to do with this world except the naked power of his divine manhood.

"While still a young man, the tide of popular opinion turned against him. His friends ran away. One of them denied him. Another betrayed him. He was turned over to his enemies. He went through the mockery of a trial. He was nailed upon the cross between two thieves. His executioners gambled for the only piece of property he had on earth while he was dying, and that was his coat. When he was dead, he was taken down and laid in a borrowed grave through the pity of a friend.

"Nineteen wide centuries have come and gone and today he is the center of the human race and the leader of the column of progress.

"I am far within the mark when I say, that all the armies that ever marched, all the navies that were ever built, all the parliaments that ever sat and all the kings that ever reigned, put together, have not affected the life of man upon this earth as powerfully as has this one solitary life."

Beautifully expressed, graphic in every way. Now by what power became He so great? By what human yardstick would you measure the proportions of His character? Who was this wonderfully perfect man? What human qualities made this incomparable character? What does it mean to us? It is a very simple old formula. Sow a thought you reap an act; sow an act you reap a habit; sow a habit you reap a character; sow a character you reap a destiny. You all remember that without repetition—thought, action, habit, character, destiny—a natural process. That is why we want to look at this life inquiring, who is he? How did He do the marvelous things He accomplished? And as we see the wonderful qualities that went to make up His character, we too, humbly and reverently draw the torn threads of that great fabric of personality, and weave them into our own souls, and obtain a destiny. That is why Christ's life has a great appeal, why it will always be the source of personal power and influence, comfort, peace, strength and security to men, because He lived our lives in His way, showing us we may try to live His life in our poor way.

Here is something interesting. It is a new light upon the Christ. In a book recently published is this little picture. I do not know how trustworthy it is, how much we may accept of it as being reliable. It is called "The Archko Volume." Here is the latest report to Tiberius Caesar, Emperor of Rome:

"Among the various rumors that came to my ears there was one in particular that attracted my attention. A young man, it was said, had appeared in Galilee preaching with a noble unction a new law in the name of the God that had sent him. At first I was apprehensive that his design was to stir up the people against the Romans, but my fears were soon dispelled. Jesus of Nazareth spoke rather as friend of the Romans than of the Jews. One day in passing by the place of Siloe, where there was a great concourse of people, I observed in the midst of the group a young man who was leaning against a tree, calmly addressing the multitude. I was told it was Jesus. This I could easily have suspected, so great was the difference between him and those listening to him. His golden-colored hair and beard gave to his appearance a celestial aspect. He appeared to be about thirty years of age. Never have I seen a sweeter or more serene countenance. What a contrast between him and his hearers, with their black beards and tawny complexions!"

ANY noble character which arouses the admiration of men must possess certain well known qualities in proper proportion and degree. First there must be calmness, majesty, self possession. There must be cleanliness too, for sin is repulsive, and creates distrust, but where there is cleanliness there is confidence and respect. There must be refinement. He must be a gentleman or a gentlewoman to direct and arouse the admiration of people. To be a gentleman, to be refined, one must look to the welfare of others and not to self. There must be in proper proportion and balance all the elements that go to make up a man, the exquisite quality of tenderness, yes, a womanlike quality of tenderness. One that can say, when the crowd was tearing little children away from Him, "Suffer little children to come unto me, and forbid them not, for of such is the kingdom of heaven."

Purity, "He that looketh upon a woman to lust after her hath already committed adultery within his heart."

Strength. No weak man will hold the admiration of men, and particularly of women. Women love strong men. Look at this man, alone, without friends or support, with His closest associates denying and betraying Him, deliberately walking into Jerusalem to His own crucifixion. Strength!

A person who is admired must be tactful. There is nothing so impossible as a stumbling person who lacks that priceless quality called tactfulness.

This is a test of tact and loyalty. Subject to Roman power, will He be loyal to the Jews or the Romans. Is it right to pay tribute to Caesar? You are of the House of Judah, the reigning house of Israel, is it right to pay tribute to Caesar? Notice the tactful reply. Taking a coin, looking at the inscription on the same He said, "Render unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and unto God the things that are God's."

Courage: The cleansing of the Temple;

Sincerity: The parable of the Pharisee and the Publican.

The quality of Mercy: The woman caught in adultery. Everybody was prepared to execute her without trial, for an adulterer was worthy of death, and they had the stones gathered with which to stone her to death, a most brutal manner of public execution. Jesus sat down on the sand, and with His finger wrote some figures in the sand, and this is what He wrote: "Let him who is without sin cast the first stone at her." He went on writing, but did not look up. In a few minutes they had all passed by. "Woman, where are thine accusers." "They have all gone." "Neither do I condemn thee: go, and sin no more." What beautiful mercy! What a tactful approach!

Self Respect: A man who has not self respect will not be respected by others. "Beware," said they, "Herod will get you." "You go and tell that old fox that I do miracles today, but it cannot be that a prophet die out of Jerusalem, I suppose that I will have to meet the fate of the other prophets.

Will-power: A wishy-washy man never did command respect and esteem, but a man who can stand by his convictions, assuming that they be right, must have will-power. Consider Him in the Temptation! Behold Him standing in the green shades of Gethsemane, where the victory was won before He was raised upon the Cross. The great moral and spiritual struggle had been thought out and won because of His will-power to do the thing He knew He should do and consummate that sacred life. You and I have these problems every day in one form or another, of course in lesser degree.

A man who is lawless and disobedient to the higher laws will not stand as an ideal and as a potential power in society. "I came to do the will of my father." Note the beautiful contrition of heart. In another place, "I do nothing that I have not seen my Father do," reaching into realms beyond human comprehension.

A man without compassion will not hold human imagination and reverence. Behold Him feeding the multitude by the performance of a miracle. "We only have a few loaves and fishes." Never mind, set them around in an orderly manner and they will be fed. Five thousand were fed, and when they gathered up the fragments, they had more left over than they had to begin with.

A man will never hold the admiration of men who is intolerant, narrow-minded, bigoted, or fanatical. Christ had the quality of tolerance strongly developed in His philosophy. The people said, "Why the blind are made to see, the deaf to hear, the dumb to speak, the sick are healed, and even the devils are subject unto him." What did He say? What vision came into His great mind, reaching far into Eternity? "Rejoice not that devils are subject unto you, for I behold Satan, as lightning, cast down from Heaven." Sorrow, pathos, pity, tolerance for the disobedience of man. He turns from them in his misery, "Rather rejoice that your names are written in the Lamb's Book of Life, in that Satan is made subject to you."

Poise: Behold Him in Gethsemane with Judas kissing Him on the cheek. He could stand that betrayal kiss, and a multitude came with staves and swords to arrest Him. He said, "I was teaching in the temple and you could have taken me any time, why these swords and staves." See what power comes from purity and innocence! When Peter drew his sword and smote off the servant's ear, note the Master's perfect poise, "Peter put up thy sword, for they that live by the sword shall perish by it." Then Christ replaced the severed member upon the head of the poor servant, performing His last miracle.

His sense of values: The souls of men are of the highest value. "What profiteth a man though he gain the whole world and lose his own soul." The souls of men He came to save, not to destroy.

A proud and haughty man is never esteemed. Christ was the sample of humility and meekness. Lord of Lords, and King of Kings, He threw off His robe, put a towel around His loins, bent down on His knees and washed the dusty feet of the Twelve Apostles then said, "Let him who would be greatest among you be the servant of all."—Humility!

A lazy man is never admired. He must be industrious in some worthy undertaking. At eight or twelve, "Wist ye not that I must be about my Father's business?" He was at work all the time. He was ambitious, He was industrious.

Another quality is that of loyalty—loyalty to His friends, loyalty to God. "Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends."

He showed His faith, His courage, His willpower and His patience. In the great temptation at the beginning of His ministry there was the invaluable experience of self revelation, of self discovery, without which He could not have met the crisis in Gethsemane; one was but a preparation for the other. When that fearful crisis came three and a half years later, He said, "Oh Father, I am sorrowful even unto death, but come with me, do not forsake me altogether, stay here while I pray." Going off a little distance he prayed, "Oh Father, if it be possible let this cup of bitterness pass from me." He knew He could triumph by the aid of His Father. When He returned to His Apostles they had fallen asleep, and He said, "Could ye not keep awake long enough to be with me." He passed through an ordeal which you and I perhaps will never understand. Even He, the Son of God, with devotion and consecration. In severe pain and anguish of soul while He was on the Cross He said, "Eli Eli Lama Sabachani," which is to say, "My God, My God, why hast thou forsaken me." Giving His life for the benefit of others, Satan demanding the price of sin, which is death, and He was without sin, but upon him rested the burden of human sin, and He felt for the moment that He was forsaken of God, His dearest, most steadfast friend. But how glorious! By He came back, all power is given unto Him both in Heaven and on earth. "Go ye therefore and teach all men, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost. Lo I am with you always even unto the end."

Sisters, mothers, in whose hands is placed the stuff out of which immortal souls are made, you mothers should rear and train your children, and train the mothers of future children. May you hold these beautiful qualities of character, as you are doing, close to their hearts, and draw from them strength and power to consummate the glorious work you are doing unto God's favor and approval, I humbly pray in Jesus' name. Amen.