[Vol24 | November 1937 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Guide | Title: Literature for Missions]

Literature for Missions TYPICAL WOMEN IN THE CHURCH Lesson 5 MARGARET STALLE BARKER Born in Italy "THE subject of this sketch was born October 20, 1850, at Prarustin, a village in one of the valleys of the Piedmont, northern Italy. Her parents, Jean Pierre and Marie Gaudin Stalle, were of French descent and belonged to a Protestant group, known as Vandois or Waldensees.
This group had suffered much severe persecution during several generations in spite of which it still clung to the faith of the fathers. It was a group therefore that was characterized by strong religious convictions, for which many thousands of them had fought and died during previous generations. The story of their persecutions is one of the saddest of all the sad, inhuman persecutions that blacken the pages of civilization in Europe during the Reformation. The Stalles were small farmers who were able to live only by dint of hard work and the strictest economy. Of course, they lived simply as did most of their neighbors.
Among these people there went a few missionaries of the Church who first began their labors in 1850, under the direction of Apostle Lorenzo Snow, who became the fifth President of the Church in 1898. The missionaries met with great success.
Thirty families from this smali group joined the Church.
They were opposed and persecuted.
Their persecutors, descendants of cruelly persecuted people, had not learned how to be tolerant to other religions. But among the few converts of the elders were Pierre Stalle and family, baptized about 1853. In November, 1855, responding to an invitation by Mission President Franklin D, Richards to emigrate to Zion, the family soon started for Liverpool, leaving unsold their little home and farm. On December 12, the Stalle family, father, mother and four children, the youngest of whom was Margaret, 5 years old, sailed from Liverpool with nearly 500 other Saints, 437 of whom were from Denmark, Norway and Sweden, 42 from Great Britain, besides a few others from Piedmont. The passage across the Atlantic to New York required 66 days, in decided contrast to the 414 to 8 days required in these times. The difference in ship accommodations between then and now is probably as great as the difference in time. The accommodations given to emigrants in those days were extremely meagre. Reaching New York the family went to St.
Louis by train, then made its way to Florence, Nebraska, where in June, 1856, it joined the first hand-cart companies bound for Salt Lake City.
Before this the usual method of emigrant crossing of the plains was by oxteams.
This way was slow. Further, the strong and able-bodied folk walked beside their slow-moving wagons.
Hence the idea of hand-cart companies was soon suggested. Furthermore, handcarts were much cheaper than wagons and oxen.
Cheapness would greatly aid the poor emigrants. The first hand-cart companies ever to cross the plains to Salt Lake City left Iowa City June 9, 1856. The distance was 1,300 miles. There 752 were no real roads?only trails, and these were usually rough. The plains were dry and hot. In many places water and fuel were scarce.
Even food was never any too plentiful, often short. The carts had to be lightly loaded, for they were to be pulled and pushed by the foot-sore pedestrians; all who were able toiled at the carts. Is it any wonder that many were overtaxed and died on the way, due to exposure, lack of enough suitable food and other hardships? Of course, the emigrants could carry in their carts no furniture or heavy belongings, only a scanty supply of clothes, food and bedding. If they had more than these, they were asked to leave them behind.
Such clothing as the Stalle family had not left at Florence had to be worn constantly in all kinds of weather and to sleep in at night and was of little value on reaching Salt Lake City. At times they found water scarce and had to dip it out of buffalo tracks after a rain storm. At other times unusually long marches were made to reach wood and water.
When there was no expectation of finding wood, a sack was hung on the back of the handcart to carry dry buffalo chips, picked up on the way. You ask, "How could they think of starting off on their long, difficult trek so poorly equipped?" It was their undaunted faith in a living God that made them confident that all would be well. In this connection read the immortal hymn "Come, Come Ye Saints," written especially for the emigrants crossing the plains.
Notice the fourth verse: "And should we die before our journey's through, Happy day! All is well!" No, they were not afraid of hardships, not even death itself.
Liberty and freedom to worship God in peace were worth any sacrifice, even RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE life itself. But mortal life is but an instant. A happy, everlasting life beyond the grave and a glorious resurrection were the important things.
Soon after beginning the trek Margaret's father became ill and later died on the way. Her mother was still weak from the long sickness suffered on the trip across the Atlantic. So the family hand-cart had to be pushed by her sister, 19 years old, and her sixteen-year-old brother, Margaret herself being only 5; while old enough to walk all the way was not strong enough to toil at the cart. The body of her father was wrapped in a sheet and placed in a wayside grave between two layers of sagebrush and covered with earth. On the day of his death, he told his family that he could not go on but that they would reach the Valley (Salt Lake) in safety and would never want for bread.
This was a remarkable prophecy. A penniless widow and four children, none of whom at the time could speak English, were on the way to a povertystricken country. Yet the dying father told them they should never suffer for the need of bread. And they never did. The companies arrived in Salt Lake City, September 26, 1856, having been more than three months on their weary trek. The problem for the widow and her four children was at the moment very difficult, aggravated by the language handicap. But the courageous woman was undaunted. The older girls found homes in which to work, and the mother, son and Margaret went to Ogden to live near other friends.
There the mother and her son made a dug-out, one room in the side of a hill, to live in.
Years after, Margaret wrote: "The roof of the dug-out was made LESSON DEPARTMENT of willows, covered with bulrushes and then dirt. The dirt floor was covered every Saturday with fresh straw when we could get it. We had no furniture, but for a bed and a seat forked sticks were put in the wall and in the dirt floor, and rushes were woven in between and covered with straw. In place of glass for a window, a piece of cloth was used. For bread the family gleaned in the fields and gathered enough wheat for their winter's supply.
Mother knew how to spin and weave in the old country. I gathered sun-flowers for candles and burned them one at a time, holding them up in my hand so mother could see to spin at night. She worked out during the day as much as she could." The family lived in the one-room dug-out for about 18 months, and then in the early Summer of 1858 joined in the general move of the Saints "to the South," due to the coming of Johnston's Army.
Returning to Ogden later in the year after the troubles due to President Buchanan's blunder had been adjusted, the family continued to live there a year or two, maintaining itself the best it could.
Then the mother moved to Logan taking her son and Margaret with her. But later the girl returned to Ogden and lived with her married sister, Mary.
Four years later, November, 1867, she married Henry Barker. He was an industrious, thrifty farmer.
Their new home was in North Ogden, a suburb of Ogden. The house to which Brother Barker took his bride was a oneroom log hut with a dirt roof. A year later he built a better house with a shingled roof.
Next he built a two-story brick house which was the home of the Barker family until after the father's death in 1918, and that of their married daughter Ann 753 in 1920. Sister Barker then moved to the home of her daughter Lily in Ogden, where she still lives, February, 1937, Sister Barker is the mother of ten children?6 boys and 4 girls, 6 now living. Three (2 boys and a girl) died when children, and the fourth died after being married. The four grown sons all filled missions, their fields being Australia, England, Switzerland and the United States. For several months three sons were on their missions at the same time, the family maintaining them with difficulty.
Five grandsons have also been missionaries. "Part of Henry Barker's success was due to his wife. She took the best care of the family.
Food was wholesome and abundant and clothing suited to the season and kept in good repair was provided. At the same time nothing was wasted, and everything used to best advantage. M worked hard and long every av." Still, she gave her children a desire to learn which in herself she had never been able to satisfy, never having had the opportunity of going to school. But before her first child was born, she decided that her children should have an education. She learned to read and write so she could teach them to do the same.
This she did at home before they were old enough to go out to school. She was influential in keeping them at school as long as they cared to go. Two of her sons are prominent educators, one of them having spent years in study in Europe and is an able scholar, well known on two continents. Sister Barker is a small woman, weighing only about 100 pounds. But she has always been wiry, energetic, quick to make decisions, and a good disciplinarian. However, she never 754 scolded or whipped her children. To her such treatment is barbaric. She would watch for the opportune time and correct them in love and kindness. She could not tolerate loafing, fault-finding, and gossiping. She provided her children with books to read during leisure hours and encouraged them to bring their friends home for play. "Study, work, play ?but no loafing," was one of her sayings. The Barkers had an orchard.
When fruit' was scarce and prices high, she never refused the children and their playmates all the fruit they could eat. However, she would say, "Eat all you want, but do not waste." All through her life she has had the fine idea of thrift which she inherited from her European home.
Soon after marriage her husband bought 12 matches for one dollar. She made these last more than a year.
Matches being so scarce and expensive most people started their fires with flint and tinder. She would go in the orchard, even after the family was well-to-do, and gather fruit which had fallen to the ground, and dry it. But perhaps on that very day she had sent a son hundreds of dollars for a trip thought to be necessary for his education. How thrifty?how self-sacrificing! For thirty years the Barkers gave substantial sums to missionaries leaving the Ward to help them to their fields of labor. To Sister Barker the Gospel ''meant everything" and no sacrifice for it was too great. "What is worth doing at all is worth doing well" was another favorite saying of hers. She applied this to her religion. Further- _ more, "What is done should be done promptly," she taught.
Though quick to make decisions, Sister Barker is a woman of good RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE judgment.
When a decision was made, it meant action at once.
With her "'to believe was to do."
Entirely unselfish she has always lived and worked for others?her family, friends and all in need.
Therein she has always found her happiness. She made a happy home for which she will always be remembered. She is greatly loved. It could hardly be otherwise. She always enforced the rule "no speaking ill of anyone. If you can't say something good of a person, don't say anything. If you want to say anything unpleasant about a person, say it to his face."
Though in her 88th year (November, 1937) Sister Barker is still active in the Relief Society, serving as an officer in her Ward.
Questions for Discussion 1.
What do you know about the Waldensees, the religious people from whom Sister Barker descended? 2.
What were some of their characteristics? 3.
What kind of home did Margaret Stalle have in Piedmont? 4, What were some of the qualities of her mother? 5.
Which of these qualities did Margaret exhibit? 6.
Name some of the hardships the Stalle family endured in emigrating to Utah. 7.
With what spirit did they suffer these things? 8. How and where did Margaret spend her girlhood days in Utah? 9.
Recite some of her characteristic sayings. 10.
Tell why you think she was a good mother. 11.
Tell why you think she is a noble woman.
LESSON DEPARTMENT 755
Child Guidance Lesson 5 ADOLESCENCE DOLESCENCE is usually thought of as the period of the "teens."
More strictly speaking, it constitutes that part of a person's life during which he changes from childhood to adulthood. In_ this sense, there is no age limitation to the period of adolescence, and whether a person is no longer an adolescent depends upon whether he has become fully grown up psychologically, that is, whether he has acquired the independence to "go alone" as an adult. But how to determine when a person is fully grown up is not easy.
Physically we reach maturity at about eighteen years of age.
Sexually we become mature at about the same time, although sexual awareness usually appears at about thirteen or fourteen. Our mental growth ceases at between fourteen and twenty years, that is, our inborn ability to learn ceases to increase at about this time, although learning itself goes on throughout life. Emotionally, however, most children are not completely mature by the end of their teens.
They still rely considerably upon childish means of getting their way in the home.
Emotional explosions are still frequent occurrences. Economically, in modern society, few of our young people are self-sustaining by the time they are twenty. If a college education is in the family program, the boys are seldom established on a job, nor are the girls settled in marriage, until they are twentyfive. For professional young men, marriage is generally postponed until thirty, and economic independence is delayed accordingly. In pioneer days, when life was primarily agricultural, young people reached complete maturity earlier than they do in our age of commercialism and higher education.
Formerly part of the herds or lands could be set aside when the children were biologically or physically prepared for marriage, but today economic "weaning" is not so simple, and parents can seldom be sure that the children will not "come back on them" for further economic support even after they have left the home nest.
Modern social and economic conditions place certain restrictions upon the maturing child, some of which limitations cause certain deepseated conflicts in adolescence.
With the boy or girl in the teens, some new and urgent needs appear which give rise to a sense of confusion and uncertainty for a few years.
Some of the new needs felt are: (1) need for freedom from supervision of parents in such matters as bed time, friends selected, fashions of dress, and use of automobiles, as well as various habits of conduct; (2) need for association with the opposite sex; (3) need for self-support economically, including finding a vocation and job; (4) need for a satisfying point of view. On life, or need for a religion or philosophy of life, that will give meaning to the many new concepts of the world the adolescent's maturing intellect makes possible. A need for freedom from supervision in details of conduct arises partly from the failure of parents to respect the growing intellect of the child, and from the parents' unwill- 756 ingness to relinquish their dominating position in the parent-child relationship. The mother often wants the child to remain a child to satisfy her emotional need for someone to be dependent upon her. On the other hand, many parents have a legitimate concern over the conduct of the adolescent when the parents realize that morally the youth may lack good judgment and control of himself. A wholesome companionship between the parents and the child is of great importance in guiding the adolescent through the change from his following their moral judgments and following his own.
That adolescents become keenly interested in the opposite sex is borne out by an intimate study of the love affairs of one hundred married men and one hundred married women, a study made by G. V. Hamilton, a psychiatrist. He found that the average number of attachments for persons of the opposite sex was greater for girls between fifteen and twenty years of age than at any other period of life, and for boys the greatest number of attachments was at an age near twenty.
There was found a rapid increase in the number of attachments at about thirteen years for both sexes. Obviously, mating cannot take place as early as attraction is felt, because, if for no other reason, people of this age are seldom able to support children financially as well as their parents expect.
Economically adolescents are not prepared for marriage as early as they are emotionally prepared.
This circumstance is one of our most difficult social problems today, a problem for which we probably have not found a thoroughly satisfactory solution. Sublimation, or substitution, in the form of creative activities in high RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE school and college is a partial solution.
This program permits association between the boys and girls, provides a great deal of physical activity in the way of sports and social functions, and attempts to build up wholesome moral ideals for the safeguarding of chastity. For Latter-day Saints, the mission often serves as an excellent solution to this problem, at least for a time. It takes the young person into a field of service where lie can lose himself in the task of growing into an adult. Adolescents, characteristically, according to good evidence, take little interest in the welfare of mankind.
Careful studies of changes of interests with age show that one of the most distinguishing characteristics of adults, as contrasted with youths, is their interest in the welfare of others.
Missionary experience probably promotes this phase of maturity better than almost anything the youth can do. The postponement of marriage is an outcome in part of modern conditions which call for specialization of labor and higher degrees of training than formerly.
Unemployment of youth is one of the most critical problems facing the world today. The uncertainty facing the youth who has not found his first job, or who may not have even a definite idea of what he would like to do, adds greatly to the emotional turmoil experienced by adolescents so generally today.
Better vocational guidance and placement facilities would remedy this situation considerably.
Parents sometimes add to the difficulty of the youth in finding his way vocationally by their insisting upon the boy or girl fulfilling ambitions which 'were frustrated in their own lives.
Thus one boy was driven to failure because his father insisted that he would become a great lawyer. LESSON: DEPARTMENT After much disappointment, the lad was studied by a psychologist and was found to be only bright enough to do well at clerical work.
Parents should rather see their children succeed at simpler or mor? humble occupations than to fail in professions for which they do not have the ability, aptitude, or interests.
Uncertainty in the mind of the adolescent as to the meaning of things in his world often complicates his problems of adjustment.
Questions as to his origin and destiny are likely to arise during these years, as are many others such as the nature of God, the basis of right and wrong, and the purpose of life.
Those who are not so fortunate as to go on missions still have the Church teachings to answer the great queries about life and destiny and to give them a guiding philosophy that lends purpose and pattern to existence. We have spoken of the four main needs the adolescent has and what can be done to satisfy them. In some cases, suitable satisfactions are not found for these needs, and the individual fails in one of the following ways: (1) he becomes delinquent, falls out of school, begins to steal, commits sex offenses and drifts to the juvenile courts or industrial schools; (2) he may withdraw from the real world, become too imaginative, lose all interest in things outside his own thoughts, become violently disturbed in his emotional life, or may even go insane; (3) he may give up the fight entirely and commit suicide because he cannot "find himself"; or (4) he may acquire drunkenness or drug addiction as an escape from the unpleasantness of reality.
Usually the members of the human family who fall victims to these tragedies, are the weak or unstable in mind who lack 757 the mental strength to fight through their difficulties.
Psychological weaning is an expression used by Hollingworth to designate the time in one's life when he finally becomes able to think maturely and independently about his problems, to make his own way vocationally and economically, to transfer a certain degree of affection from his family to his prospective mate, to throw off other kinds of emotional dependence on his family, and to use "grown up" (as contrasted with childish ways) of satisfying his needs. In other words, psychological maturity means ability to "go alone" financially, emotionally, and intellectually.
Many men find it easy to fall back on their parents for a little financial aid; adult women sometimes call on their mothers for guidance (or the mothers call on them to offer guidance) in solving emotional difficulties in their married life.
These habits are hang-overs from adolescence.
Ability to keep silence at proper times is a mark of emotional maturity; prattling is a mark of childishness.
Restraint from expressing emotion at certain critical times is also a mark of emotional maturity.
Courage to go to distant places alone, as missionaries do, is a sign of maturity.
When a person can set up his own goals of achievement and intelligently pursue them on his own initiative and in spite of obstacles, he is grown up.
Parents should strive to see the needs the adolescent has and to respect them as though they were their own.
Emotional unrest of adolescence comes from uncertainty in their conception of themselves.
This confusion often makes them obstinate or difficult to approach. The adolescent is uncertain as to whether he is still a child or now a man. His associates are also uncertain arid 758 frequently hesitate as to whether to say "kid," "lad," "fellow," or "Mr." His body is awkward because of rapid growth and lack of proportion, all of which adds to his embarrassment and uncertainty of status.
Habits in parents andchildren should be freely revised as new needs arise throughout the growth of the child from infancy. The parent who fully sees the child's point of view should have no difficulty in permitting this revision of habits.
Part of her emotional growth itself is to unobtrusively step aside and see her son or daughter go into the arms of another never to fully return as her child.
Both parents should take care not to interfere with the striving for independence which is so normal in adolescence, for growth towards maturity comes only through one's own striving.
Good relations between parent and child, however, still permit a certain kind of helpful guidance through this trying period. If this relationship has been lost, well-meant attempts RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE at guidance by parents generally drive young people to make mistakes they would not otherwise make.
Unwise interference with the developing independence of adolescents is often the leading cause for their leaving home and breaking from the ideals the parents cherished most.
Problems for Discussion 1.
What do we mean by psychological weaning?
Distinguish it from physical maturity. 2.
Describe some of the problems that arise because of the fact that physiological and economic maturity do not occur at the same time.
What solutions to these problems would you propose? 3.
What is the parents' problem in the psychological weaning of the boy or girl? 4.
Show how constant habit and attitude revision from infancy to maturity is necessary on the part of both parent and child in order for successful psychological weaning.
What shall I give?