[Vol57 | September 1970 | Page 665 | General Feature | Cookies for All Occasions, Mary | J. Wilson]
(to be continued) Con for All Occasions Mary J. Wilson Former Member, General Board of Relief Society STUFFED DATE DROPS 1 Ib. Pitted dates (about 70) 1% c. Sifted flour 13 oz. Package pecan nuts ¥2 tsp. Baking powder Y4 c. Shortening 14 tsp. Soda % c. Brown sugar Y% tsp. Salt 1 egg Y2 c. Commercial sour cream Stuff dates with nut halves and cut into 5 or 6 pieces with scissors. Cream shortening and sugar until light. Beat egg and add to shortening and sugar mixture. Sift dry ingredients, add alternately with sour cream to creamed mixture. Stir in dates, drop on greased cookie sheet. Bake in hot oven (400°) 8 to 10 minutes. Cool and top with - panocha icing. Se Panocha Icing 1 c. Brown sugar (packed) Yc. Milk Yc. Butter, 1% to 2 c. Sifted confectioner's sugar Melt butter in saucepan. Add brown sugar. Boil over low heat 2 minutes, stirring constantly. Stir in milk. Bring to boil, stirring constantly. Cool to lukewarm. Gradually add confectioner's sugar. Beat until thick enough to spread. If icing becomes too stiff, add a little hot water. Ss CAIC 1 isa e] ponrxKc 1 8 d ) 1 c. Soft butter or substitute Y2 tsp. Each—cloves and allspice 1% c. Brown sugar, packed 2c. Buttermilk 3 eggs 6 c. Pecan halves 3 c. Sifted flour 1 Ib. Whole candied cherries 1 tsp. Soda 6 slices candied pineapple, diced % tsp. Salt 2 c. Coarsely diced dates 2 tsp. Cinnamon Cream butter and sugar until light. Beat in eggs. Add sifted dry ingredients and milk; mix well. Pour batter over nuts and fruits and mix well by hand. Drop from teaspoon on cookie sheets. Bake at 325° for 20 to 25 minutes. Makes from 10 to 12 dozen. A CHOCOLATE MINT COOKIES To 2 beaten eggs add 12 cup shortening melted and 1 c. Sugar. Add 2 tsp. Peppermint flavoring and 2 squares of unsweetened chocolate melted. Stir until blended. Add '% cup of sifted flour and 2 cup shredded walnuts. Mix well. Pour this batter into a 9-inch square pan. Bake in moderate oven (350°) for 25 minutes. Cool the baked layer about 30 minutes. Thoroughly blend 2 tbsp. Softened shortening and 1 tbsp. Of cream. Add 1 tbsp. Of peppermint flavoring and 1 cup of confectioner's sugar sifted. Blend well. Spread 665 Land of Peace Frances C. Yost AUSTRIA FRANCE ® On A 30, 1896, a little boy Named Fred Yost celebrated his fourth bj thday on a Steamshi Ica. Red Yost ria, and on and a Popu- September 1970 Italian. In the southeast area is spoken still another language known as Romanish. Agriculture, manufacturing, and tourism are means of livelihood. Almost eight thousand hotels are available nightly. The capital is Berne, the largest city is Zurich. Other large cities are Basel, Geneva, Lausanne, St. Gallen, Winterthur, and Lucerne. The Congress of Vienna in 1815 recognized the perpetual neutrality of Switzerland. In 1919 the peace conference of Versailles reaffirmed this neutrality. Because of it, Switzerland is the seat of international organizations, among them the Postal Union, Telegraphic Union, Literary Property, International Labor Office, The International Red Cross, the World Health Organization, and others. Known worldwide for its high mountains, Switzerland has fifty summits over 12,000 feet high. Its glaciers are numbered by the hundreds and cover almost a thousand square miles. Hydroelectric power is the one resource which is plentiful. Raw products of coal, oil, tar, cotton, silk, cocoa, iron, steel, and copper are all imported. OUR SWISS RELATIVES Ernst Gerber, first cousin to Grandpa, and his beautiful French wife Theresa are here at the Zurich airport to meet us. The more than a hundred-mile ride from Zurich to their home in Arlesheim in a fine English car gives me opportunity to view the magnificent scenery. I try hard to receive a lasting impression of the countryside, for I know I may not pass this way again, and the earth was never dressed more beautifully. Quaint homes among the greenery of forest, grass, and shrubs are adorned with window boxes full of gay flowers of many varieties and colors. The Swiss are a neat people. They never leave a weed to grow. With a fine pride of country, a housewife sweeps up any debris in the street in front of her house. ARLESHEIM The city of Arlesheim, Grandpa tells me, was originally Arles home, and gradually grew into its present size. The beautiful Gerber home at Arlesheim has three stories. The first floor is largely offices for the Gerber business, import-export of fine woods. A goodly number of buildings have, under one roof, both business and living quarters. Doctors usually have their offices in part of their homes. My room on the third floor is decorated in pink, with a large polar bear rug on the floor. The fine furniture is hand carved of exotic woods. My window on the west overlooks a garden growing in a natural appearing state. Tiny white daisies sprinkle the lawn. Vines and trees add a woodland touch. The Gerber garden is a refuge for the finest of Swiss birds. Regu-?