[WomansExponent | Vol5 | 1876 | November | Issue: 12 | Title: WOMEN IN LITERATURE. | Author: Unknown]

WOMEN IN LITERATURE.

	The above heading is that of an article
in "The Woman's Journal" of Oct. 28th,
read at the recent Woman's Congress. We
have copied a few scattering paragraphs
from it as illustrative of our own ideas on
the subject. The article in its complete
form is an excellent one, is highly interest-
ing and contains many excellent sugges-
tions, and plain and truthful statements in
relation to the subject.

	Through all the ages, exceptional women
have been poets, historians and novelists.
But if we look back only for thirty years,
we will realize that it is only in our own

[COLUMN 2]

generation that women have obtained a rec-
ognized and a thoroughly respected posi-
tion in literature. The term "blue stock-
ing" applied to all women who used the
pen, did not lose its sting until a very re-
cent period. And it was more than hinted
that such women not only had ink-blacked
fingers, uncombed hair, and slipshod feet,
but that they must necessarily be neglect-
ful of all recognized womanly duties.
	Thirty years ago there were two or three
woman editors in the world. To-day there
are scores of them; while reporters and spec-
ial correspondents of the same sex are like
daisies of the field for multitude.
	The field of literature is conquered for
women. There are no longer bars or ob-
structions of any sort in the way. A wo-
man who has anything to say, is privileged
to say it; and if it is worth hearing, the
world will lend an attentive ear.
	Women also tell us that because they are
wives and mothers they have neither time
nor opportunity, What folly! Have not our
best women-writers been wives and moth-
ers? And are not our men-writers husbands
and fathers? If they are not they should be, if
they would gain the clearest, truest percep-
tion of human affairs, so that they may be
qualified to speak words of wisdom to the
world.
	First of all it will be well to disabuse wo-
men in general, of their erroneous ideas
concerning a literary career. A woman
must not expect to find any play when she
adopts literature for a profession. A prac-
tical writer leads a life of BONA FIDE drud-
gery. She may, now and then, find her pet
poems, or finely written stories or essays, ac-
cepted and paid for; but if she would make
an actual living of the business she mnst
devote herself to it, just as she would to 
dress-making or dish-washing.  The profes-
sional writer must compel the inspiration,
or write without it.  A woman who writes
for a living must hold herself in readiness
at any time and at all times. She must be
ready to write upon any subject, and in any
style. She must send a poem by return
mail, if required; or write up a whole geo-
graphical division, without previous knowl-
edge of it, and with nothing but a guide-
book and a dictionary of dates for referen-
ces; and yet have her article interesting,
and read as if unlimited information was
withheld solely for want of space. If she
be a reporter, she must be able to write on
the wing, and in the midst of crowds and
confusion, which would bewilder the intel-
ligence of either the ordinary man or wo-
man. If she be a correspondent she must
be at her pen, headache or no headache, when
her more favored companions are resting
from the fatigues of journeying or sight-
seeing. She cannot afford to be either
wearied or ill until after the inevitable let-
ter has been written and posted.
	Next to be considered is the kind of
training a woman needs. She must have
had experience in life. Without it she will
have nothing of value to offer. We never
learn from the experience of others as we
do from our own.	There-
fore until we shall have had a moral, emo-
tional or intellectual history, we can have
little to say worth hearing.

	There is no trade or profession which re-
quires so long practice before it becomes re-
munerative as that of literature. A wo-
man would have time to learn any manual
occupation twice, while she is preparing
herself for a frequently doubtful, and al-
ways precarious career in literature; I am
speaking absolute truth; and I wish every

[COLUMN 3]

woman who has founded false hopes on her
pen, might hear and heed me. There
would be fewer disappointed women in con-
sequence.
	After all this is surmounted, comes the
next difficulty. Has the woman anything
to say? Has she any fresh earnest thoughts
of her own, that the world will care to
hear? Or has she the happy faculty of ab-
sorbing, assimilating, combining and popu-
larizing the abstract and abstruse thoughts
of others? If she can say yes to any and all
of these questions then God speed her.
	Granted that a woman possesses the in-
tellectual culture, the practical experience
with the pen, and ideas; now comes the last
question; does she feel an irrepressible de-
sire to write? Can fancied want of time
prevent her? Do difficulties of any sort
hinder her? Can discouragement daunt
her? If so the crown of authorship was
never destined to rest upon her brow. If
she is inclined to fritter away her time in
trifles, let her fritter it away—her vocation
is not writing. If she is not actuated by a
powerful overwhelming impulse to write—
an impulse which will not be denied, and
which causes her thoughts to rest upon her
like undesirable burdens, which can only
be shaken off by the aid of the pen—and
which compels her to commit them to pa-
per in spite of every obstacle—she has not
the strength of character, and the fervor of
inspiration, which indicate that writing is
her especial undoubted vocation. The writ-
er will write and must write. Denial, ob-
stacles, difficulties, hindrances, only devel-
op more strongly the power which accumu-
lated behind them,
	Those are the men and the women to
whom the angel says "write" and when
they have written, the world will gladly
read what they have to say.
