[WomansExponent | Vol5 | 1876 | November | Issue: 12 | Title: BUSINESS. | Author: BLANCHE BEECHWOOD]

BUSINESS.

BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

	Order, thou eye of action! wanting thee,
	Wisdom works hoodwink'd in perplexity;
	Entangled reason trips at every pace,
	And truth, bespotted, puts on error's face.
		AARON HILL. 
	Many inferences are drawn in relation to
women as practical and methodical mana-
gers in business affairs. It seems the world
are only just becoming conscious that wo-
men possess the faculties to qualify them to
adjust such matters as relate in a general
way to the commonplace transactions, by
which trade and commerce are carried on.
The idea is a novel one, to some who have
not been cognizant of the growing status of
woman in relation to finance, and when any
phenomena in illustration of the fact of wo-
man's practicability clearly elucidates itself,
men open their eyes in wonder, and imme-
diately set their wits to work to solve the
problem in some exceptional way, instead
of attributing it to the real genius or inher-
ent qualities of woman's competency. It
seems perfectly consistent that women
should be able to arrange and carry out sys-
tematically and effectively plans of action
which would operate successfully in business
affairs. The many phases of woman's house-
hold work require order, method, prompt-
ness and executive ability; if women did
not understand, by habit and intuition, the
easiest, quickest and best modes of dispatch,
they could never bring quiet, peace and
harmony to the domestic habitation. How
much careful study, thought and practice
are brought into requisition by the compli-
cation of circumstances which every house-
hold develops. All these different entan-
glements by being unraveled, smoothed
and harmonized teach useful lessons, which
to the woman who knows how to apply the
knowledge she gains, so as to make it a
means to an end, works out or solves the
great problem of commercial interests by
the application of her own private expe-
rience in domestic economy. Who is there
that has to practise more thorough disci-
pline, or be more accurate in management
than the woman who is supervisor of her

[COLUMN 2]

own household affairs? The work which
devolves upon the mother and wife requires
the most perfect method in arranging so as
to ensure any degree of home-comfort, and
it will bring to its aid tact, energy and
skill, in order to evoke an organization com-
plete in the fulfilment.
	Then through this very process do women
become initiated into the very channels
which are the most available for the trans-
action of business; their capacities expand
with their facilities for action, and the very
elements which bring to the home circle the
genius of an inspiration for making every-
thing adaptable are those which will best
assist women in the transaction of affairs
which will eventually help them to estab-
lish industries and manufacturies for the
general interest of communities.
	The arrangement of family and house-
hold affairs requires as nice order and meth-
od, as does the management of a store, or
an office. In this respect there would no
doubt be as much difference in women, as
there is in men, and probably no more.
The woman who is not prompt and ener-
getic, is not the one who will succeed in
business, and in any and all of the private
walks in life will always cause more or less
confusion, dissatisfaction and dislikes. She
consumes the time of others and gives them
reason for thinking that she looks upon them
as not of sufficient consequence to make her
punctual; method is the soul of business;
and order in every and all departments of
business, or of life, is one of the most im-
portant matters to be impressed upon man
or woman. Pope says:
		"Order is heaven's first law; and this confess'd,
		Some are, and must be, greater than the rest."
	We often hear it said, that "to the busi-
ness man, time is money," and to the busi-
ness woman time is money, and so is
method.
	That there are women who look upon
their time as of very little consequence there
is no doubt, but are there not thousands of
men who waste their own time and that of
others in a more shameful and wicked man-
ner than women do? One need not go far
to prove this assertion; here on the corners
of the streets, in the stores, the saloons, the
hotels, on fences, steps, everywhere that
there is room enough for a knot of men to
collect, they are in the habit of gathering
to talk, smoke and so forth. There are
some who never seem to do anything else.
Men are very fond of saying women get to-
gether (even in their meetings) to gossip
and backbite, but in the name of common
sense, what do so many men huddle togeth-
er in little caucauses at the corners of streets,
etc., for? To discuss politics and the state
of the government, and a variety of other
interesting topics, so they say; but in my
opinion they would be doing the world a
great favor by going to work; and if they
cannot find any other employment, they
could help their wives, sisters or mothers
to cook their food and tend the babies, for
women not only never have any idle time,
but are often worked beyond their strength.
	There are a few individuals who summer
and winter may be seen loitering around
corners; wherever the sun shines in winter,
and where there is a shade in summer; how

[COLUMN 3]

they get their living is a mystery. Such
men are not capacitated for business of any
sort, any more than women who have not
been disciplined in habits of industry, tact,
accuracy and punctuality; yet they are men,
and they can vote, and discuss politics, and
carry the world on their shoulders, figura-
tively speaking, that is one might imagine
so to hear them talk.


