AN IDEAL.

Here is my home ! Far down below me lying,
	The city spreads its stream of busy life
Unto my watching, dreaming eyes replying,
	Banishes loneliness and hushes strife;
Sense of companionship without its sighing,
	Hearts' rest from scenes with vexing questions rife.

Just within sense of life's sincere endeavor,
	Just within sight of arts' creations rare,
So comes the life draught welling up forever,
	As breezes wandering through the sunbright air,
Gather the freshness from the flowing river
	And scatter perfumes culled from every where.

Mountains that yet are white with winters snowing,
	Shut out the far world from my blest retreat,
Out through their riven side a stream is flowing
	Chanting a psalm the rocky walls repeat,
Till in the valley with warm sunlight glowing
	Breaketh its voice to ripples low and sweet.

Sheltered from winds, adown a dimpled hollow,
	Earliest suns have waked the leaves of spring,
Here comes the robin and the glancing swallow,
	Here comes the lark to build her nest and sing,
And here as soon as bud and perfume follow.
	Loiters the butterfly on idle wing.

Here is my home, low-roofed against the sweeping
	Of winter winds that spend their strength in vain,
Here may I listen, wakened from my sleeping,
	Close overhead the music of the rain;
And with the morning light a welcome keeping,
	Flowers are crowding 'gainst my window pane.

Here are my trees, each has its sep'rate meaning,
	These were for shelter, these for beauty brought
From far and near my search was long in gleaning,
	Those most befitting the eyrie I had sought,
Drawing from out my fancy's farthest screening,
	The real living picture hero is wrought.

Here come the few—one is not long in finding
	Those who will deem it worth their while and care,
To thread the pathway up the mountain winding,
	Catching the rapture of the upper air,
Worship and joy, with sacred friendship binding
	In a sweet charm the soul may inly wear;

Here come the loved, the dear ones who've departed,
	Softly their arms my drooping form entwine,
Here come the sacred, great and noble hearted,
	Softly their spirits cheer and beckon thine;
Have I been dreaming? Hide the tears that started
	Ah! would that this ideal home were mine.

