MARY ISABELLA HORNE.

Continued.

	Mrs. Horne has been one of the favored
ones who have had the privilege of entertain-
ing and waiting upon the Prophet Joseph, and
also his brother Hyrum, the Patriarch. At
the time the Prophet visited Governor Carlin,
Mrs. Horne was residing in Quincy. Although
the Governor received Prest. Smith very
courteously, yet he had no sooner started back
to Nauvoo than he sent an officer with a writ
after him, to bring him back to Quincy for
trial. While Pres. Smith was in the magis-
trate's court he told the officers if they would
permit him to go where he wished for the
night, he would be forthcoming at any hour
in the morning that they might name. They
made no objection and he went back to Mrs.
Horne's and informed her he came as a prisoner.
He was wearing light summer clothing and as
the next day would be Sunday he felt that he
would like a change of apparel; he asked Mrs.
Horne what he should do. She said, "I will
wash and iron your clothes to-night." He was
very unwilling to allow her to do it, think-
ing she was not strong enough; but, however,
she felt that it would be a pleasure to wait up-
on the Prophet—for indeed he was greatly be-
loved by the people.
	Mrs. Horne refers to this with great satisfac-
tion, and also to the blessing he left upon her
and her household when he went away, for
their kindness to him in his hour of need.
	In the month of March the Hornes moved
to Nauvoo, traveling by wagon over the then
wild prairies. The roads were very bad and
they were obliged to travel very slowly. They
were obliged to spend the night on the open
prairie, and Mrs. Horne describes it as a

[Column 2]
terrible night. The cows got loose in the night
and Mr. Horne was obliged to get up and go
back after them. Mrs. Horne says, "The night
was dark and the wolves were howling on
every side. I was in fearful suspense lest my
husband should be torn to pieces by the raven-
ous wolves. I watched and prayed until I
heard his welcome footsteps. How thankful
and relieved I was on his safe return! The
next night we arrived safely in Nauvoo. My
husband purchased a piece of land from Squire
Wells. It was situated on Mulholland Street,
about a quarter of a mile from the Temple."
	As there were no houses for rent, Mr. Horne
put up a lumber shanty, in which the family
lived about eight months. In this temporary
shelter from wind and weather Mrs. Horne had
another son born on the fourteenth of May
1842, and she named him Joseph Smith. There
were many inconveniences and annoyances
consequent upon living in such a rude build-
ing, but most of all there were rats and they
frequently carried away articles of clothing;
but worse still, sometimes bit the children.
One of them got into bed with the little babe
when it was about two months old and bit its
feet so that they were terribly inflamed for
some time.
	In the month of November Mr. Horne had
partly finished his house and the family moved
in, though it was by no means comfortable.
Mrs. Horne says, "Shortly after we moved, my
husband accidently cut a very deep gash in
his foot. He was laid up in bed for several
weeks. What a dreadful time I had dressing
his wound, taking care of my children, attend-
ing to my household duties, feeding horses,
milking cows and tramping around in the snow
looking for some one to chop my wood!" Yet
Mrs. Horne bore all these difficulties like a real
heroine, and a woman of God. There was no
complaint or repining, no desire to return to
to the world, where all things had prospered
with them; she remembered that in all ages
the Saints of God had borne persecution, and
she was willing to suffer, if need be, to secure
"a more eternal weight of glory" hereafter.
Mrs. Horne united herself with the Relief
Society, which had been organized by Joseph
Smith, on the seventeenth day of March pre-
vious to her arrival in Nauvoo. She became
much interested, at that early period, in the
elevation of woman, and has ever since advo-
cated, what is now considered one of the im-
portant questions of the age, "woman's rights."
The Saints became more prosperous afterwards,
sickness abated, Nauvoo was built up and
beautified until it gained the appropriate ap-
pellation of "Nauvoo the Beautiful." Mr.
Horne, through diligent labor and persever-
ance, gradually obtained the blessings of life
and succeeded in establishing himself in quite
a flourishing business, and his family were
looked upon by the Saints as quite well situ-
ated.
	On the second of April, 1844, Mrs. Horne
received "A Patriarchal Blessing" under the
hands of Hyrum Smith, the Patriarch of the
Church. She says the promises made to her
in that blessing are being daily fulfilled.
Among the many promises made to Mrs. Horne
in this blessing, was this one, which, at that
time, must have seemed a little remarkable,
"you shall have an inheritance upon the moun-
tains of Ephraim." This was long previous to
the exodus and our subsequent removal to these
mountain vales. There are many other things
spoken of in her blessing that it is easy to see
have been fulfilled, and that it would have
been impossible for Bro. Hyrum to know except
by the spirit of prophecy. This ought to be
convincing testimony to any who doubt concern-
ing a knowledge of the revelations of God to
his people.
	Mrs. Horne, like many other women, felt
most deeply the loss occasioned by the martyr-

[Column 3]
dom of Joseph and Hyrum. It is not possible
for those who never were acquainted with these
great and good men, to comprehend how de-
votedly they were loved and in what reverence
they were held by the people, nor how over-
whelming was the grief felt by the Saints at
their untimely death. Mrs. Horne says: "On
the twenty-eighth day of June I took my last
look on earth of Joseph and Hyrum Smith.
May I never experience another day similar
to that. I do not wish to recall the scene.
	Mrs. Horne was at that time in very delicate
health and on the ninth of July after, became
again a mother. This was her fifth son, and
was called Richard Stephen. Mrs. Horne was
very ill for some time after the babe's birth,
but finally recovered. In addition to her
household duties she spent much time in assist-
ing her husband in his store; it must be ap-
parent to the reader that she was a woman of
more than ordinary ability and tact, to be able
to keep house and attend to several little
children and still find time to devote to her
husband's business.

To be Continued.


