DESERET HOSPITAL.

	In our last issue we gave the organization of the
Deseret Hospital Association. The circulars are
now ready, containing the rules and regulations
of the Hospital, and will be distributed in the
different Stakes as quickly as practicable. One
of the provisions of the articles of association
provides that each Relief Society and Mutual
Improvement Association shall contribute one
dollar every month to assist in meeting the
current expenses of the Institution. This pro-
position is sanctioned by the First Presidency of
the Church, and by the Presidents of the Asso-
ciations, and while the sum required from each
Society is very small, yet in the aggregate if
punctually paid by all the Associations, will
form a staple fund upon which the managers
may draw to meet such contingencies as cannot
be provided for by the earnings of the Institu-
tion. The Medical Board have sent to New
York for a full supply of the very best surgical
instruments and hospital supplies, and in its
medical equipment the new Hospital will not
suffer at all by comparison with those that have
had a longer existence in the community.
	The medical staff is composed of members of
the profession, who have already won the re-
spect and confidence of the public, and whose
professional standing is a guarantee of the
success of the new enterprise in the department
over which they preside. Dr. Ferguson brings
to aid her in filling the position of resident Sur-
geon, to which she has been appointed, the ex-
perience of twenty years in the profession, sup-
plemented by an extensive acquaintance with
all kinds of Hospital work, gained during her
recent visit East under the instruction of the
most eminent surgeons in New York. The
members of the visiting board Dr. S. B.
Young and Dr. W. F. Anderson are gentlemen
who have no superiors in this Territory in pro-
fessional skill, social standing, and every attri-
bute that qualifies them for success. They have
the interests of this people at heart, and will
spare no effort to make the Hospital prosperous
in all its departments.
	Dr. Pratt is well known to all our people, and
has made a specialty of diseases of the eye and
ear, in the treatment of which she has had and
doubtless will have marked success. We hope
the Latter-day Saints will appreciate the efforts
that are being made to establish this Institution,
where those who are sick and injured will have
the best medical and surgical treatment, and
nursing that can be afforded them, together
with the inestimable privilege of the free admin-
istration of all the ordinances of the Church in
their behalf, and that they will sustain it by
their faith, prayers and good works. It was ex-
pected that the Hospital would be opened
on the 20th of June, but circumstances
have arisen through the parties occupying
the building not moving at the time agreed on,
but it is hoped that it will be in readiness on the
10th of July, and will be dedicated by the First
Presidency of the Church as soon after as prac-
ticable.
	All comunications in reference to board or
treatment, to be made to Dr. E. B. Ferguson the
resident physician, by mail or personally. The
school of Anatomy will open about the middle of
July.


[Column 1]
