WOMAN IN POLITICS.

Says Dryden;

"Speech is the light the morning of the mind.
It spreads the beauteous images abroad,
Which else lie furled and shrouded in the soul."

	"Speak that I may see thee," said the old
philosopher. The heart utters its secrets when
the tongue or pen is in motion. As the full bucket
betrays the condition of the water in the well,
so speech as a rule declares the person, the
inwardness, the intent. I have a few fugitive
ideas, whims peradventure, that are clamoring
for expression. But how to put them in proper
shape bothers me. Your paper is proverbial for
lively and entertaining articles, and I do not de-
sire to mar its good repute. Bear with me while I
give a few items, for like one of old "I will also
show mine opinion." I will speak of woman
as a factor in governmental affairs.
	Sovereignty under proper regulations, an
just limits belongs to the American peopl
whether as States, Territories, and all subdiv

[Column 2]
ions thereof, or as individuals. This is no new
theory, nothing out of the usual methods. It
proposes no new ideas in political economy; for
in reality there is no undiscovered truth in that
economy. Simplicity is the invariable charac-
teristic of truth. Error loves to hide her de-
formity in complicated envelopments. But
truth is open as the day, its language is direct
and plain, its precepts are irresistible in force.
The elementary principles of whatever is most
valuable to mankind are distinguished by sim-
plicity. This is true of all the arts that
embellish life, and discoveries that enlarge the
field of human happiness. This is essentially
true of government.
	In a Republic the natural equality of man,
the right of the majority to govern, their duty
so to govern as to preserve inviolate the sacred
obligations of equal justice, are its elementary
propositions. It has been wisely said that "The
world is governed too much," too many statutes,
too many subjects legislated upon. First of
man's political interests and most essential is
good governments; few laws well administered
will answer all needful purposes. They must
be impartial however, both in enactment and
execution. The penal interdictions of the law
must not be thrown across my path to hinder
me from a course that another may pursue with
safety. Happily these great principles are
enunciated, in the immortal Declaration of
Independence, and in the Constitution of the
United States by Washington, Adams, Jeffer-
son, Madison, Jackson, and a host of others,
fathers and defenders of the Republic. Suf-
fer me to insert a few good words from Presi-
dent Jackson. "It is in a plain system void of
pomp, protecting all, and granting favors to
none, dispensing its blessings like the dews of
heaven, unseen and unfelt, save in the beauty
and freshness they contribute to produce, that
the people will find happiness and their liberties
protection."
	The whole theory of our government is based
upon impartiality and universal equity, hence
all partial legislation tends in its results to be
subversive of just government, and prejudicial
to the vital principles of civil and religious
freedom. The rulers of a former age were re-
primanded by the great Law-giver as follows:
"Therefore have I also made you contemptible
and base before all the people according as ye
have not kept my ways, but have been partial
in the law." God's ways are ever just. Crime is
the violation of proper penal laws. Law is a
moral obligation binding on the subject,
obligations arise from benefits received. In
other words law is a necessary relation between
cause and effect, just laws protect me in my
rights, I owe them obedience and honor, ac-
cording to an old saying, "There is no right
without its duties, and no duty without its
rights." True government will tend with a
constant influence to equalize the external con-
dition of mankind, perfect equality indeed is
not within the reach of human effort.

Order is heaven's first law, and this confessed,
Some are and must be greater than the rest.
More rich, more wise."

Strength must ever have an advantage over
weakness, sagacity over simplicity, and wisdom
over ignorance. This is according to the
ordination of nature, and no institutiou of man
can repeal the decree. Pardon the digression,
for I find I am like the preacher, who made
three points in his discourse, 1st. took his text,

[Column 3]
2nd departed from it, 3rd never got back to it
again.
	In the opening remarks it was stated, that
words are the expression of the mind, the cloth-
ing of thought, as a rule they have definite
significations. All admit this, all agree the
terms man, mankind means women as well as
men, in religion, science, literature and song;
everywhere and at all times. Children implies
boys and girls, and in their amusements and
innocent plays are precisely alike. On one
point, however, we do not see eye to eye, and
that is in the high towering domain of politics.
Here we enter upon holy ground, here we must
take off our shoes and tread lightly, here we
must drop half the brains and half the heart
of the nation, for in political lingo man, men
means exclusively the "lords of creation." And
as a necessary corollary governments derive
their just powers from the consent of the mas-
culine gender, and women have no rights pol-
itically, that the house of lords are bound to
respect. Words rightly interpreted however,
in politics, as well as religion, give woman her
just rights, and when things are done by com-
mon consent, she is included as a party to the
transaction. When the Savior says, He will
draw all men unto him, "he who believeth and
is baptized shall be saved—and Paul—"God
wills all men to be saved." Do they mean
exclusively men? I think not. Else Paul
made a mistake when he said, "the man is not
without the woman in the Lord."
	A monarchy may prescribe woman in her
rights, and perhaps survive, but a Republic
cannot afford to let half its intellect and
morality lie fallow. Her assistance is needed
in public affairs. Circumstances and vocations
create distinctions, where originally equality
prevailed; or "as the original organization, is
to the circumstances with which we are sur-
rounded, so will be the character and qualifica-
tions compounded out of both." A kind of
moral rule of three. I maintain this axiom,
which I think cannot be successfully con-
troverted. That morally woman is the best,
intellectually equal, physically lower, spirit-
ually (as a mass) higher. If this is correct
shall the better element be politically sub-
servient to the worse? It may be said that the
great affairs of the world have ever owed their
origin and development to man, that he shapes
the destinies of the race. I do not concur in
the sentiment, but were it so, may it not be said
that woman shapes the race. "Is not the
foot that rocks the cradle, the hand that rocks
the world," and does not an eminent writer say
truthfully, "That in France there has not been
a single great, good or bad, thing in politics in
literature or in art, which has not been inspired
by woman." What is true of France, is to
some extent true of other nations; women have
been good rulers, and filled creditably promin-
ent positions. We read of the queen of heaven
(is the position merely nominal) and by parity
of reasoning other offices there are held by wo-
man. Honorable women, implies more than
merely moral qualities, it signifies rank, pos-
ition, office. In Utah, Wyoming, and to a
limited degree in other places, women hold the
elective franchise, and to some extent are
entitled to hold office. The new Constitution
of Utah has made quite an advance in remov-
ing her disabilities; but the end is not yet, the
interstices that admit the rays of light into our
political theory are enlarging, and soon the full
light of day will be shining upon us. The


[Column 1]
mere right to vote, to help others to obtain
office, is far short of political freedom; as the
word white has been stricken from our Con-
stitution, so its "twin relic" will go down
to the tomb of the capulets, and in a discriminat-
ing political sense, be no more called to mind.
But it may be said that if equal political rights
are extended to woman, she will be ambitious
and clamorous for office, verily not so. The
past and present of her career establishes
clearly the reverse, What is the testimony of
Wyoming? What is the testimony of history?
What is the testimony of her native inherent
modesty? With very few exceptions, her
noble impulses, her womanly instincts have
shown, that she is neither presumptuous nor
aggressive; "that man may safely trust in her,
for she will do good and not evil all the days
of her life." "Strength and honor are her
clothing, and she looketh well to the ways of
her household, her children arise up and call
her blessed, and her works praise her in the
gates." I am so much of a Democratic Republi-
can, that without any partial interdictions, I
can safely trust in the primary and caucus
gatherings to select suitable candidates for the
respective offices to be filled. It surely does
not argue very strongly for mens' genius and
courage to be fearful, that woman with so
many odds against her, will out general him
and get away with the most important offices,
and those too that she is not capacitated to fill. 
Some men profess to believe that a few Latter-
day Saints in the Rocky Mountains, if let
alone, will revolutionize and bring the world
to bondage or grief. I think there is no danger
in either case. Give woman and the Mormons
their equal and just rights and privileges, and
the Republic is safe, society will not be demor-
alized, the world will be made happier and
"liberty will be proclaimed throughout all the
land to all the inhabitants thereof."
	Theocracy gives woman her true position for
under that rule all things are done by com-
mon consent. She has the right to vote and her
vote counts equally with the greatest ruler. 
She also possesses the right to hold office, and
does she not fill the position creditably? In
all the relations and duties of life, we may not-
withstanding our egotistical notions still cherish
the unpopular view that woman is a helpmate
to man, that "it is not good for him to be
alone," either spiritually or temporally, that
in the family, social, religious and political
circle she is a co-worker. Does she not even
fill an important place in war? Archidamia,
Veturia, and Joan of Arc., are not the only
heroines, who have said, "Deliberate not
whither we are to fly but what we are to do."
And who by their powers and encouragement
have saved armies and cities. Was not her
services in the late war, between the north and
the south very essential, and how many under
God owe their lives to her tender care, and in
the mobbings and drivings and travels of the
Latter-day Saints, what a record written and
unwritten of her noble daring influence and
help. But is she only a helpmate in difficulty
and distress? Can it only be said of her

"When pain and sickness clouds the brow
A ministering angel then art thou."

This is indeed true, but is this all the truth? Is
the domestic relation of wife, mother, daughter,
sister all? Is this her acme of advancement,
to be a servant? Or does she stand side by
side with man in the professions, in literature,
on the platform, stage, in the social circle, in
poetry and song. The restrictionists say, that
it is because of their high regard for women,
that they would keep her out of politics, that
the political element would degrade her, that
it is demoralizing, and instead of elevating,
would place her on a lower plane. I am fully
aware that politics is at rather a low ebb, in
many parts of the country; and particularly in

[Column 2]
large cities and thickly settled places; is in fact
in the slums of degradation, and that this too
has been brought about by man's management. 
If under the complete control of man for so
many ages, it has attained that condition,
what assurance have we of improvement with
the present directors? Would not wisdom sug-
gest the introduction of a new element in the
body politic. It certainly would make it no
worse. I hold that neither sex alone is com-
petent to rightly control the political destiny of
the whole. It is by uniting them that the best
results are obtained. God intended man and
woman to supplement each other, and no
system of government can be perfect till the
divine theory is carried out. The caucus must
be elevated by the introduction of women, to
the equality of the parlor. Society with its
culture and refinement, is always above politics
in its moral tone. The world is full of exam-
ples illustrative of the refining influence of one
sex upon the other. Half a dozen girls will
rescue a whole university from rowdyism, while
a few boys are sufficient to train a girls' school
to refinement. This law of mutual restraint
and influence is general, and politics must be
brought within the sphere of its operation, if we
would purify the political atmosphere.
	Politics being the science of government
properly it is a point of education, and children
ought to be taught its principles and precepts,
and learn its nature and powers. Woman is
the early trainer of the infant mind. She gives
the first inpressions, and to do so successfully
should understand well the theory and practice
of the subject; especially is this needed as the
mind expands, and begins to reach forth and
gather up fruits of knowledge that are strewn
here and there, about its feet. It is said how-
ever that if woman becomes a politician, it
will be likely to lead to family jars and dis-
cords, that one may be a republican, another a
democrat, one a locofoco, another a whig; and
that bedlam generally will be let loose. If that
is correct reasoning, "Ignorance is bliss. Tis
folly to be wise," and the less woman knows
the less she will oppose. But we are not in-
formed why it will apply to politics more
than to any other intellectual acquirement,
religion, science, art, or literature. Is the
woman well versed in the great questions of
the day, less companionable because of her
general knowledge? In fact is not the reverse
true? Does not intelligence cleave to intel-
ligence, and tend to oneness, union, friendship?
Intellectual development, will not tend to dis-
cord, but will strengthen those endearing ties
that bind families, and communities together. 
In the foregoing observations the following
points are made to appear. The natural
equality of man including woman. The right
of the majority to govern. Their duty so to
govern as to preserve, inviolate the sacred
obligations of equal justice. That politically
things are done by common consent. That
governments derive their just powers from the
consent of the governed. That among the
rights held in common, are life, liberty, pro-
perty and pursuit of happiness. That the more
general the intelligence the greater the strength. 
That to have full power to exercise its proper
functions, governments must be seated in the
affections of the people. That privileged classes
or partial education, while portions are kept
in ignorance, is not conductive to union nor
strength. That the practice as well as the
theory of government needs to be enjoyed by
the people. That woman as well as man is
under God the arbiter of her own destiny. 
That constitutions nor laws can rightfully dis-
criminate because of sex; and that the field of
politics as well as science, art, literature and
the professions is open to man and woman, and
in fact in all the relations, and duties of life,
woman should be side by side, a co-worker with,
and helpmate for man. They belong to the

[Column 3]
same great family and their interests are iden-
tical and mutual.					L. E. H.
	American Fork, June 7, 1882.


