BY ONE WHO KNOWS.

Continued.

	Prof. Coyner, it seems, acted as reporter at
the Ladies' Mass Meeting held in the Theatre,
which, as he says, was one of the most remark-
able meetings that has ever been known
since the one in the garden of Eden, where a
woman was the chief speaker. "When I was
a young man," he says, "I read a book entitled
'FIFTEEN YEARS AMONG THE MORMONS;' I
was led to believe, from what I there read, that
the women of Utah were held by the men in a
kind of captivity, not being able to escape from
their degradation,	*	*	and I supposed that
as soon as the railroad, with all its non-Mormon
influences, had reached Utah, the most of the
women would gladly embrace the opportunity
of fleeing the country, to escape thraldom; but
in this I was much mistaken." This is a
fair example of the ignorance and preju-
dice under which the outside world are labor-
ing. One might suppose that when he (Coyner)
found himself so much mistaken in this that
possibly there might be other reports equally
false about the Latter-day Saints. The same
writer says: "One of the arguments in defense
of polygamy is that it is the only preventive of
the social evil.	*	*	*	But is this true?"
We answer, yes. He continues; "If it is a fact
that plural marriage does tend to develop a
virtuous state of society, does cherish and pro-
tect the sacred rights of confiding woman, does
throw a holy and sanctifying influence around
the home circle, does contribute to the bring-
ing up a well-trained, noble offspring: then the
Mormon church is justifiable in asking the
Christian world to sanction and adopt that
which produces such glorious results."
	We can testify, from experience, that this is
a fact; but, he says, "The ones who have the
best means of ascertaining the true condition
of things, in this respect, in this Territory say
that, for the same population, there is more
private prostitution and more illegitmacy in
Utah than in any other part of the civilized
world."
	"The Mormons claim that no brothel existed
in Utah before the advent of the ungodly Gen
tiles. I admit that such was likely the cas
for the very construction of Mormon socie
obviates the demand for such establishments
	This, I think, is plain enough to our unde
standing, requires no comment. "Being

[Column 2]
religious fanatics," he says, "they have now
come to the point in their growth and power
that they feel justified in throwing down the
gauntlet before the American nation, and their
battle cry is 'polygamy or death.'	*	*	*
There are thousands of women in Utah who,
if they dared do it, and if they felt it would
do any good, would crowd as many assembly
rooms and give utterance to as many strong
sentiments in denunciation of the home-des-
troying system. as have the advocates in its
favor, but the latter are with the priesthood,
the controllers of society; while the former are
so crushed by the dominant power as to
have no positive influence."
	We know just about how much of this story
to believe. There may be a very few women
of this class in Utah, but they could not say
and tell the truth, that they were ever deprived
of the right to speak, and act as they pleased
except it has been by their own husbands, as
women in the world are, of which I think he
would not complain. In proof of this we
refer our readers to some two years ago, when
the woman's bill was pending before the Legis-
lative Assembly, a few of our brethren became
quite alarmed at the thought of woman step-
ping out of her place, and possibly they
thought take into her own hands the reins of
government, and some few lost their equilibri-
um and said some very unreasonable and pro-
voking things about the sisters. Previous to
this I had felt no particular interest in the
subject of woman's rights except to vote, as I
had always done, since the privilege was gran-
ted us and was then among the most quiet and
reticent, but with a deep sense of the wrong
that had been done to those noble women,
who were only asking for their rights, which,
for centuries past, have been usurped by the
"lords of creation," I, like many others, felt
righteously indignant, and in the heat of the
battle of words, returned fire with out fear or
favor.
	This, by-the-by, was my first attempt at writ-
ing for the public, and Sister E. B. Wells add-
ed the following appropriate title, "A Content-
ed Wife." I know that it breathed the true feel-
ings of thousands of women outside of "Mormon-
dom," but who would not dare to utter them in
words.
	People can prate all they please about "Mor-
mon" thraldom, but if they want to see women
who enjoy true freedom, let them come to Utah.
	The writer admits that he has been treated as
a gentleman should be, by the Mormons, since
he has been in the Territory; but still he and
his co-workers feel it their duty, as loyal
Christian citizens, to publish all that they can
gather up from apostates, and wicked design-
ing persons in our midst to arouse the feelings
of the whole world against us, fearing that un-
less something is done quickly they will be
overpowered by what he calls the "Modern
hierarchy." After a very abusive harangue
Prof. Coyner declares to the American people
that "if something is not done soon to stop
this law-breaking, law-defying fanaticism,
either our free institutions must go down be-
neath, or with slavery it must be wiped out in
blood." He supposes the "Mormons" to be
"very bitter against the government," who
"when the opportunity comes will not hesitate
to draw the sword and fight for their religion."
	This we admit is a very natural conclusion,
and we know that the Latter-day Saints are
the only people on earth who would stand what
they do without resistance and showing fight,
and what could they do that would be a strong-
er proof of their sincerity than the follow-
ing.
	He says, "I have often wondered why the
Mormon people submitted to such dictation on
the part of the priesthood—There is no other
church whose leaders would thus dare to rule
its membership, and if the population of Utah

[Column 3]
was made up of the average American, the
yoke of the Mormon hierarchy would soon be
thrown off; but coming from the Old world the
Mormons have been so long used to obey the
dictation of those over them, without gainsay-
ing, that they now submit without a murmur
and even kiss the hand that rivets the chains
that bind them."
	The reason why there is "no other church
whose leaders would thus dare to dictate its
membership," is very obvious, this being the
only true church that has received the priest-
hood; and for his information we will just say
that the first ones who submitted to its power
were "Americans," and that although many of
the old veterans are worn out and have passed
off from this stage of action they have left be-
hind them some true and honorable represent-
atives, who expect to live and take part in
the great battle for freedom; and, to secure
this end, we intend to battle "honestly, man-
fully and patriotically," and "we want no
cowards in our band," but only those who will
remain true, not only to our religion, but to
our nations flag and bear it off triumphantly.
	But no stain of blood will be found upon
the hand of a Latter-day Saint for Truth is
our Battle axe, and though crushed to earth a
thousand times it will rise again, and at last
triumph over the wickedness with which this
earth is daily filling up her cup; while those
who only live to propogate and send adrift
their mischievous lies to bring destruction upon
an innocent people will have passed away as
chaff before the summer wind.
	The yoke of the priesthood is very easy,
and our burdens far lighter to bear, than is the
thought of submiting to the chains which they
are preparing to place upon the necks of men
and women who only claim the same rights
and privileges which are guaranteed to every
American citizen.
	 As the "Mormons" pioneered to these Rocky
mountains and have no intention to leave, if
Prof. Coyner with his delectable co-workers
feel themselves contaminated by our influence
would it not be just as well for them to "move
to some sea-girt isle" and leave the terrible
"Mormons" to themselves to "solve their prob-
lem?" or "if they could be surrounded by some
triple wall" that would confine their modern
christian influence to their own borders we as an
"American people," would be more than will-
ing.
	There are two or three extracts from discus-
sions delivered by President Brigham Young
and Heber C. Kimball in the Bowery in 1856
and 7 upon which (like all the rest) they have
put their own constructions. These are under
the heading of "Blood atonement."
	President Young says, I want all the people
to say what they will do, and I know that
God wishes all his servants, all his faithful
sons and daughters, the men and women that
inhabit this city, to repent of their wickedness
or we will cut them off."
	Now in this he had no reference to "blood
atonement." He was only speaking about the
unrighteous members who were like dead
branches that should be cut off from the
church. Then said he, "I could give you
logical reason for all the transgressions com-
mitted in this world," and after teaching some
the laws of God, as were taught by Jesus Christ
and which we believe will eventually be put
in force he said, "The time will come, and is
now nigh at hand, when those who profess our
faith, if they are guilty of what some of this
people are guilty of will find the axe laid at
the root of the tree, and they will be hewn
down. What has been must be again, for the
Lord is coming to restore all things."
	The Latter-day Saints look upon hanging as
a most barbarous practice, for it deprives the
criminal and even a murderer of the only
atonement left him that he can possibly make


for the shedding of blood and out of mercy
opportunity is offered them to make their
choice, to be shot or hung. The following is
taken from this same discourse of President
Young;
	"Any of you who understand the principle
of eternity, if you have sinned a sin requiring
the shedding of blood  except the sin unto
death, would not be satisfied nor rest untill
your blood should be spilled, that you might
gain that salvation you desire.
	"I do not feel vain, but I feel to say breth-
ren and sisters lay aside your vanity and your
feeling to exult; there will be a time when
you can exult and do it in righteousness and
mercy. There will also be a day when you 
will be brought to the test﻿—when your very
hearts and your innermost souls will melt with-
in you because of the scenes that many of you
will witness. Yes, you will be brought to the
test, when you will feel as if every thing with-
in you would dissolve. Then will be the time
you will be tried, whether you will stand the
test or fall away.
	"I have no doubt but there will be hundreds
who will leave us and go away to our enemies.
I wish they would go this fall; it might relieve
us from much trouble, for if men turn traitors
to God and his servants their blood will surely
be shed, or else they will be damned, and that
too according to the covenants.
	The test has now come and the scenes which
they predicted are to be realized, and if the
ones who have laughed and mocked at their
prophetic words and also those who are now
threatening destruction upon the servants of
God do not repent, they will be found among
the ones to whom the Lord will say "Ye have
set at nought all my counsel and would none
of my reproof. I also will laugh at your
calamity: I will mock you when your fear
cometh. When your fear cometh as desolation,
and destruction cometh as a whirlwind; when
distress and anguish cometh upon you. Then
shall they call upon me, but I will not answer;
they shall seek me early but they shall not
find me; "For that they hated knowledge, and
did not choose the fear of the Lord."
	I fail to see wherein the truth can injure
this people. We know that there are evils
among us therefore let them be brought to
the surface that we may be cleansed from them;
for it is our daily prayer that iniquity may be
purged out from our midst, for we are aware
that the net gathereth of all kinds, and the
dishonest and corrupt who are filled with envy
"daily toil with lying tongue to make the noble
seem mean as himself." Of such we wish to be
relieved, as they are a detriment to society and
a clog in the wheels of progress. "Mormon-
ism" has stood the test for over fifty years,
and, as Professor Coyner says, "If it can stand
the test, the professed claim of inspiration,
God's peculiar people, etc., may be accepted."
We are more than willing to be measured by
this standard. "The tree is to be judged by
its fruits.”


