YOUNG LADIES.

	Friday, 10 a. m. After singing and prayer
the Secretary read the reports, which were ac-
cepted.
	Sister Richards addressed the meeting. She
said President Herrick was absent on a visit
in the East; she had received a letter from her,
in which she spoke of the conference, and
prayed that the blessings of the Lord would
rest upon all who took part in it. Sister
Richards then reported the Second Ward.
	Reports were also given of the First and
Fourth Wards, Plain City, West Weber,
Huntsville, Hot Springs, and Riverdale.
	Mrs. Elmina S. Taylor, President of the
Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Societies
in the Territory, then addressed the meeting.
She was much pleased to meet with them in
Conference, to hear the reports, and to see the
good spirit that was manifested by the presi-
dents of the different wards, and the deep in-
terest they evinced in the welfare of the soci-
eties which they represented; felt glad that these
associations were organized and were in so

[Column 2]
flourishing a condition. She then gave much
good instruction in relation to monthly and
other meetings, and of the proper decorum
that should be observed by the Saints, while
in the house of God.
	Mrs. Dr. Ferguson made a few excellent re-
marks; gave an interesting account of her visit
to the East.
	After a few closing remarks by Sister E. S.
Richards the meeting adjourned.
	2 p. m. Sister Minnie Snow, President of Y.
L. M. I. A., of Brigham City. We all have
superior qualities and those that we term weak-
nesses, and our daily life is a perpetual war-
fare between these; urged upon the young
ladies to fill every position to which they were
called. She said if they could be president of
an association one month they would realize
how hard it is for the officers to be always
urging and coaxing the young sisters to do
those things which they know are right and
profitable.
	Dr. E. B. Ferguson expressed herself pleased
to see so large an attendance and wished to
emphasize the remarks of Sister Minnie Snow
in reference to a prompt and faithful fulfill-
ment of those duties assigned to them. She
spoke of the Deseret Hospital in Salt Lake
City, gave an account of the organization and
read the circular which is now ready for dis-
tribution in the different Stakes of Zion.
	Sister E. S. Taylor spoke also on the im-
provement of time and recommended the Hos-
pital to their faith and prayers and works.
	Sister Zina D. Young spoke very earnestly
to the young ladies upon cultivation of the
beautiful in every thing, but hoped they would
not imitate the grosser fashions of the world.
She referred to their influence upon their
associates, the young men in particular with
whom they could do far more in persuading
them to do right than even their fathers and
mothers and the Elders of Israel. She gave
some very valuable hints about health and the
proper care of our bodies. In the Hospital
young ladies would have an opportunity, if they
wished, of learning to become good nurses and
thus prevent much sickness.
	Sister E. R. Snow Smith was particularly
pleased to see some young sisters, Presidents
of the Y. L. M. I. A., rise in the morning to
give their reports with babes in their arms.
She did not feel it right that the young sisters,
when married and raising a family, should ex-
cuse themselves from all other social duties.
The care of the children is a mother's first
duty, but it is not all her duty, and no one
needs the spiritual sustenance and strength im-
parted by these meetings more than young
mothers. She exhorted the sisters to attend to
Sister Ferguson's instructions and suggestions
about speaking and reading; would also urge
upon them to learn to spell correctly. Good
spelling was one of the most important requis-
itions in education; without it good reading
or writing was impossible.
	Sisters D. H. Perry, and Elder W. R. R.
Stowell made some remarks.
	Sister Josephine West gave notice of the
Primary Conference. Sister E. S. Richards
made a few remarks, and adjourned the Con-
ference for three months.
	Singing, "Lord dismiss us," etc. Benediction
by Sister. E. B. Ferguson.


