OVATION TO THE OLD FOLKS.

	The 28th of June was devoted to an enter-
tainment in the Tabernacle in this City, for the
aged people from this and all the adjacent
counties. The invitation was extended to all
over seventy years of age without distinction.
The exercises in the Tabernacle commenced at
10 A. M. On the stand were Presidents John
Taylor and George Q. Cannon; Apostles Wilford
Woodruff, Erastus Snow, Franklin D. Richards
and John Henry Smith; Coun. D. H. Wells,
Patriarch John Smith, Bishops Edward Hunter
and R. T. Burton; Prest. Angus M. Cannon and
Coun. Joseph E. Taylor, Mayor Jennings, Capt.
W. H. Hooper. Croxall's silver band, American
Fork brass band, Ogden brass band, and the
Fourth Ward Ogden band. Several of the old-
est veterans were seated on the Bishop's stand.
President Taylor presided over the assembly.
After singing by the Tabernacle choir, prayer
by Prest. Woodruff; there was music by Croxall's
band, and Mayor Jennings delivered an address
of welcome, followed with music by the Ogden
brass band and speech by Prest. Taylor, and Prest.
Cannon; The Lord God Omnipotent reigneth,
was then sung by Miss L. Nebeker, Mrs. E. L.
Grow, Messrs. W. H. Foster and J. Morgan.
	A recess was given and a thousand sacks con-
taining cakes and candy were distributed to the
old people. The bands played and W. C. Dun-
bar performed upon the Scotch bagpipes.


Bishop Edward Hunter, who is in his ninetieth
year, addressed the congregation. Mrs. L.
Careless, with her wonderful voice, sung "Dear
Heart We're Growing Old." Prof. Daynes per-
formed a fine solo on the organ and Br. Dunbar
sang "My Old Wife and I." The Primary
Association then presented to each of the old
folks over seventy, a bouquet of flowers artistic-
ally arranged. Mrs. Susan Leveridge aged one
hundred years, the oldest lady in the assembly,
was introduced and bore her testimony to the
latter day work. Those over seventy were then
invited to a free entertainment in the theatre.
"At the close of the services Prest. Taylor said:
I want to offer this proposition; that we will aid
in maintaining the liberty proclaimed in the
early days of this Republic, when upon the bell
that was tolling in Philadelphia was written:
"Proclaim liberty throughout the land and to all
the inhabitants thereof." All who are in favor
of sustaining the principles that were then
enunciated, hold up the right hand." Choir
sung an anthem. Benediction by Prest. G. Q.
Cannon.
	The 29th of June, the old folks assembled in
Liberty Park, where all needful preparations had
been made for their comfort and happiness.
Bands were playing at intervals, a platform had
been erected, festooned and ornamented, and
streamers were floating with the stars and
stripes and also some with the names of the
several states and territories. A pavilion had
been built that would accomodate about eight
hundred persons seated at tables. None but
those over seventy were allowed to be sealed at
the first table. The dinner was furnished by
the Relief Society of the several wards in this
city and adjacent wards. and many beautiful
young girls flitted about helping to serve the
aged people. The tables were literally loaded
with good things, and ornamented with flowers.
It is estimated that there were fifteen thousand
people on the grounds. At 11 o'clock the
audience was called to order and singing and
prayer were the first exercises, Elder George
Goddard moved that Elder C. R. Savage take
charge of the proceedings of the day, and it
was announced that a general hand-shaking
would be the first thing on the programme.
The Juvenile martial bands of the city number-
ing seven bands were consolidated into
one, Prof. Beesley in charge, and played some
airs on the stand.
	There were a large number of prizes of differ-
ent kinds distributed to the very aged people,
and the scene was one of great interest. Sougs
were sang and a few short speeches were made,
all congratulatory to the aged veterans. Every
one seemed to be "having a good time," and
there is no doubt that it was a most enjoyabls
affair. The arduous labors of the committee
should be fully appreciated by the people, for
they certainly succeeded in making it a com-
plete success.
	Red, white and blue were the colors worn by
the old people. A bow of red ribbon designated
those over seventy but not yet eighty, over
eighty and not yet ninety a bow of blue ribbon,
and for all over ninety a rosette of white ribbon
was the distinguishing mark. Liberal donations
were made by the citizens to the affair and those
who had carriages and teams contributed to the
comfort of the visitors, by taking them from
the depot to the Tabernacle, the grove and back
to the station, on their return home. This was
one of the grandest affairs that has ever been
celebrated in Utah. Respect to the silver greys
is always beautiful and honorable, and is sure to
meet the approbation of heaven.


