OBITUARY.

	With loving remembrance we record the de-
mise of Mrs. Elizabeth Clark Haws Tanner, wife
of Bishop J. S. Tanner, who died April 2d 1882,
39 years of age, the mother of 13 children, leaves
a husband and 5 children to mourn her loss.
Joseph E. Tanner, the eldest son, was called on
a mission to England at the April Conference
1881, was taken down with a fever and died on
the 22d of April, 1881, being 19 years of age:
after which Sister Tanner and the Bishop took
a trip to St. George, with part of their family
and did some work in the Temple for the living
and the dead. March 14th 1882, Sister Tanner
gave birth to a little girl. On the 19th of the
same month Annie Tanner White, died in Pro-
vo, leaving a husband and young baby, 11 days.
old. The fond mother not seeing her daughter
again in the flesh, and almost idolizing the pro.
mising son, that was taken to a better land,
when all ready for the mission, every day grew
weaker. The little baby dying also 5 days before
the mother.
	Sister Tanner was a devoted wife and mother,
kind and benevolent to the poor and all within
her reach. She was First Counselor to Mrs.
Elizabeth Lunt, who presided in the 3d district
where her liberality will be missed. She was
also Treasurer for the silk Association, Southern
District.
	We pray God our Heavenly Father to comfort
the bereaved husband, children and relations.
								M. A. H.

	At Calls Fort, Box Elder County, Utah; April
14th, 1882. Mary Wheately Whitworth, wife
of George Whitworth. Aged 44 years, 3 months
and 10 days. Deceased was born December 25th,
1837, at Hilkisten, Derbyshire, England. She
embraced the Gospel, and was baptized March
21st, 1854; emigrated to Utah in 1861, resided
from that time at Calls Fort to the time of her
death. She was the mother of 14 children, 10 of
whom are living. She was a devoted wife, a
loving mother, and a true and faithful Latter-
day Saint. Her husband, children and a large
circle of friends mourn her loss. She was the
First Counselor of the Relief Society of this.
place.

Farewell dear mother, we do not mourn thee,
	As one dead, but gone to rest.
From thy labors and thy suffering,
	With thy kindred to be blest.

