HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE article entitled "Woman In Politics" in
this issue is well worth the attention of all our
readers and we trust those who are working
for woman's advancement in the world will
notice such remarks, coming as they do from a
man, and one who has sat in the Halls of the
Legislative Assembly regularly for more than
twenty years.﻿

[Column 2]
	Childrens Fair of Davis Stake, at Farmington.
on Tuesday and Wednesday 27th and 28th
under the dirrection of Mrs. Aurelia S. Rogers,
Prest. of the Primary Associations of that
county. Mrs. E. S. Clawson Prest. of P. A.
Salt Lake Stake and her Counselor Miss Julia
Druce with thirty children from this city went
up to the Fair. They were met at the Farming-
ton depot by the Juvenile martial band, who
escorted them to the Court House where the
Fair was held. A great variety of useful and
tasteful articles were on exhibition, the work of
the little boys and girls; which showed their in-
dustry, tact and skill, and gave promise of much
talent and industry to be utilized in the future.
The day was a pleasant one and the Fair a com-
plete success. The afternoon was spent in the
grove, a little distance away, in play and pas-
time.
	MISS Ada Dwyer, daughter of James Dwyer,
Esq., returned on Saturday evening, June 10,
from the East. This estimable young lady has
been absent 10 months, the greater portion of
which time has been spent in Boston in the
study of elocution, under the most noted elo-
cutionists, she has finished her studies with
unabated assiduity and has made the most sat-
isfactory progress. On Monday evening, the
9th inst. she gave an entertainment at the
Theatre, which was attended by a very select
and appreciative audience. She gave 4 selec-
tions, showing her versatility; but in that from
Henry the viii. displayed most marked ability,
her power of conception and execution was a sur-
prise her friends. The entertainment was varied
by choice music, and was a success in every par-
ticular. On the evening of the 3d of July, the
young lady will appear with the Home Dramatic
Club, taking the leading part in "Blow for
Blow."
 	OUR honored delegate, George Q. Cannon
returned home on Wednesday evening June 21.
The event was made the occasion of special.
demonstration which must have been gratifying
to the distinguished gentleman. He was met
at Ogden by a large party, from this city, of his
brethren who welcomed him home. At that
place a large number of citizens assembled, with
the brass band of that city, greeted him. At
the settlements on the way down he was also
greeted with similar demonstrations. At Salt
Lake, a large crowd assembled and a couple of
brass bands—the 10th and 11th ward bands—
played as the train came in. Brother Cannon
moved among those gathered at the places men-
tioned, shaking hands with them, and receiving
their congratulations. On the Sunday following
he spoke in the Tabernacle to a large congrega-
tion, and referred to the progress of the
Edmunds Bill, and the refusal of the House of
Representatives to give him his seat. He said
he felt cheerful over it, and that persons in
Washington who met him said, "You are the
most cheery man I ever saw, for what you are
passing through." Brother Cannon said he had
assured them by saying, "why should I not feel
cheerful? I have a larger majority than any
man on the floor of the House," Prest. Taylor
closed the services by speaking in praise of Bro.
Cannon's course, and on his motion, the cause,
of our delegate to Congress was sustained by a
unanimous vote of the congregation.
	LIBERTY PARK was formally opened on Satur-
day, June 17, with appropriate exercises. The
day was beeutiful, and quite a lengthy procession
formed in front of the City Hall and marched to
Main Street; thence down to 5th South, thence
east to the street leading to the center of the
Park, and directly south into the Park and
around the drive of the grand stand, where the
City Officials and invited guests dismounted
and took postions. The programme consisted of


Music, Croxails Silver Band, "Goblins," reading
of the resolutions relative to the opening of the
Park by Deputy Recorder H. M. Wells; song,
"Hall Smiling Morn," Union Glee Club, dedi-
catory prayer, Alderman A. H. Raleigh, Music,
'World's Great Jubilee," 6th Infantry Band,
Speech, T. B. Lewis; Music, "Pepelo Galop,"
Beesley's Martial Band; song, "Comrad es in
Arms," music, Glee Club; Speech, Ben. Sheeks,
Esq.; Music, "Col Bush Mont," Croxall's Band;
toast by Mayor Jenings, "The President of the
United States," response by Gov. Murray; toast
by Gen D. H. Wells, "The Army and Navy of
the United States," response by Gen McDowall
McCook; toast by ex-Mayor Little, "Pioneers of
Utah," response by Hon. Wilford Woodruff;
toast by Hon. Wilford Woodruff, "The Hon-
orable, and City Council of Salt Lake; response
by Mayor Jennings. The 6th Infantry band
then played, "The Dent Let Lure," and Mayer
Jennings declared the Park opened, and the
procession re-formed proceeded back to the City.
Liberty Park is a delightful spot already, and
with the improvements now contemplated will
yet be as peaceful and delightful a park as any
city can boast.


