AN INTERESTING TOUR.

	We have just returned from a tour through
Sevier and part of Piute Counties, in the interest
of womens' organizations, and also the Deseret
Hospital. We left this city on Wednesday
morning June 14, accompanied by Mrs. E. How-
ard. Our immediate destination was Richfield,
where the Sisters' Conference of Sevier Stake
was to be held on the 16 and 17 of June, and
arrived in Richfield on Thursday evening.
Friday morning the Relief Society Conference of
Sevier Stake convened in the Bowery at Rich-
field, Mrs. Elizabeth Bean presiding; her Coun-
selors Mrs. T. M. Thurber and Mrs. F.
Spencer on the platform. Pres. Spencer of
Sevier Stake, and several Bishops were present.
Mrs. Bean conducted the exercises with ease
and dignity. The Presidents of the several
branches of Relief Society in Sevier Stake gave
verbal reports as follows: First and Second
Ward Richfield, Glenwood, Annabella Inverury
Monroe; after which the meeting was addressed
by Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mrs. E. Howard Salt Lake
City, Mrs. E. Brown Pleasant Grove, and Mrs.
Lucinda Houd, Beaver.
	In the afternoon verbal reports were given
from Koosharom, Vermilion, and Redmond.
Sisters from Salt Lake City made some remarks
and Pres. Spencer in a few words expressed
himself well pleased with the reports and the
teachings of the sisters. Mrs. E. Bean and Mrs.
Thurber each gave some good counsel and the
officers of the central organization of the Relief
Society were unanimously sustained by the
Conference also the Relief Society officers of
Seveir Stake and the Presidents of the several
branches. Conference adjourned for three
months.		
	Saturday morning the Conference of Y. L. M.
I. A. Sevier Stake, convened in the Bowery,
Coun. Celia E. Bean presiding. Y. L. A., of
Richfield, Glenwood, Monroe, Koosharem, Jos-
eph City, Inverury, and Aurora, were severally
reported. Mrs. Wells and Mrs, Howard, ad-
dressed the young people on education, deport-
ment, spiritual culture, and politics; urging
the young ladies to study the laws of life and
health, to read good books, to acquaint them-
selves with history, and seek to obtain a general
knowledge of what is transpiring in the world.
Officers of the central board Y. L. M. I. A., were
sustained by unanimous vote, also Stake and
local officers. The Conference adjourned for
three months.
	Saturday afternoon the Primary Conference
was held at the same place. Coun. Lucy Bell
presiding. Verbal reports were given from most
of the Associations in the Stake, and several
exercises, consisting of singing, reading, reciting
and essays, were well rendered by the children.
A manuscript paper was read called "The
Primary Guide." This was a pleasing part of
the programme. The children were addressed
by the Sisters from Salt Lake, who encouraged

[Column 2]
them to diligence and commended their good
order and promptness in responding to the calls
of the President. The general authorities of
the P. A. were sustained by vote, alao the Stake
and branch officers. Mrs. Lucy Bell made a few.
remarks and Conference was adjourned for three
months.
	The next morning we commenced a tour of
the Southern part of the Stake. Bishop Joseph
S. Horne and Bro. Salsbury of Richfield accom-
panied the party, which consisted, besides these
two gentlemen, of six ladles. Meetings were
held at Elsinore, Joseph, Monroe, Annabella and
Inverury. Tuesday evening we returned to
Richfield, and on Wednesday morning started
with one team and Brother Thomas Butler as
charioteer, for Grass Valley, going by the way of
Glenwood, where we met with the people in the
school-house and then proceeded on our way to
Burrville the first settlement in Grass Valley.
We went through a portion of King's meadows,
green and beautiful, and leaving there traveled
through what is known as Bear Valley canon;
the mountain scenery was wonderful indeed,
and every moment one’s attention was attracted
to something marvelous or delightful. The
roads however were the roughest over which we
had ever journeyed, and the poor horses were so
tired and we so frightened that we walked over
the most difficult and dangerous places. Leav-
ing the canon with its flowers, shrubbery, trees,
and magnificent rocks in every form and color
we passed through dog-valley where the cunning
little prairie dogs peeped out at every turn.
About dusk we reached Burrville, as dusty and
weary as any travelers need be. Br. and Sister
Burr were extremely kind and we rested and
refreshed ourselves, and the next morning went
over to Cedar Grove, where the people from
three settlements were assembled at 10, a. m.,
and at 2. p. m. for meeting; at noon the tables
were spread in the bowery at the grove, and
the pic nic under the beautiful old cedars was a
most enjoyable affair. The wind was blowing
just sufficiently to make delightful music, weird
and enchanting, that to one in pensive mood
was most gratefully soothing, especially at the
approach of evening. The next morning we left
Grass Valley with two teams, accompanied by
Pres. A, K. Thurber, who seemed much gratified
by the visit of the sisters.
	The road wound round through diversified
scenery, so grand and imposing that it filled the
mind with a rich store of material for contempla-
tion; and to an admirer of nature’s charms and
mysteries it was an open book, which one might
spend years of time in reading. We went to
the extreme end ot what is termed Rabbit
Valley; and up among the red mountains of
solid rock. These are in every form and style of
nature’s architecture. One might easily imagine
them the ruins of old castles, fortresses and for-
tifications, and indeed to a vivid imagination
there were pictures of petrified soldiers, knights
in armor, ladies in the full costume of the an-
cient days, monks, and veiled nuns, and all the
appendages one could need to embellish these
same picturesque old ruins. One might term
these legendary rocks, and if the traditions of
the aborigines of these mountains are to be
credited, the legends would be quite as startling
as any of the orient. But one must not indulge
too far, and therefore we come down from these
flights of fancy, to facts as they do exist to day.
We knew this was a wild and desolate waste of
country, that a few bravo men, and heroic women
have partially subdued, by hard labor and the per-
severance of pioneers of the desert. Wherever
there is a green spot aud a little water, the peo-
ple have cultivated the ground and succeeded
by dint of hard labor and close application of
sinew and muscle, in making gardens and

[Column 3]
homes. The Saints in these valleys are feeling
well, contented and happy. Away from the
busy scenes of turmoil and strife, secluded and
at peace with all mankind, it was a pleasure
to meet with them and realize their condition.
One remark struck me forcibly, it was so in
contrast with the feeling expressed here at
home. It was that in Rabbit valley, they are
never pressed for time, they have any amount
of it. They have no idea of the hurry and bustle
of the town, so if any one gets out of time it
would be well for them to emigrate to Rabbit
valley where they are so well supplied.
	After attending meetings at Lea Freemont
and Thurber, we started on our journey home-
ward, by way of Fish Lake. The day was fine,
the scenery beautiful, and the tall aspens
quivered, and shivered, and glimmered in the
sunlight. The Lake is certainly one of the
most beautiful sights, and those who have visit-
ed Switzerland say it is like a veritable Swiss
Lake. The water is a magnificent blue, and
changable, and the green islands dotted with
cattle grazing, completed a perfect picture. We
remained just long enough to rest and feed the
horses, and eat lunch under the tall pinion
pines, and then left the lake and all its inspir-
ing beauty, to pursue our toilsome way over
the rough mountain roads; where we revel in
upper air sufficiently light to make one dizzy.
Bluebirds, robins and pretty brown birds too,
caroled forth their sweet songs in the cedars and
pines.
	Two young eagles perched themselves on the
high rocks by the roadside to take a look at us,
and sailed off over our heads. On our way home
we held meetiugs at Vermilion, Aurora, Selina
and Redmond. At the last named place we
said good bye to the good sisters and brethren of
Sevier Stake, and turned our faces homeward.
Hon. A. K. Thurber and Judge George W.
Bean gave us all the information we could wish
relative to the settlement of the country by our
people, and also Indian traditions and legends
which were very interesting indeed. We have
brought home pleasant remembrances of our
tour and the many kindnesses and courtesies of
the Bishops in the different settlements, and
the brethren and sisters generally.


