			PAYSON.
	Dear Sister Wells:—We thought, as a Re-
lief Society, we would show, through the col-
umns of the EXPONENT, that we are alive in
Payson. Many good faithful sisters doing all
the good they can, with our President and
Counselors, to cheer and bless the daughters of
Zion. We feel thankful to Sister Snow, your-
self, Sisters Taylor, Felt and Howard for the
refreshing visit we had from you last fall. The
good counsel and heavenly influence will be
felt by us, we hope, till you again honor us
with a visit. Many good faithful testimonies
are borne, thanking our Father in heaven for
our homes in these mountains. If the outside
world pity us for being so deluded, we pity
them in their ignorance. The EXPONENT ever
is a welcome visitor with us. Many familiar
faces have been taken from our midst by
death; seemingy we could not spare them.
Among the number was our beloved Sister
Tanner, whose obituary our President Mrs. B.
J. Simmons and Counselors Sister Agnes
Douglas and Mary Moore wished inserted in
the EXPONENT.
			SUMMIT
	Quarterly Conference of the Primary, Par-
owan Stake, held at Summit, May 7th, 1882.
President Mary Durham presiding.
	After the usual opening exercises the min-
utes of the last Conference were read and ac-
cepted.
	President Mary Durham then expressed her
gratitude to the Almighty for the great im-
provement being made by the rising gener-
ation, and felt to say with the Savior, "suffer
little children to come unto me and forbid
them not, for of such is the kingdom of heaven"
she them encouraged them to come forward
with their songs and recitations, which they
promptly did.
	President Jones then gave some good in-
structions to parents, upon their duties to
their offspring, as they are the future pillars
of Zion and should be taught every principle
of morality day by day, that they may have
power to see the difference between good and
evil. He then blessed every organization per-
taining to the reign of peace and righteous-
ness upon the earth.
	As Spring has advanced so has the health of
the people of this settlement improved, and
now the apple, the peach and the plum trees
are loaded with fruits; the fields look green,
promising a bountiful harvest to the farmer,
for which we thank the Giver of all good.
Let us learn what is right and do it for the
love of righteousness. Let us send our child-
ren to school where they are taught the prin-
ciples of the Gospel that will enlighten their
minds, and enlarge their understanding, and
prepare them to stand before the enemies of
truth. Let us make our calling and election
sure by our every day walk and conversation,
that no one can bring a railing accusation
against us.
		ANN ELIZABETH WEBSTER,
				Stake Secretary P. A.
Cedar City, June 7th, 1882.
			WALLSBURG.
	Primary Conference held at Wallsburg May
26th, 1882. Prest. Glenn presiding. Singing
"Open the door for the children." Prayer, by
Master M. M. Duke. Singing, "Joseph Smith's
First Prayer." Minutes read and approved.
Verbal report given by the President.
	Programme: reading, by Sister Glenn; Bible
stories, by Polly A. Lamb and S. Workman;
recitations, Clinton C. Boren, Susie Gardner,
Janet Gardner, Ida V. Boren; dialogue, Annie
Gardner, Annie Boren and Wm. Camp; songs,
S. Workman, Maggie Camp, Abbie Lamb and
Jane Lamb; dialogue, Isabelle Kerby, M. M.
Duke and Wm. Greer. Appropriate remarks
Bishop Wm. Nuttall, George Dabling and
Prest. Glenn.
	Singing, "In the chambers of the Mount-
ains." Benediction by Annie Gardner.
	The Primary also held their first FAIR
which was a credit to the President and child-
ten. Articles on exhibition were quilts, mats,
tidies cushions, aprons, mottoes, dolls, hats,
bands, pictures in water colors, cakes, pies,
puddings etc. One little boy made a set of
quilting frames and presented them to the
President, with some verses composed for the
occasion. We also had a dancing party in
the evening. 		Sarah Glenn, Prest.
				Lucina Boren, Cor. Secy.
		GRANTSVILLE.
	The Ladies conference of Tooele Stake was
held in Grantsville, at the Meeting house
Saturday and Sunday, June 10th and 11th,
1882. Mrs. M. A. Hunter presiding. Present
on the stand from Salt Lake City, Sisters
Phebe Woodruff, Presendia L. Kimball. After
singing, prayer and singing, minutes of the
last Conference were read and accepted. Sister
Woodruff gave some very good instructions to
both old and young, she alluded to her long
experience in the Church forty-seven years;
cautioned mothers about setting a good ex-
ample, made some explanations in regard to
the Deseret Hospital, and spoke of the great
need which existed of an institution of this
kind. Mrs. M. A. House read the circular to
the congregation, which explained in detail
the condition of the affair.
	Sister P. L. Kimball spoke of the Hospital
and the desire of the Sisters of the Relief So-
ciety to do good to all those who needed assist-
ance  of the young people. The time was
mostly occupied in bearing testimony; some
good instructions were given.
	Sunday afternoon: After the administering
of the Sacrament Sisters Woodruff and Kim-
ball addressed the congregation, in a very
pleasing and intelligent manner. Prest. H. J.
Grant gave very good instructions encourag-
ing the sisters to diligence in all good works;
spoke most favorably of the Hospital, and said
he felt sure the sisters would accomplish what
they had undertaken. Prest. Grant also re-
ferred to the labors of the sisters in storing up
whear, and made other good remarks. Confer-
ence was adjourned until the 27th of August
next, at Tooele City.		ANN TATE.
			WEBER STAKE.
	Thursday, June 8, 10 a. m. Conference
opened with the usual preliminaries. After
a few opening remarks by Sister Jane S.


[Column 1]
Richards, Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith spoke
of the things of the kingdom; exhorted
the sisters to cling to the things of God and
walk in the paths marked out by the servants
of the Lord. Edifying remarks were also
made by Sister Zina D. Young and Bishop
Robt. McQuarrie, after which the conference
adjourned till 2 p. m.
	Thursday, 2 p. m. After singing, and
prayer by Sister Zina D. Young, the meeting
was addressed by Elder Orson H. Eggleston.
	Sister Ellen McBride, of Eden, said she had
been absent for some time at St. George, where
she had the privilege of laboring in the Temple
and administering for those who had passed
away. There are a great many who stand
alone in the Church; all her father's house
were against her, still she took great delight
in worshiping in the House of the Lord.
	Sister Sarah Richards felt that they were
all on a great mission. She knew this was
the work of God, she knew it by the power of
the Spirit. She knew that all must be tried,
for the Lord has said He would have a tried
people. She advised the Saints to continue to
love each other and to be humble and faithful
to the end.
	Sister Higbee had been a member of the
Church forty years, and knew that it was the
kingdom of God. This people are preparing
the way for the second coming of Christ. She
referred to many of the teachings of the late
President Brigham Young, and advised the
sisters to reduce them to practice.
	Sister Sarah Knight made a few interesting
remarks on various subjects, and bore a strong
and fervent testimony to the truth of the work
of God.
	Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith addressed the
conference in her usual instructive manner.
She spoke of the disasters that are taking place
in the world, and the blessings which have at-
tended this people since they have been living
in these valleys. She spoke of the establish-
ment of a hospital at Salt Lake City, and
showed the need of such an institution and
the benefits of which the Saints can avail them-
selves in cases of necessity. She also spoke of
home industry and many other useful subjects.
	Sister Zina D. Young followed. She spoke
of the duties of the Saints; cautioned them
against grumbling and fault-finding, to look
after the household duties, not to be selfish in
the things of God. She also advised the
Saints to be cheerful, trust in God, and look to
him for strength and guidance.
	After a few remarks from Bishop B. C.
Critchelow, the general and Stake authorities
of the Relief Society were presented and
unanimously sustained, and conference was
then adjourned.

