Unfulfilled Patricia Lentz Why is it that when music fills the air With sweet wild note, Tears brim my eyes and voiceless longing Swells my aching throat? Could I but sing! What ecstasy to loose The flood and burst the bonds That hold me fast and cruelly keep me mute! And why in springtime, like the rushing wings Of errant birds returning, Do memories to my heart's home flock unbidden And set me yearning, Till fires long banked far fall and winter's slow And steady consuming, Flare up and threaten to engulf me in their blast? Why does my spirit reject these mortal fetters And ever outward, upward soar, Disdaining to walk, and beat with such persistence Its wings against the very heaven's door? What hidden, desperate need goads me On through all earth's wanderings To return here at last, where I may be fulfilled? e Honest with Yourself Flonor Shy Sather and Mlother THE word honor is one of the richest in the language. It implies esteem, reverence, respect, courtesy, integrity, purity, chastity — and much more. "To honor" also requires obedience — to obey and respect those we would honor. The commandment "Honor thy father and thy mother" encompasses all of these, and it promises much for obedience. Paul called it "the first Page 440 HONOR THY FATHER AND THY MOTHER 441 commandment with a promise.'"" And what a promise, as we shall see! But first there's your part to be done, young men and young women of the Church. Let's begin with the little things. How long has it been, you teenaged daughter, since you took your mother in your arms and thanked her for life and the countless kind deeds she has performed for you since birth? Or you, son, when did you last thank Dad for food, clothing, home, education, the use of his car, and wise counsel? Do you, our sons and daughters, honor your parents in your choice of good companions, in your seen and unseen conduct, in Church attendance, in the sharing of home work, in self-improvement, in keeping the faith? These are the daily ways you can please and honor parents. And what are the rewards for honoring them? First, there's joy and inward satisfaction for you. 'These blessings come automatically. Then there's the Lord's special promise that you will "'live long on the earth" and that "it may go well with you.' What a promise; what a prospect? 'To do less than to obey this commandment, to receive less in return, would be to deprive yourself of one of the richest experiences in hfe. BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF o_o Key to Wisdom Ida Elaine James Waiting on the corner for his bus, Face so shiny-clean, meticulous In tingle of an early breeze, he stands; School book spread open in his eager hands, A frown of tenseness on his seeking face. What draws his eyes from all the fragrant grace That haunts the early morning? There must be, Enclosed in bookish covers, mystery Greater than birds' nests in the shadowy -oughs, Whose songful tenants lack the skill to rouse His interest. Neither can the chattering squirrels Engage him, nor the cries of pretty girls. Authoritatively his book compels him! I cannot help but wonder what it tells him, Somewhere along the magic of its pages He seeks the key to wisdom of the ages, Recipes Grom tha Wastesen Ganaeeane (een Submitted by Annie Ruth Larson FisH AND CHIPs Clean fillets of fish (halibut or sole) and season with salt and pepper, sprinkle generously with lemon juice, then roll in flour and dip in a thin batter and fry at 360°F. In deep fat in a deep fat fryer. The lemon juice makes the flour cling to the fish and the flour makes the batter cling evenly. Serve fish with French-fried potatoes. Batter for Fish and Chips: 1 c. Sifted flour 2%, c. Milk 1 tsp. Salt 1 tbsp. Butter, melted 2 eggs, beaten Sift flour and salt together. Add beaten eggs, milk, and butter and combine to make 'a smooth batter. STUFFED CABBAGE 1 cabbage, medium-sized 2 cans tomato soup 1 lb. Ground beef 1 onion, large 1 c. Uncooked rice seasonings Cook the cabbage whole until just tender. Fry meat with onion and seasonings. Mix rice and meat. Wrap meat mixture in the cooked cabbage leaves and brown in same skillet that was used to fry meat. 'The leaves should be nicely browned on all sides. Place stuffed leaves in casserole and pour tomato soup over them. Bake two hours in moderate oven. Soup may be diluted with milk if the soup is too thick. The stuffed cabbage should have a rich sauce and not be too dry. PIckLE RELISH 8 large cucumbers Brine: 1 head cauliflower "" ¢. Salt 12 large onions 4 c. Boiling water 2 red peppers 7 Put cucumbers, cauliflower, onions, and peppers through food chopper. Soak thirty minutes in brine. Drain chopped vegetables for two or three hours. Dressing Ingredients: 8 c. Vinegar 1 tbsp. Celery seed 8 c. White sugar % c. Flour "4 c. Mustard / tbsp. Turmeric Cook all ingredients together for twenty minutes. Bottle and seal. SWEET AND SOUR SPARERIBS 2% Ibs. Spareribs 2 tbsp. Cornstarch 1 c. Tomato juice c. Vinegar c. Brown sugar tsp. Soy sauce (more if desired) — Oe Oe NN PN tN Brown spareribs and pour off excess grease. Mix remaining ingredients together and pour over the spareribs and cook very slowly for three hours. Page 442 RECIPES FROM THE WESTERN CANADIAN MISSION 443 Rice for serving with Spareribs: 74 Cc. Rice 2 tbsp. Butter salt to taste 1% c. Boiling water 2 tbsp. Minced onion Mix these ingredients and then place in a cake tin or casserole and bake along with the spareribs. BROILED CHICKEN Cut up and prepare for cooking one chicken (fryer). Brush pieces of chicken with melted butter using a pastry brush. Roll in crushed potato chips. Place pieces on broiler rack and place in oven and bake one and one-half hours at 325°F. Mettinc MoMENTS % |b. Butter 2 tbsp. Confectioner's sugar 2 c. Cake flour* Cream butter, add confectioner's sugar and flour. Drop in small quantities on baking sheet. Bake ten to fifteen minutes at 325°. Put together in sandwich form with icing. These cookies should be only about one inch in diameter when baked. This recipe is made easier in an electric mixer. Variations can be made by adding chopped nuts or fruits and making larger balls. Roll in powdered sugar after baking and before cooling. * All-purpose flour may be used by adding 2 tbsp. Cornstarch per cup and sifting thoroughly. —"_<- With You A way Enola Chamberlin I thought I could not bear to view The yellow daffodils, Nor watch the early grass of spring Make green the rain-black hills. I thought my heart would break when blooms Were on the apple tree, With sunlight dappled underneath And you not here to see. I thought the rose and violet Would put my peace to rout; That I would have to seal my room To keep their perfume out. But I was so prepared for these, Had such a courage gained, That they had come and gone and still My fortitude remained. Until about an hour ago, When near the west porch wall, I found the treasured knife you lost While pruning vines last fall.