[Vol52 | January 1965 | Page 7 | Special Feature | Place of Mothers in the Plan of Teaching the Gospel in the Home Harold | B. Lee]
[Address Delivered in Presidencies Department, Relief Society
Annual General Conference, October 1, 1964]

Place of Mothers
in the Plan of
Teaching the Gospel in the Home

Elder Harold B. Lee
Of the Council of the Twelve

[Address Delivered in Presidencies Department, Relief Society
Annual General Conference, October 1, 1964]

You might be interested to know the nature of the meeting from which Elder Romney and I have just come. We have done as apparently the worthies of another dispensation did. "They went to the House of the Lord and took sweet counsel together," the scriptures say. We have done that since nine o'clock this morning. Having come fasting, we have engaged in the holiest order of prayer; we have witnessed a rich outpouring; and I think in the language of the scriptures, "we have to take sweet counsel together." It is just one of those meetings that brings us nigh to heaven in a place and at a time when we need so much of the blessings of the Almighty.

When Brother John A. Widtsoe was alive, he used to tell us of a meeting he held at a stake conference, where they asked how long it had been since the Church had received a revelation. He stroked his chin thoughtfully and said, "Oh, probably since last Thursday." And that startled them — to realize that here and now, week by week — he knew as Elder Romney and I know — we see evidences of constant, divine guidance. Today we bear that witness to you sisters, that there has been a real outpouring of spiritual light and truth.

I am glad that this body of sisters is constituted as you are, as the presidencies, the leaders, of the Relief Society organizations of the stakes and mission districts. More and more, I think, we will come to the time where we must, as General Authorities and general board members, instruct the leaders of the stakes and the missions, and then expect you to be so well schooled that you are prepared and able to move down to the next level of authority in the wards and branches and so instruct them that they are then prepared to instruct the people.

Today, you will receive instructions regarding the Correlating Program, about which Sister Spafford in her excellent message which she delivered so ably yesterday, spoke to you. Therefore, what I shall say will be in several different categories.

7

JANUARY 1965

First, I sat down the other night and combed through many statements about the importance of the home, to get some sort of "punch lines," if you might call it that, to give to you from the viewpoint of thinkers, leaders in various fields — how they have construed the importance of maintaining the integrity of the home. Then I am going to move to some scriptures from the various dispensations of the past, to show you how the prophets have schooled the people as to the responsibility of the parents with regard to their children. Then I am going to come down a little closer and bring to you some quotations about Family Home Night, as it has been taught to us, beginning with President Joseph F. Smith, and even statements preceding that time, about our responsibility as parents in the home. And then, finally, to get down to the specifics of the thing that we shortly will have to give to you by way of instructions, by which we hope the parents will be better prepared to do the work which the Lord has commanded them to do.

I was at a conference in Idaho, and I shall not talk too specifically about it, because I nearly blundered by speaking too bluntly about the carelessness of this stake in naming a husband and wife to an organization which took them both out of the home, without leaving one or the other there to tend the children; that they ought to be careful and assign a mother to one organization so the father could be home, and then when the father had to be gone, so the mother could be home. Well, I found that I had

given some offense because of my statement, when stake leaders freely predicted a wholesale resignation as a result of my rather blunt remarks.

In the afternoon, I looked to have someone to support my contention. I was sitting by the stake Relief Society president, and I think she probably is here today. She had raised nine children, all of them married now, and all of them in the temple; a very successful mother; and all her life, all the time she was raising her family, she had been a leader in one of the women's organizations. So I asked her to tell us how she had been able to be a leader and yet had been able to raise such a remarkable family.

This lovely sister could not have given a more perfect talk from my standpoint than if I had schooled her on what to say. She said: "In the first place, what success I have had in raising my family, I owe to my angel mother. I raised my children as my wonderful mother raised us, and that chain reaction, which she started, has gone through my family, and I hope I have transferred it on to my children."

The importance of a mother was pinpointed by someone who said, "When you teach a boy, you are just teaching another individual, but when you teach a woman or a girl, you are teaching a whole family."

The second thing, she said: "I married a wonderful companion. Daddy always felt that I should be active just as well as he should be active, and so whenever we were asked to hold a position, we sat down with the bishop or the

8

PLACE OF MOTHERS IN THE PLAN OF TEACHING THE GOSPEL IN THE HOME

stake president to see if we could take the position that was being offered, and yet see that our family would not be neglected. We have worked it out all through our married life, so that our children never have been unattended. One of us has been home with the children."

And then, the third thing she said was, "I have an unshakeable testimony in the divine mission of the Lord, Jesus Christ."

I submit to you that there can hardly be three things said which would make for more successful motherhood than these three things mentioned by this wonderful stake Relief Society president.

Someone said, "A home is a roof over a good woman." Another said, "A hundred men may make an encampment, but it takes a woman to make a home."

You will never know until you have had the experience of walking into a house without a mother and one's companion there. It is like walking into a darkened room without the light turned on. The first intimation of domestic happiness you may recognize when members of a family say how they love their home. That is the indication of real domestic happiness.

"Where the home is ruled according to the Word of God, angels might be asked to stay, and they would not find themselves out of their element," one thinker wrote:

Households there may be, well ordered and abiding in comfort; families there may be whose various members live in harmony and love; but homes in their true sense there cannot be where there is no one whom manly choice has made a wife, and infant lips have learned to honor the name of mother.

Another wrote:

Six things are requisite to a happy home. Integrity must be the architect; and tidiness the upholsterer. It must be warmed by affection, lighted up with cheerfulness, and industry must be the ventilator, renewing the atmosphere and bringing in fresh salubrity day by day, while over all as a protecting canopy and glory, nothing will suffice except the blessing of God.

"The best school and discipline is home; family life is God's own method of training the young," our newspaper the other morning said.

Home is the seminary of all other institutions; it is the cradle of character and Christianity. Eighty per cent of our criminals come from unsympathetic homes. The most essential element in any home is God. Christianity begins at home; we build our characters there, and what we become in after years is largely determined by our training and home environment.

I heard a humble man out in one of our country stakes say something of great wisdom. Whether or not it was original with him, I do not know, but his statement was: "What we are hereafter depends on what we are after here." I think that, translated into a sermon, this would provide some worthwhile thoughts.

To Adam, the Lord said, concerning children:

And it is given unto them to know good from evil. . . . Wherefore, teach it unto your children, that all men, everywhere, must repent, or they can in nowise inherit the kingdom of God, for no unclean thing can dwell there, or dwell in his presence; for, in the language of Adam, Man of Holiness is his name, and the name of his Only

9

JANUARY 1965

Begotten is the Son of Man, even Jesus Christ, a righteous judge, who shall come in the meridian of time. Therefore I give unto you a commandment, to teach these things freely unto your children . . . (Moses 6:56-58).

Now, that's one of the earliest instructions I could find, where parents and leaders were to teach children.

King Benjamin to his people said:

And ye will not suffer your children that they go hungry, or naked; neither will ye suffer that they transgress the laws of God, and fight and quarrel one with another, and serve the devil, who is the master of sin, or who is the evil spirit which has been spoken of by our fathers, he being an enemy to all righteousness. But ye will teach them to walk in the ways of truth and soberness; ye will teach them to love one another, and to serve one another (Mosiah 4:14, 15).

In the book of Deuteronomy, in the Old Testament, we find this being said by Moses, as the Lord instructed him:

And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy might. And these words, which I command thee this day, shall be in thine heart: And thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children, and shalt talk of them when thou sittest in thine house, and when thou walkest by the way, and when thou liest down, and when thou risest up (Deut. 6:5-7).

Now, our leaders today have said something. From the discourses of President Woodruff, I have a quotation:

I consider that the mother has a greater influence over her posterity than any other person can have. And the question has arisen some time "When does this education begin?" Our prophets have said, "When the spirit life from God enters into the

tabernacle." The condition of the mother at that time will have its effect upon the fruit of her womb; and from the birth of the child, and all through life, the teachings and the example of the mother govern and control in a great measure, that child, and her influence is felt by it through time and eternity.

I have long been satisfied that the devil was making great exertions to drive a wedge in between parents and children — trying to inspire and instil into the minds of the sons and daughters of the Saints those corrupting notions that will prevent them from following the footsteps of their fathers and mothers; but this cannot be done! The sons and daughters of this people, if we do our duty, will be held by the strength and in the name of Israel's God (The Discourses of Wilford Woodruff, pp. 269-270).

President Grant has made two very important comments:

There seems to be a power which the mother possesses in shaping the life of the child that is far superior. . . . A mother's love seems to be the most perfect and most sincere, the strongest of any love we know anything about. I, for one, rejoice in it because of its wonderful example to me.

If we as parents will so order our lives that our children will know and realize in their hearts that we are very deed latter-day Saints, that we actually know what we are talking about, they, by seeking after the Lord, will get that same testimony (Gospel Standards, pp. 152, 154).

What a tremendous comfort and promise that must be!

President McKay has these comments to make:

God has placed upon parents the responsibility of instilling these principles into the minds of children. Church schools, Sunday Schools, Mutual Improvement Associations, Primary organizations are all helps in government, established here to assist

10

PLACE OF MOTHERS IN THE PLAN OF TEACHING THE GOSPEL IN THE HOME

in the upbuilding and guidance of the youth, but none of these — great and important factors as they are in the lives of youth — can supplant the permanence and the influence of the parents in the home (Pathways to Happiness, page 118).

President Joseph F. Smith said:

Another great and important duty devolving upon this people is to teach their children, from their cradle until they become men and women, every principle of the gospel, and endeavor, so far as lies in the power of the parents, to instil into their hearts a love for God, the truth, virtue, honesty, honor and integrity to everything that is good. That is important for all men and women who stand at the head of a family in the household of faith. Teach your children the love of God, teach them to love the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Teach them to love their fellowmen, and especially to love their fellow members in the Church that they be true to their fellowship with the people of God. Teach them to honor the Priesthood, to honor the authority that God has bestowed upon his Church for the proper government of his Church (Gospel Doctrine, pp 292-293).

And here is another quotation from President McKay:

No matter what they may be without, are your homes pure within? Are morning prayers offered there regularly? Or do the things of this world take you away from your home and make you deprive yourself of morning prayers with the children? Woe to that home where the mother abandons her holy mission or neglects the divine instruction, influence, and example — while she bows, a devotee, at the shrine of social pleasure; or neglects the essential duties in her own household, in her enthusiasm to promote public reform (Gospel Ideals, page 481).

Now that is well pointed, and I hope all our mothers can get the message. Then he added: "God has placed upon you parents the responsibility of instilling these principles into the minds of children."

Finally, this quotation from President Brigham Young:

If you mothers will live your religion, then in the love and fear of God teach your children constantly and thoroughly in the way of life and salvation, training them up in the way they would go, when they are old they will not depart from it (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 206).

The Home Teaching Program

Now this coming Saturday night, President McKay has directed that the theme of the general Priesthood meeting will be a program, announced Church-wide, on teaching of the gospel in the home.

In this there will be defined the beginning of the program which will be initiated beginning January 1, 1965, in which the Relief Society organization will play a very vital part. Now, one of the questions that is frequently asked, and upon which there seems to be some confusion, is with reference to the visiting teacher program of the Relief Society, which is thought, in some cases, to conflict with the Home Teaching Program. Now, may I say to you that in all our discussions as a Correlation Committee we have never thought to give direction or instruction that the Home Teaching Program should discontinue the visiting teaching program of the Relief Society. But the visiting teacher program now has an objective that is a little different and beyond an auxiliary to the Home Teaching Program.

11

JANUARY 1965

Now, for example, as I attempted to think this through, the work that you use in connection with your Relief Society work, is that of the "compassionate service" side of Relief Society. That is contemplated in every visit in the home of the Relief Society visiting teachers. Now, in that visitation there may be such things as homemaking instructions, where you see a loosely knit home and poorly kept by a mother who doesn't understand — this might be the golden opportunity for the Relief Society to inject its instruction in that compassionate way. Watchful attention to the needs of the sick and the infirm is encompassed in the visit of the visiting teacher, and the keeping of Relief Society presidents apprised of temporal, as well as spiritual needs, also. Now, as I thought of that, I remembered something I read a year or so ago. A general from Europe had just returned from an assignment over there, where he had witnessed the terrible devastation of those great cities in Southern and Western Europe. Someone had asked him a question that followed his talk as to what he thought the greatest needs in Europe were. And he gave three words: "They need food, fuel, and faith," and then he added, "Without the latter, the first two are useless; and without the first two, the third is impossible."

THAT is a true statement. Those of us who work, Brother Romney and I and you Relief Society presidents, close to the Welfare Program, can tell that when a home is shattered because

of the needs of food and shelter and of clothing and fuel, the first thing we have to do is to build a sense of security, a sense of material well-being, before we can begin to lift the family to the plane where we can instil in them, faith. That is the beginning, but unless we have the objective of what we do to the building of faith, the mere giving of material aid fails. Now, we must understand that, if we just try to build faith without first filling their stomachs and seeing that they are properly clothed and properly housed and properly warmed, perhaps we will fail in the building of faith.

Relationship of Relief Society to the Home Teaching Program

Now, in order to give to the sisters a perspective of this responsibility which is coming to them, I would like first to introduce that by showing the relationship which the Relief Society should have with the Home Teachers. I am talking now of the Priesthood Home Teachers. We have had some confusion, as you can understand, when a new program is announced, there is always some lack of comprehension in the beginning of any new program or plan.

We try to explain with the best vocabulary we have, which is sometimes very limited; and then, unfortunately, the people who listen have a worse vocabulary to listen with than we have to talk with; and with that limited equipment we try to get across a few ideas.

I have often said to the brethren that the all-important thing is not what we say at a stake

12

PLACE OF MOTHERS IN THE PLAN OF TEACHING THE GOSPEL IN THE HOME

conference or at a general conference, but the all-important thing is what people think we said. That is the important thing. Well, now, some people have thought we said certain things that we did not say, or at least, we have repented of, if we seemed to have said it; and it is now about some of these things I wish to speak.

Now about the Primary Home Partnership. Some things were said that seemed to negate all of that good work of the Primary trying to carry the Primary lessons into the home; and likewise the Sunday School had a similar kind of program. We were asked to make some comments about that.

The Ward Council Meeting

One of the weekly meetings of the executive committee of each Priesthood group in the ward is to be held each month, and is resolved into what we call a ward council meeting, where all the heads of the auxiliaries and all the heads of the Priesthood groups will meet together. The bishop will bring to this group the assignments which need to be made to the auxiliaries. The place of the auxiliary is there determined, primarily by the outcome of the studies or the visits of the Home Teachers, as revealed by oral or written reports, which are sifted by the secretary of the Home Teaching committee, or assistant ward clerk, and the bishopric.

Relationship Between Priesthood Home Teachers and Auxiliary Workers on Enlistment

There have been some questions asked relative to the

relationship between Priesthood Home Teachers and the auxiliary workers, relating to enlistment work necessary for an individual child or adult member. During last month we held a seminar of all Priesthood representatives of the four Priesthood committees — Home Teaching, Missionary, Genealogy, and Welfare. In that meeting, this very question came up, and in the discussion, they seemed to draw an interesting distinction between the enlistment work necessary for a longtime inactive family or one which had never been active, and the infrequent absence of a child who had skipped going to Sunday School or who had skipped going to Primary for a week or more. The enlistment work can be considered as one thing, the visit of a child who is ill or occasionally absent, is another.

In one stake I visited I conferred with the Relief Society and Primary board workers, after their all-day sessions with stake leaders, and I found that only fifty per cent of the mothers in that stake were enrolled in Relief Society; and there were 225 children of Primary age who were not participating in Primary. Whose business is this? Is this just the business of the Relief Society and the teachers of the various classes? Is it just the business of the Primary and the teachers of the Primary classes? It is the business of the total Priesthood of the Church to see, so far as it is possible, that every mother is induced to come to Relief Society, and that every child of Primary age is induced to participate in the Primary program. Now, by analogy, that means

13

JANUARY 1965

MIA age, Sunday School, and so on. I merely use these as illustrations.

The bishop should have on his agenda for this council meeting when all the auxiliary heads are there with the Priesthood workers and the bishopric, the special items that pertain to specific problems. Women are not to be called to serve as Home Teachers, but they may go by specific assignment if the bishop, after consultation with the Home Teachers, feels that in a given case, for a month or two or more, it would be a benefit to a particular family because of a particular situation.

Well now, I think it is understandable in a case like that, as Sister Spafford observed when we were talking about this, if there has been given a special assignment to Family A, for a special sister to work with a special case, for that period of specialized work, the visiting teachers might not be asked to visit that home, because they might confuse the specialist's work already going forward.

Now, whether or not there will be one or more or many visits will depend upon the results of the discussion of the bishop with his Home Teachers, and then with the specific auxiliary concerned. It may be Relief Society; it may be MIA; it may be Sunday School; it may be Primary.

The hope is that we are not too far away, maybe a year away, from having not just a Primary Home Partnership or a Sunday School Home Partnership, but a total Church Home Partnership. It will bring all the lessons for a

planned and responsible teaching into the home. In other words, we are giving parents now for this year lessons that they are going to teach their children—actually planned lessons, for parents to teach in the home.

And we hope this will become a total partnership program, involving not just the Primary and the Sunday School, but every organization. Now, these are two phases which you must keep in mind when you tackle this subject. Don't just say, "Now, since this Home Teaching program, we are not getting as many new members out as we used to before." Well, if you are not, it is your fault. You sit in on that monthly ward council meeting, and if that ward council meeting is not being held, or you are not invited into it, then somebody ought to be harassed and importuned until that meeting is held; and you ought to be so alert to the needs of your organization that not one member who ought to be in Relief Society is overlooked by the Home Teachers, and that plans are made for an orderly recruitment of all members into Primary, or the Mutual Improvement Association, or the Sunday School, as the case may be.

If you can do this, if you will have in mind that what we are planning now is a program that will reach every member of the Church, and when anyone comes complaining that we have fallen off in this or that because of the Home Teaching Program, we ask them, why don't you ask to be allowed to participate more fully in the specific cases where the Home Teachers are not effective,

14

PLACE OF MOTHERS IN THE PLAN OF TEACHING THE GOSPEL IN THE HOME

or where the Home Teachers have not fully sensed that they need a specialist's work in order to enlist some members of the family who are not now active?

Teaching the Gospel in the Home

With that in mind, Sister Spafford told you that there will be given to you now a lesson once a month in the Relief Society. I have before me the first lesson which they have proposed in this series, the teaching of which will commence the first of the year. I am going to read you one or two paragraphs, which can say this better than I do, to give you the perspective:

In order to cooperate fully with this program, the Latter-day Saint mother must understand the place of the family in the divine "scheme of things." She must strive to establish the kind of relationship among family members that will be favorable to an acceptance of this gospel-teaching program. She should realize that her attitude will be an important influence for good or a deterrent to the progress of the work, and she, herself, must become more informed as to the principles of the restored gospel. The purpose of these Relief Society lessons is, therefore, to help the mother become an effective instrument with her husband in teaching the gospel to the family.

How often, in past years, have you heard a Latter-day Saint mother say, "I wish my husband could have heard the discussion today. Had he done so, I am sure he would feel differently about a particular problem we have in our home." It is a realistic observation that with widely divergent points of view, the efforts of one parent often may nullify the efforts of the other parent, sometimes with great detriment to the persons involved and to the problem which needs to be resolved.

The correlation of these lessons with those being studied by the Priesthood quorums can be of great value, since it will bring to both parents an awareness of their joint responsibility to teach their children the fundamentals of the gospel. In fact, it is hoped that through a mutual understanding of this responsibility, Latter-day Saint parents will work unitedly to meet this teaching challenge, and that they will strive earnestly to bring a fullness of the blessings of the gospel into their homes.

And then they summarize with these important instructions:

To assist parents in carrying out the responsibility given them by the Lord, the leaders of the Church through inspiration have developed the home program, which is a Priesthood administrative responsibility.

The Family Home Evening Program will involve every member of the Church, for its fundamental concern is that every Church member be more fully instructed in Church doctrine. "Therefore, every family unit, however composed, should participate in the instruction program." Couples without children, a single person living alone, roommates, as well as families, can all benefit from the newly instituted program. The lessons will include material adapted to the particular needs of special types of families, where such adaptation is necessary. An instruction period, similar to that planned for the family night, is to be held.

In addition to the gospel lessons, the manual gives suggestions for family activities which should set a general climate for the home throughout the month.

Then they conclude with this:

Each year the lessons in the Family Home Evening Program manual will consider fundamental principles of the gospel, and they will deal with four universal concerns of the Latter-day Saints. The emphasis will be placed upon application of the truths

15

JANUARY 1965

in these universals. Lessons prepared for Priesthood quorums and Relief Society will likewise emphasize the importance of translating the gospel teachings into action. The relationship of the individual to his family, to others, and to the community will be emphasized.

Now can you see that plan in action? Mothers being taught in a monthly lesson in Relief Society, fathers in their weekly Priesthood meeting; a lesson actually planned for the parents in the home in a family manual; and then the Home Teachers once a month, given instructions to check to see that the parents understand how these lessons are to be taught, and any questions or problems ironed out.

In other words, we are not going to be like someone said: "You talk about it, but what have you done about it?" Now, these are some definite fundamental steps which you, as the leaders of the women of the Church, must implement. Now this is the thing we want you to carry out.

We must do our jobs so well in these lessons that we give to every mother her fundamental instructions necessary for her to know what her place is with her husband in the teaching of the gospel to the children in the home.

Now, with these things that I have read you preliminary to this, you begin to get something of what our leaders have urged.

I said here, you are not to be Home Teachers, so appointed regularly as such. In one of the stakes, the first month, we took a look at it, and half of the Home Teachers were women, and I think if we had gone another three months, all the Home Teaching would have been done by the Relief Society. We would have had no Home Teachers.

You are to stand ready to assist the Home Teachers, in a manner directed by the bishop. And you are to instruct your leaders in that ward council meeting to plead constantly and urge your Priesthood leaders, if you feel that some of the work is not receiving the specific attention that it deserves and needs to save some particular home situation; and then to give specific aid to mothers who are struggling with insurmountable problems.

Problems That Beset Us Today

Only yesterday Sister Lee and I ran into two problems that are right here. One of them: a mother called to say, "Our son is attending college, and every day his teacher is indoctrinating him with socialism, and what are we going to do about it?" she asked. And another, a fine, handsome boy just starting to college said, "Every day I attend this particular class in philosophy there have been created doubts in my mind and questionings of the faith and teachings of the Church. How can I rise above it?" That is the problem, probably, of every home where they have college sons and daughters.

Now what is the answer? The answer is, or the solution is that we fortify our children by giving them truths on which they can build a testimony that will fortify them against these things which are in the world and striking at the faith of our children.

16

PLACE OF MOTHERS IN THE PLAN OF TEACHING THE GOSPEL IN THE HOME

In a recent book on science and religion the author states his belief that there is abroad in the world today a great revival in religion, and that this revival is a challenge to scientists and religious leaders to cooperate in working for the hopes and dreams of mankind.

A Challenge to the Church

The greatest challenge the Church has today is to proclaim the faith of their fathers in the language of the children of today. And that, I submit to you, is, in one sentence, the challenge that we face in this program of teaching the gospel in the home.

I can quote across an address that President Clark delivered to the conference of the Relief Society sometime ago, in which he said:

Thus the Latter-day Saint family, in a Latter-day Saint home, has three great functions to perform.

First, — it must bring to its members such lives as will enable them to return to the inner circles of that celestial home from which they came, — a dwelling with the Heavenly Father and Mother throughout the eternities.

Second, — it must so carry out its duties, rights, and functions as to enable it, in turn, to found a celestial home that shall in some eternity hereafter be the equal in power, opportunity, and dignity with the celestial home from which we came and to which we shall return.

Third, — it must so live its life as to provide for the spirits yet waiting to come to this earth for their fleshly tabernacles, both bodies and minds that shall be healthy, for the spirits coming through them are the choice spirits, which have earned the right by their lives in their first estate, to come for their second estate, to the righteous homes — to the families of

greatest worth, promise, and opportunity; and this family must provide for this spirit which it invites to come to its hearthstone, an environment that shall meet the strictest requirements of righteousness (The Relief Society Magazine, December 1940, page 808).

Now those are powerful observations — three great family functions. Well, perhaps I have said enough and maybe a summary of that is to say something that is a bit delicate and a bit personal, but all of us who go as General Authorities throughout the Church or sit in my offices, are confronted almost constantly with a question. Here is a lovely mother who is struggling against the odds of a faithless husband, or one who will not be active in the Church and will not do anything, and the question of the mother is should she withdraw from that husband and seek a separation with the thought that if they cannot work out a happy home life here, then why try to think of getting into the temple to be sealed for eternity?

Now we have had that problem constantly before us. Let me read you something which President Brigham Young said that I think strikes at this thing and gives to you, as leaders, something on which you ought to dwell constantly whenever distraught mothers come to you with any such thoughts as to pull away from the husband because he is not presently giving the attention to the Church that he ought.

President Young said:

I know you good women get annoyed and provoked and out of patience many times with your husbands; and at times, justly so. They are not always as considerate of you

17

JANUARY 1965

as they ought to be; but if they provide for you, they are kind to you, and otherwise treat you right, stay with them.

I think it has been taught by some that as we lay our bodies down, they will so rise again in the resurrection with all the impediments and imperfections that they had here; and that if a wife does not love her husband in this state she cannot love him in the next. This is not so. Those who attain to the blessings of the first or celestial resurrection will be more and holy, and perfect in body. Every man and woman who reaches to this unspeakable attainment will be as beautiful as the angels that surround the throne of God. If you can, by faithfulness in this life, obtain the right to come up in the morning of the resurrection, you need entertain no fears that the wife will be dissatisfied with her husband or the husband with the wife; for those of the first resurrection will be free from sin and from the consequences and power of sin. This body is "sown in corruption, it is raised in incorruption; it is sown in dishonor, it is raised in glory; it is sown in weakness, it is raised in power; it is sown a natural body, it is raised a spiritual body." "And as we have borne the image of the earthly, we shall also bear the image of the heavenly" (Journal of Discourses 10, page 24).

Now, let me close with an illustration. Sister Rae and I were back at the time of the Singing Mothers on the East Coast, when they put on that remarkable presentation, as President Tanner told you yesterday, that resulted in a tremendous publicity all over the country. They left hundreds and hundreds of children, with husbands, we hope, to be attended somewhere and cared for while the mothers were gone. There came up at the close of that meeting a lovely singer, who sang one of the solo parts. She had been a convert of only

18

a year or two before, and she had been singing with the Metropolitan Opera Company. But she said she recalled that I had been back to the stake conference where she lived, and we had talked about temple marriage while there, and her husband was a professor in a university back there. Despite all her efforts to try to get him interested he just pulled away, wanted to have nothing to do with it. Furthermore he was urging her to go his way into activities contrary to the standards of the Church.

"Well," I suppose I laid a pretty heavy hand on the small percentage of temple marriages, and on those who were not working up towards a sealing in the temple. This sister came up as the conference closed, and asked me, "What am I going to do about it?"

She told me just a bit about her home situation, and she reminded me. It shocked me when I heard her say it. (I can think how it shocked her when I said it.) She said, "You said, in answer to my question 'Well, I don't understand that the Lord ever expected a woman to follow her husband to hell!'" And so, stiffened by that rather stern and, perhaps a bit crude, perhaps inspired, comment, she thought, "This is ever the time to strike," so she went home to her husband. (He had been in that session, by the way.)

She didn't tell us the whole story of what may have happened and what he said back to her. She left that to our imagination, but then, as the tears came rolling down her cheeks, she said, "Today is our

PLACE OF MOTHERS IN THE PLAN OF TEACHING THE GOSPEL IN THE HOME

fifteenth wedding anniversary, and my husband is being baptized tonight a member of the Church." And he was back there to help, as one of those appointed to take care of all the physical arrangements for the Singing Mothers as they arranged themselves for that great concert.

It is that kind of salvation which maybe some faithful wife will have to help her husband one day to achieve.

Remember what the apostle Paul said, "The unbelieving husband is sanctified by the believing wife."

Now, I am not talking of a husband who is unfaithful to the point of endangering his wife's health, immoral, and who probably has almost deprived himself of the right of life itself, but I am talking merely of one who presently seems to show no interest, or has his mind presently upon worldly things. If we will do our part as mothers, wives, with patience and prayer, and with the power of the Priesthood now concentrated, as we hope it will be, we may hope in the years that lie ahead to see a tremendous resurrection of interest, unity, faith, and the strengthening of the Latter-day Saint homes of this people.

Now, dear, sisters, you must give leadership to this. It will not go unless the mothers take the initiative in many homes. Put father in his place and urge him to take that place, and help him to be the teacher and leader that the Lord expects fathers to be, as holders of the Priesthood.

So I leave you my blessing this afternoon, again expressing my great delight at what I heard of the general session. How proud I was to hear your President, Sister Spafford, and these wonderful counselors. I think the word "great" is not an exaggeration — to say these are great women who are leading you, loyal, devoted, untiring, faithful. Sister Spafford has attained a world-wide stature. When she goes to foreign lands, she is well known to women's groups everywhere. She has addressed them on many occasions. She will leave this conference shortly to go to one similar conference back East. She has earned her place because she has maintained her standards and she has taught the gospel of Jesus Christ.

I am grateful to be here in the presence of Brother Romney. I think his talk to you yesterday was one of the finest expressions on one of the great needs of developing an awareness of the Spirit and how we must strive to get that Spirit and keep it. I think that is something that ought to be printed and reprinted and read and re-read, as Brother Romney has given it to you yesterday.

May I say, parenthetically, that the loyalty that brought him from a long meeting to sit through this hour, that may not have been, shall I say, too engaging, indicates the kind of loyalty and the strength that I have always felt in Elder Marion G. Romney, than whom I have never known a more loyal, a more faithful, and a more dear companion in the earnest work that belongs to the kingdom of God.

I commend what has been said and done and commend you to the further responsibilities that

19
