[Vol52 | January 1965 | Page 51 | General Feature | Notes From the Field: Relief | Society Activities]
[PHOTOGRAPH]
[PHOTOGRAPH - Group of women seated and standing in a room, appears to be a Relief Society meeting or gathering]
[PHOTOGRAPH - Children seated around tables with adults supervising, appears to be a classroom or educational setting]
[PHOTOGRAPH - Large group of people, appears to be a choir or musical group, with audience seated below]
[PHOTOGRAPH: Group photo of women in white clothing arranged in rows, with a portrait of a woman displayed above them and decorative elements on the wall]
[PHOTOGRAPH: Group of people gathered around what appears to be a decorated cake or display on a table]
[PHOTOGRAPH: Large group photo of women arranged in multiple rows, appearing to be in formal dress]
[PHOTOGRAPH: Large group photo of women standing on steps and balcony of a building]
[PHOTOGRAPH: Group of women seated and standing around a table with food items, with decorative quilt or wall hanging visible in background. Small portrait photograph visible in lower left corner]

Notes FROM THE FIELD

Relief Society Activities

All material submitted for publication in the Southland should be sent through the regular channels—from units to stakes, from stakes to the central unit, and material for "Notes From the Field" to the Magazine for Senior Organizations, and to the Relief Society Handbook or Instructions.

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Texas Mission, Odessa Branch Relief Society Display of "Stitched" Pictures Highlights Bazaar
December 1963

Standing at the left: Beatrice Marie Chesser, Second Counselor; Delores James, Secretary; at the right: Nell B. Pitt, President; Cleo Eileen Hedrick, First Counselor.

Laura C. Horne, President, Texas Mission Relief Society, reports: "Machine-sewed, quilted pictures, with beautiful three-dimensional detail, became the center point of a well-organized and well-displayed bazaar, presented to the public in the main business district of Odessa. For some two months the interest of the public was drawn to the coming bazaar by the outstanding quality of these exceptional, hand-rubbed, and framed pictures. Made to fit the decor of all periods of fine furnishings, pictures sold as high as $139.95. They were displayed with recognition on television stations, in leading banks, stores of fine furnishings, and plainly stamped: 'Made by Odessa L.D.S. Relief Society.' This created a fine point for an opening discussion of missionary work, while sales mounted to better than $3,000. With the true spirit of missionary work, printed instructions were distributed to all branches of the Texas Mission. One of the pictures proudly hangs in the newly built and dedicated mission home at Dallas, Texas.

51

JANUARY 1965

Swedish Mission Relief Society Receives a Visit From a General Board Member
for the First Time, April 25-27, 1964

Seated, front row, left to right: Agness Carlström, translator; Britta Rydström, Secretary, Swedish Mission Primary Association; La Vern W. Parrish, President, Primary Association; Aleine M. Young, member, General Board of Relief Society; Marianne Tenström, President, Swedish Mission Relief Society; Jean W. Fletcher, Supervisor, Swedish Mission Relief Society.

The other sisters in the picture are members of the Relief Society and Primary presidencies of the five districts of the Swedish Mission.

Sister Tenström reports that a dinner party was held in Stockholm on April 25, 1964, for all the mission district leaders, at which time Sister Young and Sister Parrish were honored, and gifts were presented to them. For the occasion, Eva Gerling, Eva Myrberg, and Bergit Pearson were dressed in Swedish national costumes.

On March 17, 1964, the Stockholm First Branch presented a skit called "Sixty Years Ago," and representing the time when the chapel in Stockholm was dedicated by President Heber J. Grant. Irma Hodell, President, Stockholm First Branch Relief Society, wrote the skit, which presented the sisters hard at work preparing for the great day of the chapel dedication. Greta Anderson, Ethel Ramsden, and Inez Perciwall, also participated as characters in the skit. As a child, Sister Perciwall, accompanied her mother to the chapel dedication sixty years ago.

Ammon Stake (Idaho), Idaho Falls Twenty-Sixth Ward Nursery

Pictured assisting the children are Kay Zorn and Jean Smith.
Emma Jane Nelson, President, Ammon Stake Relief Society, reports: "The sisters of the Twenty-sixth Ward have placed special emphasis on making their Relief Society nursery an ideal place for the children of their ward. Their nursery is, indeed, one of the most outstanding in our stake. Note the clever aprons worn by each child. Sister Smith is now the president of this ward, although this article and picture were submitted by Harriett Kerr, the former president. Sister Kerr, in explaining some of the elements of the successful nursery in her ward, stated: 'We begin by selecting gentle baby sitters who will assure our younger groups that mother will be right back, and who will quietly usher our older groups into the Junior Sunday School room, where they will happily encounter flannel board stories and well-known songs. After this comes activity time. The picture shows one such period in which our children were busy and intent upon pasting popcorn on a bare, pre-arranged apricot tree. As the children come to meet their mothers at the conclusion of Relief Society, they are smiling, and we feel that everyone leaves with a spirit of fulfillment. One little girl comes alone because she hasn't yet convinced Mother it is a wonderful place to be."

San Joaquin Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present Two Concerts
Modesto, May 2, 1964, and Stockton, June 5, 1964

Leona B. Hansen, former president, Modesto Stake Relief Society, reports: "Sixty-five sisters spent many hours the past six months preparing for our Singing Mothers concerts. We placed special emphasis on inviting our nonmember friends, and the two evenings brought over 400 people to enjoy the evenings of music. Sister Francelle Larsen conducted, with Janet Odum at the piano, and Karlyn Brett at the organ. As one sister expressed her feelings, 'I have never felt closer to my Father in heaven.' Indeed, it was a spiritual feast."

The new President of San Joaquin Stake Relief Society is Leona Brown Hansen.

52

[PHOTOGRAPH - Group of women seated and standing in a room, appears to be a Relief Society meeting or gathering]

[PHOTOGRAPH - Children seated around tables with adults supervising, appears to be a classroom or educational setting]

[PHOTOGRAPH - Large group of people, appears to be a choir or musical group, with audience seated below]

53

Pearl Harbor Stake (Hawaii) Singing Mothers Present Music
For Relief Society Conference in New Stake House
May 10, 1964

Fern Pule, chorister, is seated first on the right in the front row; Lejamalama Sniffin, organist, sixth from the right in the front row; Barbara Chlarson, former first counselor, fifth from the right in the front row; standing at the left, second row: Evelyn Miyamoto, First Counselor; Dawn Mangum, Second Counselor; inset, Virginia Harbertson, President.

Sister Harbertson reports: "These dear sisters outdid themselves in the effort they put forth in preparing the music for this conference. It was sung as only the Hawaiian sisters can sing. They truly carried the message to 'Lift Thine Eyes,' and renewed the promise 'If Ye Love Me, Keep My Commandments.' It was truly a wonderful experience, for they found that they could learn the music when they felt that they could not. We were all touched very deeply, knowing that the Lord will always be ready to help us."

Uruguayan Mission, Capital District, Rodo South Branch Relief Society
Conducts Successful Bazaar

The photograph shows a booth decorated with flowers, and displaying foods and handicraft. At the left, back of the sisters, a number of originally designed potholders, aprons, dresses, and other well-made and attractive articles are displayed.

In nearly all the branches of this mission two bazaars are held each year. One is held during the winter, with emphasis being placed on knitted articles. Another bazaar is held during the summer. An outstanding activity of the Relief Society of the Uruguayan Mission is cooperation with the construction program. When a missionary is called, the Relief Society provides him with clothing for his mission. The sisters also cook and sew for the construction missionaries, and hold special fiestas in order to raise funds for the program. The sisters are realizing their responsibility in encouraging the Priesthood to magnify their callings and are giving great encouragement to the fulfillment of the calling of a Church builder. They are also meeting the request of President David O. McKay that every member be a missionary. They have a fellowshipping program in which they try to help new members, reactivated members, and nonmembers, who are made to feel welcome in the Relief Society and in other Church organizations and activities.

Carmen C. de Galli is president of the Uruguayan Mission Relief Society, and Eva B. Barton is supervisor.

Hawaiian Mission Relief Society Leadership Convention
Honlulu, Maui, August 28-29, 1964

Seated center front, left to right: Elder George W. Poulsen, Jr., President, Hawaiian Mission; Orlene J. Poulsen, Supervisor, Hawaii Mission Relief Society; Chiyo Meyers, President; Ethel Young, Education Counselor; Haruko Kiilau, Work Director Counselor; Pearl Mahi, Secretary.

Sister Poulsen reports: "Sixty Relief Society women from four districts and twenty-three branches were in attendance at the convention. The sisters were told of the importance of their responsibilities, not only as Relief Society leaders, but as wives and mothers. Ideas for the nursery program, which is being introduced into the Hawaii Mission Relief Society, were presented, and discussions and demonstrations on the lesson material for the coming year were given. Bazaar items and samples of handwork were on display by the four districts, and the women were taught Lauhala weaving and rug making, while others learned how to cook some new dishes which were demonstrated.

"In the evening, a delightful play, which emphasized the importance of active Relief Society membership, was presented by the Hawaii District Relief Society. Mary Soon, who had been released as mission work director counselor, was honored."

54

[PHOTOGRAPH: Group photo of women in white clothing arranged in rows, with a portrait of a woman displayed above them and decorative elements on the wall]

[PHOTOGRAPH: Group of people gathered around what appears to be a decorated cake or display on a table]

[PHOTOGRAPH: Large group photo of women arranged in multiple rows, appearing to be in formal dress]

55

South German Mission Relief Society Convention
July 10-11, 1964

Center, front row, standing, left to right: Genevieve S. Gardner, Supervisor; Marjorie Oppermann, President; to the left of Sister Gardner: Ursula Hubner, Counselor in district presidency; seated, second from the left, in the front row: Dorothea Mez, District President.

Sister Gardner reports: "The two-day convention covered every phase of Relief Society. Excellent leadership sessions were held, giving help in every department. Effective charts and posters were on display, which encouraged better preparation and more effective teaching in each department. One morning was devoted to the responsibility of the Latter-day Saint wife in her home. The work meeting session featured quilting, which was new and interesting to everyone. Arts and crafts were taught, which included painting and ceramics, reed work, and the making of jewelry from silver and copper wire. Every sister took home some new and useful ideas.

"Music was an important part of the convention. The highlight of the first day was an evening of music. Only Relief Society sisters participated on the program, but the house was filled to overflowing with branch members, Church building and full-time missionaries, and friends. A delightful play 'The Water Cure' was presented by members of the Freiburg Branch. Other highlights were films, 'The Awakening,' and the Tabernacle Choir film 'With Music Ring.' Six sisters were honored for over twenty-five years in Relief Society, and were presented with a book."


Liberty Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Leaders of Spring Social
May 21, 1964

Front row, seated, left to right: Grace Giauque, work meeting leader; Ila Hatton, First Counselor; Jane Schipaanboord, President; Merida Huntsman, Second Counselor; Lillian Janke, Secretary-Treasurer.

Back row, left to right: Norma Johnson, chorister; Rose Woodruff, social science class leader; Faye Milner, literature class leader; Jane Jones, organist; Aleta Checketts; Ilah Carpenter, visiting teacher message leader; Juanita Jensen; Ilene Bigelow, theology class leader. Inset picture: Luella Birrell, Magazine representative.

Sister Schipaanboord reports: This year at our spring social we honored women, telling in the program and showing by display, their accomplishments and contributions in the building of the West and the making of our cultural life of today. 'First Ladies,' or representatives of First Ladies, were our guests of the day. Margaret Lee, First Lady of our city reviewed the lives of six outstanding pioneer women. Anne Gledhill represented the General Board of Relief Society, and brought a message from the Board. Ann Hafen, President of the Utah Poetry Society, represented first ladies of literature and read some of her own poems. Margaret Black, First Lady of our stake, and Jane Schipaanboord, First Lady of Liberty Stake Relief Society, were also honored. A lovely musical program was rendered. The Liberty Stake recreation center was transformed into a spring garden under the able hands of Sister Giauque. Beautiful handmade quilts from nine wards and two branches were on display, and refreshments were served."

56

[PHOTOGRAPH: Large group photo of women standing on steps and balcony of a building]

[PHOTOGRAPH: Group of women seated and standing around a table with food items, with decorative quilt or wall hanging visible in background. Small portrait photograph visible in lower left corner]

57
