[Vol52 | January 1965 | Page 65 | Lesson | Work Meeting — "Faith, If It Hath Not Works, Is Dead" Alberta | H. Christensen]
99 65 WORK MEETING — Teaching the Gospel in the Home Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 3 — 'Faith, tf It-Hath Not Works, Is Dead'"' (A Course to Be Studied at Work Meeting, January Through September 1965) For Second Meeting, March 1965 Objective: To emphasize the fact that in order to obtain maximum blessings from the gospel of Jesus Christ, its teachings must be translated from belief: into worthy action. INTRODUCTION Even so faith, if it hath not works, is dead, being alone (James 2:17). Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven (Matt. 7:21). Therefore to him that knoweth to do good, and doeth it not, to him it is sin (James 4:17). THESE are significant scriptures. They state, in essence, that merely having a belief or knowledge of a gospel truth is not enough. Moreover, that for those who believe and understand the law but do not comply with the law, it will be considered as a "'sin." The implication is that we shall be judged in ratio to the light and understanding we possess. An awareness of this truth is essential for every individual who would, through conscious effort, increase his mental and spiritual growth and who would influence others for good. The importance of translating belief into action is basic to the Family Home Evening Program and also to these lessons which are written in support of that program. It is espe- 66 cially important that mothers be aware of this truth as_ they guide their children from infancy to adulthood. *' If ideas which are to be developed' as lessons are to have vitality, class members must become sufficiently involved that they will be led to think about those ideas and to ask questions. These lessons, however, will not have fulfilled their general objective unless they motivate us actually to put into practice the ideas and gospel teachings discussed. KNOWLEDGE PLUS ACTION It is encouraging to know that perfection is not attained in a day. It is helpful to realize that consistent and constant effort ——— a — may be necessary in order to replace a particular behavior pattern with a better one. Nor is there disgrace in failing' to achieve, if one earnestly tries — only in the unwillingness to try. The inhabitants of the ancient city of Enoch did not arrive at a condition of "exceeding" righteousness suddenly, nor by merely knowing the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ, but by living them. For two centuries after the appearance of the Savior on the Western Hemisphere, the Lamanites and the Nephites enjoyed the peace and happiness which are fruits of righteous living. We read in Fourth Nephi, verses 15-18:... There was no contention in the land, because of the love of God which did dwell in the hearts of the people. And there were no envyings, nor strifes, nor tumults.... There were no robbers, nor murderers, neither were there Lamanites, nor any manner of -ites; but they were in one, the children of Christ, and heirs to the kingdom of God. And how blessed were they! This state of happiness was not achieved by merely believing that Jesus is the Christ, but by incorporating into their lives the principles of righteous' living which his gospel embraces. VALUE OF CONSISTENT EFFORT Countless examples of the methods and the value of consistent effort might be cited. A simple illustration is that of the versatile Benjamin Franklin who, in his early teens, drew up a solemn and earnest list of thirteen virtues he wished to practice as a means of improving his character. In a small account book he LESSON DEPARTMENT recorded his successes and failures with the virtues. Franklin did not approach this project of self-improvement as a temporary. Effort, nor as a generalized resolve, but as a concentrated, specific endeavor. He focused his effort upon one virtue at a time, hoping that by so doing he would carve a pattern of performance which would be effective and lasting. TODAY VERSUS TOMORROW There is much value in acting promptly upon a worthy resolve. Resolutions, repeatedly postponed, can create a pattern of postponement. When unfilled objectives become numerous, a feeling of inadequacy and frustration often results. Whenever possible and practical, today, not next week nor next month, is the time to begin action on our good resolves. BELIEF VERSUS PERFORMANCE One of the strange paradoxes of human behavior is that we perform less well than we know how. Why is this so? Why do we not put into practice the principles which we know are right and which we know should be put into practice? That there is a gap between the level of understanding and the level of performance is well known to all trained teachers; it should be a subject of interest and concern to all parents. Each mother who takes her responsibility seriously will be led to ask herself, at one time or another, 'How can I be more effective in motivating our children to perform in closer accord with the teachings of the gospel?' More 


 importantly, she may analyze herself with such questions as these: "Do my activities correspond with the values I say are most important to me? Why do I not maintain an attitude of patience in particular situations, when I know how important such an attitude is? What are the restraining forces which keep me from making necessary preparations on Saturday, in order that the Sabbath at our home may be more nearly as it should be — a day of rest and religious devotion?" An understanding, at least to some degree, of why a person performs as he or she does, is the basis of a sympathetic understanding of that person. This is of special importance in the mother and child relationship, and will be considered more concretely in a future lesson. LESSON APPLICATION Discussing the experiences of others is often useful in bringing a person to an awareness and to a solution of his own problems. Consider the following: Sister A. She is a conscientious and resourceful woman. Although her children are now married and her household _ responsibilities have greatly decreased, she fills her days with varied and interesting activities. On many occasions, in the past, she had planned that someday she would take time personally to become acquainted with the scriptures, to read beyond lesson - assigned chapter and verse. As the result of a particular Relief Society lesson, she was made acutely aware of the fact that time was slipping rapidly by 68 and that her reading objective remained unrealized. She resolved to begin at once, not next week nor next month. She adjusted her household schedule to allow for at least one half to one hour daily for the scripture-reading project. After two months of consistently following her plan she had established a performance pattern which was not difficult to follow. The satisfaction and spiritual insight which this activity brought, led her to wonder why she had not made this special effort long, long before. Sister B is the mother of six children. Motivated by a Relief Society theology lesson which stressed the spirituality and wisdom to be gained from a consistent reading of the scriptures, she decided she would really like to form this reading habit. However, as she checked her already closely scheduled days, she seriously wondered how she could possibly add even a half hour additional activity. She explained the situation and her desire to her two older children, ages thirteen and fifteen, who volunteered to relieve her of a particular household responsibility. Sister B was thus able to devote the time gained to the project. Her reading not only increased her understanding of the gospel, but she selected particular scriptures to share with the children in the Family Home Evening Program. Mothers must have a knowledge of the gospel not only to live righteously, but also in order to answer correctly questions of their children. Knowledge comes to them as they obey the words of the Savior "Search the scriptures; for in them ye think ye have eternal life: and they are they which testify of me" (John 5:39). In this day of skepticism and material interests, there are some to whom one memory of their youth is a cherished heritage — evenings at home, with father or mother reading from the scriptures, the children listening attentively. Surely a return to this practice will be an enriching experience for today's child, who has a challenging and doubting world to meet. LESSON DEPARTMENT THOUGHTS FOR DISCUSSION 1. Is a reading of the scriptures one of your unrealized objectives? 2. What schedule adjustment would you need to make were you Sister A? 3. What schedule adjustment would you consider feasible, were you Sister B? 4. What — schedule adjustment would you suggest for a mother with several very young children? 5. Is one more likely to carry out an activity if she makes a written or verbal commitment than if she merely makes a mental resolve? Discuss. 6. Am I a doer of the word or a believer, only?