[Vol53 | August 1966 | Page 593 | Poetry | August Alda | L. Brown]
AUGUST Alda L. Brown THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT MACAROON CAKE 4 ozs. Butter 6 ozs. Flour 4 ozs. Sugar pinch of salt 3 egg yolks 1 tsp. Baking powder 1 tsp. Vanilla 5 ozs. Milk Method: Cream butter and sugar, add egg yolks and vanilla, beat well. Add sifted dry ingredients alternately with milk. Spread in a greased shallow tin and cover with the following macaroon mixture: Macaroon Mixture: 3 egg whites, 4 ozs. Sugar, and 10 ozs. Coconut. Beat egg whites until quite stiff, fold in sugar and coconut. Bake about 1 hour at 400°F. CHOCOLATE BUTTER ICING Use amounts of powdered sugar according to thickness of icing desired for cake. For each cup (8 ounces) of powdered sugar, add two level tbsp. Softened butter, and 4 level tbsp. Melted unsweetened dark chocolate or 4 level tbsp. Unsweetened cocoa. Mix to desired consistency with canned milk or fresh cream. Add 1 tsp. Vanilla flavoring to mixture for each 1 cup of sugar. Variations in amounts of butter and chocolate may be made as desired. AFGHANS 7 ozs. Butter 1 oz. Cocoa 3 ozs. Sugar 2 ozs. Cornflakes 6 ozs. Flour Method: Soften butter, add sugar and beat to a cream, add flour, cocoa, and lastly, cornflakes. Put teaspoonfuls on a greased oven tray and bake about 15 minutes at 350° F. When cold, ice with chocolate icing and put walnuts on top. VANILLA WAFER CAKE Alice Best 1 c. Butter —: if 1 c. Chopped pecans (more if 1 c. Sugar - desired) 6 eggs — ial 1 c. Raisins (seedless or ground) 1 12 oz. Box of vanilla wafers 1% tsp. Allspice 1%, c. Milk Po (if desired) 1 17 oz. Pkg. Flaked coconu Cream butter, add sugar and beat well. Add eggs one at a time, beating well after each addition. Add vanilla wafers, which have been crushed, alternately with milk. Bake in a tube cake pan at 275° F. For 114 hours. After cake has cooked enough to hold cherries or other candied fruit you may decorate the top. 595 Quickie Recipes and Cooking Hints Bernice Broderick We mothers who must cook for families are always on the alert for new and tasty dishes. When there's an especially good lunch served at Relief Society work meetings, naturally we want the recipes. The cooking committee in our ward often uses the recipes from The Relief Society Magazine, and they tell us in which issue the recipes can be found. They are generous with other recipes, too. One of our cooks gave me the recipe for 'Porcupines," explaining that it has been in her family for years. PORCUPINES (We call them Porkypines) 1 Ib. Hamburger 14 c. Rice (uncooked) onion, as desired 1 can tomato soup (grated or chopped) 34, can water garlic salt, oregano, sage I use my own home-canned tomato juice instead of the soup and water. I add garlic salt, oregano, and sage. Mix hamburger, rice, and onion to form balls the size of walnuts. Place in a skillet large enough to avoid crowding. Pour soup and water over the balls, and cook over medium heat for 45-60 minutes, or until rice is tender. Occasionally turn the meat balls carefully, during the cooking, so the meat will not scorch. Be prepared to double or triple the recipe, for your family will love these Porcupines. I improvised a dish one time from sheer necessity. I was out of bread and had very little hamburger. I reasoned that I would have to do something with the meat to stretch it, and provide some kind of bread to go with it. Result: Burger and Dumplings. BURGER AND DUMPLINGS Use the same recipe as for Porcupines, but omit the rice, and add extra moisture. Brown hamburger, add onions, seasonings, and liquid. Simmer for a few minutes, then drop in dumplings from your favorite recipe. Steam about 10 minutes. Delicious! For an extra-special taste treat, try adding oregano and Parmesan cheese to the dumplings. Superb! If your family is onion-shy, try grating the onion, but be careful with it. It seems to go farther that way. 596 QUICKIE RECIPES AND COOKING HINTS Here's a recipe to adapt to your own needs. SKILLET DINNER Peel enough potatoes for your family, and cut into cubes. Add chopped onion,