[Vol53 | August 1966 | Page 580 | General Feature | Editorial: "Behold, There Are Many Called, But Few Are Chosen" Louise | W. Madsen]
[Editorial: "Behold, There Are Many Called, But Few Are Chosen" Louise W. Madsen]

Sawyer, bird artist and naturalist, is herself a well-known animal artist, photographer, and nature writer. She and her husband own and operate a wild-life refuge of 250 acres near Franklinville, New Jersey, U. S. A. Her children are blessed to have such a playground and such playmates. Her writing about animals shows not only excellent craftsmanship but also a rare and beautiful nature. Women in the Federal Service is the title of a United States Government bulletin which lists and describes the types of positions held by women, the salaries paid, and the opportunities for advancement. It discusses job locations, employment trends and_ standards, semiprofessional and professional occupations, as well as administrative positions in many fields, such as health and welfare, forestry and wild life services, social services, statistical work, library opportunities, and requirements for teaching positions in other countries. 579 Volume 53 August 1966 @ Belle S. Spafford, President @ Marianne C. Sharp, First Cou @ Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor @ Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Eina P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Wealtha S. Mendenhall Elisa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson 580 Lenore C. Gu Marjorie C. Dariene C. A i ue: Ht;; "Behold, there a w Many are called to do the work of the Father here on earth. The opportunities are plentiful. Provision is made for the service he would have his children give as part of their mortal -experience and as evidence of their love of him and their desire to follow his commandments. Response to calls to service is of great importance, but far more is required than mere acceptance. One who responds as the Savior responded, for the glory of the Father, is both called and chosen. Only those who fulfill their callings, 'sincerely endeavoring to do so righteously, are chosen of the - Lord. Some of those who are called, however, are not chosen. 'And why are they not chosen?' (D&C 121:34) The Doctrine and Covenants lists several reasons: (1) ''Because their hearts are set so much upon the things of this world' (D&C 121:35). As the poet has said, ''The world is too much with us.'' The pressures of life lead some to begrudge the time necessary to fulfill their callings in the Church to the fullest extent of their talents and powers. (2) Because they ''aspire to the Many called, but fey are Chosen " one's downfall. Servi (4) €Cause t I a member of Called and Chosen.