=== FRONT MATTER (Cover, Ads, Contents, Advertisers Directory) ===

THE LEADERS IN OUR LINE Every O. P. Skaggs Store of each town is the undisputed leader in maintaining the highest degree of sanitation, in stocking the largest assortment of quality foods, in ability to handle the largest, busy day crowds pleasingly, and in maintaining the lowest possible prices. If you happen to be a buyer who for any reason has not yet learned oO Pp SKAG GS of the advantages of an O. P.- Skaggs one Br eranaraera oo ie ial - once. I CER SCPUICE J. Our findings will mean much to you FOOD System STORES 214  When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine RELIEF SOCIETY LARK UTAH  Being the product of the world's largest washer manufacturers, the Maytag enjoys advantages denied other washers ?the advantages of large production and vast resources? advantages which make the highest-grade materials and workmanship cost less per unit. Think of the difference between the ordinary wash-day action wash the grimiest clothes clean, without hand-hubbing., The Roller Water Remover, lower roll, wrings everything Telephone for a Maytag before next Deferred Payments Yow'll Never are yours only where you choose a Maytag. C7 Aluminum "Washer Th e Maytag Intermountain Co. Distributors When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine A pies. Life! Electricity, the eae My ot FREE Home Washing washday. Use it, test it, compare It. If it doesn't sell itself, don't Keep it. Vis. 211 South State and the Maytag wash-hour. The seamless, cast-aluminum, heatretaining tub and the gyrafoam with a soft top roll and a hard evenly dry and spares the buttons. A score of such features originated by the Maytag Company are yours only where you choose Maytag. SALT LAKE CITY October APR  Ask Your Dealer for Z. C. M. I. Factory-Made CHILDREN'S ALLOVERS SS Khaki and WhiteKhaki and Peggy Backed Denim for Clothes, Dutch Kut Boys For Girls The Famous MOUNTAINEER OVERALLS Give Splendid Satisfaction NEW and FAST Gyrator Washer The valuable experience that has been gained by 15 years of manufacturing motor-driven household appliances is built into this splendid APEX WG-10 Washer. The washing principle is safe and fast? the mechanical working is simple and sturdy?the appearance is very attractive. The APEX makes good with the woman who buys one?It combines in its make-up: QUALITY PERFORMANCE DURABILITY Inter-Mountain Electric Company 43-69 East 4th So. Phone Was. 354 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine FALL and WINTER GARMENTS OF APPROVED L. D. S. STYLES Selected from our extensive line of L. D. S. Garments we suggest the following numbers of fall and winter wear: Our best med, winter No... No. 83?Ribbed med. Wet. CotNo. 8?Ribbed heavy wet. Our 50% wool number No. 9?Ribbed med. Weight, Wool and cotton. Our Hight weight winter number No. 10?-100% pure worsted wool, med. Wget. The ideal garment for those who want all wool son number No. 4?Ribbed heavy wet., unbleached cot. Our double back number No. 5?Part wool, ribbed unbleached. Our best selling wool number In ordering, be sure to specify whether old or new style garments,. Three quarter or ankle length legs, short or long sleeves are wanted. Also give bust measure, height and weight to insure perfect fit, Postage prepaid, ORDER BY MAIL OR CALL AT STORE THD ORIGINAL UTAH WOOLEN MILLS Briant Stringham, Manager 4 Block South of Temple Gate 28 Richards Street Utah Beet Sugar IN YOUR CANNING ON YOUR TABLE 100% PURE?100% FINE Boost and Buy Local Products ? When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine No. 1?Ribbed lgt. Wst. Cotton with rayon silk stripe. An excellent ladies' number....$1.25 No. 2?Ribbed lgt. Wet. Cotton our standard summer west. 1.25 ton, bleached. Our all seai \ No. 6?High grade rayon tricosham silk. For particular people No. 7?Pure worsted wool with silkine merc. Cotton. Unbleached cot. And wool.  L. D. S. G Good grade, and well made. Style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid. Sample on request. 142 Flat Weave, Lt. Weight.... GARMENTS When ordering, state Size, New or Old 264 Rayon Silk 33.50 208 Carded Cotton, Med. Lt...... 1.45 32 Combed Cotton, Light Wt.. 1.50 222 Cotton, Rayon Stripes........ 1.65 258 Double Card. Cot., Med. Wt. 1.95 628 Merc. Lisle, Light Wet......... 250 108 Unbleached Cot., Med. Wt... 1.88 L 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. BARTON & GO. Established in Utah 45 Yeurs 217 Fine Lisle, Rayon Stripe.... 2.25 748 Unbleached Cot., Hvy. Wt... 2.00 754 Bleached Cot., Hvy. Wt..... 2.25 908 Unbleached Cot., Ex. Hvy. 2.75 1072 Mixed Wool and Cotton.......4.00 Salt Lake City, Utah 4 ? Temple and Burial Clothes COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN Variety of Grades and Prices. Prompt and Careful Attention To Mail?Telephone?Telegraph Orders Open Daily, 9 a.m.?5 p.m. GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY Phone Wasatch 3286 29 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah SEND FOR HANDY BREEDER'S CHART PERFECT FOR CATTLE-HOGS-SHEEP ta the original of the most widely used and approved identification mark known. IT'S DOUBLE HOLE LOCK SAM PLES Easily clamped on in one operation and IT STAYS PUT SALTLAKESTAMP CO,' Set Withou! Obligation to me, pleese svcd FREE Samples ef PEAFECT EAR TAGS and Price List. Nome Address fr L. D. 8S. GARMENTS Direct From Factory You ure guaranteed unusual wear and satisfaction from Cutler Gurdn ordering garments please or new Styles are wanted. Lime we allow you a 15% discount on the third pair. Marking 15c. H.G. Cutler?s 137-8 Const. Bldg 34 So Main Garments Long Wearing Clothes When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine They are made from the best loag wearing, two combed yarns. No. 76 Ribbed lt. Wt. Lisle.... 1.35 No. 27 Ribbed Med. Wt. 50% No. 64 Ribbed Med. It. Cot. 1.35 Wool 3.35 Ea 5 No. 37 Ribbed Med. Wt. 60% 8 oz, Heavy Duek............$1.75 WRIGHT'S UNDERWEAR DUOFOLD UNDERWEAR 100% Wool, Salmon or Natural 100% Wool outside, Cotton in- ' Color $5.35 side. Natural Color..................$4.85 Also give bust, height and weight. SPECIAL?When you order three pair of garments or hose at one discount on the third pair. Cautier' 237-8 Const. Bidg. (Se) 34SoMain GARMEN'TS LONG WEARING CLOTHES state if for men or women and if old Marking 16c. Eats When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 9 No. 68 Ribbed ex, light Cotton Knee length................ No. 68 Old style or new style % or long legs............85 No. 74 Ribbed light wt. Cot..... 1.10 No. 84 Rib, Mercerized Lisle.... 1.85 No. 62 Heo oa Med. WHITE TEMPLE PANTS makes it decidedly superior to all imitations. No, 61 Ribbed Med. Hvy. Unbleached Double Back.. 1.70 No. 56 Ribbed Hvy. Cotton bleached  2.15 No. 55 Ribbed Hvy. Cot. Unbleached Double Back 2.15 Hvy. 2 No. 39 oe Hvy. Wt. 50% aa Wool and Silk Stripe... 4.65 fr Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer.  Hyland 190 Distinctive Work Office 319 S, Main St. Beautiful Flowers For your home this winter; and your garden next spring. ARE EASY TO GROW NOW IS THE TIME TO PLANT Write today for our Free Catalog. It tells what, when and how. The largest and most complete stock of Bulbs, rich, creamy bers It's a hie, every time, and the prize ls health. Porter -Walton Co. Salt Lake We should'a drunk more milk when we wuz, kids 159 W. Lst So. Was. 2177 ? SACRAMENT SETS RECOMMENDED. BY PATRONS. REFERENCES FURNISHED NOW IN STOCK Made especially for L. D. S. Tons Churches, and successfully used in Utah and intermountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickle Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver. SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed Inquiries cheerfully answered Bureau of Information Temple Block Salt Lake City ?When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine mountain states for your selection. Seed and Nursery Specialists ?? INDIVIDUAL YOUNG SAMSON knows what he's aiming at?a bottle of our CLOVER LEAF DAIRY 

CONTENTS Augusta Winters Grant? Frontispiece Autumn brooks Kiarnn 523 Thy L.D. S. Missionaries in Japan......524, 550 One of Japan's Beauty Spots. F. S. Harris 525 An Allegory........... Merling D. Clyde 530 The Japanese Theatre............. Elbert D. Thomas 531 Editorial?Japan....41 Japan Woman at the PanPacific Conference........ 542 Captan Roald Amundsen......... 542 Horse Racing Discontinued......... 543 A Weird Hush of Beauty.... Glen Perrins 544 The Flowery Kingdom. Henry F. Kirkham 545 Pioneers........Lais V. Hales 551 Susan T. Jennings 553 Notes from the Field.. Amy Brown Lyman 554 Mardula...........--Josephine Spencer 558 Compensation........ Ethel Allen Kilgore 559 Guide Lessons for December? Theology and Testimony.......... 561 Work and Business....... 562 Literature  Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year?Single Copy, 10c Foreign, $1.25 a Year?15c Single Copy Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3123 

VOL. XV OCTOBER, 1928 NO. AUGUSTA WINTERS GRANT Wife of President Heber J. Grant, who accompanied her husband to Japan while he was presiding over the Japanese Mission. Sister Grant was set apart for the Japanese Mission June 26, 1902. She returned home September 18, 1903. Autumn By Brooks Kairn Old gold?the autumn floor?and overhead Clear turquoise blends in mellow harmony, Subdued, the stream that curves in sparkling play Through graceful willows onward to its sea; Restrained, the breeze, carressing leafing boughs Of trees that in the springtime flaunted greens, Elf-toned, the woodland songster's fluted note Hints plaintively of cold and harsher scenes; But wild and quaintly free a gypsy trail Leads recklessly to strange secluded nooks With pledge of sights and thrills that ne'er have been Incorporated into story books. Hushed now the fragrant glen and wooded slope As Sol in splendor leaves his western throne. Forlorn the graying nests of feathered ones 'Who now to distant southern climes have flown; Resigned the sleeping loam to what must come Of bitter frost and downward crushing flakes, Full gaunt this paradise of burnished tints Must be when ranting Boreas overtakes; Alone, all unaffected by the blight That strips his brethren of their regal dress, The tall and stalwart pine lives on serene, Aloof to autumn's melancholyness. The four missionaries who opened the Latter-day Saints Mission in Japan, including President Heber J. Grant who was president of the The other person in the group is the Japanese photograph Japanese Mission. VoL. XV OCTOBER, 1928 No. 10 One of Japan's Beauty Spots By F. S. Harris, President of Brigham Young University _ Japan has so many places of beauty and charm that it seems a little presumptuous to single out any of these and say that they are more beautifil than the others. However, someone has been bold enough to select three sections which are designated as Japan's scenic trio. There is Matsushima on the northeastern coast, Amanohashi Tate on the west coast, and Miyajima on the south along the Inland Sea. It is to the latter that I should like to take you. Traveling westward from the great cities of Osaka and Kobe which are at the east end of the Inland Sea we pass for several hours along the coast through wonderful fields of rice interspersed with patches of soy beans and little clumps of dwarf mulberries, the leaves of which are used as food for silk worms. There are
526 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
some other crops, but rice paddies occupy most of the farm land. These rice fields are covered with water which comes from the numberless clear streams as they descend from the heavily timbered hills and mountains to the north. We might pause and note the many points of interest on these small farms and the activities of the entire family who are helping to get a living from the land. We would be interested in the straw-roofed houses, in the fantastic scare crows or the bells constantly being rung by water wheels to keep the birds out of the ripening rice, or in the dress of the people. But we must get on to our destination.
On leaving the train we are tempted to loiter in the small town to explore curious shops and watch the activities of the interesting people. We resist, and pass on to the ferry landing two blocks away. Here we find a motor boat ready to take us to the island which is the real spot of beauty and the location of the famous Itsukushima Shrine. As the boat moves through the clear water of the Inland Sea, we are surprised to see millions of jelly fishes floating lazily about. Schools of fishes of various kinds dart across our path and we understand how the hundreds of fishing-boats with picturesque sails which are within our view on the sea are able to find profit in catching fish. As our boat takes us near the island, we are charmed by the beautiful pines, gnarled and twisted, which project out over the water. The island is in reality a mountain heavily timbered and containing many shady glens and crystalline streams which tumble down over the granite rocks to the Inland Sea which surrounds it.
ONE OF JAPAN'S BEAUTY SPOTS 527
On landing, we are met by a group of energetic hotel porters, who separate our baggage into as many parcels as possible so that more of them can do something to call for a tip. Besides those who carry baggage there is a guide who leads along the trail to the hotel which nestles among the pines in the background. Since we come at a season when there are not many travelers, the hotel is almost empty, and as a result the entire force of domestics swarm around us. We do not mind having service, but there is a limit of tips we are willing to pay.
After being settled in the hotel, we are anxious to see more of the beauties of which we have had a glimpse. Miyajima has so many little nooks that are beautiful and so many enchanting spots that we do not know which way to turn. We feel a good deal like the boy at his first three-ringed circus. He tried to look at all three rings at once and got very much confused. The giant torii out in the water and the sacred deer which are along the water's edge and in the various paths, the great old Buddhist temple, the sacred horse, the graceful boats in the bay, the interesting little Japanese women with bright colored dresses and beautiful parasols, the old gnarled pine trees with props holding up their tired, outstretched limbs, the ancient bronze statues, all vie with one another to get our attention. We decide, however, that the only way to see these things is to take them one at a time.
Accordingly, we enter the famous Itsukushima Shrine. It is supposed to have been established in the year 593, A. D. In 1146 the temples were extended and enlarged and the beauty of the buildings increased. In 1270 many
528 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
of the buildings were destroyed by fire but were rebuilt soon after. The structures of the shrine are said to represent one of the rarest types of architecture known to the world. The shrine is built over the sea and is connected with the land by winding corridors of bridges between which are many halls. The architectural design, indeed, is said by the Japanese to be a heaven-imagined fantasy. The impression is enhanced by the sight of the blue water of the sea in front, the green mountains behind, and the colorful vermillions with which the structures themselves are painted, the ensemble forming a striking combination of views. The charm of the place is enhanced by the beautiful, spotted deer which one sees moving about under the building and around through various parts of the structure. In one of the main buildings, there is the senjokakau, or "the house of a thousand lamps." This huge hall was constructed in 1582, A. D. Near it is a five storied pagoda. A number of historical documents are kept in the archives of the shrine, among which thirty-three rolls of Buddha scripture, or sutra, dedicated to the shrine by the Taria family, stand out conspicuously. In a little room on one side of the shrine is the sacred horse. It looks a good deal like one of our western ponies. It is supposed to be pure white, although in reality it is no whiter than a good many horses we see about the country. It spends all its life in this little enclosure, and is fed grain by people who pass. With coppers they purchase little packages of oats which contain only a few thimbles full of the grain, which they throw into a stone trough. The horse seems very restless, and stamps around a good deal. It was rather difficult for me to make up my mind that it
ONE OF JAPAN'S BEAUTY SPOTS 529
should not be out in the open country enjoying a good run rather than being confined in its "sacred" home.
The hundreds of stone lanterns which line the thoroughfares have a religious significance; the bronze images of the gods and demons which one sees by the way all have a connection with the worship of the people. A climb up a trail through the dense timber to the mountain top where one can overlook the entire country, a boat-ride around the island which is about five miles in circumference, helped to complete our idea of this wonderful beauty spot. It seems impossible in words to describe the charm of the place. High rainfall has made a very luxuriant vegetation; this, with the granite rock which preserves the water in its clear condition, insures many beautiful crystalline streams, small waterfalls, and a freshness to the whole place which makes a person understand why it should have been selected so long ago as a place in which to build a temple.
530 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
The combination of verdure-clad sea shores, of sparkling streams, of little nooks filled with attractive buildings, and the interesting people having charming ways, all make up a setting that is most impressive. After visiting this beauty spot, a person cannot help but feel impressed with the fact that we, in our own land, have many opportunities to take advantage of what Nature has done for us, and ourselves build up many attractive places that would add interest to our lives and give a more favorable impression to all those who pass our way.
An Allegory By Merling D. Clyde
For an all-wise plan the great Creator Breathed into a fragrant bud a human soul, Shrouded in its compass warmth and goodness Closing 'round a heart of purest gold.
Through the years it grew—developed— Shed its grace on others touching near, As the petals soft unfolded in perfection With a wealth of radiating cheer.
In a garden of love the flower—transplanted— Matured, unblemished, in the sun, Sending shoots to perpetuate its own creation Till the Master Gardener said: "Thy work is done."
At its pinnacle of gracious beauty Came the Reaper's gently stealing hand, Plucked that upright rose from out its loving comrades— A destiny fulfilled as God had planned.
Took the flower, but left its sacred sweetness Lingering, hallowed, on the quiet air, So that they who walk the pathways feel its presence, Inviolable to all who loved it there.
Shall we say too soon the stem is broken— Though we'll miss it from its place each lonely day— Or, inspired to emulate its perfect blooming, Feel that by its holy life we'll see the way?
The Japanese Theatre By Mrs. Elbert D. Thomas
A word by way of explanation is due you before I begin. It is thirteen years since our return from Japan and things may be different now. Also I am not, and never have been, a student of the drama in any land. In my youth I indulged in amateur acting, thus forever disqualifying myself from serious, disinterested study of the stage. During my travels I have always been interested in things connected with the ancient and modern theater. It has been my good fortune to have seen much; but it has been my bad fortune to have been so ill-prepared with proper background in history and in literature that I couldn't fully appreciate many of the things that I did see. For me the playhouse has always been a place of entertainment, and not study. I enjoy nearly everything I see, from a Mack Sennett Comedy up or down.
We were in Japan during a period of mighty transition. Most things in respect to Japanese culture and life were in a condition of flux. The great wave towards the Europeanization of everything had passed and Japan had settled back to an appreciation of her own; but at the same time, she could not avoid European influences. The Imperial Theater, which was destroyed by the earthquake and fire of 1922 was conceived, built, dedicated, and in constant use for two full years during our stay in that country. When viewed from the standpoint of the stage itself--this theater was probably the greatest one ever built. It had in it the best that the West has been able to evolve; in addition to that, it retained such features from the oriental playhouse as the revolving stage the hanamichi (the runway which extends from the stage to the audience), that great adjunct to the stage proper, which permits the action of the play to assume in a sense, an extra direction. To make this clear let me call your attention to the fact that the European stage permits of a right, a left, a back, and an up and down direction. But the footlights bar a forward direction. You will remember when William Gillette played Sherlock Holmes, that he used what was then a novel bit of new business, by coming in a darkened room down to the front of the stage and describing for you, the imaginary wall and the one window which he tells you is there. That gives the extra direction, which the Western stage may suggest but which the Eastern stage has. I'm not unmindful of the fact that entrances were permitted from the front in Shakespeare's time and in the pre-Shakespearian period, also that our modern musical comedies and girl plays use
532 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the platform extending into the audience to splendid, and, especially in our girl plays, enjoyable effects. But never had we learned to use the hanamichi as it has been developed in Japan. I doubt whether we have ever had such an example of the meeting of two highly developed cultures—cultures, too, that have developed the striking contrasts that were found and made to harmonize in the Imperial Theater. East and West met there, without a clash; and the art of neither culture was sacrificed. A striking example: In the Japanese theater the audience sits on the floor; in the European, on seats. How could both
THE IMPERIAL THEATRE
customs be respected? The Japanese accomplished this by filling their auditorium with what seemed to be Western opera chairs, but each chair had an adjustable bottom, which, when pulled out, made a serviceable futon (cushioned) seat wide enough to allow the Japanese to sit in their regular style on their feet. Often I have seen a Japanese gentleman in foreign dress letting his hips hang on a chair (to use the Japanese expression to describe our manner of sitting) sitting beside his lady companion, dressed in kimono, and able to enjoy the play at her accustomed ease, for you must remember that sitting on a chair is as tiring to a Japanese as sitting on our legs is tiring to us.
THE JAPANESE THEATRE 533
In numbers of other ways the Eastern and the Western stage met and mingled in the Imperial Theatre. In the same performance one might enjoy a scene from Shakespeare in translation, acted very well, or an American or European society drama, or a comedy of manners, played and staged as we would do in our country, along with a No (classic) or Jidai-mono (Japanese historical play). When Western plays were produced, the orchestra, playing Western tunes and wearing full dress clothes, performed in the pit as it does in our plays. When the Japanese plays were produced, the orchestra was on the stage, dressed in Japanese clothes and performing on Japanese instruments. There was a splendid co-mingling in the restaurants and the drinking rooms of the theater, where one could buy beef-steak or pork chop and eat them with either knives and forks or a Japanese bento (consisting of cold compressed rice, raw fish, smelly pickles) with chop sticks. (Wooden chop sticks, always accompanied by toothpicks, are furnished with each lunch bought.) I shall not describe the co-mingling of drinks or drinkers. It has been assumed by all writers, I think, that that has been a common practice since even before the days that Henry Hudson is said to have traded a barrel of whiskey for half of Manhattan.
Let us turn to the real Japanese plays. To understand properly anything Japanese, one must realize the fact that the Japanese civilization in one sense is very primitive in that it retains many features that are found only among peoples who have developed on the fringes of great world cultures. At the same time Japan has had cultural contacts with the world's mightiest civilizations—the Chinese, the Hindu, the European. From all these, Japan has taken much, so much that many thoughtless writers have said that the Japanese are not creators but imitators, a statement which must be condemned; for the Japanese have contributed much to the culture of the world. When they adopt something from other lands, they invariably Japanize it. This has been so generally done that we must use the adjective Japanese when we speak of Buddhism or Confucianism, or Christianity; as Japanese Buddhism, Japanese Confucianism, or Japanese Christianity. A description of the Japanese drama must therefore include a description of their primitive mask and pantomime plays, as well as the highly developed modern drama. In other words one may see in Japan today practically every type of theatrical performance that the various world's civilizations have produced; for Japanese culture retains the extremely primitive as it accepts the ultra modern.
First for a description of the primitive. We find in Japan, even to this day, the wandering street theatrical troops. They
534 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
THE DRAMATIC ART OF THE GARDENER
carry on much as similar actors do in China. They set their stages up in the street or in the Temple yard. Often they are part of a wandering group of bazaar merchants. They are used, of course, to attract the crowds, while the merchants sell their wares. The plays put on by these people are generally mask dances and pantomimes. Their themes are often the themes of similar Chinese plays, that is—the conflict with the Barbarian. (The foreigner is always pictured as a man with red hair and a green mask. Why, I cannot tell.) These plays are also taken from Buddhist folk and devil-lore. The stories tell what happens to one who is pursued by a Buddhist green or red devil. The Japanese inari, or fox-bewitching stories, are also pictured in these simple plays. For in Japan, you know, when the Evil spirits or the goblins get you, you become possessed by a fox. Sometimes in these pantomimes, actions may be vulgar, but the Japanese poetry and drama and even low comedy are free from the lewd, suggestive, or obscene. Japanese language does not lend itself to oaths, or to swearing; and Japanese inclination is never towards the vulgar. Japanese life is so open that there is no need of the suggestive.
Closely allied to the street and temple plays would be the various kinds of matsuri (festival entertainments). These matsuri are in a way similar to the mardi gras of Southern Europe. The floats in Japan are more devil-bedecked and often richer and more artistic. Their themes are taken from the story of Japanese heroes and mythology, at times from Religious traditions. It must
THE JAPANESE THEATRE 535
be said that there is never the drunkenness or the free mingling of the sexes that characterize the celebrations of Southern Europe. Nor do the revelers indulge in coarse or vulgar actions or words. While in Europe we found ourselves more than once in the midst of these celebrations. The complete lack of respect shown to women, especially, and to foreigners, shocked me beyond words. In Japan we have gone to see many a matsuri but never once were we so much as jostled. (I pay my tribute to real Japanese courtesy, especially that of the soldiers). I should make mention of the Jugglers, the fireman-ladder performers, the Geisha dancers, and the parades of the harlots in the Yoshiwara, or restricted districts. (These parades I have never seen; but they are made much of in Japanese art and literature, and tourists have told me about them). Then there are the feast and the prayer dances in connection with the festivals of the planting and the harvest seasons and the dance. Those must have deep religious significance indulged in at the time of the O-Bon festival. The festival is sometimes spoken of by foreigners as "the feast of the Lanterns." It is the Japanese and Chinese All-Souls-Day, but as yet it has not degenerated into our Hallowe'en. It is during this festival that the dead return to visit the living. Then there are the dances to ward off pestilence or to overcome a drought. These generally have religious significance and are closely connected with the primitive stage. The story teller with his heroic epics is still listened to, and the wandering minstrel even yet has a place in society.
Let us now turn to what we might call a more formal description of the Japanese theater proper. It is in the theater that the life of Old Japan can be best studied. Let us divide the performances into three classes, the No, the jidai-mono, and the sewa-mono. The No is somewhat similar to the old Greek drama, using a chorus and generally two individual personages, who move about in a stately manner, and chant portions of a poem in a language, which though beautiful, is yet ancient and hard to understand. The music is weird and oriental, the costumes magnificent, but there is no scenery. The audience is composed chiefly of noblemen and ladies of rank, who come not only to be amused but to be instructed as well. These classic poems when given occupy the greater part of a day and evening. In order to break up the classic severity of the chief plays, intervals are filled in with broad fun comedies, which are presented in old-fashioned colloquial Japanese. From the No theaters of the high born and learned to the
536 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Shibai theaters of the common people is a great descent, as far as taste and poetry are concerned. But to a foreign spectator the interest in the latter is far greater. In the Shibai theater the chorus, reduced in numbers, is put in a little cage, separated from the stage, where singers sit with the musicians. The jidai-mono are historical plays; the sewa-mono are comedies of manners. The theaters are amply provided with scenery and stage properties. A revolving center to the stage allows of a second scene being set up behind while the first is in course of acting. On the conclusion of the first, the stage revolves, carrying away with it actors, scenery, and all. Originally these shibai actors were despised, and even the
A TOKYO STREET SCENE
theaters were looked upon as places too vile for any gentleman to enter. That feeling has changed now, even to the allowing of women on the stage. As we said before, the opening of the Imperial theater marked a new epic for the Japanese stage; for on this theater men and women acted side by side. The famous portrayer of female characters among the men actors do their parts so well that in some plays which I have seen the leading female roles were taken by men, the minor women characters by women. The male actors could not be distinguished. There are theaters in Japan managed entirely by women, all the actors being women. In the best theaters, the best acting is done by men. The reason generally given for this is that in oriental lands men and women do not
THE JAPANESE THEATRE 537
mingle socially or professionally. However, one interesting story has it that once a beautiful woman appeared on the stage and one of the princes fell in love with her. The emperor, in an endeavor to prevent this terrible calamity from happening again, issued an edict prohibiting the appearance of women. Oddly enough, the founders of the modern Japanese stage were two women, named O-Kuni and O-Tsu. The reputation of O-Kuni and her companion was far from spotless; but Mr. Lafcadio Hearn gives the following as her story: "She was a priestess in the great temple of Kitsuki, and fell in love with a swashbuckler named Nogoya Sanza, with whom she fled away to Kyoto. On the way thither, her extraordinary beauty caused a second swashbuckler to become enamoured of her. Sanza killed him, and the dead man's face never ceased to haunt the girl. At Kyoto she supported her lover by dancing the sacred dances in the dry bed of the river. Then the pair went to Yedo (Tokyo) and began to act. Sanza himself became a famous actor. After her lover's death O-Kuni returned to Kitsuki, where being an excellent poetess, she supported, or at least occupied herself, by giving lessons in the art. But afterwards she shaved off her hair and became a nun, and built a little temple in Kitsuki where she lived and taught. And the reason why she built the temple was that she might pray for the soul of the man whom the sight of her beauty had ruined. The temple stood until thirty years ago; but there is now nothing left of it but a broken statue of the compassionate god Jizo. The family still live at Kitsuki; and until the late revolution the head of the family was always entitled to a share in the profits of the local theater, because his ancestress, the beautiful priestess, had founded the art."
Japan's greatest actor when we were there was Ichikawa Danjuro, who has since died. He was not only a wonderful actor, but had marvelous agility as a dancer. His family have been noted actors for nine generations. We had the great privilege of seeing a wonderful performance given by this man. I thought you might be interested in hearing the account of our treat from one of Mr. Thomas's letters written at that time. "In the morning I helped clean. In the afternoon Peg, Brother Stoker, and I went to see Japan's greatest actor in one of his most famous plays, in the Tsugi Theater, perhaps the biggest in all Japan, at any rate the biggest in Tokyo. The actor's name is Danjuro and the play was "Donjiro." I knew the story of the play, so it was not at all hard to follow. The actors are all men and the woman's parts therefore to an American seemed rather ragged. I expected the acting to be absolutely emotionless; yet it was anything but that, although it was always very deliberate and 'square cornered.' Every emotion seemed to have a fixed expression and every action was measured by inches.
538 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Danjuro displayed great powers of facial expression and of emotional acting, which, if he had been an American, would have very likely made him an ideal player of tragedy. The actors all spoke in a monotone which was not unpleasant. The children's parts were played very well, and when they spoke they did it with a childish drawn-out 'twang' also in a monotone. The costumes and staging were very beautiful, perfect in every detail. The stage helpers, who were dressed in black and wore black veils, were ever-present, fixing and helping, but seemed to be never noticed by either actors or audience. In one act, where very little was said but a whole lot acted, a 'chorus' of two men one with a 'Samisen' (a banjo-like instrument played with a big pick and, from appearances, by the twitching facial muscles) and one who 'sang.' This very likely corresponded to the explaining 'choruses' of the old pantomime. At any rate I never before witnessed such combinations of sounds and awful faces. I suppose the tale he told was as dreadful as the telling of it, but I can hardly believe it to be. They played during the second act, wherein a faithful little youngster was killed; also the woman villain.
"The story of the play is about like this. The ruler of a certain Gun dies leaving the rule to a small son (10 years), whose mother is also dead. This child of course had faithful followers, consisting chiefly of a good nurse, an old Lord, and a young child who is the nurse's boy, and a judge. His principal enemies are 'Danjuro', who is trying to kill the young ruler to obtain the rule for himself, a wicked judge, and the judge's wife. The story opens by an attempt on the part of the wicked Judge's wife to get into the graces of the young ruler and replace the nurse. This fails. In the meantime two plots are unearthed which implicated these people. One is caused by discovering a murderer hidden in the ceiling. He is brought out and severely beaten. (We know it is severe because of the awful noise a man makes who sits right out in full view of the audience and claps hard wood on the floor.) Also a letter is found which shows the plot. Now this letter implicates 'Donjiro' and it must be recovered; therefore 'Donjiro,' who is a magician, turns himself into a rat and gets into the house, and although caught in the act, gets away with the letter. This is a big scene of the play from the gallery standpoint. It opens by a trap coming up with a big rat lying on the floor and kicking for dear life under the foot of a very strangely painted (I don't know what for) man, who flourishes swords and does enough acting to kill twenty men, but the rat nevertheless gets away with the letter, and, running, drops down a trap. Instantly 'Donjiro' in full dress, holding the letter between his teeth, comes up another trap just beside the one the rat goes down. Great change and very dramatic. He walks very slowly and deliberately down hanamichi stage and leaves.
THE JAPANESE THEATRE 539
"The next scene is the trial scene where Donjiro is at first freed by the wicked judge, who burns all the evidence, but later, the good judge comes in and convicts him. He becomes a prisoner. Now for revenge. In the next act he tries to kill the old faithful Lord who brought the evidence against him. He merely wounds him, however, as the stage is turned and the next scene shows the old man borne home by faithful servants and hidden behind screens.
"Shortly Donjiro follows and my! What a following! Remade up; with hair standing straight up and eyes bulging out, Donjiro walks slowly and with marked steps down the hanamichi stage, carrying the bloody dagger. I never before saw such fierceness displayed. He finds the old man and another fight takes place in which Donjiro is overpowered by the servants of the old Lord. The old Lord is given a dagger; and while his son holds his hand, he stabs Donjiro and kills him. Thus the play ends, Donjiro and the woman villain killed on one side, the faithful Lord wounded and the faithful little child killed on the other side. Aside from the acting and the play the theater, stage, and audience were very interesting. We took 3 of the 10 foreign chairs in a corner of the first Gallery. It cost us 3.20 yen ($1.60) a seat and 10c for a program. The theater is a large, square building with two galleries and a circle that would very nearly correspond to our dress circle at home. All but the top gallery, in which the people seemed to be standing in order to see, was divided into little compartments which would hold 6 or 8 persons when sitting on the floor, which they all did. The play started near noon and let out at 11 p. m. We stayed until 6 and saw the most important of what I suppose were two plays. During the entire time the audience was eating and drinking. Such food and so much of it. I never saw such stuffing before. And when they were not eating, they were smoking. The place soon became full of cigarette smoke. The women generally smoked pipes, but some smoked cigarettes. Each little box had a small 'hibashi' for smoking and keeping the tea warm. The stage was very wide and was of the revolving order. That is, when they wanted a quick change, the stage was turned around and showed another setting. Besides the stage proper there were two sub-stages, which came from the back of the theater towards the stage. Judging from appearance the stage covered more ground than the main part of the auditorium."
One should not forget the movies. Japanese movie art has flourished greatly in the last few years. The Japanese censors eliminate from the American films all the kissing and the embracing, which means most of many of our plays. Thus we see that the ordinary film love-story would have no appeal in Japan.
540 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Our low comedy stuff and our wildest cowboy Bill Hart, Tom Mix plays, are shown in Japan as plays which illustrate American life. The Japanese movie fans, like the British and the Europeans, conceive of America as a place where men jump over buildings onto horses, and where everyone carries at least two pistols and constantly uses them. Movies the world over leave little to the imagination. The ordinary European film is one of little action and much descriptive reading. American movies have much photographic action without any descriptive words. Japanese movies have little action and little reading. In our country we are producing, through the movies, a new dramatic art, which probably will not completely develop owing to the invention of the Vitaphone. It is an art which can probably be called facial pantomime. In time we shall be able to put on a complete play of little action without any descriptive words. The Japanese can do this today. Their pantomime acting is more developed than ours, and their movie actors use that art instead of action. Americans do not need to use any of the seeming crudities of the Japanese theater. To the Japanese they are not crudities for they (the Japanese) have greater powers of imagination than the Westerner possesses, and are able to shut out what they do not wish to see and get only the beauty of the whole. We smother the imagination; they foster it. Since the re-establishment of the Japanese empire with its tense nationalism the Japanese stage, like most of the other institutions of Japan, has been used as an agent to develop love of country and an appreciation of Japanese culture. The stage, therefore, today gives us the fine things in Japanese history and idealizes the men and the events which have made for the enlargement of the concept of Japanese national destiny. We must, therefore, not lose sight of the political significance of the present day stage. This may in time mar the Japanese drama by making its spirit propagandist, but to date this has not happened. Thus we have in the Japanese stage a strong and true reflection of Japanese life and culture.
THE

=== BACK MATTER (Ads, Trailing Content) ===

Salt Lake City, Utah Ne x SEND FOR HANDY BREEDER'S CHART = Temple and Burial Glothes © COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN Variety of Grades and Prices. FOR CATTLE-HOGS-SHEEP ( Prompt and Careful Attention To c is the original of the most widely used and Mail—Telephone—Telegraph approved identification mark known. } Orders IT'S DOUBLE HOLE LOCK., » —. M, - makea it decidedly superior to all imitati Open Daily 9 a. M 5 p SAM PLES Easily clamped on = one a = GENERAL BOARD RELIEF ' IT STAYS PUT hime See: 3286 | SALT LAKE STAMP COs atear ee 29 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah Withoul obfigalion to me, ploaso eend FREE Samplee of PERFECT EAR TAGS and Price List. Name Ss A Address L. D. S. GARMENTS Direct From Factory You ure guaranteed unusual wear and satisfaction from Cutler Garsmnents. They are made from the best lomgz wearing, two combed yarns. No. 68 Ribbed ex. Light Cotton No, 61 Ribbed Med. Hvy. UnKnee length _..._....-.-...----$.75 bleached Double Back.. 1.70 No. 68 Old style or new style No. 56 Ribbed Hvy. Cotton % or long legs................ 85 bleached ou..... Eee cee cence 2.15 No. 74 Ribbed light wt. Cot.....110 No. 55 Ribbed Hvy. Cot. UnNo. 84 Rib. Mercerized_Lisle.... 1.85 _ bleached Double Back 2.15 No. 76 Ribbed lt. Wt. Lisle.... 1.35 No. 27 Ribbed Med. Wt. 50% No. 64 Ribbed Med. Lit. Cot. 1.35 Wool CoO c oS eC HE CBOR REO oECeOCKE CEES 3.35 No. 62 Ribbed Med. Hvy. No. 39 Ribbed Hvy. Wt. 50% bleached ooo. Eeeeseeeeeceeee 70 a eygel —— 3.85 Oo. Ibbe - B WHITE TEMPLE PANTS Wool and Silk Stride" 4.65 8S oz, Heavy Duek......_....00.000.......$1.75 —_ me Au SHTICES ' 5 ' oNar ached or ithout....$1.95 sea UNDERWEAR DUOFOLD UNDERWEAR 100% Wool, Salmon or Natural 100% Wool outside, Cotton inColor $5.35 Side. Natural Color.................$4.85 dn ordering garments please state if for men or women and if old or new styles are wanted. Also give bust, height and weight. __ SPECIAL—When you order three pair of garments or hose at one time we allow_you a 15% discount on the third Pair. Marking lbc. Ostage Frepald, C HG: | utier's. 237-8 Const. Bldg. S eK 34SoMain = | GARMENTS LONG WEARING CLOTHES When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine we offer. Cea LAUNDRY Hyland 190 Distinctive Work Office 319 S. Main St. S y fe ) We should'a drunk more (— Ly ur nil when we wuz, kids— Times Champion ee Bt 208, of the World Sent to you on Free Trial YOUNG SAMSON knows what he's aiming at—a bottle of our rich, creamy milk. It's a ringer every time, and the prize is health. For Sale by Utah Power & Light Co "i CLOVER LEAF DAIRY Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Co. 159 W. Lst So. Was. 2177 111 E. 2nd So. St., Salt Lake City L FY XK fr —J ' «Y oe Special Sunday i ICE E @ td | Bricks and Neopoli- «DY. CAKE cs ect: tan Bricks 25¢ pt. PUNCHES ene") if 50c qt. Call Your tt hy] Keeley's Dealer. Extra packed im fice. | SHOP BY MAIL! } offerings—shopping by mail! Wateh the daily papers for our attractive values... And write to Martha Ross, our personal shopper! KEITH: OBRIEN inc When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine, Ask for one of our folders describing the different services q) ———) ) housands are taking advantage of Keith-O'Brien's splendid