The author, Abraham, introduces his environments as not only undesirable but incompatible with his attitudes towards life. He tells how he established his right to inherit leadership in the following language: "Having been myself a follower of righteousness, desiring also to be one who possessed great knowledge, and to be a greater follower of righteousness, and to possess a greater knowledge, and to be a father of many nations, a prince of peace, and desiring to receive instruction, and to keep the commandments of God, I became a rightful heir." His premortal superiority had already been revealed to him; he had found out by historical investigation that his was a noble line of ancestry, but he does not put these facts to the front as evidence of his worthiness. He sets forth his good conduct, his desire for knowledge, his attitude toward self improvement, and especially his desire to know what the Lord would have him do and then to do it. In the light of what Abraham here says concerning himself one is forcefully reminded of the aptness of Christ's declaration concerning the children of Abraham: "If ye were Abraham's children ye would do the works of Abraham."
GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 561
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1. Compare the ambitions of Abraham with the word of the Lord recorded in Doc. And Cov. 88:77-79, and also the word of President Brigham Young, page 685, Doc. And Cov. Commentary.
2. What are the evidences that Abraham must have had a mother of strikingly stable character?
3. What are the evidences that the people in Abraham's day were sun worshippers? (Book of Abraham, Ch. 1:8-10)
4. What are the evidences that he who instructed Abraham also instructed Joseph Smith?
5. Where does the Book of Abraham point to the inundation of the Nile?
6. Tell of the prominent part that Egyptus played in the discovery and settlement of Egypt. (11:23-25.)
7. What honest king succeeded temporarily in establishing a kingdom by priesthood methods without the authority?
8. Show that the blessing of the priesthood is greater than the blessings of wealth and wisdom. (1:26.)
9. What great objective did Abraham have in mind when he wrote the book?
10. On what condition was the posterity of Abraham to possess the Promised Land? (2:6.)
11. What part of the promise made in 2:9 has been fulfilled and what part is yet unfulfilled?
12. What was the justification for Sarai passing as Abraham's sister: (a) a spiritual justification? (b) a social justification?
13. Where did Abraham get the Urim and Thummim?
14. What evidence have we that plate II was not fully translated? (See explanation of figures from 9-20.)
15. Give evidence that Abraham did not receive all of his revelations through the Urim and Thummim?
16. What was the Lord's great objective in having Abraham go into Egypt? (3:15.)
17. Was Abraham's mission to Egypt to be one of miracles, prophetic warnings, or one of a philosophic and scientific nature? Give reason for answer.
18. Give proof that Abraham taught in the courts of the Pharos' from the kings' throne. (Explanation of cut 3.)
19. Produce evidence that the Egyptians recognized the superiority of the intelligence of the Hebrew, the Priesthood they had, and the God they served. (Explanations of cut 3, 1:27 Genesis 47:10.)


20. Discuss this problem: The earth was made to test the children of God. (3:25.)
21. Prove that the glory of mortals is greater than the glory of Satan. (3:26-28.)
22. What is there in 3:28 to prove that the first estate is the premortal one?
23. What is the first and the second "added upon" spoken of in 3:26? In the Compendium Gems, p. 276, the Prophet Joseph is quoted as saying on May 21, 1843: "The spirits in the eternal worlds are like the spirits in this world. When these spirits have come into this world and received tabernacles, then died, and again have risen and received glorified bodies, they will have an ascendancy over the spirits who have no bodies, or kept not their first estate, like the Devil. The punishment of the Devil was that he should not have a habitation like men."
24. Wherein does the Book of Mormon make plain that counsel is a divine procedure? (4:26-31) and (5:2.)
25. In the light of the Book of Abraham, "Why passions within and tempters without?"