WOMAN'S VOICE.
					—
Dear EXPONENT:—
	I wish to say a few words about the
women of Utah and others. It is an old and
threadbare story, I know, but I still wish to
have my “say.” I believe it is a fact, well
demonstrated, that women were created for
wives and mothers; and I believe, too, that
most women prefer filling the measure of
their creation. I do not believe that women
naturally desire to become the creatures
that some men would make of them; yet,
man made in the image of his Creator,
wearing the form of Godliness though sadly
devoid of its attributes, will deceive, humil-
iate and degrade woman; and her sister
woman will pass her by with contempt,
stinging her with scorn, and sinking her
still deeper in dagredation and misery.
And such persons will raise their hands in
pious horror at the thought of the man who
dares to take two or more at a time, as law-
ful wives, and raises them to a station of
respect and honor. God ordained that
woman should marry; why should she be
restricted in the choice of a husband, or get
none at all? If bachelors will not marry,
women must needs choose from the married
men, or remain single. We are told again
and again that women are slaves; perhaps
they are, but how is it, where is it, and
why is it? Surely the statement cannot be
considered true of us, since we chose to
follow our husbands to a new country, a
thousand miles from “civilization,” to brave
the hardships and perils of a journey across
the great American desert, where the roads
were new, and ox teams instead of palace
cars were our means of conveyance!
	True, for years, and while the hardy
pioneer was tilling the soil or working in
the canyon, what kind of a wife must it
have been who would not have done her
best to help provide for the comfort of home?
Was this slavery? Perhaps it was; but the
master was stern necessity.   Spinning,
weaving, and toiling in every possible way
for herself and loved ones, were the labors
of the day; but when they were over, she
could commend her soul to God, and sleep
peacefully, to awaken refreshed for the bur-
den and toils of another day.   All this was
done cheerfully and happily; and I say, God
bless the wives and mothers who have
striven thus nobly for their husbands and
little ones, and for the Kingdom of God!
Their names will be handed down to future
generations and their children will rise up
and call them blessed.
	Sensation writers have tried to represent
them as degraded and oppressed. If so,
who were their oppressors? Not the hus-
bands and fathers, whose portion was
poverty, in which the wives and daughters
shared alike its toil and inconveniences.
Often the cry has been raised that the
women of Utah could not escape from these 
valleys. Had our “sympathizers!” come
here as we did they would not have been
anxious to have tried to leave in like man-
ner. The prospect was not tempting. But
now that their way is open, the opportunity
does not seem to be improved by many.
	The women of Utah, “fallen and de-
graded!” They have been cherished and
respected, and woe to the villains who would
seek to degrade them! In Church affairs
they have walked side by side with their
husbands, and their votes have often been
called for in matters of importance. They
have held the same power as their husbands,
to sustain the authorities. 
Bloated demagogues, standing in high
places, have often called a blush to the cheeks
of modesty; but thank God, they were a min-
[new column]
ority, and their influence  appears as if
becoming “beautifully less.” Their cow-
ardly insults and blatant demonstrations of
power have carried a weight among
strangers and caused the men of Utah to be
misjudged; but civilization is opening its
way through our country and that matter
with many others will have a fair chance
for investigation.	
	The women of Utah have never clam-
ored for rights. They have always found
as many rights as they have been capable
of attending to, and as great tasks in their
own sphere as they have had strength to
accomplish. Unasked for, but not unwel-
come, came to them the elective franchise,
by which they were called upon to aid
in choosing their rulers, which though a
matter of importance, they had been well
contented to leave in other hands. But
since this privilege has been lawfully
granted them, they seek to manifest their
appreciation in modesty and union, and
to perform the duties that are placed before
them with care and forethought, and again I
say, God bless the noble women of Utah!
								M. J. T
Provo. 
			  —
			Provo, March 3rd, 1873.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
	As so much is being said at this time
concerning the marriage relations of the
Saints, I feel desirous of taking part in the
grand controversy,
	I am not a theorist, but one who has had
quite an experience during a period of
fifteen years, and feel pleasure in testifying
that when people will be guided by the
Spirit of Truth and the word of the Lord,
that no state or condition of society is so
well calculated to foster purity and social
advancement, as the doctrine and practice
of plurality of wives; and I am certain, that
if I am always privileged to continue in the
faithful discharge of the duties and obliga-
tions connected therewith, that I shall be
numbered among the redeemed of all
nations. As one of our poets has lately
sung:
	“Hearts and homes in union dwelling
		All the wives of one good man; 
	Peace and love our bosoms swelling
		Guided by the Gospel plan;
	In one home we raise our offspring
		In the nurture of the Lord; 
	Of the Spirit’s power partaking
		And the Gospel’s power restored.,
	Praying the Lord to bless you in your
truly womanly efforts to overcome evil and
establish righteousness I remain yours truly,
							A. M. Jones.


THE ladies of Boston propose to give Rev.
George MacDonald a testimonial.
	THE King of Holland has disinherited
his eldest son.
	THE French Assembly has made intoxi-
cation a penal offense. 
	THE Queen of England has subscribed
$800 to the fund in aid of the survivors of
the North-fleet disaster.


﻿MANY flowers open to the sun, but only
one follows him in his course.  Heart, be
thou the Sun-flower; be not only open to
thy God, but obey Him too. 	
	IF love’s sunshine fall upon the bare, cold
rocks, in the restless sea of desolate human
life, flowers will spring up even there, and
fill the place with gladness.
	Make up your mind what you intend to
do.  Sit down and count the cost.  Do not
undertake more than you can perform. It is
unwise to commence work that you are not
able to finish in due season.


