EDITORIAL NOTES.
	New York proposes to allow women own-
ing $250 in property to vote. Liberal New
York!
	Corrupt nations march to ruin with
more certain tread than they ever do to
victory or greatness.
	The Congressional whitewashing sea-
son is about over; but several darkened
reputations yet show discoloring stains.
	A very sensible lady, speaking of the
follies of fashion, remarks, concerning the
“Grecian Bend:” “Had the Creator desired
to see women with humps on their backs,
He would so have created them.”
	An eight year-old “country lassie” is re-
ported to have named one of her chickens
after a prominent Utah official, “’cause,”
she says, “that old hen is always cackling
when there’s nothing to cackle about.”
	Utah has received two new Associate
justices. If they are an improvement upon
their predecessors, the Territorial Supreme
Court quorum of three would not be injured
by another similar change.
	The friends of Woman Suffrage in
Massachussetts, are grieved at the action of
the Legislature of that State, in which, not-
withstanding the Republican platform, the
prohibition of equal political rights for
women was voted down by a large majority.
They declare themselves “defeated but not
conquered;” and they will eventually gain
the victory.
	“Strikes,” on a large scale, are threat-
ened again, in the East. Those of last
spring cost the employers and workmen of
New York over thirty-three millions.
That is the way capital and labor cut each
others’ throats. Both desire to make money,
and yet by these “strikes” prevent the
accomplishment of the object. Were there
less pride and stubborness among them,
arbitration might be successfully resorted to
for the settlement of their difficulties.
	The hunt for offices has been, so great
that President Grant has lamented the pres-
sure upon his time and patience from this
cause. It seems that the glory of the aver-
age masculine American, throughout the
States, is to become a politician, and the
aim of the politician is to secure office. The
country is viewed as a fat oyster which it is
the precious privilege of every member of
the winning party to open and enjoy.
	George Francis Train is confined in
the Tombs, the principal prison in New
York, for publishing the “Train Ligue,” on
the charge that it contained obscene litera-
ture; and a physical who has examined
him says he is insane. We have not seen
the “Train Ligue," and consequently cannot
speak as to its contents; but it is possible
Train’s peculiar style of telling the truth
has considerable to do with this medical
opinion as to his insanity.
	Six out of ten vacancies in the Internal
Revenue Department, at Washington, to be
filled by competition, were gained by
women, who doing the same work as men
receive the same pay. This is gratifying,
yet the right thus conceded should have
been recognized long ago. It was in Utah
that the right of women to support them-
selves as clerks, telegraph operators, and so
on, was first publicly and practically
acknowledged, and now it is being admitted
all over the country.
	The Editor of the San Francisco “Pio-
neer”does “not believe that Celestial mar-
riage; or polygamy, is an agreeable, natural
condition for men and women.” Let her
honestly and intelligently contrast polygamy,
as found in Utah, with that condition of
society impotently fought against, which
exists so largely and but semi-covertly in
San Francisco and elsewhere; and say which
social system she considers the more agree-
able and honorable.
	Foster, the “car-hook murderer,” was
hanged on Friday, March 21st, in New
York. His crime was the killing of one
Avery D. Putnam some two years ago, in a
street car, because Mr. Putnam endeavored
to protect two ladies from insult. On the
same day McElhaney, the Massachussets’
wife murderer, was also hanged; he had
brutally killed his wife. Charles Mortimer
has been found guilty of murder in the first
degree, in Sacramento, California, for the
killing of Sarah Gibson. These three cases
are enough for one issue of the Exponent,
to convince its readers how fast the world
that berates the Mormons for their “peculiar
views”’ on the woman question, is traveling
toawrds woman being protected and treated
as she should be.
	The special session of the United States
Senate closed on the 26th ult., not one of the
resolutions for expulsion of corrupt members
of Congress having passed either branch of
the national Legislature. Senator Patter-
son, of New Hampshire, accused of corrup-
tion and perjury, escaped because his term
of office had expired; Senator Pomeroy, of
Kansas, was declared innocent in the face of
very positive evidence of his guilt; Senator
Caldwell, from the same State, resigned,
although it was believed, that a vote to
expel him would have failed; Senator Clay-
ton, of Arkansas, was declared innocent;
while in the House, Ames and Brooks were
censured for admitted corruption, but not
expelled.
	If every, man in the country could be
paid as well for his services as the Rev. Dr.
Newman, palatial residences and comfortable
carriages should be more plentiful than they
are. Dr. Newman receives his salary as
pastor of the Methodist Episcopal Metropo-
litan Church, in Washington; he also re-
ceives $7,500 for being chapalin of the Senate
of the United States; and he has lately
received the appointment, from President
Grant, of Inspector of Consulates, as he pro-
posed a pleasure trip around the world, by
which he has the expenses of the trip paid,
and receives besides, $6,000, in coin. Un-
doubtedly he is a fortunate man, and his
good fortune is multiplied upon him because
he was defeated in discussion by Elder
Orson Pratt, in the New Tabernacle of this
city, when he came to overthrow Mormon-
ism, but was himself overthrown,
	The house of Representatives of the
New York Legislature, in session at Albany,
on Monday, March 24th, instructed the
Judiciary Committee to bring in an amend-
ment to the State Constitution, providing
that tax paying women citizens shall have
the right to vote. There are two anomalies
in this country that would bear explanation,
considering that “taxation without repre-
sentation” is held to be a grievous and
radical wrong. One is, why the people of
the Territories should be taxed by Congress
without a vote, by representative or dele-
gate, in imposing the tax, or disposing
of the money thus raised after it has been
collected. And the other is, why women
who own property and are taxed, all over
the United States, are refused representation
of any kind, except in two of the Territories
thus unjustly dealt with. The women and
the Territories only ask their just rights
from government and from the States.
	The question “are women citizens of
the United States within the meaning of
the Fourteenth Amendment to the Consti-
tution?” is expected to be shortly decided
by the Supreme Court of the United States,
in a suit brought by Mrs. Myra Bradwell
of Chicago, against the State of Illinois, for
refusing her permission to practice law.
Should the decision be in her favor, it will
make woman suffrage a fixed fact in every
part of the Republic, and will not then be
in the power of any demagogues to take the
right of suffrage from the women of Wyo-
ming and Utah, the only portions of the
United States where the elective franchise
is enjoyed by the sex. With this principle
sustained by the judicial branch of the
government, it might be said that the
builders budded more firmly than they
knew when framing that amendment, which
was intended to confer certain rights upon
the colored population but would be found
unwittingly to extend to women as well.
That this would work a greater revolution
in politics than the emancipation and enfran-
chisement of the blacks no one can doubt;
and some of the best jurists in the country
contend that the decision of the supreme
tribunal is certain to confirm it.
	“Was it a Ghost?” is the question agi-
tating a portion of Minnesota at present,
over the following rather curious item
which we clip from an Eastern paper: “In
the great storm which proved fatal to so
many people in Minnesota, one John
Weston, of Worthington, was overtaken on
his way home through the woods. Three
days after, his wife, who was anxiously
awaiting his coming, heard as she
thought at the door the voice of a neighbor
saying, ‘Mrs. Weston, John is frozen to
death.’ She went at once to the door, but
nobody was there. So, six days after, an-
other neighbor saw the missing man stand-
ing about fifteen feet from, the stable door.
He addressed him with, 'why are you
here, we thought you were frozen?’
When the ghost answered, ‘So I am, and
my body lies a mile and a half northwest of
Hersey.’ With this the ghost vanished.
The depth of the snow prevents searching
for the body at present.” Should the body
be found, at the place thus indicated, the
question now agitating that community will
be as far as ever from settlement; for the
world is unwilling to believe the truth in
regard to such phenomena, and prefers to
ascribe them to hallucination of the mind, or
accept the first theory that meets approval.


