HOME AFFAIRS.
				    —
	Two exceedingly interesting letters from
Miss Eliza R. Snow, will be found in the pre-
sent number of the Exponent.
	We shall be pleased to see our friends, who
may come in to Conference, at the office of the
Exponent, west of the city market.
	The Annual Conference convenes on Sun-
[new column]
day next, April 6th, when a large attendance
is expected. Presidents Young and Wells are
at home and most of the Twelve Apostles will
be present. The First Presidency have deemed,
it expedient to telegraph throughout the Terri-
tory,. to the various Bishops, enjoining the
necessity of strict quarentine in regard to small-
pox, and the importance of persons, who have
been exposed to the contagion not coming to
Conference.
	PREPARATIONS are being made at the
theatre in this city to provide attractive enter-
tainments during. Conference times, including
the spectacular play of “Cherry and Fair
Star,” and the drama of “Stage and Steam,”
written by Mr. E. L. Sloan, of this city, which
when first produced a few weeks ago was so
well received.
	Small-pox has continued to spread in this
city, and the City Council has deemed it neces-
sary to order the quarantine regulations to be
rigidly enforced. Much danger would be
avoided if people, who are exposed to the con-
tagion, would take proper precautions not to
carry it to others; and were all those who need
not be exposed to carefully keep away from
places where, while doing no good they would
be liable to catch the infection.
	Hons. W. H. Hooper and George Q. Can-
non arrived home from Washington, D. C. on
the 15th ult., just too late for their arrival to be
noticed in our last issue. They had passed
through a winter of much excitement in Wash-
ington over Utah affairs, and had been able to
prevent the passage of the special legislation
directed against this Territory. They were
received at Ogden by a large number of their
constituents, with a special train and music
from this city; and welcomed home in the
warmest manner.
	A morning newspaper published in this
city, which gives its attention to abusing
“Mormonism” and “woman's rights,” cham-
pions. some of the worst places in town, and
advocates anything and everything that would
increase here the evils so long fought against
by this community, devoted a little editorial
space lately to the “Woman's Journal” pub-
lished in Boston, confounding it with the
Exponent, and atiempting to berate both.
We merely allude to the fact, as an evidence
of how poorly informed some of these editorial
persons are, relative to matters of which they
treat so flippantly.
	The subject of home manufactures, of
various kinds is again receiving considerable
attention.  This is a matter which the ladies
of the Relief and Retrenchment Societies can
materially aid by precept and example, by
encouraging the wearing of home manufactured
fabrics instead of those imported, by throwing
an influence in the way of wool being woven
up in the Territory instead ef being exported,
and many other ways. And so far as the
fabrics woven in the factories in this Territory
have been exhibited at the last two Territorial
Fairs, they have compared favorably with any-
thing imported. We can all encourage home
manufactures, for all have influence, in a greater
or less degree; and in so doing we promote
prosperity, an increase of wealth to the com-
munity at large, and independence, which is
only truly enjoyed by a people when they are
self-sustaining.


﻿President Grant has subscribed $100
and Vice-President Wilson $50, to the
Greeley monument fund. How much will
be subscribed by the proprietors of Harper’s
Weekly, which helped to kill the over-
worked old man, is not yet announced.


