ONE PROMINENT REASON. 
					—
   Said a person a few days ago, who has made
himself somewhat conspicuious in pressing a
crusade against the Mormons, when closely 
questioned on the subject: “The fact is, I care
nothing about how many wives a man has;
I make no pretentions to being a moral man
myself, and I care very little whether other
men are moral or immoral; but I’m bound
to break up th the ocracy and religion that’s in
this thing.” This was not his exact language,
although we have placed it in quotation
marks for we would not transfer to these
columns any of the vile and blasphemous in-
vectives with which his speech was interlarded;
nor would our informant, a gentleman whose
honor and veracity are unquestioned, repeat
them in our hearing; but the ideas expressed
are here produced. The person is thus, himself,
confessedly an immoral man, yet he declaims
against the Latter-day Saints and their faith,
not because he cares whether their practices
are moral or otherwise, but because he aims at
overthrowing their religion and breaking up
their Church; and he finds “polygamy” a word
that can be used to rouse the prejudices of the
bigoted and the ignorant. There is nothing
new in this. It is the old story—as old as the
contest between truth and error; as old as
the revelation of gospel principles to man.
Those who hold to the truth dare not resort to
falsehood to defend themselves, for if they did 
the Spirit of truth would not abide with them;


but those who oppose right, employ every
means, no matter how false, dishonorable or
vile to secure a triumph. This man had some
honesty left. He was fighting to accomplish
an object, Though licentious himself, he
assumed an air of virtue and endeavored to
affix the stigma of licentiousness where it did
not belong, to arouse a public feeling against
the Latter-day Saints; and had honesty enough
to admit as much. The subject needs no
elaboration; it is very plain; and contains a
truth and a moral that should be self-evident
to all.


