A WARNING TO YOUNG LADIES.
					 —
	A  lesson and a warning to the young
ladies of Utah contained in the scandalous
conduct of the man Anderson, who was
arrested here a few days ago, and the folly
of the girl Mitchel, who fell into his snares.
Flattered by his notice, and deceived by his
plausible tongue and “gentlemanly” man-
ners, the girl left her home in Salt Lake
City and came to Ogden, where her sorrow-
ing mother discovered her with her seducer,
after a long search, aided by the police.
Anderson promised to marry the girl, but
subsequently tried to decamp without ful-
filling his contract.   He was arrested and
taken back to Salt Lake, where, to avoid
the punishment of the law he married the
victim of his wiles.
	How many times have our young ladies
been cautioned about associating with
strangers, and warned against the arts of
polite but designing scoundrels? What
respectable girl would think it any consola-
tion to be wedded to a man who only con-
sented to marriage through the force of law
and the fear of punishment? And when
will the odium of the disgrace attending
such a scandal be chased away from the
guilty parties? 
	Our girls are brought up in innocence of
the vices and corruptions of the great world,
and enjoy great freedom in companionship
with their juvenile friends, male and female.
They think no evil of those in whose com-
pany they may be cast, and unless willing to
heed the advice of their friends, are apt to
be led astray. The only path of safety for
them is to avoid the intimate society of all
persons about whom they know little or
nothing, and associate only with those in
whom their parents, guardians, or trusted
friends, have confidence. By taking this
course many will save themlselves from
shame, and, perhaps, from present and
everlasting ruin,—“Ogden Junction.”


﻿The Law of True Marriage.—“Wher-
ever,” says Gail Hamilton, “man pays
reverence to woman—wherever any man
feels the influence of woman, purifying,
chastening, abashing, strengthening him
against temptation, shielding him from evil,
ministering to his self respect, medicining
his weariness, peopling his solitude, winning
him from sordid prizes, enlivening his
monotonous days with mirth, or fancy, or
wit, flashing Heaven upon his earth, and
mellowing it all for spiritual—there is the
element for marriage. Wherever woman
pays reverence to man—wherever any
woman rejoices in the strength of any man,
feels him to be God’s agent upholding her
weakness, confirming her purpose and
crowning her power wherever he reveals
himself to her, just, upright, inflexible, yet
tolerant, merciful, benignant, not unruffled
perhaps, but not overcome by the turbulence
and responding to all her gentleness, help-
ing her to hold her soul steadfast in right;
to stand firm against the encroachment of
frivolity, vanity, impatience, fatigue and
discouragement; helping to preserve her
good nature, to develop her energy, to con
solidate her thoughts, to utilize her benevo-
lence, to exalt and illuminate her life—
there is the essence of marriage. Its love
is founded on respect, and increases self-
respect at the very moment of merging self
in another. Its love is mutual, equally giv-
ing and receiving at every instance of action.
There is neither dependence, but inter-
dependence. You cannot, weaken its bond;
distance cannot sunder them; it is a love
which vanquishes the grave and transfigures
death itself into life.
-


