F. R. SOCIETY REPORTS!

			Pleasant Grove,
				February 26th, 1873.
Dear Exponent:—
	We have been silent so far to the public;
yet we have been busy at home, trying to
promote the interests of our Relief Society,
which has, in the proper way, discarded a
portion of its former appellation—the word
"Female." We have plenty of faithful
sisters who evince a spirit characteristic of
our noble callings. Our Society is in a 
healthy state financially. By our generosity,
coupled with economy, we have succeeded
in gathering and saving quite a handsome 
amount of means which we have invested
in Co-operative institutions where we have
a perpetual benefit in dividensd.
	There is a unanimity of feeling among
our members to assist in building up the
Kingdom of God upon the earth. Our
monthly meetings are well attended. We
have rendered assistance to many public
improvements, as well as giving temporal
relief to those in our midst who are needy.
	We are of the opinion that it is very
opportune that we have such an organ as
the Exponent, for while Congress and 
President Grant are devising some means,
no matter how unconstitutional, against us
as a people we, the "weaker" portion of the
community, can speak boldly for the noble
institution with which we are so closely
interwoven that it will take more wisdom
than men can conceive of to cause us to re
linquish one iota of our holy religion.
"Fear not little flock, it is my good will to
give you the kingdom."
	God bless the right.
					Rosalie E. Driggs.

				Salt Lake City,
					March 13th, 1873.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	The Relief Society of the 17th Ward is
doing well, has a sufficiency for its poor,
and some to spare. The annual report,
which was read on the 6th of February,
showed the Society to be in a flourishing
condition financially.
	On the suggestion of our President, Mrs.
O. Hyde, the Society donated $80 to
the Emigration Fund last year. At a meet-
ing held in December, Secretary Mrs. Alder
moved that the word “Female” be dropped
from the Society, in accordance with the
views of Sister E. R. Snow, which was
passed by a unanimous vote. At the same
meeting President Mrs. Hyde requested the
visiting Committees to visit their blocks
and solicit for a Christmas dinner, for the
poor, which resulted in the donation of $30
in cash, chickens, pies, cakes, groceries, etc.
being collected, and our needy had a sub-
stantial reason to be glad that it was Christ-
mas.
	There are less needy in the ward at
present than at any time since its organiza-
tion, and a feeling of perfect unity exists in
our Society. We also feel that President
Mrs. Hyde and her Counsel have blessed the
Society, wisely guiding it, and the good
feeling we have always enjoyed is the
natural result.
	Our Bishop and the brethren have decided
to build a new meeting house this Spring,
and have taken active measures towards it,
for which we are thankful; and at a recent
meeting voted to help them all that lay in
our power; for we have sadly felt the need
of a comfortable meeting house in the Ward; 
and with it, we feel we will increase in
wealth, both as a Ward and as a Society.
					Mrs. O. Hyde, President,
	Mrs. G. A.  Alder, Secretary.

		19th Ward, Salt Lake City,
				March 20th, 1873.
Editor Woman's Exponent:—
	Having been rather remiss in forwarding
you a report of this branch of the Relief
Society, we will endeavor to offer one as
concise as possible now. During the five 
years the Society has been organized, the 
donations in cash and merchandise have 
amounted to $1,400. Our disbursements 
are $900, having donated $100 to the Emi-
gration Fund, $75 to missionaries, made
various other donations of small amounts
and used means for the benefit of the poor
of the Ward; which leaves a balance on
hand of $500 designed to be devoted to
building a hall for the benefit of the Society.
We hold our sewing meetings semi-monthly,
and our meetings for receiving donations
and making disbursements, monthly. Al-
though but few, comparatively, of our
members meet together, yet the people of
the Ward donate liberally to sustain the
Society. When we realize the blessings of
this great institution, organized in our
midst, we are led to exclaim Surely our
Father in Heaven careth for his children!
We have declined the use of the word
"Female," as being superfluous in connection
with the name of the Society. We think
very highly of the EXPONENT and wish it 
much prosperity.
		Respectfully yours,
				A. A. Pratt, President;
	Maria W. Wilcox, Secretary.

	A meeting of the Relief Society of the
10th Ward in this city, held March 6th, was
attended by Sisters Mary L. Horne, Zina D.
Young, Elizabeth Howard and Louise L.
Greene. That branch of the Society appears
to be active and wide-awake in relation to
the many responsibilities which the sisters
are learning to take upon themselves as
legitimately belonging to them. The re-
ports given in concerning those who are
needing assistance, and the general interest
exhibited in their behalf, showed the sisters
of the 10th Ward to be in possession of the
true spirit of their calling, and united in
their desires and efforts to do good.

	The tenor of spirit manifested at the
general meetings of the Co-operative Re-
trenchment Associations, held on the 15th
and 29th of March, in the 14th Ward As-
sembly Rooms, showed that retrenchment
in cooking and in dress, as first introduced
in the associations, had not been lost sight
of by a portion of the members. The im-
portance of self-culture was also warmly and
intelligently vindicated.

	The sisters in Heber City send us cheerful
reports of the Relief Society in that settle-
ment.


