TERRITORIAL FAIR.
				    ——
	The Board of-Directors of the Deseret Agri-
cultural and Manufacturing Society are already
arranging premiums for the forth-coming
Territorial Fair. As it will not be held until
October, this may seem early to direct atten-
tion to it; but there was complaint made—and
we think reasonably so—by the ladies of the
Relief Societies last year, that they had not
sufficient notice to prepare for the Territorial
exhibition so as to make such a showing as
they desired to do, and hence we refer to the
next Fair ,thus soon. One of the most interest-
ing features of the last one was the department
devoted to ladies’ work, in which several
of the Relief Societies made very liandsome ex-
hibitions. When it is understood a few months
in advance that a Territorial exhibition will be
held, the ladies and Societies that design partic-
ipating in it will commence in time and exert
themselves to have such a representation as
they will be satisfied with.
	Since the above was written the following
address was placed in our hands for publication
in the Exponent, which we take much plea-
sure in laying before the ladies of the Relief
Societies throughout the Territory:
		Salt	Lake City, March 25th,	1873.
To the Relief Societies of Utah:
	Ladies:—The Board of Directors of the
Deseret Agricultural and Manufacturing
Society propose holding another Exhibition,
or Fair, in October 1873. 
	In order that ample time may be given to all
who contemplate taking an active part in the
Exhibition, the Directors have already pre-
pared a premium list offering to all competitors
a fine opportunity of displaying their skill,
tact and genius in producing from the mater-
ials at their command, beautiful specimens of
the workmanship of their own hands.
	We cheerfully accord to the Ladies an ac-
knowledgement of the fact that in their
Department the Fairs have invariably been a
success, and when time has been given them
the number of the specimens have never been
meagre, and have generally exceeded that of
any other department.
	The dignity of labor is conceded by all
intelligent beings, and the adage that there Is
no excellence without labor has passed into an
axiom, or proposition to which assent is con-
ceded without proof.   We feel therefore to ask
your honorable associations to unite with us,
from Rich County in the north to Washington
County in the south, in an endeavor to make
the exhibition of 1873 a truthful exposition of
our progress in material developments.
				Wilford Woodruff, President,
	Robert. L, Campbell, Secretary.


