HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
				—
	WOMAN'S WORK IN THE GARDEN. —Don't
say you have no time.  Leave off a ruffle on
Susie's apron, or the rows of braid on Tom-
my's jacket.  If the kitchen floor be not
daily polished to whiteness, your husband
and his troop of hungry men will not mind
it; so, just ge tthings in trim for dinner, and 
steal the time for some pleasant work in the
garden every day.  Pay no regard to John's
sly  hint that a lively race with him down
through the potato patch, hoe in hand,
would do just as well; but coax or hire some-
body to spade a little plot of ground, and 
the work of planting and weeding will be a
penance for numerous physical ills.  A sun-
bath in your own dooryard might be just as
potent, and certainly less costly,  than if
prescribed by a physician to be taken on the
hillside,  at some fashionable water cure.
Try it, ye worn and exhausted toilers, who,
in the never-ending round of houshold 
labor, are fast losing that buoyancy which is
such a powerful lever in lifting heavy bur-
dens.
							RUTH DANA.
	A USE FOR RUSHES.— When I was quite
a little girl, I remember paying homage to
an egg shell which hung in the cottage
window of an old lady whom I visited.  It
was ornamented with a particular design at
nothing, I think, only the blending of
bright colors.  This was effected by dyeing
the pith of common rushes in various bright
colors and glueing them on in rings.  Since 
then, I have discovered that very beautiful
imitations of flowers like the camelia, 
tuberose, etc., may be made by their skillful
use.  Make each petal separately and fasten
the center with wax.  Once commenced,
you can scarcely fail to make pretty flowers
—if you are patient.
						ROSE GERANIUM.
	IF YOU wish to have your pictures show
to greatest possible advantage, avoid all
figured wall paper, or have the figures
as small and  quiet as your taste will allow.
—"The Beautiful Home."
	GINGER SNAPS.—One pint of molasses;
two thirds of a cup of butter; one teaspoon-
ful of ginger; a small half-cup of sweet milk;
one measure each of Horsford's preparation.
Mix well in flour enough to roll out
	SOFT GINGERBREAD.—One and a half cup
of molasses; two thirds of a cup of sour milk;
half a cup of butter; one teaspoonful of
soda; one teaspoonful of ginger.
	SWEET SAUCE (for all kinds of pud-
dings).—Half a cup of butter; one cup of
sugar; one cup of milk.  Stir the butter and
sugar to a cream; boil the milk, and while 
boiling stir in one teaspoonful of corn-starch
previously mixed in a little cold milk; pour
the milk while boiling, over the butter and
sugar.
	STEAM PUDDING.—Two cups of sour
milk; two cups of flour; two cups of corn-
meal; half a cup of molasses; two small
teaspoonfuls of soda; a little salt.  Steam
one hour and a quarter.
	DELICATE CAKE.—The whites of five
eggs beaten to a froth; two cups of white
sugar; half a cup of butter; one cup of milk;
three cups of flour, and one measure each of
Horsford's preparation mixed well in the 
flour.
	MOUNTAIN CAKE.—Two eggs; one cup of
sugar; half a cup of butter; half a cup of 
sweet milk; two cups of flour; one teaspoon-
ful of cream of tartar; half a teaspoonful of
soda.  A little nutmeg and fruit impoves it.
	APPLE JAM.—Weigh equal quantities of
sugar and good sour apple; pare, core and
[new column]
chop the apples fine; make a good clear
syrup of the sugar; add the apples, juice and
grated rind of three lemons, and a few
pieces of white ginger. Boil it until the
apples looks clear and yellow. On no
account omit the ginger.
	WHILE SMOKING meat with chips or saw-
dust, put on the fire a few red peppers;
the fumes will prevent all insects from at-
tacking your meat.
	WINDOW-BOXES—Plants may be success-
fully raised in these, where only a few are
required for early crops, and are often more
convenient than a hot-bed.


[For the EXPONENT.
			THE EVIL OF SLANDER.
					 ——
	There is probably no one thing in which
the Saints sin so much as in speaking evil
of their brethren and sisters, and attending
to other people's affairs.  The poet says:
"We've faults enough at home to mend,"
and we all know this is true.  Yet how 
prone we are to meddle with our neighbors'
failings, to desire to pull the motes out of
their eyes when probably, at the same time,
there is a beam in our own.  There is one
things we should all bear in mind: if our
brother or sister does wrong we are not the 
ones to put him or her right; that belongs
only to those who are placed over them.
And another thing, their faults have noth-
ing to do with us, unless they sin against
us individually.  When they do so, it is our
duty to go to them privately and tell them
of their error, instead of going to those who
have no right to know anything about it.
If we will do this with the right spirit we 
will be tolerably sure of receiving satisfac-
tion.  In all we undertake we should have
the Spirit of God to dictate us; then we are
certain of doing right; for that Spirit never
leads anyone into difficulty.  The Lord
never forsakes us, it is always we that for-
sake Him when we are unhappy.  He is
always ready and willing to pour out
blessings upon us when we are willing to 
receive them.  We should not watch for 
iniquity, for if we look for evil we will
certainly find it; if in no other way, by mis-
construing something that was meant for 
good.  You know there is a woe pronounced
upon those that make a man an offender for 
a word.  Let us remember what the Savior
said.  "Whatsoever ye would that men
should do to you, do ye even so to them."
I don't think many of us carry this out in
the true sense of the word; for we would
not like to think that our friends were
criticising our talk and actions in our
absence.  We would think they were both
unjust and unkind, when at the same time
we have scarcely a friend in the world but
we can find some fault with, and are very
apt to do it.  It is a good rule never to say
a thing in persons' absence that we would
not be perfectly willing for them to hear.
If we adhered strictly to this rule, it would
be very little evil we would ever speak of
anyone; if we told them of a fault we would 
be as lenient as possible.  Girls, let us strive
to do right, and be forbearing with each
others' weaknesses, and the Lord will bless
us, for He is desirous to bless and comfort
those who seek Him with full purpose of
heart.
								M.F.


IT IS astonishing to see how readily bad 
habits may be overcome and good ones
grown into by a person whose mind is fully
made up to be wise. That attempts at re-
form so often prove futile, is simply because
of a lack of resolution and determined
courage.


[For the Exponent.
		"DOES HER OWN WORK."
				    ——
	"Does her own work! Does she!" I
heard this uttered in a sneering con-
temptuous tone, as if it was a disgrace to
the girl in question; as if she was less a
true lady, less worthy of respect than those
who sit with their hands in their laps and
never know or realize aught so blissful or
satisfactory as the sense of real dignity
which is the happy attendant of honest,
healthful labor. And I could not help
thinking the expression of such feelings
evinced a selfish, narrow mind, better fitted
for almost any other community than ours,
whose institutions are based upon honorble
labor as one of the most essential corner
stones.
	Such utterances show the detestable spirit
of caste, which should be foreign to any but
the vain and ignorant, but which is estab-
lishing itself too forcibly among certain
classes in our midst. They should reflect
that manners and morals, as well as dress
and occupation, enter into the grand mak-
ing up of a character. If a woman is able to
live without actual labor, let her do so if
she so desires. But to be ashamed of work,
or of a knowledge of how to manage the
shop, or the kitchen, or to sneer at those
who do work, betrays the presence of a
"false pride." Were ouw mothers ashamed
to work, or are we ashamed of them because
they did work? It is an honor to any woman,
any society, to be able and willing, when
necessity requires it, to do her own work.
							M.   R.   W.
		EDUCATION OF WOMEN.
				  ——
	George W. Curtis thus closed his lecture
on the education of women: Now, as to
the question of a collegiate education for
women, it is not proposed that women shall
be compelled to go to college but only that
they shall have precisely the same opportu-
nity that men have, if they wish to improve
it. There is in England at this very day
a lady lecturing at the Young Women's 
Institute upon domestic questions, such as
"Would you prefer to use an earthen or an
iron pot upon your kitchen stove?" or "How
would you lay out ten shillings if you had a 
sick husband and six children too young to
work?" and "How would you make bread?"
This is precisely the kind of education; the
sooner it becomes universal, the sooner we 
shall have better food and better health. We
have our agricultural fairs and colleges, and
certainly if it is worth while to teach us how
to raise wheat it is as wise to teach us
how to convert it into bread. If there are
branches of knowledge improper for wo-
men to learn or duties unfit to perform, they
will know it a thousand times better than
men, so give them their choice. If there
be some women in whom the love of learn-
ing extinguishes all other love, then the
heaven-appointed sphere of that woman is
not the nursery. It may be the library, the
laboratory, the observatory. Not the happi-
ness of Romeo and Juliet. but star-eyed
science is her place.  Does such a woman
prove that perfect liberty of education un-
spheres woman?  On the contrary it has
enabled that woman to percieve exactly
what God meant her to do. We have left
the petted slave in the Greek-household, to
go onward and forward.  We have left
the idle toy and the painted doll with
Chesterfield and the clubs, and we still go
forward.  God lead us to find the true
woman in the free American home.


﻿THERE are 50,000 gold-hunters now in
Africa.


