“MANLY" OCCUPATIONS.
				  —
	Some individual has kindly prepared the
following, and  offers it as advice to young
men:
	The young man who has an ambition to
make a great noise in the world should learn
boiler-making.  He can make more noise
in that trade than anything else he can
engage in. 
	If he believes a man should “strike for
wages” he should learn blacksmithing—
especially if he is good at “blowing.”
	If he would embrace a profession in which
he can rise rapidly he should become an
aeronaut. He couldn’t find anything better
“for high.”	
	He certainly could do a staving (and per-
haps a starving) business at the cooper trade.
	If he believes in “measures, not men,” he
will embark in the tailoring business. 
	If the one great object of his life is to
make money, he should get a position in
the United States Mint.
	If he is a punctual sort of a chap, and
anxious to be “on time,” he should put his
hands to watchmaking.
	If he believes in the chief end of man to
have his business largely “felt,” why of
course he will become a hatter.
	If he wants to “get at the root of a thing”
he will become a dentist—although if he
does he will be often found “looking down
in the mouth.”
	If a man is a bungler, at his best, he
should become a physician—and then he
will have none of his bad work thrown upon
his hands. It is generally buried out of
sight, you know.
	Should he incline to high living, but pre-
fer a plain board, then the carpenter trade
will suit him. He can plane board enough
at that.
	If he is kneady and well-bred, he will be
right at home as a baker.
	He shouldn’t become a cigar-maker. If
he does, all his work will end in smoke.
	The young man who enjoys plenty of
company and is ever ready to scrape ac-
quaintance, will find the barber business a
congenial pursuit.
	The quickest way for him to ascend to the
top round of his calling is to become a hod-
carrier.		
	A very “grave” young man might flour-
ish as an undertaker.
	Don’t learn chair-making, for no matter
how well you please your customers, they
will sooner or later, get down on your work.
	And don’t become an umbrell-maker, for
their business is “used up." 
	If he would have his work touch the
heads of the nation, we know of no way he
could sooner accomplish such an object than
by making combs.
	The young man who would have the
fruits of his labor brought before the eyes of
the people will become an optician. The
work being easily seen through, cannot be
difficult to learn.
	Cannot some one prescribe as many good
pursuits suitable to the different tastes and
abilities of young women?


﻿Parsnip Wine.—Cut twelve pounds of
parsnips in slices and boil them in four gal-
lons of water till they become soft, then
press the liquor well out of them, run it
through a sieve and add to each gallon three
pounds of loaf sugar. Boil the whole three
quarters of an hour, and when, it is nearly
cold add a little yeast, let it stand ten days
in a tub stirring it every day from the bot-
tom, then put it into a cask for twelve
months. As it works over fill it up every
day.


