WOMAN SUFFRAGE IN UTAH.
				—
	Under this heading the Woman's Journal
congratulates the friends of Woman's Suffrage
that the "Utah Bill," better known as the 
"Frelinghuysen Bill" did not pass the House,
and that through the efforts of the friends of
Woman's Suffrage, it failed to become law.
The Journal's article says: “This abominable
bill, framed by Senator Frelinghuysen, of New
Jersey, and approved by the Senate Judiciary
Committee, was entitled 'A bill in aid of the
execution of the laws in the Territory of Utah, 
and for other purposes.' But it was especially
designed to remand the women of Utah into
political slavery, and even went so far as to
guard against their future emancipation by
Constitutional prohibitions."
	In support of this the Journal quotes the act
of the Territorial Legislature, conferring the
elective franchise; and the part of the "Frel-
inghuysen Bill" which repeals that act." It 
further shows, after referring to the fact that
20,000 women  were thus to be disfranchised,
that the men of Utah were to be prevented from
again conferring the right of suffrage upon
women; and in this connection the provision
of the bill might have been cited which re-
quired all future laws made by the Territorial
Legislature to be enacted in conformity with
the spirit and letter of this bill, thus attempt-
ing to prohibit the leading Territory of the 
United States from exercising the legitimate
powers which the very fundemental principles
of our government vest in every legislature in
the United States—State, Territorial or muni-
cipal—by which laws shall be made as liberal
as the public good demands; and in conformity
with the Federal Constitution. The concluding
portion of the article we give in full:	
	No content with thus crushing the political
rights of the women of Utah, with the strong 
arm of the Federal Government, Senator Fre-
linghuysen actually proposes to rob every 
married woman in the Territories of her person,
property and earnings.
	"Sec. 23. That the common law of England,
in force in the colonies of America, at the date
of the Declaration of Independence, is hereby
extended over and declared to be in force in
the Territories of the United States, so far as
the same is applicable: 'Provided, that nothing
herein shall be construed to prevent the Terri-
torial Legislatures of the respective Territories
from modifying the same."
	Remeber, ladies, that "The common law of
England,” thus extended over your sisters in
Utah, expressly gave "The custody of the wife's 
person absolutely to her husband," gave the
husband a right to use "gentle restraint" to
keep her, and to administer "moderate cor-
rection," to punish her; deprived her of the
power to sue or be sued, or to make a will.
Made her the "servant" of her husband; gave
him all her personal property and all her earn-
ings, and the life-use of all her real estate, if
they had ever had a living child, and subjected 
her to despotic control.
	To this infernal law, almost as bad as chattel
slavery itself, Senator Frelinghuysen has
actually induced a Republican Senate to suject
the women of Utah. Thus has the Republi-
can Senate shown itself mindful of its obliga-
tions to the loyal women of America! This is


its “respectful consideration," for the rights of
the women of the Territories.
	Thank God the bill has failed. But this
failure may prove only a respite. The snake
is scotched not killed. Let the women of New
Jersey call a public meeting and denounce tlie
action of their Senator, who has thus insulted
Womanhood. Let them see to it that Mr.
Frelinghuysen is never re-elected to the
Senate of the United States.,
	This question, as the EXPONENT has before
contended, is one not confined to the women of
Utah, for had the “Frelinghuysen Bill” become
law it would have acted adversely to the Wo-
man’s Suffrage agitation throughout the United
States; and it is gratifying to note that this
fact is being recognized throughout the
country.


