CORRESPONDENCE OF MISS SNOW.
				—
			Alexandria, Egypt, 	
				   February 9th, 1873. 
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
	My Dear Lula :—I wrote you last in
Rome. We found very much in that
ancient capital of the world strikingly
interesting. The unremitting work of time
is nowhere more apparent than in the ruins
of that once magnificent city. The excava-
tions commenced at the expense of Napoleon
Third, and which are continued by the,
present government of Italy, have brought
to light, most astonishing specimens of
former grandeur and architectural skill.
Although much has been unburied, much
more remains, not only many feet beneath
the surface of the earth, but also below
spacious palaces and temples of compara-
tively modern structure, which have been
erected upon the ground formed by accumu-
lations through the lapse of ages, that
constituted a sepulchral arch over Rome of
the Caesars. While there, we were informed
of a design to remove those modern build-
ings in favor of perfecting the work of
excavation, and since leaving, have read a
published article announcing that the work
of demolishing had commenced.
But I must leave Rome for the present
and hasten on to Naples, where we arrived
in the evening of the 25th of January.
That is a city of pomp and beggary; in
fact, there, begging appeared to be more a
necessity than in Rome, where children
well clad, fat and apparently well fed,
seemed to beg for mere amusement, no
doubt being trained to the business. But
in Naples we saw poverty strikingly ap-
parent, and beggars clustered in droves.
Thousands of men, women and children
were on the side walks and in the streets,
lounging about as though they had no
abiding place; most of the men smoking
pipes and cigars—some of the women knit-
ting, others spinning flax in the most simple
manner, with a distaff from which they
drew the thread, and a bobbin or spool
which they twirled to give a twist to the
thread and then wound upon it.
	Many of these people have no resort for
the night only as they huddle into the
porches of the churches, on the steps, or
in niches in the corner of the street. Re-
turning rather late from Pompei one even-
ing, we saw groups of these houseless people
on steps leading into churches. They are
accustomed to this manner of existence, it
can hardly be called living. .Warm climates,
in which people easily exist, foster indo-
lence; and it is doubtful, whether any
inducements could prompt these people to
industry.
	President Smith and most of his party
ascended to the crater of Vesuvius, my ambi-
tion was satisfied with excellent views of
this natural wonder, at a lower point. Con-
tinually throwing out volumes of smoke,
and frequently ashes and stones, it is a
marvel that people residing near and at the
base of this fiery mountain can feel the
serenity they manifest.
	From Naples wo went by rail to Brindisi,
from there by steamer to Corfu, one of the
Grecian Isles thirty miles in length and
from one to fifteen in breadth. It seems
like a cluster of high hills and low dells,
mostly covered with olives and grape-vines,
with here and there a cypress. Varieties
of vegetables are growing in some parts,
also flax, which we saw nearly in bloom.
The Grecian women, living in the country,
are, many of them, at least, “beasts of bur-
den.” I never saw such gigantic bundles
[new column]
carried by human beings as these poor
women carry on their heads. In the city of
Corfu, as in most of the cities we have
visited, America and England are repre-
sented in the circles of fashion. The grand
promenade and public gardens were very
gay, especially in the afternoon of the Sun-
day we spent there.
	At 12 (midnight) of the 2nd of February
we embarked on the “Saturno,” an Austrian
steamer, and arrived in Alexandria the
morning of the 6th. We had a delightful
voyage, no one of our party was sea-sick;
the sea was calm, although the day before
and the day after our voyage were very
boisterous.
		SUNRISE ON THE MEDITERRANEAN.
		We mounted "Saturno's" deck to see
			A grand, magnificent scene,
		The rising sun in its majesty,
			Diffusing its golden sheen.

		A charming precursor first appear’d 
			In volumes of golden rays, 
		Increasing their splendor till all around
			The horizon seemed to blaze.

		Anon, the disk of the "king of day,”
			O’er the wat’ry main arose;
		Now upward and onward he makes his way,
			Till the canopy gaily glows.

		The morning is fine the air serene,
			And the sky above is clear, 
		Except where a tiny cloud
			Like a floating nymph appears.

		The sparkling waves of the sea below,
			The blazonry over head,
		The horizon wrap’d in a burning glow,
			A thrilling enchantment spread.
	No place that we have visited makes one
feel so thoroughly from home as Alexandria;
and in no place have we had more comfortable
quarters and better fare than here. Yet
the medley of nations, religious costumes,
colors, dialects, etc., etc., and the dilapi-
dated appearance of the city, constitute a
scenery at once interesting, ludicrous and
extremely amusing. But my sheet is full,
and I will leave Alexandria, with this intro-
duction, for a future opportunity. We go
to Cairo to-morrow
							E. R. Snow.
			Cairo, Egypt, Feb. 14, 1873.
Editor Exponent:—
	Dear Lula:—We are now in the
flourishing city of Cairo, but I will take
you back to Alexandria, to which I intro-
duced you in my last.
	Although the buildings generally, in that
once celebrated, antiquated city, are speci-
mens of age and decay, it contains some
respectable appearing ones, recently built
and owned by foreigners. Most of the
streets are unpaved, narrow and filthy.
Our hotel in Alexandria occupied a pleasant
position ; our rooms, on the third floor, front-
ing a public square eight or ten rods in width,
affording us full views of two streets and
four sidewalks, which were most of the
time thronged with people and animals.
From our balcony and windows, which
opend at full length, we had an excellent
opportunity for studying national peculi-
arities. The sight was at once intensely
amusing and interesting. It would be im-
possible to give more than a faint idea of
the strange varieties to be seen at a glance;
men, women and children of every shade of
complexion from the fairest blond to the
most glossy jet, with every variety of
feature, and in every imaginable costume.
In five minutes I counted twenty different
styles of covering on the heads of that
number of male bipeds, saying nothing of
those of the feminines. Mixed up with
pedestrians may be seen men, women and
children on donkeys, men on horses and
[new column]
mules, camels laden with enormous masses
of straw, grass, lumber, rock, and frequently
with a man on the top of the load; people pf
all classes in carriages and buggies,rudelycon-,
structed vehicles containing twenty persons
—men, women, and children; and to com-
plete the medley, dogs and monkeys.
	The most comically amusing practice, and
one of constant exhibition, is a person,
either Turk or Christian, on a donkey, with
a man or boy in gown or turban, running
in the rear, and with a stick punching or
striking the animal to quicken its speed.
Our highly respected cashier and inter-
preter, Brother P. A. Schettler, adopted this
fashionable style, but much to the regret of
Miss Little and myself, he disappointed us
of the gratification we anticipated in wit-
nessing the interesting and undignified
exhibition, by performing it clandestinely.
These Arab runners outstrip donkeys, and
equal horses at pretty good speed. It is
quite customary for people of consequence to
have one of these runners in front of their
carriage-horses, clearing the street before
them. President Smith and party rode out
this forenoon in two carriages, with a runner
in white gown and turban, in advance of
each. They felt themselves to be men of
authority—stick in hand, ordering people,
donkeys, etc., aside to clear a passage.
	On the streets, Americans, English,
French, Germans. Italians, Greeks, Turks,
Abyssinians, Jews, etc., etc., mix, and it is
impossible to discover from appearance
who feel most at home. Several of an
English party who crossed the Mediterra-
nian with us, have already adopted the
neat, little, Turkish cap, which, with
turban and gown, is the predominant style
in Egypt. In Alexandria, most of the hotel
servants appeared in no other. I had tried
to persuade some of the gentlemen of our
party that this costume might become them,
but, up to date, they have only donned the
cap—the gown is only yet in prospect.
	The custom of veiling the face, which is
much practised here by Egyptian women,
appears to be very inconvenient. I have
already seen thousands with only the eyes,
and sometimes the forehead exposed; some
with white veils and dressed in white;
others with black, and dressed in black, and
also in various colors; some very richly dad.
Most of the veils are short, made of thick
lace, and fastened across the face just below
the eyes. The outside garb, or covering,
nearly half-square in form, is laid over the
head, fastened under the chin, falling loosely
over the shoulders and reaches to the instep;
and frequently parting in front, exposes to
advantage a beautiful, rich underdress.
Walking in the public garden, seatedi n an
arbor, on the sidewalk, riding on a donkey
or in a carriage, every Turkish or Egyptian
woman you see, looks as though she had a
large shawl over her head. Considering
the outside appearance of the den-like
houses of the Arab Mahometans, it is very
surprising to see how neat they look. Many,
both men and women, dress in white—and
really white; their religion enjoins cleanli-
ness. They have fountains in front of their
Mosques, where the people wash before
prayer. We frequently see them washing
themselves beside the street, probably pre-
paratory to praying, for wherever a true
Mahometan is when the hour of prayer
arrives, he bows to service. We have seen
several where we were passing, bowing
their heads to the ground while their lips
moved as in silent devotion.
	But to Alexandria. The first morning after
our arrival, the early and frequent discharge
of cannon, reminded us of our “Fourth” and
“Twenty-Fourth.” On inquiring the cause,


we were informed the pilgrims were then
ascending the mountain in commemoration of
the Hegira, or flight of Mahomet, to Mecca.
It was also the time for the“Wailing for the
dead” in the Mahometan cemetery. Our cur-
iosity prompted us to walk a tiresome distance
through dust, filth, crowded streets, to the
place designated, where we found thousands
of people of all ages, and, with very few
exceptions, all in Mahometan costumes.
	The graves are covered with clay moulded
into a compact oval form, raised from one
to two feet above the surface, and many of
them surrounded with one, two and three
steps. Beside many of the graves were
those, apparently, who were relatives of
those interred, weeping, mourning or pray-
ing, while another class, with no mourning
sympathies whatever, was exhibiting the
greatest mirth; playing on rude instruments,
dancing-monkeys, buying, selling, eating,
drinking, smoking and having a gala time.
Not comprehending their words and doings,
the entire scene seemed to us a master-piece
of confusion. The throng was so dense it
was difficult to wend our way into the
midst sufficiently to gratify our curiosity,
which we did as soon as possible lest we
might be thought intrusive; and in coming
out, we were beset with importunities to
purchase all kinds of trinkets, bread, cakes,
figs, oranges, dates and many other things
altogether anonymus to us,; but it being
Sunday we were out without any “back-
sheesh” in our pockets—of course were not
prepared to trade.
	In Cairo we have visited a Turkish
Mosque, a Jewish Synagogue, a Greek
Church in which we were shown “where
Joseph, Mary and the Savior resided when
they fled from the wrath of Herod;” a Church
of the Copts, “Joseph’s Well,” which is two
hundred and fifty feet deep,the Pyramids and
“Sphynx,” the Museum of Antiquities, the
Gardens and Palace of Gizeh, which belong
of the Khedive, of whom we had a good view
as he passed us in his carriage while prom-
enading on his premies. He has four wives
and quite a number of children, four of
whom were married during the past month,
which has been a continued holiday festival!
Many thousands of lamps have gorgeously
illuminated, it is judged more than fifty
acres in extent, hung in arches, over gate-
ways, in arbors, most tastefully arranged in
every direction. Yesterday the festival
closed and many were engaged in remov-
ing the lamps and other costly ornaments.
During the festivities firing of cannon was
frequent, and the exhibitions of fireworks
in the centre of the illuminations wore ex-
ceedingly grand. Three of the recently
wedded, are sons; the daughter’s nuptials
were since our arrival. It is said that her
intended had seen her photograph previous
to marriage, but not her face. If that is so,
it is to be hoped he has met with no un-
favorable disappointment.  She has the
reputation of being very pretty and amiable.
On the 17th we leave Cairo for Suez.
					Eliza R. Snow.


