SPLINTERS.
			      —
	Dr. Feard joins his opinion with the senti-
ment which is becoming popular, that
modern brain-workers sleep too little..........
The Iowa legislature gives too much credit to
its lady clerks and commends women for
such employment to future General Assem-
blies......Mrs. Woodhull's lecture on "Naked
Truth" is said to contain very indecent and
blasphemous language......Maria A. Elmore
is writing a series of articles on "Woman's
Dress," a subject which demands more
serious and sensible attention than it re-
ceives......Six lady physicians graduated in
one day lately at the "Woman's Hospital
Medical College."......A woman admirably
oversees the binding in one of the largest
printing-houses of St. Louis......George W.
Curtis has been dangerously ill with typhoid
fever, at his home on Staten Island, occa-
sioned by overtaxation in his civil service
and other duties......Mrs. S. B. Chandler
has lately concluded a series of lectures in
Washington on "Education and the duty of
parents."......The Queen of Belgium is said
to own the finest horses in the world......A
German housekeeper in New York, Mrs.
Lawrence, about six feet high and weighing
250 pounds, captured a house-breaker the
other night, without any assistance, taking
from him an offensive looking knife and a
chisel of considerable magnitude......Ten-
nessee employs its female prisoners in
breaking rock for street pavement......Pro-
fessor Fowler is reported to have said, "If
you would marry a good wife, get a romp."
It is reasonable to presume he meant a care-
ful, studious, virtuous "romp," who can
enjoy work as well as play......Again report
says, that the winsome little actress, Lotta,
has departed the stage—of life; this time it 
is in France; but may possibly be another
mistake of the telegraph......A man in Illi-
nois has lately found out, to his great
astonishment, that there is a newspaper
published "away out in that wild country,
Oregon.”.....Vienna has a type-setting
school for girls. Other schools should intro-
duce this art, for girls and boys too......
California gives equal pay to male and female
teachers, according to the abilities mani-
fested; that is fair play......Since the death
of her father, Miss Ella Chapin fills the
position he formerly held as Register of
Deeds for Gratiot County, Michigan......Two
practical artizans, two scientific men and a 
large number of honorary commissioners have
been appointed by President Grant, to  attend
the  Vienna Exposition......Printers in Swit-
zerland think they have a "fat" situation
when it affords them $3:60 per week......
Mrs. Snyder, a Syracuse shop-lifter, stole
$1,500 worth of dry goods in an hour. The
Leavenworth "Commercial" thinks she
should go to Congress......Paris has a band
of robber composed partly of females......
Brooklyn gives a detective, convicted of
perjury in a divorce suit, six years and 
three months in the State's prison......San
Ignacia, Mexico, has witnessed a remarkable
phenomenon in a shower of quicksilver......
The German Geographical Societies are going
to send explorers to supplement the discov-
eries of Dr. Livingstone......A man in Ohio
was lately literally ground up by being
caught in the cogwheel of a flour mill......
The past winter, particularly the latter
portion of it, is very generally admitted to
have been an old fashioned one......Brick
Pomeroy's divorced wife is married again....
The President's salary having been doubled,
it is intimated that he will now be able to
pay off the national debt with greater ease
and rapidity than at any former period......
[new column]
The prince of Lichtenstein has placed his 
castle at Vaduz at the service of the nuns
expelled from Germany......An English
Chief Justice decides that the writer of a
novel has no more right to dramatize it
after publication than any other person has.
......Pike County, Indiana, has a famous
medical spring......The grounds and sewer-
ages are being prepared in Philadelphia, on
the site of the proposed buildings for the
Centennial celebration......In Taylorville,
Polk County, Iowa, poor men recently be-
came rich in one day; oil was discovered
and the price of property instantly trebled.
......Somebody stole a Maltese cat from the
Superintendent of the New York Police
Department, lately; he offered a reward of
fifty dollars for its recovery, and the place
is lively  with cats since that time, though
he has not discovered any trace of the real
stolen one......A couple were married on the
cars in Missouri, a few days since, thus
entering into marriage at railroad speed......
Mr. Beecher's salary is $20,000....A daughter
of George Sands is going to marry an ex-
Catholic priest whose home is in Tours,
France......Seven thousand women belong
to the Belgian Internationals...Mrs. Knowles,
widow of the heroic captain of the North-
fleet, is to receive, by order of Queen
Victoria, a pension from the civil list of £50
a year........A woman 74 years old, in Mary's-
ville, California, pursued and shot a thirty
pound wild cat, recently, for having de-
stroyed her pet lamb.


