[Vol56 | September 1969 | Page 713 | General Feature | Homemaking— "The Heart of Her Husband Doth Safely Trust in Her" Celestia | J. Taylor]
[Homemaking— "The Heart of Her Husband Doth Safely Trust in Her" Celestia J. Taylor]

Nothing identifies with the 

713 September 1969

 Inherent Upward reach of Man higher than your Present 5 ate, then as does the 80Spel of Jesus Christ. © important thing is that he moyIt is the Cause of hig being €arthane be upward ward that Boal Orn, it is the Toad by w Ich he 4 es Laer es oa em 'yo May ascen higher and higher not, ho should affect you, through end] time hether attitude toward € accepts al] of its dj € princia yourself Ples or not, he jg th recipient " Your children of the €ssential bless & of im. Q YOU neighbor F.; * Your clagg leader Mor tality th B1ves him Op- °. The writer of the lesson? Portunity for his endless UPWard 5. Do you thin mothers often ma reach. Discoura children Xpectin his lesson, Which ll be used Inished-pr uct Perfectio 00 soon? In December IN the orthern P nl Clark ais -;.. € days 9 Cur infane an Hemisp here, ul discuss ) a ur early childhood are filled ah a ellorts to tr; ph Over the Imitaowing Wareness of, Space, 10ns of th hysica] laws that gravity, the elements, and bodily we encoy In everyda livin Well being: 4 d thence ¢ the grave and (2) our inheren} d sire to IS a Constant Struggle Overcome Zo beyo do Yr prese t toward a a handicaps, the j; bitions and nitations, impo Y these Si hig er SPpiritua self. [ will Speak ca incidents Our bein To the rlefly of ristmas an oc- &alning o the ©Xperiences of MasterCasion for Otivating love, coming them must be added the €xPeriences Passion, and charity for Others. Having to do ith maki g he biologica} It will use a g excerpt from Part of Man articulate and the cul an im ressive Writin Presj. Tivation Interchang of thought t Dp en Clay a a cs dE ernal Lj Vol en, 7 » lesson titled « Upward Reach" nd 7 Read ll tatement — ea e 7 Owing sta ement by "SSOns, as indicated, resident Cla k. Discy it efly, keepin mM mind 9 r present orts to under. THE UPWARD REACH Stand the Peoples of the w Id... The nearer comes the Conquest of This lesson Pp marily is One these [the ¢ Itivation and interchange OF relation hips— lationships of thought] € nearer come men One to 4nother nd o Our inOgether, and the ne rer men approach IVidua relationship to our Heay One another, the nearer Comes the enly Fa er, for man does not UNiversa] brotherhood Of men and Walk alone' S he reaches out "r ultimate p erfection ) (bid. From himself and upward through life experienc Question Class Partic; 'ON— Questions and = How j Portant is man's Struggle to iScussion Stat ent triumph Over such Obstac] as time Space, disease, and the elements to his 1. What does the Phrase "upward reach Benera] "PWard reach? Discuss, of man" SUgest to you? 2 OW does this aff ' WITNESS THE CONQUEST you individually r In the following quoted ex. 714 cerpt we trace through vivid description the efforts of man to conquer and to utilize the forces that would restrict him, as President Clark takes us_ swiftly through the ages: Of House From the shelter of a tree or cave, through the lean-to, the log hut, the adobe house, to the giant structure of steel, concrete, and glass, housing a city within its four walls; Of Road from the lone foot path in the forest, through the dirt road, the dust and mud of the city street, the paved sidewalk, the paved thoroughfare, to the great concrete ribbon spanning a continent; Of Transportation and Communication from the pack of a few pounds on a man's back, through the oxcart, the horse and buggy, to the railroad with its thousands of tons, the autotruck; from the fleetest runner through the pony express, the fast mail train, to the airplane traveling half as fast as the earth revolves on its axis [1940]; Of Voice from the shout that, with fair air, carried a few hundred feet, through the telephone linking cities, to the radio carrying the voice round the globe with the speed of light (we have yet to reach the speed of thought); And— Word of Man from the passing down of story and song by word of mouth, through the invention of written characters, the writing by hand on bulky scrolls of parchment, on rushes, on paper, then to the printing press with its plain black letters, Of Art through woodcuts, steel engravings, lithographs, photogravures, and gorgeous pages in natural colors; Of Medical Skill... From the mangled, gangrenous broken leg demanding a life, through amputation with hideous pain without anesthetic, to the most refined and delicate painless operation upon the very seat of the mind itself—all these but indicate man's Lesson Department conquest of his inhibitions and limitations.... However stable or unstable, however complete or incomplete these conquests may be, they mark human progress—how great relatively we may not measure for we do not know the ultimate. But man seems to have come great distances. But these conquests of energy and force, which make human progress, add to human comfort and well being, increase knowledge and quicken intelligence, and, above all (and this the end of it all), promote human happiness, for the ancient prophet declared, "... Men are that they might have joy." (Ibid.) Class Discussion In the light of the foregoing description of human conquest discuss the following statements: Happiness comes in proportion as we lift ourselves beyond the reach of the penalty of earth law; and _ perfection comes nearer with happiness. (Ibid.) An ancient psalmist sang, "The law is the truth." Equate this statement with the performing of a miracle. As we make these truths our own, so perfection approaches. It was by his perfect knowledge of truth... That Jesus turned water into wine, multiplied the loaves and fishes, escaped from the threatening mob on the edge of the cliff at Nazareth and again within the temple walls at Jerusalem, that took him into the room with closed windows and doors to visit the fearsome, questioning, doubting apostles, indeed that brought him forth from the tomb the first fruits of the resurrection. (Ibid.) NOT BY THE MATERIAL ALONE For Class Discussion 1. Why are many individuals not content with conquest over the material things only? 2. In your opinion, what is one major difference between the conquest over material things and conquest over the intellectual and spiritual hmitations? 

715 September 1969

 President Clark points out a very important difference. He states: But the things already spoken of [mastery over the physical limitations] only lead out toward perfection but not to it, for perfection may not be reached by mastery over the material things alone. Perfection means also the _ subjugation of the intellectual and spiritual limitations and inhibitions which are incident to the flesh. But there is an essential and fundamental difference between conquest and achievement in the physical and in the spiritual world. One need not do the works of Morse or Edison or Marconi in order fully to enjoy and use the telegraph, the telephone, the gramophone, or the radio; nor need one do the works of the Wrights in order to enjoy and use the airplane. The most ignorant and depraved of men may use all these things for his own purposes, to serve his own ends, good or bad, for the benefit or injury of others, as fully as they who made them. So likewise it is with the works of the great artists, sculptors, musicians, dramatists, and men of letters. Save only the creative joy which those alone who make may know, these masterpieces may be fully understood, appreciated, and enjoyed by any one without doing the works of the creator. But it is not so with the things of the spirit. (Ibid.) THINGS OF THE SPIRIT Class Discussion 1. What do "things of the spirit" mean to you? 2. Enumerate several specific things. President Clark makes this clarification, referring to things of the spirit: One must do the works of Elijah if one would know his joy, have part in his blessings, share his glory, exercise his power and authority, and do the things he did. And surely the power to bring rain to a famine stricken land, to call down fire from heaven, 716 to cause the starving widow's barrel of meal not to waste, her cruse of oil not to fail, to restore to life her dead son, to declare the past and foretell the future—surely these things are beyond compare; they may not be valued, nor purchased, nor hired; they are beyond price. Here the works and the use are companions that never part. ([bid.) Save for the atoning sacrifice of the Son and the doing of certain initiatory rites for the dead, (and even these must be accepted and adopted by the dead) nothing can be vicariously done, in matters of the spirit, by one for another. ([bid.) The truths stated and illustrated by President Clark are important to this lesson and of vital importance to our individual lives, even to the relationships in the home, in the neighborhood, wherever individuals live together. I Numerous situations illustrate the fact that for full development of that which we consider spiritual, a _ relationship with others is essential. Let us name a few of the qualities that we must develop within ourselves if we are to grow spiritually. Our spiritual guidance comes from the Father and his Son, whose life exemplified that perfection for which we strive. Class Questions 1. What are some of the spiritual attributes which Jesus possessed that we are striving to develop? 2. Do the qualities you have suggested involve human relationships? Discuss. 3. Do not love, compassion, unselfishness, service, forgiveness apply to human relationships in every woman's life? If they do, then surely we need one another in order to grow spiritually. Discuss briefly. FUNDAMENTAL TO CHRISTIANITY Although we may thus assist one another to grow in spirituality, it is fundamental to Christianity that each individual is responsible for his own life, his own upward reach, his own soul. A mother's faith and unwavering testimony belong to her, my neighbor's readiness to forgive does not make of me a forgiving person. Each must earn these blessings for herself. President Clark states: Thus every person shall make his own mind [as to] what his life shall be. None shall make it for him. Whether he will be satisfied with that part of salvation which pertains to the physical world, or whether he shall go on and add to this the salvation and exaltation of the spiritual universe, is for his own choice. For him indeed who would conquer the flesh for the blessings of the spirit, there is a joy awaiting which exceeds all power of description.. (lbid.) OF OUR BETTER SELVES As we travel the upward road toward those higher goals for which we reach there may. Be periods of accelerated growth. Certain individuals, special situations, and occasions may motivate us to a better performance than usual, to wider horizons of thought, where we may understand what we have never known before. These we should not forget. These we should cherish always. Christmas can be one of these occasions. During the kindly yuleLesson Department tide, we reach out beyond ourselves with compassion for others, motivated to a _ generosity of thought and deed. In this season of good will the lonely, the poor, the forgotten become our individual concern. If we will close our ears to the sounding brass and the tinkling cymbal of material things we may hear wise voices reminding us not to seek for the riches of earth. Voices saying such as this: After all, this existence of ours here is temporary. It is smaller than a drop in the ocean, as compared with eternity. We were before we came here; we are here; and we shall be after we go hence. This life is but one tiny line in this vast extension of existence. Do not forget,... The goodness and the mercy and the kindness of the Savior. Do not forget the blessings which the Gospel has for you. Do not overlook the joy of the spirit, the joy which comes from living as the Savior has taught us to live.. Seek after the treasures of the spirit, seek after the riches of goodness and mercy and righteous living. Go always after those things which are good.... Discard the dross, cast it aside, trample it underfoot; cherish always and guard that which is beautiful in your lives. (Jbid., lesson 20.) Such counsel is for the upward reach of man. Listen to it through this season of remembering the birthday of our Lord. For Home Doing Bring as much spirituality into your home this Christmas time as possible. CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family. No lesson is planned for December in this department, due to the holiday season.