[Vol56 | September 1969 | Page 686 | General Feature | British Women Make a Union Jack Design in Knitting | ]
British Women Make A Union Jack Design In Knitting Submitted by Norinne R. Callister, Former Supervisor, British Mission Relief Society This unique "Union Jack" blanket was knitted by Sister Louisa Ridley (in the picture) and Sister Eda V. Longbone for Elder Dean Orton who took it home to his mother. It took the two women three weeks to make the blanket, working three to four hours a day, and lining the blanket took six hours. Sister Ridley and Sister Longbone belong to the Eastbourne Branch, Sussex, England. Joyce H. Walker is president of the branch Relief Society. 685 Dorothy J. Roberts MATERIALS NEEDED Scraps of cotton material Nut Cups for the Party (printed, plaid, or plain) Nylon or wool yarn Alice Elizabeth Oertle Large darning needle Melted canning wax Ice tongs TO MAKE A pattern may be made by marking a circle with a saucer (about six inches in diameter). A bowl or drinking glass (about 3 inches in diameter) can be used for the smaller inner circle. Cut the material from the larger circle and mark the smaller circle. With adhesive tape, glue, or a stapler, attach a double strand of yarn across the middle from edge to edge of the smaller circle, leaving about an inch excess for attaching the handle. Stitch around the inner circle two rows about an inch apart, drawing the circle up to resemble a cup.

The stitching may be on the inside or the (Continued on page 692) 686 "SUNDAY AFTERNOON ON THE ISLAND OF LA GRANDE JATTE" by Georges Seurat (1859-1891) French Courtesy of the Art Institute of Chicago Commentary on page 690 For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 6—The Power of Work Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, April 1970 Southern Hemisphere: August 1970 THE BLIND GIRL" by John Everett Millais (1829-1896) English a Transparency by Three Lions Commentary on page 689 For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 5—The Necessity of Service Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting March 1970 Southern Hemisphere: July 1970 688 "THE BLIND GIRL" by John Everett Millais (1829-1896) English Transparency by Three Lions Painting on opposite page Commentary by Floyd E. Breinholt, Chairman, Department of Art Brigham Young University For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 5—The Necessity of Service Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting March 1970 Southern Hemisphere: July 1970 John Everett Millais was a precocious child. He was recognized as having great talent at age four. At seven he was drawing amazing likenesses of family and friends. At eleven he was accepted into the Royal Academy as its youngest student and was later elected to membership. Early in his career as an artist he and several friends formed a group known as Pre-Raphaelites, who set principles of painting somewhat contrary to the accepted manner of painting of the time. They believed art should be based upon and be true to nature and represent sincere expression of sincere beliefs and adhere to the gospel of thoroughness. As a result, Millais' work was full of detail, yet there was nothing harsh. The details were absorbed in the whole truth without detracting from the complete, satisfying beauty of the canvas. As is so often the case, he was severely criticized by the critics of his time. His most enduring work, "The Blind Girl," has proved to be one for which he was most condemned. One said, "We must protest against sweet, lollipop colours, raw green fields, and lace-up boots ostentatiously large."