[Vol56 | September 1969 | Page 711 | General Feature | Visiting Teacher Message— The Compassion of Jesus Alice | Colton Smith]
[Visiting Teacher Message— The Compassion of Jesus Alice Colton Smith]

711 September 1969

 record of the folly of overspending—whether it be of our time, our energy, or our money. Benjamin Franklin, the well-known exponent of common sense in all practical affairs, made the following comment: "Think what you do when you run into debt; you give to another power over your liberty." Our Church leaders have had no hesitancy in admonishing us to keep out of debt. Following are some of their instructions: The Prophet Joseph Smith: Let thy hand never fail to hand out that thou owest while it is yet within thy grasp to do so. (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, p. 317.) President Brigham Young:.. Be prompt in everything, and especially to pay your debts. (Bngham Young, Journal of Discourses, Vol. 14, p. 279 [hereafter referred to as JD].) Also: It is an old saying that a woman can throw out of the window with a spoon as fast as a man can throw into the door with a shovel; but a good housekeeper will be saving and economical, and teach her children to be good housekeepers, and how to take care of everything that is put in their charge... (JD, Vol. 12, p. 195.) President John Taylor: We are told to pay our debts... To keep out of debt and meet our obligations day by day. (JD, Vol. 20, p. 103.) President Joseph F. Smith: "Get out of debt now... And let your income hereafter always be greater than your expenses." That is the only safe way to be independent... The advice of Benjamin Franklin should ever stand clearly before you: "Pay as you go." (The Improvement Era, Nov. 1938, pp. 668, 673.) President George Albert Smith: We have been taught by those whom the Lord has raised up to instruct us 712 that we should live within our income, that we should not spend as rapidly, and certainly not more rapidly, than we can earn the money that comes into our hands, to take care of ourselves and our families. (Church News, August 8, 1959, p. 2.) A THREAT TO FAMILY HAPPINESS AND SOLIDARITY It is common knowledge that more family problems and difficulties stem from the mismanagement of financial affairs than from any other source. In an address given during the 136th Semi-Annual General Conference, John H. Vandenberg, the Presiding Bishop of the Church, said: Unwarrantable indebtedness is one of the curses of this day and age. It causes many people to live their lives in bondage. The lure of buying on time under the 'easy payment plan" too often puts the millstone around the neck of the purchaser; and when once in the credit rut, it is very hard to get out When a family finds itself too far in debt, the atmosphere of discouragement enters the home, relationships become tense, tempers become short, and marital trouble begins to erupt. To meet the indebtedness, the mother may frequently leave her children to themselves while she finds employment out of the home. Irregularities in the home follow: service to God is disregarded, tithing is neglected, prayers become less frequent, persons begin to feel separated and apart from God and church. (Conference Report, Oct. 1966, p. 66.) WHY DO WE GO IN DEBT? The most common reasons for serious financial problems which result in family indebtedness are: 1. Lack of careful and adequate planning. A. Careless, unplanned day-to-day spending. 2. Spending in excess of the income. 3. Failure to establish future, long-range goals. A. No reserves for future expenditures. B. Lack of incentive as a curb to spending. 4. Emotional immaturity—lack of selfdiscipline. A. Allowing wants to take precedence over needs. B. Buying impulsively and heedlessly. C. Demanding unwarranted luxuries. 5. Too much installment buying. 6. Overuse of credit cards. 7. Unexpected illness requiring hospital and doctor care. 8. Loss of employment. HOW CAN WE AVOID DEBT? 1. We can avoid going into debt by first eliminating whenever possible the foregoing reasons for it. 2. We should become informed in regard to wise buying and spending. (Consult previous "Homemaking" discussion.) 3. We should avoid so-called easy credit plans. Lesson Department 4. We should make sure that credit cards are used only when they fit into our planned spending. CONCLUSION We, the homemakers, are responsible to a large degree for the expenditure of the family funds. When we mismanage our financial affairs and allow ourselves to go into debt, we place upon the balance wheel on one side the unjustified fulfillment of immediate wants and _ desires and on the other side the peace of mind of our husbands and the happiness of the entire family. By following the advice of our leaders and by planning with our family members a wise program of spending and saving, we can avoid financial problems that could end in debt and disaster. SOCIAL RELATIONS—Immortality and Eternal Life Lesson 3—The Upward Reach Alberta H. Christensen (Reference: Immortality and Eternal Life, Vol. 2, Selections from the Writings and Messages of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Melchizedek Priesthood Course of Study, 1969-70, Lessons 20 and 22.) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, December 1969 Southern: Hemisphere: May 1970 OBJECTIVE: To illustrate that all may enjoy man's material progress but our spiritual achievements must be individually attained. INTRODUCTION 6c a man's reach should exceed his grasp, Or what's a heaven for?" wrote Robert Browning in "Andrea del Sarto." This idea—the reach of man for that which is beyond his present grasp, the goal yet to be obtained—is central to this lesson.