[Vol56 | September 1969 | Page 664 | General Feature | Editorial— Turn to the Fathers Vesta | P. Crawford]
She is the first woman appointed to a National Scouting Committee. She was also invited to serve on the Cub Scout Committee and the Relationships Committee of the Boy Scouts. Mrs. LeGrand B. Pratt (Kathryn Kay), Claire W. Noall, Lael W. Hill, Alice Morrey Bailey, Christie Lund Coles, Olive W. Burt, Dora D. Flack, Marilyn McMeen Miller, Ruth G. Rothe, and Hazel Loomis, all contributors to The Relief Society Magazine, won awards in June in the annual Utah State Institute of Fine Arts Original Writing Contest. Mrs. Ann W. Hafen, Latter-day Saint historian, author, and critic, delivered an address ''Poetry for Pleasure' at the annual convention of the National Federation of State Poetry Societies, in Boise, Idaho, in June. Other Latter-day Saint women participating in the convention were Mrs. Chrissie Tullis, President of the Gem State Writers Guild, and her daughterin-law Katie Tullis who played two of her own piano compositions at the banquet. Vesta P. Crawford, President of the Utah State Poetry Society, and Associate Editor of The Relief Society Magazine; Alice Morrey Bailey, Vice-President of the Utah State Poetry Society and Kathryn Kay, Director of Publications and Public Relations, represented Utah as delegates. Mrs. Jean Jenkins, Provo, Utah, was the dramatic reader for the meetings and the awards banquet. Much appreciation was expressed by visiting delegates from other States for the leadership displayed by Latter-day Saint women in the creative arts. Senator Margaret Chase Smith, ranking Republican on the powerful Armed Services and Aeronautical and Space Science Committees; Virginia Mae Brown, of Washington, D. C., chairman of the Interstate Commerce Commission; and Mrs. Bruce Benson of Amherst, Massachusetts, President of the League of Women Voters, all feel that the passage of the Nineteenth Amendment tothe Constitution of the United States fifty years ago, on June 4, 1919, giving women the right to vote, has had a great effect for good in the United States. Anne Pellowski, Director, Center of Information on Children's Cultures for UNICEF, feels that children today ''have become prone to television sickness. It is difficult for them to sit and listen." Children seldom get stories told or read to them. She feels there is a great need for children's literature, which must be of equal literary excellence to the best of adult literature.

TURN TO THE FATHERS '"'And he shall plant in the hearts of the children the promises made to the fathers, and the hearts of the children shall turn to their fathers.'' (D&C 2:2.) @ A well-loved poem speaks of the enduring influence and the continuing blessings that illuminate the world from the deeds and the words and the faithfulness of the fathers—''... For there was grandeur where the fathers stood."' When the hearts of the children turn to the fathers—whether or not the ''children'' are far beyond childhood—and whether or not the fathers still live upon the earth—there are memories and impressions and abiding direction which the fathers have given. Their strength, their leadership, their unselfish efforts, the blessings of their priesthood, are often vividly recalled. And superimposed upon the children forever from the past are those deep and subtle influences which, over the years, still protect and bless them. One woman still remembers and feels the sunlight and warmth of a summer day when she stood with her father in the doorway of an adobe ranch house, looking northward to a far expanse of wheatfields in a time of harvest. The father said, ''There is your college education.' The father then remarked that he knew little about the courses of studies offered in the universities, but he had heard that the learning and the development were good, and therefore necessary for his children. They would be sent to a university where spiritual enlightment would be a lamp for the years to come. His words were expressed in a moment of time, but the moment became forever in the memory of the daughter—love and sacrifice and strength and a plan for the future all joined together and made into a lasting commitment. Another woman who was devoted to genealogical research and who found great joy in the patterns of the generations, wrote for her family and for the future families of her children the record of Volume 56 September 1969 Number 9° Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Mayola R. Miltenberger, Acting SecretaryTreasurer the fathers back along the years—the decisive events in their lives and the teachings that guided them ''in every wilderness.'' The grandfather, who had lived as a boy in the river city of Nauvoo, had seen almost daily the Prophet Joseph Smith and had heard inspired doctrine and direction ''in the grove.'' The father of this grandfather, in the green hills of Vermont, had seen an early copy of The Book of Mormon, and had read it over and over by candlelight—the history of the long-ago fathers in the Western Hemisphere. From the book he learned much wisdom and instructed his family in the eternal verities of faith and righteousness. Then he told them of his own ancestors in Plymouth, England, and how one of them was captain on ''the ship of destiny'' as he called the Mayflower, the ship that helped to part the waters for a journey to the promised land where the gospel would be restored. The families of the fathers, reaching back into the early centuries, have become known to the families of the people who dwell in the 'fulness of times'' and who look forward to a reunion of those related by the flesh and sealed together by the Spirit. It has been said in olden time and continues to this day ''... They judge not the fatherless'' (Isaiah 1:23), expressing the deprivation and limitations which those bereft in early years of an earthly father encounter. It is then that the written record of the father in his time gives comfort, and all the forebears stand as a legion for the years that one must walk with no visible father to smooth the way and offer protection. The arm of faith, also, is extended to the fatherless upon the earth, and the Father in heaven ''keepeth well'' the loved ones, for ''Have we not all one Father? Hath not one God created us?" As women of the Church, blessed with the heritage of our fathers, considering their counsel and the line of their authority, it is now a time for us to rejoice in the ''ordinances of heaven." —V. P. C.