
Woman's 
Sphere 
Ramona  W.  Cannon 
Belle  S.  Spafford,  General  President  of 
Relief  Society,  in  June  was  given  special 
honor  and  a  gold  pendant  in  recogni- 
tion of  her  leadership  in  supporting 
the  March  of  Dimes  program  of  the 
National  Foundation,  which  sponsors 
clinical  research,  a  nationwide  network 
of  Birth  Defects  Centers,  professional 
and  public  education,  and  other  well 
organized  and  important  activities.  In 
presenting  the  pendant  to  President 
Spafford,  Mrs.  Elaine  Whitelaw,  National 
Director  of  Volunteer  Service,  emphasized 
the  influence  and  leadership  of  Presi- 
dent Spafford  in  writing  letters,  promot- 
ing programs,  and  supporting  a  wide 
publicity  for  the  Foundation.  Mrs.  Lucretia 
M.  Evans,  President,  Bonneville  Stake 
Relief  Society,  and  State  Director  of 
Volunteer  Services,  sponsored  the  special 
honor  for  President  Spafford. 
Mrs.  LaVern  W.  Parmley,  President  of 
the  Primary  Association  of  The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  who, 
last  year  was  named  a  member  of  the 
National  Scouting  Committee,  has  been 
named  a  member  at  large  of  the  National 
Council  of  Boy  Scouts.  She  is  the  first 
woman  appointed  to  a  National  Scout- 
ing Committee.  She  was  also  invited  to 
serve  on  the  Cub  Scout  Committee  and 
the  Relationships  Committee  of  the  Boy 
Scouts. 
Mrs.  LeGrand  B.  Pratt  (Kathryn  Kay), 
Claire  W.  Noall,  Lael  W.  Hill,  Alice  Morrey 
Bailey,  Christie  Lund  Coles,  Olive  W. 
Burt,  Dora  D.  Flack,  Marilyn  McMeen 
Miller,  Ruth  G.  Rothe,  and  Hazel  Loomis, 
all  contributors  to  The  Relief  Society 
Magazine,  won  awards  in  June  in  the 
annual  Utah  State  Institute  of  Fine  Arts 
Original  Writing  Contest. 
Mrs.  Ann  W.  Hafen,  Latter  day  Saint 
historian,  author,  and  critic,  delivered  an 
address    "Poetry    for    Pleasure"    at    the 
annual  convention  of  the  National  Federa- 
tion of  State  Poetry  Societies,  in  Boise, 
Idaho,  in  June.  Other  Latter-day  Saint 
women  participating  in  the  convention 
were  Mrs.  Chrissie  Tullis,  President  of  the 
Gem  State  Writers  Guild,  and  her  daughter- 
in-law  Katie  Tullis  who  played  two  of  her 
own  piano  compositions  at  the  banquet. 
Vesta  P.  Crawford,  President  of  the  Utah 
State  Poetry  Society,  and  Associate  Editor 
of  The  Relief  Society  Magazine;  Alice 
Morrey  Bailey,  Vice-President  of  the  Utah 
State  Poetry  Society  and  Kathryn  Kay, 
Director  of  Publications  and  Public  Re- 
lations, represented  Utah  as  delegates. 
Mrs.  Jean  Jenkins,  Provo,  Utah,  was  the 
dramatic  reader  for  the  meetings  and 
the  awards  banquet.  Much  appreciation 
was  expressed  by  visiting  delegates  from 
other  States  for  the  leadership  displayed 
by  Latter-day  Saint  women  in  the  creative 
arts. 
Senator  Margaret  Chase  Smith,  ranking 
Republican  on  the  powerful  Armed  Ser- 
vices and  Aeronautical  and  Space  Sci- 
ence Committees;  Virginia  Mae  Brown, 
of  Washington,  D.C.,  chairman  of  the 
Interstate  Commerce  Commission;  and 
Mrs.  Bruce  Benson  of  Amherst,  Massachu- 
setts, President  of  the  League  of  Women 
Voters,  all  feel  that  the  passage  of  the 
Nineteenth  Amendment  to  the  Con- 
stitution of  the  United  States  fifty  years 
ago,  on  June  4,  1919,  giving  women  the 
right  to  vote,  has  had  a  great  effect  for 
good  in  the  United  States. 
Anne  Pellowski,  Director,  Center  of  In- 
formation on  Children's  Cultures  for 
UNICEF,  feels  that  children  today  "have 
become  prone  to  television  sickness.  It 
is  difficult  for  them  to  sit  and  listen." 
Children  seldom  get  stories  told  or  read 
to  them.  She  feels  there  is  a  great  need 
for  children's  literature,  which  must  be 
of  equal  literary  excellence  to  the  best 
of  adult  literature. 
661 

EDITORIAL  /  TURN  TO  THE  FATHERS 
"And  he  shall  plant  in  the  hearts  of  the  children  the  promises  made  to  the  fathers, 
and  the  hearts  of  the  children  shall  turn  to  their  fathers."  (D&C  2:2.) 
■  A  well-loved  poem  speaks  of  the  enduring  influence  and  the  continu- 
ing blessings  that  illuminate  the  world  from  the  deeds  and  the  words 
and  the  faithfulness  of  the  fathers—".  .  .for  there  was  grandeur  where 
the  fathers  stood." 
When  the  hearts  of  the  children  turn  to  the  fathers— whether  or 
not  the  "children"  are  far  beyond  childhood— and  whether  or  not 
the  fathers  still  live  upon  the  earth— there  are  memories  and  impres- 
sions and  abiding  direction  which  the  fathers  have  given.  Their 
strength,  their  leadership,  their  unselfish  efforts,  the  blessrngs  of 
their  priesthood,  are  often  vividly  recalled.  And  superimposed  upon 
the  children  forever  from  the  past  are  those  deep  and  subtle  influ- 
ences which,  over  the  years,  still  protect  and  bless  them. 
One  woman  still  remembers  and  feels  the  sunlight  and  warmth 
of  a  summer  day  when  she  stood  with  her  father  in  the  doorway  of 
an  adobe  ranch  house,  looking  northward  to  a  far  expanse  of  wheat- 
fields  in  a  time  of  harvest.  The  father  said,  "There  is  your  college 
education."  The  father  then  remarked  that  he  knew  little  about  the 
courses  of  studies  offered  in  the  universities,  but  he  had  heard  that 
the  learning  and  the  development  were  good,  and  therefore  neces- 
sary for  his  children.  They  would  be  sent  to  a  university  where  spirit- 
ual enlightment  would  be  a  lamp  for  the  years  to  come.  His  words 
were  expressed  in  a  moment  of  time,  but  the  moment  became  for- 
ever in  the  memory  of  the  daughter— love  and  sacrifice  and  strength 
and  a  plan  for  the  future  all  joined  together  and  made  into  a  last- 
ing commitment. 
Another  woman  who  was  devoted  to  genealogical  research  and 
who  found  great  joy  in  the  patterns  of  the  generations,  wrote  for 
her  family  and  for  the  future  families  of  her  children  the  record  of 
Volume  56    September  1969    Number  9 
Belle  S.  Spafford,  President 
Marianne  C.  Sharp,  First  Counselor 
Louise  W.   Madsen,   Second  Counselor 
Mayola  R.  Miltenberger,  Acting  Secretary-Treasurer
