[Vol56 | September 1969 | Page 710 | General Feature | Spiritual Living— Government and Laws Roy | W. Doxey]
[Spiritual Living— Government and Laws Roy W. Doxey]

His parables glow with his sensitivity, his empathy, his discernment, and with action to relieve. Even in the agony of death his inner light did not fail. His thoughts were of the welfare of others, "... Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do." (Luke 23:34.) What greater expression of compassion exists? The teaching "... Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit...." (John 3:5), speaks to us of the necessity for fundamental change. One's inner life Lesson Department will be different when this rebe no hungry of body or spirit, birth takes place. One will befor we, knowing their need, will come a_ loving, Compassionate search them out and feed them. Individual, one with Jesus. This There will be no naked, for we, rebirth of the spirit is not a having known deprivation and Single instant act of regeneracold, will clothe them. No adolestion but a lifelong, often slow cent will fight and scream in proand painful, process during which test because we wil] love and our attitudes, values, underhelp him. No orphan, widow, or standing, and behavior arechangchild will cry without relief ed. Only then will this oneness because we will dry their tears. With Jesus be so encompassing No prisoner will gO untended that all contrary impulses wil] because we will minister to his be overcome. Needs. No neighbor will grow In the meantime we must bitter because we will find the view with continuing Sympathy time to care. Utopia? Some will and compassion our efforts and Say so. Yet, Jesus set the standthose of others to change and ard. He makes the impossible grow. There will be much back- _ possible. He calls us to be one sliding, even failure, until] we with him and the Father in love, have learned to respond with in mercy, forgiveness, and comlove, compassion, and understandPassion. Ing to all men. Then there will] ee Se Es HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Woman's Role in Family Preparedness ete ee I Discussion 3—"'The Heart of Her Husband Doth Safely Trust in Her, So That He Shall Have No Need of Spoil." (Prov. 31:11.) Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, December 1969 Southern Hemisphere: May 1970 OBJECTIVE: To recognize that debt must be controlled to insure family happiness and financial security. INTRODUCTION _ 9 his taskmaster. This is a truth He who spends what he does that some of us fail 'to realize not have purchases only chains as we allow our wants and dethat bind him. He becomes a_ sires for goods and services to Slave to the future. The freedom exceed our ability to pay for which he professes to cherish is them.