[Vol56 | September 1969 | Page 670 | Special Feature | Indians of Guatemala Milton | R. Hunter]
[Indians of Guatemala Milton R. Hunter]

The Vatican Palace, with over a thousand rooms, was of great interest as we toured its museums, the apartment of Pope Julius the Second, which was designed by Raphael, and a few main galleries filled with art treasures. The Vatican Library, with its 350,000 volumes and 50,000 manuscripts, was impressive. The highlight of the tour was the visit to the Sistine Chapel. I will never forget what they said was Michelangelo's self-portrait as a grotesque bag hanging in the fresco of "The Last Judgment." It depicted his feeling at having to lhe on his back on high scaffolds with paint dripping into his eyes for four years in the cold dampness of this chapel, as he painted this masterpiece of a ceiling depicting God, the Twelve Apostles, and other Biblical characters, while he longed to be working as a sculptor with his beloved marble. We learned that the Vatican City has its own separate government and its coins and stamps, so we purchased stamps for cards. The second tour of the day included the summer residence of Cardinal Borghese which is now a museum featuring masterpieces by Bernini. Then we Rome went to Janiculum Hill, the highest of the seven hills of Rome, and saw the great monument, one section of which shows Romulus and Remus being suckled by a she-wolf and we recalled the legend of the origin of Rome, founded 750 years before the birth of Christ. We wandered around in the ruins of the Roman Forum and the old Roman senate building and remembered that here was the cradle of government and that many laws we have today had their origin amid this group of ancient ruins. It is like a sunken square—holding columns, arches, pedestals, and crumbling walls. We stood in awe as memories of the past swept over us and we realized that we were seeing the spot which for centuries had been the heart of the Roman Empire, the stage on which the great dramas of Roman history were performed—the stabbing to the death of Julius Caesar and the resulting speech by Mark Antony being to us the best known. The great white marble monument to Victor Emmanuel, the Bismarck of Italy, is two hundred feet high. The columns, raised figures, and Victor Emmanuel, unifier of Italy in the center sitting astride a_ horse, fascinated us as did the Venetian Palace which had served as headquarters for Mussolini. We had glimpses of the palaces of Rome or "palazzos" and saw galleries and gardens which have been decorated with the most precious works of antiquity. In spite of great sheets of rain we got out of the bus to see the gorgeous fountain of Trevi 

671 September 1969

 (of "Three Coins in a Fountain" fame) and threw our pennies into the water and made our wishes. Then, while the rain beat down, we entered the Church of St. Peter in Chains where we saw Michelangelo's great statue of "Moses" and marveled again at the wonder of the figures which Michelangelo could see in a block of marble and release with his skill. The next day we saw the Piazza Navona (Navona Square), an ancient square with an ornate fountain and an obelisk, one of a group brought from Egypt. Then we went into the Pantheon whose porch was built in 27 B. C. The Pantheon, with a dome in the center which lets the rain and sunlight in, dates back to the time of Hadrian in 125 A. D. It contains the first unsupported dome ever built and the model for all domes that have capped public building ever since. One of the most beautiful sights was the Marble Stadium, a stadium surrounded by white marble figures depicting some thirty sports. In the period 'of Rome's glory it was said that the number of Rome's statues equalled that of her inhabitants. We learned about the ancient wellbuilt sewer system which is still used and the Golden Milestone erected by Augustus, from which distances were reckoned to every province of the Roman Empire, and roads were built which joined them in _ swift, sure communication. We saw the Arch of Titus, erected to commemorate the conquest of Jerusalem and saw, in imagina- 672 tion, long triumphal processions as they passed under this arch. Now the moment had come when we were to visit St. Peter's basilica, the crowning work of Michelangelo, Antonio Sangallo the younger, Peruzzi Bramante, Raphael, Guido Reni, Domenichino, and many other geniuses. We were instructed not to stray or lose our guide or we could easily become lost in this huge structure. We: kept together as we walked toward the reputed tomb of St. Peter which is directly under the great dome which Michelangelo planned. We were told three ordinary churches, spires and all, could be placed side by side beneath the dome alone, with two hundred feet to spare between the tops of the spires and the keystone of the arch. We drove along the Appian Way and saw many ruined sepulchres. It was the fashionable burial place of ancient Rome and the statues and other treasures have long. Since been stolen. We recalled reading "Quo Vadis" and the visits of Peter and Paul to Rome. It is said that from the Appian Way Paul first gained a view of Rome. We visited one of the fortyfive groups of catacombs along the Appian Way. As we entered into their eerie darkness, there was a priest to light the way with a lamp into some of the maze of labyrinths in which the early Christians had found refuge from their persecutions and had also used as their burial grounds. I was impressed as he pointed out to us the Christian sign of a "fish" carved upon a wall.

(Continued on page 691) The Golden Tiber River of Rome Panorama View of Rome Roman Forum Statue of Jesus and Pilate by the Holy Stairway © JEEREE Stadium with Statues St. Peter's—View From the Tiber River Art in the Home Grayce E. Cutler Transparencies by the author > Liberty Park, Salt Lake City, Utah, from a painting by John Hafen Swiftly the changing lights reached the level of our top window, where the cutglass prisms were. A cheerful grate fire crackled in the open fireplace and music from our old phonograph played a soft accompaniment. This was the moment I waited for: the hour of sunset when our living rooms glowed and the original oil paintings on the walls were pools of light. Red, blue, and gold shafts of sunlight filtered through the diamond panes. Urgently, I cried, "Mother, come quickly or you will miss it." A voice came from the kitchen, "Just a minute, dear, the pies have to be taken out of the oven first." I ran over to the corner of the room, to change the record on the phonograph, - hurrying back to the settee. "Hurry, hurry, now, Mother, the lights are on the rocks now." This was the crucial moment because to wait much longer, one would miss the whole show. Soon Mother came running in, apron flying, trailing spicy odors of black-currant pies fresh from the oven. She sat by me, wiping her hands on the towel in her lap, and, together, we watched a miracle of light play on the many original paintings, following one after another with liquid sunshine.. From the red rocks on down with the setting sun, blue and gold lights sparkled into the open sea, making it truly a sea of gold. This was my favorite painting, the one of Gunnison Island, Great Salt Lake, in a storm, by Alfred Lambourne, Utah artist and writer, who lived in a little house on this lonely island in certain seasons of the year and painted its many moods. Uncle Fred was mother's brother. She was the heroine '"'Plet" in his epic tale of the Wasatch Mountains, the year of the big avalanche. 676 Gunnison Island, Great Salt Lake, from a painting by Alfred Lambourne The shadows grew longer now and the colors deepened, "Mother, just look at that gold-dust on the desert!" A large desert oil by John Hafen filled one end of the living room, an authentic scene of covered wagons trailing gold dust at the end of day. The setting sun shone blood-red on the strange sculpture of Monument Valley. We looked with anticipation around the room, as every evening was a different experience, changing with the seasons and weather. In the corner, a small landscape by George Ottinger, a pastel of Liberty Park by Hafen, and on the opposite wall, an oil of my grandfather, John C. Cutler when he was Governor of the State of Utah. As the sunrays reached his eyes, we exclaimed "Doesn't he look as if he could speak to us?" We watched with awe as his blue eyes sparkled and smiled a little. Imagination can run riot at such times, later to become inspiration for expression or just priceless memories. A A few moments now and it would be all over; the red sun dropped quickly behind the dark filigree of trees in front of our home. The soft wind blowing the lace curtains seemed like a whispered goodnight. Little did I realize the same principle would apply in later years to my own paintings in my little home. Vivid memories return as I frequently walk through the modern galleries and museums of San Francisco and experience the avant-garde art of psychedelic light. It seems as if a stage had been set for the art of tomorrow. Through centuries of painting, true artists worked endlessly, seeking the mystical quality of light. One of the great masters, William Turner (1775-1851) became fa- 677 mous for his insight and genius in depicting pure light. As one views his retrospective exhibition in the Tate Gallery, London, the impact of an inner light on one after another of his great works (filling three galleries) was like an unknown spiritual source. The French Impressionists later attained light more than any other school and will live forever. The early Utah painter, Lee Greene Richards studied this school of painting in Europe and was greatly influenced by it. One day Mother took me to his studio to show him my first little watercolors. It was a beautiful studio with windows facing South Temple and a real skylight. He showed me his fine paintings.