[Vol56 | September 1969 | Page 662 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere Ramona | W. Cannon]
[Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon]

His words were expressed in a moment of time, but the moment became forever in the memory of the daughter—love and sacrifice and strength and a plan for the future all joined together and made into a lasting commitment. Another woman who was devoted to genealogical research and who found great joy in the patterns of the generations, wrote for her family and for the future families of her children the record of Volume 56 September 1969 Number 9° Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Mayola R. Miltenberger, Acting SecretaryTreasurer the fathers back along the years—the decisive events in their lives and the teachings that guided them ''in every wilderness.'' The grandfather, who had lived as a boy in the river city of Nauvoo, had seen almost daily the Prophet Joseph Smith and had heard inspired doctrine and direction ''in the grove.'' The father of this grandfather, in the green hills of Vermont, had seen an early copy of The Book of Mormon, and had read it over and over by candlelight—the history of the long-ago fathers in the Western Hemisphere. From the book he learned much wisdom and instructed his family in the eternal verities of faith and righteousness. Then he told them of his own ancestors in Plymouth, England, and how one of them was captain on ''the ship of destiny'' as he called the Mayflower, the ship that helped to part the waters for a journey to the promised land where the gospel would be restored. The families of the fathers, reaching back into the early centuries, have become known to the families of the people who dwell in the 'fulness of times'' and who look forward to a reunion of those related by the flesh and sealed together by the Spirit. It has been said in olden time and continues to this day ''... They judge not the fatherless'' (Isaiah 1:23), expressing the deprivation and limitations which those bereft in early years of an earthly father encounter. It is then that the written record of the father in his time gives comfort, and all the forebears stand as a legion for the years that one must walk with no visible father to smooth the way and offer protection. The arm of faith, also, is extended to the fatherless upon the earth, and the Father in heaven ''keepeth well'' the loved ones, for ''Have we not all one Father? Hath not one God created us?" As women of the Church, blessed with the heritage of our fathers, considering their counsel and the line of their authority, it is now a time for us to rejoice in the ''ordinances of heaven." —V. P. C.