[Vol8 | December 1921 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Guide | Title: Work and Business]
THE 
Relief  Society  Magazine 
Vol.  VII  DECEMBER,  1921  No.  12 
General  Conference  of  Relief  Society 
Amy  Brown  Lyman,   General  Secretary. 
The  semi-annual  conference  of  the  Relief  Society,  held 
October  4  and  5,  was  unusually  well  attended,  and  the  interest 
was  keen  throughout.  There  was  the  usual  spirit  of  love  and 
good  fellowship,  which  was  auspicious  and  inspiring.  The 
weather  was  ideal,  which  added  greatly  to  the  comfort  of  a 
fall  conference.  The  conference  opened  with  the  business 
session,  held  in  the  Bishop's  Building,  the  morning  session 
for  general  and  stake  officers,  and  the  afternoon  ses- 
sion for  general  and  stake  officers  and  ward  presidents.  At 
the  general  session  held  for  Relief  Society  workers  generally, 
and  the  public,  the  Salt  Lake  Assembly  Hall  was  taxed  to  the 
limit  to  accomodate  the  large  numbers  of  interested  listeners, 
and  many  stood  in  the  aisles  and  at  the  back  of  the  hall 
throughout  the  afternoon  meeting.  At  the  general  officers' 
meeting,  seventy-two  stakes  out  of  eighty-five  were  repre- 
sented, thirteen  only  being  not  represented.  The  representa- 
tion and  attendance  was  as  follows:  General  Board  members, 
18;  mission  presidents,  5,  representing  the  Mexican  and 
California  missions  and  the  Central,  Northern,  and  Western 
states  missions;  stake  presidents,  53;  stake  counselors,  73; 
secretaries  and  secretary-treasurers,  33 ;  treasurers,  10 ;  choris- 
ters, 5;  organists,  4;  class  supervisors,  15;  additional  stake 
board  members,  156;  visitors,  86;  total  458.  In  addition  to 
this  number  of  general  and  stake  officers,  there  were  in  at- 
tendance at  the  afternoon  general  officers'  meeting,  90  ward 
presidents.  Between  the  two  sessions  for  officers,  on  Tues- 
day, a  cafeteria  luncheon  was  served  by  the  General  Board,  and 
on  Tuesday  night  a  musicale  and  reception  were  given  at  the 
McCune  mansion  for  all  of  the  officers  in  attendance. 
The  music  for  the  conference  was  in  charge  of  the  Gen- 
eral Chorister,  Mrs.  Lizzie  Thomas  Edward,  who  was  sym-

678  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
pathetically  assisted  by  Miss  Edna  Coray,  General  Organist. 
The  numbers  were  all  greatly  enjoyed,  and  especially  those 
by  the  Relief  Society  Choir.  An  interesting  feature  was  the 
singing  of  "Come,  come,  ye  saints,"  by  the  entire  audience  at 
the  afternoon  general  session.  Because  of  the  fact  that  this 
hymn  has  been  studied  and  dramatized  throughout  the  Re- 
lief Society,  and  is  therefore  thoroughly  familiar  to  all,  .its 
rendition  by  the  large  audience  was  impressive  and  inspiring. 
A  striking  feature  of  the  conference  was  the  decision  of 
the  women  assembled  to  establish,  at  the  Brigham  Young 
University,  a  Memorial  Loan  Fund,  for  girls,  in  honor  of 
the  late  President  Emmeline  B.  Wells. 
Another  interesting  matter,  aside  from  the  regular  pro- 
gram, was  the  adoption  of  the  resolution  in  favor  of  the 
limitation  of  armaments.  Copies  of  the  resolution  were  later 
sent  to  the  National  Council  of  Women. 
President  Clarissa  S.  Williams,  in  her  own  dignified  and 
gracious  manner,  presided  at  each  of  the  sessions  of  the  con- 
ference. She  was  faithfully  supported  by  her  two  charming 
and  devoted  counselors,  Mrs.  Jennie  B.  Knight  and  Mrs. 
Louise  Y.  Robison. 
GENERAL  OFFICERS'  MEETING. 
MORNING   SESSION. 
The  first  meeting  of  the  conference  was  opened  by  the 
favorite  hymn,  "Our  mountain  home  so  dear,"  followed  with 
prayer  by  Mrs.  Florence  Knight,  president  of  the  Relief 
Societies  of  the  Western  States  mission.  President  Clarissa 
S.  Williams,  in  opening  the  conference,  asked  for  the  love  and 
confidence  and  prayers  of  the  women  of  the  Relief  Society, 
in  behalf  of  the  General  Board,  in  order  that  the  Board  may 
carry  forward  the  great  and  mighty  work  which  has  been 
assigned  to  it.  President  Williams  expressed  the  prayer  that 
love  and  hope,  harmony  and  good  feeling  may  ever  be  in  the 
General  Board,  that  the  members  may  love  and  respect  one 
another,  and  may  feel  that  the  work  of  the  Lord  is  greater 
than  any  personal  ambition,  that  the  Board  may  be  united  as 
a  group  of  workers,  sustaining  one  another,  and  enjoying 
the  confidence  and  the  love  of  one  another,  and  of  all  Relief 
Society  women.  Her  prayer  was  also  that,  in  the  stakes  of 
Zion,  love  and  harmony  may  be  maintained  and  that  all  the 
members  of  the  Relief  Society  may  feel  to  sustain  their  local, 
stake  and  general  officers,  and  give  the  best  that  is  in  them 
for  the  great  cause. 
The  work  which  has  been  done  by  the  stakes  and  wards,