[Vol12 | June 1925 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Article | Title: Resting Time for Mother Mary H. Woolsey]

Resting Time for Mother PART TWO Mary H. Woolsey
"You poor little kids," she said half aloud. "Poor little kids! Hasn't anyone been kind to you before?" The ride ended, they came directly to her. "How did you know my name, Lady?" "I heard Mrs. Wayne call you Billy." "Oh?do you know Mrs. Wayne?" "No. I?heard you call her Mrs. Wayne." They both smiled, as if they shared a pleasant secret. "Tell me, Billy-boy?would Mrs. Wayne mind if you talk to me for awhile?" "No, ma'am; she doesn't care what I do, so long's I get back home pretty soon." "I won't keep you long. Would you and Margery like some ice cream?" Their expressions were eloquent answers. Presently, across a cozy table, they were chatting busily. "Who is Mrs. Wayne, Billy?a friend?" "No'm; not?not 'zactly. She?she keeps us." "Where's your mother?" "She?she died; three years ago." "And your father?" "He died, long 'fore Mother did." "How did you happen to stay with Mrs. Wayne?" "Well, you see?we'd just come here when Mother took sick, and she didn't know anyone else. So she asked Mrs. Wayne to keep us, so's we could stay together. On her dying bed, she begged her to, and Mrs. Wayne promised. And she keeps her promises; she's a woman of her word." Strange words from a boy of Billy's size, thought Mother; then she divined the reason for them: he was simply quoting Mrs Wayne herself. Curiously she fancied even now that she could hear the words spoken in that lady's harshly aggressive voice, and the tears come again to her eyes. "How old are you, Billy?" "Going on 'leven. I?I'm small for my age," he added. "Margery's seven." "She's small, too." "Yes'm." Somewhere near them there was the sound of chimes, and
RESTING TIME FOR MOTHER 329
when they had ceased, five sonorous notes telling the hour. Billy sprang up. "Oh, gee, ma'am! I've got to hustle. I have to help Mrs. Wayne pretty quick. Can you hurry, Margy?" Margery swallowed her last spoonful of ice cream, drew a long breath, and nodded. "I'll carry her," and with a hug Mother lifted the child in her arms. "Why, you're like a feather, Margery." Soon Billy and Margery were being borne back to Mrs. Wayne's place, and Mother, on another car, speeding in the opposite direction. The lonely feeling returned. "Billy-boy, Billy-boy! I wish I could have you always!" And suddenly Martha Knox sat upright. For in that moment was born her great idea. An idea which she hardly dared put into words, but which thrilled her, dazed her, set her brain racing. She breathed an eager little prayer: "Oh, thank you, God?thank you! And help me to make it come true!" Then, since she was not one who having expressed a desire, sits down with folded hands to wait for its fulfilment, she began at once to devise ways and means to speed the day when her wish might be granted. There was a soft flush of excitement on her cheeks, an unwonted brightness in her eyes, when she reached home; under her breath she hummed a little tune. Noticing which, Rilla remarked to Pauline,?"Mother seems so much happier tonight?more contented. I was sure she'd like the city when she'd grown used to it." Later, over the phone, she repeated the good news to her brothers; they expressed their pleasure at the information. But Mother! Every day she was going out, eagerly, or coming in, a little subdued but still smiling and confident, saying to herself, "Maybe tomorrow." Every day, at the Park, on the streets, she was on the lookout for a thin, oldish boy face, a pair of luminous brown eyes; in other words, she was looking for Billy, whose last name she did not know. The city directory revealed an appalling long list of Mrs. Wayne?and none of them whom Mother had so far located, proved to be the right one. Then one morning, early, she found him. On a busy downtown corner, under one arm a huge bundle of newspapers, lustily calling his wares. "Billy!" called Mother. Glad recognition leaped from his eyes. "Why, it's the ice cream lady. Gee, but I'm?I'm glad to see you!" "And I?I've been looking for you at the Park, every day, Billy." "Haven't been there?even once?since that other time." The boy's face clouded. "You see, Margery?" all at once his worn


little features seemed older than ever. "What about Margery?" prompted Mother quickly. "She's sick?awful sick, ma'am. I mean, she's been awful sick. She's better now." "Oh, I'm sorry to hear that, Billy. Where do you live? I'm going to go and see her?right now." "Mrs. Wayne's place is in Cloud Place, off Boyd Street," said Billy, "but Margery's at Brent's Children's Hospital." "Brent's?" echoed Mother. "How on earth?" she stopped abruptly. "Well, I'm going there right now. And Billy?what is your other name?" "Ward, ma'am; but Mrs. Wayne says I should say Billy Ward Wayne." "I understand?See you again soon, Billy-boy. Goodbye. How on earth," she was thinking, "did Margery get into Brent's Hospital?" Soon she found out?from none other than the great Doctor Brent himself, who came up to the narrow, white bed where Margery lay, while Mother sat by clasping the thin little hand in her own. "Are you?er?a relative?" Doctor Brent asked her. "No?just a?a friend. I-I sort of picked up an acquaintance with her and her brother, one afternoon." "That Billy!?Say, there's a lad for you!" exclaimed the Doctor. "I never saw another like him. Why, he came up to my house?past midnight?and said to me, 'Doctor, my little sister's awfully sick. I want you to come and see her.' And before I could say a word, 'I'll pay you, Doctor?I'll run errands for you, I'll do anything?but you?you've got to come and tend Margery.' And then he slipped right down and all but fainted away, saying, 'Don't bother about me?I'll be all right, but Margy needs you in a hurry!' and then he began to cry. I found later that he hadn't dared ask that Wayne woman for car fare, or even permission to come after me, and he'd run three miles through the city to bring me. Well, I just took him in my machine with me and hurried down to see the little girl?and none too soon, either. ?But she's getting along finely now,?aren't you, Miss Margery?" Margery smiled wanly, and nodded. "What is the trouble, Doctor?" "Food poisoning," he answered. "Some tainted meat that woman gave them; the whole family were affected by it, but this one?poor mite, she's been half-starved anyway?was weakest of all of them and it went pretty bad with her. I brought her up here, because she'd not have had the ghost of a chance, with the care Mrs. Wayne would give her." "Mrs. Wayne?has children of her own?"
RESTING TIME FOR MOTHER 331
"Yes. Five of them." "Are they like Billy and Margery??Halfstarved, I mean." "Not a bit of it." Indignation marked every word. "They're regular savages?or animals, all of them. I could just picture them at their meals, like a litter of young hogs at a trough, pushing, grabbing, quarreling, forcing away the weakest ones?who later would get what ever is left?if anything. It's a shame; I can't think of sending this child back there * * * I took such a fancy to Billy; kind of wanted to take them both into my home. But?in a lower tone?"well, the wife isn't exactly in sympathy." Glancing down, Mother saw that Margery had fallen asleep; gently she disengaged the tiny hand, and rose. "Tell her," she said to a nurse who stood near, "tell her, when she wakens, that I'm coming again tomorrow." And to the Doctor, as they walked towards the door, "I?I've taken a strong fancy to those two, myself, I saw Mrs. Wayne once; I hadn't a very good impression of her." "She's worse than that," almost savagely. "Words fail me!? I would like to see Billy and his sister in a good home. You live in Weston, Mrs.?" "Knox?Martha Knox.?No, my home is in Greenfields. I'm visiting my sons and daughters here; James, Alvin?" "Alvin? You're Alvin Knox's mother??Yes, I know him; studying medicine, isn't he??You're going to be proud of him some day. Well, well. I'm glad to have met you, Mrs. Knox? very glad. And I hope?that you get Billy." Cloud Place, off Boyd Street, was as cheerless a place as could be imagined; hot, dirty, foul-smelling, swarming with flies and other pests and with unkempt, ragged, rude children. It was hard to believe that Billy could ever have lived among them. "His own parents?must have come from very good stock," thought Mother, as she walked towards the doorway pointed out to her as Mrs. Wayne's * * * Mrs. Wayne was within. Undeniably, she justified Doctor Brent's opinion of her; she was even more harsh, more coarse, more everything unlovely, than Mother had thought possible. She listened frigidly while Mother explained her errand.. "A'm * * * Can't see whatcha wanta do with 'em; but if yuh' wanta take 'em off my hands, it's yore funeral. Got all I oughtta have, myself. I only kep 'em cuz ther ma ast me?lyin' on her dyin' bed she wuz; plum skairt they'd git put in th' Home, an' maybe separated. What cu'd a body do? I promised; an' I keep my promises.?I'm a woman of my word, I am." She glared at Mother as if her integrity had been unjustly questioned. "I'm sure of that?very sure of it," Mother hastened to say. 
 "But you see, if you let me take them, I can give them care that you couldn't?without robbing your own?_" "Robbin' m'own?that's what I been doin', all 'long. Tain't right?tain't, But what cu'd I do?_J promised that Pore soul, on her dyin' beqd?" "Yes, yes," soothingly, "I understand that. And you see, if I take them both, you'd 'still be keeping that promise," "Tha? so, Yu kin have 'em, Of course?" a belated attempt to prove her concern for their welfare?"yu'd hafta perduce references," "I?'ll do that, Mrs. Wayne. You may be sure of that. I?ll Set a lawyer to fix it all up right." "A lawyer?wha' for?" Mrs. Wayne showed alarm, "To fix the Papers; to show I'm adopting Billy and Margery." "D' I hafta pay?" "Oh, no. I pay him." "'Sall tight, then * *? When'! Yuh take 'em?" "Just as soon as I can artange things; a day or two." H'm * * Yes. Well, didn't I say you c'd take 'em? I'm a woman of my word; I don't go back on nobody." Mrs. Knox escaped at last. She could not "get things fixed up" too soon, she decided. Mixed with her joy at the Prospect of adopting Billy, was the fear that Mrs, Wayne might yet refuse My dear Children: Forgive me?oh, please forgive me for running away! I had to do it; there was no other way. For what I am doing, you'd think very unreasonable?foolish, Perhaps?because you could not understand; and you RESTING TIME FOR MOTHER 333 could. I can't be satisfied with the life that gives me all play and no work; it's quite as bad as all work and no play. Or worse. No, while I have health and strength, and the will to be doing for someone?and while there are children like Billy and Margery in the world?just so long I'll be happiest in little old Greenfields town, running my own household just the way I've always done. It's the one thing I love to do.. Now, Rilla, James, Pauline, Alvin?be good sports, all of you; and please see that Mother is trying to do what is best, as it is given her to see the best. Lovingly, Mother. P. S. I shall be looking for a visit from you soon.