[Vol12 | June 1925 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Preparation for Group Conventions Amy W. Evans]

PREPARATION FOR GROUP CONVENTIONS Mrs. Evans said: In Preparing for group conventions the first step is to plan carefully every detail concerning the conduct of the Relief Society meetings, By so planning, time is saved and the object of the convention more successfully accomplished.

As soon as the conference date is known it is well to get in touch with the Presiding authorities of the stake and arrange for your meeting place.

Estimate the number expected to attend the stake and local officer's meeting, then be sure that the room assigned is large enough; also that there are enough seats— in the room add much to the: proper atmosphere of the meeting.

Seme time is saved if the hymns are selected before the meeting begins, and the chorister understands exactly what is expected In order to assure a good attendance one stake sent written invitations to every ward, with a special request that the ward president attend.

Extend very cordial invitations to.

The bishops.

Stake and local officers' meeting would be well.

Of the priesthood, at least the advisory high councilmen should attend the stake board meeting.

As ithe Program contains a topic on ward teaching, a great effort should be made to get ward teachers to attend.

A warm welcome to the ward officers from the stake officers helps to create a good spirit.

In some places the stake officers stand at the door to welcome the people, until five minutes before the opening of the meeting.: The General Board Tepresentative takes to the convention an attendance blank which should be in the hands of the stake secretary before the opening meeting of the conference, The president's report should include a summary of the special activities, RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 289 and should tell of the things which cannot be told by figures.

If the executive officer's meeting is held at noon, make the luncheon of secondary importance.

The stake Relief Society presidency should be ready with good suggestions for the general preparations for the convention, in case they are asked for them.

Lack of preparation and planning has a dampening effect, while well-thought-out arrangements make for a successful convention.