[WomansExponent | Vol25 | 1896 | July | Issue: 2 | Title: LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING. | Author: Unknown]

LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of meeting held in the Four-
teenth Ward Assembly Rooms, May 2nd,
1896. President M. Isabella Horne presid-
ing. Singing, “For the strength of the
hills.” Prayer by Elizabeth Webb. Sing-
ing, “Let those who would be Saints.”
	Sister Horne, “those who desire a blessing
from the Lord receive it by meeting to-
gether, we need blessing for the adversary
is seeking to destroy the people. Bishop
Hunter once said he feared the lethargy of
the Saints, for then the Evil one took ad-
vantage of them to destroy them. The
Lord has said we cannot serve two masters,
those who are not for us are against us.
Do right and every good thing will be given
to those who seek the Lord. It is a time
we should be wide awake.” Some years
ago she heard Brother Jones of Provo relate
a dream, he described Satan, he spoke to
him, and said, "I told you to leave my
house” “yes” said Satan “but you never
told me not to come back again,” spoke of
the strength Satan had; Satan after saying

[Column 2]
much more said, “you are right, and the
Gospel is right, but I shall fight you to the 
end,” “it is a continual warfare, let the
good overcome the evil, and if we make
this effort we are sure to secure a crown of
glory.”
	Sister Z. D. H. Young, “we come here
to partake of the bread of life, there is no
people who have the teaching we have.”
Bore a testimony to the truth of this work.
Loved these meetings, spoke of the good
instruction given at Sister Susan Stringam’s .
funeral. “There is no dark, shadow of
death for a Saint.” President Young said
it was only those like David that did wrong
who need fear the valley and shadow of
death. “We left all and came here and the
Lord greatly blessed us.” She was very
thankful for the association of her sisters.
Prayed that this day would be a time of re-
freshing. Prayed the Lord to bless all.
	Sister Mary A. P. Hyde told of the won-
derful changes that had taken place and
the many inventions since she was a child.
We now lived in the times that had been
predicted. We should seek for the spirit of
prayer, we should never cease to pray in
our hearts. Many think they are doing
God’s service when they fight against us.
Spoke of the gathering of the Jews. Re- .
joiced that the Lord had blessed her greatly
“Guard against temptation, if there is a
weak side Satan attacks us there.” Told 
how she received the gospel, spoke of the 
testimony in reference to celestial mar-
riage, and knew it was of God. Spoke in
tongues. A beautiful interpretation was 
given by Sister Zina D. H. Young.
	Sister Horne spoke of the number of
young missionaries, many not being over.
nineteen years of age, who had been called
to the islands of the sea, and other countries; 
she had three grandsons sent to the Samoan
Islands, to preach the gospel, and Sister
Hyde also had a young son sent to Germany,
felt that they were where they could
serve the Lord and be preserved from the
temptations and trials that were about to
come.
	Sister Clara Cannon said we were blessed
in having so many sisters to give us in-
struction. We are a blessed band of sisters 
many of those who were here associated
with the prophet, and can tell us so many 
things that are interesting about him, testi
fied that the angels were here. Think of
this as a protection against evil. We must
all have trials, they are blessings in disguise.
We should live above noticing trifles. Be
humble, live that we may please our Father.
We need to fast more, to overcome our
weakness, and be able to rise above these
trifles that take up our attention. She was
the only one here of her family. Spoke of
the privilege of working in the temple, and
the goodness of the Lord unto her. Guard
and watch over our children continually,
especially while they are small that they 
may not get false ideas before they come to
years of discretion. Prayed that the Lord
would give us wisdom to do that which was 
right.
	Sister Brixon bore her testimony, spoke
of the power we would have through fast-
ing and prayer. Gave an instance of her
prayers being answered. The Lord had
blessed her wonderfully. Spoke of the
efficacy of the administration of the 
ordinances on her own and her child’s cases,
and felt to thank the Lord for it.
	A Sister bore her testimony, said her
daughter was raised from the dead, let us


[Column 1]
pray to our Father so that we might be
preserved in the faith, related a dream.
“All are tempted old and young.”
	Sister Morris sang “Redeemer of Israel.”
Then bore her testimony. Knew that this
was the Kingdom of God. Had never
seen the day that she doubted although she
had been a member for forty years. Felt
the Spirit of the Lord is the true comforter.
We had every thing to fill us with joy.
Wished many others were here. If we
have the love of God we can stand every-
thing. Prayed that we might all meet on
the other side.
	Sister Nuttall said although she had
never covenanted with the Lord to speak
in these meetings, she had been promised
that if she did so her health would improve.
Be humble before the Lord and pray con-
stantly that we may overcome. Spoke of
the responsibility of each one individually
to teach and encourage one another.
Testified of the truth of the work. If the
power of evil is increasing so is that of
good. 
	Sister Nunn gave an instance of the
benefit of faith, testified that all that would
listen to the whisperings of the Spirit
would do right.
	Mrs. Samson, spoke of her trip with
the choir to San Francisco, felt that she
wanted to let every one hear the Gospel.
Spoke of the earnestness of the mission-
aries there.
	Another Sister acknowledged the bless-
ings of the Lord and gifts of the Gospel.
	Sister Francis told of her experience in
London, and told of her pride in the Gospel.
Was pleased to have been accounted worthy
to work in the temple.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing, “This God is the God we adore.”
Benediction by Sister L. D. Alder. 
		ANNIE T. HYDE, Sec. pro-tem.
		BOX ELDER REPORT.
	THE quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of Box Elder Stake convened in the
first Ward meeting house on June the 9th
at 10 o’clock a. m. Singing, “The time is
nigh, the happy time.” Prayer by Sister
Annie Wixom. Singing, “Great God at-
tend while Zion sings.” Roll called,
minutes read and accepted.
	President Olivia Widerborg made a few
opening remarks.
	S. T. Booth, President First Ward, “I
have a desire to perform my duty if the
Lord will help me.
	President C. Peterson, Bear River City:
“We have peace and unity in our ward.”
	Hannah Harper, President North ward,
“We should try to overlook the failings of
each other.”
	Ella Watson, President Beaver Dam: “It
is my greatest aim to raise my children to
be good and honorable.
	Christine Jensen, President of Mantua:
“Our ways are not the Lord’s way, we are
trying in our weak ways to do the best we
can.”
	Harriet Hunsaker, President Honeyville:
“I feel there is a great and good work for
us all to perform.”
	Fanny Graehl; “I feel more able to ap-
preciate every day the blessings we enjoy.”
	Sister Bigler, Second Ward: “I pray the
Lord to bless us all, that we may under-
stand our position.
	Francis Young, Three Mile Creek; “We

[Column 2]
have experienced a sad calamity, our Presi-
dent has lost her home, almost.”
	Sister Loveland, Deweyville: “We are
but a small society but we are trying to do
our duty.”
	Emelia D. Madsen spoke on true charity.
	Sister Widerborg invited those from afar to
picnic prepared by the members of First
Ward.
	Singing, “Mid scenes of confusion.”
Benediction by Counselor Zella Reese.
	Afternoon session: Singing “What
wondrous things mine eyes behold.”
	Prayer by Bishop Hanson.  Singing,
“Great is Thy work, my God, my King.”
	President Mary Watkins, Fourth Ward,
hope we may always have a determina-
tion to serve God.”
	President Mary Jensen, Third Ward:
“I know this is the work of God, we
ought to be grateful that we are here, one
with this people.”
	Counselor Sister Robins, Snowville: “It
is quite a privilege for me to be here,” bore
a strong testimony.
	Sister Owens, Willard: “May the Lord
help us to set a good example for our
young people.”
	President Olivia Widerborg; “There is
nothing better than to try to serve God and
do His will. Let us try wherever we are
placed to live as Latter-day Saints.”
	Bishop Harper: “Jesus said ‘My sheep
hear my voice and follow me a stranger they
will not follow,’ ’’this applied as well to the
sisters as the brethren.
	Counselor Zella Reese: “I am grateful I
am so far preserved in the faith and still
have a desire to press onward.”
	Bishop McMaster: “It is not the wisdom
of man that has organized this Church in
its perfection. I think if any, carry out
the words of the Savior on the mount, it is
the Relief Society.
	Sister Lizzie Burt: “I always want to do
what I am called upon to do.
	President Rudger Clawson referred to the
three glories spoken of in Doctrine and
Covenants, our wishing to be there, will not
bring us there, referred to those who have
come up through great tribulation.
	Is it not a beautiful principle, if there is
any important move, you can go and
counsel with those who stand at the head.
	Singing, “Zion stands with hills sur-
rounded.” Benediction by Cecelia Nelson.
