When Mother Attended Sunday School. Clara S. Fagcrgrcn Mother sank down in a chair exhausted after getting all the children ready for Sunday School. Father and big sister Nan had left home earlier, in order to attend their officer's meetings, and, as usual, mother was left alone to do up the morning's work. The sun was shining brightly and the morning was beautiful. How mother would like to attend Sunday School, too. But that was out of the question. Every one would be back at noon, ready for dinner; perhaps sister Nan would bring her "young man" home with her. The house had to be tidied, the beds made, and numerous small tasks needed her attention. She turned wearily to the sink piled high with breakfast dishes and turned up her sleeves while preparing to wash them. "Hurry up and change your dress," a cheery voice called from the open door just then, "Come wtih me, and we'll be in time for the Parents' Class; it will do you a world of good to leave the house this nice morning." Mother turned around in surprise and beheld her neighbor, Mrs. Goodman, stand smiling in the 'doorway dressed in her best clothes, ready for Sunday School. "Impossible," mother said the word half-heartedly, knowing her argument's weakness against the other woman's persuasions. Mrs. Goodman took in the situation at a glance. "Oh! come, your work will keep till you get back, then let the children pitch in and help, that's the way I do. If I didn't there would be no chance for me to see the outside of the world, let me tell you. But do hurry!" "What will I do about dinner?" remonstrated mother, longing to go, though she deemed it her duty to stay at home. "Let them eat bread and milk or whatever you have ready, I don't stand and cook a big dinner on Sunday when there are six more days in the week to prepare dinners in, come now, we'll make it yet if you hurry." She took reluctant Mother by the arm and led her forcibly from the kitchen, taking her apron off by way of introduction to the domestic rite of changing clothes. Mother knew it would be useless to argue against this resolute woman. It took her only a few minutes to change shoes, comb her hair, and slip on her best dress, mentally planning to catch up with her work when she would return. If she hurried back a little ahead of the others, there would be a few minutes in WHEN MOTHER ATTENDED SUNDAY SCHOOL. 507 which to pick up the clothes, thrown carelessly about, and straighten up the rooms. The chicken was cleaned and ready to fry, the potatoes could cook while she made a couple of pies. Father preferred them fresh from the oven, otherwise they could have been baked on Saturday. Dinner would be a little late for once. Mrs. Goodman impatiently started out at a brisk trot, determined to be on time. Mother walked a few steps behind her, enjoying the fresh morning air and wondering what her family would think when they saw her enter the meeting house. She could not refrain from smiling when she pictured their surprise. It must be nearly three years since she had attended Sunday School. Father looked up in pleased surprise when he saw her enter. He had always urged her to come with him on Sunday mornings, but she had a ready excuse to offer for staying at home. Her coming this morning proved she could get away from home if she tried. When Sunday School was dismissed Mother did not get away as she had planned. Who should be there if not her girlhood friend, Eliza Wood, whom she hadn't seen for years. They had been friends since both wore pinafores with their hair in pigtails; had within a few weeks gone out with "beaux" together and were married. Eliza had moved back, after several years absence, to the neighborhood again. With her were her husband and two children. She was in the act of stepping into their automobile when she caught sight of Mother. "Well, well!" she sang out, "if there's not my old chum, Anna Winters. You simply have to come and see my home, there's just room for one more in the auto." Mother excused herself saying she would make an effort to come some other time, when Father interrupted, saying, "I see no reason why you shouldn't go? What is there for you to do at home anyway? The children and I can get something ready to eat without you being there. There's absolutely nothing to hinder you from going, besides, you are not offered automobile rides every day; go and stay as long as you wish." Mother needed no more urging. If her husband was willing why shouldn't she go for the rest of the day. Gayly waving her hand to the assembled family she was whisked off by her genial friends. In going home, Sister Nan walked a little ahead of the rest of the family in company with young Mr. Sprigtop. This young man considered he bestowed a special honor on the young lady that he chose to take home from Sunday School. Invariably 
 he would be asked to stay for dinner at the young lady's home. He knew from past experiences there were good dinners served at the Winter's home on Sundays. Arriving at the house Nan invited him in to the parlor as usual. Picture her dismay and chagrin as her eyes fell on her every day shoes left carelessly on the floor since the night before. A pair of stockings the worse for wear, reposed near by. Her old corsets were thrown over the back of a chair, and sundry articles of clothing were scattered about the room. "Horrors!" She remembered now that she had disrobed in the parlor the night before, forgetting to pick up any of her things. But what could be the matter with mother? She usually cleared up the rooms and put everything in order on Sunday mornings. She must have forgotten to do so in her hurry to get to Sunday School this morning. She felt much humiliated as she met Mr. Sprigtop's amused glance as he took in the situation. Something had to be done, but what? She finally asked him to step out on the porch and wait till Father came. Though the sun was shining, the air felt chilly, it being rather late in the fall. The porch being on the shady side of the house was not as pleasant as the parlor, with its comfortable rocking chairs and pleasant warmth from the fire place. Mr. Sprigtop shivered from cold as he waited. He almost regretted he had not chosen some other young lady to walk home with instead of Sister Nan. Nan in the meantime was frantically gathering up the clothes left in the different rooms, throwing them pell mell in the clothes closet and lamenting the absence of Mother who had left everything in such a state. Father and the younger children now arrived, with appetites ready for dinner. The untidy appearance of the rooms and the unwashed dishes in the sink were an unfamiliar sight to them. Always the morning's work would be done and the dinner would be ready on their return from Sunday School. Father had never given any thought as to what time it took to keep the house in order and get the meals ready. That part of the work was only a small item according to his reckoning. He blustered around and called on Sister Nan in an irritable manner to hurry up and get dinner ready. She was at this moment inviting Mr. Sprigtop, for the second time that day, to come into the parlor. By a hurried effort on her part that room presented a respectable appearance once more. She felt rather annoyed by Father's loud voice and irritated manner. Was it her duty to get dinner? Reluctantly excusing herself to the young man, giving him the Sunday paper for company. Nan repaired to the kitchen and WHEN MOTHER ATTENDED SUNDAY SCHOOL. 509 began preparations for dinner. One of the smaller children, 12-year-old Betty, was pressed into service as assistant; her task was to peel the potatoes and set the table, while Sister Nan fried the chicken. There would be no pie made that day, Father would miss it, of course, he always liked to finish the dinner with a nice, juicy cut of pie. Hurriedly placing the skillet containing the chicken on the hottest part of the stove, giving instructions to Betty to tend it, Nan went back to the parlor where Mr. Sprigtop yawned sleepily over the paper. Making herself attractive and entertaining to the young man so engrossed Sister Nan that she forgot all about the dinner, accustomed as she was to her mother's management about the housework. The sudden entrance of Father and the strong odor of burnt meat quickly brought the realization to her of what she was expected to do as her share of the work on this topsy turvy Sunday. Father gave signs of being both impatient and angry as hungry men often do. Glancing at the empty table, the smoke-filled rooms and at the young couple lolling in the rocking chairs in the parlor, he asked sarcastically if dinner would be ready soon, if not, he would take bread and milk if some one would be kind enough to set it on the table. One of the children was dispatched in a hurry to the cellar for milk. Another child went scurrying after the bread in the pantry. Nan could readily see it would take some time to get even these simple things in the semblance of order. She had planned to ask Mr. Sprigtop to stay for dinner. This pleasure was now out of the question under the existing conditions. Furthermore, she felt embarrassed and half ashamed in knowing that this young man whom she wished to impress most favorably, had witnessed her incompetence. His mother and sisters were reputed to be excellent house-keepers and cooks, no doubt he was making comparisons to her disadvantage. Summoning all her courage she managed to ask him to call some other time, she had some work to do on account of Mother's absence. As Mr. Sprigtop left the house. Sister Nan slipped on Mother's big work apron over her dress, then she applied herself vigorously to the task of getting order out of the chaos. She found the chicken burned almost to a crisp, while the potatoes had not even started to boil. It would have to be bread and milk for the whole family evidently. By addition of some preserves and a few cookies they managed to get enough to eat for the meal, though it was a different dinner from what Mother used to cook. Father couldn't help noticing the difference, though he said 
 little. He helped to wash the dishes after the meal, while the children tidied up the rooms and swept the kitchen floor. On other Sunday afternoons he habitually read the paper before taking a little nap, he had always believed Sunday to be a day of rest for himself. When they finally got through with their combined labors it was well towards four o'clock in the afternoon. Father was astonished; could a little house-work take up so much time? Here was a problem. Four of them had been busy for hours at seemingly unimportant tasks. He resolved then and there the order of the work had to be altered so as to make Mother's Sundays easier than they had been. "Children," he said, sitting down at last to a well earned rest, "do you realize the amount of work your mother is compelled to do in order that we may have a pleasant Sunday? After this, each and every one of us will get our Sunday outfit ready on Saturday evening. The shoes must be blacked then and the necessary preparations made for the Sabbath day. Moreover, on Sunday mornings we will get up an hour earlier than we have been in the habit of doing. By this arrangement we can get through with the breakfast and get the dishes washed before starting for Sunday School, and Mother will be able to attend also. We have had a plain dinner today on account of Mother's absence. We will have the same on coming Sundays. From this day we will try and assist Mother and make her work easier. She has worked hard and uncomplainingly so that we may have the comforts of a home." When Mother returned that evening, rested and happy after a change in her daily routine, she found the family assembled in the dining room, with supper ready on the table, an unheard of occurrence. She related happily her day's experience. Father then told of their experiences at home during her day's absence and of their plans for future Sundays, to all of which mother, although overpowered with gratitude and amazement, heartily agreed. EXCHANGE DEPT. Mrs. Albert Thompson, St. Anthony, Idaho, Box 222, wishes to purchase the following kinds of dried fruit as well as dried corn: dried cherries, apples, and pears. Anyone having for sale these articles will communicate with Sister Thompson stating price, per pound, and amounts which they may have to sell. Dried corn is wanted by Mrs. Susa Young Gates. No. 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City. Home Entertainments for September By Morag GENEALOGICAL SUNDAY This important anniversary is celebrated throughout all Israel in commemoration of the day, on September 21, 1823, when the Prophet Joseph Smith was visited by the Angel Moroni, with the instruction regarding the work for the dead. Many important promises were made and later fulfilled when the Prophet Elijah appeared in the Kirtland Temple, on April 3, 1836, bringing the keys and the Spirit which accompanies this wonderful work. Suggestive Program: Hymn, "An Angel From on High." Invocation, Member of the Ward Genealogical Board. Male Quartet, "See the Mighty Angel Flying." Report of Ward Genealogical activities. Duet, "There is Light Beyond the Shadow." Reading, "Definition of Genealogy," Utah Genealogical Magazine, pages 57-8. Vol. 9. Solo, "I Know That My Redeemer Liveth." (Messiah). Address, "What the Spirit of Elijah is Doing in the World." Anthem, "Song of the Redeemed." Short talks on, "Record Keeping," and "Individual Responsibility." Anthem, "Hosannah." Hymn, "The Spirit of God Like a Fire is Burning." A MAGAZINE SOCIAL An idea that admits of great variety and cleverness is known as an "Illustrated Magazine." As the time is drawing near when our Magazine subscriptions must be renewed, a social of this kind is appropriate. A small admission fee can be charged and subscriptions and renewals can be taken. The cover design is the first picture or tableau, a harvest scene with wheat sheaves and a few conventional sego lilies with a child in the center of each lily. A white robed figure on each side of the background could support a scroll with the name of the periodical. A suggestion for the frontispiece is to have this illustrate a poem which may be read aloud. Dramatize the story, or illustrate it with several tableaux. The "Unusual Mothers" department will give you an oppor- 
 tunity to honor the parents of the largest family in your community.