[Vol40 | December 1953 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: Making Cloth Books]

Making Cloth Books Elaine C.
Nichols mY nny MY BOOK A APPLE C) \ B BOAT yn - he F FAWN wt mother doesn't have some mementos of her children, especially from the time when they were very young, perhaps a dress, a bonnet, or a well-loved toy of some kind? In the case of toys, they are oftcn used by a second generation of children, and sometimes by even a third, as grandmother or great-grandmother brings them out.
Fotu op = My own grandmother has just such treasures, and among them are some old books, worn, gray, and faded with many washings, but nonetheless enchanting for a very small child who likes to look at the pictures and name each object.
Remembering from my early childhood my delight in these books, I determined to make a cloth book for my eighteen-month-old son to enjoy now, and perhaps for others to enjoy later.
Since making such books I have found that they sell well at bazaars, and that they are simple enough for young girls to make to help fill honor badge requirements in Primary and Mutual.
Nueces and nephews enjoy these books. So, as a gift from the heart, requiring some thought and effort, as a bazaar item, or as an idea for helping others learn creatively, try making cloth books. Materials One yard unbleached muslin Six-strand embroidery thread One set of transfer patterns Directions 1. Cut 4, 5, or 6 pieces of muslin, 16 inches by 10 inches. 2.
Fold in half and crease to form center division. 3.
Unfold and stamp a pattern on each section. 4.
Embroider with appropriate simple stitches. 5.
Fold again in half on crease with folded edge becoming the might cdge of the page. 6.
Trim cut edges (top and bottom of pages) with pinking shears to form a book. 7. Sew pages at the left one-half inch from the edge. Variations A. IN MakINnc THE Book 1. The book may be pinked on top and bottom and a piece of bright-colored material one inch wide sewed down the left side to form a bright strip of material which covers the unpinked edge and makes a most attractive finish. Page
834 MAKING CLOTH BOOKS 7 835 2. The book pages may be turned wrong side out and sewed three-eighths of an inch on the top and bottom, then turned right side out, and a one-inch strip sewed down the left side when all the pages are assembled. 3.
Whatever way the book is finished, put a title on the front cover, such as "My Book," "Baby's Book," "Toys, "A B C's," or "My Dolls."
These little books can be washed and ironed as often as needed, and they will last and last. B. In PATTERN 1.