[Vol40 | December 1953 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Life of President IV]

Life of President David O. McKay [The fourth article of a series on the ancestry and life of President McKay] Jeanette McKay Morrell sionary ventures of the Latter-day Saint Church was instituted when, on December 2, 1920, Brother David O. McKay of the Council of the Twelve and Brother Hugh J.
Cannon were set apart by President Heber J.
Grant to make a tour of inspection of the missions and schools of the Church in every part of the world.
From the date of their leaving until they returned, December 24, 1921, they traveled 24,277 miles by land, and 32,819 miles by water, which is two and one half times around the earth's circumference.
Among the intensely interesting experiences in every country and island visited, only a few can be mentioned in this article.
Christmas was spent in Japan, and after visiting the principal cities of that beautiful country, and spending a short time in Korea, the tray- - elers entered China, with its ancient wall still standing as a bulwark, if not as a protection, as it once was.
Before leaving home, President Grant instructed them that, if they felt so impressed while in China, to set the land apart for the preaching of the gospel. As Pekin is really the heart of the country, they decided it would be an appropriate place for this sacred ceremony. On Sunday, January 9, 1921, in a small grove of cypress trees, Brother McKay dedicated and set apart the ()*sc of the most important misChinese realm for the preaching of the gospel. He wrote: "Thus was the key turned that unlocked the door for the entrance into this famine-stricken land, of the authorized servants of God to preach the Glad Tidings of Great Joy as revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith." &g Not until they returned to Tokyo, to sail for Hawaii on January 21, did they receive letters and Christmas messages from home. In Honolulu, they received a royal welcome, and were shown the beauties and points of interest on all the islands of this group. Brother McKay wrote in his diary: I cannot describe the beauty of this tropical paradise, the trees, the gorgeouscolored hedges, the profusely blooming flowers and shrubs, the sky and the ocean, with the bright, fantastically colored fish, all add interest to' this wonderland of beauty. Later, I told a reporter who came to interview us, that I had realized more than I ever thought possible, my childhood dream of fairyland.
After holding conferences, attending feasts given in their honor, and blessing little children and members who were ill, it was necessary to return to the mainland to take a boat for the islands and continents of the South Seas. The Tahitian saints were visited, and_ several weeks were spent in New Zealand, In every town and village where meetings were held, members and Page 813
Elder David O. McKay, nght, a member of the Council of the Twelve, and Hugh J. Cannon, left, in Tahiti, 1921. Non-members alike, city and government officials, joined to welcome their distinguished guests, entertained them royally, and showered them with flowers and lovely gifts. Everywhere there was beautiful music furnished by bands, choruses, and island serenaders. There were also many spiritual manifestations which strengthened the testimonies of missionaries and island people alike. The month spent in Samoa passed all too quickly, with some of the largest conferences yet held, in preparation for which every detail had been carefully arranged. Mis  sionary meetings were as satisfactory as the larger meetings, attended by members, investigators, and friends. When the time for farewells arrived, genuine friendships. Had been formed, and the parting was a sad one for these people who had never before had the privilege of meeting any of the Church General Authorities. T the last party, there were real interpretations of the beautiful island dances, in native costume, singing, and instrumental selections, and then, as they returned to the mission home, fathers and mothers brought their children to be blessed, occupying the last moments before the necessary departure. Of these last experiences Brother McKay recorded the following: As we came out, we found the people standing in a double column from our door out across the lawn to the street. They had prepared a farewell song for us and all began to sing. As we _ passed through the lines shaking hands with them, sobs interrupted the singing. Staunch old Papo, the head of the village, sobbed like a child, and clung to us as though we were his sons. As we mounted our horses we looked back and saw the crowd, headed by the band, coming toward us for one more parting handshake. From that spot to the dugway leading to the ocean, there is a straight, grassy roadway, lined with tall native trees and tropical vines. As we rode slowly up the gentle incline, the band leading, the people followed, as though they could not yield to parting. We had gained, perhaps, a quarter mile ahead of them, when I felt impressed to say, "Brother Cannon, I think we should return and leave our blessing with them here in this beautiful grove." A one Neen Fah ype, a 4 PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY, CENTER, AND HIS COUNSELORS, STEPHEN L RICHARDS, LEFT, AND J. REUBEN CLARK, JR., RIGHT Page 815 $

 —DECEMBER 1953 As we approached the sobbing crowd, I was thrilled with the picturesqueness of the beautiful setting.
Hanging my folded umbrella on an overhanging limb, Kippin, our interpreter, told them why we had come back.
Their sobs were louder than my voice when I commenced the prayer, but they became more subdued as I continued, and their "Amen" was distinct and impressive at the close. An elder who remained with the crowd reported what followed after the visitors left: | The villagers watched as long as they could see their friends, then returned sadly to their homes. Kippin, the interpreter, immediately sat down and wrote the prayer as he remembered it. He and some others then conceived the idea of burying a copy of it on the spot where Apostle McKay had stood, and covering it with a pile of stones to mark the place.