[Vol40 | December 1953 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Editorial | Title: The 124th Conference]
Page 823 O—> EDITORIAL <~~© 
VOL. 40 DECEMBER 1953 NO. I2
She 124th Semi-Annual Church Conference [NX speaking of the 124th semiannual conference of the Church, which convened in the Salt Lake Tabernacle on October 2, 1953, President McKay characterized it as an epoch-making session in that for the first time in history thousands outside Utah had the opportunity to meet in worship with the assembled congregation. 'Through television, thousands of people living on the Pacific Coast shared in the proceedings of the Sunday morning session.
Each year the sessions are broadcast over an _ ever-increasing area.
This year participating radio stations were located in the states of Utah, Colorado, Arizona, Idaho, Nevada, Washington, Oregon, and California.
Radio station KSL and KSL-TV originated all broadcasts and telecasts.
Added significance to the words "The law shall go forth from Zion" was felt as one speaker averred, "Here is the spiritual capital of the world."
Twice a year the world is given the opportunity of learning the will of the Lord to the inhabitants of the earth, but still the words of the Savior apply, "Having ears, they hear not."" Words of counsel in wisdom, however, enter into the ears of those who will hear.
None need be left in doubt as to the law, as he is admonished and blessed by the General Authorities, one after another, for the space of the three-day sessions. The brethren selected to fill the vacancies occasioned by the deaths Page 824 of Elder Albert E.
Bowen of the Council of the Twelve and Elder Stayner Richards, Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, resulted in | three new appointments. President Richard L. Evans, of the First Council of Seventy, was called to be a member of the Council of the Twelve; Elder Hugh B.
Brown was made an Assistant to the 'Twelve; and Elder Marion D.
Hanks was called to fill the vacancy in the First Council of Seventy.
There was general approval and rejoicing in each of these new appointments. Faithful Latter-day Saints privileged to be hearers of the proceed- ~ ings were fed the bread of life, as one.
After another of the brethren voiced, with profound conviction, the particular principles of the gospel which to him seemed of most worth to the members of the Church today.
