[Vol40 | December 1953 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Article | Title: Gifts for Yourself and]
Page 841
Gifts for Yourself and Others Eva Willes Wangsgaard Be Janet Knowles NOw that I have made two useful. And decorative chests, it seems to me that the ideas used in their construction might have a wider application — these chests, or similar ones could be given for Christmas presents. Do you keep a number of things in a box in the basement and wish that you had a storage chest? Why not make one out of the box? For years, I stored kindling in a large book box. The lid was a heavy oak table top which was difficult to lift and more difficult to replace in its narrow confines behind the stoker. Consequently, | dreaded having to make a fire either in the furnace or the fireplace. Then, suddenly, one morning as | lay abed looking over the day ahead Page 842 of me, I was seized with a wonderful idea. My fingers could hardly wait to accomplish what my mind had conceived. I could see a handy, easily moved, attractive chest where the old kindling box had stood. The box dimensions were 23/ by 39" and 19" high. There was plenty of used lumber piled in the garage for cleating together for a lid. I could even remember one piece which had a beveled edge. I debated whether or not to buy a length of glued shelf-lumber wide enough fora lid. Such material had been used by the carpenter who altered my cabinet. A lid all-of-apiece would make a smoother job, and the edges could be beveled by planing at home or by power machinery in a shop where the lumber GIFTS FOR YOURSELF AND OTHERS could be bought. But my pioneer thrift accepted the cleating in preference to. The expense and argued that the finished unevenness made the chest look antique. The ornamental hinges and handle for the lid were purchased at a variety store at a small price. 'lhe casters were bought at the hardware store. 'They are the type attached to a flat plate to be screwed on.; In applying the hinges I| first, affixed one three-inch board at the rear of the top and nailed it stationary. 'This makes hinging easier for the amateur and provides a natural support for the lid when opened. The lid measurements then are twenty inches, and, whether made of separate boards or one glued-together piece, cleating gives it strength as well as holding it together. Ordinarily two cleats are sufficient. 'he cleats should be two inches shorter than the lid is wide to provide clearance and are secured to the lid with screws. THE casters may be screwed to the bottom, one to each corner, either before or after the lid is attached. Care must be taken to se lect screws short enough to hold the casters without penetrating to the inside. Now the chest is ready to paint. However, if you wish to store clothing or small articles in it, you would be wise to paste a wallpaper or oilcloth lining inside to prevent sliver mishaps. If it is to be used, as mine is, for storing kindling and fuel for the fireplace or furnace, no lining is necessary. The first coat of paint should be an undercoat. 843
