[Vol40 | December 1953 | Sequence: 34 | Category: Article | Title: Party Ideas | Author: Rose A. Openshaw]
802 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— DECEMBER   1953 
bcr,  I  think  of  the  words  of  Solo- 
mon wherein  he  said: 
Who  can  find  a  virtuous  woman?  for 
her  price  is  far  abo\e  rubies.  The  heart  of 
her  husband  doth  safely  trust  in  her,  so 
that  he  shall  have  no  need  of  spoil.  She 
will  do  him  good  and  not  evil  all  the 
days  of  her  life.  She  seeketh  wool,  and 
flax,  and  worketh  willingly  with  her  hands. 
She  is  like  the  merchants'  ships;  she  bring- 
eth  her  food  from  afar.  She  riseth  also 
while  it  is  yet  night,  and  giveth  meat  to 
her  household,  and  a  portion  to  her  maid- 
ens. She  considereth  a  field,  and  buyeth 
it:  with  the  fruit  of  her  hands  she  plant- 
eth  a  vineyard.  She  girdeth  her  loins  with 
strength,  and  strengtheneth  her  arms.  She 
pereeiveth  that  her  merchandise  is  good: 
her  candle  goeth  not  out  by  night.  She 
layeth  her  hands  to  the  spindle,  and  her 
hands  hold  the  distaff.  She  stretcheth  out 
her  hand  to  the  poor;  yea,  she  reacheth 
forth  her  hands  to  the  needy.  She  is  not 
afraid  of  the  snow  for  her  household:  for 
all  her  household  are  clothed  with  scarlet. 
She  maketh  herself  coverings  of  tapestry; 
her  clothing  is  silk  and  purple.  Her  hus- 
band is  known  in  the  gates,  when  he  sit- 
teth  among  the  elders  of  the  land.  She 
maketh  fine  linen,  and  selleth  it;  and  de- 
livereth  girdles  unto  the  merchant. 
Strength  and  honour  are  her  clothing;  and 
she  shall  rejoice  in  time  to  come.  She 
openeth  her  mouth  with  wisdom;  and  in 
her  tongue  is  the  law  of  kindness.  She 
looketh  well  to  the  ways  of  her  house- 
hold, and  eateth  not  the  bread  of  idle- 
ness. Her  children  arise  up,  and  call  her 
blessed;  her  husband  also,  and  he  prais- 
eth  her.  Many  daughters  have  done  vir- 
tuously, but  thou  excellest  them  all. 
Favour  is  deceitful,  and  beauty  is  vain: 
but  a  woman  that  feareth  the  Lord,  she 
shall  be  praised.  Give  her  of  the  fruit  of 
her  hands;  and  let  her  own  works  praise 
her  in  the  gates   (Proverbs   31:10-31). 
I  am  sure  these  words  of  Solomon 
are  apj^licahle  to  the  lives,  the  ideals 
of  the  membership  of  this  great  di- 
\'ine  organization.  The  Presiding 
Bishopric  wishes  them  every  suc- 
cess in  this  endeavor,  assures  them 
of  our  help  and  assistance   in   any 
way.  May  God  bless  them  and  in- 
spire them  that  their  plans,  their 
ambitions  may  be  brought  into  full 
fruition,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 
President  Spafford:  President  David 
O.  McKay  will  now  speak  to  us, 
and  following  his  remarks,  President 
McKay  will  turn  the  first  shovel  of 
dirt.  We  have  provided  three 
shovels,  and  we  are  also  asking  Pres- 
ident Stephen  L  Richards  and 
President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  to 
turn  a  shovel  of  dirt,  and  then  the 
general  presidency  wish  to  try  their 
hands  at  it,  and  then  we  are  going 
to  ask  our  advisors,  President  Joseph 
Fielding  Smith  and  Brother  Mark 
E.  Petersen,  so  that  we  may  actuallv 
begin  our  Building.   (Laughter) 
President  McKay:  Sister  Spafford, 
brothers  and  sisters.  As  already 
stated  in  your  presence  here  and  in 
the  Tabernacle,  over  111  years  have 
passed  since  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  turned  the  key  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord  to  the  Female  Relief 
Society  of  the  Church.  Over  one 
hundred  years!  I  believe  that  this 
edifice  will  be  the  first  home,  per- 
manent home,  of  the  Relief  Society 
of  the  Church.  We  have  had  many 
Relief  Society  houses  in  our  wards; 
the  Relief  Society  building  in 
Huntsville  is  as  familiar  in  my  mem- 
orv  as  the  old  rock  schoolhouse. 
We  have  had  Relief  Societv  houses 
in  other  wards,  but  the  general  or- 
ganization has  not  heretofore  had  its 
home.  Is  that  right?  (Laughter) 
A  better  illustration  —  how  we  lea\e 
to  the  last  and  for  the  last  those 
whom  we  love  most. 
One  glorious  feature  of  this  oc-

THE  RELIEF  SOCIETY  BUILDING 
803 
casion,  one  that  reflects  great  credit 
upon  those  who  have  preceded  as 
presidencies  of  Rehef  Society  and 
particularly  upon  the  present  presi 
dency  and  general  board  of  the  Re- 
lief Society,  is  the  fact  that  as  we 
break  ground  today  they  have  over 
half  a  million  dollars  in  the  bank 
ready  to  pay  the  expenses.  That's 
what  women  do.  (Laughter  and 
clapping)  They  deserve  your  ap- 
plause. That's  an  achievement. 
Men  undertake  propositions  of  this 
kind  and  borrow  the  money 
(Laughter)  with  the  hopes  of  pay- 
ing, largely  because  they  know  the 
sisters  will  help  them  pay  it. 
(Laughter)  But  our  sisters  have  set 
an  example  worthy  of  emulation. 
Before  even  we  break  ground,  they 
have  their  share  of  the  expense  of 
the  estimated  cost  of  this  edifice. 
One  other  thought.     No  matter 
how    commodious    it    may   be,    no 
matter    how    well    furnished     the 
rooms,    no    matter    how    great   the 
convenience  of  the  furnishings,  the 
house  itself,  with  all  its  equipment, 
is  but  a  means  to  an  end,  and  that 
end  the  establishing  in  the  hearts 
of  the  membership  of  the  Church  a 
testimony  of  the  truth  of  the  re- 
stored gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  This 
old  world  is  itself  but  a  means  to 
that  end.  'This  is  my  work  and  my 
glory,"  said  the  Lord,  ''to  bring  to 
pass    the    immortality   and    eternal 
life  of  man."     It  is  a  means  to  a 
glorious  end,  the  salvation  of  our 
Father's  children.  I  will  just  leave 
this  question  with  you.  What  would 
this    whole    creation     be     to     the 
Creator  himself  if  it  weren't  for  his 
children?    What    a    useless    world! 
Truly,  his  glory  rests  with  his  chil- 
dren  and   in   his   children,   and   so 
this  house  l)ecoincs  a  means  of  fur- 
thering the  work  of  the  great  Kelief 
Society,  the  verv  heart  and  purpose 
of  which  is  to  bring  happiness, 
peace  into  the  homes,  and  the  hearts 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  God  bless 
those  who  have  put  forth  the  effort 
consummated  in  this  occasion.  May 
the  Lord  bless  those  who  now  have 
the  responsibility  in  the  Relief  So- 
ciety of  carrying  this  work  to  com- 
pletion, and  may  future  generations 
rise  up  and  call  you  blessed  who 
have  contributed,  howsoever  small 
an  amount  or  howsoever  great,  to- 
wards this  great  edifice,  I  pray  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 
*  *  *  * 
President  Spaiford:  I  don't  suppose 
you  can  see,  but  four  white  stakes 
are  placed  to  mark  the  position  of 
the  Building,  and  we  will  now  in- 
vite those  who  are  to  turn  ground 
to  proceed  with  that  part  of  our 
exercises. 
(Those  participating  left  the 
stand  and  proceeded  to  the  spot 
where  the  ground  was  to  be  brok- 
en.) 
Piesident  McKay  (as  he  turned 
the  first  shovel  of  dirt  for  the  new 
Relief  Society  Building):  I  now 
turn  the  first  shovel  of  dirt  for  the 
new  Building  for  the  Relief  Society 
of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints. 
President  Stephen  L  Richards, 
President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr., 
President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,