[Vol4 | November 1917 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons - Lesson I Theology and Testimony]

Guide Lessons. LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in December. NEW TESTAMENT TIMES. (Reading: Matthew, Chapters 5, 6, 7.) If you were an inmate of your Eastern home, you would become familiar with the domestic work of your mother. "With willing hands," as they said in those days, she wielded the distaff and the spindle. The spindle, which she might carry about with her, was a small instrument. "It consisted of a smooth, wooden pin, or stem, about the size and shape of a long wooden pen holder. This was inserted at its thick end into a hole of a hemispherical 'top' or whorl, which was the exact shape of the crown of a small mushroom. It was this top which the English translation calls 'distaff.' A small brass hook, fastened to the end of the stem which protruded slightly above the whorl, completed the spindle." You watched her interestedly as she wound some wool on a small wooden frame, into which she inserted her left hand, holding it with her palm next the thumb, so that all her fingers would be left free; as she fastened the hook of the spindle to the bunch of wool, and twirled the spindle swiftly at its lower end, between the thumb and the middle finger of the right hand, drawing the thread deftly with the fingers of both hands; as, when the twisted thread was about the length of her arm, she unhooked it without breaking it off, wound it on the stem of. the spindle just below the whorl, and then fastened it to the hook close to the raw material  continuing these operations till the bunch of wool was converted into a spindle of thread. You would know also that all the clothes worn by your father, not to speak of your own and your mother's, were made at home. You would be aware, doubtless, that your mother's reputation for diligence and loving care as a wife would be made by the men, including your father, who sat in the market-place or "at the gates of the city among the elders of the land," telling tales and parables, and discussing matters of public interest; and that your father, if his clothes were neat in appearance, would praise his wife "as a costly jewel." Nor would you be ignorant of the fact that all the grinding 
 of meal and flour was done at home by your mother. The jadoos, or grinder, which was most probably shared by one or two other families related to you, consisted "of two round stones  an upper and a nether  from eighteen to twenty inches in diameter, and about four inches in thickness. It was a portable article. The two stones were held together by a wooden pin which was securely fastened in the center of the nether stone, and passed through a funnel-shaped hole in the center of the upper stone. A wooden handle was inserted near the outer edge of the upper stone." When your mother had only a small quantity of wheat to grind, she operated this mill alone, but when she had a large quantity to grind or when she wished to turn drudgery into pleasant work, she invited another woman to join her at the task. t Perhaps you would not have been very much worried over the fact, but it would be a fact none the less, that your being a girl instead of a boy made a great difference so far as your education was concerned. Your brother, as already stated, would not only have been a little better received than you on coming into the world, but would receive mental and cultural education to the extent of the family purse. You on your part would receive little of this, other than what you might absorb in your associations with the members of your family and the neighbors. Your brother, if the family could afford it, might even have a private tutor. But, after all, you would not be very likely to miss it, not knowing what it was for a girl to be educated. The saying of Shakespeare would apply in your case, "Where ignorance is bliss, 'tis folly to be wise." At eleven or twelve years of age you would begin to wear a heavy veil  such a one as would completely hide your face. Without this veil you would never, after marriage, appear in public. You would probably be married, if you were married at all, before twenty. After this age you would be everywhere accounted an old jnaid. The man you married you might never have seen before, let alone met him. The engagement and all the preliminaries for marriage would have been attended to by your parents, most likely by your father. Prior to the nuptials there would have been nothing in the form of a courtship, therefore, as with us modern Westerners. In the East, to this very day, there is no "going out with a fellow." Your parents and the parents of the young man whom you were expected to marry would meet for the arrange as isments. Most likely often your today, the case father, would instead ask of giving one. a dowery If he did not, with like Jacob's The father-in-law, engagement might you last would a whole be year, considered highly you honored." during which would not meet your affianced. And what is more, the engagement would be as binding as a marriage, and could be annulled only by the formalities of a divorce. "But suppose you did not like each other?" That would not matter. The probability is as great that you would be happy as it is under our own system where the young people not only know each other but have the matter of choice in their own hands. "In both the East and the West the perfectly happy and the perfectly unhappy marriages are rare. In both hemispheres the large majority of married people soon learn that domestic happiness depends in no small measure on adherence to the well-known rule: Tn essentials unity: in non-essentials liberty in all things charity.' " On the whole the reason for this arrangement of marriage which prevailed in the Hebrew commonwealth and in the East generally arose put of the lack of education in the woman and the unstable conditions of the people, socially and politically. "These limitations were especially narrow in the case of 'maidens,' or 'virgins;' that is, unmarried women. They were not supposed to participate in social functions as their mothers did, nor to form friendships with young men, even among their own relatives. The contracting of marriage was not so much an individual as a community affair." The whole purpose in your marriage would be, not to have a "soul-mate" nor yet to secure for you a provider, but to give you the right properly to become a mother of children, or, strictly speaking, a "mother of men." The Jewish woman was known only as a wife and mother, the home-builder. The controversy implied in the phrase, "Woman's place is the home," could excite no -dispute in the East. That place was settled once for all by the general sentiment of the community. "Marriage was a religious union. The highest and most sacred duty of the husband and wife was to beget many children, bring them up 'in the fear of the Lord,' and be such a good example to them, as to enable them to live a pious life, and to transmit their good heritage to the unborn generations." As a married woman you would have a sort of emancipation. You would assume a place of honor in the community. Contrary to the impression that prevails pretty generally today with respect to the status of woman among the ancient Hebrews, you would, in the home, be the equal of your husband in every respect. "God created man in his own image, in the image of God created he him: male and female created he them"  would lie understood to apply to you as well as to your husband. So, too, would the sayings of Paul the apostle, which he obtained as much from his Old Testament training as from Christianity, although they were uttered later than the time of Elizabeth and Mary: "There is neither male nor female: for we are all one in 
 Christ," and "The wife hath not power over her own body, but the husband; and likewise also the husband hath not power over his own body, but the wife." The same single standard of morality would be required of both. Infidelity to the marriage vow would be punished in the husband as in the wife. So they were equal there. Then again the children would be required to obey you as well as their father. The law of Moses is explicit in this respect, in the case of the rebellious son who will not "obey the voice of father or the voice of his mother." To be sure there would be some restrictions on you. You would be bound down to the veil, for instance, you would not be expected to talk much in the presence of men, and the field of your endeavor would be confine d to the home. Rut these and other like limitations would be imposed upon you not because men wished to make a slave of you but because they wished to protect you. For we must remember that these restrictions arose out of conditions of insecurity, social and political, when it was more or less common to steal women. And "the duty to protect always carries with it the right to discipline," as when the strong men of a clan protect, and in some respect subject, the weaker men who need protection. In a word, finally, if you were living in Palestine at the time of Elizabeth and Mary, you would be expected to try to reach the ideal embodied in the following description in Proverbs: "Who can find a virtuous woman? For her price is above rubies. The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her, so that he shall have no need of spoil. She will do him good and not evil all the days of her life. She seeketh wool and flax and worketh willingly with her hands. She is like the merchant's ships: she bringeth her food from afar. She riseth also while it is yet night, and giveth meat to her household, and a portion to her maidens. She considereth a field, and buyeth it; with the fruit of her hands she planteth a vineyard. She girdeth her loins with strength, and strengthened her arms. She perceiveth that her merchandise is good: her candle goeth not out by night." QUESTIONS. 1. Describe the work of the spindle in those days. 2. Who made the men's clothes? Why was this the case? 3. Tell of the education of children. 4. How did a young girl marry then? 5. How do you account for this arrangement of the marriage problem? Which is the better, theirs or ours? Why? 6. What was the purpose of marriage then? What is the purpose now? 7. What was the status of the married woman then? Were there any restrictions on her? What were they? Is there any justification for these? 8. Judging by the passage quoted from Proverbs, what was the ideal woman of the ancient Hebrews? Give details one by one. 9. What is the ideal woman today among the Latter day Saints? Among the world? Compare and contrast the three ideals.