[Vol4 | November 1917 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Home | Title: Home Science Department Janette A. Hyde]

Home Science Department. Janctte A. Hyde. CONSERVATION OF HUMAN LIFE. With the beginning of war in America, and the youth and flower of our nation called to the front, we who are left to assist in the management of civic and national affairs, must begin now to adopt measures for the preservation of infants . The future strength of our nation depends upon the children and youth of today. The expectant mother and the young bride must all share in our extreme care for health measures. We want to assist in the reduction of infant mortality by organizing groups of women who will devise means and plans whereby such measures as are necessary to produce health and strength will be put into active operation. Public health nurses should be kept at home instead of so many being sent to the front, and the young women who remain at home and are not trained nurses should consider it absolutely loyal to America to begin at once the preparation for a nurse course. Let America not make the mistake that has been made in European countries by allowing weak and expectant mothers to overwork themselves. Measures should be adopted at once to eliminate the placing of laborious tasks upon the weak and fragile expectant mother. It is too late to regulate matters after necessity finds and requires places to be filled in factories, etc. Let us organize and be prepared to meet the exigencies and demands of this terrible war. Let the middle-aged and the older women of the communities take the brunt of labor and care, thus leaving those free from great burden and strain upon whose life-work depends the bringing into the world and the rearing of the children of the future. Then, too, there is the great problem of food and milk supply which so directly affects the infants . This should be gone into very thoroughly by the national and civic authorities, to maintain a high standard of quality for the supply of baby milk. In our conservation methods, we should seek the best and most nutritious foods for growing children. Let us insist upon the women of the Relief Society studying very systematically this phase of food and its preparation, that every ounce of nutritive value may be secured for the growing child, that we may not be handicapped as is Poland. On account of improper health laws 
 and regulations with regard to the food supply, we find that Poland is depopulated, as far as youth is concerned, it not having a child under seven years. The milk supply is threatened in the United States on account of food prices; also on account of the slaughtering of young calves, and the great demand for meat to be sent to our allies, etc. All these factors, together, have reduced the milk supply of the United States, until the agriculturalists or dairymen are looking forward to the prices of milk and butter rising beyond the reach of the ordinary family. We suggest that the matured people who are in the habit of drinking milk and using it very freely, substitute other beverages. We also wish to recommend extreme care in the use of butter-fats and cheese. Save as much milk as possible for the growing child and infant. The milk supply, too, should be guarded with every care possible. Thoroughly examine all output with regard to cleanliness, see that it is free from disease germs. Sober thoughts with regard to the wastage of human life in this world-war, may help us to realize what the American nation is facing. Let us conserve the young mother of this community and her infant. WEANED BABIES. Before commencing the weaning of a child, it is well to begin with modified cow's milk as the simplest kind of diet. It is impossible to fix a formula for the modificat:on of milk, as every ch'ld has to be fed according to its weight and conditions of nutrition. The feeding of infants  should be carefully studied out, and we recommend that it be done under the direction of a physician. Some doctors recommend that mothers begin by introducing dry crusts, and later small amounts of well cooked gruel. In some families, children get too many eggs and too much meat, and in other families, they are deprived of the necessary amount of nutrition contained in both eggs and meat. A good rule to follow is to give a child two years old or over, an tug every ether day, and about the same amount of meat, fish, or poultry equal to two ounces on the days that come between. If, for any reason, meat is omitted from the child's diet, special care should be taken to see that other things are given to take its place  referably an extra amount of milk or eggs. The following are recipes recommended by the Government for children's diet: Foiled Custard. 3 egg yolks. JA teaspoonful of salt. 2 cupfuls of milk. Flavoring. Ya cupful of sugar, honey, or syrup. Heat the milk in a double boiler. Thoroughly mix the eggs HOME SCIENCE DEPARTMENT. 635 and sugar and pour the milk over them. Return the mixture to the double boiler and heat it until it thickens, stirring constantly. Cool and flavor. If the custard curdles, remove it from the fire and beat with a Dover egg beater. This custard may be served in place of cream on many kinds of dessert. Floating Island. In this dish the whites of eggs left over from boiled custard can be used to serve with it. Beat the whites until stiff; sweeten them a little; and cook them in a covered dish over water which is hot but not boiling; or cook them on top of the hot milk which is to be used in making custard. Lift them out with a wire egg beater or split spoon, and place on top of the custard. Decorate with small bits of jelly. Tapioca Custard. Tapioca custards may be made as follows: Add to the list of ingredients for boiled custard one-fourth cupful of pearl tapioca. Soak the tapioca in water for an hour or two, drain it, and cook in the milk until it is transparent. Proceed as for boiled custard. Frozen custards are usually called "ice cream" by housekeepers. They are very nutritious and may be served to invalids and children, if served in small quantities. A good ice cream may be made as follows: Allow onefourth cupful of sugar to each cupful of thin cream (half milk and half cream) ; flavor and freeze. French ice-cream usually contains eggs as well as milk and cream, and may be made as follows: For each half cupful of milk a^ow one-fourth cupful of sugar, one or two egg yolks or one white egg, and a half cupful of cream. Make a custard out of all the ingredients except the cream. When it is cool, flavor, add the cream, and freeze. Junket. Junket is very nutritious. 2 cupfuls of milk. % cupful of sugar, honey, or syrup. 1 junket tablet. Yz teaspoon ful of salt. A few grains of nutmeg or cinnamon. Warm the milk to about the temperature of the body, crush the tablet, and add it with the other ingredients to the milk. Pour into one large or several small dishes and place in a warm (not hot) place to harden. Cool before serving. Milk toast served with the grated yolk of a hard boiled egg sprinkled over, makes a very attractive and nutritious dish. The whites of eggs when hard-boiled are not suitable for children unless finely chopped and the child is able to chew them well.