[WomansExponent | Vol30 | 1901 | February | Issue: 10 | Title: AN INTERESTING LETTER. | Author: Unknown]

AN INTERESTING LETTER.
My Dear Sister:
	Thinking you would be pleased to hear
of the progress of the Relief Society in the
St. Joseph Stake, I will give you a synop-
sis of our last conference, which convened
December 27, 1901 It was a very cold
and windy day, notwithstanding this we
had a good attendance, some traveling fif-
teen miles.
	There were present of the Priesthood,
President Andrew Kimball, Counselor
Wm. D. Johnson and Patriarch John Tay
lor.
	President Elizabeth Layton encouraged
the sisters to be diligent and faithful to
their duties. Spoke on silk culture, the
Woman’s Building and taking the
EXPONENT.
	Local presidents reported their branches
of the Relief Society in good condition,
and striving to do all that was required of 
them.
	Stake presidency and aids visit some
wards most every month.
	Statistical and financial reports were read
by Stake Secretary Selena Phillips. We
have 1,051 bushels of wheat on hand. We
have disbursed from our Stake treasury
$134.90 for charitable purposes, aside from
the local ward disbursements.
	President Andrew Kimball addressed
the conference. The subjects spoken on
were retrenchment, storing of grain, tith-
ing, self-sustaining and proper employ-
ment for our children.
	President Wm. D. Johnson encouraged
home industries and economy; also bore
testimony that President Andrew Kimball
had preached a Gospel sermon today.
	Conference closed with a good spirit pre-
vailing.
	Please remember me kindly to our new
presidency, as I have known Sister Bath-
sheba W. Smith ever since I can remem-
ber, and Sister Annie T. Hyde used to be
a Sunday School teacher in the Fourteenth
Ward when I attended Sunday School.
	SELENA L. PHILLIPS, Stake Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

Woman's Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts. 
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpa[--]e
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal d[-]s-
count to regular advertisers.
	Exponent office Room 507 Templeton South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			Mrs. E. B. WELLS, 
				Salt Lake City, Utah
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a
second-class matter.

Salt Lake City, Utah, February 1902.


