[Vol56 | September 1969 | Page 680 | General Feature | Art in the Home Grayce | E. Cutler]

saying he just made them up."

Naomi put her glass down. "Mike, let's change the subject. I'm quite sure David won't be anything like the Murch boy."

"Well, I should hope not," Gramps said firmly. "He wasn't right for our Myra."

"That was four years ago," Naomi said. "Myra's a grown young lady now."

"Not to me . . . she's still a little girl, but I reckon if she's gone and found the one she wants, I'll do my best to like him," Gramps said as he got to his feet and handed her his empty glass. "I'd better get back to my job so I'll be finished when they get here."

"Say, Gramps, you could go camping with me if you want to," Mike said, joining him back at the rosebush. "then if you don't like him. . . ."

"No, Siree," Gramps stated emphatically. "I wouldn't miss meeting the two for anything. Not 'all the king's horses' could drag me away today."

"Just thought I'd ask," Mike said, "sorry I have to leave you Gramps, and gather up my camping stuff right away."

"And I must get busy," Naomi said, arising from her chair. "Mike, try to get home early enough tomorrow to spend some time with your sister and meet her friends."

"All right, Mom."

Well, I have my answer from Gramps, Naomi thought as she returned to the kitchen. He's spending the week end right here, and that was that. She took a dish from the cupboard. Naturally he wants to meet David. She

didn't blame him, but Myra had a point, too. For a moment she lowered her head. "Dear Father in heaven, help us to work things out without hurting anyone." She felt better immediately.

I've been being too melodramatic she told herself while she beat the cake icing. What could possibly happen? Myra was worrying about something that happened years ago when the Murch boy was going through a smarty stage. But supposing Gramps didn't like David? He wasn't exactly the silent type about his dislikes—but Walter was right about his father, "Only the genuine survive him"—and if the young man wasn't fine. . . .

Since Myra had been attending the university, David was the first young man she had invited home. Myra must be fond of him; he must be someone extra special, Naomi reflected. She poured a large portion of the creamy white frosting on the cake and dabbed the sides. If he isn't genuine, Gramps, with his keen insight of human nature, would—why was she crossing bridges she might never come to? She had faith in her daughter's judgment—David would be all Myra had said he was and more.

"Can I help?" Gramps poked his head around the kitchen door just as she finished decorating the cake. "I'm through in the yard."

"Thank you, Gramps. I'll manage very well."

"Then reckon I'll clean up a bit. I don't want the tyke to be ashamed of her old grampa."

"As if she could be," Naomi laughed.

656

Gramps' Best Behavior

The afternoon simply flew; she was glad of that. And surely I haven't even had time to think about David's grandfather, Naomi thought as she sat down on the davenport to relax and await her guests. I just hope Gramps and he will like each other.

She didn't have long to wonder. At a quarter to five she saw them turn in at the driveway and stop. She hurried out the door to find Gramps already waiting for them.

"Hello," Myra called happily. "How are you?"

Gramps opened the car door. "Fit as a fiddle. This must be..."

"This is David Stewart, and his grandfather—and this is Gramps and my mother," she said.

"Well, now it's mighty nice meeting you both," Gramps said, extending his hand.

"We're delighted to meet you. Please come in," Naomi said cordially.

"I hope you don't mind my tagging along with David and Myra," Mr. Stewart remarked as he crawled from the car.

"I should say not," Gramps cut in before she had a chance to answer. "Understand you're a history teacher?"

"Yes."

"History's my favorite subject." He chuckled. "I've lived through quite a speck of it."

"You and Grandfather will hit it off famously," David said. "If it's history, Grandfather is interested."

Just for an instant, Naomi saw a frightened look in Myra's eyes, but she quickly recovered and smiled at David.

"Shall we go in?"

"It seems like yesterday Myra was a little tyke, and I carried her around piggy-back. Now here she is a young lady." Gramps volunteered on the way to the house.

"Oh, Gramps," Myra said, her face coloring slightly. "It's really been quite awhile."

"I guess it just seems that way to an old man," he said sadly.

She slipped her arms around his waist. "It's nice to remember, Gramps. And it was fun," she whispered.

Naomi smiled. How quickly she responds when she thinks she has hurt him!

"My father-in-law will show you two to your room," Naomi said, "and Myra can share my room. I'll help you with your load, dear."

"Might as well put your bags in your room now," Gramps said, leading the way to the stairs. "Right this way."

Naomi turned to her daughter when they were alone in their room. "I hope you understand. Gramps wouldn't miss seeing you, and he wanted so much to meet David—I couldn't break his heart."

Myra sat down. "I know, Mom. I felt like a traitor asking such a thing. I just don't want anything to go wrong."

"Nothing will. You are the last person in the world Gramps would want to hurt."

"I know that, Mother. He wouldn't mean to, but I keep remembering—Darrel Murch."

"That was several years ago. You didn't really care for him, did you?"

657
