[Vol56 | September 1969 | Page 682 | General Feature | Handicrafts For the Home Annetta | S. Mower]

"No, of course not, but David's different."

"Does he mean so much to you?"

"I'm—I'm hoping—dreaming he will propose—maybe here."

Naomi took her daughter's hand in hers. "Are you sure he's the right one?"

"I'm very sure, Mother."

She kissed her daughter. "Then I hope he loves you, too. Now we'd better go downstairs and finish dinner."

"What's the menu?"

Naomi smiled. "Things I thought your guests would like—fried chicken, mashed potatoes, hot biscuits, cake, and all the rest."

"Sounds great. Good food, plus pleasant conversation, I trust," Myra said hopefully.

"The evening will go well."

She was right, too. Myra and David kept a steady conversation going about school, mutual friends and Church activities. Gramps sat straight in his chair listening to every comment made by David, ready to pounce on any provocative statement, while Brother Stewart, a little more subtle, was just as concerned about the welfare of his only grandson. How she wished she could read their minds, or did she? The two young people didn't seem the least concerned.

It was after dinner when they were in the living room that Gramps ran his fingers through his hair, as he often did when he had a point to make, and looked directly at David. "This modern generation, I don't think they have much purpose in life. Why, when I was a boy, we knew...."

"Well, Sir, I guess each generation thinks it's the best. I don't agree with you that your generation had more purpose.... I think the young people of today...."

Mr. Stewart broke in. "You're probably both right; each generation has its problems, and its aspirations, too."

"Folks are soft today. Believe me in my day you didn't live it easy."

"We try to meet the challenge of our day, Sir. True, we aren't called to walk across the plains like many of our ancestors, but I'll wager if we were called upon to do that today, we'd manage."

Gramps raised his eyebrows. "You don't agree with me on much of anything, do you, Son?"

"If you mean about our generation, I'm afraid I don't. Oh, I know there are slackers today, but there were in your time, too."

"Let's change the subject," Naomi said.

Myra looked worried. "Yes, let's do," she said.

"I find the subject stimulating," Brother Stewart remarked. "You know, Brother Lawes, I have some interesting memories of our day, too."

"I remember when I was a boy," Gramps began, and the conversation continued until bedtime—probably way beyond. Naomi and Myra could hear them talking long after they had retired.

"Oh, Mom," Myra buried her head in the pillow. "David will never, never accept another invitation. He must be terribly bored."

"If he loves you, I doubt if a little boring discussion will

658

exactly frighten him away. Be-
sides, I thought he rather en-
joyed it."

"Gramps doesn't like him."
"Don't be so sure."

Myra turned over in bed.
"Gramps seems so deliberate. . . ."

"He's concerned and I think
he feels needed in protecting his
granddaughter's interest. Be
tolerant, darling. David will un-
derstand. Remember, he has a
grandfather, too."

"I know, Mom. Goodnight."

Early the next morning Na-
omi heard the three of them tip-
toe past the door and go quietly
downstairs. She nudged Myra.
"We'd better get up, too."

"Isn't it terribly early?" she
asked sleepily.

"Gramps never sleeps late."

When they went downstairs a
few minutes later, they were sur-
prised to see Brother Stewart
and David out on the patio alone.
Brother Stewart was bent over
laughing and David was writing.

"They certainly seem cheer-
ful," Naomi commented. "At
least Brother Stewart."

Myra looked puzzled. "He is
always serious at school."

"Something has struck him
funny."

Myra watched them for several
more minutes, then she turned to
her. "Maybe they're laughing at
Gramps."

"Of course they're not."

"Then why isn't Gramps with
them? If I thought they were
ridiculing his stories—like Darrel
Murch did—I'd—I'd—"

"I'm sure they aren't."

"Poor Gramps." She flung the
apron she had just started to put
on across the room and banged

out the door. "Where's Gramps?"
she asked coldly as she swung
past the two startled men.

Brother Stewart had stopped
laughing as he pointed to the
backyard. "Out there," he said.
David stared after her.

[ILLUSTRATION]

Naomi followed, then stopped
abruptly when she saw Gramps
sitting forlornly in an old chair
at the edge of the yard whittling
on a piece of wood. "Oh, no,"
she cried. Myra was right;
Gramps had been hurt again—
and it was her fault; she should
have insisted. . . . She watched,
unable to move, as Myra ran
to his side and knelt beside him,
resting her head on his knees.
"Gramps," she whispered. "Dear
Gramps, I'm sorry."

659
