[Vol56 | September 1969 | Page 690 | General Feature | Floyd | E. Breinholt]
Floyd E. Breinholt, Chairman, Department of Art Brigham Young University For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 6—The Power of Work Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, April 1970 Southern Hemisphere: August 1970 When families are united in their work and play, work becomes more meaningful and leisure more enjoyable. A casual observer might say that this painting "La Grande Jatte" by Georges Seurat illustrates. A popular leisure-time activity—strolling in the park. However, as one looks and reflects, he may find that there is much more to it than that. The reality of the subject has been subjected to stringent refining—not necessarily to improve it—but in order to yield its essence. The unessentials have been dropped away leaving only images of incisive clarity. A heat haze blurs the detail and gives a static quality. One feels as if he had captured a moment suspended in time, in which order reigns. Georges Seurat lived at the time Impressionism was at its height. However, he believed that this system of painting was too haphazard, so he developed a systematic method of painting, which was highly intellectual, methodical, and almost scientific in approach. He carefully organized the space on his canvas by using horizontal, vertical, and diagonal lines in perfect balance. Then with careful, almost artificial, precision, he placed the confetti-like, round spots of color next to each other, until his canvas was covered in such a way that the colors, being mixed in the eye of the observer, give a sensation of shimmering vibrancy. He called this method Divisionism. Others have called it Pointillism. This painting was first shown in 1886, and it marked the painter's arrival at a maturity in the use of the method he invented. His departure from the established way of painting, and from the Impressionism of his time, opened the way for later, so-called "Modern" art. Seurat must have worked hard to accomplish what he did at such an early age. (He died at the age of 32.) And, as is the case with many highly creative people, he found his recreation in his work. He said, "Art is harmony—harmony comes from placing, side-by-side, contrasting elements and similar elements in tone, in color, and in line." 690 ROME (Continued from page 672) The last thing on our tours was the ruin of the Colosseum which held 50,000 people. Near the arena there used to be a marble platform with marble thrones for the vestals, senators, and other dignitaries. Above this platform was the emperor's throne under a canopy. The ancient heated baths were the social centers of Rome and there were shops surrounding them for every purpose to please men and women. The Baths were the meeting places of literary men, where lectures were delivered, poems read, and Philosophical themes debated. Athletes gave exhibitions there of their skill and strength, musiclans showed their talents, and every form of physical improvement was taught. It was cal.. Culated that 62,000 people could have bathed at any hour in the public baths in Rome. Many noted works of art were in these areas. Modern Rome has a population of over 2,000,000 and is LEAVES Wind-loosed they fell upon a waiting earth retaining veins of summer's green: they lay as other years of leaves have lain released from Parent stem, they knew the early light of Spring, the summer Strengthening, emblazoned color, and the fall. As leaves do, children will outlive the parent tree many seasons after: Rome Spread over 62,000 acres. It has about 2,000 restaurants. The delicious over-size pears, apples, peaches, and &rapes served to us with our meals for dessert were a delight to see and eat. We saw the famous "Spanish Steps" before we left and a street with magnolia trees on either side just about to bloom. We learned that Rome is a little farther north than the city of New York, and we reluctantly left the magnificence of this amazing city and hoped that some day our road would lead us back to Rome. In 1850 the Italian Mission of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was opened and in 1854 it was combined with the Swiss Mission. The SwissItalian Mission was divided in 1966 with the Italian Mission headquarters in Florence and is progressing among thosé wonderfully gifted, warm, and friendly people. A new era is Opening for those who will] listen to the gospel to show them the way to peace and salvation. Parent-taught, they have learned to lean against the winds nor fear the wrath of storms, aware of radiance wro ught by morning's sun and the regenerative power in the cycled harmony of birth.