[Vol56 | September 1969 | Page 644 | Special Feature | McKay | ]
Birthday Congratulations President David O. McKay September 8, 1969 The women of the Church throughout the world, in all dominions where the stakes and missions have been organized, remember with love and gratitude the ninety-sixth birthday of President David - O. McKayprophet, seer, and revelator.
This man said to me, 'Daniel, follow me.' I replied, 'I will follow you,' because as I made that remark, the Spirit of God whispered to me and said, 'That man has the truth.' " 

651 September 1969

 comets ' heheneal 7 Y aan. AIT T TIONG 5 " He re <. THY es "< om, ~ Cloth displayed at market Daniel Mich and his brother were released from jail shortly after Daniel had had this dream or vision. The Mich brothers returned to their homes in Patzicia. Soon thereafter and perhaps about a year before my visit to Guatemala, missionaries came to Patzicia. A few days after their arrival, the mayor sent for them to come to his office. When the missionaries arrived, they saw two hundred or more angry Indians crowded in front of the mayor's office. As the missionaries approached, the crowd of Indians opened a pathway and the missionaries walked on into the mayor's office. The elders asked the mayor what he wanted of them. He replied that he had a petition signed by two hundred citizens of the community demanding A? That the missionaries leave town immediately and cease teaching their religion in Patzicia. The elders replied that they would not leave Patzicia until their mission president transferred them to some other place. One of the missionaries suggested that the mayor telephone the governor and perhaps the governor would instruct him regarding the missionaries. The mayor immediately telephoned the governor and explained the situation. The governor emphatically instructed the mayor to let the Mormon missionaries alone, that they had a right to preach in Guatemala. He explained that they had religious freedom in Guatemala. Daniel Mich was with the people in front of the mayor's office waiting to see what happened to the missionaries. The mayor released the two elders. As they left his: office, Brother Mich invited the missionaries to come to his home and teach him the gospel. They had taught him only three or four lessons when an important event occurred. One day in the midst of one of the lessons, one of the missionaries opened his book and Daniel Mich saw a photograph of a tall, handsome man, with beautiful white hair. Brother Mich immediately and excitedly exclaimed. "This is the man! It is he whom I saw!" Of course the missionaries wondered what he was talking about and he told them the story that I have accounted herein. Then Brother Mich asked, "Who is the man whose photograph you have in your book?" "His nameis David O. McKay," the missionaries replied, "God's prophet, seer, and revelator and the President of The Church of Jesus Christ. He holds the keys of the kingdom of God on earth at the present time." Brother Mich iold us that he replied to the missionaries: "IT know that all the things you have told me are true. I know that you are missionaries of the true Church of Jesus Christ. At the time that the tall, handsome man, with beautiful white hair— who you told me was President David O. McKay—said to me, 'Daniel, follow me,' the Spirit of the Lord whispered to me and said, "'wo young men will bring you the truth.' Since you came into our town I have continued to watch you. Now all things I believe have been proven to be true. David O. McKay is a prophet of God and you have the true religion of Jesus Christ, and so," he continued, "I asked the elders to baptize me. This is how I was brought into the Church." Brother Daniel Mich had related the story of his life, his dream, and its fulfillment in joining the Church. While he was telling his wonderful experiences, tears rolled down his cheeks. As he completed his _ testimony, there was not a dry eye in the house. The Spirit of God was there in great abundance. Neary two years ago Dr. Robert Blair, Chairman of the Department of Linguistics, and seventeen BYU students had been down in Guatemala to study the Cakchiquel language and to transcribe it phonetically, ToIndians of Guatemala ward fall they returned to the BYU and brought with them Daniel Mich and Manuel Ismuel Tay from Solola, a town near Lake Atitlan. These faithful men stayed at BYU for a year. The Cakchiquel is a language in which books are practically unavailable. The purpose Dr. Blair and his students had in going to Guatemala was to study Cakchiquel and get The Book of Mormon trarislated into that language. The Cakchiquel Indians do not know how to read nor write. Under the direction of Dr. Blair at the BYU, Daniel Mich and Manuel Tay translated The Book of Mormon into Cakchiquel and put it on tape. Also, Brother Mich and Brother Tay translated The Joseph Smith Story and parts of the New Testament and put them on tape. They also recorded stories of their lives. This was a great contribution that these good Cakchiquel men have madein making possiblethe teaching of the gospel of Jesus Christ to approximately 50,000 Cakchiquels in Gu