[Vol56 | September 1969 | Page 693 | General Feature | Nut Cups for the Party Alice | Elizabeth Oertle]
t and the inland sea. If one does not have the advantages of being surrounded with artists in his own family, there is a renaissance of art the world over and good art is available in city galleries and even in small communities. Traveling exhibits, art schools, and art books are plentiful where one can learn and discern a good work of art and truly determine what he likes when the time comes to add a painting or a piece of sculpture to his valued possessions. If I could be given a wish for beauty and contentment, I would choose a good work of art to live by.

NUT CUPS FOR THE PARTY (Continued from page 686) outside of the basket; the handle should be on the inside. When you have the cup roughly shaped, dip it into the melted wax using the tongs. When the cup is cool, push it into the desired shape. To add variety, staple small rosebuds or other plastic flowers at the places where the handle is attached. The cup is now ready to fill with candy and nuts for a party. Other patterns may be used and dipped in wax for other parties or for showers or socials. Double yarn Outside or inside of basket Pattern for nut cups made from scraps 3" circle 6" circle 692 SE ——E—<«= * < a',. ™" - a ae \ IN has used her <e ee bs. South Blackfoot St lace, an is an expert auty within create be reads, broidered bedsp ake, \daho, at making rugs, quilts, talents to dem Emily Olsen, ets and other re given to the viol e doilies, and other decorative items. Her yard IS also very lovely because of the tender ca varieties of flowers. Her vegetable gardens are rarely surpassed. She has been active In all of the auxiliaries of the Church, having served for nine ears as a Relief Society counselor, and more than fifty years as a visiting teacher. She has also rendered faithful service as a teacher and executive In the other organizations. Her of three children and grandmother to three. At eighty-five. She Sister Olson \ still seldom misses 2 Relief Society meeting. Made many \ ce tablecloths, ovely articles doilies, Nellie Green Howard, Portneuf Stake, McCammon, of handwork. Her specialty is quilts, DU her crocheted afghans, a and bedspreads are very lovely. She started counting the quilts she had made In 1955. Since that time she has quilted 130 full-sized quilts and twenty-one baby quilts. She has given quilts along with a pair of embroidered pillow cases to each of her five children, twenty-one grandchildren fifteen step-grandchildren thirty-five great-grand
