[Vol54 | September 1967 | Page 710 | Lesson | Homemaking Meeting Christmas Food, Fun, and Finance Celestia | J. Taylor]
Homemaking Education Discussion 3—Christmas Food, Fun, and Finance Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, December 1967 Southern Hemisphere: May 1968 Objective: To show how Christmas food, fun, and finance can be combined to make a happy family holiday. INTRODUCTION Christmas can and should be the happiest, most joyful time of all the year. Yet for many it is a time of confusion, drudgery, and financial depression. For some, the real spirit of Christmas has little meaning. They are trapped in a maze of commercial materialism, and the spirit of love, of mercy, and of spiritual uplift is forgotten. One woman who apparently had every reason to be 710 happy was heard to remark, "I'll be glad when Christmas is over. For me it's a time of confusion and financial burden." Don't let this happen to you. You can have the happiest, merriest, easiest Christmas you've ever had by following some of the simple rules of wise planning, wise management, and _ wise spending. The most surprising and most satisfying part of it is that everything pertaining to Christ- mas can be fun from the food right down to the finance. CHRISTMAS FOOD PREPARATION No woman wants to spend all or even part of Christmas day in the kitchen cooking and preparing food. How can some of this be avoided?' One solution, which works well for some families, is to have the big holiday dinner on Christmas Eve. "But, that's our busiest day getting ready for Christmas," you say. It needn't be. Following is a list of suggestions which can take most, if not all, of the drudgery out of Christmas food preparation. Prepare as many of your traditional holiday foods as far in advance as you can: A. Christmas fruit cakes and plum (carrot) pudding can be made months in advance. They are wonderful to have for pre-holiday entertaining as well as for Christmas. B. All Christmas breads—plain and sweet rolls, bread sticks, nut and fruit breads, and pies can be made days ahead carefully wrapped and properly stored. C. Cranberry sauce, jellies, and relishes can be prepared far in advance. D. Where salads are used, they can be set or frozen at least twenty-four hours ahead. Ingredients for fruit or vegetable salads can be prepared the day before. E. Dressing for the fowl improves in flavor if prepared at least a day ahead. The bread, the onions, and the seasonings, can all be mixed and stored until ready for use. (Cauticn: The bird must not be stuffed until just before placing in the oven to bake.) F. Candies, cookies, spiced nuts, and other goodies can be made and stored as far in advance as needful. G. If the group is composed of several families who are coming "home" for Christmas, the load can be lightened by having each family prepare Lesson Department and bring some portion of the Christmas dinner. H. The silver can be polished and the dishes, glassware, and linens can be in readiness several days ahead. PREPARING FOR CHRISTMAS FUN Happiness abounds during the Christmas season, especially if early preparation is made for it. What could be confusion and chaos—with children underfoot and adults getting in each other's way—can be just the opposite with a little foresight and planning. A wise mother or grandmother will know that if children have something to do they will cause little trouble. She will have available those things which will keep the children busy and happy— crayons, coloring books, storybooks, and games. The decorating of the house and the tree is always fun and everyone can have a part in it. Family members have an opportunity here to give expression to their creative abilities and talents. The entire family can enjoy visiting together in close and happy family communion. Singing Christmas carols, reading the Christmas story from the scriptures, reminiscing and visiting together, are some of the activities which the family can enjoy here in the warmth and peace of the family circle, and they remain happy memories through all the years to come. WHAT ABOUT CHRISTMAS FINANCE? How can we enjoy all the fun and festivities of Christmas without overextending ourselves financially? This is a vital question which touches all of us, and unless we find an answer we will not 

711 September 1967

 enjoy the happiness and peace which are inherent in the true spirit of Christmas. To be sure, there is no simple solution which will work for all of us, but there are some suggestions which might help us to find our own solutions to this problem. 1. Family gift giving can be simplified by having the adult members— possibly excluding the grandparents— draw each other's names, and by doing the same with the children. In this way, every member receives' one family gift. The approximate price of both the adult and the children's gift is predetermined by the family group. Gifts created: and developed through the skills and talents of the individual family members are appreciated and are usually less costly. 2. Gifts between neighbors and friends can be simple, inexpensive ones from the kitchen, such as baked goods, homemade candies, cookies, or fruits attractively boxed or wrapped. 3. The wise homemaker will buy needed food ingredients, as well as gift items, periodically when sales occur, rather than crowd her financial budget all at once. For Discussion What methods do you use which can minimize the work load and the financial burden at Christmas time? A monthly savings plan, early planning, shopping, sales buying, handmade items, or other methods? How can all family members be involved in preparing for the holiday season? CONCLUSION By planning well in advance, by buying wisely and spending judiciously, and by cultivating a happy attitude toward Christmas, you will be rewarded with a family holiday which has successfully combined Christmas food, fun, and finance.