[Vol54 | September 1967 | Page 689 | Special Feature | "Le Bénédicité" (Chardin) Floyd | E. Breinholt]
["Le Bénédicité" (Chardin) Floyd E. Breinholt]
"Le Bénédicité" by Jean Baptiste Simeon Chardin (1699-1779) (Louvre Museum, Paris, France). Painting to be studied in connection with Cultural Refinement Lesson No. 7 "Charity Out of a Pure Heart'" Commentary by Floyd E. Breinholt Associate Professor of Art Brigham Young University @ The artist Chardin lived in France at a time when a number of artists were changing the subject matter in art from the painting of the nobility, the pomp and gaiety of the court, and its extravagance, to the quaint homely scenes of everyday life. Paintings small enough and with subject matter fitting to a more humble setting were becoming more desirable. Chardin insisted on painting the everyday things of life and is said to have become more popular than the great artists who painted the nobility. His paintings told a story that the common people, the middle classes, could understand and identify with. This painting "Le Bénédicité" is such a work. His purpose may have been to say that to be grateful is to be wise. A wise man discovers his own true relationship and place in the pattern of life. He discovers that gratitude is prerequisite to learning to love. As in Timothy, "the end of the commandment is charity out of a pure heart." To illustrate this noble idea, Chardin shows a small child in the attitude of giving thanks with an implied faith in those who taught her, and a simple faith in a divine providence. Thus portraying, through gratitude, love out of a pure heart. The story is told with astonishing naturalness and dignity. He had no use for tinsel or artificiality, but expressed himself in an unassuming and straightforward manner. This was unusual in his day, but his paintings influenced subsequent art. When the color in his work was being criticized by another artist, he said, "And who told you, Sir, that one paints with color? One makes use of colors, but one paints with emotions." In Chardin's paintings we seem to be looking through a window, watching people live their private lives, always with a feeling of love and understanding. There are those who would call this painting sentimental. The writer Ventura says, "A painting to be art must have feeling. But genuine feeling is a living approach to reality while sentimentality is a will to convince through sentiment, and a mistake in taste. And a will to sentiment destroys natural feeling." We leave the reader to decide whether sentiment is used in this case to convince, or whether the honest feeling of the artist thus expressed is paramount.