[Vol54 | September 1967 | Page 704 | Lesson | Spiritual Living The General Authorities | Roy W. Doxey]
SPIRITUAL LIVING—The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 83—The General Authorities Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 107) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, December 1967 Southern Hemisphere: May 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman learns of the Lord's organization of the General Authorities of his Church and recognizes the INTRODUCTION One of the evidences to support the divinity of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is its organization. With the restoration of the true Church there came into existence a Church that included the officers and callings mentioned in the New Testament. (For example: Eph. 4:11; Philip. 1:1.) Of the great many Christian churches that were in existence when the gospel was restored, none had the same organization that existed in the Primitive Church. The Prophet Joseph 704 inspiration that guides them. Smith did not copy from the New Testament, but the Lord revealed to him the structure of the Church. Before The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized, the Lord revealed that there would be Twelve Apostles in his Church. (D&C 18:27.) At that time the Lord said that they would be known by these two qualifications: (1) the desire to take upon themselves the Savior's name with full purpose of heart and, (2) by their works. (Jbid., 18:27-28, 38.) Class Discussion Discuss the evidence you have as a sister in Relief Society that the organization of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints attests to its divinity. PRIESTHOOD In the Church there are two Priesthoods, the Melchizedek and the Aaronic, the latter being an appendage to the former. (Jbid., 107:1.) The Melchizedek Priesthood holds the right of presidency; that is, the authority to preside in all matters pertaining to the Church on the earth. (Ibid., v. 9.) It is not the office that gives power to the Priesthood, but the Priesthood that gives power and authority to the office. (Ibid., v. 5; Joseph F. Smith, Conference Report, October 1903, page 87; DHC Il:477.) Class Discussion Discuss why you think the Priesthood gives power to the office rather than the office giving power to the Priesthood. POWER OF PRESIDENCY Included in the right of presidency held by the Melchizedek Priesthood is the power to administer in "spiritual things" (D&C 107:8). The keys of this power are explained in the revelation as the privilege to: (1) receive the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven; (2) to have the "heavens opened unto them" to receive revelation; and (3) receive the presence of God and his Son Jesus Christ. (Ibid., vs 18-19.) Since the Melchizedek Priesthood holds the keys to spiritual blessings, spiritual influences are available from the heavens through the administration of Lesson Department that Priesthood. Elders may call upon these powers to bless members of their families as they approach major events in their lives, such as school, missions, military service, marriage, etc.; and to bless the sick; and to perform other ordinances of the gospel. While the Melchizedek Priesthood is upon the earth and operating in the lives of the members of the Church, its powers are for the benefit of both man and woman. By right of confirmation in the Church, all have the right to enjoy the gifts of the Holy Ghost; to some it is given by the Holy Ghost to know that Jesus Christ is the Son of God and that he was crucified for the sins of the world. (D&C 46:13.) This same information was: stated by the Prophet Joseph Smith as follows:. No man can receive the Holy Ghost without receiving revelations. The Holy Ghost is a revelator (DHC VI: 58). THE FIRST PRESIDENCY In March 1832, three years before Section 107 was received, the Lord revealed that the First Presidency of the Church should be organized. To Frederick G. Williams, who was to be a Counselor in that Presidency, the Lord said that Joseph Smith had received the "keys of the kingdom, which belong always unto the Presidency of the High Priesthood" (D&C 81:2). Keys constitute the presiding or directing powers of the Priesthood. He who holds the "keys of the kingdom" controls or governs all operations of the Church throughout the world. Unto Joseph Smith, who held these keys, the Lord said that he was "'to preside in council, 

705 September 1967

 and set in order all the affairs of this Church and kingdom"? (Jbid., 90:16). When the First Presidency of the Church was organized, on March 18, 1833, these powers were then held by that Presidency composed of the Prophet Joseph Smith, Sidney Rigdon, and Frederick G. Williams. (Ibid., 90:6.) THE PRESIDENT OF THE CHURCH ND The Lord revealed that there should be a First Presidency that are to be "upheld by the confidence, faith, and prayer of the Church" (Jbid., 107:22). Over the years those who have occupied positions in the First Presidency have had the faith, confidence, and the prayers of the Church. Each President of the Church has come to his calling, prepared of the Lord, to lead the saints in the temporal and spiritual phases of their lives. He is chosen by the Quorum of Twelve Apostles, sustained by the body of the Church, and set apart by the Twelve Apostles. Class Discussion Discuss why we sustain the President of the Church. Over the years, members of the Church have recognized the inspiration which has led the President of the Church. As firm believers that revelation continues to lead the Church, they believe with President Wilford Woodruff, who said:... This is one thing I want to say to my friends and to the Saints of God, that without the Holy Ghost, without direct revelation and the inspiration of God continually, Brigham Young could not lead this people 706 twenty-four hours. He could not lead them at all. Joseph could not have done it, neither could any man. This power is in the bosom of Almighty God, and he imparts it to his servants the prophets as they stand in need of it day to day to build up Zion (Journal of Discourses, 1956 edition, XITV:33). On the day the Church was organized, the Lord revealed that the entire Church should uphold the Prophet Joseph Smith and receive his word as the word of the Lord, and, if this was done, the gates of hell would not prevail against the members individually. (D&C 21:4-6.) THE APOSTLE The apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ receives at his ordination all of the keys, powers, and privileges of a prophet, seer, and revelator (D&C 13; 27:12-13; 110:11-16; Journal of Discourses, 1956 edition, 9:87). The apostle differs from all other offices in the Church in being a special witness for Christ in all the world. (D&C 107:23.) His calling is that of a prophet, seer, and revelator. (DHC II: 417.) Although the President of the Church is the only one who may receive revelation for the Church, the responsibility of a prophet, seer, and revelator is explained in D&C 107:33: The Twelve are a Traveling Presiding High Council, to officiate in the name of the Lord, under the direction of the Presidency of the Church, agreeable to the institution of heaven; to build up the Church, and regulate all the affairs of the same in all nations, first unto the Gentiles and secondly unto the Jews. The apostle has a special right to receive the inspiration to explain scripture, to instruct, and to counsel the saints. (D&C 28:1-6; 68:2-5.) Class Discussion Unto the Twelve Apostles is given the charge to open the door to the preaching of the gospel in all nations. (Ibid., 107:33, 35, 112:21.) In e%l of their responsibilities, the Twelve are under the jurisdiction of the First Presidency (Ibid., 107:33; 112:19-20). ASSISTANTS TO THE TWELVE In recent years the First Presidency has called worthy High Priests to assist the Council of the Twelve in their manifold duties. These brethren are not ordained apostles, but, in their calling, they have the necessary authority to represent the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles when called upon. They attend stake conferences, tour missions of the Church, and, under direction, they serve in many capacities to further the work of the Church. In their official calling, they carry out the assignments given to them. When the first assistants were called in 1941, the First Presidency made this announcement: In the past history of the Church, especially in President Brigham Young's time, it was found necessary for the First Presidency or the Twelve, or both, to call brethren, frequently designated as Counselors, to help carry on their assigned work in the Church. The rapid growth of the Church in recent times, the constantly increasing establishment of new Wards and Stakes, the ever widening geographical area covered by Wards and Stakes, the steadily pressing necessity for increasing our missions in numbers and efficiency that the Gospel may be brought to all men, the continual multiplying of church interests and activities calling for more rigid and frequent observation, supervision, and direction, Lesson Department —all have built up an apostolic service of the greatest magnitude. The First Presidency and Twelve feel that to meet adequately their great responsibilities and to carry on efficiently this service for the Lord, they should have some help. Accordingly it has been decided to appoint Assistants to the Twelve, who shall be High Priests, who shall be set apart to act under the direction of the Twelve in the performance of such work as the First Presidency and the Twelve may place upon them. There will be no fixed number of these Assistants. Their number will be increased or otherwise from time to time as the necessity of carrying on the Lord's work seems to dictate to be wise (Conference Report, April 1941, pp. 94-95). THE FIRST COUNCIL OF SEVENTY The revelation informs us that there were to be Seventy who would be called ''to preach the gospel, and to be special witnesses unto the Gentiles and in all the world" (D&C 107:25). The first Quorum of Seventy had its beginning on February 28, 1835. (DHC IT:201.) Not long after this date other Quorums of Seventy were organized. All of these quorums were under the direction of the presidents of the First Quorum. On October 8, 1844, there were seventy men in the First Quorum of Seventy who were appointed presidents in the organization of other quorums of Seventy. Today, among the General Authorities there are seven men forming the First Council of Seventy who supervise the Seventy Quorums in the Church. (Ivins, Antoine R., "The Calling of the Seventy," The Instructor, March 1960, pp. 76-77.) EQUAL IN AUTHORITY It is revealed that the Seventy, 

707 September 1967

 when fully organized as the First Quorum of Seventy, form a quorum equal in authority to the Twelve, as the Twelve Apostles are also equal in authority with the First Presidency. (D&C 107: 24, 26.) This authority pertains only to the possibility, though improbable, that if the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles would no longer exist, then the First Quorum of Seventy, when fully organized, would then be equal in authority to those who preside over them. (Joseph Fielding Smith, "The Twelve Apostles," The Improvement Era, November 1956, p. 788.) THE PRESIDING BISHOPRIC Matters relating to the office of bishop are given in this revelation. (D&C.107:68-76.) The Presiding Bishopric constitutes the presidency of the Aaronic Priesthood holding the keys of jurisdiction over the Aaronic Priesthood. (Ibid., 107:15-17; 124:141.) As revealed, however, all officers in the Church function under the First Presidency and the Quorum of the Twelve. PATRIARCH TO THE CHURCH One of the responsibilities of the Council of the Twelve is to "ordain evangelical ministers, as they shall be designated unto them by revelation" (D&C 107:- 39). Joseph Smith said that evangelical ministers are patriarchs (DHC III:381). They give patriarchal blessings to worthy members of the Church who live in missions, or others who may be recommended to them by their respective proper authorities. 708 STAKE PATRIARCHS When a vacancy occurs in the office of patriarch in a stake, the new patriarchs are selected under the direction of a member of the Quorum of the Twelve. In the stakes of Zion, stake members are to receive their blessings from the stake patriarchs, when recommended by their bishops. THE LAW OF UNANIMITY The members of the Relief Society have learned that the General Authorities are inspired as they have listened to or read their counsel in stake and general conferences. They recognize that one reason for inspired decisions in counsel comes from the manner in which decisions are made. The General Authorities have only the interests of the membership at heart and a dedicated desire to build Zion upon the earth. They exemplify the virtues which are the foundation of making true decisions. (D&C 107:30-31.) IMPLEMENTATION The Latter-day Saint woman respects those who bear the Priest-. Hood, -believing that there is no — salvation in this life nor in the life to come without that authority. She realizes that those who preside over her and her family are representatives of the Lord. It is her knowledge that the organization of the Church provides for General Authorities who are dedicated to a lifetime of service for her and her fellow Church members. She believes that The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints has the only true Church organization because she has seen the perfect manner in which it operates, and has a tes- timony of its divinity. Over the years she has learned and, if observant, she has seen the influence of the Holy Ghost as a revelator guiding the decisions of the leadership of the Church. It is her conviction that the principle of Lesson Department continuous revelation operates daily in leading, directing, and guiding the kingdom of God on the earth. All of these things are known to her by the still, small voice of inspiration which convinces and testifies of the truth.