[Vol54 | September 1967 | Page 696 | Fiction | Notes From the Field: Relief | Society Activities]
[Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities]

Relief Society Activities Columbia River Stake (Oregon) Singing Mothers Present Spring Musicale, March 4, 1967 Front row, left to right: Carol Price, organist; Jackie Jensen, Counselor; Beth Peabody, Counselor; Fern Greenhalgh, President; Jacquelyn Hancock, chorister; other board members: Nedra Bell and Evelyn Radden. Sister Greenhalgh reports: "This group of singers from eight wards in the stake presented the spring musicale 'Let All My Life Be Music.' The musicale was adapted and planned around the script written by Norene Clark of Cassia Stake. Seven members of our stake board participated, and seven ward officers participated. This was our second annual musicale, and we received support from all the sisters of the stake. The sisters appreciate the opportunity to sing and mingle with one another. It was a beautiful occasion, enjoyed by an appreciative audience. Much spiritual and cultural growth has come to the sisters through the presentation of special programs." East Pocatello Stake (Idaho), Inkom Ward Observes The Birthday of Relief Society, March 17, 1967 Front row, seated, left to right: Hilda Anderson and Lola Leslie. Back row, standing, left to right: Vera Damron and Phebe Tripp. Veneta Bollschweiler, President, East Pocatello Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Seventeenth of March Birthday Celebration was carried out according to instructions from the stake Relief Society president. Everyone in the community was invited to attend a lovely dinner. Over 400 were in attendance. The dramatization 'The Gift' was presented. The sisters in the picture took the parts of the first Relief Society presidency in the Church. Officers of Inkom Ward Relief Society are: Geneva Whitworth, Wilma Hemandollar, Jennie Blair, and Della Wilson." Weiser Stake (Idaho) Relief Society Presidents Front row, seated, left to right: Edith H. Brown (1938-43); Erma B. Chadwick (1943-46); Naomi M. Chandler (1946-51). Standing, left to right: Della W. Alder (1951-54); Dorothy R. Zaugg (1954- 57); Irene H. Baxter (1960-62); Femina H. Thornock (1962- ). Inset: Afton G. Anderson (1957-60). Sister Thornock reports: "Weiser Stake was organized in 1938. Our first stake president was Scott B. Brown, brother of President Hugh B. Brown. His wife Edith H. Brown was called to be the first stake Relief Society president. Sister Anderson was in South America when the picture was taken. Her husband was called to the Church building program." 696 we ag. A LAG Wands - 8% Eonar tate ES ERE SORIA AONE SHOT September 1967 Young Stake (New Mexico), Lamanite Branch Relief Society Bazaar December 1966 Left, Grace Tallbird of Gallup, New Mexico, and Flora Tsosie, SecretaryTreasurer of Tetah Branch Relief Society. Rhea S. Beckstead, President, Young Stake Relief Society, reports: "We feel that our Lamanite Relief Society bazaar was very successful this year. The two women in the picture were among the many Lamanite people who participated in the dancing at the bazaar, held jointly by the three Lamanite branches: Alma, Tetah, and Nephi, of Young Stake. The bazaar was held in the Alma Branch chapel, Fruitland, New Mexico. Two hundred and fifty people were present for a chili bean and fried bread supper and dance held in connection with the bazaar. Many tribes were represented, all in beautiful costumes— Navajo, Cheyenne, Kiewa, Ute, Apache, Pawnee, Arapahoe, and Oklahoma. Music was provided by eight Lamanite men, including Brother Tallbird, who sat around a large drum in the middle of the floor. The hall was decorated in holiday colors, and each of the three branches had prepared beautifully decorated booths filled with lovely handmade articles and baked goods." Whittier Stake (California) Presents a Kaleidoscopic View of Relief Society, March 17, 1967 Front row, seated, left to right: Clara Hutchinson, who has served for sixtynine years in Relief Society; Flora Jenkins; Mary Siderakis; Agnes Mott; Phebe Ida Miles; Etta Walker; Lucille Taylor. Back row, standing, left to right: Effie Schwinderson; Louisa Gwynn; Eliza Stoddard; Grace D. McCruder; Agnes H. Heath; Jennie R. Hawley; Theodosia Bowman; Lillian Roberts, who was a member of the General Board of Relief Society, 1916-1923. Verena B. Easton, President, Whittier Stake Relief Society reports: "These sisters were our honored guests for the evening, for having served fifty years or more in Relief Society. Each sister was presented a Relief Society pin by her president, and following the program, the sisters were escorted into the cultural hall by their bishops. It was an enjoyable evening for more than 500 husbands and wives who viewed the dramatization 'The Gift,' hearing the Singing Mothers, and viewing the six-feet high Relief Society birthday cake, decorated with 125 lights. For added interest, each of the seven wards presented a demonstration. Each ward had prepared display tables for presenting articles made in the homemaking meetings and each stake board member had a special table representing her department. Refreshments were served." Box Elder Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Concert "Let All My Life Be Music," March 31, 1967 Bernice H. Rasmussen, President, Box Elder Stake Relief Society, reports: " Let All My Life Be Music' was the theme of the Box Elder Stake Relief Society Singing Mother's Spring Concert, held in the historic Brigham City Tabernacle, March 31, 1967. The appearance was the first for Box Elder Stake, and more than 150 participated, including thirty girls from the Intermountain Branch Relief Society. Popular, semi-classical, and religious numbers were sung by the individual ward groups, and the full combined chorus, under the direction of Ethel Poulter, stake chorister, and Pat Davies, stake organist, with Naome Godfrey as accompanist. Leslie Epperson was narrator for the beautiful script written by Renie Littlewood. (These sisters are seen standing in the center of the picture, next to the top row.) "Spring flowers adorned the building, and the theme, printed by Marion Hyde, decked with garlands of lilacs, set the scene for the musical event. It was a very successful and inspirational program, climaxed by the closing number by the combined chorus 'We Pray for Peace.' "' 

698 September 1967

 Bonneville Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Singing Mothers Present Concert, April 27, 1967 Standing, center front (in dark dress): Dantzel Nelson, chorister; at her left: Zora Jeppson, accompanist; at Sister Nelson's right: Isabelle Peterson, accompanist. Lucretia M. Evans, President, Bonneville Stake Relief Society, reports: "The evening of April 27, 1967, was a 'red-letter' date for the Singing Mothers of Bonneville Stake. They had been invited for the second consecutive year by the stake high priests to present a concert at their social. Over one hundred Singing Mothers presented the concert 'Walk Through Eternity,' the story portraying a girl and a boy from birth until marriageable age, and the concern of each mother that her child would grow to maturity sweet and clean, and be married, for time and eternity, in a temple. The Singing Mothers of each ward presented an individual part of the program, in addition to singing in the combined chorus. At the conclusion of the concert, each of the ten wards tempted the guests with a table of delectable home-baked food, the proceeds from the sale being contributed to the stake Relief Society fund. The affair was so successful that the Singing Mothers have been invited by the stake Priesthood to prepare for another concert to be presented April 25, 1968." Orem Stake (Utah) Relief Society Members Receive Instruction In First Aid Second from the right, front row, Bertha T. Kirk, President, Orem Stake Relief Society; next to her: Police Officer Gerald Nielsen who instructed the first aid classes. Sister Kirk reports: " "To care for the poor, the sick, and the unfortunate, and to render service....' Motivated by these purposes, the Orem Stake Relief Society 'sponsored a first aid course, under the direction of the Orem Police Department. Officers Gerald Nielsen instructed over sixty-five sisters, fifty-eight of whom completed the course and received certificates. The sisters learned how to prevent accidents in their homes, and how to care for themselves and their families, as well as their neighbors, when accidents or sudden illnesses occur. The program was received with such enthusiasm that several of the brethren participated and received certificates also. Our appreciation goes to Officer Neilsen who gave so freely of many hours of time to give instruction and make the program a success." South Ogden Stake (Utah) Relief Society Observes Anniversary Day March 29, 1967 Left to right: Elma B. Ross, former President, South Ogden Stake Relief Society, pins a Relief Society pin on LaRee Holt Whitney, while Adele VanDrimmelin, Verda Burgie, and Lavern Carter look on. Sister Ross reports: "The anniversary of Relief Society was observed on a stake basis, with the presentation of "The Gift.' In connection with this, LaRee Holt Whitney was honored and given a beautiful orchid, a Relief Society pin, and a copy of a tribute which was read at the meeting, honoring Sister Whitney - as having received 'The Gift,' and giving it to others, thus being an ideal instrument of the purposes of Relief Society. A polio victim in 1954, paralyzed from the shoulders down, she accepted the position of social science class leader in the stake in 1956. The presidency at that time—Verda Burgie, Adele VanDrimmelin, and Lavern Carter recognized the need for one of their sisters to find increased joy and purpose for her life. Even though it would be necessary for one of them to push her wheelchair from her home to the chapel, they cheerfully accepted the challenge, as did all succeeding presidencies. Sister Whitney has continued to be a class leader since that time, and is presently teaching the spiritual living lessons." Lila M. Evertson is the new president of South Ogden Stake Relief Society. 

700 September 1967

 Salt Lake Stake (Utah), Seventeenth Ward Relief Society February 22, 1967 Officers of the Seventeenth Ward Relief Society, beginning seventh from the left: Nora Bullock, First Counselor; Hazel Oliverson, President; Erma Gunnell, Second Counselor; Marie Vreekin, Secretary-Treasurer. Standing at the left in the second row: Norma Anderson, member Salt Lake Stake Relief Society board. Majorie M. Ward, former president, Salt Lake Stake Relief Society, reports: "There are eighty-two sisters in the picture, and there were 104 present at the meeting. It was reported that the Seventeenth Ward Relief Society, before it was divided, was the largest in the Church, with a membership of 225. The present membership is 176, perhaps still the largest. The first meeting of the Relief Society in the Seventeenth Ward was held in the old building at 137 West First North, across the street from the new chapel, in the year 1875. This building was also used as a school until the chapel was finished alongside the old school building. The meetinghouse cornerstone was laid in 1905, and it was dedicated March 31, 1907." Bertha B. Welling is the new President of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society. Riverside Stake (Utah) Visiting Teachers Receive Special Honors At Convention, April 20, 1967 Front row, left to right: Jane Sorensen, eighty-four, sixty years as a visiting teacher; Minnie James (blind), twenty years; Janet Purdy, eighty-nine, fortyfour years as a visiting teacher; Susan Earnshaw, eighty-five, forty years; Hillevi Daniels, eighty, thirty-eight years; Ida Facer, eighty-three, fifty-four years. Back row, left to right: Esther Maples, sixty-four, twenty-five years as a visiting teacher; Olive Christensen, seventy-five, seventeen years; Helen Baldwin, seventy-two, forty-five years; Eva Gledhill, seventy-seven, fifty-seven years; Florence Unsworth, eighty-four, forty-three years; Ellis Jacobsen, seventy-three, twenty years; Lavina Earl, seventy-two, forty years; Beatrice Freeman, seventyeight, thirty-five years; Colleen Jones, twenty-four, one year of visiting teaching; Belva B. Ashton, member, General Board of Relief Society. Zella W. Nesbitt, President, Riverside Stake Relief Society, reports: '""These sisters received special honors at the visiting teacher convention. Each of the eight wards was asked to choose about two sisters to receive special honor. Our speaker was Belva B. Ashton, and the music was furnished by the Singing Mothers. Erma Haslam, stake visiting teacher leader, paid tribute to the work of visiting teaching and presented a gift to each of the honored sisters. The book 'History of Relief Society' was presented to the Sixteenth Ward for having the largest percentage of visiting teachers present. The combined years of service of seventeen honored sisters (some of them not in the picture) total 643 years. About 250 sisters attended the convention. Refreshments were served." Covina Stake (California) Visiting Teacher Convention March 30, 1967 Left to right: Anna Christensen; Maybell Dodge; Ardella Hackford; Emma Price. Donetta MacKay, Covina Stake Relief Society President, reports: "The stake Relief Society president and the stake presidency greeted the 225 sisters who attended at the door. Music, inspirational talks, and the visiting teacher film 'Unto the Least of These' highlighted the program. "Four sisters were honored for the faithful service they have rendered as visiting teachers. They were Anna Christensen, 42 years; Maybell Dodge, 44 years; Emma Price, 40 years; and Ardella Hackford, 54 years. Each of them was presented with the book History of Relief Society. Visiting teachers who had served for fifteen years or longer were also recognized." 702 ie. TS Nw?
= P we eae NS ~ cn Cee al \ Ny aT oF Vvyyt } -V-