THE Relief Society Magazine
Vol. XIII FEBRUARY, 1926 No. 2
CONTENTS
Moonlight on the Mountains........................Frontispiece Growing Old.................................Carrie Tanner 57 Debts and Payments..........................Orson F. Whitney 59 Letter to Pres. Clarissa S. Williams and the General Board ...........................................May Booth Talmage 65 Letter from Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde.......................... 72 Editorial—A Real Christmas Present.......................... 75 The Near East Relief........................................... 76 Citizens of the World.......................................... 77 Appreciation.................................................. 78 Condolence.................................................... 78 Summer Vacations for Children..................Lydia D. Alder 79 Invalid Diet........................................Jean Cox 82 Notes from the Field......................Amy Brown Lyman 88 Guide Lessons for April........................................ 93 My Mother...............................Bertha M. Rosevear 111
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c. Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
For our success we are indebted to our friends
Bennett Glass & Paint Co. 65 West First South
Call Your ICE CREAM CANDY CAKE PUNCHES
Our 30c or deliciously different 50c Special
PHONE WAS. 223
GO VIA SAN FRANCISCO
LOS ANGELES AND RETURN, IT COSTS NO MORE TO SEE ALL OF CALIFORNIA IN ONE COMPLETE TRIP
Southern Pacific Lines
THREE TRAINS DAILY FROM SALT LAKE CITY AND OGDEN
PROPORTIONATELY LOW FARE FROM ALL OTHER POINTS IN UTAH, IDAHO AND MONTANA
STOPOVERS ALLOWED AT ALL POINTS. TICKETS ON SALE DAILY.
For Complete Information, Tickets and Reservations, Call Phone or Write.
P. BANCROFT, General Agent. 41 South Main Street. Wasatch 3008 Wasatch 3078.
Temple and Burial Clothes COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN Variety of Grades and Prices
Prompt and Careful Attention To Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders
Open Daily, 9 A. M—5 P. M.
General Board Relief Society Phone Wasatch 3286 23 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
An OVERALL with a Classy Appearance
MOUNTAINEER STRIPE OVERALLS GUARANTEED FOR QUALITY FIT AND SERVICE
A clean, neat appearing garment for the Store Clerk, the Floor Mill Operator, the Dairyman, the Garage man, the Teamster.
Mothers, do you know that the best leather soles will wear three times longer than rubber? They are water proof too.
You just try the
Royal Shoe Repairing Co. 38 So. Main Street, Salt Lake City
"Parcel post a specialty"
BUILDING LOANS
Interest rates.
Aston-Jenkins Co.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
HERE IS HIGH CLASS CLEANING HELP FREE
The Home Library
World's largest selling vacuum cleaner sent to your home on free trial. The $8.50 set of attachments FREE with each cleaner purchased.
The crowning glory of the home is its library. It should be selective, progressive and wholesome.
Tell us your needs and we'll recommend titles. Any book sent by mail C. O. D.
Deseret Book Company Salt Lake City
Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Co. Sold by
Utah Power & Light Co.
All Up-To-Date Libraries Both Public and Private Contain Bound Volumes of the
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Following are the bound volumes we have for sale: Vol. 2 1915, Leather and Cloth Bound. Vol. 3 1916, Leather and Cloth Bound. Vol. 4 1917, Leather and Cloth Bound. Vol. 5 1918, Leather Bound Only. Vol. 6 1919, Leather and Cloth Bound. Vol. 7 1920, Leather and Cloth Bound. Vol. 8 1921, Leather Only. Vol. 9 1922, Leather Only. Vol. 10 1923, Leather and Cloth Bound. Vol. 11 1924, Leather and Cloth Bound. Vol. 12 1925, Leather and Cloth Bound.
Prices Per Volume, Leather, $3.50; Cloth, $2.75 Postage Extra, 15c Per Volume.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 20 Bishop's Bldg. Telephone 3123 Salt Lake City
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
We Have Trained Many of the Successful Business Men and Women of the West
LET US TRAIN YOU OR YOURS
Up-to-date progressive methods; comfortable, fully-equipped buildings, a faculty select and efficient
L. D. S. Business College
February Special
$1.00 Down for the NEW HOTPOINT Super-Iron "The Iron of a Lifetime"
Utah Power & Light Co. Efficient Public Service
To Our Magazine Subscribers
We call your attention to the very high class firms who advertise in the Magazine, and ask, whenever possible, to give them your loyal support and patronage. Also kindly mention having read their advertisement in the Magazine.
We hope by your assistance to prove our value as a medium through which to advertise.
Magazine Management
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
"Service, Not Profits" Salt Lake City, Utah
Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer.
LAUNDRY Distinctive Work Office 319 S. Main St. Hyland 190
INDIVIDUAL SACRAMENT SETS NOW IN STOCK Best in the Market Will Last a Life Time. 36 Glasses in Each Tray RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS. REFERENCES FURNISHED. Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and intermountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickle Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver. SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed. Inquiries cheerfully answered.
Bureau of Information Temple Block Salt Lake City
THE HALL MARK OF PURITY
Learn to associate Young Samson's smiling, healthy face with Clover Leaf milk. He is a symbol of its purity and of our Responsibility.
CLOVER LEAF DAIRY 159 W. 1st So. Wasatch 2177
Big Free Garden Book NOW READY
This book is of vital importance to every Home Owner. It contains 70 pages fully illustrated giving the what, when and how in Seeds, Plants, Roses, Bulbs, Shrubs and Trees for Spring planting
Call, Phone or Write for Your Free Copy Today
PORTER-WALTON CO. Seed and Nursery Specialists. Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Growing Old By Carrie Tanner of Salt Lake City—First Poem to Receive Honorable Mention in the Eliza R. Snow Contest
How swift the flight of our appointed days! How like the year in its delightsome ways! Our life from gentle blossom time of spring Receives the gifts its changing seasons bring.
Soon comes the garish light of Summer time, Could we but linger in that lavish clime! But no—the onward rush brooks no delay, The wealth of harvest near—we cannot stay.
Then gather we and taste the sweets that live, If on the way our gifts with love did give. Then round us Autumn's fullness measured high, Sends glowing warmth, though winter's chill be nigh.
But though the crowning glory on the brow Be like the hoarfrost on the tender bough, What though the sight be dim and step be slow, The inward light life's pictures kindly show?
In twilight colors—lavender and gray— While softly, music sweet, the soul doth play, Dear Mem'ry in her garden fairest walks, And with old loves—like friends the dearest—talks.
Then myst'ries of the path of Life are known, The depths of sympathetic understanding shown; And though the heart well knows the end is near, Immortal symphonies the soul doth hear.
At last enshrouded in the white like snow, In peaceful sleep as darkling seed below, We'll wait the call in blossom time of spring, 'Neath skies where Life Eternal gifts will bring.
THE Relief Society Magazine
Vol. XIII FEBRUARY, 1926 No. 2
Debts and Payments By Orson F. Whitney
I heard of a man who died heavily in debt. He had property enough to pay his debts, but instead, willed it to his family, leaving his creditors out in the cold. A friend of his had a dream—he dreamed that he died and passed into the Spirit World. There he met the man who had left his debts unpaid, and said to him: "This is a fine country you are in." "Yes," answered the other, "but it cannot compare with the country over yonder." "Well, why don't you go there, then?" "I cannot," was the reply, "I must stay here and pay my debts."
Whether or not this is a true story, it teaches a true principle, and is not successfully met by the argument that money and property play no part in the spirit life. Right and wrong play a part there, and things temporal typify things spiritual. Let no man suppose that he can avoid the just payment of an honest debt by dying (as to things earthly) and crossing the border line between Time and Eternity. His debts will go with him to judgment. It were wise to pay them here, if possible, and escape the accruing compound interest. Better a toilsome life on earth, than a debtor's prison or any other restraint upon progress in the Great Beyond.
Everything we get we pay for, in one way or another, in this world or the world to come. We never get something for nothing. Every debt must be paid, every account squared. Anything else would be unfair, unjust, violative of the great fundamental principle of Right, without which God could not be God, and existence would cease to exist. Eternal Justice is the rock upon which rests the very throne of Deity.
True, a debt may be forgiven. That is Mercy's work. That is the work of the Savior, whose mission was made necessary by man's inability to save himself. But Mercy cannot rob Justice, nor Justice, Mercy. Each claims its own and must have its due. There are debts temporal and debts spiritual. It matters not—the foundation principle is the same in all. Every debt must be paid, either by the debtor himself, or by someone able and willing to pay it for him. Only in this way can the equilibrium of the moral universe be maintained.
The first thing required of fallen man was payment of the debt incurred by the fall. A divine law had been broken, and it had to be mended. The scale of Justice, unbalanced by Adam's act, had to be repoised. The sinner must answer for the sin. And yet the fall was essential, a necessary part of God's wondrous plan for the peopling of the earth and the education, through mortal experience, of a host of immortal spirits, his sons and daughters who, by obtaining bodies upon this planet, were to become souls, capable of endless increase and exaltation.
To achieve this beneficent aim, Adam fell. He became mortal that the human race might be; and death, spiritual and temporal death was the penalty for his transgression. He had incurred a debt which, if unpaid, would doom him and his to everlasting banishment from the Divine Presence. All was lost unless something were done to ransom what Death held in pawn, to nullify the evil effects of the fall, and conserve its good results for the benefit of humanity—in short, to pay the debt due Eternal Justice. Adam could not pay that debt, nor could Eve, nor could any mere mortal among their descendants. They could suffer "the ills that flesh is heir to—Mother Eve attained the peak of human suffering by bringing forth children in sorrow and pain. They could pass through the Valley of the Shadow, and undergo the temporary separation of body and spirit that men call death: but they could not bring a dead world to life again. They could not pay the debt. But One who could pay, and was willing to pay, did pay, giving his own life to liquidate the heavy obligation. Christ, in dying, burst the bands of death, and made it possible for a redeemed race to go on to perfection, according to the divine plan of which Adam's fall was a part. But while Adam could not save himself nor the race that sprang from him, he could do something—something more than to "earn his bread by the sweat of his brow," than to toil and suffer for the development of his soul—the compensating result of all hardship and tribulation. And what he was able to do was required of him.; Obedience to the Gospel was the main requirement. He had to believe in Jesus Christ, who was Jehovah in the heavens, where Adam was Michael, before either had tabernacled in the flesh. Having faith in the foreordained Redeemer—revealed to him at the DEBTS AND PAYMENTS 61 very beginning—Adam repented and was baptized, that he might receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, which maketh manifest the things of God. But that was not all. He had to go on, treading every round of the ladder let down from Heaven for his salvation and the salvation of all who followed in his footsteps. Adam paid nothing for his redemption—his resurrection from the grave. Christ paid for that, and made it a free gift to all mankind. But Adam paid, so far as he was able to pay, for all else that came to him; and we, his descendants, are in a like situation. Our great debt having been paid for us, because too heavy for us to discharge, we must merit all else by our obedience to God's commandments. We get nothing from him except upon this principle. All blessings, whether spiritual or temporal, come as the reward of obedience. The successful merchant, banker, farmer, or artizan succeeds because he is obedient to law, the law governing his particular vocation. But he may fail in other respects, because of his disregard of other laws. The Lord sends his rain and his sunshine upon the just and upon the unjust; but that does not prove them equally worthy in his sight. The unjust (unjust here) are entitled to such blessings as rain and sunshine can give, because of their obedience in a former life. There they were not unjust. They "kept the first estate," thus winning the right to be "added upon," to be placed where the sunshine and the rain could reach them. But the higher blessings, the blessings of the gospel, are only to be had by obedience to the gospel. One cannot get into the Church of Christ by being a good farmer or an expert banker. It takes more than the skill of a mechanic to unlock the door leading into the Kingdom of Heaven. Our Savior set the great example of obedience, and it was the secret of his sublime success. He could not have redeemed the world had he not been obedient to his Father's will, even to the drinking of the bitter cup prepared for him. Nor can we avail ourselves of his redemptive sacrifice, unless we surrender our wills to him, as he surrendered his will to the Father. Christ is entitled to our obedience. He died for us. He purchased us with his own blood. Consequently we are his—we belong to him. He is "the Captain of our souls." Fallen man was redeemed unconditionally, but he is not saved and glorified unconditionally. God forgives sins, mercy cancels debts, but only upon certain conditions. The sinner, the debtor. Must do something to deserve such consideration—something more than to believe, repent, and be baptized. He must be merciful to those who are in debt to him. He must be lenient with his debtors. Even as God, the great Creditor, has been lenient with him. 62 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE How easy to go into debt, and how difficult at times to pay. We cannot injure another without injuring ourselves, without contracting a debt; and sooner or later it must be paid, or cancelled by forgiveness. When men or women speak slanderous words to the injury of their fellows, or seek in any manner to build themselves up by pulling others down, they are going into debt, and must meet it at the great day of account, if not before. Did not the Savior say that men would have to answer for "every idle word" spoken by them? He also warned his disciples against evil thinking, another way of going into debt, into the bondage of sin Every debt must be paid, every wrong righted. We reap what we sow, and the meastire we mete unto others will be measured to us again. "Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy." It behooves us, therefore, to offset the debts that we owe, with debts owing to us that we are willing to forgive, leaving the isste with him who said: "Judge not, that ye be not judged," "Vengeance is mine—I will repay," "I the Lord will forgive whom I will forgive, but of you it is required that you forgive all men." Vainly do we ask our Heavenly Father to forgive us our trespasses, if we forgive not those who trespass against us. Those who will not forgive, hug to their hearts "the greater sin." Hate reacts upon the hater, souring and embittering the soul. ''Malignity drinks the greater part of its own poison." An expression of faith is required from every applicant for divine blessings. Prayer is such an expression. We pay for what we ask by asking—in part at least. If we do not ask, and still receive, the payment will have to be made in some other way. From those to whom much is given, much is required. This applies not only to money and merchandise, but to time, talents. Opportunities, and all other advantages. Those who commune with angels, and have visions or other great spiritual manifestations, must expect trials of their faith commensurate with such rare privileges.;; "Repent and be baptized * * * and ye shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost." Thus Peter to the Pentecostal multitude. But no such promise was made to those who would not repent and be baptized. Only the obedient could claim the blessing. We purchase forgiveness with repentance. We pay for salvation in the coin of obedience. Our Father in Heaven is just, is generous; but he will not force his favors upon anyone. If we wish him to draw near to us, we must first draw near to him. "Ask and ye shall receive. Seek and ye shall find. Knock and it shall be opened unto you." We must help ourselves if we would receive help from Heaven DEBTS AND PAYMENTS 63 And all because of that great underlying principle which demands the guid pro quo, one thing for another, eternally preventing us from receiving that to which we are not entitled. We cannot get something for nothing. The sick who call for the sling of the Church and solicit lessings at their hands, should be given to understand that their own faith, and not merely the faith of those who administer to them, is the power that heals. Except in the case of infants and others incapable of exercising faith, it is the sick person's confidence in God and the Priesthood that is the main factor of tle healing process, in most cases. The Savior's mightiest miracles were wrought among those who had faith. He "did not do many mighty works" in certain places, "because of their unbelief," because of their failure to do what Justice demanded. "Thy faith hath made thee whole." Such were his words to those who were healed by him. They had to pay, pay in advance, to the extent of their ability to pay, for the blessings that they desired. He did the rest, the part that they could not do. Had their faith been lacking, his power could not have been put forth so justly, so mightily, in their behalf. And the same is true as to his ministering servants. Shift now the argument to the question of eternal rewards The glorified planets are God's kingdoms, the "many mansions'' referred to by the Savior. To each of these kingdoms a law is given, and in order to inherit any one of them, men and women must obey the law pertaining to that kingdom, whether it be celestial, terrestrial or telestial. In other words, they must pay the price of admission, and they will be admitted only where they belong. There is such a thing as vicarious obedience, whereby debts are paid, not by those who contracted them, but by those willing and able to discharge them in the debtor's interest. The Savior's atonement is the great example. But I now refer more particularly to the work done in temples for the departed, that they also may profit by the great payment of the original debt. Those aided in this manner, however, must prove worthy of what is done for them, or that vicarious work will avail them nothing. Baptism, confirmation, and other ordinances may be performed on earth in their behalf; but if they do not bel eve and repent in the world to which they have gone, they cannot reap the benefit. Their debt will remain unpaid. Those able to pay their debts, but who fail to pay them while on earth, will find themselves in a different class from those who never had the power or opportunity to pay. Millions are in Heil at this moment, paying their debts there, because they did not pay them here, because they did not repent, did not turn from 64 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE wrong-doing, and do right—the only kind of repentance that can save anyone. All salvation is based upon repentance. The only souls who cannot be saved are those who cannot repent. Their debt to Eternal Justice is heavier than they can pay, and their denial of the Savior is virtually a refusal to allow him to pay it for them. This is what makes their case hopeless. This is why they are "sons of perdition." The Lord, the righteous Judge, rewards all men and all women according to their works, or what is accepted by him as an equivalent—the desires of their hearts. Thus the books are balanced, and accounts squared with the Great Accountant. Reader, what do you desire?—celestial glory? Then work for it, and it will be yours. Or, would you be satisfied with - something less? If so, the choice is open. But whatever it is. You will have to pay the price, and having done this, rest assured that no power can prevent you from receiving your just due. A Meditation By John W. Weeks, Former Secretary of War I sat beside a fold of rock, And tried to read its history. I gazed into a wayside bloom, And sought to know its mystery. I looked up at the stars of night, And thought of all the million spheres That blaze beyond my farthest sight; And then of all the countless years That God has swung those orbs in space. I felt so small, so very small, A tiny speck: too mean to share Attention of the Infinite; Unworthy of his love and care, But lo! His voice! "Twas me he named: "Tt's all according to my plan." And with the Psalmist I exclaimed, Oh, God! What is there in mere man That thou of him shouldst mindful be? —Selected. Letter to Prest. Clarissa S. Williams and the General Board THE SWISS-GERMAN MISSION By May Booth Talmage In leaving the German-Austriam mission for the SwissGerman, as it must be remembered, we were simply going to visit other branches and conferences which were included in the one mission before the division was made at 'Chemnitz, on August 23, 1925. By far the greater portion of territory comprised in the new Swiss-German mission lies within the borderlands of Germany, and thus it was almost a week from the time we left President and Sister Fred Tadje, in Dresden, until we reached the headquarters of President and Sister Hugh J. Cannon in Basel, Switzerland. The initial conference of the Swiss-German mission was scheduled for Sunday, September 13, at Stuttgart, and thus we were afforded opportunity of holding meetings enroute. An eight-hour ride from Dresden brought us to the quaint old city of Nurnberg, the atmosphere of which was perhaps as typically foreign as that of any we visited. As no meeting was appointed until the evening following our arrival, we visited several places of interest. First we went to the church of Saint Lawrence, said 'to ibe "one of the noblest and grandest sacred edifices in Germany," built nearly seven centuries ago. The feature of greatest interest to me was what is described as "An unparalleled masterpiece of stone carving," and claimed to be the most remarkable piece of statuary of the middle ages. It is called "The Tabernacle," and was executed by Adam Kraft, who it is said had no desire for gain but was influenced solely by a desire to create a real work of art. Three kneeling figures in stone carry the Tabernacle on their backs. The whole structure tapers upward to a height of twenty meters, and ends in a slight turret. Groups representing scenes stich as the Lord's supper, Christ before Pilate, The Garden of Gethsemane, etc. Are depicted in a most skillful manner. "One could imagine that the sculptured leaves, boughs, and tendrils are not stone but petrified nature, so exquisitely are they executed." It was a work of seven years. Of our visit to the chamber wherein is found almost every known instrument of torture, including the famous "Iron Maiden," we shall make but passing mention. The cruel and ghastly means employed in past ages as modes of punishment were almost beyond 66 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the bound of credulity to people whose lives and teachings are devoted to the alleviation of suffering, and to the uplift of humanity.. The quaint old castle, with its huge stoves built of tile, its unique ceilings and famous floors; its tower, from which is afforded an excellent view of the city's red-tiled roofs and crooked streets, formed another educational feature of the day's experience, as did also the hour spent in the National Art Gallery. President Hugh J. Cannon. And Brother Jean Wunderlich arrived from Basel and with us attended the special evening service. The house was crowded to capacity. The welcome accorded was of the warmest kind. Excellent music was furnished and a splendid spirit prevailed throughout. At the meeting of missionaries the following morning our hearts were deeply touched, as they had been at all such meetings, and as they were at each subsequent gathering of the kind, by the spirit of earnest devotion and sincere testimony revealed in the talks of the elders. In the evening we were in Munich (Munchen, they call it there), a city full of interest. Here, too, we had another day to spare before an appointed meeting. Two art galleries were visited. One contained modern art, the other housed scores of paintings by such masters as Rubens, Corrigio and Van Dyck— pictures familiar from childhood but really seen for the first time that day. The memory of "The Last Judgment" will be a lasting joy. We no longer wonder why people cross continents to see such soul-expanding sights. The new museum, opened last spring, is attracting great attention, as it is quite different from museums in general. To illustrate: The mining industry is not represented merely by specimens or pictures, but there have been constructed beneath the massive building actual tunnels and stopes, life-sized effigies or horses and men and other paraphernalia intended to convey worth-while information to visitors. Other departments are of similar nature, and are of great educational value.
All the encouragement and satisfaction derived from the visit in Nurnberg was emphasized by the successful meeting held with our members at night, and we marvelled at the progress being made in these far distant lands. Especially is this true when we remember that there are but two elders working in a city like Munich with its hundreds of thousands of inhabitants.
Saturday, September 12, found us in Stuttgart, being greeted by a host of missionaries who had gathered for the conference. President Oliver Richards, with a number of his associates, had come all the way from Frankfurt to be present. At the officers' meeting on Saturday evening, reports from officers of the various auxiliary associations gave evidence of thorough work being done
LETTER TO GENERAL BOARD 67
and again demonstrated the effect of the constructive help and excellent supervision given by President and Sister Tadje and their able associates. The conference proper was successful from every point of view and was attended by many friends who evidenced much interest. After an inspirational missionary meeting on Monday morning, the elders went with us in a body to the train which was to convey us to the border-line of Germany. Part of our journey was along the Rhine, on the farther side of which lay France.
To be the guest of Brother and Sister Cannon was next best to going home. They and all the household at Basel vied with one another to make our visit pleasant. While there I attended the local Relief Society as also a meeting of the M. I. A., and found in each the same keen interest, capable presentation of the lessons, and intelligent discussion by the members as had given me such enthusiastic encouragement in the branches of the German-Austrian mission.
Through the unusual experience gained during the years of his preceding missions in that country, President Cannon knows well what one who visits Switzerland for the first time would like to see. There were three days at our disposal while Brother Talmage made a hurried trip to Geneva to consult with President Rossiter of the French mission, who had arrived since we left Liverpool.
The first day we took a trip over beautiful Lake Lucerne—now as blue as the bluest sky and again as green as the proverbial emerald. Its nearby mountains are so close to its edge they appeared to belong each to the other. Lovely villages nestled at their base, but some of the tiny chalets were not content to remain below and were lured on and on up the steep mountainside until they reached and rested near its crest. Imagination weaves all sorts of romances here. Hotels are built on overhanging cliffs and silhouetted against the sky, so that at night the lights gleaming from their windows might well delude an amateur astronomer into the belief that he had "New worlds to conquer."
We passed the monument erected to the memory of Schiller. What a cold and silent tribute it seemed rising as it did from out the water's depths! We left the boat long enough to visit the William Tell Chapel on our way to the famous Axen Strasse, a beautiful road along the mountain-side over which we walked to the next tiny village, where we again embarked and returned to Lucerne.
Next morning, in company with President and Sister Cannon and Brother Wunderlich, we went to Interlaken, and from there took a side-trip to see a wonderful freak of nature with an almost unpronounceable name. It was a huge mountain, cleft from base to summit, with the opening apparently five or six feet in width.
68 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
At five different levels a tremendous volume of water gushed forth with a deafening roar and then formed beautiful waterfalls to the levels below. A unique inclined elevator car carried us part of the distance up the mountain-side from one landing place to the next, but there were still many steps to climb. One could look far up or down the ravine and see three of these great falls at one glance. The huge crevice was lighted artificially, as only a glimpse of sky could be caught through the opening above our heads.
In the evening we found ourselves in an area of Latter-day Saints, in this remote secluded village—how the gospel does penetrate to the uttermost part of the earth! But there was the same earnest spirit of devotion manifest as is found in the great gatherings both at home and abroad.
The third day we went on a little railway that wound up the mountain-side to the Grundelwald Valley, passing the Youngfrau in the distance. From the terminus we were driven to a real glacier. Into its depths a tunnel has been made and the light coming through the ice is blue in color. The effect is unusually beautiful in itself, but in it we looked positively ghastly. At Lucerne, on our return trip, we visited the Glacier Gardens which tell a wonderful story of the work done by glacial action of past ages.
At the entrance to these gardens, carved in the solid rock, is the famous "Lion of Lucerne." One is fascinated by the environment and by the master touch of the sculptor who has transformed the cold stone into a tribute that thrills the heart and writes its story indelibly upon the memory. This lovely region had a warm spot in my heart, inspired by the interesting descriptive articles written by Sister Annie Wells Cannon for the Woman's Exponent, and read when I was a very young girl in my secluded mountain home.
From Lucerne we went direct to Zurich and held another well attended conference, saw other evidences of efficiency, met other capable, devoted elders and partook of the bounteous hospitality of newly acquired friends. President and Sister Ernest C. Rossiter came all the way from Geneva to attend this conference, and expressed themselves as having gained much that would prove helpful to them in their new work in the French mission.
At the Sunday School session a little pageant portraying the parable of the Prodigal Son was given in an exceptionally fine manner; it would have done credit to professional supervision. We were loath to leave this beautiful city with no opportunity for sight-seeing, but after the missionary meeting on Monday we hastened back to Basel and attended a Relief Society of that branch in the evening. We found the preparation just as
LETTER TO GENERAL BOARD 69
thorough and the discussion just as animated as in the meetings in Germany. Eighteen of the twenty members present took part.
On September 22, we bade adieu to our friends in Switzerland who had helped to make our experience there so rich, and again we crossed the border into Germany to visit other branches of the Swiss-German mission. When we reached Frankfurt the pleasant experience was repeated of finding a group of elders at the station to meet and greet us. During the hour between our arrival and the time appointed for meeting, Conference President Oliver Richards took us to visit the home of the poet Goethe and also to the old Roman stronghold. A fine hall, beautiful flowers, excellent music, a large, intelligent audience, a splendid spirit as manifest in the addresses, and hundreds of warm handclasps following the close of the meeting, are among our memories of our visit to Frankfurt.
From thence we went to Mayence and took boat for Cologne. The world famed trip along the Rhine has been described by too many master artists to lure my feeble efforts. It is worthy of the best, though I concede to them no keener sense of appreciation for the beauty of those castellated hills that rise from the banks of that historic stream than I myself possess.
At Cologne, President Glen R. Dorius and his associates gave welcome just as warm and the memories left are just as pleasant as those in and of other cities already mentioned. The outstanding feature of our visit to Cologne, aside from our Church appointments, was a visit to the great cathedral, which structure as we learn from "Baedeker," "justly excites the admiration of every beholder, and is probably the most magnificent Gothic edifice in
[IMAGE: MOUSE TOWER ON THE RHINE]
[IMAGE: THE CATHEDRAL AT COLOGNE]
the world." The foundation stone was laid in the year 1248, and the last stone of the tower in 1880. Thus the building was in course of construction for more than six centuries. We were informed that more than eight thousand carved figures adorn this structure, the tower of which rises to a height of 512 feet.
We were one day in Brussels, half of which time we spent in a visit to the Field of Waterloo. A marvelously constructed panorama almost deceives one into believing that he is witnessing the actual struggle that led to Napoleon's defeat. After the short journey from Brussels to Rotterdam, thus passing from one country to another and from one mission to another, we were welcomed by President and Sister Charles S. Hyde of the Netherlands mission. We remained but one night under their hospitable roof, then proceeded to Amsterdam where the conference was held.
A few hours on Saturday afternoon gave opportunity to visit one of the great art galleries of Europe. We were fortunate in finding a special exhibition of Rembrandt's paintings being held. His "Night Watch," which has a permanent place in the gallery, holds one's interest with almost the same intensity as do Raphael's "Madonna" and Ruben's "Last Judgment." It is marvelous! Many other products of his brush as well as masterpieces by Frans Hals and other famous Dutch artists gave us great joy.
There are but four conferences in the Netherlands mission. These are in rather close proximity and thus nearly all the sixty elders laboring in that field were in attendance at the gathering in Amsterdam. The long and efficient services rendered by President and Sister Hyde in our Church organizations at home have fitted them admirably for their duties in the mission field. The capable
[IMAGE: REMBRANDT DUTCH BURGHERS]
supervision is apparent by the reports given at the officers' meeting on Saturday evening showed the conference as a whole to be most successful. We found the same spirit of earnestness in this as in the other missions visited. After our seven weeks of experience we had a far deeper sense of appreciation for the unselfish devotion of our elders and missionary sisters, as well as for the willing sacrifice of our members, than we had ever had before, and we departed with hearts full of blessings for all who are thus diligently engaged in spreading the gospel message.
[IMAGE: REMBRANDT THE NIGHT WATCH]
A Letter from Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Member of the General Board, and Collector of Customs at the Port of Hawaii
Dear Fellow Board Members:
There are so many unusual happenings here in Honolulu that I shall try to give a little glimpse of the opportunities this port affords one. I'll not tell you of any disadvantages.
We have here on the Island an organization known as the Pan-Pacific Union. This organization has for its aim the removal of racial prejudice, and bringing the nations closer together for commercial purposes and interests not all material, and an exchange of products of one country with another. It is very democratic in its scope. One of our wealthy missionary families donated an immense building which has been renovated and furnished by the Cook estate for the use of the Pan-Pacific Union. This Union brings many intellectual and interesting people to the Island who are entertained during their visit at the Pan-Pacific Building. There is a large lecture room, where the lectures, both illustrated and otherwise, are given to members as well as interested people.
The recent visit of Dr. and Mrs. Jordan and Dr. and Mrs. Evermann to the Island, I am sure, will interest you. The presence of Dr. Jordan seemed most opportune, at this time, he being President of the Pan-Pacific Union, because of the plan to transfer from Japan through Dr. Ishikawa, President of the Tokio University, thousands of eggs of the ayu fish to the streams of Hilo, "Our Island," where the active volcano is located. Dr. Ishikawa was accompanied by Dr. Yoshire Wakiya, head of the Fisheries Commission of Korea, who made the trip for the purpose of introducing into the Islands the Korean Oyster, that is planted and grows so well in Korea. That gave us three most distinguished officials greatly interested in this transfer.
These gentlemen, Doctor Ishikawa and Yoshiro Wakiya brought the eggs of the ayu fish, which were especially sealed and kept in a cold temperature sufficient for their needs. The ceremony attending the depositing of the same in the waters of Hawaii was most interesting, Doctors Jordan and Ishikawa taking part. The fish are fresh water fish, which is most unusual for the Islands, and the way in which they are caught is an interesting feature, as well as the thought of their being transferred from Japan to the United States.
These fish are caught by a duck-like bird, known as the cormorant, which is introduced and used in the ayu fishery business in Japan. It is claimed to be a perfect gormandizer, and has
LETTER FROM MRS. JEANETTE A. HYDE 73
a sack under its beak which makes it most profitable for the uses to which it is put. A ring is placed around the cormorant's neck before it is let loose in the stream, and a long string tied to its leg; the fisherman sits on the side of the stream or in a boat while the cormorant goes into the water and brings up the fish in the sack under its beak, catching from ten to a dozen fish, depending upon the size, the average size being from eight to twelve inches long. The fisherman on the shore or in the boat knows the length of time required for the usual catch; when he thinks the cormorant's sack is full he draws the string and brings the bird to him, gives it a sharp hit on the back, when it disgorges the fish yet alive; they are taken in hand by a second fisherman, washed, which process snaps out the life of the fish, and then put upon the market ready for sale. Should any of the fish caught be smaller than is profitable for market the cormorant is rewarded by being fed the small catch.
To me the whole affair is so unusual that I thought you, too, would be interested in knowing something of the exchange that is going on between this Island and the Islands of Japan and Korea, as well as this real fish story.
When Dr. and Mrs. Jordan arrived, Consul-General Ioka, with the Japanese Legation gave a very extraordinary reception. Consul-General Ioka is a small, trim, very cultured gentleman; a typical Japanese, who always wears the afternoon or evening frock on occasions of this kind; Mrs. Ioka stood in line with her husband and Dr. and Mrs. Jordan. Mrs. Jordan, by the way, wore a beautiful afternoon gown with an exquisite Spanish shawl in yellow, beautifully draped about her shoulders; while Mrs. Ioka was exquisite in a beautiful Japanese kimona, brilliant obi, Japanese slippers, and groomed to the latest, with hair dressed in the latest mode, made fluffy and puffy with a solution of starch which is used as a last treatment by the up-to-date Japanese ladies, finger nails polished, and eyes as bright as diamonds. This made a wonderful picture with a background of roses, palms and ferns, colorful draperies and hangings and much teakwood furniture.
Consul-General and Mrs. Ioka received about one hundred fifty guests. Refreshments were served from one of the most beautifully decorated tables I think that I have ever seen. The Japanese use roses and chrysanthemums when in season; great brass candelabra, with hand-painted cathedral candles and silk shades of pale pink, yellow and green, immense bowls of punch with the nicest of silver and cut glass, Japanese cookies and cake and American candies. The Gentry always do the honors, giving the service from the table, while the Japanese maids patter around in beautiful vividly colored kimonas, like butterflies, as quiet and noiseless as fairies, passing the sandwiches and refreshments to the guests, who are seated or standing around in groups. No music
74 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
except the sound of voices of the different nationalities, which seems after all to be strains of music in harmony and keeping with the surroundings and occasion.
Dr. and Mrs. Jordan have been here for some time and just returned to the mainland last week. During their visit the Doctor has given many lectures, one of which was in the "Mormon" church. I hope you will enjoy this letter as much as I have enjoyed the lectures and interesting things connected with them, at least it was of great interest to me because of its unusualness and definite aim.
It might be well to state that Honolulu is the cross-roads for the Orient to the main Pacific coasts; this accounts for the visit of so many foreign notables. In my next letter I want to tell you of our Ambassador MacVeagh's recent visit on his way to Japan. Also the visit of the Chinese General Hsu, and the public receptions and affairs given for both of them. It was stated to me by the Secretary of the Chinese Consul that General Hsu will probably be the next President of China. His visit here was of two-fold interest to us all.
Sincerely Yours, Jeanette A. Hyde.
Keep Cheerful By Alton Packard
If you would live to a green old age, And tell life's tale to the last fair page, Let sweet content your thoughts engage; Keep cheerful.
Let no dread doubt your joys dispel; The Soul that does each duty well Shall fear no challenging sentinel; Be not fearful.
The tide of sorrow will subside; Dark discontent cannot abide, If we but view the brighter side And keep cheerful.
Ohio Educational Monthly.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS - - - - President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - - - - First Counselor MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - - Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - - General Secretary and Treasurer
Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Miss Sarah M. McClelland Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
Editor - - - CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor - - - ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS Assistant Manager - - - Amy Brown Lyman Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Vol. XIII FEBRUARY, 1926 No. 2

EDITORIAL
A Real Christmas Present
This Christmas a goodly number of mothers, throughout the Church, received a present of very unusual significance and of very great worth. The mother received on a card or in some other way a Gleaner message from her daughter, which reads: "In appreciation I will endeavor to make possible one hour of daily diversion for my mother."
The thought is beautiful and brings to mind the fact that it is possible to make spiritual gifts which are far more valuable than gifts of a material nature. It is with the hope that the mothers may feel the full significance of this most praiseworthy effort on the part of the Y. L. M. I. A. to develop the daughters of Zion, that we make this appeal for cooperation through the Editorial columns of the Magazine.
If after all that has been done by the Mutual board, the mother does not cooperate with her daughter, then failure will be the result, and a good many tender girls will be wounded in spirit and be greatly disappointed. We should think that mothers would be on their "Tiptoes" to assist their daughters in binding this sheaf.
In this busy world of ours which is gaining in momentum
76 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
every day, mothers are pressed for time to do many of the things they would do. Sometimes they need time to spend a few hours with their husbands, to go out with them for a little recreation so necessary to both; sometimes they are pressed for time to read the latest magazine, a new book, to really relax, to call up a neighbor, to cultivate the acquaintance of a friend, to attend a lecture, to do a piece of needle-work or many other things that they desire to do. That is just what the girls' sheaf is for; her gift is an hour each day that mother may use as she chooses.
Mother, this offering from your daughter was placed into your hand on Christmas day; if you are Christian at heart, you will receive it in the spirit of the Divine Master; if you are a loving mother, your heart will not permit you to refuse so beautiful a gift at the hand of your lovely daughter, for it is more fragrant than violets, more beautiful in color and texture than roses. If you are a wise mother you will receive it because of the great benefit it will be to the giver. Do not humiliate that proud daughter of yours by having her report at her meeting that her mother did not cooperate with her. Seek to have the flush of pride come to her cheek and joy beam in her face as she relates to her companions what she has done, and how mother has helped her to do it.
Near East Relief
Members of the Relief Society, in connection with all other members of the Church, had the privilege of contributing to the Near East Relief, on the fast Sunday in December. We use the word privilege advisedly for we feel sure that could our members know the full necessity for such relief they would be filled with gratitude to President Coolidge, Secretary Hoover, the Presidency of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and all others who have sponsored the movement.
The latter part of February and early March of last year we had the privilege of seeing some of the work done by this organization. While visiting the city of Jerusalem we came in contact with a group of little boys left orphans, as a result of late outrages in that country. As we approached them they gave us the scout salute, which had been taught them by the American Relief Workers. Later when we visited the city of Damascus, we saw them huddled in tents on a parcel of ground just outside the walls of the city. Beirut, Syria, afforded us the best opportunity for seeing these unfortunate children, many of whom had been made orphans by the outbreak of 1922.
EDITORIAL 77
These little people, in most instances, have neither father nor mother, their parents having perished by the road side in their attempts to move out of Turkey into other lands. It is not an extravagant statement, but the plain unvarnished truth, when President Coolidge tells us that were it not for American assistance these children would starve to death. As we passed through their schools where they were seeking to learn three languages at once, the Arabic, English, and French, at the same time seeking to acquire skill in carpentry, baking and other work necessary for living in this every-day practical world of ours, we were deeply touched. They had the same lovely innocent faces, the same tender eyes that we meet with in our own children. We feel sure that there is no woman who could steel her heart against the appeal for life made by these children.
It seems unbelievable that 6,000 children could have been made orphans through racial and religious hatred in the year 1922, nevertheless, it is true. Some people desirous of helping these children have hesitated because they have feared lest those concerned in the administration of the relief fund get the money rather than the children. There is not the slightest evidence that such a thing is true, everything seems to be administered in the most economical manner, consistent with the work in hand, and those in charge are glad to have visitors see the work they are doing. Secretary Hoover assured us in an address over the radio that those who had charge were in every way trust-worthy, and if seeing is believing, all we saw in our recent visit to the Orient, would support his statement, which is no doubt backed up by accurate information.
Citizens of the World
Recently a speaker addressing the National Council of Women, told the story of finding Abraham Lincoln's portrait in the home of Lloyd George. The speaker's comment on the incident was, that there is nothing provincial in the homage paid Abraham Lincoln at the present time, for he is a citizen of the world. The same thing is true of George Washington; the presence of his monument in a number of world capitols proves that conclusively. What is true of Washington and Lincoln is equally true of other celebrities of the world. Joan-of-Arc has long been a citizen of the world. This is in a sense true of great artists, such as Jennie Lind, Sir Henry Irving, Mozart, Beethoven, Sarah Bernhardt, and Caruso?all are citizens of the world.
78 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Appreciation
Once again President Clarissa S. Williams and the members of the General Board take this opportunity of expressing their heart felt appreciation for the many greetings that have reached us during the Holiday season. All of these messages are reciprocated in the spirit in which they were given. We ask that the blessings of the Lord may be poured forth in rich abundance upon all who are working with diligence and good will to further the work of the Relief Society in the year's work in which we are now fully launched.
Condolence
In the midst of the holiday cheer, our hearts were made sad by the demise of Mrs. Rachel Ballif Lyman, daughter-in-law of our General Secretary, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, and wife of Wendell Brown Lyman. Our hearts go out in love and sympathy to Mrs. Lyman and her companion, Dr. Richard R. Lyman, and particularly to the young husband bereft of his wife at so early an hour in their wedded life. We remember also at this time the infant daughter, Amy Kathryn, the father and brothers and sisters of sister Rachel Ballif Lyman who must find a measure of consolation in the beauty of her life. May the richest blessings of our Heavenly Father attend all of her loved ones, to soften the grief resulting from so sudden and seemingly untimely a bereavement.
We do not recall a time when it has been our lot to write so many paragraphs of condolence affecting members of the Board as we have written during the last six months. Consequently, it is with increased regret that we record the passing of Lyman R. Martineau, the son-in-law of Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon. Our hearts go out in sympathy to Mrs. Cannon, her husband and family and particularly to her daughter bereft of her husband. We pray that the choicest blessings of our Father in Heaven may rest upon them to give comfort in this hour of bereavement.
Summer Vacations for Children By Lydia D. Alder
Summer vacations for children was an innovation in the work of the Welfare Department of the Relief Society. It was a big task, too. But the need justified the undertaking. In undesirable districts were children undernourished, ailing, restless from the heat. In homes of poverty were little ones languishing for the crisp and nourishing vegetables growing abundantly on farms and in gardens not very far away. There was hope for strength and vigor and happiness in the thought of a period of change and recuperation for this class of "kiddies." If only they might spend a fortnight where the out-of-doors is big enough for real play, and meals are served to suit the growing appetites!
After much deliberation, the appeal was made. The response was whole-hearted and big, as the response always is when helpless childhood calls. The announcement was made in the April conference?that there was a certain group of malnourished children who needed a vacation in the country. Soon letters began to come in from the various stakes offering accommodations for from two weeks' to a month's time, and in some instances for the whole summer; and the office force began immediately to prepare lists of those who would be most benefitted by fresh air and country food.
Each family visitor thought the children she knew, needed it more than the others. Competition was very keen. Surely not one of the little ones must be overlooked. After being assured of enough places for the children, the problem of finance was considered. Railroad fare for all the children was no small item. Also a great number of those who should be sent were destitute of clothing; and unless they could be clothed it would be impossible for them to go.
After giving the subject much thought, it was decided to call upon some of Salt Lake's prominent business people for contributions. Most generously they responded. Ample means for transportation and the needed clothing were provided. The railroads allowed rates and so gave a big boost to the enterprise.
In order that the children would not take any infectious diseases into the homes where they were to be guests, medical examinations were necessary. The doctors cooperated in this matter and each of the children had throat, heart, lungs, etc., gone over thoroughly. The malnourished children were given first place. After this group was completed, those having little opportunity for recreation, those whose mothers were forced to be away from
80 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
home a good deal were given next chance. One little lad who lives with his grandmother was thought particularly in need of the outing, and the grandmother in need of rest.
When a visit was made to the house to see if arrangements could be made for the boy to go, the grandmother gave her consent; but as the visitor was leaving she said wistfully, "You know, I have never been on a vacation in my life." The heart of the visitor was touched and she insisted grandmother must go on a vacation, too. She was sent to some friends in a town where she had spent her girlhood. There, for a period of fourteen days she visited and rested, and renewed her friendships, and lived again the joy of early days. One other adult was sent; a woman whose body was frail and weak. Her doctor had recommended a month in some quiet town where she would have plenty of nourishing food. She, too, was greatly benefitted by her rest. After the numerous calls from stake presidents, ward presidents, and individuals were received, the children were divided into groups; the oldest child in the group was placed in charge. They were escorted to the train by visitors from the Relief Society office and a telegram was sent to the stake president advising her of the time of the children's arrival. The president was left to see that the children should reach the homes of the people who had offered to take them. There were surprisingly few difficulties. A few lost pennies, a misplaced lunch box, perhaps the least little bit of homesickness, that was all. Nothing of a serious nature. The children who went ranged in age from three to fourteen years. The little three year old was the most plucky of the crowd. The people with whom she stayed fell in love with her and were loath to part with her when the time arrived. She was particularly interested in the train ride, since she had not been on a train before. She was not homesick. She did not cry for her mother. She was accustomed to being in a day nursery, while her mother' was employed, and this was better than the best day nursery in the world. She arrived home bubbling over with her new experiences and all decked out in new clothes given by the kind friends with whom she stayed. The experience of these youngsters will never be forgotten. To most of them it was the first glimpse of real life. To play in shady orchards; to wade in babbling brooks; to hunt bird nests, climb trees, and go trout fishing, were things they knew only from story books. Now they were real. Now they could watch the farmers get the sweet milk from "Old Boss." Perhaps they got some warm in a bright tin cup. Now they could go with little friends to gather the eggs that would be eaten for breakfast in the morning. And there was the garden, with turnips and carrots SUMMER VACATION FOR CHILDREN 81 and peas?"more than they can eat" as one younster graphically expressed it. A dozen stakes offered to take children, but only the offers of the first seven, which came early, could be accepted. One of the most interesting groups was the one sent to Minidoka stake. There were twenty-nine children in this group?twenty-nine scrawny, big-eyed kiddies?timid and bold, joyous and sad, loved and neglected. Because of the long distance they traveled it was deemed advisable to send with them one of the regular workers from the Welfare Department. When they were gathered at the Relief Society office, ready to leave, it was declared that such a happy group of children had never been seen before. Some had their clothes wrapped up in queer little bundles which they hugged closely, and some dragged suitcases too big for them to carry. All were eager to be off. The boys were talking about the ride on the train, the girls telling one another how their mother had to hurry to get them off. Most of them had never been on a train before, and to think of riding all night was quite unheard of! The following isa list of the stakes and the number of children they were able to accommodate: Minidoka 29; Oquirrh 10; Alpine 10; Box Elder 10; South Sevier 2; Yellowstone 2; Hyrum 1; making a total of 64 children who will remember the summer as one of the happiest in their lives. Many other stakes offered accommodations but it was not 'possible to accept all of the invitations, because some of them came too late in the season and the transportation fund was not adequate to send more than 64. The Welfare Department would like to make vacations for children an annual event. Since it was so successful this year, there seems to be no reason why it should not be adopted as a permanent summer activity. The people who so generously responded to this need of some of the "Little Ones," may never know the extent of the blessing they thus bestowed. If to one little waif there was opened a broader vision of life; if in the heart of one there was planted seeds of love and kindness from the peace of the home where entertainment was given; if one child undernourished and weak was started on the road to health and vigor?then there is no means of comparison between the good that may result and the effort that was made. The Relief Society is grateful to the philanthropic men and women who helped to put over the plan. If these could have heard the returning crowds in noisy discussion on the homeward trip, they would not grudge their contribution to the cause. "Gosh, it was fun to pick eggs," said one, and another answered, "But not half as much fun as watching the man grind milk." Invalid Diet By Jean Cox While the average homemaker tries to feed her family in order ta prevent illness, sickness sometimes results from personal infringements on the laws of health which undermine the resistance of the body to disease. Over fatigue or becoming chilled pave the way to the inroad of germs which otherwise would not harm the person in vigorous health. In many cases with children the excitement of Christmas or parties burn up too much energy. Visible loss of weight results as well as corresponding loss of tone. When this physical condition exists, illness frequently results. Careful checking on colds and other minor illnesses as well as more serious disabilities will frequently show that there has been an unsatisfactory relationship between intake and activity, Frequently illness results from too low calorie intake due to lack of vitamines B in food. Food right in selection and amount is of far more importance in the comfort and recovery of the patient than the average homemaker concedes. In many instances illnesses are aggravated or prolonged because the patient is given either too little or too much food, or food that is poor in selection. This lack of understanding of the importance of the food problem is due to several contributing factors. One is the acknowledgement of close connection between food and health, which is of rather recent origin. Another reason for failure along this line is belief in unfounded food traditions in relation to illness. Perhaps the most important consideration of all is the lack of training of the homemaker along the line of invalid dietetics. The family doctor frequently gives such hazy directions that neither he nor the home nurse understand just what he means by his directions relating to diet. In further analysis of the situation, it is rather interesting to think of the accepted definition of foods according to Sherman in terms of the invalid diet. "Food is anything which when taken into the body furnishes heat and energy and builds tissues and regulates body processes." Heat and energy necessary for the fundamental body processes such as respiration, circulation, digestion, elimination and regulation of body temperature make a rather steady demand on the food requirement of the individual. In order to meet this basal need the average woman patient requires from 1100 to 1400 calories per day, while an average man would require from 1400 to 1800 calories under the same conditions. If the patient is restless, has a temperature, or sits wp part of INVALID DIET 83 the time, the demand would be somewhat increased. When the food intake is lower than this basal demand the various tissues of the body suffer as they are necessarily used to furnish the required heat and energy. In ordinary illness the dietician has almost superseded the pharmacist. If you question this, note how few patent medicines are now being featured in drug store counters. The latest addition to the list in one drug store is fresh eggs, and in defense of this expansion one druggist admitted that people buy very little medicine now adays. The crusade against indiscriminate use of widely advertised patent medicines has convinced the intelligent public that patent medicines are not always panaceas. In the treatment of disease by careful food selection, additional argument is given for the protective foods. One of the most recent experiments is the one carried on recently at Johns Hopkins Laboratories where they have experimented on diets to stimulate bone growth. The experiments justify the use of buttermilk and liver several times a week as the phosphorous containel in the liver and the calcium in the buttermilk furnish the two elements necessary for bone growth. This has been used with patients whose bone refused to knit together normally, and this diet has proven to be successful in human as well as animal experimentation. When a patient is emaciated or much run down, very careful attention must be given to diet, in addition to as complete restas is possible. The existing illness, unless the result of disease, is frequently due to continued over-expenditure of energy in proportion to the food intake. It is not logical to expect that a tenroom house could be built or heated on an amount of brick or coal required for a six-room one. Neither is it sensible to expect that extra exertion over an indefinite period is safe if the food intake is inadequate for the demands for body processes and activities. When the patient is much below normal weight, it is customary to put him to bed and feed him a diet considerably in excess of his daily needs. The patient is encouraged to relax and rest in order to build up as quickly as possible. Much serious illness could be averted if more people had the idea of prevention of serious illness. A few days in bed in addition to a satisfactory diet that would appeal to a jaded appetite, as well as build up rundown tissues, would frequently save many days of suffering and the increased expense of inconvenience of sickness,: Diets for the sick are classified as liquid, soft or semi-solid, and light or convalescent diet. The fluid diet is easy of digestion and is advantageous when for any reason a person is below par physically. In minor illness it is usually safe to use this light 84 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE diet for several days in order not to overtax the digestive tract, as when a person is below par physically care must be taken to provide a diet easy of digestion. The fluid diet will include (1) broths and clear soups, beef juice and beef tea, cereal gruels of various kinds, milk, either plain or modified to make it more digestible or attractive to the individual, raw egys in combination with water, fruit juices, cocoa or other fluid and cream soup of various kinds. It must be remembered however, that broths, clear soups, beef juices land beef teas have little calorie value and that their chief value is from. The standpoint of an appetizer, as they stimulate flow of gastric juices, they are agreeable to the taste and are comforting when hot or refreshing when cold. Broths, however, can be made carriers of more nutritious foods by the addition of cream, eggs, and cereals or cereal flours. Broths and bouillon are bulky, as it takes from 1 pint to 1 quart to make a one hundred calorie portion. So the old idea that a patient would become strong on broth and tea is not borne out by present investigations. Very probably, convalescence has been prolonged because of restricted use of inadequate diets. Where the flavor is liked, one-fourth of a cup of thin cream can be added to two-thirds of a cup of broth and the food value changes from 33 calories to 133 calories. The addition of two to three tablespoons of barley or rice flour will bring up the caloric value approximately 50 calories. Ease of the digestion of food for invalids needs careful consideration as toxic conditions, inactivity and general low tone all tend to inhibit flow of digestive juices. In order to stimulate sluggish digestive glands, much of the food prescribed is liquid or soft, as dry foods lack flavor when the salivary glands are not functioning normally. It is well to remember also that digestion is largely a process of getting foods into a stage of solubility. For this reason the liquid or semi-liquid foods cause less strain on the digestive tract than do solid foods. Partial or complete loss of appetite make it very important that foods are attractively served. The saying that we half eat with our eyes is especially true in regard to the sick room tray. Attractiveness here may make the patient sufficiently curious to try to eat the food provided. Absolute cleanliness, attractive dishes, clean linen, are essential considerations in feeding the sick. Stimulation of the jaded taste bulbs is sometimes effected by serving fruits, consomme, or fruit for the first course. Another factor which needs careful consideration is the psychology or feeding invalids. When food is served the patient should be expected to eat it. Perhaps actually feeding the sick person, the more difficult part of the task will be time well spent, for, if the patient is very ill, eating often seems too much of an INVALID DIET 85 exertion. If the patient is inclined to be self-centered, creating other interests during meal time may be half of the battle. Frequently positive suggestions such as "This will help you get out into the sunshine," or "Food like this will help you to sit up," will help. Cereal gruels likewise may be carriers of some of the more concentrated foods, if the digestive tract will not be disturbed. A cup of thin gruel without the addition of cream, milk, butter or egg is only about 50 calories. Thinning it with whole milk, thin cream, butter or egg will add to the food value and may contribute to the palatability. While catering to the individual likes of the patient has some advantages, the value of a surprise to the taste bulbs has some advantages. The patient without much appetite should not be required to make decisions as to what should be prepared for him. Very often feeding failure results from too infrequent meals. The home nurse doesn't always realize that a small amount of liquid food is completely digested in two to three hours. When the stomach remains empty for too long a period, faintness and lack of appetite result. The following sample menu of a fluid diet is suggestive: 7:00 a.m. Cup hot milk flavored with postum if desired. 9:00 a. M. Albuminized lemonade: 2 tbsp. Lemon juice, 2 tbsp. Sugar, egg slightly beaten, 11 c. Water...... 125 calories 11:00 a.m. 1 cup broth 50 calories 1:00 p. M. 1 cup gruel made with milk.................. 125 calories 3:00 p. M. Albuminized orange or lemonade............. 130 calories 5:00 p.m. 1 cup broth.......... 50 calories 7:00 p.m. 1 cup milk.... 125 calories 9:00 p. M. 1 cup broth...........50 calories 11:00 p. M. 1 cup gruel made with milk................... 125 calories Molasesses?.775 calories The amount of calories furnished by the above diet is too low for more than a few days. If the patient is to continue on a fluid diet, additions of more food will necessarily be made. The following variations are suggested when more calories are required: 7:00 a.m. 1 cup milk  125 calories 9:00 a. M. I cup milk flavored with postum, etc........... 125 Calories 11:00 a. M. Albuminized orange juice, 1/2 cup orange juice, 2 tbsp. Sugar, white of 1 egg............ 225 calories 1:00 p. M. Cream soup with one egg added just before it is taken from stove or 44 cup cream............ 275 calories 3:00 p. M. Grape juice eggnog: One egg, 1/2 cup milk, 1 tbsp. Sugar, 44 cup grape juice, 1 tbsp. Cream... 200 calories 5:00 p. M. Gruel made with milk.............. 125 calories 86 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 7:00 p. M. 1 cup tea made with  cup milk and 2 tbsp. Cream 125 calories 9:00 p. M. Gruel made with milk flavored with beef extract 200 calories 11:00 p. M. 1 cup hot malted milk...............225 calories Total. 1625 calories The semi or soft diet consists of easily digested foods that includes easily digested egg dishes, toast, jello and liquids, carrying more calories through the addition of cream, rich milk, malted milk. The number of meals is decreased by two, and the schedule changed. The following is a typical menu for a soft or semisolid diet. Approximate calories 7:00 a. M. 1 cup hot milk flavored as desired. 9:30 a. M. 1 cup fruit juice, preferably orange or part grapefruit and milder fruit juice.................. 125 1 cup thick gruel served with top milk.......... 200 1 thin slice toast with butter................... 100 12:00 m. 1 cup beef broth with white of 1 egg........... 75 1 thin slice toast with butter................... 100 2:30 p. M. 2/3 cup creamed chicken...........  200  thin slice toast........50 2 stalks celery or small serving lettuce salad..... 1/2 cup lemon jelly with |1 tbsp. Whipped cream.. 125 5:00 p. M. 1 cup milk flavored as desired..........50 7:30 p. M. 1/2 cup bouillon.......100 cup cocoa or caramel junket or cornstarch pudCh wi ar 150 plus 10:00 p. M. 1 cup gruel or malted milk................... 200 plus 1 thin slice toast with butter................... 100 Total calories......... 1955 Try oatmeal fluff when a change in texture is desired. To 1/2 cup oatmeal jelly, add 1/2 cup thin cream, | tsp. Sugar, salt, spk, nutmeg. When hot pour into beaten white of one egg. Serve at once. Failure in invalid feeding is often due to the lack of understanding as to what were the contributing factors to the indisposition. Although physicians sometimes say that their harvest in minor illness follows Christmas holidays, because people overeat, colds often result from over-exertion and fatigue. The diet treatment of colds in addition to rest is to feed liquid or semi-liquid for a day or two as the body is low tone generally. The extra amount of liquid will also stimulate elimination. Fruit juices usually used at this time are also valuable for their organic acids which tend to prevent constipation. As a rule some form of laxative is taken in addition to the fruit juices. There is a decided diet problem in the diet for colds during the convalescent period, as the system is frequently run down
INVALID DIET 87
and the cold may hang on indefinitely, recur, or develop into chronic catarrh, bronchitis, pneumonia or tuberculosis, if efforts are not made to build up the person to normal condition. In order to do this an abundance of easily digested, nutritious food should be served. If there is little danger of upsetting the digestive tract, a beverage might be used between meals for additional nutrients. As a precautionary measure it is wise for the patient not to spend more energy than is absolutely necessary. Care should be taken also that the protective foods, milk, eggs, green-leaf vegetables, citrus fruit and codliver oil should be used in each day's diet. For additional fuel fats such as butter, cream, bacon, olive and codliver oil, seem additionally desirable. Codliver oil contains more of the A vitamin than any other known substance. It should be considered more as a valuable food than a medicine. Dr. McCollum advocates ? tsp. Codliver oil and 1? tsp. of precipitated chalk twice a week for adults as a precautionary measure. In the light or convalescent diet the same protective foods are used in addition to some more solid foods such as cooked cereals, roast or broiled lean beef, chicken, mutton, lamb or fish. Baked potatoes are served and thick vegetable purees are used. Simple desserts are still served and may be a little richer and sweeter. As a rule any dessert or fruit for invalids should be less sweet than the normal appetite requires. Adults on this diet are allowed from 2,200 to 2,500 calories per day, which gives a safe margin for building tissues over the amount required for body process and minor activity of the invalid. The physician will prescribe certain regulations, but the family dietician should see to it that building, regulatory foods are generously supplied. A short convalescence is quite as much the responsibility of the home nurse and dietician as it is of the doctor in charge.
"Let us cast off our hatreds. Let us candidly accept our treaties and our natural obligations of peace. We know, and everyone knows, that these old systems, antagonism and reliance on force, have failed. If the world has made any progress, it has been the result of the development of other ideals. If we are to maintain and perfect our own civilization; if we are to be of any benefit to the rest of mankind, we must turn aside from the thoughts of destruction and cultivate the thoughts of construction. We cannot place our main reliance upon material forces. We must reaffirm and reinforce our ancient faith in truth and justice, in charitableness and tolerance. We must make our supreme commitment to the everlasting spiritual forces of life. We must mobilize the conscience of mankind."?Calvin Coolidge.
Notes From the Field Amy Brown Lyman
California Mission.
The Compton branch Relief Society was organized November 20, 1924, with Mrs. Sarah E. Snow as president, and a group of able assistants, and has grown into a very active Society. Many quilts and other articles have been made and sold and the proceeds spent in helping the needy. The Society held an entertainment on September 18, which was a great success. It was called "Trip Around the World." Six different countries were represented in the homes of six of the members. After all the countries were visited, everybody come back to the United States to spend the remainder of the time in singing and dancing. Last March, the eighty-third anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society of the Church was celebrated with a banquet, with eighty-eight guests present.
Franklin Stake.
As a special incentive the Franklin stake Relief Society board offered a new Relief Society ward record book as a prize to the ward having the best attendance at the recent group convention. The prize will no doubt be greatly appreciated by the winning ward as it will cover four years record work in the ward.
Carbon Stake.
Winter Quarters ward, with a membership of twenty-two, has secured sixty-three subscriptions to the Relief Society Magazine.
Australian Mission.
Mrs. Carrie S. Hyde, president of the Relief Societies of the Australian Mission, writes that the Society in Sydney presented the
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 89
pageant, "The Guardianship of Life" twice, and each time it was splendidly received and made a good impression upon the Saints and friends. There was a large audience at each presentation, and it is felt that much good was accomplished. Three other branches have the pageant under rehearsal.
Morgan Stake.
Morgan stake held a very successful teachers' convention on Sunday, October 25. The suggestive program sent out by the General Board was carried out. The subject matter was divided into three topics, which were treated by stake board members. The convention was very successful and there was a splendid attendance, including fifty officers and teachers.
Box Elder Stake.
During December the ward presidents and officers completed a canvass of the stake in the interest of the Relief Society Magazine for 1926. The stake board gave two prizes of two bound volumes of the Magazine, for 1925, one to the ward in Brigham City obtaining the largest subscription to the Magazine, according to the enrollment, and one to the ward outside the city which numbered the highest. The Second Ward of Brigham City took the prize for the city ward, with an enrollment of ninety-three and a subscription list of ninety. The Evans Ward will receive the prize for the outside ward, with an enrollment of fourteen and a subscription list of fifteen. The stake as a whole had six hundred subscribers up to December 1, for the 1926 Magazine, with more coming later. It has been found in this stake where the Magazine circulation is large that ward is up and alive in all phases of Relief Society work.
Following is a report of the Free Health Clinic in Brigham City, since its organization, and the activity in maternity work: clinics held, 37; children examined, 477; defects, 1053; follow-up visits, 74; operations, 61; tonsils and adenoids, 52; minor operations, 9; dental work, 59; normal children, 40. More than 75% of the children are underweight. This health work has been carried on at a cost of $404.06, with an estimated saving to the parents of $1,637.00. The money for the work has been obtained as follows: the stake asked for one-half of the interest on the wheat money from the wards in Brigham City, and one-fourth from the wards outside. Some parents have assisted in paying for operations; also some of the wards through ward funds; the Ladies' Civic Club, and the Kiwanians also assisted. The nurse, Mrs. Tingey, who is in charge of the maternity bundles reports activity since July 1923 as follows: 14 bundles on hand; used 181 times, 60 times without pay; 11 now in use; 3
90 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
spoken for; charge for use of bundle, $2.50; amount received for rental, $255.53; charge for sterilizing and supplies, $152.03; on hand, $103.50; amount paid nurse, $650. Other miscellaneous items are: summer vacations were provided for nine children and one woman, ranging in time from ten days to one month; all wards are preparing a complete set of Relief Society Magazines to be bound for their libraries; the ward secretaries are all working to get the ward histories up to date.
Northwestern States Mission.
The Kelso branch Relief Society is a very lively group. Weekly meetings are held in connection with the Priesthood. The regular Relief Society course of study is used and great interest is manifested in the lessons.
SOCIAL SERVICE INSTITUTES
Burley Stake.
A very successful course in Welfare Work was given the Relief Society workers of Burley stake, beginning November 9 and covering a period of two weeks. Class work was conducted the first week by Amy W. Evans of the General Board, and the second week by Annie D. Palmer of the Family Welfare office. Public lectures were given by Dr. Nielsen, of Oakley, Mrs. Amy W. Evans, of the Relief Society General Board, Mr. Wright, Probate Judge, and Miss Calley, of the State A. C. Extension Department. The daily sessions were attended by Relief Society stake and ward presidents and women chosen for special family welfare work. Interested visitors, included several bishops, a member of the county commission, representatives of the Women's Club, and the probate judge. There were also visiting members from Minidoka stake. Relief Society officers of Burley stake have long felt the
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 91
need of special training in this particular field, and they were appreciative and very alert to the opportunity thus afforded them. Refreshments were served at the Saturday afternoon session. At the closing session, the women were unanimous in saying the lessons had been both interesting and profitable and that they hoped to do better welfare work in the future than they had known how to do in the past. President Margaret Cutler congratulated them on their regular attendance and interest in the class work which had been conducted under the supervision of her first counselor, Mrs. Wright.
Palmyra Stake.
A course in social service was held early in the year of 1925, beginning February 6 and continuing for a period of six weeks?two lessons of one hour each being given each week. To this institute were invited the bishops of wards, presidencies of Relief Societies, and ward social workers. Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman was in charge of the course and was assisted by Mrs. Annie D. Palmer, and the Misses Cora Kasius, Lydia Alder and Genevieve Thornton. The course was most gratefully received and appreciated. One bishop who attended every session, said he had received the most helpful suggestions along charity lines that he had ever received and his viewpoint has been changed in many particulars.
The 17th of March was celebrated as a stake affair. Each ward contributed to the program with a one-act play, a pageant, or a musical number. A spirit of friendly rivalry prevailed and some very commendable features were presented. The stake board served light refreshments to the five hundred and fifty who were in attendance.
Early in the year a health program was launched. Before the actual work was undertaken, an educational program was given to get parents to realize the importance of the movement and to secure their cooperation. A public meeting was held at the City Pavilion in the afternoon, for children, at which a health play was given, where milk and vegetables were represented, by forty children, and the importance of these articles in the diet was stressed to about four hundred people. A public meeting was held in the evening for parents. The health play was repeated and a talk was given by Dr. Murphy on "The Under-nourished Child" and how to correct this condition. A lecture was then given to visiting teachers on "Milk in the Diet," by Miss Clark, of Domestic Art department of the local high school. Menus and recipes of milk dishes were given to each set of teachers and they in turn gave them out in the homes. The summer project was then organized for the raising of weight in the under-weight child. In this work there was cooperation with the school nurse and the
92 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
extension worker of the Agricultural College. One hundred and fifty children of school age were found to be more than 10% underweight?the danger mark. Two project workers were selected in each ward who took a day's training on how to score children for imperfections and note them. This training was given by Mrs. Christensen of the Agricultural College, who is a specialist in this work. Blanks for each child were furnished by the Agricultural College extension department, and children were checked up each month by local project workers.
North Davis Stake.
Following is the order of business used in the stake board meeting in North Davis stake:
1. Singing. (5 minutes.)
2. Prayer. (5 minutes.)
3. Roll call (including report of number of chapters read by board members, subject, Book of Mormon.) (5 minutes.)
4. Minutes.
5. Report of two Book of Mormon thoughts gathered during the month's reading, report by two board members. (5 minutes.)
6. Business: a. Reports of the visits to wards by board members. (30 minutes.) b. Two consecutive suggestions, by two board members. (5 minutes.) c. Board members appointments made and topics assigned to be used on visits. (10 minutes.)
7. Lesson Discussion: (45 minutes.) Theology. (15 minutes.) Literature. (15 minutes.) Social Service. (15 minutes.)
8. Appointment of ushers for Relief Society department of union meeting.
(Time of meeting, 2 hours.)
REFERENCES FOR ANNIVERSARY PROGRAMS
"First Minutes of Relief Society," January Magazine, 1915, page 20; "Instructions of the Prophet Given at Nauvoo," March Magazine, 1915, page 91; "Object, Aims and Brief History of Relief Society," March Magazine, 1915, page 111; "Sketches of the First Five General Presidents," March Magazine, 1920, page 127; "Sketches of President Clarissa S. Williams," July Magazine, 1921, page 378; "Story of the Organization," March Magazine, 1919, page 127; "Our Anniversary," March Magazine, 1921, page 137; "Relief Society Teaching," December Magazine, 1916, page 668; "National Woman's Relief Society?History and Accomplishments," March Magazine, 1925, page 115.
Guide Lessons for April
LESSON I
Theology and Testimony (First Week in April)
CONTRIBUTIONS OF THE MOSAIC DISPENSATION
A. Theological.
The Ten Commandments. (a) The First Commandment: "Thou shalt have no other God before me." This is a demand for sincerity, a whole-heartedness of devotion to God. A devotion that is born of implicit confidence, love unalloyed and unwavering loyalty.
(b) The Second Commandment: "Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image." This command was an edict against idolatry. There are evidences that the children of Israel during the four centuries of their sojourn in Egypt had become tainted with Paganism, and this injunction was particularly suited to their condition. This commandment proclaimed against having anything between God and those who worship him. Images interfere with spiritual contact.
(c) The Third Commandment: "Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain; for the Lord will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain." This is an official call, a demand for reverence. It is a proclamation of the sinfulness of profaning the name of a spiritual Ideal. All such utterances are psychologically degrading as well as socially offensive. Profanity is nothing less than a fit of vocal intemperance.
(d) The Fourth Commandment: "Remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy." This is a double commandment, it includes the "not-do" and the do and provides for six days of industry and one day of spiritual activity, with emphasis on the latter.
(e) The Fifth Commandment: "Honor thy father and thy mother." In its completeness this part of the Decalogue contains a direct requirement with a promise. Disobedience to parents is prominent as a forerunner of banishment from the Land of Promise.
94 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
(f) The Sixth Commandment: "Thou shalt not kill." This commandment is doubly protective in its nature. It protects the right of all to live and it guards against the crime of all crimes, the unnecessary taking of life. It is a low state of individual or national existence that places a low valuation on human life. Careless killing is a close second to contemplated killing.
(g) The Seventh Commandment: "Thou shalt not commit adultery." "Next to destruction is depletion," a universal truth.
(h) The Eighth Commandment: "Thou shalt not steal." This mandate forbids the unlawful taking of anything, an act which advertises a poverty of character far worse than that of beggary. It is an injunction upon which rests the protection of all property rights. To take more than one's share of a group possession is a form of theft.
(i) The Ninth Commandment: "Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor." This commandment pronounces against perjury, slander, and pernicious gossip. Lying about other people has not unfittingly been called character cannibalism. No wonder the Lord forbids it.
(j) The Tenth Commandment: "Thou shalt not covet." As the first commandment demands perfect sincerity, so the last one requires absolute honesty. It might well be said that one who desires or contemplates unlawful possession hath already committed theft in his heart.
The Decalogue is not only a great contribution to religion but also a great contribution to government.
B. Miscellaneous. (a) Returning good for evil. "If thou meet thine enemy's ox or his ass going astray, thou shalt surely bring it back to him again." (Exodus 23:4.)
(b) Returning help for hate. "If thou see the ass of him that hateth thee lying under his burden, and wouldst forbear to help him, thou shalt surely help with him." (Exodus 23:5.)
(c) Love of neighbor. "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." (Leviticus 19:18.)
C. Literary. (a) The orations of Moses acknowledged to be equal to any of the orations of Demosthenes or Cicero. (Examples: Deut. 9 and 28.)
GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 95
(b) The Psalms of David of which the 23rd and 24th are great favorites.
(c) The Songs and Proverbs of Solomon often referred to as wisdom literature.
(d) The Book of Job of which it has been said, "There is nothing choicer in the world of literature."
(e) The stories of Ruth and Esther each of which ranks among the best stories to be found.
D. Historical (a) The greatest volume of sacred history known, and the world is indebted to it for much of its other history and literature, it being a source of both information and inspiration. The Old Testament is wholly a product of the Mosaic dispensation.
E. Human Welfare. (a) An unimpeachable testimony of national life, declaring that heroic loyalty to the Lord is the pathway of prosperity, and that surrender to sin spells captivity.
(b) The strengthening of the northern races through the introduction of Hebrew blood.
(c) The production of two of the most favored women who ever lived.
1. The mother of the greatest prophet ever born. And
2. The mother of the Son of God.
Questions and Problems
1. Give an example of a whole-hearted devotion to God such as is requested by the first commandment.
2. Give specific evidence that the children of Israel had absorbed some of the Egyptian idolatry.
3. What is broadcasted into the universe by profanity?
4. Whose work are we to do in six days?
5. Show that tolerating disobedience in children is a great injustice to them.
6. Discuss the present day crime of careless killing.
7. Discuss: The sixth commandment provides for the preservation of life, the seventh provides for having life worth preserving.
8. Show how industry is related to the eighth commandment.
9. Connect the ninth commandment up with this thought gem: "O to breathe each tale we've heard is far beneath a noble mind."
10. When does a person steal without taking anything?
11. Prove that Christian virtues of returning good for evil,
96 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
doing good to those who hate you and loving your neighbor as yourself, were required during the Mosaic dispensation.
12. Give scriptural proof that Elizabeth was the mother of the greatest prophet born of woman.
Work and Business
TEACHER'S TOPIC ?HOME TALKS
Organization of the Church
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the most perfectly organized institution on the earth at the present time.
I. The Restoration of the Priesthood.
1. The Aaronic Priesthood. A. Deacons. B. Teachers. C. Priests. D. The specific duties of each.
2. The Melchizedek Priesthood. A. Apostles. B. Patriarchs or Evangelist. C. High Priest. D. Seventy. E. Elder. F. Specific duties of each.
II. By the authority of the Priesthood the Church of Christ was again organized. 1. When organized. 2. Where organized. 3. By whom organized.
III. The General Authorities of the Church. 1. The First Presidency. 2. The Council of the Twelve Apostles. 3. The Presiding Patriarch. 4. The First Seven Presidents of Seventy. 5. The Presiding Bishopric. 6. The Specific Duties of each.
IV. The Local Authorities. 1. The Stake. A. The Stake Presidency. B. The High Council. C. The Stake Patriarchs. D. The duties of each. 2. The Ward. A. The Bishopric. B. Priests. C. Teachers. D. Deacons. E. Duties of each.
V. Helps in Government or Auxiliaries.
1. The Relief Society.
2. The Sunday School.
3. The Mutual Improvement Association.
4. The Primary Associations.
5. The function of each in the Church.
References: Articles of Faith, Lecture XI; Talmage. Doc. And Cov. Sec. 20.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 97
LESSON III
Literature (Third Week in April)
BOOTH TARKINGTON
Some of Booth Tarkington's biographers declare that he was destined to be a writer, escape in his case being impossible as he had among his ancestors ministers of note while he himself was given to sketching, which is another way of saying that an unusual number of men of letters have descended from lines of ministers and that an unusual number of writers have been clever at sketching. Booth Tarkington is not the first prominent member of his family, for three or four generations before him his ancestors had done credit to the city of Indianapolis and the State of Indiana.
Newton Booth Tarkington, who at one time signed his name N. Booth, was born in the city of Indianapolis, Indiana in 1869. His environment has colored his life very much. Of Indianapolis Mr. Nicholson: "The man across the street or next door will share any good thing he has with you, whether it be a cure for rheumatism, a new book, or the garden hose, and it is a town where doing as one likes is not a mere possibility, but is an inherent right."
A matter that has always been very singular to people not living in Indiana, is the fact that without an exception, writers of the Hoosier state grow eloquent about the beauty of that part of the country and particularly the climate, when as a matter of fact most people visiting Indiana think it is flat, monotonous and generally devoid of scenic attractions. But to people who have lived at its hearth-stones, taken part in its community life, eaten the products of its soil, Indiana seems to have a fascination and a charm not understood by others outside.
Booth Tarkington's people were well to do so that he has not had the struggle of the poor boy. His education was obtained first at Exeter Academy, later Purdue University at La Fayette, Indiana, and finally he finished his college career at aristocratic Princeton. College life was native atmosphere to him, he seemed as much at home in college as the fish seems in water. His companions never thought of him as a grind. He carried his course with credit and without very much hard work, due to his richly endowed mind. He was in everything going on, combining as he did a number of rare gifts, being a writer, orator and singer of the first order. He was very helpful on the college magazine and has the reputation for having put the Princeton Tiger, the comic paper of the University, on its feet; he too was known conspicuously in college circles for his singing. He wrote the prize class song, sang and traveled with the Glee Club, in which he was the
98 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
soloist and for which he wrote many songs. He set Poe's Raven to music. He seems to have made a particular hit singing Kipling's ballad; "The Hanging of Danny Deever." He seemed to have his own interpretation of this song, practically every occasion, where he was present, some would call out, "Tark! Tark! Danny Deever!" and he would have to respond. He was fond of outdoor sports, a loyal supporter of the athletic team, and so enthusiastic that even now he usually finds time to get to Princeton for the foot ball season.
For many years he was looked upon as something of an idler in the city, taking part in whatever the city was doing in a public way and making himself particularly useful when Indianapolis was the host for some attractive woman from another locality. In fact Booth Tarkington seemed to have so much leisure time at his disposal that he was something of a town joke. The keen observer might have noticed that Tarkington burned the midnight oil and while others were comfortably tucked away in their beds, Tarkington was learning the very difficult art of effective writing.
Dickens has the reputation of writing a good deal about things that people eat. Tarkington's people sing. Mr. Robert C. Holliday in commenting on this fact says: "Mr. Tarkington's lovers sing; and, of all lovers, all the world must love most a singing lover. Throughout his pages serenaders nightly seek the garden with instrumental plunkings." Or, there is wafted to the ear of the rapt one without the music of a clear, soft voice within welling the "Angels' Serenade." His drunken men sing,? and that is about the most winning thing a drunken man can do. His Sunday School classes sing."
He has given us a list of the English authors he preferred. They are: Meredith, Stevenson, James, Wells Bennett and Hardy. Some critics think they have discovered in his earlier writings some likeness to both James and Stevenson.
Booth Tarkington has usually impressed people as being an extremely normal individual. He is said to admire all the things "which decent ordinary simple hearted persons admire: courage, honesty, honor, feminine virtue, graciousness and beauty, etc. He hates precisely those things hated by all honest American people: "Sham, egotism, conceit, cruelty, affectation and so on."
The Gentleman From Indiana, called Booth Tarkington's first novel, gives us a picture of life in Indiana, which is full of sympathy for the people presented. To quote from one of his biographer's, his purpose was chiefly "to paint a sympathetic picture of contemporary life in the Ohio Valley. He presented the semi-urban type celebrated in Riley's verse." His presentation is made in the same kindly spirit that Riley writes his verse. The story is not the chief interest in The Gentleman From Indiana, but rather the characters that are portrayed.
Tarkington admits that his most popular books have been so
GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 99
by accident. For instance, in the case of Monsieur Beaucaire, he wrote a romantic story just at the time the romantic revival occurred, at the end of the 19th century. This practically assured the popularity of the book. It was the period of time when Charles Major's Knighthood Was in Flower, was popular, and when the public was reading Dr. S. Weir Mitchell's Hugh Wynne and Maurice Thompson's Alice of Old Vincennes. Be it said to the credit of Booth Tarkington's romance, that while the other books have fallen practically into disuse, his book is still selling and is frequently called for in the public library.
In a recent lesson we spoke of Mark Twain's ability to interest boys in such stories as Tom Sawyer, Huckleberry Finn. In books like Penrod, and Seventeen, Tarkington, to use his own words, "getting on the inside," has got on the inside of his boys in a way that seems almost unbelievable. To quote Mr. Holliday on this point: "Mr. Tarkington's interpretation of the creature, boy, has a weird quality; and, one has an uncanny feeling, his studies in boy psychology call for some sort of a pathological explanation. In effect his analysis of the utterly mad workings of the boy's mind and the throbbing of his inflamed nerves is as if a boy himself had suddenly become endowed with the faculty of thinking it out aloud. That is, the author's interpretation of the boy, moving about in what is to him the cataclysm of life, does not so much seem to be the work of a mind observing him from without, as it appears to be a voice from within explaining the matter, the voice of a boy uniquely gifted with the power of self analysis. It is as if the author had a device in his head like the plumbing giving hot and cold water to a bath-tub and as if he could at will turn off the stream of mature thinking and turn on the boy thinking. And to recapture the sensations of twelve or of seventeen is exactly what the normal adult mind cannot do. The author of Penrod and William Baxter certainly is not as other men; he commands some occult power. And the joke of this mystery is that Mr. Tarkington says boy stories are the "easiest" things to write there are. He can "do any of them" in a day and a half. And he thinks that "anybody could do it."
We insert here one chapter from Seventeen which we feel sure will remind mothers of experiences somewhat similar.
Chapter 12?Progress of the Symptoms
Mrs. Baxter's little stroke of diplomacy had gone straight to the mark; she was a woman of insight. For every reason she was well content to have her son spend his evenings at home, though it cannot be claimed that his presence enlivened the household, his condition being one of strange, trance-like irascibility. Evening after evening passed, while he sat dreaming painfully of Mr. Parcher's porch; but in the daytime, though William did not literally make hay while the sun shone, he at least gathered a
100 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
harvest somewhat resembling hay in general character. Thus:
One afternoon, having locked his door to secure himself against intrusion on the part of his mother or Jane, William seated himself at his writing-table, and from a drawer therein took a small cardboard box, which he uncovered, placing the contents in view before him upon the table. (How meager, how chilling a word is "contents"!)
In the box were: A faded rose. Several other faded roses, disintegrated into leaves. Three withered "four leaf clovers." A white ribbon still faintly smelling of violets. A small silver shoe buckle. A large pearl button. A small pearl button. A tortoise-shell hair-pin. A cross-section from the heel of a small slipper. A stringy remnant, probably once an improvised wreath of daisies. Four or five withered dandelions. Other dried vegetation, of a nature now indistinguishable.
William gazed reverently upon this junk of precious souvenirs; then from the inner pocket of his coat he brought forth, warm and crumpled, a lumpish cluster of red geranium blossoms, still aromatic and not quite dead, though naturally, after three hours of such intimate confinement, they wore an unmistakable look of suffering.
With a tenderness which his family had never observed in him since that piteous day in his fifth year when he tried to mend his broken doll, William laid the geranium blossoms in the cardboard box among the botanical and other relics. His gentle eyes showed what the treasures meant to him, and yet it was strange that they should have meant so much, because the source of supply was not more than a quarter of a mile distant, and practically inexhaustible. Miss Pratt had now been a visitor at the Parchers for something less than five weeks, but she had made no mention of prospective departure, and there were every reason to suppose that she meant to remain all summer. And as any foliage or anything whatever that she touched, or that touched her, was thenceforth suitable for William's museum, there appeared to be some probability that autumn might see it so enlarged as to lack the rarity in the component items which is the underlying value of most collections.
William's writing-table was beside an open window, through which came an insistent whirring, unagreeable to his mood; and, looking down upon the sunny lawn, he beheld three lowly creatures.
One was Genesis; he was cutting the grass. Another was Clematis; he had assumed a transient attitude curiously triangular,
GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 101
in order to scratch his ear, the while his anxious eyes never wavered from the third creature. This was Jane. In one hand she held a little stack of sugar-sprinkled wafers, which she slowly but steadily depleted, unconscious of the increasingly earnest protest, at last nearing agony, in the eyes of Clematis.
Wearing unaccustomed garments of fashion and festivity, Jane stood, in speckless, starchy white and a blue sash, watching the lawn-mower spout showers of grass as the powerful Genesis easily propelled it along overlapping lanes, back and forth, across the yard.
From a height of illimitable loftiness the owner of the cardboard treasury looked down upon the squat commonplaceness of those three lives. The condition of Jane and Genesis and Clematis seemed almost laughably pitiable to him, the more so because they were unaware of it. They breathed not the starry air that William breathed, but what did it matter to them? The wretched things did not even know that they meant nothing to Miss Pratt!
Clematis found his ear too pliable for any great solace from his foot, but he was not disappointed; he had expected little, and his thoughts were elsewhere. Rising, he permitted his nose to follow his troubled eyes, with the result that it touched the rim of the last wafer in Jane's external possession.
This incident annoyed William. "Look there!" he called from the window. "You mean to eat that cake after the dog's had his face on it?"
Jane remained placid. "It wasn't his face."
"Well, if it wasn't his face, I'd like to know what?"
"It wasn't his face," Jane repeated. "It was his nose. It wasn't all of his nose touched it, either. It was only a little outside piece of his nose."
"Well, are you going to eat that cake, I ask you?"
Jane broke off a small bit of the wafer. She gave the bit to Clematis and slowly ate what remained, continuing to watch Genesis and apparently unconscious of the scorching gaze from the window.
"I never saw anything as disgusting as long as I've lived!" William announced. "I wouldn't 'a believed it if anybody'd told me a sister of mine would eat after?"
"I didn't," said Jane. "I like Clematis, anyway."
"Ye gods!" her brother cried. "Do you think that makes it any better? And, by the way," he continued, in a tone of even greater severity, "I'd like to know where you got those cakes. Where'd you get 'em, I'd just like to enquire?"
"In the pantry."
Jane turned and moved toward the house. "I'm goin' in for some more now."
William uttered a cry; these little cakes were sacred. His mother, growing curious to meet a visiting lady of whom (so to speak) she had heard much and thought more, had asked May
102 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Parcher to bring her guest for iced tea, that afternoon. A few others of congenial age had been invited; there was to be a small matinee, in fact, for the honor and pleasure of the son of the house, and the cakes of Jane's onslaught were part of Mrs. Baxter's preparations. There was no telling where Jane would stop; it was conceivable that Miss Pratt herself might go waferless.
William returned the cardboard box to its drawer with reverent haste; then, increasing the haste, but dropping the reverence, he hied himself to the pantry with such advantage of longer legs that within the minute he and the wafers appeared in conjunction before his mother, who was arranging fruit and flowers upon a table in the "living-room."
William entered in the stained-glass attitude of one bearing gifts. Overhead, both hands supported a tin pan, well laden with small cakes and wafers, for which Jane was silently but repeatedly and systematically jumping. Even under the stress of these efforts her expression was cool and collected; she maintained the self-possession that was characteristic of her. Not so with William; his cheeks were flushed, his eyes indignant.
"You see what this child is doing?" he demanded. "Are you going to let her ruin everything?"
"Ruin?" Mrs. Baxter repeated, absently, refreshing with fair water a bowl of flowers upon the table. "Ruin?"
"Yes ruin!" William was hotly emphatic. "If you don't do something with her, it'll all be ruined before Miss Pr?before they even get here!"
Mrs. Baxter laughed. "Set the pan down, Willie."
"Set it down?" he echoed, incredulously. "With that child in the room and grabbing like?"
"There!" Mrs. Baxter took the pan from him, placed it upon a chair, and with utmost coolness selected five wafers and gave them to Jane. "I'd already promised her she could taste five more. You know the doctor said Jane's digestion was the finest he'd ever misunderstood. They won't hurt her at all, Willie."
This deliberate misinterpretation of his motives made it difficult for William to speak. "Do you think," he began, hoarsely, "do you think?"
"They're so small, too," Mrs. Baxter went on. "She probably wouldn't be sick if she ate them all."
"My heavens!" He burst forth. "Do you think I was worrying about?" He broke off, unable to express himself save by a few gestures of despair. Again finding his voice, and a great deal of it, he demanded: "Do you realize that Miss Pratt will be here within less than half an hour? What do you suppose she'd think of the people of this town if she was invited out, expecting decent treatment, and found two-thirds of the cakes
GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 103 eaten up before she got there, and what was left of 'em all mauled and pawed over and crummy and chewed-up looking from some wretched child?" Here William became oratorical, but not with marked effect, since Jane regarded him with unmoved eyes, while Mrs. Baxter continued to be mildly preoccupied in arranging the table. In fact throughout this episode in controversy the ladies' party had not only the numerical but the emotional advantage. Obviously the approach of Miss Pratt was not to them what it was to Willian). "I tell you," he exclaimed?''yes, I tell you that it wouldn't take much of this kind of thing to make Miss Pratt think the people of this town were?well, it wouldn't take much to make her think the people of this town hadn't learned much of how to behave in society and were pretty uncivilized! And to think Miss Pratt has to find that out in my house! To think?" "Now, Willie,' said Mrs. Baxter, gently, "you'd better go up and brush your hair again before your friends come. You mustn't let yourself get so excited." "Excited." he cried, incredtilously. "Do you think I'm excited? Ye gods!" He smote his hands together and, in his despair of her intelligence, would have flung himself down upon a chair, but was arrested half-way by simultaneous loud outcries from his mother and Jane. "Don it sit on the cakes!" they both screamed. Saving himself and the pan of wafers by a supreme contortion at the last instant, William decided to remain upon his feet. "What do I care for the cakes?" he demanded, contemptuously, beginning to pace the floor. "It's the question of principle I'm talking about! Do you think it's right to 'give the people of this town a poor name when strangers like Miss Pratt come to vis?" "Willie!" His mother looked at him hopelessly. "Do go and brush your hair. If you could see how you've tousled it you would."; He gave her a dazed glance and strode from the room. Jane looked after him placidly. "Didn't he talk funny!" she murmured. "Yes, dear,' said Mrs. Baxter She shook her head and uttered the enigmatic words, "They do." "I mean 'Willie, mama," said Jane. "If its anything about Miss Pratt, he always talks awful funny. Don't you think Willie talks awful funny if it's anything about Miss Pratt, mama?" "Yes, but?" "What, mama?" Jane asked as her mother paused. "Well?it happens. People do get like that at his age, Jane." "Does everybody?" "No, I suppose not everybody. Just some." Jane's interest was aroused. ''Well, do those that do, mama," she inquired, "do they all act like Willie?" 104 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "No," said Mrs. Baxter. "That's the trouble; you can't tell what's coming." Jane nodded "I think I know," she said. "You mean Willie?" William himself interrupted her. He returned violently to the doorway, his hair still tousled, and, standing upon the threshold, said, sternly: "What is that child wearing her best dress for?" "Willie! Mrs. Baxter cried. "Go brush your hair!" "I wish to know what that child is all dressed up for?' he insisted. "To tplease you! Don't you want her to look her best at your tea?" "T thought that was it! He cried, and upon this confirmation of his worst fears he did increased Violence to his rumpled hair. I suspected it, but I wouldn't 'a believed it! You mean to let this child?you mean to let?-' Here his agitation affected his throat and his utterance became clouded. A few detached phrases fell from him: 'Invite my friends?childrens party?ye gods! ?think Miss Pratt plays dolls? "Jane will be very good," his mother said. "I shouldn't think of not having her, Willie, and you needn't bother about your friends; they'll be very glad to see her. They all know her, except Miss Pratt, perhaps, and?'. Mrs. Baxter paused; then she asked, absently: "By the way, haven't I heard somewhere that she likes pretending to be a little girl, herself?" "What!" "Yes," said Mrs. Baxter, remaining calm); "I'm sure I've heard somewhere that she likes to talk 'baby-talk.'" Upon this a tremor passed over William, after which he became rigid. "You ask a lady to your house," he began, "and even before she gets here before you've even seen her, you pass judgment upon one of the?one of the noblest?" "Good gracious! I haven't passed judgment. If she does talk 'baby-talk,' I imagine she does it very prettily, and I'm sure I've no objection. And if she does do it, why should you be insulted by my mentioning it?" "Tt was the way you "said it," he informed her icily. "Good gracious! I just said it!" Mrs. Baxter laughed, and then, probably a little out of patience with him she gave way to that innate mischievousness i in such affairs which is not unknown to her sex. "You see, Willie, if she pretends to be a cunning little girl, it will be helpful to Jane to listen and learn how." William uttered a cry; he knew that he was struck, but he was not sure how or where. He was left with a blank mind and no repartee. Again he dashed from the room. In the hall, near the open front door, he came to a sudden halt, and Mrs. Baxter and Jane heard him calling loudly to the industrious Genesis: GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 105 "Here '! You go cut the grass in the back yard, and for Heaven's sake, take that dog with you!" "Grass awready cut roun' hack," responded the amiable voice of Genesis, while the lawn-mower ceased not to whirr. "Cut all 'at back yod 's mawnin'." "Well, you can't cut the front yard now. Go around in the back yard and take that dog with you." "Nemmine *bout 'at back yod! Ole Clem ain' trouble nobody." "You hear what I tell you?" William shouted. "You do what I say and you do it quick!" Genesis laughed gaily. "I got my grass to cut!" "You decline to do what I command you?" 'William roared. "Yes indeedy! Who pay me my wages? 'At's my boss. You' ma say, 'Genesis, you git all 'at lawn mowed b'fo sundown.' No, suh! Nee'n' was'e you bref on me, 'cause I'm got all my time good an' take up!" Once more William presented himself fatefully to his mother. And Jane. "May I just kindly ask you to look out in the front yard?" "T'm familiar with it, Willie,' Mrs. Baxter returned, a little wearily. "I mean I want you to look at Genesis." "Tm 'familiar with his appearance, too," she said. "Why in the world do you mind his cutting the grass?" ? William groaned. "Do you honestly want guests coming' to this house to see that awful old darky out there and know that he's the kind of servants we employ? Ye gods!" "Why, Genesis is just a neighborhood outdoors darky, Willie; he works for half a dozen families besides us. Everybody in this part of town knows him." "Yes," he cried, "but a lady that didn't live here wouldn't. Ye gods! What do you suppose she would think? You know what he's got on!" "It's a sort of sleeveless jersey he wears, Willie, I think." "No, you don't think that!" he cried, with great bitterness. "You know it's not a jersey! You know perfectly well what it is, and yet you expect to keep him out there when?when one of the ?one of the noble?when my friends arrive! And they'll think that's our dog out there, won't they? When intelligent people come to a house and see a dog sitting out in front, they think it's the family in the house's dog, don't they?" William's condition becoming more and more disordered, he paced the room, while his agony rose to a climax. "Ye gods! What do you think Miss Pratt will think of the people of this town, when she's invited to meet a few of my friends and the first thing she sees is a nigger in his undershirt? What'll she think when she finds that child's 106 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE eaten up half the food, and the people have to explain that the dog in the front yard belongs to the darkey?" He interrupted himself with a groan: "And prob'ly she wouldn't believe it. Anybody'd say they didn't own a dog like that! And that's what you want her to see, before she even gets inside the house! Instead of a regular gardener in livery like we ought to have, and a bulldog or a good Airedale or a fox-hound, or something, the first things you want intelligent people from out of town to see are that awful darky and his mongrel scratchin' fleas and like as not lettin' em get on other people! That'd be nice, wouldn't it? Go out to tea expecting decent treatment and get fl?" "Willie!" Mrs. Baxter managed to obtain his attention. "If you'll go and brush your hair I'll send Genesis and Clematis away for the rest of the afternoon. And then if you'll sit down quietly and try to keep cool until your friends get here, ?Quietly '" he echoed, shaking his head over this mystery. "I'm the only one that is quiet around here. Things'd be in a fine condition to receive guests if I didn't keep pretty cool, I guess!" "There, there," she said, soothingly. "Go and brush your hair. And change your collar, Willie; it's all wilted. I'll send Genesis away." His wandering eyes failed to meet hers with any intelligence. "Collar," he muttered, as if in soliloquy. "Collar." "Change it!" said Mrs. Baxter, raising her voice. "It's wilted." He departed in a dazed manner. Passing through the hall, he paused abruptly, his eyes having fallen with sudden disapproval upon a large, heavily framed, glass covered engraving. "The Battle of Gettysburg," which hung upon the wall, near the front door. Undeniably, it was a picture feeble in decorative quality; no doubt, too, William was right in thinking it as unworthy of Miss Pratt, as were Jane and Genesis and Clematis. He felt that she must never see it, especially as the frame had been chipped and had a corner broken, but it was more effective where he found it than where (in his nervousness) he left it. A few hasty jerks snapped the elderly green cords by which it was suspended; then he laid the picture upon the floor and with his handherchief, made a curious labyrinth of avenues in the large oblong area of fine dust which this removal disclosed upon the wall. Pausing to wipe his hot brow with the same implement, he remembered that some one had made allusions to his collar and hair, whereupon he sprang to the stairs, mounted two at a time, rushed into his own room, and confronted his streaked image in the mirror. In The Turmoil Mr. Tarkington turns from his respective roles of singer, poet, orator, psychologist and becomes a socialogist. The Turmoil is a protest against the lust for power and GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 107 wealth and a disposition to create and pay homage to mere bigness, as one often finds it exemplified in big cities. Tarkington claims that such an attitude is sure to develop a sort of spiritual, physical, and mental degeneration. We feel sure our readers will appreciate the following bit of criticism on The Turmoil: "The Turmoil is all of a piece; it drives unswervingly to its appointed end. There is not a touch of claptrap, or melodrama, of purple, in it." "It has grown, in effect, as naturally as a tree; and it has the swing and rugged balance, and careless symmetry which (contrary to some artistic theories), Nature has. The career of Sheridan is portrayed with the same sort of "composition" that exists in life (was there not "Composition" in the life of Napoleon?) and more. Behind The Turmoil everywhere is a remarkable, an amazing, pounding energy of mind. The vehemence of the satire curls the reader's hair. The evolution of the theme, so natural in effect, is positively devilish in its completeness. The idea there elaborated is exhibited kicking with all its four legs in a manner that, one cannot resist saying, could not possibly be better. And the characters are no box of tricks, but people, everyone, hot off the bat, with uncommonly human "'insides." And over all is a moving feeling of appreciation of what is fine and a compassion for what is absurd and pitiable." Questions and Problems 1. Call to mind some author whose fore-fathers have been clergymen; also some author who has been skillful in sketching. (If you do not get the answer after a moderate amount of thought on the subject, let it pass.) 2. Have one of the members of the Organization review one of Booth Tarkington's books: The Gentleman From Indiana, Penrod, Monsieur Beaucaire, Intimate Strangers, The Turmoil, Seventeen, The Man from Home. In case you are unable to get any of the books mentioned in this list, review any one of Booth Tarkington's books that you are able to obtain. 3. Mark passages indicative of the subtle humor in the chapter from Seventeen, published in the lesson.; 4. Discuss the problem of adolescence: Are you reminded in any way of your own personal experience by the manner in which William Baxter talks? 5. Booth Tarkington has the reputation of giving us only women of standards and refinement; Does the mother of Baxter, as portrayed in the chapter published, sustain his reputation? 6. Do you agree with Booth Tarkington that extremely large cities are prone to produce decadent individuals? 7. Monsieur Beaucaire, Penrod, Seventeen, and The Turmoil, while all different in character, have all proved exceptionally popular books. Do you think the personality of Booth Tarkington may account for much of this popularity, if so why? 108 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in April) PHYSICAL PROBLEMS OF CHILDHOOD CLARA AND HARRIET The study of Clara is an especially interesting one because her physical defects present two serious and common problems of childhood?namely, speech defect and heart disease. The most striking features of this history, however, is the fact that the existence of the child's more serious ailment?the heart or cardiac disease?was unknown and unsuspected by the parents when Clara was taken to the clinic. The child was taken for examination for the less serious but more obvious speech defect. Had the physician merely outlined exercises to develop muscular control without making a complete physical examination, the serious heart condition may have continued without treatment for some time. A great emphasis is being placed by the medical profession on regular, thorough physical examinations. Every study in our text shows that the patient is not examined only for the suspected disease, nor are only the obvious symptoms noted. Each patient is given a complete study, including eyes, ears, throat, chest, abdominal, muscular, glandular and, frequently certain routine clinical tests. Such examinations, especially for children, are recognized as intelligent preventive medicine, for the successful treatment of many of the serious diseases depends on early discovery. These studies are sometimes termed "health examinations," showing that the purpose is to examine apparently healthy children with the purpose of keeping them well and forstalling the development of disease and defects. A standard set by some health experts is a yearly examination. A slogan which has been introduced and become generally familiar is, "Have a-health examination on your birthday," because the emphasis is being placed on preserving health, rather than treating diseases after they have developed; such health clinics are now considered an essential part of a community health program. Clara's opportune examination for an impairment of speech, revealed an unsuspected heart condition.. Perhaps if the parents had been more observing, they would have been alarmed earlier. The child's pulse had been rapid on two previous illnesses, on both occasions at the time Clara had tonsilitis. It is now quite generally recognized that there is a relation between heart trouble and tonsilitis, and that frequently there is complication of rheumatism. GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 109 Our text states, too, that an uncontrolled muscular condition, chorea (St. Vitus Dance), is often associated with these three diseases. All tonsil infection does not necessarily end in heart trouble or rheumatism, but the appearance of one is sufficient symptom to have examination for the others. In Clara's case, perhaps, if the tonsils had been removed at her first attack her heart may have remained normal. The mention of chorea, undoubtedly suggests familiar childhood difficulties. The picture of the uncontrolled muscles, of the twitching face, and of the nervous and easily fatigued child is a common one. Rest, fresh air and perhaps medication, including the removal of infected teeth and tonsils may be only part of the treatment. Muscular control, sometimes, must be restored by corrective exercise and re-education. The treatment needed for Clara at this stage of the disease. Includes not only the removal of the tonsils, but a long period of rest. Whether this time should be spent at home or in a hospital depends on the nature of the home and the community's facilities for hospitalization. In some cities special wards or convalescent homes offer rest, special diet, and close supervision needed by cardiac patients. "A patient there can receive better care than is possible in a busy home, particularly if there are other children playing about, and the mother is | occupied with many other household tasks. Clara's schooling will, of course, be discontinued for a time and later will have to be modified to suit her capabilities. She, perhaps, will learn some trade that does not require great activity, as her handicap will be one she must adjust to throughout her life. Clara's minor ailment, the speech impairment, may improve with the betterment of her health. She, however, may need some special instructing and training in muscular control. The discussion in our text of speech defectives makes some surprising revelations. That three percent of all school children, or a total of 500,000 children, have some speech defect, indicates that it is a very common problem and one that is not receiving much attention either in the schools or by the medical profession. The causes of speech defect are many and therefore no general treatment can be outlined. Speech defect is common among the feeble-minded and the deaf, but they represent only a small part of the total. Persons with malformations of the mouth frequently have speech difficulties, and may need operative measures before correction can be made. But the majority of persons with speech defects have been found to respond to training, based on muscular and nervous control. It is obvious that a person with a speech defect is handicapped 110 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE His economic opportunities are naturally limited to occupations where speech is not essential (which would eliminate teaching, clerking, practice of law, salesmanship, etc.). Besides the vocational handicap, the individual suffers much embarrassment, and may become shy and retiring or embittered and belligerent?behavior that results from any keen feeling of inferiority. As our author states, the treatment of the speech defectives is an almost new project, but a very hopeful and important one. The other child, Harriet, presents a problem of malnutrition resulting from queer or freakish eating habits. Because a child is found to be malnourished, it does not always mean that the family cannot provide sufficient food. Good nutrition is dependent on much more than the family's financial ability to supply an adequate diet. Nutrition involves the individual's physical defects. His social life and home habits, his mental attitudes, and many other factors besides the ones of the amount and nature of the food. Harriet's difficulty was merely that she refused to eat. She had been permitted by her parents to develop faulty habits. If she was forced to take foods against her will, she induced (unconsciously, of course) an attack of nausea. It was, therefore, necessary to change her attitude of mind toward her health problem before any improvement could be expected. She had to be made to learn that greater satisfaction could be found in activity and possessing energy than in the pampering and attention she received by being frail and pampering her appetite. It is an infantile reaction to attempt to gain attention by inducing illness. The child is not conscious of its tactics, but it is purely a subconscious mechanism. If the child's wishes are frustrated, or if others are gaining attention he desires, it is quite likely that the "spoiled" child will have a headache and an attack of nausea. These attacks should not be encouraged by further pampering, but the child (as in the case of Harriet) should be made to feel the greater pleasures and satisfactions of healthy, normal activities. Our author gives several technical definitions of nutrition, and its opposite, malnutrition, including the standards of two authorities. Dr. Holt considers that a child may be considered malnourished if he is ten per cent underweight, according to standard charts. Dr. Haven P. Emerson regards seven per cent underweight as indicating malnourishment. Because nutrition is dependent on such a great number of factors, and because the whole matter of health is inter-related with nutrition, our author gives a broader meaning to the word nutrition, considering it to be the equivalent of good health. Reference: Challenge of Childhood, by Dr. Ira S. Wile; Clara, pages 32 to 41; Harriet, pages 46 to 52. GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 111 Questions and Problems 1. Why are frequent health examinations of value, especiall for children?: 2. What treatment is prescribed for a child with nervous heart trouble? How can this best be provided? 3. What is the relation between tonsil infection and heart trouble? What other diseases are frequently related to these two? 4, Why is a speech defect a handicap, 5. What facilities has your community for treating speech defect? 6. What is malnutrition, What are some of its causes? 7. What was needed to change Harriet's bad eating habits? 8. How can parents prevent children from developing faulty diet habits? My Mother By Bertha M. Rosevear of Toronto, Canada?Second Poem to Receive Honorable Mention in the Eliza R. Snow Contest Beautiful Mother, I love you so, With your sweet, gentle face, and hair white as snow, Soft, kindly eyes with lovelight aglow? Beautiful Mother, I love you so. Beautiful hands that for me have worked? Never a task have those dear hands shirked. Wrinkled and old they have grown, 'tis true? Dear wrinkled hands, how I love you. Beautiful feet that have walked the way That leads to mansions of endless day, Guiding my feet. Yours are tottering and slow? Beautiful feet, I love you so. Beautiful heart, overflowing with praise To God for his goodness through all your days. Heart pure as gold, ever loyal and true? Beautiful heart, how I love you. Beautiful life, full of beautiful deeds, Joyfully toiling for others' needs, Seeking no praise nor reward, but to gain A beautiful life in the kingdom of heaven. Beautiful Mother, more priceless than gold? Not half of your goodness nor worth have I told. A gift sent from heaven, God help me to show, Beautiful Mother, I love you so. Protected The Deseret Offers you a real service $7,500.00 of Travel and Pedestrian Insurance for $1.00 Write us today for details. Let us tell you all about it Don't delay?Insure today?Tomorrow may be too late THE DESERET NEWS- Salt Lake City, Utah Oldest Western Newspaper Progressive?Reliable The Reliable Mail Order House 1069 @ 21st South Price List for Fall and Winter 1925-26 WE HAVE NO AGENTS, BUY DIRECT AND SAVE FROM 25% TO 30% No. 51 L. D. S. Garments Fine Rib only in L. D. S. New Style..........$1.25 Any of the following numbers can be made up in EITHER NEW or OLD No. 50 Flat Weave No. 68  No. 68 Wool $ $4.25 No. 54 Bleached Cotton No. 64 Lisle No. 72 4 Wool $1.75 $2.25 5.50 No. 56 Unbleached No. 66 Merc. No. 74 Silk and Wool $1.75 $2.75 $7.00 For MEN'S Union Suits ONLY No. 92 All Worsted Wool Grey $ 9.50 No. 96 All Worsted Wool Black 9.50 All Wool Blankets 5 Ib. Double 66-80... 8.50 All Wool Overcoats 18.50 All Wool Men's Sweater Coats 6.25 All Wool Men's Shirts. 5.75 If you are not perfectly satisfied with any of our goods, we refund Why Pay More For Ladies' Silk Hose When You Can Get A Pure Silk The Reliable Mail Order House 1068 E. 21st SOUTH the Price List for Fall and Sey Winter 1925-26 STYLE L. D. 8S. GARMENT or MEN'S or LADIES' Union Suits. 95c $ $3 No. 62 Fine Rib No. 60 Heavy Bleached No. 70 "a Wool 1.50 $2.25 the money WRITE FOR SAMPLES Hose in Any Shade for $1.00 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine THE SUCCESS OF RELIEF WORK depends upon finding out exactly what each case requires and supplying the needed relief. IT IS SO WITH YOUR EYES The Dearden System does not blindly "prescribe Glasses." It finds out what is wrong with your eyes and gives "that blessed relief" that comes with perfect vision. OUR NEW OGDEN OFFICE In The Eccles Building, is for the convenience of patients living in Box Elder, Weber and Cache Counties. Daily Classes at Each Office. Call at Office?We Are For You. DR. M. H. DEARDEN EYE STRAIN SPECIALIST OGDEN OFFICE Top Floor Clift Building Take West Elevator 22 EAST BROADWAY 33 EAST BROADWAY A Store Dealing in Quality Hosiery and Underwear Exclusively Heavy Silk Full-Fashioned, all colors A wonderful hose for wear Per pair ....$1.95 Box of Three Pairs............ $5.50 Semi-Fashioned, all colors, beautiful and durable Per Pair $1.50 Box of Three Pairs...........$4.25  Silk with Extra Stretch Elastic Per Pair $1.50 Box of Three Pairs.........$4.25 Pure Silk, Semi-Fashioned, Chiffon. All Colors Per Pair $1.00 MAIL ORDERS PREPAID When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine t Consultation by Appointment Snowcrofts Blue Pine Food Products Phone Wasatch 2725. Top, the Comfort Stocking Box of Three Pairs...............$2.85 Also complete line of Blue Pine Fruits and Vegetables When you buy Blue Pine Food Products you buy the Best When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine RELIEF SOCIELY MAGAZINE 