Color for the Centennial Summer Flowers for Attractive Displays and Ground Coverings Vesta P. Crawford THERE is still time to plan and plant flower gardens that will make Utah's Centennial summer bright with radiant color. By a careful selection of bulbs, plants, and seeds, it will be a delight for home gardeners to create brilliant displays of color that may be seen from the streets of our towns and cities, and from the highways and. Country roads in the rural districts. The Utah pioneers were garden-minded, and they loved flowers. The precious plants and seeds, brought from many lands and carried in handcarts and covered wagons across a thousand miles of wilderness, soon produced the flowers that bloomed inside the rock and adobe forts and graced the yards of the humble log cabins. The heritage of culture and beauty brought by the pioneers has been nourished in the mountain valleys, and this summer, particularly, should see a flowering of the pioneer tradition. In making garden plans, the preparation of the soil is of utmost importance, since a strong and rapid growth of plants is necessary for display purposes and massed bloom effects. Most flowers require a soil well cultivated and enriched with peat moss or old leaves, and a liberal application of old barnyard manure or commercial fertilizer. Where the soil is heavy clay, it will be necessary to add some sand, as well as humus and fertilizer to the original soil. Even the inexperienced gardener, in making a selection of summer Page 270 flowers, will note that certain blossoms which are lovely for indoor bouquets do not make the best displays to be seen from the street. Fragile columbines and anemones, for instance, do not lend themselves to massed color effects, and the delicate cosmos and the graceful flax flowers will not make a gorgeous panorama of color. Also, it is well to remember that flowers of a single color make a more effective massed display than a mixture of colors. Flowers for Borders The appearance of the yard and the garden can be greatly improved by an effective use of border plants. These are used to edge lawns, paths, steps, shrubs, rose gardens, lily pools, and to provide borders in front of taller flowers. In selecting colors for the border, it is necessary to decide whether a contrasting effect is desired or whether a blending pattern is preferred. Many gardeners use blue border plants, such as ageratum or lobelia, and plant a background of tall yellow or gold marigolds or calendulas. White alyssum or rock cress (arabis) may be used in front of a bed of rose-colored zinnias. Blending of colors may be secured by planting pale pink, dwarf snapdragons as a border in front of tall snapdragons of deeper shades of pink or rose. In choosing border plants, it is well to remember that bushy varieties make a much better mass effect than do the more spindly types of COLOR FOR THE CENTENNIAL SUMMER flowers. All plants should be closely spaced in order to secure a complete ground covering. Flowers of Medium Height Among the many flowers which produce striking massed color effects, the most popular are the many varieties of petunias. The fringed and double petunias which have recently been developed in many exquisite varieties do not present such a striking effect, at a distance, as do the more brilliant single petunias. The so-called dwarf petunias are bushy and make a compact and colorful display. Some of the favorite dwarf varieties are: Rose of Heaven (medium rose color) Velvet Ball (deep mahogany red) Royal Gem (rosy carmine) Bright Eyes (light rose pink) Glow (carmine red) Igloo (creamy white) Among the large flowered bedding petunias, the Black Prince (very dark red) and Blue Wonder (cornflower blue) are excellent for display purposes. Nasturtiums have long been favorites in home gardens. These flowers grow well in poor soil and may be planted on dry, sandy, or gravelly banks. The tall Glorious Gleam Hybrids and the dwarf varieties, Globe of Fire (flaming red), Indian Chief (vivid scarlet), Orange Gleam, and Primrose (yellow), all make gorgeous displays of striking color. Iceland poppies (which may be grown in partial shade), snapdragons, marigolds, calendulas, and zinnias may be used for massed bedding effects. They are all hardy and grow rapidly. However, snapdragons are rather difficult to grow from seed, except under very favorable conditions: and it is, therefore, advisable to buy plants for the snapdragon bed. Tall Flowers for Massed Bloom Perennial Shasta daisies are extremely hardy, and if planted in full sun and watered well, they will grace the early summer garden with the beauty of their dense whiteness. Even in poor soil near hedges or trees, these daisies grow vigorously. If the faded blossoms are cut immediately after blooming, new foliage will spring up and make a good ground cover. The gayest of the tall summer flowers is the phlox. It is advisable to secure phlox plants, since these flowers are difficult to raise from seed quickly enough to bloom the first year. Many varieties have large florets and heavy heads of bloom. The colors occur in various dainty "art" shades, but the deeper colors make more striking displays when viewed from a distance. Flash (rich, dark red), Charles Curtis (flaming scarlet), Border Queen (watermelon pink), Caroline Vandenburg (blue) make the richest massed color effects. Delphiniums, in many exquisite shades of blue, violet, and red, have been greatly improved within the last few years. Taller stems, with more brilliantly colored and more closely spaced florets, have been developed. They are now considered among the best flowers for perennial borders. Some of them grow as tall as six feet and produce immense flowers of great brilliance. Favorite varieties are: Blue Bird (clear, medium blue) Black Knight (dark violet) Summer Skies (light blue) Belladonna (turquoise blue) Cardinale (scarlet) HOLLYHOCKS, which were very popular in pioneer gardens, now present, in improved varieties, an even more stately and colorful appearance. Planted against fences, along the walls of garages and sheds, or massed against arbors or gate-posts, they make otherwise plain or unsightly places beautiful with radiant color. Some of the flowers look like great double roses and some resemble the rich and exquisite camellias. Hollyhocks have been called ''towers of beauty," and they are among the most easily raised garden flowers. A choice can be made from these gorgeous colors: Colorado sunset, black, deep salmon red, maroon, lilac, Newport pink, salmon, scarlet, rose, and yellow. Summer-floweiing Bulbs Very large and elegant are the cannas of summertime. They have wide, tropical leaves, and their blossoms are of unusual size and rich-ness. Dormant bulbs must be plant-ed early in the spring, but plants which have been started in pots can be set out from April into June, thus producing blossoms for many weeks. Favorite cannas are: King Humbert (scarlet) The President (very dark, glowing scarlet) Orange Humbert (flame colored) Yellow King Humbert (very deep yellow) Gladioli, if planted close together, and selected in the richer shades, make beautiful gardens which will attract attention from the street. A few bulbs may be planted each week, from April into summer, to give a succession of blossoms until frost. Many gardeners consider dahlias as the flower kings of the garden. Some plants grow six to eight feet tall and produce blossoms as large as dinner plates. The hurried gardener, however, should omit dahlias from his planting since they require care and cultivation, and many of them must be staked so that the large flowers can be adequately supported.
Many of the hardy lilies, the red Pardalinum giganteum, the coral lily, and the regal lily are stately additions to the flower garden, and they are particularly attractive for informal arrangements.
Hardy Flowers for Ground Cover
Many gardeners find that, in addition to their formal garden arrangements, there are plots of ground which are too large for intensive tending and cultivation. There are a number of hardy annuals which may be sown broadcast in these otherwise vacant spaces. California poppies, bachelor buttons, marigolds, calendulas, larkspur, and many other hardy flowers grow well with very little attention, and some of them do not require much irrigation. Candytuft, alyssum, and snow-on-the-mountain (Euphorbia), once planted, seed themselves year after year, and make a field of beauty so thick that even weeds find little opportunity for growth. Among perennial plants which make excellent ground covers are the various types of violets and violas, which do well in shaded localities and provide a thick carpet of beautiful greenery after the modest blossoms have faded.
Climbing Vines and Flowers for Backgrounds
Old fences, unsightly garages, sheds, and tool houses may be covered by quick-growing vines and flowers which make a beautiful background and camouflage the shabby structures that give an unsightly appearance to many yards. For this purpose, morning glories are an excellent choice. They will quickly climb a trellis, an arbor, a telephone pole, or a porch post, and they will make an ugly fence into a bower of beauty. If planted early, morning glories will provide a profusion of blossoms from July until freezing weather in the fall. Heavenly Blue morning glories are perhaps the most popular variety, but there are ruby red, rose red, white, and other beautiful colors. Morning glories thrive even in poor soil, but they need full sunlight.
Other flowering vines which make rapid and dense growth are: perennial sweet peas; cathedral bells (Cobaea), rapid climbers with bellshaped green flowers which turn to purple; cypress vine, with its lovely scarlet or white flowers; balloon vine (love-in-a-puff); moonflowers, which grow as tall as twenty-five feet and produce blossoms in many lovely colors; the cardinal climber, covered with a blaze of red flowers; and the popular fleece vine.
Gourd vines, with their shining foliage and varicolored fruits of strange and interesting shapes, make unusual and attractive background coverings, and the various types of flowering beans are useful for this purpose.
With foresight and planning, the Centennial gardens can be made into brilliant displays of color that will reflect the ideals of our garden-loving pioneers.