Guide Lessons for October
Theology and Testimony (First Week in October)
Part I. Habits. The word "heaven" carries with it the idea of a place of happiness, in fact, heaven and happiness are in a sense synonymous, with the difference that in the heaven idea the place element dominates while in the happiness idea condition is most thought of. We think of going to heaven, but we think of being happy. Our heaven is inseparably associated with heavenly beings. Without these beings the place takes on the aspect of a home with no one there. Heaven is thought of as a place of salvation and salvation has been sagely declared to be a condition beyond the power of one's enemies. (See Compendium Gems, page 276.) It must be remembered that man has two kinds of enemies, the objective and subjective. God can place man beyond his objective enemies, but the man must free himself from his subjective enemies. Wrong attitudes and bad habits are his chief subjective enemies. The place thought of as heaven would be a place of discomfort to any one whose habits were out of harmony with the inhabitants of heaven. The habit of untruthfulness would so chagrin its possessor that he would flee from a place where truth speaking was the habit of everybody, and we cannot think of heaven as a home of the habitual falsifier. Our chief concern, then, as to heaven is not where we are going to, but where shall we be when we get there; with what kind of beings would we enjoy ourselves? Conflicting habits make happiness out of the question. The clean cannot be happy in the presence of the unclean, nor can the latter have joy in the presence of the former. The prophet Joseph Smith stated a great truth when he said: "If you wish to go where God is you must be like God;" i. e., have habits like His. Our desire might well be lined up in this order: First, to be like the Lord; second, to be where he is, third, to be what he is, i. e. Have God power, responsibility, etc. (See Compendium page
283.) The first desire will lead us to "learn of his ways" that we may "walk in his paths" which would consist in finding out what the Lord's habits are and in forming habits like his. The second desire will call for a companionship of the Lord's Spirit that will give one a sense of his approval here and an assurance of compatible association with him hereafter. Just as fast as we know good doctrine we have a habit-knowledge, and just so fast are we saved from our inferior selves by our superior selves, and made fit for being placed beyond the power of our objective enemies, which is all in keeping with the great law stated by the modern Seer, "A man is saved no faster than he gets knowledge."
Four Heaven Habits.
1. The habit of being in an on-the-altar attitude; a constant, complete consecration of the self, not the consecration such as Satan offered with a selfish condition attached, nor the consecration such as was made by Ananias and his wife with a reserve to lean on (see Pearl of Great Price, Book of Moses, 4:1; also Acts 5:11) but the consecration like that of Jesus full, complete, unconditional; full of confidence, void of hesitancy (see Pearl of Great Price, Book of Moses 4:2),?the consecration of a Lydia Knight giving up her teams to aid the emigration of others while she waited with her fatherless little ones. The habit of having this on-the-altar attitude is not only a heaven habit, it is a heaven-making habit. How much of heaven was brought to the home by the refusal of a young man to join a fraternity because one of his on-the-altar habits was to be lovingly responsive to the counsels of his father. There was no need of a "you must not do it" nor the "you ought not to do it," but just the love filled expression, "I would prefer that you do not."
2. The habit of unselfish service is a heaven habit. Not for his own sake did the Son of God plan his descent from the counsels of the Trinity, the power of a creator and the companionship of celestials to be born in a stable, hunted by a murderous monarch, taught carpentry by a foster-father, and from his mother learn the scriptures of which he was himself the author; to conform to the requirements of a pagan government; to be misunderstood in his teachings, unappreciated in his work, rejected by his race, betrayed by an associate, killed for doing good. It was not because of His needs but because of the needs of others that he went through it all and asked as a recompense only that which he left when he came into mortality, the presence of his Father. Just the place and the power that was his in his father's kingdom (see John 17:5). 
3. Prayer is a heaven habit. That the parents of Jesus taught him to pray there can be no doubt, but that his praying habit had a foundation seems evident from his declaration recorded in John 5:18-22. The frequency with which Jesus prayed put prayer as one of his habits.
4. Sabbath Day observance is a heaven habit. The creation of the earth was planned in the councils of the Gods. It was no experiment. The periods and processes were predetermined and before the work began the celebration of the finish was programmed (see Pearl of Great Price, Book of Abraham 5:4-8). Observing the Sabbath was one of the habits of the Christ (see Luke 4:15), and if he was in the habit of doing what he had seen his Father do we must conclude that this planet is not the only one on which a holy day is observed. The Sunday observance habit is a process of bringing the conditions of heaven to the earth. The Lord Jesus, may we not conjecture, hallowed the Sabbath by plan, observed it before he took upon himself mortality, and was in the habit of attending meeting on the hallowed day while he dwelt among men.
In Recapitulation: A heaven habit is a habit of heavenly beings. Our heaven habits make heaven possible for us. The forming of heaven habits saves us from our subjective enemies, our inferior selves. Heaven habit-knowledge, or doctrine-knowledge transmuted into habit is the knowledge that saves us as fast as we get it. Without heaven habits no one can be at home with heavenly beings. The habit of having an on-the-altar attitude; the habit of rendering unselfish service; the habit of praying, and the habit of observing the Lord's Day are four heaven habits, or habits of heavenly beings.
1. In the light of this lesson what is a heaven habit?
2. What would God's heaven be to a person who had none of the habits of the Lord?
3. Quote Joseph Smith on becoming like God.
4. Name four habits possessed by heavenly beings.
5. Show that Christ had the habit of being in an "on-the-altar" attitude.
6. What evidence have we that unselfish service is a habit of heavenly beings?
7. Prove that the habit of prayer is a heaven habit.
8. Give evidence that the observance of the Sabbath was one of the habits of Jesus, in both his pre-mortal and mortal state.
9. What was the result of trying to live in heaven with the unheavenly habit of accusing the brethren? (see Revelation 12:10.)
LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in October)
LESSON III Literature (Third Week in October)
It was inevitable, after the Declaration of Independence which gave the American people political liberty, that there should be intense striving for intellectual emancipation. The tendency to suppress that had marked the Puritanic period, robbing life of its color, its natural exuberance of feeling, and its tendency towards humor, was sure to be protested sooner or later. During the days of Benjamin Franklin, all eyes were upon Philadelphia as a literary center. Later, Irving, Cooper and Bryant drew attention to New York. Just passing the first quarter of the nineteenth century, the first outburst of poetry in New England occurred, and we were face to face with what has been styled the New England Renaissance. The souls of the young were crying for a fuller expression of the life that reverberated within them, and they found in Ralph Waldo Emerson a man who could voice their impulses. The Puritan had scraped the paintings from his church windows, he had cast the wood carvings and all suggestions of decoration out of his church, not alone because of forced economy, but from a deep-seated feeling that these things were sinful and indicated that he was indulging the flesh. The same impulse that led him to eliminate his stained glass windows also prompted him to refrain from any contact with the literature of exact finish and beauty then being produced in England. To Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, whose spirit was meek and mild and whose life was in all respects above reproach, it was given to be the revelator of some of this beauty and to so combine it with Puritan morals that it could give no offense. There is scarcely a poem of Henry Wadsworth Longfellow's that does not hold within it some moral maxim that has for its purpose improvement of conduct, yet that moral gem is so surrounded by beauty of feeling and language, that it loses largely its peculiar Puritanic flavor. In a sense it is like a sugar-coated pill, one is preached to and admonished but the admonition is served in such delectable form that one is not conscious of a bitter taste. 
One of Longfellow's greatest contributions to our literature comes from the fact that he went abroad and came in contact with the literature of Spain, France, Italy and Germany and made it part of our own literature. This was not an easy thing to do, but Longfellow had just the cast of mind that could extract the beauty and warmth of feeling from European art, and so incorporate it into American literature that the American of Puritanic birth and training could accept of it without offense. No study of Longfellow can be satisfactory that does not take into account the sincerity, serenity and sweetness of his nature. He was the embodiment in his life of the things his writings teach. Whatever his gift of song, his gift to the world of an untarnished life is what, at our angle, we value most. Longfellow's writings carry his autobiography in far greater detail than is the case with most of the poets. He was born in Portland, Maine, and, in a poem called "My Lost Youth," he speaks of "The beauty and mystery of the ships and the magic of the sea." He was surrounded, as were Bryant and Cooper, by the interminable forests of America and, like them, revelled in the grandeur of nature. He early became connected with Bowdoin College and was a student in that institution with Bancroft, the historian, Franklin Pierce, who was afterwards President of the United States, and Nathaniel Hawthorne. After graduation from Bowdoin, he accepted the position of professor of modern languages in that college. Longfellow was always popular as a professor and soon his fame reached the halls of Harvard University. He was asked to accept a chair for similar work at Harvard, and, feeling that he needed greater preparation, he again went abroad. It was at this time that he lost his beloved wife, Mary Storrer Potter, whose death, in 1835, was his first great sorrow. His reference to her in the poem "Footsteps of Angels," when he pictures spirits from the other world visiting this, reading: "And with them that Being Beauteous, Who unto my youth was given, More than all things else to love me, And is now a saint in heaven." has been read by many admirers. He went to Cambridge and found lodgings in the old Craigie House, overlooking the Charles river, which was the headquarters of the British soldiers and finally of Washington during the period of the American Revolution. Later he became engaged to Miss Frances Appleton, the daughter of a wealthy publisher of Boston. Longfellow had become so enamored with the old Craigie House that his father-in-
law helped them to obtain it for their home. Here his children were born and here in this house they used to pounce on him from the upper story into his study. We are all of us familiar with the lines, "From my study I see in the lamplight, Descending the broad hall stair, Grave Alice, and laughing Allegra, And Edith with golden hair," A second time he was called to part with his life's companion. A tragedy from which he never fully recovered took Mrs. Longfellow from him. She was doing something to amuse the children, when the flame of a lighted candle caught her dress, made of a very light substance, and before anything could be done she was burned so badly that death resulted. Eighteen years after, in thinking of her, Longfellow wrote, as his mind turned to one of our Colorado mountains: There is a mountain in the distant West That, sun-defying, in its deep ravines Displays a cross of snow upon its side. Such is the cross I wear upon my breast, These eighteen years, through all the changing scenes And seasons changeless since the day she died. Longfellow's poetry is simple and was just the kind needed by a people breaking from Puritan life. It is said that when he visited England he was invited to dine with Queen Victoria. As she parted from him after their visit, she remarked, "We shall long remember your visit, Mr. Longfellow, all our servants read your poems." Some people have suggested that this remark of Queen Victoria was not wholly complimentary to Longfellow. It did, however, state the thing as it is. It is children and the people, who are not in any sense of the word students of literature, who love Longfellow. In other words, Longfellow has taught the masses to read poetry. They have entered into the gate through him. It is not easy to estimate just what Longfellow's contribution is to children. He took the place in earlier times that was later held by James Whitcombe Riley and Eugene Field. It is a common experience even today to hear the little tots in the grades repeating the line of Hiawatha. The poet was the son of a cultured New England lawyer. His father's people came to America in 1676, and his mother had descended from John and Priscilla Alden whose romance is given to us in the Courtship of Miles Standish. To summarize, then, Longfellow's special contributions to literature, we should say that he pierced the gloom and 
terror of Puritan severity and harshness and let in beauty and charm, and to do this he depended not only on his own inherent nature, but on his accumulations from Europe, where he came in contact with the beauty and romance of the old world. He is simple, readily understood. He has embodied in practically every one of his poems some of the moral axioms that would explain to people of Puritanic life and virtues the reason for the existence of poetry. Previous to and during Longfellow's time there were many people who could not understand Emerson's famous maxim that "Beauty is its own excuse for being." Longfellow has taught all English speaking people to love poetry and his poems have been translated into many foreign tongues. He is one of the children's poets of America. The next lesson will discuss his poetry and prose more in detail.
1. Consult some manual of American literature, or a volume of Longfellow's poems, containing a biographical sketch, and find out the date of his birth.
2. What body of water was Longfellow in close contact with in his early youth?
3. In what two colleges did he hold a professorship of modern languages?
4. If you were visiting the state of Massachusetts, in what city would you seek the home of Longfellow? Have one of the class members read "Footsteps of Angels."
5. Do you know any people today who think poetry is useless, unless it contains some moral maxim?
6. How do you feel toward poetry that is beautiful yet may not contain a stated moral idea?
7. Which sort of poetry do you prefer?
8. Read to the class "The Arrow and the Song," and also "A Psalm of Life." What moral lesson is included in each of these poems?
Social Service (Fourth Week in October)
Human beings are by nature social. They are happiest in the presence of friends. Even the pleasure of the companionship of husband and wife does not satisfy entirely the desire for human contact. Unless this desire for social life and friendship
is satisfied there may be growing feelings and expressions of discontent. Home will have a real charm to those only who are not compelled to remain always within its four walls. It becomes a prison to those who are not permitted to get out and away from it occasionally. This applies to those of many years of married life as well as to those who have lived with each other but a short time. A man in order to continue to love his wife should occasionally see her dressed in something other than her kitchen apron. She is interesting and beautiful at home, but she is also interesting and beautiful among friends, chatting and laughing and relieved of the cares of home life for a few hours. To laugh and sing and dance with friends is natural and necessary to complete living.
The Choice of Friends
The best friends of married people are the friends of both husband and wife. Such friends strengthen the bond of union. A husband will admire and love his wife the more if his friends also love and admire her, for after all, his judgment of her qualities are influenced greatly by what his friends say and think of her. To have friends express their admiration of his wife means that she is in reality that wonderful creature that he had imagined her to be. And how happy it makes a woman feel to have her friends say that he is the very man they should have picked out for her, and that she and her husband make an ideal match. Such remarks as these generally come from those who are interested in the happiness of both husband and wife. They are their most valuable friends. There are, however, friends of husband or wife who do not become intimate friends of both. A period of childhood and young manhood and young womanhood normally develops friendship which is of great value to the individual and should be retained if possible. Such friendship affords opportunity to retain in memory the happy days of youth. Of this period Jordan writes: "The old friendships carry with them a sentiment, deep-rooted in the past, a sweetness, a tenderness, a loyalty, a communion of memories and experiences that cannot be duplicated in after life. They are like old books that we have loved for years. The binding is worn and smoothed by our hands and by dear hands stilled forever; the inscription with the date is growing fainter for the eyes to decipher but easier for the heart to read; there are passages that helped and inspired us still loyally retaining our pencilled lines so we could turn to them in perfect confidence whenever we desire."?William George Jordan's Little Problems of Married Life, p. 169. 
Relatives
Friendships based on relationship have also special advantages for it combines the ties of nature with many years of intimate association. As years go by this form of attachment should grow stronger. It is sad, indeed, to hear of married people who, through negligence or carelessness, sever their relationship with their parents and their brothers and sisters. The pleasure which comes in visiting the home of their father and mother and the joy which the young married people bring into the lives of their aged parents in such visits cannot be overestimated. Such association deepens and strengthens family union; it ties together the old and the new home, but more than all else it is important in the common interest and mutual sympathy which it creates between the husband and wife. Here is the opportunity for a man or woman to find new friends of real value, and friends, too, who can render great service. The common and careless remark about the unfriendly mother-in-law and father-in-law is not only untrue in the main, but the attitude which such expressions create in the minds of young people is actually mischievous. The mother-in-law has many times become a real loving mother to her young son-in-law or daughter-in-law. Happy indeed, is the young man who has added to the parental love already enjoyed the sympathy and respect of second parents, the father and mother of his wife. Such friendship strengthens profoundly the attachment between the young husband and wife. But in the marriage relation great care must be taken not to permit relatives to interfere with the slow and sometimes uncertain adjustment which is taking place between the young husband and wife. A passage of scripture, sometimes, however, misinterpreted, has in a certain sense a real appreciation: A man must forsake father and mother and cleave unto his wife. There are many delicate experiences which young people have in their attempt to adjust themselves to each other which relatives cannot fully understand. It is, therefore, well for young married people to live by themselves. "The secrets of your marriage," says Frank Crane, "should be as sacred as if you had sworn at an altar not to divulge them. No person except your God, not even your mother, is entitled to know them. It is husband and wife against the world. They twain are one flesh. The permanency of your temple of love depends much upon the inviolability with which you keep your holy of holies. Set the angel of Reserve with a flaming sword at the gates of your Eden. The back door friend has more than once proved an unmitigated curse. * * * It is a law of nature
that when the fruit is ripe it ought to drop, to separate itself from the tree. Your chances are better if you forsake father and mother' also brothers, sisters, aunts and uncles and 'cleave unto' him."
Precautions
Although a social life is essential to the happiness of married as well as unmarried people, it is certain that people who have assumed the responsibilities of a home must not let social interests absorb too much of their time, attention, and energy. The very love that exists between husband and wife may be sacrificed in this way as quickly as any other. In the larger cities where the opportunities for social life is much greater than in the smaller town, married people frequently make serious sacrifices in order to maintain their social standing. Their time is consumed entertaining and being entertained, in studying how they may obtain admittance into social circles. This strenuous social life has caused many married people either to have no children or to put those which they do have in the hands of nurses. Such a life is unnatural and results in the loss of the love which binds parents to children and children to parents. It weakens the bond between husband and wife and robs the home of its sacredness.
1. In what way does the social interest support the marriage relations?
2. What effect does proper social life outside of the home have upon a woman's attitude toward her own home?
3. What is the value of retaining old friendships?
4. Why should a friend of your husband also become your friend? 5. Why should a woman maintain friendly interests with her husband's parents? 6. Show, that the common criticism of the mother-in-law is without justification and is mischievous. ? 7. Why is it important that during the early period of married life the young people should be permitted to work out their own problems without the interference of relatives? 8. Give reason to show that excessive social life outside of the home may undermine the home. 9. What are the results when parents continually turn over their children to nurses for care and attention? TEACHERS' TOPIC "The Glory of God is Intelligence." Education. 1. Need of Education. (a) Man?To enable him to support his family. (b) Woman?To enable her to be an efficient mother and homemaker. 2. Necessity for Religious Education. Humanity will direct us to be particularly cautious of treating with the least appearance of neglect, those who have lately met with misfortunes, and are sunk in life. Such persons are apt to think themselves slighted, when no such thing is intended. Their minds being already sore, feel the least rub very severly. And who would be so cruel as to add affliction to the afflicted? SOCIAL SERVICE INSTITUTE A Social Service Institute will be held at the University of Utah from August 13 to August 17. Doctor Edward T. Devine is engaged as the special lecturer. He. Will make two addresses each evening, one from 5:30 to 7:30?the other from 7:30 to 8:30. The first address will be made at a luncheon meeting to convene at 5:30 in the evening during the week. The following topics will be discussed in the order named: 1. The business of the Social Worker. 2. Problems of Income. 3. Problems of Health. 4. Problems of Character. 5. How to Get Results. At the close of the lecture, a round table discussion will be conducted. From 7:30 to 8:30, four addresses will be given under the caption, "A Hundred per cent American Program," first, in industry; second, in social work; third, in education; fourth, in international affairs. In addition three special lectures will be given on subjects of special interest to the community. These lectures are of special interest in social workers. FASY Vacuum Electric WASHERS Washes by Air Pressure and Suction Washes Clothes without injury Robertson's EASY Washing Machine Co. So. Main St. Salt Lake, Utah Choose the service which will meet your needs?Wet Wash, Wet Wash Flat Ironed, Rough Dry and All Finished. LECY LAU N DRY Distinctive Work ? Office 319 Main St. Telephone Hyland 190 WHICH COLLEGE? When you select a college for your children this fall, which school will you choose? You will choose a college where moral standards are high, located in a clean, progressive community where distractions are absent. You will choose a college that gives work of the highest scholastic standard in courses that prepare a student to live as well as to make a living. You will choose a college where the spiritual nature is developed as the mind and hand are trained. The Utah Agricultural College is an institution that fully meets these three fundamental requirements. The Fall Quarter Opens September 24th For catalog and further information address the President's Office. Utah Agricultural College LOGAN, UTAH Do Not Waste Your Energy In "Shopping" Call up Hyland 60 and let us take care of your requirements Choice Meats. DICKINSON'S Fancy Groceries. Fresh Squabs on short notice. All kinds of delicious Summer Drinks. Our most valuable assets are our many satisfied Customers. ?? Salt Lake City, June 29, 1923 The management of the urges an early settlement of all outstanding accounts. "The Silk stocking that stands wear." No. Ladies' Black, white, brown, grey, Otter...........$1.25 _ No. Ladies' Colors as above... 1.65 No. Ladies' Full Fashioned. Colors as above............ 2.00 POSTAGE PREPAID. SEND US YOUR MAIL ORDERS. OGDEN-UTAH KNITTING STORE