[Vol31 | December 1944 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Article | Title: Visiting Teachers Hinckley]

Visiting Teachers' Messages Sources of Strength?The Beatitudes Lesson 6?Blessed Are the Pure in Heart Elder Bryant S. Hinckley For Tuesday, March 6, 1945
Objective: To show that the pure in heart are those who walk uprightly and work righteousness, and their rewards are realized both in this life and in the life to come. "BLESSED are the pure in heart:. For they shall see God" (Matt. 5:8). This great promise made by the Savior is confirmed, and the conditions upon which its fulfillment rests are more fully explained in the Doctrine and Covenants, sec. 93:1: "Verily, thus saith the Lord: It shall come to pass that. Every soul who forsaketh his sins and cometh unto me, and calleth on my name, and obeyeth my voice, and keepeth my commandments, shall see my face and know that I am." Jesus tells us that purity of heart leads to a knowledge of God. A perfect knowledge of God is to be attained only by a consecrated life. We read in Psalm 15:1-3: "Lord, who shall abide in thy tabernacle? Who shall dwell in thy holy hill? He that walketh uprightly, and worketh righteousness, and speaketh the truth in his heart. He that backbiteth not with his tongue, nor doeth evil to his neighbour, nor taketh up a reproach against his neighbour." And again, Psalm 24:3-4: "Who shall ascend into the hill of the Lord? Or who shall stand in his holy place? He that hath clean hands, and a pure heart; who hath not lifted up his soul unto vanity, nor sworn deceitfully." Again in Psalm 73:11: "Truly God is good to Israel, even to such as are of a clean heart." President Brigham Young tells us that the prayer of the pure in heart will have more effect than the eloquence of Cicero?the simple, honest heart is of more avail with the Lord than all of the pomp, pride, splendor, and eloquence produced by men. The heart is the source of action, the seat of the moral life. Purity of heart means more than physical cleanliness; it means, in addition, uprightness and goodness of soul. "As a man thinketh in his heart, so he is," and, "Out of the heart are the issues of life." The blessings promised in this Beatitude are finally to be realized beyond the grave, but observance in this life brings a rich reward.