[Vol31 | December 1944 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: The Spirit of Christmas Petersen]
Each one of us must some day learn to say, "not my will but thine be done."
This was the attitude of the Lord in Gethsemane. It, too, is part of the spirit of Christmas.
After his triumphant resurrection, he exhibited still another quality which is part and parcel of the spirit of Christ—and Christmas—the spirit of missionary work, sharing our blessings with others. "Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel unto every creature." To the house 677 of Israel alone? Not at all. To the Gentiles? Yes, to every creature. It is our duty to warn every person, even our closest neighbors, that the "kingdom of heaven is at hand."
Spread the glad tidings, invite all to drink of the well of living water and thirst no more, to join the banquet of the King, to join the fold of the Good Shepherd, accept his plan, work out salvation in fear and trembling, and endure to the end.
Then it shall be said, "Come ye blessed of my Father, enter into the joy of your Lord." It is so easy for us all to become engulfed in the ways of this world, in the customs of man, and make of Christmas just another holiday of feasting and pleasure. But if we observe the true spirit of the day, we cannot exclude Christ and his mission from it.
Christmas is celebrated because Christ came into the world, and he came to save us from death and sin. He offers the way by which we may once again come into the presence of God.
Christ means salvation; salvation requires acceptance of the gospel; acceptance of the gospel means activity in the Church.. To be truly Christ-like then, is the reward of a true Christmas. So at this glad Yule season, let us renew our allegiance to him who was born in Bethlehem, crucified on Calvary, and came forth again as the living Savior and Redeemer of mankind. And with our allegiance to him, let us be loyal to his representatives on earth, and his plan of salvation as expressed in the program of the Church. Let us honor Christmas by honoring Christ, which means serving him and keeping his commandments.
