[Vol1 | March 1914 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Home Gardening]

HOME GARDENING FOR WOMEN Lesson III (Twenty Minutes.) (a) House boxes.
In the propagation of some of the flowering plants and various garden crops, such as tomatoes, peppers, egg plants, etc., house boxes have been found to be very valuable.
Especially is this the case when just a few plants are wanted, because it would not be economical to construct a hotbed for the starting of a few plants.
The box is constructed so that it will fit the window sill.
After the box has been properly made it should be filled with a good friable soil.
This soil should not bake, because the tender plants will not grow under such conditions.
A good soil can be prepared in the following manner Manure. 3 parts garden loam. 2 parts well rotted manure. 1 part sand.
The above parts should all be screened to avoid lumps of soil, etc.
Place the box of soil in position in the window, and after the soil reaches a growing temperature of
60 F., the seeds or cuttings may be planted. 8 Mignonette.
It is doubtful if there is any flowering plant more universally known or better liked than mignonette.
The mignonette, whether grown for cutting or for pots must have the fullest possible light and air on all permissible occasions.
Light and air and a cool temperature will just make the difference between stout, heavy spikes and thin, spindling ones.
Sow in August for winter house plants.
Sow in the same pots as they are to be maintained in, as they do not stand transplanting.
Pot should have plenty of drainage in the bottom, and be filled with a good soil. (b) Hotbeds.
Many plants can be advantageously started in hotbeds.
The hotbed should be built in a place where there is good drainage so that the fermentation of the manure will not be interfered with by standing water during storms, because this might stop the fermentation to such an extent that the plants will be killed by the cold air.
The hotbed should be constructed of good, fresh horse manure, containing straw bedding.
The manure should be turned at least two times before putting it into the hotbed.
This will cause it to be of uniform texture throughout and an even heat will be the result.
The manure should be two or three feet deep and should be well tramped down.
It should be piled high and project at least 1% feet from the frame on all sides.
The bed should be about 10 inches high in front and 18 inches in the back.
A convenient sized hotbed is one that will carry six, 3x6 feet sash.
This will give ample room for many plants. (c) Early Planting.
Lettuce is a hard, cool season, short season, succession or companion crop, requiring mellow, moist soil, quickly available fertilizers and continuous growth from start to finish.
Its culture is very easy and simple.
It can be grown successfully both spring and fall.
In order to secure a quick growth, it is sometimes advisable to apply nitrate of soda after the plants are set.
It is sprinkled broadcast on the surface and raked or cultivated into the soil, at the rate of 200 to 300 pounds per acre.
It can be sown as soon as the ground can be worked in the spring.
Radishes are known chiefly as an early spring crop in America, although they are sometimes grown in the fall.
Radishes are usually used as a companion crop when grown in  field.
The seeds are quick to germinate and can be sown early in the spring.
Onions.
Early green onions are secured by planting mother onions or sets late in the fall or early in the spring.
Sets or mother onions will respond to almost any kind of soil, except soils containing too many mineral salts. (d) Early Flowers.
There are many beautiful early flowers among which are found the Easter lily, azaleas, rhododendrons, lilacs, metrosideros, spiraea, mignonette (grown in the house), Dutch hyacinth, tulips and violets.
They are all handled a little differently, and time will not permit of a discussion of each of the early spring flowers.
Bulbs.
There are several very pretty flowers that are grown from bulbs, such as the Dutch hyacinths, Easter lilies, and calla lilies. freesias, tulips They require a good, rich soil composed of about 50 per cent rich loam, 25 per cent well rotted manure, and 25 per cent sand.
Practically all bulbs are imported from Holland, between the months of August and November.
For forcing they should be potted at once after being received.
Tulips, hyacinths, and narcissus can be grown in shallow pans, that will hold about 15 bulbs.
They require good drainage.
Small bits of broken pots or gravel should be placed in the bottom of each pant or pot.
Fill pan with soil.
Plant the bulbs so that about one-fourth of them remain above the soil. "Water as soon as they are planted and store in a cool place at first, so only the root will grow, cover them with about 3 or 4 inches of coal ashes.
Leave them in a cool place for a month or six weeks until the roots fill the pot.
After taking them out into the light keep them in a cool place for about two weeks, then take them to a temperature above 70 degrees.
Dutch hyacinths can also be grown in a water dish.
Freesias.
These can be started right off: in the house and be grown very successfully under home conditions.
Easter lilies can be planted in six-inch pots.
They should be started slow, like the narcissus, sometimes two or three months being required before the roots are well started.
Take into the house the latter part of November for Easter blooming.
Calla Lilies are the easiest to force.
They are potted in August in rich soil and require much water.
After the plant reaches a height of 10 to 12 inches mulch the top of pot with manure.
These bulbs are good for years.
After the blooming season lay pot and all on their sides in a cool airy place.
10 March