Cyrus E. Dallin, has recently set up, under the great high dome of the State Capitol Building a replica of his bronze sculpture of Massasoit, which stands overlooking Plymouth Rock, forever guarding the destinies of the Plymouth Colony. Who is this Massasoit? Chief of the Wampanoags—a mighty Indian nation; a sachem, whose dominion extended from Cape Cod to Narragansett Bay, at the time when the Mayflower first appeared on the horizon of the Atlantic, tacking over beautiful Massachusetts Bay to tarry and disembark in the Plymouth Harbor. The old world Pilgrims in that new world adventure, establishing the first enduring colony on New England shores, for freedom of conscience' sake, first planted their feet on what is now known as Plymouth Rock which, in the hearts of a grateful people, has come to be a sacred rock, and over it has been erected a protecting canopy of granite. And because Plymouth Rock enshrines a principle more enduring than any stone, even the principle of individual liberty, "freedom of conscience" has become the touchstone of these whole United States. Had the Mayflower taken back its passengers, had the little colony been wiped out, America might not today, be the land of liberty. Chief Massasoit it was who protected and saved the colony in its days of greatest peril. That is why a grateful people have forever linked the form and name of Massasoit with the sacred Pilgrim Rock. We marvel at the manner in which destiny prepared Massasoit and his tribe for the service they rendered. One year before the episode of the Plymouth Rock, the proud, cruel, and treacherous Wampanoags numbered thirty thousand Indians. An epidemic of fever reduced them to a tribe of but three hundred, softening them by the dreadful chastisement When the Pilgrims were in the midst of home building and house making, Massasoit, with sixty braves, all painted and dressed in battle array, suddenly appeared before the astonished newcomers, with proffers of friendship and proposals of a peace treaty for mutual protection. The treaty was made. Governor John Carver, for the colonists, and Chief Massasoit, on the part of the Wampanoags, (after smoking the "Peace Pipe"), signed the "scrap of paper" that was kept inviolate by Redman as well as Paleface for over half a century. Massasoit lived past his eightieth year. His days were full of good, gracious acts. He opened his wigwam to Roger Williams and all patriot fugitives, who suffered banishment into New England's wilds by the hand of bigotry which, for a brief period, swayed the governing powers of the New England Colony. Massasoit, historians tell us, was just, humane, honest, "grave of countenance, spare of speech, a portly man in his best days; a man who sought to imbue his tribesmen with ideals of peace." And Dallin has portrayed him as such in this statue of Massasoit. It was entirely fitting that the good people of Massachusetts, knowing well Dallin's sympathy for the Indian, commissioned him to undertake this enduring bronze statue, to overlook Plymouth Rock, amid native shrubs, under the blue dome of the New England sky. A spot that henceforth, Utahns will hunt out whenever they turn their faces toward New England shores. For they will desire to draw a comparison between the Massasoit, in his native surroundings, and the Massasoit modeled in plaster. Massasoit is a noble rendition of the noble type of Indian, a masterpiece, conceived in sincerity, combining grace of design, and virility of style with abundant amplitude in handling. The figure is in heroic proportions, standing fully nine feet, three inches in height. There is no point of view from which beauty of line and of grace, and true Indian character is not revealed. The views from the south and east sides are perhaps the most wonderful. It has been said that no good sculpture will be harmed by rolling down hill, meaning that obtruding parts will be broken off, leaving the simple lines. The views from the points I have mentioned, show the whole figure knit together in one simple mass that makes a perfect sculptural rendition. Massasoit stands firmly, but oh, so lightly on his feet. There is repose, which means that he might be on the point of running or starting off. The whole sculpture breathes a fresh impulse; reveals a persuasive and convincing figure. Massasoit makes a mute appeal to a sympathetic understanding of the Indian. A native man—yes, Dallin has expressed it. Let us get acquainted with our Massasoit. Visit him often! He will teach us, will purify our ideals of art, will enrich our impulses, and help us to understand our sculptor, Dallin. HOW WE CAME BY THE GIFT To the Commercial Club of Salt Lake City, we are indebted for this gift, for they suggested to His Excellency Governor Mabey, that Dallin be asked this boon for the state; Dallin acquiesced, shipped from Boston the statue, and with his wife and two of his three sons, set out by auto to place the sculpture in the Capitol and make the presentation on the last day of July, 1922. This so-called replica of the bronze Massasoit, is, in truth, the original Massasoit. For this very sculpture is the clay model that emerged from Dallin's hands out of the shaft of clay set up in his studio. From this modeled figure the mould was made, and in that mould the bronze was poured to make the bronze cast which marks Plymouth Rock. This gift is not of enduring material. One month's rigor of winter weather would crumble it back into clay but, sheltered under the great dome of the capitol, it will last indefinitely. The gift means more to Utah, if we will but study it, than anything that has come to us for art's sake. In my opinion, it is the better rendition, (if not so enduring) of the grand old sachem. There is a certain elusive, indefinable quality in clay-modeled sculpture that is nearly always lost in the transition from the plastic medium to the more enduring, harder material of either bronze or marble. It is so in this clay Massasoit which has a softness, a subtle charm, a personality, a sweetness of presence, which impels one to contemplate with a worshipful heart. MASSASOIT'S UNVEILING A concourse of art lovers came together at four o'clock July 31, to witness the unveiling. In the simple presentation by Mr. Dallin he said, "I am going to get close to you today. In my heart are many mixed emotions, but foremost in my soul is my Happiness in presenting this gift to my home state. I am glad that you thought well enough of my work to ask for it, and I want you to accept this gift as a token of my love for my native state of Utah, and my love, too, for the poor Indian. I want it to express my gratitude, my admiration, my passion for him, the friend of my youthful days in and around Springville. He it was who taught me the first art I knew and which I have tried to express. For what success I have won, the Indian deserves great credit. I wish I had done better, that I might the better show my gratitude for the life-long inspiration he has been to me. "The Governor has spoken of my home coming. It is well. These everlasting hills, in the shadow of which I was born. And reared, touch me far more than I can express. Whenever I come into their presence, I am constrained to weep. These mountains are linked with the story of the Indian. "In setting up this man of peace, who saved the Plymouth Colony, I have a hope, a wish revived from my memory, that I might model the old Chief Washakie, of the Shoshones, who, too, was a man of peace; and he wielded as potent and saving an influence over the first Pioneers, 'a thousand miles from nowhere,' as ever did Massasoit over the Pilgrims. May I hope that, at some future time, I shall be privileged to set up among these hills the Washakie I enshrine in the heart of my boyhood memories, to guard the destiny of this people." As Cyrus E. Dallin turned to unveil Massasoit, those present were firm in the resolution that Washakie, too, should some day emerge from a shaft of clay under this Utah sculptor's hands, being moved by the events which marked the unveiling, to feel the need of the Pioneer peace patron, Washakie, to guard this people. For might not we, thereby, reap a realization of a greater, grander destiny? There was not a dry eye, when the Stars and Stripes fell away revealing this, the Indian Massasoit. Those present had slipped back with Dallin, under the old spell of Indian romance and Indian lore, both of which have so strangely and so persistently swayed the life work of Cyrus E. Dallin. THE TEMPLE OF TREES