Law Enforcement Milton Bennion The stability of any government is in large measure dependent upon the respect of the citizens for its constitution and laws. Widespread disregard for laws regularly enacted under constitutional authority indicates an approaching state of anarchy. American citizens who cultivate such disregard for any law ought to be mindful of the scripture which says, "Whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap." This applies to communities with as much force as it applies to individuals. For individuals to take it upon themselves to decide what laws they will obey and what laws they will defy is equivalent to having no laws, which is anarchy. If the rich man may defy the prohibition law to satisfy his appetite for a dangerous luxury, may not the poor man have equal right to defy any other law that stands in the way of his enjoying the comforts of life? Some of the laws protecting property rights may be just as odious to the latter as is prohibition or the liquor traffic to the former. The popular notion that some laws interfere with individual freedom is a relic of eighteenth century philosophy. In the light of current philosophy and the socialized conscience of today this confusion of license with liberty is thoroughly antiquated. No man has a right to indulge in pleasures that in any way jeopardize the welfare of society. The prohibition, anti-gambling, and anti-tobacco laws have been enacted primarily as a safeguard to youth. Can anyone deny that these laws, strictly enforced and backed by the unwavering support of all citizens, would be a benefit to immature and imperfectly formed characters? Yet many citizens thoughtlessly remark that these laws are not popular and cannot be enforced. What are they doing to help enforce them? Generally, nothing. Is a good American one who is swayed to and fro by whatever happens to be popular? Or is he one who judges questions on their merits and stands firmly behind principles? The Eighteenth Amendment to the federal constitution represents the judgment of the American people when they were thinking seriously of the welfare of America and of the world, and when they were willing to restrain selfish desires in the public interest. Shall we allow an "after-the-war" slump of patriotism to throw us into a state of lawlessness, or to lead us to think of reviving a system that has caused wholesale misery in families and moral degeneracy in youth? It is for each adult citizen to think on these things; but let him think soberly and let his judgment be a real moral judgment. Are these laws right in principle? Will general obedience to them result in good? If these questions can be answered in the affirmative, then it is the duty of every citizen, with faith and courage, to do his best to see that the laws are enforced. Were there no statutory law forbidding or restraining gambling, the use of intoxicants and tobacco, it would still be well worth-while for every youth to obey the moral law upon which the statutory law is founded. Only in this way can he acquire freedom, the highest character, and greatest usefulness. Moral freedom is the result of obedience to moral law. It can be attained in no other way. The license to self-destruction which opponents of the law crave, is really the road to bondage. "Ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free." Next month, citizens will have a chance to vote for county sheriff and county attorney. See that the men elected are strictly honest, that they are vigorous supporters of the laws, and that they have the courage to enforce them. If they conform to these requirements, why should anyone be concerned as to whether they are Democrats or Republicans? Legislators are also to be elected. See that they are citizens of strong character and clear vision. Let there be no backward step in legislation. "