Aunt Bine" Myron E. Crandall, Jr. Close by the village highway I have a dear old friend; The graces of the Master In her life seem to blend. She works among her flowers The happy live-long day; From out her cozy bowers I hear her proudly say: "Oh, come into my garden Where dainty blossoms blow, And see the radiant beauty Of tulips in a row: The wind-flower and the violet, The pansies in the grass, Some blue and brown and scarlet, All greet you as you pass: The tiger lilies blending In sunshine and in storm: The lily white betokens Purity and peace; It lifts our thought to heaven Where cares and sorrows cease: The blood red rose in splendor Bespeaks of fondest love, Impassioned deep yet tender, As true as stars above: The dainty little daisies So full of modest grace, Call forth our warmest praises; They have their hallowed place." And so, each day you'll find her Working 'mong her flowers; They seem to strangely bind her Through all the waking hours. She knows their wondrous language; Their faces she can read. No modulating accents, Their looks bespeak their need; When she is gone they'll miss her, This friend so good and true; They'll fade away and wither; Oh, how we'll miss her, too. She works among the flowers That they might gladden all, And in God's heavenly garden She'll work when he doth call: She's trained God's precious children In righteousness to grow; She's tended long and willing His gardens here below. Note: "Aunt Bine" Alleman, of the Second ward of Springville, was for many years president of the Relief Society. In her earlier days she was president of the Primary. Her whole life, from the trying pioneer times down in Dixie, to the present, has been spent in the service of the Church, working for the salvation of God's children. Her husband died a number of years ago. Her only daughter, Mrs. Ida H. Taylor, is in far off New Zealand with her husband, George H. Taylor, who is president of the mission. Mrs. Taylor is also serving in this mission in the capacity of president of the Relief Societies there. "Aunt Bine's" home is situated on the main highway in the center of town. From the time of the budding of the little crocuses in the early spring until the tiny snowdrops come in the winter, her place is one mass of bloom and beauty. It attracts the attention of the tourist, and is the admiration of every passer-by. Among the fragrant blossoms and gorgeous splendor she finds the solace and comfort of her declining years. The poem was read on her seventy-sixth birthday at a party given in her honor by the Relief Society. Her full name is Sabina, but the whole town calls her "Aunt Bine."