Woman's Privilege Ruth Savage Hilton "Have you called on the new-comers at the Jackson Place?" cheerily called Mrs. Jones, as she peered over the back fence of her neighbor's yard. "Yes," returned Mrs. Smith, rather abruptly. For years Mrs. Smith had prided herself on being the first to call on strangers. "I hear the lady is awfully nice," the cheery voice called again, "O, I don't know, just different. She has really seen things; been to school; and traveled all over the earth; never lived in a small town before." "Strange they would come here." "The lady likes the freedom of the country," Mrs. Smith returned knowingly. "Anyhow, she and I are going to be good friends, I trow." Mrs. Smith started for the house, but stopped on the back porch to add significantly, "I've already got an invitation to an afternoon luncheon at her home. That's a fine old place they have bought you know." This bit of gossip floated in to Emily through the open window of her study. "Just the thing I've been hoping for," she exclaimed, and sprang to her feet with all the glad enthusiasm of her twenty years. Throwing down her pencil and scattering papers all over the table, she ran from the house, round the corner, and halted at neighbor Smith's door. Emily smiled whimsically as she waited, "What'll she think?" was her mental question. As a rule Emily did not ask favors of Mrs. Smith, but that time was different from any other. So, after an hour of pleasant chatter, she came home beaming over the promise to be taken by Mrs. Smith to meet the new comer at the Jackson place. "You see, it's this way: For years I've longed to travel abroad," confided Emily to Mrs. Smith, as they walked toward the Jackson place. "I'm sure I could write real stories—maybe books, if I only knew something beside this little town." "O, I see why you want to talk to Mrs. Thornton," Mrs. Smith gave her knowing smile and nodded. "You're right," returned the girl. However, she began to doubt her reasoning when they were comfortably seated and the woman of world-experience was playing the role of beautifully simple country hostess. The big old house was full of the joy of common living. Noisy boys were heard in the hall. The twin girls with a host of playmates dotted the lawn. The mother bent tenderly over a dainty bassinet of white and blue, to smooth the frill of an infant son. "You see, I want a theme or plot for a story," put in Emily when the conversation had drifted to strange scenes and customs. "You write, do you?" observed Mrs. Thornton. "Yes, some—well, it's this way; I've been longing for years to travel so I would have something to write about. So, when I heard of your advantages I wondered if you wouldn't give me a pointer." "A what?" asked Mrs. Thornton puzzled. "O, I mean just some experience full of human interest." "Yes, I see. Well, you know folks are usually interested in life as it is, in people themselves." "Of course, so I've been thinking you might have had some wonderful experience out in the big world, that would give me a theme." Mrs. Thornton began rather slowly, "You want some experience of my own?" "Yes," Emily nodded, "something unusual which has helped to make you the lady that you are." "Perhaps," said Mrs. Thornton, "this is about the finest I have known. It has surely helped to make me what I am. I am sure that among all the things I have known it stands well out in the foreground. But it's rather old-fashioned." Caressingly she reached for the infant in the bassinet of white and blue. Her eyes were full of tenderness. "Yes, old-fashioned, as old as mother Eve. You see, I was possessed with emotions of the average girl of twenty-three. Hence joy was mine when I learned what true love is; knew the glowing thrills of a honeymoon; and then felt the pulse of a new life which would shortly add its tiny strength to the race. Joy that millions have known. But it was vague and uncertain. Not a thought of the revelation which was soon to burst upon my soul, leaving an indelible imprint. "It came as a flash, during the calm, dark hours of a summer night. All nature seemed at rest, broken only by the fits of physical torture which was my portion. Torn by anguish until my whole soul cried out—what a price to pay for life—And then—I lived years in those next few moments. Somehow it seemed, I knew that an immortal spirit, a child of God, was ready to be clothed in mortal clay; ready to take a tabernacle, which if rightly used would exalt it. Surely the veil between us was very thin. So close I was, it seemed that one could almost feel the clasping union of mortal and immortal. "Then—the wail of a new-born child—I listened with awed rapture. Truly eternity had touched, nay embraced, mortality. A bundle of glory was mine as I pressed the new life to my bosom. Having been so low, that I was almost given a glimpse into eternity; and then, returning to the world of normal folks bringing a real, live human soul to guide, to love, to care for. "Later on, as tiny feet have multiplied, and daily tasks have vexed, that flash of light comes back to bring me courage. Surely the sweetest, noblest task of all life's tasks is mine—to be the mother of the souls of men." The late afternoon was fast fading into twilight. Mrs. Thornton's guests reluctantly departed. At home, however, Emily forgot to write a story, but ran into the kitchen, where a trim little woman was busy. "Mother," she cried, as she threw her arms about her and kissed the sweet, tired face, "Mother, have I ever told you how much I appreciate the life you gave me." A new and shining light came suddenly into the mother's eyes. She looked caressingly into the lustrous eyes of the woman before her, and slowly asked, "Have I ever told you what a privilege was mine to give that life to the world." TRUE CHARITY "I gave a beggar from my little store Of well-earned gold. He spent the shining ore And came again, and yet again, still cold And hungry, as before. "I gave a thought, and through that thought of mine He found himself, the man, supreme, divine! Fed, clothed and crowned with blessings manifold. And now he begs no more." Leisure Someone has attempted recently to make a study of the daily activities of the average individual and to determine the relative number of hours spent in dull routine in comparison with the number spent in enjoyable living. It is, of course, impossible to chart every activity and arbitrarily label it as boring or fascinating. What is play to one is arduous work to another. To a certain type of woman a party may be a "hard day of pleasure." The study involves the whole problem of individual differences, and therefore not many definite conclusions can be drawn. It is likewise difficult to determine whether the same activities, such as eating, conversing, or riding on street cars, are on all occasions equally pleasurable. But the person making the study concluded, after careful observation and introspection, that the greater part of the waking day, in the cases of most individuals, is spent in dull and tiresome performances. The average individual spends somewhere near eight hours a day at definite work—and in most cases, with a few exceptions such as creative artists, the work is of necessity, of a routinary and uninspiring nature. Eight hours in an office— typewriting, reading and dictating letters, filing, or selling merchandise—is, as a rule, fatiguing labor. Eight hours, and usually more, spent in a home washing dishes, cleaning vegetables, dusting rooms, or making bread, often savors of drudgery. At this point it may be suggested that the time occupied by purely automatic tasks may be saved from actual waste by consciously applying the mind in some other field. Poems may be learned, lessons may be planned, or a letter may be thought out, while the hands are performing familiar details. Bibbs, in Booth Tarkington's The Turmoil, while operating a machine in his father's factory, rejoiced in the fact that, although engaged in lowly labor, he could preserve his mental freedom. But allowing eight hours for work, and a similar period for sleep, there still remains another eight hours which may be classified as leisure. It is true that perhaps two or three hours of this time are consumed in dressing, going to and from work, and other details of living. But, as a rule, in every individual's daily life, there are several hours of time at his disposal; time that he may devote to his personal pursuits. The reward of diversion and rest at the end of the day makes the machine-like processes of the working period tolerable. It is these hours of recreation, of pleasurable living, that makes the daily routine and toil endurable. This is a natural and perfectly proper attitude. The body is fatigued and a change of activity is, physiologically, necessary. The nerves and muscles, that have been at work earning a livelihood, or maintaining a home, demand a rest. The mind and spirit demand a reprieve from irksome and deadening routine, and seek a new and more satisfying expression. Leisure, then, should be spent so as to give the body the rest it needs, and should at the same time be pleasurable; that is, it should give the whole being the sense of "living." To a person whose work requires physical exertion, the needed rest might be an evening spent in reading or in attending a theater. If a person has spent several hours in an office, some physical activity, such as an outdoor game, some household tasks, or a long walk, may in reality be a "rest." The recreation should be of such a nature that the powers employed and worn out during the day may be actually given an opportunity to be recreated. The selection of pastimes for the leisure hours should be studied, not only with the view of resting the body, but also with the purpose of determining what will be pleasurable. It must be remembered, too, that one's taste for pleasures can be cultivated, and that pleasure, in the sense here used, should not be confused with mere gaiety or frivolity. Pleasure, to one, may be the thrill of doing a piece of creative work; to another it may be the joy of writing a cheery letter to a troubled friend. It may be the mental vigor that a well written book may inspire. It may be the peaceful satisfaction that accompanies an unselfish act. It may be the calm that attends a victor who has conquered his unruly spirit. It is not difficult to distinguish between ephemeral gaieties and the lasting pleasures of life; nor is it, to those who have experienced both, difficult to measure their relative worth. The real problem of leisure, of full and pleasurable living, is that of proper cultivation. A taste for reading can be acquired only by establishing the habit. The Scriptures offer no inspiration to those who never read the pages of holy writ. A symphony by Mozart is not appreciated, nor does it touch the soul of one accustomed to "popular" music. A walk on the hills has no appeal to a preoccupied "flapper." Because such tastes can be cultivated, there is perhaps no better index to a person's character, his tendencies, and his potentialities, than the manner in which he makes use of his leisure. The excessive moving picture "fan," the street corner loafer, the nightly "jazz" crowds, and the eternal front porch idlers, all reveal their mental levels. They are expressing their idea of "living."