The General Procession James H. Anderson Greece and Turkey were engaged in big battles near Constantinople, at the end of August. The British government began the construction of a railway from Jerusalem to Bagdad in August. Railway disasters, shipwrecks, and mine casualties in August claimed more than 2,000 lives. The heaviest rainfall in fifty years drenched Washington, D. C., on Sept. 2, doing much damage to property. Mr. Malfield, Democratic Ku-Kux-Klan candidate for U. S. Senator in Texas, received the State nomination at the primary election there in August. Fifty thousand people were killed in a typhoon and flood at Swatow, China, on August 2, and 100,000 others were rendered homeless. Austria as a nation seemed on the verge of a definite collapse at the end of August, owing to no finances to run the government. Presbyterians in Washington, D. C., decided on August 23 to erect in the National capital a temple to cost $10,000,000. The coal miners' strike in the United States, which began April 1 and ended August 31, cost the American people in wages and business losses more than the cost of any year in the great war. A gliding machine, that is, an airplane which can rise without a motor against a 15-mile-an-hour wind, and travel for three hours has been successfully demonstrated in Germany. Confidential U. S. Government agents, returned from Germany in August, express the opinion that within ten years Germany will be better prepared for war than she was in 1914. France and Great Britain were greatly at loggerheads all during August, over Germany. A compromise suggested by Belgium finally was adopted, smoothing matters for the present. Air battles were declared by British experts, in August, to be the prospective decisive conflicts of the future, hence Great Britain is laying plans for the greatest airship fleet in the world. Michael Collins, president of the Irish Free State, was assassinated in August, and disastrous guerrilla warfare was carried on between Free State troops and rebels, generally to the advantage of the former. On August 17-22, United States government officers arrested many I. W. W. Members in Michigan and Illinois, for syndicalism, or engaging in a movement to overthrow the present form of the American government. Violence in the railway shopmen's strike, by which people were being killed, property destroyed, and mail and other transportation seriously interfered with in August, caused the government to secure injunctions in Chicago on September 1, against the whole railway department of the American Federation of Labor. Samuel Gompers and other labor leaders became violently defiant at this action. U. S. Attorney H. M. Daugherty, in behalf of the American government, on September 1, announced the government's attitude toward labor union strikers who persisted in murdering non-strikers and destroying property, as follows: "When the