[Vol7 | November 1920 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: On the Watch Tower James H. Anderson]

ON THE WATCHTOWER 655 Fast mail air service between New York and San Francisco was inaugurated by the government on September 8. Prices of iron and steel manufactures, and of cotton and woolen goods, fell o& about 30 per cent in the United States in September. Alexandre Alillerand was elected president of France on September 23, succeeding Paul Deschanel, whose mind has become impaired. A world justice court is now proposed with which to settle international difficulties, and to eliminate objections to the League of Nations. Great Britain was threatened in September by chaos in business. The miners' strike set for September 25 was, however, postponed until October. An earthquake in northern Italy on September 7 and 9 resulted in over 1,400 deaths, many thousands of people homeless, and vast destruction of property. Three Socialists, because of membership in the Socialist party, were expelled from the New York legislature on September 21, and two others resigned in protest. Mosesmarried 85, were \'. Reeves, in Salt aged Lake 95 City years, and Elizabeth on September Guest, 7. They are said to be the oldest couple ever joined in wedlock in Utah. Ireland's troubles with Great Britain were more aggravated than ever in September, there being more than 100 killed, many hundreds injured, and much property destroyed. Japan and the United States are negotiating a settlement of the question of excluding the Japanese from this country. It is not likely that Japan will go to war with the United States. Lithuania and Poland, both members of the League of Nations, were at war in September. They agreed to submit their difficulty to the league council, then immediately resumed hostilities, without waiting for the council to act. 
 An explosion in front of the United States sub-treasury in New York, on September 16, killed 35 people, injured 200 others, and did great property damage. Whether it was the work of anarchists or an accident has not been determined. Italy had a semi-revolution in September, which almost overthrew the form of government. The labor unions took over a great man) industrial plants and held them. The government made a compromise, but further trouble seems imminent. Dr. Herbert L. Samuels, Jewish lord high commissioner in Palestine, took complete charge, on September 21, of the country immediately east of the Jordan, formerly occupied by the Twelve Tribes of Israel, and was greeted with satisfaction by the Arab population. Mrs. O. P. Belmont, of New York, head of the National Woman's party, made announcement on September 22 that "the men better not oppose women in their effort to wrest from men a fair share of control of life in its every aspect." Just what she means was not made clear. Garfield county, Utah, has the first large-scale operation scheme under the Smoot oil leasing act, a government license therefor having been issued to an Ohio company with $500,000 capital. Thirty-seven and one-half per cent of the royalty comes to the state of Utah. Two banks in Utah, one at Morgan City, and the other at Sugarhouse, Salt Lake City, were robbed on September 24, each of about $10,000, by four men. Two of these were captured by the Salt Lake pt)lice early. the same evening, and the other two were taken a few hours later. Twenty-seven million women in the United States were qualified to become voters by the adoption of the nineteenth amendment to the constitution. In September, the legislature of Connecticut ratified the amendment, so that it is effective regardless of the action of Tennessee, whose vote was questioned.