[Vol7 | November 1920 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: Page The Evolution of the Post]

The Evolution of the Post
When men settled in cities, it was found an absolute
necessity to establish an exchange of messages between gov-
ernments and individuals, especially between the governing
classes and the soldiers of the nation who were out upon
war expeditions. Swift runners and horsemen, with relays
for each, were the primitive modes of communication between
such towns, nations, and individuals.
The post, which is the term all nations use in modern
times, was originally a place on which to stick notices and to
mail messages. At the time of Christ, in Herod's day, relays
of men and horses carried mail bags with messages and
letters all over the then civilized world.
The Great Kahn, in China, had an elaborate postal system
as described by the famous traveler, Marco Polo. Savages
and men in the earliest dawn of history have used some
such methods for exchanging ideas and conveying messages.
Europe, after the dark ages, adopted a comprehensive
system of regular postal conveyance. Spain and Germany
allowed the public generally, as early as 1544, to use the
Royal Postal System ; while Paris, even in the thirteenth
century, had mailing regulations and an interchange with all
parts of the French kingdom.
The powerful guilds established posts for their cwn
especial use throughout Europe, and while this postal system
was largely confined to the nations as an interior convenience,
various foreign posts were established and placed under royal
control. By the sixteenth century nearly all the governments
had assumed entire control of the various postal systems
established by the guilds, or private enterprises, and the whole
matter was taken under government control in the European
nations.
For centuries, however, the expenses borne by the public
for this service, were very conflicting and confusing. Not only
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
prices varied according to the distances traveled, but they
w^ere further complicated by w^eight of the mail package or
letter, and by the importance of the message to be conveyed.
In our own country the progressive Pilgrim Fathers, as
early as 1639, had established a' comprehensive system of postal
convenience. One Richard Fairbanks, w^ho owned a large
house in Boston, opened it as a central depot for mail from
all parts of the provinces. The governor of New York, in
1672, established a monthly post from New York to Boston,
and in 1692, a postmaster general was appointed for the
American colonies. In 1711, both the colonies and all of the
English mailing systems, were taken over by the government
under parliamentary law.
/
^^»^^^^s^^-i.
JiKlr.rc\vk*»«
An Old-time Stage Coach, in Salt Lake City
Benjamin Franklin was the last colonial postmaster, and
his clear brain and quick vision suggested a number of reforms
in the clumsy system then in vogue.
It was not, however, until 1836, that real modern reforms
were introduced into mailing systems. The famous English-
man, Roland Hill, advocated, and finally, after strenuous
opposition, carried into effect his bill in parliament which
made a one price postage, a more frequent carriage of mail,
and a more regular system of delivery. With the incoming
of the railroads naturally this reform spread throughout all
civilized nations. In 1842, Engalnd carried 196,500,191 letters.
In 1857, after Roland Hill's reforms, there were carried 504,-
421,000.
Our own western America has witnessed the evolution of
THE EVOLUTION OF THE POST

evolution of THE EVOLUTION OF THE POST 625 mailing systems so rapidly that we have experienced in threequarters of a century all the mailing systems known to civilized and uncivilized countries. Across our western prairies and bleak mountain chains, first came an infrequent, irregular pony express, while the Indian runner was still carrying his messages from tribe to tribe, and lighting his beacon fires from hilltop to hilltop. The picturesque Pony Express rider, who exchanged horses and finally traveled only between government army posts, scattered from the Missouri to California, was himself a part of the picture painted for us in the stories of those dark ages when men in Europe were only half civilized and half savage. As the wilderness grew gradually populous, the buckboard rider and finally the rumbling two-decker stage-coach thundered from post to post in all the pioneer glory of spans of leaping horses, drivers with long snapping whip lashes, and passengers thrown from side to side, both within the Mail and Express Car coach and on top, as the vehicle careened from side to side on the rough mountain roads. Our western coaches did not attempt any of the musical accompaniment of horn blowing, which formed so vital a part of the English and European mode of travel and mail carrying in earlier days. Robbers there was occasionally in the western wilds, and some shooting scenes sometimes gave color and romance to this thrilling mode of travel, now so obsolete that the youth of today exclaims in wonder at the clumsy stage-coach which was a fixed that and part of of this the earlier years of the writer's own youth, state. With the incoming of the railroad, in 1870, the stagecoach receded a little farther into the mountain fastnesses, and lost its priority as a mail-carrier, becoming merely an appendage to the snorting iron horse, which whistled its way from ocean to ocean. Gradually even the stage-coach was superceded in its far-away retreats, for the last fifteen years m RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE has introduced the automobile and banished forever the mail carried in coach or buck-board, and they are forgotten by the children of today even in our remotest fastness. Now enters a still newer development of that system of message-carrying which covers the whole earth with a network of postal relays carried by steam and gas. Up in the air we already have the heralds of glad tidings, and mail has soared from the confines of the earth into the mystic upper realms of the future. On the first air mail ship which crossed the continent in regular passage came a letter to this office from St. Louis Mail Car Interior and significantly brought a subscription to the "Magazine." We welcome the harbinger of good tidings and prosperity which it portends. One might think that this incident would close the future possibilities of message carrying;  but a recent eastern magazine carries the startling announcement that so famous a scientist as Thomas A. Edison, so solid a genius as he, is now experimenting with delicately poised instruments which shall establish mailing facilities between ourselves and our dead and gone relatives and friends. Of course, Edison may have joined the freak ranks led by Sir Oliver Lodge and THE EVOLUTION OF THE POST 627 phalanxed by all the spiritualists of the modern world;  yet there are so many rational and clear ideas mentioned in this article that it does not sound like he had turned daffy. He takes pains to announce that spiritist methods and deductions are all a pack of nonsense. However all this may be, certain it is that the day cannot be very far distant when the Latter-day Saints will certainly have a more perfect and natural communication with other worlds, for the end is drawing near. It cannot be long in the nature of things, and according to the prophecies of our Lord Jesus Christ, not many years, months or days, before mortals shall meet and converse with resurrected beings, and learn very much more of things now hidden from our mortal gaze by this veil of flesh. Meanwhile, let us stand in holy places, watch that which may be made with instruments, but refuse to meddle with unsound conclusions and false deductions. It is enough for us to know that we are in the dawn of a new age of this darkened old earth. "Hail to the brightness of Zion's glad morning."