[Vol7 | November 1920 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: The Official Round Table]
around  door  and  window  casings,  etc.,  the  quantity  of  air 
or  rate  of  movement  depending  upon  (a)  material  of  which 
walls  are  constructed ;  (b)  difference  in  temperature  on  the 
two  sides  of  the  walls.  This  explains  why  it  is  not  necessary 
in  winter  to  open  windows  quite  so  wide  as  in  summer  to 
secure  sufficient  air  change. 
QUESTIONS. 
1.  Quote  Marion  Talbot  on  how  conservation  of  human 
life  is  to  be  accomplished. 
2.  What  is  sanitation? 
3.  In  your  Opinion,  is  it  just  to  judge  the  mental,  moral, 
and  social  status  of  a  family  by  the  external  appearance  of 
the  home?     Why? 
4.  Discuss  the  desirable  country  home  under  the  fol- 
lowing headings : 
(a)  Land  drainage. 
(b)  Outbuildings. 
(c)  Disposal  of  wastes. 
5.  How  can  you,  as  a  property  owner,  aid  your  city 
government  in  maintaining  a  clean  city? 
6.  Explain  why  it  is  essential  to  keep  floors  clean?  Cup- 
boards and  closets?    Refrigerators? 
7.  Does  your  e?;perience  and  observation  lead  you  to 
agree  with  the  statement  that  in  the  majority  of  homes  dish- 
washing is  unsanitary? 
8.  Why  should  dishes  be  washed  clean?  Describe  the 
process. 
9.  Discuss  the  necessity  of  only  clean  hands  handling 
the  family's  food. 
icy.  Why  is  dust  harmful  to  food? 
11.  Discuss  the  fly  in  relation  to  food. 
12.  Why  should  mice  be  excluded  from  the  house? 
13.  What  factors  determine  the  fitness  of  air  for  breath- 
ing 
14.  What  is  the  approved  temperature  for  living  rooms? 
15.  Explain  why  it  is  necessary  to  open  our  windows 
wider  in  summer  than  in  winter  to  secure  change  of  air?

«16  RELIEF    SOCIETY    MAGAZINE 
LESSON  IV. 
(Required.) 
SOCIAL  SERVICE 
Fourth  Week  in  November. 
HEALTH. 
(Sanitation,   Continued.) 
The  chief  problems  with  which  the  house  wife  is  coi\- 
cerned  in  the  broader  housekeeping,  (that  extending  beyond 
the  four  walls  of  home),  are,  (a)  water  supply;  (b)  food 
supply;  (c)  disposal  of  wastes. 
In  country  homes  all  these  things  are  usually  under  the 
direct  control  of  the  family,  which  is  fortunate,  providing 
these  matters  are  given  proper  attention.  If  a  spring  is  the 
source  of  water  supply,  it  should  be  cleaned  out,  walled  up, 
and  then  isolated  from  the  intrusion  of  animals  and  the 
chance  passerby  by  means  of  a  high,  tight,  fence.  If  the 
source  is  a  well,  it  should  be  protected  by  a  cement  or  other 
water-tight  curb,  extending  two  or  three  feet  below  the 
surface  of  the  ground  to  prevent  unfiltered  surface  water 
flowing  in.  Uncovered  wells  should  not  be  tolerated,  and 
the  cover  should  be  of  such  a  nature  as  to  prevent  drippings 
from  the  pump  flowing  back  into  the  well.  Water  from  open 
canals  and  ditches  sjiould  not  be  used  for  drinking  purposes 
unless  thoroughly  boiled. 
Fortunately,  much  of  the  food  consumed  in  country  homes 
comes  directly  from  the  fields  and  gardens  to  kitchen  and 
the  problem  then  becomes  one  of  taking  care  of  the  food  in 
a  sanitary  manner.  Farmers'  Bulletin  No.  375,  which  may 
be  had  by  writing  the  Superintendent  of  Documents,  Wash- 
ington, D.  C,  will  be  found  helpful.  Many  farm  homes,  how- 
ever, should  improve  their  methods  of  milk  production.  Too 
often  the  cows  are  kept  in  filth  udder  deep,  are  never  curried, 
so  that  hair  falls  off  into  the  milk  pail ;  careless  boys  with 
dirty  hands,  are  still  dirtier  overalls,  do  the  milking,  some- 
times giving  the  udder  and  teats  a  casual  brushing,  often  not. 
The  housewife  can  exert  her  influence 'to  secure  clean,  dry 
quarters  for  the  cows,  with  special  attention  to  caring  for  and 
washing  of  the  udder  and  surrounding  parts ;  can  insist  on  the 
milker  having  thoroughly  clean  hands,  and  on  his  donning  r 
clean  coverall  of  some  sort.  She  can  also  provide  a  covered 
milk  pail. 
Pork  production  is  another  matter  in  which  the  average 
farm  home  might  improve.  Pigs  should  be  provided  with 
clean,  dry  sties,  plenty  of  pasture  room,  and  clean  food.     If

GUIDE  LESSONS  617 
wastes  from  the  kitchen  are  fed  they  should  not  be  allowed 
to  stand  until  sour  or  putrid,  since  such  food  can  hardly 
be  expected  to  produce  a  good  quality  of  meat.  The  greatest 
cleanliness  should  be  observed  in  slaughtering  the  animals. 
and  preparing  the  meat  for  food.  Housewives  should  write 
the  State  Dairy  and  Food  Bureau  for  its  regulations  govern- 
ing milk  and  other  food  production,  and  should  insist  that  at 
least  as  high  a  standard  be  maintained  in  their  homes. 
In  the  country  home  the  kitchen  range  often  proves 
useful  in  disposing  of  such  kitchen  wastes  as  cannot  be  fed 
to  animals.  Under  no  circumstances  should  the  back  yard 
be  used  as  a  dump  for  such  wastes.  If  dish  water  and  other 
slops  are  thrown  out  they  should  be  thrown  in  a  different 
place  each  time  to  prevent  soaking  and  souring  of  the  soil  in 
any  one  place.  As  suggested  in  a  former  lesson,  the  samtarv 
privy  described  in  Farmers'  Bulletin  No.  463,  or  some  form 
of  chemical  closet,  should  provide  for  human  excreta.  Dump'i 
for  all  kinds  of  refuse  should  be  at  least  one-quarter  mile 
from  the  house. 
The  problem  of  the  woman  in  the  small  town  may  include 
doing  her  utmost  to  secure  water  supply  and  sewerage  system 
for,  as  the  population  increases,  wells  become  a  less  safe 
source  of  drinking  water,  and  the  increased  wastes  demand 
adequate  disposal.  To  be  an  effective  educator  the  house- 
wife must  inform  herself  as  to  sources  of  water  supply, 
method  of  protecting  such  sources  from  contamination ;  must 
know  the  most  approved  methods  of  purifying  water.  Dr. 
Winslow  of  the  New  York  State  Board  of  Health  said,  "We 
must  keep  our  water  shed  fairly  decent  and  then  use  a  dis- 
infecting system."  She  must  inform  herself  on  the  best 
methods  of  disposing  of  garbage  and  sewage.  She  is  then 
in  a  position  to  urge  the  installation  of  these  improvements. 
The  housewife  in  cities  where  such  systems  are  already  in- 
stalled needs  also  the  information  outlined  above  in  order 
to  judge  whether  those  systems  of  her  city  should  be  im-
