The Plan of Mesa Temple We are presenting to our readers this month the eagerly expected sketch of the temple to be erected in the near future in Mesa, Arizona. Three of our leading architectural firms competed in sealed contest, and the firm of Young & Hansen won out with the beautiful sketch which accompanies this article. The temple proper rests in simple yet exquisite harmonious lines on a basement story containing all the auxiliary quarters such as rest rooms, cloak rooms, recorder's office and general utility rooms, these quarters making, as it were, a pedestal from which springs the rising columns and wall of the sacred rooms where only ordinance work shall be performed. This basic suggestion recalls not only the pedestal support given to the statues and columns and art temple of ancient Greece, it brings a thought of the vast terraced courts, rising one upon another, which supported in dignity the crowning splendor of the Jewish temple proper, as it glittered and sparkled in the rising sun's rays, with its superb Solomon's Porch and two carved pillars, the Gate Beautiful rising in the foreground. The Jewish temple, like our own, contained rooms for ritualistic services, for the Priesthood, in addition to the morning and evening services, while the baptismal font, used for priestly offices still suggested the later uses indicated in the Savior's suggestion, and in Paul's teachings concerning salvation for the dead. All that was foreshadowed in the Hebrew temple is fulfilled in our temples of today. We give here the architects' description of the condemn which they sought to express in the building sketch submitted by them: DESCRIPTIONS ACCOMPANYING STUDIES FOR TEM-. PLE AT MESA, ARIZONA. Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints December, 1920. In presenting studies in temple composition for your consideration we do so with full appreciation of the potentialities of the problem; with much careful and painstakirlg application we have arrived at a solution which we are presenting as our conception of the problem. We have proceeded in a most severely truthful manner and form not desiring to detract in the minutest detail from a very simple outline by the addition of irrelevent and possibly misleading embellishments. Young and Hansen, Architects. SKETCH OF MESA TEMPLE 268 The problem, as expressed in the one word "Temple" is one of the most intricate yet interesting which has been presented to us for solution. One of our insistent queries is: What is there in constructive expression peculiar to and expressive of the Temple—the Latter-day Saints Temple—and in what essentials does it contrast with the world-accepted notion of temple expression? Close analysis of our temple needs has forced a somewhat radical departure from the world's conception of a temple or cathedral which has been arrived at largely through the process of the evolution of man, and to serve his temporary religious requirements, and has no relation to our divinely revealed program of work requiring accomplishment. We also recognize in our present day problem a decidedly more complex conception than anything of even a similar nature heretofore conceived, although adhering strictly to fundamental needs and spiritual requirements. The nature of this temple thought compels a recognition architecturally of two major divisions; the first of which is utility and the second, beauty in architectural expression, without unnecessarily retracing footsteps but will otherwise discover the maximum of convenience with the minimum of effort in a most pleasing and appealing manner. In the study under consideration the utmost endeavor has been directed to maintaining the proper balance between the temple proper and of the contributing factors to the service. It seems desirable to eliminate from within the temple walls proper all elements not directly required in some phase of the actual temple service. This is accomplished by placing the temple itself on a base of room-space which contains all rest rooms, cloak rooms, etc., thus permitting the temple proper to tower loftily above forming a simple architectural shaft possessing respectful dignity and exciting sacred reverence. Low relief panels at the four corners of the shaft are intended to portray the gathering of Israel from four corners of the earth in the last dispensation of the fulness of time. Throughout the composition both in plan and in elevation, as well as by the method of presentation by lines, our watchword has been simplicity; simplicity without the loss of dignity or of reverential content, thus lending to the whole study a most desirable element—that of truth. As down the path of ages man has ever striven to more perfected existence, consciously or unconsciously, by adding little upon little to the perfection of his original environment so we have endeavored to express our conception in these architectural forms which are the modern accepted ideals of perfection in architectural attainment. The element of seclusion for thoughtful meditation and 'THE PLAN OF MESA TEMPLE 269 spiritual communion is given suitable expression in the entrance portals which further adds to the thought of unity so desirable and prevalent throughout the composition. Generally stated the various appointments are grouped around a grand stair hall centrally located which extends between the main temple entrance and the ordinance rooms. The plan also provides a direct passage from the celestial rooms to the dressing rooms below. From an intermediate landing of this stair-case the first ordinance room is entered to the right. The remaining ordinance rooms follow successively without any additional long stair-way such as usually punctuates the progress of temple work in most of our temples. Flanking the main entrance on the right and left respectively are located the locker rooms and the assembly room, both are. Under the general supervision of the door keeper, but, owing to their location, cannot provide any annoying element in the conduct of his regular duties. Also the arrangement will be noted to be such that the assembly room may be used as an overflow in the event that a number of companies are to be served on the same day. This contingent can further be provided for in the entrance lobby where two additional companies may be stationed preliminary to entering upon temple work. After passing the door keeper, the recorder's appointment may be found to the left off the spacious lobby and upon entering the temple proper, immediately in front of the door keeper; the dressing room accommodations are located off the corridor leading to the font room. From here the stairway leads to the ordinance rooms as above mentioned. The Font is given a rear central location immediately under the celestial room, FONT ROOM The suggested location of the Font room we hope is justified by the excellent day-lighting and ventilation made possible, located as it is with eastern exposure, it will receive direct morning sunlight and outside ventilation as also will the dressing rooms to the right and left respectively. By the relative location of the various appointments at the font, candidates are provided direct lines of passage from place to place without the usual crossing and resulting confusion. Floor drains are provided to catch the dripping water as candidates leave the font. This arrangement permits a constant and uninterrupted flow of candidates to and from the font. STAIR HALL The stair hall is designed to serve more than the purely utilitarian accommodation of the stairway and passage. It suggests the story of man from earthly birth to the regions of celestial glory and reflects the successive stages of progression. From the temple entrance where this story best reveals itself may also be seen, through a glass screen at the end of the passage, the font room and the font suggesting the sepulchre of the Savior, while above and at the end of the stairway hall stands forth the portal to the celestial room. The grand stairway may be said to typify the ever upward pathway which terminates in celestial glory. AUXILIARY APPOINTMENTS The assembly room, cloak rooms, dining rooms, laundry, kitchen, communication corridors, children's room, women's work room, linen room, and other auxiliary appointments are provided in suitable proximity and relative juxtaposition without the temple walls thereby eliminating undesirable fumes and other disturbing elements from the temple proper. Off the children's play room are provided toilet rooms and a spacious court in which children may find amusement without the possibility of their straying beyond the limits of easy supervision. Other open well lighted courts on the north, east, and south sides of the building provide the privacy so desirable to the work conducted within the edifice. Dressing rooms are provided with fifty individual dressing compartments having two locker accommodations for two companies to pass through in close succession, while the entrance hall may be used in emergency for the stationing of additional companies awaiting the opportunity to go forward. SUMMARY As stated in the beginning of these notes, the foregoing aims at being only general in its scope. Every detail or appointment could be greatly enlarged upon, but not desiring to rehearse in too much detail what the floor plans so plainly set forth, we respectfully submit them all hoping that our efforts have produced a solution which, if completely understood and executed, will provide an edifice complete in its appointments, and the result will be a distinct addition to the sacred class of Church structures which we call our temples. ~