Out of the World By G. Milton Babcock (Continued. ) Walter swayed unsteadily for a moment. It was not enough for him to have had the accident to his bicycle, and the consequent walk; he must in addition lose his job, and that, too, without a hearing! Turning abruptly on his heel, with not a word of explanation, he stalked out of the bank, the gaze of the somewhat astonished cashier following him. _ For a time, Walter hardly knew what to do. Finally, he decided to take his wheel to the bicycle shop, and then hunt for a new job—the latter, he knew, would be a hard task, as he would be called upon for references. The bicycle man agreed to stand half the expense of a new tire—something that Walter had not looked for—and it served as a rift in his clouds of despair and gave him courage to start the search for employment. All day long he tramped the streets, at first looking for a position in his own field, but toward the end, he sought any kind of work. The market was glutted, hundreds of others, many more capable than he, were also looking for work. In the few instances where a stenographer was wanted, there were a dozen or more applicants. Once he thought he had a position within his grasp, but when he gave as reference the bank, the man immediately telephoned and learned that Walter had been discharged for "failure to report for duty." Again without one word of inquiry as to the cause of his failvre to report, Walter was refused the privilege of working. It is said that 'Misery loves company ' so after the business houses had closed for the day, Walter sauntered along to Hogan's Alley, the rendezvous of men like himself—out of work—forced to seek such environment as the Alley offered for such poor comfort as they could wring from it, spending their few remaining pennies in the process. Here, at least, one would not starve so long as he could raise a nickel for a glass of beer which brought with it the "free lunch" privilege. Walter had never tasted beer, but he felt a strong temptation to try it for the sake of its effects—perhaps it would cause him to forget his misery as it had done for so many men. As he was about to enter a saloon, however, a miserable wreck of humanity staggered out, blotched, sodden face, trembling hands, and with 272 Continuation of "Out of the World," some already in type... Mind any idea he might have had to indulge in a pastime the effect of which was such as this! Turning aside, he entered a pool room to watch the games. Here were gathered principally young men, most of whom could not afford the penny per cue, and the money for cigarettes. About the only thing they had in abundance was—breath for swearing! Walter purchased a package of "Sweet Caps" (during the day he had returned to the bank and received the wages he had earned the previous week) and promptly lit up. Presently, things becoming quiet in fhe pool room, he leisurely made his way to the rear of the place, where a poker game was going on in full blast. One big, sharp-faced man was losing heavily, and it did not improve his already repelling countenance. Savagely he bid, and almost invariably he lost. Walter edged his way behind the man. He had never played himself, and seldom watched, but he knew the game fairly, well. At length the player in question drew a royal flush and started out with a modest bid, intending to raise it higher and higher and lead his opponents along. An exclamation burst from Walter's lips. To players and onlookers alike it was a clear revelation that the player over whose shoulder Walter was. Looking had drawn a good hand. With a terrible oath, the man arose from his chair and made for Walter.' Walter tried to pacify him, but the general evening's losses, together with a generous quantity of whiskey, had so upset the gambler that he would listen to no excuses, but struck Walter a powerful, though fortunately a glancing, blow. Stung to desperation, Walter seized a large bottle from a table nearby and dealt his assailant a murderous blow over the head. Without even a groan, the man sank to the floor, blood gushing from his nose and mouth, In the excitement that followed Walter managed to slip unobserved from the room. Dazedly he found his way into the street, but one thought in mind—to get away. Instinctively he made for the railroad yard, and to his great relief a freight train was about to pull out. As comfortably as he might, he adjusted himself in the coal at one end of the gondola, and presently the train started—goodness knew where to! Dimly he recognized the lights of the Green Island station, and thus knew that the freight was bound northward, but his head ached so that it made little difference to him in which direction he moved—for all he cared, the freight could travel straight up to the stars—stars so much like those he had seen when the gambler struck him that they appeared very familiar and near, as he lay on his back watching them twinkle past. He tried to sleep, but always the phantom of the brakeman hovered above OUT OF THE WORLD 273 and awoke him with a start whenever he dozed off. Once he grimly laughed at the thought that if the freight train was wrecked and he was so unfortunate as to be flung headlong into the infernal regions, he would be able at least to "bring his own coal!" { For what semed an age, he rode, the pounding of his aching head ever keeping tune with the thunderous clank of the wheels on the rails. Once, in passing by a station, he thought he could read the words "Mechanicville," but was not sure. At last, the brakes gripped—steadily, persistently—and when the train came to a stop in a freight yard, Walter decided he had ridden far enough. Cautiously he made his way toward the lights of the station, and to his joy found that it was marked "Fort Edward!" He would now be able to go to his Uncle John's, a few miles away. Dark was the road, and strange the shadows that flitted menacingly about him as he struck out into the country; but then came the remembrance of One above—up among the night lights—who would shield and protect him if he but asked: And ask he did—fervently, reverently! VII Gray dawn streaked the eastern sky as Walter timidly rapped on the door of his uncle's house. "Why Walter, what brings you back so quick, and at this hour of the morning?" greeted his uncle in surprise. "We've just got up." Briefly Walter told his troubles, and asked if he might stay with them while he tried to get work. "You're welcome to what we've got, Walter, and we'll do all we can to help you. You've been in a pretty bad scrape, though, and I would suggest that you write some friend in Troy right away and ask him to find out how the man is. You might have killed him for all—" "Do you really think so, Uncle John?' interposed Walter, aghast. "Yes, my boy, a bottle's a pretty bad thing to hit anyone with—but let's hope for the best," he added cheerfully, perceiving that Walter was thoroughly alarmed. His aunt was willing to do her part, and the girls were delighted to have a companion of Walter's age and good nature in their usually quiet home. After several days of anxious waiting, Walter received a reply to his letter, stating that his late antagonist had not been injured much, and that the proprietor of the joint had seen to it that the affair was hushed up. 274 "I'm certainly glad, Walter, that it's turned out all right," commented his uncle as he handed back the letter. "TI hope it will be a lesson to you," he added significantly. "Yes, Uncle John, I feel that there are some great changes going to take place in my life from now on," replied Walter, thoughtfully. "I certainly am going to turn over a new leaf." The next morning he started out for the paper mill with his uncle. As they approached the plant, Walter's eyes opened in wonder at the immense pile of pulpwood stored in the yard. "You see, Walter," explained his uncle, "most of this wood comes from Canada, although there is quite a bit from Maine and other New England States. They chop a tree down, saw it into four-foot lengths, or else into eighteen-inch lengths, and peel the bark off. Then they load it into a box car." "What kind of wood is it?" interrogated Walter. "Spruce; it is a soft wood, and seems to be the best fer making paper." "How do they make such big piles?" "Well, when the wood gets here, if it is in fourfoot lengths it goes into that pile in the yard; if it is in shorter lengths it goes to the wood bins. That big crane there is what piles it so high. Ill show you how it all works sometime." Going into the office, his uncle introduced Walter to the chief clerk. Fortunately, they were in need of a stenographer,. And in lieu of a letter of recommendation, the chief clerk accepted the introduction from Walter's uncle as sufficient. "For once in my life I am lucky!" Walter exulted. "There's nothing like a good start. I only hope I'll make good." In a short time, Walter was thoroughly acquainted with his new position and surroundings. He liked his work and it paid him fairly good wages. His uncle's family were glad to have him with them, and the girls, Elizabeth and Dorothy, never tired of his company. He was always doing something to make them forget the toilsome hours they spent in the shirt factory; in fact, Walter felt, at times, that he was a bigger kid than ever, for he had been denied so many of the jollities of boyhood that even though he was now "grown up," yet the desire for play was keen and compelling within him. One evening the Episcopal minister called, and persuaded Walter to renew his former activities in the church. However, what Walter had learned from the old Captain had weakened his faith somewhat. Then, too, his Uncle John had pointed out that the church had become a one-day proposition; that instead of leading out in the every-day affairs of life, it had withdrawn into its shell and had not kept abreast of the times; that its creeds, formulated centuries ago to suit conditions then existing, OUT OF THE WORLD 275 were doing service today; and that the great discoveries and in-— ventions, the wonderful scientific truths that had been revealed to the world, had come about in spite of, rather than by reason of, the church. Indeed, were not science and religion opposed? In addition, the reciting of the Creed, the listening to the same Prayers and Litanies Sunday after Sunday, seemed to become monotonous to Walter, and a spirit of restlessness that he could not quite explain, a doubting influence, often came over him. His daily prayers had been neglected for some time—ever since he left home. It is said that people never think of God except when in trouble; but, on the other hand, there are certain souls who do not think of him when in trouble. Often they feel resentful toward him for the calamities which they feel he could have in some way turned aside, and feel that they have been deserted and left to struggle against too great odds. Walter was inclined that way. John Nelson, like his brothers, took little interest in the - church. To him, in addition to having become a one-day affair, its teachings were inconsistent—the ministers constantly dwelling upon man's responsibilty before God, but saying not a word of his rights on earth. As he told Walter: "T¢ the ministers would see that their congregations got sufficient physical food and recreation, they would have an easier time getting them to take the spiritual food and glory. When you and your mother were starving, what practical benefit was your church to you?" His uncle's words made a deep impression upon Walter, but the faith of his mother was too well grounded in him to cause him to assume an indifferent attitude toward his church. His deterinination to remain steadfast was warmly seconded by Elizabeth—an Episcopal herself, but who, nevertheless, reserved an independence of thought on matters religious that commanded little short of admiration from Walter. Among the workmen in the mill, whom Walter was obliged to meet in his daily work, was a young man of his own age, Louis Guiles, a checker in the shipping department. He was of medium height, dark hair and blue eyes, and of a pleasing, quiet disposition; Walter and he warmed to each other the first time they met. Often they walked to the car line together. One afternoon, as they were passing a pool hall on their way from work, Walter suggested: "Louis, let's go in and shoot a game of pool. It's been so long since I was in a pool hall that I guess I have almost forgotten the game." "No, Walt, I haven't got time to stop tonight; and besides, I've never played a game of pool in my life. I don't think it's 276 " best for a fellow to go into those places. Just look, the air is blue with smoke, and, by the sound, its 'blue' with something worse than smoke! If I had a pool table home, I wouldn't mind playin' the game; but in pool rooms, nothin' doing!" "Gracious! Lu, you're a regular preacher. Pastor Green couldn't do as good himself. Come, if you're so sour on pool, have a 'cig' anyway, and make a little 'blueing' for yourself. By the way, though, I've never seen you smoke—how about it?" "Nope, you'll have to excuse me on that, too, Walt; thanks just the same." "Well, first thing I know you'll be coming to work with a Prince Albert, and your collar turned hind side 'fore." "Tl tell you, Walt, come up to the house tomorrow afternoon and [ll tell you something about why I don't do these things. I might say right now, though, that you know as well as I that tobacco ain't good for you—it's got nicotine, an awful poison, and —"; "Of course, I know that; but, Lu, tea and coffee are bad also—contain poisons as you say—but I'll bet that you drink them every day. Didn't I see you with a bottle of cold tea just this ncon?": Yes, PH admit you did; but I haven't drunk coffee in a long time, and I'm tryin' to give up tea." "Geewillikers! There must be something behind all this. I sure'll be up tomorrow to see you and your folks—I suppose they are as extraordinary as you are. I smoke, drink tea and coffee, and once in a while a glass of beer. Here's your car—so long!" That evening, as 'his uncle and Elizabeth were rocking on the front porch, Walter suddenly turned and inquired regarding Louis Guiles. "Guiles is a peculiar chap," answered 'his uncle. "He acts different from most men. He has no use for gossip or a dirty story—something that can't be said for most of the men at the mill. When it comes to pitchin' horseshoes with the boys, or something like that, though, he's a crackerjack. Why, what about him?" "Nothing, except that he has invited me up to his home for tomorrow, and I believe I'll go, but wish some of you would go along with me, as it will be a little strange for me in Glens Falls. "Tell you what let's do, papa; let's all take a walk up there tomorrrow," suggested Elizabeth. "Nothin' doing," answered her father. "I will want to work the corn a little, and, besides, I doubt if the fellow would appreciate our all piling in on him unexpected. You and Walter go along if you want to; you never do get enough walking— OUT OF THE WORLD 277 stuck in the shirt mill all day and ride back and forth to work on the car." Early the next afternoon Elizabeth and Walter started out on the four-mile walk, none of the rest caring to accompany them. On the way, the subject of religion came up for discussion. "Walter, you've always been an Episcopal, haven't you?" began Elizabeth. "Yes; why?" "Well, so have I, but I'm tired of it!" she blurted out. "It's nothing but money, money all the time; I get so sick and tired of their asking for my hard-earned pennies that I could almost quit going to church. And now, you know, Mr. Green wants his salary raised, claiming that he has received a call from the Glens Falls church. I overheard some of the vestrymen talking that we would have to raise his salary, as he was building up the church, but as for me, I would be glad if they got rid of him, as his sermons are so dry and are more for the folks who are able to buy the expensive pews up front. I suppose I hadn't ought to talk this way, but I can't help it. It seems a shame that salvation has got to be mixed up with money, like everything else. You know, Walter," she went on warmly, "that the biggest thing being sold today and which has the largest number of salesmen is the gospel of Christ. Christ didn't do that way—", "Of course," interrupted her companion, "it wasn't necessary for him to demand money. He had no one to look after but himself, and by his miraculous power he could feed not only himself, but the multitude. And even if he had accepted money, you know the 'laborer is worthy of his hire.' " "Maybe you are right, Walter; but it does seem to me that salvation should not be dependent upon money. The way Reverend Green is doing makes me think that, so far as he is concerned, we can either pay him more money or lose our souls' salvation. He is supposed to know the way to heaven, but, like those new-fangled gas meters, he won't work unless yon put a quarter in the slot. I would give anything to meet someone who would talk religion to you without eyeing up your pocketbook!" "But, Elizabeth, how would a minister live if you didn't pay him? Reverend Green has gone through college and educated himself probably at a great expense. He's married and has a family and needs all the money he can get, which is little enough at best. I'll admit, though, that I am getting tired of the same prayers, the same chants, and the same sermons, Sunday after Sunday. I wish we could have more of a variety. However, let's drop the subject, as I don't think it's really the proper thing for us to do to speak so disrespectful of our church." "T don't care," retorted Elizabeth. "I'm in the habit of thinking for myself, just like papa. Somehow or other, I think ministers should be more like Peter and James—fishermen; or, like Paul—tentmakers. How a man could do it nowadays and preach too I don't know. You may not know it," she confided, "but I pray as well as I know how for help on religion, and I feel that, one of these days, I am going to know more about it." Beaming forth anew from her countenance was that look of trust and hope which Walter had noticed once before when she had spoken on the subject of prayer, her figure walking proudly erect, and her luxuriant, dark brown tresses winnowing in the summer breeze.. "How different she is from most of the factory girls!—girls from whom the erect carriage and bloom of youth have been robbed by the ceaseless grind of the shirt-making machines," he thought. Tired in body, but refreshed in spirit, they reached the Guiles home. Louis, who answered the bell, was glad to see them, and introduced them to his father and mother, a couple well along in years; his sisters, Florence and Hattie, in their late teens; and to Messrs. Lafayette and Maxwell, two welldeveloped specimens of manhood, one somewhat older than the other, whom Walter took to be the beaux of the girls. The afternoon wore pleasantly on, and as it was quite a fad to show the wonders of post-card albums, Walter became busily engaged in looking through one belonging to Florence. At length, they came to a card showing a hill rising abruptly from the lowlands. At the bottom of the card was the inscription: "Hill Cumorah, Palmyra, N. Y." "What. Hill is that, Miss Guiles?" he asked. "Why, in that hill were found golden plates containing the history of the Indians," she answered.. "Ts that so?" exclaimed Walter, greatly interested. "Why, when I went to school, they told me that there was absolutely no record anywhere of the Indians. Of course, I knew that 'Indians' was not the proper name for them, they being called that because Columbus supposed he had discovered India, but I did not suppose that anyone claimed to have a real history of them." "Mr. Lafayette can tell you more about that than I. Suppose you go over and talk with him," she suggested. "Mr. Lafayette, he wants to know about the golden plates and the Hill Cumorah," she announced. "Yes, I am very much interested, "added Walter. "Have OUT OF THE WORLD 279 you a copy of the book with you?" he inquired, seating himself on the couch beside the gentleman. "Yes, I have," replied the latter, reaching into his pocket and pulling forth a book of ordinary size. Walter glanced curiously at the title, "Book of Mormon." "That's a funny name," he thought, "but I suppose they just gave it that name to make it a good seller." Then spoke the other: "This book was given to a young man by the name of Joseph Smith by an angel called Moroni. Several men saw this angel and the plates. In a vision. I'll read what they said if you don't mind." _ At the mention of "angel," Walter half rose from his seat. Startled to the depths. 'My heavens, they're 'Mormons'! He almost thought aloud. Glancing across the room he saw Elizabeth in earnest conversation with Mr. Maxwell. His only thought was to get away as quickly as possible. To think that he had brought Elizabeth into such a nest as this! Just as he was about to call to her that they "had better go home," something seemed to say to him, ''Wherein have they acted wrong in your presence? Have they not behaved like perfect gentlemen? Then, you treat them as such!" Reluctantly Walter settled back in his seat, resolved that he would not carry on the conversation and to withdraw at the first favorable opportunity. Mr. Lafayette was evidently taking in the state of Walter's feelings, for several times, as he read, he glanced furtively at Walter who sat cold and impassive. After Mr. Lafayette had finished reading and explaining briefly what the Book of Mormon purported to be, somehow or other—Walter never afterward could tell—the subject of baptism came up. This touched a sore spot, as Walter had had many unpleasant experiences in arguing this doctrine before. In spite of himself, he commented: "I don't think it makes any difference what way you are baptized." 7 "Why don't it?" demanded the other rather sharply.; "Oh, I have come to believe lately that if you have the right spirit, the mode makes little difference—it's just a matter of preference, that's all." "Tl tell you, Mr. Nelson, that's what people have thought for many years, and, as a result, some baptize by immersion, some by sprinkling and pouring, and others say that baptism isn't necessary at all; and yet, each and every one of them claims to get his ideas from the Bible. Now, if you'll permit, I shall call your attention to some Bible passages which I think will show you that baptism by immersion is the true mode." Walter listened attentively, though at first he was some- 280 what disappointed that the passages were not new to him. However, as Mr. Lafayette explained the meaning of the scriptures as he understood them, a panorama of the plan of salvation opened gloriously before him—a vision of the gospel such as he had never dreamed! "Mr. Lafayette," he said solemnly, "my aunt, who brought me up since I was about ten years old, and who was a Baptist, many times has tried to convert me to this doctrine, but could not. She has read time and time again those very passages which you have explaified, but I refused to believe her. And yet, I'll have to admit," he continued, deeply moved, "that you, an utter stranger, have absolutely convinced me that baptism by immersion is the only way: the Bible teaches. I can't understand why I wouldn't believe her," he concluded regretfully. "T believe I can tell you the reason why, Mr. Nelson: I am an elder in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and have been divinely commissioned -to preach the gospel and administer in its ordinances. I do not believe that the Church to which your aurt belongs has the right to act in the name of Christ. You remember that when Christ preached to the people they wondered at his talk and said, "He speaks as one having authority, and not as the scribes." "Don't you think that is a rather narrow-minded way of looking at it," objected) Walter. "You know, while I always preferred my own church to any other, yet I have always felt that we were all on our way to heaven and that it really made little difference which road one traveled, so long as he lived up to what he believed."; "Yes, I know; that is the way most of the Christian world look at it. But, answer me this: Upon what is your church founded?" "The Bible, of course." "Upon what is your aunt's church founded?" "The Bible." "Then it must be that either the Bible contradicts itself, or else that one of you are wrong in your doctrines, for it is nonsense for one of you to say that baptism by immersion is the right mode, while the other says that it can be done by sprinkling. Both cannot be right." "Well—no; but is baptism such an important principle, after all?" "Don't you think that if it was necessary for Christ to go down into the water to 'fulfill all righteousness' that it is necessary for us?' demanded the elder. 'Then, too, don't forget that Christ told Nicodemus: 'Except a man be born of water OUT OF THE WORLD 281 and of the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God.' From that, it looks as if baptism is very essential. "Now speaking of being founded on the Bible," he went on: "all other churches make that claim, except the Catholic. There are dozens of sects all claiming to take their authority and doctrines direct from the scriptures, and yet, they differ, sometimes bitterly so, upon essential points. Christ told his disciples: 'My house is a house of order.' If that is so, there can be but one true church, the others being built upon the sand of men's opinions rather upon the rock of revelation. So, you must not think me narrow-minded in saying that ours is the only true Church, for in order to be consistent, we must claim this." "But isn't your Church founded on the Bible?" queried Walter., "We accept the Bible as the greatest book in the world—a book covering history, prophecy, and doctrine, all of which is to be read and understood accordingly. We believe the Book of Mormon to be an additional witness to the divine mission of the Redeemer. And yet, our Church is not established upon either of these books—we could do without them both if necessary. We claim to be founded upon direct revelation from heaven in these, the latter days. We have a Prophet who stands at the head of our Church, and to him the Lord reveals his mind and will when necessary. We assert that the true Church of Christ was not upon the earth between the time shortly after Christ's crucifixion and the year 1830, it having been taken away because of the terrible persecution the early Saints went through, and 'because of the dissension and wickedness that crept in amongst them. We claim that the same gospel that Christ preached has been restored from heaven to the Prophet Joseph Smith. We affirm that we have the same organization that Christ had, with all the officers, gifts, powers and blessings." "It is almost time for our cottage meeting, and we should very much like to have you stay. My companion, Mr. Maxwell, and I are out here as missionaries, at our own expense, preaching the gospel free of charge, and we are glad to run across people who are fair-minded and willing to listen." "Well, I don't know whether my cousin would care to stay," he answered doubtfully. "You know there is a great deal of prejudice against the 'Mormons,' in this part of the 'country. I'll go over and speak to her, however," (To be continued.)