Her Testimony Zella A. Johnson It was at "fast meeting." The congregation sat silent, no one wished to speak. The lingering notes of the choir's song, "All is well," rang through the mind, but all was not "well." There was no response to the call of the Spirit. The silence became oppressive. The older members sat rigid, but the younger ones fidgeted and looked from one face to another. Way down on a front seat, near the organ sat Christina Jensen; her spare figure erect, thin hands clasped tightly, lips in a colorless line, eyes straight ahead. To Christina the silence was oppressive. Would they wait forever on her? That was her thought. She had never borne her testimony, since coming to America from dear old Denmark. She almost wished herself back at home beyond the sea. Christina Jensen was a lonely little widow whose life partner lay beneath the grass in a far away land. Two years in America had not served to teach her slow tongue the unreasonable English, and her sensitive soul shrank from the open ridicule of the younger generation and the amused smiles of the elder, at her broken speech., Testimony meeting was her special trial. She suffered intensely from an unsatisfied desire to speak of the gospel of Christ, the gospel, dearer to her than all else. Today it seemed to her as if they waited, waited for her, and the thought came to her, this was her test, would she take the opportunity, or would she let it pass and refuse to open her mouth in grateful thanks and praise to her God? At once she resolved to be brave. A silent prayer rose from her trembling heart. "God help me to speak as I wish!" The humble woman made an effort to rise, and as she faltered her shifting glance fell on the keys of the organ. Ah! Here was a language all understood. A tongue she could speak and all would listen. In her old home, for years she had played the little old organ in the white stone church, and her heart delighted in the harmony her clever fingers wrought. When her husband died, she had joined her only son in Zion across the sea, and in the midst of brilliant talent her one accomplishment had never been mentioned. Now in answer to her fervent prayer came an inspiration. She slipped softly to the stool and let her hands touch lightly the keys. -A chord, soft yet HER TESTIMONY 283 \ full and sweet, broke the stillness. For a moment her fingers, unguided by her excited brain, wandered from harmony to harmony; but at last found their place and the throbbing melody rolled out, ker mind following in her beloved Danish with the words: My God, my Father, while I stray Far from Thy path on life's rough way, Oh, teach me from my heart to say, "Thy will be done." The last solemn tone faded away. The lonely little stranger slipped silently back to her place, but the spell was broken. One after another the people arose and some opened their hearts that day whose tongues had not acknowledged God for years. As the congregation passed quietly out, the gentle smiles, the many greeting hands outstretched to her, confirmed the truth in Christina's heart that God had accepted her testimony.