From Zion to Jerusalem" Major De Rothschild goes to Palestine. Major James De Rothschild, son of Baron Edmond de Rothschild, the noted Paris philanthropist, one of the leading sportsmen in England and France, who was recently in America, is leaving London for Palestine, reports the Jewish Correspondence Bureau. It is understood that while there he will confer with Winston Churchill, the English Colonial Secretary. Latest figures available show that 2,513 Palestinians are at present employed by the Palestine government, reports the Jewish Correspondence Bureau. Of this number, 163 are holding positions of importance. The government also employes 417 Britishers of whom 213 are occupying positions of responsibil-- ity. Sir Stuart Samuel Goes to Palestine, Sir Stuart Samuel, one of the leading Jews in England, and President of the Jewish Board of Deputies, the most influential cording to the Jewish Correspondence Bureau, where he will be the guest of his brother Sir Herbert Samuel, the High Commissioner. Sir Stuart will make a study of conditions in Palestine. To Organize Home Defense Battalions. The Palestine government has completed arrangements for the establishment of two battalions to form a home-defense, says a Jewish Correspondence Bureau dispatch. The Battalion of the north will be composed mainly of Jews and will be under the command of Colonel Margolin, while that further south will be made up chiefly of Arabs. General Castell will be in charge of the entire force. Service will be for one year and new recruits will be added every six months. Palestine Gradually Building up Adequate Railway System. Increasing Modern Facilities and Conveniences—Opening New Roads.; Prior to the armistice in 1918 it was practically impossible "FROM ZION TO JERUSALEM" 295 te undertake the handling of civilian traffic owing to the heavy military demands on the railway. Subsequent to the armistice, however, through-booked goods consignments were accepted in unlimited quantities. Passenger Coaches Used. The lack of proper passenger rolling stock has been realized all through, and in December, 1919, the War Office was requested to authorize two complete hospital trains, consisting of 23 coaches, all told, to be converted into passenger coaches. Sixteen of these coaches which have been held up owing to the scarcity of fittings, etc., is now in course of completion. In consequence of the railway not being hitherto provided with proper rolling stock, it has been necessary to retain a number of Egyptian state railway coaches which were supplied during the war for the movement of 'troops and are of an old type. Jerusalem Station Enlarged. Jerusalem station is about three times the size it was prior to the war, and apart from increased booking facilities is being provided with modern lavatory arrangements and electric lighting. Passenger Traffic Increased. There has been a decided increase in the passenger traffic, and it is confidently expected that a large increase in the goods traffic will follow as time goes on and the country gets properly opened up. In February of last year a service of dining and sleeping cars was inaugurated and these have proved to be a decided acquisition to the comfort of the traveling public. A daily train service was instituted between Palestine and Egypt November last, and it is intended, as soon as further stock becomes available and if the traffic justifies the expense, to run an extra train later in the day on three days a week from Haifa to Ludd, and vice versa, in order to avoid passengers for Jaffa and Jerusalem lines having to proceed by the 5:15 a. M. Train. That train will continue to run; otherwise passengers for Egypt would be obliged to spend the night at Kantara. An arrangement has been made with the International Sleeping Car Company to provide a further number of dining and sleeping cars, and this will permit of the extra passenger train, which was put on in November last, having a dining and sleeping car attached to it, and if it is found that the traffic on the JaffaJerusalem line warrants it, a dining car will be put on to this service. Considerable alterations are being made to Ludd station in the shape of the construction of two island platforms with overhead cover. First Class Accommodation Provided. There has been a shortage of first class accommodation on the narrow gauge lines and this has been entirely due to the fact that the passenger coaches captured from the Turks were in a very bad state of repair, and it has been extremely difficult te obtain the necessary materials to put them again in running order. It is expected, however, that first class coaches will be available for both the Acre and Nablus services, within the next few weeks. On April 3 the President of the World Zionist Organization, Dr. Weizmann, will arrive in the United States, accompanied by a number of prominent European Zionists, including Professor Einstein, the world-renowned scientist; M. M. Ussischkin, Naiditch and Hillel Zalatapolsky. This will be Dr. Weizmann's first visit to the United States. REORGANIZATION OF THE GENERAL OFFICERS AND BOARD OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY As our magazine goes to press, the April Conference is going forward. Our own Relief Society Conference has passed bringing with it a great change in our General Board. President Emmeline B. Wells has been released because of her advanced age and her feeble health. The General Board was released and reorganized at the same time. The present personnnel is as follows: