Notes from the Field By Amy Brown Lyman SAMOAN RELIEF SOCIETY ITEMS Relief Society organizations throughout Zion and the world are an integral part of the work of the gospel; and the Society serves its high purpose in the Samoan Mission, as we presume it does in other proselyting fields. Indeed, without the efforts of the sisters in the Church here, we fear that our cause would lack much of its prestige and vitality. To illustrate how far reaching is the influence of our Society work and to what extent is its merits recognized by other sects, we need only to draw attention to recent occurrence in the "London Mission Society Church," the strongest sect in this Samoan group. In the ninety years since its establishment in Samoa (being established here the very year that our Church was organized, that is, 1830), this sect has interpreted Paul's admonition for "woman to hold silence in church," so as to preclude its female members from taking any active part in church work. But noting the very excellent labors of our Samoan Relief Society sisters as they faithfully went about the performance of their various activities, they decided in one of their big annual conventions not many months since, to organize their women into groups patterned after the "Mormon Relief Society," and they plainly said so. It is a wonderful vindication of the divine work of the Prophet Joseph, that he, a lone individual practically fighting -298 his battle for truth without other assistance than his own integrity and his Heavenly Father's inspiration and revelation, should have been able to establish a perfect woman's organization which the world with all its learning has failed to equal and can only approach it in effectiveness and scope through the great work of the Relief Society. Our Lamanite sisters here go about their errands of mercy and kindness in the spirit which has distinguished the "Mormon" Relief Societies above any mere charitable or war organization yet instituted. They are to be found in the home of suffering and affliction as soon as they learn there is need of a loving act or a sympathetic word; theirs are the hands which lay out the remains of the deceased, prepare the last burial robes and keep the death vigil; to the home of the needy they delight to carry various necessities, sometimes home grown fruits or delicaies and again it may be purchased from stores or shops; if a brother or sister be confined in a hospital for weary weeks of convalescing, thither the sisters frequently go with a variety of food and flowers to make life brighter and lighter. And greatest of all, their attention is now centered more upon Temple work and funds are being raised to aid in carrying on the work for their dead. Regular weekly meetings are held, in which the procedure is similar to that at home. The uniform text book now studied is the Book of Mormon, and it is discussed each week with interest, developing stronger testimonies as the years go on. For thirty-two years now our Church has been established in Samoa but it has not been possible till just now to establish the Relief Society in Apia, the chief seaport of the islands, and practically the only place where foreigners reside. We have Societies in other places, of course. Mugh bitterness of late has cropped out there, and other churches have forbidden their members to attend "Mormon" services. We first held Sunday evening meetings and so did they as was usual. But, to our surprise, when we began Monday night services as a preferable night, lo and behold, in order to defeat our purposes, they are now holding church Monday night. They even appealed to the American Consul to have Sister Laulii, our faithful saint at whose home meetings are held, and who married an American, (now deceased) warned that she was creating too much disturbance. The consul visited her, was convinced of her rights, and told her to go ahead. So the way was opened by the Lord, and last Sunday we organized the Relief Society in Apia, with Laulii as president. In other ways the work is expanding and we are very hopeful of the future. Thirza A. Adams.