Criminal Impropriety From the Los Angeles Times We had supposed that the decadence obvious in the sartorial modes for society women reached their limit last year and that a saner and more decent sense of propriety would evince itself in the revulsion of public taste. But the tendency to bizarre indecency has increased so that now we are offered in our public ballrooms the spectacle of criminal impropriety—of women's bare legs and painted knees, of naked backs and lewdly veiled bosoms, of transparent skirts and suggestive nudity, of decorated flesh and vulgar exposure generally—the sort of thing that has ever preceded the downfall of civilizations. It has no relation whatever to the nudity of innocence, as is perfectly obvious with one glance at the type of dancing women that affects these disgusting extremes, for their whole deportment is so entirely in accord with their scant covering and nastily conceived exposures. They are brazenly inviting a certain kind of attention and they get only the sort of attention they invite. They are degrading all womanhood with their shamelessness at a time when the more worthy of their sex have striven to win and deserve that respect which should rightfully be theirs. The people are all overwhelmed by the appalling crime wave that has beset the world—not only by murders, robberies and hold-ups, but by the ghastly increase in marital unfaithfulness which clogs the divorce courts and the attacks against women and girls which have become a daily department of the news. The incredible and loathsome conditions cannot be overstated. They are widespread, staggering in their viciousness. And we unhesitatingly declare that the preposterous vulgarity and criminal impropriety of that vastly increasing number of women who adopt these indecent modes for "party gowns" is, if not responsible for the dirty conditions, at least a large and important factor. And it is deplorable that as the extremists jump from: extreme to extreme the presumably decent women follow. They are slower to adopt the full measure of indecency, but each season finds them "conservatively" following at a respectful distance, so that the modes for decent women today were the extremes of indecency a few short seasons back. Why do they do it? It is a poor explanation to declare that they thus become more attractive to men. If they are honest with themselves they know very well that the sort of attraction 304 thus engendered makes the lowest possible appeal. If they are honest with themselves they know very well that masculine taste in such matters is absolutely in the hands of women, that the standard they set is the standard which will inevitably be adopted. It has been said that every country gets the women it deserves, but rather would we say that every woman gets the sort of attention she deserves, Intelligent women know this, no matter what their argument to the contrary. But the women who are going to these disgusting and revolting extremes are not intelligent. Man may be vile, but he also has perception. Observe the women in any public ballroom today—those who expose the most have the least worthy of exposure. These lewd revelations are certainly not in the cause of beauty. It is the fat and podgy or the lean and bony female, for the most part, one who has neither natural physical or mental attraction, that resorts to this means of commanding attention. She makes one appeal, and only one, and that to the very lowest intsincts of masculine human nature. No matter how she may deceive herself to the contrary, she is deliberately catering to the animal passion of men. Beautiful and charming women of mind and character do not feel this urge to trade upon their "private charms." But the unintelligent and dubious female is invariably the one to make a bid for the only sort of attention she can hope to inspire. Theodore Maynard, now lecturing before the women's clubs upon the "Imminent Break-up of Civilization," defines civilization as that condition of a people founded upon justice and honor. It is not a question of brilliant inventions, of motor cars, telephones, magnificent hotels, luxury and comfort. It is essentially a state of refinement, culture and Honor. "T could not love thee, dear, so well, loved I not honor more." That Honor which is the very basis of civilization is essentially chaste. And civilized women must be the essential guardian of chastity and honor. Where women cater to the dishonorable and unchaste there can be no civilization, no sanctity of the home, which should be the very citadel of honor. Adam in Eden whined that Eve had demoralized him, Eve today whines that Adam and his war have demoralized her. They are both wrong and both culpable. And as in the old biblical story, God will hold both Adam and Eve responsible and both shall be driven from the Garden of Eden, our great modern civilization that is gaining all save honor, that keystone of the arch without which it must fall to ruin. And the modern unchastity of women's clothes, the crude, lewd, wholly indefensible appeal to man's lowest instincts, the deliberate trading on the unclean and the lustful side of human e CRIMINAL IMPROPRIETY. 305 nature, is, we repeat, a basic cause of that widespread dishonor and crime that are polluting civilization today. Surely there are enough decent, intelligent, noble-minded women left to halt this mad craze for criminal impropriety. Surely they can and will take the lead for purity, decency and honor, rather than be content to follow at long distance that road which leads to nothing but degradation for all humanity. Women, and only women, -can halt this mad delirium—this hideous craving for attention at any cost, at all cost. Where can it end, except in utter degradation, not only for their own sex, but for their husbands and their sons? This utter debasement of that precious heritage called "love" is the bitterest possible reflection upon our modern civilization. The sort of attraction these unchaste, nakedly adorned women "of fashion" hold out can never inspire that precious, priceless thing which "passeth all understanding," which survives all the travail of tribulation, that beautiful emotion that "age cannot wither nor custom stale," which radiates the dark places with shining light. "Oh, woman, lovely woman; nature made thee To temper man; we had been brutes without you; There's in you all that we believe of heaven, Amazing brightness, purity and truth, Eterndl joy and everlasting love."