[WomansExponent | Vol41 | 1912 | December | Issue: 12 | Title: JOSEPH—SEER, REVELATOR, PROPHET | Author: the necessity of the age, to divert the]

JOSEPH—SEER, REVELATOR, PROPHET
	To the Latter-day Saint, no figure save
that of the Master himself, stands out with
such clearness and perfection as that of
Joseph Smith the Prophet. 
	Like most, if not all of the prophets of
old, his mission was placed upon him when
he was still a boy. The advent of the dif-
ferent prophets has seemed to be called for
by the necessity of the age, to divert the
thoughts of mankind from evil and dark-
ness into spiritual light, to turn the turbu-
lent waters stirred by the adversary again
to the peace and calm of God. 
	Joseph, son of Jacob, when a child, saw
in dreams his future power and greatness,
and with the guilelessness of youth related
these dreams to his father and brothers.
Joseph’s comeliness and beauty, his gentle-
ness and spiritual nature, which appealed so

[Column 2]

[picture of Joseph Smith]

strongly to his father’s affections, had al-
ready created feelings of jealousy and envy
in his brothers’ hearts, and when, aided by
his natural gifts, he assumed to declare his
future as seen in his dreams their envy
knew no bounds, and he was sold by them
into Egypt, which unknowingly hastened
the very fulfilment of his dreams. That the
power and gift of God was with him, even
as a child, is evident. 
	Joseph, the latter-day prophet, had
dreams and interpretations thereof, and
visions, and revelations, when only a child,
and, like Joseph of old, related them to his
father’s household, most of whom believed
and credited what he said. Like Joseph,
also, he was comely, straight and beautiful
to look upon; his soul shone in his coun-
tenance and his ways were gentle. 
	Samuel, also, was a mere lad when the
gift of prophecy came upon him. He
had been reared from infancy in the ser-
vice of God by a religious mother. His
early duties had been rather to serve than
to dictate, and yet when the occasion came,
though still a youth, his mighty power was
manifest and we read how he predicted to
Eli the fall of his home because of the wick-

[Column 3]
edness of his sons. In later life he became
a judge and great prophet in Israel. 
	Joseph Smith was reared by a religious
and devout mother, who never doubted the
divine mission of her son when he related
to her his marvelous experiences. Like
Samuel he became a prophet who brought
about great reforms, warned the wicked,
and taught most wondrous truths. 
	Daniel, another of the great prophets,
manifested spiritual gifts when a youth. He
foresaw and foretold the destiny of nations
and to him alone was made plain the writ-
ing on the wall. To him also was given
the interpretation of dreams. Like others
of the prophets he received divine protec-
tion so that no one could do him bodily
harm until his mission was ended. 
	Joseph Smith had like gifts and power. 
Like Daniel, he was many times miracu-
lously saved from bodily injury and possi-
ble death. He also foretold the destiny of
nations and warned the people of that most
terrible of strifes—the Civil war.
	David first attracted attention as a shep-
herd boy, and even then his prowess, his
agility, his strength and more than all these
physical qualities, his lofty spirit, made him


[Column 1] 
the superior of all his house. As a great
ruler and warrior, he is admired; as a
prophet and a poet he is loved. “In the
whole realm of lyric poetry” there is noth-
ing that approaches the songs of David,
and the tenderness and pathos of these
songs if there had been nothing else, would
have immortalized his name.
	Joseph Smith, too, was athletic, straight
and powerful in build, he could throw the
strongest in a wrestling match, yet he
never assumed to use his physical strength
for any purpose other than playful exer-
cise. He never attained political power
yet no king was more beloved nor revered
by his subjects than the later-day prophet
by his followers. His words of admoni-
tion, wisdom, prophecy, praise and glorifi-
cation of the Most High, like the songs of
David, vibrate the heart strings and will
echo down through the generations of
time.
	So all along the line of prophets are the
same attributes noticeable and much the
same of adventure and experience. In his
later years, Joseph, while continuing his
prophetic teachings, had that tender mourn-
fulness and sublime resignation which have
always marked the character of the mar-
tyrs. Though hated, derided, persecuted,
even unto death, there was never a sign of
weakness nor retraction in the true proph-
ets, for a power not of earth sustained
them.
	It was when Joseph was a lad of four-
teen that he went with troubled spirit into
the woods and prayed the Lord to show
him the right way; and it was in answer
to this prayer that he received his first
vision. From that time until his martyr-
dom, at the age of thirty-nine, were re-
vealed through him mighty and everlasting
truths to lead those who would believe to
eternal happiness. Of himself he said: “I
am a rough stone. The sound of the ham-
mer and chisel was never heard on me until
the Lord took me in hand. I desire the
learning and wisdom of heaven alone.”
Yet what a testimony to the world is given
in the wondrous things revealed by this 
humble, uneducated man—uneducated, as
he says, save by the power of God!
Through him the gospel of Christ was
brought again to the earth—the priesthood
re-established.
	The great progress in the status of
woman which is now so marked was fore-
told by Joseph, when he organized the
women into the Relief Society. A “School
of the Prophets” for religious teaching was
organized in Kirtland. The gathering of the
pure in heart from among the nations of the
earth that Zion might be built and her light
shine over all the world, was inaugurated.
The stranger, noting the unanimity and har-
mony that existed among the people, asked
the question of the Prophet, ‘How do you
govern these people?” The reply was, “I
teach them correct principles and they gov-
ern themselves.” He revealed the Word of
Wisdom, teaching mankind the necessity of
pure lives that death and disease may be
stayed; the thinkers of today who are striv-
ing most to assist men to care for life ad-
vance the same ideas.
	He revealed the great and glorious work
of baptism for the dead, thus fulfilling the
prophecies that “the hearts of the children
shall turn to their fathers.” In a word, dur-
ing the short period of twenty-four years
marvelous and remarkable truth’s were

[Column 2] 
given to the people concerning the things of
God which had furnished food for thought
and study for all the years following his
death. We are only now developing his
thoughts and trying to understand and com-
prehend his marvelous life and teachings.
The impress he has made upon this people
makes all Latter-day Saints feel as though
he was a part of them. How, then, must
those feel who knew and associated with
him in life! Their testimony is that he
was different from other men, so that those
who had never seen him before could dis-
tinguish him in a crowd; could feel the
magnetism of his presence, would rather be
a silent onlooker when he was near than
participate in any kind of pleasure. These
are testimonies of his possesion of some
power and influence more than natural.
	Let the Saints forever retain in their
hearts a reverence and love for so sublime
a character. Perhaps no words better por-
tray the man than the following from the
pen of President George Q. Cannon:
	“He had been a humble farmer lad—Di-
vine authority sat so becomingly upon him
that men looked at him with reverent awe.
He had been unlearned in the great things
of art and science—he walked with God un-
til human knowledge was to his eyes an
open book, and celestial light beamed
through his mind. His lofty soul com-
prehended the grandeur of his mission upon
earth; and with divine fortitude he fulfilled
the destiny which God had ordained for him
before he was.”
