[Vol57 | February 1970 | Page 132 | General Feature | Notes From the Field— Relief | Society Activities]
[Notes From the Field— Relief Society Activities]

Relief Society Activities ae & mR; a ~ Raion \ ae-unes — 2 "Sy & uf ¥~ oe % § ) ~ WOME 6 5: lo _ a. ~ ¥ * @ e '7 oa a i. Ey &é é 4 =. Taess * mt there iy pre fetenta nergy, A: a ay. Ay a Lo." oN tas 4 "a ~ "4 ~~. A + D2 q a "lg f. " e; Oklahoma Stake Relief Society Provides Home Nursing Instructor's Course July 28-31, 1969 Posing as a patient: Margaret Anderson, Education Counselor, Oklahoma Stake Relief Society. In back, left to right: Virginia Gillespie, Homemaking Counselor; Regina Brinkerhoff, President, Oklahoma Stake Relief Society; Shirley Hunter, Red Cross Nursing Instructor. _ Sister Brinkerhoff reports: ''Our stake covers a very large portion of land, making it very difficult for the sisters to meet together. In order that more sisters might be able to have home nursing instruction we sponsored an instructor's course with the help of the Red Cross. "Twenty-three sisters were given certificates at the end of the course. During the time the course was offered, the sisters were given banquets, tours, films, and a talk from the stake president. On the final evening, a testimony meeting was held. ''Lovely floral arrangements made by members of the stake board were presented to the nursing instructors. We feel that this program will be of great benefit to the families in our stake.'' _ 132 Notes From the Field Cedar Rapids Stake "God Gave This represents Sj ties. (lowa) Singin Land to Me,' nging Mothers from & Mothers Present " June 6-7, 1969 First Picture Ward Relief Socie ree more branches have been added since this Clinton, Dubuque. 

133 February 1970

 Helena Stake (Montana), Helena Second Ward Honors Former President, August 13, 1969 Left to right: Lois Faw, quilting chairman, Helena Second Ward Relief Society; Lucile Rossiter; Lois Thomas, President; Dorothy Cory, homemaking counselor. Camille Neuffer, President, Helena Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Second Ward of our stake honored a sister who was moving away after many long years of service to Relief Society as ward president, stake board member, organist, and visiting teacher. Lucile Rossiter was presented with a lovely quilt with a grand piano in the center and a border of music notes with a floral and diamond design. This quilt was designed by Lois Faw, assisted by Dorothy Cory. A musical program was also presented to honor Sister Rossiter. St. Johns Stake (Arizona), Eagar Ward Holds Successful Bazaar, August 15, 1969 Left to right: Ann Udall and Beverly Johnson who were in charge of display. Burma S. Hamblin, President, St. Johns Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Eagar Ward in our stake held what we felt was a most successful bazaar. The sisters, under the direction of Donna Hamblin, Homemaking Counselor, and Ruby Rogers, homemaking leader, were busy throughout the summer in preparation for this bazaar. "One of the outstanding departments, we felt, was the Pillow Plaza featuring many kinds of decorative pillows, both for the youngsters, and for the beautifying of the home." Adelaide Stake (Australia) Honors 100% Visiting Teachers July 30, 1969 Visiting teachers who achieved over one-hundred per cent, left to right, front row: Thelma Medlen; Janet Fleming; Florence Crane; Roma Tredrea. Back row, left to right: Doris Schilg; Laurel Ellis; Edith Cameron; Margaret Dunbar. Thelma E. Hobby, President, Adelaide Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Our stake is quite widespread, and it is a special occasion when the sisters meet cata at the stake house. Our visiting teacher convention was such an occasion. "The Singing Mothers and two soloists thrilled us with lovely music, a film was shown, our stake president addressed us, we enjoyed a_ luncheon and a play, and testimonies-were borne. All sisters who achieved 100 per cent as visiting teachers were honored. There were nine others than those pictured who also attained 100 per cent visiting teaching.'' yy ) ha ae: iv a i Z ' 4 at d February 1970 Guatemala-El Salvador Mission Relief Society, Santa Ana (El Salvador) District Presents Bazaar, December 18, 1968 In group picture at left: Seated, second and third from left: Blanca Rosa de Hernandez, Secretary, El Modelo Branch Relief Society; Celcilia de Zepeda, President. Seated in center row, second through sixth: Lucila Martinez, Counselor, El Jardin Branch Relief Society; Andréa T. De Navas, Secretary, Barrio Nuevo Branch Relief Society; Elena de Gonzales, President; Liliana de Diaz, Secretary, El Centro Branch Relief Society; Francisca de Valencia, President. Standing, second, fifth, sixth, and tenth from left: Margarita Salguero, Secretary, Sonsonate Branch Relief Society; Victoria E. De Olmedo, President, El Molino Branch; Isabel de Garcia, President, Santa Ana District; Rosa de Regalado, President, Chalchuapa Branch. Four sisters in picture at right: Ana Moran de Marroquin, First Counselor, El Centro Branch Relief Society; Isolina Marroquin, Second Counselor; Francisco de Valencia, President; Liliana de Diaz, Secretary. Bonnie C. Clark, Supervisor, Guatemala-El Salvador Mission Relief Society, reports: 'The Santa Ana District of the mission presented a very successful bazaar. The seven branches met and presented their handwork which they had made in classes throughout the year. It was a very enjoyable day, climaxed by a dinner for all of the sisters.'' a Lake Mead Stake (Nevada), Henderson Fifth Ward Aids Building Fund By Baking Bread Left to right: Genevieve Smith, Second Counselor, Henderson Fifth Ward Relief Society; Myrna Olds; Angela Dillard; Ileene Robinson, First Counselor; Grace Wingett, President; Dolores Pendleton. Mary R. Edwards, President, Lake Mead Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Relief Society sisters of the Henderson Fifth Ward have raised an amazing amount of money for the ward building fund by baking and selling bread. One day was spent in Relief Society teaching those sisters who did not know how to bake bread. It has been a most impressive and successful method to aid in building a new chapel." Taber Stake Relief Society Holds Visiting Teacher Convention August 16, 1969 Standing at left: Ida Wood, who was honored as the oldest active visiting teacher and crowned queen for the day. Remaining sisters are visiting teachers over seventy years of age. Hazel N. Tanner, President, Taber Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The theme for our visiting teacher convention was 'Love One Another.' It was emphasized by the presentation of a play, 'Which Pattern Do You Follow?' and a skit, 'If the Shoe Fits.' ''A lovely luncheon was served to approximately 200 sisters, and the eldest visiting teachers were honored. The Vauxhall Branch received a copy of History of Relief Society for having the highest percentage of attendance at the convention. Booklets of original poems composed by the sisters of the Taber Stake were given to all present. We feel that it was a highly successful event, and enjoyable to the sisters.'' 136 TSS SS - February 1970 Burley Stake (Idaho) Presents ''My Sister's Keeper'' At Presidencies Breakfast, September 17, 1969 Left to right: Pearl Lee; Jacqueline Sagers; Janine Taylor; Edith Blacker. Mary G. Bateman, President, Burley Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Stake board members presented the dramatization 'My Sister's Keeper' at the annual Presidencies Breakfast. Narrating the program was Deaun Wood. "The breakfast tables were decorated in blue and gold, featuring fall bouquets centered with gold hearts and draped with blue streamers proclaiming the year's overall theme in our stake—'Compassionate Service—The Heart of Relief Society.' "The sisters greatly enjoyed and were inspired by the dramatization. Jacqueline Sagers, cultural refinement leader, was chairman for the event.'' Mt. Jordan Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present ''A Labor of Love,'' May 1, 1969 LaVerda O. Lloyd, former president, Mt. Jordan Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Under the capable direction of Jean Ennis, stake chorister, and Regina Roden, stake organist, and the ward choristers and organists, a group of 138 Singing Mothers presented a lovely concert, 'A Labor of Love.' "Each of the nine wards presented a number, and the combined groups presented three numbers. The script for the program was written and narrated by Sylvia Haycock. '"'We were pleased to have Elder and Sister Sterling W. Sill present, along with Zola McGhie of 

. Marian H. Griffin, Supervisor, French Mission Relief Society, reports: ''The enthusiasm and cooperation of all of the sisters made possible a successful bazaar in this small branch. It is obvious from this experience that they are going to move forward with even greater efficiency. We are very proud of them and the devotion they have to Relief Society."

138 LS a TTT ote RY any Lue Oe 9% \ - La five jf boa Ef oe Foe VF ccm 88 ee 9 I The Doctrine and Covenants I SPIRITUAL LIVING Lesson 104 Zion and Its Future Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 136.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, May 1970 Southern Hemisphere; First Meeting: October 1970 OBJECTIVE: The Latter-day Saint woman is guided and sustained through her knowledge that the Church has been, is, and will forever be led by prophets of the Lord. INTRODUCTION Before The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized, the Lord gave this counsel to individuals interested in Joseph Smith's work: Now, as you have asked, behold, I say unto you, keep my commandments, and seek to bring forth and establish the cause of Zion. (D&C 6:6; 12:6; 14:6.) Although Zion has -several meanings, when the foregoing counsel is considered in its context—a time when The Book of Mormon and the modern revelations had not yet been received and the Church not yet established—then Zion, as here used, refers to the marvelous work and a wonder to be established upon the earth. The marvelous and 140 wondrous work to be restored was not only The Book of Mormon spoken of by Isaiah, not only the building up of a certain geographical area, but the accomplishment of all God's purposes on the earth. (Isa. 29:13-14; D&C 105:31-32.) True it is that Zion in the scriptures refers to Jerusalem, to the ancient city of Enoch's people, to North and South America, to the center place—Jackson County, Missouri, as geographical areas. (2 Kings 19:21; Ps. 48; Moses 7:18-21; Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Vol. VI, pp. 318-19 [commonly called Documentary History of the Church; hereafter referred to as DHC}]; D&C 57:1-2.) But, also, Zion has significance in that it means: (1) The Church of Jesus Christ, and (2) the pure in heart. (D&C 105: ae; 97:21.) THE FULNESS OF TIMES Prophets saw in vision the time when God's work for man would culminate in the dispensation of Savior would come to usher in a millennial reign of peace. Might be termed 2 period in which all dispensations are gathered into one culminating period when the purposes of God for mans salvation are com leted. (Eph. 1:7-10; D&C 77:12 ) The greatness of this dispensation ls indicated in the following: __, for it is necessary in the ushering in of the dispensation of times, which dispensation is now beginning to usher in, that a whole and complete and perfect union, and welding together of dispensations, and keys, and powers, and_ glories should take place, revealed from the days of Adam even to revealed from the foundation of the world, but have been kept hid from the wise 2 prudent, shall be revealed unto babes and sucklings in this, 1 i of the fulness of times. ( Class Discussion Give an appraisal of the concept of Zion and its relationship to the dispensation of the fulness of times. THE GATHERING AND TEMPLE BUILDING One of the unique teachings of the islands of the Pacifi Lesson Department Jooked with joyful anticipation hen this gathering would take place. (Isa. 11:10-16.) (1) the Jewish people to modern Israel (D&C 133:35 (2) the ten lost tribes from the land of the north to receive their blessings at the Latter-day the Latter-day Saints. (D&C 17; 133:3.) Included in this latter group are those know? As the remnants of Jacob," the American Indian and those on c. (D&C 109:65-67.) Leaders in the salvation of those gathered are the Latter-day Saints to whom the Lord has said: Therefore, thus saith the Lord unto you, with whom the priesthood hath continued through the lawful heirs, according hid from d the priesthood have remained, and must needs lineage by the mouths of since the world began. All the holy prophets (D&C 86:8-10.) In the words of President WilI say you have your appointment, the Lord has raised UP and I can prove from the Book of Doc- February 1970 through the lineage of your fathers, and that Priesthood will continue throughout eternity, therefore you have received your appointment, and _ the Lord looks to you to build up his Zion and kingdom upon the earth. (Journal of Discourses, 18:120.) The Prophet Joseph Smith said that the main object of the gathering of the saints is to build temples. (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, pp. 307- 08.) In these sacred edifices where the Lord may come to visit his people, principles of exaltation are administered. (D&C 124:28-31, 37-42.) Thus, the purpose of all activities and programs of the Church should prepare the people for these blessings.