[Vol32 | July 1945 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Article | Title: Theology Preview 427 The Driggs]
LESSON DEPARTMENT 427
Theology Church History Dr. H. Wayne Diiggs Preview of Lessons for 1945-1946 A preview of the second year's course of study entitled "Church History" introduces the lessons for 1945-46.
Titles for the next eight lessons and their objectives follow below. It will be remembered that the central theme for the course is to be found in the Savior's words "By their fruits ye shall know them."
Again we shall look at the fruits of Mormonism and find them good. By way of review we may summarize the three parts of the course once more. Part I for 1944-45 was devoted to the opening dispensation of the fullness of times and had as its objective the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith and the coming of the "church out of the wilderness"; Part I for 1945-46 outlines the story of the saints in their movement to "the place which God prepared" in the tops of the everlasting mountains; Part III for 1946-47 pertains to the coming-of-age period of the Church with its broadened activities meeting the swift sweep of our modern times. The main objective of the course is to narrate the more important events of Church history and to consider the revelations in their relation to the historical episodes. We revere the revelations contained in the book of the Doctrine and Covenants as the revealed word of God for our day. The titles of the eight lessons for this year's course follow: 9. The Martyrdom oi Joseph Smith Objective: To indicate the worth of a great testimony and its supreme value to the onward development of the Church. 10. Brigham Young's CaJ] to Leadership Objective: To show the power of leadership under God. 11. The Journey Westward Objective: To trace the march of the saints westward and to show that physical hardships can more easily be endured by those who are supported by the spirit of the Lord than by those who are without his spirit. 12.
Building an Empire in the West Objective: To indicate the beginning fulfillment of prophecy concerning the gathering of Israel. 13.
Stakes oi Zion Increased Objective: To suggest the firm and sure way the Lord has of extending his purposes in the earth. 14. The Missionary System Broadened Objective: To develop the truth that the gospel is ours, but we must strive to share it with others.  15. The United Order Begun Objective: To show how the Lord strives always to have his children seek the more perfect social order of living. 16. The Building oi Temples Continues Objective: To show that God provides for the fulfillment of all his promises. In this second series of Church history lessons there will be need for the use of a book on Church history in addition to the Doctrine and Covenants which again is to be the text for the year. The book Essentials in Church History by Elder Joseph Fielding Smith, published in 1942 by the Deseret News Press, Salt Lake City, Utah, is recommended.
While the lessons, it is hoped, will set the central objective for each month for the reading and discussion period, yet these necessarily short bits of writing covering but briefly the far-reaching episodes of our history, will need additional source material to enrich the story of our Church and its revealed doctrine.
Essentials in Church History can provide such an enlargement of the theme. Do not lose track of the place of the Doctrine and Covenants in this study. Here, the words you will read are the words of the Lord which ever illuminate the enduring principles of life.
Through all the study let us not forget our repeating phrase from lesson to lesson?we must "give heed unto his word" which has been written especially for us in this day. As to the method of class discussion, bear the following in mind: Somehow in too many lessons practically all of the material is given in the written lesson itself. The teacher covers this part fairly well. When, however, she reaches the discussion period, she poses questions that draw a weak response. To this she must then supplement her own contribution. In overcoming such difficulty there is the necessity of putting real content into the discussion period. In the case of the present series, this is done by directing class members to the words of the Lord as recorded in the Doctrine and Covenants.
Once a class, after attempting to answer a simple but searching question, is turned to the clear and convincing facts as phrased by the Master, hearts are warmed; and minds, seeking ready confirmation of truth, recall personal illustrations which press for expression.
Testimonies result, and the teacher assumes her rightful role as director, rather than taskmaster of the hour.
Text and References Doctrine and Covenants. Price $1.00. Smith, Joseph Fielding, Essentials in Church History, (Salt Lake City, Utah: Deseret Book Co., 1944). Price $2.00.
Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, (Salt Lake City: Deseret News Press, 1941). Price $2.50. (This book is not endorsed in its entirety by the Church. However, references to this book included in these lessons may properly be used.) The above books may be obtained, at the prices listed, from Deseret Book Company, 44
East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City 10, Utah. Maps The use of maps in connection with this course will greatly aid in effective teaching. The following maps will be found helpful: Map of the United States showing route of Mormon pioneers, size 9x12 inches, available General Board of Relief Society, 28
Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. Price 5 cents each. (See The Relief LESSON DEPARTMENT 429
Society Magazine, July 1944, pp. 384- 385). Church History Map, compiled by A. William Lund, full color, size 32x52 inches. Limited number available at Deseret Book Company. Price $1.50. (Note: On both of these maps an error has been made in locating Harmony. The town of Harmony, now known as Oakland, should be located on the bank of the Susquehanna River, just south of the state line of New York and Pennsylvania. See map in Essentials in Church History, page 97.) Maps included in Essentials in Church History. For list, see Contents page viii. Lesson 9-The Martyrdom of Joseph Smith For Tuesday, October 2, 1945
Objective: To indicate the worth of a great testimony and its supreme value to the onward development of the Church. JOSEPH SMITH, prophet of the * nineteenth century, stood one January day in the year 1844 to address the newly appointed officers of peace for the city of Nauvoo. As mayor of the city he spoke, and within his voice was heard the prophetic tone of impending danger for himself and people.
Some thirteen years had passed since the ?little flock" who first believed this modern seer had gathered at the home of Peter Whitmer that April day in 1830 to organize the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. And what bright yet bitter years these had been!
Half a continent had been spanned in the march of missionary endeavor. Yes, even the Old World, too, had heard the elders sent by express command of a latter-day prophet. Now around him thousands of saints had gathered, and had builded Nauvoo, the most beautiful of cities then to be found on the rich and fertile soil of Illinois.
Could it be that the time had truly come when Zion was to rejoice and but hold in memory those trying days of Kirtland and Independence? His words on this January day seemed not to indicate this for he said:... I am exposed to far greater danger from traitors among ourselves than from enemies without, although my life has been sought for many years by the civil and military authorities, priests, and people of Missouri; and if I can escape from the ungrateful treachery of assassins, I can live as Caesar might have lived, were it not for a right-hand Brutus. I have had pretended friends betray me. All the enemies upon the face of the earth may roar and exert all their power to bring about my death, but they can accomplish nothing, unless some who are among us and enjoy our society, have been with us in our councils, participated in our confidence, taken us by the hand, called us brother, saluted us with a kiss, join with our enemies, turn our virtues into faults, and, by falsehood and deceit, stir up their wrath and indignation against us, and.
Bring their united vengeance upon our heads. All the hue-and-cry of the chief priests and elders against the Savior, could not bring down the wrath of the Jewish nation upon His head, and thereby cause the crucifixion of the Son of God, until Judas said unto them, "Whomsoever I shall kiss, he is the man; hold him fast.?
Judas was one of the Twelve Apostles, even their treasurer, and dipt with their Master in the dish, and through his treachery, the crucifixion was brought about; and we have a Judas in our midst. (Essentials in Church History, pp. 360-361; D. H. C. Vol. VI, p. 152) What group of traitors from within would now essay the role of Judas and, pincer-like, provide the other prong of opposition to join with those mobocrats, from without to encircle and destroy the Prophet and his work?
Somehow the storm of hate which ten years before had set the cry in Missouri, "the Mormons must go," now insidiously smoldered within the very councils of the Church. William Law, the Prophet's second counselor, together with his brother Wilson, William Marks, Leonard Soby, Robert Foster and others took offense at their leader's words and pulled away into a council of apostates who were secretly to pledge themselves to destroy Joseph Smith and his party; in fact, it was later discovered that William Law was in league with the Missourians who ever since the escape of the Prophet from their State had vowed to reach across the border line of Illinois and claim their man.
Realizing the price God had set upon the strength of a testament, (Hebrews 9:16-17), Joseph Smith repeatedly forewarned his followers of his coming death, first by visioning the ultimate need of a land beyond the rim of the great western mountains to which the saints might press for safety; and second, through his frequent words concerning the threats upon his own life. At a conference in October of 1843 he said, "This generation is as corrupt as the generation of Jews that crucified Christ; and if he were here today, and should preach the same doctrine he did then they would put him to death. I defy all the world to destroy the work of God; and I prophecy they shall never have power to kill me till my work is accomplished, and I am ready to die." (Essentials in Church History, p. 365; D.H.C. Vol. VI, page 58.)
Some eight months following this meeting with the saints, Joseph Smith with his brother Hyrum was martyred in Carthage Jail, having calmly willed to surrender to the Prophet's enemies in the assurance that the true priesthood and spirit of the Lord necessary to establish the Church of Jesus Christ were again on earth. His courageous mission had made this so. Now the work of God was a living reality as evidenced by testimonies of hundreds of faithful and devoted saints. The story of the swift and final days ending with the death of the Prophet will ever live in the hearts of those who love him, for with the unselfish gift of his own life, they may now lay claim upon the force of his testimony.
Let us briefly follow the steps of the story to see how boldly this modern seer of his own free will made the supreme gift for the Church of Christ he again established. It should be remembered that ever through the struggle to bring again the work of God in the latter days, the powers of evil bored from within as well as without. Men who at first were true, turned false, to join with those who ever hated the truth. With the increase of Church membership and the promise of peace and plenty for the saints mounting, fear and jealousy stole into the hearts of Joseph Smith's enemies. He had now become a figure of national interest. As lieutenant general of the Nauvoo Legion, as mayor of Nauvoo, and as candidate for the office of President of the United States, prominent citizens sought him, wondered at his wisdom, and often inwardly feared the divine power of his office as prophet of God. Those who could curry favor of him for their own advantage did so, and those who feared, sought secretly either to work upon the ignorance and hatred of fanatical mobocrats to bring about his overthrow, or, by failure to act in the cause of justice, used their office to wink at infractions of the law. Thus because of the words of weak-willed officers, the saints suffered; their Prophet time and again was arrested, then arraigned before a court of justice to stand trial, only to be set free.
So between the cross fire of writs which shuttled back and forth between the Governors of Missouri and Illinois, he threaded his way in and out of the trials where enraged deputies lay in wait to ambush him. Such had been his lot up to that January in the year of 1844.
During the months of February and March which followed, often his thoughts and acts were turned to constructive plans toward the fulfillment of the Rocky Mountain prophecy of August 6, 1842. It was decided to send some twenty-five men to explore all the mountain country, carrying the gospel message wherever they went. Any man who could "raise $500, a good horse and a mule, a double-barrel gun, one barrel rifle and the other smooth bore, a saddle, and bridle, a pair of revolving pistols, bowie-knife, and a good saber" might volunteer. Visioning the future of his people, the Prophet predicted that within five years the saints would be out of the power of their enemies, and asked that his
words might be written down that none "need not say they had forgotten the saying."
