[Vol32 | July 1945 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: President David Morrell]
President David O. McKay Jeanette Morrell Visiting Teachers' Message Leader, Twelfth Ward, Mount Ogden Stake THE home into which President David O. McKay was born proved the best possible environment to prepare him for the responsibilities that have come into his later life. It was characterized by regular family prayers, harmony, love, and hospitality which was enjoyed by many Church and civic leaders. His parents directed his youthful development with faith and with sympathetic understanding. As a boy, he had his dog, a pony, pigeons, rabbits, and other pets.
There was the old swimming pool which was a gathering place for the boys of the town during the hot summer days, and, later, his interests were centered in the baseball nine and in an orchestra in which he was pianist.
With all these activities, incident to pleasant life in the country, there was still plenty of well-organized work which he shared with his father and brothers.
There was also an unswerving rule that all attend sacrament, priesthood quorum, and auxiliary organization meetings, and that the Sabbath be respected as a day of rest. Thus, proper and lasting habits were formed in his early life and they have proved to be valuable ones.
When he was twelve years old, he received a blessing from Patriarch John Smith, then on one of his regular visits at the Huntsville home. PRESIDENT DAVID O. MCKAY Among many other promises, the blessing said,  The eye of the Lord is upon thee. It shall be thy lot to sit in council with thy brethren and to preside among the people and exhort the saints to faithfulness. And thou shalt go forth wherever thou art sent by the Priesthood, like a roaring lion in the forest, none to stay thee, for the power of God shall rest upon thee and give thee strength, wisdom and understanding." At the close of the blessing, Brother Smith placed his hand on David O's head and said, "My boy, you have much to do besides play marbles." Page 
  JULY 1945
Thinking the Patriarch was suggesting that he give up the game entirely, he was quite perturbed and so expressed himself to some members of his family; for playing marbles was one of his favorite games and he was an expert in it.
Only after his mother explained what Elder Smith really meant did he understand the meaningful remark. He was president of the class graduated from the University of Utah in June 1897, and, in August of that same year, left for the British Mission.
Upon his return from a successful missionary experience, he commenced his career as a teacher first as an instructor in English and later as principal of Weber Stake Academy. In this latter position, he was not only an excellent teacher, but was father-confessor and spiritual adviser to hundreds of young people who still refer to him as the greatest influence in their educational and spiritual development.
While directing the affairs of Weber Academy, he was called to the superintendency of the Weber Stake Sunday School Board.
