General Board of Relief Society Reorganized AT the opening session of the general conference of the Church held April 6, 1945, General President Amy Brown Lyman, First Counselor Marcia K. Howells, Second Counselor Belle S. Spafford, and the entire Relief Society General Board, including General Secretary-Treasurer Vera W. Pohlman, were released, with expressions of deep gratitude for the services rendered. Belle S.
Spafford was sustained ninth general president of Relief Society with Marianne Clark Sharp as first counselor and Gertrude Ryberg Garff as second counselor. In announcing the reorganization of the General Board, the First Presidency stated that the decision to reorganize followed the favorable action upon the request tendered several months ago of President Lyman for a release from her position and labors. The action was also in line with the general plan inaugurated several years ago to change at some frequency the presidents and general boards of the Church auxiliaries. Amy Brown Lyman was first called to the General Board of Relief Society in 1909. She has served the organization successively as assistant general secretary, general secretary, general secretary-treasurer, as counselor to Louise Y.
Robison in the general presidency, and, since January 1940, as general president. She has filled each position with outstanding success.
GENERAL BOARD MEMBERS RETIRED
Top row, left to right: Donna D. Sorensen, 1935-1945; Vivian R. McConkie, 1937-1945; Leda T. Jensen, 1937-1945; Rae B. Barker, 1937-1945; Nellie O. Parker, 1937- 1945- Bottom row, left to right: Anna S. Barlow, 1938-1945; Leona F. Wintch, 1940- 1945; Pauline T. Pingree, 1940-1945; Alice B. Castleton, 1940-1945; Agnes M. Bolto, 1943-1945. Page 
  JULY 1945
Marcia K. Howells was first made a member of the Relief Society General Board in 1929, and was appointed counselor to President Lyman in January 1940. In addition to her regular duties as counselor, her special responsibility in the general presidency has been that of work director. She has also been manager of the temple and burial clothes department, and general director of the Mormon Handicraft Shop. Belle S. Spafford was made a member of the General Board in 1935. She was appointed editor of The Relief Society Magazine in 1937. In addition to this duty she was, in November 1942, called by President Lyman to succeed Donna D. Sorensen as second counselor in charge of educational work. Vera W. Pohlman has efficiently served as general secretary-treasurer throughout the administration of President Amy Brown Lyman. The following retired board members were appointed during the administration of President Louise Y. Robison: Donna D. Sorensen, Vivian R. McConkie, Leda T. Jensen, Rae B. Barker, Nellie O. Parker, and Anna S. Barlow. Other retired Board members appointed during the administration of President Amy Brown Lyman are: Leona F. Wintch, Pauline T. Pingree, Alice B. Castleton and Agnes M. Bolto.
GENERAL BOARD MEMBERS RECALLED
Luella Top row, left to right: Achsa E. Paxman, 1940 ; Mary Grant Judd, 194c Nebeker Adams, 1940 ; Anna Boss Hart, 1940 ; Edith Smith Elliott, 194c Bottom row, left to right: Priscilla L. Evans, 1941 ; Florence J. Madsen, 1941 ; Ann P. Nibley, 1941 ; Leone Gedge Layton, 1944 . GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY REORGANIZED New Board Announced The recall of nine members of the former Board, each first named members of the Board during the administration of President Lyman, and the appointment of Blanche B. Stoddard as general secretary-treasurer on Tuesday, May 22, together with the appointment of three new Board members in addition to Sister Stoddard was announced Saturday, May 26, 1945, by the Relief Society general presidency. Members recalled from the former Board are: Achsa E. Paxman, Mary Grant Judd, Luella N. Adams, Anna B. Hart, Edith Smith Elliott, Priscilla L. Evans, Florence J. Madsen, Ann P. Nibley, and Leone G. Lay ton. The three new members are Evon Waspe Peterson, Leone O. Jacobs and Velma N. Simonsen. EDITOR APPOINTED Marianne C. Sharp who has served as associate editor of The Relief Society Magazine since August 1943, and who for several months prior to that period was assistant to the editor, has been appointed editor of the Magazine succeeding Belle S. Spafford. Sister Sharp will hold this position in addition to serving as counselor in the general presidency. The editorial ability of Marianne C. Sharp is reflected in the excellence of the issues of the Magazine edited by her, and also in A Centenary of Relief Society which she assisted in preparing and which was published by the General Board in commemoration of the one hundredth anniversary of the Society. President Lyman in evaluating Sister Sharp's contribution to this publication said: "Mrs. Sharp's contribution to the general excellence of the publication was important and valuable. She has a natural interest in historical happenings, and this book bears evidence of the thoroughness of her research, her good judgment in evaluating historical events, and the accuracy with which she records historical facts."
MARIANNE CLARK SHARP
Appointed Editor President Lyman paid tribute to the general editorial ability of Mrs.
Sharp as follows: "Mrs.
Sharp has a fine intellect, discriminating judgment, and excellent literary taste. She is sensitive to the reading interests and needs of Latter-day Saint women, and meticulous in the preparing of Magazine material. She is willing to work long and hard to maintain high standards of excellence."
Under the direct supervision of Sister Sharp, The Relief Society Magazine will go on to new heights of excellence.
Called at this time to assist Sister Sharp in editing the Magazine is Vesta Pierce Crawford who is one year in the Utah State poetry named editorial secretary.
Sister contest, and first one year in the Crawford, whose husband, Arthur L. Salt Lake Tribune short-story con-Crawford, is a member of the faculty test. Her contributions to Church of the Utah Engineering Experi- magazines are well known. The ment Station, University of Utah, readers of The Relief Society Mag-is a graduate of Brigham Young Uni- azine will welcome the addition of versity, where she was associate edi- Vesta Pierce Crawford to the edi-tor of both the newspaper and the torial staff. Her outstanding literary literary magazine. She studied litera- gifts in both the fields of poetry ture at Stanford University and re- and prose are well recognized by ceived her Master's Degree from the readers of the Magazine where her University of Wyoming. She has poems and stories, many of them been a teacher of English in Provo prize-winners, have appeared. and Murray schools, the Salt Lake Note: Sketches and pictures of the retir-City Civic Center, and the Uni- ing executive officers and new general versity of Utah. For several years presidency of Relief Society appear in the she has been a regular contributor of May 1945 issue of The Relief Society stories, poems, and articles to na- Magazine.