[Vol32 | July 1945 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Evon Waspe Layton]

Evon Waspe Peterson Leone G. Lavton Member of Relief Society General Board THE appointment of Evon Waspe Peterson to the General Board of Relief Society by the First Presidency will be welcomed by all who have associated with her. She brings to the service of the women of the Church a wealth of religious and business training. Always giving freely of herself, she has been a strength to the Church auxiliaries. In the Poplar Grove Ward, Pioneer Stake, she served in many activities as a Sunday School teacher, as secretary and counselor in the Y. W. M. I. A., as president of the Primary, and on the Sunday School and Y. W. M. LA. Stake boards. For two years she acted as counselor to Sister Lottie Fullmer, President of Pioneer Stake Relief Society. After leaving Pioneer Stake, she served as secretary in the Valley View Ward Relief Society. Her Peterson acted as secretary to Amy fine business experience is revealed Brown Lyman in the general offices in the excellence of her records. Of the Relief Society. After her During her business career Sister graduation from the Latter-day Saints College, she worked in the Charity Organization offices and for the Red Cross.
EVON WASPE PETERSON RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JULY 1945
For ten years she was secretary to the Superintendent of Granite School District. Her marriage to her childhood sweetheart, John Vernon Peterson, interrupted her business activities, but she acted as secretary for the Community Chest drive for several years and assisted the manager of the Red Cross drives. Sister Peterson, comes from a home where service in the Master's cause was always first. The three gids, Mabel, Evon, and Ilene Anne had the example of worthy parents to follow. Their mother, Emma I. Smith Waspe, was born in Barham Green, England, and their father, William Waspe, in Ipswich. In response to the call of the missionaries to 'gather to Zion," they had completed preparations to leave England when Francis M. Lyman asked them to postpone their going and preside over the mission home at Norwich. Many missionaries have borne testimony of the service they rendered. Here Evon was born and when she was one and one-half years old the little family came to Zion. Brother Peterson, Ronald, and Carolee support Sister Peterson in all her activities. Their desire, with hers, is that she may "serve the women of the Church."