SUPERFICIAL ADMISSIONS OF
				GUILT.
				[line break]
	It is repeatedly asserted that the principles
of Mormonism, carried out, are productive of
evil; that their influence and effect are both
corrupting, and that proof of this assertion is
to be seen in vices which many Latter-day
Saints themselves deplore.  There might be
truth in part of these allegations if reasoning
went only to a given point.
	It is true that Latter-day Saints deplore
many vices existing in their midst; the fact
that they deplore these vices, however, is proof
that they do not approve of them, that they do
not approve these vices is evidence that the
evils are not a natural outgrowth of the Mor-
mon faith, as were the reverse true the Mor-
mons could not tolerate a faith productive of
vice, and still deplore the existence of the vice
itself.
	Is is laughable to note the idiotic conclusions
which a little thought will produce; when the
reflection ceases before a legitimate stopping
point has been reached.  To the bare and un-
supported declaration  that the principles of
Mormonism carried out, are productive of
evil, that their influence and effect are both
corrupting, to such declarations,unsupported–
and they must be unsupported, being untrue–
it is only necessary to interpose a bare and un-
supported denial.  The declaration and the de-
nial, being of equal weight, the force of the
former, according to the rules of logic, is lost;
and save where prejudice becomes a factor, such
declarations, in the fact of such a denial, can
have no effect whatever.
	But to the short sighted, or those who reason
in a limited way only,the effect of conditions,
by which a principle or an object is surrounded,
often passes for the natural outgrowth of the
principle or object itself, and this failing is one
to which humanity is painfully prone.  As a
rule, the idea prevails that whatever is a crime
is of necessity a sin.  Nothing could be more
absurd.  It is true a sin is always a crime,even
though unpunishable by human law; but the
reverse by no means follows as an irresistible
conclusion.  While the assumption may be re-
diculous, yet it will illustrate the position taken:
i.e., we will say, a body of men as a law mak-
ing power, pass a law, and it enforces making
it an offense to talk, to eat or to walk, or some
other matter, as the case may be.  To this of-
fence a penalty is attached.  To violate this
law, when it has become in reality a law, is a
crime; but will anybody be silly enough to as-
sume that these things above enumerated
would therefore be a sin.  Yet this is exactly
the position of those who attribute all manner
of vices to Mormonism, and who claim that
violation of United States, or other laws, be-
cause a crime against the law is a sin.
	It may be a crime, because of the laws which
have been passed in Congress during the last
few years, to practice plural marriage, but the
being is yet to come to the front, who can suc-
cessfully prove it to be a sin.
	As for the evils which are said to be the
outgrowth of Mormonism, this can be said-
There is not a principle of the Latter-daySaints'
faith, faithfully and honestly carried out, that
can, of itself, produce evil results.  But hu-
manity is weak, is wilful and headstrong; man-
kind in its combativeness and from the evil
spirit it encourages, ever seeks something to
crush; yet anxious that there may be at least
the appearance of justice for its bloodthirsty
work, surrounds the object of its hatred and
malice by conditions that bring out the ap
pearance of evil.  Thus a man whose heart
tells him he is right, is often, by adverse cir-
cumstances, placed in an equivical position in
order to escape a penalty which is unmerited
and which is the outgrowth of circumstances
uncontrolled and uncontrollable by the intend-
ed victim.  He escapes; the means by which
he escapes becoming known, he is accused of
innate wickedness, and so adjudged when the
individual's conduct, his whole walk through
life may point to the fact that he could not be
guilty of the crime chargd.
	It is said that plural marriages are hidden,
and this declaration being undenied, the fact
of the hiding is taken as evidence, as a full ad-
mission that those practicing polygamy are
ashamed of it.  If plural marriages are kept
secret it is because, in fulfilling what men be-
lieve to be a command of God, they subject
themselves to punishment by men.  The hid-
ing, or the secresy in this case is not, and no
sane man would claim it to be an admission of
crime; it is simply a means to disappoint an end
that would necessarily result from the condi-
tions surrounding the practice, and which con-
ditions have been made by the enemies of the
people who believe in the practice of polygamy.
It is this superficial admission of evil that de-
ceives many, and why judge of the tree by
fruits which are not the fruits of the tree
judged?						W.


