			UTAH COUNTY

	Minutes of the Conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Utah County Stake, held in the meet-
ing house, Provo City, August 29th, 1884,
Counselor Mary John presiding.  Conference
opened by singing and prayer, reading of
minutes of former conference, and reports from
the different wards of the county, etc.
	Sister John felt pleased to meet with the sis-
ters in conference again; thought our reports
were good-- wished to hear verbal reports from
the presidents and hoped the sisters would
speak their minds freely.  We can all say
something of this great work in which we are
engaged, etc.
	In responding to the call the presidents rep-
resented the sisters as on the increase in
faith and good works, ever ready to aid in any
and every good work presented to them.  As
the morning was far spent after singing and
prayer conference adjourned until 2 p.m.
	Afternoon session opened with the usual ex-
ercises.  A few of the presidents who had not
given in their reports in the morning, now oc-
cupied a short time in doing so, and as there
were quite a number of the brethren present,
they were invited to speak to us.
	Brother F. M. Lyman said: I trust that in
speaking I shall have the Spirit of God.  Ex-
horted the sisters to be speakers.  Said they
were sometimes accused of talking too much,
which was often true of men as well as women.
The Lord gave women the faculty of talking
that they might educate their children in the
more finer virtues.  Mothers should be educa-
ted as thoroughly as fathers in the Gospel of
Christ.  Mothers are more responsible than
fathers for the state of society--they have
more the care of the youth and their influence
reaches farther.  Most children would leave
father for mother, hence the greater the re-
sponsibility of the mother, and the mothers in
Zion have the greatest.  The spirits of superi-
or beings are coming, and will still come, and
we wish to prepare ourselves that they may
come to holy parents, that a righteous seed
may be raised up with a fear to do wrong.  The
woman has the chief mission in this regard.  I
recommend you to be energetic, be speakers.
Every time we bear our testimony to the truth
of this work and the Prophet Joseph, we gain
strength and a blessing.  If you desire to see
your songs honored and respected and saved in
[second column]
the celestial kingdom, be industrious workers
in the society and in the Kingdom of God,
and with your tongues do good and not evil.
Never speak, nor allow your children to speak
against celestial marriage. No man or woman
is entitled to a wife or husband that does not
embrace that principle.  You mothers ought
to educate your children in that principle; you
cannot have your husbands or children with-
out that law, for without that law there is no
eternal increase.
	President Smoot said he could bear his testi-
mony to the truth of the remarks of Apostle
Lyman.  Eternal lives is the greatest gift of
God; we can never attain to an eternal increase
without the celestial law; seek to know your
proper status--we should hate to wake up in
the resurrection and find ourselves without an
eternal increase.  I am sorry so many speak so
lightly of that law.  You will be held respon-
sible for your teachings to your children on that
principle.
	Brothers H. H. Cluff and D. John endorsed
the remarks of the previous speakers, and ex-
horted the sisters to continue faithful in all
good works, etc.
	Sister John said, I feel to bear my testimony
to the truth of what has been said.  I know
them to be true, etc.  We will sing and ad-
journ our meeting for three months.
	Singing, "The Spirit of God like a fire is
burning." Benediction by Apostle F. M.
Lyman.
		CAROLINE DANIELS, Secretary.

