LADIES, GO AND VOTE.
	The preliminary political work has been done
and the several County Conventions have been
held and delegates sent to the Territorial Con-
vention in this city, held on the 8th of October
at 12 m., and Hon. John T. Caine has received
the nomination for delegate to the next Con-
gress, to be voted for at the November election.
	Now it remains to be seen how much interest
the people will manifest in the vote to be cast.
It is certainly an important matter, for although
the People’s Party may feel sure of their numer-
ical strength, yet indifference in regard to affairs
that concern the whole people of the Territory
and their representation in the Congress of the
United States, is a great mistake, to use the
mildest term possible.  A heavy vote, an over-
whelming majority of the People’s Party is
what would be proper and right, and it is also
what the Utah delegate, the Hon. John T.
Caine, who has so faithfully and ably represent-
ed the Territory since his election, is justly en-
titled to receive.
	There is very little political machinery at
work in Utah, and it has not been the custom


here to electioneer and use a great deal of bom-
bast as is customary in the States, but the peo-
ple, one and all, ought to consider it an impera-
tive duty by diligence and faithfulness to hold
sacred every privilege given them to maintain
their civil and political rights.  Especially so in
consideration of the laws which have been
passed debarring from the polls and divesting of
all these rights many of those who had ever
been foremost and faithful in the perfromance
of this duty.  Men and women who had been
instrumental in establishing law and order in
this Territory; if anything would arouse the peo-
ple to greater diligence in this direction, one
would think this fact would.
	Ladies, you who still retain the rights of citi-
zenship, the right to vote, do not neglect the
sacred and imperative duty of going to the
polls and casting your vote at the November
election, that it may not be your fault if there is
uot a tremendously heavy majority, and that the
Delegate may realize that he has the full confi-
dence and support of the ladies of the People's
Party.


