MISCELLANEOUS.
	Who bravely dares must sometimes risk a
fall. –Smollett.
	Our grand business in life is not to see what
lies dimly at a distance, but to do what lies
celarly at hand. –Carlyle.
	"What has vecome of your society for the
suppression of slang?" asked the high-school
girl of her friend Amy. "Oh, its gone up the
spout,” replied the latter. "You mean, 'ascend-
ed the conduit, do you not?" corrected Mil-
dred. –Oil City Derrick
	The cause of women is making swift progress
in Norway. Mr. H. E. Berner, a distinguished
member of the Norwegian Parliament, has been
successful, this past session, in opening up the
entire University privileges of the Christiana
University to women.  Mr. Berner has also
obtained the enactment of a law by which;
after passing due examination, women may
practice as apothecaries and pharmaceuti-
cal chemists.  Mr. Berner has been instrumen-
tal in forming a society in Christiana for the
advancement of women.  In early Scandina-
vian history of women were much freer and more
highly considered than in any of the Latin
races.–Ex.
	I fancy that Mr. Blaine recognizes the value
of the aid women are bringing into this can–
vass. Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Mary A. Liv-
ermore, Lucy Stone, and a vast array of gifted
women everywhere, are bringing to this cam-
paign an earnestness and an enthusiasm that is
a new element in American politics.  While I
would not venture, from an interview that was
merely a personal and private one, to relate
Mr, Blaine's provate conversation, yet I can
hardly refrain from noticing the high and gen-
erous appreciation and the noble recognition
that he gives to all these eminent women, whose
words have weight and whose characters stand
for all that is highest and of best repute in
womanhood.–Lilian Whiting.
	"The San Carlos Academy of fine Arts, in
the Aztec capital, celebrated its centennial an-
niverary years previous to our national cen-
tennial, an while in our young nation such a
thing as art could scarcely be said to have an


existence.  Mexican painting is a child of the
grand old Spanish school, provincial and not
national, essentially a reflected art, character-
ized by knowledge and refinement, but lack-
ing vitality.  It needs to come in contact with
art abroad, and receive a new transmission of
contemporary energy.  The San Carlos stu-
dents have continued to work on the line of the
old masters.  The pictures are admirable in
drawing, and have a fine feeling for form, but
defective in color and in the sentiment which
springs from color.  Old Spain spared to Mexi-
co some of her ablest painters, as well as many
masterpieces which were scattered among the
churches and convents of the land.  In the
war of 1857, when churches were pillaged,
hundreds of valuable works were destroyed.
The French invasion with Maximilian added
greatly to the spoilation of these treasures of
art, which were carried out of the country.”


