EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The ladies of the Relief Society of Weber
Stake of Zion held their Quarterly Conference
on Thursday, September 18, 1884, President
Jane S. Richards presiding.  After the usual
exercises of singing and prayer, reading of
minutes and reports, etc., President Jane S.
Richards made a few opening remarks.  Felt
pleased in beholding so many of her brothers
and sister again in conference; felt we would
have a good time together and God would
greatly bless us at this time, and expressed her
disappointment at not having the company of
Sisters Snow and Wells, but was pleased that
we had Sister Sarah Kimball with us.
	Secretary Sarah M. Kimball spoke upon
many very interesting subjects pertaining to
the Gospel, the great blessings which we as a
people receive daily from our Heavenly Fath-
er; thought we should rejoice that we were not
as the rest of the world; prayed we would be
humble instruments in the hands of God of do-
ing much good, etc.
	Sister Ruthinda Monch felt that we needed
the Spirit of God to be able to address a con-
gregation of Latter-day Saints.  Sister Monch
spoke upon the subjects of knowledge. wisdom
and revelation.  She quoted considerable from
the Bible and Book of Doctrine and Cove-
nants, which made her remarks very interest-
ing and instructive.
	President L. W. Shurtliff had been highly
pleased with the excellent instructions given,
and at hearing the reports, some 18 in all.  He
perceived an increase of interest in the Relief
Society, which was a valuable auxiliary in as-
sisting the Bishops in looking after the wants
of the poor and sick in their wards; knew they
would be blessed in performing the labors al-
lotted to them.
	After singing, benediction was pronounced
by Apostle F. D. Richards, and conference ad-
journed until 2 p.m.
	The afternoon session commenced at 2:25
with singing and prayer, after which Counsel-
or Emily Shurtliff, President Sarah J. Herrick
Secretary Sarah M. Kimball and Bishop Win-
slow Farr occupied the afternoon, each dwell-
ing on various subjects connected with the Gos-
pel, both spiritually and temporally.  They
prayed God to bless His people with under-
standing and prayerful hearts, that they might
accomplish His will.
	Prest. Jane S. Richards made a few closing
remarks; hoped all would strive to keep the
commandments of God and remember the gold-
en rule, being charitable in our dealings one
with another, not only in word, but in deed.
	Conference, adjourned for three months,
closed with singing and benediction.
				Monta Harris, Secretary.
		____________________


