SALT LAKE CITY, OCTOBER 15, 1884.


[Column 1]
		OCTOBER CONFERENCE
	The semi-Annual Conference held this month
has been one of special interest, an abundant
outpouring of the Spirit of the Lord being man-
ifest. The attendance was large, people having
come all the way from Colorado, Arizona and
New Mexico in the south, and also from the ex-
treme northern stakes of Zion as well. There
seems to be an increasing and more general de-
sire on the part of the Latter-day Saints to live
their religion and keep the commandments of
God than there has been in the past few years.
	The preaching during the several days of Con-
ference has been almost entirely by the First
Presidency and Apostles, who spoke with great
power and eloquence, in language calculated to
awaken the people to a sense of the duties, obli-
gations and responsibilities resting upon them as
Latter-day Saints and as co-workers in the estab-
lishing the kingdom of God upon the earth.
	On Saturday morning Apostle [-]. D. Richards,
delivered a very able and powerful discourse
dwelling mostly upon the training and care of
the children of the Saints, giving much good ad-
vice to parents on this subject, and pointing out
the duties of parents in so specific a manner that
all who heard must understand; he referred to
the influence of home and fireside teaching, al-
so the Primary Associations and Sunday Schools
and urged the parents and guardians of children
to see that they attended these institutions,
where they would be taught those things that
would lay the foundation which would promote
the best interests of all here and hereafter.
	Prest. George Q. Cannon followed Apostle
Richards and preached one of the most sublime-
ly eloquent and powerful sermons it has ever
been our privilege to hear delivered by a Proph-
et or Apostle.
	In the afternoon the authorities of the Church
were presented to be voted upon, and as there
were one or two vacancies in the Quorums, those
were filled in the usual manner and the vote of
the Conference called for to sustain the ap-
pointements made, which were: Elder John Mor-
gan as one of the seven Presidents of Seventies
to supply the vacancy caused by the death of
Elder W. W. Tayler, and as the Presiding Bish-
op, Wm. B. Preston, had lost his First Counsel-
or, Bishop L. W. Hardy, (deceased) left a vacan-
cy which was filled by appointing Bishop R. T.
Burton First instead of Second Counselor, and
thus requiring the nomination of another to
that office, and Elder John Q. Cannon was ap-
pointed to fill that position. Apostles Brigham
Young, Moses Thatcher and Albert Carrington
occupied the remainder of the afternoon speak-
ing upon the principles of the Gospel and im-
portant subjects of general interest to the peo-
ple, home manufacture, employment for the
unemployed, building up the country and home
institutions, etc.

			[Column 2]
	On the morning of the third day, Monday,
Prest. Geo. Q. Cannon presented the reports of
the several stakes of Zion and of the Primary
and Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Asso-
ciations and also a general report of the Relief
Society, after which Apostles F. M. Lyman and
George Teasdale addressed the conference.
	In the afternoon of the third day, some other
financial reports were submitted. A list of mis-
sionaries names were called and a vote was tak-
en to sustain the brethren who had been select-
ed to go to various parts of the world to preach
the Gospel.
	President John Taylor then addressed the
congregation. He explained the lofty purpose
and design of our Father in the creation and
final redemption of the earth and its inhabitants.
The order and organization of the Church and
the divine power and authority of the Priest-
hood. His sermon was powerful, impressive
and comprehensive, embracing many topics of
vital interest to the Latter-day Saints and also
to all mankind.
	Tuesday, Oct. 7. A large number of mission-
aries' names were presented to the Conference,
and the brethren sustained by unanimous vote.
President John Taylor addressed the assembly,
alluding to the misrepresentations circulated in
regard to this people, and spoke of the corrupt
condition of the world at large. Prest. Geo. Q.
Cannon read some statistics which had been
published in Eastern papers, relating to the im-
moral condition of society in the New England
States. Prest. Taylor dwelt for a few moments
upon the immorality existing there as set forth
in these statistics, and spoke of the class of
would-be-reformers that are anxious to regener-
ate the people of Utah; he denouched most em-
phatically the sins that were enumerated in
the statistics that had been read, and warned the
presiding officers among the people to attend to
their duties. President Taylor spoke for some
time, also, upon the temporal affairs of the peo-
ple and gave much timely advice, encouraged
in his remarks the efforts made to promote
home manufacture, and spoke of the facilities in
the undeveloped portions of the country for
those who were out of employment, the need
there would be  all kinds of labor; referred to
the carelessness of the people in paying up their
indebtedness to the Perpetual Emigration Fund
admonished the people to fulfil all duties as
Saints.
	Apostles H. J. Grant and J. W. Taylor each
made a few appropriate remarks upon spiritual
matters.
	The Conference adjourned until April, 1885,
in the large Tabernacle; singing by the choir and
closing benediction by Patriarch John Smith.


