HELEN AND VIRGINIA.
		[Continued.]
	The wedding morn! No costly robes,
No throng of worldly votaries
Grouped for display, to scan, to talk;
	But, clothed as one dreams angels are,
In pure white robes 'mid mysteries
	Of holier life in spheres afar.

And there she learned from lips revered
Still greater truths of life and death;
And lesser joys of earth, like moths
	That wing their way to fatal light,
She saw were fleeting, were but breath,
	Consumed and lost to angels' sight.

Her bridal day! More sacred seemed
The privilege of earthly life,
A lesson, not a holiday.
	And this was home, in truth, at last
Her hime, and she an honored wife;
	Henceforth her duties here were cast.
*	*	*	*	*	*	*
A fleeting year has passed and brought
A change to fair Virginia's face.
More gravely sweet, she seemed to watch
	Some looked for signal, seemed to stand
Where soon shall dawn that mystic space
	We call the better, holler land.

On fairest days, in Helen's care,
Virginia rode by stream and field,
Gathering all of health and strength
	That tend'rest, watchful love could glean,
That breezes fresh and sweet could yield,
	Down the long aisles through forests green.

Then these no more. All the wide world
Outside forgot, for in her room,
While loving watchers prayed,
	Long hours that grew to days went on;
And she, unnoting love or gloom,
	Lingered like light 'twixt night and dawn.

Alone, where mothers only go,
Nor even deepest love can reach,
The myst'ry that man ne'er knew;
	Where, for a time, 'twixt life and death
The veil's so thin that even speech
	Would rend it by its sudden breath.

Yet liveth on like wav'ring flame,
"Till, drawn by warring life and death,
Where in the whirlwind standeth God;
	His presence and compassion give
The thrill of strength to failing health,
	And turning back, the dying live.

So slowly drifts the frail boat back,
The pilgrim scarcely feels the shock
When grates the keel upon the shore;
	So friends who wait upon the strand
In silence watch it float and rock,
	Nor venture yet to lend the hand.

At last, as one from sleep she woke,
And recognition faintly crept.
Into the look, but wearily;
	And then as one who turns to go
She closed her eyes again and slept,
	That deep down sleep that mothers know.

Awhile, and then she woke again,
Her eyes a clear inquiry wore;
Though his glad look met one faint smile,
	One face she sought and missed, he knew:
"Helen," his voice glad tidings bore-
	"Helen, dear wife, she looks for you."

Then Helen came. O that blest smile,
"Twas heart to heart that understood,
"Twas greeting, joy and welcome back,
	But words were few, for silence bore
The sympathy of womanhood
	That needed for the time no more.

And then with rest came gently back
Remembrance of past vague alarms
Spoken in looks and not in words,
	And Helen understood, and smiled,
And brought in her own loving arms
	Virginia's precious infant child.

Its light weight resting on her arm,
The pathos of its wee, white face,
And the small, helpless, nesting form
Filled her with wonder as she gazed:

[Column 2]
Then living love leaped in its place,
	And the o'erflowing eyes she raised

Bore the glad light of motherhood,
Sense of possession, joy so deep,
Treasure so priceless, words wers stilled.
	And when the pale, sweet face she turned
Half bending o'er her babe asleep,
	Her heart its sweeteet love had learned.

Swift in the rays of this new bliss
Life gathered up its strength anew
To meet again familiar scenes.
	And when the day's warm glow was gone,
Virginia's couch they gently drew
	To face the sunset lighted lawn.

The groups of trees, each flower bed
And winding path were dear to her
As faces of long absent friends,
	And there dear Helen's children sought
The flowers that choicest, sweetest, were,
	And to her side the off'ring brought.

What tender messengers are these
That bear in silence such full store
Of the heart's purest, sweetest love;
	And never lovelier these appear
Than when within the sick room's door
	They bring pure nature's  life and cheer.

Beside that hearth where Helen aye
Had rocked her own babes on her breast,
Virginia's chair, too, now they placed.
	A moment, just it thrilled him through,
He looked on Helen, peace so blest
	Illumed her face, it calmed him too.

The vitory was sure, was strong!
O love, O truth, how great thou art,
When thou hast mortal self o'ercome!
	When rocking on the unfathomed deep,
Or 'gainst the winds that sudden start,
	Thy bark its steady course doth keep.


____________________________________		
TRAVELS BEYOND THE MISSISSIPPI.
			________
BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
			________
			(Continued.)
	On the 25th there came six Indian chiefs to
President Young's camp to see him on busi-
ness, but he and father were still on the other
side of the river raising means of the brethren
to send to St. Louis by Bishop Whitney, who
was to start in about one week.
	"Thursday, the 29th," Horace wrote, "misty
and cloudy. The haying business going on as
usual. Bro. Kimball, Wm. Porter and Brig-
ham got back to-day--council held this even-
ing. Besides the six chiefs there are about
150 Indians in the vicinity, wanting to make
some arrangements with the brethren about the
possession of the land we are now occupying,
on which they are to hold council to-morrow
morning.
	Friday morning, pursuant to agreement, a
council was called. Horace says, "An aged
chief, almost blind, arose and requested that all
those who had anything to say about the land
business would speak. Accordingly a number
of brethren spoke. The amount of whose
words were these: That we had been driven
like themselves, the Lamanites, and now de-
sired a resting place with them for a little
season, and would render them any favor in our
power except assisting them to war against
other tribes, which would involve the shedding
of blood. After the brethren had all got
through speaking the old chief arose and said:
'Have you done?' refusing to make any reply,
or until that was the case. On receiving a
token of assent, he arose and said: 'I love your
words and will do you all the good I can, for
we have been pushed and driven, too, by the
nations around us, and should have come out
in open war against them long ago had not our
grandfather, the president, said, 'live in peace!' '
He furthermore said that the land that we are
now on is in dispute between this tribe (the
Omahaw) and the Otoes, who, he said, were a
thievish race, but if we would move up the
river about ten miles to the old fort of Council
Bluffs, where the tribes formerly met in coun-
cil and transacted business with the agents of
the U.S., then we might have peace and liber-
ty with them; we might make fields for them,
and they in return would let us have young
men to assist us in herding our cattle. He
furthermore said we were welcome to build
houses and winter there, and remain as long as
we chose with them, for they had undisputed
title to the land in the vicinity of it, and there
were greater conveniences there than here--
plenty of water, wood, etc., close at hand, The
conclusion of the council was that some of the
brethren would go up and see the country be-
fore deciding to move."
	"Saturday, 26th. Fine day.	*	*
Bro. Brigham, Kimball and wife, father and
mother, took supper at my tent this evening,
and conversed on several things connected
with father's going to St. Louis. Brigham told
us that he had received new of the death of
Father Huntington. He died at Mt. Pisgah.
*	*	We hear that Captain Allen, who
was appointed to the command of the regiment
of Mormon soldiers, has lately died at Fort
Leavenworth."
	We had previously heard, through Brother
Sherwood, of the death of father Bent, who
died at Garden Grove. The hardships and
privations of our people were beginning to tell
upon the old and the young, and various sized
mounds had already marked their lonely trail.
The days were still very warm and many of
the Saints were being brought into camp in a
very sick and distressed condition. The nights,
though, were beginning to be cold, and we had
begun tohave frequent rains, which increased
the sickness among us.
	"Sunday, 30th. Wm. Kimball, with two
other boys, went back to Musquieto Creek to
help Bishop Hunter up, whe was quite sick.
	A meeting was held in the morning at the
stand in the wood, and in the afternoon an-
other meeting was called at five p.m., under
the bower near our tent. Horace says: "Father
John Smith spoke at some length. He was
followed by Elder O. Pratt, who, in a clear
and concise manner, pointed out to the brethren
the advantage of our closing with the offer of
the Omahaw Indians, and moving up the river
to the Old Fort. Father Cutler spoke a few
words-- the amount of it was that the brethren
were not to discontinue the haying business be-
cause they thought they were going to move
away, but to "rush ahead" and do all they
could.
	President Young then spoke at some length
on the order of the government of the king-
dom of God. He said no man was fit to act 
as a governor or ruler until he had first proved
himself worthy of his office, by showing him-
self ready and willing to be governed. He al-
so said that it was necessary we should move
as speedily as possible to our winter quarters,
in order that we may be engaged in the build-
ing of houses, which it is necessary should be
immediately commenced.	*	*	Bro.
John Pack's youngest child, an infant, died to-
day.
	"Monday, 31st. Beautiful morning.  *  *
Brigham, Heber, father, Fathers Cutler and
Cahoon, with several others, some on horse-
back, others in wagons, started to go up the
river to look out our winter location. This
evening Wm. arrived with the carriage, bring-
ing Bishop Hunter with him. His family have
stopped for the night eight or nine miles back;
they wil be up to-morrow. Porter is at the
river assisting Bro. Woodsworth's folks across,
who are all quite sick."


What comes once in a minute, twice in a mo-
ment, and once in a man's life?	The letter m.


