		MARIE DE MEDICIS.
	It was Sunday—a sweet quiet day in early
spring, when I visited the Cathedral at Cologne.
Without a gentle rain was falling, while with-
in was heard the clear, beautiful tones of the
grand organ, and the hushed sounds of the
footsteps of those who came to worship. I
stood by one of the large Corinthian pillars,
watching the people gather for service. Each
one who entered crossed  himself with the holy
water and bowed most reverentially to the
crucifix; some knelt on the cold stone floor
and whispered a prayer and others even bowed
their heads to the stones and kissed them.  I
felt a sort of pity for those poor souls strug-
gling in such dark idolatrous faith, and I could
not but doubt their sincerity.
	My attention was soon turned from the wor-
shipers to the decorations of this wonderful
edifice.  Beautiful colors were thrown upon
the cold, gray pillars and stones from the win-
dows of stained glass, where on each could be
seen, most beautifully portrayed, a Bible story.
	The windows of the south aisle especially at-
tracted me—painted by Fischer and Hellweger.
They were presented to the Cathedral by Lewis
the First of Bavaria, and are exceptionally
fine.
	While wandering through the different chap-
els, admiring the fine workmanship, and paus-
ing now and then to read an inscription which
might be cut in the stone in memory of some
venerable archbishop or monarch, whose re-
mains were buried there, the priest who guided
us startled me with the remark, "Beneath this
stone on which you are now standing lies the
heart of Marie de Medicis." I quickly moved
and looked upon the plain, worn stone.  No
name, no date, no inscription of any kind to
tell that here lies the heart of a queen—a
queen, who though unpopular with her people
and unhappy in her domestic life, must ever be
gratefully remembered by those who take in-
terest and delight in art, for the patronage and
influence she exercised for its promotion, and
for the many valuable works she gave to the
world.
	After leaving the church my mind still re-
verted to her, and I felt a longing desire to
learn more of her life than the history of my
school days had taught me—simply that she was
the wife of Henry the Fourth of France, and
at his death became regent—possessed of an
obstinate disposition, quarelled with her hus-
band, son and ministers; was finally compelled
by her minister, Richelieu, to leave France;
exiled from country, wanting life's necessaries
—in 1642 died at Cologne.  And this is all our
history tells us, but in wandering through the
galleries of the Louvre at Paris, and the Pinak
otck at Munich, may be seen the large, cele-
brated works of Rubens, illustrative of her
life, which were painted by her order and un-
der her supervision, to adorn the walls of the 
Luxembourg Palace, where, also, stands a
monument to her in the shape of this magnifi-
cent Palace itself and its most beautiful gardens
laid out in the old Renaissance style, and
adorned with fountains and statues, executed
by the finest sculptors of the age.  Hundreds
of people walk through these gardens daily,
enjoying the delightful shade of its grand old
trees, and the refreshing sounds and cooling ef-
fects of its beautiful fountains.  Who can help
but remember most gratefully, as he wanders
along the marble terraces, and beholds with
delight the wonderful arrangement of the gar-
dens, the one who caused them to be built?
	The Palace itself is a fine specimen of archi-
tecture, and is known as one of the best works
of the famous French architect Jacques De-
brosse.  Some of the finest avenues in Paris
were planned by Marie de Medicis, the principal

[Column 3]

one being Les Cours de la Raine.  Not to genius
alone should all homage be due, for many a
bright, intelligent soul has perished and passed
from earth without recognition, and many
more would have done so had it not been for
the influence of those in power; so to the pro-
moters of art as well as the artists themselves
are we indebted, and surely prominent among
these must ever stand the name of Marie de
Medicis.
	As one strolls through the narrow, crooked
streets of Cologne, occasionally may be seen,
cut above the doorway, the name of some re-
nowned person who had lived, or perhaps was
born or died there, and among these, above a
door of one of the finest buildings, is engraved
the name of Rubens, and directly opposite an
inscription saying, "Marie de Medicis died here
in exile." In life she was despised by her peo-
ple and banished from home.  No one then
thought her great or cared what she did; but
now she lives in glory in the minds of many,
and as the inscription above the door is read
we cannot but feel sorrow for the fate of the
proud, unhappy queen, forgetting her failings
while we thankfully recall to mind the good she
has done the world. 
	Thus many live unrecognized, uncared for,
but leave works behind to be adored.  Though
rejected in life, the grave often recieves honor
and reverence, teaching too often that one
must die to live. 				A. W. C.


