			BEAR LAKE STAKE.

	Minutes of the Twelfth Semi-Annual Con-
ference of the Relief Society of the Bear Lake
Stake, Sunday 10 a.m.  Meeting called to or-
der by Prest Julia P. Lindsay.  Singing, "Hail
to the brightness of Zion's glad morning."
Prayer by Bishop John A. Hunt. Singing,
"The Lord is King." Minutes of last confer-
ence read and accepted.
	Prest. Lindsay had enjoyed the meetings on
the two previous days and asked an interest in
the faith and prayers of the Saints to assist
them in their labors through the day.
	The following branches were then re-
presented:--St. Charles, Fish Haven, Garden
City, Randolph, Bloomington, Paris 1st and
2nd Wards, Ovid, Liberty, Montpelier, George-
town and Cottonwood.  Those of Laketown,
Meadowville, Woodruff and Saleratus Creek,
Bennington, Soda Springs and Preston were not
represented.
	Prest Lindsay said it had been customary to
read the written reports as well as the verbal
reports, but this morning thought it would be
well to omit those who had been reported, and
read only the ones from settlements that had
not been reported.  The reports were then read
by the  Secretary, showing that a good work
was being done by the Relief Society.  The
sisters reported an excellent feeling prevailing
in all the wards, and the sisters trying to live
better lives and to keep the commandments of
the Lord.		*		*		*		*
	You all understand that I have been labor-
ing with but one counselor most of the time
since appointed to the Stake Presidency on ac-
count of the sickness of Sister Rich.  She has
often asked to be released, but I have declined
until now when I do not feel able to do the
work, and Sister Collings is not very strong.
We have concluded that under the circum-
stances it would be better to have a younger
woman to assist us.  Sister Rich is a faithful
woman and would be glad to assist us if she
could; wished the faith and prayers of the
Saints to be exercised in her behalf.  Spoke of
the building of the Tabernacle and desired the
assistance of the sisters in this important mat-
ter that they might assist the brethren.
	Counselor E. Collings.  We have the teach-
[third column]
ings of the servants of the Lord to guide us
and it is our duty to follow them.  The time is
short and there is a work to do.  Was willing
to do all she could, but had not had the chance
that the young ladies now have, but if we will
do the will of God we will be all right.  His
promises are sure and we can rely upon them,
Let us be faithful and fulfil the covenants we
have made with our Father in Heaven.
	The circular was then read by the Asst. Sec-
retary calling on the Relief Society to assist in
building the Tabernacle. Singing--an anthem,
"Bless the Lord." Benediction by Prest. Wm.
Budge.
	2 p.m.  Singing.  Prayer by Prest. J. H.
Hart.  Singing—an anthem, "The earth is the
Lord's." The Sacrament was then administered.
The statistical and financial report was read by
the Stake Secretary, Sister E. Pugmire.
	Prest. Lindsay had a few items of business
to lay before the society which she explained.
Referring to the Hospital, said that the money
as well as the articles sent last spring were very
acceptable to that institution.  Was much
pleased and encouraged with the young ladies'
meetings; knew that they must have worked
hard to have accomplished as much as they
had, and exhorted them to continue in well
doing.
	Sister L. M. Hart was then nominated to
take the position of second Counselor, which
was unanimously sustained by vote of the peo-
ple.  She was set apart to that office by Prests,
Wm. Budge, Jas. H. Hart and George Os-
mond.
	Prest. Wm. Budge said, We are increasing
in numbers and we are increasing in faith.
There are great numbers of Saints that see the
necessity of attending their meetings now that
did not a few years ago.  This is a time of great
importance to us.  It is time we were making
improvement, and drawing nearer to God.  The
spirit of the times suggests this.  The time is
coming when there will be a general disturb-
ance; the wicked will fight with the wicked and
we cannot tell how soon it will come.  The day
is also drawing near when the Son of God will
come in His glory.  When these things appear
they will try the faith of those that can be
shaken.  All that can be shaken will be shaken
and those who are not established in the truth
with full purpose will fall.  How careful we
ought to be to get the spirit of the Gospel.
The wicked are enraged.  What is the matter?
The Lord said He would establish His king-
dom never more to be thrown down, and the
adversary knows that his time is short and
uses all his influence with the nations.  We
must be as charitable as possible.  Practice
what you preach.  Walk up close to those who
are trying to keep the laws of God.  Gave
many pointed instructions to the sisters in re-
gard to assisting their husbands in keeping the
commandments of God.
	Prest. Hart was very much pleased at having
the pleasure of being home again and able to
meet with the people of St. Charles.  Always
enjoyed the meetings of the sisters and was
much interested in the instructions given, they
would make us wise unto salvation. They give
us joy and satisfaction in this world, and glory
and exaltation hereafter.  It is the kingdom
that in its development will influence and
mould all other institutions to His will.  This
work is preparing us for the great advent of
the Savior's coming.  We should be thankful
for the position we occupy here in the valleys
of the mountains.  No power can destroy us,
as this Church will stand though the heavens
and earth may pass away.
	Prest. Osmond congratulated the sisters up-
on the success of their conference.  Saw an-
other great necessity of a house to meet in.
We have heard a great many good instruc-
tions and know them to be true.  We much
never expect to wear a crown unless we work


[first column]
for it.  We must work more earnestly and ef-
fectively and fulfil all the obligations resting
upon us.  The word of the Lord is given to us
in great plainness that we cannot misunder-
stand.  Prayed God to give us more courage
and faith that we may do His will here upon
the earth.
	In speaking of the day of judgement, we
think of it being a great way off, but it is much
nearer than we think.  All the time that is
given us is the time we live here upon the
earth.  The night is coming when we cannot
work so we must work while it is day.
	Bro. Edward Pugmire who had been select-
ed to labor as a scribe in the Temple was unani-
meusly sustained by the meeting.
	Prest Lindsay made a few closing remarks.
Stated that the next conference would be held
on the 2nd Saturday and Sunday in January,
1885.  Thanked the people of St. Charles for
their kindenss in fixing up the house so nicely,
also the choir for their music.
	Singing, "I will praise the name of the
Lord." Benediction by Prest George Osmond.
		MRS. E. PUGMIRE, Secretary,
		MISS JULIA BUDGE, Ass't Secretary.

