[Vol56 | January 1969 | Page 64 | General Feature | Spiritual Living— The Ministry of Angels Roy | W. Doxey]
[Spiritual Living— The Ministry of Angels Roy W. Doxey]
[Content needs re-extraction — duplicate of following article]

January 1969

he said unto me: Abraham, thou art one of them; thou wast chosen before thou wast born. (Abraham 3:22-23.)

The statement by President Clark, ". . . not where you serve but how," has important meaning for the Latter-day Saint woman, for she is familiar with the framework of Church organization and is, generally, aware of the numerous positions to be filled in order that the objectives of the Church may be accomplished. She may have had occasion to consider or may have held such positions in the ward as Relief Society president, class leader, special committee chairman, or may have been an administrative officer in the Primary or Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association.

One of the great strengths of the organization of the Church lies in the numerous opportunities for leadership service offered to its general membership. Leadership assignments are for unspecified, sometimes short, periods of time, then other individuals are called to fill the vacant positions.

Questions for Discussion

(a) What are the values to the Church of this leadership rotation? (b) to the individual?

GENERAL QUALIFICATIONS OF LEADERSHIP

Question for Discussion

What are some general qualifications for effective leadership?

In addition to the general qualifications for effective leadership, such as: understanding the assignment, personal integrity, enthusiasm, ability to inspire, often there are specific qualifications needed for a particular leadership assignment. Examples are seen in the differing requirements for the following callings: ward Scout master; stake patriarch; ward or stake Relief Society president; MIA dance director. (Other examples may be suggested.)

IMPORTANCE OF "FOLLOWERSHIP"

Question for Discussion

How important is "followership"?

Much has been said and written relative to successful leadership about the qualifications required of one who outlines the pattern for performance, of the qualities which the leader must demonstrate if she is to inspire and motivate others to follow. We speak of the personal qualities which strengthen the relationship between the few in number who map the course, and that numerous host who walk the charted road. But if to serve means to give aid, to help another, do they not also serve who follow?

In an address to Relief Society sisters in a Relief Society Annual General Conference, President Clark said:

I pray God to bless you, to bless you who preside and you who serve, and it is as blessed to serve as it is to preside, and with infinitely less responsibility. The humblest man, and the humblest woman, doing his duty in the place in which he is called to work, will deserve and receive just as much reward as the man who so serves and so acts in the highest position. The Lord always used the poor of the earth to illustrate how men should live. (President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., "The Prophet's Sailing Orders to Relief Society," The Relief Society Magazine, December 1949, p. 798.)

68
