[Vol56 | January 1969 | Page 67 | General Feature | Homemaking— Let's Go Inside Celestia | J. Taylor]
[Homemaking— Let's Go Inside Celestia J. Taylor]

and for little Bill, and for the rest, and the blessings for himself that his own courage would not fail, but most of all for the blessing of faith, faith in God and in the Brethren who sometimes seemed so far away . . . .

"But back in the last wagon, not always could they see the Brethren way out in front and the blue heaven was often shut out from their sight by heavy, dense clouds of the dust of the earth. Yet day after day, they of the last wagon pressed forward, worn and tired, footsore, sometimes almost disheartened, borne up by their faith that God loved them, that the restored gospel was true, and that the Lord led and directed the Brethren out in front. Sometimes, they in the last wagon glimpsed, for an instant, when faith surged strongest, the glories of a celestial world, but it seemed so far away, and the vision so quickly vanished, because want and weariness and heartache and sometimes discouragement were always pressing so near. When the vision faded, their hearts sank. But they prayed again and pushed on, with little praise, with not too much encouragement, and never with adulation. . . . But yet in that last wagon there was devotion and loyalty, and integrity, and above and beyond everything else, faith in the Brethren and in God's power and goodness. . . ." (President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., One Hundred Eighteenth Conference Report, October 1947, pp. 155 ff.; President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., To Them of the Last Wagon.)

Class Involvement Questions
1. How important to the success of that

great westward trek were the followers, even to the last wagon?

2. How important is it that the followers today have faith in the leaders of the Church, those who "are out in front"?

President Clark states that:

"These tens of thousands who so moved and so built were the warp and the woof of Brother Brigham's great commonwealth. Without them Brother Brigham had failed his mission. These were the instruments—the shovellers, the plowers, and the sowers and reapers, the machinists, the architects, the masons, the woodworkers, the organ builders, the artisans, the mathematicians, the men of letters, all gathered from the four corners of the earth, furnished by the Lord to Brother Brigham and the prophet leaders who came after, that he and they might direct the working out of His purposes . . ." (Ibid. page 159.)

SUMMARY

All service which advances a righteous cause is important. President Clark said further:

In The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, one takes the place to which one is duly called, which place one neither seeks nor declines . . . (Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69, Lesson 35, page 187.)

It is the intent of the heart, the spirit of humble acceptance, and the diligence with which one serves that are important. "Not where you serve, but how."

For Home-Doing

Evaluate the quality of your individual service.

71
