[Vol56 | January 1969 | Page 46 | Fiction | Make Room for Christmas | Lucy Parr]
This and his ''specs,"' steel-rimmed, in leather case, lie unused all year long. As December middles on to January, the book is opened to the Christmas story. Glasses handy on the page and chair close drawn remind that he once sat, just so, On Christmas Eve. 36 Now his third great-grandchildren place a manger scene, turn on the lights. He knew not these— and read anew the old loved story.... Today at year's beginning I put the scene away and close the book again. —Zara Sabin Norma A. Wrathall @ Sometimes, a thing you handled long ago will span the years and carry you, suddenly, into a moment from the past. It was so with the bone hairpins, which I happened to find in the wooden box in which they were kept. Mama always used bone hairpins to hold her long wavy hair in place, coiled smoothly on top of her head. She said that wire hairpins scratched the hair and roughened it, and furthermore, couldn't be depended upon to hold firmly. I never recall seeing a wire hairpin in her hair at any time, nor did she ever wear a net. At night, the rich brown locks were combed to smoothness and braided into a long braid. Next morning, her hair was combed out, coiled softly, and pinned up before she ever set foot into the kitchen at six-thirty or so, to begin her day's work. Mama spent very little time, actually, caring for her hair, or for any other personal thing. She didn't have the time to spare. But every two weeks, she prepared to wash her hair, using rain water that was collected in a big barrel under the water spout during summer rains, or melted snow in winter. Lacking either of these, ditch water was used, after it had been dipped into a tub and the sediment allowed to settle out for at least a day. The ditch water came from melting snow in the mountains. We lived in a hard-water area, and this was before the days of water-softening compounds or bubbly shampoos. Mama would shave part of a bar of Packer's Tar Soap into a small pan, put some water with it, and let it stand on the back of the wood-and-coal range to melt, while she put a big pan of water on the front of the stove to heat, and spread newspapers over the middle part of the kitchen floor. Looking back, I wonder that she wasn't entitled to a bit of privacy; but my sister and I always watched her, sometimes handing the soap pan, or an extra towel, if needed. 38 her. I'm still trying. In my opinion she is a perfect mother, and I know her children agree with me. They are her most important possessions and they know it. She is always patient and friendly towards them. They love her and are obedient because they love to please her. She takes time to listen to their problems and always tries to help them find a solution. She is constantly on the alert for teaching opportunities. She arises early and goes to bed late in order to keep her house in order. My friend is a tremendously spiritual person. She loves our Heavenly Father and she lives very close to him. She acknowledges his help in everything she does.

hing away from the table. But, before Laura could voice her dismay at such a statement, Jonathan glanced at his watch and stood. "What time do I expect you at the office?" Laura had almost forgotten the company party early this evening. She glanced around the cluttered kitchen. Then, surprising herself as much as Jonathan, she said, "I'm not coming," her voice perfectly calm. "Not...?" "Not," she repeated. "I have neither the time nor the inclination to watch Mr. Swaynson, in those false whiskers and phony voice, pretending to be Santa Claus to a lot of equally ridiculous adults." Until now, she had not admitted, even to herself, how thoroughly bored she had become by these parties. "Jon, honey, at least for this time, you can collect the clever little toys for both of us." Suddenly Jonathan laughed. "Bless you. I'll be home early." And she noted that he was whistling as he backed his car from the garage. With the two older children at last on their way to the final day of school activities, and Cindy absorbed in one of Aunt Elva's 

35 January 1969

 tales of "the way it used to be," Laura rushed at her work. And then she stopped in alarm. That was just what she was doing—rushing at things—attacking them in her pent-up frustration, close to anger. What were they doing? This normally close family, snapping at each other, tempers frazzled, at a time that should be a joyous celebration. Having Aunt Elva come had cost her most of one precious day. But they had been on this impossible merry-go-round long before Aunt Elva's arrival. What a frightening reflection of their manner of observing Christmas, that Sherene should even think "Well, [ll be glad when all this is over." a Where had Christmas gone, the true spirit of Christmas, "the way it used to be," as Aunt Elva had so vividly reminded? Where was the time just to hold close the sacredness of Christmas? It was buried, under an avalanche of unnecessary doing and having. That was where the difference lay. Christmas had once centered around people and spirit, not around things. But we can go back, Laura thought exultantly. We can make room for Christmas, in our hearts and in our lives. Bit by bit, they could cull out the nonessentials and find their way back to the spirit of peace, to the spirit of Christ, which could be found only in the quietness of each human heart.

[Make Room for Christmas Lucy Parr]

She has a strong testimony of the gospel and never makes excuses for not living it. She firmly believes that we can do whatever the Lord asks us to do and she does it cheerfully. I will never forget a missionary conference where she bore her testimony. Our husbands worked together in the stake mission presidency and had been required to spend many hours away from home the previous few weeks. I had only two small children, but I had been feeling sorry for myself. During the conference, several stake missionaries and their wives bore their testimonies and then excused themselves for not having put in the expected number of hours by saying that their families needed them. In my heart I knew this was not right, but I. Nodded in agreement and wished my husband felt the same way. Then my friend stood, and with tears in her eyes, told how difficult it was for her to The Influence of a Friend rear her children (seven now) with her husband goneso much. "But," she said, "I have found that if I do not complain and cheerfully let him go and do the work I know the Lord wants him to do, the Lord sends a special spirit into our home that takes the place of our father and priesthood bearer. This spirit protects, comforts, and helps me just as my husband would if he were at home." My friend has so many wonderful qualities that it would take a whole book to tell all of them, but I must tell one more because it is so very rare. When I had only known her a few weeks I began telling her why I didn't like a neighbor. Instead of sympathizing with me and adding her own disparaging remarks, she said, "Well, I have known her for a long time and I'm sure when you really get to know her, you ll like her, too." I soon learned not to speak against anyone in her presence. She didn't dislike anyone. If someone did something of which she didn't approve, she would try to find out the motive. If she couldn't uncover a justifiable excuse, she would still not condemn. My friend and I are separated by a thousand miles now and I miss her terribly. Whenever I have a spiritual experience or learn a new gospel truth, I long to call her and share it with her, knowing she would understand and truly rejoice with me. When I have a new discipline problem with my children or discover a successful way to manage them, I wish I could lift the receiver and say to her, "Do you have a minute to talk?"