[Vol56 | January 1969 | Page 4 | Special Feature | Joyous Greetings for 1969 | ]

Our Children—
"The Loveliest Flowers
From God's Own Garden"

President Joseph Fielding Smith
Of the First Presidency

[Address Delivered at the
Officers Meeting of the Relief Society
Annual General Conference,
October 2, 1968]

[PHOTOGRAPH]

■ My dear sisters: I am very happy to be here with you today, and I hope and pray that what I might say will be of benefit to one and all.

There are certain old truths which will be truths as long as the world endures, and which no amount of progress can change. One of these is that the family (the organization consisting of father, mother, and children) is the foundation of all things in the Church; another, that sins against pure and healthy family life are those which, of all others, are sure in the end to be visited most heavily upon the nations in which they take place. So, we must work for all around us, but especially for those closest and nearest, as the best possible preparation for doing our duty in the Church. But each of you, as mothers, can strive—at least as help and strength are given you—toward the ideal home where there must exist a perfect companionship between parents and children, built upon the feeling of mutual interest, knowledge, taste, and sympathy.

Far more important than the question of occupation or wealth of people is the question of how their family life is conducted. All other things are of minor consequence, so long as there are real homes, and so long as those who make up these homes do their duty to each other. I am sure, my good sisters, there is no disagreement among us as to the importance of the home. Roosevelt has compared a home without children to "a land without

4

Our Children—"The Loveliest Flowers From God's Own Garden"

trees—barren and unfruitful." While some children will go wrong in spite of the best training, and some will go right even where their surroundings are most unfortunate, nevertheless, an immense amount depends upon the family training, and just through this family training comes the companionship of which we are speaking.

WHAT DO THEY MEAN TO US?

If I were to put the question here today, there is not a shadow of doubt what the answer would be—"What do our children mean to us?" Our children—"The loveliest flowers from God's own garden," as one old writer expressed it. The attitude of our Heavenly Father toward this great privilege of parenthood is shown in the story of Abraham, upon whose head was pronounced the blessing of all worldly wealth and honor, but the triumph of triumphs, the crowning blessing, was the promise of a posterity numerous as the sands upon the seashore.

From the inspiration of the gospel we draw the impelling motives for our aims in life, and we get a proper sense of values if we live up to its teachings. This has taught us the real significance of the question: "For what shall it profit a man, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul?" (Mark 8:36.) What doth it profit us, though we gain the whole world, and lose the souls of our children? So you mothers see that this privilege of parenthood, this blessing of children, carries with it the gravest responsibility of life. Our duty is hard, our tasks are great, but greatest of all is our reward.

Into the woman's keeping is committed the destiny of the generations to come after us. Surely she who can train her sons and daughters is thrice fortunate among them, and if she has succeeded so far, she has accomplished it through the establishment of a companionship with her children. It can never be done through any other medium.

WHAT OF THE WORLD?

Since the world began there have been only two classes of people, one who declares that our times are the worst the world has seen, and another one which claims our times are the best. I believe we as a people belong to the latter class, with some reservations. Surely we appreciate our blessings, but we are not blind enough not to see that there are many great and real dangers to be reckoned with, and those which concern us more than all others combined have to do with our children. The only real protection or adequate defense can be afforded by the home and its influences. But there is no denying the fact that some of our young people, especially girls, have gone in for crime professionally, on a scale extensive enough to be alarming. There is at least one sure cure: training the girls in the home. Girls are not trained in the home today as they used to be. A girl should be taught some useful household tasks, or, at the very least, given by teaching and good example, a good standard of morals. Many girls of

5

January 1969

today have no moral sense whatsoever.

It is an age of conservatism versus jazz, and there is no understanding nor sympathy between parents and children, too many times. Mothers give too little—girls take too much. They begin picking at each other instead of quietly and thoroughly threshing it out and coming to an understanding. If you parents have not that patience, forbearance, to understand these "jazz-age children," they will cut loose and go where they are understood, and therein lies the tragedy of the situation. It is only when parents and children come to a fellowship built upon understanding that they can be one in feeling and in heart.

The fact that young people are ungrateful is a very common lament among us today.

Well, they are—it is true. Some children are just naturally grateful and appreciative, others just the contrary. But this development of the trait of ingratitude indicates a woeful lack of education along the lines of appreciation, either of the material gifts, service rendered, or of the things worthwhile in the world. Certainly this fault, if any in all the category, can be charged to parents' neglect.

RESPECT THE LAWS OF GOD

Perhaps the fault of our children today is the lack of reverence, the disregard for any authority, temporal or spiritual. But, is the sin confined to the young alone? Is it not an irreverent age? Here again must we resort to the home as the one sure cure, and see to it that it is a

sanctuary where the laws of God are respected and observed.

I have deliberately stressed the home as the greatest, most unfailing source of all good things in the world, but it is the workshop where human characters are built and the manner in which they are formed depends upon the relationship existing between parents and the children. The home cannot be what it should be unless these relations are of the proper character. Whether they are so or not depends, it is true, upon both parents and children, but much more upon parents. They must do their best. Most effective training is done before the child is old enough to appreciate what is being done. Teach the little ones to do the right thing. The great Master Teacher said, "Man cannot live by bread alone," neither can children live by merely having their material wants cared for. This is very necessary, it is true, but it is only a part, so far as the parent is concerned, much so far as the easiest part of the work. First of all parents must try to be, or at least put forth their best efforts to be, what they wish the children to be. It is impossible for you to be an example of what you are not. The only way to teach children the beauty and use in service is to teach them how, and permit them to render it.

"Oh, go away and leave me alone, I haven't time to be bothered," said a hurried, impatient mother to her little three-year-old daughter who was trying to help perform a certain household task. I shall have to

6

Our Children—"The Loveliest Flowers From God's Own Garden"

tell you what a youngster said to his mother when Sister Smith and I attended a stake conference in New York. Sister Smith asked all present to tell their mothers and fathers that they loved them, and for the parents not to push them away, when they came to tell them. This little child went to his mother and said, "Mama, I love you, and don't you push me away, like the good lady said." With whom rests the fault? The desire to help is born with every normal child and parents have no right to complain. There can be no such thing as household drudgery when all assist with the tasks, and through the association in the discharge of these duties comes the sweetest companionship that can be experienced.

DEVELOP SYMPATHETIC UNDERSTANDING

If I had to suggest one thing which I think we as parents are most lacking, it would be a sympathetic understanding of our children. Live with the children; follow their paths, try with them to read "books in the running brooks/Sermons in stones and good in every thing." Teach them that the flower of youth never looks so lovely as when it bends to the sun of righteousness. Know everything that aims at the interest of the children, be a good sport with them, remembering always in the beautiful words of Wordsworth, "A child, more than all other gifts that earth can offer to declining man, brings hope with it and forward looking thoughts."

As I look back on the history of our people, I see a past that is full of glory; looking ahead, I see a future full of promise. We have faith that we shall not prove false to the memories of the men and women of the mighty past. They did their work and left us the splendid heritage which we now enjoy. Our highest aim is through the medium of loving companionship, to train our children to appreciate their inheritance. We may thus, in our turn, have the assured confidence that we shall be able to leave this heritage unwasted and enlarged to our children's children. I am sure if we teach these things to the sisters of the Relief Society we shall see the fruit of companionship of parents and children, and what a great joy we will have in teaching these things that the Lord feels so important because he has stated, that we as parents will be held responsible if we fail in our teaching the gospel truths to our children. President McKay said:

I know of no better way to bring about harmony in the home, in the neighborhood, in organizations, peace in our country, and in the world than for every man and woman to try to eliminate from his or her heart the enemies of harmony and peace such as hatred, selfishness, greed, animosity, and envy.

Now may the Lord bless you good sisters as you go into your different stakes and wards, and may his Spirit be with you and guide, guard, and protect you in the service of our Master, and I leave my blessing with you, and I am sure that President McKay would like me to express his love for you, also, and I ask these blessings in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer. Amen.

7
