Trees of Reflection and Grace _ Christmas Tree in the Foyer of the Relief Society Building A tall and stately pine tree graces the foyer of the Relief Society building each year. This (1969) flocked tree features red velvet poinsettias and ribbon bows, with miniature gold lights. Ones Transparencies by M. Heslop A lovely but inexpensive way to create a striking window is suggested at the Orval Fox home in Salt Lake City, Utah. The design was first made on black construction paper and then cut out. Cellophane was cut in the shape of the designs and attached to the construction paper. The cellophane was cut in layers to give intensity and variety to the colors. The finished design was backed with white tissue paper which accentuated the variety of colors. Stained Glass Window and a Glowing Castle Santa's glowing castle was made from a toy brick Designs by Reuben Fox kit, with a light placed inside to make the windows glow. White cotton was arranged on the sideboard for protection and for representing snow. Green Sa nOraltdnd Puacine C.

Fox boughs and lights completed the scene. An urn, with unbelievably realistic plastic roses, set in front of a simply decorated tree, creates an unusually effective arrangement. The chairs are reproductions of famous French Provincial furniture. These chairs were carved in Italy, reupholstered by the Pias, and gilded by Maria Pia.

Flowers, Home of Le Roy and Marta Pia
Transparencies by M. Heslop
Fruits, 
and Greenery

Above the mantel hangs a woven tapestry which Maria Pia learned to make in Brazil. Silk flowers, a boxwood garland, and baby's breath add to the festive appearance of the mantel. An artificial tree decorated with red velvet ribbons and cherubs is placed along the stairway to give the children a last bit of Christmas cheer before ascending to the bedrooms.

For a large family, a long table is needed. A green velvet runner, topped with a boxwood garland, white baby's-breath, fruits, and lights, and a center candelabrum, with green candles make an attractive centerpiece for the table. Young LeRoy Pia, now serving a mission in Brazil, drew the picture for the gingerbread house. His father made the frame from cardboard, and the family decorated it.

The gingerbread must be glued to the frame while it is still hot, so that it is soft enough to work with. The house can then be decorated to suit the family.

A te ry
Ps
Ff
i
Blending Colors for Christmas Home of Walter R. and Ardell Ross
Artificial fruit, pine cones, and leaves, sprayed gold, and attractively arranged, form the basis for Ardell Ross' Christmas table. The red candles are even more striking when the table is set with red dishes. A dark green, many-branched tree, with multi-colored lights, stands near the end of the table and sheds a soft light upon the table. An almost feathery effect is created by the use of pink lights on a white tree. Red poinsettias and golden doves contrast and blend with the pink and white.

Above Christmas time it seems fitting that we use as decoration in our homes some reminder of that joyful occurrence we commemorate at the Christmas season. Anyone can buy beautiful decorations, but how much more meaning will something beautiful you made yourself have to you and your family!

Materials needed:
1. Plaster of Paris heads, hands, and feet for Joseph, Mary, and Jesus (these were 3" high for Joseph, 3" for Mary and 2" for Jesus). They came with matching plaster hands and feet, except for the baby; for him you may use plastic hands.
2. Styrofoam cones, one 21" tall for Joseph, and one 10" tall for Mary (remember she is seated).
3. Cotton fabric and white water solvent glue or cotton pre-treated draping fabric available at craft stores.
4. Wire strong but bendable and a good quality glue.
5. Paint in desired colors, antiquing, and spray glaze.

Transparencies by J M. Heslop
"The Holy Family" John de St Jeor Member General Board of Relief Society

Plaster heads, hands, and feet come with holes in them. Insert wire pieces, glue, and allow to dry. Stick wires securely into cones forming shoulders, arms, and necks (with head on top) for both Joseph and Mary, but for Mary, shape wire and secure for sitting position. It may be necessary to pad or wrap with fabric shoulders and legs for a more life-like form. Pose the figures' arms and legs to the desired form.

Using a picture of the nativity scene, cut the fabric to resemble the type of clothing used in those times. If you are using pre-treated fabric dip and drape; if regular cotton, dilute glue with water and dip fabric and drape on figure; allow to dry completely. Paint whole with several coats of gesso. Refer to picture, using it as a guide for pleasingly rich colors for the clothing. After paint is dry, apply antiquing, being sure to get it back into the folds of fabric. Wipe off the glaze and allow to dry. Spray with clear finish to acquire a shining, clear, china-like surface. More than one coat of spray may be necessary.

Use the same technique for the Child. Organize the three figures in a loving family group. Cultural Retin Transparencies by J M.