Christmas Fun With Felt and Food
Edythe K. Watson, Member, General Board of Relief Society

Transparencies by J.M. Heslop

It has been aptly said that the beauty of a home is order, the blessing of a home is contentment, and the glory of a home is hospitality. The Christmas season, with all its festivity and good humor, is a delightful time to open the doors of our homes and let the warmth of hospitality welcome friends, neighbors, and family.

During the years I have made a variety of Christmas table covers for holiday entertaining, from simple cotton ones to an elaborate sequin-studded one. The cover which I use most frequently, however, with the greatest ease and enjoyment is a set of red felt place mats which includes small-sized mats for the accessories, as shown in the accompanying picture.

To measure the felt size and shape I used a 15" round tray, a 9" salad plate, and a 4" cup. The centerpiece was made from artificial holly and greens with red "velvet" apples of varying sizes. I chose the velvet-like fruit because its texture blended well with the felt mats. The napkin rings are an added touch. They, too, are easy to make. Cut strips of green felt with pinking shears or scissors six inches long and 1/2 inch wide. Lap the ends together and secure with a small felt bow. Add three tiny round beads for giving special interest. Simple red or green napkins complete the setting.

The following is a favorite lunch holiday menu. It is a delight to prepare because the chicken can be cooked, and the cheese ball, salad, rolls, and dessert prepared a day ahead. MENU
3 1-pint bottles Cranberry juice
. Orange juice
1 c. Sugar
1/2 tsp. Nutmeg
2 c. Water
1/2 tsp. Cinnamon
1/4, lemon. Juice
12 whole Cloves

3 8-oz. Pkg. Cream cheese
1/4 cup chopped pecans
1 5-oz. Pkg. Blue cheese
2 tbsp. Soft butter
1 1-1/2 oz. Wedge Roquefort cheese
1/2 to 3/4 tsp. Garlic powder
2 to 3 tbsp. Finely grated 1/4 tsp. Onion Salt
Cheddar cheese 1/2 tsp. Worcestershire Sauce

3 1/2 cooked chicken, cut into 1/2 to 3/4 c.
8 grated Cheddar cheese
1" or 1-1/4" Pieces buttered bread crumbs
2 cans cream of chicken soup
2 pkg. Frozen broccoli spears
1 tbsp. Lemon juice (Or equal amount fresh Cooked)
1/2 c. Salad dressing

Place chicken in buttered Casserole. Combine soup, lemon juice, salad dressing, and 1-1/4 c. Water. Add bread crumbs. Bake at 375° for 20 to 25 minutes.

1 pkg. Raspberry jello
1 # 1 flat tin Crushed Pineapple
1 pkg. Frozen raspberries
"4 C. Pecans

Dissolve jello in water. Add frozen berries. Separate with fork until thawed. Add remaining ingredients. Serves 8. 
Combine and let stand for one hour:
Add:
1 cake yeast
2 tsp. Salt
1/4 c. Lukewarm water
1/2 c. Sugar
1 tsp. Sugar
1/2 c. Butter (or other shortening)
1 egg
1-1/2 c. Warm water

Mix together. Dough will be soft. Cover and refrigerate overnight.
Roll out on slightly floured board. Cut into rolls. Place on well-greased pan (I use melted butter). Let rise until double in bulk in warm place (about 1-1/2 to 2 hrs.) Bake at 425° for 12 to 15 minutes. Makes 3 dozen rolls.

1 c. Butter (softened)
4 eggs
1 c. Powdered sugar
1 tsp. Peppermint extract
32 squares chocolate
2 tsp. Vanilla, melted and cooled
2 c. Chopped pecans

Beating is the secret of this dessert. Beat butter and add sugar gradually. Beat for 15 minutes. Add melted chocolate; beat 5 minutes more. Add unbeaten eggs one at a time, beating after each addition. Add flavoring. Place chopped nuts in bottom of paper muffin cups. Add filling. Sprinkle nuts on top. Add cherry, if desired. Freeze. If covered well these will keep for a week or more. Makes 2 dozen. Serve in paper cups.