[WomansExponent | Vol20 | 1891 | November | Issue: 9 | Title: VICTORY IN OBSCURITY. | Author: RUBY LAMONT]

		VICTORY IN OBSCURITY.

		    BY RUBY LAMONT.

Thou sayest, sweet woman that not for thee
	Are those strains of music, glad and grand,
That but for the victor, the brave, the free,
	The hero who dies for his bleeding land,
The proud or the lovely, the young or gay,
Breathe the waking strains that o’er joy bear sway.

Thou say’st, whilst thine eye with a tear is blurred,
	That thy life is too narrow and dull to sing,
That thy rising soul as a pinioned bird,
	Is beating a clipped and troubled wing;
And thou pleadest the beautiful song to cease
A strain that can only undo thy peace.

Oh, what is thy life I would question thee?
	A thing so dull and so useless and vain
That even an angel’s soft melody,
	Would sadden thy soul as an autumn rain?
Thy lips would quiver; thy breast would heave
And o’er blighted fancies thine heart would grieve?

And who is the victor and who the brave 
	And whose is the life that is grand and true?
For whom should the banner of glory wave
	And whose is the crown from an angel's view?
Oh, deep is the ocean and wide the span
And we judge not aright of our fellow man! 

Sad mother the angels are writing a song
	Of a beautiful life that is grand and sweet,


Whose silent waters shall flow ere long,
	In tranquil joy to the Savior's feet;
It will tell of a cross that was meekly borne
Through faith and love to the gates of morn.

So the angel's song will be never sad,
	And thy spirit will vault to a height unknown,
Thou wilt wonder to hear it so strong and glad,
	And thine heart shall no more be depressed and lone;
For the song that the angel will sing, somg day,
Shall be of a life that was fair as May. 

It will tell in a clear, triumphant strain,
	Of self forgotten, of holy love,
Of vigils lone by the couch of pain,
	Of a constant faith in the Hand above;
Of a lovely crown for a noble strife,
As a bright reward for a faithful life!
	*Suggested by Mrs. Hemans' "Triumphant Music."


[Column 1]

