[Vol24 | December 1937 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes From the Field Lund]
THE Relief Societies of Sweden held their first mission-wide conference in Stockholm in June of this year. It was well planned and showed the efficient leadership of a
CONFERENCE PAGEANT, STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
Mission Board composed of local members. The reports of representatives from all parts of Sweden showed that good work is being done in the branches, and that where possible, the activities and the lessons as outlined are being followed. There was one public meeting wherein the ideals of the Relief Society were well presented to a large audience. Three Relief Society songs, which had been translated into Swedish by one of our sisters, were sung at the meeting. Perhaps the outstanding event was the pageant, "Back to the Scriptures." This, too, had been translated, and was presented under the direction of a local sister. The picture is of that particular pageant. Visiting members were guests at a dinner, and the following day toured the city, visiting many of the educational centers, and they were particularly interested in that of the cooperatives. The conference was
799
undoubtedly a great inspiration for another year's successful work.
French Mission
SISTER HANNAH URSENBACH writes: "Although it is only the beginning of the season, many of the Sisters have expressed their gratitude for our program, and we are looking forward to a very successful Relief Society year. During the Summer some of our branches have had a vacation, others have reviewed the lessons, while still others have taken up the study of the Bible. We have held Daughters' Day socials, and the picture below is one of such groups which was held in Liege. Most gratifying results have followed the efforts made in this direction. Our branch conferences will be held during the months of October and November, and we are sure these will do much toward arousing interest in our work.
DAUGHTERS' DAY, LIEGE, BELGIUM
800
Ensign Stake
