[Vol24 | December 1937 | Sequence: 30 | Category: Article | Title: Article by Lillian Mc]

By Lillian McQuarrie WILLIE sang from the bathroom, "I don't want to make ? hist-o-ry," and Esther, in the dining room, tittered. The bathroom door slammed suddenly with such violence the three little girls jumped. "What did he do that for?" Ruth, the youngest, wanted to know, her blond curls bobbing.
Mother rushed in from the back porch where she was sweeping snow. It was a week before Christmas and the snow was deep. "What was that?' eyes were startled. "Willie's mad at something!" Janette's thin, dark little face clouded. "We don't know what." A young man appeared in the suddenly opened doorway.
Onehalf of his face was covered with lather.
Willie was twenty-one, and Mother's youngest brother. "Your innocent children," he announced with fine sarcasm, "are up to their tricks?watching me and snickering." Esther's eyebrows shot up.
Esther was the oldest-?almost thirteen. "Mother," she said, "we weren't even looking at Willie. We were clearing the dishes." "I wish you weren't so sensitive lately, Will," Mother said. "I'm sure the girls would leave you alone if you didn't get so upset every time they make a move."
Mother went outside again, and Willie closed the bathroom door. "What's the matter with him?"
Ruth asked in a loud whisper. Her brown "Sh!"
Janette said. "He's in love." She looked up at her older sister for confirmation. "Isn't he, Esther?" The tawny-haired Esther nodded.
Little ten-year-old Ruth spread her hands and hunched her shoulders with delight. But she knew better than to make a sound.
Willie was always having outbursts lately. She couldn't understand why he had stopped playing with them, or picking them up and roughing them when they ran to meet him after work. But she had a feeling it was connected with Fay Hughes, nineteen, who lived next door.
Summer before last Fay had moved in and Willie used to slip over and talk to her on her front porch in the evening.
Soon they were going driving in his old car. But now, somehow, Willie wasn't a bit himself. After Willie left for the office, Mother said, "Girls, I want you to be careful of Willie's feelings."
There was