TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE UTAH W. S. A.

	   The Annual Convention of the N. A. W.
S. A. takes places in Washington, D. C., Jan. 17,
18, 19, and 20, 1892. Please estimate according
to the enclosed Constitution the number of dele-
gates to which your State auxiliary is entitled.
	I hope that you will see that your Association
has its dues forwarded to the Treasurer, Mrs.
Jane H. Spofford, by January 1st. With dues
should be sent the list of name and addresses of
your auxiliaries. I will send you blanks for cre-
dentials as soon as you let me know to how many
delegates your Society is entitled. On this blank
will also be a place for the name of your member
of the Executive Committee of the N. A. W.
S. A.
	I enclose a copy of the proposed amendments
to our Constitution so that your delegates may
know what will come before them.
	Will you also see that your secretary has her
report ready to be read either by yourself or who-
ever represents your Society at the Convention.
May I ask that an extra copy be made and sent
to me that we may have one for advance reports
of the meeting. I hope that you will not think
that this is asking too much.
	More time than usual will be given to the busi-
ness meetings this year, and it is hoped that much
will be accomplished.


I sincerely hope that you will have a goodly
delegation at the Convention this year, and that
they may come full of ideas to impart to others,
and in turn receive many valuable suggestions to
take home which may be incorporated in your
own State work.
	Please may I hear from you on all points as
soon as possible.
			Very cordially yours,
		RACHEL FOSTER AVERY, Cor. Sec.
	P. S. When the Circulars were sent to the
auxiliary associations it was expected that the
Convention would be held in Washington, D. C.,
in February, and consequently there was not so
much need of expediting the work of the branch
associations, but now that the Convention is to
be held in January, the Presidents throughout
the Territory should be more expeditious, in
sending in reports to the President Sarah M.
Kimball, No. 74. S. 1st. West St.


