REFLECTIONS ON THE PAST.

	I well remember after suffering from a severe
attack of sickness that nervous prostration fol-
owed; and I felt quite sure that I was about to
he end of the race, and as soon as the gate
opened I should pass through into the world of
spirits.
	I was quite willing to go thinking I had
finished my course and kept the faith and would
soon see the loved ones on the other side. But
an impression came to my mind like this. Would
it not be well to look over my lessons, and read
the Book of Mormon again while I am waiting
for the gate to open? Accordingly I did so.
	I found it more interesting than ever. I could
realize the goodness of our all wise Father to
those who placed entire confidence in Him.
	To such persons were given inspiration, some-
times by visions or dreams or again like Moses
who saw the burning bush, and heard a voice
saying pull off thy shoes; for the place where
thou standest is Holy ground.
	Even so did Lehi. He saw a pillar of fire on a
rock to attract his attention while the Lord spoke
to him. He was told of the destruction of Jeru-
salem, and warned to leave to save himself and
family. He had perfect confidence in the word
of God and was blessed accordingly, in a wonder-
ful manner.
	His son Nephi also was a man of great faith, and
was blessed in proportion to his faith. This we
learn in every instance that where faith abounds
with an earnest desire to keep all the laws of
God, great blessings attend those people.
Neither are we ignorant of this as a people, when
we did earnestly seek to know what was right and
do the same our prayers were answered without
fail by patiently waiting the Lord's own time.
Yet He will do it in His own way, which is better
than we could do it, yea and more effectual, pro-
ducing a greater and better result. I noticed
when the Gadianton robbers were sent out of the
land; how strictly did they listen to those who
presided over the land.
	I also noticed how greatly the people prospered
when humble and faithful in keeping the com-
mands of God and earnestly seeking His aid and
assistance. He always gives wisdom to such a
people.
	This kind of a people lived here in righteous-
ness for four generations after the Savior had
visited them. For He came to this Continent after
His resurrection and taught them the sermon on
the mount, exactly as He taught those at Jerusa-
lem. Here he healed the sick and blessed the
little ones and they spoke with the tongues of
angels and glorified God. Only think only four
generations passed away until pride made its ap-
pearance, and was the first stepping stone to their
down fall.


Indignant and bitter feelings followed in their
train, until one portion of the people swept those
who had been a godly and righteous people from
the earth.
	Several of the nations fell in the same way
pride being the first stepping stone to their down
fall.
	As soon as I regained my health I attended
meeting; and what did I hear? I heard some re-
marks from an aged man, whose character had
always been above reproach; his remarks were
very interesting upon some school question,
showing when it should arrive at the perfection
he desired, he would be proud to see its progress.
Oh I felt to exclaim, do not say proud; only
say as the former-day saints said, I rejoice.
	Did any of the Saints in those days encourage
Pride? Did our Savior ever say one word in His
teachings in favor of pride. No, no. But I have
read His commands which ended in this way,
"Any think either more or less, cometh of evil."
	I think it more than He taught, and there is
danger that He will not be willing that we are
called by His name, for the Apostle says, "He
resists the proud but gives grace to the humble.
	The Prophet Joseph Smith was told, Doc. and
Cov., Section 90 verse 17th. "Be not ashamed
neither confounded; but be admonished in all
your high mindedness and pride, for it bringeth a
snare upon your souls." Are we not in the snare?
Is not the heel of oppression upon our necks. Do
not we need the help of an Allwise Father to
make our burthens lighter at the present time?
I do earnestly desire that we all read the Book
of Mormon again with a desire to know why it
was kept for this generation.
	When this is done you will see the present day
as clearly as you behold your natural face in a
glass. You will learn how the people were
brought out of their difficulties when the opposite
party gained the victory over them.
	It was God alone who delivered them and gave
wisdom from time to time to save them from im-
mediate destruction. Nor did they fail to give
Him the glory.
	The same spirit to-day will produce the same
effect. Not only so but will enable our youth to
live upright, just and true to themselves, and all
under their care. This will cause the smile of
an Allwise Father to rest upon them; and He
will give them of His spirit to that degree they
can make friends of those who came here seek-
ing their destruction. And they will on the con-
trary become their warm-hearted friends.
	Who that ever had the gift of the Holy Ghost
can deny this fact? Our Heavenly Father can do
that which we can not. Do not fail to become
acquainted with Him through the channels which
He has given us. The written word of both
ancient and modern prophecy. This is the counsel of
		Your aged friend
			M. E. KIMBALL.
	Salt Lake City, Sept. 14th, 1891.


