WASHINGTON CONVENTION.

	The National American Woman Suffrage
Association will hold its 24th annual con-
vention in Washington, D. C., January 17,
18, 19, 20, 1892.
	The executive sessions, as well as the
public meetings, will be held in the Church of
Our Father, corner of L and 13 Streets.
	The morning session will be devoted to the
discussion of resolutions, State reports,, plans
of work, constitutional amendments and the
election of officers. The evening sessions will
be given to short addresses by speakers
specially invited.
	As only regularly accredited delegates can
vote, it behooves all local and State societies
to roll up as large a membership as possible
and thus increase their representation. Each


State society that pays its fee into the national
treasury is entitled to three delegates and an
additional one for every one hundred members
of the State society and its paid up auxiliaries.
	In the last annual convention, some thirty
States and Territories were represented by a
hundred and twenty delegates controlling one
hundred and eighty-two votes, and we
earnestly hope that all the forty-four States
and six Territories will be represented in the
coming convention.
	As in December the 12th Congress to
which we have made an appeal will
assemble, the women of the entire nation
should concentrate their influence on their
respective representatives and demand more
earnestly than ever before a full recognition of
their political rights as citizens of the United
States. The necessary step to this end is the
submission by Congress of a proposition for a
16th amendment to the National Constitution
prohibiting the disfranchisement of citizens
in any State on account of sex.
	Though woman's struggle for emancipation
has been long and weary, yet her indomitable
determination to secure the blessings of liberty
has ever made the struggle hopeful, and must
make the end triumphant. With woman's
present position in the trades and professions
with school suffrage in half the States of the
Union; municipal suffrage in Kansas, and full
suffrage in Wyoming, we behold the dawn of
a brighter day for the mothers of the race.
The discussion of the great principles of
conscience and judgment in this republic, for
the last half century, has given us a new type
of womanhood, that can no longer be subordi-
nated to the caprice and tyranny of the
powers that be, in either the church or the
State.
	Let us, then, with renewed hope and
determination assemble in the coming con-
vention, and with united voices make our
demands heard.
		ELIZABERH CADY STANTON, Pres.
		SUSAN B. ANTHONY, V. Pres.
		LUCY STONE, Ch. Ex. Com.
		JANE H. SPOFFORD, Treasurer.
		RACHEL FOSTER AVERY, Cor. Sec.
