THE KINGDOM OF GOD.

	Read 2nd Ch. and 44th verse of Daniel
“And in the days of those kings shall the God
of heaven set up a kingdom, which shall
never be destroyed; and the kingdom shall 
not be left to other people, but it shall break in
pieces and consume all other kingdoms, and it
shall stand for ever."
	Daniel said to the king of Babylon that the
God of heaven had shown him what would
be in the latter days, "what should come to 
pass hereafter," the king saw a stone cut out
without hands—and it smote the image upon
its feet of iron and clay and broke them to
pieces—it became a great mountain, and filled
the whole earth."
	Now there was a kingdom to be set up by
the God of heaven, I ask, is there such a king-
dom? does any religious sect of the day pro-
fess to be that kingdom? God says "He will do
nothing except He revealeth himself to His
servants the prophets," He must have prophets
on the earth to reveal himself to in order to
set up His kingdom, why would it be neces-
sary to set  up a kingdom in the Latter-days if
there was one on the earth in which there was
power to break in pieces all others, and stand
for ever. God's kingdom has to be built upon
the rock of revelation, with officers duly
authorized to act in those offices appointed by
the revelations of God's mind and will, to
bring to repentance all mankind for all have
sinned and come short of the glory of God,
not knowing the truth by their own wisdom
neither God, or His attributes. The knowl-
edge of God came by His manifesting himself
to righteous persons, informing them of events
and things that would take place in all ages
of the world as Adam, Moses, Noah, Abraham,
Sarah, Solomon, Samuel, Mary, Elizabeth and
very many others. Joseph Smith and Oliver
Cowdery saw the Lord in the Kirtland Temple
April 3rd, 1836, and the keys of different
dispensations were commited unto them, many
great and glorious things were revealed unto
Joseph the Prophet. A vision pertaining to
the three glories was given to him and Sidney
Rigdon, February 16th, 1832. It would be
well for all Latter-day Saints to read this
vision, and keep in mind the awful state that
those who deny the Holy Spirit after having
received it fall into, and the great joy and
blessings that those receive who are faithful
to the end, they who received the testimony of
of Jesus, and believed on His name, were
baptized after the manner of His burial, being
buried in the water in His name, according to 
the commandment which He has given, and
are washed and cleansed from all their sins,
and receive the Holy Spirit by the laying on
of hands of him who is ordained and sealed
unto this power, and who overcome by faith,
and are sealed by the Holy Spirit of promise,
which the Father sheds forth upon all those who

[column 2]
are just and true. “They are they who are the
Church of the first born," Paul speaks of these
different glories 1 Cor. 15 ch., he says "their
bodies differ, some are celestial, terrestrial and
a lesser glory like unto the stars," Joseph
Smith in the vision calls this lesser glory the
telestial, he saw that these did not come forth
from their graves till the last resurrection,
"some were for Paul, Apollos, Cephas and say
they are some of one and some of another,
but received not the Gospel, neither the testi-
mony of Jesus, neither the prophets, neither
the everlasting covenant.” John says in Reve-
lations, "for the testimony of Jesus is the
spirit of prophecy."
	It is very easy for every one to judge the
truth those who deny it cannot have it, and
truth embraces all things contained in the
everlasting Gospel as revealed to former day
saints and Latter-day saints which is one faith
one Lord, and one baptism. The Lord said
to His disciples that He the Son was the ex-
press image of His Father, therefore we rely
on His word and know of a surety that God
the eternal Father has a body, has parts and
we approach Him as a being like unto His
Son, the Savior of the world, who came forth
from the grave with that body and ascended
up to His Father, and the time is fast ap-
proaching when the Savior will come with that
same body and likeness to dwell with His peo-
ple here on earth, a thousand years. And
who will give heed to the words of a prophet
that God raised up to testify to these things?
I consider the people that live now, will be
under greater condemnation than those who
lived in Christ's day. We have the ensample
of the Jews rejection of the Gospel and the
calamity that fell upon them as a nation, we
have the warning voice on record to the
Gentiles if they reject it, by falling on the
same stumbling block, unbelief, which is caused
by high mindedness and pride.
	Book of Covenants, "And now, after many
testimonies which have been given of Him,
this is the testimony last of all, which we give
of Him, that He lives; for we saw Him even
on the right hand of God, and we heard the
voice bearing record that He is the Only Be-
gotten of the Father.”—Joseph Smith.
				MARY ANN M. PRATT.
	Salt Lake City, Nov. 13.


Frances Willard is re-elected president of
the National W. C. T. U.

	The Countess of Aberdeen is now in Chicago
arranging for the exhibit at the World’s Fair
of laces and other industries by the women of
Ireland-

	A new weekly paper devoted to equal
suffrage, the Woman’s Recorder, has just been
started at Toledo, O. The editor is Mrs.
Claudia Q. Murphy of the Toledo Commercial.

	The Illnois Woman’s Press Association gave
a reception at the Grant, on November 5, to
one of their most gifted and successful
members, Dr. Alice B. Stockham the author
of that most helpful book “Tokology.” The
occasion was a “God-Speed” to Dr. Stockham
on her proposed trip around the world.

	The need of having women on the manag-
ing boards of all institutions for children is
illustrated anew by the case of Rev. Samuel
Cotton, rector of Carogh, Kildare, who was
recently charged with criminal neglect and
ill-treatment of the children in Carogh
orphanage. He has just been arrested for
homicide in having caused the death of a child 
by placing it in a cold bath and leaving it in
the open air all night covered merely with a
sack. In the morning the child was found dead,
with the sack frozen to its body.


