NOTES AND NEWS.

	Queen Christina, Regent of Spain, has
endeared herself more than ever to her people
by her concern for them during the recent
flood. She herself took the lead in organiz-
ing assistance for the afflicted provinces.
	Mrs. Ada M. Bittenbender received about
seven thousand votes for the position of
Supreme Judge of Nebraska. This is most
marvelous that this large number of men
should have so outgrown ancient prejudice as
to be willing to place a woman in this position
of importance.
	The New York Woman's Press Club held
its first evening reception in their new club
house, No. 21, N. Eighteenth St. on Nov. 9th.
The occasion being in honor of Mr. Wm,
Wilde, and his wife Frank Leslie. Mrs.
Croley, president of the Club, Mrs. W. F.
Moss and Mrs. S. Rosenfield received the
guests.
	Lady Henry Somerset, in her speech at the
banquet of the Federation of Women's Press
Clubs at Boston, paid a high tribute to Mr.
W. T. Stead, who, she said, had virtually
fouuded a new school of journalism. All
women owed him gratitude. This was received
with applause by the large body of newspaper
women present.
	An exchange states that Miss Rhoda
Broughton has removed from Oxford to
Richmond, and that she is "a handsome,
dignified, clear-eyed lady, past her early
youth." "Miss Broughton has been for so
many years reported by the press as being a
precocious Miss of sixteen years of age who
has evolved her wonderfnl creations out of her
own brain without any experience, that it is
refreshing to learn the above facts."
	"The successful competitor in presenting a
design for the official seal of the Board of
Lady Managers is Miss Sara Bodtker of
Chicago. The design represents a ship of the
time of Columbus above the eagle and coat-of-
arms of the United States. A circle of stars
symbolizes the Lady Managers. The eagle
holds in his beak the laurel wreath of success,
and under his wings is the ivy vine of
friendship. The award was made by the
sculptor St. Gaudens.
	Frances Willard, in her address at the
banquet given to the Federation of Women's
Press Club in Boston, on Nov. 11, paid a high
tribute to the press and to the work of women
who wield the quill, especially to those news-
paper women whose quills are not borrowed
from the porcupine, but rather from the wing
of some angel seeking to raise humanity to a
higher plane. She closed with a humorous
exhortation to all women writers to use quills
taken either from a dove or from the wing of
the American eagle.


