DEAR SISTER:
	I thought perhaps some of the readers of
the EXPONENT would like to hear from our
little branch, Orderville, as there has not been
much said of this place since it was settled.
Our Relief Society is well attended, our Presi-
dent was away this summer but the meetings
were kept up regularly.
	Although there are a good many out on
ranches this season, they have a manuscript
paper which is read once a month, it is full of
good instructions. All the other organizations
are in running order. We feel to thank our
Heavenly Father for blessing us with this

[Column 2]

quiet place where there are so few temptations.
There is not a saloon within forty miles of
here, nor any one that sells liquor of any
kind, which we feel is a very great blessing.
We can sleep with our doors open at night and
there is no one to molest or make afraid. Our
children can play in the open air any where
and there are no bad examples set before
them, all are united in training their children
aright.
	We are trying to live our religion as near
as we know how, some of us at least. I ex-
pect if we should be counted worthy to be
saved in the kingdom of God, we will have to
be tried in many ways yet to test our faith,
and if we stand all the trials and temptations
and come off victorious in the end we will re-
ceive a reward such as we have merited.
	There has not been much sickness here this
summer. There has been but four deaths, and
all these were babies which caused their
mothers grief, but not like those without hope;
for we realize if we are faithful we will re-
ceive them back in our arms in the first resur-
rection as we have laid them down. Joseph
Smith gave instructions in Nauvoo in speaking
of the resurrection of a child.	*	*	Dear
Sisters; the words the Prophet Joseph Smith
preached in Nauvoo are recorded for our con-
solation, what a blessing to have our dear little
children back, where there is no parting, and
no more temptations to lead them astray. 
		CLARISSA WILHELM, Cor. Sec. R. S.
	Orderville, Sept. 1891.
 
