REPLY TO “A MAN’S ADVICE ABOUT
	      WOMAN SUFFRAGE.”
MR. D. P. FELT,
		DEAR SIR:
	My attention has been called to your
“opinion of “Woman Suffrage’’ published in
the Woman’s Exponent of November 15th.
Suffragists do not recognize what you are
pleased to call “Horrid men.” Hence have no
fear of being “laughed at,” true suffragists love
all men and all women, and labor as best they
can, with the sickly tools they are allowed to
use for the educational uplifting of humanity.
	Women as a rule have listened to the as-
serting voice of men and have been led by
their precepts too long. It has slowly dawned
upon woman’s understanding that man as a
ruler is weak; in many respects very weak and
unreliable, (remember we love him still,) and
she has been compelled for the good of the
great family to explore new paths leading to
broader fields of helpfulness. Women will
make mistakes, and profit by them, all along
the unbroken pathway, but never so fatally
disastrous mistakes as men have made while
holding exclusive power.
	You assert that suffrage advocates take a
wrong shoot, start out on leaves, or small
branches, they must change tactics, etc., this
reminds me of early Colonial history. Did our
forefathers when they struck for freedom, ask
their usurping oppresors what shoot they
should take, what tactics they should adopt?
You complain that your suffrage friends turn
from you “disgruntled” I think they turn
pityingly.

[column 2]
	You say in substance suffragists will amount 
to nothing until they lay foundations on
which it will take, at least two generations to
build a structure, that will stand the storms of 
ridicule, that today beat upon our frail house,
and cause either depression or the entire crush
of the structure.
	The sure foundations of the suffrage cause
were deeply and permanently laid on the 17th
of March 1842, and the structure is far ad-
vanced. It is too stately and strong to be even
depressed by any lingering effort with the weak
weapon ridicule.
	Your advice to suffragists, to turn their at-
tention to the education of their girls is ap-
preciated. But we have our own ideas about
the nature of their graduating papers, the
routine must contain lessons in moral courage,
energy of purpose, and power of execution;
these must be taught as among the womanly 
graces essential to success in life.
	You say do not teach them to be burly
policemen. My dear Sir, if the members of
the police force are burly, there is a crying
wrong to be righted, my daughter or yours
may be placed in circumstances where they
are liable to arrest, are we willing that a coarse
ungentlemanly man should have this daughter,
or sister in charge? This is one of the condi-
tions in which the policeman should not be
without the policewoman.
	Again the police force have access to dens of
infamy where husbands, brothers, and sons re-
sort, you would have woman wear the long nights
her health and her hope away in unavailing
anguish of soul and have written on her tomb
stone “died of heart failure.” I would teach
my daughter to cultivate the womanly courage
to accompany the police to the den of vice
and help to rescue the inmates. It is to be
hoped that Provo has no need of women
police, 1 so rowingly write that at the present
time Salt Lake City has great need of women
police, Boston, Chicago and other cities have
police matrons. Suffragists are next told not
to teach their daughters that they should sit on 
a jury, we like to be consistently obedient
but conscientiously we have to tell our daughters
that such counsel comes from such as have 
eyes open to popular prejudice, and closed to
underlying principle. Women jurists in
Wyoming and in Kansas have made creditable 
records. No woman ever was or ever will be
tried by a jury of her peers when (the jury is
composed exclusively of men, (consistency is a 
jewel;) if there are any improper jury laws
they must be amended. Any man suitable to 
sit in judgment on a jury trial, will be as much
a gentlemen in a jury-box, or a jury-room, as
in a theatre box or a ball room. Thirdly; “we
must not say it is our right to sit on the Judges
bench.”
	Why not? Deborah judged Israel forty
years and Israel was blessed with a peaceful
reign, our nearer neighbor Esther Morris oc-
cupied the judge’s bench creditably in Wyo-
ming Territory; she is reputed to have passed
just judgment in all cases tried before her; she
passed the sad ordeal of sentencing a man to
the gallows, with this experience, she was no
less the lovable and loving wife, mother and
grandmother, nor the less discreet and hospit-
able keeper of the home. When she retired
from the bench she was crowned with the ap-
pellation a just Judge. At the ratification of 
the admission of Wyoming as a State with
equal suffrage, Ex. Judge Morris, aged and


feeble, was wrapped in the National flag and
brought to the front to receive congratulations
and words of commendation from the Governor
and other officials of the State, which were
echoed by the multitude.
	Our daughters and sons are taught to revere
the names and deeds of such women, and hand
them down to posterity with honor.
	Lastly; we are told that woman’s true posi-
tion is that of mother. Suffragists esteem
motherhood under proper conditions as wo-
man’s crowning glory, but for millions these
conditions are not available. Many thousands
are looking for room to earn their bread and
apparel, and asking custom to allow them to
choose their husbands, control their persons,
and participate with their kinsmen in their
highest aspirations for the good of the home,
the church, the state, and for humanity. Such
women will be helps meet, (suitable) for noble
men, they will earn the sympathy, confidence
and ever abiding love of their husbands,
brothers, and sons, and the respect of the good
and true as far as their, sphere, (influence) ex-
tends. Their noble, emancipated, daughters
will rise up and call them blessed. Life’s en-
vironments will thus become purer and far
more harmonious.
	SARAH M. KIMBALL.
Salt Lake City, Nov. 30, 1891.


