CLUBS.

	The Committee on Organization of the
Federation were called to order in the parlors
of the Woman's Journal, Boston, Mass., at 10
A. M., November 11th, by the chairman, Mrs.
Belva A. Lockwood. In the absence of the
secretary of the committee, Mrs. McPherson,
of Washington, was appointed secretary
pro tem. The printed constitution was-
distributed and it was decided that this was
provisional. Mrs. Lockwood read the report
of work done by the committee which had
resulted in the auxiliaryship of the Woman's
National Press Association, the New England
Woman's Press Club, and the Illinois and the
Pacific Coast Woman's Associations, with the
near prospect of Michigan, Utah and Kansas
becoming auxiliary. The chairman in her
report stated that this meeting was not for
the purpose of election of officers, but for con-
ference, etc. To this Miss West objected,
saying that the object of the meeting was to
complete the organization. Mrs. Lockwood
still earnestly supported her wiew of the case.
Mrs. Sutherland, Caroline S. Parks, Miss
Armstrong, and others of Boston, and Mrs.
Rastall of Chicago supported Miss West.
It was then asked that the roll be called,and it
was found that the persons present and
entitled to vote were delegates, Mrs. McPherson
and Clara Bewick Colby, of the Woman's
National Press Association: Helen M. Winslow

[Column 2]

and Miss Armstrong of the New England
Club Fanny H. Rastall, of Illinois, and
Belva A Lockwood and Mary Ellen West,
members of the committee.
	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
	On motion of Miss West the Constitution
was read and discussed section by section. As
adopted its pridcipal features are: Its name is
The Federation of Woman's Press Clubs." Its
objects are to bring into commnnication with
each other the various women's press clubs,
in order that they may compare methods of
work and become mutually helpful; to elevate
the workers, and to forward, by concerted
action through the press, such philanthropic
movements as may commend themselves to the
Federation. No member is to hold more than
one office at a time, and no officer is eligible
for the same office more than one term. The
annual meeting is to be composed of the
officers of the Federation and two delegates
from each club belonging thereto. The presi-
dent of each club in membership is a vice-
president of the Federation or a club may elect
a vice-president. The annual dues of
auxiliaries are $10.
	The election of officers followed. The
nominating ballot resulted in Sallie Joy
White, President, Mrs. Lincoln as vice presi-
dent. Other officers were elected as follows:
Mrs. E. G. C. Edholm of the Pacific Coast,
recording secretary; Elizabeth Merritt Gosse
of New England, corresponding secretary:
Fanny H. Rastall of Illinois, treasurer, and
Belva A. Lockwood of the National Women's
Press Association. auditor. The election of
Mrs. Lockwood was ratified by a rising
vote.
	The meeting took a recess until 2 P. M., at
which time the Federation was called to
order by Mrs. Lockwood and the minutes of
the morning session were read for the infor-
mation of the large numbfer of press women
present. Mrs, Colby and Miss Armstrong
were appointed to escort Mrs. Sallie Joy
Whtte to the Chair, when she was introduced
by Mrs. Lockwood as the president of the
Federation. Mrs. White made a genial and
effective address. She spoke of the growing,
breadth of woman's work on the press which
had been largely assisted by the clubs which
had this day joined hands in a Federation.
Individual women had lacked nothing in
earnestness, nothing in loyalty, nothing in
devotion to their chosen profession which the
world was now beginning to realize was the
noblest that could be chosen by man or woman.
Before this last quarter of the century, however,
only a few exceptional women had been
journalists; to-day there is no well conducted
newspaper without women on its staff. Women
are appreciated not only for their work, but
for their moral force, for the change in the
moral atmosphere of offices where they are
employed.
	The president then introduced Mrs. R. S.
Frost—one of the lady managers for Massa-
chusetts, who gave as a personal message from
Mrs. Palmer an urgent request for the co- 
operation of press women.
	The treasurer and auditor were then
presented to the meeting and-responded briefly.
	Mrs Lockwood said that a lawyer was
accustomed to be on the look-out for delin-
quencies,and she would be most happy to keep
track of the treasurer. Mrs. Lockwood was
then thanked by a rising vote for her services
as chairman of the committee on organization.
	Afterwards letters and reports were read
from several of the States all of an interest-
ing character, which we shall publish hereafter
The gathering dispersed with the singing of
"Auld Lang Syne."
	A beautiful noon lunch was served by the


editors of the Woman's Journal to the dele-
gates and visiting friends. It was a memora-
ble repast, one of the tables presided over by
Lucy Stone, all waited upon deftly, by the
valiant woman's champion, H. B. Blackwell
and their gifted daughter, Alice Stone Blaek-
well, keeping general watch that every one's
bodily and spiritual exhilaration were provided
for.
			Ex.


