		BY MRS. LIDE MERIWETHER.

They are coming again, the dusky Ghosts
	From the happy hunting ground;
Low echoes whisper from far-off coasts 
	Of the hunter’s horn and hound;
The air grows dark with the serried hosts
	That rise from each grassy mound.

The smoke of the camp fire slowly curls
	Round the misty mountain side;
The birch canoe its light sail furls,
	Through shadowy covers to glide;
The fisher's spear in the moonlight whirls,
	And sinks in the deepening tide.

Their oars dip soft in the darkling rills
	Where the water lilies blow;
They have lit their bonfires on the hills,
	In the maple's golden glow;
The warrior dresses his crimson quills
	Where the ripening sumachs grow.

The burning bush lights the calumet fire
	'Mid its leaves of gold and green;
The chieftain’s tawny feathers tower
	Where the sourwood's plumes are seen;
He has dropped his scarlet blanket o’er
	Its branches' glistening sheen.

Did you think you had driven him out or aye,
	Pale face, in your cruel pride?
Oh, fools and blind! his memory
	From wood nor wave has died;
His bow still bends in your forests free,
	His skiffs your waters ride.

When summer has breathed her last low sigh,
	When the weird witch-hazel blooms,
The Manitou's voice is lifted high:
	"Red men! to your old-world homes!"
Then ghosts in a thousand graves that lie
	Come forth from their mossy tombs.

And Nature in robes of red and gold
	Decks mountain and vale and plain,


And birds in the depths of forests old
	Re-echo the glad refrain
Of wind, aud water, and wood, and wold,
	To welcome the Ghosts again.

The sparrows twitter, the robins sing,
	The partridge calls in the corn,
The pheasant drums as he did in spring;
	In the hazy autumn morn,
The wild duck spreads his dusky wing
	At the sound of the ghostly horn.

Chieftain and maiden, brave and bride,
	In their pomp and paint appear;
Under the forest leaves they hide
	When the day-dawn draweth near;
You gaze on the wood in its festal pride,
	And say, "The frost is here."

Ye are mortal clay, and your eyes are blind;
	These shapes ye cannot see,
But come where the mandrake grows, behind
	The wild witch-hazel tree;
Its juices shall your eyes unbind,
	To watch their revelry.

You must come to the deeps of the forest old,
	When the midnight moon shines bright;
A lake in its heart gleams clear and cold,
	And their oars are dipping light.
I know their trysting spot of old;
	Will you come with me tonight?
						The Woman's Journal.
Memphis, Ten.


