A TALK WITH MOTHERS.

	Just two o’clock in the morning and I
feign would sleep; but cannot, therefore will
jot down a few of my wandering thoughts.
	I fall to thinking and pondering over the
many duties and cares that devolve on us as
mothers in general in the training and bring-
ing up of our children, and many curious
little incidents are brought to my mind that
cause me to question myself in this wise,—
are we not too indulgent sometimes for the
future welfare of our children?
	Are we not, through our great love for
them often blinded to those little faults which 
though small at the time, in after years cause
the ruin and downfall of our beloved ones?
	Should we not through our great future ex-
pectation of them, be more serious and
thoughtful over this matter? I am startled and
my heart aches as a feeling of conviction
steals over me that this is so, and I promise
myself that I will be more careful and guarded
in the bringing up of my own little ones, that
I through selfish love may not be the loser of
them and be responsible tor their downfall.
	A few of the incidents that have passed
under my notice I will give hoping a lesson
may thus be impressed upon those who may
chance to read it.
	“Helen,” to a child ten years old, “will you
run to the store for mamma? that is a good
girl?”
	“Oh, mamma! I don't want to.”
	“All right then, you attend to the fire, and
mamma will soon return.”
	“Charles will you bring mamma an armful
of wood? be a good boy and hurry.”
	“Oh! mamma! I don’t want to.”
	O yes do, poor mamma’s tired?”
	“I can’t I’m sick.” 
(Mother gets the wood.)
				LATER.
	Mother to daughter, “Helen I do not wish
you to go out to-night with Henry Horne your
father would object very much, were he here
to interfere.”
	“But mamma I don’t see why? It is only
for pastime, and father need not know.”
	“But daughter that would not be honorable
and then this Mr. Horne is not of our faith.”
	(But Helen soon overcomes the mother’s
scruples and goes to the party.)

[column 2]
Her fate I will not dwell upon longer than
to add a secret marriage, an early grave, a
death so horrible that as I write I can but
weep.
	And now about Charles.
	“Mother did you black my boots?”
	“No, my son I did not, I have been very
busy and am tired to-night.”
	“The d—l I told you this morning to be
sure to get my clothes ready as I have made
an appointment for this evening, I promised
to be at Dick Jones by seven and it is now
half past six.”
	The mother with a weary sigh submits,
meekly blacks the boots and he is soon
whistling on his way.
	Charles is now a husband and father his
rule at home I will leave all to infer from the
foregoing. 
	Oh, how many indulgent mothers I can re-
call as I lie here writing and thinking.
	I well recollect a few years ago of an in-
cident that occurred while walking on Brigham
St., Salt Lake City bound for the EXPONENT
office, I met a pale, tired-looking little lady
who accosted me with the question, “Did I
know the whereabouts of Sister Wells?” as she
had just called at the office, found no one in,
she lived far out in the country and was soon
obliged to return home, but so much wished
to get a single number of the EXPONENT be-
fore returning. I offered to return with her
and while on our way she remarked it was a
great feast to her whenever she could get
hold of one of them. To my inquiry “Why
she did not subscribe and get them regular,”
she replied much to my surprise in this man-
ner, “that they subscribed for so much Eastern
literature namely Frank Leslie's,Saturday Night
and the New York Ledger that they could not
afford to take any of the Church papers al-
though she dearly loved the little EXPONENT.
	By this time we had reached the office and
found to the delight of the sister, the Editor
had returned, she soon was in possession of the
much coveted paper and left with a satisfied
look on her face; a feeling of pity welled up
from my heart as I watched her retreating
form out of sight and I wondered how many
well meaning parents had made this same
mistake. 
	At another time I remember of, a brother
calling at our house in the capacity of a
teacher, my husband was to accompany him
on his route. While my husband was mak-
ing ready, my eye chanced to fall on a Juvenile
Instructor which I had been reading to the
children, I spoke of it in glowing terms, of
the good it did in our household, when he
made reply thus,—
	“We did take the Juvenile, but have dis-
continued it as the children are more in-
terested in the stories in the Western Weekly,
(a paper then published in Salt Lake City.)
	After this a damper fell upon our conversa-
tion, I could do nothing but think, think.
	Oh how carefully we watch over and
nourish the flowers in our gardens, destroying
every weed that might injure or destroy a
single plant, every bloom that may come forth
is gazed upon with satisfaction. How much
more carefully and tenderly should we watch
over the sweet flowers of our household in-
trusted to our keeping by our Heavenly
Father.
	How good it would be if more of our
Mothers in Zion would talk to us through the
columns of our little home paper on this all
important subject, thus by relating one
another’s experiences and giving ideas of
home life we might often be able to perform 
a great amount of good.  
