UNION SERVICES AT THE M. E. CHURCH.

	The following paragraph is from the sermon of
the Rev. J. Mc'Niece at the services held in the
Methodist Episcopal Church in this City Thanks
giving day Nov. 26, 1891.
	"I have bad my home here now for nearly fif-
teen years, and feel myself a part of the city. I
cannot help being interested in everything per-
taining to its welfare. And because I love this
city and its people, I want to see a city govern-
ment here that will give our city a good name
from the Pacific to the Atlantic; that will furnish
protection for us when we walk these streets at any
hour of the night; that will furnish protection for
our homes whether we are in them or absent from
them. And because some of us are the descend-
ants of the Pilgrims and of Cromwell and his
Ironsides, we do not intend to sit idly by and let
our city drift to the dogs. But let us be discrimi-


[Column 1]﻿

nating. Let us admit that some of those whom
we elected two years ago have been faithful and
tried to do their duty, though in a minority.
Undoubtedly if our city charter put in the hands
of the Mayor the power he ought to have we
should have secured better government. But
certainly it is another cause for thanksgiving that
the official term of some of those whom we
elected two years ago has only sixty days more
to run! Then we will lay them up on the shelf
to dry and try to put Americans in their places
who will do their duty and enforce the laws."
	The Rev. E. E. Carr secretary of the meeting
spoke eloquently and earnestly upon the subject
of the Church and the Liquor Traffic, the follow-
ing is a quotation from his remarks as published
in one of the City papers.
	"There is too much apathy on the part of
Christians toward the subject of the suppression
of saloons. When we, as Christians, fail to do
our duty in endeavoring to down this monstrous
evil, by voice and ballot, we ally ourselves with
the rumsellers. The church is in league with the
liquor traffic when it fails to do its duty toward
the extermination of the saloons, when its mem-
bers vote for whiskey-sellers and whiskey-
drinkers. If we have in our power to save drunk-
ards and do not do it, are we not responsible?
Promises and talk amount to nothing unless
backed by action. You may talk until the hills
grow dim with age but unless you act your talk is
but wind, and cheap wind at that. Oh that
whiskeyism would keep men from being put into
office! God forgive the man who would vote for
a whiskey-seller in the name of decency, in the
name of morality, in the name of reform—yet such
a thing has been done, and done here in Salt
Lake City. We have got to begin scratching
tickets. We can never get temperance and re-
form by praying to God and voting for liquor
men. We have a very good object lesson in
this city. I am prepared to say that until the
present men in office in this city change their
ways or are succeeded by better men, you will
have no laws to restrict the selling of liquor or up-
holding the public morality. The duty of the
church is to preach the Gospel of temperance
and enforce prohibition as much as possible.
There are enough votes among the churches to
turn the scale of political destiny either way. It
is our duty as Christians to turn them in favor of
prohibition."
	Dr. Mabry is reported as having taken issue
with the Rev. Dr. Carr on the question of the
church etc.
	"He was surprised, yes astounded that a
minister of the Gospel would say to the world
that the church was in league with the liquor
traffic. He objected to such a sentiment going
out from that body that the church had any such
connection; he entered a vigorous protest against
the assertion. The church had all it could do now
to fight the world, the flesh and the devil without
having to bear the burden of being allied with
liquor dealers. Because a member of the church
went astray was no reason why the claim should
be made that the church was wrong."
	Dr. Carr responded to the opposition as fol-
lows:
	"I want to state that I am backed in what I as-
serted by the statements of scores and hundreds
of people, who believe in placing the blame where
it belongs. When I spoke as I did I remembered
that I was speaking to an audience of Methodist
Episcopal ministers. I was just as much ashamed
as Dr. Iliff or Dr. Mabry could be, to state that
the church was in league with the liquor traffic.
All resolutions introduced without work, are wind
—all wind. The Christian church, by her ballots

[Column 2]

is in league with the liquor traffic. [Applause.]
Three-fourths of the people of Utah and the
United States vote to sustain whiskey men in
office. Some one has said tonight that the
whiskey men have $400,000,000 to fight their
battles. We have the votes; they buy our votes.
[Tremendous applause.] It is just as respectable
for a man to stand behind a bar and sell drinks to
damn souls into eternal hell as it is for men to
vote to put them in power to sell whiskey. [Ap-
plause.] I tell you the church is in league with
the liquor traffic. Votes count, and I don't sell
mine. Some of you cheered and cheered heartily
when Mr. Mabry resented the charge that the
church was iu league with the saloon. Yes you
all voted for whiskey men at the last election.
The church is not in league with the liquor traffic!
Oh, no! Sentiment is all right, but it must be
crystalized into action. Lord deliver us from evil.'
[Loud and prolonged applause."
	It is gratifying to learn that some protest is be-
ing made by those who have voted the present
incumbents into the City offices, against the man-
ner of allowing the laws to be disregarded. The
Mayor is excused however because the City
Charter does not confer upon him sufficient
authority to control, but in former days, there was
peace and safety in this City under the Charter;
granting however that a more lawless element has
migrated hither, it probably will be necessary to
amend that document. At any rate it is most de-
sirable that some strong measures should be in-
troduced for the security of the people. If the
saloons could go, then other evils that always fol-
low in their ranks would be abolished too. When
there are no saloons, vice and crime will not exist
as it does today. It is commendable in ministers
of religion that they not only speak, but take ac-
tion against such evils as are beginning to grow
to an alarming extent in this City once so peace-
ful and secure.
	The Latter-day Saints since their advent here
have sought to have protection and safety for all
citizens, and quiet reigned on the Sabbath day,
but how changed now, it no longer resembles the
old New England villages in this respect, as was
often remarked by strangers in the days gone by.
It is very evident now that "Liverals" bear rule.


