TRYING TO SOLVE THE PROBLEM.

	Republicanism, what is it? is it today what
it was a century ago? Webster’s unabriged
Dictionary does not give the definition of what
it is today. The next great author and de-
finer will be under the necessity of coining a
new word to give the full meaning of what
Republicanism is at present. I used to think
when a little girl listening to my father in
the exciting times when Dick Johnson of
Tenn., was a candidate for the Presidency and
the Editors were resorting to all kinds of
slander, for Johnson had a colored woman for
a wife which ’twas said was the cause of his
defeat some of his enemies published a poem
defining the political strife that was raging
as follows: that class of politicians that could
be bought and sold were mongrel puppy, whelp,
and curs of low degree. I thought then Re-
publicanism was the father of the Constitution
and the Declaration ot Independence covered
the whole platform of freedom and equal
rights to all of her citizens, are women citizens
if not what are they? Are they classed with
lunatics and crimnals, no wonder women are
contending for their rights when the adminis-
trators of this glorious government have en-
tered the opening wedge. They use political
chicanery pass unconstitutional bills, send out
Commissioners to confiscate Church property,
administer test oaths; those who have bought
their seat in the sacred halls of this govern-
ment with that demon alcohol for the purpose
of violating one single clause in the Constitu-
tion will pass away in dishonor and when they
meet the patriots gone before, their counten-
ance, will be fallen. Geo. Q. Cannon was
the first Apostle that ever graced the halls of
Congress, I feel safe in saying he never bought
one single vote, when votes can be bought and
sold such men are not qualified to keep
sacred and inviolate that heaven born inspired
Constitution that guarantees to all its citizens
the right to worship God according to the
dictates of their own conscience; when the iron
heel of oppression stood heavily upon the neck
of our Puritan Fathers, our Mothers brought
forth patriots and statesmen such as never
graced the earth, who gave their lives to be-
queathe that sacred boon liberty to their pos-
terity who are now in exile. Judge Zane
reports thirteen hundred American citizens
having been imprisoned and even women with


babes in their arms for their religion.
In the days of Herod when Jesus was
arraigned before rulers and Judges He opened
not His mouth like a sheep before the shearers,
He was dumb; when reading the impertinent
questions asked the Apostles I was forcibly re-
minded of the humility of the Savior. Women
can tell the Government how to solve the prob-
lem: let Congress pass a law requiring every
man to marry a wife and the great majority
of women petition that honorable body to
make it lawful for them to have a husband.
Motherhood is the brightest crown that woman
wears, for she not only fills the halls of Legis-
lation with her own sons, but the ranks of the
battlefield with the offspring of her own body and
yet she has not the franchise nor the privilege
of answering the end of her creation.
