A PLEASANT GATHERING.

	In remembrance of Sister Catherine M. Woolley
who passed away some years ago, her daughter
Mrs. Ardella Eardley invited a number of her
intimate friends of the days gone by, to meet at
her residence on the anniversary of her birthday,
Thursday November 19th. Sister Woolley in her
lifetime was quite noted for her hospitable enter-
tainments, dinner and tea parties etc.
	Her daughter Adella is likely to become quite
as celebrated as her mother in this respect, per-
haps more so, because in our day we have greater
and better facilities for entertaining than in the
early days in the valley. Brother and Sister
Woolley were Pennsylvanians and consequently
the party was pretty well sprinkled with people
from the Keystone state, there were more from
there at any rate than any other; there were a
few from New York state, about as many from
Mass., and one or two from Conn., two from
England, and several born in the valley including
four daughters and a son of Bishop Samuel
Woolley and his wife Catharine.


A sumptuous dinner was served to the guests,
and afterwards there was a sort of programme
rendered which opened with a written address by
Dr. Elivira S. Barney. The other speakers were
Sisters Presendia L. Kimball, Zina D. H. Young,
E. B. Wells, Maria L. Nebeker, E. B. Fletcher,
B. W. Smith, Elizabeth Webb, M. L. Woolley, E.
Nebeker, Sisters Pendleton and Starr, the last
lady eighty-eight years of age. Bishop Weiler
considerable over eighty, and Bishop Samuel
Woolley.
	All those who spoke testified to the many good
qualities and the excellent character of Sister
Woolley, her faithfulness and devotion as a wife
and mother, and her integrity to the Gospel she
had embraced in her youth.
	"Her children rise up and call her blessed her
husband also and he praiseth her" may be truly
said of Sister Catharine.
	During the afternoon President Jos. F. Smith,
who had been invited to the party, came in for a
few minutes, and shook hands' all around, though
he excused himself from dinner on account of
urgent﻿ business requiring immediate attention.
The party was a very enjoyable one to all pres-
ent and many things were said instructive and
comforting. Reminisences and experiences were
given that were intensely interesting, especially
that of Bishop Woolley in Nauvoo in regard to
the revelation upon plural marriage. Dr. Barney
spoke with much power in the gift of tongues and
Sister Zina Young gave the interpretation which
was very comforting.
	We cannot but congratulate Sister Eardley
upon her happy faculty of entertaining her guests
which is more than an accomplishment and gives
enjoyment to many.


[Column 1]

