WOMAN'S SUFFRAGE.

	The American Fork Woman's Suffrage
Association held a special meeting at that
place on Wednesday Oct. 28th. Pres. Hannah
Lapish in the chair. Sarah M. Kimball, Ter.
Pres., and Emily S. Richards, 1st. Vice Pres.
of Salt Lake City, were in attendance. A
large number of members were present. The
meeting house was tastefully decorated for the
occasion and presented an elaborate picture
of art and taste, amidst the portraits of Mrs.
Cady Stanton, Miss Susan B. Anthony, sat Mrs.
Kimball, Mrs. Lapish and Mrs. Evans, and
the stars and stripes floated upon every side.
	The best speakers in the Territory were
represented at the meeting, and their reports
of the progress of the Association were very
encouraging. Mrs. Greenhalgh a laborer for
fifty years for the suffrage cause, said the
women should have equal rights with men, and
there were political positions that women
should fill. Utah women should work for
their rights, for they of all women have more
freedom than any other women in the world.
She said she was proud of the work done by
the American Fork women.
	Ter. Pres. Kimball, said she was a suffragist,
but not a lecturer. Was not an advocate for
women's superiority but that women should
stand on equality with men. She then gave
her ideas concerning the mission of women.
	Electa Bullock, county president, com-
mended the American Fork Association upon
the good work they are accomplishing.
	Emily Richards said that women would
make the best jurors, especially where women
are to be tried. She did not wish men to think
that women wanted to rule,—they only want
equal rights with the sterner sex. Woman
need not neglect her household duties while
attending to politics. She thereby can make
home all the more cheerful.
	M. Garff then favored the assemblage with
the association's Sunday song, "Equal Right's
Banner."
	Joanna Patten said if women had the
right to vote there would not be so many dens
of iniquity to allure the young.
	Bishop Halliday then addressed the suff-
ragists in his usual interesting and instructive
manner. He complimented the association
upon the work they were doing. He claimed
if the women were to receive the franchise and
vote they would do much to suppress in-
temperance, said that is the evil of this place.
He hoped the women would be successful in
their attempt.
	Msr. Stewart said the time was at our door
when the women would have the right of
franchise.
	Mary A. Evans sang the very interesting
song, "Where is My Boy To-night."
	After which benediction was offered by
Joanna Patten and the meeting was dismissed.


