EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The Relief Society Conference of the Weber
Stake of Zion will be held in the Tabernacle in
Ogden on Thursday Dec. 10, and the Young
Ladies Conference, Friday 11th, there will be
two meetings each day commencing as usual at
10, a. m. and at 2 p. m.
	The Story, "In Rural England" is omitted in this
issue of the paper in order to publish the Answer
to "A Man's Advice About Woman Suffrage,"
which we consider of more consequence, and as
we asked to have answers written etc., we desire
to publish as the articles are handed in, so our
readers will please excuse the delay in the serial.
	On Saturday the Primary Associations of this
Stake will hold their Conference in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall. Presidents are earnestly
solicited to bring as many children as can con-
veniently come, and to invite all those who take
an interest in the Primary work to attend the
Conference.
	The Relief Society Conference of this Stake
of Zion will be held in the 14th Ward hall in this
city on Friday Dec. 18, meetings commencing at
10 a. m. and at 2 p. m. It is desirable that there
should be representative sisters from all the
branches in the County, and all members of the
Society and Bishops and others interested in this
benevolent work are cordially invited to attend.
	Thanksgiving Day passed off very quietly in
the city, family gatherings were quite numerous
and the usual elaborate dinners doubtless, with
happy greetings and grateful acknowledgements
of divine favors and blessings; which has been
a custom in America ever since the early days of
the Pilgrims. Certainly here in Utah this year
with the rich and abundant harvest of grains
fruits and cereals, we should not neglect to thank
Him, who sendeth the early and the latter rain,
and who causeth the seed to spring up and bear

[Column 2]

fruit in the season thereof, and through whose
blessing this barren land has become as a fruitful
field, and literally the desert has blossomed as the
rose.
	The 20th of November ult. was the anniversary
of the birthday of the veteran Mother in Israel,
Sister M. Isabella Horne, who has now reached
the advanced age of 73 years; and those who saw
her on that evening at the party in the theatre
must have been convinced that it is possible to
grow old gracefully. She was dressed in black
silk, wearing at the neck very elegant real lace,
and a corsage bouquet of autumn flowers which
became her well; her complexion is still clear
and fresh like that of most English women,
and her step is still bouyant and light. She is one
who believes in cheerfulness and also in mental
and physical activity. Her husband though
somewhat her senior bears his age remarkably
well, and they are passing together the evening
of their lives tranquilly.
	The Grand Charity Ball in the theatre on the
20th, of Nov., for the benefit of the Deseret
Hospital was a complete success. The Committee
were diligent and efficient as the result has
proven. The music by Careless orchestral band
was excellent, and the dancing itself was like a
beautiful poem. The young girls who had charge
of the decorating and draping the booths and
platform with flags, colored bunting, Chinese
lanterns, umbrellas, fans and other handsome
materials, did their work artistically and it had a
charming appearance. The flowers and vines in
handsome vases and baskets were very tastefully
arranged and the effect was gracefully pleasing.
The girls themselves were more lovely still, in
simple but pretty evening costumes, and alto-
gether it was a unique affair the rustic well of
lemonade was a new idea and filled a nook in the
corner which was very well patronized. The
button-hole bouquets as also those for ladies
made up by the dainty fingers of the lovely girls,
were very beautiful and sold at high prices; and
the delicious candy made by Misses Nell Clawson,
Allie Davis, and May Jennings, was soon dis-
posed of. In every respect the ball was a bril-
liant and enjoyable one, and the party for the
children the following day was also a pleasant
and interesting affair; the day was not very fine
yet the little folks seemed as happy as though
there had been sunshine outside, there were no
clouds on their faces, and the spectators in the
side seats and galleries enjoyed the music and
seemed serenely happy, watching the little ones
in the merry dance.


