EMERY STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of Emery Stake was held at Price, Oct.
16th, 1891. Pres. Anna U. Larsen presiding.
Singing "And are we yet alive." Prayer by
Bishop Frandsen. Singing "Now we'll sing
with one accord."
	Pres. Larsen said she felt thankful to meet
in another conference under such favorable
circumstances, and to be blessed with the pres-
ence of Pres. Zina D. H. Young. The written
reports of different wards were read and ac-
cepted, also the presidents of branches that
were present, gave in very interesting reports.
	Pres. Zina D. H. Young said she had been
pleased in listening to the reports. Said we
should teach our children righteousness, to
fear God and keep His commandments; said
when we were tried and afflicted we should re-
member that we have some one to lean upon,
a Supreme being, that is pleased to bless us if
we attend to our prayers, we are building
Temples for holy purposes and we should live
so we could have the privilege of performing
labors for the dead, as well as for the living.
Encouraged the sisters to attend to their meet-
ings, said the blessings of God will rest upon
the faithful and those that attend to their
duties.
	Bishop Pulsifer said he felt well in listening
to the remarks of Sister Zina Young, said we
should be awake to our duties and have our
lamps trimmed and burning so when the
trumpet sounds we shall be ready.
	The choir sang "We are on our way to
Zion's happy hill." Conference adjourned
until 2 p. m. Benediction by Bishop Olsen.
	Afternoon session: Singing "God attend
while Zion sings." Prayer by Brother Eld-
ridge. Singing "I'll praise my Maker while
I've breath." Counselor Josie Childs said we
should exercise faith and go before our
Heavenly Father for comfort and strength to
rear our children in truth and righteousness;
encouraged the sisters to cultivate patience to
bear with our children and with one another.
Closed her remarks by reading an interesting
and encouraging letter from Mrs. E. B. Wells.
	Coun. Ann Pulsifer said we all have a work

[Column 3]

to perform and we should do all in our power
and the Lord would shower His blessings upon
us.
	Sister Young said whatever is good for us
the Lord will give unto us, encouraged young
mothers to teach their children in the fear and
admonition of the Lord, said our families were
the centre of our happiness, the daughters of
Zion should strive to defend the kingdom of
God, to stand firm and be faithful to the end,
asked the blessings of God upon all.
	Bishop Olsen said we let many privileges
slip away from us which the Lord had given
us and which we will some time regret. En-
couraged the sisters to go on in their good work
and reap the blessings they had set out for.
	Coun. Arthur Horsley felt well repaid for
attending the sisters' conference, felt the spirit
of God was in their midst. Brother Eldridge
said he had been greatly edified in listening to
the remarks of Sister Young to the daughters
of Zion.
	Pres. Anna Larsen said she had rejoiced
with the sisters during this conference. Spoke
of her visit through the Stake, had been kindly
received by all, and the sisters came out to
the meetings and responded to the calls made
upon them; asked the mothers to teach their
children to pray, said the test was near when
it will be known who has oil in their lamps
and are ready to meet their Savior.
	The Stake officers were presented and
unanimously sustained. Choir sang, (Anthem)
"The Lord will comfort Zion." Conference
adjourned until April 1892. Benediction by
Brother Samuel Cox.


