The Resurrection Elder LeGrand Richards Of the Council of The Twelve F all the blessings and priv- () ileges the gospel of Jesus Christ has to offer its faithful members, the promised resurrection from the dead is one of the greatest, for it opens the door to an eternal association with loved ones and friends, which condition we have the capacity to understand and appreciate at least in part. Jesus was the greatest character who has ever lived upon the earth, for he was not only the Creator of this world, but of "worlds without number" (Moses 1:33), and he came into the world of his own free will and choice, and gave his life to atone for the sins of the world, so that what man lost through the transgression of Adam he might regain through Christ's great atoning sacrifice. Hence the words of the Apostle Paul: "As in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive" (I Cor. 15:22). The angels proclaimed the birth of Jesus as Israel's promised Messiah; he demonstrated in all his teachings and the miracles he performed, that he was the Son of God, and that all power was given unto him in heaven and upon earth, even the power to lay down his life and take it up again (John 10:17-18). But the final proof of all his clams came when the stone was rolled away from the door of the sepulcher, notwithstanding the presence of the Roman guard, and his body came forth after three Page 212 days, as he had said, and when the women approached the sepulcher and found the stone rolled away, and "found not the body of the Lord Jesus," they were much perplexed, and two men stood by them in shining garments and said: "Why seek ye the living among the dead? He is not here, but is risen." When the women reported this experience unto the apostles "their words seemed to them as idle tales, and they believed them not." (See Luke 24:1-12.) Even though Jesus had told his apostles that: "The Son of man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified, and the third day rise again" (Luke 24:7), they could hardly believe. How then could the world be expected to believe? "That we should live again is no more a miracle than that we live at all." Upon receiving the report from the women, Peter "ran unto the sepulchre; and stooping down, he beheld the linen clothes laid by themselves, and departed, wondering in himself at that which was come to pass" (Luke 24:12). As the apostles were gathered together:, Jesus himself stood in the midst of them, and saith unto them, Peace be unto you. But they were terrified and affrighted, and supposed that they had seen a spirit. And he said unto them, Why are ye