[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | June | Issue: 1 | Title: SALT LAKE CITY. | Author: Unknown]

SALT LAKE CITY.

[Reported by John Irvine, May 12, 1895.]
	PRESIDENT ANGUS M. CANNON then in-
troduced to the audience the,
	REV. ANNA H. SHAW,
		Who said that as they were traveling
along in the train, between here and Den-
ver, through the mighty mountains, and
over the vast plains, she realized more than
she ever did in her life what it had cost of
courage, of manhood, of womanhood, of
character, to open up and give to the world
this vast territory and bring it to its pres-
ent condition. She realized then as she
never did before the courage that must have
been in the hearts of the pioneers, the de-
termination of purpose that must have
actuated them, and the hope they saw lying
before them of a brighter and surer day for
the future. And all the way along she
wondered what she could talk about to the
vast congregation that she would meet in
the City of Salt Lake; her a stranger, and
the people whom she had to address having
ways and religious beliefs largely different
form her own. They differed religiously,

[Column 2]
they differed, perhaps, politically, they dif-
fered in many ways, and yet there came to
her the blessed reflection that they were all
the children of a great and common Father,
even God. In what ever way they might
differ, they were all reaching after the truths
of God, and reaching out after God if
haply He might be found; their hopes and
aspirations were all reaching in one direc-
tion. In one passage of scripture it was
written: "Be strong and of good courage;
be not afraid, neither be thou deceived, for
the Lord thy God is with thee wheresoever
thou goest." If there was anything that
must have inspired the hearts of the pioneers
as they crossed the plains it must have been
the consciousness that they would receive,
as a portion of God's children God's care.
This must have been the feeling of the
people as they journeyed to and opened up
this vast territory. Strength and courage
and faith were needed. 
	Certain things were required to make a
man or a woman's character. In some
places the word "man" did not mean wo-
man also; but in Utah she hoped it meant
both, and as such she would use it. The
word "man" had come by usage in the
East to mean woman also when it had refer-
ence to hard work, sacrifice and toil; but it
meant "man" only when glory and power
and comfort were referred to. She hoped
that in Utah it meant man and woman al-
ways in toil, in glory, in comfort, each and
altogether. It should refer to all human-
kind—man and woman—who are willing to
stand up for the truth, whatever that truth
might be. They all needed strength of
character. Entering upon the responsibili-
ties of statehood she believed it necessary
for every man and woman to be strong.
Women had been taught to be meek and de-
pendent, and not to feel that strength and
dignity which they ought as children of
God; but in this better day it means that
the sons of men are the sons of women.
No man could be strong unless the mothers
of men are strong, and therefore it was as
necessary for mothers to be strong as it was
for the fathers to be strong. It was as
necessary for mothers to display courage
and steadfastness to principle, as it was for
the fathers to exhibit the same character.
She believed that wherever God had a
strong and mighty people, He would lead
them wheresoever He willed, and no evil
would befall them if they put their trust in
Him. She knew that the influences of
environment were strong, and a great many
people in the world believed that these
could not be overcome. She believed, how-
ever, that very often men were as
responsible for circumstances as circum-
stances were for them. Many people had
come to feel that sin was not quite as much
sin as it used to be; that crime is a disease;
that a sinner is- a diseased person; and
people were not made to feel as much as
they ought to feel the power of responsibil-
ity; that every man and every woman stand
responsible to God for the deeds done in the
body. She believed in preaching every-
where the doctrine which made every man
and every woman feel the responsibility of

[Column 3]
lite, and the dignity and nobility of
character. In regard to the influences of
environment, she believed in the power of
the spirit of Almighty God being able to
lift men above such influences, and make 
them a power in this life, and a glory to God
in the life to come.
	Some things were necessary for every man
and woman in this direction, and the most
important of all was, that which would tend
to strengthen character—moral courage, the
courage that would enable every man and
woman to stand up for principle, for truth,
for right, as the right was revealed to them.
She knew there were a great many people
who said that women were weak and there-
fore ought to have no voice in the govern-
ment of the country; that they had no
muscle big enough to defend the country; 
and there were many who believed that
physical strength and powers were greater
than moral courage, but it should be re-
membered that the strength of nations did
not depend upon muscle, but upon the
head and heart of the people of the nation,
and surely no one could deny that women
were possessed of both of these. She
meant moral courage, which enabled men
and women, out of the current of thought
which is issued out upon the world, and
the many theories that are presented—to
dig out of these those thoughts and theories
that seemed to be true, and then stand up
and defend them with all the power that
God had given them; defend them with
every energy of their nature; defend them
though the world might not believe the
truth. She believed in the right of every-
body to search for the truth, and, having
found it, defend it regardless of all conse-
quences. Everybody did not do so. It
was hard to turn aside from those with
whom they had been associated in times
past. But it was the duty of every man
and woman to stand up for principle. The
strength of this great nation of ours did
not lie, as she said a moment ago, in armed
forces. It was only through the men of
moral corage—men, who having a con-
viction, would stand up and defend it to the
last—that we might help to come to the
people. Whenever a man told her that wo-
men were unfit to take part in the affairs of
the country, it was well to remind them that
there was another kind of power that was over
and above physical power. Here the lady
related an instance of a huge dog having
entered a church in which she was preach-
ing. It of course attracted the attention of
the whole congregation. Several men tried
to drag the dog to the door, but he returned
to the front, and it seemed as if he intended
to wend his way up to the pulpit. Now, to
have a dog in the pulpit would be a great
deal worse than having a woman there.
Finally, as the dog wandered up the aisle, a
little boy, about eight years of age, who
had that look upon his face that made one
feel that he was kind to all sorts of animals,
put out his hand, clapped the dog, talked
kindly to it, led it down the aisle to the door, 
and the dog trotted down the street as
though he were glad to go. Here was a
power mighter than physical power. It


[Column 1]
was the power which ruled in the Only Be-
gotten Son of God—love. It was the
power that made Him give up His life that
man might be led to a knowledge of God.
That power was essential today to bring
about a changed condition of things. It
was that power in the heart of man for his
fellow man that would lift them up nearer
to truth and nearer to right. But moral
courage and love were not all that was
needed. She presumed there were men
and women in the congregation who had
the courage to cross those vast plains. She
would like to ask what it was that made
them hold on day after day. At night there
was the burning fire, and all around the dry
dust of the plains, to consume them within
and without. What was it that made pos-
sible for them, with the darkness still
around, to lie down without fear of sur-
rounding danger. What was it made them
rise up the following morning, and go still
on and on towards the setting sun? Was it
not an unfaltering faith that God would
lead them to the land of promise where
they could build their future homes, and
where they could rest? Faith in God was
the inspiration of all great men of old.
Plutarch, 2,000 years ago, stated that he
found cities without theatres or gymnasiums
but never without places for sacrifice,
shrines and gods. That which had drawn
men together into societies, into cities and
into nations was faith in an over-ruling
Providence who holds the destinies of all
people in the hollow of His Almighty
hand. Faith in God ennobled man in dis-
tress, in adversity and in business.
	But men and women must not only have
moral courage, must not only have un-
faltering faith in God; there were higher
laws that must be obeyed. Every man and
woman realized that there were spiritual
laws toward which their spirits responded as
a flower did to the rays of the sun, and the
man or woman, who was strong in character
was the one who was obedient to the teach-
ings of the spirit. No man was fit to be a
general in the army who had not first been
a private and learned how to obey. No
man was fit to be a teacher who had not
himself the principles he taught to others.
No man was fit to be a leader in statescraft
who had not himself been taught. So, no
man or woman was fit for the work of God
in this world who had not first of all be-
come obedient to the teachings of God in
his or her own life. Uncomprising
obedience to the teachings of God was neces-
sary. Just think of that mighty man Lord
Byron—a man of masterful mind—a miracle
of poesy. In his soul was a harp so divinely
tuned that angel fingers would fain have
touched its strings. It pleased God to place
this mighty power in the hands of man,
but when God asked him for a song which
would have lifted men out of degradation,
out of the dark vales of despair, he took
the harp and sank it in the dust at the feet
of his selfish lusts, and the whole world
mourned the loss of the song. Each of
God's children had received from God a
soul similarly attuned, and if one would but
hearken he would hear His divine voice.
Christ promised that He not only would
own His own, but that His own would
know Him. They would know His voice,
and they would follow Him, and the voice
of a stranger they would not follow. And
so in all time the souls of men have been
divinely attuned to hear the voice of God.
Men may never have heard of the written
word, and yet they are not left without a

[Column 2]
witness of a God. Men's souls cry out after
God. There lies in each man's heart a
divine love—a love that can become so
limitless, so broad, so deep, so pure, so en-
during that men have changed its name and
called it God. This would endure after
the world had gone to decay, after the uni-
verse had passed away.
	Men and women, therefore, strong in
character, are those who possessed moral
courage—courage to stand up for principle,
for right, for truth; men and women who
have unfaltering faith in God, who have
zeal, and have become obedient to the higher
laws of God. These traits were requisite
to success; "and if you men and women,"
said the speaker, "are loyal to these
principles the time will come when your
state shall be a glory and an honor to the
Union of States and you shall be a glory to
the world."
	Everywhere help was needed to get rid
of the sin and wrong everywhere to be
found. Why was it so? Was it because
men loved to be bad? She did not believe
the worst man in the world loved to be bad.
He was led by certain impulses which he
believed would add to his pleasure and to
his comfort; but to believe that he did this
because he loved to be bad was a mistake.
She believed that the great majority of man-
kind were reaching up toward God, groping
in darkness and ignorance though they
might be. She had so much faith in
humanity and in God that she believed that
wherever, out of the darkness, a single soul
is turned, the light of God's spirit would
shine in that soul. And, so, believing in
humanity, believing in God, she looked for-
ward to the time when every knee would
bow in obedience to God, and men would
show by their love for the Almighty their
love for each other; their faith in Him by
their faith in each other; His willingness
to help them by their willingness to help
each other; "for how could we love God
whom we have not seen if we do not love
our brethren whom we have seen." Then
shall come the better day, and then the
better time. God would never leave us
alone, never forsake us. In all our battles
for truth He would be by our side. It was
our duty to seek Him morning, noon and
eventide. He who served God faithfully here
would reap the harvest by and by; he who
would serve God faithfully in disappoint-
ment, discouragement shall be given the
victory in the end.
	The speaker concluded by saying that
she was glad to have had the privilege of
coming here and of speaking a few words
to the people. She hoped that all would
go forth realizing the responsibility resting
upon them, and closed her address by a
prayer for the blessing of God to rest upon
all His children.
	President A. M. Cannon next introduced
MISS SUSAN B. ANTHONY.
	Who spoke as follows:—"It is just about
twenty-four years ago that I was present in
this great Tabernacle on the day upon
which you dedicated it to the service of the
Lord, and every nook and corner, of this
great building was packed on the occasion
with people from every part of the Ter-
ritory, many being unable to gain admit-
tance. It was the most magnificent gather-
ing I ever saw, and it was brought together in
the midst of the greatest trouble that any
people who were seeking to do right could
go through. In this quarter of a century
you have come to the splendid moment

[Column 3]
when you are about to pass from the period
of childhood of the government—from the
period that governors have been placed over
you by the national government, from the
period of the condition of living under
subjection—to the period when you are
about to pass into the condition of self-gov-
ernment; and I am glad to be here this
moment to congratulate you upon this great
and good result which has come to you, or
is abont to come to you. I want to con-
gratulate you all that in the making of the
fundamental law of your state in your Con-
vention you have ordained that justice
shall be done to all your people; that the
women who toiled by your sides, who came
over the plains with you men, who have
suffered all you have suffered, and a great
deal more than many will ever know, of
sacrifice and hardship—I congratulate you,
I say, that in your sense of justice and gen-
erosity you have incorporated in your con-
stitution, which is to be law of your state,
that women shall be by your side. Justice
is what every human being longs for, and,
therefore, I, today, congratulate you upon
this auspicious moment when the Territory
of Utah is about to become a state, that the
women who for the last few years have been
disfranchised—not by the law of the Ter-
ritory, but by national legislation—will be
restored to their just right. I know you
will go on and prosper, and that you will
become the greatest of the mountain states,
and it is destined to become one of the great
states of the nation. This is the third
mountain state that has ordained justice to
all the people, that has declared that their
government shall be genuine, not for a part
of the people; but for the whole com-
munity."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


