The Delivery of the Urim and Thummim to Abraham. Whether the sacred instrument of seership and revelation was obtained by Abraham before he filled the first part of his mission by leaving the land of Ur, or whether he made a trip back to this center of civilization and obtained from the Lord the Urim and Thummim, is not certain; but at all events he came into possession of it directly from the Lord. By means of the Urim and Thummim God gave Abraham a vision of the universe physical and spiritual. (See Abraham 3:4, 23.) Abraham Obtains the Priesthood. Abraham left the famine-smitten land of Haran and made his way to the land of Palestine where he received the Priesthood from the high priest Melchizedek after a victorious campaign of rescue. (See Genesis 14:8-18.) "Which Abraham received the Priesthood from Melchizedek who received it through the lineage from the fathers." (Doc. And Cov. 84:14.) This event was accompanied by gladsomeness and grattitude on the part of the ideal patriarch, Abraham was a born heir to the Priesthood. His ancestors had conferred the right to the Priesthood upon him as an inheritance. But he sought for an official conferring of this glorious authority. (Abraham 3, 4.) From Melchizedek he obtained what he had so long sought?the appointment as an agent of the Lord?and true to his high-grade nature he decided that in him the Lord should have an honest agent. "He gave him tithes of all." Genesis 14:20.) The Offering of Isaac. Abraham had already offered on the altar of obedience the home-presence of one of his sons?he had sent Ishmael away to be reared among the uncircumsized, and the patriarch's chief comfort was a promise from God that he would look after the boy and see to it that his life should be a part of the fulfilment of one of the great promises made to Abraham. (See Genesis 17:20.) And now when the heir of promise, Isaac, who was about fifteen years younger than Ishmael, when this boy, the only child of Sarah, was budding into manhood, God puts Abraham to a test through which he came to be known as one who loved the Lord with all his might, mind and strength, "a friend of God." The test was one to which no childless man could be put. 
 Abraham's fatherhood was to be made a special means of lifting him towards Godhood. The offering of Isaac was a double sacrifice: it included, in the mind of Abraham, the giving up of Isaac and the setting aside of an ethical ideal. Abraham was heart and soul opposed to the doctrine and practice of sacrificing human beings. He not only protested against it among his own people but he condemned it in Egypt to the extent of drawing down upon him the violence of the idolatrous rulers in that country. (See Abraham 1:5, 6, 7, 13.) Abraham, in obedience to his understanding of God's command, a superior loyalty to God, prepared to make an offering of his son which included the shedding of his blood. But when Isaac questioned concerning a lamb, he answered, "My son, God will provide. Himself a lamb for the burnt offering." The patriarch in this was a prophet, not a seer. Isaac was placed upon the altar; the knife was raised; and there the offering of Isaac ended. The call of the angel that interrupted the procedure was not a countermand of the word of God, but a revelation of what offering a son by a father meant. The ram in the thicket was an objective vindication of Abraham's stand against "human sacrifice." He was tested and found true to God, as he understood him, and the Lord intervened as he always will to prevent mistakes being made by those who are loyal to him. Abraham's son was saved and his ethical ideal preserved. B. Some OUTSTANDING FEATURES OF ABRAHAM'S LIFE AND CHARACTER, 1. He Merited the Beatitudes Pronounced in the Sermon on tlie Mount. A. He was poor in spirit and felt the constant need of God's help. There was no self-sufficiency about Abraham.: b. He was one of "those who mourn." He must have grieved over the wickedness of the world and the apostasy of his relatives. The banishment of a part of his family was a source of sorrow to him. (See Genesis 21:11.) He mourned the death of his wife. (See Genesis 23:2.) c. He was of "the meek," for what ever else meekness stands for it stands for teachableness, and Abraham stands in the front ranks of knowledge seekers. d. To know that Abraham belongs to the class '"'who do hunger and thirst after righteousness" one need but contemplate his own words recorded in Abraham 1:2: "Desiring to be a greater follower of righteousness." e. That he merits the blessing promised to those "who are merciful" is evident from his pleadings with the Lord to spare a city from destruction. (See Gen. 18:20, 38.) f. The selection of Abraham to be the lineal father of a race through which the mother of the "Only Begotten" should come is evidence of Abraham's being intrinsically one of the "pure in heart." The fact that Abraham had access to the presence of the Lord is ample proof of his being entitled to the sixth beatitude. G. "Blessed are the peacemakers for they shall be called the children of God." The peace-making quality of Abraham is brought to the front in his generous policy with Lot and in his refusal to accept the spoils of war. (See Genesis 13:7-12; 14:14, 24.) But the conclusive evidence that Abraham was entitled to the seventh beatitude is found in the fact that God said to him 'My son, my son." (See Abraham 3: 12.) h. In proof that Abraham merited "They which are persecuted for righteousness sake," we have the treatment he received at the hands of the idolators of his day and then the fact that he received the reward promised. Jesus in his parable of the rich man and Lazarus indicates that Abraham was among those of whom it can be said, "of these is the kingdom of heaven' and the Lord declares directly that Abraham is exalted in the kingdom of heaven. (See Doc. And Cov. 132:29.) Questions and Problems: 1. To Don About what time in the world's history did Abraham live? Describe the conditions that made the calling of Abraham necessary. What were the special desires and efforts of Abraham that gave him a preparedness for his call? What were the three features of the call of Abraham? Tell how Abraham obtained the Urim and Thummim. How is verse twenty-six of chapter three in the Book of 
 Abraham prominently related to the Latter-day Saint literature? 7. How did Abraham give evidence that his agency for God should be accompanied by absolute honesty with the Lord? 8. Discuss the difference between the offering of Isaac and the sacrificing of him. 9. What lesson was taught to the ages by the voice of the angel and the finding of the ram in the thicket? 10. Give proof that Abraham was entitled to the blessings pronounced in the Sermon on the Mount. 11. Discuss Hagar as the grand-mother of twelve princes. (Gen. 17:20.)