THE Relief Society Magazine

MARCH, 1916. No. 3
Mothers in Israel.
By Susa Young Gates.
MARY FIELDING SMITH, WIFE OF THE PATRIARCH HYRUM SMITH.
When the roll of the greatest women of modern times is called, we make no doubt that the name of Lucy Mack Smith will head that roll. The second name on that list will be that of Mary Fielding Smith, the wife of the Patriarch Hyrum Smith, and the mother of our President Joseph F. Smith. Her greatness, her power, her beauty and her charm have lain hidden in the modest silence and reserve with which she covered all her own acts. But the pages of history will yet record what she was, what she did and why she is entitled to this exalted rank.
Mary Fielding was born in Honidon, England, July 21, 1801, into the home of a pious, refined, intellectual and educated family. Mary was trained in all the arts of home making. She was given a liberal education for girls in those days, for not only did she receive the usual studies permitted to young ladies of that period, but she added that of music, literature and deportment, for she was a lovely singer, and knew something of that art, as well as cultured and refined in her manners and speech. She inherited a masterly control of financial problems, and early showed the initiative and self-control which later made her so self-reliant and resourceful. To sweetness of disposition, she added strength of mind and power of instant decision. But over all the strength and firmness of her soul she drew the veil of modest womanhood so closely that only her very own realized how great was her gift, how supreme were her powers.
Three of the Fielding family ? Joseph, Mercy and Mary ? decided to go out of the old home and try their fortunes in that new and promising land of Upper Canada. Joseph and Mercy came first, and settled in Toronto. No doubt their glowing accounts of conditions in that growing city hastened Mary's coming to join them in their quest for better possibilities and conditions than the


old country could afford to aspiring English youth. So Mary came over in 1834. Here they formed the acquaintance of President John Taylor, who was from England. John Taylor was a finely educated and eloquent Methodist reformer. On reaching Toronto, he gathered around him a sturdy congregation of independent religious worshipers. When Parley P. Pratt visited Toronto, in 1837, with his Gospel message, he found a company of intellectual and nobly molded souls who were awaiting that very summons, even if they were unconscious of the fact. There were President John Taylor and his beautiful and highly educated wife, Leonora Cannon Taylor; Joseph, Mercy and Mary Fielding, and Joseph Horne and his sterling wife, Mary Isabella, who was also destined to become one of the great mothers in modern Israel. These were all baptized. Mercy and Mary accompanied their brother Joseph Fielding to Kirtland in 1837, shortly after their baptism. We copy here a remarkably clear and scholarly letter written by Mary to her sister Mercy who was then in Canada. Mary was living in Kirtland, and was not then married. Her clear-cut sentences reveal a logical mind and an educated pen. The spirit of firm faith and unflinching testimony in this letter is an index to her whole character and after life:
Kirtland, 1837.
Mrs. Mercy R. Thompson, Care Wm. Lawes, Churchville.
My Dear Sister: I have this day received a very short note from you, and am glad to learn by Brother Babbitt that you are well and comfortably situated. He tells me he is expecting soon to return to Canada, so that it is unnecessary for me to say much, as he can inform you of the state of things here verbally better than I can by writing, but still I can hardly refrain from sending a few lines. I am now teaching school which I took for one month, the time expires tomorrow when I expect again to be at liberty, or without employment, but I feel my mind pretty much at rest on that subject. I have called upon the Lord for direction and trust he will open my way. I hope you will not fail to remember me at the Throne of Grace. I have no doubt but you have many trials, but I am inclined to think you have not quite so much to endure as I have. Be this as it may, the Lord knows what our intentions are, and he will support us and give us grace and strength for the day, if we continue to put our trust in him and devote ourselves unreservedly to his service. I do thank my heavenly Father for the comfort and peace of mind I now enjoy in the midst of all the confusion and perplexity and raging of the devil against the work of God in this place, for although there is a great number of faithful, precious souls, yea, the salt of the earth,
MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 125
yet it may be truly called a place where Satan has his seat; he is frequently stirring up some of the people to strife and contention and dissatisfaction with things they do not understand. I often have, of late, been led to look back on the circumstance of Korah and his company when they rose up against Moses and Aaron. If you read 16th chapter of Numbers you will there find the feelings and conduct of many of the people, and even the elders of Israel in these days, exactly described; whether the Lord will come out today in a similar way or not, I cannot tell. I sometimes think it may be so, but I pray God to have mercy upon us all and preserve us from the power of the great enemy, who knows he has but a short time to work in. We have had a terrible stir with Wm. Parrish the particulars of which I cannot here give you at length. We are not yet able to tell where it will end. I have been made to tremble and quake before the Lord and to call upon him with all my heart almost day and night, as many others have done of late. I believe the voice of prayer has sounded in the House of the Lord some days, from morning till night, and it has been by these means that we have hitherto prevailed, and it is by this means only that I for one expect to prevail. I feel more and more convinced that it is through suffering that we are to be made perfect, and I have already found it to have the effect of driving me nearer to the Lord and so suffering has become a great blessing to me. I have sometimes of late been so filled with the love of God, and felt such assurance of his favor as has made me rejoice abundantly indeed. My heavenly Father has been very gracious unto me, both temporally and spiritually. Since I commenced this letter, a kind sister has proposed my going to stay for a while with her to take charge of two or three children who have been in my school; they purpose giving something besides my board, and I think this will suit me better than a public school, if it is but little. I expect to go there in a day or two, and hope to be quite comfortable as I know the family to be on the Lord's side. The mother is a cousin of Brother Joseph's, and took care of him when a child. Their name is Dort. I felt much pleased to see Sisters Walton and Snider who arrived here on Saturday about noon, having left Brothers Joseph Smith and Brigham about twenty miles from Fairport to evade the mobbers. They were to come home in Dr. Avard's carriage, and expected to arrive about 10 o'clock at night, but to their great disappointment they were prevented in a most grievous manner. They had got within four miles of home, after a very fatiguing journey, much pleased with their visit to Canada and greatly anticipating the pleasure of seeing their homes and families, when they were surrounded with a mob and taken back to Painsville and secured, as was supposed, in a tavern where they intended to hold a mock trial, but to the disappointment of the wretches, the housekeeper


was a member of the Church, who assisted our beloved brethren in making their escape; but, as "Brother Joseph" says, not by a basket let down through the window, but by the kitchen door. No doubt the hand of the Lord was in it, or it could not have been effected. The day had been extremely wet and the night was unusually dark and you may try if you can to conceive what the situation was. They hardly knew which way to start as it had by that time got to be about ten o'clock. The first step they took was to find the woods as quickly as possible where they thought they should be safe, but in order to reach there, they had to lie down in a swamp by an old log, just where they happened to be. So determinedly were they pursued by their mad enemies in every direction, and sometimes so closely, that "Brother Joseph" was obliged to entreat "Brother Brigham" to breathe more softly if he meant to escape. When they would run or walk they took each other by the hand and covenanted to live and die together. Owing to the darkness of the night, their pursuers had to carry lighted torches, which was one means of the escape of our beloved sufferers, as they could see them in every direction while they were climbing over fences or traveling through bush or cane fields, until about 12 o'clock. After traveling, as they suppose, in this manner five or six miles, they found the road which led homeward and saw no more of their pursuers. After traveling on foot along muddy, slippery roads until near three in the morning, they arrived safely at home about fainting with fatigue. He, "Brother Joseph," told us that he knew in his heart when first taken that he would see home before sunrise, and thank God it was so. Notwithstanding all he had to endure, he appeared in the House of the Lord throughout the Sabbath, in excellent spirits, spoke in a very powerful manner, and blessed the congregation in the name of the Lord and I do assure you the Saints felt the blessing, and left the House rejoicing abundantly, returning their blessing upon him. Brother Rigdon, through his great weariness, and a small hurt, received from a fall, did not attend the House, but is now well. I suppose all these things will only add another gem to their crown. I did not think of taking up so much room in relating these circumstances, but I have been as brief as possible. I must now give you an account of a very affecting event which took place in Kirtland Sunday before last. You will, of course, remember a Wm. Clark, a miller who had been a great opposer of our Church, as he and his wife with some of their children and other friends were returning from the Presbyterian-Methodist House, in a very nice carriage. About one minute after they passed the House of the Lord, their horses took fright and started off the side of the hill, and hurt Mrs. C. so seriously as to prove fatal. She was buried on the Wednesday following. She has left six weeping children and a mourning husband. In-
MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 127
deed, on the day preceding the accident she was heard to speak very unfavorably of our Church, but is now gone to prove whether it is the Church of Christ or not. I greatly desire that this visitation may be sanctified to the family. I believe it is not quite a year since "Brother Joseph" told Wm. Clark that the curse of God would be upon him for his conduct towards him and the Church. You may remember that our people wished to purchase his place, but he would not sell it on any reasonable terms and therefore kept it, and has been a trouble in the place, but has prospered in business so much as to say he never prospered better, and told a person some time ago that he was ready for another of Joseph Smith's curses. I feel inclined to think he will never be heard to utter such words again. May the Lord forgive and save Mr. Clark, and all others who raise their hand against the Lord's anointed, for I see more clearly than ever that this is no trifling sin in the sight of God. No; it is as great as it was in any age of the world. I sincerely wish that all the preachers of the Church had a proper sense of their duty and privilege in this respect. I expect to hear from you soon and also from England. I hope I shall not be disappointed. Tell me if you and Brother Thomas have any idea of coming to Kirtland this fall. If the field of labor remains open there and unless a change should take place in the state of affairs here for the better, I should not advise it, however much I might desire to see you here. Scores of men are out of employ here even in the summer and how it will be in the winter I cannot tell. But I fear for Kirtland. Oh, that we as a people may be faithful, for this is our only hope, and all we have to depend upon. Give my kind love to Brother Thompson and all other friends, particularly Brother and Sister Laws. I thank them for their kindness to you. I thank Brother Thompson for his last kind letter. I should be pleased with another. I remain. Your very affectionate sister, Mary Fielding.
In November, 1837, Mary was married to the Patriarch Hyrum Smith, his first wife, Jerusha Borden, having died previously. Mary found herself the mother of five step-children, and never did a girl assume motherhood better prepared for such heavy initial responsibilities than Mary Fielding Smith. All her qualities of resourcefulness and courage were to be tested to the uttermost. And it may be truly said that no trial, not even the supreme one of final integrity to the Truth, ever found her lacking courage and the power of right decision. She did not live in borrowed light. She held supremely the light within her own soul. Just before her marriage, she was vitally interested in that


first mission that was taken by Heber C. Kimball to open the European country for the preaching of the gospel of Christ. Her brother Joseph was the companion of Brother Kimball, who planned to visit their brother, Rev. James Fielding, in Preston, where the English mission was opened. Mary and her sister Mercy who had married the Prophet's friend and one-time secretary, Robert B. Thompson, accompanied the party to Fairport. We are told that Brigham Young, Levi Richards, with Brother Kimball's wife, Vilate, and Brother Greene's wife, Rhoda (who was the sister of Brigham Young), with Mary Fielding and Mercy Thompson, all accompanied Heber C. Kimball and Orson Hyde down the river to Fairport. As Brother Kimball was about to separate from this company, without a dollar in his pocket, and sick, yet not discouraged, Mary Fielding, with her characteristic modesty and the quiet generosity which was so much a part of her nature, stepped up to him and put five dollars in his hand. It was a God-send, and paid his and Brother Hyde's passage to Buffalo.
From this time, Mary's history is merged in that of her greater husband, Hyrum Smith. She shared his trials, she sweetened his daily life with her wifely ministrations, and above all she relieved him of every anxiety connected with the care and rearing of his five motherless children. For the heart of her husband could safely trust in her.
On the first day of November, 1838, while she was in a delicate condition of health, indeed, thirteen days before her oldest child, Joseph Fielding, was born, she was informed that her husband had been betrayed by Col. George M. Hinkle into the hands of the mob at Far West, and on the day following they told her that she "had seen her husband for the last time." Her son Joseph Fielding Smith, our present President of the Church, was born to his tortured mother while under this black cloud of oppression. She lingered on that bed of affliction for four months, unable to rally from the blow which had been dealt her life-forces. Three months after, she was taken in a wagon on her sick bed to see her husband, then confined with the Prophet Joseph Smith as a prisoner in Liberty jail, Clay County, Mo. Still confined to her bed, she was driven in her wagon from Far West out of the state of Missouri, together with the rest of the "Mormon" refugees. After untold sorrows and pains, trials and afflictions, she, together with the little family which she held together with Spartan fortitude, reached Quincy, Ill., where she was at last joined by her loving husband on April 22, 1839. What a picture of persecution and human suffering is confined in that six months of separation. You who go quietly in and out of beautiful and safe homes, can you realize what this frail and loving mother in Israel endured during that soul-racking period? Oh, daughters of Zion, stop and reflect upon the foundation stones
MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 129
laid for us by those heroic mothers who planted their feet with the blood of sacrifice and builded their walls in their own bones and bodies. What scenes float before the vision as these incidents unroll before our eyes. No wonder the Prophet asked to have the vision blotted out from his eyes.
In May, 1839, the Patriarch moved his family to Nauvoo, where Mary thereafter resided till the expulsion from Nauvoo. Some time after arriving in Nauvoo, Mary gave birth to her second and last child, Martha Ann, who is still living in Provo, and who is later spoken of in this sketch.
In 1841, Mary set in motion the organization of a simple and modest fund which was called "The Sisters' Penny Subscription" for the purpose of buying nails and glass for the Nauvoo Temple. So quietly did this plan operate that only the briefest mention is made of it in the periodicals of the day but it worked something of a financial miracle, for hundreds of dollars were thus collected. Who may say that this initiative on the part of Mary Fielding Smith was not productive of much of the later organized effort put forth by the women of the Church? The Relief Society was not then in operation; this fund was specifically directed for Temple purposes, and it accomplished its end. We who fancy that today sees the full flower of the powers and genius of woman for organized effort, would do well to study the annals of the earlier heroines of the Church who laid their foundation stones so deep and broad that it is given to us simply to build upon them as best we may. Think of this burdened woman, the mother of two children, the step-mother of four more, and the caretaker of all the poor unfortunates whom her tender-hearted husband brought constantly into her welcoming home ? think of this delicately reared lady, herself frail but like sprung steel in composition, think of her ye daughters of Zion, going about to gather in pennies from the women of Nauvoo to buy the glass and nails for that wondrous Temple in Nauvoo. Our teachers of today who go out from time to time ministering and teaching under the most comfortable modern conditions, can scarcely realize the struggles made in those early days by these heroic mothers in Israel.
When the scenes and sufferings incident to the martyrdom fell upon the families of the Prophet Joseph Smith and his devoted brother Hyrum, who may tell the agony of suspense, the torture of fear which shook the breasts of the women who waited in vain for that release from prison, which had been miraculously given so often before. Few thought that the arrest would terminate fatally, for the Prophet had been so imprisoned and haled into courts over forty times by his enemies. Yet this time, the Prince and powers of the air held sway and the blood of the martyrs cried from the ground of Illinois.


Who can guess the gloom and misery which filled the home of Mary Fielding Smith, when her husband was brought cold in death to receive the last rites from his friends. But here and now was the supreme test of that majestic spirit of the martyred Patriarch's wife, Mary. Was she a true convert to the gospel as preached by Christ, and afterwards revealed again to the earth through the Prophet Joseph Smith? Had she the courage of her conversion? Would she now falter and turn aside in this awful crisis? We do not know just what followed the martyrdom in the homes of the wives of those great heroes, but this we do know that when the Twelve, led by Brigham Young, decided to come out to the West, the widow of the Prophet Joseph, Emma Hale Smith, refused to accompany them on this journey. She was approached by the messenger of President Brigham Young three times, for Bishop Whitney often told the story in the presence of our honored president of the Relief Society, Emmeline B. Wells, of how President Brigham Young sent him (Bishop Whitney) to offer every help and assistance to Sister Emma Smith to convey her and her household with the body of the Church to their first stopping place ? Winter Quarters. President George A. Smith related many times, in the presence of his nephew, Joseph F. Smith, now president of the Church, the story of how he (Brother George A. Smith) went to his Aunt Emma, seeking to reconcile her to President Brigham Young, offering every help and inducement to come to Nauvoo with the Twelve and the body of the Church. But she was obdurate, and continued her refusal. No doubt, she felt she had ample justification, but whatever her motive, she failed in this supreme test. But the wife of the Patriarch did not fail ? she triumphed gloriously. The Church offered every inducement to the Prophet's widow to come West but "Widow" Smith, the widow of the Patriarch, was left alone to make her plans and to devise her own schemes. This test was the cap-sheaf of all her other trials and tests. But she rose supremely to the occasion, for her whole life of self-sacrifice, toil, fortitude, faith and integrity had prepared her for this hour. If she had failed, her beloved son would not now be the President of this Church. She did not, she could not fail ? for she had the divine light of testimony in her own soul.
Mary Fielding Smith was not only subjected to the bitter trials of her violent widowhood and left with the care of her own two little children, and the care and charge of her step-children whom she guarded and loved as her own, she was also left alone, as it were to fight her life-battles. The position of the Church itself was no doubt sufficient excuse for her forgotten condition, for all were poor, all were weighed down with sorrow and affliction. Yet in the midst of these most trying circum-
MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 131
stances, the faith and courage of this woman of God shone out like a star of hope and a bow of radiant promise. Yet she was beset by foes without and fears within. One day her little son Joseph sat in the upper chamber of her Nauvoo home into which chamber ran the pipe of the sitting-room stove below, thus making it possible to hear distinctly the voices of those below in the sitting room. The boy knew that his brother John had left secretly, or at least quietly, in the company of Brother Heber C. Kimball, with the first company of refugees from Nauvoo who crossed the ice to begin their journey for the unknown West. He knew also that his mother would follow with her little family sooner or later. But he was startled to hear the voice of his uncle William Smith below one day, lifted in angry expostulation with his loved mother for permitting her son John to be "spirited away." The boy heard his uncle demand the return of the Patriarch's son, and as the mother quietly and firmly refused to accede to the angry man's insensate demand, he became so violent and abusive in his language that the boy upstairs longed for age and maturity in order that he might defend his helpless mother from such unwarranted and bitter assaults. And still Mary Fielding Smith remained firm and unshaken in her allegiance to the gospel, and she accepted without question the succession of the Twelve to the leadership of the Church. Neither the cajolery nor the threats of William Smith could move her from her testimony or her determination. This invincible faith and determination, if nothing else were at hand, would convince a candid mind that she was one of the world's greatest souls.
It would be unjust at this time not to mention the loving ministrations and support of her sister, Mercy Fielding Thompson, who had been a widow for some time. Mercy and Mary were often called the Mary and Martha of the modern dispensation. Yet both were spiritual, both were temporal. And both were beautiful in spirit and in body. Mercy lived with her sister at this time, and their brother Joseph, although he had two wives and a large family of his own to look after, never failed these young widows.
Another tragic circumstance which occurred at this time serves to illustrate the unflinching fortitude of this great woman. One day the Prophet's wife Emma sent word to Mary that she was going to disinter the bodies of the martyrs, and place them in a hidden spot, as they feared removal by others. Then, late in the afternoon word came to Mary that the plan was postponed. So she went quietly to bed with her children. About midnight, she was suddenly impressed that there was something wrong. She got up, dressed, threw a shawl over her head and ran down to the burial spot, where her husband lay. She caught the conspirators in the act of removal. And she refused to move or be put off. She


remained until she saw the removal of the bodies, and knew exactly where they were placed in their new burial. Her small son Joseph himself visited the sacred yet now desecrated spot the next morning, saw the open grave, and noted that his uncle Don Carlos' coffin had been broken off at one end in their haste of the night before, exposing the earth worms in their ravages of what was once a loved human form. What scenes of woe and horror has this widow and her little son not witnessed? And still she remained firm in her allegiance to the gospel.
The reader will ask ?"Where are these consecrated Ones now buried? Who can tell? When you hear that wondrously plaintive song, "The Unknown Grave," it pictures the mystery and the loneliness of the last resting place of the greatest Prophets the world has seen, save and excepting only the Lord Jesus Christ. It is a mystery! If we all knew where these beloved bodies were laid, when the time comes for their resurrected bodies to arise ? if that event has not already long since taken place ? there would be those who might dig up the sacred remains to attempt to prove what would not be possible.
To read the epic of "Widow" Smith's journey from Winter Quarters to the Valley as written for the old Faith-promoting Series, is to know what woman can do and what woman has done in the face of every opposing foe to her progress and independence. We quote the following excerpts from that narrative:
"At the death of the Patriarch, June 27th, 1844, the care of the family fell upon his widow, Mary Smith. Besides the children there were two old ladies named respectively, Hannah Grinnels, who had been in the family many years, and Margaret Brysen. There was also a younger one, named Jane Wilson, who was troubled with fits and otherwise afflicted, and was, therefore, very dependent, and an old man, named George Mills, who had also been in the family eleven years, and was almost entirely blind and very crabbed. These and others, some of whom had been taken care of by the Patriarch out of charity, were members of the family and remained with them until after they arrived in the valley. 'Old George,' as he was sometimes called, had been a soldier in the British army, had never learned to read or write, and often acted upon impulse more than from the promptings of reason, which made it difficult, sometimes, to get along with him, but because he had been in the family so long ? through the troubles of Missouri and Illinois ? and had lost his eyesight from the effects of brain fever and inflammation, caused by taking cold while in the woods getting out timbers for the temple at Nauvoo, Widow Smith bore patiently all his peculiarities up to the time of her death. Besides those I have mentioned, Mercy R. Thompson, sister to Widow Smith, and her daughter, and Elder James Lawson were also members of the family.
MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 133
"On or about the 8th of September, 1846, the family, with others, were driven out of Nauvoo by the threats of the mob, and encamped on the banks of the Mississippi River, just below Montrose. There they were compelled to remain two or three days, in view of their comfortable homes just across the river, unable to travel for the want of teams, while the men were preparing to defend the city against the attack of the mob. They were thus under the necessity of witnessing the commencement of the memorable "Battle of Nauvoo,' but, before the cannonading ceased, they succeeded in moving out a few miles, away from the dreadful sound of it, where they remained until they obtained, by a change of property at a great sacrifice, teams and an outfit for the journey through Iowa to the Winter Quarters of the Saints, now Florence, Nebraska. Arriving at that point late in the fall, they were obliged to turn out their work animals to pick their living through the Winter, during which some of their cattle, and eleven out of their thirteen horses died, leaving them very destitute of teams in the spring.
"In the fall of 1847, Widow Smith and her brother, Joseph Fielding, made a trip into Missouri, with two teams, to purchase provisions for the family. Joseph, her son, accompanied them as teamster; he was then nine years of age. The team he drove consisted of two yoke of oxen, one yoke being young and only partially broken, which, with the fact that the roads were very bad with the fall rains, full of stumps in places, sometimes hilly, and that he drove to St. Joseph, Missouri, and back, a distance of about three hundred miles, without meeting with one serious accident, proves that he must have been a fair teamster for a boy of his age.
"In the Spring of 1847, George Mills was fitted out with a team and went in the company of President Young as one of the Pioneers to the Valley; and soon a portion of the family in the care of Brother James Lawson emigrated from 'Winter Quarters,' arriving in the Valley that Fall.
"In the Spring of 1848, a tremendous effort was made by the Saints to emigrate to the Valley on a grand scale. No one was more anxious than Widow Smith; but to accomplish it seemed an impossibility. She still had a large and comparatively helpless family. Her two sons, John and Joseph, mere boys, being her only support ? the men folks, as they were called. Brother J. Lawson and G. Mills, being in the Valley with the teams they had taken. Without teams sufficient to draw the number of wagons necessary to haul provisions and outfit for the family, and without means to purchase, or friends who were in circumstances to assist, she determined to make an attempt, and trust in the Lord for the issue. Accordingly every nerve was strained, and every available object was brought into requisition. 'Jackie' was


traded off for provisions, cows and calves were yoked up, two wagons lashed together, and teams barely sufficient to draw one was hitched on to them, and in this manner they rolled out from Winter Quarters some time in May. After a series of the most amusing and trying circumstances, such as sticking in the mud, doubling teams up all the little hills, and crashing at ungovernable speed down the opposite sides, breaking wagon tongues and reaches, upsetting, and vainly endeavoring to control wild steers, heifers and unbroken cows, they finally succeeded in reaching the Elk Horn, where the companies were being organized for the plains.
"Here Widow Smith reported herself to President Kimball, as having 'started for the Valley.' Meantime, she had left no stone unturned or problem untried, which promised assistance in effecting the necessary preparations for the journey. She had done her utmost, and still the way looked dark and impossible.
"President Kimball consigned her to Captain ___'s fifty. The captain was present; said he, 'Widow Smith, how many wagons have you?' Seven. " 'How many yoke of oxen have you?' " 'Four, and so many cows and calves.' " 'Well,' said the captain, 'Widow Smith, it is folly for you to start in this manner; you never can make the journey, and if you try it, you will be a burden upon the company the whole way. My advice to you is, go back to Winter Quarters and wait till you can get help.'
"This speech aroused the indignation of Joseph, who stood by and heard it; he thought it was poor consolation to his mother, who was struggling so hard, even against hope as it were, for her deliverance and if he had been a little older it is possible that he would have said some very harsh things to the captain; but as it was, he busied himself with his thoughts and bit his lips.
"Widow Smith calmly replied, 'Father (he was an aged man), 'I will beat you to the Valley and will ask no help from you either!'
"This seemed to nettle the old gentleman, for he was of high mettle. It is possible that he never forgot this prediction, and that it influenced his conduct towards her more or less from that time forth as long as he lived, and especially during the journey.
"While the companies were lying at Elk Horn, Widow Smith sent back to Winter Quarters, and by the blessing of God, succeeded in buying on credit, and hiring for the journey, several yoke of oxen from brethren who were not able to emigrate that year, (among these brethren one Brother Rogers was ever gratefully remembered by the family). When the companies were ready to start, Widow Smith and her family were somewhat
MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 135
better prepared for the journey and rolled out with lighter hearts and better prospects than favored their egress from Winter Quarters.
"Passing over from the Platte to the Sweetwater, the cattle suffered extremely from the heat, the drought, and the scarcity of feed, being compelled to browse on dry rabbit brush, sage brush, weeds and such feed as they could find, all of which had been well picked over by the preceding companies. Captain ___'s company being one of the last, still keeping along, frequently in sight of, and sometimes camping with President Kimball's company which was very large. One day as they were moving along slowly through the hot sand and dust, the sun pouring down with excessive heat, toward noon one of Widow Smith's best oxen laid down in the yoke, rolled over on his side, and stiffened out his legs spasmodically, evidently in the throes of death. The unanimous opinion was that he was poisoned. All the hindmost teams, of course, stopped, the people coming forward to know what was the matter. In a short time the captain, who was in advance of the company, perceiving that something was wrong, came to the spot. Perhaps no one supposed that the ox would ever recover. The captain's first words on seeing him, were:
" 'He is dead, there is no use working with him; we'll have to fix up some way to take the Widow along, I told her she would be a burden upon the company.'
"Meantime Widow Smith had been searching for a bottle of consecrated oil in one of the wagons, and now came forward with it, and asked her brother, Joseph Fielding, and the other brethren, to administer to the ox, thinking the Lord would raise him up. They did so, pouring a portion of the oil on the top of his head, between and back of the horns, they all laid hands upon him, and one prayed, administering the ordinance as they would have done to a human being that was sick. Can you guess the result? In a moment he gathered his legs under him, and at the first word arose to his feet, and traveled right off as well as ever. He was not even unyoked from his mate. The captain, it may well be supposed, heartily regretted his hasty conclusions and unhappy expressions. They had not gone very far when another and exactly similar circumstance occurred. This time also it was one of her best oxen, the loss of either would have effectually crippled one team, as they had no cattle to spare. But the Lord mercifully heard their prayers, and recognized the holy ordinance of anointing and prayer, and the authority of the Priesthood when applied in behalf of even a poor dumb brute! Sincere gratitude from more than one heart in that family, went up unto the Lord that day for His visible interposition in their behalf. At or near a place called Rattlesnake Bend, on the Sweet-


water, one of Widow Smith's oxen died of sheer old age, and consequent poverty. He had been comparatively useless for some time, merely carrying his end of the yoke without being of any further service in the team; he was therefore no great loss.
"At the last crossing of the Sweetwater, Widow Smith was met by James Lawson, with a span of horses and a wagon, from the Valley. This enabled her to unload one wagon, and send it, with the best team, back to Winter Quarters to assist another family the next season. Elder Joel Terry returned with the team. At this place the captain was very unfortunate, several of his best cattle and a valuable mule laid down and died, supposed to have been caused by eating poisonous weeds. There was no one in the camp who did not feel a lively sympathy for the captain, he took it to heart very much. He was under the necessity of obtaining help, and Widow Smith was the first to offer it to him, but he refused to accept of it from her hands. Joseph sympathized with him, and would gladly have done anything in his power to aid him; but here again, it is painful to say, he repulsed his sympathy and chilled his heart and feelings more and more by insinuating to others, in his presence, that Widow Smith had poisoned his cattle! Saying, 'Why should my cattle, and nobody's else, die in this manner? There is more than a chance about this. It was well planned,' etc., expressly for his ear. This last thrust was the severing blow. Joseph resolved, some day, to demand satisfaction not only for this, but for every other indignity the captain had heaped upon his mother.
"On the 22nd of September, 1848, Captain ___'s fifty crossed over the "Big Mountain," when they had the first glimpse of Salt Lake Valley. It was a beautiful day. Fleecy clouds hung round over the summits of the highest mountains, casting their shadows down the valley beneath, heightening, by contrast, the golden hue of the sun's rays which fell through the openings upon the dry bunchgrass and sage-brush plains, gilding them with fairy brightness, and making the arid desert to seem like an enchanted spot. Every heart rejoiced and with lingering fondness, wistfully gazed from the summit of the mountain upon the western side of the valley revealed to view ?the goal of their wearisome journey. The ascent from the east was gradual, but long and fatiguing for the teams. It was in the afternoon, therefore, when they reached the top. The descent to the west was far more precipitous and abrupt. They were obliged to rough-lock the hind wheels of the wagons, and, as they were not needed, the forward cattle were turned loose to be driven to the foot of the mountain or to the camp, the "wheelers" only being retained on the wagons. Desirous of shortening the next day's journey as much as possible ? as that was to bring them into the Valley? they drove on till a late hour in the night, over very rough roads
MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 137
much of the way, and skirted with oak brush and groves of trees. They finally camped near the eastern foot of the "Little Mountain." During this night's drive several of Widow Smith's cows ? that had been turned loose from the teams ?were lost in the brush. Early next morning John returned on horseback to hunt for them, their service in the teams being necessary to proceed.
"At an earlier hour than usual the captain gave orders for the company to start ? knowing well the circumstances of the widow, and that she would be obliged to remain till John returned with the lost cattle ? accordingly the company rolled out, leaving her and her family alone.
"It was fortunate that Brother James Lawson was with them, for he knew the road, and if necessary could pilot them down the canyon in the night. Joseph thought of his mother's prediction at Elk Horn, and so did the captain, and he was determined that he would win this point, although he had lost all the others, and prove her predictions false.
"I will beat you to the Valley, and ask no help from you either," rang in Joseph's ears; he could not reconcile these words with the possibility, though he knew his mother always told the truth, but how could this come true? Hours to him, seemed like days as they waited, hour after hour for John's return. All this time the company was slowly tugging away up the mountains, lifting at the wheels, geeing and hawing, twisting along a few steps, then blocking the wheels for the cattle to rest and take breath, now doubling a team, and now a crowd rushing to stop a wagon, too heavy for the exhausted team, to prevent its rolling backward down the hill, dragging the cattle along with it. While in this condition, to heighten the distress and balk the teams, a cloud, as it were, burst over their heads, sending down the rain in torrents as it seldom rains in this country, this threw the company into utter confusion. The cattle refused to pull, would not face the beating storm, and to save the wagons from crashing down the mountain, upsetting, etc., they were obliged to unhitch them, and block all the wheels. While the teamsters sought shelter, the storm drove the cattle before it through the brush and into the ravines, and into every nook they could find, so that when it subsided it was a day's work to find them, and get them together. Meantime Widow Smith's cattle ? except those lost ? were tied to the wagons, and were safe. In a few moments after the storm, John brought up those which had been lost, and they hitched up, making an early start as they usually did in the mornings, rolled up the mountain, passing the company in their confused situation, and feeling that every tie had been sundered that bound them to the captain, continued on to the Valley, and arrived at "Old Fort," about ten o'clock on the night of the 23rd of September, all well and


thankful. The next morning was the Sabbath, and the whole family went to the bowery to meeting. Presidents Young and Kimball preached. This was a meeting long to be remembered by those present. That evening Captain ___ and his company arrived, dusty and weary, too late for the excellent meetings and the day of sweet rest enjoyed by the widow and her family. Once more, in silver tones, rang through Joseph's ears, 'Father, I will beat you to the Valley, and will ask no help from you either.'
After arriving in the Valley, Sister Smith at once set about securing a home for her large and dependent family. By diligent exchange and barter, she managed to live through the first winter. She made arrangements to take up a farm in the spring of 1849, about six miles south of the city, in what was then Sugar House Ward. She knew how to organize all her forces, and in the course of two years she had made a comfortable home, and had secured quite a bit of valuable property. This was accomplished with the least possible friction and fuss, only those nearest to her knowing just how she did this remarkable thing, and only those guessing at what a cost to her own life and vitality. Where men were going about seeking charity, and asking for a day's work or a cup of food at the hands of the Church, this indefatigable woman gathered enough to leave her family in comfortable circumstances. She was the soul of thrift and economy, of industry and tireless energy. She worked early and late, and she taught others around her, no matter how small her children might be, the lesson of frugal industry and constant toil. She has many descendants today who have inherited these priceless gifts. She was not only thrifty and honest in all her dealings with her fellow-men, but she was equally exacting in her relations with the Lord. She was an honest and generous tithe-payer. Her products and her increase were inexorably tithed to their latest iota. Not only did she pay her tithing in kind, but she paid it
[IMAGE: PRES. JOSEPH F. SMITH As a young man. Taken in Denmark in 1875.]
MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 139
also out of the first and finest of her fruitage. The coming of Widow Smith to the old tithing office where now stands the Hotel Utah, with her wagon-load of potatoes or produce, was the signal for a grand scramble among the patrons and clerks of that office. For everybody knew that the very finest potatoes in her pit had been carefully selected out by herself and her sons to bring to the Tithing Office. And certain men who got their living from that office had left standing orders for all of Widow Smith's tithing to be kept for their own consumption. Still, knowing this, for it was told her, this honest and God-fearing woman went quietly on her business and always paid of her very best selected stock into the storehouse of the Lord, regardless of who might profit thereby. She knew she would lose nothing but had everything to gain.
One day, she came up with a particularly inviting load of provisions, and the clerk of the Office said to her, "Widow Smith, it's a shame for you, a struggling widow with many depending on you for support, to come here with your tithing. Look at so-and-so's sons; they toil not neither do they spin; ride fast ponies and idle away their time, while you help to support them, for their father lives out of this office. You ought to be supported by the Church, instead of paying your hard earnings here."
"Brother," she said, sternly, "would you deprive me of my blessing? It is nothing to me what others do, as for me and my house we will serve the Lord."
The strenuous labors of this naturally frail woman, finally had their effect. She came to the city in the early fall of 1852, when she was but 51 years of age, and went to the home of President Heber C. Kimball for a short visit. Here she was taken ill, but exercised her indomitable faith to be healed once more. It was not to be. She lingered in great distress for several weeks, and, finally, on Sept. 21st, 1852, she breathed her last surrounded with her loving friends and her adoring family. Her last expressed wish was to live to rear her little flock, and her only concern seemed to be the welfare of others. She had never considered her own comfort or well-being, but had served her loved ones all her life. And now, her weary hands laid down the heavy burden, while the mighty spirit still cried out for more time in which to strive, to suffer and to serve. What a majesty of going was there. No thought but service, no desire but love. Mary Fielding Smith was a saint, if ever one lived on this troubled earth. She was a heroine in her own right, and by reason of her greatness of spirit and soul. She was beautiful to look upon. When she and her equally handsome sister, Mercy, came to Kirtland in 1837, trim, straight, dark-haired and dark-eyed, with


delicately blooming cheeks and finely molded, graceful figures, clad in dainty silks of modest grace, they were the observed of all observers. Their refined and stately ways made them a shining mark in Kirtland society. Wherever they went they were spoken of as those "lovely English girls." Refinement, strength, courage, integrity, modesty and infinite sweetness and tenderness, these were the prevailing characteristics of the Fielding sisters. We wish there were more like them today.
Mary Fielding Smith was married late in life, but she has given to this Church and to this country a progeny that has become world-wide in some of its members. She has given to the state descendants of so clean, so honorable, so vigorous and manly a character that their like is scarcely found in all Israel. She has bequeathed to the female descendants her beauty, her slender proportions, her intense activity, her honor, her exquisite courage in moral affairs. Who that has dared to assail even the least of them with a charge of dishonor or incompetency? And when we consider the debt this Church owes her for just that one son of hers ? our beloved President Joseph F. Smith ? we wonder that motherhood could be made on this earth so glorious. No man, no leader since the "Prophet" and Brigham Young, has been so respected, so loved, so reverenced, and so followed as has her splendid son, our leader of today. President Joseph F. Smith is the first president of the Church who was born under the covenant. If mothers would learn how this great mother in Israel achieved this marvel of motherhood, let them read these simple annals. Observe closely what this mother did, how she wrought, and above all, how she fortified herself to stand the tests of time, widowhood, poverty, loneliness, neglect, vituperation, scorn, and finally death ? for she, like her honored husband, sealed her testimony in her dying words to her children.
Of such is the kingdom of heaven.
We add to this narrative the names of her two children, and their descendants. We need say little of President Joseph F. Smith, for he is before the people daily, and his life is an open book. Yet few realize how closely he has followed the wise examples and teachings of his great mother. He is prudent, careful, generous to a fault, sympathetic to all helplessness and suffering, wise, modest with the true humility of the spirit, reticent, instant in decision, a lion in courage, and so filled with light that he needs borrow of no man.
The people are not so well acquainted with Martha Ann Harris, the daughter of Mary Fielding Smith. For, like her mother, she is modest, retiring, and gentle. She is frugal and very industrious. Her husband has never "enjoyed good health," and his wife has labored in season and out for the maintenance of her large family. She has sewed buckskin gloves, in the days
MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 141
long gone, and was an expert at fashioning those elegant appointments for the pioneer dandy. Later, she undertook the nursing of the sick; most of it was done, however, for sweet charity's sake. Then came sewing. And of late years she has been a recognized authority in the fashioning of temple and burial clothing. She has reared her large family in the fear of the Lord and they have risen up to bless her in the gates. She has had many severe bodily injuries, but by faith ? and she is very devout and full of living faith in the ordinances of the gospel ? she has been healed time and time again. She has lived in Provo for many years from whence her children have gone out to colonize and build up many other places. But she still lives there, beloved of her family and respected and honored by all who know her.
[IMAGE: Mrs. Martha A. Smith Harris, daughter of Mary Fielding Smith, and her three oldest boys.]
There has been some question in the ranks of the Reorganites as to the right of succession through the Prophet's or the Patriarch's family. It is a divine truth that no man shall succeed to the priesthood, no matter what his birth or lineage, unless his life and conduct justify and qualify him for that inheritance. But there is a peculiar force and significance in the patriarchal blessing given by Father Joseph Smith to his son Hyrum in Kirtland, Dec. 9, 1834, as quoted in Elder Joseph F. Smith, Jr.'s Origin of the Reorganized Church. We read there:


A PATRIARCHAL BLESSING
Given by Patriarch Joseph Smith on the head of his son Hyrum, December 9, 1834, in Kirtland, Ohio:
"I now ask my heavenly Father in the name of Jesus Christ, to bless thee with the same blessing with which Joseph blessed his son Joseph, for thou art his true descendant, and thy posterity shall be numbered with the house of Ephraim, and with them thou shalt stand up to crown the tribes of Israel, when they come shouting to Zion. * * *
"The Lord will multiply his choice blessings upon thee and thy seed after thee, and thou with them shall have an inheritance in Zion, and they shall possess it from generation to generation, and thy name shall never be blotted out from among the just, for the righteous shall rise up, and also thy children after thee, and say thy memory is just, that thou wert a just man and perfect in thy day."
Mary Fielding Smith was the mother of two children: Joseph Fielding Smith, born 13th November, 1838, at Far West, Caldwell County, Mo.; and of Martha Ann Smith, born 14th May, 1841, at Nauvoo, Hancock county, Ill.
Joseph Fielding Smith m. (firstly) 5th Apr., 1859, Levira A. Smith, dau. of Samuel H. and Levira Clark Smith. She d., and he m. (secondly) 5th May, 1866, Julina Lambson, of Salt Lake City, b. 18th June, 1849, dau. of Alfred and Melissa J. (Bigler) Lambson; m. (thirdly), 1st Mar., 1868, Sarah E. Richards, b. 25th Aug., 1850, dau. of Willard and Sarah (Longstroth) Richards; m. (fourthly), 1st Jan., 1871, Edna Lambson, b. 3rd Mar., 1851, dau. of Alfred B. and Melissa J. B. Lambson; m. (fifthly), 6th Dec., 1883, Alice Kimball, b. 6th Sept., 1858, dau. of Heber C. and Ann (Gheen) Kimball; m. (sixthly), 13th Jan., 1884, Mary T. Schwartz, b. 30th Apr., 1865, dau. of William and Agnes (Taylor) Schwartz.
Issue by 2d m. I. Mercy Josephine, b. 14th Aug., 1867; d. 6th June, 1870. II. Mary Sophronia, b. 7th Oct., 1869; m. Alfred W. Peterson. III. Donette, b. 17th Sept., 1872; m. Alonzo P. Kesler. IV. Joseph F., Jr., b. 19 July, 1876; m. first, Louie Shurtliff; second, Ethel Reynolds. V. David Asael, b. 24th May, 1879; m. Emily Jenkins. VI. George Carlos, b. 14 Aug., 1881; m. Lillian Emery. VII. Julina Clarissa, b. 10 Feb., 1884; m. Joseph S. Peery. VIII. Elias Wesley, b. 21st Apr., 1886; m. Mary Smith. IX. Emily, b. 11th Sept., 1888. X. Rachel, b. 11th Dec., 1890; m. Le Roy Taylor. XI. Edith, b. 3rd Jan., 1894.
[Note: There appears to be some garbled text/genealogical data in the original that I've omitted as it's largely illegible]


Issue by 3d m. I. Sarah Ellen, b. 5th Feb., 1869; d. 11th Feb., 1869. II. Leonora, b. 30th Jan., 1871; d. 23rd Dec., 1907; m. Joseph H. Nelson. III. J. Richards, b. 22d Feb., 1873; unm. IV. Heber John, b. 3d July, 1876; d. 3d May, 1887. V. Rhoda Ann, b. 20th July, 1878; d. 6th July, 1879. VI. Minerva, b. 30th Apr., 1880; m. Matthew Miller. VII. Alice, b. 27th July, 1882; d. 29 Apr., 1901. VIII. Willard R., b. 20th Nov., 1884; m. Florence Grant. IX. Franklin R., b. 12th May, 1888; m. Ella Olson. X. Jenetta, b. 25th Aug., 1891; unm. XI. Asenath, b. 29th Dec., 1898; unm.
Issue by 4th m. I. Hyrum Mack, b. 21st Mar., 1872; m. Ida Bowman. II. Alvin F., b. 7th Aug., 1874; m. Amelia Atkins. III. Alfred Jason, b. 13th Dec., 1876; d. 6th Apr., 1877. IV. Edna Melissa, b. 6th Oct., 1879; m. John F. Bowman. V. Albert Jesse, b. 16th Sept., 1881; d. 25th Aug., 1883. VI. Robert, b. 12th Nov., 1883; d. 4th Feb., 1886. VII. Emma, b. 21st Aug., 1888; unm. VIII. Zina, b. 11th Oct., 1890; m. Ambrose Greenwall. IX. Ruth, b. 21st Dec., 1893; d. 17th Mar., 1898. X. Martha, b. 12th May, 1897; m. Harold Jenson.
Issue by 5th m. I. Lucy Mack, b. 14th Apr., 1890; m. Ralph Carter. II. Andrew K., b. 6th Jan., 1893. III. Jesse K., b. 21st May, 1896; m. May Anderson. IV. Fielding K., b. 9th Apr., 1898.
Issue by 6th m. I. John S., b. 20th Aug., 1888; d. Aug., 1889. II. Calvin S., b. 29th May, 1890. III. Samuel S., b. 26th Oct., 1892. IV. James S., b. 13th Nov., 1894. V. Agnes, b. 3d Nov., 1897. VI. Silas, b. 3d Jan., 1900. VII. Royal, b. 21st May, 1906.
MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 145
His grandchildren are:
GRANDCHILDREN OF JULINA L. SMITH.
Mary Sophronia, married Alfred W. Peterson. They had: Alfred W., Mary, George, Albert W., Joseph, Hyrum.
Donette, married Alonzo P. Kesler. They had: Donette, Marian, Alonzo P., Jr., Henry, Imogen, Mack.
Joseph F., Jr., married Louie Shurtliff, by whom he had Josephine and Julina. His wife Louie died in 1908, and he married, second, Ethel Reynolds. Their children are: Emily, Naomi, Lois, Joseph F. Smith III.
David Asael md. Emily Jenkins, by whom he has had: David J., Mahala, Asael, Alfred, Edward, Robert, Elmer, Hyrum.
George C. md. Lillian Emery. Their children are: Lillian, Florence, Ina, George Carlos, Jr., Eleanor and Mary.
Julina Clarissa md. Joseph Strass Peery. Their children are: Joseph Smith and Luacine.
E. Wesley md. Mary H. Smith, by whom he has had: Eloise.
Rachel md. Albert LeRoy Taylor. They have a babe named: Miriam.
GRANDCHILDREN OF SARAH RICHARDS SMITH.
Leonore (Nonie), said by her father to bear a strong resemblance to her grandmother Mary F. Smith, md. Joseph Nelson; she died in 1907. She had: Joseph, George, Alvin, Alice, Franklin, and a pair of still-born twins.
Minerva md. Matthew A. Miller. They have had: Willard, Ellen, Leonora, Joseph, Robenia, Amy and Agnes.
Willard R. md. Florence Grant. They have had: Willard, Florence and Richards.
Frank md. Ella Olson. They have a son, Franklin.
GRANDCHILDREN OF EDNA L. SMITH.
Hyrum M. md. Ida Bowman. He has had: Joseph F., Geraldine, Margaret, and Maxine.
Alvin F. md. Millie Atkins. They have: Ruth, Virginia, Daphne, Grant, Joseph Alvin.
Melissa md. John H. Bowman. They have: Richard, Dorothy, Katherine, and John.
Zina md. Ambrose Greenwell and had one little daughter, Helen. Zina died October 23, 1915.
Martha md. Harold Jenson and has one son, Harold Smith.


GRANDCHILDREN OF ALICE KIMBALL SMITH.
Alice May md. Robert Sant. Their children are: Sarah, Robert, Kimball.
Heber Chase md. Lilleth Nelson. Their children are: Alice and Ella.
Coulson C. md. Marion Lyman. They have: Marian, Rhoda, Alice, Ruth.
Lucy Mack md. Ralph Carter.
Jesse md. May Anderson.
Thus we see that President Joseph F. Smith has had forty-six children and seventy-four grandchildren. Not one of them born with any mental or physical defect. All are exceptionally bright, keen, industrious, modest, self-reliant, prudent, and above all, exemplary in word and deed. Most of them have the liquid and expressive dark brown eyes of their grandmother, and a number inherit the cameo cut features, with the handsome brows and strong nose bequeathed by both grandparents.
The picture of Mary Fielding Smith is perfect in every detail and is a work of exquisite art. The beautiful face, the lofty expression of the piercing dark eyes, the finely molded head, with dark hair banded over the spiritual brows, the erect and stately carriage are reproduced by the artist in striking manner. Her descendants may well be proud of such an ancestress. That they are worthy of her is the greatest praise, the most beautiful wreath of honor that can be laid as a tribute upon her earthly tomb.
GENEALOGY OF WILLIAM J. HARRIS AND MARTHA ANN SMITH.
William Jasper Harris, b. October 25, 1836, Geneva, Morgan Co., Ill.; died, April 23, 1909; md. Martha Ann Smith, April 21, 1857, who was born May 14, 1841, Nauvoo, Hancock Co., Ill.
Their children were: William Jasper, b. August 4, 1859; Joseph Albert, b. August 19, 1861; Hyrum Smith, b. August 15, 1863; Mary Emily, b. October 23, 1865; Franklin Hill, b. September 11, 1867, all born in Salt Lake City; Lucy Smith, b. March 10, 1870; John Fielding, b. June 28, 1872; Mercy Ann, b. March 20, 1874; Zina Christine, b. May 13, 1876; Martha Artie Misa, b. June 27, 1879; Sarah Lorina, b. Dec. 8, 1882; all born in Provo, Utah.
William Jasper Harris, Jr., md. Jessie Freckleton, Dec. 28, 1882; she was born Sept. 22, 1865, Deseret, Milford, Utah. Their children were: Joseph Fielding, John Earnest, Ruby Leona, Delia Jessie, Wilford LeRoy, Emily, Bessie Irene, Ruel Smith, Ada Fern, Viola Myrtle, Alice Vernice, LeGrande.


Joseph Fielding Harris md. Geneveve Sweatfield. Their children were: Grace, Howard, Gilbert.
Ruby Leona Harris md. Parley Checkett. Their children were: Dan, Robert and Willard.
John Earnest Harris md. Ellen _____. Their children were: Laroni and Leonard.
Wilford LeRoy Harris md. Margery Sumner, May 14, 1914, at Salt Lake City, Utah.