THE WAR IN EGYPT
One cannot but deplore the terrible war in the
East, which has already destroyed be many
thousands of human lives and desolated so
many hearts and homes; and all for power,
greatness and worldly ambition. It will perhaps
involve many nations, as it already has several
of the greatest powers in the land even in its
commencement. The beautiful city of Alexan-
dria, one of the oldest in the world, has been
the scene of blood and carnage, the conse-
quencess of a national difficulty, and even the
bombardment, the pouring of shot and shell and
the dreadful ravages created thereby was not
all—the city lies in ashes.
	It is said by those who believe in war, the end
justifies the means, but this is philosophy to
ease the conscience. Self-preservation is justif-
iable certainly, but the protection of property
and of rights for aggrandizement, another.
England said the Egyptians must go, but they
would not go without first trying what fighting
would do towards maintaining their position.
that is natural, and especially among those par-
tially enlightened nations. They love their
country, and they are determined to fight for it.
The British Empire has become a great one,
and with her ships, her men-of-war, ironclads, she
is determined to show Egypt and the Arabs her
power. There are a number of intricate questions
 involved, but money is at the foundation,
and unless the Lord wills it otherwise, England
will, without doubt, conquer or at least subdue
those foreign elements. It may be that this
war is the beginning of that prophesied of, that
is to involve all nations in the struggle. At any
rate the outlook at the present time is not a
pleasant one to contemplate, and when half-civ-
ilized nations will go to ward, one cannot but an-
ticipate the worst results of wholesale death and
destruction that could possibly follow.
	Various speculations are rife concerning the
coming of some great teacher or "Messiah," as
the Mussulmen term it. It is said by some
writers that the whole Mussulman world is agi-
tated with this matter and the predictions.
Some riots have already occurred among the
pilgrims on account of these great expectations,
and it is the belief of those best acquainted with
facts in relation to this feeling that a volcano of
human passion is rapidly nearing a state of
active eruption; this will, if true, prove of even
greater consequence than the war now in pro-
gress.
	As Latter-day Saints, we know these things
must be ere the great winding up scene that
will take place, when all the kingdoms of this
world become the kingdoms of Christ and He
whose right it is shall reign.


