THERE IS NO WASTE.

	Waste is a crime. Perhaps the statement
should be qualified. It is a crime where it re-
sults from neglect, or where it is due to ignor-
ance that follows indifferent knowledge.
It is a crime wherever human forethought
and ingenuity have rendered it possible to pre-
vent waste. In this great world of ours, the
perfection of whose creation, and whose laws
seem the more complete the more they are un-
derstood, how can it be that there should be a
natural waste? Will any person, who believes
in the existence of a deity, or who recognizes—
and all must do one or the other—a supreme
power, venture the assertion, that the vast and
incomprehensible wisdom concentrated in the
creation and destiny of this world, could en-
dure a waste of any kind? It is impossible.
Is there any waste in nature? The most tri-
fling leaf, the smallest of the animal kind, the
most detestable worm, all have a reason for
their being, all fulfill the necessities which
called them into existence. There is no waste
among them; they know not such a thing; only
in human beings, endowed with intelligence,
and created in the image of the Almighty, is
such a condition as that of waste a possibility.
	Of the thousands of articles—it may be old
and useless for the purpose for which they were
made—which are thrown away year after year
and by poor families, there is scarcely one
which is not of some value, and which could
not be utilized in some industry. It is true
that, in a community like ours where manufac-
tures are few, it is impossible to utilize many
of these things; but still there is a waste, a
needless waste, and care on the part of many,
and a little energy on the part of a few would
soon result in new industries, and new manu-
factures making the people wealthier for the
care, and more self-sustaining for the energy.
Let us give an illustration.
	Many, years ago when gas was discovered in
England, and its utility as an illuminating


[Column 1]

power established, a refuse was left from the
coal which had been destroyed as a fuel in the
manufacturies of gas. This refuse was called
"coal tar." As the consumption of gas in-
creased, the quantity of coal used in its manu-
facture also increased, and this resulted in a
corresponding increase in the "coal tar." It
grew so fast, and seemed so utterly worthless
that it was a nuisance. What to do with it
was the cry; and a premium was almost offered
to those who would carry it away. During
this time, and while the "coal tar" evil attained
greater magnitude, a chemist (I think his name
was Perkins) was analyzing "coal tar," and at-
tempting to form a combination of some kind
from it, what that was I also forget. He
worked at it for weeks and months with out
success. One day, however, when almost dis-
heartened at the repeated failures he had made,
he discovered that by a new combination, an
entirely different result had been obtained from
that anticipated. He stopped and examined
it, and that examination proved the most fortun-
ate of his life; for the chemical combination
was one which has since become a household
article, and is one which is productive of the
utmost pleasure to the eye. It was a combin-
ation for which they now celebrate and valu-
able analyne dyes are made. "Coal tar" was no
longer a waste; it was of value, was eagerly
sought for, and became a thing of value and
profit instead of a nuisance to the gas compan-
ies.
	True, this is one instance; but there are
thousands. Ask the chemist who sees the pro-
fusion about us if there is any waste; he will
sigh and say, there seems to be nothing but
waste. That is a waste which is destroyed
or is allowed to be destroyed when it could be
utilized with profit to some one.
	But, there I started to say "There is no
waste," when the burden of my song has been
to show that there is nothing but waste. What
I did start out to say was that there is no
waste in nature; but, like a school boy, I al-
lowed myself to be lured away from the path
I should have followed, and instead of wander-
ing amid flowers and pleasant ways, I fell into
weeds and rocky places.
	I have heard men declare (and I will not
claim to be free from the charge myself) that
it was a sin to see so much land lying idle, be-
cause it did not happen to rain just when they
wanted, or because water did not flow as near
as they might desire it. What! nature tolerate
a waste! as well say she does not abhor a vacu-
um. There is no spot in the wide world that
cannot be made of some value to man; so kind
is the nature and the God we so much com-
plain of. On the dry bench, the sage-brush
and sunflower will grow and thrive, both of
which are of acknowledged use, though their
utilization may not now be as profitable as are
the cultivation of other articles. The sage
has medicinal and other properties, perhaps, not
yet discovered. The much despised and
thoroughly abhorred sunflower—I speak now
as a gardener, not as an Oscar Wilde—is of
value. Its stalk can be manufactured into
paper, the fibre being excellent, while from
the seed a valuable oil can be expressed.
There is no spot on earth which nature has
destined to be an eternal waste. For up un-
der the Alpine and Sierra snows a plant grows,
and has a purpose or it would not be there;
and the vast desert areas will yet, when the
knowledge of man is sufficiently increased, prove
that nature is the embodiment of economy,
as it is the embodiment of perfection in all other
respects. I am not a prophet and do not think
I will ever be good enough to be so beloved of
the Lord as to become a prophet, but I have
such unbounded confidence in the common
sense at the bottom of this world's creation,
that I dare predict the day will yet come
when places now esteemed most useless,

[Column 2]

will prove to be another exhibition of the
kindness of a loving father, in preparing
means for the sustenance of his children on
this earth. Necessity, the mother of all inven-
tions, will yet discover a use for all things;
and will force her children to be careful of all
things, if they would be at least moderately
beyond the reach of poverty.
