BY HANNAH T. KING.

	Doctors have become a fashionable appen-
dage to every community; it is now only vulgar
poor people who do not have "the family
Physician." But here let me say at starting,
I do not intend to speak, or feel disrespectfully
towards the Faculty, for I have been associated
with some bright specimens of Escalapius that
in my estimation redeem the rest. It is the
absurd, and ridiculous notions of people that
I so utterly despise. A healer of the sick is a
blessed visitor, whether as a man or a woman
whether as a friend or nurse; blessed are the
attendants on suffering humanity. Faith i
necessary in all who apply for relief, it was
Galius maxim that "hope and confidence out
value the drug." In a very severe sickness,
many years ago, my Doctor said "now, you
must have faith in me or I can not do you any
good." I was much struck by the remark even
then, and since I have become a L. D. S. I
have often pondered on his words, and the
time in which they were uttered. That man,
surely understood much of the principle of
faith; and, as a physician, I had all faith in
his skill, and his administration, yet never for-
getting that "Except the Lord build the house
their labor is but lost that build it" and I have
often thought that, had many of our people
the faith in the administration of our Elders
as they had and have in the Doctors they
would at once experience the God-given gift
of healing, in a marvelous degree. "By faith,
the worlds were made," so say the holy Scrip-
tures; and many in our Church have seen the
effects of Faith, in healing the sick, and in
many instances, indeed no true L. D. S. but
has seen and experienced this blessed gift, this
wonderful power! The gift of healing seems
to belong especially to some individuals, prob-
ably is an especial gift to them, and they seem
to have an instinctive knowledge that under
their administration the patient will be healed.
This is a mystery, but none the less true; all


physicians feel this, more or less. Our Elders
have a perfect confidence in this predilection,
because they know they are "endowed with
power from on high," and therefore, if magni-
fying their calling, the result will be sure; if
the sick are not "appointed unto death."
	There is also a great deal in the manner of
any one on entering a sick room; we will take
a Doctor, a good amiable man with a cheerful,
animated manner, a sympathetic, gentle spirit,
a confident, prompt, hopeful assurance; such a
man carries a healing power in his very voice,
and manner, and from the moment of his en-
trance the patient feels invigorated, cheered
and regenerated, and the healing has begun;
even a friendly visitor often has this power,
and when leaving the sick, one earnestly says,
come again, you always do me good; who does
not know this by actual experience. The suc-
cessful Doctor owes more to his manner than
to his drugs; his presence works deeper and
more effectually than his medicine, very often;
and surely this will apply in a much greater
degree to our Elders. They are ordained to
heal the sick by the order of Christ himself;
even by the laying on of their hands, and by
the prayer of faith, and the promise is the sick
shall be healed; there is no doubt about it, but
"they shall be healed." As I said before they
are ordained to heal the sick; but I would pre-
sume, as a mother in Israel, to advise our
young Elders to cultivate the manners I have
been portraying, to first realize the honor
that has been conferred upon them, the mighty
blessing of being a healer of the sick body—of
the bruised heart, of the wounded spirit! If,
with ordination, there is a manner cultivated
by the heart and the affections, and with a
holy and a touching sympathy with the suffering
there will then be the actual touch of the great
physician who gave the keys—not of science,
but of personality, opening the laboratory of
Heaven, by the touch and prayer of faith.
	The Doctor operates by skill of character
more often than by skill of knowledge; it is the
active not the speculative part of his mind
that wins him professional eminence, and where
we find a man with this insight into the char-
acter of his patients, you find a Doctor sought
for with a faith that were it exercised in the
church of Christ, would acheive wonders. God
gives the ordinations, it is for man, his agent,
to carry them out with tact and talent, with a
knowledge of the human organism. Mentally,
morally and physically, "With the spirit and
with the understanding," and may we, as a
people, cultivate ourselves, that we may receive
all the good that is around and about us, even
Heaven itself if we were enlightened enough
to see and comprehend, appreciate and apply
that, that lies waiting for us to take up for our
own especial benefit, here and hereafter.
	Ignorance is a black veil that hangs more
or less over all minds, but many are aware of
it, and by prayer and faith are daily in school,
attempting to light as far as possible the sable
cloud. Ignorance is not bliss to the culti-
vated soul; intelligence is of God. and only
by it can we approximate nearer to Him; and
the more our spirits are enlarged on earth the
deeper draughts shall we recieve of Heaven.


