								E. R. S. S.


(Column 1)
A REPRESENTATIVE WOMAN
   MARY ISABELLA HORNE
		  Continued. 
Any one who reads this sketch of  Mrs.
Horne's life may readily perceive that she has
had many difficulties to encounter, and her
path has not been a smooth one. She is pos-
sessed of indomitable energy of character,
which is exceedingly well balanced by her
excellent judgment, making her an efficient
leader and wise counselor among her sex. Her
own example is consistant with her teachings,
which gives her great influence among the
people. She is motherly and affectionate with-
out making a display of it, and conseguently
attracts and pleases those with whom she is
associated. She has the gift of faith in the
healing of the sick, and, to a great degree, in
her own family. In the Spring of 1845 her
babe, Richard, was taken very sick and re-
duced so low that all the family, except her-
self, gave up all hopes of his recovery. Mrs.
Horne sat watching and praying for him, when 
the spirit impressed her to write her prayers
The influence was so strong it seemed irre-
sistible, and she followed the dictates of the
Holy Spirit, receiving an assurance that the
		[column 2]
child would speedily recover. The prayer was
written in poetry, just as the words came to
her, and she has kept it carefully ever since.
There are six verses of four lines. It is an
earnest appeal to the throne of grace, a dedica-
tion of the little one to the Lord, and a testi-
mony that the prayer was heard and would be
answered by the healing of the babe (-) including
the blessings asked which were sealed upon
him.
	Shortly after this manifestation of power
other members of the household were taken
severely ill, but by faith in the Lord and the
power of his priesthood, her children were re-
stored to health, but a relative of her husband's
died. She had a trying time and scenes that
were hard for mortality to endure; but by
patience, meekness and a firm reliance upon
her  heavenly Father she was able to pass
through it all.
	In January 1846 Mrs. Horne went into
the Nauvoo Temple to recieve the ordinances
of the House of the Lord. In this she rejoiced
greatly, and felt blessed in the privilege. She
spent two weeks there in assisting in the work
of administering in the ordinances for others,
and was filled with joy to be able to act in this
capacity for her sisters; realizing the blessing
of the Lord upon the work daily and hourly;
officiating in sacred ordinances as did holy
women of old, in ancient Temples. In the
following month, February, Mrs. Horne's hus-
band, with many of the Saints, began making
hurried preparations to leave the city of Nau-
voo; he closed his business and provided teams
and such necessaries as could be h(--)tily pro-
cured. Mrs. Horne had two child(---) sick at
the time and was herself in delicate health--
many of her friends thought it preposterous
for her to undertake such a journey in the
dead of winter, but her faith and courage
were equal to the emergency, and with her
husband and little ones she bade again adieu
to the home to which she had become endeared,
and crossed the Mississippi river, in cold and
snow and camped with the Saints already
gathered there on Sugar Creek in Iowa. There 
on account of unavoidable circumstances Mr.
and Mrs. Horne and others remained six weeks.
The weather was very cold, and the sickness
and hardship to anyone, except a Saint of God,
would have heen almost unendurable. In the
latter part of March they lift Sugar Creek to
jonrney westward towards the rocky Moun-
tains. The storms were fearful, the roads al-
most impassable. No one unless having had a
similar experience would possibly realize the
trials, hardships and privations of that terrible
journey. At Garden Grove, a stopping place
made by the first company of Saints going
west, Mrs. Horne and family stayed about
three weeks, and about the middle of May re-
sumed the toilsome journey. At Mt. Pisgah,
another resting place, some distance further
on, Mrs. Horne remained a short time and a
daughter was born to her there in a wagon.
There were few comforts and no delicacies, and
yet the sisters endured these ordeals of suffer-
ing without a murmur. There was no bitter-
ness towards their enemies, those who had com-
pelled them to leave their homes, no repinings
at the dispensations of Providence, but all
was love and peace and good will. The
daughter was called Elizabeth Ann, and when
the babe was three days old, Mrs. Horne started
again on her way towards the Missouri river
arriving at Council Bluffs about the last of
		[column 3]
June. Here was built what we term Winter
Quarters, now called Florence. In that place
in a log cabin Mrs. Horne took up her abode
with her little ones around her. The Saints in
common had many severe experiences, while
in Winter Quarters, and Mrs. Horne was not
exempt from her share. The water of the
Missouri was very unhealthy, the people were
poor, and sickness set in, and the graveyards of
the Saints testify to the terrible afflictions to
which many hundreds succumbed. Mrs.
Horne’s family, as well as many others, were
afflicted with scurvy, in consequence of not
being able to procure suitable food, having
been almost entirely deprived of vegetables.
Mrs. Horne was brought very low and it was
thought could not recover; she had faith in the
priesthood and desired to live. Elder Orsen
Pratt, one of the Apostles, administered to her
and promised her that she should recover and
prophesied she should live to do a good work
in Isreal. She was better almost immediately 
and in June of the same year left with the 
first company across the plains that followed
the pioneers to the valley of Salt Lake. That
was indeed a remarkable journey, and all 
those who traveled hither at that time deserve
the honored title of pioneers; they were the
ones who opened the way and braved the perils
of the desert and the experiences of actually
living in this sterile land. They ploughed and
planted and fought against the fearful odds of
crickets, grasshoppers and droth. The company
in which Mrs. Horne traveled arrived here on
the 6th of October 1847, and as soon as the Fort
was completed she moved into it and lived
there in a log cabin the next two years, endur-
ing all the exigencies incident to the settling of 
a new Indian country; among which were liv-
ing on short rations, a part of which consisted
of roots and thistles. On the 16th of January
1849, another daughter was added to the Horne
family and the mother called her Leonora
Taylor, in honor of her dear friend and associ-
ate, the first wife of Prest. John Taylor.
				To be Continued


Take your stand by the altar of truth, and
be not led or driven thence by sophistry or ridi-
cule.
	The roses of pleasure seldom last long
euough to adorn the brow of him who plucks
them, for they are the only roses which do not
retain their sweetness after they have lost their
beauty.
	MISS Anthony: "Give the ballot to women
and I will warrant you that we will
crush the life out of the monster intemperance.
There seems to be a great change coming
over the destiny of women. An immense
wave is lifting her up all over the world, and
we find in almost every country a new demand
for education, for domestic freedom and for
civil and political rights, made by women in
behalf of their sex. Women have passed
through the savage age where they were merely
beasts of burden for their masters; they have
passed through the heroic age where they were
not only free, but specially honored, and of
which Tacitus wrote that the Germans thought
that thousands of women were nearer to the
Deity than men, and therefore they were
always consulted with respect, but women
will yet reach a higher glory in this, the intel-
lectual age."


