HOME AFFAIRS.

	BROTHER Graves informs us that Miss Ca-
milla Schoenfeldt is going to Provo to teach silk
reeling to a class of young women.
	REORGANIZATION of Silk Association, Utah
Stake. Hester A. Beebe, President; Zina Y.
Williams and Lucy W. Kimball, Counselors; C.
Daniels, Secretary; Daniel Graves, Traveling
Agent.

[Column 2]

	IT is expected now that the five commission-
ers for Utah will be here some time in August.
What course will be pursued to enforce the Ed-
munds law is still a mystery. That those who
have anticipated such great results to follow its
enactment are already disappointed is apparent.
It is just possible that their disappointment has
only begun. The Lord will take care of His
people and overrule all things for the promotion
of His work, which is sure to grow and increase
and spread abroad in the land.
	WE had a very brief but pleasant call from F.
S. Richards, Esq., one of the delegates to Con-
gress from the recent Convention held in Salt
Lake City. He is feeling well, and reports that
he has been able to do quite as much in the in-
terest of Utah as he could have expected under
the circumstances. The Constitution has been
referred to a committee, and will come up in its
time. Meanwhile Congress will adjourn, and
there will be time for much thought and reflec-
tion upon the matter. The Constitution pre-
pared is before the public, and the affairs of Utah
and its people are up for discussion, and much is
being said and written; and tourists and travel-
ers are visiting this beautiful oasis in the desert,
and perhaps when Congress does act in the
premises, it will be done more understandingly
than it would have been earlier.
	THE dedication of the Deseret Hospital will
take place on Monday, July 17th, under the di-
rection of the First Presidency of the Church of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints. Patients are being brought in, and the
actual work of the institution is in progress.
The dispensary is well fitted up with the neces-
sary medicines, drugs and material for the work
which is expected in the establishment. We
hope the people will take a liberal view of this
benevolent enterprise and contribute the neces-
sary means from time to time. It is not a spec-
ulation but a labor of love, and will require
great energy and perseverance on the part of
those engaged in its management, either in the
domestic or medical departments, in order to
render it permanently successful; and it cannot
be done by faith alone, but by substantial
means and the blessing of God upon such ef-
forts as are put forth in the right direction.
	EXPLANATION.—The two last paragraphs in
the article headed "Comments. By One who
Knows," were not from President B. Young's
discourse, but from Heber C. Kimball's. The
following explanation was written, but was
overlooked and left out of the copy by the
writer: "These discourses were delivered about
the time of the 'BUCHANAN WAR.' Their defeat,
as is well known, was accomplished through the
cunning and strategies of our little army, who
acted under the command of General D. H.
Wells and the wise counsel of 'Our fathers in
Israel.' The feeling to exult, which was in-
dulged in by the boys, was not unnatural, but
was unwise, and they were reproved and ad-
monished to repent, for, as President Young
often told them, many of them were 'more
willing to fight for their religion than they were
to live it.'" President Kimball said, "I do not
feel vain," etc.


