ON MORMONISM.

	Our true name is Latter-day Saints; but the
world calls us "Mormons" and I for one find it
more convenient to adopt that name when I
wish to be understood by all.
	Therefore, in these remarks I shall refer to
ourselves as "Mormons," and our religion as
"Mormonism." It is very easy indeed to state
in general terms what our religion is, but it
would take volumes—yes, ages to delineate it,
because it is so all-embracing, so all-pervading
Mormonism is truth.

[Column 2]
	All truth is Mormonism. No matter how
high, how low, how vast, how minute, how
universal or how limited a truth may be, that
is Mormonism.
	If you have learned a truth which my mind
cannot yet grasp, in that instance you are a
better Mormon than I. If you cultivate any
grace, virtue or excellence in a greater degree
than I, there again you excel me as a Mormon,
for Mormonism includes all that is lovely,
pure and ennobling, because they are lovely,
pure and ennobling.	*	*	*	
	When I was very young I pondered much
on the cold-hearted selfishness of any little
sect which was so small a drop of the great
ocean of humanity which never heard of them
or their creeds, having the temerity to believe
that just those few whose circumstances per-
mitted them to become acquainted with that
particular set of creeds would be saved in the
celestial kingdom, while all the rest of God's
vast family would be rejected and cast away.
But when I learned that Mormonism proved
wide enough to cover both the living and the
dead, my soul was comforted; and here I found
reasonable ground for faith that God was the
author of it. We build Temples which are
dedicated to the Most High, and therein we
perform ordinances for the dead, because we
believe that on earth and not in heaven is
the proper place for baptism, ordination etc. 
We believe that many who preached to and
taught the children of men while in the flesh,
now that they have put off their mortality and
passed "behind the vail," still continue their
ministry and will continue it until all who
died without hearing Christ's true message
to man, and God's will concerning his
children, will hear it and understand it; and it
is their right to accept or reject the message
and ratify or repudiate the ordinances and
covenants which we make for them on earth.
Thus we have the privilege of being co-work-
ers with Christ and his faithful Apostles in the
plan of redemption; and we are assured that
when we have performed "the work" for all
whose names are obtainable from records,
histories and other human sources, the millions
of unknown and unrecorded dead will be re-
vealed to us.
	The magnitude of the undertaking would
be too appalling for poor human endeavor
were not God at the helm! But we are not
required to make any unreasonable haste, nor
neglect to provide for the wants of the living
either in physical nourishment, intellectual
cultivation or spiritual teaching. And ours is a
progressive religion. We do not dare suppose
that we are in possession of all truth, nor even
a sufficiency of it. We expect to progress
throughout all time and all eternity; to be always
learning, always improving, always achieving.
Any truth which is not known to us today, we
hope to learn tomorrow; and we pray for grace
and feel the need of it, to recognize truth when
ever we meet it, and to be always willing to
accept it.
	We consider God, and him alone, infallible;
therefore his revealed word to us cannot be-
doubted, though we may be in doubt some
times about the knowledge which we obtain
from human sources, and occasionally be
obliged to admit that something which we had
considered to be a fact, was really only a
theory.
	The Golden Rule: "As ye would that men
should do unto you, do ye even so unto them"
is our first and most important law: and were
we freed from human weakness and blindness
so far as to apply this incomparable law consist-
ently, justly and exactly, we should really have
no need of any other law, statute or command-
ment; for even the Decalogue is but auxiliary
to this, a sort of bill of particulars for our
assistance as little children yet studying the

[Column 3]
rudiments of salvation, and are obviously in
eluded in this great fundamental law of love
and justice.
	We believe that Adam and Eve by breaking
God's command, incurred the penalty previous-
ly attached to that command, or rather the
breaking of it—sorrow, pain and death.
	We believe that Christ, who was already a
redeemed being and not subject to those penal-
ties, obtained his Father's permission to be-
come subject to them and suffer them in his
own person for the reward, the happiness of
opening the doors of the resurrection, and re-
deeming from death the children of Adam and
Eve who inherited that legacy from their first
parents.
	We believe that all those who, within the
limit of grace, (and who can say how vast that
is) acknowledge him and accept his offered ser-
vice will, after atoning for their individual
sins, conquer death and enter into Christ's
kingdom at the right hand of the Father;
while they who reject him and his service are
at liberty to do so, and his atonement will
reach them, for "all is free grace and all
is free will," and "God will force no man to
heaven."
	We believe it to be obligatory on every
soul to seek after truth earnestly and faith-
fully but we do not believe that any human
soul will be rejected for being ignorant of
truth which it never met and never had oppor-
tunity to learn. The opportunity, full and
complete, will be offered before condemnation
will be uttered; therefore none need despair
save those who are willfully ignorant and re-
bellious, those "who love and make a lie,"
and who "call good evil and evil good."
