OBITUARY.

	Died in Bountiful Davis Co. Utah Feb. 1882
Sylvia P. Sessions Lyon, in the 61th year of her
age. Deceased was born July 31, 1818 in Newey
Oxford Co. Maine, and was the daughter of
David and Patty Bartlett Sessions. She em-
braced the Gospel when a young girl and gath-
ered with her father and mother to Nauvoo in
the earlier settlement of that city. She was
married May 31, 1838 to Windsor B. Lyon Esq.
a prosperous merchant in that city. Sister Lyon
was a woman of most amiable disposition and
benevolent qualities of heart, and having been
greatly blest with an abundance of this worlds
good in times past she dispensed of her bounties
to the poor and distressed, liberally and unosten-
tatiously. To the Prophet Joseph Smith she
was a special friend, in times of peril and need.
Hundreds of the poor Saints have cause to bless
her for her kindly deeds and substantial comfort
in the hour of trial and sorrow. Mrs. Lyon suf-
fered much during the last few months before
her demise with dropsy and other ailments.
She leaves an aged mother, several children
and grandchildren and many other relatives to
mourn the loss of her companionship, but to
those who die in the faith of the Gospel there is
a more glorious hope of a part in the first res-
urrection. Sister Lyon had endured much for her
religion passed through many trials and made
great sacrifices.
	She has gone to the rest that remains for the
Saints, to meet Joseph and Hyrum and her
children who died in infancy. Blessed are the
dead who die in the Lord from henceforth
that they may rest from their labors, yea
saith the spirit their works do follow them.
		COM.
	At 2 o'clock, Thursday morning, June 29th,
after an illness of about three weeks, at the resi-

[Column 2]

dence of her parents in Hyde Park, Sister Eliza-
beth V. Hyde quietly breathed her last.
	Sister Hyde was the wife of Bishop William
Hyde, 5th Ward, Logan, and daughter of Suel
and Elizabeth Lamb, of Hyde Park. She was
born at Lehi, October 19th, 1855, and since her
marriage has resided in Logan. About three
weeks before her death, Sister Hyde went to
Hyde Park on a visit, where she was attacked
with inflammation of the bowels, which finally
terminated in her death.
	Sister Hyde was firm in the faith of the Gos-
pel, and zealous for the work of the Lord. She
was ever found in the path where duty called
her. For several years she was President of the
Y. L. M. I. A. of the Ward in which she re-
sided; a faithful Sabbath School teacher, and
from its organization was secretary of the 5th
Ward Relief Society.
	The funeral services were held at Hyde Park,
July 1st, at 3 pm. Apostle Moses Thatcher,
President C. O. Card and many of the residents
of the 5th Ward Logan; were present. Apostle
Thatcher delivered the funeral discourse.
	May she rest in peace and come forth in the
morning of the first resurrection, clothed with
glory, immortality and eternal life.

