A TRIBUTE OF THE HEART.

	My mind has been much drawn out lately,
when dwelling upon the divine will and pur-
poses of God in creating his children and deal-
ing with them while here upon the earth, and
who are, as it were, transplanted, nurtured and
nurture in return; to grow and develop day by
day, and year after year, not only physically
but spiritually, with understanding of both
the means and privileges to the nourishing and
strengthening temporally and spiritually
and reflecting our sense and appreciation of
both, in our inner and outward lives, granted
and bequeathed to us by an allwise and benev-
olent Father, the giver of all good, light and
knowledge, from whom emanates every gift
and dispensation. Should we then be unmind-
ful of these great and beneficent blessings be-
stowed upon the human family, by such pro-
fuse and skillful hands, the Creator of us all?
I answer no, but rather let us, by the careful
tending, teaching and training of the same,
show that we, to a degree, are sensible of his
almighty goodness and loving kindness, in
granting us, through our parents in the garden
of Eden, an opportunity of working out our
salvation upon this planet, through the redemp-
tion of our Lord and Savior, who suffered and
endured so much for fallen humanity. Oh! let
us learn wisdom and exercise a little, if only
in our own behalf, to let our heavenly Father
know by our acts that we acknowledge his
goodness and mercy; let us not neglect to study
the laws of nature and the inspired will of
heaven, and to try to work out our course ac-
cordingly, and not be careless and abuse the
earthly tabernacles which are given us, in the
likeness of our Maker, wherein we may culti-
vate the same spirit which pervades the bosom
of our Father in heaven. Treasure your
bodies as you do your lives, for can you even

[Column 2]

enjoy transient life in an ill used and worn out
structure, ever needing repair and constantly
fearing and trembling lest it fall and we unpre-
pared? I believe the spirit of God is grieved
when we foolishly and unnecessarily expose,
and pay so little heed and respect to our
physical frame, seemingly ungrateful to the
great architect of our souls, who has so wisely
and uniformly fashioned every part and portion,
causing it to work with such perfect harmony,
and which taken care of will last a century, in
this degenerate day of the world. I say then
let us take care of our mortal bodies, be mind-
ful of the Giver, and preserve and nourish
them in health and strength that the spirit of
the Lord may dwell in them, untramelled with
sickness and disease; prepare yourselves to live
and do the will of God upon the earth, that
you may go forth doing much good in redeem-
ing mankind, and be living monuments to his
name, a name given whereby he may be known
among men. I appeal to the young who are
more inclined to be thoughtless and who have
not, neither are expected to have, the experi-
ence of those of more mature age; heed the
counsel and advice of your parents and teach-
ers in the Lord, for increased wisdom is given
them for you to profit by. Do not think you
are too old to learn, for that is a mistaken idea.
I heeded my mother's advice to avoid taking
cold and getting wet feet, for cold, she would
say, is the root of all diseases; the consequence
is I have a healthy tabernacle, wherein dwells,
I trust, a portion of God's holy spirit, to com-
fort, console and bless me under trials of var-
ious kinds, and which I have passed somewhat
corageously through, with the comforting
thought that they might have been worse,
and I was thankful they were not. The
Lord will have a tried people and where we
can we will be tried, so we must round up our
shoulders and prepare ourselves, for we know
not, in the wise providence of God, what we
will be called to pass through. Let us so order
our lives that we may kiss the rod, for whom
the Lord loveth he chasteneth. I am thankful
I can acknowledge his hand in all things, and
confidently say "thy will, O Lord, be done,"
also that I can discern the signs of the times.
	May we live so we can enjoy his spirit. The
predictions of ancient and modern prophets are
literally being fulfilled, surely we live in the
latter days. Let us gratefully acknowledge
the blessed privileges by which we are sur-
rounded in these beautiful vales, where we can
see and hear the inspired servants of God, and
if we should not be equally favored with nice
homes and as abundant means as some of our
neighbors, may we keep in view the mark of
our high and holy calling in Christ Jesus, and
not let envy creep into our bosoms and dis-
quiet us; but feel glad that they are so favored,
and hope they may be equally spiritually
blessed, to increase the good spirit which they
already possess. I enjoy the companionship of
such and award them every good wish and feel-
ing of my heart; friends indeed, of the same
faith trying to live their religion and actuated
by the same spirit. I can afford, and love to
feast upon the appreciation of such noble and
generous hearts, ever disposed to good deeds.
Hope has been my anchor in this life, and has
safely guided me through many a rough surf,
and may I never lose sight of the bark which
has so far steered me through unknown parts.
I pray earnestly for the spirit of God and ask-
ing comes not amiss, particularly in faith, hav-
ing confidence in my Lord and Master. To
the young readers of our valuable EXPONENT
I would say, put your trust in God, the maker
and giver of life present and to come, lose not
an opportunity of attending your Improve-
ment Associations, you can not afford it. You
who are desirous and should be anxious to
gain knowledge and intelligence, which is the
glory of God and by which you will be exalt-

[Column 3]

ed; there you can learn habits of good order
and rule, laws of health, laws of God and of
government, of yourselves, of nations and of
kingdoms, not only of this life but of a life
to come, bodily, spiritually and politi-
cally. Of such is the hope of Israel and may
it be answered upon the rising generation of
Zion, is my prayer.		M. A. T.
	Provo, June 18th, 1882.


