PROVO.

	Minutes of the fifteenth Quarterly Confer-
ence of the Relief Society held in Provo meet-
in house, June 2d, 1882.  Mrs. M. T. Smoot
presiding.  Counselor Mary John and many
of the leading sisters of Utah Stake present.
Prest. E. R. S. Smith, Coun. Zina D. H. Young
Presendia L. Kimball and Helen Mar Whitney
form Salt Lake City.  After the exercises of
singing and prayer, Mrs. L. W. Kimball Cor.
Sec. Relief Society Utah Stake read the min-
utes of the previous conference, which were
accepted. Reports were given from the First,
Second, Third, Fourth, and Fifth Wards Provo
also from Springville, Spanish Fork, Salem,
Payson, Santaquin and Goshen.
	Prest. M. T. Smoot said, I am happy to
have Sister Eliza, President of all the Relief
Societies wherever the kingdom of God extends,
with us again.
	Sister Eliza said, I feel very small, with
such an appellation, but pleased, however, to
listen to the various reports, and quite as much
edified as when listening to the bishops repre-
senting their several wards;  was gratified to
mark the improvement made by the sisters.
Prest.  Young said on one ocassion that if the
sisters would meet once a week they would
overcome their timidity,  the oftener they met
together the more of the spirit of God they
would enjoy. Said, we are not the self-sustain-
ing people we should be. We are now perse-
cuted by the nation instead of, as formerly, by
a county or state.
	There are a few who dare stand up for our
rights.  "I am not afraid, these wicked men are
tools in the hands of the Lord to try us, how
much farther He will allow them to go, we
know nit; but let us be determined to hold on
to the faith with renewed energy, and acknowl-
edge the hand of God in the "Edmunds bill.'
We want that faith in God that we would
rather meet death thn to swerve. There must
be a time, according to Scriptutre, when the
sinner in Zion will tremble.  Let us draw near
to our heavenly Father.  When the Kingdom
of God bears rule then the Saints will be free.
	When the Saints go back to Jackson County
we have the promise that "the Lord will go be-
fore you, my presence will go with you" and I
hope to be with you too, Bro Joseph said
when we got to the Rocky Mountains there
would be a great apostacy, and from there the
people would go south and from there to
Jackson County; and this generation should
not pass away until those things should come
to pass.
	These societies are of great importance, they
are for the perfecting of the mothers in Israel.
Let us wake up that we may feel the sweet in-
fluence of the spirit of God in our hearts con-
tinually.  Our father suffers trials to come
that we may be proven we are working to gain
a home in his presence.  I feel to bless you
and ask him to bless each one of us.  There is
a good spirit here to-day, and thanks be to God
for it.
	Singing.  adjourned until 2 P. M. Benedic-
tion.
	2 P. M.  Pleasant Grove, American Fork
and Lehi were represented in a most satis-
factory manner, showing united effort and faith
in God.  Alpine and Cedar not heard from.
	Sister M. T. Smoot said, I can say it is good
to be here, although not feeling at all well, but
am still in the gospel and feel happy, have
been edified in listening to the reports and feel
that it is by the power of God that the sisters
were overcoming their timidity, and can give
their reports in a clear and intelligent manner
without fear, we are truly on the increase in
good workds. We will not deny our religion.
No, not one iota of it.  We will trust in God
and know our redemption draws nigh. Wished
to speak in honorable remembrance of Sister
Emily Smoot, who since our last meeting had
been called away by death.  She had entered
into plural marriage with herself, and her
memory was very dear to her.  She had acted
wisely in that relation and gained her eternal
friendship. The speaker said if our enemies
could look in upon us to-day I think they
would be ashamed of themselves.  That we
may be saved with a fullness of glory is the
prayer of your humble servant.
	Sister Presendia L. Kimball was the next
speaker. Her heart was filled with gratitude
to God that she lived in this momentous age.
Our persecutions are a proof that we are
saints of God, and striving to do his will and
over come evil with good.  Thanked the Lord
that she had embraced the Gospel and for the
experience she had, it was of more worth than
riches for this was all she could take with her.
Rejoiced in the various organizations for the
salvation of the youth of Zion.  Plead with
the mothers to watch over their daughters and
teach them pure principles.  Asked the bless-
ing of God to rest upon us, that we might over
come, and be saved with the sanctified in his
kingdom.
	Sister Z. D. H. Young said, when I look up-
on the faces of my sisters I cannot express my
feelings.  Do we plead guilty, or not guilty of
trading with ansd sustaining our enemies? Let
us refrain from these things. and if we feel the
chastening hand of the Almighty for our re-
missess in keeping his commands, let us bear
it humbly; wherein we are guilty of not listen-
ing to the counsels of his servants, of speaking
evil of one another let us repent.  If there is
any thing I would wish to run away from, it is
a fault-finding tongue. Thanked God she
had kept the faith.  She said, how pleasant it
is to look upon the faces of those who love the
Lord.  The speaker said, any people or nation
that lives on this continent, and will not keep
the commandments of God will be swept off.
It is now, with us, the kingdom of God or
nothing.  Sister Snow said, we are preparing
to found a Hospital for the saints, with the
approbation of Prest.  Taylor.  It is a need
long wanted, any sister in good standing can
become a member, by paying $1,00 annually.
Quite a number subscribed and became mem-
bers.  Sister Snow said she wished to endorse
what Sister Smoot said,  in regard to  Sister
Emily.  The circumstance of her stepping for-
ward to help establish that principle, and
honoring her position as a plural wife.  Some
think it  a trying position.  I say it is one of
the most elevating and ennobling principles that
I know of.  I always felt at home at Bro.
Smoots as at my own father's house, and can
truly say that when their son Albert was
drowned it was hard to tell who sorrowed most,
the wives mourned alike.
	Sister Whitney and Bp.  Watson made a
few remarks.  Conference adjourned for three
months.				L. W. KIMBALL.
							Corresponding Secy-

