BY HELEN MER WHITNEY.

	The next important event, which I remem-
ber in our  family, was the birth of my brother
Charles S. which happened Jan. 2d, 1843.  I 
confess that I was a disappointed and most un-
grateful girl when hearing the news, as I had
so long desired a little sister; and my feelings
were so soured, that I said some harsh and un-
becomings things, and was determined not to
welcome the little stranger.  I tried to steel
my heart against him, but in spite of me the
love would come.  My mother being in a 
feeble state of health I had to take almost the 
whole care of him during the first year of two.
He was very delicate and had some severe
spells of sickness, and my love and tender
care increased with the days and months and 
I never wearied of my charge.  When about
two years old he became strong, healthy and 
the pride of my heart.  The pleasure I felt
in dressing and taking him out with me was
quite equal to all that I had ever anticipated
in a little sister, and even my affection for him
surpassed any that I had ever felt for a baby.
	Though I have not the date I remember the
birth of another son by my father's wife Sarah
which happened not far from the time that my
mother's was born.  I had no knowledge then
of the plural order, and therefore remained
ignorant of our relationship to each other un-
til after his death, as he only lived a few
months.  It's true I had noticed the great
interest by my parents in behalf of 
Sister Noon, but knowing their kind benevolent
natures towards every body that came under
their notice, I thought nothing strange of this;
but I will confess that, during those times, I
thought my mother overly kind to always take
her to her buggy and crowding me out of 
what I considered, my place by her side; and 
I sometimes felt to complain, but unless I was
willing to sit behind on a lower seat, I was
welcome to walk or remain at home; but, not
caring to do either, I generally submitted,  as 
gracefully as possible. to ride behind.
	My mother was possessed of a most kind and 
unselfish nature, and her life was filled up
with just such noble, self-sacrificing deeds; and 
by them she won the love of all; and among
 the most devoted were my father's faithful
wives, who admired him more because they
knew he loved her best; and with him they
mourned for her as their dearest and most
enduring friends.
	He was often heard to say that he did not
care how soon he followed her, and he lived
but nine months to mourn her loss.
	The following extracts from letters written
by my father while upon his mission with
Brigham Young and others in the southern
part of Illinois I copy, with the hope that some
benefit may be derived from the persual of 
them, more particularly the young and inex-
perienced.  They show the childlike humility
and sincerity of heart, such as none but an 
honest man, could feel and express, and none
other would ever take the step that he did,
nor continue to endure such heart-aching sor-
row, as I know he did, for the wife of his
youth, who with him in that early day yielded
obedience to a principle that required life-long
sacrifice and self-denial.  Their all was laid
upon the altar, to gain that glory which the
Lord had given my mother a slight glimpse of,
in answer to her humble heart-broken prayer.
"Where there's no cross there's no crown."
	I think that no honest heart can read the 
outpourings of his soul and ever doubt the
motive that prompted him to take upon him-
self burthens and responsibilities, such as him-
self and brethren were called to do, in marrying
a plurality of wives, for it did not add to their
domestic happiness in this life, but brought
not only anxiety, care and sorrow but placed
their lives in jeopardy, and they did not know
but the consequences would be imprisonment
and death; but they knew that it was a com-
mand from the Almighty and they obeyed God
rather than men.
	This letter bears the date of Oct. 23rd, 1842.
	"My dear Vilate: I am at Brother Evan
Greene's.  We have held all of our confer-
ences, have had two meetings to day being the
Sabbath.  Some have been aided to the 
church and prejudice is considerably  laid.
Monday we shall go to Jacksonville, then on
to Springfield.  I shall be home in two or
three weeks if the Lord wills it so.  Since I
left you it has been a time of much reflection.
I feel as though I was a poor, weak creature
in and of myself. and only on God can I rely
for support * * I have been looking back
over my past life before I heard the Everlast-
ing Gospel.  It makes me shrink into nothing
and to wish that I had always been a righteous
man from my youth, but we have an advocate
with the Father, and I can look back since I 
came into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints with a degree of pleasure; but I 
can see if I had more knowledge I could have
done better in many points. * * I feel as
though I had rather die to-day than be left to
transgress one of his laws, or to bring a dis-
grace upon the righteous cause which I have
embraced, or a stain upon my character; and
my prayer is day by day that God would take
me to himself rather than I should be left to
sin against Him, or betray my dear brethren
who have been true to md and to God the
Eternal Father; and I feel to pray to thee, oh
Lord to help thy poor servant to be true to
 thee all the days of my life, that I may never
be left to sin against thee of against thine an-
ointed or any that love thee, that I may have
wisdom and knowledge how to gain thy favor
at all times, for this is my desire, and that
these blessings may rest upon my dear com-
panion, and when we have done our work on 
this thy foo [---]ol that thou wouldst receive us
into that kingdom where Abraham, Isaac and 
Jacob and all the holy prophets have gone,
that we may never be separated any more, and 
before I should be left to betray my brethren
in any case, let thy servant come unto thee in
thy kingdom and there have the love of my
youth, and the little ones that thou hast given
me. * * Now my dear Vilante stand by me
 even unto death, and when you pray, pray that
I may hold out to the end. * * My heart
aches for you and some times I can hardly
speak without weeping and that before my
brethren; for I have a brokem heart and my
head is a fountain of tears.  My life in this
world is short at the longest and I do not de-
sire to live one day only to do good and to
make you happy and bring up our little
children in the ways of the Lord, and my
prayer is that they may be righteous from the 
least to the greatest. * * The world has 
lost its charms for me, and I want to seek for
that rest which remains for the people of God.
I never had a greater desire to be a man of 
God than at the present, that I may know my 
acceptance with Him."
	His next letter was written from Spring-
field Oct. 25th.
	"My dear companion: I have just returned
from the office where I found a letter from you,
and I need not tell you that it was a sweet
morsal to me.  I could weep like a child if I
could get away by myself, to think that I for
one moment have been the means of causing
you any sorrow; I know that you must have
many bad feelings and I feel to pray for you
all the time, I assure you that you must have not
been out of my mind many minutes at a time,
since I left you.  My feelings are of that kind
that it makes me sick at heart, so that I have
no appetite to eat. My temptations are so 
severe it seems sometimes as though I should
have to ley down and die, I feel as if I must 
sink beneath it. I go into the woods every
chance I have, and pur out my soul before
God that he would deliver me and bless you
my dear wife, and the first I would know I
would be in tears weeping like a child about
you and the situation that I am in; but what
can I do but go ahead?  my dear Vilate do
not let it cast you down for the Lord is on
our side; this I know from what I see and rea-
lize and I marvel at it many times.  You are
tried and tempted and I am sorry for you, for
I know how to pity you.  I can say that I
never suffered more in all my life than since
these things come to pass;  and as I have said,
so say I again, I have felt as if I should sink
and die.  Oh my God! I ask thee in the name 
of Jesus to bless my dear Vilate and comfort
her hert and deliver her from temptation,
and from all sorrow and open her eyes and let
her see tings as they are, for Father thou
knowest our sorrow; be pleased to look upon
thy poor servant and handmaid and grant us
the privilege of living the same length of time
that one may not go before the other, for thou
knowest that we desire this with all our hearts
* * and then Father, when we have  done
to grieve thee be pleased to blot it out, and let
us be clean and pure before thee at all times,
that we may never be left to sin or betray
any one that believes on thy name; save us
from all this and let our seed be righteous; in-
cline their hearts to be pure and virtuous, and
may this extend from generation to generation,
let us have favor in thy sight and before thine
angels that we may be watched over by them
and have strength and grace to support us in 
the day of our temptation that we may not be
overcome and fall.  Now my Father these are
the desires of our hearts and will thou grant
them to us for Jesus sake and to thy name
will we give all the glory forever and for-
ever--, amen."  
			To be Continued.


