IN MEMORIAM.

	Died at her residence in this city, "The White
House on the Hill" at 9 p. m. June 27th, Mrs.
Mary Ann Young widow of the late President
Brigham Young, at the advanced age of 79
years. Mrs. Young had been in ill health for
some years past, but was not considered danger-
ously ill until within a few weeks previous to
her death. Deceased was the daughter of
James W. and Phebe Morton Angell and was


[Column 1]
born in Ontario Co. New York, June 8th, 1803.
She heard and believed the Gospel in Providence,
Rhode Island in 1831, but was baptized in Avon
New York in 1832 by Elder John P. Greene.
Shortly after Miss Angell gathered with the
Saints to Kirtland, Ohio, where she was mar-
ried to Brigham Young, early in the year 1834,
Sidney Rigdon officiating in the ceremony.
Mrs. Young was the mother of six children
three of them had passed away previous to her
demise. Her eldest son Brigham is one of the
quorum of Twelve and John W., Counselor to
the Apostles. She has one daughter living,
wife of George W. Thatcher Esq. of Logan
and the mother of a large family. She leaves
many grandchildren and several great grand-
children and hosts of loving and tender friends
to mourn the loss of her society here on earth.
	Mrs. Young was one of the kindest and most
benevolent of women, always in sympathy with
the needy, the sorrowing and the unfortunate.
None were turned empty away who appealed to
her for relief or comfort. She was a natural
nurse and had she studied the science of medi-
cine would have excelled in the profeesion. Her
intuitions were keen in this dirrection and so
practical was she in her suggestions and methods
of treatment that the results often surpassed
the skill of the doctors. She was a woman of
great faith and spiritual in her nature, a woman
of prayer and conversant with the Holy Scrip-
tures. Humble and unassuming in character,
one whom no change in circumstances or fortune
could ever alter in her demeanor, towards her
friends or neighbors. True in friendship, firm
and unfaltering in her integrity to the Gospel,
she has endured unto the end, has fought the
good fight, gained the victory over death, and
gone to join her husband and dear one[-], to await
the first resurrection. Her trials and sufferings
here were severe but she bore all with meekness
and resignation and her reward will be sure.
Her life was a labor of love, rich in good deeds
that can never die, but whose fragrance will be
ever fresh in the hearts and memories of those
who have received blessings at her hands.
									E. B. W

	Died at Alpine City July 3d, 1882, Maria
Dunsdon Carlisle, she was born at Steeple
Ashton, Wiltshire, England Sept. 8th, 1800.
Embraced the Gospel of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints in 1847; was baptized by Br. John
Halliday. Left her home with her husband,
Thomas Dundson, and one daughter, in 1851 to
emigrate to Utah. Buried her husband at
Council Bluffs and has since buried her daught-
er in Cache valley. Soon after her arrival in
Salt Lake City she was set apart by Br. J. M.
Grant to officiate as midwife, in which occupa-
tion she labored most faithfully up to the last
years. She was a kind, affectionate friend to the
sick and needy, and was never known to weary
in doing good by day or night. She was one of
the first to join the Relief Society in Alpine and
has ever remained a staunch supporter of the
same. She has been afflicted with cancer the
past three years which has caused her great
suffering; but was always full of energy and
ambition, and never gave up until the last few
days. She has had every necessary attention
from the sisters of the Relief Society, both night
and day for some months. We do not mourn her
loss, feeling satisfied that she had spent her
time in doing good, and lived to a ripe old age,
and hope to be as well prepared to come forth in
the resurrection morning.

	Died in the First Ward, Brigham City, Jan.
25th, 1882, Anne Catherine Holst, daughter of
Frederick and Catherine Holst; aged 18 years,
9 months and 19 days.

	April 28th, 1882, Mary Ellen Valentine,

[Column 2]
daughter of August and Mary Valentine, aged
16 years, 9 months and 7 days.
	May 10th, 1882, Anie Johanna Nielson,
aged 17 years, 8 months and 22 days.
	May 18th, 1882, Mary M. Fosgreen, daughter
of Peter A. and Christina Fosgreen, aged 16
years, 2 months and 27 days. All of typhoid
fever.
	The following resolutions of respect to the
memory of our beloved sisters who have left us,
were adopted by the Y. L. of the M. I. A.
	Whereas God, in his divine wisdom, has seen
fit to call from our midst these our beloved sis-
ters, who were highly respected by us all for
their many virtues, and estimable qualities, for
their punctual attendance and faithful labors in
our society,
	Therefore: be it resolved that we as members
of the Y. L. M. I. A., do deeply mourn the loss
of our beloved sisters, and fellow laborers in
our society, and that we truly sympathize with
their parents and friends in their great bereave-
ment, and unite with them in the hope of
meeting them again at the resurection of the
just; and be it resolved that we present a copy
of these resolutions to their respective parents,
and that a copy be published in the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT and also be recorded in our record-
book.
					Fanny Graehl, Prest.
					Janie Loveland, Sec'y.

Like roses in full bloom they have faded, taking a
	natural view,
But their spirits will live forever, among the faithful
	and true.
They died in full hope to rise in the resurrection of the
	just,
When the trumpet sounds to awake them, we shall
	meet them again we trust.
