Vol. XII AUGUST, 1925 No. 8 

Page

The White House at Washington D. C. Frontispiece
To a Woodpath Estelle Webb Thomas 395
International Council of Women Clarissa S. Williams 397
Mother's Evening Prayer Nettie E. McMurtrey 408
Tell Your Troubles to the Iceman Kate Thomas 409
Editorial—Home and Parenthood Recreation 413
The Editor Abroad Alice Louise Reynolds 418
Vitamins Jean Cox 422
Out of Work Martha Hartford Webb 427
Of Interest to Women Lalene H. Hart 432
Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman 434
Susan Taylor Jennings 439
Guide Lessons for October 440

PUBLICATION INFORMATION

Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah
$1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c
Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah

ADVERTISEMENTS

For our success we are indebted to our friends

Bennett Glass & Paint Co.
65 West First South

KEELEY'S
Call Your Nearest
ICE CREAM
CANDY
CAKE
PUNCHES
deliciously different

Our 30c or 50c Special Brick

PHONE WAS. 3223

GO VIA SAN FRANCISCO
LOS ANGELES AND RETURN, IT COSTS NO MORE TO SEE ALL OF CALIFORNIA IN ONE COMPLETE TRIP

$49.00

Southern Pacific Lines

PROPORTIONATELY LOW FARE FROM ALL OTHER POINTS IN UTAH, IDAHO AND MONTANA
STOPOVERS ALLOWED AT ALL POINTS
TICKETS ON SALE DAILY
GOOD RETURNING OCTOBER 31, 1925

For Complete Information, Tickets and Reservations, Call Phone or Write
P. BANCROFT, General Agent
41 South Main Street
Wasatch 3078

Make Sturdy Boys and Girls

Our fine quality bottled milk gives health, strength, energy, ambition and success to boys and girls too. It is the best food in the world for growing children.

"Daily Deliveries Before Breakfast"

CLOVER LEAF DAIRY

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

SHURTLIFF & ANDREWS
159 WEST 1st SO.
WASATCH 2177

THE ONION AND THE MATCH

Ice won't need mail and it won't spoil in the bottom compartment of the Automatic Refrigerator. The Automatic is so dry that you can scratch a match on the inside walls. So thoroughly freshens the air in the Automatic that an onion on the top shelf won't spoil the butter and milk. Try these experiments with other refrigerators—see how the Automatic excels.

Automatic scientific air circulation

AUTOMATIC REFRIGERATOR

234 So. State St.

MODERN FURNITURE CO.

The Famous Z. C. M. I. Factory
OVERALLS

MOUNTAINEER Triple Stitch OVERALLS
A strong, serviceable Overall for every-day use

KANT-RIP OVERALLS
A slip-on overall made of high grade denim—reasonable in price—wears splendidly

SUMMIT Strong Seams OVERALLS
Will Give You Wonderful Service

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

Trade With your Friends

TROY LAUNDRY
Distinctive Work
Hyland 190
Office 319 S. Main St.

Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer.

In Larkin Undertaking Service You Have the Softened, Sympathetic Skill of Twenty-five Years' Experience

We Are Now Located in our New Funeral Home at
260 EAST SOUTH TEMPLE ST.
Salt Lake City

Telephones: Was. 5732 and Hyland 180

Ogden, 466 24th St.
Telephone 821-W

Books Recommended for Your Use in Your Relief Society Meetings

Works of Eugene Field, complete $3.00

Edwin Markham's works:
Gates of Paradise, and Other poems $1.75
Lincoln, and other poems $1.50
Shoes of Happiness, and other poems $1.50
Man with a Hoe, and other poems $1.50

Joaquin Miller's works:
Not listed on any of the catalogs we have, we judge, therefore, to be out of print.

Amy Lowell's Poems:
Pictures of a Floating world $1.75
Sword Blades and Poppy Seed $1.75
Legends $1.75
A Doom of many colored glass $1.75
Men, Women, and Goats $1.75

Riley's Poems, most of the best ones contained in the Hoosier Book of Verse $3.00
Also the Lockerby Book of verse $3.00

Normal Life, Divine $1.50

Additional information, lists of other good books and helpful suggestions will be given you without obligation upon application.

DESERET BOOK COMPANY
44 E. South Temple Street
Salt Lake City

Eureka Vacuum Cleaner
Sold on Easy Terms
Largest Selling Machine in the World

225 State St.
Salt Lake City, Utah
A. E. CARTER, Manager

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

No Difference between Refined Beet and Refined Cane Sugar

The highly trained chemist with all his elaborate laboratory equipment is not able to distinguish between BEET and CANE SUGAR.

BEET SUGAR produced in Utah and Idaho is of the highest developed process which removes all impurities and yields an unexcelled quality of pure, white, fine, clean BEET SUGAR.

BEET SUGAR can be used for all purposes with entire success. Europeans, with a reputation for making the finest of preserves and confections, prefer BEET SUGAR.

Keep your money in circulation at home. Patronize a great HOME INDUSTRY—one that gives employment to thousands and insures a profitable crop for the farmers.

Economize in your canning and preserve by using BEET SUGAR

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

RENT a PIANO
In Salt Lake City or Nearby Towns
Apply all Rent on Later Purchase

"We won't buy till we get our new home," or "we won't buy till I see if the children take their lessons." These are common "excuses" we meet—but both objections are now obliterated by our easy rental plan. Come in—see us about it. No obligation.

Daynes-Beebe Music Co.
SALT LAKE CITY
CAPITAL $1,000,000
OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH

Fall Bulbs
FREE CATALOG NOW READY

Fall is the BEST TIME to plant Peonies, Phlox and Perennial Plants. Fall is the ONLY TIME to plant Hyacinths, Tulips, Narcissus, Daffodils, etc. July and August are the best months for sowing perennial Flower Seeds.

Free Catalog Now Ready
Giving Full Details
Write for it Today

PORTER-WALTON CO.
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

Guaranteed L. D. S. Garments

THE RELIABLE
1069 East 21st South

OUR SPECIAL OFFER

With every order of $8.00 or over, you get a Fine Rubber Apron FREE. If you do not need Garments now, get an order from your friends or neighbors. On such orders you are entitled to the premium. Be sure and state whether you want NEW or OLD STYLE, MEN'S or LADIES', LONG or SHORT LEGS.

*Recommended for MEN and can be made with Double Back.

PRICE LIST FOR SPRING AND SUMMER, 1925

No. 50 Light wt. Bleached cotton, flat weave $0.95
No. 51 Fine ribbed cotton union $1.25
No. 52 Fine ribbed bleached cotton $1.50
No. 54 Medium ribbed unbleached cotton $1.75
No. 56 Medium ribbed union $2.00
No. 58 Heavy ribbed unbleached cotton $2.25
No. 60 Heavy rib. Bleached cotton $2.25
No. 64 Fine lisle $2.25
No. 66 Fine mercerized lisle $2.75
No. 68 Heavy weight, 1/3 wool $3.25
No. 94 Pure silk $4.50
No. 98 Fine cotton with silk stripe $1.95

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

To a Woodpath
You have been calling me; lead me away Far from the wearisome toil of my day, Out to some green nook where wood-sprites still play.
To some cool pool in a far-hidden place Where each white water-flower, with languid grace, Gazing Narcissus-like, views her fair face.
Under the pines to some deep mossy dell, Where, on the breeze, Pan's sweet notes ever swell And the kind Spirit of Peace loves to dwell.
There in its recesses hide all my care, Waft it away on the fresh, fragrant air, Fill my clean soul with rejoicing and prayer.
Thence to some mountain-top, kingly and high, Thrusting its spires toward a fathomless sky, Lending its strength to such weaklings as I.
There, from its summit, with vision more true, Freed from the mists which obstructed my view, May I see clearly the things I should do.
Then all refreshed as a field after rain, Ready to cope with the joy and the pain, Lead me, O, Path, to my Duty again.
—Estella Webb Thomas.
THE WHITE HOUSE AT WASHINGTON D. C.
AND MRS. COOLIDGE
President and Mrs. Coolidge entertained the Quinquennial delegates here.
THE Relief Society Magazine
Vol. XII AUGUST, 1925 No. 8
International Council of Women Quinquennial Meeting
By Clarissa S. Williams
The sixth quinquennial convention of the International Council of Women, held in Washington, D. C., May 4-14, was probably the most extensive international conference ever held. It was stated repeatedly, by those who are familiar with international gatherings, that this meeting eclipsed them all in scope and representation—that even the Versailles Conference following the World War, did not have representatives from so many nations. Organized in Washington in 1888, under the sponsorship of leading American suffrage workers, Miss Susan B. Anthony, Mrs. May Wright Sewall, Mrs. Rachel Foster Avery, and others, the International Council has met in many lands. Five years after the initial meeting, there was a conference at the World's Fair in Chicago in 1893, when the women present, representing many nationalities, determined to return to their various countries, organize national councils, and make the International Council a real significant and representative International group. Since that time, meetings have been held as follows: England, 1899; Germany, 1904; Canada, 1909; Italy, 1914; Norway, 1920; United States, 1925. At the Washington meeting, there were assembled women from Europe, Asia, Africa, North and South America, and from the islands of the sea—from forty-two nations, including countries older than history and republics newly born. Of the European nations, only Russia, Spain, and Albania were missing. There were delegates from Arctic Iceland and far-away China, from Roumania, Esthonia, Latvia, and Czecho-Slovakia, representing their people for the first time at an international table; from South Africa, New Zealand and Australia, those from the British colony of Tasmania having been on the way to Washington five weeks; from five of the Latin-American nations; from Can-
398 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
ada and the United States. It was reported by the secretary that the women of Turkey are trying hard to lay the foundations of a National Council of Women, that the women of India have already formed a connection with the Council, and in China the women are working for the formation of a National Council and its federation with the I. C. W. There were in all two hundred fifty delegates, including the International officers, and convenors of standing committees. Each National Council was entitled to ten delegates and ten alternates. Norway, Great Britain, Canada and the United States were the only countries, however, sending the full quota. This brilliant assemblage of women represented a real world power, and their intelligent discussion of international problems was most illuminating. The subject matter was comprehensive and varied. When the International Council was first organized, chief among the subjects discussed was woman suffrage, which with education and curative measures for correcting existing evils, formed the program. At the present meeting, the vital topics were peace and arbitration and international understanding, together with a consideration of preventive welfare work, including education and social legislation. Among those in attendance were many notable and interesting, as well as picturesque, characters. There were doctors, lawyers, linguists, lecturers and preachers, legislators, social workers, engineers and authors—women who have gained high rank in their respective countries in the field of education and human welfare work. The Marchioness of Aberdeen and Temair, world leader of women and the president of the International Council, who presided at all of the meetings of the Council, is famous for her work in establishing health and recreation centers in Ireland. During her husband's term as viceroy of Ireland, she organized the Irish Woman's Public Health Crusade, and within seven years the mortality rate from tuberculosis in that land had been decreased by more than two thousand deaths per year. Lady Aberdeen has been president for several different quinquennial periods. Her command of languages and her long experience in high social circles have rendered her able to serve her enormous and varied constituencies with exceptional skill. Fru Anna Backer of Norway, who ranks immediately after Lady Aberdeen, is one of the leaders of thought in Norway. In 1920 she received from the Norwegian king a handsome gold medal which is bestowed occasionally for exceptionally valuable service in the field of social welfare. Fru Backer headed the very efficient secretariat. Madam Avril de Sainte-Croix is probably the best known and most respected social worker in France. She is famous for her
INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN 399
work in promoting a single standard of morals for her nation, and has worked steadily for years for the maintenance of the highest standards of the family. She is well known in France for the organization she has created, and for her participation in the elaboration of new laws which have produced important improvements in the lives of women and children. For her exceptional work in the field of welfare and hygiene, the French government presented her with the great golden medal of Public Assistance and Hygiene for exceptional service. Madam Sainte-Croix is one of the vice-presidents of the International Council, and is president of the National Council of France. Dr. Gertrude Baumer of Germany is a writer and preacher in Berlin. She is known principally, however, for the struggle she made in the Reichstag, of which she is a member, to get through welfare legislation for women workers. Dr. Ogilvie Gordon of Scotland, Doctor of Jurisprudence and Doctor of Philosophy, is an author, linguist and lecturer, actively interested in child welfare. She is a vice-president of the International Council. Froken Henni Forchammer who is a brilliant linguist and author, and one of the vice-presidents of the International Council, represented the Danish government at the League of Nations conference at Geneva. Countess Apponyi is president of the National Council of Hungary. She is also leader of the anti-alcoholic movement and founder of the first sanitarium for alcoholics in her country. Mrs. George Cadbury, of England, a modest and charming Quaker, is convenor of the committee on peace and arbitration. She is chairman of the hospital for crippled children founded by her wealthy husband, and is actively interested in a number of women's and children's groups. She has been decorated with the order of the British Empire and also by the Belgian and Servian governments for her service in the interest of refugees during the late war. Dr. Alice Solomon has founded a number of social service schools in Germany, and is a leader of thought along modern philanthropy. Senora Labarca is professor of philosophy in the national university of Chile and author of a number of books, including a text book on elementary philosophy used by the secondary schools in her country. Mrs. Teressa Isassi, president of the National Council of Mexico, is one of the most significant literary women of that country. She is founder and director of the Society for the Protection of Childhood, and supports a home for homeless children by her work. Mme. Krstitch, of Belgrade, is an architect and director of the Serbian Department of Engineering and Construction. Josephine Szebeko is a member of the Polish senate. It would be impossible to mention all of the noted American
400 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
women in attendance at the conference. Mrs. Philip N. Moore, president of the National Council of Women of the United States, hostess of the sixth Quinquennial, and who was more responsible than anyone else for the success of the convention, must be mentioned first. Mrs. Moore is well known as a leader of women and is noted for her ability as a public speaker and as a presiding officer. Mrs. Moore presided at the ceremonial meeting, as well as at a number of other sessions, and was in full charge of all evening programs. Next to Mrs. Moore in importance was Mrs. Nathaniel E. Harris, a vice-president of the National Council, and general chairman of the quinquennial committee. It was under her immediate direction that the plans for the convention were carried out. Mrs. Glen Swiggett, of Washington, D. C., general chairman of the Washington committee, should receive special mention, and also Mrs. David A. Campbell, chairman of the music department of the National Council, who was in charge of the American music evening. Mrs. Percy V. Pennybacker was chairman of the local program committee, and presided at the Pan-American evening. Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, a world-known character, gave one of the principal addresses of the whole convention. Other American women to be mentioned, are Mrs. Flo Jamison Miller, Prof. Marian Whitney, Mrs. Frances Burns, Dr. Valeria Parker, Mrs. Maud Wood Park, Miss Lucy Anthony, Mrs. Anna Garlin Spencer, Miss Grace Abbott, and Miss Mary Anderson. The meetings of the convention were held in the commodious new Washington auditorium, which was well supplied with amplifiers in order that the vast audience might hear all of the proceedings. At the huge table, which ran the full length of the stage, were seated the International officers, who formed an imposing array of stately, dignified and charming women. Lady Aberdeen who towered in stature above them all, sat in the center, with Fru Backer, corresponding secretary, immediately on her right, and the Misses Zimmern and Van Eeghen, recording secretaries, on her left. At the right of Fru Backer sat Mrs. Ogilvie Gordon, first vice-president, Mme. Sainte-Croix, second vice-president, and Mrs. W. E. Sanford, treasurer. Froken Henni Forchammer, third vice-president, and Mrs. Philip N. Moore, sixth vice-president, were seated next to the secretariat at the right end of the table. Convenors and vice-convenors of committees were given seats on the stage, immediately behind the officers. The delegates were seated in the front of the stage, immediately behind the Press, their places being indicated by the national emblems of their respective countries, which gave a patri-
INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN 401
otic air to the whole proceeding. Next to the delegates were patrons, alternates, special guests, and then came the public. Fifty local young women acted as pages. They gave very efficient service, and were most effective and charming in their white gowns with broad sashes of red, white, and blue. The official languages of the International Council are English, French and German, and out of respect to the Latin-American delegates, whose national councils have newly become federated, Spanish was added whenever necessary. All the proceedings were translated from one language to the others by able and brilliant linguists, who were a constant surprise and marvel to the American women. When a resolution was proposed or a report given in one language, it was translated into the other two official languages before a vote was taken. The European women, generally, spoke more than one language—French being almost universally understood, with English as a close second. In the halls and lobbies many tongues were heard, and it was estimated by one observer that there had not been such a medley of sounds since the Tower of Babel was under construction. Interpreters were plentiful, however, and through them everybody was able to understand everybody else. The convention consisted of general sessions for the public which were held each evening; daily meetings of the Council proper, officers' meetings, and numerous committee meetings. The general sessions were open to the public while the Council meetings, where the regular business was transacted, were limited. Only the general officers, the convenors of standing committees, and the official delegates (ten from each National Council) were permitted to take part in the discussion, and to vote. The general sessions consisted of the following: a ceremonial meeting when an address of welcome was given by Herbert Hoover, and greetings by representatives of the National Council of Women of the United States in the three official languages, with responses from Lady Aberdeen and other honored guests; an evening of American music, showing the evolution of music in this country; an evening when the presidents of the various National Councils or their representatives made brief reports regarding their own countries and the work of their councils; a pan-American evening; a pageant—Peace and War; Mother's Day ceremony at the tomb of the unknown soldier; an evening devoted to a discussion of recent developments in citizenship; and another in which the subject, "Social Ideals in International Life" was discussed by a number of celebrated speakers. The last evening was devoted to a farewell banquet, which was the climax of everything, both intellectual and social. It was held in
402 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the ball room of the new Mayflower Hotel, which is said to be the finest hotel in the world. Probably the most interesting of the general sessions was the evening meeting devoted to the reports of the work of the various National Councils. It was indeed inspiring to hear of the efforts being put forth by women to make the world better and safer for humanity. New Zealand reported among other things the lowest death rate among children in all the world; Australia, the great results from their maternity program, which with the assistance of trained social workers and public health nurses, has become very effective. Denmark reported improvement in police work since the introduction of police women. Sweden reported five women in parliament; and Holland, eight women in parliament. In Holland equal pay for equal work is the rule in many professions. Hungary has received great benefit from the recent tuberculosis campaign. In Norway there is a law which provides for at least three women jurors in all cases of sex offense where girls are involved. Among other things, Norway reported that their country provides that illegitimate children shall be entitled to their fathers' names. In Chile the women are training themselves and are being trained for suffrage. The National Council of this country has centered its activities at present on the founding of dormitories for college girls. Through the efforts of the women the wages and salaries of married women are now their own; whereas, they formerly belonged to their husbands and fathers. In Denmark the minister of education is a woman, and women are making their way into university faculties and are gaining better positions generally in the schools, including principalships. In Sweden unmarried mothers are required to go to the municipal authorities, and the courts arrange for the financial support of their children. In South Africa, as far as support for children is concerned, there is no distinction between legitimate and illegitimate children. Fathers must support illegitimate children up to the age of sixteen. An interesting and rather dramatic event occurring at this meeting was the presentation to the Council of a silk banner, by Fru Backer of Norway, international secretary, and its acceptance by the president, Lady Aberdeen. The silk used in its manufacture was a gift by the affiliated councils, and of former premier Herriot of France, when he was mayor of Lyons, the great silk producing city. The embroidery was done in Norway. On the banner are embroidered the eastern and western hemispheres with a bright sun shedding its beams over the world. Below these figures the golden rule is embroidered in Latin. The I. C. had been without a banner since 1914, when the one in use
INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN 403
was lost at the outbreak of the war on its way from Rome to the home of Lady Aberdeen in Scotland. At the regular Council meetings there were reports of the officers, reports of standing committees, with recommendations and resolutions attached, and it was here that the election of officers took place. Lady Aberdeen presented no formal report as president, but gave a cordial opening address, mentioning some of the special features of the work of the executive committee during the five-year interim. She called attention to the position of the International Council of Women—its aims and purposes. She stated that the main object of the existence of the International Council is not to promote propaganda but to form a center around which all women's societies can gather, confer, and make the voice of organized womanhood heard regarding various subjects of world interest. The policy of the International Council is also the promotion of the international mind in all relations of life. The motto of the Council is the "Golden Rule" and its thirty-six million members are permitted to forward all that tends to the good of mankind by the magic power of love. Inspiration, new insight, and added impetus are results of the I. C. Lady Aberdeen spoke very feelingly of the officers and prominent workers who had passed away since the last Council meeting. Among these she mentioned our own beloved American leader, Dr. Kate Wallet Barrett, who passed away a few months before the International Council meeting. Dr. Barrett was the convenor of the standing committee on immigration and emigration, and was an ex-president of the National Council of the United States. Lady Aberdeen stated that she was one of the few survivors of those in this country who were connected with the early days of both the International Council of Women and the National Council, and that she had given able and devoted service. Only the day before her death she was arranging a tea party for the delegation at her interesting home at Alexandria. The vast audience, at Lady Aberdeen's request, stood in silent remembrance of the fellow-workers who had passed away. The report of the secretary, Fru Backer, was both comprehensive and interesting, covering sixteen printed pages. Among the interesting items reported were the extension of the Council, the inner growth, the meetings of the executive committee, and the relation of the work of the International Council to other world work, etc., etc. The treasurer's report gave in detail the finances of the International Council, including the receipts and disbursements since the last meeting. The reports of standing committees were most interesting and inspiring, and contained the results of surveys and summaries
404 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
of the work being done throughout the world in the interest of human welfare, and particularly, women and children. The following vital questions were included: peace and arbitration, child welfare, rights of women—equal rights and pay for women, social service, regulation of traffic in women and children, suppression of vice, etc., etc. In connection with their reports, the chairmen of standing committees presented recommendations and resolutions which were discussed and acted upon. Following are some of the items included in the resolutions: Education. The Education Committee favored an interchange of teachers and students between countries; continuation of schools for children from fourteen to eighteen; self-government in schools; the teaching of nature study and simple biological facts in all public elementary schools, and courses of science, including biology and the laws of health in secondary schools; the teaching of international ideals; the community use of school buildings; equal pay for equal work in the teaching profession; the scientific study and practice in full of domestic science and homemaking in all branches which concern the family. Equal Moral Standard. The Equal Moral Standard Committee proposed the establishment of a common plan of work for the protection of emigrants and for the campaign against traffic in women and children; that in those countries in which there is still state regulation of prostitution the National Councils still continue to work for the suppression of the regulation which by degrading a whole class of women perpetrates an injustice and is an outrage against womanhood; that the International Council of Women urge the institution in all countries of women police, with the same status and responsibilities as men in the same service; that the Council urge all women in countries not yet having ratified the convention of Geneva, 1921, for the protection of women and children, to use all their influence to obtain ratification; that the I. C. W. urge that measures be taken for the suppression of such newspaper advertisements as tend to incite immoral behavior. Trades and Professions. Under Trades and Professions the resolutions were adopted providing for: equal professional rights for women; equal pay for equal work; maternity provision after confinement; right of married women to work. Emigration. Under emigration were the following resolutions: that the National Councils be asked to urge their governments to appoint women attachees to their consulates and legations; in the event of any special department or commission being appointed under the League of Nations on Emigration and Immigration, that the I. C. shall urge the appointment of a woman member to represent women's international organizations; in countries where no bureaus already exist to give information to pro-
INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN 405
fessional women regarding emigration and immigration, that the National Council be urged to take steps to establish them; that the I. C. W. recognizes with gratitude the action of the National Council of Women of the United States in urging their government to admit the wives and minor children of men already living in the states, irrespective of quota. Suffrage. Under the subject of suffrage, the following resolution was adopted: that in order to get the best results from their voting power, women who are enfranchised should join political parties and should form groups within their own parties for the discussion of their special interests, and thus unite to influence their parties; further that these different party groups should get in touch with one another, so that when they agree upon any subject, they can ask unitedly to further their common interests. Child Welfare. That the I. C. W. formally re-indorse the Declaration of Geneva, made by the "Save the Children Fund International Union;" that the National Council be recommended to collaborate with the National Committee of the Union in their respective countries in preparing a Children's Charter suitable to the needs and conditions in each particular country; that the I. C. W. shall request all National Councils to take an active interest in the care and protection of abnormal children, and to report on the measures taken in this direction in the various countries; that the statistics concerning the death rate of legitimate compared with illegitimate children under one year be circulated and that the affiliated Councils be asked to investigate what remedial measures they recommend; that in all countries means should be provided by which preparation for and access to the universities and to all institutions of high learning shall be made possible for the especially gifted child of every class; that the I. C. W. recognizes that the only effective way of combating the evil of drug taking is for the states in which opium and coca leaves are grown to reduce the production to the medical and scientific needs of the world. Peace and Arbitration. There was much speculation among newspaper reporters and the public generally regarding the resolutions to be presented on the subject of the League of Nations and Peace and Arbitration, and regarding the stand to be taken by the American delegation on the subject. But early in the discussion, Mrs Philip N. Moore explained that due to the wide diversion of opinion in this country, and due to the fact that the United States has not entered the League of Nations and has not committed itself to a definite peace program, the National Council decided at its last annual meeting to take no part in the discussion and voting. She said further that nobody was entitled to speak for the National Council on these subjects, but that individuals might speak for themselves if they chose and were per-
406 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
mitted to do so. When the resolution on Disarmament was proposed, the German delegates refused to vote on the partial and gradual disarmament resolution, also Poland and Roumania. The International Council as a whole, however, went on record for gradual disarmament and for the inclusion of all countries in the League of Nations, but without the aid of American women. The resolution read: The I. C. W., while recognizing that general disarmament is the ideal to be aimed at, considers that it might be preceded by gradual simultaneous disarmament under effective control to be agreed upon by the respective governments and the League of Nations. They recognize that governments will not agree to disarm until they feel some sense of security. This Council believes that the way to establish peaceful relations among the nations would be through a policy that regards neighboring peoples as natural friends, and not as possible enemies. It is interesting to note that all nations represented at the conference, with the exception of the United States, Germany and Mexico, are members of the League of Nations. There were invitations from several countries for the next quinquennial meeting, but after due consideration it was decided to accept the invitation from Austria, which is centrally located, and of easy access to the many new Councils formed in central Europe. An attractive social program was arranged in connection with the conference, when genuine American hospitality was extended. Chief among the social features was the reception given at the White House by the president of the United States and his wife, in honor of the officers and delegates. The President and Mrs. Coolidge received the guests, who were formally presented to them, most cordially. The President was dignified and courteous and Mrs. Coolidge was most gracious and charming, greeting each guest with a radiant smile, as well as a hearty handshake. She was beautifully dressed in a modest gray gown with shoes to match, and formed a lovely picture against a gorgeous floral background. From the reception room, the guests were ushered into the state dining room, where from a beautifully decorated table, they were served refreshments by the ladies of the Cabinet. They were then invited to spend an hour on the promenade on the west terrace to get acquainted and view the gorgeous White House grounds and gardens. Other interesting events were the teas given by Mrs Herbert Hoover, wife of the Secretary of Commerce; Mrs. John J. Davis, wife of the Secretary of Labor; Mrs. John D. Henderson, the Baroness Balzan, wife of the Ambassador from Germany, and a score of other charming and interesting hostesses. Luncheons and dinners were given at the various embassies by the Ambassadors
INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN 407
and Ministers and their wives to the women from their respective countries. There were also excursions to the historic places in and about Washington, such as Arlington, Gettysburg and Mt. Vernon, where a wreath was placed on the tomb of Washington, in the name of the women of the world. An outstanding social feature was the breakfast given by the President of the National Council of the United States, Mrs. Philip N. Moore, to the state chairmen who had so valiantly assisted her in raising funds to cover the expense of the great meeting. And an outstanding feature of the breakfast was the report that Utah was the first state to raise its quota, and the detailed account by Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, chairman of the Utah State committee, as to how the quota was raised. At this breakfast Mrs, Moore and Mrs. Harris were each presented by the women of the U. S. Council, with a beautiful jeweled pin, in the form of the International insignia. The election of officers which occurred near the close of the convention was as follows: President, the Marchioness of Aberdeen and Temair, Scotland; first vice-president, Mrs. Ogilvie Gordon, England; second vice-president, Mme. Avril de SainteCroix, France; third vice-president, Mrs. Philip N. Moore, United States; fourth vice-president, Fru Anna Backer, Norway; fifth vice-president, Froken Henni Forchammer, Denmark; sixth vicepresident, Dr. Alice Solomon, Germany; seventh vice-president, Princess Cantacuzene, Roumania; corresponding secretary, Miss L. A. Van Eeghen, Holland; recording secretaries, Miss A. Christitch, Jugo-Slavia and Madame Romniciano, Roumania; treasurer, Mrs. W. E. Sanford, Canada. Convenors and vice-convenors of standing committees were also elected, representing various other countries not represented among the officers. From the beginning, Utah has had representation at the meetings of the International Council of Women. The Utah representation at the Washington meeting was as follows: Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, official U. S. Delegate; Mrs. Ruth May Fox, auditor of the National Council of Women; Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, state chairman for the state of Utah; Mrs. E. O. Wattis, vicechairman for the state of Utah; Mrs. Jennie B. Knight, national patron; Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon; Miss Florence Kimball; Mrs. N. K. Forrester; Mrs. Eliza F. McFarland; Mrs. L. W. Lund; Mrs. S. L. Chipman; Miss Bae Williams; Miss Marion Cartwright; Mrs. M. F. Cowley, and daughter Carol.
Mother's Evening Prayer
Fourth poem to receive honorable mention in the Eliza R. Snow Memorial Contest.
By Nettie E. McMurtrey.
With the evening shadows falling, And birds to their mates a-calling; Fancy takes me back to childhood, Back to home and mother there: All around us night is creeping, Stars from out the sky are peeping, Then I kneel beside my mother, And in childish wonder listen While she says her Danish prayer.
Though I knew not what she was saying All the while that she was praying, Yet I knew that she was asking God's kind blessings on us all. Thanking him for mercies given, Asking him for light from heaven Praying that no harm or evil On her children may befall.
Sweet and low her voice ascended On the quiet evening air, As I kneeled beside my mother, And in humble silence listened While she said her Danish prayer.
Oh, that wishes might be granted, Like old fairy tales enchanted, Then I'm sure one wish would take me Back to home and mother there. And with evening shadows creeping, Stars from out the blue sky peeping, I'd kneel softly down beside her, Bow my head in humble reverence, While in her own native language Mother said her evening prayer.
Tell Your Troubles to the Iceman.
By Kate Thomas.
Miranda heaved a sigh of relief, as she waved her hand to the last retreating figure. It was awful to be glad to see folks go, but, after all, they were going for a good time. She begrudged them nothing, so why should she not rejoice in the thought of the house to herself for one whole month? A long, beautiful, unbroken quiet in which she could do as she pleased. No one to boss her, no ill-trained children to say don't to, no indolent ones to waste time and energy on by spurring them to do. No dishes. She could eat what she pleased. Cantaloupes and tomatoes, cucumbers and watermelon, olives and lettuce, nuts and raisins, and big crusts of baker's rolls with milk. Not one thing would she cook in all that month. And best of all, there would be no front door traffic by dirty-booted big boys too lazy and too inconsiderate to go around. In fact, all front door traffic, except for callers, should cease. At least it would not be her fault if the daily-growing-more-sloppy family did not get the impulse to go back to its more orderly habits. Losing no time, she went immediately from the gate to the telephone. When she hung up the receiver it was with the blessed knowledge that next morning a man would be on hand to nail up the little tin notice that peddlers, workmen, delivery boys, and venders in general were to inquire at the proper entrance. Then she got a bucket, a digging fork and a pickaxe. It was an unusually hot, dry summer. The lawn was a stretch of yellow patches, relieved by very little green. No use hoping to save that, but she might revive the drooping trees. The dear, helpful trees that gave the kindly shade! It was hard for her slight strength to make any headway in the packed, clay soil. Buckets and buckets from the ditch she carried to soften it. Slowly but steadily she dug trenches around the trees and carried more buckets and buckets to fill them. She tied the straggling branches of the climbing rose, dug a little trench at its roots and poured in a bucket there. The struggling treelings along the fence caught her eye. Bravely, in spite of the drought, they were making their fight for life. "Humans aren't the only ones to fight for that little commodity," she soliloquized. "If I could get out those weeds that are taking their share of moisture it would give the trees a chance." It was a hard undertaking, but she went at it. More buckets and buckets to soften. More little cups dug at the roots, and then more buckets and buckets to fill them. Simple Simon wasn't so imbecile after all. You could catch a whale of a job in a pail,
410 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
She sat down on the steps and surveyed her job. She was tired. As was her wont, she had done everything at once. Three weeks of straight loafing followed by four weeks' work in one was Miranda's way. She had found the steady routine of daily housework, unrelieved as it usually is, by any word of praise or sympathy, deadly dull and unspeakably trying. She believed that 'physically, mentally and morally' she was 'quite unfitted for work.' "That's why I take so long to think it over before doing any,' she explained. No one, not even herself, knew how much she really did. She was one of those persons born to go through life disconnected with any halo of labor even though her back were breaking. Sometimes she resented this fact, but accepted it as unchangeable. Now she sat and gazed at her work. The baby trees looked very attractive, cleared of the rubbish that had almost covered them, and the old board fence as well. "Nobody will notice it but me," she thought. "But it doesn't matter. Anyway it's only what you see with your own eyes that gets to your soul. They are darling little trees! And they've got more sense than people. Just look how they are coming up in the very places where they will be most needed. I know lots of folks with diplomas who can't do that." She was so stiff when she arose. It was queer how a few hours of different occupation could make your knees wobble so. "I'm almost unfitted for prayer,' she commented. "A few more buckets and I'll go in." An ice wagon rumbled by as she bent once more at the ditch. The driver looked down with a friendly smile. "You ought to be singing, 'The Old Oaken Bucket'," he said. "Can't," she answered, "Its metal. Besides I haven't breath enough left to sing." "Ha, Miranda! In one light phrase you have struck the chord of the drudgers. Keeping their warped souls in their ill-used bodies is a task. They haven't breath enough left to sing!" The next morning the last of the front-door vendors came. "Any vegetables?" "If you will go to the back door the cook will tell you," said Miranda. Then she went back through the house, opened the back door and said coolly, "No, thank you." The man, an ill-tempered "dago," went away scowling. She was pretty sure he would not come again, and felt somewhat elated. She couldn't stand the sight of his one poor, old, stiff-kneed, rib-protruding horse. Miranda was patriotic. She preferred to patronize the clean, home-grown Bountiful youths with their well-cared for teams and produce fresh from their own farms. "Bread!" came an insistent voice. The baker was a chatty youngster who had taken his job TELL YOUR TROUBLES TO THE ICEMAN 411 and a pretty flapper wife at almost the identical moment. He had been coming for six months. He looked at her somewhat piteously as he held out the basket. Plainly he was in the dumps. "Any trouble?" she asked lifting out the crisp rolls. "My wife threatens to leave me!" Oh, gloom of the infernal pit! Orpheus outside the door of Hades bewailing his lost Eurydice with the three-headed dog snapping at his heels to drive him farther off! It was a miserable little tale. "I treated her as good as could be. I gave her all my wages. 3ut she says it isn't enough. She went to all the shows while I was working. I never cut her down any, and she's had a good time. I never complained about what she spent." "Perhaps you should have," said Miranda. "It's an even game, half-and-half, you know. Did you tell her what your wages were when you asked her to marry you?" "Ves, and I told her she could have it all." "That was rather foolish. You are both young and have lots of lessons to learn. You should learn them together." "We can't, nov." "Why, she hast.'t gone yet, has she?" "No, but she says she will." "Cheer up. Now and then a woman has been known to change her mind. Of course, it isn't often, but it has happened." "T think it's my mother-in-law," he continued hopelessly. "I know my wife gives her quite a bit of money." "Oh, then she's saving it for her!" t "No. No. She wouldn't do that, she's always spoiled her herself." b "Maybe she realizes her mistake now and is trying to make up or it." 5 "No. No," said the baker, shaking his head solemnly. "1 wotldn't believe that much good of either of them. And I'm going to love my job," it was the first alertness he had shown, "so I can't give her any more." "Fine!" said Miranda. "And I think you'll find you are worrying needlessly. Pshaw! Everybody tiffs once in awhile. Why, quarrelling is the cheapest pleasure married folks can have. They don't have to spend a cent on it. And they can take their friends in on a free ticket, too!" The bread man brightened. "I guess you're right," he said. "Surely, I'm right," she agreed enthusiastically. "I'm always right. Only sometimes its hard to make the other fellow see it. It seems too bad," she continued, changing the subject, "to ask you to call every morning when two rolls is all I shall need. If you like, I'll get them at the corner store." 412 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "I’d rather bring them. You seem to understand so," he answered. Morning chats with the bread man, tabulated Miranda's thinking machine. Well, he was lonely; it wouldn't hurt her to help him over it. Besides she was interested in the outcome. She hoped the flapper bride would have good sense. She began the dishes. There were plenty of them—left over from the day before. She had been too tired to wash them, and she was doing as she pleased. "Tce ie? "T think so. Fill it up so it will last." Miouw! Wow! Bang, smash! The first was from the cat, the second from the iceman, the third from the ice. He had stepped on her, jumped two feet in fright, and dropped the ice on the stone step. "Poor cat! Poor iceman! Poor ice! Poor me!" laughed startled Miranda. "That makes your heart beat faster than getting a valentine! My gain and the company's loss," she said putting the ice into a pan. "Too bad you got that scare. Bring me an extra big piece for the same money to make up for it." The grinning man departed. Coming back with the ice he asked, "That blooming animal isn't around now is she?" "No fear. The bloom of that blooming animal is wilted. She'll run from you for the next seven moons.' The iceman carefully took out the milk bottle and half a dozen bottles of root beer, put in the ice and replaced the bottles in order. "You may have one if you like," said Miranda. He deserved something for stepping on the cat. Perhaps she had learned a lesson now and would keep out of the way.: Stepping on cats was a horrible sensation—_nearly as bad as stepping on toads— and Miranda was always doing it. The iceman liked, he preferred, drinking it there. " T heard what you said to the guy that just went out. That's why I never married," he volunteered. "Didn't like the idea of quarrelling, and girls want more than a man'can give 'em nowadays. YRitiranda turned silently to her dishes. He finished the root beer and stood looking at her. "Ts this a hard place?" jhe asked. "Sometimes I think so," she answered laconically. "T have one crazy boss, but the others are all right." She did not answer. "Well, so long. Thanks for the drink," and he was gone. "It looks like I am in for conversations," mused Miranda. I don't mind tiding the breadman over, but I can't talk to everybody." TELL YOUR TROUBLES TO THE ICEMAN 413 She kept out of sight when he replenished the ice next time. But the time after that he caught her. "You are always working," he said.. "I've got a friend that boards up the. Street. He says that every time he passes you are pumping water." Jupiter! Zeus! And all the other Greek and Roman gods! Life was surely empty to someone if you couldn't carry buckets and buckets without being commented upon! She turned on him with incredulous, cold eyes. "You don't mean that I am the subject of discussion with your friends?" "Don't get hot. He was just praising you. I thought you'd like to hear a compliment." "I detest compliments," she snapped, "especially from strangers." "Don't get huffy. He didn't mean no harm. He lives with a German, and the German says you'd be a good, industrious wife." "Well, tell him I wouldn't." She laughed in spite of herself. It was too funny. "I suppose to some nice, kind man who would love to sit on the porch and watch me at my work. Please, when you are with your friends, talk about ice and the weather and leave me out of it." I talk about ice when I talk about you!" he flung at her. "And the weather is hot!" "Not so bad for an iceman," she chuckled to herself. "I wonder if I'd better put on my pink plush and my oleomargine so that man will recognize my rank and station." However, she didn't. She was in the same bungalow apron and she was frving onions. She was treating herself to one mess of the smelly things while everyone was away. "Have you worked awfully hard?" he asked. "No. I'm just loafing. Don't feel sorry for me, I never work much." His thoughtfulness touched her. "Would you like to go out to Saltair tonight?" he asked awkwardly. Heavens! He was no freshie to be taken down. He was sincere and shy. "Tt's nice of you to ask me," she said, "but I couldn't go. I mustn't leave the house alone." "They shouldn't tie you up like this," he protested. "The old house will keep!" Then the breadman came, quite out of time. He had evidently been telling his troubles all along his route. His face was white and his young eyes were strained. "She's gone home to her mother," he whispered. "She says for a week, for a change and rest. But she'll never come back. Her mother's been egging her on to it!" 414 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Why should young hearts have these heavy trials? The pity of it! The boy couldn't be more than twenty. His misery made her heart ache. "Perhaps you are doing her and her mother a wrong by distrusting them," she said. '"Why. Don't you take them at their word? Send her a box of candy, and a sweet little note telling her how you miss her and how glad you -will be when the week is up; but how glad you are, too, that she is having a jolly, restful time. Try it. But don't go to see her. You want to find out don't you?" she asked as the boy's face fell, "whether she really loves you and misses yow too." "You honestly believe that's the thing to do?" He looked at her pathetically. "I honestly believe that's the thing to do." But her heart sank, What if the way should be wrong? The iceman stood listening and the two of them went away together. Miranda felt tired. More tired than when she carried buckets and buckets of water. Poor boy! And all she could do for him was hope. But the iceman, returning, had a grievance. "Do you belong to this family?' he exploded. 'Are you their daughter?" "Yes," she answered. "And you let me think you was the hired girl, and led me on to asking you to go out with me!" Alas Miranda! She, a "verging" self-accepted subdued and refined spinster accused of—flirting! She could have rolled on the floor with hilarity. But a keen sense of humor is a good thing to have. She knew when not to laugh. "Didn't you want me to go?" she asked seriously. "Of course," he answered staring at her, "but—" "And I refused because J had to stay with the house. But I knew that you had asked me in kindness because you really wanted to give me a good time. And I thank you for that kindness. I hope you will always be kind, and to all women. We need it so. I should like to feel that every woman you meet from now on will look at you with the same good wish in her heart that 1 have now." Here the young baker bounded in. "Tt's just as you said!" he cried happily. "I met her and her mother on the corner. They're going downtown to buy the baby clothes. I'm going to have a baby! Gee! I'm bugs over it! That's why her mother took the money. She said Lil was foolish and she ought to save for Jt. You bet, I'll never forget you!" "Good luck!" said Miranda. Her heart was full. 'Good luck to both of you." And the breadman and the iceman once more walked away together. EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS - - - - - President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT First Counselor MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON: - - - Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A. F, Lund Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs, Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist REUIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor -: - - ClarissaA SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor - - - Alice Louise REYNOLDS Assistant Manager - - - Amy Brown Lyman Room 28, Bishop' s Building, Salt Lake City, Utah 

Vol. XII AUGUST, 1925 No. 8 Home and Parenthood Running like a thread through the recent conference of social work in Denver was the general theme of the home as a means of moral development. It assumed two phases?first the imperative need of some sort of training for parenthood before young persons enter upon this stage of their life, and second, the home, more than the past must endeavor to carry out its share of responsibility with the school and the church for the morals of the children and the young people. Also this same thought was urged upon the American nation by the conference of educators held last month in Indianapolis. It appears, therefore, that thinking people everywhere in this country are seeking to create stronger bulwarks for the home. Very gratifying indeed it is to know that the Latter-day Saints have all along stressed the value of the home as a nursery for morality. Perhaps no community, unless it be the ancient Hebrews, has placed greater emphasis upon the family life. And this from the very first. Children, with them as with the Old Testament Jews, have been and are still "the heritage of the Lord." Also they have adapted such means as will promote the virtues of the home life. They usually have family prayers night and morning; they generally have weekly home evenings. Families, after the children have grown up, aim to keep up the home spirit by family reunions. Then too, like the Roman Catholics, the Church frowns upon divorce and everything else that tends to break up the home. 416 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE But the "Mormon" people go a step further. In a day when marriage is being viewed more and more by certain classes as a mere contract that can be broken at will, the Saints have surrounded the marriage vow by the sanctity of religion. The ceremony, when under the sanction of the Church, is performed in the most sacred building known to the Saints?the temple. Special clothing, worn only on sacred occasions, is put on for the purpose. And the ceremony itself is binding in eternity as well as in time. Thus there is the suggestion of permanence in the home. In the next world as in this, the Saints teach, the home will continue to be a social unit, where love is the basis of all happiness. Recreation After the instinct of hunger and of sex none is so deepseated in man as the instinct for play. Recreation comes from a word meaning "to revive, to freshen, to make new." As water is to the thirsting flowers or food to the hungry man, so is recreation to the boy or girl worn out by the drudgery we call work. At its normal, human nature is resilient as an elastic ball. "Man is the only animal that can laugh." Since this instinct is not to be suppressed but guided, it follows that opportunity must be provided for its outlet. Otherwise it will make its own?like a stream that has been dammed up. Who is to provide this necessary recreation? The young and inexperienced, who do not know the approach to the pitfalls? Or the man or the institution whose only purpose is to make money by furnishing new thrills? Or the community or the church, whose main concern is human welfare? To ask these questions is already to answer them. How pitifully short-sighted it was in the beginning, whenever that was, for the community to license private individuals or corporations to direct the amusement of its youth. Then was the time?in the beginning?to set the movement on its foot, to turn its face in the right way. For after a thing has once got a start, it is very difficult to alter its course, let alone to stop it altogether. But that is the ideal, nevertheless, in all recreational programs?public control of recreational sources. Is there a dance hall to be established, a resort to be opened, a play house to be built? Let the community or the church bestir itself before any private interests can lay hold of these means of recreation. For as sure as fate itself, private interests will follow the lines of least resistance to the dollar, and the highest good can take care of itself. And this from the very nature of things, rather than from any desire to corrupt the youth, No man or set of men should be allowed to exploit the normal instincts of boys and girls, anywhere or anytime. Eliza Roxey Snow Prize Memorial Poem ANNOUNCEMENT 1925 The memorial shall be known as the Eliza Roxey Snow Prize Memorial Poem, and shall be awarded by the Relief Society annually. RULES OF THE CONTEST 1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, but only one poem may be submitted by each contestant. Two prizes will be awarded?a first prize consisting of $20 and a second prize consisting of $10. 2. The poem should not exceed fifty lines, and should be typewritten, if possible; where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written, and should be without signature or other identifying marks. 3. Only one side of the paper should be used. 4. Each contestant guarantees the poem submitted to be her original work, that it has never been published, that it is not now in the hands of any editor, or other person, with a view of publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted for publication until the contest is decided. 5. Each poem must be accompanied with a stamped envelope, on which should be written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes should not be used. 6. No member of the General Board, nor persons connected with the office force of the Relief Society, shall be eligible to this contest. 7. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person selected from the English department of a reputable educational institution, and one from among the group of persons who are recognized as writers. 8. The poem must be submitted not later than October 15. The prize poems will be published each year in the January - issue of the Relief Society Magazine. Other poems of merit, not winning special awards, will receive honorable mention; the editors claiming the right to publish any poems submitted, the published poems to be paid for at the regular Magazine rates. All the entries should be sent to Alice L. Reynolds, Associate editor, Relief Society Magazine, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, not later than October 15. The Editor Abroad ITALY By Alice Louise Reynolds. The tourist is, as a rule, either in search of places of interest or of beauty. At the moment we are in what is generally conceded to be the most beautiful mountain city of the world, Imsbruck, in Austria. Much has been written about the heauty of this city of the Tyrol; suffice to say, at present, that it would be a difficult matter to write extravagantly about it. Italy, the subject of this chapter, has its beauty spots, yet it is not generally sought because of its many and varied interests. Italy is the home of three civilizations, and reflects a fourth in a very extraordinary manner, We left our readers last time at the gates of the citv of Pompeii. Pompeii was built by the Greeks, and reflects Greek civilization to a degree that it is not easy to measure. The best sculpture that Italy exhibits, in her exceptionally fine museums, both in Naples and Rome, is that which has come from Greece. An eminent writer on Greek art, declares that all that is best in Roman sculpture is Greek, and that which is worst is Roman. Italy was the seat of the old Roman Empire; on every side one sees ruins that bear eloquent testimony of the greatness of the empire that practically dominated the world. In fact, tourists sometimes get very tired of looking at these ruins, for they are at best rather unsightly. ''In Italy," exclaimed an American girl, in a jocular fashion, "if it isn't a ruin, its a wreck." To be sure, it is the meaning that attaches to all these things that makes them important. Then we have the Italy of the middle ages and the Italy of the Renaissance?the Italy of the Roman Catholic Church. The period that built a most extraordinary number of fine churches and covered the ceilings and walls with paintings such as churches have seldom, if ever, in the history of our world been embellished with. Today we have a new Italy that has brought together all the little republics and petty kingdoms that used to exhaust themselves' fighting one another. This new Italy is about fifty-five years of age, and has as its king the grandson of the man largely responsible for its unity. This new Italy is placing the entire civilization of the world under great obligation to it, because of the manner in which it is seeking to reveal and conserve the past. In 1906, when we first visited Italy, much of the city of Pompeii was unearthed; on our last visit, only a few weeks ago, very much more is visible, THE EDITOR ABROAD 419 and the museum at Naples, which is the custodian of most of the interesting and precious things taken from the city, has been enriched immeasurably. The great paintings of the Middle Ages such as the Aurora, to be foand on the ceiling of a Roman palace, and the Last Supper, in Milan, are receiving the utmost intelligent care that they may be preserved. Because of the many interests of Italy, tourists are rushing there from all parts of the world. This is particularly true of the present year, for this is a year of Jubilee, observed every twenty-five years by the Roman Catholic Church. From our own, city of Boston, the cardinal, who resides there, headed a party of five hundred pilgrims to the city of the Pope. Our guide in Naples told us that he would not be at all surprised if six million tourists visited Naples this year. Very likely, more tourists see Naples than any other city in Italy, as the cruising vessels usually stop there for a day or so and then proceed on their way either East or West. 'See Naples and die," was the exclamation of the Italian poet who stood on a height from which he could see the horseshoe of the lovely Vesuvian bay; but fortunately most people are not content with seeing only the bay, having seen that, they want to see more; so that Naples is only one of a group of Italian cities that is feeling the influx of visitors. We heard it said that unusually cheap rates had been offered to Sicily to divert the tourist to a part where the hotels are not entirely occupied. Tourists were held back from Florence in the month of April and during that same month Milan found it impossible to accommodate the many visitors asking to be taken care of. The city of Naples is often the first city of Italy entered by the tourist. It is famous for its situation on the bay; it was in a hotel overlooking its blue waters that Caruso breathed his last. Its picturesqueness is added to by Mount Vesuvius, that juts up in its semi-circle, emitting a cloud of smoke by day and a pillar of fire by night. The city of Naples is interesting because its great museum contains all of what is best that has been taken from the ruins of Pompeii and Herculaneum, as well as many of the finest treasures of Greek art that were brought from Greece to adorn the Villa of the Emperor Hadrian. And again, Naples is of interest, because it is the largest city of the Italy of today. Yet we fancy some of our readers are asking, "Are there no drawbacks to this city of blue skies and blue waters?" and we, of course, unhesitatingly admit that there are. When we first saw Naples, in 1906, it was the dirtiest city we had ever seen, and it was infested with beggars, many of whom asked us for alms, but some who demanded a tip for such a slight service as pointing out a door in a building we had already paid to enter, or for that matter closing a door behind us. Since our first visit to Italy, we have seen the Orient, so that we know that there are 420 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE other dirty cities, and other cities infested with beggars. However, it is only fair to say that Naples is much cleaner and much freer from beggars than it was in 1906. We had in our party, through Italy, a trained nurse and her companion a trained librarian. These two ladies were constantly offended, as were we all, because the food in the shops is exposed, and because many laws of sanitation are much more honored in the breach than in the observance. To be sure, the Italians have some distance to travel before they arrive at American standards in matters of sanitation, yet the fact that they forbid the burying of the dead within and about the churches as they did formerly, insisting that the cemetery shall be far distant from the heart of the city, shows that they are waking up to these matters. Passing from Naples to Rome, the capital of the present kingdom of Italy, we find proof of the popular saying that size is not everything. Rome is the third city of Italy, in size, Naples and Milan surpassing her in the number of her population; yet Rome is by all odds the most important city in italy. Rome is important because she was the capitol of the Old Roman Empire, and because the most important ruins of that city are found either within her ancient walls, or at a not very great distance from them. Rome as the chief city of the Roman Catholic church is also of great importance, and this year it is the city to which pilgrims' feet are turned from all over the world. Rome is, above all other cities in the world, the city of churches. Its churches are very numerous, and some of them are very beautiful as well as very important. In her museums are found some of the most priceless treasures of Greek and Roman art that this world possesses;: she is conserving for all the world valuable old books, valuable pieces of sculpture, valuable pieces of painting and valuable presents, to the various Popes, presented by the crowned heads of all the world. Mr. H. H. Powers in speaking of modern Rome, speaks of her as a city "masking the monuments of church and empire" which we take is a very unique way of saying that modern Rome owes her greatness to the fact that she was the seat of the Great Roman Catholic church for many centuries." Mr. Powers adds, "It is with varied emotions that the thoughtful traveler enters the Eternal City," and concludes his paragraph with the exclamation, ' "What city is like Rome!" an exclamation that is apt to find echo 'in the minds and hearts of all who thoughtfully enter there. Then there is Florence, the city that for its art output has had _only one peer since the world began; for Athens is the only other city, since the dawn of civilization, that has given to the world the names of as many noted sculptors, painters and writers as has Florence. Florence has made a real contribution to the world in architecture, painting, sculpture and in literature. All nations A STREET SCENE IN NAPLES are enriched because of her achievements, consequently all nations should rise and call her blessed. Florence had two great leaders, Lorenzo de' Medici and Savonarola. The first drew to his own fireside and his own table men of promise and gave them encouragement. Verily, his reward has been great, for if he did not entertain angels unawares he entertained geniuses of the highest order. The other man, the great Savonorola, set these men's souls on fire with righteous impulses. Verily, both have their reward, for Florence nursed the genius of the man who painted what has been called the greatest of all Christian paintings, "The Last Supper," and gave to the world the greatest of all Christian sculptors, and perhaps, also, the greatest of all Christian architects, in Michelangelo. And perhaps, what Michelangelo did was even more than that, for Mr. Powers tells us that when Michelangelo wrought his wonder-works in marble, the best of Greek art was unknown to the Italians, consequently he boldly states, "that the feeblest work of Michelangelo ever executed was nobler than the best antique," that the Italians then knew. Vitamines By Jean Cox, State Supervisor of Home Economics Education Vitamines are probably the most talked of food substances at the present time. Their history and development are the result of painstaking experiment in animal feeding and the careful study of cause and effect of diet on humans. Several diseases are now well defined which seem closely related to the consumption of limited variety or poorly selected foods. While interest at the present time is keen in this important food factor it seems well here to offer a word of caution. Vitamines are only one of several important elements in nutrition. No less authority than Dr. Mary Swartz Rose says that altogether too much emphasis is being placed on vitamines. The old adage, "Be not the first the new to try nor yet the last. To lay the old aside," might well apply to the science of nutrition. Good standards in nutrition do not require mad chasing after food fads. In order, however, to profit by the many painstaking experiments and careful conclusions reached by a number of men who are devoting their lives to this field, it seems wise to give their findings some consideration. The term vitamin was coined in 1912 by Cassimar Funk and means "life giving" because diets in which the vitamines are lacking prolong life without growth only a short time and then death results if changes are not effected in the diet. The history and development of the so called vitamin is full of interest to the student of science. It also has an appeal for the homemaker because it helps her to understand the great importance of having foods in right amounts and kind if she would increase the resistance and improve the health standards of her family. In fact intelligent meal planning and satisfactory food preparation is much more interesting if some attention is given to the better known vitamines A, B, and C. The term vitamin would better be considered as a family name. Vitamines D, E, and X have already been added to the list. It is more than probable that additional members will be discovered and that their function and uses in the body will be quite as interesting as any information we now have regarding A, B, C. Other experimenters have applied different terms of these so called "Accessory food factors." Much of the discussion on them has been highly technical but the laymen need also to know something as to what they are and what their functions are in the body. Vitamines A, B, and C, deal with the cause and cure of three diseases which result from their absence. Contrary to popular opinion this development is less recent than is popularly supposed. The first interest expressed in relation of food selection and health VITAMINES 423 was in connection with one of the present so called deficiency diseases known as scurvy as early as 1920, Kramar wrote that neither medicine nor surgery could give relief in scurvy. His experiments proved that the use of green vegetables and antiscorRAT A Rat A. The diet for this rat consisted of food products which are essentially storage organs of plants such as grains and roots and muscle meats. This diet is low in ash constituents and vitamin A and is inadequate for growth. RAT B Rat B. The diet of this rat was similar in every respect to that shown in Rat A except a generous use of milk was given this rat. The addition of this so called protective food made the othe~- wise unsatisfactory diet adequate. 424 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE butic juices would, without the use of medicines, cure this disease which for many years has meant suffering and death where men were deprived of fresh foods for more than six weeks at a time. In further confirmation of this belief in 1804 the British Navy had lemon juice as a part of the regular ration. At the present time the juices of citrus fruits, raw cabbage, sauerkraut and green leaf vegetables are recognized for their antiscorbutic qualities. Radical changes in dietary customs have often resulted in disease. This is noticeably true in the development of beri beri in the Japanese army. Between the years 1878-1882 this disease was much more prevalent than previous to this time. Careful study and much experimentation showed that this disease resulted when the Japanese soldiers were put on a diet consisting largely of polished rice rather than the unpolished rice which had been customary before this period. The controlling factor in this change in dietary customs was later found to be the so called Vitamin B. Much of our knowledge of vitamines has been the result of careful experiments in animal nutrition. Workers along this line of research sought to determine values of different kinds of foods by feeding diets having carefully controlled amounts of pure proteins, carbohydrates and fats. Hopkins as early as 1906 determined and reported that "no animal can live upon a mixture of pure protein, carbohydrate and fat, even when the necessary inorganic material is carefully supplied, as the animal cannot flourish without the presence of vitamines in the diet. The animal body is adjusted to live either upon plant tissues or other animals and these contain countless substances other than the proteins carbohydrates and fats." In these experiments with animals it was found that when the diet was inadequate for proper growth or maintenance a small addition of milk would often make the limited diet adequate. In the early experiments much confusion resulted from the addition of milk as the experimenters did not realize that not one but three valuable vitamines A, B, C, were contained in this so called "most perfect food." The present keen interest in nutrition results from two factors. One of these is the outgrowth of a long series of animal experimentation, while the other is a study of cause and effect of different food combinations on human beings. The experimental work with animals by McCollum and Block and Hopkins, Mendell and Sherman paved the way for the conclusions regarding effects of wrong diet upon the individual and group. Animal experimentation further proved that effects of poor diet are cumulative, and that if wrong diet is persisted in during several generations results are more marked in each succeeding generation: by lack of vitality, increased infant mortality, and early aging. Considerable impetus was given to the study of foods con- VITAMINES 425 taining vitamin A during the war because of eye sickness or zerothalmia which was prevalent among the children of some of the Scandinavian countries. A study of the epidemics showed that this resulted when the diet lacked foods containing vitarnin A. In the countries most affected, all of the butter fat and cod liver oil had been shipped out to help win the war. Spectacular cures were effected when the addition of one or both of these valuable sources of vitamin A were made to the limited diet. More recent studies in rat colonies have discovered other sources of vitamin A. Green leaf vegetables have been found satisfactory supplementary means of supplying this valuable vitamin when there is little butter in the diet. The Japanese, whose milk supply is extremely limited, make generous use of diffrent kinds of green leaves. Absence of foods containing vitamine A, may cause the socalled deficiency disease zerothalmia or eye sickness. Lack of vitamin B may cause pellagra which is one of the best known deficiency diseases. Partial absence of these food substances may cause much suffering, death in terms of high infant mortality, physical inefficiency, early aging and poor teeth. The present tendency to live on foods low in ash and vitamines is producing far too many cases of borderline nutrition. The so called typical American diet, according to McCollum, of bread, 'meat, potatoes and pie is low in ash and vitamines. More attention must be given to increased consumption of milk, green leaf vegetables, root vegetables, fresh fruits and some whole grains. The diet of the nursing mother should contain a generous amount of food containing vitamin C in order to protect the child from this disease. From studies made by the American Medical Society it has been found: That breastfed babies are much less apt to develop scurvy. That the use of raw cow's milk causes little scurvy. That the use of pasteurized milk causes considerable scurvy. That the use of condensed cow's milk causes about four times as much scurvy as pasteurized milk. That the use of proprietary foods cause the greatest number of cases of scurvy. Their records show that out of 366 cases studied 214 resulted from the use of proprietary foods. When milk is the chief food of young infants less danger of scurvy results. When the proportion of milk is decreased and the use of cereals increased then the amount of anti-scorbutic fruit juices (oranges, lemons, raspberries, tomatoes) should be increased. Because of the danger in milk that isn't produced under absolutely clean conditions it is becoming more and more customary to use milk that has been heated or pasteruized. When this is done additional care must be taken to protect the baby from scurvy 426 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE by making small additions of fruit and vegetable juices containing vitamin C. Infantile scurvy was recognized in 1894 and has developed since it has been possible to rear a larger number of babies, since proprietary foods, condensed, and pasteurized milk, have been used. The discovery of vitamin C and its functions has been one of the biggest factors in decreasing infant mortality. In addition to the easily detected cases of scurvy there are many cases of border malnutrition which are really borderline cases of scurvy where the patient is below his optimum state of health. Scurvy develops gradually. The sufferer loses weight, is anaemic pale, weak and short of breath. Scurvy always means lack of appetite. When there is only a limited amount of green vegetables in the diet, do not overcook. This also applies to fruits, as fruit jellies made quickly are more valuable than those cooked over a longer period. In Conclusion The chief sources of vitamin A are milk and milk products, green leaf vegetables, liver, egg yolk, tomatoes. 'Some little vitamin A is found in grains. The chief source of vitamin B are grains, tomatoes, citrus fruits, green leaf vegetables, root vegetables, nuts, milk and yeast. The chief source of vitamin C are citrus fruits, raspberries, tomatoes, green leaf vegetables and milk. The functions of the vitamines are: Vitamin A helps to resist disease. Vitamin A is important for general stamina. Vitamin A is important for reproduction and lactation. Vitamin A is not destroyed by heat in ordinary food preparation. Lack of Vitamin A inhibits growth for a time. Lack of Vitamin A increases susceptibility to infection. Vitamin B is necessary for appetite. Vitamin B is necessary for maintaining weight. Vitamin B is necessary for normal growth. Vitamin B is necessary for increasing weight. Vitamin C is necessary for protection against scurvy. Vitamin C is necessary for growth. Diets consisting largely of muscle meats, finely milled flours, purified sugars and fats are inadequate from the standpoint of vitamines. Every meal should contain some vitamines. Every day's dietary should contain some vitamines A, }, C. Pictures courtesy of Dr. E. V. McCollum?John Hopkins University. Out of Work By Martha Hartford Webb The following play "Out of Work" was presented at the officers' meeting of the official conference held April 2, 1925, in the Bishop's building. In response to the demand for the play by Relief Society workers, the General Board has received permission from the author to publish it in The Magazine. It may be presented by any of the wards or stakes. There is no royalty charge. CHARACTERS: A Working Man Pattie AVIS......... His Wife Their Child Ellen Morris. Visitor for the Family Service Society Scene I (A poor room with a couch, a small table, three chairs. A picture or framed motto askew on the wall, soiled dishes on the table, bedding in disorder. Annie, worried and half sick, seated rocking Jessie, the child sick and listless. She rises and lays Jessie on the couch, laying an old cover over her. The child turns away from the light.), (Enter Will from outer door. He takes off his hat and lays it down, then as A. Straightens up and looks at him, he throws up his hands in a gesture of despair, and drops into a chair.) A. Oh, Will, I did hope you'd get a job today! (Turns away with her arm over her face.) W. We might as well give up, Annie. Tramped the town all day?tried everything between here and Steelton?asked for jobs from house to house. Ten months of it! Annie, I'm beat. A. (Coming toward him impulsively) Oh, Will, I wa'nt meanin' to blame you, I know how you've tried. Oh, why ain't I strong enough to be some good! I'm jest a drag on you, sick this way half the time. W. (Getting up and putting his hand on her shoulder.) There, there Annie it's havin' you and the little girl that's kept me goin'. (Turning to the couch, where the child lies motionless. ) How's Jessie been to-day? A. Oh, she's been like that all day, Will. She ain't got anything but a cold, but there don't nothin' she eats seem to suit her. W. It ain't warm enough for her here, Annie. Why don't you have her in the kitchen by the fire? (A. Covers her face with her hands. W. Looks at her a moment, then exits by the inner door. In a moment he returns, his head down.) A. I burned the very last of it this morning, Will. 428 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE W. (Throwing back his shoulders and trying to speak cheerfully. Now don't worry, Annie. I'll likely get an odd job tomorrow, and get a bushel of coal. As long as Jones is lettin' us have groceries, we'll get along. Onein (Starting and lifting her head, comes toward him timidly.) ill! W. (With the sharpness of anxiety). Well, what now? A. Why, I went in to get some milk for Jessie this afternoon?we ain't been getting much but meal and potatoes and such, you know?and she wouldn't eat 'em, so I went for the milk? and he said?he said?he couldn't let us have any more stuff. (W. Throws up his hand and turns away.) He had a family of his own to keep?and we'd got behind so far?(she pauses and speaks low) we ought to be askin' for help. W. Asking for help. 'A. (Desperately.) Yes, he said that was what the Family Service Society was for, and we ought to go to them?and he'd phone for me, if I couldn't leave Jessie so long. Oh, Will, I felt so awful, I knew how you'd feel, and I said, no, you'd likely get a job today, and I came home. And then?I got a notice that we'd have to pay up the back rent or move. And Jessie woke up and cried for milk?and I went back and told Mr. Jones to call them up. (Will sits down with his face hidden. Annie puts her hand timidly on his shoulder). A. You ain't mad at me, are you, Will? W. What else can we do?unless we jump into the river? (Jumps up and walks around wildly.) That's the place for me. I guess. You'd get along better without me. What good am I anyhow, can't keep my own kid from starving! (He makes for the outer door, seizing his hat. A. Runs to him frightened, catching his arm. Just as he takes the knob, a knock comes from without. He backs away. A. Stands a moment, hand on heart, recovering herself, then she opens the door. Enter Visitor, a bottle of milk in her hand. She turns to A. Smiling.) V. You are Mrs. Davis? I am Ellen Morris, of the Family Service Society. (W. Retreats another step, pulling a chair in front of him.) Your grocer called me up and said you were in trouble, so I came around to see what we could do. (She comes forward to the table, and ignoring the tension in the atmosphere, sets down the milk and her bag, and begins to take off her gloves.) I believe we are going to have rain before night. (Turns to couch.) And the little girl is sick? What is her name? A. (Gulping before she can speak.) Jessie. V. Why, that is my sister's name! The grocer thought she might like some milk, so I just brought some with me. (Goes to couch.) But she's asleep now. What a sweet little thing she is! OUT OF WORK 429 (Comes back and takes a chair.) Now won't you tell me all about it? I'm sure we can find a way out. (A. Comes forward slowly and sits down. W. Motions her to speak. ) A. Why, we were pretty well fixed a couple of years back, but Will got the flu, and he couldn't work for a long spell after. That took all we'd saved, but we kept going, I got a place clerking and Will minded little Jessie, and when he got back to work, we thought we'd get another start. But then little Billy came? we couldn't save any more?I wa'nt well and things was awful high?and he was only a year old?(she breaks down, covers her face with her apron and sobs. ( Pause.) W. We lost him a year ago, and Annie ain't never been well since. Just about then the steel plant closed down, and I've been walkin' the streets every day since?there jest ain't any work. V. You worked in the steel mills then, Mr. Davis? Is there any other kind of work you can do? (Jessie wakes and sits up, she reaches rapturously for the milk on the table. V. Takes up the milk.) A. Wait a minute, I'll get you a glass. (Exit to kitchen, returning with glass. V. Pours out milk and takes it to child, who drinks eagerly, then drops back against her mother who sits on the head of the couch, while V. Leans down over her.) V. Her hands are hot, do you think she has a little fever? Have you seen a doctor? A. The doctor was in yesterday, he said it was only a bad cold, but she was run down, and to give her milk and eggs. Milk and eggs! V. She will be better now, I think. 'And you need coal? We can see to that. Now do you suppose some of your people could help? Do they live near here? (W. Glances at A.) A. I ain't got a soul livin'! My father and mother died when I was just a little mite. We come from England, and I don't know the folks over there. And Will, he might as well not have none either, his father won't help him though he's got a good little business out in Kansas. Think (pointing to Jessie excitedly) this child's grandpa runnin' a grocery, and her cryin' for milk. (Sinks down and hides her face on Jessie's hair.) W. No, no, Annie, you mustn't blame Dad. (Turns to V.) I was a fool them days, lady, I jest wouldn't work. I loafed and ran with the boys. Dad give me chance after chance to work in the store for him, but I wouldn't pay no attention to business, and finally we had a fuss, and I left. (Rises and walks front.) I tell you, since I've had Annie and Jessie to look after, I've seen things different. But it's too late now. (Sits down again.)
V. Have you written to him since you were married?
430 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
W. Yes, I wrote after Jessie was born; but I never got no answer. I saw a man from there only last month, and he said Dad was alive and well, only he looked like he was getting old.
V. You were getting along well when you wrote before, it might be different now. Where does he live?
W. In Kansas City, on Highland St., the name's John Davis. But there ain't no use my writing. You don't know Dad, he's awful set.
V. We'll see what we can do, there's always a way out. (Rising.) Now here's an order on the grocer that will keep you going for a few days. (She lays it on the table, W. draws back from it.) And how about your rent?
A. We're paying fifteen dollars here and we're way back on it. They've sent us notice to move. The agent lives right over there on that corner.
V. I'll see him about it. And I'll send in some coal at once, we must keep Jessie warm. (Patting child's head as Annie stands holding her.) Cheer up, times will be better. (A. sets the child down and goes to the table to pick up the order, but drops it as Will speaks).
W. I never thought I'd have to ask for charity.
V. We don't consider this as a gift at all. It's an investment in you, and our returns will be to see Jessie well and strong, and your home happy. I'll be in again in a few days. Goodbye. (Exit.)
A. Goodbye. (Approaches Will.) Will, I can't help feeling better. She was kind now, wasn't she?
W. (Slowly.) Yes, she was. And she didn't seem to look down on a feller either; Annie, I feel most like trying again.
CURTAIN
Scene 2
(Same room in better order. Annie in a cleaner dress, sewing a button on a wrap for Jessie, who leans against her, watching. She finishes, puts wrap on child, and kisses her).
A. There, run along and play, dearie. If you get cold, you come right in to mother. (J. runs out. A. stands looking after her, then shuts the door and comes back to her sewing.) She's pickin' up every day now?and it's only two weeks since the doctor said she'd just missed pneumonia. Oh, I'm so glad, I'm so glad! (Hides her face in her work. Enter W., he goes behind A. and drops a few coins in her lap. She looks up delighted. He shrugs his shoulders.)
W. No great job yet, honey, but the Society put me on the track of this little one. Then?I don't know?it puts some heart into a man to know his wife and kid are warm and fed, and
OUT OF WORK 431
he can buck into things better. (Knock at door, W. opens it, enter V., he shakes hands with her warmly, A. jumps up and greets her.)
A. Why, Miss Morris, it's nice to see you again so soon.
V. And how's Jessie today?
A. She's out playing, she's as well as she can be. Will, you go call Jessie, you know how bad she felt because she missed Miss Morris last time, she'll be tickled to death. (Exit W.) Oh, Miss Morris, that day you come first?
W. (Outside.) Jessie, oh, Jessie!
A. I don't know where we'd a been if there hadn't been somebody like you to turn to. Will, he scared me, I was feared?and now, why, he's a different man. Of course, we ain't out of it yet, and it worries him dreadful that he ain't got a job, but he feels like he had something to stand on.
W. (Outside.) Jessie!
A. And you did it so nice, it didn't seem like we was?beggin'?you helped us just like you was a friend.
V. (Enter W.) We've heard from your father, Mr. Davis. (W. and A. look at each other hopefully.) The office in Kansas City hunted him up, and told him about you, how you felt, and about little Jessie. They sent us this letter for you. (Gets it out of her bag).
W. (Opens and reads, A. looking over his shoulder.) "Dear Will: "Seems like you are having hard luck. Mother never was satisfied after you left, and now she wants you should bring your wife and little girl for a visit. I could give you a job in the store, I guess." [Annie, Annie, he's going to give me a job!] "I'm aiming to send your tickets when I hear from you. I hope you have really settled down. "Your father, John Davis."
V. I'm surely glad you're going to get your new chance. (Enter Jessie, runs to V. and embraces her.) And with this little girl to look after, I know you'll make good.
W. I will that. And I won't forget what you folks have done for us, either. You've just about got us on our feet. I never could have got Dad to give me another chance. Most anybody will throw a feller an old pair of shoes or a basket o' stuff at Christmas, but you folks take the pains to put a man that's down and out where he can take care of himself again, and that's worth doing.
CURTAIN
Of Interest to Women Conducted by Lalene H. Hart
What do you mean by budgeting the income? The budget is a place for the division of the income in such a way as to live within that income. It is a proper estimate of all the expenses of the household. One expert on house problems defines it as the process of apportioning your income so that it goes as far as possible and also puts you in possession of what you really want instead of the thing that you choose out of a passing caprice or through momentary carelessness?all of which means greater leeway and greater liberty. If the housewife realizes that in no business can budget making and executing be so simplified and so centralized as in that of the household management, where the budget, the buying, the preparing and distributing are all centered in one person, a better economic adjustment can be made. Perfect economic adjustment requires careful planning and spending, wisdom in selection and care of materials, and thoughtful attention to the demands of the family for social, intellectual, and spiritual life. The latter can never be developed fully under the stress of debt or worry, but with bills paid and physical needs provided for, the way is open for growth spiritually and intellectually. The article on "Family Budgets and the Rural House" in the July number of the Relief Society Magazine will answer your question fully.
What is a spatula and how is it used? Of cooking school and those who are fortunate in having a well equipped kitchen the spatula is an old friend. To the housekeeper who is not acquainted with the long, flexible, double-edged blade, having a handle large enough to handle easy and work with efficiently, the following suggestions are made: The spatula is especially helpful in spreading icings which are apt to harden just a moment too soon. In handling doughs, particularly soft ones, it is almost invaluable. It is the tool par excellence for manipulating omelets, and in turning hot cakes it often entirely supplants the stiff griddle-cake turner. A more general use perhaps is the thorough emptying of the mixing bowls, platters, candy or icing pans. Because of its flexible blade and its easy application to all kinds and conditions of dishes, many uses will constantly be suggested to the proud possessor of a spatula.
Crushed raspberries and slightly bruised mint leaves, added to lemonade, make a refreshing summer drink.
OF INTEREST TO WOMEN 433
To wash linens, calicos, percales, or any like material of which there are many pretty colors, make a flour starch with soft water, and wash dresses; this without soap. Rinse in thin, clear starch water, turn wrong side out and hang in shade to dry. This method of washing keeps them like new.?Mrs. H. K. L., Castle Dale, Utah.
On wash day when you find the laundry starch all gone, try using corn starch-made in the same way as the ordinary silver gloss starch. You will find the clothes much easier and smoother to iron, but if corn starch is used too much it tends to make the white clothes yellow.?Mrs. E. H. C., Boulder, Utah.
For my clothespins I make from heavy Cretonne an apron eighteen inches square with pockets extending from lower edge to half way up the apron. I then sew the top of the apron to a wire clothes-hanger which holds it out straight. It is easy to remove the pins and it can be hung over each line as you go from one to the other either hanging or gathering clothes?Mrs. N. W. T., Salt Lake City.
One of the modern conveniences in the laundry is a piece of hose of convenient length attached to a small appliance which can be quickly and easily clamped to the faucet or pump. It saves much lifting of water both in filling and emptying the washer or tubs. The suction, when the faucet is turned, will draw the water from the tub. The hose with just the ordinary clamp is a saving of time and strength.?Mrs. M. P., Ogden, Utah.
For the woman who uses wood or coal to cook with this may prove helpful. A wood box on legs and with castors is much more convenient than one on the floor. It can be easily moved on the porch for filling, and saves tracks on the kitchen floor. It saves much stooping to get the wood, or in cleaning behind it. When painted it adds to the appearance of the kitchen.?Mrs. T. M., Vernal, Utah.
Save all small glass bottles with screw lids and with necks large enough to admit buttons. Place assorted buttons in them. You will find much time is saved when a button is wanted in a hurry.?Mrs. J. P., Abraham, Utah.
Painted olive bottles make very useful and attractive flower vases. Several can be done in a very short time. Especially are these useful when one wants only a few buds on a small luncheon table. They may be painted in any color scheme.?Mrs. A. S., Panaca, Nevada.
Notes From the Field By Amy Brown Lyman
PROGRAM FOR AUXILIARY GROUP CONVENTIONS FOR 1925
(To be held in connection with the regular quarterly conferences)
DATES
July 18-19?Woodruff, Yellowstone. July 25-26?Curlew, Lethbridge, Lost River, Snowflake. July 30-31?Alberta. August 1-2?Emery, St. Johns, Taylor, Teton, Twin Falls. August 8-9?Big Horn, Blaine, Juab, South Sevier, Wayne. August 15-16?Bannock, Bingham, Blackfoot, Oneida. August 22-23?Bear River, Idaho, Portneuf, South Sanpete, Panguitch. August 26-27?Kanab. August 29-30?Bear Lake, Garfield, Gunnison, Millard. September 12-13?Boise, Minidoka, Montpelier, Parowan, Raft River, San Juan, Roosevelt. September 16-17?Uintah, Young. September 19-20?Duchesne, North Sanpete, San Luis, Star Valley, Union. September 26-27?Carbon, Deseret, Fremont, Hyrum, Morgan, Sevier. October 10-11?Beaver, Benson, Cassia, North Sevier, Tintic. October 17-18?Summit, Wasatch. October 24-25?Malad, Shelley. November 7-8?Burley, Maricopa. November 10-11?Juarez. November 14-15?St. Joseph. November 21-22?Los Angeles, Pocatello, Rigby. November 28-29?Franklin, Moapa. December 12-13?St. George.
Conventions separate from the quarterly conferences are to be held in the following stakes, the dates to be given later in a separate program:
Alpine, Box Elder, Cache, Cottonwood, Ensign, Granite, Grant, Jordan, Kolob, Liberty, Logan, Mt. Ogden, Nebo, North Davis, North Weber, Ogden, Oquirrh, Palmyra, Pioneer, Salt Lake, South Davis, Tooele, Utah, Weber.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 435
SCHEDULE OF RELIEF SOCIETY MEETINGS AND GENERAL SESSIONS
SATURDAY, 10:00 A. M.?12 NOON?GENERAL SESSION
SATURDAY, 10:30 A. M.?12 NOON?JOINT STAKE BOARD MEETING
(Note: At 10:30 A. M. the auxiliary stake boards and all stake and ward Priesthood authorities will withdraw from the general assembly to the joint stake board meeting. For convenience in leaving the general assembly, it is suggested that Relief Society stake board members sit in a body in a convenient place for leaving the room.)
SATURDAY (TIME TO BE ARRANGED BY RELIEF SOCIETY STAKE PRESIDENT)?INTERVIEW WITH GENERAL BOARD MEMBER AND RELIEF SOCIETY STAKE EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
(President, Counselors, and Secretary-Treasurer.)
SATURDAY, 2:00 P. M. RELIEF SOCIETY STAKE AND WARD OFFICERS' MEETING
(Held simultaneously with general session of conference.) All stake and ward officers should be in attendance, also visiting teachers and class leaders. Bishops especially invited. If any of the brethren of the stake are county commissioners, we would be pleased to have them invited to this meeting.
SATURDAY, 7:30 P. M.?STAKE RECEPTION AND DEMONSTRATION
Under direction of stake M. I. A. Committee on Recreation.
SUNDAY, 10:00 A. M.?12 NOON?RELIEF SOCIETY STAKE BOARD MEETING
(Held simultaneously with general session devoted to work of Sunday School.) This meeting will be for stake board members only.
SUNDAY, 2:00 P. M.?GENERAL CONFERENCE SESSION
SUNDAY, 7:30 P. M.?GENERAL MEETING UNDER DIRECTION OF M. I. A.
436 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
PROGRAM OF RELIEF SOCIETY MEETINGS
SATURDAY, 2:00 P. M. Relief Society Stake and Ward Officers. Including Visiting Teachers and Class Leaders
1. Report of Activities.......... Relief Society Stake President
2. Ward Teaching: a. Ethics for Visiting Teachers................Representative of General Board b. Attitude of Hostess to Teachers.... Stake Board Member c. Ward Questionnaire......... General Board Representative d. Round Table Discussion of Relief Society Problems...General Board Representative
SUNDAY, 10:00 A. M. Relief Society Stake Board
1. Work and Business Meeting: a. How Meeting is Conducted in Each Ward of Stake...Stake Board Member b. Recommendations........ General Board Representative
2. Teachers' Convention......... General Board Representative
3. Questionnaire, Stake......... General Board Representative
WHEAT INTEREST CHECKS
The Presiding Bishop's Office has reported to the General Relief Society office that checks for the yearly wheat interest will be mailed early in July, and has asked that ward presidents see that their checks are cashed at once. The General Board recommends that this request be adhered to, as delay in cashing the checks causes great inconvenience at the Presiding Bishop's Office. There were a number of instances last year when the checks were held indefinitely and finally lost. This necessitated the issuance of duplicate checks and caused much additional work. It is the recommendation of the General Board that the wheat interest be reserved for maternity and health purposes, and excellent reports have been received from many stakes regarding the activities along this line.
Parowan Stake
The winners in the 1924 contest for increased attendance were Parowan, group 1; New Harmony, group 2; Enoch, group 3. The nine wards were divided according to their enrollment. This
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 437
contest will be continued during 1925, and a home study of the Doctrine and Covenants will be an added feature. With wards scattered from five to sixty miles apart, visiting in this stake is not an easy thing to do. However, there is always a fair attendance of officers and members at the monthly union meetings held alternately at Parowan and Cedar City. Very successful bazaars, from both a social and financial standpoint, have been held by a number of the wards during the last year. The majority of the ward organizations in this stake own their own meeting places and are adding furnishings and equipment as opportunity affords. They are also improving their grounds.
Northern States Mission
The following report has been received from the Northern States mission: "On May 3, 1925, the women of the Northern States mission enjoyed a rare treat. President Clarissa S. Williams, Counselor Jennie B. Knight, Secretary Amy Brown Lyman, of the Relief Society, and Mrs. Ruth May Fox, counselor in the Y. L. M. I. A., enroute to Washington, D. C., to attend the Quinquennial Meeting of the International Council of Women, stopped off at Chicago, and were the speakers at a meeting held in the Logan Square chapel. About one hundred Relief Society and Mutual Improvement Association members of the three Chicago branches, with representatives from Peru, Indiana; Milwaukee, Wisconsin; South Bend, Indiana; and Detroit, Michigan, were present.
"President Rachel Grant Taylor conducted the meeting, reporting attendance of six branches, also letters of regret from all branches not able to send delegates, on account of distance.
"Each of the visiting officers gave valuable and interesting instructions. President Williams spoke of the great opportunities afforded Relief Society members for self development and for assuming the responsibility of mothering humanity. She stressed conservation of energy and advised that all our thoughts, plans and schemes be tempered with wisdom, such as had been applied in the past as evidenced in the disposition of the various funds that have been raised and brought to profitable and fitting uses. Mrs. Williams could discern that the mission Relief Societies labor under greater difficulties than those of the central stakes of Zion, and expressed great joy and satisfaction that some had come a distance of nearly four hundred miles to attend the meeting.
"Mrs. Lyman spoke interestingly of our relationship with the women's organizations of the world, showing how our constancy and adherence to correct principles is being recognized in national organizations.
"Mrs. Knight and Mrs. Fox expressed their appreciation of
438 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the attendance, and Mrs. Fox spoke encouragingly to the M. I. A. members.
"After the meeting, all of the local women remained to exchange friendly greetings with the visitors. Before resuming their journey eastward, the visitors were entertained at dinner at the mission home."
In co-operation with the aim for the Northern States mission Relief Society temple work, "One day's work for each member enrolled"?and also to arouse an interest in genealogical work in the branch, a "temple day" was held in Detroit on March 10, after one month's campaign of visits and a talk each Sunday on temple work for the dead. The following program was given: Instrumental prelude, "Oh, my Father;" prayer; singing, "Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation;" talk, "Revelations on Temple Building;" singing, "The Spirit of God like a fire is burning;" talk, "Latter-day Temples;" singing, "We want to see the temple;" Instructions on temple blanks and genealogical records; singing, "Come listen to a prophet's voice;" benediction. The membership of the society is twenty-six, but as a result of this campaign fifty-six names were handed in ready for ordinance work, and $13.85 in cash for temple fund.
Alberta Stake
At the temple sessions nearest to Mother's Day, May 7 and 8, the Alberta stake and ward Relief Society officers and teachers made excursions to the temple. All wards were represented excepting one, which was not represented on account of sickness. Two hundred sixty-eight were in attendance, which is a remarkable showing considering the few numbers in most of the wards.
Snowflake Stake
With a view of encouraging Scripture reading, the stake board outlined a scripture study of the Book of Mormon for wards. This work was checked up by means of a score card. The result for 1924 was: 165 women in the stake read all the chapters in the Book of Mormon to Alma 29 chapter, and at least 133 others did part of the reading. The Society that won the most points last year received a new edition of the Book of Mormon. The same plan will be carried on again this summer with the remaining portion of the book. At the completion of the work, Gospel Doctrine will be presented to the winning Society.
St. George Stake
A very enjoyable social was recently given in honor of the stake presidency by the stake auxiliary organizations, prompted by the stake Relief Society. The affair was held in the Dixie College Gymnasium. All stake officers, past and present, were
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 439
invited, there being upwards of two hundred persons in attendance. A delightful program was furnished by the various organizations, after which a toast, "Our Presidency" was given, eulogizing them for their unselfish and untiring labors for the stake during the past twenty-four years. Each member of the presidency responded. Following the program, dancing was enjoyed, after which refreshments were served.
Uintah Stake
In May, the state health clinic, assisted by the local doctors and county school nurse, held examination for children of pre-school age, at Vernal, Utah, when ninety-nine children were examined. The school nurse will continue follow-up work.
As temple excursions are not feasible from this stake, the Relief Society raises a goodly sum each year for temple work. June is the Relief Society carnival month, when each ward Relief Society gives an entertainment to raise funds for the benefit of maternity and child welfare. At this writing, preparations are well under way for the usual entertainments.
In 1924 and 1925, the stake board offered a prize to the ward having the highest percent of Relief Society teachers' visits made. It was agreed that the ward falling the lowest would entertain the Relief Society officers and teachers of the stake. The first year (1924) the prize was a dozen Relief Society Song Books.
SERVICE
Susan Taylor Jennings.
How can I serve my God, I pray? It must be in some simple way; For down my path has come not fame, A wealth of gold or gilded name.
Then I will serve the best I can; For I can do a kindly deed To my dear neighbor in his need.
Yes, I can turn the clouds about For some sick soul who's down and out, And my proud spirit I can bend So to the poor I'll condescend.
A glad hand clasp, a cheery smile, Ah, these are gifts make life worth while! How can you serve your God, you pray? It must be in some humble way?
To serve your God the best you can, You first must serve your fellow-man.
Guide Lessons for October
LESSON I (First Week in October)
Theology and Testimony
THE ABRAHAMIC DISPENSATION, CONTINUED
PART III?JACOB
A. JACOB, "A NOBLE SPIRIT."
1. Jacob, like Isaac, was a child of promise. The leadership qualities of his spirit were indicated to his mother, by the Lord when he answered her inquiry. See Genesis 25:22-23.
2. Jacob's spiritual heirship to the major blessing was clearly pointed to by the predictions made upon his head by Isaac under the inspiration of the Lord. (See Gen. 27:28, 29, 33, 37.)
B. SPECIAL BLESSINGS RECEIVED BY JACOB.
1. The blessing of leadership by Isaac. (See Gen. 27:28, 29, 33, 37.)
2. The blessing of posterity and possession by Isaac. (See Gen. 28:1-6.)
3. The blessing by the Lord himself followed by Jacob's covenant to pay tithing. (See Gen. 28:11-22.)
4. The blessing wrestled all night for. (Gen. 32:24-30.)
5. The Blessing of a new name and the possessing of the land of Promise repeated by the Lord at Bethel, the place of Jacob's covenant two years before. (Gen. 35:7-15.)
6. The blessing with a promise to make Israel a great nation. (Gen. 46:1-4.) The promise to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob before this was that of the nations of the earth being blessed through them; but now the blessing of nationality was pronounced. Israel as a nation was to begin in Egypt in fulfilment of Divine promise.
C. BLESSINGS GIVEN BY JACOB IN EGYPT.
1. To Pharaoh: (a) When he first met the king. (Gen. 47:7.) (b) When he left Pharaoh. (Gen. 47:10.)
2. To Joseph's sons Ephraim and Manasseh. (Gen. 48:8-20.)
3. To each of his twelve sons. (Gen. 49:1-27.)
It is important to note the superiority of Judah and Joseph in
LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 441
the posterity of Jacob. The history of Israel is full of evidence that Jacob was possessed of the spirit of prophecy when he blessed his posterity. Joseph was surely a fruitful bough whose branches ran over the wall. His posterity people America the land "choice above all other lands."
D. SOME SPECIAL CHARACTERISTICS OF JACOB.
1. He valued spiritual blessings.
2. He called upon the Lord for help in hours of adversity, and acknowledged God as the source of his prosperity. Gen. 31:42; 32:9, 10, 11.)
3. He lived with idolators peacefully and prosperously but never became one of them. (Gen. 35:1, 2, 3, 4.)
4. He was obedient to the Lord and his parents.
5. He was guided by the spirit of inspiration rather than by the wishes of men.
6. Come what would, he never complained against the Lord.
7. He believed in divine promises, did his best for their fulfilment, and trusted in the Lord for the rest.
8. He severely penalized unchastity and the shedding of blood. (Gen. 48:5.)
9. His life, like Adam's ended with blessing his posterity.
E. SOME CONCLUSIONS FOR STUDY.
1. Jacob's early-life nature was an admixture of selfishness, strength, and spirituality. The name "Jacob" means one who takes by the heel or seeks to trip or supplant another. His strength of purpose, and power to achieve gave stability to his nature. His spirituality struggled against selfishness for his strength and prevailed. And the elements of his nature were crystalized into a character to whom God gave the name of Israel?"God persists." The great lesson to be learned from the life of Jacob is that the spiritual life in which God is a source of reference and reverence will so modify and adjust our mixed natures that each will become crystalized character of which it may be said: "More precious than the gold of Ophir." Our part in the process of crystalization must not be just yielding, it must be of the Jacob type?doing and trusting.
2. There was some considerable difference between the "Jacob" bartering for his brother's birth-right and the "Israel" blessing a Pharaoh of Egypt.
F. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS.
1. Relate the circumstance through which Jacob became a child of promise.
2. Prove Jacob's obedience to his parents. (Gen. 27:41-46; 28:1-10.)
3. Tell about Jacob's tithing contract with the Lord.
442 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
4. Give Laban's testimony concerning the source of his prosperity under Jacob's management. (Gen. 30:25-27.)
5. Give Jacob's own testimony to his wives concerning the secret of his prosperity and protection from injury and their reply. (Gen. 31:1-7, 16.)
6. What was the origin and meaning of the name of Israel and what does it stand for today?
7. What was the significance of the burying all of the pagan relics or souvenirs by Israel (Jacob)?
8. What new feature of theological government did the Lord provide for in giving Jacob twelve sons?
9. What special promise from the Lord was made to Jacob (Israel) just before he went down to Egypt.
10. Tell of Jacob's (Israel's) blessing (a). Pharaoh, (b) Ephraim and Manasseh and his twelve sons, and what is the greatest point in Judah's blessing?
11. Wherein is Joseph's blessing most glorious?
12. What is to be learned concerning a woman's theological privileges by Genesis 25:22, 23?
13. Discuss Jacob's respect for his wives in counseling with them and the ideal confidence of Leah and Rachel in their husband. (Gen. 31:4-7 and 14, 15, 16.)
LESSON II (Second Week in October)
Work and Business
TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR OCTOBER A Better and Saner Hallowe'en
Importance of directing instead of repressing the children's activities.
Need of: (a) Understanding a child's idea of right and wrong. (b) Good, wholesome fun.
Parents should know where their children are and what they are doing. Are they destroying their neighbors' property? Do they know the origin and purpose of Hallowe'en? When little ones use jack-o-lanterns make sure they are safe. Serious accidents have happened from the use of paper and pasteboard ones.
If parents would join in the frolics of the night. Children would enjoy it better.
LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 443
LESSON III (Third Week in October)
Literature
EDWIN MARKHAM
Edwin Markham is a western poet. He was born in Oregon City, Oregon, April 23, 1853, and reared in the state of California. His father was Samuel Markham, and his mother Elizabeth Winchell Markham. His childhood days were spent on his mother's rancho, near Suisun, California, as the family moved to California when the boy was five years of age. During his boyhood days, he worked at farming, blacksmithing, and at herding sheep and cattle. He attended the San Jose Normal School where he specialized in ancient and modern languages. Later, he continued his studies in other institutions of the west. He married Anna Catherine Murphy, in 1897. For many years he devoted himself to teaching and educational work. He was principal and superintendent of schools in California until 1889, at which time he resigned to devote himself to literary work. He has been a contributor to the newspapers of California and the magazines of the United States since his early boyhood. In his most famous collection "The Man with the Hoe and Other Poems," he states that many of the poems contained therein appeared in Scribners, The Century, The Atlantic and the San Francisco Examiner.
444 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
It was our good fortune to hear Edwin Markham in a lecture, in 1915. His full face and white hair made him resemble the poet Longfellow. And his complexion brought to mind the well known lines of Dr. Holmes, "And his cheeks were like a rose in the snow." To the great delight of his audience, he made several references, during the evening, to the Man with the Hoe, which is undoubtedly one of the greatest of American poems. Edwin Markham did not ignore the natural beauty about him; he has paid many tributes to the flowers, trees, and birds of his home state, having immortalized the well known California poppy. Yet Edwin Markham has not been interested primarily in nature. His great heart has gone out, above all else, to man, who was given dominion over God's other creations. Among the best known of French painters is Jean Francois Millet. Before Millet, no painter in France had dared to portray the homely life of the peasant on canvas. Millet startled his contemporaries by painting, The Angelus, The Gleaners, Feeding the Birds, and The Man with the Hoe. Then the day came when painter and poet met. Edwin Markham looked into the face of Millet's peasant and the meaning of it all bore in upon his soul with such tremendous force, and stirred the life within him to such depths, that he gave us "The Man with the Hoe," a poem that has been translated into practically every well known European language and also Japanese:
God made man in His own image, in the image of God made He him.?Genesis.
Bowed by the weight of centuries he leans Upon his hoe and gazes on the ground, The emptiness of ages in his face, And on his back the burden of the world. Who made him dead to rapture and despair, A thing that grieves not and that never hopes, Stolid and stunned, a brother to the ox? Who loosened and let down this brutal jaw? Whose was the hand that slanted back this brow? Whose breath blew out the light within this brain?
Is this the thing the Lord God made and gave To have dominion over sea and land; To trace the stars and search the heavens for power; To feel the passion of Eternity?
Is this the Dream He dreamed who shaped the suns And marked their ways upon the ancient deep? Down all the stretch of hill to its last grief There is no shape more terrible than this? More tongued with censure of the world's blind greed? More filled with signs and portents for the soul? More fraught with danger to the universe.
LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 445
What gulfs between him and the seraphim! Slave of the wheel of labor, what to him Are Plato and the swing of Pleiades? What the long reaches of the peaks of song, The rift of dawn, the reddening of the rose?
Through this dread shape the suffering ages look; Time's tragedy is in that aching stoop; Through this dread shape humanity betrayed, Plundered, profaned, and disinherited, Cries protest to the Judges of the World, A protest that is also prophecy.
O masters, lords and rulers in all lands, Is this the handiwork you give to God, This monstrous thing distorted and soul-quenched? How will you ever straighten up this shape; Touch it again with immortality; Give back the upward looking and the light; Rebuild in it the music and the dream; Make right the unmemorial infamies, Perfidious wrongs, immedicable woes?
O, masters, lords and rulers in all lands, How will the Future reckon with this Man? How answer his brute question in that hour When whirlwinds of rebellion shake the world? How will it be with kingdoms and with kings? With those who shaped him to the thing he is? When this dumb Terror shall reply to God After the silence of the centuries?
America has in the main been proud of the sterling character of her poets. Mr. Markham deserves to stand beside Longfellow, Lowell, and Bryant, for his poems breathe the same high purpose, the same trust in God, and the same purity of soul as do theirs. As evidence of these characteristics, we include the poem entitled "A Prayer."
Teach me, Father, how to go Softly as the grasses grow; Hush my soul to meet the shock Of the wild world as a rock; But my spirit prop with power, Make as simple as a flower. Let the dry heart fill its cup, Like a poppy looking up; Let life lightly wear her crown, Like a poppy looking down When its heart is filled with dew, And its life begins anew.
Teach me, Father, how to be Kind and patient as a tree, Joyfully the crickets croon Under shady oak at noon; Beetle on his mission bent Tarries in that cooling tent,
446 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Let me, also, cheer a spot, Hidden field or garden grot? Place where passing souls can rest On the way and be their best.
The character and work of Abraham Lincoln has always tempted the poet as well as the writer of fiction. Many tributes have been paid the martyred President in verse, but none are nobler, and in none does the verse move with more rhythemic majesty, than in the tribute of Edwin Markham. We can not publish the entire poem in this lesson, we shall include only a few of the choicest lines but should be glad to have the members of the class read the poem in its entirety if they have access to it:
"A man that matched the mountains and compelled The stars to look our way and honor us."

"And when he fell in whirlwind, he went down As when a kingly cedar, green with boughs, Goes down with a great shout upon the hills, And leaves a lonesome place against the sky."
Howard Willard Cook says, "Mr. Markham has never been a prolific writer as poets today go, but his verse has attained a distinction and fineness that some of our younger writers might do well to pattern from." California, like Indiana, saw fit to honor her chief poet by inaugurating a Markham Evening. April 30 has been set aside as Markham Evening.
Markham has the voice and the soul of the poet. This voice speaks through such poems as, The Poet, Joy of Morning and The Joy of the Hills. Because of the freedom and joy breathed through the lines in The Joy of the Hills, we conclude our lesson with it:
I ride on the mountain tops, I ride, I have found my life and am satisfied, Onward I ride in the blowing oats, Checking the field-larks' rippling notes? Lightly I sweep From steep to steep: Over my head through the branches high Come glimpses of a rushing sky; The tall oats brush my horse's flanks; Wild poppies crowd on the sunny banks; A bee booms out of the scented grass; A jay laughs with me as I pass.
I ride on the hills, I forgive, I forget Life's hoard of regret? All the terror and pain Of the chafing chain. Grind on, O cities, grind;
LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 447
I leave you a blur behind, I am lifted, elate?the skies expand; Here the world's heaped gold in a pile of sand. Let them weary and work in their narrow walls; I ride with the voices of waterfalls! I swing on as one in a dream, I swing Down the airy hollows, I shout, I sing; The world is gone like an empty word; My body's a bough in the wind, my heart a bird!
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1. It is very evident that "The Man with the Hoe" is a protest poem; against what, in the main, is the protest hurled?
2. What has the poet reference to when he speaks of "The light within this brain."
3. Explain as best you can these verses, "What gulfs between him and the Seraphim!" "Slave of the wheel of labor, what to him are Plato and the swing of Pleiades?" "What the long reaches of the peaks of song, The rift of dawn, the reddening of the rose?"
4. The class teacher should be careful to look up the meaning of any words in the poem that may not be understood.
5. Discuss the joy of contact with the hills. Do you feel much as the poet feels when you are in the hills?
LESSON IV (Fourth Week in October)
Social Service
THE CARE OF THE AGED
As the individual passes through the different periods of life?infancy, childhood, youth, maturity and old age?he must adapt himself to the new situations and the new requirements made of him. During the years of maturity, he realizes his full powers, and gains a measure of stability and security. During this period the individual's earning capacity is at its height and at this time, too, he usually establishes a home and achieves some of the other goals to which he has been striving. He perhaps meets some failures and disappointments but with his mental and physical energies at their best, he is usually able to transcend these defeats and sorrows. It is difficult for men and women to realize that the strength and ability of maturity are not permanent powers. Before many years, the most active intelligence loses some of its alertness; the strongest physique becomes weakened and less vigorous; the skilled musician and the gifted writer both lose some of their genius as they pass from maturity to old age.
448 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
The transition from the period of strength and power to a less strenuous and a less active career is a difficult one to make. It is often an unhappy moment when an individual realizes that he must relinquish his place in the affairs of the world and resign himself to comparative idleness and inactivity. Perhaps the most difficult adjustment that life requires in the career of each individual is the adjustment to old age and its accompanying infirmities. It is often a difficult matter for younger people to understand the problems of their elders. Elderly people frequently present some sort of problem both within the home circle and to social workers. It is probable that the main source of these difficulties lies in the fact that the younger generation does not understand the outlook and the emotions of the elderly persons. In order to keep the person in declining years from feeling defeated and futile, it is necessary to find for him some interest and some expression which will compensate him for the place he has lost in affairs of home and business. It may be some light work, reading, or some activity in the community or church. It must be remembered that elderly people, as in the case of children and adults, must be considered individually. Each individual has his particular interests, his particular friends, and his own ideas as to how to spend his time. It is often quite a mistake to plan for an elderly person without consulting his ideas and his desires. More attention must be given to physical care as old age approaches. Suitable living quarters and adequate food, and necessary medical and nursing care, should be a minimum standard that the community sets for the care of its aged. It is not uncommon to find a lone elderly man or woman, living in a comfortless room, receiving no care and attention. It is true that it is often difficult to persuade an elderly person, accustomed to a particular environment, to move. But usually, if an opportunity to live in more comfortable circumstances is offered, and the arguments in favor of the prospective change are tactfully presented, the hesitancy and unwillingness are overcome. Because of the impaired health and decreasing activity, elderly people sometimes have serious economic problems to meet. Even when an elderly person has savings, he is reluctant to spend all he has, for he never wishes to become entirely dependent. He is therefore often very reticent, even to his family and closest friends, about his finances. Neighbors and social agencies sometimes care for an elderly person for years, without knowing that the person may have a substantial bank account or valuable property. Considering that the aged need proper physical and adequate financial care, and that they should be associated as pleasantly as possible with their main lifelong interests?their business,
LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 449
old friends, and their family?it is evident that it is important to understand each individual person and his problems. Elderly persons have a deep affection for their home. "Home," as one of our contemporary poets says, "is where you bring your children up." The house and the neighborhood where the busiest, happiest years were spent, have a strong hold on the interests and emotions of the aged, and it is usually a sorrowful day when it is necessary to break away from the old surroundings. It is perhaps better for an elderly couple, or an elderly person, to remain in the old environment, if practical from a financial standpoint, and if the proper physical care can be provided. If it is not feasible nor desirable for elderly persons to live in the old home or neighborhood, perhaps the next best plan is to have them live with grown sons or daughters. It is regrettable that such a plan is not always successful, largely because the children fail to understand and respect the position of their parents. It should be unnecessary to mention that the elderly person should not be made to feel dependent and unwelcome. The responsibility children owe their parents is too obvious to need discussion, and children should be as willing and eager to care for parents in their declining years, as the parents were to struggle and sacrifice for the children. When it is not possible to maintain an elderly person either in his own home or with his own people, it may be advisable to find a pleasant boarding house for him. A boarding home usually provides the necessary physical care and besides gives the person a feeling of belonging to a home. He receives a friendly interest that does much to make his days agreeable. Many of our elderly people are cared for in private or public institutions. Institutional care is oftentimes necessary and many elderly people enjoy the comforts of such group life and the company of their associates. Those who are familiar with institutional life know that visits or letters from old acquaintances and friends are events of importance to them. Elderly relatives or friends deserve any attention and kindness that can be extended them. Reference: Normal Life, Edward T. Devine, pages 175-192. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Why is it difficult to adjust to old age? Ae Why do elderly people like to remain in their fo surroundings? 3. When is it advisable for elderly people to remain in old environment? When is it advisable to have them move? 4. Why should children assume the financial responsibility for the care of their parents? 5. Why are parents sometimes unhappy living with their married children? ELECTRIC COOKING No Ashes?No Soot?No Smoke? No Fumes COSTS LESS UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Efficient Public Service (? The BEST You've Tasted! Surprise the family by serving Pierce's Pork and Beans. Tender, golden beans, in steaming hot, savory tomato sauce made from Utah's choicest tomatoes. UTAH CANNING CO. "Ogden Since 1888" When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine And several other good comics. KATHLEEN KAYE And the Heartitorium department. DOROTHY DIX The world's most widely read newspaper writer. These and many other services and features appear only in Are You a Subscriber? A Dividend of 10% to all paid in advance subscribers. Send your order today. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PHONE WAS. 550 33 EAST BROADWAY A Store Dealing in Quality Hosiery and Underwear Exclusively Heavy Silk Full-Fashioned, all colors A wonderful Hose for wear Per Bair $1.95 Box of Three Pairs................$5.50 Semi-Fashioned, all colors, beautiful and durable Per Pair ?$1.50 Box of Three Pairs..............$4.25 Silk with Extra Stretch Elastic Top, the Comfort Stocking Per Pair...... $1.50 Box of Three Pairs............$4.25  Pure Silk, Semi-Fashioned very durable. All colors. Per Pair $1.00 Box of  Three Pairs.........$2.85 MAIL ORDERS PREPAID When Buying Mention Relief Society Snowcroft?s Blue Pine Extracts Spices, The Pick of the Season Full  o Flavor Shelled Walnuts VACUUM SEALED The Pick of the Season When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 