WOMAN'S WORK.

	WHAT is it! when did it begin; when will
it end? what is its object and ultimate re-
ward?
	These are questions the answers to which
might fill a volume, and I am fully aware
how impossible it will be in the limited
space of one short article to do justice to
this vast and important subject. If we
should ask when did woman's work begin?
Our minds must travel back to the time
when the earth was new and fresh and fair
from the hands of its Creator. When man
was placed upon it then woman was quickly
by his side, herself the fairest of all and her
influence was quickly felt for good or evil;
but it was when mother Eve heard the cry
of her firstborn and called out in the first
exultation of motherhood, I have gotten a
man from the Lord, that woman's work
really began:

	To be a Mother. Oh that name!
	How hath it filled the world with fame,
	For men of fame had not been here
	Had it not been for mother dear.

	Then when we think upon the myriads
that since that time have been been ushered
upon this mortal stage, with the full knowl-
edge that woman has always been the chief
actor in the scenes then enacted, and reflect
upon the helplessness of infancy and the

[Column 2]

part that woman takes in guiding its first
steps and combating the dangers that beset
the human race in the first stages of its ex-
istence, the nights of watchfulness and days
of care through which she must pass in
order to accomplish this, if she does this
successfully we think her fortunate and yet
her work is only just begun for she must
play her part as a helpmeet for man, she
shares his sorrows and helps him bear his
burdens, often taking a double portion, not
only raising her family but also assisting to
provide for them; but this is a labor of love
and happy is the woman who can afford to
devote her labor and her heart's best en-
ergies for the good of husband and children
in a home where the ruling power is love.
	But often much as we love to contemplate
such a state we are compelled to acknowl-
edge in this day of progress and civilization
that tens of thousands of women must stand
alone. They must fight the battle of life
single handed and seek out vocations for
themselves. Woman can no longer shelter
herself behind her weakness and say I have
no occasion to know anything but house-
hold work and the needle. The woman of
today is called upon to take her part in the
world's work and there are positions for
which she is particularly fitted.
	Woman as a physician has been eminent-
ly successful and there is no place in which
she can labor to better advantage or with
more benefit to herself and others. It has
been conceded that woman as a writer com-
pares well with her brother man, and that
as a writer of fiction she cannot be excelled.
Woman should be careful how she uses so
great a talent. It is said "the pen is
mightier than the sword," and truly it is a
great power for good or evil in the hands of
any that can wield it well.
	As a teacher in schools woman is recog-
nized as capable and efficient and is permit-
ed to perform her full share of labor both in
our private and public schools although per-
haps not always rewarded according to her
merits; in this vocation woman can exercise
great power for good inasmuch as she de-
sires to use the influence she possesses over
the young placed under her charge, and not
only seeks to employ the best method for
imparting the lessons she is expected to
teach that will enable them to take their
places amongst the educated and refined,
but will also strive to implant in the minds
of those she teaches the principles of virtue
and morality and educate the heart as well
as the head.
	I once heard a Professor make the start-
ling assertion that if something were not
done in this respect, some of the institutions
of learning would in a littie while turn out
intellectual monsters; because of the ab-
sence of those moral principles of virtue and
right that are a guiding star to the feet of
youth. In this respect woman may do
much both by her influence and example to
bring about a better state of things.
	But these avenues that may be considered
by some the higher branches of woman's
work are not open to all, and they who are
fortunate enough to be able to enter them
must not look down on, or despise their
humbler sisters. There are thousands of


patient and noble women toilers; doing their
full share of the world's work, that are
scarcely thought of or noticed and yet it is
the result of their labors that brings about
much of the comfort enjoyed by the rest, in
fact the world could not get along without
them; and it should be remembered that it
is the self-educated, self-sustaining men and
women that often reach the highest mark.
	It is part of woman's work to be an angel
of mercy to the sick and suffering, and oh let
her not forget to show mercy to the weak
and erring ones, there is no need to preach
purity to the pure, cleanliness to the clean.
No need to bring water to the springs and
fountains and pleasant places; but strive to
enrich the barren and thirsty land; those that
see do not need their eyes to be opened for
it is the blind that would rejoice in the light
of day, could they behold it; it is not those
that walk in pleasant paths with roses be-
neath their feet that need the rough places
to be smoothed down and the briers and ob-
structions to be removed from their pathway.
It is not the whole that need a physician,
but the sick and suffering, therefore is it the
peculiar work of woman to seek out the
weak and erring ones, especially the young
and pliable; who have perhaps erred through
the heart's best affections or what would
have been if properly directed. Let them
not be cast out to pursue the downward
road, but deal with them in mercy, lead
them back to the paths of virtue and honor
if possible and teach them a better way, for
as the Poet expresses it,

		Oh was it spoken
Go ye forth. Heal the sick, lift the low, bind the
	broken!
Of the body alone. Is our mission then done.
When we leave the bruised hearts, if we bind the
	bruised bone?"

	This is an age of the world when all
brave, true-hearted women are needed to
work as reformers, to assist in solving some
of these social problems that agitate the
minds of thinking men and women today;
one thing is certain, if every woman was
standing in her proper place and doing her
proper portion of the world's work there
would be no social problems to solve.
	But this is not so, and confusion prevails
and many wrongs there are to be set right
and women should work for this end and
not be discouraged because these things can
not be accomplished in a day. The world
has been going wrong for ages in this re-
spect; and how long it will take to put
things right we do not know. Bye and bye
the cry, will go forth to the watchers, what
of the Night? And the answer will be,
The Morning breaks. The day cometh,
the day of emancipation from oppression;
the day of freedom and equality of Human
Rights.
	And will man stand there to be crowned
with the victor's wreath alone? No! Wo-
man will be by his side, his counselor and
fellow laborer, and in that day she will re-
ceive her full reward in justice for all her
labors and many will arise and call her
blessed for the burdens she has borne and
she will see the result of her toil and all
will rejoice that woman has lived and 
worked.
