	﻿IN RURAL ENGLAND.
	XVII.
	THE young naturally seek the confidence
of those to whom they may be attracted, es-
pecially if in doubt or perplexity and young
Walton was not an exception to this rule;
hot-headed and impulsive naturally, and as
a boy indulged in every caprice, he could
not brook real disappointment. While he
was carrying on clandestine interviews at
the adjoining estate and enjoying the ro-
mance of first love’s young dream of bliss,
before the more serious aspect of the affair
became apparent he was thoroughly at ease;
but from the time cousin Jane made such an
important thing of it, he had begun to be un-
comfortable and to wonder what it was best
to do, or whether he ought to try to forget
and leave it all to fate. He was too much
in love for that, he could not remain long
away, and Anna was so demonstrative her-
self ready to renounce everything for his
sake, that sometimes he felt like a veritable
coward.
	On this particular evening Maitland rode
away deeply absorbed in thought, scarcely
caring whither his horse’s head was turned,
one observing him would have thought some
terrible sorrow had overtaken him, and he
really imagined it was so. The horse ac-
customed to going in one direction, needed

[column 2]

little guiding and unconsciously the young
man found himself in the grounds that led
up to the house where his thoughts were at
that very moment, he saw Clair sauntering
along evidently not intent upon anything
except to enjoy the twilight, for the day was
drawing near its close; he drew rein and call-
ed, to his young friend, who hearing the
voice grown familiar during the past few
days, come quickly towards him, and soon
the two young men were deeply absorbed in
confidential conversation; the reader can
judge the subject. Neither of them were
competent judges of the situation, though
both were deeply interested in the one topic
of all others the most fascinating, Lady Anna
Hilliard.
	Clair gave Maitland the best advice pos-
sible under the circumstances which was to
confide his troubles to cousin Jane or the
Doctor or both, adding by way of a recom-
mend, “she is the wisest and clearest-head-
ed woman I have ever seen, she knows how
to manage everything, the tenants tell me,
she could do what no one else was ever able
to with my father, and that “a woman he
would listen to in his sober senses must be
something extraordinary.’’ Maitland was
undecided, he whipped the shrubbery with
his riding whip as if to wake up his ideas,
and finally mounted his horse to ride to-
wards home; when who should come upon
the scene but Doctor Bland returning from
his visit to the poor woman he had kept
so long waiting. The Doctor was in the
best of spirits, and it had its effect upon these
young men; he rallied Walton upon his love-
sick appearance and urged him to come with
him, and spend an hour or two at whist,
and get cheered up before he called upon his
sweetheart.
	“I had no intention of calling to-night, I
am not in the least prepared, I was out of
sorts, and wandered away, little caring
where, but my horse came hither with me
upon his back, I had not the strength to
turn his head in any other direction;” said
Maitland speaking more to himself than to
his friends.
	“And why should you turn him away or
yourself either, do you know that your fath-
er has been here to day, to see Miss Hil-
liard? and he’ll not hinder you from paying
court to the young lady, if you have the
manliness to stand your ground. There’s
nothing like being a hero in the fight, ‘faint
heart never won fair lady,’ and if you would
be successful why you must be brave, wo-
men admire the heroic, not your milk and
water sops, but those who are fond of adven-
ture whether in love or in war; so take cour-
age young man, the game is yours if you
play high; such women don’t like common
place men, who are easily discouraged or
let trifles stand in their way, “the course,
of true love never runs smooth” is an old
saying. Maitland listened more like one
in a dream and finally said, “my mother will
be alarmed if I am long away, to tell you
the truth Doctor I am in no mood for com-
pany, I should spoil your game if I came
with you, tomorrow I may be in better
spirits, and without further explanation, he
bade them good night and hurried towards
Walton Hall. It was late when he arrived
and he went straight to his own apartment,
but his mother who had been watching from
her window came directly to inquire how
he was feeling and whether he had seen An-
na. Mother and son had a long conver-
sation that night, in fact Lady Walton felt it
an imperative duty now to acquaint her boy
with some of the circumstances that had


[column 1]

﻿caused his father to speak so strongly and
so strangely of the Baronet and his affairs.
She told Maitland the truth but not all, and
he was satisfied. “Your father will not in-
terfere further in this matter at present, and
if you wait a reasonable time, I have no
doubt he will consent, he does not believe
you are really in love, if he becomes con-
vinced that your affection for each other is
genuine, he will feel differently, and there
is everything to be hoped for in time.”
	What Lady Walton said was not much in
itself but the confidence she reposed in him
was gratifying to Maitland and he felt sooth-
ed and comforted by the interview; his
mother’s influence was charming and she al-
ways impressed people favorably when she
exerted herself. Miss Conway had not felt
her superiority or fascination for the reason
that she was of a much stronger character,
but with Lady Anna it was different, she
was susceptible to influences and impressions
from others, and stood sadly in need of
strength in those about her; what she might
have been lead to do, had not her cousin
come at an opportune time it is hardly pos-
sible to conceive; fortunate indeed for all
parties that, she arrived at a period in the
young girls life, when a wise counselor was
needed to guide and restrain, her impulsive
nature.
	That night Jane Conway had many reflec-
tions, she had promised to be the wife of the
man who had almost pursued her until she
had yielded to his entreaties one might say,
and yet her own heart had been touched
otherwise she would never have given her-
self into his keeping. What would he ex-
pect now was a thought she could not but
repeat as it were, for it seemed that she could
not much longer be mistress in her uncle’s
house, and a new and entire change in her
mode of life would be necessaiy, what
would this mean for her cousin, how would
it affect the domestic life at the castle, Clair
as well as Anna. Evidently a change must
be brought about sooner or later, and what
would be the easiest and safest method.
Morning came before she had scarcely slept,
and she felt totally unprepared to face the
situation; she almost wished she had per-
sisted in her determination made previously
to remain single and watch over these chil-
dren (for such they were to her) they need-
ed her more than Dr. Bland who had stood
alone so many years; and yet a pang of re-
gret would come when she imagined even
for a moment that she might give him up.
	The days that followed were very much
alike for a few weeks after these stirring
events, the Doctor talked freely of the mar-
riage which he hoped to have consummated
at the earliest possible date consistent with
the circumstances of her uncle’s death, her
term of mourning etc. and Maitland and An-
na were together almost constantly. Lord
Walton,s business had taken him from home
and Lady Walton herself had called frequent-
ly with her carriage and taken Lady Anna to
drive with her in order to become better ac-
quainted and really to see what sort of person
she was likely to be; she often talked to her
of the late Baronet and tried to draw her out
upon family matters finding her almost to-
tally ignorant of these things, she turned
her attention to Miss Conway. She learned
from Clair that his cousin was engaged and
she interrogated him in regard to the changes
this marriage would be likely to bring
about.
	“Who will have charge at the castle
when your cousin marries,she cannot super-
intend two establishments and your sis-

[column 2]

ter is not competent to manage such mat-
ters in fact she has had no experience and is
entirely too young.”
	Clair had never thought of this, Miss
Conway’s marriage seemed in the distance
to him, and he only vaguely comprehended
it now it was explained to him by Lady
Walton; but it set him to thinking, and he
soon made his feelings known to his sister.
He had gone on with a full sense of enjoy-
ment, everything was so pleasant to him
and he was just getting accustomed to the
place and the people, and now his tranquil-
ity was about to be disturbed. “Of course
cousin Jane can advise us what to do,” he
remarked to his sister one day after going
over it in his own mind, “by the bye isn’t
there any relation of the family that could
come here as a sort of housekeeper, or chap-
erone, or be installed in a place of honor, to
keep up the dignity of the place in a way
that would be perfectly proper?” Anna was
as ignorant on the subject as Clair himself
and they could only leave it all to cousin
Jane, and to future developments.
	Time passed rapidly to these young lovers,
for the Doctor and Miss Conway were in
earnest in making preparations, and Mait-
land spent most of his time in the society of
Anna and Clair, for cousin Jane was so oc-
cupied with her wardrobe that she left Anna
more to his watch care, and she found him
perfectly reliable. Clair enjoyed every
moment of his time spent out of doors, he
felt as if dwelling in an enchanted land and
could scarcely realize the fact that he was in
possession of a fine old estate, which enti-
tled him to many honors and privileges, he
never had dreamed of, so limited had been
his previous life.
	Country gentlemen interested in politics
wanted him to run for the county as their
representative, and knowing his ability as a
man and the natural tact he possessed gave
him every encouragement that his election
would be sure if he would allow his name
to be used. He was very unaspiring and
dreaded the publicity thinking his mother’s
marriage would be dragged up to public
scrutiny and he could not endure that one
shadow of suspicion should fall upon her
memory, and he firmly refused to be nomi-
nated. Cousin Jane heartily approved his
course, though it would have been a credit
to have the borough represented by so tal-
ented a young man as Clair Hilliard. He
felt a degree of pride in the thought but the
risk was too great.
	The afternoon sports and pastimes were
in full operation in the country side and many
invitations to shooting parties came in to
young Hilliard for he was fast becoming
popular, and as Maitland offered to go here
and there with him and give him the bene-
fit of his slight knowledge of the chase, he
fiinally decided to go to Greyson Manor
about twenty miles away but in another
county, and one early morning the two
young men rode away together watched by
the eyes of love. It was expected they
would be absent several days and the house
seemed lonely, for Clair was full of life and
his merry whistle and tuneful voice in song
were a perfect delight to all the household
and tenantry.
	The Greysons were charmed with the so-
ciety of these two fine young men, and
every attention was given to their entertain-
ment. The house was pretty well filled
with gentlemen most of them sportsmen
accustomed to the chase, and as they were
thrown together much during the time,
naturally the young men, and especially

[column 3]

Clair whose foreign accent and manners
made him more attractive, were noticed and
aroused some curiosity.
	Say Greyson who is this dashing young
sportsman, with the French accent? He is
not much on the game, unless it be of anoth-
er sort than we are likely to find hereabouts?
What did you say about his pedigree?  Born
on the continent his father an Englishman
you said, but his mother who was she?
These questions were asked by one of Grey-
son’s friends Sir Thomas Lonsdall. “Some
singer poor but beautiful, the most wonder-
ful eyes I’ve been told no one here knows
exactly, who she was but when Sir. Ed-
ward Hilliard died, it had to come out, he
left it all square, could’nt stand the public-
ity himself, but meant to make amends, she
was dead long before; in fact did’nt live
long after the boy was born I think.” “O, is
that it, well I’m glad to hear this story, it
makes things clearer! How many women’s
hearts did the old fellow break? There was
Helen Leigh, now Lady Walton, then this
Italian woman, and his third conquest whom
he honestly married I suppose: and his son
if appearances are not deceptive may break
even more hearts than his father.”
	“The boy is innocent enough not so cour-
ageous as the old Baronet, there was never a
better shot than Sir Edward, and the wom-
en all admired him, nothing tame about him
nor forgiving either, the sturdy old lion-
hearted Briton, from away back.


