A GOOD WOMAN GONE TO REST.

	DIED at the family residence in this City,
Wednesday morning, June 22, 1892, Mrs. Sarah
Elizabeth Groo, after only a brief, but severe ill-

[Column 2]
ness of about thirty hours. The deceased was a
most exemplary and estimable woman in every
respect, of great strength of character which was
plainly manifest throughout her whole life; she
was one to lean upon and trust in. No sacrifice
was too great for her to make to ensure the
happiness of her family, or for the interest of the
Church of which she was ever a faithful member
from the time of receiving the Gospel.
	Mrs. Groo whose maiden name was Gillett, was
born in Sullivan County, state of New York,
March 4, 1827. The Gospel was preached in
that vicinity when she was quite a young girl by
Jedediah M. Grant, when he was only nineteen
years of age. Mrs. Gillett, her mother, was the
first baptism in that locality; her family after-
wards embracing the faith. Mrs. Groo came to
Utah with her father, mother and husband in
1854, and settled in the 9th Ward in this City
where her home has been ever since.
	Like many others she has endured all the hard-
ships incident to those early days, and without a
murmur. She has ever been a fond and tender
mother, and has borne ten children, five of whom
survive her, four sons and one daughter, the
other half have gone on before, and have no
doubt welcomed her ere this, where there will be
no more sorrow or parting.
	She also leaves a husband, Elder I. Groo, and
fifteen grand-children, to whom she was greatly
attached for Sister Groo possessed in the largest
degree the elements and attributes of mother-
hood. She thoroughly enjoyed family life and
home was the place she adorned and in which
she found a special delight. Yet she was called to fill
a prominent public position, to preside over the
Relief Society of the ward in which she lived;
this position she filled with dignity for many
years past, manifesting specially good executive
ability in the administration of affairs which
naturally devolved upon her. She was ever
mindful of the needy, the sick, the sorrowing and
unfortunate and was therefore well qualified for
the place. Her charity was real and without os-
tentation. In her the ward had a true mother
who looked after its best interests, and “in her
tongue was the law of kindness.”
	Her faith in the Gospel never wavered under
any circumstances, and like others who have been
tried she has proven herself loyal to the right.
	She did some work for the dead in the Logan
Temple two years ago, and was making prepara-
tions to do a great deal of Temple work when the
Salt Lake Temple would be completed. She was
one of those noble and grand women, who never
falter in a good cause. Steadfast, industrious
and reliable, descended from the old Puritan
stock, a fair type of the New England women.
	Sister Groo’s whole life was a labor of love,
spent in doing good to those around her, many
are the friends who will miss her kindly deeds,
her comforting words and her pleasant face; but
she has entered into her rest; to the Saint of God
there is no real dark shadow and valley of death,
they but step forth into a diviner light; and they
would not return if they could,
“All dread of the distant future, all fears that op-
	pressed today
Like mists that clear in the sunlight have noise-
	lessly passed away;
Nor call, nor clamor can rouse her from slumbers
	so pure and deep,
For only His voice can reach her who giveth his
	loved ones sleep.
Weep not that her toils are over, weep not that
	her race is run,
God grant we may rest as calmly when our work
	like her’s is done!
Till then we would yield with gladness our
	treasures to Him to keep,
And rejoice in the sweet assurance He giveth his
	loved ones sleep.”


Many are intellectually great, but spiritu-
ally ignorant.


