	OLD FOLKS' REUNION AT PAYSON,
		June 29, 1892.
	Ye who wear the silver crown
		Of a life complete with age,
	Ye whom wisdom gives renown
		By her long-life heritage;
	Old folks everywhere held dear.
		Filled with years three score and ten,
	Welcome, yea thrice welcome here,
		Honored guests of honored men.
	Old folks' day—a cherished though,
		Oft recalled in pleasant dreams;
	Teaching charity unsought
		And that life is what it seems;
	Bright as glow the summer flowers
		Or the ripples of the stream,
	Let these fleeting pleasant hours
		Brightly in thy mem'ry gleam.
	Old folks! Ah! what honor this
		To have lived and toiled for years,
	That as pioneers the bliss
		Of the present now appears.


Then all honor to the brow
			Wrinkled with life’s toil and woes—
		Ye have sown the seed and now
			Blooms the desert as the rose.

		To our city, lovely scene,
			Sparkling with the mountain rills,
		To onr homes and gardens green
			Welcome while the day fulfills
		Every joy that hope foretold,
			Of a time both bright and long.
		Ev’ry thought thine hearts may hold
			Of reunion, feast and song.

		Care hath here no part today;
			Joy shall sing her songs above;
		Faith in every heart shall say:
			“God is near and God is love!”
		Old Folks, Fathers, Mothers dear,
			Ye who wear the silver crown,
		Ye are welcome to our cheer,
			Ye are welcome to our town.

	Mr. John Quigley made a brief and appropriate
address of welcome in behalf of the Payson peo-
ple, and the Payson Quartette sang “Don’t forget
the old folks.”
	President Angus M. Cannon graphically de-
scribed the appearance of the valley in 1847, and
the changes that had been wrought by the dili-
gence, industry, thrift and perseverance of the
early settlers, that had made possible the condi-
tions of prosperity and plenty of the present time.
He paid a touching and eloquent tribute to the
pioneers and veterans, many of whom were pres-
ent, to whom those of a later period owed the
blessings enjoyed so freely and prayed that God
would inspire the youth growing up in these
beautiful valleys of the mountains to reverence
age, and especially those who had been public
benefactors.
	The brass band played a choice selection and
Elder George Goddard in behalf of the Old Folks
Committee, thanked the railroad company for
their generosity and called for a vote of thanks
from the assembly which was heartily accorded.
Mayor Lemon of Payson also spoke briefly and
hoped there might be many more such reunions.
A unanimous vote of thanks was given to the
Payson Committee, and Elder W. C. Dunbar
gave some Caledonian selections uyon the High-
land bagpipes.
	The Rev. A. C. Todd, Presbyterian minister of
Payson, made a very feeling address, dwelling
especially npon veneration and respect for the
aged and the virtues of Christianity, the effect
upon human life, etc.
	Mrs. J. A. Linsdale sang “Father’s Growing
Old,” and Counselor David John thought Old
Folks Day an inspirational idea, and that the re-
spect and love with which these veterans were
treated must give great satisfaction.
	The Presbyterian Male Quartette kindly ren-
dered the appropriate song, “I’m Wandering
Down.”
	C. R. Savage of the Old Folks Committee then
distributed the presents to the aged people of
Payson, every one over seventy had a gift of
something. Those from the City had the ride
and the pastime afforded by the trip out, the
dinner and the good time generally.
	Bishop W. B. Preston spoke briefly upon the
courtesy due to the aged and the beauty of such
an example. The Old Folks Choir, who never
tire in trying to please the company, sang at the
close “Welcome here ye aged veterans,” and
Brother J. B. Nobles offered the benediction.
	The large company were then put aboard the
train arriving home in good time, without any
accident or unpleasantness, the Committee and
the choir doing all in their power for the happi-
ness and welfare of their aged friends, brethren
and sisters on the way back.


