S. L. COUNTY W. S. A.
	The Salt Lake County W. S. A. met as
per adjournment on June 21st, 1892. Presi-
dent Elizabeth Howard in the chair. Open-
ed by singing, "A search for freedom."
Prayer by Maria M. Holt, and singing "Oh
come, come away." Several new members
were voted in. Minutes of the last meeting
were read and approved, and roll called. A
call for agents representing the Association
in the different wards, was responded to by
Mary P. Silver, of the 19th Ward, Emma
Finch of the 20th, E. M. Price of the 15th,
and Eliza Barton of the 21st wards each giv-
ing reports of their labors. Dr. Elvira S.
Barney also reported having held meetings
in several wards, appointed agents, sold
books, received subscriptions for suffrage
papers, etc. Mrs. Price suggested a train-
ing class in politics, that we might improve
our time to better advantage than merely
meeting together and talking upon those
subjects.
	President Howard favored Mrs. Price's
idea of a training class, and requested her to
study it up; gave a report of her visit to
San Juan, and read some questions which
we were required to answer for use at the
World's Fair, concerning women's work,
and thought that if the Relief Society in all
its branches were properly represented, it
would make a grand showing; announced
that the Association would go to Calder's
Park on the 1st of July, taking their picnic,
and asked them all to bring their friends.
	Miss Maud Pratt was unanimously sus-
tained as suffrage agent of the 17th Ward,
also pleased the audience very much by her
fine singing, accompanying herself on the
organ. After which Elizabath Mc'Farlane
read some very interesting descriptions of
women's work, intended for exhibition at
the World's Fair. M. E. Bassett agent for
the 2nd Ward, read some extracts aud made
remarks, C. C. R. Wells and Dr. E. S.
Barney gave some of their views concerning
the present status of woman, and meeting
was adjourned until the third Tuesday in
July, at the same time and place. Singing
