SARAH GRIFFITH RICHARDS.

	On Tuesday, June 7th, 1892, the death of Sister
Sarah G. Richards occurred, at her residence in
the 20th Ward, Salt Lake City.  Her bodily
strength had been gradually failing for a long
time and being in her nintieth year, her death
came not as a surprise to her family and friends.
She had also long expressed herself as looking
forward to the change which she felt was coming
upon her as a happy release from suffering and
worldly anxiety.
	Sister Richards was born in Monmouth, Mon-
mouthshire, England, on the 26th of December
1802. At an early age she manifested an unusual
love for learning, and applied herself with such
diligence and determinination to the gaining of
knowledge in various directions, that she ob-
tained an education of no ordinary degree.  Was
all her life a great reader, and possessed a fund
of information rarely met with.
	Having resolved to dovote her life and energies
to the cause of education, she was still unmarried
at the age of forty, about which time the sound of
the everlasting Gospel reached her ears and pen-
etrated her heart.
	Prospects of worldly wealth and honor seemed
opening up to he;r but she forsook all worldly
interests for the sake of uniting her fortune with
the people whom she knew, by the unerring spirit
of testimony, were the people of God.
	After joining the Church, and emigrating to
America, she was married on the 25th of Decem-
ber, 1843, to Dr. Levi Richards, with whom she
had previously become acquainted while on his
first mission to England.
	Amid the hard and trying persecutions of the
Saints, on the 12th of June, 1845, one child, a son,
was born to them, to whom they gave the name
of Levi Willard.
	Three years later, Dr. Richards was requested
by the presidency of the Church to take a second
mission to England, for five years more. He was
advised to take with him his wife, Sarah. But
as their little one was delicate, President Young
counseled them to send him to the Rocky Moun-
tains with his uncle, President Willard Richards
and his aunt Rhoda, promising them that if they
did so, their boy should live, and grow stronger
and healthier; but saying he could not promise the
same happy results if they attempted to cross the
ocean with him.  The conditions were accepted
by Brother and Sister Richards, keenly as they
felt the trial of such a separation from their only
and tender child; and the promises of the Lord
to them, through His Prophet, were verified.
	Sister Richards had the privilege of receiving
all the ordinances, and of accepting all the prin-
ciples of the Gospel, as far as they have been re-
vealed to the Latter-day Saints, and she was true
to them all.  Possessing an extremely sensitive
nature, the sympathies of Sister Richards were
drawn out towards everything that might suffer.
Little children and dumb animals she always
pitied most, as being unable to tell their pains
and troubles.
	On the occasion of the funeral, which was held
June 9th, in the 20th Ward meeting house, the
speakers were Elder Samuel W. Richards, Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith, President Angus M.
Cannon, and Counselor Joseph E. Taylor.
	Mother we miss your form and face,
		Which bow’d with us each day,
	Before the holy throne of Grace,
