historic man in America.
	We have much of an early history which
antedates the Columbian discovery, for in
late years many men have been engaged in
the collection of its data. It is one of the
grand discoveries of the scientific era of cul-
ture that man has inhabited the globe from
high antiquity that the primal man was of rude
culture, and that his progress from the low-
est to the highest is marked in a broad way,
by stages well defined. Human evolution
is as much a part of of science as botany,
chemistry, electricity or astronomy.
	Were these prehistoric people known to
the ancients? Was America also known to
them? These questions may in time be sat-
isfactorily answered, but at present they are
matters of speculation.
	To the early voyagers and explorers our
land must have seemed lonely, but sooner
or later traces of human occupants were
found in this wilderness. One writer says:
“Every one who explores the mounds of the
Ohio valley, or gazes on the ruins of Yuca-
tan, or looks into the wondrous narrative of
the Spanish conquerors must involuntarily
think: Who were these men and women,
what was their origin, what their mode of
life? Until within a few years there has
seemed no answer. Facts have come in fast-
er and faster, and every new fact has made
the puzzle seem more hopeless, so long as
no one could offer the solution. These vari-
ous prehistoric races, so widely sundered,
threw no light upon each other; they only
deepened each other’s darkness. Indians,
Aztecs, Mayas, Mound Builders seemed to


[column 1]﻿

have no common origin, no visible analogy
of life or habits. The most skillful student
was hardly in advance of the least skillful
as to any real comprehension of the facts;
nor could this possibly be otherwise, so long
as the clew to the labyrinth was not found.
It is only thirty years since it may be said
to have been discovered; only some eight or
ten years since it has been used.”
	The antiquities of Mexico and Central
America reveal religious symbols, devices,
and ideas nearly identical with those found in
the old world. Humboldt traveled exten-
sively in America and observed the remains
of this prehistoric race. He was convinced
that some communication existed between
it and Europe. He thought this was prov-
ed, not only by their religious symbols, but
by the architecture, the hieroglyphics, and
the social customs made known by the ruins.
These he was sure came from the other side
of the ocean.
	The aborigines of America believed in a
good and an evil power, and the immortal-
ty of the soul. According to their tra-
ditions the Almighty Being, who was the
good spirit, created a man and a woman
from a stone, but upon some dislike destroy-
ed them. He then made another couple
from a tree, who were the ancestors of all
the nations of the earth; Another tradition
says in the third generation there came a del-
uge in which not a soul was saved. In or-
der to repeople the earth it was necessary to
change animals into men. These or similar
traditions were found among nearly all the
Indian tribes in both North and South
America, but what originated them is not
known.
	For many years it was thought that the
prehistoric race or races of America came
from Asia across Behring strait, but this
theory is attended by many difficulties.
There are no affinities between the Ameri-
can race and the Chinese, Japanese, or other
Asiatic people in language, customs, arts or
manner of living. The language of the red
men is very different from all Asiatic
tongues. It is a product purely and wholly
American, without any old world affiuities
or analogies whatsoever; It is described as
polysynthetic, often expressing a whole sen-
tence in a word of seventeen syllables.
There are seven hundred and sixty Indian
languages, and this characteristic applies to
them all. Then their physical, and for the
most part their mental traits are all their
own. All signs, then, would seem to favor
the theory that the native Americans are as
indigenous to the country as are its peculiar
fauna and flora; or, at all events, if they did
originally issue from Asia it must have been
in a most remote prehistoric time.
	A second theory for the origin of the pre-
historic race is found in the traditions of
Peru, which tell of a people who came to
that country by sea, and landed on the Pac-
fic coast. In ancient times the Malays
were a great maritime empire and these
people might easily have reached South
America, for dialects of the Malay language
are scattered across the Pacific ocean as far
as Easter island.
	Whoever these people were they built
cities and originated the oldest and finest
monuments of ancient civilisation. The
ruins they left show marvelous workman-
ship in architecture, paintings, and mosaics,
each displaying artistic designs in the high-
est style. Some of the carving in Peru,
Mexico, and Central America is excellent.
Not only are ordinary objects represented,
but the human figure is sculptured in an ex-

[column 2]

pressive and vigorous style, though not al-
ways with much beauty. The incense burn-
ers found in Mexico have good heads and
faces carved upon them.
	Recently a gentlemen who has spent sev-
eral years in Honduras, Central America,
told me he had seen a hand and foot lately
taken from some prehistoric ruins that were
perfect representations. He is a surgeon
and has made the human figure a special
study, and his opinion on such subjects is
valuable. He also said that on top of a cer-
tain mountain, quite difficult to reach, is a
large subterranean chamber which contains
many specimens of this ancient carving.
Among other things is a beautiful hammock
carved in white marble, which shows accur-
ately all the fine meshes and folds. Sitting
in the hammock is a figure representing the
Child Christ. This is cut in black marble,
making a strong contrast to the white mar-
ble of the hammock. A lady asked him
what was the reason of this, and he replied:
“The people were black, so they likened
Christ after themselves, not knowing there
were other people of another color.” The
natives permit many statues and other beau-
tiful objects to be taken away, but the ham-
mock is considered sacred and they will not
allow it to be disturbed.
	Diodorus, a Greek living at the time of
Julius and Augustus Caesar, wrote an im-
portant passage concerning America in his
history of the world from the creation down
to the Roman empire under Julius Caesar.
He traveled extensively, both in Europe
and Asia, gathering material for his writ-
ings. His account is not mythical, and
seems to be given as a historical fact rather
than as a tradition. He says: ‘‘Over
against Africa lies a very great island in the
vast ocean, many days’ sail from Libya,
westward. The soil is very fruitful. It is
diversified with mountains and pleasant
vales, and the towns are adorned with state-
ly buildings." After describing the gardens,
orchards, and fountains he tells how this
pleasant country was discovered. The
Phoenicians built ships and sailed along the
Atlantic coast of Africa. A Phoenician ship
voyaging down the coast was “on a sudden,”
to use his language, driven by a furious
storm far into the main ocean, and after they
had lain under this tempest many days they
at length arrived at this island. The land
reached by these Phoenicians is likely to
have been some part of Central America or
Yucatan, where at that time stood the great
cities now in ruins. There is a similar state-
ment in a work attributed to Aristotle in
which the discovery is ascribed to the Cartha-
genians.
	Theopompus also speaks of the existence
of a continent beyond the Atlantic which was
larger than Asia, Europe, and Libya togeth-
er. A race of men called Meropes dwelt
there and had extensive cities.
	Again, it is a historical fact that the Nor-
semen sailing from Iceland not only discov-
ered America, in the tenth century, but also
established colonies on the coast of New
England, and that they preserved commun-
cation with these colonies for two centuries.
However, the Irish preceded the Norsemen
