U. W. P. CLUB.
	THE U. W. P. Club met as per adjournment,
June 30th, 1892, at the EXPONENT Parlor, Called
to order by the President, E. B. Wells. Opening
prayer by Secretary E. R. Shipp. By-laws read
and voted upon by section—with one or two
amendments accepted unanimously. It was also
decided that the by-laws be printed and distribu-
ted to the members of the club. N. V. Davis
suggested that the secretary furnish a list of the
names of the members to facilitate a better man-
agement of dues, etc. Put as a motion and
carried.
	The President said in any question or proposi-
tion presented to the club for consideration she
desired all to feel free in expressing their opin-
ons. A proposition has been recieved from ab-
sent members that we adjourn meetings for the
summer. After some discussion all agreed that
adjournment even for a brief period would mean
a “death blow to the club,” some on the contrary
would prefer to have semi-monthly sessions, but
in consideration of so many other meetings to be
attended and business of varied character to en-
gage our attention, it was deemed expedient to
hold club meetings once a month regularly the
last day of each month according to by-laws.


The President was anxious that a greater interest
be manifested, that members be more punctual in
attendance and always ready to fill their part of
the programme.
	C. C. R. Wells made a motion which was
carried that Agusta Joyce Crocheron be accepted
as an honorary member of the U. W. P. Club.
	Preliminary business being completed the regu-
lar programme was next proceeded with, some
changes being necessarily made in consequence
of the absence of some of the members.
	N. V. Davis read an interesting paper on
the education of teachers.
	Phebe C. Young read an original article on
“Woman’s Work” touching the subject to the
very centre.
	G. L. Brown furnished an original poem en-
titled “Arouse” which had a tendency to “arouse”
her hearers to renewed diligence and determina-
tion to excel in the divine art of communicating
thought through the medinm of the pen.
	M. E. Shipp sang very sweetly the touching
little ballad “”Tis evening brings my heart to
thee.”
	President E. B. Wells then read an article pre-
pared for the anniversary of Susan B. Anthony’s
birthday, entitled, “What some women have
done.” Giving an account of many ancient hero-
nes which we trust will soon be followed by an
account of the equally wonderful work and ac-
complishments of the illustrious women of our
day.
	Gladys Woodmansee entertained the club with
instrumental music.
	R. M. Fox read an original poem entitled
“Pray”
	Refreshments were partaken of during an ani-
mated discussion on poetical license.
	Programme arranged for July meeting as fol-
lows:
	Half hour for business. M. A. Freeze, Des-
criptive article on journey in Mexico. M. E.
Shipp, Women Physicians. L. S. Dickinson, Poem.
G. Woodmansee, Music. E. B. Wells, Trip to
San Francisco. C. C. R. Wells, Essay. L. G.
Richards, Life and character of her husband’s
mother. G. L. Brown, Music.
	Benediction by M. E. Shipp.
	E. R. SHIPP, Secretary.


[column 1]

