OLD FOLKS' GALA DAY.

   	WEDNESDAY, June 29, was another gala day for
the old people, and not withstanding the heat,
and the distance to travel, there were more than
ever before, the Committee of arrangements how-
ever had prepared beforehand so that every one
was made quite comfortable, and the railroad
officials were kind and courteous and the whole
affair proved to be a complete success.
	Soon after starting the old people were regaled
with lemonade, cakes and candy and delicacies
and the smiles upon their faces betokened the
happiness they felt in the pleasure anticipated;
then the choir under Prof. Beesley, serenaded the
occupants of each car which made eighteen sere-
nades, Prof. Evan Stephens came on board in
time to join the singers; Elder W. C. Dunbar
with his bagpipes rendered the "Highland March"
in each of the cars; the train arrived at Payson
about 11.30 a.m. quite a number of aged persons
had been taken on at the several stations on the
way.
	The Payson silver band was playing at the
depot on the arrival of the train, and the Payson
Committee assisted in getting the precious freight
safely unloaded; vehicles were in waiting for all
who wished to ride and new-mown hay was
freshly laid all the way for those who preferred to
walk. The Sunday school children in white,lined
the way on both sides carrying banners and wav-
ing flags, and the Benjamin brass band marched
with the procession rendering suitable music. At
the entrance of the grove was a triumphal arch
with the one word WELCOME, wrought in flowers
which gave a pretty effect to the scene that pre-
sented itself farther on. Long tables were spread
under the trees with sufficient space to seat over
a thousand people, and bountifully supplied with
every luxury of the season; the young men and
girls in national colors were ready and anxious to
render any service and waited upon their honored
guests in the most tender and courteous manner.
	Governor Arthur L. Thomas accompanied the
party and his father and mother were among the
veterans over seventy years of age. The Gov-
ernor went through the cars and shook hands

[Column 2]
with all on board the train, President Angus M.
Cannon escorted him introducing him to the peo-
ple. They shook hands with about 1150 people.
	It was estimated that there were on the grounds
at Payson over 2,500 people, and of this number
about 1200 were over seventy years old. The
oldest person present was Mrs. Rachel Dollinger,
a resident of Payson, aged ninety-four—formerly
of Kentucky, the next oldest lady was Mrs. Sarah
Free, ninety-two—also Mrs. Ann Taylor, nearly
ninety-two—the two last, natives of England;
Mrs. Jane Cornwall ninety, from Ireland, Mrs.
Johanna Jensen ninety, from Sweden, of the
gentlemen the oldest were Joseph Hancock,
ninety-two, and Robert Wimmer ninety, both of
Payson. This comprises the list of those over
ninety years of age.
	The exercises were under the direction
of John Quigley of Payson who acted as master
of ceremonies. The Payson band rendered a
fine selection and prayer was offered by the aged
veteran Robert Wimmer, the "Old Folks choir,
sang a chorus and "Hail Columbia," was given
by Payson and Benjamin bands combined.
   Gov. A. L. Thomas addressed the assemblage,
his remarks were in harmony with the occasion
and expensive of the kindliest sentiments follow-
ing is a brief synopsis:
	"It was a grand sight to see so many aged per-
sons present, notwithstanding the heat, and he
deemed it one of the greatest events of his life to
be present among so many old people, where
such careful attention, respect and reverence
were paid to them. In other States gatherings
of old persons were not uncommon,but they could
not equal Utah in their concern for silvery hairs
and bent forms. There were present many of
the original settlers of the valley, persons who by
their toil and labor paved the way to the comfort
and affluence enjoyed by the present generation.
All honor, respect and veneration were due these
aged veterans; when they first beheld these
valleys nothing but sand, sage and alkali met the
eye. This morning meadows, pasture fields, and
growing crops smiled on every side, the result
more or less of the early labors of these old people
whom he was so glad and proud to meet. This 
was the fourth occasion of the kind at which he
had been present, and he hoped by the aid of
Providence he would meet the old folks many
times in the future. It was well that practical
proof could be given in such a manner of the
goodness in the human heart, in thus honoring
old age and paying respectful homage to the
founders of a progressive community. Future
generations will yet call those pioneers blessed."
	The band played "The Star Spangled Banner"
in fine style, and then came an address of wel-
come written expressly for the occasion by J. L.
Townsend, and read clearly and forcibly by Miss
Annie Worsencroft, tastefully dressed and draped
in the stars and stripes of our country.
