NOTES AND COMMENTS.

	OUR San Francisco article is again postponed
but must really come in next time, or be out of
date entirely, though there is little danger of for-,
getting the ladies or the points of special interest.
There is never room enough for all the editorial
matter in our little paper.
	FRIDAY the first day of July the W. S. A. of
Salt Lake County, celebrated at Calder's Park,
enjoying the repose and quiet of the grove, and
having a sail upon the water. Olsen's band is
in attendance at the pavilion and the music was
indeed delightful.  There was a programme of
suitable delightful. These was a programme of
suitable exercises in the afternoon, of which
dainty refreshments formed a part.  At early even-
ing the electric lights beautified the scene and the
boasts upon the water, the music floating in soft
melody made the effect quite exhilarating and
restful.
	THE terrible scenes that have been enacted of
late through the dissatisfaction an inquietude of
the union men who seem determined to ruin the
country in scarcely endurable from a distance,
what people must suffer who are near enough to
be witnesses of the desperate deeds one scarcely
dare imagine.  Surely the nation is in unrest and
what the finale will be unless a radical change is
effected before things have gone too far, is quite
apparent.  A civil war between capitalists and
laborer would be a catastrophe terrifying indeed
and would bring in its train many other horrors.
That such a crisis may be averted and peace take
the place of contention the people should ar-
dently hope, pray and strive to bring about.
Scenes of terror such as have reigned in Pennsyl-
vania and Idaho recently make one's heart quake
with fear for the consequence if not immediately
brought under control.  When mobs take the
law into their hands there is no safety or protec-
tion.  Surely these are perilous times, and we
know not what a day may bring forth.
	ON the 7th inst. in company with president Z.
D. H. Young we attended three meetings at
Willard. It is a pretty little town and we enjoyed
it very much. Several of the sisters came over
from Brigham City and it was a time to be re-
membered.  Sister Hubbard who presides over
the Relief Society there, is a spiritual-minded
woman, and also practical, for the Society is in
excellent condition.  The sisters own a hall and
granary and real estate as well as when one 
hears the circumstances of the building, which is
two stories high, and well finished, other sisters
certainly may take courage therefrom, The
lower front room is rented to the City Council,
and brings them in means to help in other direc-
tions.  It is astonishing what an amount of
energy, pluck and genuine executive ability the
sisters have displayed in accumulating property 

[Column 2]
in the various branches of the Relief Society.
Sometime soon we hope to sum up our visits to
Payson, Grantsville, Nephi and Brigham City and
mention other facts in regard to the progress of
woman's work temporally.
	TUESDAY, July 12, was the birthday anniversary
of Mrs. Elizabeth Howard, and a large party of
her friends gathered at the beautiful grove on the
Howard farm near the old home at Cotton Wood
to celebrate the occasion, for the lady is a great 
favorite among her acquaintances. The people
from the City went down in carriages, the big
Utah conveyed  thirty-two ladies, and other
carriages swelled the number with the home
folks to about a hundred and fifty all told, the
greetings and congratulations were delightful.
	The lady was surprised and astonished but she
is accustomed to playing the hostess to large
companies as also her daughter, Mrs. Kate
Brockbank, and everything went off pleasantly,
picnic in abundance, and of the daintiest varieties,
and a merrier party couls scarcely be imagined.
	Mrs. Emily H. Woodmansee, who was the fore-
most in getting up the surprise, had written a suit-
able poem which was read, and other exercises
followed, Nellie C. Taylor recited "The Coquette
Punished," and appropriate remarks were made
by Elders Milo Andrus, C. W. Penrose, S. W.
Richards, Bishop Brinton, and several of the
ladies, Mrs. Howard responding.  Mrs. Mac'Far-
lane sang "The Bells of Shandon." The day was
fine and the company fully enjoyed it.—At the
time of departure Elder Lucas Howard closed
the exercises with prayer.


[Column 1]
