SAD NEWS.
FAGALII, UPOLU SAMOA,
June 16th, 1892.
Dear Sister Wells:
	WITH a heart full of sympathy for our dear
Brother and Sister Hilton, I write to inform you
of the death of their dear little baby “Jennie,”
which occurred on the evening of the 4th inst. at
about six o’clock.
	The little one seemed to stand the voyage over
here very well and was doing nicely until about
two days previous to her demise, when she was
siezed with cholera infantum, going into convul-
sions about an hour and a half before death re-
lieved her of her sufferings.
	Brother Hilton, who was at Salovi, about thirty
miles distant, had been sent for but did not arrive
until the next morning.
	A Mrs. Bell and daughters, of Apia, kindly as-
sisted me in preparing the little body for its final
rest, and to the mother’s great satisfaction her
darling was dressed for its burial very prettily,
the little gold ring you gave her being placed 
upon her finger in loving remembrance of “Aunt
Em.”
	The natives brought many beautiful flowers,
which made the bereaved parents feel that they
had many friends, though very far away from 
home.
	Funeral services were held at the Mission
house on Sunday, June 5, at 4:30 p. m., and words
of sympathy and comfort were spoken by Presi-
dent Browning and Brothers Bassett and Thoma-
son. “Jennie” now rests by the side of Sister
Merrill, near the Mission house at Fagalii, and we
are all praying continuously to our Father that
He will send His spirit in rich abundance to com-
fort the hearts of her saddened parents.
	Every thing that could be, was done for the
little sufferer while she lived and we now feel
that it was God’s will and humbly submit to His
decree.
 
	We are all well here at present and enjoying a
goodly degree of the holy spirit. Should you de-
sire it I will endeavor to write you a short article
occasionally and would be pleased to have the
EXPONENT sent me in return.
	Hoping you are well and that every thing pros-
pers in Zion, I remain,
	Your sister in the Gospel,
