Triumph,' by Beatrice F. Stevens, 'In Thy Form' by Florence Jepperson Madsen, 'O My Father,' 'Our Mountain Home So Dear,' and 'Though Deepening Trials.'"
Susan Inkley is president of this ward Relief Society.
Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho Falls, Idaho)
ALICE ANDERSON, secretary of the Ammon Ward Relief Society,
reports that this ward presented a pageant, "The Relief Society Wheel of Progress," on March 17, 1942. The women shown in the accompanying picture represent the spokes in the Wheel of Progress. These spokes were Inspiration, Spirituality, Charity, Visiting Teachers, World Peace, Education, Welfare, and Singing Mothers. Sister Anderson says: "We were proud of the program and of the large crowd in attendance. The evening concluded with dancing." Vera Lee is president of this ward Relief Society.
Teton Stake (Driggs, Idaho)
THE centennial was very successfully celebrated in the Driggs Ward of the Teton Stake, according to Maude Jeppson, first counselor in the Relief Society presidency. The observance included a pageant, "The Glory of Womanhood," a poem about the general presidents of Relief Society read by Bessie Kimball, musical numbers including selec-
CENTENNIAL "WHEEL OF PROGRESS," AMMON WARD RELIEF SOCIETY, IDAHO FALLS STAKE
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
217
DRIGGS WARD RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS HONORED AT SPECIAL CENTENNIAL PARTY, MARCH 18, 1942
Left to right: Mary Anderson Henrie, Hannah Bowerman Price, and Manette Robison Hillman
tions by the Relief Society chorus, remarks by the ward bishop and Relief Society stake president, and the playing of the transcribed recording from President Grant and President Lyman. Also, a banquet was served for all married women of the ward and their partners. Tables were decorated in blue and gold, using blue vases filled with daffodils. There was also a large birthday cake. Past ward presidents were served first and honored with blue and gold banners, which they wore. On March 18 another party was held honoring six older members who could not attend the Tuesday celebration due to the severe weather conditions. Three of these sisters are shown in the accompanying picture. They are: Mary Anderson Henrie, over eighty years of age, who served for many years as president of the Driggs Ward Relief Society; Hannah Bowerman Price, first president of the Driggs Ward Relief Society; and Manette Robison Hillman, who has done a wonderful service as a midwife. According to Sister Jeppson: "The top layer of the birthday cake was served to these sisters, and they were presented with flowers, programs, and typewritten copies of the song 'A Hundred Thousand Strong.' A recording of this song, made in the ward, was played for them, and the record received from the General Board was also played. They were thrilled beyond expression." Ruley Moss is president of this ward Relief Society.
St. Johns Stake (St. Johns, Arizona)
A NEWSPAPER clipping sent to us from St. Johns, Arizona, gives a detailed account of the centennial celebration held jointly by the St. Johns Stake and the St. Johns Ward on March 17, 1942. Two hundred

CENTENNIAL DINNER, AFTON NORTH AND SOUTH WARDS, STAR VALLEY STAKE
guests were in attendance. According to the report, the activities included the following: presentation of the cantata "Resurrection Morning," written by the late B. Cecil Gates; music by a string trio; a pageant portraying the organization of Relief Society and depicting services rendered by the Society; the honoring of women noted for Relief Society service; and an antique and heirloom display. Old-time dancing concluded the festivities of the evening. Adding greatly to the color and atmosphere of the occasion were the old-time costumes worn by those in attendance. The recreation hall and chapel were decorated for the event with bowls and baskets of lovely spring flowers. Mrs. H. L. Allen of the stake board served as general chairman for the centennial. Clara R. Sherwood is president of the St. Johns Stake Relief Society, and Maud B. Jarvis is president of the St. Johns Ward. Star Valley Stake (Afton, Wyoming ) "THE Afton North and Afton South Ward Relief Societies met jointly to observe the centennial on March 17, 1942. From an attractively printed souvenir program which was sent to us, we note that the activities consisted of a dinner (see accompanying picture) at which toasts and responses were given, music by Singing Mothers, a play, "Memories and Reality," written and directed by Martha Kennington, and a "television" broadcast featuring the presidents of the Afton Ward Relief Societies since the first organization in 1887. The printed souvenir gave a brief history of the fifty-five years of Relief Society in Star Valley, listed the names of all ward Relief Society presidents, and all Relief Society officers and members of the centennial year. The present presidents of these wards are Kathleen P. Burton (Afton North) and Leora C. Barrus (Afton South). NOTES FROM THE FIELD CENTENNIAL TREE-PLANTING, MAY 10, 219 1942 Burley Stake Relief Society Burley Stake (Burley, Idaho) PROM Agnes C. Hoggan, president of Burley Stake Relief Society, comes this brief report of this stake's centennial tree-planting ceremony. "On May 10, 1942, our Stake Relief Society Board planted an arborvitae on our stake tabernacle grounds. Our stake president, R. O. Hatch, participated, taking a moving picture of the ceremony. Members from each of our nine wards were present." HOYTSVILLE CENTENNIAL CELEBRATION, MARCH 17, 1942 Hoytsville Ward Relief Society, Summit Stake 220 Sumunut Stake (Coalville, Utah) DNA M. TREMELLING ssubmitted this account of the Hoytsville Ward centennial program: "On the evening of March 17, 1942, we presented an original pageant in two parts, entitled 'From Out of the Past. The first part, 'In My Garlen of Memories,' portrayed the history of the ward organization in dialogue form out of our 'Book of Memories.' "The second part depicted the first organization of Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith. A lighted candle in a lovely sctting represented the blessings and _privileges women attain through Relief Society. As appropriate verses were read, candles were lighted consecutively by members representing the Relief Society general presidency, stake and ward officers, class leaders, visiting teachers, and. Singing Mothers, after which a candle-lighting song was sung. A large cake which was later cut and served, was brought on the stage. 'A Song of Triumph,' and a closing song and prayer concluded the program." Nellie R. Crittenden is president of this ward Relief Society. Crossing The River (Continued from page 178) velop, they now began to establish the comfortable pattern of life which they had left in Utah. These pioneers were coming to realize that their ideals had not changed because of privations, and that even when they were living in shanties and dirtroofed houses, the finer things of life were treasured and cultivated. Flowers were planted which bloomed. 'Throughout all the tragic troubles over water, the tea kettles in Arizona bubbled as blithely as ever they did in Utah. The friends who were bound into a oneness that day of the "crossing," were ever the real friends. Always believing, finally they knew that Arizona was also Zion. An Arizona Temple had been promised, and was built. Human ingenuity and close spiritual ties built a bridge across the Colorado and a new and easier road to beloved Utah. Today one feels no terror in looking down that almost perpendicular canyon to the ribbon-like river far below. Its roar is faint, like an echo from the past. The Arizona of the pioneers is to its children and its children's children the "land of heart's desire." Happily, lustily they sing her state song "O Arizona, Sun-Kissed Land!" Prayer for Relief Society "We would hold up before thee, O Lord, the Relief Societies, with all their members; and all those who preside in their midst according to their callings and appointments, general or local. Bless the Teachers in their labors of mercy and charity, who, as ministering angels, visit the homes of the sick and the needy, bearing succor, consolation and comfort to the unfortunate and sorrowful." From Dedicatory Prayer by Pres. Wilford Woodruff at Dedication of Salt Lake Temple Work -and- (Business New-fashioned Thrift Lesson 8 Preservation of Victory Garden Products (For optional use on Tuesday, May 11, 1943) HE thought of harvest and preservation of food is usually linked with autumnthe time when all the luscious, varicolored fruits and vegetables, brimful of vitamins and minerals, make such a definite appeal to the appetite. However, harvest time is not any One season in this country; our food crops are gathered the year round. But in spite of the continuous production, most small fruits and quick-ripening vegetables, such as strawberries, raspberries, peas, and asparagus are short lived and are seasonally found on the market. Because of this, and in order to have such foods in the daily diet, it is important to preserve them in such a way as to retain their natural flavor, form, and food value. Although many Victory Gardens were grown last year, there are indications that many more, on a much larger scale, will be grown during the coming season. In order that time, energy, and manpower will not be lost, every bit of the food produced should be utilized. 'That which is not used immediately, when fresh, should be preserved by storing, canning, drying, or freezing. Storing Some kinds of crops are better suited to storage than others. 'This should be kept in mind at the time of planting; but whatever kind is grown, its proper stage of maturity for successful storage must be considered. Underripe products shrivel and do not keep well, while overripe ones are usually inferior in quality. Vegetables and root crops when stored do not all require the same temperature nor humidity, and the storage periods differ. Beets, carrots, turnips, and similar vegetables keep best when stored at 32-36 F. With relative humidity of 85-95 per cent, and will keep four to five months. Squash and pumpkins require 40 F. With relative humidity of 50-70 per cent. Potatoes should be stored in a dark place with a relative humidity of 85-90 per cent, and keep best at 35-40 F. Higher temperatures cause them to sprout soon, and sometimes cause a decay in the center known as "black heart.' Apples like a cool, moist atmosphere and will keep crisp and firm many months if properly stored. In preparing fruits and vegetables for storage, those with any kind of bruise, crack, or injury shoud be separated from the more perfect ones; defective ones should be used first and only firm ones stored permanently. There are several types of storage, and the kind best suited to your circumstances and needs should be used. Parsnips, carrots, and horseradish can be left in the ground all winter with a covering of straw, and dug or pulled as needed. Next to this type, the mound is the simplest form of storage. A layer of straw is Page 222 222 put on the area of ground needed, then the vegetables are piled on it in mound shape and covered with a layer of straw and then a layer of soil. The thickness of the covering will depend upon the severity of the weather in a given locality. A storage pit is made by digging a hole one to one and one-half feet deep and three to four feet wide. The pit is lined with straw, and the vegetables are piled into it in pyramid shape and covered with straw and soil. Freezing weather requires a thick layer of soil. Indoor cellars, if cool and ventilated, are good, but the modern, heated home with a cement basement is not so good for the storage of raw fruits and vegetables. Outdoor cellars are built on a more elaborate scale, and are used when it is planned to store large amounts of food products. Canning Canning is a type of food preservation used more extensively by house- wives than any other type. All kinds of fruits, vegetables, meat, poultry, and fish can be preserved in this way. The methods which may be used are known as: open kettle, pressure cooker, water bath, steamer, and oven. To be perfectly safe, however, in canning non-acid vegetables and meats of all kinds, a pressure cooker should be used. In using a pressure cooker, instructions for its proper use and care should be studied carefully to prevent accidents and waste of food. A pressure cooker is as safe as any other piece of equipment and is easy to handle if a few precautions are taken. With the open kettle method, fruits are cooked in syrup until just tender, packed in sterile glass jars and sealed quickly and completely. Care must be taken with this method to prevent bacteria-laden air from getting into the jars when filled. 'The water bath method is used for fruits and tomatoes. With this method a kettle or wash boiler is used which has a tightly fitting lid and which is deep enough to permit covering the jars with two inches of water. A wooden or wire rack is fitted into the bottom of the kettle to keep the jars from breaking. The water is kept boiling during the entire process, otherwise, water from the boiler may replace some juice from the jars. The cooking period is counted from the time the water begins to boil vigorously. The steamer method is used for the same kind of products as the water bath. 'There must be a good circulation of steam to insure efficient sterilization of the products to be processed. A steamer may be made for the purpose, or the same equipment as that used for the water bath method may be used. Directions for operating the type of steamer used should be carefully followed. Oven method is recommended for berries and small fruits only, and should be used only when heat can be controlled. Peaches, pears, and other large fruits do not get sufficient sterilization with this method; a brownish discoloration often develops which does not always show up until the jars are opened. Drying Vegetables and fruits may be dried to remove sufficient moisture to prevent spoiling. Drying can be done at home in a dehydrator. Because fruit turns dark when cut or peeled, LESSON DEPARTMENT better results are obtained if this change can be brought about before the drying is done. Sulphuring or the use of a salt solution will help to accomplish this. The latter is easier when the drying is done at home, but it does not result in as good a finished product. In using this method the fruit is peeled, and then immersed in the solution (6 level tbs. Salt to 1 gal. Water). Fruit may also be dried without peeling. Non-acid vegetables and those which cannot be preserved by storing can be dried when a pressure cooker is not available. Freezing Like drying, freezing as a method of food preservation, especially for meats, was used in early days when no other method was available. But only within the last ten or twelve years has this method developed so that all the food values are retained and the products are like perfectly fresh ones. Quick freezing is not cold storage. In quick freezing the temperature. Is lowered so fast that the ice crystals do not enlarge and cut the delicate cell walls. When the products are defrosted, the original flavor and juices are still there. Not all foods, however, yield to this process in the same way, but as time goes on more foods are being successfully preserved by this method. So far, this is not a practical home process, but many housewives have access to community lockers and are learning to prepare their own products for freezing, or they pay a small 223 amount to have them prepared by a plant. Locker plants are mostly operated as a community project or by ice companies and meat dealers who rent space to their customers. Whichever process of preservation is used, the same care in the selection and preparation of the foods is necessary as though the foods were to be used immediately. Firm, wellmatured products should be carefully and quickly handled and thoroughly cleaned. All utensils, jars, caps, rubbers, and other containers must be perfectly sterilized. 'The time of the processing should be carefully calculated so the product will not be underdone or overdone. The careful storing of canned and dried foods is important. A cool, dark, dry atmosphere is best for food in glass containers. It is advisable to give foods dried in the sun a final heating in the oven to kill any microorganisms that might be present. Foods dried in a dehydrator will be free of any of these, but should be stored as soon as they are cool, in airtight cans, jars, or small paper bags. If dehydrated foods are put in cartons which hold only an amount sufficient for use at one time, then large amounts will not be disturbed nor exposed to the air unnecessarily. Note: Space will not permit detailed instructions on all the methods and procedures of preservation, but help and instructions may be obtained from the extension personnel of the various agricultural colleges. Every housewife should pre. Serve all the food that she can use.  There's Always A Way (Continued from page 207) He stood there, beseeching his father with his wide, blue eyes, and Mr. Allen and Janet could hardly bear it when two tears welled up and spilled down the cheeks they loved so dearly. "Daddy! Can't Ihave Spot? He's _ all alone, and he doesn't want me to leave him!" "Spot?" Mr. Allen pretended not to understand. Stevie nodded. "He knew me as soon as I came into the room," he explained, "And I knew him. He wants to be my dog, and I want him. The man said nobody else wants him. Please, Daddy?" Mr. Allen climbed down from the car. "Let's see about this," he said, and Janet hurried to follow them into the office again. "Why, of course Stevie can have the puppy if he wants him," the man smiled. "I think it would be fine. He's the kind of puppy that needs a boy like Stevie, and I'm sure Stevie is the kind of boy that needs a puppy like Spot." When the door to Spot's cage was opened, there was no doubt about this. Spot gave one leap and was in Stevie's arms, and he cuddled there, licking Stevie's face, and wiggling with joy all the way home. As soon as the car was stopped, Stevie leaped out and went running to the house, Spot scrambling about in his arms. "Mommy! Mommy!" Stevie was yelling at the top of his voice, gay and noisy as he used to be, "Come here. Come see Spot! Mommy!" Janet looked at her father and he looked at her. "Sometimes you wonder just what to do about things," she said, "but if you think hard enough, there's always a way." Her father bent and kissed her. "Do you know what, Sweetheart?" he said softly, "If they lined up all the little girls in the world, and all that ever will be in the world, and marched them past me, I know which one I'd pick. She's got freckles on her nose and her hair is the color of ripe sunshine" Janet was so happy she could almost cry. Stevie was happy again, her daddy was happy again, and now she and Mommy could settle down to the serious business of getting things ready for the new baby.