On That First Morning Vesta P. Crawford "And very early in the morning the first day of the week, they came unto the sepulchre at the rising of the sun."St. Mark 16:2. Where Jesus had been laid, there came, on a morning long ago, a great brightness. The glory of this light was seen by the three Marys and by others of them who loved the Lord. In the long centuries since that day the promise of life eternal has glowed with rainbow splendor against the darkness of the world. 'This promise has become the recurrent message of springtime, the everlasting strength of hope and courage. Through all the span of time since that first resurrection, millions of people have turned to the Holy Bible to renew the brightness of Easter morning. "He is not here: for he is risen"  so came the testament of the angel nearly two thousand years ago. So comes the message down the ages for people in every land to see the beacon light. For those who may have forgotten that the stone was rolled away, there is a hallowed surety in the simple words of the gospel narratives. John and Mark, Luke and Matthewthey tell the Easter story, each in his own way, each after the interpretation of -his own heart, as the life of the Savior had inspired him. F ROM the darkness of the tomb CLEARLY etched with vivid detail is the story told by John. He explains his purpose in words that have long been remembered: "... That ye might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God; and that Page 170 believing ye might have life through his name." John speaks of a garden that was near Calvary, and in that garden there was a new sepulchre. In this tomb the followers of Jesus laid His body. Even before it was light on the first day of the week Mary Magdalene came into the garden and approached the tomb. The stone had been rolled away. "Then she runneth and cometh to Simon Peter, and to the other disciple, whom Jesus loved, and saith unto them, They have taken away the Lord out of the sepulchre, and we know not where they have laid him." The disciples hurried to the tomb and found it empty. "For as yet they knew not the scripture, that he must rise again from the dead. Then the disciples went away again unto their own home." "But Mary stood without at the sepulchre weeping." 'Then she looked into the tomb and saw two angels sitting where Jesus had lain. The angels said unto Mary Magdalene "Woman, why weepest thou?" And she told them that they had taken away her Lord and she did not know where they had laid Him. Suddenly she saw Jesus standing near her, but at first she did not recognize Him. He spoke her name "Mary!" And she knew that the Savior had risen from the dead. Light glowed upon the dark stones and the springtime of hope came into the ON THAT FIRST MORNING garden. "Mary Magdalene came and told the disciples that she had seen the Lord...." In this, our time, when the very foundations of the earth are shaken, and the faith of many of us is tested by tragedy, is it not a quiet and precious thing to take a few moments from the rush of time to contemplate the testament of John? Now is a time for remembering that which has been written for our comfort and our surety. MARK tells the story of Christ's ministry in a series of word pictures etched with faith and understanding, etched with a splendor that has instructed the generations who have believed in the message of Easter. Mark has limned with graphic description an eternal picture of the resurrection. It is Mark who so beautifully portrays the coming of Joseph of Arimathaea, "an honourable counseller, which also waited for the kingdom of God"how Joseph came to Calvary and took the body of Jesus and prepared it for burial. In a tomb hewn out of a rock Joseph laid his friend with love and care. Mark describes the coming of the Marys and the splendor of the angel's message... "Be not affrighted:... He is risen; he is not here:" - The appearance of Jesus to eleven of his disciples is presented in Mark's strong, direct words, and the command of Jesus is written... "Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature." And Jesus told his followers that they should "speak with new tongues." It is, as Mark implies, the duty and the pleasure of those who believe the gospel 171 to spread the message of Easter to the far places of the world. Each gospel narrator tells with great emphasis that part of the story which most appeals to him, which seems the most inspiring, the most enduring. UKE, called "the physician," was the companion of Paul on his second missionary journey, and it is he who stresses in his gospel the message of good news to all nations. "It seemed good to me also," Luke said, "having had perfect understanding of all things from the very first, to write unto thee... That thou mightest know the certainty of those things, wherein thou hast been instructed." Every word of Luke's narrative is imbued with strength and meaning, as if he were writing upon granite, words to last throughout the coming ages, words to comfort the nations down along the path of history. Luke says that when the women saw the angels in shining garments standing against the dark rocks of the sepulchre, they were afraid and bowed their faces. In the solemnity of the garden with bleak Calvary rising up beyond the place, the angels spoke a message of eternal life: "Why seek ye the living among the dead? He is not here, but is risen: remember how he spake unto you when he was yet in Galilee."
It is Luke who gives the most vivid picture of the wonderful walk by evening unto a town called Emmaus. This is the event hallowed by many artists who have been inspired by this story of comfort at eventide. Hoffman, the great painter of the life of Christ, and many lesser artists
172
as well, portray this happening with spiritual insight, divining the inner glory of the farewell words of Jesus. The story of that walk along a path that led from Jerusalem to Emmaus is well remembered by all who have read the scriptural text. Two of the disciples walked by evening to this village, "And it came to pass, that, while they communed together and reasoned, Jesus himself drew near, and went with them."
This significant event of the first Easter has been expressed in poetry:
At eventide when flowers closed And all the world was still, Two of them who loved the Lord Walked slowly up the hill; Beyond them in the valley They heard the Marys weep The path unto Emmaus town Was stony clad and steep; Then soundless was the silver night, No leaf stirred on its stem, Yet suddenly they heard a voice And Jesus walked with them.
The three travelers reached the village, but Jesus "made as though he would have gone further. But they constrained him saying, Abide with us: for it is toward evening, and the day is far spent."
From these words has come the great Christian hymn, "Abide With Me."
Abide with me! Fast falls the eventide; The darkness deepens; Lord with me abide!
THE words of Matthew glow with lasting simplicity. He alone of all the gospel writers tells how the stone was rolled away, how light came from darkness, the details of that first Easter. "... As it began to dawn toward the first day of the week, came Mary Magdalene and the other Mary to see the sepulchre. And, behold, there was a great earthquake: for the angel of the Lord descended from heaven, and came and rolled back the stone from the door, and sat upon it. His countenance was like lightning, and his raiment white as snow."
Such is the story of Easter as the disciples who lived in that far day have testified. In these precious words there is no faltering, no doubt, and no embellishment. In these words there is only simplicity, truth, and the promise of eternal life. No troubled years are long enough to dim the splendor of the message. Steadfast as spring, the promise returns and abides with us.