SOLACE
Celia Van Cott
Why mourn for flesh, man's temporal clay, When earth-born spirits wing away Back to their Maker's throne? We cannot touch the soul of man, Create a life, nor stay its span, We must have faith in God's great plan.
Milton Bennion General Superintendent Deseret Sunday School Union
A. Hamer Reiser Second Assistant General Superintendent
THE Sunday Schools of the Church are immeasurably benefited by the action of the First Presidency in appointing Milton Bennion to be general superintendent of the Deseret Sunday School Union.
Milton Bennion as a personality, apart from the honors and distinction he has earned, is an inspirational, faith-stimulating captain. I have known him intimately for twenty-five years. Never once have I known him to ask or advise anyone to do anything which he would not do himself. One takes from such a person a strong sense of confidence and courage born of rightness and justness. He is the personification of unselfishness and of thoughtfulness for the welfare of others. His selflessness is the essence of his rich spirituality. In fact, he thinks and lives so much for others that he has forgotten himself into greatness.
He was vice-president of the University of Utah, Dean of the School of Education, and Professor of Philosophy and Education when he retired from the University. In recognition of his eminence and devotion, the University, in 1931, conferred upon him the honorary degree of Doctor of Education. Long before this time he had earned recognition for scholarship with degrees from the University of Utah and Columbia, and he had distinguished himself in graduate study at Wisconsin and California.
Most brilliant among the jewels which make his life rich and
MILTON BENNION
beautiful are his family and his family life. His wife, Cora Lindsay Bennion, was for years a devoted and beloved member of the General Board of the Relief Society. They have reared a wonderful family of children.
His experience in the service of the Church is wide and varied, and extends back into his early youth. As a missionary in New Zealand, an officer in priesthood quorums, teacher and executive in ward, stake, and general Sunday School work he has always given of his best effort. His ideas and principles are sound and forward-looking. His plans for the Sunday Schools are progressive. They will be received with enthusiasm by the great army of Sunday School workers who are honored to be associated with him.
Page 173