The Angel Moroni
An Epic in Bronze Which Breathes the Very Essence of Revealed Religion
Elder Levi Edgar Young Member of the First Council of Seventy
ON the capstone of the center tower of the Salt Lake Temple stands Cyrus Dallin's heroic figure of the Angel Moroni. The theme of the rich bronze piece is crystallized in the words of John the Revelator: "And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people. Saying with a loud voice, Fear God, and give glory to him; for the hour of his judgment is come: and worship him that made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and the fountains of waters."
The statue of the Angel expresses a religious edification in keeping with the subject. In the open air, it raises its inspiring silhouette above the buildings of the street, and the details of the figure disappear in the impression of the whole. A spiritual energy emanates from the graceful body, as if it were flying through space. To really see the Angel, one must lose one's self in the power of the spirit. The whole lifts one from the earth to God.
In the creation of this majestic statue, Dallin's introspective soul found its greatest expression. Unless he were deeply religious he could not have created it. Its beauty is an expression of the profound theology of the Latter-day Saint Church teaching that "the spirit and the body constitute the soul of man." The truth is nobly expressed as one of the teachings of the Book of Mormon, that nothing elevates the soul or raises it to adoration more than the striving for perfection, which unites man to God. Dallin believes himself to be more religious in creating beautiful harmonious human bodies, than by dreaming over the unsolved problems of life. To every creative artist comes "the high moment of achievement," when the flame of genius burns most brightly. In the creating of the Angel Moroni, Dallin reached a "high moment of achievement."
THE sculptor Dallin was born in Springville, Utah, in 1863, and when a small boy, he made models with mud, found in the swamps of his native town. When nineteen years old, he was sent to Boston to study art, and in 1883, he won a commission from the George Robert White fund for the creation of a statue of Paul Revere. When Dallin was chosen in 1884 to execute the statue, and plans were made to finance it, $25,000 to be raised by public subscription and $5,000 to be contributed by the city, a rival sculptor termed Dallin, then but twenty-two years of age, a "cowboy from Utah" and said his model depicted "an impossible man on an impossible horse." The criticism served to blast the project, and the campaign to raise the $25,000 by subscription suffered a complete collapse. The
Page 163
164
money was not raised and for nearly fifty years the project was officially dropped. Dallin sought various mayors of Boston through the years to induce them to appropriate funds for the statue, and a few years ago, he appealed to the Legislature, also without success, to erect the statue on the State House grounds. Four years ago, he presented his case to the five trustees of the city-owned George Robert White fund, who have the income of some $6,000,000 at their disposal for the erection of works of art. Mayor Tobin, the present mayor of Boston, with the other trustees of the fund, finally accepted the Dallin statue, and the end came to the sculptor's long fought battle. The statue was finally unveiled on Paul Revere Mall, in the North End of Boston in 1941. It is near the Revere historic home and the old North Church, where the lanterns were hung on that April night in 1775, when Paul Revere made his famous ride to Lexington and Concord.
The work of Dallin is best known from his statue of Lafayette which was presented to France by the American people. His "Signal of Peace" was exhibited at the World's Fair in Chicago in 1893, and it was presented to the City of Boston by prominent citizens of that city as a memorial to the American Indian.
His statue of Massasoit, the Indian chief who made a treaty of peace with the Pilgrim Fathers in 1621, stands at Plymouth Rock on the hill immediately above the place of landing of the Pilgrims in November 1620. His "Medicine Man" was shown at the International Exposition in Paris, 1900, which brought the artist world-wide fame. It was finally purchased for the Fairmont Park of Philadelphia, although the City of Vienna, in Austria, made offers for it. This was the first time that an American ever received an offer for statuary from Europeans. His "Appeal to the Great Spirit" stands in front of the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston. As you pass on the highway through his native town, Springville, you will see in the Public Square, Dallin's beautiful bust of his mother. It is a symbol of the mother nurturing the sons of men. The sweet dignity of her face, the tenderness of her mouth, bespeak in mute phrases her beautiful unselfishness.
Mr. Dallin returned to his old home in Springville in 1890, just three years previous to the finishing of the Salt Lake Temple. At the request of President Wilford Woodruff and others, he made the statue of the Angel, which was shipped from Boston. As he finished it, he exclaimed: "This is my best, for it is my noblest subject."
STATUE OF ANGEL MORONI ATOP CENTER SPIRE OF SALT LAKE TEMPLE Cyrus E. Dallin, sculptor
THE ANGEL MORONI
165