Winter Clothes in Summertime
Priscilla L. Evans Member of Relief Society General Board
THE lengthening days and balmy air remind us that spring is here, and before we realize it, we shall be "stepping smartly into summer" with a wardrobe of cool, comfortable dresses. But this year it is wartime as well as summertime. Added responsibilities have come to homemakers and to those who must provide the family wardrobe. New colors, new dyes, and new fabrics have made their appearance and require study both in their selection and their care. But equally important is the fact that old fabrics, especially woolen materials, are disappearing from the market, and it is therefore imperative that our fall and winter clothing, our draperies, rugs, and other articles made of wool or part-wool should be stored for the summer with special care. It may be a long time before we shall again be able to purchase the broadcloth, tweeds, serges, and other excellent materials which this spring we shall store as overcoats, suits, and dresses we have worn without fully appreciating the value of the fabrics. Synthetic soybean wool, a wool fiber made from the soybean, is already a reality, but its utility is yet to be demonstrated.
Homemakers this year are working longer hours than usual, many dividing their time between their homes and outside employments, and it may not be possible for them to give the customary attention to their shelves and closets, with a fortnightly brushing, airing, and sunning of un-
Page 198
used garments. Some special attention given now will insure the protection of scarce and valuable materials.
In storing woolens, our chief concern is to protect them from moth injury. Moths do not eat cotton, linen, rayon, or other fabrics of vegetable fiber, or silk. Moths never cause injury in bureau drawers or trunks filled only with vegetable fabrics. Our only concern in storing these fabrics is that they shall be kept clean, and that our choice, white linens shall be laundered and sunned occasionally to insure their original whiteness.
By the intelligent use of certain preparations, moths in every stage of development may be killed. There are liquids, used as sprays, and also crystals which are effective. While some of these preparations are harmless and safe, others are inflammable, and some are explosive. Any of them should be used with caution and used only after thoroughly acquainting oneself with their dangers. We do not wish to imply, either, that the use of any of these preparations is necessary in order to avoid injury caused by moths. Many careful housekeepers who have never used moth preventives in any form can say with confidence, "I do not worry about moths, for I never have any."
We are warned by students of this subject that "there is no season for moths" nor do moths ever take a vacation. All stages of the moth cycle are dangerous: the egg, because
WINTER CLOTHES IN SUMMERTIME
it hatches into the greedy larva; the larva, because it is the feeder which actually cuts the holes; and the flying moth, because it distributes its eggs and starts the cycle all over again. The "actual villain," however, is the larva. He likes the soft, silky fibers of wool because they supply him with the food he needs to enter the pupa stage. All clothes-moth larvae eat and eat until they become pupae, then shed their skins and become flying moths. In this state, the moth goes about and lays eggs in the places where she thinks her offspring will do well, in dark places because the pupae do not thrive in light, and in wool because it will furnish food. All articles to be stored should be put away absolutely clean. This is not only an insurance against damage, but it is a comfortable feeling to know that when the article will be needed, it will be ready for immediate use. Moths are much more likely to concentrate upon soiled spots; and dust and grit work into the threads and shorten the life of the fabric. We are told that "brushing and beating usually kill the larvae. The soft eggs are easily crushed or dislodged by thorough brushing. Particular attention should be given to cuffs, hems, seams, and pockets. Moths cannot stand bright sun. Larvae drop to the ground from clothing left hanging in the sun on the clothesline, especially if no folds are present in which they can find protection from the sun's rays." If clothing is thoroughly brushed and sunned every two weeks, it is 199 doubtful if moths can affect it seriously. The-old-time custom of sunning clothing as an insurance against moth injury is based upon successful experience. Carpets and rugs cleaned by strong vacuum cleaners and thoroughly brushed on both sides, and clothing dry-cleaned or laundered with soap and water are freed from infestation. Once freed, clothes may be protected, if not to be used during the warm season, by being wrapped in paper with the ends securely sealed, or placed in tight, sealed boxes. The "moth-proof" bags, made of heavy paper impregnated with tar or other substances, if not torn, are 'excellent for keeping moths from reaching clothing. Obviously, they are of no value in killing larvae that may be in the clothing when it is placed in the bag. Any bag made of plain paper is just as good as bags containing tar or cedar and pine oils. In fact, clothes moths will not eat into paper to reach clothing, so that moth-free articles wrapped in ordinary firm wrapping paper or several thicknesses of newspapers will be safe, provided the ends of the wrappings are securely sealed so that the moth cannot enter the edges. The bulletins issued by the United States Department of Agriculture emphasize the fact that perseverance is the keynote of moth character. It is said that the moth's capacity to search out and enter the most secluded hiding places is almost beyond belief. The flying moth, for instance, "merely closes its wings and crawls through the trunk keyhole or other tiny apertures through which issue enticing odors of wool." Frequently, clothing on coat hangers 200 is placed in bags with the hooks of the hangers protruding from the bag so that the bag containing the clothing may be hung in the closet. Unless special attention is given to the careful sealing of the aperture about the hooks, moths will have no difficulty in crawling into it, and once they enter, the bags are useless. N storing your winter clothes make the cleaning and arranging of your clothes closets a special feature. The clothes closet can be one of the most attractive rooms in your home. Only cleanliness and orderliness, however, will make it so. Thought and planning for this little room will repay you abundantly in time and energy saved. The convenient and spacious closets of the modern home are in themselves attractive, yet they can be marred by disorder. On the other hand, a small and crowded closet may, by an orderly and wise arrangement of its contents, be made so attractive that, upon entering it, you have a sense of restfulness and wellbeing. The clothes closet must be spotlessly clean. Paint closets often. There is nothing that gives more encouragement to orderliness than fresh, clean paint. If you are to arrange a crowded closet, make a definite plan before you begin your arrangement. Store as many things as possible in covered boxes. Select uniform containers, their size dependent upon the size of the shelves upon which they are to be placed. These may be stacked one upon another, even up to the ceiling of the room. Gummed labels should be attached to the front of the boxes listing the contents of each. Box, so that any article may be easily accessible when needed. This will relieve the congestion in the remaining storage space and make the daily use of the closet more pleasant and comfortable. As homemakers, let us open the doors of our attractive and orderly closets this summer, with pride in the thought that this year we have not just "put away our old clothes for the summer," but that we have safely stored fabrics which cannot be replaced, clothes of excellent material which can be worn another season with that satisfaction which comes from the practice of true thrift. References Care of Clothing. Clothing Bulletin No. 1, issued by General Church Welfare Committee, June 1942 Advice to Earnest Mothers, by Hentrietta Murdock Clothes Moths and Their Control, United States Department of Agriculture. Farmers' Bulletin No. 1353 Clothes Moths, Leaflet No. 145, United States Department of Agriculture a