NOTES FROM THE FIELD
209
CENTENNIAL OBSERVANCE, CHARLESTON BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY, EAST CENTRAL STATES MISSION
Edna Barrett, president, is in center, middle row.
Following is the program presented at the tree-planting:
Singing"America" Planting of treeFormer Relief Society president Rava Barker and Elder Charles William Fischer, superintendent of the Sunday School 100 people were in attendance DedicationElder Fischer
"In the evening a social was held and refreshments were served.
"In the accompanying picture, Elder Fischer is using the shovel, and President Rava Barker is holding the tree."
CENTENNIAL BANQUET, SANTA MONICA WARD RELIEF SOCIETY, INGLEWOOD STAKE
210
South Sanpete Stake (Ephraim, Utah)
A SUMMARY of centennial activities in the Ephraim North, South, and West Wards appeared in the January issue of the Magazine along with a report of the Manti ward observances. The accompanying picture shows the three-foot birthday cake being lighted by the Relief Society presidents of the three wardsEsther Thomson (South Ward), Susannah Olson (West Ward), and Eva G. Jenson (North Ward). These presidents appeared in the final scene of the play "Century of Progress" presented the evening of March 17, 1942.
Big Horn Stake (Lovell, Wyoming)
THE following report, submitted by the Worland Branch Relief
Society, of which Sylvia Neilsen is president, tells of another centennial celebration:
"For our centennial party, Mrs. Wilber Wortham, Mrs. Ralph Crowton and Mrs. Louis Gibbons presented the playlet 'Is It Possible?' as the feature attraction on the program for the evening. The dinner table, which was set for sixty members and their husbands, as guests, was centered with a five-tier birthday cake decorated with 100 blue candles in gold rosebuds. When these candles were lighted, they were reflected in the large mirror upon which the cake stood. The greetings sent through recordings from President Grant and President Lyman were played for the enjoyment of the members. The Singing Mothers, a newly-organized unit, sang several beautiful songs."
THREE-FOOT BIRTHDAY CAKE AND RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS OF EPHRAIM NORTH, SOUTH AND WEST WARDS, SOUTH SANPETE STAKE
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
Cast of Centennial Playlet, "Is It Possible?" Worland Branch Relief Society, Big Horn Stake
San Fernando Stake (Glendale, California)
BERTHA BERGSTROM, secretary of the North Hollywood Ward Relief Society, wrote concerning this ward's celebration:
"Approximately 140 were present to celebrate this anniversary. Each woman present was given a corsage made of a giant jonquil tied with royal blue ribbon. Members of the Priesthood present were given boutonnieres of bachelor's-buttons. The members of the bishopric presented the Society with a gorgeous basket of pink tulips and pink and white stocks. The program included several talks about Relief Society, the reading of minutes, and musical numbers, some of which were rendered by the Singing Mothers. The phonograph record bringing greetings from
211
President Grant and President Lyman was played and greatly enjoyed. A special presentation, a box of candy, was made to Helen Lofstrom, seventy-seven years old, who has been a member of Relief Society for fifty-five years. Although she is now inactive because of her age, she is one of the Society's most generous contributors when called upon by the visiting teachers. The accompanying picture shows our centennial birthday cake. Rose Broderson Whitaker, portraying Emma Smith, and Thelda Richardson, ward Relief Society president, prepare to cut the cake. The emblem and slogan of Relief Society appearing in the center of the cake were removed to be framed as a memento of the centennial."
Centennial Birthday Cake, North Hollywood Ward Relief Society, San Fernando Stake. Rose Broderson Whitaker, portraying Emma Smith, left, and Thelda Richardson, president, right.
212
Cache Stake (Logan, Utah)
MARTHA H. DAINES, president of the Logan Fourth Ward Relief Society, sent this brief account of its ward observance on March 17, 1942:
"The accompanying photograph is of Logan Fourth Ward Relief Society officers in costume, and members of our ward bishopric, who represented the brethren who organized Relief Societyall of whom took part in a dramatization of the first Relief Society in Nauvoo. This dramatization was written and directed by Linda Benson. About three hundred members of the ward attended the celebration, and all seemed to feel the spirit of the occasion."
Shelley Stake (Shelley, Idaho)
SARAH KIRKHAM,