SACREDNESS OF THE FAMILY
RELATION.
	The life of a saint is not simply a
personal perfecting, it is also a factor
in the entire scheme of earth's re-
demption. No one can be saved alone,
by himself or herself, unassisted by or
unassisting others. The weight of our
influence must be either for good or
harm, be an aid or an injury to the
work of human regeneration, and as
we assume responsibilities, form ties,
enter into covenants, beget children,
accumulate families, so does the
weight of our influence increase, so
does its extent broaden and deepen.
The Scriptures inform us that God cre-
ated this earth as a habitation for man
and he placed man on it that he might
have joy, a joy that is to be eternal.
To accomplish these purposes, the
preparatory one of the peopling the
earth, and the ultimate one of man's
eternal happiness, He, the Creator, es-
tablished marriage, and commanded
those he first placed here on earth to
be fruitful and multiply. This institu-
tion he regulated by strict laws given
through his servants to His people in
their various dispensations; and His
Son, our Savior, emphasized these com-
mandments by most unequivocal
teachings with regard to the sacred-
ness of the marriage covenant,
and of the sinfulness of divorce for
other than the most grave departures
from the spirit and intent of that cove-
nant. In this is wisdom, for the exper-
ience of the world, in all its ages,
 proves that where lax ideas exist with
regard to marriage and divorce, more
especially where those ideas find ex-
pression in lax legislation, there we
discover peoples and nations whose
code of morals is inferior, and
where sexual irregularities and sins
increase, until that righteousness,
which has been so truthfully said "ex-

[Column 3]

alteth a nation," ceases to have an
existence in their midst. To a people
who believe as we do, that true mar-
riage was divinely instituted for the
multiplication of mankind, and is not
a union for time alone, but reaches in-
to the eternities, the disruption of
families by divorce is an evil of no or-
dinary character, not only bearing a 
harvest of sorrow and suffering in this
life, but also having a far reaching in-
fluence into the world beyond the
grave, and possibly involving others in 
the ruin who had no voice in the sepa-
ration or power to avert its occurrence.
For this reason the Latter-day Saints
of all people should be most loath to
sunder sacred ties once formed, and
most determinedly opposed to the sev-
erance of unions made in holy places
in God's appointed way, for light and
trivial causes; and the efforts of
Teachers and Bishops in their labors
amongst families where differences,
alienation or quarrels exist, should al-
ways be to effect reconciliation, pro-
mote union, inspire  mutual forbear-
ance and increase love. Only when 
every kindly counsel and ministration
fall should that last resort, a divorce,
be permitted. And in such cases those
who have received of the sealing power
of the Church should also be separated 
by the same authority that bound
them together: until this is done new 
alliances are sinful.

