"WHEN WE WERE GIRLS."

	How often women of mature years make
this expression to each other, when some little
incident of the past is awakened, or when
meeting with each other after a prolonged ab-
sence; how natural to say, "When we were
girls." And now I am going to give you an
incident which actually transpired, not "when
we were girls," but when we met again after
a separation of forty years.	
	Two girls who had been playmates in child-
hood and intimate companions at school, who
shared the same tasks, and whose lives seemed
likely to run on in the same channel, year
after year, and whose hopes and ambitions
were similar, and whose tastes and inclinations
were very like, and who had pledged the
school-girl eternal friendship for one another,
while yet young, drifted apart through religious
tendencies and belief. Still loving tenderly,
without any unpleasantness, each went her
own way. One to the "far west." or what
seemed so in those days, and the other re-
mained behind, clinging to the old Puritanical
notions of religion. Each had her own pecu-
liar life history; both were characteristic of
the girls; and indeed just what might have
been expected from their temperament and
training and education. Interwoven in both
their lives were the love of poetry and the
beautiful in nature, and this endowment de-
scended to their children, for though they were
New England girls they were not old maids.
	On a cold, wintry day, when snow lay deep,
and one would scarcely expect a visitor from a
distance, a lady alighted from a carriage at
the door of a rather old-fashioned house in a
large town in the Old Bay State, and after
ringing the bell, inquired for Mrs. Dr. ——.
"O, yes, she lives here." After having dismissed
the coachman, the lady is admitted into the
parlor, and in a moment more Mrs. Dr. ——
enters, and the two schoolgirls, playmates and
companions meet after forty years' separation.
It was a strange-meeting—two who had passed
through so many experiences since they last
met, and the change of face and figure that
motherhood and time bring with them—and
neither would have known the other, only that
the traveler had been told by the servant that
she whom she sought was the mistress of the
mansion. Here stood the two little women,
grown old and grey; they gazed at each other
for one moment only, and then, the Doctor's
wife, grasping the hand of her visitor, said:
'I know you are not my cousin Irene, for she

[Column 2]

is dead, and the dead come not back again, but
you are one of my old time friends, and I
ought to know you. Yes, yes, now you speak,"
for the visitor had, in her excitement, ex-
claimed,  "We knew each other well, when we
were girls." "O, it is, it is Emmie, can it be
possible?" and the two were, by this time, en-
folded in each other's arms in a loving and ten-
der embrace. "After all these long years you
have come back to us, to your old home and
friends in New England," and by this time
the two were seated on the sofa by a warm,
glowing fire, and the visitor had thrown off
her wraps, and the two friends sat, as it were,
entranced. I cannot tell you all that trans-
pired in that short interview, but I can give
you some idea of its effect; the Dr's wife every
now and then saying, "It seems as though you
had come from another world," and then again
she would say, "Of all the people in the
world, now that my mother and her sister,
Aunt Ursula, are dead, I would rather see
you than any one." Frequently she would say,
in beginning a new sentence, "When we were
girls, you know."
	They talked on and on, and many of the re-
markable events in each one's life were re-
counted briefly, but in truth the visitor had
most to tell, for her history was richer far, be-
cause of the countries she had seen and the
advancement she had made in active work for
her sex and for humanity, as well as because
the religion she had embraced, and that took
her from home and friends, had so engrafted
itself into her soul as to broaden and expand
all her ideas, thoughts and energies.
	"How has it fared with you all these years,
and what can you tell me of our school friends?
Where are the boys who stood in the front
rank of scholarship, of whom we were all so
proud?" Questions like these from the visitor
were answered one after the other in quick
succession. Information of half a hundred
old schoolmates was briefly given, and memory
recalled many a scene and transaction in the
past, and in fancy they wandered over the
same hills again, gathering berries, or rustlsd
among the fallen, frosty leaves under the
chestnut trees, picking up the brown nuts, their
fingers pricked and bleeding from the sharp
burrs.
	What a picture these two women made as
they sat there on that wintry day. They had
been so far apart. Many thousand miles had
lain between them, and in such different
spheres were their lives cast, that not a letter
had found its way from one to the other. Both
had been engrossed with matronly cares and
duties as well, and yet each acknowledged to
the other, now that they had met again, how
often and how tenderly they had thought of
the time "when we were girls."
	They met upon the same familiar ground of
intimacy as in the former days; no icy barrier
kept them apart even after forty years; they
did not question each other as to rank or
wealth; the old feeling of girl-love came back
instinctively, and their hearts rushed towards
each other, removing all embarrassment.
	The past came back to them in all its rich-
ness and glory, and they saw not the luxuriant
furnishings of the handsome parlor in which
they were seated, nor the fast falling snow
without, but the old village home and all its
familiar haunts; and they reminded each other
of this or that, until a description of the whole
place and its surroundings had been graphic-
ally given. They knew exactly how many
peacocks used to sit perched on the rail fence
under the locust walk, as they went by to
school; every phase of that happy school-life
it would seem, was recalled and retouched by
the vigorous imagination of the two who sat,
as 'twere, entranced with the "visions of the
past."

[Column 3]

"But thank'd be memory—her sweet power can bring
Back to my heart its early joys again; 	
Her magic power revives the frozen spring
Of youth and hope, and re-unites the chain
	Of sacred sympathies."

	Again and again bright tear-drops fell, or a
great sob choked them, as they spoke of some
dear departed one, with whom they had been
closely associated.
	There is something particularly sad and sol-
emn in going back over old places and home-
steads after the absence of years and finding the
great changes that time has wrought, but when
one meets a genuine friend, who has held you
in her heart of hearts without questioning, it
is a proof of constancy, of which we might
all be justly proud it is so uncommon.
Such a friendship is indeed golden. Such
meetings are like a foretaste of futurity. They
afford us a dim glimpse of that which may be
when we shall reach "that other shore," where
our loved ones are waiting. Then shall we re-
count the dangers we have passed, the ship-
wrecks we have encountered here below; but
these two women studiously avoided all these,
and were careful to keep back all the dark
days, all the fiery ordeals, and yet if you had
seen them as they sat and held that sweet con-
verse together, you would have known by the
marked lines in their countenances, and the
subdued and softened light that shone in their
deep-set eyes, that the discipline of sorrow had
left its sure impress. How like and unlike
those two women were, and yet how well they
blended.
	Some day I will tell you more, for there is
much more to tell, but well might we say with
Byron of such an one,

	"thou art the friend
To whom the shadows of long years extend."
