SISTER KING’S FUNERAL.

	The funeral obsequies over the remains of Sis-
ter Hannah T. King took place on Tuesday, the
28th ult.,in the Thirteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Bishop Millen Atwood presiding. Besides the 
Bishop and his Counselor, Nelson Empey, there
were present on the stand, President Horace S.
Eldredge, Bishops John Tingey and Orson F.
Whitney, Elders Charles W. Stayner, George
Goddard, Samuel Neslen, George B. Wallace,
Joseph W. Johnson and Robert F. Neslen
	The large gathering of the friends of the de-
ceased who were present, showed the great esteem
in which she was held in the community.
	The services commenced by the choir singing:
			"Unveil thy bosom, faithful tomb."
The singers were Mrs. Agnes Olsen Thomas, 
Miss Louie Wells, Mathoni Pratt and J. D.
Spencer, accompanied on the organ by C. S.
Burton.
	Elder Charles W, Stayner then offered prayer.
	The Choir sang:
			"Rest for the weary soul."
		ELDER GEORGE B. WALLACE
Addressed the congregation. He eulogized Sister
King as a faithful and noble minded member of
the Church; related some of his early experiences
as a missionary in the part of England where she
resided; and described the pleasant home and
surroundings which she forsook to gather with
the Saints in this land. He said that he had
known many noble women, but he never met but
one Hannah T. King. His remarks were very
consolatory to the bereaved, and brought many
kind reminiscences of Sister King's early days
to the minds of the numerous friends present.
	The following remarks were then made by 
		BISHOP O. F. WHITNEY:
“It has fallen to my lot, by selection and ap-
pointment, to be one of the speakers at the funeral
of Sister King. There may be many here who 
have known her longer, and known her better
than I have, but there are none, I am certain, who 
respected her more, or valued her friendship more
highly. Brother Wallace has dwelt more particu-
larly upon the incidents of her life, the temporal
phase of her career, and portrayed the sacrifices
she made for the Gospel's sake. I desire, also, 
to add my tribute to her memory, as the Holy
Spirit shall give me utterance.
	It is good to hear the life story of such a woman
as Sister King. Possessed of a refined soul, a
cultivated mind, and surrounded by the comforts

[column 2]
and luxuries of life; with friends and associates
who loved to minister to her wants; an intimate
friend of one of England's poetesses, the cele-
brated Eliza Cook, and numbering among her ac-
quaintances many in the upper walks of society
in her native England; yet, when the Gospel
found her she did not hesitate to relinquish all
and follow her Lord and Master through the
world. She had a noble spirit, and this, without
doubt, was the noblest act of her life. I am told
 that, to this day, it is a matter of astonishment to
her friends in England that she should ever have
done as she did, forsaken all, and united herself
with so despised a people as the Latter-day Saints.
With my knowledge of her character, and the
loftiness of her soul, it would have been to me a
matter of astonishment had she done otherwise.
	She was naturally a proud woman, but her pride,
which was doubtless the result of conscious recti-
tude, respectability, and the traditionary aristo-
cratic sentiment of her native land, was not of
that pernicious kind which prompts so many to
reject the Gospel because of its unpopularity and
its humble origin, and trample on the prec-
ious pearl whose value they do not compre-
hend. She was not ashamed to stoop, for she
stooped to conquer; she saw the jewel glittering
in the dust at her feet, and was not ashamed to 
pick it up, and wear it. The worldly-minded
do not understand the secret motive of such
an action. And here is the real reason for as-
tonishment. They over-look the prize; their
gaze is riveted upon the sky, or on the distant
horizon, and they ignore and trample on the
treasure shining below; like the proud and haughty
Pharisees, who were looking for the Messiah, but
expected Him as a mighty conqueror who would
throw off the Roman yoke and restore at that 
time the temporal power to Israel; they were not
prepared to receive the humble Nazarene, the
man of sorrows, acquainted with grief, and so
rejected their Redeemer and spiritual deliverer, to
their condemnation.
	Thus is the pride of the world ever tested by 
the Truth. Our tests are many and varied; the
trials being suited to our different natures and
calculated to bear upon our weakest parts. To
the young man who came to the Savior and asked
what good thing he should do to obtain eternal
life, the answer was—‘keep the commandments,’
which he claimed to have done from his youth up;
and then, to sell all he had and give to the poor,
and follow the Lord of life and glory; a King in
heaven, a peasant on earth, who was poorer than
the fowls of the air or the beasts of the field, hav
ing not 'where to lay his head.' A similar test
came to our beloved Sister, Hannah T. King, but 
unlike the young man who 'went away sorrowful'
because ‘he had great possessions,’ she made the
sacrifice and laid hold upon eternal life, the great-
est gift of God, in preference to the good things
of this earth. It is not the possession of wealth,
but the love of it, that is sinful. The worship of
any idol we are called to sacrifice, makes it hard
to enter the kingdom of heaven.
	I am told that her father, who was a gentleman,
and a fine specimen of physical manhood, when
he found that he could not dissuade her from her
purpose, sat down and gradually died of a broken
heart. ‘How cruel,'—some might say,—‘surely it
cannot be a message from God that would have
such results.' Indeed! Why, then, did the Son of
God say: 'Think not I come to bring peace, but
a sword?' Why did the Prophet say, in reference
to the gathering of Israel in the last days: 'I
will take you one of a city, and two of a famly,
and I will bring you to Zion?' The word of the 
Lord had gone forth, and she could not restrain
herself. She was a child of Israel, a daughter of
Abraham; her veins tingled with magic blood;
her heart responded to the call and she listened to
the voice of the good Shepherd. The blood of
Israel was in her veins—that blood which God


[Column 1]
has scattered over the earth and with it ‘sprinkled
many nations’—and when He lifts the gates and
bids it return, it as naturally seeks its Source and
Reservoir, as the raindrops that fall upon the hills
trickle back to the ocean whence they came.
This was why Sister King became a “Mormon,”
as it is called. She had the nobility, the great-
ness of soul, to sacrifice the earthly for the heaven-
ly, the temporal for the spiritual.
	But, did not her father object, and did not
Christ say, with Moses, ‘Honor thy father and
thy mother?’ Yes; and she did honor her Father
and her Mother—in heaven. What are the claims
of earthly parents upon us, compared to those of
our heavenly Parents? Besides, it is an individual
responsibility—this question of the soul’s salva-
tion, and our noble sister, no less than her father,
had a soul to save and an individual work of
salvation to perform. How could she have done
otherwise, and been true to her conscience—the
voice of God in the human heart? Furthermore,
it will yet be seen that she truly honored, even her
earthly father, in disobeying his behests. By the
course she took she became a savior to her father’s
house—one of ‘the salt of the earth.’ How could
she ever have, ministered for their salvation in the
Temple of God, had she not taken the step she
did. We must first save ourselves before we at-
tempt to save others; we must plant our own feet
upon the rock, ere we reach out to rescue others
from the floods and quicksands.
	The test is ever between the temporal and the
spiritual. In one scale is placed father, mother,
wife, children, home, country and possessions; in
the other the unspeakable riches of eternal life.
He or she who refuses to make the sacrifice, even
if, like Abraham, they are required to offer an
only son, is unworthy of the kingdom of God.
They who forsake all and follow the Master are
promised an hundred-fold in this life and in the
world to come life everlasting.	
	But enough of sacrifices. What sacrifice can
we make that is at all commensurate with the
Great Sacrifice made for us? How our little trials
pale into insignificance beside those of our blessed
Redeemer, and what mention are they worthy of
in the light of the glories and rewards to come?
The real sacrifice required of us is that of a
broken heart and a contrite spirit. God cares
not for gold and silver, nor is the smell of the
blood of goats and bulls pleasing unto Him. It
is a spiritual sacrifice that He demands, and when
that is made the temporal will follow easily. The
battle is won when the spirit has humbled itself
and been purified; the flesh must succumb as a
matter of course. It is the acceptable offering of
a broken heart and a contrite spirit, faith and hu-
mility, that will redeem Zion and work out for her
children a full and complete salvation in the pres-
ence of our Father and God.
	I might enlarge, if time would permit, upon the
glories of the future. I might dilate upon the
celestial, the terrestrial, and the telestial kingdoms,
and depict the great reward which our beloved
sister has attained, through her humility and in
tegrity in embracing the Gospel and enduring faith-
ful unto the end. I might show also, in the same
connection, the grandeur of this religion, stigma-
tized by the world as “Mormonism,” which pro-
vides for the salvation of all men according to
their merits, even of those who curse it and trample
on its advocates; and possibly let more light upon
the mystery—although it is no mystery to Latter-
day Saints—why a noble spirit, a large soul, with
lofty aims and broad sympathies, should be at-
tracted naturally to a saving plan so glorious, far-
reaching and sublime as “Mormonism.” But it
would not be necessary. Like cleaves to like; af-
finities will coalesce. The principle is an eternal 
one.
	May the God of mercy bless all who mourn,
and comfort the hearts of the relatives and friends 
of Sister King, and move upon them to emulate her

[Column 2]
virtues, to follow in her footsteps as she followed 
Christ's, and, becoming like Him, be worthy to 
meet Him, and mingle eternally with the righteous 
who have gone before. Amen." 
	Bishop Atwood gave some final instructions in 
regard to the casket and the remains, and 
	The choir sang: 
			"Nearer, my God, to Thee."
	Elder Joseph W. Johnson, who baptized Sister 
King into the Church, pronounced the benedic-
tion.


