SOME PLAIN FACTS.

	I was reading in the Deseret News the re-
marks of a "47er."  I did not think it was
 right for him to dismiss his audience without
giving the women a chance to speak; and as I
came to Salt Lake the first year following the
pioneers, and driving my team, I thought I
would add a few wordt. My mind went back
to my leaving Nauvoo, being driven out by a
mob.  My husband, during the winter of '45
'46, built us a wagon. The timber was boiled
in brine to season it.  The wheels were tied
with rawhide and hickory withes.  I was very
proud of our wagon; we did not own a team.
The mob was coming into Nauvoo, and women
and children were being taken over the river
and set down on the bank without shelter. My
family had a little shorts; no groceries of any
kind, not even salt.
     Brethren would come with their teams and
help us on a few miles, till we reached Bona-
parte, in Iowa, where we procured flour by
selling our clothing. When we stopped we
were in a wagon and tolerably comfortable,
while there were hundreds of sick without 
food or shelter on the bank of the river.
     I thought, when reading the speech of the
woman visitor to Salt Lake, offering the "Mor-


mon" women a home in New York, to get
away from polygamy: "A home indeed!" It 
made my blood boil; I thought: "before you
preach to us change your practice." In New
York City there are thirty thousand prostitutes,
with their multitudinous pimps and paramours,
"All, all honorable men."
	I embraced the Gospel in the city of New
York in 1838, and came to Nauvoo in '43.
My forefathers came to America in 1620 and
were in the war of the Revolution, quite a
number as commissioned officers; yet I, the de-
scendant of valiant men, could not vote be-
cause my husband was keeping the laws of 
God.  I visited my native state and city, New
York, in 1871, and saw so much wickedness
and evil that I felt to pray to my Heavenly
Father to keep me till I got safely back to my
Mountain home.  The people of the United
States do not care how many women the
"Mormons" have if they will do as the former
do, not marry, but make mistresses of them.
	Were we driven from New York to Ohio for
polygamy? or from Jackson, Clay, and Cald-
well Counties and out of the State of Missouri
for that alleged offense?  No, we were not.  It
was because this people are united in trying to
keep the principles laid down by all the holy
Prophets and Apostles that they were divine.
	If we are to be tried till we are perfect
through suffering let it come, I would stay in
prison till I was carried out before I would
answer some questions.—Deseret News
