PROPHECY FULFILLED BY THE
SITUATION.
	The circumstances which surround
us, though in many respects painful
and trying,are not such as to discourage
the faithful Saint. We have been
taught to expect just such scenes as
these through which we are passing,
or, at least, just such opposition as we
now have to contend with. What we
now behold is in direct fulfilment of
the predictions of God's servants to us
in this generation, and unless these
events take place His word could not
be fulfilled.
	Not only have the Prophets in our
day spoken about the events which
should take place in connection with
the latter-day work and the opposition
it would have to contend with, but the
Prophets of old foretold with accuracy
and minuteness that the people of God
should be few and their dominions
should be small,because of the wicked-
ness  of  "the great whore"  which
should make war against them.  But
notwithstanding that the multitudes of
the earth should fight against the
Church of the Lamb of God, the power
of God would descend upon the Saints
and upon His covenant people; and
they should be armed with righteous-
ness and with the power of God and
great glory. The scenes in which we
are now taking part were known to
men of God,by the spirit of revelation,
thousands of years ago. But while
they predicted the troubles and diffi-
culties with which the people of God
would have to contend in the last days,
in every instance they broke out in

[Column 3]

language of encouragement respecting
the result of the struggle and predicted
the complete triumph of God's kingdom
over all the opposing powers of evil.
Therefore, in this contest which is
forced upon us we do not wage a de-
fense that is hopeless. The God of
heaven is on our side. He has made
promises to Zion which cannot fail.
He is mightier than all of earth's
hosts, and by His wonderful provi-
dence can bring to pass, in His own
way, the fulfilment of all the words of
His inspired servants. Upon this
foundation we can rest secure. No
weapon that is formed against Zion
can prosper; and every tongue that
shall rise against her in judgment shall
be condemned. Our enemies gloat
over the prospect of our destruction.
Even those who feel inclined to be
friendly can see no prospect for our
deliverance except by the aban-
donment of our religion. But
it is better for us to die than
to abandon our God! We cannot do
this without throwing away all hope
respecting the future and the great
eternity that awaits us. We know that
there is no faithful Latter-day Saint
who feels for one moment like yielding
to the demands of the wicked. Our
religion is given to us from our God.
We have received it by the revelations
of Jesus to us. When all the world
was in darkness and struggling and
contending about doctrines and ordi-
nances, He condescended to restore
the Everlasting Priesthood from the
heavens and His Gospel in its purity
and fulness and power. We were left no
longer to grope in the dark and to
follow the traditions of our fathers
or the false teachings of uninspired
men. The path of salvation
was plainly marked before us, con-
firmed to us by the unerring testimony
of God's Holy Spirit. Our souls, in
walking in that path, have been filled
with ineffable joy and peace. While
others who have rejected the truth
have been apprehensive and fear-
ful concerning the events that
were taking place and that were likely
to take place, we have had a peace, a
satisfaction of mind, and a content-
ment that have made our position
unique. God has given unto us the
fruits of His Gospel in great abun-
dance. We behold them in our family
organizations. We behold them in our
Wards, and in our Stakes, and in our
entire Church. His blessing has
visibly rested upon us, and
His power has been displayed
in our behalf. Every faithful
Latter-day Saint has rejoiced in the
abundance of the gifts of the Spirit
which He has bestowed; and no prom-
ise that was made to the ancient
Saints, or that has been made to us,
upon the condition of our faithfully
obeying the Gospel, has been withheld
from us. We have been a people
greatly blessed of the Lord, and our
hearts should swell with gratitude and
thanksgiving to our God for His abun-
dant mercies.

