THE SPIRIT OF SCANDAL.
	Not only has Satan sent forth his
lies outside of our society, but he uses
his influence in this direction among
us. The tendency in our settlements
and cities to listen to and believe in
every wild and slanderous rumor which
may be put in circulation is to be
deeply deplored. No matter how un-
founded and destitute of even the
semblance of truth such reports may
be, there are those among us so silly
and credulous as to readily believe
them. The injury that is thus wrought
is not easily measured. Many of the
evils from which we have suf-
fered have been greatly aggravated
by this disposition on the part of some
who call themselves Latter-day Saints.
The man who frames a lie is a 
great sinner; but the one who loves a
lie, and who circulates a lie after it is
told, is also under condemnation.
Many stories go from mouth to mouth
concerning the truth of which those
who repeat them know nothing. But
it seems as though the constant repe-
tition of a falsehood impresses many
people as though it were a fact. Where
Latter-day Saints, so-called, are found
telling that which is untrue, they
should be called to an account. It is
written that whosoever loveth and
maketh a lie shall not be permitted to
enter into the Holy City, nor to have a
right to the tree of life, but they are to
be without, with dogs, sorcerers,
whoremongers, murderers and idola-
ters. The Lord has said, "He that
telleth lies shall not tarry in my sight."
Latter-day Saints should be warned
upon these points, that they may not
grieve the Spirit of the Lord, nor do
injury to their friends and neighbors,
by indulging in this pernicious habit of
repeating and attaching credence to
every slander and false rumor that may
be put in circulation. But every one
should be careful, when they hear a
story about their brethren and sisters,
to refrain from repeating it until they
know it to be true, and then not to do
so in a way to injure the person about
whom it is told. The reputation of our
neighbors and the members of our
Church should be as dear to us as our
own, and we should carefully avoid
doing anything to another or saying
anything about another that we would
not wish done or said about ourselves.
We testify that those who give way to
this influence, who take delight in
reading lies which are published
about us in papers circulated
in our midst or outside of our Terri-
tory, who delight in listening to the
false and malicious representations
which are made concerning the serv-
ants and people of God or His work,or
who themselves gossip about and aid
in the dissemination of these things to
the injury of their fellows, will, unless
they speedily repent, lose the Spirit of
God and the power to discern between
truth and falsehood, and between those
who serve God and those who serve
Him not. Their own minds will be-
come so darkened by the spirit of
falsehood that the Spirit of God will
cease to have power with them and will
flee from them.

