MISCELLANEOUS MATTERS.
	We hear favorable reports of the
good done by our Sunday Schools,
Primaries, Improvement Associations 
and Relief Societies, and we feel to
abundantly bless the brethren and
sisters who so diligently and faithfully 
labor therein for the instruction of our
youth and the benefit of the poor. We
desire to encourage all engaged in these
duties to continue with unabated zeal
and disinterestedness in these labors
of love and mercy, that the institutions 
under their charge may rise to yet
greater heights of excellence and use-
fulness, and the scope of their influ-
ence for good in the midst of the Saints
continually increase, and upon parents 
we urge the wisdom and desirableness
of fostering by their faith, influence
and example these admirable institu-
tions for the benefit of their children.
	In consequence of the unusually dry
summer the crops have not been so
abundant as in some former seasons.
Although the yield of wheat is com-
paratively small it commands but a
low price in the market. Wisdom and
economy suggest that our farmers
should not be anxious to make imme-
diate sales. Every kernel of wheat is
precious. It should be stored care-
fully for future use, in such a manner
as to preserve it from destructive in-
sects and the action of the elements.
The warnings which have been given to
Israel on this point were not uttered in 
vain, as coming time will abundantly
establish. Let no grain be wasted nor
thrown heedlessly upon a depressed
market to continue the depression and
fritter away the fruits of arduous toil
	Preparations should be made for the
proper care of stock during the ap-
proaching winter. Too many animals 
are permitted to perish for the lack of
food and shelter. After the Lord has 
blessed the flocks and herds of His
people, it is sinful to allow them to
wander on the bleak prairies or snow-
covered benches to die of cold or
starvation. Unless provided with 
shelter from storm and inclement
weather loose stock should be gathered
up and sent to warmer localities for
winter range.
	The wool crop of the past season has
been very large and sheep-owners have
made fair profits on their products.
But domestic economy recoils at the
spectacle of 7,000,000 pounds of wool
being shipped out of the Territory to be
returned in the shape of inferior cloth,
and be purchased at high prices
by woolgrowers and others. Factories
among our own people should utilize 
the whole of this product, employing 
hands that are now idle to manufac-
ture honest goods, and thus retain in
the Territory much money that goes to
build up industries afar off. Our home
factories are turning out most excel-
lent articles at reasonable prices;
these should be purchased in prefer-
ence to foreign made goods, because
they are more durable and because 
home industries ought to be patron-
ized.


On the same principles and for the same rea-
sons the hides and pelts which are now shipped
away to be brought back manufactured into articles
that can be made in this Territory, ought to be re-
tained and worked up for home use.  Factories
for this purpose, carefully conducted, would soon
return fair profits, while the whole community
would share in the resultant benefits.
			CONCLUSION.
	In conclusion, we say to the Latter-day Saints:
Put your trust in God, as you ever have done.
He will not fail you.  Continue to live in strict
conformity to His Gospel. Humble yourselves 
before Him in mighty faith and prayer.  Confess
your sins one to another; and go to your God and 
confess to Him, and obtain His forgiveness there-
fore.  Live in close communion with the Holy
Ghost, that it may be your constant companion,
and through its heavenly influence you may be
prepared for every coming event.  The Lord is 
holding a controversy with the nations, and He 
has said, "After your testimony cometh the testi-
mony of earthquakes.    *    *    *    *    * 
	And also cometh the testimony of the thunder-
ings, and the voice of lightnings, and the voice
of tempests, and the voice of the waves of the 
sea, heaving themselves beyond their bounds.
And all things shall be in commotion; and surely
men's hearts shall fail them; for fear shall come
upon all people," Already His words upon this
subject are being fulfilled.  The elements are 
joining their voices with the voices of His Elders
in testimonoy of the near approach of the end.
And woe! to the people or the nation that fight
against Zion, for, as we have often had occasion
to say, God will fight against them.  His wrath
will be poured out upon them.  Babylon will fall,
and the refuge of lies will be swept away; and 
truth and righteousness will cover the earth as
with a flood, in fulfilment of the words of the 
Prophets.  Greater signs will appear in the hea-
vens above and on the earth beneath, bearing
awful testimony of the near approach of that
great day when our Redeemer will be revealed
from heaven in power and in great glory.
	With continued prayers for your safety, and for 
your prosperity in the work of God, and with most
earnest desires that every man, woman and child
will be faithful to the trust which God has reposed 
in us, we remain,
		Your brethren and fellow servants,
					JOHN TAYLOR,
					GEORGE Q. CANNON.
Of the First Presidency of the Church of Jesus
		Christ of Latter-day Saints.
	President's Office, Oct. 6, 1886.


