SABBATH-BREAKING AND RECREATION
MANIA.	
	Among the sins into which some who
are called Saints have been betrayed is
Sabbath-breaking and over indulgence
in useless pleasure. "The Sabbath
was made for man, and not man for
the Sabbath." But it is the Lord's day


[Column 1]

and should be spent as he directs. We
are not left to the doubts and queries
which enter into the polemics of sec-
taries on this important matter. We
have the word of the Lord upon it, di-
rect. He has declared to us through
His Prophet:
	"And the inhabitants of Zion shall also
observe the Sabbath day to keep it holy.
	"And that thou mayest more fully keep thy-
self unspotted from the world, thou shalt
go to the house of prayer and offer up thy
sacraments upon my holy day;
	For verily this is a day appointed unto
you to rest from your labors and pay thy
devotions to the Most High;
	Nevertheless thy vows shall be offered up
in righteousness on all days and at all times;
	But remember that on this the Lord's day,
thou shalt offer thine oblations and thy
sacraments unto the Most High, confessing
thy sins unto thy brethren, and before the
Lord.
	And on this day thou shalt do none other
thing, only let thy food be prepared with
singleness of heart that thy fasting may be
perfect, or, in other words, that thy joy may
be full."
	These commandments of the Lord
do not admit of Sunday excursions to
the lake or the canons or other places
any more than manual labor. That day
will be held sacred to the service and
worship of God by every true Latter-
day Saint. Those who desecrate it
reject the word of the Lord and will
not be held guiltless. We admonish
all members of the Church to obey this
commandment and the officers of the
Church to see that it is not broken with
impunity.
	The mania for recreations of various
kinds which has seized upon many of
the people is harmful in several ways.
It unfits them for the regular duties of
life. It renders them restless and im-
patient of proper restraint. It ob-
structs business. It tends to contract
habits of dissipation. It throws our
young folks into the company 
of persons whose society should 
be hunned. It cultivates worldliness.
It conduces to many evils, and the
spirit of purity, temperance, holiness
and peace will not abide in resorts
such as have been established for the
purpose of enticing the Saints into 
folly. Many thousands of dollars have
been worse than wasted during the
past summer on excessive amusements
and sometimes unseemly diversions.
The influential men and women of the
Church should discountenance this
evil, and with all wisdom and prudence
endeavor to check it and prevent its
increase among the Saints.
	We have no disposition to deprive
either young or old of proper amuse-
ment. It is necessary to perfect
health and rational enjoyment. It
should be provided by those who have
the watchcare of the people, especially
for the young, and conducted without
sinfulness and without excess. But in
these times of trial and distress to
many, is it seemingly to indulge in fre-
quent and hilarious junketings and to
act as though we disregarded the afflic-
tions of our brethren and sisters who
are placed in difficulty and jeopardy?
When most of our leaders are in exile,
when good men are thrust into prison,
when many families are plunged into
grief at the enforced absence of those
who are dear to them, when the cords
of oppression are being drawn more
tightly and the small liberties remain-
ing to us are being gradually taken
away, when our enemies are forging
fetters for our feet and planning
for our utter destruction, and when
Satan is working with all his forces to 
weaken our ranks by leading the Saints
into sin, is it a time to waste our days
in useless pleasure and spend our
nights in noisy revels? Rather, should
we not humble ourselves before the
Lord and seek by faith and devotion to
good works to obtain power that we
may prevail against our foes? We do
not believe in long-faced sadness or
the piety that consists in a sanctified
appearance. There is no need for
drooping heads or a sad countenance.
A cheerful spirit should be cultivated 
and hearts should be gladdened by
words of cheer. But these are serious
times and the sorrows of the afflicted
and the carousings of the thoughtless
seem utterly incongruous when all
profess to be brethren and sisters. Let
unseemly levity be abandoned and let
the solemnities of eternity rest down
upon those who are called the Saints 
of the Most High God.

