JUDICIAL PERVERSION AND 
OPPRESSION.
	The District Courts of Utah still
pursue their extreme, vindictive and
unrelenting course. The law is per-
verted, not justly administered; [---]e
object appears to be, not the ma[---]-
nance of social purity nor the rectifica-
tion of alleged evil, but the oppression
and distress of individuals because of
their religious position. The Latter-
day Saints are under the most sacred
obligations to do the will of God. At the
same time they wish to obey every
valid law of the land. But by the
strained interpretation and the unwar-
rantable application of the Edmunds
Act, men are made offenders because
of their religious scruples, and ren-
dered criminals when they are not
fairly amenable to the law. Defend-
ants who, according to the evidence,
have only lived with one wife, are
"presumed" to have cohabited with
another wife, and thus are convicted
of "cohabiting with more than one
woman," when the presumption is
obliterated by the proof.
	In other cases when parties, in their
desire to observe the requirements of
the Edmunds Act, have privately
agreed to the voluntary relinquishment
of association as husband and wife,
the husband has not escaped, the ven-
geance of the law. Though there are
numbers of instances where such par-
ties have honestly endeavored to live
within the law, yet whenever indict-
ments have been found, husbands have
almost invariably been convicted and
sentenced to the full penalties of fine
and imprisonment. We take this op-
portunity of recording our high appre-
ciation of the spirit of self sacrifice
which has been manifested by our
sisters throughout the entire crusade.
They have shown a fortitude, a cour-
age, a devotion and love which must
be the admiration of posterity. They
have not faltered in their devotion to
the principles of righteousness, have
not shrunk from the consequences at-
tending obedience to God's law, and
have been a source of strength and en-
couragement to their sons, their hus-
bands and their fathers. There are
numerous instances which have come
to our knowledge of wives offering to
make the most heroic sacrifices to save
their husbands from the penalties of
the law.
	Contrary to the jurisprudence of
centuries, legal wives are compelled,
under threats of imprisonment, to tes-
tify against their lawful husbands and
disclose family secrets that should
never be bared to the public eye. This
is a gross violation of the law under
which they act, and opposed to rec-
ognized public polity and family rights.
And by the system of "segregation" an
offense which, according to the law, is
punishable at the utmost extent by six
months' imprisonment and a fine of $300
is multiplied into many offenses and
the  full  sentence inflicted for each
fraction of that offense.
	The plan of finding several indict-
ments for the one offense has been dis-
carded and the scheme adopted of
making several counts in the one in-


[Column 1]

dictment. The number of these counts
is not regulated by law, but is left to
the arbitrary disposition of a grand
jury selected from the class in hostility
to the defendants, and usually sub-
ject and pliant to the will of an ex-
tremely bitter and unscrupu-
lous Prosecuting Attorney. The
petit juries empaneled for the
trial of persons thus indicted, are also
picked out for their known antagon-
ism to the society to which the accused
belong. And in almost every instance
they find verdicts as requested by the
Prosecuting Attorney, oblivious of the
exculpatory portions of the evidence.
Juries are thus selected, not only for
the trial of cases under the Edmunds
law, which permits challenges of
"Mormons," but by the open venire
process strong ani -"Mormon" are
chosen to try "Mormons" accused of
offenses not included in the Edmunds
act, and thus again is the law pervert
ed and prostituted to work oppression
and injustice. The Courts, as a rule,
decide on questions of law and proced-
ure as desired by the District Attorney
and ignore the request of defendant's
counsel for legal instructions to the
trial jury. Thus the victims marked						
for the sacrifice on the altar of hate,
are, humanly speaking, entirely at the
mercy of their persecutors.
	Another new step in the progress of
this iniquity is the rule, recently en-
forced, of compelling persons charged
with violations of the Edmunds act to
plead guilty or else have their families
forced upon the witness stand, to be
plied with shameful questions con-
cerning the most private acts and re-
lations of their husbands and fathers.
Children of tender years are compelled
[--] give evidence on subjects unsuited
to their immature minds, and to be-
come the instruments of their parents'
incarceration. Formerly, defendants
were permitted to plead not guilty and
then go upon the stand and testify
against themselves, declaring the facts
and leaving the result with the jury
and the court. By this means a con-
scientious man who did not
consider himself guilty of crime,
could explain his position, and
meet the issue without doing vio-
lence to his convictions. But this poor
consolation is now denied by the male-
volent District Attorney. The unfortu-
nate defendant must do violence to
some extent to his conscience by
pleading guilty, or suffer the anguish
of witnessing the tortures of his wives
and children when subject to the legal
rack of a brutal cross-examination, in
which no regard is shown for a wife's
affection or a daughter's love, the sen-
sitive shrinking of a virtuous woman
from exposure of her marital associa-
tions, or a child's tearful aversion to
disclosing the secrets of home for the
conviction of a father. Such proceed-
ings prove that the object is not the
vindication of the law but the
promotion of human suffering,
providing the victims are mem-
bers of the "Mormon" Church.
Many of the objects of this malevo-
lence are aged men who have passed
the allotted three score years and ten,
who have contracted no new marital
obligations, but are engaged in caring
for their families as honor and right-
eousness dictate. The heartless se-
verity with which such defendants are
pursued is also evidence that the
object is not the public benefit but the
wreaking of vengeance upon members
of a Church.
	Another indignity which has been
heaped upon the heads of Latter-day
Saints is the charge of perjury which
the reckless District Attorney has
publicly but not legally made. Wit-
nesses who have been compelled to
testify against their dearest friends,
when answering "I do not know" to
questions concerning matters of which
they were not cognizant, have been in-
sulted and abused and branded with
perjury. All evidence they disclose
which suits him he uses as undeniable
truth before a commissioner or a jury,
but everything elicited from the same
witnesses that does not suit his pur-
pose he enounces as perjury. And
he has the hardihood to claim that this
crime is taught and encouraged by the
"Mormon" Church. The refutation of
this atrocious calumny is found in the
standards of Church doctrine, and in
the fact that the brethren who are now
lingering in prison for declining to re-
pudiate their wives, have been sent
there, in nearly every instance,
through their own testimony or the
testimony of their families. And it is
well known that every one of them
could have escaped the penalties

[Column 2]

of the law if they would
but promise to obey the law, in
future, as construed by the courts.
It would have been easy to make the
promise and avoid imprisonment. But
their regard for their word was such
that they would not make a promise
which they did not intend to keep, so
they accepted a loathsome prison and
pecuniary loss in preference to the ap-
pearance of falsehood. It may seem
to those who do not understand the
situation that the requirement of future
obedience to the law is but reasonable
and that every good citizen should
make this agreement. But an expla-
nation of the facts will speedily dissi-
pate this conclusion. Obedience to the
law as construed by the courts, would
be difficult of comprehension if the
numerous and diverse definitions of the
law were considered. But according
to the latest rulings, a promise to obey
the law signifies an agreement to vio-
late the most solemn covenants of
marital fidelity that mortals can make
with each other and their God. It
means the utter repudiation of loving
wives and the separation either of the
father and some of his children or of
the mother and her children. It is a
promise not to visit, go to the same
place of worship or amusement, or
recognize, associate with, or even call
on when sick or dying, or when her
child is sick or dying, the plural wife
who has been faithful in all things. It
means dishonor, treachery, cruelty and
cowardice. It places, not the law but
a gross and wicked perversion of the
law, above the revealed will of God
and the noblest promptings of the hu-
man heart. It is a promise that no
true Latter-day Saint can make and
that no humane being would demand.
	Thus the legal difficulties that sur-
round the Saints are not so much the
effects of a special and partial law
aimed at a feature of their religion as
of the wicked and absurd construc-
tions of that law and its improper and
unprecedented administration, prompt-
ed by malice, inspired by Satan and in-
tended to crush out a system of re-
ligion which cannot be overcome by
truth, reason and the agencies of en-
lightened humanity.

