HANNAH TAPFIELD KING.

"Remember me in days to come,
	When I'm not here—
And think of me as just gone home
	To that bright sphere."

	The verse I have quoted above is from a poem
entitled, "Testementary," written many years ago
by the subject of this sketch.
	DIED, at the Spencer House in this city, Satur-
day afternoon, September 25th, 1886, Mrs. Han-
nah T. King, widow of the late Thomas King.
Deceased, whose maiden name was Tapfield, was
born in Cambridge, England, March 16th, 1807 and
was married to Thomas King April 6, 1824. Mrs.
King was the mother of ten children, three of
whom are still living. She passed away peaceful-
ly after much pain and suffering, at the residence
of her daughter, Mrs. C. V. Spencer, having been
removed there from her own home, Dernford
House, a few weeks ago, that she might have the
comfort of the constant presence and gentle care
and attention of her loving daughter. It was
thought then that she would rally and recover
when the cooler weather came, and return to her
own home, to which she was fondly attached,
having resided there ever since her arrival in the
valley in 1853.
	The name of Hannah T. King is familiar to all
the readers of the EXPONENT, for she was a regu-
lar contributor to its columns, and the other papers
and magazines of this city had many contributions
in both prose and poetry, from her ready pen and
prolific brain. Mrs. King was also very well
known as a public speaker; her voice was often
heard in the semi-monthly meetings of the sisters
in this city, and her presence there will be greatly
missed. On great public occasions, when the
women of Zion have assembled in mass meeting,
or in any special gathering for the purpose of 
memorializing Congress, or protesting against
wrongs or injustice, Mrs. King has always taken
an active part.
	In the early days in Utah Mrs. King was a mem-
ber of the Polysophical Society, a literary or-
ganization, that held its meetings at the residence
of Apostle Lorenzo Snow, who, at that time, re-
sided in this city. There she became acquainted
with men and women of talent and intellectual 
ability, and formed bonds of friendship which

[Column 2]

have continued strong and permanent up to the
present time.
	In England, before Mrs King became a Latter-
day Saint, she was known as a writer, and had
formed the acquaintance of the celebrated poetess,
Eliza Cook, with whom she had for years an in-
teresting correspondence. Mrs. King was the
author of two books, that were sold by subscrip-
tion in England, entitled, "The Toilet," and "The
Three Era's." They were quite favorably no-
ticed by the English press, and for this literary
work she received much well merited praise from 
ladies and gentlemen of position and influence.
	Within the last few years Mrs. King has issued
three books, entitled, "Women of the Scriptures,"
"Songs of the Heart," and an "Epic Poem,"
which is dedicated to President John Taylor.
It is a synopsis of the rise of the Church, etc.,
beginning with the birth of the Prophet Joseph
Smith. Mrs. King's articles, whether of prose or
poetry, always seemed a part of herself. She
often said to the writer, "I write as a bird sings,
free as the air and untrammelled; I care not who
blames or praises, I sing my song for love of sing-
ing."
	Mrs. King was a great admirer of genius and
talent in others, and was familiar with the poetical,
historical and biographical works of the most
famous and eminent men and women of the age,
more especially in her native country. She was
greatly gifted in intellectual conversation, which
caused her to be sought after by young and old,
who loved intelligence. She was an ardent ad-
mirer of nature, and highly appreciated the beau-
ties of our own mountain scenery. She combined
in her character the poetic and realistic, and al-
though her mind soared to the heights of sublimi-
ty, she walked the solid earth with real practical
views of life, its cares and vicissitudes.
	She was very fond of letter writing, and when
in perfect health she entered into it with a zest
and vigor that imparted to her correspondence
such individuality that one seemed to be near her
and feel her presence while perusing her letters.
	Mrs. King received the Gospel in her home in
England, and entertained the Elders there, giving
liberally of her means, as well as dispensing
bountifully her hospitality. She loved the princi-
ples of the Gospel, and gave up home, friends, the
society of people of culture and refinement, freely
and willingly to gather to Zion, and she never for
one moment regretted the step she had taken, but
rejoiced that she had been one of the chosen ones
in this dispensation to receive the fulness of the
everlasting Gospel. The principle of plural mar-
riage never seemed to have been the severe trial
to her faith that it has been to so many women.
She received it as she did every other principle,
and never rebelled; indeed, her faith in the divini-
ty of this work, and of the mission of Joseph
Smith was of the most exalted type. When on
her way to the valley she visited Nauvoo, and had
an interview with the Prophet Joseph Smith's
mether, in whom she was much interested, and
often spoke of her interview with this distin-
guished woman as one of the events of her life. 
	Mrs. King was of a grand type of womanhood
possessing many exalted attributes of character,
and among others, strict integrity to principle, and
a laudable ambition to excel in intellectual attain-
ments, nobility of soul, and yet a spirit to yield
obedience to the laws of God, childlike and with-
out questioning. Her illness was lingering, and,
she suffered intense and agonizing pain, until her
vigorous and fine organization gave way, and for
weeks she lay prostrated, yet passive and resigned 
to go or to stay as God willed, realizing His time 
was the best time.
	Her funeral was held in the Thirteenth Ward
Assembly Rooms, on Tuesday, September 28th,
and was numerously attended by kind and loving 
friends, and by the relatives who reside here; also
her only son, Thomas O. King, of Elmo, Cassia

[Column 3]

County, Idaho, who came in to be with her in her
sickness, arriving only a week previous to her
death. It seems a fitting close to a life such as Mrs
King's that it should have finished its course on
the Saturday night, the last day of the week, and
when time was entering upon the Sabbath day rest.
Quiet and peaceful and free from pain she lay on
that lovely Sabbath morning the last in September;
the struggle was over, the battle of life finished, and
she lay sweetly sleeping the last long dreamless
sleep, from which there is no waking again in this
life, nor until the morning of the first resurrec-
tion.
	Mrs. King leaves a son and two daughters, fif-
teen grandchildren and four great grandchildren,
who will have her example of integrity and up-
rightness, as well as her numerous writings to
stimulate them in the path of duty.
	Mrs. King wrote what she called "A Codicil,"
which was published in full in the EXPONENT,
April 15th, 1882, from which we make an extract
or two, as appropriate in concluding this simple
tribute to her memory.

"To only those it may concern,
	A few brief words I have to say:
Entwine no flowers around my Urn,
	Let no cold eyes behold my clay.

When death has sealed my pulses up,
	And bid my heart to cease its thrill,
When I have drained life's mingled cup,
	And eyes and heart and brain are still,
Then may some dear and treasured hand
	Enfold me in my temple robe—
And 'tis my wish—nay, more—command!
	That none death's secrets seek to probe!

"I want no one to gaze on me
	With curious, apathetic eyes—
But those who loved me, they may be
	Admitted with their fond good byes!

"I wish my Cenotaph to be
	Within the hearts of those I love;
I ask that they will shed for me
	A few sweet tears, their love to prove.

"There's nothing more I here will say,
	My dearest ones! remember me!
And heed these words—nay, more—obey,
	And see that they fulfilled shall be!


