	TOOELE STAKE.

	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety, Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary Associa-
tions of Tooele Stake was held in the meeting
house at Tooele, Saturday and Sunday, Sept-
11th and 12th. Present from Salt Lake City,
Sisters Horne and Taylor. Coun. Emily War-
burton presided at the R. S. Conference on
Saturday morning, the President, Mrs. M. A.
Hunter being detained at home on account of
sickness. After singing, prayer was offered
by Bishop Atkin. Meeting continued by sing-
ing. Minutes of previous conference were
read and accepted; also reports from the several
branches in the Stake.
	Coun. Warburton made a few opening re-
marks.
	Sister Horne referred to the presence of the
brethren as an encouragement. Spoke of the
critical times, and that the Lord would have
a tried people. Said we should be honest with
each other, and the Lord in His own due time
would overrule all things for the best. Gave
good counsel to mothers, exhorted them to set
a good example, and to cultivate the intellect
of the children at home, and not to train
them up in the fashions of the world. Gave
advice to the Presidents of the Relief Society
present in regard to their duties.
	Sister Taylor spoke of the individual work
that each one must do for herself, and the
duties to be performed. Said, "This is a try-
ing time; we must go to the Lord with our
troubles, and ask Him to give us His Spirit.
Counsel our children to keep good company
and not associate with those who are not of
our faith, to keep the Sabbath day holy, and
not go on excursions on that day, but to attend
Sunday School and meetings, and the Lord
will bless us."
	Prest. H. S. Gowans endorsed the remarks
of the sisters, and spoke for a short time on
very interesting subjects.
	Meeting adjourned until afternoon. Benedic-
tion by S. W. Owens.
	The P. A. convened at 2 p.m. The Prest.,
Mrs. Sarah Hale, not being able to attend on
account of sickness, Coun. Mary Ann Atkin
presided. A great many of the boys and girls
rendered songs and recitations in a very able
manner, showing that the President of the
Tooele Primary, Mrs. Jane Bowen, and her
Counselors had taken a great deal of interest
in training the little folks. After the children's
exercises were finished the sisters addressed
them in an interesting manner.
	In the evening the Y. L. Associations held
their conference, Mrs. Ann Tate presiding. Af-
ter the usual exercises, the sisters from the city
addressed the young ladies in a very able man-
ner, entreating them to live their religion and
honor their standing as Latter-day Saints.
	Coun. W. H. Lee, who had just emerged
from prison, where he had been sent for con-
science' sake, spoke to the young people, giv-
ing much good counsel.

[Column 3]
	After singing and prayer, conference was
then adjourned until December next, to meet
at Grantsville.
	On Sunday morning the sisters from Salt
Lake attended Sabbath School, and addressed
the young girls and children on living lives of
Latter-day Saints, and gave much excellent in
struction.
	In the afternoon the Relief Society confer-
ence was continued, after the opening exercises
and the administering of the sacrament.
	Mrs. Horne was the first speaker. She read
the revelation from the Doctrine and Covenants
given July, 1830, and spoke for some time up-
on the matter pertaining thereto.
	Mrs. Taylor followed, giving good advice
and urging all to the performance of every
duty.
	Prest. Gowans endorsed all that had been
said, and made a few remarks calculated to en-
courage the sisters.
	Coun. Warburton adjourned the conference
for three months, to be held at Grantsville.
The choir sang an anthem, and the meeting
was dismissed with prayer by Bishop Atkin.
	ANN TATE, Cor. Sec. R. S.

