	SALT LAKE STAKE.

	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of this Stake was held in the Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Rooms, Thursday, September
16th; commencing at 10 a.m., Mrs. M. Isabella
Horne presiding. After singing, prayer was
offered by Mrs. M. W. Wilcox. Singing again,
and roll called by Secretary, to which twenty-
six presidents, six counselors and one secretary
responded. Minutes of previous conference
were read and accepted. Forty reports were
read from the various branches in the county.
	Prest. Horne expressed herself much pleased
with the representation present, and the good
number of reports; was also pleased that the
donations to the Hospital had been paid up by 
so many branches, and thought that those who
had been dilatory should attend to this matter.
The Lord had stirred up the hearts of the peo-
ple, and they had donated liberally for the
wants of the poor. "Now that the harvest is
on hand let us be diligent and see that we con-
tinue to gather wheat; we will want a good deal
to feed the number of people that will flee to
Zion." Hoped the teachers would have the
spirit of their missions when they visited from
house to house. Counseled mothers to see that
the children were properly taught to keep the
Sabbath day and all God's commandments,
and made other good remarks.
	Coun. E. S. Taylor thought there was an im-
provement in the reports, and urged the secre-
taries to keep their books properly; thought
we should have great pleasure in our labor if
it was well done. "We make wiser and better
mothers and wives when we educate ourselves
in everything that is for our benefit." Hoped
each of us would be wise enough to purify our-
selves so as to be able to stand when the day
of burning comes.
	Mrs. B. W. Smith said, "We will have an
interesting conference, I think, and we should
try to profit by what we hear; we seem to be
slow to learn, but I hope we will go on increas-
ing in good works and in intelligence and wis-
dom; let us put away everything that is evil
from us.
	Mrs. L. G. Richards spoke concerning the
Y. L. M. I. A. Conference to-morrow. The
young ladies had voted that they would come
to conference fasting that day, asking the
Lord for a large outpouring of His Spirit up-
on them, that good might be the result.
	Meeting adjourned till 2 p.m. Singing.
Benediction by Mrs. S. S. Young.
	Afternoon session: Usual exercises. Prayer
offered by Mrs. B. W. Smith. Mrs. Rachel
R. Grant was the first speaker; thought there


[Column 1]
﻿never was a time since the organization of the
Church that the adversary was doing his best
as he is now to overthrow the work of the
Lord.  Referred to having read the different
testimonies of several who had left the Church;
it caused her to feel we should be very careful
and watchful of our words.  "We want to have
charity one to the other, and not repeat at all
times what we hear.  The principle of celes-
tial marriage is the only one in which we can
gain an everlasting exaltation.  We all have
our human nature to contend with, and we
have a great work to do to save ourselves; we
are all in a school, and the better we conduct
 ourselves, it will be better for us hereafter.  If
we had kept the commandments of God, we 
should not be in the trouble we are at this
time, but we must acknowledge the hand of
the Lord in all things."
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball said, "It seems to me we 
are all hungering and thirsting for the things
of the kingdom, and we all seem to be work-
ing members of this kingdom.  Our finances
are a small part of our labors.  I have made
 a rough estimate of what the ladies in this one
Stake control, and there are about thirty Stakes.
Let us look out for the most useful way to
spend what we have on hand, such as to beauti-
fy our hall, meeting houses and our homes.
We are to become a glory in the midst of the
earth.  The time has fully come when Zion
must arise and put on her beautiful garments;
but the Lord will keep us in the vale of hu-
mility until we know how to use the blessings
He is giving us.  When affliction comes to us
can we say, "Not my will, but Thine be done?"
If we can, as individuals and collectively, it is
well for us."
	Mrs. P. S. Kimball said, "I feel the Spirit
of the Lord is here; I hope we will learn to
pity others and learn to control ourselves; this
is our work, to control our desires and appetites;
let us not deform our bodies by following the
fashions of Babylon; let us try to do as near
right as we can while we are here in mortality.
Are our mothers training up souls for exalta-
tion out of the depths of humility?  Are we
rearing them to save souls of men and women,
by being worthy to enter the Temples of the
Lord?  If we humble ourselves, the Lord will
cause Satan to be bound, but we must become 
a humble people.  We are feeling after God
and seeking to prepare ourselves for the com-
ing of the Savior.  God will bless the Relief
Society; it is for blessing the poor and the sick.
Let us gather and save wheat, for we will re-
quire all we can get.  There is danger for
everybody while in the flesh, therefore let us
keep close to God and keep His command-
ments, and do as we would wish to be done by
to everyone.  I bless you, my sisters, in the 
name of Jesus."
	Secretary E. Howard spoke of the annoy-
ances all have to meet in some way or other,
 but thought we were getting waked up.  "Pride
is creeping among us.  The pride of education
is growing in our midst.  Many are becoming
so highly educated that they are losing the
Spirit of the Lord.  Let us humble ourselves,
that the Lord will not humble us. We need
more time for our conference. The enemy is
laying traps for our children in the excursions
and amusements. The work is accumulating,
but don't let us work too hard, but take care
of our bodies.  Let us ask our Father to bless
all we do, and let us acknowledge that all we
have and are is from Him."
	Mrs. S. B. Gibson, Mrs. E. B. Fletcher,
Mrs. Diana Ried, Mrs. Catharine Smith, Mrs.
Ann Griffiths, Mrs. M. Brady, Mrs. M. A.
Smart, Mrs. E. Hirst, each made a few re-
marks, and bore testimony to the good spirit
of the meeting, and also to the truth of the 
Gospel, expressing their interest in the work of 
the Relief Society, as well as all work in the

[Column 2]
kingdom, with an ardent desire to prove faith-
ful to the end and endure all things.
     Prest. Horne made closing remarks upon
practical matters, as well as entreating all to
live lives of holiness, laying aside pride, covet-
ousness and self-will, cultivating faith, and
feeling a full assurance that God will be with 
us.
     Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, "O Jesus, the giver of all we enjoy,"
etc.  Benediction by Mrs. Rachel Whipple.

	The quarterly conference of the Primary
Associations of this Stake was held in the Salt
Lake Assembly Hall, Saturday, September
18th, beginning at 10 a.m., Mrs, Ellen C. 
Clawson presiding, assisted by her Counselor,
Mrs. L. A. Wells.  Opened by singing, "Our
Father in Heaven."  Prayer by Elder Wm.
Willis.  Singing, "When shall we meet Thee,"
etc.  Minutes of last conference were read and
accepted, and a recitation by Sophia Sorensen
given.  Reports were then read from the fol-
lowing wards: 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 7th, 8th,
10th, 12th and 13th.  Recitation by a little
girl from the 4th Ward, entitled, "The world
is for others as well as for you;"  Alice Hardy
sang, "God bless my poor old mother."  Re-
ports were read from the 15th and 16th Wards.
Recitation by a boy from the 6th Ward; song,
"Hope of Israel," by the children.  Remarks
by Mrs. Aurelia S. Rogers, Prest. of the P. A.
of Davis Stake, upon attending meetings, keep-
ing the Sabbath day holy, kindness to each
other, quarreling, and touchingupon many
other topics of interest.  Class recitation by
eight little girls of the 20th Ward; recitation
by Ruby Irvine of the 19th Ward; reading by
a little girl from the 10th Ward; recitation by
a little girl of the 16th Ward.
     The President made a few remarks, and ad-
journed the meeting until 2 p.m.  Singing,
"Did you think to pray?"  Benediction by
Mrs. A. S. Rogers.
     Afternoon session: Opened by singing, "The
Primary Song."  Prayer by Mrs. H. A. Hardy.
Singing, "We're Marching Homeward."  Re-
marks by Mrs. E. Sutherland, Prest. Big Cot-
tonwood P. A.  A song from the little girls of
Union Ward, entitled, "Bessie Fair;"  Remarks
by Mrs. Terry of Draper; recitation by a little
boy from the 20th Ward, "Never give up the
right way."
	Conn. Lydia Ann Well asked the children
a few questions, and made some excellent re-
marks about prayer, improvement, and upon
the first principles of the Gospel.  Two little
boys of the 5th Ward gave a dialogue.  Re-
marks were also made by Mrs. Mary Gerber
of Granger Ward and Mrs. Minnie H. James
of the 7th Ward.  Recitations by two little
girls each from a different ward.  Mrs. C.
Smith of Draper spoke a few minutes to the
children, counseling and encouraging them in
doing right.  "The day dawn is breaking,"
was then sung by the children.  Miss Annie
McGhee of Sugar House Ward made some in-
teresting remarks.  Mrs. Frances Hanson of
Mill Creek Ward asked the children a few
questions and spoke a short time.  Minnie
James, a very little girl of the 7th Ward,
gave a recitation.  Miss Celia Sharp spoke
to the children upon order, attention and
punctuality; urged them to learn something
each day, and if once learned it would never
be forgotten.
     Prest. Clawson hoped the children would
try and remember what they had heard at this
conference, for they had really had some good
instructions; was glad to see some of the pa-
rents present; hoped they would attend, and
encourage the children.
	Conference was then adjourned for three
months.  Singing, "Hope of Israel."  Bene-
diction by Mrs. McGhee.


