DEAR SISTER:
	I left Salt Lake City on the 10th of September.
Sister M. A. Hyde joined me at this place, and
we went to Thistle Station, where Bishop Tucker
met us with a team, and conveyed us to Fairview,
and we were received with a hearty welcome by
his kind family.
	On the 11th attended the Relief Society of that
place, M. A. Hyde presiding. Here Sister Pitch-
forth joined us, coming by way of Moroni. After
the minutes and reports of the last conference 
were read and accepted, M. A. Hyde, myself and
Sister Pitchforth addressed the sisters. In the 
afternoon attended the Young Ladies' conference,
Sister Helen Armstrong presiding. Sister M. A.
Hyde, Pitchforth, and myself and Bishop Alred
addressed the sisters. After meeting we went to 
Mount Pleasant, while Sister Hyde went on to
Spring City, on account of sickness in the family.
	In Mount Pleasant Sister Pitchforth and myself
stopped at Bishop Madsen's. The 12th, Sunday,
Sister Pitchforth and myself attended Sunday 
School, and spoke to the children, who were very
attentive. We expected to go to the general 
meeting in the afternoon, but Bishop Seeley in-
sisted on an appointment being given out that we
would speak to the  young men and women in the
afternoon, all who wished to come, then fill up
the house with older people. Of course we could 
not say no; we felt our weakness, but the Lord


greatly blessed us, and we all went home rejoicing.
After meeting we went to Spring City. Our kind
Bishop Alred and family received us with their
usual hospitality—meeting in the evening, and a
crowded house.
	On the 13th Bishop Alred took us to Ephraim,
where we were kindly welcomed by President
Peterson and family, and a delicious dinner spread
before us. At 2 o’clock we held meeting with the
sisters, M. A. Hyde presiding; Sisters M. A.
Hyde, Pitchforth, myself and President Peterson
addressing the sisters. We had a splendid meet-
ing, the gifts of prophecy, tongues and interpreta-
tion were made manifest,and we had a joyful time
long to be remembered. After meeting President
Peterson took us over to Manti, where we met so
many of our good brethren and sisters to welcome
us, we scarcely knew where to go first. The 14th,
visited the beautiful Temple in the forenoon,
Brother Folsom kindly taking us around. At 2
o’clock in the afternoon we met with the Relief
Society, M. A. Hyde, Sister Pitchforth, myself
and Brother Maiben speaking to the sisters.
	The 15th, went to Mayfield; held meeting at 10
a.m. Passed by Gunnison, as they had not got
the appointment, and Bishop Madsen and wife,
and the President of the Relief Society were all
out of town. Went on to Fayette and held meet-
ing in the evening. Sister Hyde was quite sick
that evening and did not attend meeting. Sister
Pitchforth and myself had to do all the talking.
	Next day, the 16th, a brother took us to Juab.
Took dinner with Brother and Sister Taylor. Took
the train at 2 o’clock, and arrived at Nephi in the
evening. Stopped at Sister Pitchforth’s: 17th,
attended the sister’s conference, Sister Pitchforth
presiding; and a beautiful meeting we had; we
found so many good sisters to welcome us on
every hand. 18th, attended the Primary Confer-
ence in the forenoon; in the afternoon attended
the Young Ladies’ Conference, Sister Teasdale
presiding: 19th, Sister Hyde and myself took the
train at 2 p.m. and arrived in Provo at 4 o'clock,
having had a very delightful trip, and meeting
kindness on every hand from the brethren and
sisters, and hope we have done a little good.
	I shall stop here a short time and visit my child-
ren before my return. I would like to see you, my
dear sister. God bless you, is my constant prayer.
	From your true sister,
	M. W. SNOW.
Sept. 20, 1886.


