EFFORTS TO PROCURE PROSCRIPTIVE
LEGISLATION.
	Every effort possible was made dur-
ing this last session of Congress to
secure legislation of the most proscrip-
tive and sweeping character against the
Latter-day Saints. Not only was it
the design to reach persons who be-
lieved in and practiced plural marriage,
but our enemies went so far as to pro-
pose the complete annihilation of every
political right belonging to those who
were free from the charge of polyg-
amy, and whose only crime was that
they were members of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
Congress adjourned without acting
upon this measure. Already we hear
the notes of preparation for a renewal
of the campaign against us. Filled
with anger at their non-success at the
last session, our opponents are pre-
paring for the onslaught at the coming
session of Congress,and we are threat-
ened with vengeance of the most
dreadful description.
	But in this, as in all other circum-
stances and conditions, our trust is in
God. This is His work. He has thus
far taken care of it and preserved it,
and has delivered us from the many
plots which have been framed against
us. It has progressed thus far only by
His power, and not by the power of
man. Whatever glory there is con-
nected with the establishment and
progress of this great work is due en-
tirely to Him. Man's wisdom, educa-
tion, shrewdness, wealth and ability
have not been the factors that have
produced success; but it has been the
blessing, the power, and the overrul-
ing providence of our God. We have
had to trust Him in the past in the
midst of unnumbered foes; we must
trust Him in the future against the ter-

[Column 4]

rible odds that are pitted against His
work and His Gospel. We know, and
can boldly testify to the Latter-day
Saints, and to the whole world, that
the Lord hath founded Zion, and that
no power beneath the Celestial King-
dom can prevail against it.
	But those who fight against it will
share the fate of all who have ever
fought against it. Who is there that
has prospered in his warfare against
Zion? Who can point to the laurels
which have been won in fighting the
work of God? What man or what na-
tion has gained credit and glory in the
earth for successes achieved over the
feeble Latter-day Saints? We have seen
generation after generation of our op-
posers pass, one after another, into
cold oblivion. They have strutted
their brief hour upon the stage, ap-
pearing to think that they were accom-
plishing wonders. But they have
passed away, and the memory of their
deeds only lives in our historical arch-
ives. So it will be with those who
now occupy so large a portion of pub-
lic attention as crusaders against the
Saints, and who imagine themselves to
be such doughty heroes.

