JUAB STAKE. 

	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety convened in the Nephi meeting house,
September 17th, 1886. On the stand were
Prest. Mary Pitchforth and Counselors, Amy
L. Bigler and Maranda Bryan, Sister M. W.
Snow of Salt Lake City, Prest. Mary A. Hyde
of the Relief Society of Sanpete Stake, and
representatives of the different branches of
Juab Stake; of the brethren, Prest. Charles
Sperry, Bishop Udall, Patriarch J. S. Bigler
and others.
	After the usual opening exercises, Prest. M.
A. Hyde addressed the sisters on the importance
of educating their children in the principles
of their religion, and providing them with
good books, and making home pleasant and
happy, for society is changing, and we must
keep our young folks from the allurements of
the evil one. A recitation, "The hand that
rocks the cradle," etc., by Mrs. M. E. Teas-
dale.
	Sister M. W. Snow referred to her long ex-
perience with the Relief Society; said she had
been a member of the R. S. organized by the
Prophet Joseph in Nauvoo, and had witnessed
with pleasure the good which had been accom-
plished by the sisters of Zion since that time.
Spoke of the great responsibility resting upon
the teachers, and exhorted them to be humble
and prayerful, that they might be guided by
the Spirit of God in all their visitations among
the Saints.
	Bishop David Udall said, "We are highly
favored in having the privilege of meeting in
quarterly conference, to transact business for
the Stake, and receive counsel from those who
are inspired of God to teach us of the plan of
salvation."


The choir sang, "Praise God, from whom all 
blessings flow," etc. Benediction by Bro. Geo.
Kendall.
	Afternoon session: Amy L. Bigler, Maranda
Byran and Jane Picton each exhorted the
sisters to faithfully perform their duties in the
Relief Society, and watch over their children
and keep them from the snares of the wicked.
A song, "Where are the friends of my youth,"
by Mrs. Elizabeth Grace, followed by remarks
from Sisters M. A. Hyde and M. W. Snow, on
revelation and the principle of celestial mar-
riage. A song, "Who's on the Lord's side,
who," by Mrs. Sarah A Andrews.  
	Prest. Mary Pitchforth felt to praise God
for the manifestations of His Holy Spirit dur-
ing our conference, and desired the sisters to
treasure up the good counsel which had been
given; and carry it out in their lives.  Recita-
tion, "The mountain boy's prayer," by Bro. L.
A. Bailey.
	Prest. Rebecca Udall, Counselors Sarah
A. Andrews and Ann Midgley each bore a
strong testimony to the truth of the Gospel,
and desired to prove faithful to every duty re-
quired of them. A song, "Stick to your
mother, Tom," by Mrs. L. Pratt.
	Prest. Charles Sperry desired to encourage
all Latter-day Saints to live their religion,
keep the commandments of God and prepare
themselvss for every event of His providence.
A reading, "What's the matter?" by Mrs. S.
A. Andrews. 
	Sisters Snow and Hyde, during the confer-
ence, each bore a strong testimony in regard to
the principle of plural marriage; they desired
to impress upon the minds of the rising genera-
tion, that Joseph Smith did practice plural
marriage, and that he sealed them to their
husbands, performing the ceremony in the
presence of their husband's first wives. Said
although the sons of the Prophet deny that
their father taught or practiced celestial or
plural marriage, they were living witnesses
that he did.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, "Awake, ye Saints of God, awake."
Benediction by G. Kendall.
		MARY PITCHFORTH PREST.
