THE PURIFICATION OF ZION.
	So far as we can learn there is an in-
creased disposition on the part of the
faithful officers of the Church to do all
in their power to cleanse the Wards and
Stakes in their charge from those who
will not conform to the requirements
of the Gospel. Greater strictness is
being shown, and the Saints who have
the love of the truth within them feel
that the time has come to put away
their follies and their sins far from

[Column 2]

them and to conform to a higher
standard of righteousness. The great,
crying sin of this generation is lasciv-
iousness in its various forms. Satan,
knowing how powerful an agency this
is in corrupting men and women, and
in driving the Spirit from them, and
bringing them under condemnation
before the Lord, uses it to the greatest
extent possible. It requires an inces-
sant warfare to check its spread and to
prevent the people of God from be-
coming its victims. No people who
practice or countenance these sins can
be accepted of the Lord or find favor
in His sight. His anger will fall upon
them unless they thoroughly and heart-
ily repent of every such evil. When
we take into consideration the teach-
ings we have received upon this sub-
ject, the holy covenants into which we
have entered, and the professions
which we make, unchastity should have
no existence among us. It is sorrow-
ful to contemplate that Satan finds
those among us who are willing to
yield to his temptations, and thus
bring misery upon themselves
and all connected with them.
We solemnly call, as we have done so
often before, upon all the officers of
the Church to set their faces like flint
against practices of this character.
Those who indulge in them must be
dealt with according to the laws of
God, and they must be made to feel
that if they do indulge in this wicked-
ness they cannot have the fellowship
of the Saints nor a standing in the
Church of Christ. If men and women
would only profit by the experience of
those who have fallen, they would re-
sist the allurements of sin and walk in
the path of righteousness. "The
wages of sin is death." The
misery which it brings upon the
guilty, and upon all connected
with them, furnishes some idea of the
dreadful condition of the wicked who
die in their sins and do not obtain the
forgiveness of their God. O! that
men and women could be warned, and
that they would turn to the Lord and
seek unto Him, humble themselves be-
fore Him, put away their sins, and
obtain His Holy Spirit to be their
guide and their companion, then no
matter what the circumstances might
be in which they were placed, they
would have the peace of heaven, the
joy of the Holy Ghost, and a con-
science void of offence towards God
and man! And this is the condition in
which every Latter-day Saint should
live.

