SIXTEENTH CENTURY.

	A noteworthy instance of a woman who
combined the rarest intellectual gifts with
every domestic virtue, was the subject of this
brief notice, Olympia Morata, whose short and
brilliant career extended over the period be-
tween 1526 and 1555. She was born in Fer-
rara in the halcyon days, of the Renaissance,
when that city was the resort of all the great-
est scholars and writers of the age; for the
Este family were, after the Medici, the most
enlightened and munificent patrons of art and
learning in Italy.
	The enthusiasm for the revival of the Greek
culture was inimical to clerical instruction,and

[Column 2]

the education of youth, hitherto in the hands
of ecclesiastics, now passed from their control
to lay teachers. In a burst of Liberalism
consequent on this emancipation from priestly
control, men began to extend the benefits of
their learning to their daughters as well as to
their sons, and the girls studied under the
same tutors as their brothers. There was
nothing remarkable then, in the learned Pro-
fessor Morata's imparting to his daughter all
the knowledge of which he was master, but
there was something very remarkable in the
avidity with which the child drank it all in.
Olympia was lovely as well as gifted, and the
elderly gentlemen, mostly famous scholars,
who frequented her father's house, were en-
chanted with the precocious little beauty "The
language of the Muses was her earliest, mother
tongue," said one of them in describing her.
When Olympia was seven years old, her
father had to remove with his wife and five
children to Venice, or wherever he could get
employment, for he was not permitted to dwell
in Ferrara having fallen under the displeasure
of the Duke. In those glorious days when art
and learning were nursed and fostered in the
bosom of royalty, the cultivators and dispensers
of them had much to bear, and the position of
the proudest genius amongst them was but a
gilded slavery. The Dukes of Ferrara were
perhaps, the most liberal of these princely
patrons, who loved to shine with the borrowed
light of genius attracted to their courts.
	After six years of exile, the banished pro-
fessor was permitted to return to his native
city, and was re-instated in royal favor. He
was appointed tutor to the Duke's young
brothers, and also gave lessons to the sovereign's
own little daughter, Anna, a child of eight
years old. Morata was a poor scholar without
other patrimony than his brains, and it cost
him not a little effort to educate his peerless
daughter as he wished, for he had to work for
money, and she had to attend to household
affairs. With her passionate love of books
this was a trial, and we can imagine with what
joy the parents and the girl received an invita-
tion from the Duchess to reside in the palace
and share the instruction of the little Princess
Anna. Olympia was now past thirteen, and 
so advanced in her education that she excited
the wonder of everybody. The Duchess
thought her companionship would be very
beneficial to the child, and she was received
with the greatest kindness and consideration.
Instead of the luxury, learning was now the
business of her life.  In a Greek poem, trans-
lated by Mr. Trollope, she says:

"And I, though woman, womanly gear have left,
Distaff and thread, and workbasket and weft!
The Muses haunts, Parnassus' flowery hill,
These have been all my joys, these shall be still."

	The Duke Hercules II., had married Renèe,
a daughter of France. She was a woman of
unattractive appearance, but of great intel-
lectual power and a taste for theology, which
got her into trouble. Her mental qualities
were inherited by two of her daughters, who
were counted among the greatest scholars of
their time, Lucretia, Duchess of Urbino, and
Leonora, the object of Tasso's most unhappy
love. Her children were still in their infancy
when she became imbued with the doctrines of
a new faith just then preached by Calvin in
Geneva.
	Among the learned men admitted to her
private intercourse was a foreign traveller, 
called M. Charles d'Espeville. The Duke had
secret information from the papal spies, who
tormented him continually on the subject of
his wife's orthodoxy, that this gentleman was
no other than the arch-heretic, John Calvin
himself; and he entered the apartment of the
Duchess with the police, who seized the
traveller and another, to carry them off to
prison; but Renèe planned their escape on the


[Column 1]

﻿road. Henceforth she had to suffer persecution
for her opinions. At one time she was de- 
prived of her children and shut up in her
apartments, but she made her submission and
was pardoned for a time.
	We may be sure that a court presided over by
this lady could never become frivolous, and her
young protegee studied constantly and assidu-
ously.  But all the same she was in much
danger of being spoiled—now in the full
bloom of her beautiful girlhood, flattered, ad-
mired, adored by poets, scholars, soldiers,
princes, by every man who came within reach
of her fascination. Her marvelous accomplish-
ments stirred even the old dons into extrava-
gant admiration. "We used to hear her de-
claiming in Latin, improvising in Greek, ex-
plaining the paradoxes of the greatest orators,
and answering all the questions addressed to
her," writes one enthusiastic admirer. She
was just sixteen when she delivered lectures on
these abstruse themes. But this was not such
an extraordinary spectacle in the Italy of the
6th century as it would be now.
	It must not be imagined that Olympia sought
only the approbation of men. She formed
tender friendships with the noblest and best
young persons of her own sex-friendships
which were tried in adversity and lasted for
life. Her fellow pupil, the Princess Anna, was
one of these friends, also Princess Lavinia
Della Rovere. Another close companion of
her youth was Francesca Bucyronia, whose lot
resembled that of Olympia, as she, too, became
converted to the reformed religion, married a
German, and went with him to his own coun-
try.
	Olympia as long as she remained in the
Ducal palace continued to be like a pagan
goddess, receiving men's homage as her due,
but caring for no one in particular; still un-
touched by the deep, religious sentiment which
was making itself felt in the innermost circle
of the Duchess's court. She wrote thus to a
friend afterwards:
				
	"Had I remained longer at court it would have been all
over with me and my salvation; for never while I remained
there could I attain the knowledge of anything lofty or
divine, or read the books of either Testament."

	Olympia was called home to attend her
father's sick bed, and her family just then 
seem to have fallen under the suspicion of
heresy, for they were left to struggle with sick-
ness and poverty without aid from the sove-
reigns; and after the death of the professor his
daughter was not received back into the
palace.
	The Duke was under the guidance of his
clerical advisers, who threatened papal en-
croachments on his possessions, and the
Duchess was simply afraid to show any favor
to a family suspected of a change of faith, be-
ing herself under constant surveillance. Olym-
pia, in this season of adversity, which must
have presented a sad contrast to the happy,
joyous life she had left, behaved like a brave
devoted daughter and sister, and returned to
the distaff and the needle, the brewing and
baking which she thought she had abandoned 
for ever. She became strongly impressed by
the doctrines of the reformers, and from this
time henceforth she was a profoundly religious
woman. While Olympia was still at the court,
she and other liberal minded young persons
had felt their interest excited in the fate of a 
young man called Fannio, then in prison by
order of the Inquisition, which had condemned
him as a heretic. The entreaties of his young
wife had induced him to recant to save himself
from the stake, but he repented of his recanta-
tion, and now declared his faith openly. Dur-
ing his prolonged imprisonment, Olympia and
some other friends visited him, and no doubt
the converse of a man about to die the death
of a martyr was such as to make a lasting im-
pression on her mind. There was another in-

[Column 2]

fluence at work, which had its effect in develop-
ing the gay thoughtless girl into a serious,
noble woman. When she was in the zenith of
her glory, a young German, Grünthler,
studying at the university of Ferrara, was
captivated by her charms, and ventured to 
make known his feelings to her. He was cold-
ly rejected, but this did not prevent the disin-
terested lover from renewing his suit when the 
lady of his choice was sharing her poor family's
misery and disgrace.  He had now his degree
of doctor of medicine, and was acknowledged
to be very clever and well-informed. Olympia's
eyes were opened to his worth, and she returned
his love with a passionate fervor, as is proved
by her letters to him after their marriage,
when he was obliged to go to Germany to seek
a home for his bride. When at last he found
a temporary resting place, he returned for her,
and took with him also his wife's little brother
Emilio.
	After some months uncertainty the Grünth-
lers settled down in the native town of the
doctor, where they enjoyed freedom to worship
God in their own way, and led a calm, happy,
peaceful life, the lady attending to her domes-
tic affairs, as she had but one maid servant,and
teaching her little brother and the child of her
friend, Fraucesa, who had been sent to her for 
instruction. In the evenings, when the doc-
tor's professional duties were over, two or three
friends would drop in for a little music,in which
Grünthler was skilled, when they often sang
hymns translated or composed in Greek by
Olympia.
	The civil religious wars that then raged in
Germany caused Schweinfurth to undergo a
cruel siege of fourteen months; a famine fever
broke out in the town, and poor Grünthler,
who worked like a hero among the sick, at
last fell ill with the terrible malady. Olympia
watched by him day and night, praying in-
tensely for his recovery, and he was spared to
her for a time, but only to suffer more terrible
misfortunes. The town was sacked, and the
Grünthlers, treated barbarously by the soldiers,
escaped barely with their lives, and suffered
such hardships before reaching a place of
safety that Olympia's health was seriously im-
paired. The good Protestant, Count Erbach.
took in the poor starving fugitives, and his
wife nursed Olympia through a fever. After
this Dr. Grunthler was invited to a post in
Heidelburg, and Olympia was offered the
Greek chair in the University, which she de-
clined. Then the Elector wished her to take 
some high office in the train of the Electress,
but Olympia could not be tempted from the
domestic hearth ever again. Her health
gradually declined; she pined away and died
at last, expressing her joy at being called to a 
happier world. Her noble husband did not
long survive her, he fell the victim of another
pestilence, and the little brother died a few
days after him. So this devoted family were
not long separated. They parted in deep sorrow
but awoke to a deeper joy.
		G. S. GODKIN.
	Author of the Life of Victor Emanuel
Lung' Arno Guicuardini, Florence. 
—English Woman's Review.


