HYGIENIC NOTES.

	Hot water applied to bruises will move the pain and
swelling.
	The secret of muscular recuperation is in stopping when
fatigue begins.  He or she who is not the fresher in body
and mind for the exercise taken has had an overdose of
what in proper measure would have been a benefit.  The
gain in strength is shown and felt in the increasing ability
to do more and more without exhaustion.  The measure
of success is not in the greatness of the feat accomplished,
but in the ease with which the exercise is indulged in, and
in the absence of exhaustion after it.  There are occasions
frequent enough in which people in the struggle of life are
forced beyond their powers of endurance and there is no
need to carry into the pursuit of recreation the fatigue
which exacting work imposes.
	Dr. George R. Shepherd adds his testimony to that of
many others by saying in the Medical Record:  “I have
used hot water as a gargle for the past six or eight years
having been led to do so from seeing its beneficial effects.
In acute pharyngitis and tonsillitis, if properly used at the
commencement of the attack, it constitutes one of the
most effective remedies, being frequently promptly curative.
If used later in the disease or in chronic cases, it is always
beneficial, though perhaps not so immediately curative.
To be of service it should be used in considerable quantity
(half a pint or pint) at a time, and just as hot as the throat
will tolerate.  I have seen many cases of acute disease thus
aborted, and can commend the method with great confi-
dence.  I believe it may be taken as an established fact
that in the treatment of inflammations generally, and those
of the mucous membranes in particular, moist heat is of
service, and in most cases hot water is preferable to
steam."
	The increased, and apparently increasing, frequency of
neuralgic headache among women must needs have a cause.
There is one of singular simplicity and quite obvious which
has been overlooked, and to which it is worth while to draw
attention.  The pain experienced is generally located in
one or more of the branches of the second cervical nerve,
very commonly those terminating in the scalp of the occi-
put.  As a matter of fact, the nerves of the scalp are irri-
tated by the hair being drawn tightly back and put on the
strain, not as a whole, in which case the strain would be
spread over a large area of the surface, but by small bun-
dles of hair which are pulled back and held in place by
hair-pins.  Relief is often consciously experienced as a re-
sult of removing the hair-pins, but this has only a tempor-
ary and partial effect.  The injury done is lasting if not
permanent, in its consequences.  The present style of
dressing the hair should be discontinued, as it probably, in
part at least, accounts for the extreme prevalence of a form
of suffering which is both intractable and distressing.—
The Lancet.


