READING AT ANY TIME.

	How quiet the house is at midnight! The
people who talk and laugh and sing in it every
day are asleep, and the people who fell asleep
in it long ago come back into it. Every house
has these two classes of tenants. Do we love
best those with whom we can laugh and talk
and sing, or the dear, silent ones who come so
noiselessly to our side, and whisper to us in

[Column 2]

faint, far-away whispers that have no sound, so
that we hear only their very stillness.
	I am not tired, but my pen is weary. It 
falls from my fingers, and I raise my head. I
start to leave the table, and my eyes fall upon
a little book lying on the floor. It is a little 
"First Reader." He left it there this after-
noon. I remember just how I was impatient
because he could not read the simple little
lesson—such an easy lesson—and I told him it
was a waste of my time to teach him, and
pushed him away from me. I remember now
I see the flush come into the little tired face,
the brave, cheerful look in his eyes—his
mother's brave, patient, cheeriness, struggling
with his disappointment and pain. I see him
lie down on the floor, and the little face bent
over the troublesome little lesson, such a sim-
ple, easy lesson, any baby might read it. Then, 
after a little struggle alone, it has to be given
up, and the baffled little soldier with one more
appealing look toward me for re-inforcements,
sighs and goes away from the lesson he cannot 
read to the play that comforts him. And
there lies the little book,  just as he left it. Ah,
me, I could kneel down and kiss it now as
though it were alive and loving.
	Why, what was my time worth to me to-day? 	
What was there in the book I wanted to read
one-half so precious to me as one cooing word 
from the prattling lips that quivered when I
turned away. I hate the book I read. I will 
never look at it again. Were it the last book
in the world I think I would burn it. All its
gracious words are lies. I say to you, though
all men praise the book, and though an hour
ago I thought it excellent, I say to you that
there is poison in its hateful pages. Why, what
can I learn from books that baby lips cannot
teach me?  Do you know I want to go to the
door of his room and listen; the house is so still
maybe he is not breathing. Why, if between
my book and my boy I choose my book, why
should not God leave me with my books? My
hateful books.
	But I was not harsh. I was only a little
impatient. Because, you see, his lesson was so
easy, so simple. Ah, me, there were two of us
trying to read this afternoon. They were two
easy, simple lessons. Mine was such a very
simple, easy, pleasant, loving one to learn. Just
a line, just a little throb of patience, of gentle-
ness, of  love that would have made my own
heart glow and laugh and sing. The letters
were so large and plain, the words so easy and
the sentences so short. I did not read one
line aright. See, here is my copy now, all
blurred and blistered with tears and the heart-
ache; all marred and misspelled and blotted. I 
am ashamed to show it to the Master, and yet
I know he will be patient with me; I know
how loving and gentle he will be  Why, how
patiently and lovingly all these years he has
been teaching me this simple lesson I failed
upon to-day. But when my little pupil stum-
bled on a single word—is my time, then, so
much more precious than the Master's that I
cannot teach the little lesson more than once?
	Ah, friend, we do waste time when we plait
scourges for ourselves. These hurrying days,
these busy, anxious, shrewd, ambitious times,
of ours are wasted when they take our hearts
away from patient gentleness, and give us fame
for love, and gold for kisses. Some day, then,
when, our hungry souls will seek for bread, our
selfish god will give us a stone. Life is a sim-
ple, easy lesson; such as any child may read.
You cannot find its solution in the ponderous
tomes of the old fathers, the philosophers, the 
investigators, the theorists. It is not on your
bookshelves. But in the warmest corner of
the most unfettered heart it glows in letters
that the blind may read; a sweet, plain, simple,
easy, loving lesson. And when you have
learned it, brother of mine, the world will be
better and happier.—Robert J. Burdette.


