PERSECUTION AND ITS EFFECTS.
	Our enemies during the past half
year have not slackened their ac-
tivity in the work of persecution. If
there has been any difference, it has been
pursued with greater vindictiveness
and more flagrant disregard of law and
justice than at any time previous.
Those who have been compelled to en-
dure the penalties inflicted upon them
have  submitted, in nearly every
instance, with a cheerful equanimity
and fortitude that must have won the
admiration of heaven and of all just
men. That which has been accom-
plished furnishes but little cause for
gratification to those who have been
engaged in the inhuman task of perse-
cuting a people for the practice of
their religion. There have been but
few persons in all who have been tried
and convicted who have felt sufficient-
ly terrified at the prospect of punish-
ment to express a willingness to accept
the rulings of the court instead of the
law of God, as the guide for their con-
sciences
	The faith of the Latter-day Saints
seems to grow stronger from these ef-
forts to destroy it; and men, women
and children who have been living in the
practice of the requirements of their
religion feel more determined than
ever to maintain their integrity and to
do all that the Lord requires at their
hands with cheerful willingness, what-
ever may be the consequences from a
worldly point of view.
	This persecution is not without its
effects upon those who have made a
pretense of being faithful members of
the Church. Iniquity is being brought
to light. The wrongdoer is being made
to feel, in a most remarkable manner,
that his sin will find him out; and the
evidence that God is pleading with and
awakening the consciences of those
who  have been  living in sin is
frequently furnished to us. There have
been many violations of the law of
God practiced among us which have
been hidden from the public gaze. The
trials through which we are passing
have the effect of causing these evils to
be brought to light. It seems as though
the Lord is tearing the covering, not
only from the nations of the earth, but
from the Latter-day Saints; and the
time is not far distant—in fact, it has
reached us already in part—when the
sinner in Zion shall tremble, and fear
shall seize upon the hypocrite.

