THE REFUGE OF LIES.
	Probably at no period in the world's
history has Satan had such power over
the hearts of the children of men as
he appear to wield at the present. He
has flooded the earth with lies, en-
deavoring by means of these decep-
tions to retard the work of God, to
destroy its influence, and to make vic-
tims of its believers, especially those
who have the authority to administer
the ordinances of the Gospel. A more
striking illustration of his power in
this respect has not been furnished us
than was witnessed at the meetings
which were attended by some of the
members of the Grand Army of the

[Column 3]

Republic who were passing through
here. It would be incredible to be-
lieve that people could be so deceived
by the false statements which were
made to them by our enemies who
reside here, had it not been witnessed.
The most abominable falsehoods,
which could be disproved with the
greatest ease, were told with an un-
blushing effrontery that was Satanic:
and though many of the visitors had
opportunities of seeing for themselves,
and of mingling with the people, some
went away fully imbued with the idea
that the Latter-day Saints ought to be
exterminated from the face of the
earth. But to the credit of humanity
be it said, others became thoroughly
disgusted with the proceedings, and
denounced unsparingly the folly and
wrong of condemning a people afford-
ing so many evidences of the qualities
that go to make excellent citizens, from
the one-sided statements of their
avowed enemies.
	The course of the former class is an
illustration of the malignant power of
falsehood wielded by Satan in other
directions and places. If lies could
overwhelm the work of God,we should
be completely crushed under their
weight. It is this great influence up-
on which Satan depends to thwart the
purposes of God and check the spread
of truth; and, unfortunately for the
world, it appears willing to drink in
his spirit and to believe his fabrica-
tions. It is this that arouses mobs and
causes them to indulge in acts of vio-
lence and hostility against,unoffend-
ing servants of God, and that has in-
cited them to shed the blood of inno-
cent men in the most cruel and barbar-
ous manner.
	By means of this incessant stream of
falsehood which is continually being
sent forth, the rulers of our nation are
urged to adopt the most extreme
measures against us. It appears
vain to point to our works, to
show what we have done in reclaiming
this land from its original sterility, and
building up a grand commonwealth in
these mountains—a commonwealth
rich in all the elements of greatness,
lightly taxed, free from debt, with
peace and union prevailing to an un-
paralleled extent throughout all these
mountains where Latter-day Saints
reside. It is in vain that we point to
our frugality, our temperance, our
comparative freedom from crime, and
the peace and good order which exist
wherever we are in the majority. All
these evidences of thrift and virtue go
for nothing, and the National Legisla-
ture feels that it is under the necessity
of devising schemes to take away from
us the rights we have inherited, and
which belong to us as a free people, and
to bring us into bondage to those who
malign us, and who would take delight
in destroying us.

