OCTOBER CONFERNECE.
	The Fifty-sixth Semi-Annual Conference of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints con-
vened Wednesday, October 6th, in the new Stake
House at Coalville, Apostle Franklin D. Richards
presiding. Of the authorities of the Church there
were present, Patriarch John Smith, and four of the
Quorum of the Apostles. The services were of
an exalted character throughout, and the Holy
Spirit seemed to be poured out in rich abundance
upon those who took part in the services.  An
Epistle from the First Presidency was read during
the Conference by Elder H. M. Wells. The
Epistle is published in full in this number of the
paper. It is encouraging to this people, who are
so cruelly deprived of the counsel and instruction
of the President of the Church and his Counsel-
ors, to have from time to time official Epistles
containing definite advice, and to know that they
are still watched over and guided under the in-


spiration of the Almighty by His servants, who
hold the keys to administer unto the people of
His Church here upon the earth. It will be a 
great comfort and blessing, not only to those who
are here in Zion, but to thousands afar off, to read
the words of divine inspiration, though they have
not the privilege of hearing the voices of those to
whom they were wont to listen in times that are
past—the days of peace and prosperity.
	The Conference was numerously attended, and
discourses touching upon all general topics, and
exhorting to lives of purity and holiness, were de-
livered by members of the Quorum of the Apos-
tles and other leading men; of the Apostles, who
addressed the people, there were F. D. Richards,
John Henry Smith, Heber J. Grant and John W.
Taylor. Several Presidents of Stakes represented
their fields of labor, and altogether the meetings
were interesting, and no doubt the good teaching
will have a beneficial effect in its results upon the
the Saints.
	It is certainly a time of solemnity and supplica-
tion,  and there is the greatest need of the Holy
Spirit in the hearts and homes of this people.
Great events are close at hand; of this fact there
can be no doubt in the minds of any who are
watching the signs of the times.


