NOTES AND NEWS.

	Two of the thrones of the last Napoleon are
for sale in France at one hundred dollars
each.
	It will cost $4,000 and take 6,000 books of
gold leaf to gild the great dome at Notre Dame
university, Indiana. The work is now in pro-
gress.
	The Vatican library contains 24,000 manu-
scripts, of which 2,164 are oriental, 3,052
Greek, and 17,069 Latin. A complete cata
logue is now being prepared.
	The President and Mrs. Cleveland have re-
turned to Washington from their summer so-
journ in the Adirondack wilderness. Social
life at the national capital is beginning to re-
sume its wonted autumnal activity.
	The Princess Maria Josepha, niece of King
Albert Frederick of Saxony, was married
October 3rd, to Arch Duke Otto, nephew of
Francis Joseph of Austria. The Princess re-
nounced for herself and her descendents all
right of succession to the throne of Saxony.
	A telegram from the City of Mexico, Oct.
4th, states that a curious phenomenon has oc-
curred at Chimapla in that state. Within four
days tremendous subterraeann reports were
heard, though at the time the meteorological
conditions were perfect. The people in the town
were filled with alarm, and an investigation


was made, by which it was discovered that a
high hill in the vicinity had been completely
divided into two parts by some powerful
force.
	Captain Uriel Crocker, of Boston, celebrated
his 90th birthday at his country place in Co-
hassett, on the 13th of September last. He
was prominently connected with the raising of
the Bunker Hill Monument, and has been a
director of the Old Colony Railroad ever since
its organization in 1835. His business partner,
who sat by his side during the day, Osmyn
Brewster, is eleven months and eleven days
younger. Their's was the old firm of Crocker
and Brewster, Publishers and Booksellers on
Washington Street.
	It is said that Queen Victoria can wash and
dress a baby with any woman, and can general-
ly diagnose the trouble when a child cries.
The Queen's skill in baby nursing was acquired
from the famous Mrs. Lilley, who attended her
majesty at the birth of the nine royal children.
This excellent person was a great favorite with
the Queen, who honored her with her confi-
dence upon the most delicate matters. When
Mrs. Lilley died, in her ninety-second year,
her majesty was unaffectedly grieved, feeling,
that she had lost a true friend. The old nurse
to the last proved worthy of the confidence of
her mistress.


