JOSEPH F. SMITH.


[Column 1]
OLD FOLKS’ DAY.
PRESIDENT SNOW’S ADDRESS READ BY
HIS SON, LE ROI C. SNOW.
	My brethren and sisters and dear friends,
am delighted to be with you on this hap-
py occasion. I feel that I am in the pres-
ence of men and women who are distin-
guished, not alone for the many years they
have lived among us, but for their purity
of life, their strength of character, their ex-
emplary habits, and above all, for their un-
wavering integrity to God. I congratu-
late you all on having lived so long and so
worthily upon the earth. Like myself,
you have been in this stage of action quite
a few years, and I am satisfied that the
Lord has had His eye over you for good.
certainly acknowledge His hand in the
preservation of my life up to the present
time. I am now in my eighty-eighth year,
and I know it is through the mercy and
blessing of God that I am here today,
privileged to join with you in this unique
gathering.
	These Old Folks’ excursions are aus-
picious and enjoyable events, and all who
are over seventy years of age look forward
to them, no doubt, with considerable
pleasure. They have become so celebrated
that their fame has spread abroad, and men
from afar have looked upon them with
commendation and have greatly admired
the motive which inspires them. They
furnish an example that could with profit
be followed by other communities in the
world, for they are the legitimate fruits of
a spirit and sentiment that should prevail
aniong all people, bespeaking the brother-
hood of man and the fatherhood of God.
These gatherings bear witness to the fact
that among the Latter-day Saints, at least
there is love and respect for the aged, and
a desire to bless and make them happy.
This feeling so manifested cannot help but
command the admiration of all honorable

[Colmun 2]
men and women, and it certainly is pleas-
ing to our Father in heaven, whose sons
and daughters we are; and He will most
surely bless all those who labor so unsel-
fishly and indefatigably to make these an-
nual outings a success.
	It is truly gratifying to see so many
“old folks" among us. Perhaps in no
other part of the world are there so many
aged ones, in proportion to the population,
as can be found in Utah. I regard this as
due to the observance by the people of
those wholesome, health-giving laws which
the Lord has given for our guidance in the
care of our bodies supplemented by His
divine favor towards us. Among us, I am
happy to say, old age is honorable, and re-
garded as a blessing from the Lord. It is
our duty to desire to live long upon the
earth, that we may do as much good as we
possibly can. I esteem it a great privilege
to have the opportunity of living in
mortality. The Lord has sent us here
for a wise and glorious purpose and it
should be our business to find out what
that purpose is, and then order our lives
accordingly.
******
	A few day ago I was at a large gather-
ing in this magnificent pavilion, of
Primary children, and had a very happy
time with them. They were children who
are on the threshold of life, and the ques-
tion of whether or no they will faithfully
carry out the object of their existence and
be true to God cannot yet be answered; but
here is a body of men and women who are
so far advanced in life as to be nearing the
end, and who have lived such lives of
faithfulness and devotion that it may truly
be said of them that, they have carried out
the purpose of their existence here and
their ultimate success is assured. I rejoice
with you in the fact that after all these
years you are still journeying on the road
to exaltation and eternal life. I know that
your lives have not been all sunshine; you
have doubtless passed through many a
trial, and perhaps have come up through
much tribulation; but by continued integ-
rity you will soon emerge from the shad-
ows into the glorious sunshine of the
celestial world.
******


[Column 1]
HURRY, WEAR AND TEAR. 
	The startling progress of the present day
along many lines, both of thought and of
activity, keeps one constantly on the qui
vive to be at all posted in the world’s great
undertakings. One who would keep
abreast of the times must even think rapid-
ly, or be left behind. There seems to be
every facility for rapid motion in traveling,
etc., quick connections in communication,
the telegraph and telephone to convey ideas
the world over almost, but the individual
brain must still do the thinking and plan-
ning, and it is this hurry of thinking that
is making such headlong rush that it is no
wonder insanity is on the increase.
	It would be a good thing to slow up now
and then, better than to push onward and
finally plunge headlong into the madden-
ing scheme, that may end in paralysis or
prostration of the nervous forces.
	Perhaps Americans are too ambitious,
they have so much vital energy that they
spend it freely, but to prolong human life
is one of the principles taught by the
Prophet Joseph Smith and others of our


[Column 2]
wise men, and in order to do so one must
obey the laws of nature, the higher laws
taught by revelation to the Latter-day
Saints.
	Very few people really abide by the regu-
lations they know to be advantageous to
life and health, but promise themselves,
perchance, that bye and bye they’ll take
the much-needed rest.
	There really seems more to do than ever
before and yet there are so many inventions
to lessen work that it is a problem how there
can be more to do, and one cannot help
feeling that it is not only a problem no one
seems able to solve, but it is positively a
mystery.
	At any rate the facts remain the same,
and everybody complains, almost without
exception, of being overworked. Is it be-
cause we require so much more than form-
erly to help us to live, or what is the rea-
son people are always in a hurry?
	There certainly are more amusements
than there used to be, and it is hard work
to go to places of recreation to be amused,
that is if one has to hurry to make the
time to go. Heber C. Kimball used to say
holidays were “hollow days,” and the
hardest days there were and the most
fatiguing; but some people do not take time
for simple recreation, and business men
nowadays really have not time to see their
families and get acquainted with their own
children.
	Where is the person who is to call a
halt?
	It is not a wholesome state of affairs, and
will not tend to a higher state of perfection.
And certainly in the hot weather the effect
of hurry will be dangerous. Men, and
women too, for that matter, rush to catch
trains, and to eat a lunch, if they have
any, and altogether, anyway, many people
are so anxious to get on in the world that
they forget or neglect all the little courte-
sies that were so charming in the ladies
and gentlemen of “the old school,” as it has
become customary to call the manners of
the long ago when the people had leisure.
	It is delightful to be surrounded with
wealth and able to gratify one’s taste in all
sorts of ways, but the multiplied of duties
and of work along so many lines hinders
even the enjoyment of wealth, and its ac-
cessories, and all this hinders the cultivation
of true politeness and refinement of senti-
ment and of soul and a kindliness of man-
ner, which is essential for those who are
aiming to reach a high standard of excel-
lence in all that pertains to the life here
upon the earth and the eternities here-
after.
	The Latter-day Saints should now and
then examine their own accounts not
financially, but generally, and compare
them with what the Lord has said in the
revelations given in the latter days and
see if they compare well with the written
instructions, and take care of the bodies
given them, and seek by all legitimate
means to preserve their health and strength,
that they may not come under condem-
nation for not taking care of their mortal
bodies.


