SOUTH SANPETE.
	Synopsis of Relief Society conference of
the South Sanpete Stake of Zion, held in
Ephraim, November 12, 1901, President
Alvira L. Cox presiding. Singing, “How
firm a foundation.” Prayer by President
Ellen Dorius. Singing, “We thank Thee,
O God, for a prophet.” Minutes of pre-
vious conference read and approved, also a
condensed report of the Stake for 1900.
	Sister Marie Willardsen, having been
chosen counselor in the Stake Board of the
Primary, was honorably released from her
duties as Stake secretary of the Relief
Society, which position she had filled with
honor and credit for many years. A vote
of thanks was unanimously extended to
her for her faithful labor.
	Miss Etta Anderson, of Manti, was
unanimously sustained as her successor.
	The Stake officers were then presented to
the conference and sustained.
	President Cox made opening remarks, re-
minded the sisters that the 17th of March
was approaching and advised that it be
celebrated in some fitting manner by each
branch society, and that the ten cent fee be
collected.
	The various wards of the Slake consist-
ing of Ephraim, North and South, Sterling,
Mayfield, Chester and Fayette were re-
ported by their respective presidents,
Centerfield by its secretary and Dover not
represented.
	Sister Julia C. Howe, of the Salt Lake
Stake Board, addressed the conference. She
dwelt on the importance of the mission of
the teachers. She had had experience in
that capacity herself and had enjoyed it
very much. Spoke of the necessity of
teachers seeking Divine aid that their
words might be words of wisdom. Stated
that the Relief Society was the parent of all
the auxiliary organizations of the Church.
Spoke of the contemplated Woman’s
Building and hoped the sisters would not
think they had too many calls.
	President Peterson expressed his great


pleasure at meeting with the sisters, and
also at seeing so many present. Referred
to the Snow Academy, said it would have
an assembly hall with a seating capacity of
six hundred. In conclusion eulogized the
work of the Relief Society.
	President Cox said she had considered
the advisability of making a donation to
the Snow Academy. The proposition was
unanimously sustained by the conference
and ten dollars was appropriated for that
purpose.
	Singing, Doxology. Benediction by
Bishop Anderson:
	Afternoon session opened by singing
“Glorious things are sung of Zion.”
Prayer by Sister Helena Madsen. Sing-
ing “O say what is truth.”
	Sister Elizabeth Stevenson addressed
the conference. Thought we failed to
appreciate the blessing of having the living
oracle in our midst. Spoke of the high
mission of motherhood and of prenatal in-
fluences. Mothers should retain the con-
fidence of their sons as well as their
daughters. Paid a tribute to the labors of
the teachers, said they were the backbone
of the society. Referred to the Relief
Society building to be erected in Salt Lake
City, and also to the necessity of sustain-
ing the EXPONENT. She advised prompt-
ness in the presidents in giving their re-
ports.
	Sister Rebecca Wareliam spoke of
Relief Society work in Nauvoo. Testified
to the healing power which had been mani-
fested in her behalf in the Manti Temple.
Stake Counselor Abigail Shoemaker
urged the young sisters to join the Relief
Society and bear testimony, that they
might be strengthened.
	President Alvira Cox was grateful to
Sisters Howe and Stevenson for their visit
and for their timely instruction. Testified
to the presence of the Spirit of God in the
conference. Spoke of the necessity of
cultivating faith, that Jesus may not say
of us as he did of ancient Israel, “O, ye of
little faith!” Said the instruction in 
relation to funds for the new building had
been given to the various branches in the
Stake, and she expected each ward to do
its duty.
	Sister Howe said those who were tal-
ented in writing should write for the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT. She felt well paid
for her visit and had been much interested
in the remarks of Sister Wareham. She
herself was a living monument of God’s
mercy. Sister Stevenson related an in-
cident showing how faith was rewarded.
Conference adjourned for six months to
meet in Gunnison. Singing, “Lord dis-
miss us.” Benediction by Stake Treasurer
Mary T. Peterson.
	P. S. The 17th  of March was fittingly
observed in Manti. Interesting programs
were rendered and a good spirit prevailed,
					A. L. C.
	MARICOPA STAKE.
	A special conference of the Relief Society
of the Maricopa Stake was held at Mesa in
the Stake Tabernacle, May 13, 1901, Stake
Counselor Francelle E. Robson presiding in
the absence of Stake President Mabel A.
Hakes, who was unable to attend.
	The attendance was large, the sisters
feeling to rejoice that they could have the
privilege of receiving instructions from one
of those sisters to whom we look as guides,
Sister Emma S. Woodruff being the first
sister to visit this Stake officially to give
instructions in Relief Society work since
the organization in this Stake. Many
questions were asked and explained.
	The reports from the different wards were
given. President Susan Savage in giving
the report of the Papago Ward said that
the Lamanite sisters were watching their
white sisters very closely in regard to the
keeping of the Word of Wisdom. 
	Elder L. John Nuttall was pleased with
the reports and glad that the sisters were
striving to live their religion and each add-
ing their mite in the great cause.
	The subjects of storing up grain, train-
ing our children properly and paying tith-
ing, especially among the young people,
wfere dwelt upon, and that each Stake
should send a representative to the General
Conference at Salt Lake each year, so that
all could be in touch with those at the
head.
	All felt to take the good spirit home and
try to live their religion better in the future
than they had in the past.
