MRS. HARRINGTON’S PARTY.
	On Thursday, June 18, 1901, a very
pleasant party was given, Mrs. Margaret
Y. Taylor being the guest of honor, at
the residence of her daughter, Mrs. Leonora
Taylor Harrington, who had spared no
pains in decorating and in procuring good
music for the occasion. The house was
beautiful in every detail and the perfume of
flowers inside and of the fruit blossoms out-
side, wafted in the open windows, was de-
lightful. It was one of those delicious
social events where the old friends meet
and talk over the incidents of the past, re-
calling former festivities when the country
was new and there were fewer luxuries.
	Brother Willie Clive played some of his
finest selections and his little son, Clifford,
who is a musical genius, gave us some ex-
quisite strains on the violin, and two or
three young ladies sang old fashioned
songs in the very best style, and Mrs.
Harrington and her coterie of young ladies
waited upon the guests with fruit punch
and lemonade and chatted merrily with the
“Aunties,” until dinner was announced
and the numerous company seated at the
tables. There were about fifty ladies
and one or two of Mrs. Taylor’s sons, the
eldest son, Ebenezer, asked the blessing.
Soon after President Joseph F. Smith
arrived, he had been unavoidably delayed.
	After the dinner was over and the guests
were seated in the parlors, the host,
Brother Harrington, made a few remark
in which he stated that it had been the in-
tention of himself and wife to have their
house dedicated and this seemed an appro-
priate time, and he then called upon Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith to make the dedi-
catory prayer. President Smith responded
and offered the prayer, which was also a
blessing upon the family for their further
prosperity and happiness, as well as the
preservation of their family from all harm,
evil and calamity.
	The evening was drawing near and the
guests one by one departed with fervent
good wishes and God bless the home and
its inmates, feeling refreshed in spirit and
gladdened by social interchange of thought
and conversation.
	Mrs. Harrington may count her mother’s
party a social success and one the friends of
her mother and herself will always remem-
ber with pleasure, and may she have many
more such hospitable gatherings during
her future life, and may her own life be as
sweet and enjoyable as she sought, to make
that day for her mother’s friends;


