THE THIRTY-THIRD ANNUAL MEETING.
	The 33rd annual meeting of National
Woman’s Suffrage Association adjourned
on Thursday evening, June 5, 1901. It
has been an interesting and successful


convention with 26 states represented by
145 delegates in actual attendance. Most
of these delegates are active and influential
workers for equal suffrage in their respec-
tive localities. It would be difficult to
secure a more complete expression of the
equal suffrage movement as it exists in the
United States today.
	The unity of sentiment and identity of
purpose were highly encouraging. There
was no North, no South, no East and
no West in this truly national assembly.
Each state seemed to vie with every other
in generous sympathy and sisterly regard.
The desire seemed to be to recognize the
excellent work done in the past, and to
plan for the future with a view solely to
the welfare of the cause.
	Five thousand dollars was pledged to
the work of 1902. Of the $8,500 net pro-
ceeds of the National Bazar $3,500 has
been used in the work since January 1,
1901, leaving the remaining $5,000 for
future work.
	In the board of general officers two
changes were made. In place of Mrs.
Rachel Foster Avery, who declined a re-
election, Mrs. Kate Gordon, of Louisana,
was elected corresponding secretary, with
the understanding that she will make her
residence in New York, and devote her en-
tire time to the business of the association.
				Woman’s Journal.


Mrs Kate M. Gordon of New Orleans,
who has just been elected corresponding
secretary of the National American
Woman’s Suffrage Association is probably
the only person in the United States who
ever voted legitimately several hundred
times in one day. When the Louisiana
Constitutional Convention, in 1898, gave
taxpaying women the right to vote on all
questions submitted to the taxpayers, it
added a clause unique in suffrage legis-
lation, to the effect that any woman who
preferred to do so might cast her vote by
proxy. Soon after a special election was
held in New Orleans to levy a tax for im-
proved sewerage. New Orleans was al-
most the only city of its size without
underground sewers Up to that time
every effort to levy a special tax for
sewers had failed. When the women tax-
payers were given a vote they took a
great interest in the question, held many
public and parlor meetings and cast a large
vote The election went, in favor of bet-
ter sanitation, and all the New Orleans
papers declared that “the women did it.”
Miss Gordon was president of the
Woman’s Sewerage and Drainage League
of New Orleans. She collected proxies
from three hundred women taxpayers who
wanted better sewers, but were timid about
going to the polls, and she spent election
day in driving about and voting over and
over again in all parts of the city, as every
proxy vote had to be cast in the precinct
where the person giving the proxy liv
The Business Men’s Association of N
Orleans gave Miss Gordon a medal.


[---] Releif Society
Woman’s Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation

