AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SARAH B. LAYTON.

(Continued.)

In January, 1877, my son, E. W. Lay-
ton, married Ellen Colemere. In 1882, on
the 21st of December, Sarah Elizabeth,
was married to Levi Taylor, Jr. June,
1883, Brother Layton was called to go to
Arizona to preside over the St. Joseph
Stake. He took Elizabeth Williams Lay-
ton with him, his last wife. For some
time his health improved. My son, E. W.
Layton, also went to Arizona.
In June, 1884, Ann H. left the office and
on August 27 married Seth C. Jones, the
ceremony being performed in the Logan
Temple. The other four before mentioned
were married in the Endowment House in
Salt Lake City. In September of that
year death visited my family and took my
oldest son, Hyrum, rheumatism of the heart
being the cause. All the trouble that I
had endured seemed as nothing when com-
pared with what I had to go through at
that time. I was almost alone with him
when he passed away. I felt that if it
could be I would gladly follow him, but
my Father in heaven willed it otherwise
and I tried to be reconciled to the situation.
One night about three weeks before his
death I was lying in bed looking out of the
door, when all at once I heard a voice re-
peat these words as plainly as I ever heard 
any thing: “In six troubles I have been
with you and in the seventh I will not for-
sake you.” I did not know what to think
of it. I had had six children, and I knew
that the Lord had watched over me, and
had raised me from the very jaws of death
when several of them were born, but what
the seventh was to be I knew not; and for
days I could not get it off my mind.
One day my grandson came and told me
that his father was sick with the rheuma-
tism. I told him that if his father grew
worse that he should let me know, and I
would go out to him. I did not hear any-
thing more, and thought he was getting
better. But one morning I felt impressed
to go out to him. I was so strongly im-
pressed that I said I would go if I had to
walk. In a short time one of the boys
came up with a team from the farm. I told
him that I must go out and see Hyrum,
and he said that the team would run away
if they got the chance, but I was welcome
to it if I dared take it. I asked the Lord
to preserve us and we went. Lucy went
in with me to bring the team back.
When I arrived there I found him asleep.
His wife told me that he had watched the
trains for several days to see if I would not
come, and that morning when I did not
come he cried until he went to sleep. That
hurt me to think that I had neglected him,
though I did not know that he was so bad,
and I thought I was needed at home with
my daughter, who was at home and in bed
with a child. 
When he awoke he asked me why I did
not come before, but I told him that I did
not know that lie was worse, as I had not
heard from him. I did not leave him
again, but did everything that I could. But
the pain seemed to gather around his heart,
and I knew that it would go hard with
him. He lived eleven days after I arrived,
but in all that time I never once thought of
words I had heard some time before. At
the end of that time he passed away, and
then those words came to me as they had
before. Had it not been for that promise I
do not know how I could have kept up,

[Column 2]
had I.not had so much confidence in the
promises of the Lord. He was a kind son,
loving and charitable, the best he had was
not too good for any one in distress. He
was not very religious, but tried to do unto
others as he would have them do unto him.
I have known him to go miles through
storms to take food and fuel to the needy.
At his death he left a wife and six chil-
dren, two boys and four girls. His oldest
daughter died July 3, 1889, aged twelve
years, ten months and thirteen days. The
others are scattered around the country
now.
It is hard to part with loved ones, but
parting comes to all; and when the fond
mother lays her darling one down, though
others may be added to her arms, they can-
not fill the vacant place; nor can it be filled
until the resurrection when all will be re-
stored.
Three weeks before Brother Layton
started for Arizona, while talking with
Hyrum he said: “Hyrum, my boy, I feel
that you and I will never meet again in
this life. If we do not, be a good boy and
all will be well with you.”
In July I asked him to come to Kaysville
to spend my birthday with me. He said
he was very busy preparing for harvesting;
he said that I would have many more such
ocasions. I have, but he did not live to
see another. The day he died his father,
was traveling in Arizona and said to his
traveling companion that something was
wrong with some of his family in Utah. “I
feel that something is wrong with my son
Hyrum.” He said he had felt it all day.
The first thing to meet him on arriving
home was a telegram saying that Hyriim
was dead. Hyrum was a great favorite
with his father and it was a hard blow to
him.
In about three weeks my son, E. W.
Layton, returned from Arizona with his
family. He was unwell and that grieved
me. Grief and sorrow have been frequent
callers on me all my life, but through all
my heavenly Father has been mindful of
me and has strengthened me. I have al-
ways had a desire to hold on to the truth,
and live above reproach and set an example
worthy of imitation. I have sometimes
thought that I chose the thorny path before
came here and have had to walk in it. I
am thankful, however, that I, like many
others, have not tallen by the wav side, and
gone into darkness and I pray that I, like
Paul, may exclaim: “I have fought the
good fight, I have finished my course and
kept the faith,” and then all will be well.
When it has seemed that there was no
hope for me tilings have turned and my
life has been spared and I trust for good, as
that has been mv whole object in life.
We do not always see the result im-
mediately after doing a good act. It will
be like the bread cast upon the waters, it
will be seen after many days. I have the
consolation of knowing that I have done
some good in the world, but might have
done more if it had been my good fortune 
to have received an education. I never
had an opportunity for gaining knowledge
from books, so have had to suffer for my
ignorance in that line, and pick up through
life the best I could. I have gone along,
although many times it has been a great
trouble to me.
For many years the labor of my hands
and the blessing of health have been the
means of support. Much of my trouble
has been caused through misrepresentation

[Column 3]

by those who should have been my best
friends. I have proved many times that a
false friend is far worse than an open
enemy. But I can say truly that no
weapon that has been formed against me
has ever prospered, and I am patiently
waiting for the lime when in judgment I
shall condemn them. This is the promise
of the Lord.
In October, 1897, Brother Franklin D.
Richards and wife came and ate dinner
with me. He was asking me about
Brother Layton, and told me when I wrote
to him to send his love to him and his
family there. I told him that I would
when I wrote.
(To be continued.)


