EDITORIAL NOTES.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder returned from
Europe in company with President Platte
D. Lyman and others, after having filled a
successful mission. She has had some in-
teresting experiences while laboring among
the people in London and that vicinity.
She will speak for herself through the
EXPONENT, later on. To us the missionary
work of the sisters is exceedingly interesting.
We are aware that in many instances our sis-
ters can reach people, especially among
their own sex, that would not listen to the
Elders. Sister Alder is in good spirits and
feeling well, except being a little fatigued
from the journey.
	President Emma S. Woodruff, of the
Granite Stake Relief Society, and a member
of the General Board, left here about the
middle of April on a mission to the Relief
Society of the Southern Stakes of Zion.
She traveled in company with Elder L.
John Nuttall, who was visiting Sabbath
Schools and attending S. S. conferences.
Sister Woodruff visited Snowflake, St.
John’s, St. Joseph and Maricopa in
Arizona, Juarez, Stakes and conferences
at Diaz, in Mexico, then San Luis Stake
in Colorado. She was absent two months
and accomplished much good among the
sisters in their organizations, speaking
publicly and giving such instructions on
all occasions as were suitable to the circum-
stances of the society wherever located.
Sister Woodruff enjoyed her trip very much
and although the journey was rather
fatiguing she is very glad she was able to
do this missionary work.
	We have had a pleasant call from Elder
Wm. J. Snow and wife who have just re-
turned from a mission in Brooklyn. Elder
Snow was President of the Brooklyn con-
ference in the Eastern States mission. He
was set apart to labor early in May, and
has been doing regular missionary work
until called home on account of the serious
illness of his mother, at Pinto, Sister


Snow has been present at eight baptisms,
six women and two men. She has spoken
to large audiences on the street, once in
Brooklyn, once at Harlem, New York,
has also spoken at several college meetings
in Boston and Newark, New Jersey and
in Brooklyn, and is, we think, the first
Latter-day Saint sister who has spoken on
the street in these cities or in the Eastern
mission. Sister Snow gave us some very
interesting items about the Relief Society
in Brooklyn, which is doing good work
and helping the mission very effectively, as
well as looking after the needy. We ex-
pect soon to have a report from the secre-
tary, Miss Isabelle Shaffer. Sister Snow
has greatly enjoyed her labors and seems
to have had the spirit of missionary work.


