ELLA WHEELER WILCOX.


On Wednesday afternoons, August 7, 14,
21 and 28, the International Council of
Women will hold meetings in the assembly
rooms at the Pan-American Exposition.


[Column 1]
PRESIDENT SNOW’S ADDRESS.
	[Given at Saltair, July 9, 1901.]
My Dear Sisters, Officers and Members of
	the Relief Society:

	I appreciate the privilege of being able to
spend an hour or two in your company this
afternoon, and I trust you are all enjoying
yourselves today. Proper recreation and
amusement are good things, and I am glad
to see you sisters indulging in a little rest
and recreation, for you who work so hard
day after day in your homes and in the
Relief Society certainly deserve all the en-
joyment you can get.
	Since receiving your kind invitation to
be present here the thought has impressed
itself upon me that the brethren of this
Church, myself included, have been won-
derfully favored of the Lord in having the
companionship and assistance of such faith-
ful, loyal wives and mothers as he has
blessed us with. It is difficult to imagine
what we should have done, or what pro-
gress the work of the Lord would have
made, without them. When we have been
absent on foreign missions, their missions
at home have generally been no less ardu-
ous than ours abroad; and in the midst of
trial and privation they have exhibited a
fortitude and self-help that has been truly
inspiring. Thank God for the women of
this Church! That is the way I feel today
as I join in this assembly and in accordance
with your desire, offer a few remarks.
	I understand that one of the objects of
this excursion is to raise funds towards the
proposed Woman’s Building in Salt Lake
City. Let me first say a word or two in
reference to that. As you all doubtless
know, I have, as Trustee-in Trust, con-
tributed a choice piece of land facing the
Temple of God, on which to erect a struc-
ture that will be suitable as headquarters
for the Relief Society, Young Ladies’
Mutual Improvement Association and the
Primary Association. I felt it was right
and proper that you should have a building
in which you could do your business, re-
ceive representatives from branch societies
and distinguished visitors from abroad,
hold council meetings and for various other
purposes, and it gave me much pleasure to
aid you to the extent of furnishing a
beautiful site for the building. I am glad
to note that you are making strenuous
exertions to raise the requisite means for
this purpose, and if you are all united and
liberal in your feelings, I do not think you
will find it a hard task. I would encour-
age every member of these organizations to
assist in this work. I would also invite
every Bishop to assist you in obtaining
sufficient means to erect a magnificent edi-
fice that shall reflect credit upon our
women and attract the admiring gaze of the
great and noble of all nations who may
visit Zion. I am told that a number of
ladies who are not members of the Church
have contributed very generously towards
the building, much to the gratification and
appreciation of those who have the matter
in hand, and this ought to prove a stimu-

[Column 2]
lus to those who are in the Church. I
hope to see a handsome structure reared
and I anticipate soon having the pleasure
of meeting with you in it. Success to you
in your efforts in this direction!
	You who are present today are members
of the oldest organization in the Church
outside of the Priesthood. The Relief
Society was organized nearly sixty years
ago, with nineteen members (my sister,
Eliza R. Snow being the secretary) by the
Prophet Joseph Smith, under the inspira-
tion of the Lord; and from that day to the
present it has gone on without interrup-
tion growing in strength and usefulness,
until today it is recognized as one of the
most powerful forces for good in the
Church. You are now 30,000 strong I
am told, with a building fund of nearly
$5,000, and with upwards of $100,000 worth
of property in your possession. In addition
to this you are the only ones among the
Saints who are doing anything in a finan-
cial way against a day of famine. Your
work in this direction is most commendable,
and I hear as a result that you have 103,783
bushels of grain, together with an amount
of flour and beans, safely stored away
against a time of need, as well as $3,331 to
expend for the same purpose. I under-
stand that in some few instances your labors
in this direction have been interfered with
but I hope that hereafter there will be no
occasion for complaint on that point.
	The mission of the Relief Society is to
succor the distressed to minister to the sick
and feeble, to feed the poor, to clothe the
naked and bless all the sons and daughters
of God. No institution was ever founded
with a nobler aim. Its basis is true char-
ity, which is the true love of Christ, and
that spirit has been manifested in all the
ministrations of the society among the peo-
ple. The Apostle James said that “pure
religion and undefiled before God and the
Father is this: “To visit the fatherless and
widows in their affliction, and to keep him-
self unspotted from the world.” Accept-
ing that as true, the members of the Relief
Society have most surely exemplified in
their lives pure and undefiled religion, for
they have ministered to those in affliction,
they have thrown their arms of love around
the fatherless and the widows, and they
have kept themselves unspotted from the
world. I can testify that there are no
purer and more God-fearing women in the
world than are to be found within the
ranks of the Relief Society.
	It has always been a source of pleasure
to me to notice how faithfully you sisters of
the Relief Society have stood by the ser-
vants of the Lord under all circumstances.
You have ever been found at the side of the
Priesthood, ready to strengthen their hands
and to do your part in helping to advance
the interests of the kingdom of God and as
you have shared in these labors, so you
will most certainly share in the triumph of
the work and in the exaltation and glory
which the Lord will give to His faithful
children. The Relief Society has been and
s one of the most valuable adjuncts to the


(Column 1)
Priesthood. It is in very deed a “help in
government.” And no wise Bishop will
fail to appreciate the labors of the Relief
Society in his ward. What would a Bishop
do without a Relief Society? I would say
to all the Bishops in the Church, encourage
the sisters of the Relief Society, and sup-
port them in their work of charity and
benevolence, and they will prove a bless-
ing to you and to the people.
	It might be thought by some that the
labors connected with membership in the
Relief Society would cause those sisters
who belong to it to neglect their household
duties. But this is not so. I will venture
to say that the best wives and mothers and
 the most efficient housekeepers among us
are members of the Relief Society, and I
would advise the brethren to encourage
their wives to join the society, where they
can do so; for it would be a good thing to
have the influence of this organization in
every home. I ask you, my sisters, in
your visits to the homes of the Latter-day
Saints to carry this influence wherever you
go. The Lord has clearly shown to you
the nature of your relationship to Him and
what is expected of you as wives and
mothers. Teach these things to those whom
you visit, especially to the young ladies.
Encourage marriage among them, and im-
press upon them the sacredness of that
relation and the obligation they are under
to observe that great commandment which
was given of God to our first parents, to
multiply and replenish the earth. This is
all the more necessary in view of the pres-
ent tendency in the world to disregard that
law and to dishonor the marriage covenant.
It is saddening to note the frequency of
divorces in the land and the growing in-
clination to look upon children as an in-
cumbrance instead of as a precious heri-
tage from the Lord. These evils should
not gain a foothold among the people of
God, and you, my sisters, as members of
the Relief Society and as mothers of Israel,
should exercise all your influence against
them and in favor of pure motherhood and
faithfulness to the marriage covenants.
	Now, it is not necessary for me to detail
what the Relief Society has done in the
past; its splendid work is known through-
out Zion, and in many parts of the world.
Suffice it to say, it has been true to its mis-
sion, and its record is not surpassed, if
equaled, by any other organization. The
Latter-day Saints are proud of it and of its
achievements, and are grateful to our
Father in heaven that He inspired His ser-
vant, the Prophet, to establish such an
institution. The future of the society is
full of promise. As the Church grows its
field of usefulness will be correspondingly
enlarged, and it will be even more potent
for good than it has been in the past. If
all the sisters will rally to the support of
the society, it will accomplish a mighty
work and be a continued blessing unto the
Church. It would be gratifying to see the
middle-aged as interested in this institu-
tion as the aged, and by becoming so they
will find that it will strengthen their faith,
give them broader ideas of life and its re-
sponsibilities, and advance them material-
ly along the path of progress and perfection.
	I feel to say, God bless the officers and
members of the Relief Society. You are
performing a grand mission, and I would
exhort you to not weary in well doing.
We are all aiming for celestial glory, and
the grandeur of the prospects before us can-

(Column 2)
not be expressed in human language. If
you will continue faithful to the work in
which you are engaged, you will attain
unto this glory, and rejoice evermore in the
presence of God and the Lamb. This is
worth striving for; it is worth sacrificing
for, and blessed is the man or woman who
is faithful unto the obtaining of it. God
bless you all. Amen.


18
