But in sympathy and feeling I have been
with you each time, and because of this
continued absence I have taken the liberty
of speaking to you on paper.
Many people have noted the inception of
this society with varied emotions—curios-
ity, interest, envy, hope—all these may

[Column 2]
have arisen in different hearts as they read
about your sayings and doings.
It is meet and proper that the daughters
of the men and women who struggled and
wept, prayed and toiled to find and people
these valleys should band themselves to-
gether.
For what purpose ?
For what indeed ! I have read your
constitution and noted the objects named
therein as the cogent reasons for your ex-
istence as a body. They were good and
they were desirable. Yet I fancied I read
between the lines a deeper reason, a truer
purpose than was there expressed.
The aristocracy of the old world long
ago perceiving that true nobility meant
service, the true, intelligent service of the
strong for the weak, wrote upon their ban-
ner a significant sentence, “Noblesse
oblige.” Translated it reads, “Much is
rightly expected of one of high birth or
station.”
When a noble youth, was led to do an
gnoble or a dishonorable act, his eyes
would be turned to the banner upon the
wall and his repentance was usually swift
and lasting. It is that thought all the way
down the line of life which has given to us
the culture, the gentle breeding which
graces the highest and best society of
today. Some of it is sham and pretence,
no doubt, but men and women must either
be or pretend to be noble, unselfish and
gently thoughtful of others if they would
mingle in high society.
This, then, of you must be required,
this and much more. For you are, as it
were, setting yourselves aside as a class,
and, therefore, not only the standard of the
world for its gentle, born and bred must be
applied to you, but a higher standard still
the standard of the Pioneers, the Gospel
standard itself.
Shrink not at these words, lest there be
those among you who are not of my faith
the Gospel is so broad, so beautiful that its
wings fold themselves lovingly about every
child of earth. And by its light, I shall
say nothing that can wound any heart or
which could not be accepted by any good
man or woman.
There is, then, a higher standard. That
of Christ. If any among you would be
great, let him be least and the servants of
all.
There be those whose parents came later
than your chosen time limit many of
these are equally worthy with yourselves.
For God hath not designed that all His
great ones shall do great work in this
world. This, however, is beyond your
power to remedy, and your time limit
seems fitly chosen.
But with thousands of my brothers and
sisters, I ask myself, what is the full pur-
pose of this society?
Through the lines of your preamble, I
read these beautiful words: Loving, Loyal
Service !
Help for the weak, succor for the poor,
aid to the struggling and peace for the
tried and tempted.
I can see your fathers and mothers,

[Column 3]
yours and mine dear friends—halting upon
a barren waste, planting, plowing, irrigat-
ing, sowing, reaping, building, washing,
baking, weaving and spinning as the rapid
days go on. And what was the special
mission of those men and women who
came prior to 1850. To plant and to reap—
for whom ? For those who were to come
after ! To build and to fashion, to make
and mend, to spin and to weave—for whom?
For the weaker ones who were left behind,
who came after to scrimp and save, to bur-
row and lend, to gather up teams and
wagons, money and provisions—what for ?
To send for those who were weaker and
poorer and therefore left behind.
There was no one who arose and said,
“Congratulate me, for I am a Pioneer of
the great Pioneers!” But the thought in
the heart was, “God has sent me because I
am strong and can work hard and long to
prepare a place for others to share who
come after me!”
We daughters have no need to spin and
weave, to milk and to churn, to toil and
to struggle; our fathers and our mothers,
Heaven bless them forever, planted the
roses for the beds of ease upon which our
bodies now repose. Their hands were torn
and lacerated with the thorns and stings as
they planted so unselfishly for us. But
they have bequeathed to us a legacy. Do
you know it?
Most of those mighty souls, our fathers
and mothers, lie with their faces to the sun
and the green earth over their breasts. But if
they were here today, and could speak to
you, what would their dear lips say ? “Re-
member, O, my daughters, that for which
we labored, suffered and died! To do
service to God and to all mankind.”
That is their message!
To be known for loving humility, for
patient endurance, for constant helpfulness!
To frown upon sin and deceit, to dis-
courage vanity, extravagance, highminded-
ness and all other worldliness. Not to be
pointed out as the richly-dressed, proudly
going daughters of the Pioneers, but to be
thought of as the gentle-spoken, quietly-
clad, meek daughters of the great men and
women who gave all loving service to
Utah. To seek out the newly arrived
emigrant, the struggling orphan, the op-
pressed widow and to offer help and succor;
this is the service of the true daughters of
the Pioneers.
To be loyal, true, faithful and fond, this
is what I read between the lines of your
Constitution. As I so read it, I join you in
all humility and strike hands with each one
of you, true Daughters of the Pioneers.

