NEW ORGANIZATION. 
	Jay, Leavenworth Co., Kansas.
Sister E. B. Wells:
	According to appointment a meeting was
held for the purpose of organizing a
Relief Society at Jay, Leavenworth Co.,
Kansas, on June 17, 1901, President James
G. Duffin, of the Southwestern States
mission, presiding.
	After a few timely remarks the following
organization was effected and the officers
unanimously sustained: For president,
Mollie Stevens; counselors, Mary E.
Clinkenheard and Mary E. Hill; secretary,
Luella Hasty treasurer, Mary Adams.
	We would further say that we are en-
tirely inexperienced as far as Relief Society
work is concerned, and would be glad for
any advice you might have to offer and al-
so to know what is required of this organ-
zation, any information at any time will be
gladly received by us as we are desirous
of doing our duty. Hoping to hear from
you soon, we'are your sisters in the great
cause of truth.
			LUELLA HASTY, Sec. 
	June 26, 1901.


[Column 1]
NURSES CLASS.
	Closing exercises of the Relief Society
Nurses' Class, graduating Ma[-] 28, 1901,
taught by Dr. M. C. Roberts.
	Opening exercises, singing and prayer,
singing furnished by the Temple choir
quartette under the leadership of Prof. C.
J. Thomas. Prayer by Sister B. W.
Smith.
	President M. I. Horne made opening re-
marks giving Sister Roberts great credit
for the labor she had performed free of
charge and complimenting the graduating
class on their work and their pleasing ap-
pearance. "You will be rewarded for the
good you do. The Latter-day Saints are
not laboring for money alone. I feel to
bless you all as a mother in Israel, and ask
God to bless you in the name of Jesus."
	Another musical selection was given by
the quartette, "Who are these arrayed
in white." This was followed by the pre-
sentation of certificates of graduation to the
twenty-eight graduating nurses, who pre-
sented a very pleasing appearance in their
nurses' costume of blue and white, with
white aprons, caps and collars.
	This was followed by a very pleasing
address to the class by the doctor.
	Counselor Annie Taylor Hyde followed
in a happy address, and presented to Dr.
Roberts, in behalf of the Stake Board, a

[Column 2]
et of silver spoons, as a token of apprecia-
iation, though they felt that they could
not repay her for the noble work she had
done. She then presented a book, "Gems
of Art," to Prof. Jos. Nelson, who had
so kindly provided a room in the College
building for them to meet in.
	Miss Willey, in behalf of the class, pre-
sented Dr. Roberts with a dozen silver
oyster forks and a berry spoon with her
monogram.
	The recepients expressed their appecia-
ation in brief but feeling remarks."
	"Floating" was sung by the quartette.
	Superintendent Emma A. Empey, made
a few remarks, giving the former class
high praise for their work and hoping
that this graduating class might do as well,
and felt sure they would.
	Counselor Hyde then presented to the
superintendents, Mrs. Priscilla J. Riter
and Mrs. Emma A. Empey, written testi-
monials from the Stake presidency of the
Relief Society; she also announced that the
members of the class could come to the
Temple and be set apart for the work.
	Mrs. Riter spoke in thanks and en-
couragement to the nurses, and her re-
marks were much appreciated.
	Mrs. Empey expressed her thanks, say-
ing that she would appreciate the testimon-
ial more than a necklace of diamonds.
	Dr. Roberts asked that these testimonials
be read that all might have the pleasure of
hearing them. They were read by Sister
Augusta W. Grant.
	Mrs. Empey then asked the nurses to
report to her when ready for service, as she
had constant calls for nurses.
	It is understood that a new superinten-
dent will have to be obtained, as neither
Mrs. Empey nor Mrs. Riter will be able to
serve permanently, but will continue to act
for the present.
	Musical selection, "When the mists have
rolled away."
	Bishop Empey having come in he was
asked to make a few remarks and responded.
	President Horne called for a vote of
thanks to be given to the singers. Bene-
diction by Sister M. Y. Dougall.


[Column 1]
CELEBRATION ANNIVERSARY.
	The Relief Society of Chesterfield,
Idaho, celebrated March 17, 1901, by hold-
ing a fast meeting, President Columbia F.
Loveland presiding. Singing, “We thank
Thee, O God, for a prophet.” Prayer by
Bishop J. A. Toleman. Singing, “Mid
scenes of confusion.” Roll was called and
minutes of March 17, 1900, were read.
	President Loveland hoped all the sisters
would bear their testimonies. She knew
this was the true Church, if she did not,
she did not think she would have much to
live for. Spoke about laying away two of
our sisters since our last memorial day.
	Counselor Alice Yancey thought it our
duty to bear our testimonies, thought if we
would do our duty God would bless us.
Hoped we would love one another.
	Counselor Ann Sessions thought we were
blest in having the priesthood with us, also
thought we were a blest lot of sisters.
	Stake President Mary A. Call said it
seemed but yesterday we held our last
meeting, but still a year had gone. She
wondered if we had accomplished anything.
Said “Let us be better mothers and sisters
honor the priesthood and our Bishop. Said
this was a day that had been set apart for

[Column 2]
the Relief Society, hoped all the sisters
would be willing to pay their ten cents to
help roll on this work, not only in this
land, but all over the world.
	Sister Mary V. Muir knew the Lord
would bless us by fasting and praying to
Him, thought we ought to sustain our
president by coming out to meeting.
	Sisters Elizabeth Loveland and Ruth
Davies bore their testimonies, also felt like
doing their duty.
	The secretary then read from the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT a letter entitled, “A
Word of Love and Greeting,” from the 
General Board.
	Sisters Ada Loveland and Rhoda Moss
thought there was a little improvement,
but there was still room for more. Felt
like doing their duty.
	Sisters Mary A. Toleman and Rosette
Loveland felt they had been blessed in the
past year.
	Sisters Martha Reese, Fannie Call, Etta
Toleman, May Campbell and Eliza Tole-
man all had a testimony to bear and wanted
to help make the Relief Society a success.
	Bishop J. A. Toleman felt we had been
blessed here in this ward. Said we should
feel thankful to our Heavenly Father for
His blessings. Felt like being one with
the sisters.
	Brother Charley Jensen had been edified
in listening to the remarks of the previous
speakers. He was glad the sisters had
such a grand organization where they
could counsel together. Said he noticed a
remark in the letter that was read about
handshaking that it produced a feeling of
unity and love, and was also the means of
bringing those into our meetings and Sun-
day School who had never attended before.
	Brother Carlos Loveland thought we had
a good band of Sisters here. Said the sis-
ters were storing up lots of grain. Coun-
seled the sisters to be careful in laying
away the dead.
	Sister Clara Laird said the Lord had
blessed her in her affliction. She would
like to have her baby prayed for.
	Brother Josiah Loveland had been edified
in listening to the remarks of his brothers
and sisters. He had a testimony to bear.
	The minutes were then read and accepted
and the meeting closed by singing, and
benediction by Brother Charley Jensen.
	A party was given in the evening under
the auspices of the Relief Society.
