THE KING’S DAUGHTERS.
	Mrs. Margaret Bottome, at whose house
the first ten of King’s Daughters was or-
ganized in 1866, is still the president of the
order, which has grown until it has spread
over North and South America, Great
Britain, Germany, France, Italy, Greece,
Switzerland, Denmark, Turkey, India,
China, Japan, Australia, New Zealand, the
Hawaiian Islands, the Bermudas and
Bahamas. There are also circles in Pales-
tine and Smyrna. It is estimated that
700,000 members are enrolled, says the N.
Y. Sun.
	At first the bands were called tens, but
the tens had such a way of bursting the
bonds of a fixed number that the word
circle was substituted and it was allowed to
expand or shrink to suit the individual
cases.
	These circles have each its own name,
and they do all sorts of things. A circle
of poor working girls in Chicago, who had
neither money nor time with which to ac-
complish much, finally decided that there


was one thing they could do. They could
look out for banana peel, orange skin, or 
any of the deadly, slippery things which
are a trap for the unwary. They could
kick or throw these dangerous bits of fruit
into the gutter, where they would do no
harm.
	They figured that by strict attention to
business they would save perhaps half a
dozen persons from sprains or broken bones
in the course of a month or two, which
would be perhaps quite as good as leaving
the peelings to cause accidents and then
having the victims taken care of in a hos-
pital.
	Other circles undertake more pretentious
work. Scattered all over the country are
very substantial results in the shape of
hospitals, homes, day nurseries and asy-
lums. The Silver Cross Hospital, a large
stone building at Joliet, Ill; a Children’s
Home at Tampa; one at Mount Carmel,
Ct.; a Rest Cottage at Louisville; a King’s
Daughters’ House at Hempstead, L. I.,
and a hospital at Jamaica; rest cottages
and hospitals in Massachusetts; St. Christo-
pher’s Home at Dobbs’ Ferry, where 150
children are cared for; a home for epileptics
in Maryland; a summer camp for boys, a
babies’ camp at Plainfield: a drinking
fountain at Lestershire, N. Y.; the chil-
drens’ ward in St. John’s Hospital, Brook-
lyn—these are a few of the examples of,
work done by the King’s Daughters.


