R. S. AND P. A. REPORTS.
RELIEF SOCIETY HAWAIIAN MISSION.
	The Relief Society of the Hawaiian mis-
sion met in General conference at Laie,
April 5, 1901, at 2 p. m., President Alice
R. Woolley presiding. There were present
on the stand the following named sisters
from Zion: Jennie Musser, Ellen Cole,
Olive Pendleton, Annie Phillips and Annie
Madse[-].
	Meeting commenced by the choir and
congregation singing “O My Father” in
the native language. Prayer was offered
by Nakoi. Continued by singing.
	The annual report for the year 1900 was
read by Luka Kaulune.
	President Alice R. Woolley made the
opening remarks. “It is through the
blessings of the Lord that we meet in our
conference today, and I know if we have
come here with the proper spirit desiring a
blessing from the Lord that we will receive
it. Jesus commanded us to meet together


[Column 1]
often, that we might learn of the work of
the word of the Lord. The Relief Society
work is great one. It is our duty to care
for the poor in our midst. We should be
diligent in the teaching of our children, for
if we neglect to teach them correct princi-
ples we will be held responsible for it. We
should teach them the law of tithing and
all the principles of the Gospel. It is not
enough that we are baptized in the Church
of Christ, but we must keep the command-
ments if we obtain eternal life. It is re-
corded in Mathew that not all who cry
Lord, Lord will enter into the kingdom,
but he that does the will of our Father in
heaven. Therefore let us be faithful each
day of our lives.”
	The Laie Relief Society was reported by
Lahaole as being in a prosperous condition.
The sisters are diligent in their work. A
good report was also given of the Honolulu
Relief Society by Kauiopuna, who said
they were taking care of the poor, and hold
their meetings regularly. Kapili reported
the branches of the society at Waialae as
fully organized and much interested in
their work.
	Annie Kou explained the first verses in
John, 14th chapter.
	Sister Jennie Musser was pleased to be
with us today. Was thankful for the
Gospel for it was the same Gospel that was
upon the earth in the days of our Savior,
but was taken away because of the wicked-
ness of the people but it has been restored
again through the Prophet Joseph Smith,
and knew it was true. “Do not forsake the
good but the evil. May the Lord help us
to be faithful.”
	Pulewia, of Waialua, reported said soci-
ety as doing fairly well. “Our association
has not been organized very long, but we
are trying to help along with the work.”
	Mama Kapu said we should obey our
presidents and those over us. “Let us work
for the Lord in the time of our strength.
Let us live in love. The Relief Society is
to assist with the work of the Lord. If we
obey the commandments of the Lord we
will receive eternal life.”
	Trio, “School Thy Feelings, O My
Brother,” by Sister Jennie Musser, Hattie
and Ivy Kekuku.
	An essay on reverence for sacred things,
by Sister Olive Pendleton.
	The Kahana society was reported by
Poopua. “Our society is fully organized,
but we have not held our meetings regular-
ly during the last term.”
	Sister Ellen Cole said “This is a great
work. Fifty years have passed since the
Relief Society work was first established
and much has been accomplished during
that time, many of the sisters have endured
trials and persecutions in this work. We
have heard many things today about the
great and dreadful day of the Lord which
is near at hand. We should prepare our-
selves for this time. The women have a
great mission to perform. We are privil-
eged above those who do not accept the
Gospel of Christ, for in most other denom-
nations women do not have the privilege
of preaching the Gcspel as we do. In the
Church of Christ there is work for all. Let
us continue faithful to the end.”
	There was a fair representation from the
other islands, although not as many
branches were reported as usual.
	Sister Woolley thanked all who had
taken part in our meeting, and was grate-
ful for the peaceful spirit that had been in

[Column 2]
our midst. Urged the sisters to be diligent
and prayed the Lord to bless us in our
labors.
	The choir sang an anthem. Benediction
by President Samuel E. Woolley. Confer-
ence adjourned for six months.
		ALICE R. WOOLLEY, Pres.
