A HAPPY BIRTHDAY PARTY.

	Tuesday, July 30, 1901, a very pleasant
lawn party was given on the beautiful
grounds at the Cannon Farm, by Gen.
John Q. Cannon and wife for their daugh-
ter, Louise, to about forty or fifty of her
young friends.  The place was prettily
decorated in honor of the festive occasion,
and the Chinese lanterns hung, from the
balcony in the vines and among the trees
gave the place a gala appearance.


The young people passad the evening in 
old-fashioned games and such like outdoor
amusements suited to midsummer eve-
nings.  The grounds are almost ideal by 
moonlight, and the effect of the pale light
[-]pon the water, beneath the lofty trees, and
across the wide-spreading, well-trimmed
lawns, filled with boys and girls, was 
artistically picturesque, to those who were
looking on. 
Of course there were congratulations in 
abundance and a few precious gifts in re-
membrance of the birthday, and there 
were, as a natural consequence, numerous
Cannons and a few Wells' and some Silvers 
and Golds, and if not Fosters and Mus-
graves, as at Lovhinvar's, there were Fos-
ters and McMurrins and Edwards and 
Grants and Youngs and Burns and Sears
and other names renowned in history's 
pages, or no doubt if not in the past will be 
in the future. 
Fruit punch and lemonade were served
during the evening by the little Misses
Ann and Emmeline Cannon, and other re-
freshments, ice cream, cake, etc., by Misses 
Grace, Vera and Margaret Cannon out 
under the trees in the pale moonlight, 
making a very pretty scene indeed. The 
hours flew swiftly and it was soon near 
midnight, but the time had been spent 
merrily. 
"How beautiful is youth, how bright it gleams
With its illusions, aspirations, dreams, 
Book of beginnings, story without end, 
Each maid a heroine and each man afriend,"
And with the others the EXPONENT ex-
tends congratulations and best wishes for 
many happy returns of the day, with high
hopes and lofty aspirations for "Sweetie,"
as her own home folks love to call her.


