AN INTERESTING REUNION.
	The Twelfth Ward Relief Society held
their annual reunion in the meeting house
on July 14, 1901, Mrs. Julia Druce presid-
ing. The exercises commenced with sing-
ing. Opening prayer was then offered by
Bishop H. B. Clawson, followed by the
singing of that fine hymn, “The Spirit of
God.”
	Remarks were made by Sister Druce, ex-
plaining the object of the meeting and stat-
ing that the present presiding officers of the
Twelth Ward Relief Society, Sister Julia
Druce and her two counselors, Sisters
Jemima R. Midgley and Eliza D. Hooper,
had occupied this position twenty-two
years, since July 13, 1879.
	A vocal piece was then rendered by Miss
Edith Midgley.
	This was followed by interesting remarks
by Sister Bathsheba W. Smith. She
spoke of the early organization of the Relief
Society in Nauvoo by the Prophet Joseph
Smith.
	Miss Ellen Tibbetts then gave a serio-
comic reading, after which Sister Annie T.
Hyde talked to those present in an instruc-
tive and entertaining manner upon Relief
Society work.
	Miss Leone Wardrop gave a vocal selec-
tion.
Sister Maria W. Wilcox spoke interest-
ingly on woman’s work, and also made a
few remarks on Temple work.
	Miss Claire Williams sang a sacred piece
and some remarks were then made, in a
feeling manner, by Sister Mary Ellen Kim-
ball.
	Bishop Hyrum B. Clawson spoke of the
reverence he felt at this meeting, and men-
tioned that he was in Nauvoo when the
first Relief Society was organized by the
Prophet, although he was a boy at the time,
He said that he was acquainted with Sisters
B.W. Smith and Mary Ellen Kimball
when they were young ladies, and seeing
these sisters whom he had met in his boy-
hood, brought many recollections to his
mind of the early days in the Church..
	Sister Jemima R. Midgley spoke briefly
and Brother George F. Brooks and James


M. Wardrop made some interesting re-
marks about the good work of the Relief
Society.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde, by request, gave
a short but interesting talk on the nurses’
class.
	All enjoyed themselves and a good in-
fluence prevailed. The program ended
with the singing of the Doxology, and
benediction by Counselor James M. Ward-
rop.
	All then repaired to the vestry, and par-
took of light refreshments. The tables
were presided over by Sisters Emma Der-
rick, and Alice Hardy, of the Relief Society
assisted by some of the young sisters of the
Y. L M. I. Association.
	The entertainment was one that will be
remembered with pleasure by those who
were present.
			ALICE HARDY, Asst. Sec.


