		OBITUARY.

   The many friends of Sister Marian R.
Pratt will be pained to learn that she has
passed peacefully away.  Her demise oc-
curred at 7:5 a. m. on the 19th inst, at her
home in the 22nd ward, this city.
   She was born in Glasgow, Scotland,
August 23, 1830, and with most of her
brothers and sisters and immediate friends
became a member of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints with all her
heart, and although very young, a life of
remarkable activity and usefulness im-
mediately opened before her.
    Having been fully convinced of the truth
of the Gospel as taught by the Elders of this
Church, she has from the first felt that her
course in yielding obedience to its require-
ments was in full accord with the mind and
will of God, and with this never-failing
assurance she has steadily pursued her way
as co[-]sort of one of the greatest men of the
nineteenth century.  While distributing
some of his tracts in the city of Edinbor-
ough, on one occasion, she was invited by
a minister into his library, for he sought to
destroy her faith in living prophets which
had been raised up in these latter days, by
reading to her a passage from the writings of
St. Paul: “Whether there be visions they
shall cease; whether there be prophesies
they shall fail,” etc., but he was utterly
confounded when requested to read the ex-
planation given in the following verses:
“For now we see in part and know in part,
but when that which is perfect is come,
then that which is in part shall be done
away.”
    Having distributed tracts for several
months, and apparently meeting with
little success, she partly resolved to cease
her labors in that direction when an angel
was sent to Sister Wm. Gibbons, the lady
with whom she was living at the time, say-
ing, “Tell Marian to continue going with
the tracts, for now and then she will find
one who will obey the message.  This
timely admonition stimulated her to re-
newed vigilance, and consequently Dr.
France and many others, long since gone
to a happy reward, were among those she
was privileged to introduce the Gospel to.
    The Lord also blessed her with a great
many beautiful visions an[-] dreams.  On
one occasion she was shown the sky as it
appears at night, “studded with stars un-
utterably bright,” and lo, a voice which
said, “As the light of the morning cometh
in the east and shineth even unto the west,
so shall the coming of the Son of Man be.”
And the light of morning began to appear
in the east and shine unto the west. and a
new star arose, the like of which she had
never seen before.
    The words spoken by the angel, as may
be seen, are somewhat different to the
rendering given in the New Testament,
which is evidently incorrect, as “lightning”
does not always, come “in the east,” and
she felt that what the angel had said to her
was the true rendering.

[Column 2]
   Some of her acquaintances, when they
heard that she was about to start, tried to
poison her mind by telling her that the
Saints in Utah believed in marrying many
wives, to which she replied, “If all the
principles in the Gospel of old had to be
restored, the principle of plural marriage
would also be,” and she, like many
other noble men and women in the present
age proved her faith by her works.
   She came to this city in 1857, and soon
after was married to Apostle Orson Pratt,
and at his request took six of his children,
w[-]o had lost their own mother, and cared
for them as for her own.  Her house was
open to the poor and the distressed, the
orphan, the widow and the wavfaring man,
and her gentle ministrations among the
poor, sick and afflicted will be gratefully
remembe[-]ed both here and hereafter.
   Her family aud host of friends do not
feel to mourn at her departure from a life
she has lived so blamelessly and from a
condition at once distressing and almost
hopeless.  She has passed away as if in
peaceful sleep, and with joy we say,
“Good bye, Sister Marian, until we meet
in that bright realm called “Home.”—N.


