ABOUT ART.
	There is, nowadays, a great deal of talk
about art, and it is an understood fact that
art enters into many things in life besides
pictures. Recently some facts about art
were given at the farewell meeting of
Sorosis in New York City that seem to ap-


[Column 1]
ply to women everywhere and are worth
quoting and considering.
	"Woman’s work in art dates as far back
as the first woman—prehistoric man de-
voted his entire energies to hunting animals
and destroying his neighbor. Prehistoric
women in the privacy of the domestic
cavern invented the arts of weaving and
pottery, which first rudely supplied the
needs of her housekeeping and later be-
came the medium through which her
awakening artistic sense could express
itself.
	Dr. Mason, of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, finds that the savage women have had
a large share in creating the aesthetic arts.
In painting, dyeing, molding, modelling,
weaving and embalming in the origination
first of geometric patterns and then of free-
hand drawing, savage women, prehistoric
women, have won their title to the highest
admiration.
	Modern woman as compared with her
savage sister labors under the handicap of
false ideals of art that have been created in
the intervening centuries. It is humiliat-
ing to be told, and to be compelled to be-
lieve, that there are points in which we are
inferior to prehistoric woman; but when
our general ideas are as just as were those
of our sisters of the primitive ages, we
shall have attained a sincerity and simplic-
ity of taste which will react favorably on
the entire art world.
	Another lady affirmed that art took in
the knitting of a stocking or the making of
a loaf of bread, as well as the painting of a
picture or the modelling of a bust. The
speaker gave it as her opinion that there
existed a far keener sense of the beautiful
in girls than in boys. It is the girl who
cares and craves for the flower garden; it is
the boy who heedlessly tramps over it; it is
the boy who stones the bird and crushes
the butterfly; it is the girl who picks up
the bright feathers or the butterfly’s broken
pinion and preserves it in her spelling
book. In the tenement houses it is the
woman who nurses the starving geranium
in the window; who tries for some sort of
decoration for her poor, plain life; who
works to get a little cheap trimming for
her baby’s clothes; who catches time here
and there to knit rude lace for her pillow
cases; whoever saw a man of that class
trying to ornament anything.”
	The art of architecture was also discussed
and woman in municipal art was another
branch of the art subject. The influence of
women in municipal art, the speaker be-
lieved, had come through their general
awakening of interest in civic life, and she
believed a practical point had been gained
by the admission of women to schools of
architecture in England and America. Al-
though the leading architects of great cities
hold the rules and the pencil, the women
of the municipality should urge the adopt-
tion of such forms of architecture as would
tend to the highest adornment of the city.
	One lady in summing up her remarks
said the whole art of life is to learn real
things from shams; to learn how to strip
the husks away and get at the kernel; how
to absorb that kernel in our own lives;
transform its energy by our own individu-
ality in the expression of ourselves in
terms of work and conduct. Recognizing
the art of life as the supreme art, she made
a plea for escape from the bondage of
material things with which we are threat-
ened. The machinery of existence, food

[Column 2]
and shelter and clothes, are no longer hum-
ble ministering to our comfort, but have be-
come tyrants over us.


