EDITORIAL NOTES.
	Sisters Susan Grant and L. L. Greene
Richards visited the Relief Society in
Alberta Stake, Canada, and attended many
meetings and the conferences held while
they were there, and we trust their visit
has been productive of much good to those
among whom they labored in the interests
of women’s organizations.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith and Sis-
ter Annie T. Hyde attended the Davis
Stake conference at Farmington on Thurs-
day, July 25, and met there President Hess
who has been ailing so long, and also
Brother Ezra T. Clark, who has been suf-
fering seriously for several months.  They
were delighted to see these sisters.  Sister
Grant, too, had just returned from her trip
to Canada.  The conference was a very en-
joyable one.
	We desire to call the attention of our
readers to the Address of President Lorenzo
Snow in this issue of the paper, and ask
that it may be read at a meeting in each
branch of the Relief Society.  We are anx-
ious that the members of the society and
the public generally should know how in-
terested our honored President is in the
work of this grand organization and in the
effort being made by the Society to erect a
building for its needs and purposes.

	In a letter recently received from Canada
we learn of the good health and enjoyment
of our beloved President, Sister Zina D. H.
Young, who is visiting there with her
daughter and family, and we are sure all
the Saints everywhere wish her health may


continue to improve, and that she may have
renewed strength and vigor and be able to
accomplish all her heart desires in the
great mission to which she has been called
and set apart by the servants of God, to
preside over the Relief Society of the
Church in all the world.
	During the present year there has been
much missionary visiting done by our sis-
ters in the several Stakes of Zion.  Presi-
dent Jane S. Richards, accompanied by
Sister Emily S Richards, very recently
attended the conference in Alpine Stake,
where a change was made in the presiden-
cy, on account of the resignation, because
of ill health, of Sister Jemima Durrant,
who had been chosen to preside over the
Relief Society of that Stake of Zion.  Sister
Rebecca Standring was chosen to fill the
vacancy by unanimous vote of the confer-
ence!


[Column 1]
THOUGHTS ON MISSIONARY WORK.
		BY LYDIA D. ALDER.
	The close of the Nineteenth Century,
that had seen so much advancement, both
in science and education, showed also to
the world the great progress made by
woman.
	Behold her, whether in individual or or-
ganized capacity, leading out in affairs of
both national and international interest.
	This century that saw so much light
come into the world, from rush light to
candle, then on until electricity makes
the night a veritable day, brought about a
change in the condition of one half of the
world’s citizens, whether realized by them
or not.
	From being either the plaything or the
slave of man, not thought worthy of the
higher education, if of any at all, see her
side by side with him, in the schools or the
colleges, oftimes carrying off the laurels, or
standing at the head of the class.
	Behold her, too, as bread winner, aven-
ues before unthought of open for her to
enter in; nor is she longer dubbed “a blue
stocking” if, perchance, her Heavenly
Father has endowed her with the gift of
expressing her thoughts on paper, either
for the edification or the enlightenment of
the human mind.
	From the seclusion to which in former
times she was relegated, under the instruc-
tion that ‘‘if she would know anything she
should ask her husband, (and no provision
made in case she had none), behold her
stepping on the platform, or into the putpit;
the professor’s chair, or the doctor’s or
lawyer’s office; and the world gazing upon
her gives her room and audience merely say-
ing “this is the new woman.” She is now a
recognized member of the body politic, an
individual, a sovereign person, holding the
franchise in her hand, to be used for the
further advancement of her own sex, and
the betterment, if not the regeneration of
the world.
	In organizations she is a living, moving
power, either engaged in philanthropic or
literary work, in wielding the pen in de-
fense of the home, her own sex or the
nation. We learn to do by doing, and
places that at the beginning of the century
were thought unfit for woman or were be-
yond her capacity, she filled with credit
and grace, long before its close.
	For her to occupy the pulpit or speak on
the principles advanced by Jesus of Nazer-
eth, was, in the early days of that century,

[Column 2]
as from days of old, thought to be a sacri-
lege; but at its close, behold many ordained
ministers of the Gospel, both at home and
abroad, are women. We note the great
change but do not enter into it enough to
ask, ‘‘what has brought it about?” The
believers in the divine mission of the
Prophet Joseph Smith know and bear wit-
ness in all the world of the reason.
	Why did more light come into the world
in the Nineteenth century than all the
others combined ?
	Because the heavens were opened and
God spoke again to man; angels descended
to earth direct from the throne of God,
making know the will of the Father con-
cerning the earth and His children; bring-
ing the everlasting Gospel again, which he
declared should be preached in power until
the King of Kings should come to reign.
	This is the cause of the greater light
which will continue to increase until all
shall know God, from the greatest unto the
least. While the world at large reject this
prophet and his mission, yet all admit that
great light has come to man, but attribute
it to his own knowledge in science or dis-
covery.
	Where did he get the knowledge, or who
rewarded his efforts in the line of discovery ?
Why did he not think of the fields explored
during later years in the beginning of the
century ?
	The reason is apparent. The heavens
had not been opened then; it was not God’s
time, consequently the flood of light had
not descended. But the command had been
given; the Church of Christ was to be
established again, this time not to be
thrown down or given to another people.
	A few years after these thrilling events
had transpired another command was given.
This time it was God’s daughters who had
come in remembrance before him. He
made it known that when the true Church
was on the earth there was an organization
of its women members.
	In accordance with these instructions a
call was made, on all those who would, to
gather themselves together and in future
act as an organized body.
	This important meeting took place on the
17th of March, 1842, in the city of Nauvoo,
State of Illinois. Nineteen sisters were
present. The prophet taught them parlia-
mentary law and usage, giving instructions
so far in advance of his day that they are
not all carried out even now.
	Having explained to them the nature of
their calling, their duties and the blessings
to follow that great event. He prophesied
of the development and advancement to
which women could in the future attain.
	This explains why woman has mads
such rapid strides in the world’s affairs;
why she has been blessed to such a degree
and with such glorious success.
	The benefits were not restricted to those
of our Church only. No ! God designed
that all His daughters should share in
them, should alike come from their former
seclusion and shine as stars of a larger and
greater magnitude, that should in turn
again reflect and add to the brillance that
was shining around their pathway. As a
consequence note the position of women at
the close of that wonderful century and the
beginning of the Twentieth. God designated
those who were to lead out in these new
fields of woman’s work, “Elect Ladies.”
In the scriptures they are spoken of in the
same terms.


Emancipated now from her former sur-
roundings, behold her struggling and ris-
ing, her field of attainment and useful-
ness gradually broadening and deepening
until it is now, not only national but inter-
national.
	Was any field o[-] thought with held from
her? Was any profession denied her?
No ! Whatever her hand found to do she
was empowered to do with her might.
	With her fine, spiritual nature, her ten-
der, loving heart, could she not speak of
God and his dealings with men? Could
she not call upon those,perhaps less favored
than herself, and show them the pitfalls
that were being constantly dug for their
unwary feet, and warn them of their dan-
ger ?
	To her pure heart the still voice of the
Spirit spoke as in tones of thunder; to the
clear eyes of her understanding are the
truths of eternity made manifest. Thus
she becomes a witness of the unspeakable
things of God.
	Being thus educated by God Himself
th[-]ough the whisperings of the Spirit, is
there anything pertaining to His kingdom
hid from her or denied her if she be worthy ?
	The prophecy had been uttered more
than a decade ago, that the day would come
that as the Elders were sent into the world
two by two, so should the sisters of our
Church be sent. In 1898 this was fulfilled,
several sisters being sent to England as
regularly appointed and authorized mission-
aries. On their arrival they were assigned
to their fields of labor and began the ardu-
ous duties of that sacred, important calling.
	In June, 1899, the great Quinquennial
Congress of Women was to convene in
London. More missionaries were sent to
Great Britian (among them the writer) who
was also to attend that International gather-
ing of women.
	The reporter of the New York World
said to me, “You have eleven representa-
tives from Utah here at this Congress. You
people in Utah must have a lot of push or
lots of money.”
	I assured her it was the “push” of which
we had such an abundance, and asked her
to make mention of the fact in transmitting
news of the Congress to her paper.
	Utah’s voice was heard in the delibera-
tions of that important body of women, and
proudly did she contribute her share to its
advancement. Was it not something of the
irony of Fate that while this Congress was
in session the Equal Rights bill that was
being discussed in the English Parliament
was cruelly put to death ? Having been re-
ceived and entertained by her most Gracious
Majesty, the Queen and Empress of India,
the Congress dispersed, each one returning
to her own land.
	The missionaries remained, were ap-
pointed to their fields of labor, and now at
the end of two years they, too, have re-
turned to the shores of America and the
vales of Utah.
	The providence of God has been over
them, the blessings bestowed by the ser-
vants of God have been fulfilled. They
have gone in peace and returned in safety,
having carried the truth of the Gospel to
those who sit in darkness and under the
shadow of death.
	They have had the privilege of speaking
on the streets of many lands, or in the
market places, have had the imperishable
pleasure of seeing the sick healed through
their humble administrations, and the Holy
Ghost carry conviction to the hearts of

[Column 2]
those who have been under the sound of
their voices; and some enroll themselves on
the record of the Church, having entered
in at the door, “Baptism.”
	They have heard the voice of God’s
priesthood say “Well done, good and
faithful servant, you are released from
your labors in these lands to return to Zion,
there to continue your efforts to roll on the
work of God on the earth.” Blessed words
to fall on grateful ears, hearts humbled and
taught charity, and the great love of the
Redeemer of mankind by walking in His
footsteps, by being scorned and rejected,
even as He was, yet acknowledging with
tears and supplication that they know not
what they do, and imploring that God, be-
fore whom all the world must stand, to
have mercy upon them, and, if possible, let
them hear the words of life yet another
time, for perchance they may yet repent.
	President Lyman, late of the European
mission, has in all soberness declared “that
the lady missionary is no longer an experi-
ment, but an unqualified success.” In the
early dawn of the Twentieth century this
fact has been demonstrated to the world.
	What will the future unfold ? Will her
career end here ? Nay ! Broad avenues,
today unexplored will be open for her earn-
est efforts to teach the principles of purity
and truth. The new century, ablaze
with light for all the world, will see her
crowned, seated on the throne secured by
her long devotion of wifehood and mother-
hood,by intellectual development, and heart
and soul expansion, as well as knowledge
gained by contact with the world.
	A Queen,she will reign by the side of her
lord, the King, as in the beginning, whe[-]
this planet of ours came into existence and
rolled out into space “The sons of God
shouted for joy, and the morning stars sang
together.” So will it be when the predic-
ted time has come and woman stands glori-
fied in the sphere designed for her by her
Fat[-]er and God.


