NOTES AND NEWS.
	Mrs. Rachel Foster Avery will refresh
herself after the fatigues of the National
Suffrage Convention by a 350 mile carriage
ride. Accompanied by her three children
and a lady friend she will drive from Phila-
delphia to New York and take the boat up
the Hudson to Albany. From Albany the
party will drive to Saranac Lake, N. Y.,
where they will spend the summer. Last
year Mrs. Avery traveled in the same way
from Pennsylvania to her summer home
in the Alleghanies. She takes a small ice
chest under the seat of the carriage, and
has reduced the providing of food on the
journey to a fine art. Last summer she
took a book on flowers, and taught the
children botany with object lessons. This
year she will take a book on trees, and
teach them to know the many kinds of
trees they will pass on the roadside and
in the woods.—Ex.
	The delegates to the National Suffrage
Convention at Minneapolis were taken on
a trolley ride, “personally conducted” by
Senator Stockwell, to the famous falls of
Minnehaha. Unfortunately the water had
been diverted for some other purpose, and
very little was flowing over the falls but
the delegates enjoyed the steep, wooded
glen, with the river running through it,
the trolley ride in open cars through the
tree-bordered roads, and along the shores
of the blue lakes that form a beautiful
feature of the park systems of Minneapolis.
Mrs. Harriet Taylor Upton, the National
Treasurer, could not get away from her
duties to go on this excursion; and after-
wards in the convention she “brought
down the house” by innocently declaring
in an address of thanks that the hospitali-
ty of the people of Minneapolis had been
as plentiful as the waters flowing oyer the
falls of Minnehaha. She had seen a picture
of the falls taken when the water was
high, and was quite unaware that on the
day when the suffragists visited them, the
water was only a drizzle. She could not
understand the roar of laughter with which
her luckless comparison was received; but
the Minneapolis friends took it all in good
part, as a joke.—Ex.


