SALT LAKE STAKE PRIMARY.
	Minutes of Primary conference of the
Salt Lake Stake, held in the Assembly
Hall, Salt Lake City, June 22, 1901,
President Camilla C. Cobb presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing, “A Happy
Band of Children.” Prayer by Millie
Baird. Singing, “Little Lispers.” Roll
called, twenty-two associations present,
each responding with sentiments in concert.
Minutes of last conference read and ap-
proved.
	The first exercise on the program was a
selection by Prof. Best’s Mandolin and
Guitar Club, composed of fifteen little girls
and boys. Next a short sketch of Presi-
dent Camilla C. Cobb, given by Tillie
Thomas, of the Nineteenth Ward. Duet
by Lenora Sperry and Glennie Sims.
Questions and answers on the Ten Com-
mandments, by the Fifth Ward Primary,
at the conclusion of which they sang “The
Lord’s Prayer.” Recitation by Master
Adam Proctor, of the Tenth Ward. Song,
“In Our Lovely Deseret,” by all the
children.
	Sister Hattie Jensen gave an interesting
talk on “Incidents in the Life of President
Woodruff,” followed by a recitation by
Nellie Worthington, of the Fourth Ward.
Selection, (piano) by Prof. Beezley. Exer-
cise on the life of Joseph in Egypt, by
members of the Nineteenth Ward.
	President Louie B. Felt, of the General
Board, addressed the conference. Said it
gave her pleasure to listen to the children.
Wanted them to be missionaries and bring
others to the next conference.
	Counselor Lilly T. Freeze, of the Gener-
al Board, said she was happy to be with us
and was delighted with the good order and
the singing. Spoke of the importance of
cultivating music in the Primary Associa-
tion.
	A song was beautifully sung by Cathe-
rine McClellan, accompanied by the Guitar
and Mandolin Club. The club also gave
another selection.
	A vote of thanks was tendered to Prof.
Best and his band for their delightful
music.
	President Felt said she would like every
president to send two children to Prof
Best, so that he may have a large band.
Said there would be a reunion of the
Primary of several Stakes at Saltair on
June 7, urged all to attend.
	Conference closed by singing “Little
Children Love the Savior.” Benediction
by Brother Alvin Beezley.
