AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SARAH B. LAYTON.
			(Continued.)
	About December 13, while riding in his
carriage in Arizona, Brother Layton was
struck with a severe pain in his bladder,
which caused him great suffering. His
family tried everything they could to re-
lieve him, but without success. They
secured the best medical assistance there
was to be found in that country, but in
vain. They all said it was Bright’s dis-
ease, and there was no help for him.
Several different times we received tele-
grams stating that he was very low and
sinking very fast, that the end was near.
Early in 1898 he took to his bed, having
suffered so much that it was thought he
would not last long, but he still clung to
life. In June I received a letter from his
wife, Elizabeth, stating that he had made
up his mind that he must come to Utah to
spend his last days, and that he wished an
answer by return mail to know what we
thought of it and where he could stay.
	I did not know what to do or say as I
had but one room in the house that I could
lay claim to. I went and prayed that the
Lord would direct me in what I should say.
I sent my daughters with the letter to each
of his wives, and they were all quite willing
that he should come to my house, or rather
my daughters, with whom I was living,
but they could all make room for him when
he was well.
	I took the letter to his eldest sons and
daughters, who said father was welcome to
come to their homes and they would do the
best they could for him. But they all
agreed that he would feel more satisfied to
come to my home.
	I answered the letter and told them that
I had but one room that I had any claim
on, but that if he wished he and his wife
were welcome to come and have that. I
told them to send us word where he would
prefer going, and the folks would prepare
for him.
	Just nine days from the time they wrote
their letter they received our answer, and
the same day he got out of bed and dressed
himself and started for Utah. The next
morning I received a telegram stating that
he was coming to my home in Kaysville,
and that he wished the boys to meet him at
Ogden, which they did. On Friday, June


17, they arrived—Brother Layton, his wife,
Elizabeth, and his son Charles.  They had
to keep him under the influence of mor-
phine all the way, and then it seemed that
he would not hold out until they arrived.
But he did, and he stepped off the train,
walked to the carriage and from the car-
riage to the house. But he never went
outside of the house afterwards. When he
got into the house he laid himself down
on the bed, closed his eyes and said,
“Thank God I have got home!”
	The next day we sent for Dr. Joseph
Richards, and he came and staid all night.
On examination Dr. Richards said he felt
sure Brother Layton had stones in his blad-
der, and wished him to go to the hospital
where he could have an operation per-
formed. His reply was that he would
never go to the hospital, nor have an oper-
ation performed. He continued to get
worse, and his suffering was hard to bear.
On the morning of the last of June he was
very bad and when the doctor came he told
him that nothing but an operation could
save his life, and that if it were not per-
formed he could not last more than a few
hours. So he with his family consented.
Dr. Richards had brought Dr. Wilcox with
him that morning, and as soon as the suf-
ferer consented the two doctors began the
task at once. They took out fifteen stones,
the largest weighing four ounces and the
others varying in size. He stood the
operation very well, and came out from the
chloroform feeling as well as could be ex-
pected. The wound healed up nicely, and
for some time things looked as if he would
still live a time. But his pain had worn
him out and all that a loving family and
friends could do did not raise him up. The
last week he seemed to feel better, but a
cough set in and he did not have strength
to withstand it. On the 6th of August
mortification set in. Everything was done
tliat could be from the beginning, both in
administration and medical aid, but to no
avail, he gradually sank until August 7, at
10:30 p. m., when he passed peacefully
away, surrounded by his wives and chil-
dren, grandchildren and a multitude of
friends.
	Amid all the excitement and all the hur-
ry the words of the servant of the Lord
were not lost sight of. I remembered
what Brother Richards had said and I saw
the fulfillment of it in my own heart. For
many times did he with tears in his eyes
ask me to forgive him for all the past, and
would say that nothing should stand in the
way of my being made happy if he could
but live a few years longer. I did forgive
Him from the bottom of my heart.
		(Continued.)


