NEW INTERNATIONALISM.
Abstract of an Address delivered by May
Wright Sewall, President of the Inter-
national Council of Women, Salt Lake
Tabernacle, July 14, 1901.

	Five centuries ago the word “new”
found a novel application in the phrase
“new learning.” A century later the
new word was exposed to the eyes of the
world. In our own day we have heard
much of the new theology,the new criticism,
the new education, the new psychology,
and most obnoxious of all, the new woman.
	To utter the phrase, the new inter-
nationalism, implies that there has been an
old internationalism. The oldest inter-
nationalism was that of exploration, made
in the interest of discovery at the impulse
of curiosity. The Phoenicians represented
this in classical times. Columbus was the
type of this internationalism in the age of
Isabella. Drake, Frobisher, and their
companions, in the age of Elizabeth. Thus
is formed an internationalism, old to the
second, which may be called the inter-
nationalism of conquest. The leaders of
this form of international spirit, are Hanni-
bal, Alexander, Pizarro and Napoleon. Of
these the symbol may still be “ a tiger lap-
ping blood” or “an eagle with his beak
buried in the heart of his victim.”
	Following internationalism of conquest,
was the internationalism of commerce,

[Column 2]
whose object it was to serve the internation-
ism of conquest and discovery by reaping
the fruits of their victors, Of this Warren
Hastings may stand as type. It is hardly
less merciless, less greedy, less rapacious
or less cruel than conquest days, in the in-
terest of commercial internationalism, that
conquests are made.
	There followed upon the forms of inter-
nationalism already enumerated, three
others, which are typified by the mission-
ary, the teacher and the immigrant. The
internationalism typified by these three
factors of modern society, differ from the
preceding forms of internationalism in cer-
tain respects. The missionary and the
teacher do not indeed strive to secure acces-
sions of territory for the country they rep-
resent, but the missionary does try to win
for the particular section of Christendom
which he represents, accessions of the
human spirit. The missionary and the
teacher are both differentiated from the
immigrant by one quality, and in so far as
they are thus differentiated their inter-
nationalism is less helpful than his. Both
are dominated by a kind of arrogance, the
missionary saying, “I am holier than thou,
become thou like unto me,” the teacher
saying, “I am wiser than thou, become
thou like unto me.” It is only the immi-
grant who in the spirit of simplicity and
humility seeks in the country whither he
goes, something better and larger than life
yielded him in the country which he left.
He goes confessedly to improve his con-
dition by the exchange of his native coun-
try for another.
	To my mind the immigrant will ultimate-
ly prove to have been the most important
of the sociological factors which have
united to produce a new internationalism.
The immigrant has come into very close re-
lations with the people of the country
which he has entered, and his introduction
into the country has been the introduction
of new problems of philanthropy and char-
ity. To meet these new problems with
any degree of intelligence, philanthropists
have been compelled to study the condi-
tions which have produced the immigrant.
This study of the sociological conditions in
foreign countries is an important step to-
wards the new internationalism. In all the
forms of internationalism which I have
enumerated, what has been the part of
woman ? We may indeed be thankful that
in the internationalism of discovery and 
conquest, woman’s part was chiefly pain,
agony and heartbreak. Thankful because
heartbreak and agony are the agents of
cleansing, of purification, and modern
womanhood with its capacity for self-abne-
gation, is, in a large degree, the product of
the tuition of pain.

What has been woman’s part in commer-
cial internationalism ? For a reply to this
question, we must consult the statistician.
So far as our own country is concerned, 
the statistician shows us that about fifty
per cent of the imports may be classified
under the chief head “Articles de Luxe.”
For the most part these are made by the 
women toilers of foreign countries for the
well to do women of the countries into
which they are imported. So in industrial
and commercial internationalism, women
may be said to bear their equal share.
One characteristic of all the forms of
internationalism above enumerated, is
competition. In this internationalism 
men and peoples have met one another as
enemies, as combatants; as antagonists. It


[Column 1]
is indeed better that different nations and
different individuals should meet as enemies,
than that they should not meet at all, for
the whole lesson of life consists in meeting
one another, and in mutual recognition. 
	Opposed to all of these old forms of inter-
nationalism, is the new internationalism,
whose essential element is co-operation, in-
stead of competition. Of this the Czar’s
Congress, convened at the Hague in
1899, may be considered a symbol. Much
mockery and numerous jeers met the Czar’s
transcript. But in spite of mocking skep-
tics, more than a score of nations responded
by sending their representatives to The
Hague in May, 1899. It is true that while
the congress was in session, the mockers
busied themselves by estimating the Czar’s
armies, and the additions which he was
making to his fleets, and there are doubt-
less many among the skeptics who sincere-
ly believe that the congress was convened
in order to distract the attention of the peo-
ple, while some of the leading nations of
the earth should make preparations for
war on a larger scale than it had recently
been waged. We are not deaf to the cries
of dying Boers, to the groans of contending
Britons, as they are wafted to our ears
from the fields of South Africa, nor are we
deaf to the moans of Cubans, Spaniards
and Americans, that have saddened the
winds that rise over Cuba, and the breezes
that come to us from the Phillipines: We
are not blind to the shameful pages in
which the historian will regard the puni-
tive expeditions in China. Humanity will
ultimately realize the monstrousness of
such expeditions inaugurated and executed
by great Christian peoples, boasting them-
selves to be possessed of the higher intelli-
gence and more advanced civilization, a
purer and more exalted form of govern-
ment, and a truer and deeper religion than
was known to the natives of China.
	Much in the history of grand events
manifests a greed and animosity which
characterize what I have chosen to call old
forms of internationalism. But the battle-
fields of South Africa, the punitive expedi-
tions in China and the unrecorded agonies
that have been suffered in Philliphine
swamps, are not the symbols of a new
internationalism. They are not, indeed,
the symbols of our modern life. They are
episodes in our life. They demonstrate the
survival of large parts of human nature not
yet dominated by divine grace. They may
hinder but they cannot indefinitely postpone
the triumphant acknowledgement of the
new internationalism. The meaning of
that internationalism is symbolized by the
great international arbitration which was
completed on the second anniversary of the
Hague Congress as the first fruit of that
congress. That great or international arbi-
tration in a large way, stands for the doc-
trine of co-operation, of friendly interven-
tion. What it stands for means more than
any nationalism yet affected in the world.
We may be tempted to impatience as we
witness the halting arrival of our ideals,
but when we consider what centuries of
time have been consumed in the develop-
ment of a single nationality, we may in-
deed take courage for the growth of inter-
nationality, and we may realize that in as
much as it transcends nationalism, so will
it be inaugurated only after the lapse of a
longer period of time, and after the expend-
ture of more of the resources of the human
spirit, than the growth of a single nation

[Column 2]
has ever cost. Our own national history
is so brief relatively, that we may almost
say that we have seen our nation grow.
When we remember that when French and
English first met on the little strip of
Atlantic seaboard, when Spanish and Eng-
lish first met in the gulf, that they
met only to contend, only to recognize
each in the other his enemy, and when we
realize that then less than three centuries
from the time of the first English settle-
ment, even the present territory of the re-
public, almost all of the nationalities of the
earth have been reconciled and are united
here in the maturing of a great nationality,
we may indeed believe that if three cen-
turies had been requisite to the production
of a nation, we may be obliged to give
more than thrice three to the production of
conscious internationalism.
	We have seen Italy grow from dismem-
bered fragments into a nation. We have
seen almost within our own life time, Ger-
many grow from distracted, contending
factions, into a united empire. In our own
country the spirit of the nation has been
again and again assailed by the spirit of
section and party. The historians tell us
that not until the Civil War was over did
either North or South recognize another
portion of the country as its peer. Not un-
til then were the factional spirits of North
and South lost in the sense of common
nationality. Numerous conditions and
circumstances have arisen to intensify the
sectional spirit in both East and West, and
Sociologists in our time have rejoiced that
the Spanish-American war carried on in
Cuba, and the war in the Phillipines, have
given to the States and Territories in our
Union the opportunity of seeing their sons
march shoulder to shoulder in the revived
sense of their common nationalism.
	What part are women to bear in the new
internationalism, in the co-operative phase
as opposed to the inimical phase of the
international spirit?
	The first message delivered from the out-
side the Czar’s Congress when it convened
at The Hague was the message sent by the
uprising of women throughout the world to
rejoice over the conyening of that congress.
In this message the women of twenty-two
nationalities informally and spontaneously
united. The latest telegram received by
the congress at The Hague was that sent
by the vote of the International Council of
Women, then sitting in London. In that
council the women of nine different nations
were formally represented in a delegate
deliberative body, and a resolution pledg-
ing the International Council to support
the doctrine of international arbitration,
and to do its utmost to educate public opin-
on in all of the countries represented by
the Council to the proper conception of the
dignity of that doctrine, was unanimously
adopted. The growth of the International
Council since that date has been almost
phenomenal. Nine countries were then
united in it, and their union was the result
of eleven years of labor. In the two years
since the adjournment of that session six
other countries have organized National
Councils of Women, and now the women
of these fifteen distinct nationalities stand
pledged to the support of social peace and
international arbitration. Fifteen nation-
alities with more than seven millions of
women included in these Councils which
together constitute the International Coun-
cil, constitute one factor in the force which

[Column 3]
makes up internationalism. Its fruits can-
not be prophesied, but in the process of its
development, we shall learn larger words
as symbols than our lips have ever intelli-
gently uttered. We shall learn that as the
family is greater than the individual, al-
though composed of individuals, as the
community is greater than the family, al-
though composed of families, as the state is
greater than the community, although com-
posed of communities, as the nation is
greater than the state, although composed
of states, so is humanity greater than one
nationality, although composed of nation-
alities, so is internationalism greater and
more sacred than nationalism.
	In the pursuit of this new international-
ism, we shall not learn to love our coun-
tries less because we are learning to love
the world more, but we shall learn that
humanity is a larger word than patriotism,
that the love of humanity, of that human-
ity which includes all the children of God,
is the only satisfactory evidence of the love
of God.


