MRS. SEWALL'S VISIT.
	The visit of Mrs. May Wright Sewall to
Utah has been a very great pleasure to her
old friends and we trust, to many who
saw and heard her for the first time during
her brief sojourn in the state.
	On her arrival Friday afternoon, July 12,
she was met at the station by a committee
of ladies in carriages and escorted to the
Gardo House, where entertainment was to
be given her by Mrs. A. W. McCune, and
the ladies were invited in to give her friend-
ly welcome and greeting for a few minutes,
and express the joy they felt in having
her come to Utah to see the homes and sur-
roundings of the people who settled these
vales.
	The same evening a reception was given
by Miss Ann M. Cannon at Forest Dale, at
the home and in the beautiful grounds of
her brother, Hon. George M. Cannon, Mrs.
Sewall being the Guest of Honor.   At this
gathering she met many of the young peo-
ple of Salt Lake City and suburbs,  and
President Joseph F. Smith,  Apostle H. J.
Grant, President Angus M. Cannon, Elder
C.W. Penrose, editor of the Deseret Evening
News and other distinguished men and 
many notable women of the Church. The
grounds were prettily decorated and lighted 
and refreshments were served on small
tables under the trees to all the large com-
pany.   Indoors music both vocal and in-
strumental, as well as lively conversation
was indulged in, and one or two appropri-
ate recitations were given, and the entire
affair was a perfect success in every way,
thanks to the tact and energy of Miss Can-
non, to whose generosity and kindliness
her guests must all feel indebted for so hap-
py an occasion.  
	Saturday morning Mrs. Sewall attended
the organ recital accompanied by Mrs. 
McCune and others, and listened to the
famous Tabernacle organ played by Prof.
McLellan, who also explained to her all its
wonderful accoutrements and gave her its 
history, all of which she very much en-
joyed.
	Saturday afternoon a Lake party had 
been planned, Mrs. Minnie J. Snow having
kindly tendered a car to convey the party 
of ninety guests.          There were some dis-
pointments (as there nearly always are) and
only fifty sat down to the banquet that had
been prepared.   After lunch the party re-
paired to a private room in the pavilion 
where toasts and speeches were given. Mrs.
Augusta W. Grant had kindly consented to
act as toastmaster of the occasion, and in a
few well chosen words first introduced Miss
Ann M. Cannon, whom she designated one
of our Utah girls, and who then gave the
address of welcome in a most pleasing and
natural way. Mrs. Grant, in her most
facetious style, (which reminded the writer
of “Old Maid in the Corner’’) introduced
Mrs. Wells, whose subject was the “Inter-
national Council of Women.”
	Mrs. Grant, in suitable and graceful
terms, announced the next on the program,
Mrs. Minnie J. Snow, whose subject was
“Music in Utah.” Mrs. Snow gave, in her
brief paper, a very good idea of the success
and growth of this divine gift in our
mountain home, mentioning by name our
best and choicest singers and musicians,
and dwelling upon tile uplifting tendency
of the cultivation of this Heavenly Muse,
that can more nearly awaken every emo-
tion of the soul than any other power to
which mortals have attained. It reminded
the writer of the old poem by Wm. Collins,
which gives to music such emotional ex-
pression:
         “When music, heavenly maid, was young,
          While yet in early Greece she sung.’’

	Last came “Whistling,." by Mrs. Le Roi
C. Snow, who possesses wonderful skill in
imitating harmonious sounds of various
kinds, accompanied by soft, sweet instru-
mental music, which was very taking and
entirely out of the ordinary.
	Mrs. Sewall responded in a most compre-
hensive address with tactfulness and elo-
quence and quite won the hearts of the
audience, who were already prepossessed in
her favor, for she has the magical power of
attraction in a very wonderful degree.  It
is possibly one of the secrets of her being
able to overcome and triumph over every
obstacle in the way of magnificent work
among women of all nations and countries.
	After the exercises were concluded the
party went up to the dancing hall, where
they were entertained with fine music by
Christensen’s celebrated band and fancy
dancing by Miss Snow, (in costume)
daughter of Lorenzo Snow Jr., which helped
to make variety and was very pretty. Mrs.
Sewall, with a dozen or so of the party,
took a bath and a swim in the Dead Sea of
America, which she and her companions
richly enjoyed, as well as the delightful
scene by moonlight upon the water and the
ride home.
	Sunday afternoon Mrs. Sewall had the
distinction of. speaking  to an immense con-
gregation in the large Tabernacle in this
city, and of seeing and hearing our famous
Tabernacle choir and the celebrated organ.
An abstract of Mrs. Sewall’s address on
Sunday is published in this issue of the
paper.
	Sunday evening Mrs. Sewall spent at
the home of the writer and it is needless to
add we considered it a “red letter day”—
a time we had both' looked forward to for
many years.
	Monday morning Mrs. Sewall went out
driving with President Angus, M. Cannon,
then called upon President Snow and wife,
with whom she had a pleasant interview,
and at 3 p. m. was the Guest of Honor at
at an elegant reception given by Mrs. F.
S. Richards and Mrs. Wm. Jennings, at
Mrs. Richards handsome residence.   The
house was superbly decorated for the recep-
tion of this queenly woman, and Mrs. Rich-
ards and Mrs. Jennings received with Mrs.
Sewall, about three hundred people were
invited. About five o’clock Mrs. Sewall
gave a ten minute talk on the Inter-
national Council, -which was very interest-
ing and instructive.
	In the evening Mrs. Sewall gave a lec-
ture in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, her
subject being “Current Tendencies in
Education,” which was very fine, the only
regret being that so few availed themselves
of this rare opportunity of hearing this
celebrated woman of international fame.
	Tuesday morning Mrs. Sewall drove
about the city to places of special interest
and made some calls, went through Mrs.
McCune’s new residence, “The Bungalow,”
and called again at the Bee Hive. In the
afternoon she spoke at a parlor meeting at
Mrs. P. T. Farnsworth’s elegant home,
on the subject of Internationalism and the
International Council of Women.
	Mrs. Farnsworth’s charming little
daughters served punch and lemonade to
the guests at the meeting.
	The same afternoon a tea party was
given for her at the residence of Gen. and
Mrs. John Q. Cannon at the Cannon Farm,
formerly the residence of President George
Q. Cannon. The guests were, besides the
hostess (Mrs. Cannon) and the Guest of
Honor, Mrs May Wright Sewall:   Dr.
Romania B. Pratt, Mrs. A. W. McCune,
Mesdames Sarah Jane Cannon, Martha T.
Cannon, Eliza T. Cannon and Carlie Y.
Cannon, also Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mrs. S. W.
Sears, and Mrs. Lewis M. Cannon. 
	Later in the evening Mrs. Sewall was
shown through the beautiful grounds and
some of the residences of the family of
President George Q. Cannon, and Gen.
John Q. Cannon gave her a brief history of
the planting, cultivating and beautifying of
the grounds now so delightful and so much
admired; how this spot near the banks of
the Jordan had been converted from a
slough of weeds and thistles, had been
made habitable and beautified by the thrift,
energy and perseverance of his father’s
efforts and determination.
	We took our leave of Mrs. Sewall that
evening about eleven o’clock. The follow-
ing morning she took train for Provo in
company with Miss Aggie Campbell and
Miss Estella Neff. At Provo she was right
royally entertained by the citizens en masse
and was the special guest of Mr. and Mrs.
Jacob F. Gates.   Mrs. Sewall gave a lec-
ture Wednesday afternoon in the Provo
Tabernacle on “The Open Mind,”  and
had, we understand, a large and appre-
ciative audience. In the evening a ban-
quet was given in her honor at the B. Y.
Academy, which was a pronounced success
in every particular, so say the reporters.
	Mrs. Sewall's next stopping place was
Topeka, where she would, no doubt be
honored and feted and shown the same
marked attention that she has received
everywhere in the West. May her visit be
productive of the great good she so ardent-
ly desires in the interest of fraternal Inter-
nationalism.


