R. S. REPORT.

	The spring conference of the National
Relief Society of the Wasatch Stake of Zion
convened in the Stake house at Heber on
Monday, May 26, 1901, President Annie
R. Duke presiding.
	Sisters Margaret A. Caine and Dr. Ellis
R. Shipp, of Salt Lake, City were present
as visitors.    There were also in attendance
a very fair representation of officers and
members from the several wards of the
Stake; also some representative brethren.
	The reports given by representatives of
branches went to show that the members
generally were interested in this branch of
the work pertaining to the kingdom of God.
	The statistical and financial report was
read, which showed that the organization
was based upon a good foundation.
	Sister Caine gave some excellent advice
on the observance of the laws of God as
given for our guidance and testified that if
we would live in accordance therewith our
bodies would be healthy and our minds
vigorous in comprehending the things of
the kingdom.   She also spoke of the
necessity of doing all in their power to
bring salvation within the reach of the
living and the dead, and upon the proper
teaching and training of children so that
when they are old enough to understand
the principles of truth they will be ready to
accept them.   Sister Shipp spoke on the
objects of this organization and advised the
sisters to cultivate love and charity one to-
wards another.    Advised the mothers of
the necessity of teaching their children the
principles of virtue and honesty. Said it
should be their privilege to assist their hus-
bands by counseling and advising with
them in raising their families, that as they
grow to maturity they may be prepared to
accept of and live in accordance with the
glorious Gospel which we as Latter-day
Saints believe.
	President Wm. H. Smart gave some ex-
cellent advice to the sisters and said he was
greatly encouraged when he beheld their
zeal and felt that they were determined to
accept of the counsel given to them and
continue to assist in bringing about that
condition which is so desirable.
	President Annie R. Duke expressed the
thought that this was one of the best con-
ferences ever held to her knowledge, and
advised us to take home with us the spirit
that they had enjoyed
