KANSAS RELIEF SOCIETY.
	Thursday, June 13, 1901, at 2:30 p. m.,
in the hall used by the Kansas city branch
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, the sisters of this branch and Sister
Levinia Preator, of Independence, Mo., met
according to appointment by the mission
presidency to organize a Relief Society.
	The meeting was presided over by James
G. Duffin, president of the Southwestern
States mission, and the song entitled “Love
at Home” was sung at the opening of the
exercises. Elder D. O. Allen offered prayer,
after which the song, “Beautiful Zion,”
was sung.
	President Duffin spoke at length on the
object of the meeting and briefly referred to
the history of this important and beneficial
organization.
A number of the sisters present expressed
themselves as being heartily in sympathy
with the movement, and said that they
were desirous of seeing a branch of the soci-
ety in this section of the Lord’s vineyard
prosper and flourish.
	Sister Estella A. Milligan, of Kansas
City, Mo., was appointed as president of
the society, with Sister Kate Brown of


Kansas City, Kansas, and Louisa Preator,
Independence, Mo., as first and second
counselors, respectively.
	Sister Mary E. Smedley was appointed
and sustained as secretary, with Sister
Susan F. Pletts as assistant.
	Sister Milligan spoke of her brief ex-
perience in the work and expressed herself
as being pleased with the expressions of the
sisters who had voted to sustain her in her
calling.
	After the organization had been perfected
and the officers set apart, Elder B. C. Call
spoke, referring to the organization as be-
ing one of an important nature, and one
that would undoubtedly have historical in-
terest as being the first organization of the
kind in Jackson Co., the Center Stake of
Zion.
	The first and the third Thursday of each
month was the time set for holding
meetings.
	Trusting our feeble efforts may result in
good, and wishing the associations in the
various Stakes of Zion success as a reward
for their labors, we remain,
	Your sisters,
		ESTELLA MILLIGAN, Pres.,
