Social Service (Fourth Week in March)
ACQUIRING THE USE OF SPEECH
LESSON VI
There are three goals to be kept clearly in mind in working on this lesson:
1. What is the natural development of speech?when and how does it appear and grow?
2. What positive care and educational activities will recognize, stimulate and guide this development best?
3. What common speech defects are found in children? How may these be prevented? How may they be cured?
These are essentially knowledge aims. The members of the class will therefore expect to study to learn, not just be impressed by, the content of the lesson.
Suggestions for procedure: Assign the reading guide for careful study. This will give some information on all of the aims, especially 1 and 3. Emphasize to the class members that success in learning this lesson will be increased by a careful study of the problems in the pamphlet as indicated by the first statement in the reading guide. An individual member of the class may be assigned to study topic I in the supplementary material, locate babies of various ages and report to the class on the development of speech as found. A special report on what the home can do to correct speech defects would help. A teacher from the schools could report what is actually being done in treating special cases if such a lecture can be arranged. Each of these reports wants to be brief, definite and to the point. The other material is suitable for class study and discussion. Memorization of this material will be materially helped by a definite summary carefully planned by the class instructor.
Reading Guide. Growth pages 23-28.
1. The problems on page 27-28 should be analyzed and answered by each member as a part of the individual study. Questions that the individual can't answer should be taken to the class for solution. Class members should lead the discussion in this way.
Does the author imply that crying is a part of learning to talk? On what basis does a parent's interpretation of baby's cry "have its effects on the child's training?" 3. Can you see how it is that "mama" and "dada" are among the first sounds made by the child? How Growth, pages do these become permanent social words? 4, The development of vocabulary seems to follow which of the following? What the child hears incidentally. The development of the child's activities.: Attempts at formal teaching. 5. Note carefully the sentences which show the relationship between the development of speech and each of the following: Physical exercise or play. Children's questions. General intellectual ability. Sex differences. Inheritance and home environments.. 6. "Delayed speech" as a defect seems to be associated with three specific causes: General mental slowness, sensory defects, lack of motive for talking. How may the effects of this last one be avoided? 7. Defective speech seems to be related to physiological limitations or lack of care on the part of adults while the child is learning to talk. Note carefully what the author says about "corrective work" and "baby talk," 8. Stuttering is essentially emotional. Write down and take to class for discussion the facts given on each of the following points: Accompanying symptoms. Importance in the happiness of childhood. Age at which correction should begin. Dangers of direct disciplinary measures. Supplementary Material: I. Curti gives the following ?Stages in the Development of Speech.? (Child Psychology, pp. 191ff) Random articulation, characteristic of the first six months. 2. The babbling stage, or vocal play of babies, or the playful repetition of sounds. This is especially characteristic of the second six - months. 3. Evoking of articulate elements by the speech of others, the beginnings of imitation. This is usually limited to imitation of the sounds used in the babbling stage. 4. Conditioning of the articulation by objects and situations. This is illustrated by the happy response obtained when the babble "da-da" occurs in the presence of the father. "Practice of the two-syllable form da-da is encouraged by adults, while that of the one syllable form is regularly interfered with." ''Again a chance utterance of the child may be connected with any familiar object, and if its use is encouraged by adults, become the name of the object.'" IT. Children's vocabularies grow about as indicated by the following table: 12 months few words 18 ? ? 24 ? 300 30" 450" 36 " 800 42 ? 1,250 48 1,550 " 54 ? 1,800 60" 2,100 " 66 2,300 " 72 ? 2,600 " General intelligence, social opportunities, and general activity all affect the growth of vocabulary. III. Extent of Speech defects: Total in the United States estimated at 1,250,000. Total of these who stutter, 200,000. Ratio of number of boys to number of girls, 3 to 1. IV. Data on special problems. 64 RELIEF SOCIETY 1. Speechlessness or delayed speech. This may be due to individual differences in maturity of function but is always dangerous if it persists past four or five years of age. Causes. Inability to hear or form auditory images, inability to associate hearing with proper speech movement. Treatment of the first type is described by Peppard as follows (p. 75-6): "When teaching a sound to a child whose speech images are retarded, the teacher should take the child's face between his hands. The child should watch closely the teacher's mouth while the latter produces a simple sound, such as "p.' The teacher should continue making the same sound until the child can produce it. His eyes should then be covered by the teacher's hand, shutting out all visual stimuli that would cause distraction from the auditory impression, and the sound 'ah' should be made close to the child's ear. This is done in order to give sufficient quantity and quality to the sound to make a strong impression. It will be necessary to make the sound several times very distinctly. Then the teacher should face the child. The child's hand should be placed on the teacher's throat, so that he can feel the vibration when the teacher says "ah." (The mouth should be well open.) The child should then produce the sound. In the second type of difficulty the child hears, but the impression releases other reactions than speech. For example the child hears "dada" and looks at or runs to his father?but does not talk. The treatment is described as follows: (Peppard, p. 77.) "In teaching a word like MOTHER, begin with teaching M, then O, then MO. When he says MO correctly several times, teach TH-ER. Put TH-ER together and get THER. Then have him produce the first group MO and then the second group THER. All words should be built up in this manner for children with this particular type of speech defect. "Again, take a simple sentence like MAGAZINE "I see you." It will be necessary to break each word into its elementary sounds. In order to teach this type of child to say the above, the work must be presented in the following manner: I.... Ah ee see.... See you.... "Each word should be taught separately until it is clearly under the child's control. The simple sentence used above is not a problem of three words, or three stimuli, to the child, but one of six elementary sounds. At first the child's vocabulary will consist of words definitely taught, but as activity is aroused throughout the speech areas, the child slowly begins to interpret sounds of a more complex nature.' These quotations are illustrations only. Much more study is required to make the corrections. 2. Some children seem unable to raise the tongue to produce sounds as "l, t, d, n." If the tongue is tied it can be corrected by a surgeon. If the condition is due to sluggishness in the tongue muscles it can be prevented by clear speaking models in the home and social demands for well pronounced words. It can be corrected by exercise. 3. Baby talk. "Baby talk is the result of erroneous interpretation and production of sounds. The instances in which mental and physical defects accompany baby talk are rare. Erroneous auditory and motor (kinaesthetic) images are often early established as a result of the well-meant but foolish prattle of parents." (Peppard: The Correction of Speech Defects, p. 93.) "Care should be taken to supply the child with good speech copy long before he even begins to speak, because internal speech impressions are formed months before motor or external speech begins." (Page 94.) Most children correct this defect themselves. At times it persists into high school. To correct it the sounds not well pronounced should be taught as correct skills in new words not previously mispronounced. Later the child can be taught to apply the new skills to the old words. 4, Lisping. This is characterized by the inability to pronounce such sounds as "s, z, sh" and occasionally others. It is a common element in baby talk. This is a very common defect which gradually corrects itself. It is caused by the tongue rising or protruding in the attempted pronunciation of sounds requiring the lowering of the tip of the tongue behind the lower teeth. It is often begun when the first set of teeth are lost. Bad models of speech often cause it. It usually completely disappears in the intermediate grades. If it does not, correction is necessary. This consists essentially of teaching the child the proper position of the tongue, demonstration of the sounds, careful supervision of practice. 5. Stuttering or stammering. This is a halting defective utterance often accompanied by the repetition of initial sounds. Terman and Almack list five classes of causes or predisposing influences: (Hygiene of the School Child, p. 353-7.) 1. Reflex conditions including adenoids, enlarged tonsils, defective teeth, etc. 2. General weakness due to malnutrition, sickness or overwork. 3. Psychical causes including shock, morbid fear, etc. 4. Hereditary tendencies. 5. Interference with normal lefthandedness. This seems to be a very significant cause. Peppard says: "The subjective or subconscious state is most profound in stammerers. It is difficult to control the subconscious mind. The subconscious mind is not active in mental focusing on facts but it is said that its memory of the emotions is almost perfect. The conscious mind works under control of the will, Stammering is a defect in the mind and not in the vocal chords. It is a mental fault often eventuating in physical disability. It is this physical manifestation that gives rise to the mistaken belief that nervousness is the underlying cause of stammering. Parents and teachers are prone to believe that nervousness causes stammering because stammerers usually show signs of nervousness. The term "nervousness" is too generally used. It would be more accurate to say that the emotional instability underlying stammering causes the nervousness as well as the stammering. This emotional instability usually responds to the reeducative methods used in the correction of stammering. When the emotional instability is eliminated, the stammering and nervous manifestations disappear. The nervousness that accompanies stammering cannot be corrected by administering nerve tonics. It is due to a definite mental condition and cannot be eliminated until this mental condition is corrected by reeducation of some sort. Treatment for nervousness rarely removes stammering, but corrective treatment for the elimination of stammering usually causes. A rapid improvement in the patient's physical and nervous condition." (Peppard: The Correction of Speech Defects, p. 142.) One characteristic to be noted especially is that when the defect begins it soon causes a language fear which disposes the individual to avoid the use of speech. The effect is therefore one of gradual general speech deterioration. That it is not a physical condition is shown by the fact that patients can sing very well. Peppard lists eleven possible causes (page 146): 1. Fright. 2. Shock. 3. Psycho-neurosis, produced by shock or injury. 4, Nervous debility. 5. Careless habits of speech in childhood, due to diffused thinking or to a child's having been allowed to form the habit of repeating words. 6. Endeavoring to produce sounds with the speech organs in incorrect position for production of such sounds; for instance, opening the  mouth in an effort to produce "m." We often find the stammerer with his speech organs in position for the second sound before the first sound has been produced. 7. Drawing in the breath when attempting to articulate. Forced inhalation before speaking. The person fills up with air, as it were, in order to have sufficient air to finish. This causes a rigidity of the articulatory muscles. Most stammerers can sing, which proves that it is not the insufficient amount of air that is causing the difficulty. It takes very little breath to produce speech. This can be proved by saying a short sentence as, "My name is John Brown," after a forced exhalation. 8. Imitation of stammering speech, either direct, which is mocking, or indirect. Children should be warned of the danger of this practice. 9. Use of words whose pronunciation and meaning are beyond the mental development of the child. This causes a stumbling and a lack of assurance which eventuates in a fear of pronunciation. 10. Forcing a left-handed child to write with his right hand. 11. Speech conflict?thinking in one language and endeavoring to speak in another. 12. Overinnervation. The prevention of these causes prevents stammering. Especial care to prevent any imitation or mimicking of this defect should be taken. Embarrassment always aggravates the difficulty. Worry and undue excitement with hurried talking should be avoided in children. Self confidence should be developed in children. Watch to see that formal work of the first grade doesn't start a tendency to stammer. The correction is difficult but entirely possible. Each case is individual and different. It really means a re-education of the speech centers. It may also be necessary to overcome a tendency to introversion, to despondency and fear. The first step is always to work to get the patient to know that he can talk. Sometimes singing will do this. Sometimes an entirely new word correctly mastered will be the means. Suggest power and ability always. Sympathy is not wanted. Peppard gives ten brief rules that will help. (Pages 157-8.) 1. Discover the cause, if possible. 2. Restore confidence. 3. Create a new and stronger voice. 4, Destroy the "compulsive idea." 5. Have pupil syllabicate words, stressing every syllable. This eradicates any slovenly habits of speech. 6. Have pupil break sentences into small groups of words and pause and relax after each group. This will slow down the speed which is common to most stammerers. The voice should be dropped after each phrase as one does at a period. Teaching rising inflection at all commas develops unnatural voice production. 7, When a stammerer has difficulty, make him stop talking and gain self-control. Tell him to think first what he wishes to say, place the first sound correctly, break the words into syllables, and proceed. Do not let him skip any sound in a word. Do not let him make several attempts at saying a word. Stop him instantly and have him think the correct production. "When images corresponding to any sensory experiences are recalled there is the same kind of action as when the senses are externally stimulated, although this action is less intense." Halleck. (The Education of the Central Nervous System.) 8. Cultivate direct thinking. That is, train the student to concentrate on what he is saying. 9, Develop a quick connection between musculature and brain. 10. Deal constantly with the personal equation. Speech is an educational problem. Its normal development can be assured by thought and care on the part of parents and teachers. Its correction can be accomplished by teachers, and parents who will study the problem and work patiently. Occasionally some medical or surgical aid may be needed. People do not need to permit themselves to be victimized by quacks who offer quick cures or exclusive methods. References: 1. Curti: Child psychology, pp. 191 ff. 2. Peppard: The Correction of Speech Defects, pp. 75-6. 3. Peppard: The Correction of Speech Defects, p. 77. 4. Peppard: The Correction of Speech Defects, p. 93. 5. Peppard: The Correction of Speech Defects, p. 94. 6. Peppard: The Correction of Speech Defects, p. 142. 7. Peppard: The Correction of Speech Defects, p. 146.: 8. Peppard: The Correction of Speech Defects, pp. 157-8.