[Vol20 | January 1933 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field]
IN answer to the often repeated question, "What shall we do with Relief Society books that have been purchased by the Society?" we first call attention to the very fine account in the "Notes from the Field" (page 43 of this issue) given by the Cache stake. The General Board heartily endorses this plan, and has the following to suggest: A number of Relief Society organizations have been most successful in establishing small libraries, with a librarian in charge of the books. The books are distributed and exchanged weekly after the regular meeting. These societies are to be congratulated on this method and the amount of reading that has been accomplished by the members. We recommend this as being the very best method of caring for the books belonging to the Relief Society. First provide a place to keep the books, a shelf or shelves, according to the number of books; a shelf where they can be seen is better than a box. A good way to place them is alphabetically by author. It is necessary, when circulating them, to keep some kind of record, and a card is the handiest and easiest method. A card 5 x 3 inches with the author's name and title of the book written at the top may be placed in each book. The borrower writes her name on the card, and the date of taking it. The card is then filed, and when the book is returned the name is checked off and the card replaced in the book. If the officers feel it is best, where there is a public library in the town, the librarian might be glad to provide a place for Relief Society books where they may be kept during the time they are actively used. After that time the organizations may desire to turn them over to the librarian for permanent use. The seminary library is also a good depository if it is central enough. A list of all books placed in any library by the Relief Society should be posted in a prominent place in said library as a suggestion to the women who are in doubt as to what to read. The only justification in having a book is that it may be used, so don't store them away in boxes, or closets, to collect dust.
Magazine Subscriptions
IT is certainly a matter of congratulation when a ward or a stake can, under present conditions, report 100% subscriptions to the Magazine. It indicates a sincere appreciation of the value of the Magazine, and of the courage and energy of those responsible for its circulation in the stakes. The General Board offers sincere congratulations to all who have achieved this enviable record. A most remarkable record has been made in the San Francisco stake, with ten out of its thirteen wards securing 100% subscriptions.
[THIS IS TABLE: Ward membership and magazine subscription data for San Francisco Stake, showing Ward names, No. Membership, and No. Magazines Taken for various wards including Alameda, Balboa, Burlingame, etc.]
Blaine Stake Hagerman......33 33
Liberty Stake Eighth........101 101
Annie Smith, Agent for the 8th Ward, formulated the following 12 reasons for selling the Magazine:
1. It advertises our Organization.
2. It helps the lonely over sad hours.
3. It creates an interest in our lessons.
4. It is the one and only Magazine for L. D. S. Women.
5. It is worth twice the price we pay for it.
6. It takes us to Universities and all over the World.
7. It stimulates us to develop our talents.
8. It makes us proud of our membership In the Organization.
9. It gives us courage to go forward.
10. It brings joy in our hearts in reading the fine poetry.
11. It gives good wholesome reading for every member of the family.
12. We will know our Magazine.
Motto: "We will know our Magazine."
Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest
GREAT interest was again manifest in the Eliza Roxey Snow Poem Contest. There were 105 poems entered, and many of them were unusually good. The judges were Miss Dorothy Snow, of the English Department of the University of Utah; Mrs. Elsie Talmage Brandley, Associate Editor of the Era; and Mrs. Cora L. Bennion, of the  for "Sonnet of Loneliness." The second prize is awarded to Alberta Huish Christensen, of Long Island, New York, for "Full Measure." Honorable mention is given to Alveretta S. Engar, of Salt Lake City, for "I Didn't Dream;" to Miriam Jeanne Warnick, of Pleasant Grove, Utah, for "Life Perfect;" and to Claire Stewart Boyer, of Salt Lake City, for "Rebirth." We congratulate the winners and the sisters who submitted so many fine poems.
Notes from the Field
Bear River Stake.
