Literature
THE DELIGHT OF GREAT BOOKS
(Third Week in March)
ROMEO AND JULIET. SHAKESPEARE
"Let me not to the marriage of true minds Admit impediments. Love is not love Which alters when it alternation finds, Or bends with the remover to remove:?
"O no! It is an ever-fixed mark That looks on tempests, and is never shaken; It is the star to every wandering bark, Whose worth's unknown, although his height be taken.
"Love's not Time's fool, though rosy lips and cheeks Within his bending sickle's compass come; Love alters not with his brief hours and weeks, But bears it out even to the edge of doom:?
"If this be error, and upon me proved, I never writ, nor no man ever loved." ?Shakespeare.
When the great Love Story of the World is written the love of Romeo and Juliet will have a place, because Shakespeare in immortalizing the medieval love-legend made it the universal expression of young love.
William Shakespeare (1564-1616.) Probably no other English author has been so much written about as Shakespeare, and yet little is actually known of his life. A large mass of tradition, however, has come down to us. Of Shakespeare's ancestry we know that he came of good yeoman stock. His father was a merchant of Stratford-on-Avon, in Warwickshire, England. His mother's family were prosperous farmers. Stratford-on-Avon is the chief memorial spot for the "Bard of Avon." Here may be seen the house where he was born. Here is the grammar school he attended until thirteen years of age, learning little "Latin and less Greek" but revelling in the Mystery and Miracle plays held on holiday occasions in the great beamed room over the guild hall. Here, too, is the church where he was baptized and where he was buried in the chancel under the stone bearing the famous verse: "Good friend for Jesus' sake forbeare, To dig the dust enclosed heare; Blest be the man that spares these stones; And curst be he that moves my bones." Just outside of Stratford is the cottage of Anne Hathaway, whom Shakespeare married when he was nineteen. At Stratford, also, is the site of New Place, the beautiful home Shakespeare built when he returned from London a wealthy man. Of the London life of England's greatest poet we know little. Legend has supplied much of what we know of the best years of Shakespeare's life. The theatres where he acted in minor roles and the ones in which he held part ownership left very meager records of his activities. It would seem valid to assume that at first Shakespeare became an actor under the leadership of Richard Burbage, who presented plays at the Globe and other London theatres. After a while, Shakespeare began his first experiments in dramatic writing, the remodeling of early Elizabethan plays. Then came twenty years of authorship with an average of two plays a year in addition to many poems. The earlier dramas are simple comedies and tragedies, the best known being "A Midsummer Night's Dream," and "Romeo and Juliet." Then came a series of historical plays dealing with English history as "Henry IV" and "Henry V," and with Roman history as "Julius Caesar." The note of tragedy dominated Shakespeare's next plays as human sentiments and passions were portrayed in "Hamlet," "King Lear," "Macbeth," "Othello," and "Antony and Cleopatra." Shakespeare's final dramatic activity reveals a peace of mind, a serene thoughtfulness, attained through a wide and deep understanding of human nature. The romantic plays of the last period "Cymbeline," "A Winter's Tale," and "The Tempest" are marked with a delicacy of touch and mastery of character portrayal such as no other English writer has attained. Shakespeare as actor, as author, as theatre owner gave no thought to future fame; for other than in his sonnets he never wrote about himself; nor even took precaution to have his plays put in permanent form. We do know, however, that his plays were popular and yielded him a fortune. At the age of fifty he returned to his native town to spend his remaining years in comfort as a country gentleman.
The Genius of Shakespeare. Mystery surrounds much of the life of Shakespeare, but the evolution of his mind and art lies plainly revealed in his works. He learned to understand Nature, material and human. The early plays are marked with the influence of external Nature. He learned to understand human nature, "the workings of the mind and the emotions of the heart." Whatever base and unlovely he found in life as the product of evil in the universe, his belief in the divinity of man gleams like a beacon light in his works: "What a piece of work is man! How noble in reason! How infinite in faculties! In form and moving, how express and admirable! In action how like an angel! In apprehension, how like a god! The beauty of the world! The paragon of animals!" From the works of the masters of wisdom and literature Shakespeare learned many of the facts of life in other ages and climes. Upon assuming the role of artist, an interpreter of Nature, Shakespeare chose drama as the chief literary vehicle for his philosophy, and created characters, men and women, ghosts and witches, monsters and fairies, as its exponents. One by one the great destructive forces of life were dealt with producing "perhaps the richest and most varied mass from the genius of one man in the total literature of the world." Matthew Arnold, English poet and critic, pays tribute to the genius of Shakespeare in the following sonnet:
SHAKESPEARE
"Others abide our question. Thou art free. We ask and ask?Thou smilest and art still, Out-topping knowledge. For the loftiest hill, Who to the stars uncrowns his majesty, Planting his steadfast footsteps in the sea, Making the heavens of heavens his dwelling-place, Spares but the cloudy border of his base To the foiled searching of mortality;
"And thou, who didst the stars and sunbeams know, Self-schooled, self-scanned, self-honoured, self-secure, Didst tread on earth unguessed at.?Better so!
"All pains the immortal spirit must endure, All weakness which impairs, all griefs which bow, Find their sole speech in that victorious brow."
Romeo and Juliet. Shakespeare took a simple medieval love-story and made it reveal his understanding of love, a universal experience. Love, as he understood it was the intelligent attraction and sympathy which exists between man and woman. It was not the outcome of physical passion, nor a state of negation, nor a delusion of the mind. The tragic story of Romeo and Juliet, as Shakespeare immortalized it, reveals the spiritual basis of the noble passion Love. The story of Romeo and Juliet came from Italy; it was recorded in the national memorials of her old family feuds. A favorite with the troubadours, the story was carried to France, Spain, and England. The English version was made by Arthur Brooke in the form of a long narrative poem. To make his drama Shakespeare combined the details of the English story, the Italian atmosphere of the original story, and the two conflicts, youth and age, love and hate. The two chief families of Verona, the Capulets and the Montagues, have a feud of long standing. No one remembered when the quarrel began, but so deadly is the enmity between them, that the kindred, followers, and servants never meet without conflict. As the drama opens the servants of the two houses are feeding the "cankered hate" of their masters on the streets of Verona. Romeo, the heir of the house of Montague, is brooding over his imagined love for Rosaline, a cold beauty forswearing love. Benvolio, Romeo's friend, urges him to attend a great feast given by the old Lord Capulet, and meet the admired beauties of Verona and peradventure find "his swan a crow." To the feast then Romeo and his two friends, Benvolio and Mercutio, repair wearing masks. At the festivities Romeo sees a lady whose beauty and grace set his heart aflame with love, real not imagined. While discussing the charms of the lady with his friends, he is overheard by Tybalt, a nephew of Lady Capulet. Tybalt is enraged at this affront by a Montague, and it is only the kindly interference of Lord Capulet that averts a duel. Later in the evening Romeo contrives to talk to the fair lady and with loving conceits sets her heart aflame. It is only after the lovers separate that they learn each other's identity. Upon returning home after the feast, Juliet repairs to the balcony of her room to tell the secret of her love to the night. Romeo, in turn, is wandering alone in the night brooding now over his very real love. As he wanders under the balcony of his loved one, he hears her beautiful and intense confession of love: "O Romeo, Romeo! Wherefore art thou Romeo? 'Tis but thy name that is my enemy; Thou art thyself though, not a Montague. What's a Montague? What's in a name? That which we call a rose, By any other name would smell as sweet; So Romeo would, were he not Romeo called, Retain that dear perfection which he owes Without that title;?Romeo, doff thy name; And for that name, which is no part of thee, Take all myself." Overjoyed, Romeo reveals his presence, and Juliet makes a further avowal of her love: "My bounty is as boundless as the sea, My love as deep; the more I give to thee The more I have, for both are infinite." The tragic reality of the night's events flashes upon Juliet. Their love is surrounded by hate and discord. With ingenious delicacy she suggests the only solution to the love-dazed Romeo: "And all my fortunes at thy foot I'll lay, And follow thee, my lord, throughout the world." When the lovers parted, Romeo goes to the cell of Friar Laurence. The good friar, a friend to both the quarreling families, is anxious to see the breach healed between the Capulets and the Montagues, so thinking that the marriage of Romeo and Juliet might accomplish this purpose, he consents to perform a secret ceremony. The day of the secret marriage, the friends of Romeo, Benvolio and Mercutio, meet a band of Capulets headed by Tybalt. A quarrel is in progress as Romeo arrives on the scene. Not wishing to quarrel with a Capulet now, Romeo tries to reason with Tybalt, but to no avail. Mercutio, who knows nothing of Romeo's reason for seeking peace, looks upon his friend's tolerance as cowardice. And in exasperation at Tybalt's continued insults, Mercutio fights and is killed. Romeo fights now to avenge the death of his friend, and Tybalt is killed. The broil brings the governing prince of Verona and the old lords Capulet and Montague to the scene. Lady Capulet in revenge for the death of her nephew demands the extreme penalty for the murderer. The prince after a careful investigation of the facts pronounces the sentence of banishment for Romeo. Juliet at her home after the secret marriage awaits the coming of night that will bring Romeo with plans for their future. The old nurse brings the news of Tybalt's death and Romeo's banishment. Romeo, in the meantime, takes refuge with Friar Laurence. From frantic despair Romeo is lifted by the comforting words of his friend. After all his beloved Juliet is alive and he also is alive. The friar suggests that Romeo go secretly and take leave of Juliet, and then go to Mantua and wait until an announcement of the marriage could be made. Romeo passes the night with his beloved Juliet. With strange forebodings of ill they say their farewells as: "Night's candles are burnt out, and jocund day Stands tiptoe on the misty mountain tops." To be found within the walls of Verona after daybreak meant death for Romeo. A few days after Romeo's departure a new problem is added to Juliet's grief. Lord Capulet arranges a marriage for Juliet with her cousin Paris, a gallant young nobleman. Lord Capulet is old, self-willed, and tyrannical, to whom his daughter is but a property of his house. Lady Capulet is a proud Italian matron, much younger than the husband she has not married for love. Juliet pleads with her cold unsympathetic parents: "Good father, I beseech you on my knees, Hear me with patience, but to speak a word." "O sweet my mother, cast me not away, Delay this marriage for a month, a week," Juliet pleads every reason against the marriage but to no avail. She is commanded to prepare for the nuptials. In desperation Juliet turns to the old nurse who knows all. A gross suggestion, to forget the secret marriage with Romeo and marry Paris, meets this plea. Juliet in magnificent strength struggles alone with her problem. Death and suffering she is ready to brave "to live an unstained wife." In her despair Juliet consults Friar Laurence. His advice is to consent to marry Paris, but before the wedding morn to drink a potion which will give her the semblance of death for forty-two hours. Romeo is to be advised of the plans so that he will be on hand to rescue Juliet from the tomb when she awakes. Love gave Juliet strength to consent to the friar's plans. Juliet's consent to marry Paris is joyful news to Lord Capulet. Preparations are made for a nuptial festival such as Verona has never seen. The time arrives for Juliet to drink the potion. Alone in her chamber in fancy she conjures up all kinds of hideous possibilities as the result of the untried potion. In imagination she sees Tybalt's ghost seeking out Romeo. All fears desert her. To stay by Romeo she drains the phial calling? "Stay, Tybalt, stay! Romeo, I come! This do I drink for thee." Confusion reigned in the house of Capulet on the wedding morn. Instead of a beautiful bride there was a lifeless corpse; instead of wedding cheer there was a burial feast. The body was borne, after the manner of the time, on an uncovered bier and placed in the family vault. Bad news travels more swiftly than good. Before Friar Laurence had a chance to notify Romeo of the plans, other messengers advise him of Juliet's death. Making his plans quickly, Romeo seeks an apothecary so as to purchase some poison: "There is thy gold; worse poison to men's souls, Doing more murders in this loathsome world Than these poor compounds that thou mayst not sell: I sell thee poison, thou hast sold me none. Come, cordial, and not poison, go with me To Juliet's grave." Romeo sets out for Verona to see Juliet in her tomb, then to swallow the poison and lie by her side. At the door of the tomb Romeo meets Paris, who has come to strew flowers and to sorrow alone. Thinking it to be some villain come to desecrate the tomb, Romeo kills Paris. When Romeo discovers that he has killed Paris who should have married Juliet, according to the news of the messenger, he carries him to a grave by Juliet. Romeo takes a loving farewell of his loved Juliet and swallowing the poison dies by her side. Friar Laurence has found out that his messenger has not reached Romeo, so he arrives at the tomb to be ready for the awakening of Juliet. There he finds that "a greater power than his has thwarted his plans." Juliet awakes out of the trance and calls for Romeo. The friar tries to persuade Juliet to leave the tomb but in vain. Hearing a noise of people coming the friar flees; Juliet kills herself with a dagger and dies by Romeo's side. A great multitude has assembled at the tomb by this time. To the old lords, the friar relates the story of their children's love. The prince rebuked the old rivals for their irrational enmities, and showed them the punishment for their hatred. The tragedy appeases the ancient enmity of the houses of Capulet and Montague. Montague will raise in pure gold a statue of the true and faithful Juliet; Capulet will place one as rich of Romeo by her side. The tale is one of true love and sorrow. Romeo and Juliet loved perfectly. Romeo attained to manhood; Juliet to heroic womanhood. Their lives accomplished the reconciliation of their two families. A soft melancholy is left within the heart of the listener as the story ends, and a long sigh of understanding accepts its wisdom, "Life is but an ill constructed play without Love."
Suggestions for Study.
A. Materials.
1. Romeo and Juliet ?Shakespeare.
2. The Delight of Great Books ?Erskine.
3. Shakespeare, His Mind and Art?Dowden.
4. Shakespeare?Masefield.
5. The Facts about Shakespeare ?Nelson and Thorndike.
B. Projects.
1. Music: Selections from the opera "Romeo and Juliet."
2. Readings: a. The Balcony Scene, "The noblest paean to love ever written."?Helena Faucit, famous Shakespearean actress of the role of Juliet. b. Juliet's Soliloquy. Act III, Scene 3.
3. Discussion: a. The Elizabethan Age. b. The Genius of Shakespeare.
4. Story: The World's Great Love Stories. a. Dante and Beatrice. b. Abelard and Heloise. c. Tristram and Iseult.
C. Method.
The projects listed above present some possibilities for enrichment. Let the lesson, however simple, breathe the message of the spiritual nature of love. The problem of the drama is as modern as the present hour. Age and youth have it as their common problem, a problem of understanding. Because of the constancy of human nature, "Romeo and Juliet" is capable of reinterpretation. Shakespeare has a friendly smile and a bit of wisdom for today's parents and lovers. Enjoy the story and find the wisdom.