[Vol49 | February 1962 | Sequence: 05 | Category: General Feature | Title: 95 Editorial: Refinement of the Soul Through Tribulation Marianne C. Sharp]
[Refinement  of  the  Soul  cJnrough  cJrwulation 
'''T'HERE  ought  to  be  a  club  com- 
posed of  women  who  have 
lost  their  homes/'  The  voice  of  the 
sister  who  spoke  held  a  half-laugh- 
ing, half-sad  note.  'Tes/'  she  con- 
tinued, '  Ve  lost  our  home  when  the 
children  were  young,  during  the 
depression,  and  I  will  never  forget 
the  heartache/' 
Her  words  started  a  recital  of 
sobering  experiences  from  those 
who  were  sewing  together,  yet, 
again  and  again  the  conviction  was 
voiced,  "It  was  terribly  hard  at  the 
time,  but  I  learned  a  lot  and  gained 
understanding.  In  a  way  it  was  a 
blessing  in  disguise,  as  I  look  back. 
Of  course,  it  didn't  seem  so  at  the 
time." 
As  one  reflects  on  the  purpose  of 
life,  it  is  not  a  matter  of  wonder 
that  trials,  sorrows,  temptations,  and 
bitter  experiences  are  mixed  with 
opportunities,  contentment,  peace, 
and  joy.  The  great  prophet  Alma, 
refined  by  his  own  bitter,  youthful 
experiences  declared,  "And  thus  we 
see,  that  there  was  a  time  granted 
unto  man  [after  the  fall]  to  repent, 
yea,  a  probationary  time,  a  time  to 
repent  and  serve  God"  (Alma  42:4) . 
The  Heavenly  Father  is  no  re- 
specter of  persons,  for  every  one  in 
this  world  is  his  spirit  child.  Each 
one  was  tested  in  the  spirit  world, 
and  only  the  two-thirds  who  were 
obedient  were  allowed  to  come  to 
this  earth  and  receive  mortal  bodies. 
So  important  is  the  faithfulness  of 
his  children  in  this  second  estate, 
Page  96 
that  those  who  keep  their  second 
estate  are  promised  that  glory  shall 
be  added  upon  their  heads  forever 
and  ever. 
The  Lord  must  have  a  tried  and 
tested  people.  His  omniscience 
gives  to  each  of  his  children  in  this 
temporal  world  those  experiences 
which  will  develop  each  child  to  his 
fullest  potential. 
Of  the  Savior  it  is  written, 
'Though  he  were  a  Son,  yet  learned 
he  obedience  by  the  things  which 
he  suffered"  (Heb.  5:8).  Suffering 
—  mental,  spiritual,  and  physical  — 
teaches  obedience,  if  accepted  in  the 
spirit  exemplified  by  the  Savior, 
''not  my  will,  but  thine,  be  done" 
(Luke  22:42).  Holy  writ  also  says 
"he  suffereth  the  pains  of  all  men, 
yea,  the  pains  of  every  living  crea- 
ture, both  men,  women,  and  chil- 
dren, who  belong  to  the  family  of 
Adam"  ( 2  Nephi  9:21). 
In  every  tribulation,  trial,  sorrow, 
and  pain,  strength  to  endure  may 
be  sought  from  the  Father  in  the 
name  of  his  Son  who  went  below  all 
things  that  he  might  rise  above  all 
things.  Although,  at  times,  one 
may  feel  that  one  is  alone  in  his 
weight  of  trials,  one  may  comfort 
himself  with  the  knowledge  that 
none  escapes  the  sins  and  sorrows  of 
this  world.  One  reads  the  solacing 
and  encouraging  words  "blessed  is 
he  that  keepeth  my  commandments, 
whether  in  life  or  in  death;  and  he 
that  is  faithful  in  tribulation,  the 
reward  of  the  same  is  greater  in  the

EDITORIAL  97 
kingdom  of  heaven.  .  .  .  For  after  possess,  through  righteousness,  that 
much   tribulation   come   the   bless-  parting  gift  of  the  Savior  —  'Teace  I 
ings''  (D  &  C  58:2,4).  leave  with   you,    my   peace    I    give 
Experiences  in  mortality,  accepted  unto  you.  .  .  .  Let  not  your  heart  be 
in  humility,  add  greater  faith,  deep-  troubled,   neither  let  it  be  afraid" 
er  repentance,  a  stronger  power  to  (John  14:27).     The  acceptance  of 
overcome  the  temptation,  less   de-  daily  trials   and   anxieties   and   sor- 
sire  to  judge  others,  a  clearer  un-  rows,  cheerfully  and  uncomplaining- 
derstanding,  refinement,  and  height-  ly  borne,  refine  and  shape  the  in- 
ened    joy.     And    in   the   midst   of  dividual  to  endure  to  the  end  and 
every  testing  in  the  world  one  may  gain  eternal  life.  — M.  C.  S. 
Siege  of  vi/ inter 
Lad  W.  HiU 
Winter  is  king  in  your  castle  now,  you  have  said; 
Tower  and  garden  whiten  and  are  still. 
Yet,  every  night  I  walk  up  the  orchard  hill 
And  hear  the  rustle  of  young  leaves  overhead. 
Behind  your  wall  only  cold  hands,  you  declare, 
Command  your  guardian  stones  to  uniform  frost. 
Yet  the  words  you  say  drift  over  like  petals,  lost 
From  lilac-wind  warm  as  May  upon  my  hair. 
So  you  are  betrayed:  spring  has  appointed  spies 
To  creep  thin  as  ivy  up  your  citadel. 
To  open  the  secret  passage,  the  hidden  cell. 
Soon,  banners  of  purple  will  guide  our  waiting  eyes. 
cJhe  Second   fliile 
Nancy  M.  Armstrong 
"And  whosoever  shall  compel  thee  to  go  a  mile,  go  with  him  twain"  (Mt.  5:41). 
npHE  second  mile,  the  mile  of  one's  own  choosing,  assures  the  victory.     The  second 
■■■     mile   changes   acquaintance   into    friend,   affection    into   love,    quarrel   into    recon- 
cihation,  resentment  into  forgiveness,  duty  into  joy,  failure  into  success,  existence  into 
gracious  living,  prejudice  into  understanding,  belief  into  faith.