[Vol49 | February 1962 | Sequence: 33 | Category: General Feature | Title: FEATURES | Author: Tippetts]
[FEATURES FOR THE HOME Food Buying, Care, and Storage Ruth P. Tippetts]
simple  landscape  features  of  the  domain, 
upon  the  bleak  walls,  upon  the  vacant 
eye-like  windows,  upon  a  few  rank  sedges, 
and  upon  a  few  white  trunks  of  decayed 
trees  —  with  an  utter  depression  of  soul 
which  I  can  compare  to  no  earthly  sensa- 
tion more  properly  than  to  the  after-dream 
of  the  reveller  upon  opium:  the  bitter 
lapse  into  everyday  life,  the  hideous  drop- 
ping off  of  the  veil.  There  was  an  iciness, 
a  sinking,  a  sickening  of  the  heart,  an 
unredeemed  dreariness  of  thought  which 
no  goading  of  the  imagination  could  tor- 
ture into  aught  of  the  sublime.  What 
was  it  —  I  paused  to  think  —  what  was 
it  that  so  unnerved  me  in  t-ie  con- 
templation of  the  House  of  Usher?  It  was 
a  mystery  all  insoluble  .  .  .  (Text,  page 
416). 
The  "eye-like  windows"  and  the 
"unredeemed  dreariness  of  thought" 
parallel  similar  qualities  in  Roderick 
and  prepare  us  for  his  entrance,  just 
as  the  description  of  his  twin  sister 
symbolizes  his  own  malady  and  pre- 
pares us  for  their  simultaneous 
deaths.  But  it  is  Roderick  himself 
who  totals  within  himself  all  the 
evils  of  the  house,  the  dying  sister, 
and  the  evils  of  the  inherited  past. 
'The  Gold  Bug" 
"The  Gold  Bug,"  an  example  of 
Poe's  more  objective  short  stories,  is 
a  tale  of  buried  treasure  and  cryp- 
tography. The  setting  is  on  Sulli- 
van's Island,  near  Charleston,  South 
Carolina,  where  Poe  spent  a  dreary 
winter  of  army  assignment.  Legends 
of  pirates  combined  vvath  Poe's  flair 
for  solving  ciphers  make  this  story, 
written  some  years  later,  one  of  in- 
tense fascination.  Poe  made  full  use 
of  the  haunted  sand  dunes  and  the 
lonely  seascape  to  produce  an  eerie 
atmosphere  for  this  tale  of  mystery^ 
Some  literary  critics,  considering 
Poe  as  one  of  the  few  great  innova- 
tors in  American  literature,  credit 
him  with  inventing  (as  much  as  one 
person  ever  invents  a  species)  the 
detective  story,  and  with  introduc- 
ing the  adolescent  adventure  tale. 
Such  favorable  literary  criticism 
states  not  only  that  French  symbol- 
ism, with  its  emphasis  on  the  sug- 
gestiveness  of  music,  began  when 
French  poets  accepted  Poe's  logical 
formula  for  a  poem,  but  also  that 
Poe's  influence  upon  popular  litera- 
ture has  been  great. 
Regardless  of  Poe's  life,  motives, 
or  history,  the  greatest  contribution 
he  has  made  to  American  literature 
is  his  complete  dedication  to  his  art 
and  the  resulting  power  of  his  page 
to  absorb  the  reader  with  another 
glimpse  into  the  mysteries  and  fasci- 
nations of  the  human  heart,  as  it 
quavers  and  throbs  through  mortal- 
ity. 
Thoughts  ioT  Discussion 
1.  How  does  'The  Raven"  conform  to 
Poe's  "Theory  of  Composition"? 
2.  Illustrate  Poe's  word-tone  music  with 
examples  from  his  poetry. 
3.  What  were  Poe's  contributions  to 
literature?

Social  Science — The  Place  of  Woman  in  the 
Gospel  Plan 
Women  and  Church  Activity 
Lesson  7  —  Fullness  of  Life  and  Exaltation 
Elder  Ariel  S.  BalJif 
For  Tuesday,  May  22,  1962 
Objective:  To  stress  the  importance  of  obedience  to  law  in  attaining  the  blessing 
of  exaltation  and  to  summarize  woman's  place  in  the  gospel  plan. 
The  goal  of  the  L.  D.  S.  family  is  to  ".  .  .  bring  to  its  members  such  lives  as  will 
enable  them  to  return  to  the  inner  circles  of  that  celestial  home  from  which  they 
came,  —  a  dwelling  with  the  Heavenly  Father  and  Mother  throughout  the  eternities" 
(President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  The  Keliei  Societv  Magazine,  December  1940,  page 
808). 
"J,  the  Lord,  Am  Bound  When 
Ye  Do  What  I  Say.  •  •  •" 
QBEDIENCE  to  the  command- 
ments of  God  is  prerequisite  to 
all  the  blessings  promised  to  man- 
kind. In  Section  130  of  The  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants,  verses  20-21, 
we  read: 
There  is  a  law,  irrevocably  decreed  in 
heaven  before  the  foundations  of  this 
world,  upon  which  all  blessings  are  predi- 
cated —  And  when  we  obtain  any  bless- 
ing from  God,  it  is  by  obedience  to  that 
law  upon  which  it  is  predicated. 
There  are  many  promises  in  the 
scripture  to  the  ''chosen  people/' 
but  in  each  case  to  realize  the  bless- 
ings they  must  hear  the  word  of  the 
Lord,  know  his  mind  and  will,  and 
apply  it  in  their  lives. 
Marriage  is  a  command  of  God. 
We  are  forcefully  reminded  by 
revelation  that  there  is  a  particular 
kind  of  marriage  (temple  marriage) 
for  us  if  we  would  receive  the  ful- 
ness of  his  blessings.  The  privilege 
of  going  to  the  temple  to  be  mar- 
ried is  dependent  upon  conformity 
to  the  highest  standards  of  human 
behavior,  such  as  living  the  law  of 
Page  146 
chastity,  which  is  purity  in  body  and 
mind;  and  possessing  a  firm  testi- 
mony of  the  divinity  of  Christ  and 
his  gospel  plan. 
It  would  seem  that  right  living 
prepares  the  way  for  divine  guid- 
ance in  our  lives.  Also,  that  assis- 
tance or  blessings  do  not  come  to  us 
without  a  concerted  effort  on  our 
part.  There  are  two  verses,  18  and 
19,  of  Section  130  of  The  Doctrine 
and  Covenants  that  should  be 
quoted: 
Whatever  principle  of  intelligence  we 
attain  unto  in  this  life,  it  will  rise  with 
us  in  the  resurrection. 
And  if  a  person  gains  more  knowledge 
and  intelligence  in  this  life  through  his 
diligence  and  obedience  than  another,  he 
will  have  so  much  the  advantage  in  the 
world  to  come. 
Then,  our  attention  is  called  to 
the  fact  that  blessings  are  all  predi- 
cated upon  the  fulfillment  of  the 
law.  This  is  an  appeal  to  the  intel- 
ligence of  men  and  women  and  the 
use  of  intelligence  to  the  realiza- 
tion of  their  greatest  possibilities. 
The  Lord  is  willing  to  help  where 
intelligent  effort  is  made.

LESSON  DEPARTMENT  147 
Fulness  of  Liie  Essential  individuals,  which,   in  turn,   is  de- 
to  Exaltation  pendent  upon  a  hfe  developed  from 
Any  person  building  a  house  will  good,  wholesome  living, 
set  down  some  specific  plans  accord-  To  the  couple  who  have  lived 
ing  to  which  he  hopes  to  achieve  fifty  years  together,  through  hard- 
the  objective.  The  more  important  ships  and  success,  sharing  in  full  the 
the  physical  structure  and  the  more  realization  of  their  religious  ideals 
costly,  the  more  detailed  and  elab-  and  goals,  there  is  an  important 
orate  the  plans  and  the  blueprints,  significance  of  ''at-one-ness"  re- 
This,  then,  gives  direction  to  the  ferred  to  in  the  idea  of  ''one  flesh," 
structure.  There  may  be  necessary  quoted  in  The  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
changes  and  adjustments  but,  in  nants.  Section  49,  verse  16.  They 
general,  the  house  will  be  like  the  have  not  only  become  sure  of  each 
plans.  With  good  plans  and  good  other,  but  have  become  so  much  a 
artisans,  together  with  carefully  se-  part  of  each  other  through  their 
lected  material,  it  becomes  an  actu-  sharing,  working,  planning,  and  ad- 
ality.  It  will  be  no  better  than  the  justing  that  certainly,  to  them,  there 
planning,  the  craftsmen,  and  the  is  full  realization  of  the  ''at-one- 
material  used  to  make  it.  This  is,  ness"  idea.  This  ''at-one-ness"  is 
to  some  degree,  analogous  to  the  the  product  of  successful  living  to- 
process  of  developing  a  successful  gether.  It  is  a  growing  feeling  of 
family  and  qualifying  for  the  bless-  indispensableness,  knowing  no  end. 
ing  of  eternal  life.  The  big  task  The  above  type  of  experience  is 
comes  in  training  and  developing  an  explanation  of  how  the  Lord  can 
the  personality  under  divine  prin-  be  bound.  The  blessing  is  theirs  in 
ciples.  There  is  the  never-ending  the  full  realization  of  each  other's 
responsibility  of  developing  self-con-  value.  It  is  the  value  of  good  living 
trol,  unselfishness,  and  in  making  expressed  in  a  degree  of  perfection, 
adjustments  to  the  ever-changing  The  harmony  of  their  lives  together 
relationships  of  personalities  in  is  the  preparation  for  eternal  mar- 
a  house.     It  is  the  difficult  task  of  riage. 
developing  the  technique  of   'we''  The   plan    of   life    and    salvation 
and  "our"  in  meeting  problems  and  might  be  compared  to  a  magnificent 
satisfying  needs;  the  maturing  of  like  organ    with    all    the    perfection    in 
interests     into     common     interests  sound  known  to  the  skill  of  organ 
through  the  sharing  of  common  ex-  makers.     If  a  baby  presses  the  keys 
periences  in  every  phase  of  life;  in  one  may  get  squeaks,  discords,  and 
general,  it  is  reducing  to  a  minimum  chaos,  so  far  as  music  is  concerned, 
the  basic  differences  and  increasing  A  person  with  a  few  organ  lessons
