[Vol49 | February 1962 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: 114 "Sweeter the Thoughts of Love Expressed" Mabel Law Atkinson]
Sweeter  the  cJhoaghts  of  JLove  ibxpressed 
Mabel  Law  Atkinson 
"CWEET  are  the  thoughts  of  love,  but  sweeter  the  thoughts  of  love 
expressed."  At  different  times  when  I  have  seen  the  lack  of  com- 
munication between  older  parents  and  their  children,  this  quote  has  come 
to  my  mind,  and  I  have  sensed  its  full  implication.  It  is  easy  to  tell  our 
small  children  of  our  love  for  them,  and  to  kiss  away  the  stings  of  their 
small  failures;  and  for  them,  in  return,  to  put  warm  little  arms  around 
our  necks,  shower  us  with  kisses,  and  say  the  magic  words:  ''I  love  you. 
Mommy,"  or  ''I  love  you,  Daddy."  But  far  too  often  the  years,  with  their 
speed  of  living  and  their  many  outside  interests,  silence  the  utterances  of 
such  thoughts  —  although  we  still  think  them  —  and  the  doing  of  little 
things  that  endear  and  enrich  each  day's  performance  in  the  great,  con- 
tinuous drama  of  life. 
This  was  brought  forcibly  to  my  cognizance  as  I  watched  a  young 
matron  going  through  her  mother's  ''things"  after  her  death.  In  the 
''secret"  drawer  of  her  mother's  desk,  she  found  a  few  letters  and  cards 
which  proved  to  be  those  her  mother  had  specially  cherished  because  they 
spoke  her  children's  love  to  her.  Among  them  was  a  page  from  a  letter 
this  daughter  had  written  to  her  mother  when  but  a  young  girl,  one  line 
of  which  read,  "I  really  do  love  you.  Mama."  Tears  flowed  freely  as  the 
daughter,  herself  a  mother,  said,  "Had  I  only  known!" 
I  remember  the  day  I  visited  an  old,  old  lady.  She  proudly  showed 
me  the  card  she  had  received  that  day  from  her  son,  a  professor  in  a  uni- 
versity, and  asked  me  to  read  it  aloud  to  her.  Of  course  she  had  read  it 
already  many  times,  but  she  wanted  to  hear  it  again.  So  I  began,  "Dear 
Mother." 
Instantly  she  stopped  me  and  said,  "You  read  it  wrong.  He  wrote, 
Dearest  Mother."  That  one  word,  or  rather  the  adding  of  est,  meant  all 
the  world  to  her  in  affection  value. 
I  recall  listening  to  the  experience  of  a  lovely,  mature  Latter-day  Saint 
young  woman  whose  father  had  recently  passed  away  —  several  years  after 
her  mother  had  left  them.  In  teaching  her  Gleaner  class  in  the  Mutual 
Improvement  Association  she  said,  "I  shall  tell  you  this  sacred  experience 
of  mine  that  vou  whose  parents  are  still  living  may  fill  their  lives  with  joy 
by  showing  and  expressing  frequently  your  love  and  appreciation  for  them, 
which  they  yearn  to  hear. 
"One  night,  a  week  before  my  father's  passing,  I  gave  him  his  medi- 
cine and  his  glass  of  warm  milk,  his  alcohol  rub,  straightened  his  bed, 
fluffed  his  pillow,  and  made  him  as  comfortable  as  possible.  When  I  said 
good  night  and  asked  him  if  there  was  anything  else  he  would  like,  he 
smiled  weakly  and  answered,  "Yes,  my  dear,  just  one  more  thing  —  a  kiss." 
".  .  .  Sweeter  the  thoughts  of  love  expressed!" 
Page  1 1 5

Wean  [Jtjunnel  I  Lewell  Speciauzes  in  Jxnitting  Sweaters 
ana    1 1 iaking  (jLairpin  JLace