[Vol49 | February 1962 | Sequence: 35 | Category: Fiction | Title: Bday | Author: Congrats]
the  top  of  the  rock  design,  then  inserted 
a  fat  birthday  cake  candle  in  the  center 
of  the  wax  for  a  wick  ( Figure  5 ) .  Any 
small  glass  dish  turned  upside  down  will 
Figure  5 
CANDLE  HOLDER 
made  with  a  rose  bowl 
make  a  nice  base  for  it.  Before  cement- 
ing the  bowl  on  the  base,  insert  several 
loops  of  shiny  ribbon  in  a  complimentary 
color  between  the  two. 
You  may  not  like  all  the  objects 
you  create,  but  you  and  your  family 
will  develop  an  awareness  of  the 
beauty  and  utility  in  everything 
around  you.  Ask  yourself  ''What 
else  would  this  be  good  for?"  Or 
''What  else  could  I  use  here?"  It  is 
an  enchanting  hobby  and  a  worth- 
while way  of  alerting  ourselves  to 
the  potential  in  life.  Being  able  to 
make  "anything  out  of  something," 
or  "something  out  of  nothing,"  may 
be  a  very  valuable  exercise  for  all 
of  us.

Sait-Lrork   y^nddle  L^akes 
Pioneer  Pancakes 
Chet  Switell 
!4  lb.  salt  pork,  chopped  very  fine 
Vz  c.  hot  cider 
%  tsp.  mace 
1  c.  buckwheat  flour 
1  c.  buttermilk 
2  eggs,  well  beaten 
Vi  c.  sugar 
Vi  tsp.  salt 
1  tsp.  baking  powder 
Vz  tsp.  baking  soda 
Chop  up  the  salt  pork  as  fine  as  you  can  while  the  cider  is  coming  to  a  boil.  Add 
the  salt  pork  to  the  cider.  Add  the  mace.  Stir  in  the  flour  and  add  the  buttermilk 
slowly.  Mix  well.  Beat  eggs  and  stir  in  sugar,  salt,  baking  powder,  and  baking  soda. 
If  the  batter  is  too  thick  at  this  stage,  add  '4  cup  plain  milk,  until  batter  is  of  desired 
consistency. 
Preheat  an  iron  griddle  or  pan  and  brush  on  a  bit  of  bacon  fat,  and  then  spread  the 
batter.  Turn  heat  down,  as  these  griddle  cakes  must  be  pan-baked  slowly  for  best 
results. 
These  griddle  cakes  must  be  tasted  to  be  fully  appreciated,  as  they  are  different, 
and  the  salt  pork  makes  them  so.  Serve  in  the  usual  way  with  your  favorite  syrup 
or  honey. 
These  salt-pork  pancakes  were  invented  by  the  first  Latter-day  Saint  women  cross- 
ing the  plains  toward  their  new,  as  yet  unfound,  home  in  the  West.  There  was  a  great 
shortage  of  food,  so  with  the  ingredients  they  had  in  their  wagons,  the  pioneering 
women  created  these  wonderful  salt-pork  pancakes. 
Your   family,   too,  will   consider   these   a   life-saver   food   for   a   special  breakfast. 
In  the  original  pioneer  recipe,  the  eggs,  buttermilk,  and  sugar  were  left  out,  and 
molasses  was  substituted  for  the  sugar. 
Cc auiiriower (^asseroie 
Edna  Lind  Cole 
1  cauliflower,  medium  size 
1  c.  celery,  coarselv  cubed 
1  c.  canned  tomatoes,  chopped 
1  medium-size  onion,  cubed 
1  sprig  parsley,  cut  fine 
1  green  pepper,  minced 
2  hard  boiled  eggs,  chopped 
(one  to  put  inside  and  one  to  garnish 
on  top) 
Yi    c.  cheese,  cut  fine  or  grated 
Yi    c.  potatoes,  cold  mashed 
1  tbsp.  butter 
1   tbsp.  lemon  juice 
Yi    c.  milk,  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper, 
paprika.    Add 
four  rosemary  leaves. 
Cook  cauliflower  in  salted  water.  Use  all  leaves,  except  stiff  outer  leaves.  When 
done,  break  up  flowerets  with  fork.  Chop  leaves.  Add  lemon  juice  and  blend  in  all 
the  other  ingredients.  Arrange  in  casserole  dish.  Sprinkle  some  cheese  and  paprika 
on  top.    Bake  20  minutes.    Garnish  with  parsley  and  chopped  egg.    Serves  four. 
Page  105

cJhe  dioudinattie 
Maryhale  Woolsey 
THE  spelling  of  the  name  was  house  to  be  filled  during  the  harvest 
Mother's  guess,  and  nobody  season  and  have  the  covers  nailed 
ever  questioned  it.     It  was,  on  —  again,  often  by  the  sons  and 
she  explained,  a  mental  picture  of  a  daughters.    When  a  box  had  to  be 
word    somehow   derived   from   the  opened  for  inspection,  that  Houdi- 
name  Houdfni,   the   famous   magi-  nattie  was   the  only  tool  anybody 
cian   Grandfather  greatly  admired,  ever  dreamed  of  using. 
''Sure  the  handiest  man  ever  I  heard  The   Houdinattie   was    Mother's 
of!"  he  used  to  say.  favorite  tool.     She  had  liked   car- 
And  that  Houdinattie  was  the  pentering,  to  an  extent  unusual  for 
handiest,  Mother  thought,  of  all  a  girl,  and  often  talked  of  learning 
Grandfather's  tools.  It  was  a  spe-  to  build  things  a  lot  more  fancy 
cial  kind  of  hammer,  all  metal,  shiny  than  boxes,  when  she  got  bigger, 
nickel  finished,  shaped  like  a  long  ''And  when  I  grow  up  and  get  a 
letter  ''T,"  with  its  stem  split  at  home  of  my  own,  a  Houdinattie  is 
the  bottom.  Its  crossbar,  heavy  and  going  to  be  the  very  first  tool  I  buy!" 
squared  at  the  ends,  made  the  she  used  to  declare, 
double  hammer  head,  and  the  split  Well,  the  time  came.  That  is, 
stem  made  the  claws.  Not  curved  the  time  when  Mother  married  and 
as  all  the  usual  hammers'  claws,  but  started  housekeeping  —  and  collect- 
flattened  to  sharpness  at  their  ends,  ing  tools  to  put  up  shelves  and  build 
They  could  pry  up  nails  and  loosen  bookcases  and  cupboards  and 
nailed-on  box  covers  the  quickest  things.  But,  to  her  great  disap- 
and  cleanest  any  hammer  ever  pointment,  a  Houdinattie  was  far 
could.  It  had  an  unusually  good  from  her  first  tool.  The  stores  in 
balance  for  nail  driving,  too.  the  small  town  where  her  husband's 
Whoever   had    the   Houdinattie,  work   took   them,   had   no  Houdi- 
would  be  certain  to  nail  together  nMies  and  didn't  even  know  what  a 
the  most  boxes  of  anyone  in  any  Houdinattie  was.     Mother  had  to 
given  period  of  work  time.    In  fact,  be  content  with  an  ordinary  claw 
it   seemed   that  anything   you   did  hammer,    until    some    time    when 
with  hammers  could  be  done  faster  Father  could  get  one  for  her  when 
and  more  easily  with  the  Houdin-  he  went  to  a  bigger  town.    It  was 
attie.    Boxes  were  what  it  did  the  when  he  questioned  how  to  spell 
most  of,  because  Grandfather  was  a  it,   that   Mother   realized   she   had 
''bee  man"  and  used  thousands  of  never  seen  the  word  in  print  —  and 
boxes  every  year  to  ship  his  honey  discovered  there  was  no  such  word 
crop.     The  boxes   arrived  by   car-  in  the  dictionary, 
load    lots,    pre-cut,    but    flat,    and 
Grandfather    put    his    youngsters,  "pATHER  never  could  find  her  a 
both  girls  and  boys,  to  the  job  of  Houdinattie.    Some  years  later, 
nailing  them  together  and  stacking  Mother  had  opportunity  to  seek  for 
them  at  one  end  of  the  big  honey-  it  in  big  hardware  stores  in  Ogden 
Page  106
