[Vol49 | February 1962 | Sequence: 29 | Category: Lesson | Title: Literature | Author: Jacobs]
fo iterature—America's Literature Comes of Age Lesson 32 — Edgar Allan Poe — Artist of Word and Sentence (1809-1849) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature, by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes Dryden Press, New York, pp. 413-457) For Tuesday, May 15, 1962 Objective: To see in Poe's writings an attempt to attain perfection in literary craftsmanship and to recognize his art as an escape from his own conflicts. ARE, indeed, is the person who, upon a first reading of either Poe's poetry or prose, remains indifferent to him. From his first line, his unique word-tone music and image bring us into a realm of melancholy magic entirely his own: Ah, broken is the golden bowl! The spirit flown forever! Let the bell toll! — a saintly soul floats on the Stygian river; And, Guy De Vere, hast thou no tear? — weep now or never more! See! On yon drear and rigid bier low lies thy love, Lenore! Come! Let the burial rite be read — the funeral song be sung! — An anthem for the queenliest dead that ever died so young — A dirge for her the doubly dead in that she died so young. —"Lenore"' In both prose and poetry Poe strove solely for a unity of effect. In prose he strove to intensify horror, fear, guilt, revenge, or madness until the reader would be enabled to realize an awareness of the truth which these effects convey. His poetry achieves its own special sphere of excellence by creating the effect of melancholic, ethereal beauty, usually best conveyed through images of death and classically beautiful women who love or die majestically but forlornly. As Poe explained so meticulously in "The Philosophy of Composition," he considered each word and each image with greatest care, and chose it only when he was certain that it contributed to the total effect of the poem. While we might possibly doubt whether his most famous poem, "The Raven," actually was composed as he claimed (see text, page 457), we cannot doubt the precision of his mind after reading the following poem in which the first letter of the first line, the second letter of the second, the third letter of the third, etc., spell out the name of Frances Sargent Osgood for whom this memorable valentine was contrived: A VALENTINE For her these lines are penned, whose luminous eyes, Brightly expressive as the twins of Loeda, Shall find her own sweet name. That, - nestling, lies Upon this page, enwrapped from every reader. Search narrowly this rhyme, which holds a treasure Divine — a talisman — an amulet That must be worn at heart. Search well the measure; The words — the letters themselves. Do not forget Page 14] 142 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 The trivialest point, or you may lose your labor. And yet there is in this no Gordian knot Which one might not undo without a sabre, If one could merely understand the plot. Enwritten upon this page whereon are peering Such eager eyes, there lies, I say, perdu, A well-known name, oft uttered in the hearing >. Of poets, by poets; as the name is a poet's, too. Its letters, although naturally lying — Like the knight Pinto (Mendez Ferdinando) — = Still form a synonym for truth. Trying! * You will not read the riddle though you do the best you can do. Cease When such a feat is accomplished within the added disciplines of a regular metrical structure as well as an abab, cdcd, etc., rhyme scheme, we are ready to admit with no reluctance that Poe's tales of ratiocination [reasoning] were the first detective stories (and still some of the greatest). Similarly, at the time when his interest in cryptography [code deciphering] was keenest, he not only wrote ""The Gold Bug," but challenged the readers of Graham's Magazine to submit a cryptogram which he could not solve. Of the hundred received he solved all but one, and proved it to be unsolvable. When he was but twenty-one, Poe wrote a sonnet ""I'o Science" which first expressed the resentment he felt as the practical, earthly spirit of science encroached upon the contemplation of ideal beauty, which he considered to be the highest universal vision granted only to true poets: Science! True daughter of Old Time thou art! Who alterest all things with thy peering eyes. Why preyest thou thus upon the poet's heart, Vulture, whose wings are dull realities? How should he love thee? Or how deem thee wise, Who wouldst not leave him in his wandering To seek for treasure in the jewelled skies, Albeit he soared with an undaunted wing? Science is no new force, but "true daughter of Old Time." Thus the conflict between these two methods of defining reality is an ancient one and, for those who seek a higher beauty than earth can afford, inevitable. Science is of the earth, which Poe felt to be a corrupted mass, indeed a strangling, suffocating environment for the poet. Denying not only the method of science, but such "earthly" forces as emotion and even truth, the poet Poe sought to escape into the sublime realm of "ideality." Refusing to trust conventional uses of symbol or allegory, Poe hoped to attain a spiritualized beauty, "the handiwork of the angels that hover between man and God." No poet ever held a grander concept of the poet's destiny than did Poe. His art became his life, for through it he found his only means of escape from the sordid realm of mediocrity. But once having given birth to so exalted a vision, the contrast between actuality and ideality became too great. Hence arose one of Poe's greatest paradoxes: repudiating in his art anything earthly and dedicating himself solely to the pursuit of another worldly beauty, he nevertheless, adopted the method of science as the means of achieving his goal. LESSON DEPARTMENT While the end of his poetic technique was a sublime, musical indefiniteness, the means for accomplishing his end was first to calculate the effect he wished to achieve within the poem, then to invent or select words whose vowel tones and combined rhythmic and tonal patterns would create the classically restrained and cold melancholy which he considered the aura of beauty. While his poetic effect could not be more romantic, Poe's method of creating was analytic, coldly aloof, and precise. In exposing the technique whereby his most famous poem, "The Raven," was put together, it is to be his design. To render it manifest that no one point in its composition is referable either to accident or intuition — that the work proceeded, step by step, to its completion with the precision and ngid consequence of a mathematical problem. Although Poe had written many years earlier that "a poem is opposed to a work of science by having for its immediate object, pleasure not truth," the point of differentiation is concerned with end, not means. Thus, in both, Poe was consistent. While for the major portion of his adult life Poe was but secondarily a poet and primarily a writer of prose, his genius in combining his poetic theory and actual writing in such poems as "To Helen," "Annabel Lee," "Ulalume," and _ especially "The Raven," prove his achievement to be unique. When read aloud, their penetration into the realms of our inner selves is unforgettable. Poe's explanation of the structure of "The Raven" (dedicated to Elizabeth Barrett Brown- 143 ng) has been discussed more widely than any other poem-analysis ever written in the English language. No equivalent exists for such lines as the final stanzas of his most successfully contrived ""The Raven": "Be that word our sign of parting, bird or fiend!" I shrieked, upstarting — "Get thee back into the tempest and the Night's Plutonian shore! Leave no black plume as a token of that lie thy soul hath spoken! Leave my loneliness unbroken! — quit the bust above my door! Take thy beak = out my heart, and take thy form from off my door!' Quoth the Raven "Nevermore." And the Raven, never flitting, still is sitting, still is sitting On the pallid bust of Pallas just above my chamber door; And his eyes have all the seeming of a demon's that is dreaming, And the lamp-light o'er him streaming throws his shadow on the floor; And my soul from out that shadow that lies floating on the floor Shall be lifted — nevermore! (Text, page 452). Poe's Tales Nathaniel Hawthorne and Edgar Allan Poe mutually respected each other, but parallel achievements in almost simultaneously developing a form of writing — the short story (pioneered by Washington Irving) were worked out independently of each other. Both were meticulous revisers and polished craftsmen who planned their work most exactingly, then wrote to make each word, each description of person or scene, each dialogue, contribute directly to the story's central purpose. But while Hawthorne's chief concern was to fashion a complex inter-relationship of character and event which would best give life to his integrating moral insight, Poe ignored all moral issues 144 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 and was concerned with the over-all effect of the story. For him poetry excelled in creating beauty, while fiction best created an awareness of truth. But Poe's definition of truth is a narrow one; the "effects" which appear repeatedly in his best-known stories are horror, fear, guilt, murder, revenge, death, decay — all usually given reality through the sensory and psychological perceptions of an overly sensitive, morbidly self-conscious central character or narrator. Each story is created to bring about those effects of character, mood, and tone, which either lead to the destruction or the decay of the obsessed central character. Thus, in reverse pattern from his poetry, tirelessly Poe made peace with the actual physical world which had so trapped him and ignored him, by destroying it symbolically. In these explorations of his own subconscious mind, Poe leads us beneath the peaceful surface of man's nature. He explores the possibility of actions of persons obsessed with some driving, even wild passion, as in "The Tell-Tale Heart," "The Black Cat,' and, more important, in "The Fall of the House of Usher" and "Ligeia." A close parallel is ""The Masque of the Red Death," an allegory representing the terrors which Poe saw in a diseased society ordinarily concealed beneath the luxurious trappings and frivolous pastimes of our masked, concealed lives. "The Fall of the House of Usher" In 1839, Poe wrote "William Wilson," a story which directly influenced Stevenson's "Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde," and Oscar Wilde's "Picture of Dorian Gray." In "William Wilson," Poe states most plainly the dual nature which, in greater or lesser degree, mortal man exemplifies. In "The Fall of the House of Usher" (text, pp. 416-424), young Roderick's own inner apprehensions and final decay and death are symbolized in two other "selves": his twin sister Madeleine, and the ancestral house itself, which, at the story's end, sinks "slowly and sullenly" beneath the waters of the "deep and dank tarn" which surrounded it. In this gloomy, intense study of selfdestruction, we see, perhaps, the best-known example of Poe's futile yet powerfully detailed desire to escape the inherited corruptions of the past, only to succumb, finally, to the grimly triumphant specter of the here-and-now. Always in Poe's stories there is the fleeing, the plunging (as in "Descent Into the Maelstrom'), the maddened desire to escape; it is in the ethereal beauty of the poems that fulfillment comes. Thus the two complement each other. From the first words of the story, Poe's skill at creating the effect he desired is almost oppressively evident: During the whole of a dull, dark, and soundless day in the autumn of the year, when the clouds hung oppressively low in the heavens, I had been passing alone, on horseback, through a singularly dreary tract of country; and at length found myself, as the shades of the evening drew on, within view of the melancholy House of Usher. I know not how it was — but, with the first glimpse of the building, a sense of insufferable gloom pervaded my spirit. I say insufferable; for the feeling was unrelieved by any of that half-pleasurable, because poetic, sentiment with which the mind usually receives even the LESSON DEPARTMENT sternest natural images of the desolate or terrible. I looked upon the scene before me — upon the mere house, and the simple landscape features of the domain, upon the bleak walls, upon the vacant eye-like windows, upon a few rank sedges, and upon a few white trunks of decayed trees — with an utter depression of soul which I can compare to no earthly sensation more properly than to the after-dream of the reveller upon opium: the bitter lapse into everyday life, the hideous dropping off of the veil. There was an iciness, a sinking, a sickening of the heart, an unredeemed dreariness of thought which no goading of the imagination could torture into aught of the sublime. What was it — I paused to think — what was it that so unnerved me in the contemplation of the House of Usher? It was a mystery all insoluble (Text, page 416). The "eye-like windows" and the "unredeemed dreariness of thought" parallel similar qualities in Roderick and prepare us for his entrance, just as the description of his twin sister symbolizes his own malady and prepares us for their simultaneous deaths. But it is Roderick himself who totals within himself all the evils of the house, the dying sister, and the evils of the inherited past. "The Gold Bug" "The Gold Bug," an example of Poe's more objective short stories, is a tale of buried treasure and cryptography. The setting is on Sullivan's Island, near Charleston, South Carolina, where Poe spent a dreary winter of army assignment. Legends 145 of pirates combined with Poe's flair for solving ciphers make this story, written some years later, one of intense fascination. Poe made full use of the haunted sand dunes and the lonely seascape to produce an eerie atmosphere for this tale of mystery. Some literary critics, considering Poe as one of the few great innovators in American literature, credit him with inventing (as much as one person ever invents a species) the detective story, and with introducing the adolescent adventure tale. Such favorable literary criticism states not only that French symbolism, with its emphasis on the suggestiveness of music, began when French poets accepted Poe's logical formula for a poem, but also that Poe's influence upon popular literature has been great. Regardless of Poe's life, motives, or history, the greatest contribution he has made to American literature is his complete dedication to his art and the resulting power of his page to absorb the reader with another glimpse into the mysteries and fascinations of the human heart, as it quavers and throbs through mortality. Thoughts for Discussion 1. How does "The Raven" conform to Poe's "Theory of Composition'? 2. Illustrate Poe's word-tone music with examples from his poetry. 3. What were Poe's contributions to literature? com Secaneo=aililite Place of Woman in the Gospel Plan Women and Church Activity Lesson 7 — Fullness of Life and Exaltation Elder Ariel S. Ballif For Tuesday, May 22, 1962 Objective: To stress the importance of obedience to law in attaining the blessing of exaltation and to summarize woman's place in the gospel plan. The goal of the L. D. S. Family is to "... Bring to its members such lives as will enable them to return to the inner circles of that celestial home from which they came, — a dwelling with the Heavenly Father and Mother throughout the eternities"' (President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., 808). "T, the Lord, Am Bound When Ye. Do What I Say." BEDIENCE to the commandments of God is prerequisite to all the blessings promised to mankind. In Section 130 of The Doctrine and Covenants, verses 20-21, we read: There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated — And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated. There are many promises in the scripture to the "chosen people," but in each case to realize the blessings they must hear the word of the Lord, know his mind and will, and apply it in their lives. Marriage is a command of God. We are forcefully reminded by revelation that there is a particular kind of marriage (temple marriage) for us if we would receive the fulness of his blessings. 'The privilege of going to the temple to be martied is dependent upon conformity to the highest standards of human behavior, such as living the law of Page 146 The Relief Society Magazine, December 1940, page chastity, which is purity in body an