[Vol27 | October 1940 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Article | Title: The Sunny Side of the Hoggan]
The  Sunny  Side  of  the  Hill  (A  Little  Shelf  of  Books)    Leila  Marler  Hoggan  695 
Happenings    - 
 Annie  Wells  Cannon  698 
Editorial: 
The  Motivating  Spirit  of  Rehef  Society  
  699 
Notes  to  the  Field: 
Mormon   Handicraft    
  701 
Beautification  Notice  
  701 
Notice  to  Magazine  Representatives  
  703 
Music  Department  (Sing  Now  More  Than  Ever)    Beatrice  F.  Stevens  704 
Excerpts  from  Life  of  John  TavJor    Selected  by  Marianne  C.  Sharp  705 
Lessons 
Theology — The  Power  of  Loyalty — John  Taylor  and  His  Loyalty  to  Joseph  Smith....  706 
Visiting  Teacher — The  Democracy  of  the  Priesthood     709 
Work  and  Business — Good  Posture   
  710 
Literature — The  Tree  of  Liberty  
  712 
Social  Service — Am  I  A  Housekeeper  or  A  Homemaker?     718 
Mission — Who  Shall  Take  the  Prophet's  Place?  
  722 
Poetry 
Fertility   
 Mabel   Jones  657 
The  Birth  of  Irrigation    , 
 Celia  Anderson  Van  Cott  662 
Appreciation  
 Alice  Morrey  Bailey  667 
The  Weaver  
 Delia  Adams  Leitner  673 
Accomplishments   Courtney  E.  Cottam  680 
Hands   Grace  Zenor  Pratt  688 
Gallant  Day  
 Reba  S.  Wetzel  690 
Petition  
 Gertrude  Perry  Stanton  694 
Realization   
 Eunice  J.  Miles  697 
PUBLISHED  MONTHLY  BY  THE  GENERAL  BOARD  OF  RELIEF  SOCIETY 
Editorial  and  Business  Offices:  28  Bishop's  Building,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  Phone  3-2741,  Ex.  243. 
Subscription  Price:  $1.00  a  year;  foreign,  $1.00  a  year;  payable  in  advance.  Single  copy,  10c. 
The  Magazine  is  not  sent  after  subscription  expires.  Renew  promptly  so  that  no  copies  will  be 
missed.     Report  change  of  address  at  once,  giving  both  old  and  new  address. 
Entered  as  second-class  matter  February  18,  1914,  at  the  Post  Office,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  under 
the  Act  of  March  3,  1879.  Acceptance  for  mailing  at  special  rate  of  postage  provided  for  in 
section  1103,  Act  of  October  8,  1917,  authorized  June  29,  1918.  Stamps  should  accompany  manu- 
scripts for  their  return.

PIONEERS  ALL 
Along  the  trails,  afoot,  by  ox, 
A  rugged  band  undaunted  came 
To  find  surcease  from  foes;  oppressed 
By  all  the  woes  of  humankind. 
They  did  not  question  those  who  led, 
But  staunchly  looked  toward  the  west 
And  hills,  from  whence  their  courage  came. 
Lead  on  brave  hearts!    Your  faith  in  self 
And  God,  from  whom  all  goodness  comes. 
Shall  beckon  us  to  firmer  ground. 
Not  ours  the  paths  of  yesterday, 
Through  foes  and  wilderness  and  sand. 
But  struggles  of  the  heart  and  mind 
O'er  problems  of  a  troubled  world 
Of  which  we  harbor  no  command. 
We  shall  look  up  ,and  out  ,and  on, 
Where  hills  reach  up  to  touch  the  sky. 
We  shall  not  falter  in  our  faith 
Nor  lose  our  courage  by  the  way; 
For  lo,  we  stand  undaunted,  too. 
And  though  our  anxious  faces  turn 
To  meet  the  dawn  of  rising  sun. 
We  still  would  pioneer  in  truth 
By  keeping  faith  with  you  of  old 
And  looking  toward  the  hills,  the  west, 
And  God. 
— Irene  R.  Davis.

gg 
% 
SALT  LAKE  REGIONAL  GRAIN  ELEVATOR 
Dedicatory  Service,  August  27<  1940 
The  buildiag  of  this  elevator  was  a  project  of  the  Church  welfare  program. 
All  wards  in  the  Salt  Lake  Region  contributed  labor  and  funds  for  its  construction. 
Wheat  purchased  with  Relief  Society  funds  will  be  stored  in  the  elevator.     As 
part  of  the  dedicatory  service.  President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  broke  the  seal  on  the 
first  carload  of  Relief  Society  wheat  to  be  stored  in  the  elevator. 
>

Th. 
Relief  Society  Magazine 
Vol.  XXVII 
OCTOBER,  1940 
No.  10 
Church  Grain  Elevator  Dedication 
Counseloi  Donna  D.  Sorensen 
HISTORY  for  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  and  for  the  National 
Woman's  Relief  Society  was  made  at 
the  dedication  on  August  27,  1940, 
of  the  great  Church  grain  elevator, 
located  at  751  West  Seventh  South 
Street,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah.  At 
the  services,  which  were  held  at 
noon,  on  the  platform  of  the  ele- 
vator many  of  the  General  Author- 
ities, members  of  the  General  Board 
of  the  Relief  Society  and  the  General 
Church  Welfare  Committee  sat  fac- 
ing carloads  of  wheat,  which  were 
later  emptied  into  the  huge  compart- 
ments of  the  elevator  when  President 
J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  broke  the  seal 
on  the  first  carload  of  wheat.  Thus 
did  golden  grain  share  the  spotlight 
on  this  memorable  occasion  with  the 
new  steel  and  concrete  structure  that 
will  hold  318,000  bushels  of  grain 
"which  could  be  held  as  a  great  reser- 
voir against  emergency." 
The  Church  built  the  elevator, 
using  ninety  per  cent  welfare  labor. 
The  Relief  Society  contributed  the 
funds  from  their  Relief  Society 
Wheat  Fund,  for  the  purchase  of 
wheat  which  will  be  known  as  Relief 
Society  wheat  and  will  be  stored  in 
the  elevator. 
Several  hundred  people  stood  with 
bowed  heads  as  President  David  O. 
McKay  offered  the  stirring  dedica- 
tory prayer.  Some  in  the  audience 
were  the  workers  who  had  labored 
on  the  new  structure.  Many  in  the 
group  were  Relief  Society  officers 
and  members,  and  these  women 
noted  with  satisfaction  and  pleasure 
the  reference  to  the  Relief  Society 
when  President  McKay  said:  "We 
are  grateful  for  that  spirit  which  has
