[Vol27 | October 1940 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: Pioneers Davis]
WE  FIND  AMERICA 
be  free  to  wander  where  she  would 
for  the  whole  day. 
Martha  had  been  born  and  reared 
in  Hamilton.  But  she  had  never 
known  her  city— not  really.  She 
had  been  content  with  her  own 
circle  of  friends,  blind  and  indiffer- 
ent to  the  lives  of  those  about  her. 
At  some  time  or  other  in  her  forty 
years  of  life  she  must  have  been  on 
every  street  in  the  city.  But  she  had 
never  seen  the  houses,  and  the  peo- 
ple, and  the  children.  The  streets 
had  been  a  means  of  getting  some- 
where, a  distance  between  stop 
signs.  As  Martha  drove  slowly  about 
the  city  that  late  September  day,  or 
parked  her  car  and  walked  leisurely 
block  after  block,  she  saw  things  she 
had  never  seen  before.  "We  hurry 
too  much,"  she  thought  almost  sad- 
ly. "We  don't  have  time  to  live 
and  enjoy  life." 
For  the  first  time  in  her  life,  Mar- 
tha found  herself  interpreting  houses 
in  the  terms  of  homes  where  men, 
women,  and  children  worked  and 
played,  wept  and  laughed,  faced 
problems  much  the  same  as  those 
she  and  her  family  faced. 
Several  things  impressed  Martha 
in  that  day's  adventure.  One  was  the 
wealth  of  "necessities"  which  in  any 
other  country  would  be  considered 
"luxuries."  Through  open  doors,  she 
glimpsed  stream-lined  radios,  refrig- 
erators, stoves,  washers.  In  the  drive- 
way of  even  the  most  humble  house 
was  an  automobile. 
The  other  things  which  impressed 
Martha  were  the  freedom  of  speech, 
and  the  freedom  to  worship  as  one 
pleased.  The  former  showed  itself 
in  many  ways;  the  latter,  in  the  many 
churches  she  saw  as  she  drove  about. 
She  passed  two  men  having  a  spirited 
debate  on  the  merits  and  demerits 
611 
of  the  two  candidates  in  the  coming 
presidential  election.  At  a  news- 
stand, she  purchased  a  paper,  read  of 
the  expose  of  the  dishonest  dealings 
of  a  group  of  politicians.  She  stood  in 
the  city  park  and  listened  to  a  "soap 
box  orator"  voice  his  radical  views. 
As  she  listened,  she  wondered,  "Is 
this  wise?  Shouldn't  this  be  stop- 
ped?" Then  the  thought  came  to 
her,  "A  government  cannot  legislate 
against  the  morals  of  its  people. 
They  must  choose  for  themselves, 
and  only  through  proper  education 
will  they  know  the  right  choice." 
Parents,  Martha  decided,  had  a 
greater  duty  toward  their  children 
than  merely  feeding  and  clothing 
them.  From  the  cradle,  they  should 
be  taught  love  of  country. 
Her  path  took  her  at  last  to  the 
foreign  section  of  the  city.  Here 
she  again  parked  her  car  and  walked 
slowly  down  the  crowded  streets. 
America,  indeed,  was  the  melting 
pot  of  the  world.  People  of  all  na- 
tionalities and  races  lived  together 
under  one  flag. 
She  ate  a  delicious  lunch  of  soup 
and  salad  in  a  friendly  little  down- 
stairs restaurant  and  entered  into 
conversation  with  the  swarthy-faced 
proprietor. 
"Are  you  glad  you  are  an  Ameri- 
can?" she  asked  him. 
Tony  Serpentine  placed  the  bowl 
of  hot  soup  on  the  table  in  front 
of  her.  "Am  I  glad  I'm  an  Ameri- 
can, Lady!"  he  said,  holding  his 
plump  hands  out  expressively.  "Fif- 
teen years  I  am  American  citizen, 
and  I  love  her!  Why  shouldn't  I? 
Here  I  am  a  free  man.  Mr.  Serpen- 
tine I  am.  Here  I  come  and  go  as 
I  please.  Here  I  have  a  say  who  shall 
be  mayor,  who  shall  be  governor, 
who  shall  be  the  Big  Boss  even.  Here

612 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— SEPTEMBER,  1940 
my  vote  is  as  good  as  Mr.  Henry 
Ford's  or  Mr.  J.  P.  Morgan's.  Isn't 
that  wonderful!" 
Martha  lowered  her  eyes  before 
such  enthusiasm.  She,  an  American- 
born  citizen,  whose  forefathers  had 
fought  for  freedom,  whose  mother 
had  fought  for  women's  right  to 
vote,  had  not  even  bothered  to  go  to 
the  poles  because  she  was  so  busy 
and  the  weather  had  been  wet  and 
miserable.  Again  she  thought, 
"These  privileges  have  come  too 
easy  to  us;  we  don't  appreciate 
them." 
Toward  the  end  of  the  day,  Mar- 
tha found  herself  in  the  slums  of  the 
city.  Here  indeed  were  poverty  and 
dirt— and  silk  stockings  and  perma- 
nents.  She  pondered  over  that  for 
a  long  moment.  Poverty  and  dirt- 
silk  stockings  and  permanents!  Even 
here  were  "necessities"  that  in  any 
other  nation  would  be  considered 
"luxuries." 
America  had  her  share  of  greed, 
of  poverty,  of  injustice,  Martha  real- 
ized. But  she  was  a  young  country. 
Only  one  hundred  and  sixty-four 
years  had  passed  since  the  signing 
of  The  Declaration  of  Independence. 
In  that  comparatively  short  time, 
America  was  accomplishing  the 
greatest  experiment  of  all  time— the 
blending  of  all  races.  There  was 
still  much  to  be  done  before  the 
ideals  of  the  American  forefathers 
became  a  reality,  but  there  was  noth- 
ing that  was  impossible  if  the  ener- 
gies of  the  people  were  bent  toward 
the  common  good. 
A  government  of  the  people,  by 
the  people,  for  the  people.  The 
government  then  could  be  no  strong- 
er, no  more  perfect  than  the  people 
who  composed  it.  The  government 
was  the  people! 
It  was  well,  then,  Martha  thought 
soberly,  for  America  to  turn  her  eyes 
inward  and  look  to  herself.  She  saw 
America  as  a  rich  nation,  a  wasteful 
nation,  who  needed,  as  Martha's  pio- 
neer grandfather  used  to  say,  to 
"Tighten  your  belt,  and  put  your 
shoulder  to  the  wheel." 
But  first  Martha  realized,  the 
change  must  come  in  the  individual 
families.  She  remembered  how  she 
had  coaxed  Lin  at  breakfast  that 
morning,  "Eat  your  cereal,  darling, 
that's  a  good  boy.  Come  now.  Eat 
so  you'll  be  a  big,  strong  boy."  She 
saw  for  the  first  time  that  her  own 
family  was  overfed,  overpampered. 
American  mothers  could  well  start 
disciplining  their  children. 
TT  was  almost  dark  when  Martha 
arrived  home.  The  family  was 
watching  anxiously  for  her. 
"Where  have  you  been?"  Will 
asked. 
Martha  did  not  speak  for  a  mo- 
ment, and  her  gray  eyes  lingered 
lovingly,  almost  fearfully,  on  each 
of  the  family  group. 
"Where  have  I  been?"  she  asked 
at  last.  "I've  been  finding  America. 
I've  seen  a  country  where  hundreds 
of  religious  faiths  exist  in  peace.  I've 
seen  a  country  where  people  of  many 
nationalities,  with  all  their  different 
customs,  ideals,  peculiarities,  live  un- 
der one  flag,  united  in  the  principles 
of  freedom  and  liberty.  I've  seen  a 
nation  of  fine  homes,  free  public 
schools,  free  libraries,  splendid  build- 
ings. I've  seen  a  country  where  even 
the  poor  have  'luxuries.'  "  She  turned 
to  Jerry,  "Match  that  in  any  other 
type  of  government!"  A  sharp  little 
edge  crept  into  her  voice,  and  Jerry 
looked  up  quickly.    The  feeling  of

WE  FIND  AMERICA  613 
impatience  turned  to  one  of  mingled  ment.    I  know  you  will  find  there 
fears  and  prayer.  are  no  reforms,  no  beneficial  changes 
"Upon  the  youth  of  the  land,"  she  that  cannot  be  accomplished  right 
said,  "depends  the  future  of  Amer-  here  in  our  own  country,  under  our 
ica,  for  they  are  the  men  and  women  own  flag, 
of  tomorrow."  "Then  after  you  have  studied  it, 
She  handed  Jerry  the  history  book  think  America,  talk  America,  LOVE 
she  had  studied  the  night  before.  AMERICA,  lest  the  cherished  birth- 
"The   Constitution   of  the  United  right    of    freedom    and   liberty    be 
States  is  in  this  book,"  she  said.  "All  taken  from  you!" 
I  ask  is  that  you  and  your  friends  The  solemn  quiet  of  the  little 
study   it  as   carefully  as  you  have  group  was  more  impressive  than  the 
studied  the  other  forms  of  govern-  clapping  of  a  thousand  hands. 
YOUTH  FACES  TOMORROW 
Aiice  L.  Eddy 
The  world  of  tomorrow  will  be  of  our  making; 
The  dream  of  today  is  tomorrow's  bright  deed. 
War,  want,  and  sorrow  we  see  all  around  us— 
Can  aught  of  value  grow  from  this  dark  seed? 
Harness  the  waters  with  reenforced  concrete 
Future  embankments  must  curb  passion's  flow. 
What  of  this  speed,  this  proud  force  beyond  measure. 
If  greed  flourish  rampant?   If  avarice  grow? 
Not  engines,  not  weapons,  but  well-builded  concepts. 
Not  towers  but  high  thoughts  will  most  help  mankind. 
Truth,  virtue,  knowledge  must  set  up  the  beacons 
To  lighten  the  uncharted  skies  of  the  mind. 
Trail  blazers,  pioneers,  builders  are  needed 
The  worth  and  the  glory  of  work  to  restore. 
Tomorrow's  horizons  are  wide  as  the  spirit; 
The  frontiers  of  justice  are  still  to  explore. 
We  have  apprenticed  our  powers  to  the  future, 
Sounding  a  keynote  courageous  and  gay. 
We  are  the  builders  of  all  the  tomorrows; 
We  are  the  undaunted  youth  of  today.

The  Sunny  Side  of  the  Hill 
Leila  Marler  Hoggan 
No.  4 
LLnaer  Skies  of  ioli 
WE  all  remember  the  story, 
"The  Old  Man  of  The 
Sea."  We  recall  how  Sin- 
bad  the  Sailor  carried  this  old  man 
safely  across  a  turbulent  stream;  and 
then  how  the  old  fellow  continued 
to  cling  to  the  sailor's  neck,  refusing 
to  walk  upon  his  own  feet,  until 
Sinbad,  becoming  jaded,  footsore 
and  weary,  finally  resorted  to  ca- 
price in  order  to  rid  himself  of  his 
ungrateful  burden. 
How  many  of  us  today  are  stum- 
bling along  very  much  like  that  long- 
ago  traveler,  burdened  with  number- 
less cares  and  worthless  possessions 
that  might  just  as  well  be  dropped 
from  our  shoulders? 
Through  the  years  we  gather  about 
us  unnecessary  belongings.  We  per- 
mit our  lives  to  become  crowded 
with  accumulations  that  have  no  per- 
manent value.  We  fill  our  hands 
with  dead  wood  that  will  never  know 
a  future  blossoming.  We  become 
slaves  to  our  things,  our  habits,  our 
fears. 
We  are  cheating  ourselves  when 
we  acquire  in  youth  habits  that  will 
betray  us  later  in  life.  We  are  de- 
serting our  ideals  when  we  follow  the 
crowd,  letting  today's  convenience 
outweigh  tomorrow's  development. 
If  we  drift  with  the  throng,  permit- 
ting ourselves  to  be  burdened  with 
all  of  the  non-essentials  that  chance 
to  roll  across  our  path,  we  shall  one 
day  awaken  to  the  fact  that  many  of 
ue 
the  things  we  had  hoped  to  achieve 
are  not  even  begun. 
Life  catches  up  with  us  and  lays 
a  hand  on  our  shoulder.  "Do  you 
remember  this  unfulfilled  dream, 
and  that  one?"  she  asks.  "Have  you 
forgotten  how  we  planned  thus  and 
so?"  Yes,  in  the  frenzied  onrush  of 
life  we  had  forgotten. 
A  great  emptiness  enters  our  heart. 
It  is  a  lonely  moment  when  we  come 
to  realize  that  we  have  disappointed 
ourselves.  But  it  need  not  be  a  hope- 
less moment.  For  tomorrow  holds 
in  her  magic  hand  new  dreams  and 
bright  visions  waiting  to  be  fulfilled. 
Nature  is  always  ready  to  let  us  try 
again,  if  we  are  really  in  earnest.  She 
covers  our  past  errors  with  a  cloak 
of  forgetfulness  so  that  we  may  start 
afresh. 
TN  a  measure,  our  possessions  are 
an  index  to  our  lives.  We  no 
sooner  learn  the  meaning  of  mine 
and  thine  than  we  begin  to  collect 
personal  belongings.  Unless  we  use 
discretion,  our  accumulations  soon 
become  burdensome.  And  if  we  do 
not  early  acquire  the  art  of  discard- 
ing, we  fill  our  lives  with  gaudy 
trifles  to  the  exclusion  of  genuine 
values. 
As  we  grow  in  judgment,  we  learn 
to  discriminate  between  this  and 
that,  to  select  and  to  decide  what 
we  shall  leave  and  what  we  shall 
take.  We  search  for  permanent  val-

THE  SUNNY  SIDE  OF  THE  HILL 
ues,  trying  to  lay  hold  on  the  things 
that  will  satisfy  the  soul.  "Is  there 
not  some  key,"  we  ask  ourselves,  "by 
which  we  may  be  guided?"  And  out 
of  the  wisdom  of  experience,  we 
gather  here  a  thought  and  there  a 
615 
suggestion  that  helps  us  to  choose 
more  prudently. 
Some  of  these  findings  are:  Life 
here  and  now  is  of  little  worth  to 
us  unless  we  can  have  health  and 
strength  and  a  keen  sense  of  appreci- 
ation. The  promotion  of  intellectual 
growth  and  spiritual  development 
brings  its  reward.  Experience  that 
leaves  us  with  satisfied  hearts  and 
happy  memories  is  of  real  worth. 
And  the  good  which  we  can  carry 
with  us  through  the  ages  has  su- 
preme value. 
Too  often,  however,  we  permit 
life  to  become  so  congested  with  un- 
important things  that  we  fail  to  rec- 
ognize real  values. 
When  you  arise  some  morning 
with  your  hearts  so  full  of  distractions 
and  forebodings  that  the  tension  is 
fairly  smothering  you,  that  is  the  very 
day  you  should  pause  long  enough  to 
wash  the  slate  clean  and  to  start  over 
again.  Put  a  cold  lunch  on  the  table 
for  the  family  and  go  out  alone  to 
commune  with  life.  When  you  pass 
the  last  fence,  as  you  approach  the 
mountains  or  the  lake  or  whatever 
outpost  it  may  be,  hang  your  last 
worry  on  that  fence  and  close  your 
mind  against  everything  of  a  disturb- 
ing nature.  Maybe  if  you  offer  a 
little  silent  prayer  or  sing  a  verse  of 
some  happy  melody  or  repeat  the 
Twenty-third  Psalm,  it  will  put  you 
in  harmony  with  the  rhythm  about 
you,  the  gentle  rustle  of  leaves,  the
