[Vol27 | October 1940 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Article | Title: LiteratureThe Tree of]

Only through actually reading the novel can one get an adequate vision of the author's purpose and a realization of how well she has accomplished it. LITERARY VALUE A masterpiece of literature has been defined as a record in suitable symbols of a significant experience of the author which has intellectual, 17 emotional, and ethical values in the experience itself, or in the subject matter, and an independent emotional quality in the style.
Minor pieces of literature may offer one or more of these values. It seems to me that The Tree of Liberty, despite some obvious faults, has something of all of these values. Certainly, our intellectual horizons are widened by the vast amount of information given as an incidental part of the story. We see how people of a past age lived; we see them molding much that is the foundation of our lives today. The struggles affording the dramatic element in the book stir our emotions. We see love and ideals battling, brotherly devotion pitted against political duty, maternal anxiety and ambition struggling against conjugal loyalty.
Dozens of, our deepest emotions are appealed to and deepened by reading this novel. Its ethical values are fully as apparent.
Lessons of national significance as well as of individual importance may be drawn from it. Furthermore, there are passages of stylistic charm which cause us to pause for the pleasure they give. Teaching Helps 1. A genealogical chart on a board or large cardboard kept before the class during the lessons would help to keep the many characters and their relations clear. 2.
Choose points from such chapters as 12, 29, 39 to illustrate the author's interesting manner of treating historical events and keeping the theme of liberty constantly in the foreground. 3.
Assign definite episodes which bring out highlights in the story and have them given either at intervals during the class leader's discussion or following it.
Some of the best episodes are: the decision of Jane to leave Matthew; the decision of her sons to follow him to war; the meeting of Peyton and Adrienne; Peyton's trial 718 and imprisonment, caused by Harriet's betrayal; the courtship of Tom and Margaret; the presidential election which resulted in a tie; Jane's lie to Adrien's sweetheart and its tragic results; Tom's return after the expedition. 4.
Make a list of significant facts you  have learned from the story or that have been emphasized by the novel. 5.