[Vol27 | October 1940 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: Hands Pratt]

Through the window, Bart's beloved mountain seemed to reach out hands to make her strong. HANDS Grace Zenor Pratt I still remember the grace of my mother's hands— Slender, well kept and fashioned delicately; I saw them last when they so quiet lay Still, beautifully serene upon her breast, Their work completed. And I now recall With pleasure, how my childish eyes Oft followed her at daily tasks—the quiet way She had of handling silver and old china, too, And flowers most tenderly. I can see her hands More clearly than I can recall her face— They were such lovely hands, so full of grace. Who has not loved the touch of baby hands— Like silken petals on a summer wind, Touching the heart-strings with their light caress; Exquisite hands, so small, so full of tenderness. I have loved old hands, roughened and gnarled— I have felt pathos for their toil-worn drudgery of years; And yet within those calloused palms The dignity of toil speaks clearer to my heart Than majesty of kings... The humble are so blest in many things, Why Go To Relief Society? Clarice G. Sloan (President, Portland Stake Relief Societies) "LIFE is a gift of nature, but beautiful living is a gift of wisdom." (John A. Widtsoe) Such beautifully expressed truths made me reflect a moment in the busy whirl of life to consider whether they were real and vital to me or merely empty words. I am a young mother, striving to keep pace with an adolescent daughter, a growing boy, and a questioning seven-year-old. I love life, beauty and progress. I appreciate aging treasures, yet also yearn for the new, modern things of today. I am seeking for expression and for the abundant life. Yet, in common with all young mothers, I am faced with the obvious problems. I want to make a home for my family to come to, not go from. I want to share my husband's activities in the Church and the business world, to live my religion, and to serve my country. To accomplish these things and yet find time to fulfill my own desires for individual living required careful thought and planning.
Study clubs, music guilds, civic associations seemed only part of the answer.
Then clearly there came to my realization the knowledge that within my own Church was an organization that combined all these objectives— an international woman's organization, founded by inspiration, designed "to raise human life to its highest level; to elevate and enlarge the scope of women's activities and conditions; to foster love for religion, education, culture and refinement; to develop faith; to save souls; to study and teach the Gospel." So broad is its scope that I found, as have thousands of other women, that I could satisfy my every desire for development. The monotony of little things need no longer make life seem like a barren desert.
Within my reach was an oasis, at which I could quench my spiritual and intellectual thirst.