[Vol27 | October 1940 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Church Grain Elevator Sorensen]

Where there is a will there is (almost
CHURCH GRAIN ELEVATOR DEDICATION
invariably) a way, and in this matter there should be a personal and individual as well as a general interest. In order to satisfactorily accomplish any scheme, one great object is to be in earnest; on this earnestness depends much of the success of whatever enterprise is undertaken. If you determine to do anything, of whatever name or nature, first be sure it is the proper thing to do, and then without losing time bring your energies into immediate requisition and you are almost sure to succeed."
As already indicated, because women of the Church in these early days did take their responsibility seriously and earnestly, a fund was accumulated which will be used to purchase wheat for storage. An intimation of this action was given by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. At last April General Conference when he quoted from a letter written in 1918 concerning "the reinvesting of the Relief Society Wheat Fund," which letter was signed by the President of the Church, the Presiding Bishop of the Church and the President of the Relief Society. The last
655
two paragraphs said:
"The money received for the wheat the government has taken must be kept in the banks and draw interest. In no case should it be loaned out or used for any purpose whatsoever other than the purchase of wheat, as it is a sacred trust fund which can be used only for the purpose for which it is donated.
"When the time comes to again invest this money in the purchase of wheat, you will be advised of it by the Presiding Bishopric and the General Board of Relief Society."
At the dedicatory services, Elder William E. Ryberg of the Church Welfare Committee, who had charge of the construction of the elevator and the installation of equipment to weigh, wash, dry, mix and sort grains, gave the following facts: The grain elevator is one of the most modern in the nation; 15,000 bags of cement were used to make the concrete which was poured in one continuous process with three shifts of men working twenty-four hours a day for eight and one-half days; not a single reportable accident occurred during the construction.
GROUP IN ATTENDANCE AT DEDICATORY SERVICE OF GRAIN ELEVATOR (Railroad cars are loaded with wheat purchased with Relief Society funds. The Salt Lake Regional Storehouse is shown in the background of picture.)
656
In her inimitable way, General President Amy Brown Lyman, of the National Woman's Relief Society, related the history of grain-storing in the Latter-day Saint Church. She told of the call which Brigham Young made on the women of the Church, through Sister Emmeline B. Wells, whom he asked to lead out in the movement. In speaking of Sister Wells, President Lyman said, "That Mrs. Wells, later the fifth General President of the Relief Society, regarded this unique and unusual assignment as one of  
most important and serious undertakings of her life, can be attested to by her intimate friends. She felt that it was an inspired call... And her convincing editorials inspired zeal and earnest effort which were remarkable and which launched successfully this important movement."
President Lyman recounted the various ways by which the Relief Society sisters secured wheat: gleaning in the fields, direct contributions of both cash and wheat by individuals, sale of such items as cheese, jams, quilts, rugs, carpets and Sunday eggs. All these swelled the wheat fund until at the close of the World War, when all the wheat had been converted into money, there was centralized at the Presiding Bishop's Office $412,000, which became known as the Wheat Fund. The interest on this money has been used for maternity, child welfare and general health purposes throughout the wards of the Church for the past twenty-two years.
President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., the concluding speaker at the dedicatory exercises, informed the people that the wheat which would be put in the elevator would be used for storage and not for the purpose of trading in wheat. He continued:
"There is a good deal of expense incident to the storing of wheat after the building is erected and the wheat is in it. And so it was determined, after consulting the Relief Society, that the Church would undertake to meet the cost of storage. So far as possible, the principle that has already been used in erecting the building will be used in providing the labor necessary and incident to the storage of the wheat; namely, welfare labor. It was also decided
CHURCH GRAIN ELEVATOR DEDICATION
that inasmuch as at times there may be some loss incident to replacing wheat, the Church would bear the cost of the replacement and stand the loss. As a reciprocal principle, it was determined that if at any time any profit is made as an incident of replacing wheat, that shall be used to meet the expenses incident to the storage of the wheat.
"The use of a part of what has been called the Wheat Fund for this purpose of storing wheat, that is, for the buying of the wheat which is to be stored here, will, of course, reduce the funds which are on deposit with the Presiding Bishopric, and upon which they have been paying to the Relief Society an interest charge. You Relief Society sisters will miss that extra money which you have heretofore had, but I am sure you will not begrudge it to the people of the Church who are now the beneficiaries of a part of that fund, the whole Church; for that, of course, was the purpose for which the original contribution was made.
"To me this building represents even more than the things I have already named; it represents a fundamental principle which lies behind all of our work. I have in mind the spirit of cooperation. I wish it were possible for all of us to appreciate what a united effort on the part of the people of this Church would mean. If we could do in all of our activities what had to be done here in order that this building could be erected, if we could subordinate our individual likes, our individual preferences, our individual will, to the will of the one great motive which drives us forward—the spreading of the Gospel and our own salvation, if we could mass the power of the Priesthood and the power of the sisters behind that one great project, which is why the Church is created, in the way in which that was massed by those who worked here for the erection of this building, I am telling you that we and the world would have a different story to tell."
To many Latter-day Saints a feeling of security will come when they realize that the Church is storing wheat in such an elevator, which stands as solid, visible evidence of the wisdom and foresight of those who lead the people of the Church. Members of the Relief Society will echo the words of President Amy Brown Lyman when she said: "The Relief Society women everywhere will approve of this action, feeling that it is fulfilling the original purpose for which wheat was gathered."