[Vol27 | October 1940 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Article | Title: Work and Posture]

Work-and-Business NUTRITION: Lesson 4
Good Posture (Tuesday, January 14, 1941) WHAT IS GOOD POSTURE?
Good posture is the use of all parts of the body with proper balance. The person with good posture is as tall as possible without stiffness or strain, whether standing, walking, sitting or lying down. In good standing posture, the hip joints are in a straight line with the ears, shoulders, knees, and ankles. The feet are parallel. The shoulders are even and level. The chest is held high. The abdomen is flat and drawn in.
Good walking posture gives one the same appearance as good standing posture, except that the body swings along in motion.
Good sitting posture is maintained with the lower back touching the back of the chair. The ears, shoulders, and hips are in a straight line whether the shoulders are back against the chair or bending forward.
Forward bending is done from the hip line, not from the waist line.
Good lying-down or sleeping posture means keeping the body in the same straight line as when standing.
Good sleeping posture is impossible on a bed which sags. WHY HAVE GOOD POSTURE?
Good posture gives one a better appearance. It gives a feeling of self-confidence, ease and poise. It makes one look and feel important, which is essential to good mental health. It improves physical health by providing room for all of the LESSON DEPARTMENT body organs to do their work without crowding. As posture improves, circulation, digestion, and elimination also improve.
Keeps the spinal cord and other nerve centers free from pressure, while poor posture often causes backache and headache due to pressure on the nerves. HOW TO HAVE GOOD POSTURE The first requisite to good posture is good nutrition. One cannot have good posture without good nutrition. Strong, straight bones are essential to good posture. A good set of bones needs a covering of firm, well-developed muscles.
Good muscle tone depends on good nutrition.
Sleep and rest make better posture possible. One cannot "feel tall" and feel tired.
Fatigue is one cause of poor posture.
Sleep is nature's restorer. The body does its growth and repair work during sleep. The body may starve for rest and sleep just as it may starve for food.
Healthy feet help maintain good posture.
Good feet make a strong foundation for the body.
Fallen arches cause poor posture. Poor-fitting shoes affect one's posture.
Clothing which fits comfortably and is the right weight permits the body to move freely.
Good posture needs freedom for body movement.
Tight or heavy clothing prevents this freedom.
Vision and hearing influence posture, especially during childhood. The child who does not hear well or one who needs glasses forms the habit of stretching the head forward in order to see or hear better.
Posture exercises help one get the "feel" of good posture.
They help Good posture 711 strengthen groups of muscles which are important in maintaining good body mechanics.
Posture exercises cannot help one's posture unless the body is well nourished and well rested. The following exercises are helpful for persons of any age: 1. BACK ON THE WALL.
Stand with heels four inches from the wall, with head, shoulders and hips touching the wall.
Flatten the back against the wall by pulling in on the abdominal muscles and rolling down the lower back; repeat ten times.
Hold the shoulders and chest still. Let the motion come at and below the waistline. Do not hold your breath.
This is one of the most important posture exercises. It gives a conscious control of the two groups of muscles which are most fundamental in maintaining good posture?the abdominal and the buttocks or gluteal muscle groups. 2. CATCH PENNY.
Same position as No. 1.
Hold a penny between the small of the back and the wall at the waist line.
Breathe easily while the abdominal muscles are drawn in. 3. RIB RAISING.
Same position as No. 1, with hands back of neck, fingers straight and finger tips touching.
Keep the elbows back against the wall.
Pull in the abdomen till the back is flattened against the wall.
This is more difficult to do than exercise No. 1. 4. GROW TALL.
Stand against the wall, as in No. 1.
Clasp hands on head.
Take a deep breath and grow tall, pushing up against the hands with the top of the head. 712
Hold the abdominal muscles in. Sway forward till you are standing over the center of the feet. While in this position walk across the room and back. 5. CORNER EXERCISES. Stand in good posture facing a corner of the room with the toes about 18 inches from the corner. Place the palms of the hands, with the thumbs pointing down, against the wall at shoulder height. Keep elbows shoulder high. Rise on toes and sway forward from the ankles, keeping the abdomen flat, back straight, head up and chin in. Return to starting position and repeat.  
This exercise is good for round shoulders, as it gently stretches the tightened chest muscles. References Good Posture in the Little Child, Publication No. 219, 5 cents. Posture Standards for Girls, 25 cents. Posture Standards for Boys, 25 cents. Children's Bureau, U. S. Dept of Labor, Washington, D. C. (A set of six charts, 38x24 inches, showing posture standards for stocky type, intermediate type, and thin type boys and girls.) Posture from the Ground Up, Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., New York. How Do You Walk? State Tuberculosis Association. (A small leaflet showing good walking posture. Any state Tuberculosis Assn. can supply these.) Literature
THE MODERN NOVEL
Lesson 4
The Tree of Liberty (Tuesday, January 21, 1941) LESSON TOPICS: 1. The author and the general nature of the book 2. The historical background 3. The plot 4. Literary values 5. Study helps THE AUTHOR AND GENERAL NATURE OF THE BOOK Miss Elizabeth Page, author of The Tree of Liberty, is a fifty-one year old ex-teacher and social worker now living with her mother in California. She was born in Vermont. Her father, Alfred Rider Page, was a lawyer for many years in his home state; then, after moving to New York, he was made a judge of the New York Supreme Court, an office he was holding at the time of his death in 1931. From her mother's family, Elizabeth received her gift of writing. Mrs. Page is the niece of E. P. Roe, a very popular moral novelist of the seventies and eighties. When Elizabeth was eleven years old, her grandmother gave her a package of letters that had been written by a relative who crossed the plains in 1849. At that early date, the girl planned to write a book based upon the material of those letters. This ambition was realized thirty years later in the chronicle, Wagon West, published in 1930.
LESSON DEPARTMENT Elizabeth was educated at Vassar College and Columbia University, taking her bachelor's degree from the former in 1912 and her master's degree from the latter in 1914, with a major in history. She taught history in a Massachusetts high school for a year, during which time she had dreams of becoming a college history teacher. But her patriotism led her to give up teaching and enter the Red Cross service during the World War. She served first in the United States, then in Europe until the end of the war. During that time, she became so much interested in relief work and social service that she continued in it when she returned home, becoming affiliated with Sir Wilfred Grenfell's Mission in Newfoundland. She remained with the mission until 1925, when she established a market in the United States for the handicraft of the fishermen's wives, with whom she had been working in Newfoundland; thus she strengthened the support of the mission. In 1927, she took a position in Wyoming as a doctor's assistant. It was from a patient at that time that she received the material which she wove into her book, From Wyoming to Yukon, published in 1932. Both of these earlier books are almost pure chronicles of real events. In The Tree of Liberty she made her first venture into fiction. But her interest in history continues in this novel. It is said that she spent five years in deliberate historical research preparing to write this book, and its historical significance is fully as great as its significance in the field of fiction. The book presents in its 1,000 pages a vivid panorama of that pe- 713 riod of our national life when the processes and traditions which made our country what it is today were in the making. One of its chief values to us is that it helps us to understand this democracy which we prize so much and to understand our own prejudices and ideals. One critic says: "The Tree of Liberty would be a rewarding novel if one read it only as a story of adventure and love. It is the more exciting and convincing in its depiction of men and women whose names are bywords, chief among them the lovable figure of Thomas Jefferson. Both the scope of the book and Miss Page's thoughtful and penetrating use of her material give it the gift of a perspective; whereby, through the past and through the lives of others, one gains illumination on much that is near at hand." And certain it is that today we need all the "illumination" it is possible to obtain. If we gain from our study only this?a better understanding of our present, together with what that understanding should give us as a directive force for the future, the study will have served a significant purpose.
THE HISTORICAL BACKGROUND
The book deals with perhaps the most significant half century in American history, when the colonies moved from the unrest of our early beginnings, through revolution, into nationhood. To see this slow but thrilling transformation, or growth, with many varied characters playing dramatically upon one another's weaknesses and strengths, is the privilege Miss Page holds out to us in this "double feature" novel. Her analogy of our national growth to a tree, growing from a seed planted in fertile soil, sending out 714 divergent roots, nurtured under hothouse conditions, growing for a time into an untrimmed tangle, but finally developing through careful pruning into a strong symmetrical tree, offering a sheltering protection to the ideals of democracy, adds interest to the stylistic charm of the book and helps the reader to grasp more easily the unity of her purpose. Her narrative begins with events in the year before Braddock's defeat in the French and Indian Wars and ends with developments in the second administration of Jefferson. She includes almost every political ideal and opinion that clashed and struggled during those fateful years. Her treatment of this material in the detached manner of the dramatist, graphically presenting this half century of history in the lives of a single family as they help to mold that history through three generations, sets her apart as an artist. Though Matthew Howard and Jane Peyton, his wife, and their children and grandchildren are the central figures in the novel, their lives are intimately interwoven with the lives of Washington, Jefferson, Hamilton and other great historic figures, and their actions are a part of significant national events. The seed of liberty, of course, is the spirit of the early settlers, their vision and courage.
During the 150 years from the settlement of the first colony in Virginia to the opening of the story in 1754, the soil for the seed had been growing in fertility through the addition of colony after colony of self-governed English communities. Inevitably England, the mother country of these colonists, was to clash with France who was increasing her explorations and establish-  ing more and more forts in the New World. It was the growing determination of the French to prevent the English from extending westward. The result of this conflict was the French and Indian Wars, extending over a period of 80 years. The termination of this conflict was the turning point in American history. It determined the nationality of the continent, established the representative form of government, removed from the English colonies the former dangers from the frontier, brought them closer together, and prepared them for their later resistance against their mother country.
This part of the history is presented indirectly in the novel, in the light of subsequent events. The incidents leading up to the Revolutionary War, however, are vividly portrayed. We see the various measures aggravating the growing ill-feeling, the actions of Parliament in connection with taxes and trade which ultimately resulted in the Declaration of Independence and the war. We are shown, too, that difficult period following the war, when it seemed that all that had been gained would be lost, as the colonists, with such conflicting views on what should be done, clashed and struggled among themselves. It was at this critical time that Washington and other leaders, divinely inspired, as we believe, saved the country through the creation of the Constitution and their persistent struggle for its adoption. But all problems were not solved with the adoption of that great document. The two political parties, as they were slowly evolved under the leadership of Hamilton and Jefferson, incited many stirring events.
LESSON DEPARTMENT  In the book, we live through the turbulent days of Washington's administrations, with the establishing of. Many of our present-day traditions. In some of his speeches, Washington might be speaking to us now, urging those ideals, principles, and practices which alone can save a democracy. Finally, we are carried with the sweep of those stirring days to the events occurring during Jefferson's administrations. Among these were the development of the Middle West and the Lewis and Clark Expedition, which opened an amazing vista of possibilities to the new nation. THE PLOT Upon the warp of this historical background is woven the story of the Howard family, through which, the author explains, she proposes "to make vivid the processes at work in the formation of American ideals." In the formally constructed novel or drama there must be a conflict. In this story, the conflict is between individuals and between different groups with divergent views as to what liberty is, what government should be, and the means that should be employed to bring the ideals of liberty and democratic government into realization. The conflicting views in the Howard family represent the larger conflicts of an evolving democracy. Matthew Howard is introduced to us in the first line of the book, as he chops wood outside his father's frontier cabin in the backwoods of Virginia. His Uncle Reuben returns from a long sojourn, where he has witnessed the Ohio Company extending the boundary line of the New World and subduing the Indians. His thrilling account sets young "Matt" to dreaming. ?Matthew's days were filled with secret adventure, and at night he slept to dream of Ohio's great scope of country, that right-down promised land." From The Tree of Liberty, by Elizabeth Page, copyright 1939 and reprinted by permission of Farrar and Rinehart, Inc., Publishers. M5
Matthew is sent away to school with a promise from his father that later, "We're going to Ohio, son. Hit's new country and every man has a chance. I've set my. Heart for you to be a leader, like Colonel Jefferson is in Albemarle. For that ye need schoolin'... For to take the part in Ohio that your pappy can't take." But though Matthew acquitted himself creditably in his new life at school, his father was to know little about it, for the latter (under Colonel Washington) had gone to fight in the French and Indian troubles. Later, Matt goes to take his father and his uncle supplies and has his first glimpse of Colonel Washington, which results in the beginning of a hero worship that lasts all his years. At that time, also, he receives a commission to take the mother and sisters to the new and better land out in Ohio in case the father does not return. His father says: "It would be a mortal heavy task for some lads, Matt, the care of a woman-person and two little lasses on a far journey, but I have it in my heart you're to be a man and a leader." "?Twould be a sin were I not a man," he said quietly, "and I your son." Those were the last words between the father and son. James Howard was killed before the expedition against the French ended. Changes now come thick and fast to Matthew, chief of which is his marriage to the aristocratic Jane Peyton. This circumstance defers his dream of going west to Ohio; but it persists in the lives of his grandchildren and materializes 'with them. Jane Peyton stands for a set of ideals and | standards diametrically opposed to those of Matt, the son of a frontiersman. To him, individualism, personal equality, independence are the foundation stones upon which happiness must rest. Jane, on the other hand, worships wealth, refinement and conformity to set standards and old English traditions, It was inevitable that their life together should be one of endless clashes, and that their children should inherit their strong differences. They have two sons, Peyton and James, and a daughter, Mary. Peyton and Mary favor their father's views; James champions his mother's. James becomes closely associated with 716
Hamilton, and Peyton with Jefferson.
Through the conflicts between the brothers in their ambitions for their country, we realize the greatly divergent ideals of the two outstanding political leaders. It is what these conflicting elements finally develop in the characters of the third generation that gives the ending and meaning to the antagonism that had almost shattered Matt's and Jane's lives. Fortunately, the children's differences are less fierce, less personal, than those of their parents; and in the third generation, because of tendencies inherited from the opposite side of the family, the grandchildren represent a balance between the two Opposing views of government. It is in the lives of his grandchildren that Matt finds something approaching the dream of liberty that he has carried throughout his life. Two dramatic highlights in the story will serve to show how the conflict persisted, and how Jane, having endured suffering in her own life, was able to help her daughter-in-law to steer her marital boat into less troubled waters. In the first instance, Matt has decided to go to war. " 'Jane,' he said, 'come into the library, lass. I have something to tell you.... I have a chance to join General Washington! A group of gentlemen from here are riding next week to offer their swords and services. You could pack and be ready in a week, couldn't you?' "Pack!.,. And suppose I say I don't care to go to Philadelphia, Matthew?' ""Oh, come Jane, you'll have to come to Philadelphia....
Albemarle is not safe.' "Jane laid down the snuffer. "Tm not angry, Matthew.... But I. Shan't go to Philadelphia. I'll take the children to Elm Hill' (the home of her brother, with whom Matthew had broken). "Elm Hill!' Matthew got slowly to his feet. 'You don't mean that, Jane?' "I certainly do. It's my home, and? "Where I am is your home,' he broke in sternly, 'since it's with me you have married. The war is in the north and will likely be fought out there. In Philadelphia I could see you, and you could know where I am and write to me. But Elm Hill? hit would mean separation, Jane.' "T know it, and that's whi ' "You want to separate?' " "Matthew, please listen to me! Because I love you so,  "?I asked you, madam, iffen you wished to separate from me?' " Though he finally gives his consent for her to go, and says, "We won't call it a separation," the incident pushed them farther apart and brought them both deep suffering. In later years, when Peyton's wife Adrienne feels that she must leave her husband because they, too, see things differently, Jane begs her to stay.
After a serious illness, Peyton returns to Philadelphia to assist Jefferson, Adrienne begs him not to go. He answers, "Surely, Adrienne, you understand I have work to do."
With a swift motion she rises and leaves the room.
Peyton departs. The next day Jane finds Adrienne packing, ready to run away to England.
When she understands what her daughter-in-law is intending to do "she felt as if her legs would scarcely carry her across the room to a chair." "I see?you are going away.' "Yes, madam ma mere,' " Jane sees that she is packing the twins' clothing and knows that she is planning to take them with her. "At the sight, the pounding in Jane's heart became a roaring in her ears. A curtain of blackness blotted out the sunlit room and against it she saw once more a candle smoking badly. She saw her hand teach forward, take the snuffers and delicately clear the wick. She heard her voice '... Suppose I say I don't care todo...."
Where was it she would not go? It made no difference now. The refusal was the point of division where Matthew's road led off from hers.... If she could have known?if she could have seen, would her decision have been? ""Oh, no!' she cried, and the dark flood of wild emotion held back so long swept down upon her.; "Matthew! Matthew! She closed her eyes and for a moment the mad longing had its way with her. To go back!... If only she could stand again where Adrienne stood.... Adrienne! 'I think I know why you are going away, Adrienne.... But my dear, have you not thought?' " After the younger woman's outburst of explanation of all she fears from Peyton's actions, all the bitterness of their misunderstanding, Jane says, "Adrienne, you must listen to me. You must see what you are LESSON. DEPARTMENT doing.
Look at me. You are very clever, and you have seen always?Matthew and me. Do you want?that for?yourself and Peyton?' "Slowly the color of excitement ebbed from Adrienne's face. ""But I said when the war is over, madam, in a little while' "So I said?oh, just as sincerely as you?-seventeen years ago.... You have not thought of what happens in such separations, but you must think of it before you decide to go. You say you act for the boys. You will not be able to keep your sons from danger if their father is there.
They will run away from you.
Mine did, when James was only fourteen....
After separation, Adrienne?the love that was cannot be found again?and life is not life at all.' She could say no more for the bitter weeping that choked her words.
Adrienne rose from her knees and took the older woman in her arms. For a long time she was silent, absently stroking Jane's hair while she stared through the window at the garden with eyes too dry and hot for tears.. She stirred at last and laid her cheek against Jane's hand. "You have made me see, madam. I will stay, and we will fight with fate for our Howard men? together. Don't cry so, madam, it is not too late.
There is still a chance to fight.' " This novel, taking a family through three generations of conflicts, is so filled with episodes it is impossible to give, in limited. Space, even a faint idea of the story as a whole. The above excerpts will indicate the kind of incidents employed and something of the pleasing style in which the novel is written.