BY HANNAH T. KING.

	In reviewing the lives of celebrated men and
women, many are apt to consider them as be-
ings apart from the rest of mankind; and indeed,
in a large sense, they are so; in other senses
they are of the masse. It is very true that
they have a world of their own, a region in
which the spirit "lives and moves and has its
being;" a withdrawing room, if you please, into
which they retire at any moment, and feel there
they breathe an atmosphere that feeds, regen-
erates and invigorates their soul! An "inner
temple" into which they take only themselves
—and God! There they have a consecrated
shrine, there they feel heaven is around and
about them; holy spirits administer to them,
and they come out renewed and refreshed. Out-
side that door they leave the world, their cares,
their petty annoyances from those who do not
understand them, from those whose spirits are
not of their calibre; therefore often jar the
chords of the fine instrument of a thousand

[Column 2]
strings, whose music is heard only by the
spirit's ear. But they emerge from this Elysium
and they become at once "one of us," knowing
good and evil, seeing it, feeling it, and in some
measure, sometimes partaking of it to their 
sorrow; for such spirits feel keenly, suffer and
enjoy in the same ratio; they are organized for
heaven, but like the rest of the human family,
they have to pass through an earthly probation;
such, with many others, were Alice and Phoebe
Cary, they had their "inner temple" ever
"swept and garnished," but they came out and
shut the door and went about their daily avoca-
tions of life as other people did, assisted in house-
maids' duties, in the cooking, in the confection-
ery, and were excellent in all; went to market
basket on arm, brought home the needful for the
table as business like as "Bridget" herself could
do it. Phoebe would always remember to bring
home a sweet bouquet for Alice's breakfast table
and another for her writing table, which were
ever inspirational, for they were the offerings of 
the sweetest love that one mortal could offer to
another. She also ever brought with her a
spirit of "fun," reciting at the breakfast table all
the ridiculous scenes she had witnessed in her
marketing tour, causing merry laughter, that
assisted digestion marvelously and helped the
spirit to a healthy tone for the rest of the day,
making observations on life's motley phases, as
few have the tact for doing, weeping over
some--yes, ever ready to weep with the
mourner, as to rejoice with the happy, and then
all this would be simmered down into thrilling
and beautiful articles for the papers, for the
magazines, for poetical morceaus, that has made
the world ring with their praises, has often com-
forted the mourner, cheered the depressed,
and made them weep and laugh almost in the
same moment; by their pathos, and by their ri-
diculousness. In reading Phoebe's productions,
they excite the same contrariety of feeling as in
reading that pathetic writer Lawrence Sterne;
her writings call out the same contrast of feel-
ing as in Sterne's "Maria," "Le Fevre," "The
Prisoner," etc., one moment we cannot read for
laughing, the next some sentiment is evolved,
so exquisitely touching, that we are obliged to
stop and swallow down the heart-sob that ar-
rests our voice. Yes, Phoebe, dear, I love thee!
I appreciate thee, and thy revered sister Alice!
What women these were to be proud of, their
pictures ought to adorn every woman's room,
their beautiful writings be found on every wo-
man's table; for they were worthy of all imitation;
in their self-reliance, in the noble way in which
they fought the battle of life! in their devotion
to their God! they worshipped Him "in the beau-
ty of holiness," in literally working out their
salvation to the best light they had. Oh! my
young sisters, read their lives, and then imitate
their self-reliance, self-supporting indomitable
perseverance; truly were they workers for the
public good, truly were they help-meets to wo-
man; and to attain this end, laying daily on the 
altar of self-sacrifice. Let none think that the
lives of the literati are lives of ease and emolu-
ment; whatever they receive, rest assured
they earn it by the sweat of the brain
and by the sweat of the heart, for no one, whose
harp has not been strung by the hard hand of
experience, can write so as to strike the chords
that lie deep in every heart. An imaginative
writer may touch and excite the senses—but it
is only the one who has passed under "the Car
of Juggernaut" that can touch the heart and
infuse into it the spirit by which the writer has
been inspired. We ought to be very grateful to
those who lay out the beautiful material of their
own heart and brain for our edification, and
amusement, for our comfort and refreshment;
who hold up to our view a mirror as it were, in
which we can view character and discover
wherein we resemble the model, and where we
are deficient; and though many read, and lay
aside the missive with thoughtless apathy and
non-appreciation, yet I am thankful to say there
is still a mighty mass of mind, full of gratitude
and love, for the brain-workers of the world;
those heart explorers who delve deep in the hid-
den mines of human wealth, and bring up to the
surface the gold and silver, and the jewels

[Column 3]
that were before buried in "the dark unfathomed
caves" of human hearts and brains. God gives
them inspiration, and they wear the "singing
robes" that He prepares for the minstrels, that
are also ministering spirits in his hands and
missionaries on his earth.


