CORRESPONDENCE

Dear Editor:
	On Thursday, June 3d, we started on a tour
through Southern Utah. As steam carried us
swiftly along, the soul felt to exclaim, in the
language of the great Morse, "What hath God
wrought." The long and weary miles that were
once traveled so tediously, are now skimmed
over as lightly and pleasantly as the little bird
flits through the air.
	To a lover of the beautiful, how grandly sub-
lime are these dear old mountains. As the eye
feasted upon the beauteous panorama of hill and
dale and snow-capped peak, and e'en the wide
expanse of blue above, that methinks Italian
skies could not excel—I thanked God for living
in a land so lavishly dowered with nature's
charms. Passing around the mountain's point,
where in early days we feared and trembled
with the pitching to and fro of the old wagon, we
beheld the placid waters of Utah Lake, still ever
the same and unchanged, on whose shores our
childish feet had made imprints in the shining,
shifting sands, and our nimble fingers gathered
the romantic shells. Passing still on and glanc-
ing to the left, what memories flooded the heart at
sight of the hills that rose before us like old fa-
miliar friends, not a hill we have not climbed,
not a crag nor a cliff we had not scaled, nor
a dale we left unscanned for the dainty violet,
the wild honey suckle, and the sweetest and
fairest of flowers—the Lily of the Valley. To-
day other feet tread the same paths, other hands
cull the lovely flowers, while we, thronged
with life’s cares and burdens, scarce have
time for pleasant retrospection.
	How soon do we pass from the free and joyous
days of youth—those days fraught with happi-
ness and bright anticipation to the cold, stern and
sometimes withering realities of life. But even
though experience teaches us that life is a pro-
bation, wherein we must learn to endure, over-
come, and suffer and make ourselves perfect
through suffering, we still cling to it tenaciously.
	At 10 a. m. we reached Provo, stepping from
from the cars we soon found a conveyance which
took us to the door of our esteemed friend, "Ma
Smoot," who although a comparative stranger,
greeted us kindly. Where on earth do we find
that sympathy and cordiality on meeting each
other for the first time that we do among Saints.
We feel a kindred tie that binds the heart at
once. She was just off for fast meeting, so we
accompanied her. And felt well, as we ever do,
in listening to inspired teaching.
	In the afternoon the Relief Societies of the
four wards met in their respective School-houses.
I attended that of the 1st Ward, while “Ma
Smoot” and Father Graves (the friend of wo-
man) drove around to the different wards to no-
tify them of our lecture in the evening. The
word was well circulated, consequently a good
audience. At the close of this public lecture to
both ladies and gentlemen, I announced my in-
tention of forming a class for a series of private
lectures for the ladies. The idea met with ap-
proval, and quite a number accordingly met
me on Friday afternoon at the B. Y. Academy,
several of the students of this institution joining
the class.	
	Saturday afternoon attended an entertainment
given by the Primary Association of the 1st
Ward. The exercises were very credit-
able, both to the children and their
President. At the close a rich repast


was served to all, the little folks here having the
preference. The Bishop remarked these things
are to encourage the children, let them be wait-
ed on first. We liked the idea; children should
not be made to feel they are of no importance, it
lessens their dignity and self-respect.
	At 5 p.m., gave the last lecture of the series,
which met with general satisfaction and appre-
ciation.
	A prominent physician lately remarked, "The
women of Utah are the most ignorant upon their
own physical organization of any class I have
ever met." In the past, it is true, we have not
enjoyed those facilities for this higher and very
desirable education possessed by the older east-
ern cities, endowed as they are with their hos-
pitals, collages and houses of learning, yet we
feel and know we have here talent and ability,
and all that is needed is the opportunity where-
by it may be developed. As we grow wiser
both in theory and experience we come to realize
there is nothing that will better secure useful-
ness, and as a result of that usefulness- happi-
ness- than health; and in order that we should
possess health, we must understand and prac-
tice the great physical laws that govern these
mortal beings. Feeling the great need of this
knowledge among women, I have, for some time
past been engaged in the pleasing task of teach-
ing and inculcating these truths by a series of
lectures. I feel ambitious for the women of
Utah. I would wish them to be the best, purest
and noblest, the wisest and most thoroughly
educated of any women on earth, and for their
emancipation from ignorance and tradition I am
willing to work earnestly and energetically.
	Ever feeling interested in woman's cause,
which you, with voice and pen, so nobly advo-
cate, I will say adieu for the present.
