EXTRACTS FROM A LETTER.

	We took up a petition to the California Legis-
lature, signed by 1,002 names. The fight was
directed towards giving women the ballot upon
all school questions and in the selection of trus-
tees and superintendents. The Senate received
us with great courtesy and the Assembly gave
us a cordial greeting; unfortunately there was a
considerable portion of the hoodlum element
represented in the lower house, and you know
ignorance and vulgarity arc the parents of preju-
dice and brutality, and consequently are anta-
gonistic to real reform, especially that reform
which will place direct power in the hands of
women, who constitute the conscience of society,
and who will always fight on the side of temper-
ance and refinement. Still we found a great
number of friendly sympathizers, and it was
curious to note the evident superiority of our
friends. This was so marked that even our op-
ponents would say, "You have some pretty fine
men to support you."
	We called upon the Governor, who declared
himself in favor of giving women the full and
entire franchise, saying that he considered this
reform to be necssary for the salvation of the
republic.
		The Assembly tendered us the use of the As-
sembly Chamber for a special hearing on the
evening of the 11th. Then I learned that it was
expected that I should represent the women of
Santa Clara County in a speech. For a person
so inexperienced, it was a great trial, but I
nerved myself for it. Mrs. Laura de Force Gor-
don and Mrs. Foltz ere to speak. These ladies
are lawyers, and Mrs. Gordon has well earned
the reputation of being a remarkably gifted wo-
man A Miss Kellogg, physician, of Sacramen-
to was to make some remarks. Miss Kellogg
is a very popular lady, of charming appearance
and excellent taste in dress. Her discourse was
pretty, but she is not a gifted speaker. How-
ever, her popularity did more to help us than
any amount of words. The Assembly Chamber
was crowded; the Assembly men gave up their
front seats to the ladies and took the sides and
back of the hall. The galleries were a black
mass, all men. I spoke first, and my heart
did not fail me at all. I wish I could send you
some of it, but there was no correct report
made. Mrs. Gordon made the argument of the
evening. Altogether the meeting made a very
favorable impression.
	I received numerous compliments and my
own friends were delighted. I really think if I
could have sufficient practice I could make a
pretty good speaker. I become so excited or
enthusiastic that I forgot myself and then I
like it.
	Then at last the bill came up for a third read-
ing—all the bills have to be read three times—
crowds flocked to hear the debate and some of
the members did me the honor of quoting some
points of my speech. At 11.30 p.m. there were
yet several members who had not spoken, so
the vote was adjourned until the following
week. The debates were quite fine in our favor,
the opponents did not attempt to argue, but
tried ridicule, or went back to the garden of
Eden. One Lane burlesqued the petitions and
proved himself an admirable clown.
	The bill lingered so long that none of our dele-
gates could remain. This was a pity as our
presence seemed to keep the members up to a
sense of their responsibilities. At last the bill
was voted upon and passed by five majority.
Great was the rejoicing, but alas for the insta-
bility of masculine nature, the very next morn-
ing, some member moved a reconsideration of
the bill which movement was carried by a
small majority. Then seven of the members
went back upon their votes, so that the bill was
indefinitely postponed by a majority of two.
	The general feeling is that it was a cowardly
and disgraceful proceeding. Really I think that
this meanness will do us more good in the end
than a victory would have done. It will make
people think.


﻿DIED.—In this city. May 24th,1889, of injuries
received by being thrown from a wagon; John Y.
Green, aged 53 years, 8 months and 3 days. He
was the youngest son of John P. Greene and
Rhoda Young, who were known in the early
days of the Church as staunch and true friends
of the Prophet Joseph Smith. He also became
a member of the Church at an early age, and
was one of the company of Pioneers to Utah,
and he died in faith of the Gospel. A kind and
loving husband and father; he has left a wife
and nine children, and numerous relatives and
friends to mourn his loss.—[COM.


