WOMAN'S CONVENTION.

	The National Woman Suffrage Association
held its annual meeting May 26th and 27th, ac-
cording to appointment, in Indianapolis, Indiana.
In absence of the President, Mrs. Stanton, Miss
Anthony, Vice-President-at-large presided. The
ladies were earnest in their work and system-
atic in the manner of conducting the business of
the convention.
	Mrs. Gage, chairman of committee on resolu-
tions, reported the following platform and reso-
lutions:
	The National Woman Suffrage Association is
an organization with the special object of secur-
ing national protection for women citizens in the
exercise of the right of suffrage. It recognizes
the fact that our government was framed on the
political basis of the consent of the governed as
the security of all rights, and that the Declara-
tion of Independence struck a blow at every ex-
isting form of government, by declaring the in-
dividual to be the source of all power, upon
which newly proclaimed truth .. our nation rose.
The members of this association, outside of our
great question, hold diverse political beliefs and
affiliations, but for the purpose of gaining their
great right to the ballot, its members hold their
party predilections in abeyance; therefore,
Resolved, That in this year of presidential
nominations and political campaigns, we an-
nounce our determination to support no party by
whatever name called, unless such party shall
in its platfo[-]m first, emphatically endorse; and
W[-]ERE[-]S, Self-government carries - with it
the right to examine and control all great re-

[Column 2]
formatory and governmental questions as shown
in the United States, by the use of the ballot,
which has raised us in influence and power to
the first rank as a nation, and rendered us the
hope of all oppressed, down-trodden people of the
earth; broadening and developing all grades of
native and foreign born men, in whose hand the
ballot has been placed; and
	WHEREAS, The interests and welfare of both
men and women in all the relations of life are
identical, and whatever affects one class, for
either good or evil, also affects the other in the
same manner and in the same proportion; there-
fore,
	Resolved, That what the ballot has done for
man, native and foreign-born, it is equally capa-
ble of doing for woman, and we demand it as a
means of self-culture as well as a security for
our inherent rights of self-government.
	WHEREAS, The era of force is rapidly giving
way to the era of intellectual and moral power,
as shown in the substitution of arbitration for
war; in the proposed disarmament of Europe; in
the great industrial expositions of various coun-
tries, which bring the people of different nations
into acquaintance and harmony; in the spread of
commerce touching every distant and savage
tribe; in the explorations which leave no part of
the globe untrod; in the rapid strides of the rail-
road and telegraph; in the advance of science;
in the general diffusion of knowledge; and
	WHEREAS, The opinions of women are power-
ful upon these questions; and
	WHEREAS, The Woman Suffrage movement
does not arise from personal grievances, but is a
question of human right in exact union with the
announced principles of our government; there-
fore,
	Resolved, That we demand the practical appli-
cation of those principles to the women citizens
of the nation, who not only compose one-half of
the people, but who are acknowledged to pre-
eminently carry with them the great moral
forces which are now so rapidly coming to gov-
ern the world; thus securing responsible recog-
nition of woman's opinions upon all the great
questions which rise for discussion and settle-
ment.
	Resolved, That the present stage of the Wo-
man Suffrage movement is practical, and the
duty of Woman is to take the position and as-
sume the responsibility of citizenship as far as is
possible
	Resolved, That republican government depends
for stability upon the full representation and en-
lightenment of all citizens, and the people, wo-
men as well as men, can safely be trusted to re-
present themselves.
	Resolved, That we hail with delight the ad-
vance of public sentiment among all classes in
favor of Woman's enfranchisement, and es-
pecially do we view with profound thankfulness
the growing conviction in the minds of "Chris-
tian temperance women" of their need of the
ballot, and of the duty and responsibility rest-
ing upon them to labor for its possession in
order that they may more effectively work for
those reforms in legislation which so vitally
concerns the welfare of their homes, and of so-
ciety.
	Elizabeth Boynton Harbert, of the Chicago
Inter-Ocean recited her poem entitled, "The
Coming Man." Addresses were made by
Mesdames Sara Andrews Spencer, Matilda
Joslyn Gage, Lillie Devereux Blake, Miss Mary
B. Clay and Mrs. E. L. Saxon.
	The following resolutions were also presented
on the second day:
	Resolved, That human rights are inherent in
human nature, and the inalienable right to life
and liberty can never be rightfully surrendered
to majorities, in despotisms, nor in republics, nor
dependent on the will of any government. And
so freedom is not less a duty and obligation than
a right.
	Resolved, That the right to see comes with
the eye and the sight; as the right to breathe
with the lungs and the air, and the right to lib-
erty is no less divinely guaranteed to every
human being possessing the qualities and attri-
butes necessary to constitute an intelligent,
moral and responsible being.
	Resolved, That no man was ever born with
three ballots in his hand—one for himself as a
birthright, the other to be given, as a boon, to
his wife or daughter, or withheld as his caprice,
convenience, or despotic choice might dictate.

[Column 3]
And any such claim by man, or a government
of men, is highhanded robbery to be resisted at
whatever cost.
	Resolved, That taxation without representa-
tion is no less tyranny to-day than a hundred
years ago; is even more tyrannical when im-
posed on women than it could have been when
suffered at the hand of a distant and despotic
government of our revolutionary ancestors.
	Resolved, That while the women of Massa-
chusetts are favored by careful computation, to
be paying annually one-eleventh part of all the
taxes imposed on that Commonwealth, and the 
women of Connecticut nearly if not quite the
same, we can but approve and admire the devo-
tion to principle of Abby Kelly Foster, of the
former, and Julia and Abby Smith, of the lat-
ter State, for refusing voluntary payment of
such cruelly and unjustly levied impositions,
though always at great pecuniary sacrifice and
loss. Nor can any reason be given why. Had
they a General Lafayette to come to the rescue,
as to the aid of George Washington in the war
of 1775, their own homesteads should not be
made the Lexington and Bunker hill of another
revolution, the most righteous war recorded in
the history of the human race.
	Resolved, That the rapid advance in public
sentiment and State legislation, upon the rights
of women, and the respect shown by Congress,
indicate that our demands are in harmony, with
the spirit of the age, and that the political party
that opposes the civil and political equality of
women will have a brief lease of power.
	Resolved, That granting to women the right
of Suffrage in so many states and municipalities
on questions of education, and the means and
methods for suppressing the frightful evils of in-
temperance, has forever answered all questions,
principles or expediency as to Woman's fitness
and capability to exercise that right; and we
hold it as most undeniable that if Woman
shonld be permitted to vote for laws to protect
her sons from drunkenness, she should have
equal voice in legislation to preserve her daugh-
ters from those dreadful dangers to which they
are every day becoming more and more ex-
posed through the unbridled and insatiable lust
of men. Nor has the law-making power to-day
one single valid reason to urge w[--]y women
should not be permitted to exercise all the
rights, and assume at once all the responsib-
ities of equal citizenship.
	Resolved, That the thanks of this association
are hereby tendered to the Republican party in
Congress, for requesting the national committee
to provide seventy-six seats for women delegates
in the Chicago presidential convention.
	And our thanks are especially due to Hon.
Thomas W. Ferry, of the Sentate, and to Hon.
Edwin Willetts, of the House of Representa-
tives, for advocating this provision for women.
	Resolved, That we are a nation and not a con-
federacy of states; that we are all citizens first of
the United States, and second of the States
wherein we reside. Hence the right of self-
government should be guaranteed by the nation-
al constitution to all citizens, and should be
protected by the ballot everywhere under our
flag.
	Whereas, The women of the land, defrauded
of their earnings and of their personal liberty,
can not educate the 20,000,000 of men concern-
ing their rights as citizens; and
	Whereas, Whenever State legislatures have
submitted our rights to the rank, and file of the
men of a State, the solid liquor interest and the
kindred forces combine to defeat us; and
	Whereas, To enfranchise the women of one
State does not establish woman's rights as a
United States citizen to vote; therefore,
	Resolved, That it is the duty of Congress to
submit to the legislatures of the several States
an amendment to the national constitution,
securing women citizens the right of suffrage.
	Whereas, A nation's chief wealth does not con-
sist alone in its material resources, but also its
love of justice, and its desire to secure equality of 
opportunity and rights to all; therefore,
	Resolved, That corruption in politics, the
decline of patriotism, the lack of justice and the
prevalence of sentiment of disloyalty, which now
endangers the life of the republic are traceable
to withholding from women all participation in
the affairs of government, and since the child
is influenced by the condition of the mother and
its first training comes from her, therefore wo-
man's absolute freedom from all restraint upon
her powers, as well as her endowment with all
the rights of citizenship, is not only imperative-
ly necessary for the perpetuation of our free in-
stitutions, but for the securing of a higher type
of humanity.


