MY EARLY HOME, WRITTEN THIRTY-FIVE YEARS AGO.

Shall others, sweet Valley thy praises rehearse
And unstrung be my lyre, and silent my verse?
Forbid it my musc! and if lowly the strain.
When the heart shall dictate, 'twill not all be in vain.

But who in this age of refinement, and art
Will deign to admire my favorite theme
Where nature alone presides over the scene?

So be it—by me 'tis by no means despised,
'Tims my Home!—in that word is a volume comprised;
There I've tasted the mixture of life, good and ill,
And such has endeared it more lastingly still.

But hayfields, and cornfields, and water and wood,
Are deem'd in a landscape essentially good,
Then I fancy we still have a claim 'twill be found.
For in these my loved valley is known to abound.

If these have no merits, then come to "the grove"
The song of the nightingale, all surely love!
There, she reigns Prima donna, and charms the whole
	scene
And black bird, and thrush pour their sweet notes be-
	tween.

I love too, to stand on the rush covered "fen"
And list to the cry of the lapwing—and then
The voices of frogs, far away from the scene,
All these speak of hours, and days that have been.

I, love, when the day and its turmoil is done,
To ramble unheeded, unthought of—alone,
Then ascend to the hill, overlooking the dell,
And list to the sound of the sweet village bell;

Oh! those sweet village bells are delightful to me,
How often I hear them ring out o'er the lea;
And that morning we walked out of Church side by side
How joyous they welcom'd the Bridegroom and Bride.

On xmas-day morning, how blandly they ring,
And the old year's departure—the new usher in!
Yes, yes while I live I'll remember those bells,
Their tongues have a language that nothing else tells.

These are pleasures that pall not, they soften the heart
And peace, and serenity ever impart;
They draw us from earth, our thoughts fly to Him
Who made this fair world, our Creator and King;

These are some of the beauties, and charms of my sphere
You may think that which follows a simple idea,
That immured in a Town I shonld ever bewail
The simple enjoyments, of dear Dernfod Dale!

