AN ADDRESS TO MAN.

	The general medley of remarks, good, bad and
indifferent, made by both sexes and all classes,
and creeds; calls up in my mind these questions:
What is woman? What is her mission in this life?
And what rights does she claim?
	The Scriptures tell us that woman was created,
for a companion and helpmeet to man, because
"it is not good to be alone." They twain to be
one, and their mission in this life; to people the
earth with intelligent beings. These intelligent
beings, the embodiment of the immortal spirit
with the mortal body; unlike other creatures-
they begin life with such protracted helpless,
ness, that no one would attempt to say, that
woman's mission,could end with the "bearing
of the sons of men." No! It is but a beginning
of her task.
	The intelligent mother knows even intuitively,
that the molding of the infant mind, is her task,
as much as the framing of its body: and her
cares and anxiety increase with the age and
number of her offspring.
	Men whose mother's love, teachings and
prayers, have followed them through life, like a
halo of light, through the darkness of doubts
and temptations; will readily allow woman's
voice, to be heard in all matters pertaining to the
social weal.
	Drop all traditions into oblivion and taking
consistency for a guide, consider whether wo-
man, in her own sphere, that is, by the side of
her husband and surrounded by her children;
has not as great, if not a greater interest than
her brother man, in the uprightness and moral-
ity of the politics and government of the country
in which she lives.
	How much safety, is there for the virtue of
mothers and daughters, aye and sons, in a na-
tion ruled by a fraudulent and corrupt govern-
ment? None. But says one! There are so many
foolish, giddy women! Well, my friend, are wise
men the mojority? If so, whence all this general
mistrust, contention and fraud? Whence this
gigantic extravagance on which is wrecked
honesty, loyalty and confidence.
	Women foolish, vain and giddy? Yes, many
are, and whose fault? Have not men, brought
about this state of affairs, by giving to the vain
butterflies, the preference over women of worth?
Shape and turn the question as we will, the ugly,
but palpable fact stares us in the face; that man
has hitherto endeavored to keep woman ignorant
and incapable of solid pursuits in life; that she
might be a mere toy in his hands, and in some
countries his slave, de facto. Nay my brother
man! Fear not, that woman may arise, as your
rival, and perchance, tangle the meshes of poli-
tics more than they are already. She wishes not
to be a rival; but a true helpmeet. Not a lob-
byist, to assist in working out fraudulent
schemes; but to openly, and in her own right,
assist man in bringing about a reform, without
which, society must necessarily become a wreck.
	It is not that Woman wishes to rule, but she
demands the privilege of a voice in electing, the
men who shall rule over, and make laws for her-
self and offspring.
	Deny her not! For her love pure and unselfish
urges her on, and she not rest, until her
hand grasps the Rudder of this great Life Boat.
									E. C. F.
	Morgan, June 10th, 1880.


HOME PUBLICATION:—"Prose and Poetry" is
the title of a new book in pamphlet form. A
collection of originial articles from the pen of
Mrs. Emily B. Spencer, of St. George. Some
of them were written in the Temple. The book
contains 88 pages, and is for sale at this office.
Price 50 cents.


