VISIT TO BRIGHAM CITY.

	MONDAY afternoon, June 7th, in company
with Sister E. R. Snow Smith, we left home
en route for Brigham City, to attend the Sisters'
Conference of Box Elder Stake of Zion. We ar-
rived safely about eight o'clock the same even-
ing, at the residence of Apostle Lorenzo Snow.
It is a large rambling, old-fashioned house, and
reminds one of the country homes of New
England. We were both warmly welcomed,
and in fact Sister Eliza is most fondly and af-
fectionately cherished by all the residents of
this unique town, as a sort of godmother, and of 
course this alone would secure a welcome for any
one accompanying her.
	Tuesday morning at 10 o'clock, the Confer-
ence convened in the Court House, Mrs. Har-
riet A. Snow presiding. On the platform were
many of the presidents and other officers of the
several branches of womens' organizations from
the different parts of the County, Sisters Annie
Sawyer and Elvira Harrison, Malad, M. A.
Hubbard, Willard, and many other sisters from
a distance, earnest and zealous workers in the 
the cause of woman's progress and elevation.
	The morning was partly occupied in reading
Relief Society reports, after which, by request,
the meeting was addressed by the sisters from
Salt Lake City. In the afternoon the several
presidents of Relief Societies gave verbal reports,
and bore strong testimonies of the truth of the
Gospel and their interest in the work of reforma-
tion and redemption in these "latter days."
Apostle Lorenzo Snow and Pres. Joseph Young,
Sen., each made encouraging and interest-
ing remarks, and "Sister Eliza" made a most
eloquent appeal to mothers and in fact all, in
regard to sustaining home industries and living
above every trial and thus obtaining victory over
self and the powers of darkness.
	After the meeting had adjourned we were in-
vited to visit the young ladies' bazar, in the
lower hall of the building. This bazar was all
composed of home-made, fancy and useful arti-
cles, made by the young women of the Mutual
Improvement Association of the Third Ward,
and the object was to get money to purchase
books for a society library. The president of 
this Association, Mrs. Amy Maddison, is a
most energetic and faithful worker in the ad-
vancement of all that pertains to the interest
and welfare of the young sisters. The articles
are good and many of them are very pretty.
These young ladies certainly deserve great credit
for their industry, and the young ladies in other
localities who have had better opportunities
might well imitate their example.
	Wednesday morning, the Y. L. M. I. A. Con-
ference commenced, Mrs. Minnie J. Snow pre-
siding. The platform was nearly filled with
officers from the several Young Ladies' Associa-

[Column 2]
tions in that Stake. And we are proud and
thankful to say these young women are most
earnestly devoting themselves to the higher
elevation of humanity, and ably working to
promote the interests of Christ's kingdom upon
the earth. The reports from branch Associa-
tions were indeed gratifying, and the secretary,
Miss Lydia Snow, reflected credit upon herself,
and dignified the position by the manner in
which she performed her special part, of the
exercises. After the reports had all been read,
the Stake President of the Y. L., Mrs. Minnie
J. Snow, addressed the meeting in a very able
manner; she was followed by others, each and
all of them manifesting a spirit of obedience,
humility and nobility in strict keeping with the
Gospel and its divine teachings. The sisters
from Salt Lake also addressed the young ladies,
speaking upon culture of mind, manners and
heart, and dwelt much upon the deleterious ef-
fects of novel reading and light literature.
	Taken as a whole, the remarks of the young
ladies in that Conference far surpassed anything
we have ever heard from the young at any con-
ference; they were full of intelligence, and wis-
dom, and the spirit of improvement, and were
truly encouraging.
	The afternoon of the second day was devoted
to the Primary Associations, and after the re-
ports were read, the presidents reported verbally,
and many excellent things were said in the very
best spirit and manner. Mrs. Lizzie M. Felt,
who is counselor in the Primary Association of
the 11th Ward in this city, was present, and
was called upon to speak. She responded in a
very happy manner, and her remarks were in-
teresting and edifying to all. Several speeches
were made, which were both eloquent and
inspiring, and the Conference adjourned for
three months.
	At five o'clock the same evening about four
hundred children assembled at the Court House,
and this meeting was indeed a feast to all. These
conferences for the children are not only inspir-
ing to the little folks, but to all who are interested
in the future welfare of Israel.


[Column 1]
