A TRUE STORY.

	In the fall, of 1869 a man with his young wife
and their only child, a little girl about eight
months old, started out on a journey of over a
hundred miles to visit their relatives. They
made the journey in about four days, and visited
around among their friends some three months,
at the end of that time the chilly winds of De-
cember warned them of the near approach of
winter, and the distance they had to travel be-
fore reaching home. After some preparation
they started for their home in northern Utah.
The third night out they drove into the little
town of C., a pleasant little valley situated in
the tops of the mountains; that night the wind
whistled and the snow drifted, and to the trav-
elers it seemed as though winter had in very
deed set in, however, the next morning they re-
sumed their journey, having paid a man $2.50
for taking his oxen and helping them over the
divide, a distance of about three miles; the snow
was drifting terribly, and it was all a span of
mules with the help of the oxen could do to draw
the wagon, although the load was very light;
when they got over as far as the man had been
hired to go, they tried to hire him to go farther,
but money was no temptation, so severe was the
storm. I have many times since wondered if
that man had a heart, and always concluded if
he had, it must have been callous, to leave that
man with his wife and babe in a snow bank as it
were with no possible way of escape. The mules
could not stir the wagon, and when the lash was
applied to them they could only plunge and
pant. O! what shall we do, was the question
that agitated both husband and wife. Help, we
must have help, was the husband's answer. Can
you stay here alone while I go and bring that
man back. I will make him come said he. des-
perately. There was a silence as of death, all
the imaginations of her nature were aroused;
what if her husband should start off alone facing
such a storm and should get so exhausted that
he should sink down to rest. My readers know
the result that would be likely to follow, and
none of them could realize it more forcibly than
did the wife at this particular moment. At
length, the silence was broken, "Speak quick, or
it will be too late to overtake him." Her only
reply was, go! He started off in pursuit of the
retreating oxen and their driver, and to
the anxious husband it seemed that
locomotive power had never traveled half
so fast as did those same oxen. The hope to
overtake them was soon gone,but he would make
his way as best he could to the little settlement
and obtain help; he struggled on, but made slow
progress. What was the young wife doing all
this time? crying and wringing her hands? No,
she was praying to her God with all her might,
beseeching Him to preserve her husband from
the terrible fate that seemed to threaten him;
her only thought seemed to be of him. Mo-
ments, which seemed like hours of anxious
waiting, elapsed, when to her unbounded joy
she heard shouts; they had scarcely died away
when shouts still farther off reached her ear, the
Lord had heard and answered her prayer. Help
was at hand; her husband had struggled along
until he got to the top of the ridge, where below
him lay some wagons; he could scarcely tell wheth-
er they were moving or not, so slow was their
progress and blinding the storm, until shouting
with all his strength he received an answer. The
remainder of that day was spent in breaking
roads; the men, part of them, formed in line,
and would walk in front of the wagons, each
wagon in turn taking the lead. Their rest was
frequent and sometimes quite long, giving the
animals plenty of time. In that way they suc-
ceeded in getting through the canyon, and about
8 o'clock in the evening they arrived in the lit-
tle town of W., where kind and hospitable
friends entertained them for the night. The
next day they reached their home, feeling
thankful to the God of Heaven for his unbound-
ed mercy in preserving their lives, and still they
have cause to rejoice, for that same God that de-
livered them in that hour of peril has delivered
them through other trials and difficulties, and
his hand is still over them for good.
									TINEY.
	Salt Lake City, June 4th, 1880.


