RICHMOND.

	Yearly report of the Primary Association of
Richmond, beginning June 1st, 1879, and ending
June 1st, 1880: Received in donations from mem-
bers, $3.90; Received January 1st, 1880, on pro-
ceeds of Primary dance, $9.00. Disbursements:
Paper and pencil, 20c.; Paper, 20c.; Candy for
children, $2.35; To poor, $3.50; Cards for mem-
bers. $3.15; Total amount received, $12.90; Total
amound disbursed, $9.40; Remaining in treasury,
$3.50. Our yearly concert was well attended
and a good spirit prevailed. The children enter-
tained us with a choice selection of songs, reci-
tations and dialogues, which were weli prepared
for the occasion. I must make mention of two
little boys of Brother Monson's, one six and the
other seven years of age, who sang "Our lovely
Deseret," with such earnestness that they were
highly applauded. President Brown sang a
song composed for the occasion on "Brigham
Young pioneering the Saints to the West."
Brother A. C. Brower made very instructive re-
marks to the children, and also Brother Gibbs
gave us some good advice. Brother Whitehead,
our organist, was in attendance, and we had a
general good time. "Closed with singing, "Al.
ways Cheerful." Prayer by President H. Brow-
er. H. Brower, President; M. Monson, Vice-
President; M. W. Thompson and E. Jarvis,
Counselors.				M. A. WEBB, Secretary.

	The Primary Association of East Bountiful,
held their first Annual Meeting in the Taber-
nacle, April 19th, 1880. There were present,
President Anson Call, Counselor William Thur-
good, William Muir and several more of the
brethren. Sister E. R. Snow and others were
expected but did not come, which was a great
disappointment. There were quite a number
present. We had recitations and singing from
the children, also some very good instructions
from President Call, Counselor Thurgood and
William Muir.
	The President of the Association made some
very appropriate remarks; after the close of the
meeting, there were presents distributed among
the children to the amount of $27,30, consisting
of 38 Diamond Dictionaries, two Child's Natural
Histories, twelve of George Q. Cannon's "First
Mission" and other books and cards for the
smaller children.
	About six weeks ago,some of the larger children
of the Association got up a surprise party, and
went to President Ann Dustan's and presented
her with a set of glass dishes, as a token of re-
spect; also, three pairs of dishes to the Counsel-
ors and Secretary.
	The children seem to be progressing very well.
Many of the children manifest a willingness,
when called upon, to speak or dismiss meetings.
