LETTER WRITING.

	Letter writing is spoken of frequently as an
"art" as an accomplishment and so forth, but
certain it is that a correspondence between per-
sons of intelligence and education is decidedly
beneficial as well as pleasurable. Most people
know how delightful it is to receive letters that
contain not only news,but ideas and sentiments
fresh from the heart's inner fountain no inter-
mingling with other peoples fancies but genuine
effusions thrown off at the point of the pen, in
an unaffected and simple style that goes direct
to the heart of the recipient of the favor. This
is a part of the education of the young that
should not be neglected,and it is something that
can be acquired with little expense, and by oc-
casional practise one may become quite an adept
in the art of letter writing. We do not wish to 
be understood as advising promiscuous corre-
spondence, far from it, but to be able to give
pleasure, comfort and consolation to those we
love when separated from them, by means of
epistles which will convey in the best manner
possible our true sentiments, is something des-
irable for all, who wish to do good and promote
other's happiness. The gift of conversation is
one which almost all desire, that they may con-
vey to others in a pleasing manner their thoughts
and make themselves thoroughly understood,
but less is thought of the efficiency and profi-
ciency of letter writing. "Well I shall seldom
have occasion to write letters and do not need any
preparation for that," is the general idea, but it

[Column 2]
should in my opinion form a part of every child's 
education.
	I have always thought it a good plan to inter-
mingle correspondence with compositions, that
is in selecting subjects for pupils, give them a
chance to write letters occasionally, either to
friends, or unknown persons, intended only to
be criticised, as other essays and compositions
are. This gives to the child an idea of correct-
ness of style in addressing persons, and of the
manner of expression also. Use the choicest
words, there are a great variety of words in our
language, and the very best should always be
selected. This is good discipline for the young.
	There are some things which should always be
carefully observed in letter writing. Always
write respectfully and so construct your sent-
ences as to make your true meaning, perfectly
clear. Respect for one's self as well as the per-
son addressed should always characterize a
letter, and such being the case no letter will be
carelessly worded. Simplicity of expression is
much more elegant, and, indicates greater re-
finement and culture than the more elaborate
forms of composing. Whatever the subject of
your letter preserve your own originality of
thought, and write as if you were speaking as
nearly as possible. Bear in mind too, that your
letter may perchance fall into other hands than
those of the person for whom it was written and
affect you and perhaps others to a greater, or
less extent for good or ill. There is one import-
ant thing which should be strictly observed by
all, and that is never to notice an anonymous
letter. The art of letter writing although one of 
the greatest blessings, is often subverted to most
wicked purposes. There is scarcely any blessing
we enjoy in this life, but has its "other side,"
and perhaps no accomplishment has ever been
productive of more evil than that of being able
to write fascinatingly.
	Letters are preserved for generations some-
times, in fact it is quite common to keep them
for years, and long after the hand that penned
the faded lines is cold in the silent tomb, they
are capable of bringing back tender remem-
berances,and calling up familiar scenes,and sweet
associations, and are thus silent messengers
coming back to us as it were to offer consolation
and revive our friendship for the loved ones
of "other days." Who is there in this age of ed-
ucational culture, who has not packed away
in some quiet corner a bundle, or two, or more
of old letters, that are worth more to the pes-
sessor than their weight in gold. Methinks
there are many of these precious letter parcels
tucked away here and there tied with a faded
ribbon, that the very sight,or touch of is sacred.
Jewels could not produce the sensation of hap-
piness, or so inspire the heart, as do these same
poor, silent treasures. Their worth cannot be
estimated. Then how particular we should be
in addressing our friends, never to wound by a
single word, or hint, for long afterwards it may
reawaken, evil or unpleasant feelings, which
might otherwise have sunk into oblivion. Let
us give all the comfort, all the pleasure we can,
through this prolific source of bestowing happi-
ness. To the young especially, I would say
 remember that through this channel of com-
munication, (letter-writing) you may do great
good to your friends, or even hand down your
name to the future.					AUNT EM.


SPEEDY AND SURE.—The Journal of Com-
merce, Boston, says; "As a speedy and sure
cure this (Warner's Safe Kidney and Liver
Cure) remedy is "Safe," and the cases wherein
it misses are those beyond the reach of human
relief."


