THE ORPHANAGE.

	Nazareth, Oct. 27, Thermometer, in my room
75, in the sun 100.
	The illustration in Farrer's "Life of Christ,"
"Nazareth from the southwest," gives a good
idea of the situation of this fine building which
is often called the palace and such it is by com-
parison with anything to be seen in this part of
the Holy Land. From the delightful balcony,
on to which the large hall opens, we have a
view which I imagine is hardly to be equalled,
and we often watch a few moments at sunrise,
sunset, moon or starlight as well as during the
"all golden" days and feast upon it. There lies
the town with its flat white roofs surrounded by
its amphitheatre of hills. Beyond the hills south-
ward stretches the plain of Esdradon, bounded
by the hills of Samaria, and eastward a succes-
sion of hills, then the Jordan Valley, and then
again the hills of Gilead and Moab distinctly
visible through the "diaphanous air." It is all
lovely even now when the slopes are parched
and brown, what would it be in early spring?
Come back to the house and let me show you
the large lofty apartments, the immense hall
in the centre of the building intended as a din-
ing hall, when the funds shall allow of the
place being filled, the dormitories with their
long rows of little white beds. On the other
our bed-rooms and sitting-rooms, all with mar-
ble floors and all spotlessly clean; cleanliness

[Column 3]
and order are the Lares and Penates of the in-
stitution and a grand lesson it is for these Arabs
whose life is passed in indescribable dirt and
disorder, to show them over the place. There
is room for 100 girls but only beds for 35. If any
one would like to do a real kindness let them
them send us £12 for a bed a year for three
years and we shall be able to take in one of the
fifty poor little creatures for whom application
has been made, or if they cannot do so much the
£2 for an additional bed. It is a sight for "sair cen"
to see the procession of 36 brownies in their
pink print frocks and white muslin veils wend-
ing down the narrow, steep, dirty, stony streets
of Nazareth on their way to church, and a sad
contrast to look at the swarms of grinning, rag-
ged little street Arabs who stand back against
the walls to watch them pass. These 36 girls,
ranging from 4 to 16 years of age, are taught to
read and write and are made thoroughly ac-
quainted with the Scriptures. Those who have
sufficient ability are taught English and trained
as teachers. There are only two servants.

To be Continued.


