BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	When I first commenced these reminiscences,
I only gave a short sketch and did not think to
continue them, but having been urged to write
more, I will copy a few more lines from my
father's history to show some of the cruelties
and injustice of our enemies and that there
were a few in the State of Missouri who revolted
at the horrible deeds that were committed.
"The legislature of the State of Missouri ap-
propriated two thousand dollars to be distributed
among the people of Davies and Caldwell Coun-
ties, the "Mormons" not excepted. Judge
Cameron, Mr. McHenry and others attended to
the distribution. Judge Cameron drove in the 
hogs belonging to the brethren, many of which
were identified, shot down in the street and
without further bleeding they were half dressed,
cu[-] up and distributed by McHenry to the poor,
charging four or five cents per pound, which,
together with a few pieces of refuse calico at
double and triple prices, soon consumed the ap-
propriation.
	The Prophet and others petitioned Judge
Tomkins or either of the Supreme Judges of the 
State of Missouri for a State's writ of habeas
corpus, that he and his brethren might be
brought before either of those judges, that jus-
tice might be administered. I was requested by
Joseph to go to Jefferson City and present the
petition. The committee met and appointed
Theodore Turley to accompany me. We took
copies of the papers by which the prisoners were
held, with the petition, to the Supreme Judges,
and immediately started a distance of 300 miles,
visited the Judges and laid the whole matter
before them, individually, according to our best
abilities. Neither of them would take any ac-
tion in the case, although they appeared friendly
and acknowledged that they were illegally im-
prisioned. We also presented a petition to the 
Secretary of State, the governor being absent,
he appeared very kind, but like the other offi-
cers he had no power to do good. We immedi-
ately returned to Liberty and made Joseph and
the brethren acquainted with the result of our
mission, through the grate of the dungeon, as we
were not permitted to enter the prison; Joseph
told us to be of good cheer, and get all the Saints
away as fast as possible. In company with Bro-
ther Turley I visited Judge Austin A. King, who
was angry at us, for presenting his illegal pa-
pers to the Supreme Judges. He treated us
roughly. At a meeting of the committee Brother
Daniel Shearer and I were appointed to visit
Judge Hughes, who had formerly been an In-
dian agent, and get him to go to Davis and at-
tend the sitting of the Court there. He express-
ed himself in friendly terms towards Joseph and 
the brethren; being a very rough man in his
language, he G—d d—d the Judges, and the
Governor and everybody else that would not
step forward and help those men out of the
hands of their persecutors, for he did not believe
they were guilty of any of the crimes alleged
against them. Said he, "the Mormons have
been treated d—d mean," looking us directly in
the eye he said, "By G-d, look at their eyes,
see how bright and keen they are, they are
whipped but not conquered, you can see that in
their eyes."
	There were several men in Liberty who were
friendly to the brethren; I called on them when
I went there, and they treated me with great
civility, General Doniphan and Atchsion and the 
tavern keeper where I put up, and several of the
foremost men, who belonged to the Masonic
fraternity. At the tavern the hostler was
a black man, and being friendly to me I
gave him a dollar and told him I had to ride
much, and requested him to be kind to my horse
and brush him down well. Next morning, when
I came to take my horse out of the stable, he
was foundered and so stiff I could hardly get him
out of the stable; the hostler had given him too
much grain. Those men whom I have named,
and several others, revolted at the scenes enact-
ed against the Mormons, and would have liber-
ated the brethren had it not been for the "out-
side pressure," that is, the strong prejudices
imbided by the people against us; and the blood-
thirstiness to kill the Prophet, which was in the 
Governor who should have been a father; but,
because he was a tyrant, he will be d——d
and go to h—lll, with all who raise their tongues
against this work and people. The committee
made me a present of a fine sorrel horse, as I had
considerable traveling to do.
	14th—The committee moved 36 of the poor
and helpless families into Tenney's Grove, about

[Column 2]
25 miles from Far West. I was obliged to se-
crete myself in the woods and cornfields during
the day and went evenings to counsel the com-
mittee and brethren in private houses.
	18th.—This morning, as I was going to the
committee-room, to tell the committee to wind
up their affairs and be off; or their 
lives would be taken, I was met on
the public square by several of the
mob, one of them asked if I was a d—d Mormon.
I replied, "I am a Mormon." They answered,
"Well, g—d d—n you, we'll blow your brains
out," repeating the oath again, they tried to
ride over me with their horses, in the presence
of Elias Smith, Theodore Turley and others of
the committee. It was but a few minutes after I
had notified the committee to leave, before the
mob gathered at the Tithing House and began
breaking clocks, chairs, windows, looking glasses
and furniture, making a complete destruction of 
everything, while Captain Bogart, the county
judge looked on and laughed, and a mobber
named Whittaker jumped about and laughed
like a mad man; and all this at a time when we
were using our utmost endeavors to get the
Saints away from Far West. The brethren
gathered up what they could and fled from Far
West in one hour; the mob stayed until the 
committee left and then plundered thousands of 
dollars worth of property which had been left by
the brethren and sisters to assist the poor to re-
move to Illinois.
	One mobber rode up and finding no conven-
ient place to fasten his horse, shot a cow that
was standing near, while a girl was milking her,
and while the poor animal was struggling in
death he cut a strip of her hide from her nose to
her tail, to which he fastened his halter. At that
time the great crime consisted in being united and
having bishops, priests, etc., and believing in the 
spiritual gifts of the Gospel which Jesus taught
his disciples; but now we are toid that the prac-
tice of Polygamy is the only thing they have
against us as a people. What nonsense and how
foolish this sounds to those who remember all
these things and the scenes which the Saints
have passed through. The ignorance of the mass
is only surpassed by their intolerance. Our
greatest persecutions and our drivings were be-
fore the principle of plural marriage had been
revealed. The "Mormons" who were driven
from Missouri were mostly from the Eastern
States and were industrious and enterprising and
much more refined than the majority of the
Western people, who were satisfied to live in
little log huts, with one pane of glass, and often
none at all; their fire places generally covered
one side of the room, and that with the broad
chimney and one door, which was generally left
open winter and summer, to let in the light,
served their purpose. Their living consisted
mainly of coffee, hominy, and corn dodger, corn
meal wet up with cold water, whithout any short-
ening, and transparent bacon. The richest land,
stock and slave holders aspired to little more:
but the spirit of union, industry and enterprise
which they saw in our people filled them
wlth jealousy and hatred like unto Cain,
and this spirit was encouraged by apostates,
who sold the Prophet and his brethren, and they
received money for betraying them. Governor
Boggs and his minions were guilty of offering
their prisoners the flesh of their murdered breth-
ren to eat, and when our cause was laid before
the President of the United States, his answer
was, "Gentlemen, your cause is just, but I can
do nothing for you; if I take up for you I shall
lose the vote of Missouri." And this is a land of 
LIBERTY, FREEDOM AND EQUAL RIGHTS. None
but Saints would have endured such wrongs,and
they are the only people who practise what they
profess, or even believe these words of the Sav-
ior, "The servant is not above his Lord; if they
have persecuted, me, they will persecute you
also;" and that all the trials through which the 
Saints have passed are in fulfilment of the words
of the prophets since the world began. It
would be well for the world to discern the signs
of the times, and more especially those who pro-
fess to belong to the Church of Jesus Christ of 
Latter-day Saints, but are careless and luke-
warm, that the day of the Lord may not overtake
them as a thief in the night."
	I have not indulged in these reminiscences out
of any feeling of revenge, no, my heart aches for
the suffering, even of our enemies. I pity and feel
to pray for them, for they know not what they
do, but the blood of the innocent is crying for
vengeance. This nation has a terrible debt to
pay. In Illinois the Prophet and Patriarch
were murdered in cold blood and the Saints
again forced in the dreadful month of February,
1846 to leave their beautiful city and their hard-

[Column 3]
earned homes to their enemies, who hoped and
expected they would all perish. The poor and
the aged, sick and infirm were afterwards driven
across the Mississippi in the sickly season of the 
year, and scores of them died. They took from
us five hundred of young able-bodied men to
fight in the Mexican war, which made it impos-
sible for us to travel, and hundreds died at our
Winter Quarters from diseases brought on by
privations; being so long without vegetable food
and the hardships and exposures endured on
that journey.
	The travels of the Saints from Nauvoo to these
valleys were marked by the graves of their loved
ones. The Saints have borne all in patience
because they had faith in the Almighty who
said, "Vengeance is mine, I will repay."


