PRONUNCIATION OF ENGLISH NAMES

	A recent work published by F. Warne & Co.,
London, entitled, "The Manners and Tone of 
Good Society," has a chapter on the pronuncia-
tion of the proper names and titles of the Eng-
lish aristocracy, which will be of peculiar service
to those who are much given to the reading of
of English history or English novels. The fol-
lowing condensation of the examples furnished
by the author are given herewith—Such are
Cholmondeley, pronounced Chumley; Majori-
banks, pronounced Marshbanks; Cockburn, pro-
nounced Coburn; and Cowper, pronounced Coo-
per, Again, Mainwaring is Mannering; McLeod
is McCloud. In Elgin and Gillott the "g" is
hard; in Gifford and Nigel it is soft; in John-
stone the "t" should not be sounded. In Moly-
neux the "x" is sounded, and the name is pro-
nounced Molynoox, with a very slight accent on
the last syllable. In Vaux the "x" is also sound-
ed, but it is mute in Des Vaux and likewise in
Devereux. In Ker, Berkeley, and Derby, the
"e" has the sound of "a" in far. In Waldegrave,
the second syllable, "de," should be dropped.
and so should th&nbsp;"th" in Blyth. Dillwyn is
Dillun, and Lyveden—Livden. In Conyngham,
Monson, Monkton and Ponsonby, the "o" takes
the sound of "u," and Blount should be
pronounced as Blunt, the "o" being
mute. Buchan should be pronounced Buckan,
and Beauclerk or Beauclerc is Boclare, the ac-
cent being on the first syllable, Wemyses
should be pronounced Weims, and D'Eresby—
D'Ersby. In Montgomerie the "t" is elided and
the two "p's" have the the sound of "u" the ac-
cent being on the second syllable. In Hertford
the "t" is elided and the "e" has the sound of
"a" in far. Strachan should be pronounced
Strawn; Colquehoun is Koohoon, the accent be-
ing on the last syllable; Beauchamp is Beacham,
and Coutts is Koots. Another formidable name
to the uninitiated is Duchesne, which should 
be pronounced Dukarn; Bethune should be
Beeton; and in Abergavenny the "av" is not
sounded. Menzies is pronounced Mynges; Knol-
lys as Knowls; Sandys as Sands; Gower as Gorr,
Milnes as Mills. Finally, Dalziel should be pro-
nounced Deeall, with the accent on the first
syllable; Chartres is Charters; Glamis is Glarms;
Geoghegan should be pronounced Gaygan, and
Ruthven is Riven. We may add that the ac-
cent is frequently misplaced in pronouncing
British proper names, and a few of the words
liable to mistake may be here noted. In Tadema
and Millais, the accent is on the first syllable:
in Clanricarde and Breadalbane, on the second;
while in Burnett, Bardett, Kennaird, Parnell
and Tremayne, the last syllable is accented.—
Transcript.


