		     BY JULIA SPENCER

	This is one of the greatest of evils. One begins
before they are aware saying something about
their neighbors, or some unfortunate person,
that has strayed from the path of duty, or who
has taken some wrong step that excites the pub-
lic mind. We are all apt to take such a subject
for our topic to talk about at some bee, or social
gathering, and thus give vent to what we think,
meaning no harm, and little thinking how much
harm will be the result. One commences and 
tells what she knows or has heard; it soon
spreads through the crowd. Each has some
story, or a fault to add,so they get the faults and
wrongs picked out of a person's character, and
portray them in such glaring colors, that if a
stranger to the said person happened to be pres-
ent, he would readily come to the conclusion
that that person had never done a good deed in
all his life; for truly, I have never heard of .a
person, he or she, who was past forgiveness.
When faults, mistakes, wrongs, and evil deeds
are all put in one heap, some truth and some
fiction, and then spread before our eyes in the
blackest dyes, no good can we discern.
	Now, my dear sisters, stop! How wonld we
like our faults arrayed in such a manner? for
none can deny having them, for none of us are
perfect. Supposing we take the good deeds of
the person for our topic and portray them in just
as bright colors as we have the faults, and when
we have finished, O, what a contrast! The
good outshines the evil, so that it lessens the
magnitude of faults until it looks like a speck in
the ocean, The view of this person’s character
is greatly changed. If we would take this course,
we would see more beauty in human nature
and make a better record for ourselve; and we
would be a more happy and peaceable commu-
nity.


[Column 1]
WARNER'S
SAFE
BITTERS
	It is the best Blood Purifier, and stimulates
every function to more healthful action, and is
thus a benefit in all diseases.
	In eliminating the impurities of the blood, the
natural and necessary result is the cure of Scrof-
ulous and other Skin Eruptions and Diseases,
including Cancers, Ulcers and other Sores.
	Dyspepsia, Weakness of the Stomach, Consti-
pation, Dizziness, General Debility, etc., are
cured by the Safe Bitters. It is unequaled
as an appetizer and regular tonic.
	It is a medicine which should be in every fam-
ily, and which, wherever used, will save the
payment of many doctors' bills.
	Bottles of two sizes; prices, 50 cents and $1.00.
SAFE
KIDNEY & LIVER
CURE
SAFE
DIABETES CURE
SAFT TONIC
NERVINE
PILLS
READ! Save Thyself
☞ Warner's Safe Reme-
dies are sold
by Druggists
and Dealers
in Medicine
everywhere.
H. H. WARNER & CO.,
Proprietors,
Roghester, N. Y.
☞ Send for Pamphlet
and Testimonials.

