A STORM IN THE MEDITERRANEAN.

[In the very region of St. Paul's shipwreck.]

	The following is an extract from a letter re-
ceived by Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson, of this city,
from her sister, a missionary in Palestine,
in charge of the Episcopalian Orphanage at
Nazareth—

	Sunday, Sept. 21, 1879.—Mrs. G. and I had
been early to bed the previous evening, with a
view to being also early to rise, as the sailors had
told us we might expect to pass Messina about 6

[Column 2]
o'clock the next morning, and had planned such
nice readings and talks; the glorious weather we
had all the way from Marseilles having led us to
forget two important factors in our reckoning;
now if we make any plan we are careful to say
wind and weather permitting. The view when
we went on to the upper deck was magnificent.
The rocky coasts of Italy and Sicily on either
hand. I read the Litany, Psalms, etc., for the
day to Mrs. G., but there was a heavy ground
swell on, and we thought we had better find a
more comfortable seat than the one we had been
occupying. Mrs. G. went down to the cabin for
something she required, but did not return, and
by the time I had begun to wonder at her long
absence, I found it more prudent to remain
quiet myself. I had not been ill all the
way and did not wish to run any risk.
The wind increased continually and the
heavy clouds ahead of us soon burst in
sharp showers; while thunder was heard in the
distance. The storm raged fiercer; suddenly we
seemed to be enveloped in hissing, crackling
flames and roaring sound. Every one sprang
up and looked first at each other and then
round at the vessel. There seemed to be great
commotion among the sailors, a number of them
rushed to one particular spot and one whispered
to me under his breath, "la pondre." The en-
gines now stopped while the vessel was being
examined and as no injury was found anywhere
it was concluded that the electric current had
been diverted into the sea, though even the
Captian said he could not be sure it had not
passed by the conductor attached to the mast.
Before this announcement was made I went
down to the saloon to look for Mrs. G. whom I
found in her favorite corner not much alarmed,
having only heard a tremendous clap of thun-
der. I stayed with her a little while and then
went back to the upper deck. There the French
Dr. attached to the ship came and congratulated
me on my courage, which gave me an opportu-
nity of commencing a conversation with him that
lasted nearly two hours. He confessed
to being totally ignorant in matters
of religion, but promised to read anything that
I gave him. I soon found that he was a red-hot
Democrat. I wished I had had a French Bible,
but fortunately I found the Gospel of St.
Matthew and a little tract in French. I said to
the Doctor, I hoped the storm was over. "No,
madame," he replied, "it has not yet commenc-
ed." At this time the sun shining brilliantly,
the sea was a more exquisite blue than it had
been even at Naples; any ultramarine ever put
on canvass would be only a mockery of it. Soon
there followed a lurid calm, sweltering, suffocat-
ing heat, and how I longed for one breath of the
winds of God. They came indeed before long in
fitful gusts at first, but later on, in terrible fury.
The roof of the saloon forms the upper deck
which is covered in fair weather by an awning.
When the sailors came to take this in we knew
what to expect, and the steward advised us to
descend if we did not wish to be drenched. In
the saloon we found Mrs. Zunacool, a Greek
lady, and her little girl in a state of extreme
terror on account of the light which was flash-
ing incessantly all around us on the horizon. As
the Captain passed the door, madame begged
him to come in and reassure the child. He said
the weather would not be worse than it was
then, but I think I should have known from his
manner that this was false even if experience
had not taught me that sailors, like doctors,
think it their duty to suppress unpleasant truths.
As the darknes gathered the lightning became
more vivid. For some time the wind had been
shifting to all points of the compass, driving up
the clouds all around us, when we were thor-
oughly enveloped it settled behind us, and for
six hours pursued our now little shivering
vessel like a lurid, stinging flame. When I
speak of incessant lightning I mean incessant,
for it was only about every three or five minutes
that there was sufficient interval between the
flashes to show the blackness of darkness that
reigned in their absence. Sometimes the light
was mauve, sometimes greenish, producing most
magnificent effects on the white foaming waves.
Suddenly it seemed as if we were surrounded by
by batteries of artillery all concentrating their
fire upon us, and the bullets rattling and crash-
ing all around us but especially on the roof of the
saloon. It was no use asking what was the
matter, for no voice could be heard. I went to
the door and met a gentleman entering with a
hailstone in his hand, a solid cube of ice, at
least 1½ inches every way. Later on the second
officer brought in some the size of an ordinary
egg. Till now I had not seen one [--] the flashes of
lightning and it was a sight neve[-] to be forgot-


[Column 1]
ten. I can compare them to nothing but quiv-
ering cataracts of molten fire poured from the
clouds into the sea. As there was nothing to
cause reverberation the thunder was not extra-
ordinary, but we knew that every single clap
meant one of the fiery cataracts descending on
one or the other side of us. There was one gen-
tleman in a state of the most abject terror, and
when complimented by some of the other pas-
sengers on my courage I was glad to be able to
bear testimony to the power that was keep-
ing me not only safe but calm; we remained
up stairs until the saloon was closed for the
night, about 11 o'clock, but though the storm
had somewhat abated, there was no chance of
sleeping, for the fog signals were shrieking and
roaring every few minutes. Imagine if you can
with what feeling we read the psalm for the
day (107th.) "They that go down to the sea in
ships," etc. "These see the works of the Lord
and his wonders in the deep."
	How often I had pictured to myself our arrival
in the "Morning Land," and how sure I felt all
the time, that the reality would be something
quite different from any of my pictures, and so
it was.
	The Austrian Lloyd's steamer Oreste, in which
we embarked at Port Said, contrasted most em-
phatically with La Leyne of the Messageries, at
sea or at anchor, she was equally unpleasant, and
poor Mrs. Gilbert was ill from the first and all
the time. I, though not actually ill, never felt
sufficiently at ease for sketching, hardly for
reading. At Jaffa, where we touched early on
Monday 6th, a whole colony of Germans came
on board, and made a genuine picnic on the
deck, conspicuous among them a bridal pair
whom we afterwards found to be Dr. Schmidt
(British Consut at Halifax) and his bride, re-
turning from the wedding. Both then and
since Dr. Schmidt has been extremely kind and
useful, especially in getting my packing cases
through the custom house. I wish I could give
you any idea of the scene at the moment
when the invading army of Arabs
that swarm around a vessel arriving in
port are permitted to swoop upon the prey, the
unlucky passengers. They come round about you
like bees, not being allowed in the saloon or the
cabins, they stand at the door craning their long
brown necks inside, and jabber and yell and
stretch out their long lean arms and clutch at
you with their skinny fingers. How thankful
we were on arriving at Haifa about sunset to
learn from Yusuf Souidan, the agent, who came
on board, that Mr. Bellamy and Mr. Huber were
waiting for us on the shore, and to be put in
charge of Mr. Duck, a German gentleman, so
that we were not left at the mercy of those
frantic Arabs.
	It is their pleasing practice when they have you
safe in the small boat and half way between the
steamer and the land to cease from rowing and
refuse to proceed till you give or promise an ex-
orbitant "backsheesh." Poor Mrs. Gilbert, who
had left the steamer in a partially limp and bat-
tered condition, was now almost fainting and
would heve been an easy prey, but Mr. Duck of
course would not stand any nonsense. He was
telling me that we could only reach the land by
being carried on the back of an Arab, when we
found ourselves aground in the surf, and again
surrounded by swarms of yelling Arabs. I
was trying to explain the situation to
Mrs. G. when we saw Mr. Duck go over the side
and had only time to remark that his figure as
he disappeared in the darkness was not digni-
fied, when we also were seized by long brown
arms, and invited to "Get on my back Missus."
So over we went, and I had not thought much
about anything but keeping my toes out of the
water, when I was deposited on terra firma,
and a cheery voice enquired out of the darkness,
"Is that Mrs. Gilbert or Miss Brook?" Having
proclaimed my identity, I was most warmly
welcomed by Mr. Bellamy and then by Mr.
Huber, and then we turned to look, or rather
feel for Mrs. Gilbert, and soon we were jolting
off to the hotel of the German Colony in a wagon
of primitive construction. How thankful we
were to sink down, at last, in a fresh, clean bed,
and how little we cared that the floor of our
room was of pebbles and flints, and the appoint-
ments of the plainest and roughest. Everything
that night was German, and not till the morn-
ing did we realize the "Morning Land," when
we looked out on Carmel, with its monastery,
and the sweep of the Bay of Aere, with its white
houses and fringe of palm trees on the blue Me-
diterranean, with its white winged vessels gleam-
ing in the radiant sunshine, and over all the
dazzling Syrian blue. Mrs. G. made a sketch of

[Column 2]
it all, after breakfast while I was finish-
ing my letters for the mail. We intended
to start at 10 a.m. but did not get fairly off till
an hour later, a delay which we had reason to
regret at the end of the journey. The one ve-
hicle of Haifa, which has any features of a car-
riage, had been secured for us and the wagon
for our luggage. Our mounted escort consisted
of Mr. Huber, Mr. Bellany and the Houri
Jerins, the native C. M. S. clergyman from
Mujadel who had ridden in some fifteen miles to
greet us. The one decent road in the country is
that made by the German's of the colony from
Haifa to Nazareth but one does not duly esti-
mate its superiority till after trying a few of
the other roads. To us it seemed more like a
track through an illimitable stone quarry than a
road. Quitting the shores of the Great Sea we
found the region increasingly wild, stony and
barren. The Kishon at this time of the year is
merely a trickling stream and after crossing it
we went on for miles over the sandy, stony,
burning plain, passing here and there a few
goats or oxen grazing on the bare sand as it
seemed, for we could not perceive a blade of
grass anywhere. Not a cloud in all the
expanse of blue, and the sun shining
in his strength. With what force the
words of the prophet came to our minds, "The
shadows of a great rock in a weary land" as we
looked at the deep blue shadow away on the
sides of the Carmel range. We did not feel the
heat as much as we should have done but for
our experience in Cairo and the Desert.
	After about two hours on the plain we reached
the oak forest, which was very disappointing.
The Arabs from far and near have all these cen-
turies been cutting at it for firewood, and as the
idea of planting young trees to take the place of
the old ones has never entered their heads, it is
not surprising that it did not come up to our idea
of a forest. Under the half way oak, one of the
largest of the trees, we dismounted, the horses
were unharnessed and taken into the shade with
their nose bags, and Mr. Huber refreshed us
with bread and cheese, grapes and impromptu
lemonade. Here it was that a young English
gentleman named Gale, who had rashly set out
to walk to Haifa by himself, was murdered
about two years ago, and his remains only found
when search was made on his being missed, a
fortnight later. "Here is my friend" he said,
when taking leave of Miss Tanner; show-
ing a splendid revolver, and for the sake
of this "friend," it is believed that
he was killed, stunned first by a blow from
behind while he was resting under the tree.
	When we were again en route, the Houri rode
forward to prepare his wife for our approach, and
she, having first ordered her house for visitors,
mounted her husband's horse and came out
about half a mile to meet and welcome us.
Leaving the horse with an attendant, she
mounted to the seat between us on the carriage
and kissed us on both cheeks. It was a some-
what embarassing interview, as after the first
exchange of courtesies, our intercourse was
limited to smiles and nods, and I was glad when
we alighted at Mujadel. The place and our recep-
tion there I must describe in full

