ORIGIN OF THE Y. L. M. I. ASSOCIATION.

	In the year 1869, President Brigham Young,
contemplating the increasing influence the
worldly element in our midst was gaining over
the hearts of our youth, by its importatious, ex-
travagances, and customs, in contrast with the
simplicity in which our youth had been reared;
sought by the organization of a Society, a reform
in dress and table expenditures. It was in-
tended also to present such instructions as would
benefit the body, cultivate the mind and
inculcate a knowledge and love of the Gospel in
the hearts of those who should associate them-
selves therewith.
	Under the instructions of Pres. Young, Sister
E. R. Snow organized a Society composed of
members of his own family, which organization
was called the "Young Ladies Department of
the Ladies Cooperative Retrenchment Associa-
tion;" the Resolutions of which were written by
Sister E. R. Snow. Immediately following this
Organization, in accordance with the wish of
Pres. Young, Sisters E. R. Snow, M. T. Smoot,
and M. I. Horne, organized Retrenchment As-
sociations in other Wards.
	The movement was regarded by many as an
innovation, and the first members felt a degree
of isolation and restriction in accepting its first
adopted code of Resolutions; and in inviting
their young companions to unite with them felt
a delicacy in doing so, as though proposing some-
thing requiring considerable sacrifice of feeling,
and unusual force of character to sustain, and
met with gunine gratitude those who became of
their number. It was a high tribute to woman,
that of her was asked the founding of an insittu-
tion whose corner stone was self denial; for love
of adornment, and display in dress, are by many
considered to be stricly feminine attributes.
Not many were the volunteers, and a few lost
heart and left the ranks, under the raillery of
companions, little dreaming the importance the
organizations would yet attain to, of the honor
that membership would confer, and the high,
honor of being an acknowledged auxiliary
to the servants of God, in the establishing of his
kingdom upon the earth. We do not forget the
gratitude expressed by mothers, with fervent hope
their sons might yet have such organizations for
their welfare.
	In 1877, in accordance with the authorized and
accepted course of exercises, the organizations,
unannimously, by vote, adopted the title of Y. L.
M. I. A.
	Recognizing the necessity of a presidency over
the then numerous associations: in September
1878, Mrs Mary A. Freeze, of the 11th Ward,
S. L. City was by unanimous vote of the Con-
ference of the Sisters of Salt Lake Stake of Zion,
appointed President of the Y. L. M. I. A.
of Salt Lake County. Subsequently (1879)
Mrs. Louie Felt and Mrs Clara, Y. Conrad,
were appointed Counselors, and Mrs. A. J. Croch-
eron, Sec'y to Pres. Freeze.
	The Y. L. M. I. A.,number upwards of eleven
thousand members, at this time, the end of the
first decade. Who can measure the possibilities
of the next ten years, for the daughters of Zion?
