AN OPEN LETTER.

Dear Editor:
	I wonder if you can find a few moments to
read some of the thoughts floating through my
brain at this time? I seem to want to think
palpably to one who is my compeer! It is a
most lovely evening in leafy June; I am be-
holding one of our most glorious Utah sunsets,
than which nothing can be more gorgeous and
sublime! The turmoil of the day is passed, I
have walked into my withdrawing room and
shut the door, and left earth-life outside, hence
I want you with me; as in measuring character
I have concluded that when you were undergo-
ing the process of organization, a goodly spice of
poetry and romance were thrown into the com-
pound, and hence I feel that we are compeers.
If you veto the consanguinity, all right, it will
not alter facts; but bear in mind, according to
my definition of words and ideas, there is noth-
ing derogatory to you! But let me proceed. I
have organized this retreat according to my own
taste. There I meet those influences congenial
to me. We walk in the Elysian fields, where
beautiful flowers are ever springing. We inhale
their perfume, and we partake of the ambro-
sial food that nourishes the ethe-
real and the immortal; we sip from
the founts overflowing with the nectar which
exhilarates our spirits, and quickens every
sense, especially those of love and adoration to
the Great Giver and Author of all! Were you
here, I should propound the question whether
those who have discovered that which will
make, in a great measure, their happiness on
earth, have not attained to a knowledge of them-
selves, which will enable them to make much
of their present life a heaven on the earth?
Knowledge certainly is a power in such a case;
and it is not in greatness and grandeur of means
or position that true happiness is to be found.
No, verily, it is in "the cool, sequestered vale of
life" that her presence and her influence hovers
and is felt much more forcibly than among
wealth and its appliances. When any attain
this knowledge of themselves it will give them
repose of character—a happiness and independ-
ence the world can never give nor has power to
take away. Or course there is room for discus-
sion, but look abroad. Have you not seen crowds
who could not tell what would make them hap-


py? They imagine this or  that,  but when pos-
sessed,

"The beauteous toy so fiercely sought,
Loses its charm by being caught."

	I hear you say enough, and it is now twilight.
		Your friend,
									REX.


