[Vol1 | June 1914 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Home Ethics]

HOME ETHICS Lesson VI.
Economy in the Home.
Economy in the home is very necessary for the promotion and security of a substantial foundation for the family.
Want comes to many people who do not practice economy in early life.
Our greatest financiers have often been boys of poor parentage who had many hardships to meet early in the beginning of their careers, but through strict economy and the careful use of time and means, they managed to save something each month.
We need not go out of our own state to verify this declaration.
In our best-kept homes and the happiest surroundings, this custom of economy will always be found in evidence everywhere.
We do not mean closeness, nor penuriousness, but the care and proper regard for our own and other people's things, and their right use, and the correct place in Avhich to keep them.
In the home every daughter should be taught the use of money, and the ability to audit the expenses of the home, keep a strict account of her expenditures throughout the year, know what her income is, and where she has spent it.
No young woman has a right to marry a good young man if she can be only an ornament.
The time is past when this, if it ever were the case, brings happiness.
In this enlightened age,, as much is expected from a woman as from a man.
His sphere in life is different, but none the less important.
Every small child should have its savings bank, then if later he or she can take out insurance, well and good.
In a well-ordered home, the mother and each daughter should have some line of work to superintend; the making of clothing, mending and darning, marketing, cooking, and dusting, etc.
What an economy of time it is if every one has a system, and sees that it is correctly carried out in each department! 8 .
We do not believe in the so-called economy where inferior articles are used in the building of a home, making of a home, or in the living, but in choosing the best materials always and in using care to protect and guard them from injury.
It is strictly economical to always use only the best of everything.
Domestic economy is as important as a bank account, because, it is what will produce the funds to be banked.
It is often the small leaks, and what may be thought unimportant losses, that sometimes are the serious drains in our homes.
A competent housekeeper will always watch these points, and correct them as soon as discovered.
We should not only have the daughters take an interest in the careful expense of the family living, but the help in the house should be instructed as well.
Respect shown towards those employed in the home begets respect from them to us.
If we are kind and considerate of their best interests, they will usually take an interest in us and in our homes.
If we practice economy of the best kind, in all that we do, we readily find the members of the household practicing the same rules.
The economy, the comfort, and the pleasantness of all the surroundings in our homes are largely dependent upon the mother's attitude.
Fathers and sons build the houses, but mothers and daughters certainly provide the interior arrangement, as we find them to a greater or less degree, and their influence has a great deal to do with the success or failure of the family.
The lives of many girls are ruined by the indulgence of parents.
Mothers, there is no economy in rearing girls who are helpless, who have had no responsibility in the parental home.
Review. (a) Economy in the home is necessary for the promotion and security of a substantial foundation. (b) Many of our greatest financiers have been boys of of poor parentage.
We need not go out of our own state to verify this. <c) In our best kept and most prosperous homes, economy is in evidence everywhere.
Girls should be taught the use of money, and to (d) audit and keep their accounts. (e) Our daughters should share in the responsibility of the homes. (f) Girls have no right to marry good young men unless responsibilities ot they are willing to help bear the home-making.
. 9 (g) We believe in the savings bank; and in the economy that always uses only the best materials in building homes, in furnishing them, and in the living of the family. (h) Mothers, wives, and daughters make the atmosphere of the interior of the home. (i) There is no economy in rearing a helpless family of daughters and sons.
June