EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Having finished my washing, got supper
over, and the children to bed, I sit down to
write to you. I notice that you seem to
avoid personalities in your publication as
much as possible. But what I have to say
is chiefly concerning myself and my private
affairs, and yet is illustrative of a principle.
Once, I considered it scandalous and out-
rageous for our family concerns to be bandied
about and ridiculed or groaned over by all
the blockheads in the Christian communi-
ties around us; but now I have become so
[new column]
used to such things that I wish to say some-
thing about it myself. I desire to tell some-
thing of what celestial marriage has done
for me, and I hope you will publish it.
	When a girl, at home with my parents
and brothers and sisters, I had a most
wretched disposition. Not that I willfully
did wrong, nor yet that I was so simple as
not to know better than to talk and do as I
often did; but somehow I seemed to be im-
pelled to make myself a miserable, ungrate-
ful, disagreeable creature.
	After marriage I kept it up. My hus-
band was always kind and affectionate, but
I would be annoyed and unhappy all the
while. When children were given me, and
the cares and duties of life were multiplied,
I grew more and more fretful and disagree-
able. I have wondered how my generous,
peace-loving husband ever stood my con-
stant irritableness, and endured to live with
me; but I suppose his love for me, ungrate-
ful as I was, and his firm faith and trust in
God, helped him to bear it all. When my
second child was two years old, and six
months before my third one was born, my
husband gently, yet earnestly, laid before
me his desire and determination to take an-
other wife. Notwithstanding the principle
was an old one to me, that my husband
should think of adopting it was new and 
surprising. I knew he believed that I would
oppose him; yet I also felt from the first
that his course was right, and that in justice
I could not raise a single objection. I de-
termined to astonish him as much as he
had done me. I therefore put my arms
about his neck and kissed him, a thing I
had rarely if ever done before, and whis-
pered, “All right; I am going to be a good
girl; see if I don’t!” This was after a little
reflection. I then asked my husband to
leave me to myself, which he did. I spent
the afternoon in prayer and contemplation,
not with tears and head and heartache, as I
am aware some of my less-reflecting sisters
do, and have done. I knew the woman
who was to become a second wife to my
husband was a true, whole-souled woman;
sweeter-tempered, more affectionate, oblig-
ing and unselfish than myself. Gossip
would soon say either that I wronged and
trampled on the poor girl, or else that she 
had fairly won my husband’s heart from
me. And I was aware that gossip could
speak truly concerning these things, unless
I altered the course I had been pursuing.
I made up my mind that if slander ever
spoke of me as she had done of others, she
should bear false witness. I would do right.
I would live nearer the Lord than I had
ever done, would seek His Spirit more dili-
gently than I had ever known how to do
before; I would try to be so good and just
and self-sacrificing that no one, however
worthy, should supercede me in any of my
lawful claims. I promised this to myself
and to the Lord. I have kept that promise
so far, and the Lord has rewarded me every
day. I have become pleasant and cheerful
in my thoughts and in my ways; a truer
and more consistent helpmate; a more de-
voted and faithful mother; a stronger, purer
and better woman; and happier in life than
I ever was before being brought into the
practice of the law of celestial or plural
marriage. Whoever may allow “polyg-
amy,” as practiced by the real Latter-day
Saints, to make them weak and miserable,
I know that it can and will bless and exalt
those who enter into and live in it wisely,
for this is what it has done for me; thanks
and glory be given to the Founder and 
Creator of the eternal law!
						COUNTRY WOMAN.
Monday Evening, Aug. 20, 1872.


