AMUSEMENTS FOR THE YOUNG.

	The importance of surrounding the young
with cheerful objects is seldom sufficiently
recognized. How often is the nursery the
dullest room in the house! It should be the
most cheerful, and have, both literally and
figuratively, a sunny aspect. All its con-
tents should have a lively air. The walls
should be painted of a bright color, and the
carpets be of a pattern noticeable by the dis-
tinctness of its figures or the warmth of its
tint. Colored pictures of a bright, objective
character large representations of animals—
dogs, horses and farm-yard, and groups of
ruddy boys and girls, elephants—cheerful
scenes of the field and playing and merry-
making, should be so hung on all sides as
to attract the sight and animate the spirits
of the little inhabitants of the nursery.
Their eyes and ears should be, as far as
possible, kept closed to all scenes and rela-
tions of horror and cruelty. The excite-
ment of the natural terror of the child at
darkness and solitude must be carefully
avoided, and no threats of summoning
ghosts, bogies, old witches or other mon-
sters, so fearful to the childish imagination,
should ever be permitted.
	With increasing age youth finds in the
companionship of its fellows the society
which is essential to its happiness and ac-
quires that knowledge of the traditionary
games of boyhood and girlhood which is an
endless source of gaiety and pleasure. The
top, ball, marbles, tag, leap-frog, hare and
hounds, prisoner’s base, and many other
amusements of the young, with their varied
inducements to active exercise of the body
and enlivening influences upon the animal
spirits, have a value to the child proved by
the experience of all time and all countries.
We regret, however, to learn that as they
involve a certain roughening and dirtying
of the hands, reddening of the face, and
disheveling of the hair, and unquestionable
wear and tear of the clothes, many parents
discountenance them. They are denounced
by the over-refined as the games of the rude
children of a rude age, and as not genteel
enough for the nicer offspring of modern
civilization! They undoubtedly afford the
young just that combination of mental ex-
citement and physical action in which they
delight, and from which both mind and
body receive so much benefit. We there-
fore decide, without much hesitation, in
the case of fine clothes vs. healthy and
happy children, leaving the fine clothes, as
the lawyers say, we believe, “to be cost for
damages.”
	Parents should not only encourage their
children to play these famous old games out
of doors, but make abundant provision for
the children’s amusement at home.—“Har-
per’s Bazar.”


