FROM ST GEORGE.
			—
	ST. GEORGE, July 25th, 1872.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I, for one appreciate and admire the EX-
PONENT, and with pleasure note your energy,
progress and success, in this enterprise—
the voice of the “downtrodden;”' I being
one of them, speak whereof I know.
	St. George though not a great, populous,
nor yet an extensively commercial city, is
one of the handsomest and most quiet and
pleasant of all the cities of Utah. Our build-
ings, enclosures and other improvements,
generally and specially, show taste in de-
sign, and skill in workmanship, and may we
not generally reckon the intellectual status
of a place by its taste and industry? I think
so, and so I like St. George. Yesterday was
celebrated here by all citizens and many
visitors with much energy and zeal, our
sex having taken a prominent part. I send
you a copy of the programme which was
fully carried out, and I herewith enclose
copy of address, read by Miss Woodbury on
the occasion, composed by Miss Cottam and
Miss Woodbury. Its reading, elicited rounds
of applause, and congratulations for the au-
thors. The coronation ceremonies were
quite formal and imposing and one of the
finest features of the celebration.
				—
			ADDRESS
ON BEHAlF OF THE TWENTY-FOUR YOUNG LADIES.
				—
	“Having descended from a glorious ances-
try whose historic annals embrace the re-
gal power of David and his successors, the
princely Integrity of Joseph, and the beauti-
ful and devout Queen Esther who plead for
exiled Israel; as heirs of the same royal line
we have been brought to this goodly land.
	We have chosen and crowned our Queen,
and gladly celebrate the day that, through
our fathers, we enjoy the freedom of these
mountains and valleys. As daughters of
Zion we wish to demonstrate the apprecia-
tion of our rights and privileges. Removed
from the contaminating vices of the world,
in the peaceful vales of Deseret, surrounded
by our fathers, mothers, brothers, sisters,
and those who are near and dear to us, we
can live in the peaceful enjoyment of the
blessings which have been so bountifully
bestowed upon us. We are looked upon by
the women of the world, as not enjoying
the rights and privileges that they enjoy,
and as being degraded and downtrodden.
[2nd column]
What they consider a curse we consider a
blessing; and what they consider as de-
grading, we count as elevating. They pre-
fer to live in luxury and elegance, scarce
considering the degrading means adopted
to bring these; while we prefer becoming
honorable wives and mothers in Israel. Can
we be considered as degraded while enjoy-
ing the respect and esteem of honorable
men and women, and the confidence and
love of all we hold most dear? Let
disinterested persons answer and judge,
whether it is the women of Utah or those of
the world that need pity and condolence.
What greater blessings can woman wish for,
than we enjoy? True, we do not possess the
useless fineries and elegancies of the fashion-
able world; yet we have that which is of far
greater value to us—the enjoyment of our
religion, and the society and confidence of
the truly good—the saints of God; which is
more to us than all the pleasures that wealth
can afford. We live in innocence and sim-
plicity, and with industry and frugality, en-
joy with a clear conscience the comforts re-
sulting from industry, by the kindness of
our great Father.
	The world may have its own ideas of com-
fort; we have ours, and wish to enjoy them
unmolested. As for their sympathy, it has
oftener been shown in murdering our
Prophets and best men, and driving us and
dispoiling us of our property, than other-
wise.
	All we now ask, in the name of our
Queen, is liberty of thought, liberty of ac-
tion and the privilege of serving God accord-
ing to the dictates of our own consciences,
and our holy religion, which by the help of
the great King of Israel, we are determined
to sustain.”
	Weather is very warm and dry, mercury
going up to over 100° daily and sometimes
105°. We have very fine ripe peaches,
plums, pears and apples; and grapes of earli-
est kinds begin to ripen. All these are de-
licious at the cool evening hour, when fra-
grance from the rose and lily and a thousand
other flowers is wafted by the breeze that
gently stirs the foliage overhead, of our
“vine and fig tree,” the almond, prune,
acacia and the elm; after the fierce solar
heat has departed. Although some of the
“downtrodden women of Utah” might wish
to escape for a day with their “masters” to
the shady mountain glen, hear the sighing
of the pines, and take draughts from the pure
nectar springs, we know of none who wish
to make a wider escape from their “tyrant
husbands,” nor to leave far behind the fine
fruits, beautiful flowers and delicious even-
ings of our “Dixie;” and I may be pardoned
for here observing that although the “pecu-
liar institution” of our people is here widely
practiced (as any one might surmise by the
great number of childres of all ages exhibited
in the procession yesterday), we never
knew a more quiet, orderly cormmunity, or
one where less domestic troubles were ex-
perienced.						FLORA.
	The programme of the days proceedings
sent us, is highly interesting but too
lengthy for publication in our columns.—ED.


“I HEV allurs observed that a whining
dog is sure to get lickt in a fight. No cur
of well reggerlated morals kan resist the
temptation to bite a cowardly purp that tries
to sneak off with his tale between his legs.
The whinin’ business man is just so. A
good ringing bark is wuth more to put green-
bax in a man’s pocket than forty-two years
of whinin’ ”.—“Josh Billings.”


﻿SENSE shines, with a double lustre, when
it is set in humanity.


