SOMETHING NEW.—HOW IS IT?

	A writer to the “Woman’s Journal”, and
a believer in the superiority of woman over
man says:
	“It would seem that this wonderful body
of our sex, more delicate, more beautiful,
more highly organized, more sensitive, yet
with more vitality, and endowed with the
wonderful power, the divine power of giv-
ing life to other human beings, should be
treated with profound reverence at all
times.”
	When I read this sentence the question
voluntarily arose in my mind, “How has
woman been endowed with that wenderful,
that divine power!” True, it is not em-
phatically stated that she possesses this pow-
er independently; but if the expression is
not intended to converge to such a doctrine,
it does not explain itself. If such a theory
can be sustained, what a strange, new and
delightful period is dawning for woman!
She has, indeed, gained a superior and su-
perhuman basis, and need not trouble her-
self any further about good husbands, bad
husbands, or husbands of any kind. If the
time has come when she can obtain her
chief glory—“giving life to other human
beings”—independent of her inferior (!) as-
sociate—man—the world’s troubles must be
approaching a glorious “finis,” and every
one should be apprised of it. But how is
it?   Women out our way don’t understand
it.   We have not got so far along.  Would
“Shawanebeke,” who prays daily, “Thy
kingdom come,” and means “Woman Suf-
frage,” please explain? And as a compen-
-sation, I would politely and in sincerity
offer a few suggestions for her consideration, in
connection with the following true and very
sound sentiments from her own pen:
	“My daughter of fifteen asked me-to-day
why the good and sensible girls had so few
beaux, while the silly, over-dressed ones
could marry whom they pleased?  ‘Because
there are so few sensible men, my child,’
I answered. ‘Almost every superior woman
feels that in marrying she must accept her
inferior, ‘as men go’ now. Were it custom-
ary for her to select whom she would favor
with her love, she would choose more wisely;
and brainless men would not be so eligible
to matrimony as are now brainless girls.
When women assume this duty and privi-
lege, and when men are educated up to it,
there will be more and happier marriages.’
No one found it unfeminine in Victoria to
choose her own husband.”
	While it is an undeniable fact, that in
nearly every society in the known world,
“almost every superior woman feels that in
marrying she must accept her inferior 'as
men go’ now,” it is also a pleasing truth
that the great and good Creator hath pre-
pared a plan by which His intelligent and
pure and humble daughters may be more
fairly and equally provided for. A law by
which every true and noble woman may
claim the right of a virtuous and godly pro-
tector and companion for herself, and father
[new column]
for her children; making her own choice,
abiding by her own decision. That this or-
der should be misunderstood, ridiculed and
despised by the brainless and bigotted “fast
men” of the day, is not to be wondered at,
as it is calculated to deprive them of the
selfish and hateful abominations they de-
light to revel in. But that woman, with
her more chaste and elevated conceptions
of honor, sanctity and intelligence, should
proclaim against it is more surprising;
although I believe this to be merely the re-
sult of a lack of comprehension. And no
wonder women are blinded to their own in-
terests in this respect; they have been so
completely hoodwinked by the falsehoods
of corrupt and senseless braggarts.
