HEREDITARY INFLUENCES.—It is dis-
tinctly asserted by professor Lucas, and
agreed to by others, that predisposition to
any form of disease or any malformation
may become an inheritance. Thus disease
of the heart is hereditary; so are tubercles
in the lungs; so also are diseases of the
brain, of the liver, and of the kidney; so
are diseases of the eye and of the ear. Gen-
eral maladies are equally inheritable, as
gout and madness. Longevity on the one
hand and premature deaths on the other
go by descent. If we consider a class of
peculiarities more recondite in their origin
than these, we shall still find the law of in-
heritance to hold good. A morbid suscepti-
bility to contagious disease, or to the poison-
ous effects of opium or of calomel, and an
aversion to the taste of meat, are all found
to be inherited. So is craving for strong
drink or gambling, strong sexual passion, a
proclivity to pauperism, to crimes of vio-
lence, and to crimes of fraud. There are
certain marked types of character justly as-
sociated with marked types of feature and
of temperament. We hold, axiomatically,
that the latter are inherited (the case being
too notorious, and too consistent with the
analogy afforded by brute animals, to render
argument necessary), and we therefore infer
the same of the former. For instance, the
face of the combatant is square, coarse, and
heavily jawed. It differs from that of the
ascetic, the voluptuary, the dreamer and
the charlatan. Still more strongly marked
than these, are the typical features and
characters of different races of men. The
Mongolians, Jews, negroes, Gipsies, and
American Indians, severally propagate their
kinds; and each kind differs in character
and intellect, as well as in color or shape,
from the other four. They, and a vast
number of other races, form a class of in-
stances worthy of close investigation, in
which peculiarities of character are invari-
ably transmitted from the parents to the off-
spring.—“Francis Galten.”


﻿A GENTLEMAN in the cars the other day,
so far forgot himself as to place his foot,
boot and all, rather hastily upon the
shoulder of a lady who sat front of him;
and when apologizing for the overt and
somewhat ludicrous action, said he thought
he must have been partially asleep, could
hardly believe he would have done such a
thing had he been fairly awake. Gentle-
men would do well to guard against snooz-
ing in the cars, when there are ladies near,
who, unquestionably would prefer being en-
tertained colloquially, to being somnolently
kicked at. Of course the infractor was one
of our “Mormon tyrants.” But let us have
the best coloring on the outside—it was his
neighbor’s wife and not his own that he
booted.


﻿A SOMEWHAT notable tribute has just been
paid to an American artist by the lord
mayor of London. His honor having vis-
ited Munich lately, there entered the studio
of David Neal. He found him just finish-
ing a picture of Watt as a boy, studying the
power of steam. The boy is seated in the
chimney corner, watching the tea-kettle.
His mother has opened the door, and scolds
him pleasantly, as her face indicates, for ab-
senting himself from the family eating
meal, which is seen going on in another
room through the half-opened door. The
mayor invited Neal to name his own price
for the picture, and it will henceforth grace
the Mansion House in London.


A VETERAN lady, whose sons are all
grown to be big boys, either reverentially
or ironically calls her new dog “Grant.”


