FACTS AND FIGURES.
			____
	THE French Assembly adjourned on the
4th.
	Gris, the “Fat Contributor,” has started
a weekly paper in Cincinnati.
	There are seventeen newspapers in Jap-
an, the youngest one having been started
in April.
	A skull twenty-six inches in circumfer-
ence above the ears has been dug up at Du-
buque, Iowa.
	The Irish band has split, some sailing for
home with the leader, and the others re-
maining in this country.
	General Berdan, of sharpshooting fame,
is trying to induce the Czar of Russia to buy
more of his guns.
	In Australia spring begins August 20th;
summer, November 20th; autumn, February,
20, and winter, May 20th.
	The magnificent railway station at Metz
was burned, making the fourth large fire in
that city within twelve months.
	Governor Brown still sticks to the opin-
ion that Grant will only carry three States,
all the Radical press to the contrary not-
withstanding.
	Rock Island has tested her new Holly
water works and is delighted over the re-
sults. The capacity of the works is 2,000,-
000 gallons in twenty-four hours.
	John T. Wood, Assistant Postmaster of
Indianapolis, Ind., has been discovered to
be a defaulter to the amount of $4,000 or
$5,000. He has been arrested and bailed.
	The veteran financial editor in the Uni-
ted States is Sailer, of the Philadelphia
“Ledger.” He has written the money
articles of that journal for a period of thirty-
two years and over.
	The brother of Miss Vinnie Ream, the
sculptress and pet of Congress, has been
sentenced by the United States Court at Fort
Smith, Arkansas, to serve six months in the
penitentiary at Little Rock and pay a fine of
$1,000 for selling liquor in the Indian
Nation.
	Six of the members of the New York 
Republican Commitiee have resigned and
declared for Greeley and Brown. The last
of the six is Mr. Wallace Tappan, of Syra-
cuse, who is well known to prominent Re-
publicans.
	Major General Mott, formerly of the
United States army, but now Major General
of the Egyptian army, and aid-de-camp to
the Viceroy, is on a visit to this country,
and was presented to Secretary Belknap by
Acting Secretary Richardson.
	In Gold Hill District, eight miles north-
west of Bowlder, Colorado, what is termed
a mica mine has been discovered. The vein
commences near the surface, extends down-
ward and appears to be about three feet in
thickness. Sheets of it are obtained near
half a foot square, thin as tissue and as
transparent as glass.
	Ashtabula County, the old home of Mr.
Giddings, in Ohio, is the strongest Republi-
can County in that State, but its Republican
newspaper of largest circulation supports
Greeley and Brown, and at least 20 per cent.
of the Republicans are already counted as
sure for the ticket.
	The girls of the St. Louis Normal School,
it is stated, all wear calico dresses; and if
they continue the same sensible practice
through life they will make all the better
wives, and mothers setting an excellent ex-
ample before their daughters.


