FLOWERS BY THE WAYSIDE.
			      —
	To acquire a capacity for happiness, first
rectify inward disorder.
	HE who enlists in any worthy enterprise,
should not consider an ultimate failure pos-
sible.
	Algona, Iowa, which was twenty years
ago a naked prairie, is now finishing off its
second court house.
	SOME people talk with their eyes more
eloquently than others, can with their na-
tural organ or speech.
	THE favorite method of disposing of
mysterious disappearances in Cincinnati is
to head them up in a salt barrel.
	NO position however great, no possessions
however desirable, can make us blest unless
we feel ourselves deserving of them.
	PLEASURE is perfect only when it harmo-
nizes with our permanent interests; no de-
light can be enduring which interferes with
duty.
	MORAL and religious instruction derives
its efficacy, not so much from what men are
taught to know, as from what they are made
to feel.
	OF WHAT character is your conversation?
Whatever it may be, be assured it is an un-
erring index to your heart. The tree is
known by its fruit.
	TO BE truly great, or sincerely happy, use-
fulness and beneficence, not ostentation and
vanity, must direct the train of thought and
influence words and actions.
	TEMPERANCE, by fortifying the mind and
body, leads to happiness; intemperance, by
enervating them, endangers the health and
peace of both, and ends in misery.
	A LUNATIC has turned up in Chicago in
the role of Diogenes, hunting for an honest
man with a lantern. The poor fellow might
as well make up his mind to die there.
	WHEN we observe a tendency to treat re-
ligion or morals with disrespect and levity,
we may hold it as a sure indication of a per-
verted understanding or a depraved heart.
	TRUE beauty is a soul refined, true wealth
the riches of the mind; let woman give but
little thought to loveliness of face, nor sigh
for power that in the purse alone hath dwel-
ling-place.
	EVERY degree of guilt incurred by yield-
ing to temptation, tends to debase the mind,
weaken the generous and benevolent prin-
ciples of human nature, and make cowards
of its victims.
	THERE is a reverend gentleman in Min-
nesota who spends his Sundays in prophesy-
ing that the world will not outlast the
present summer, and yet he has sown 100
acres of wheat.
	MANY people imagine themselves pat-
terns or at least as good as the average of
husbands and wives, who daily crucify the
spirit of their companion, making life al-
most loathsome.
	LUXURY, pride and vanity, have frequent-
ly as much influence in corrupting the sen-
timents of the great, as ignorance, bigotry
and prejudice have in misleading the opin-
ions of the multitude.
	IF WE desire to make others happy, we
must haste to give while our gifts can be
enjoyed, and remember that every moment
of delay takes away something from the
value of a benefaction.
	IT IS useless to endeavor to satisfy the
constant demands of the selfish and ungrate-
ful, for the more you give the more un-
grateful do they become, and the harder
will they speak against you.


