TEA DRUNKARDS.
				   —
	Dr. Arlidge, one of the pottery inspectors
in Staffordshire, has put forth a very sen-
sible protest, says the “Lancet,” against a
very pernicious custom which rarely re-
ceives sufficient attention, either from the
medical profession or the public. He says
that the women of the working classes make
tea a principal article of diet instead of an
occasional beverage; they drink it several
times a day, and the result is a lamentable
amount of sickness. This is no doubt the
case, and, as Dr. Arlidge remarks, a portion
of the reforming zeal which keeps up such
a fierce and bitter agitation against intoxi-
cating drinks might advantageously be di-
verted to the repression of this very serious
evil of tea tippling among the poorer
classes. Tea, in anything beyond moderate
quantities, is as distinctly a narcotic poison
as is opium or alcohol. It is capable of ruin-
ing the digestion, of enfeebling and disor-
dering the heart’s action, and of generally
shattering the nerves. And it must be re-
membered that not merely is it a question
of narcotic excess, but the enormous quan-
tity of hot water which tea bibbers neces-
sarily take is exceedingly prejudicial both
to digestion and nutrition.—Ex.


THE authenticity of Stanley’s letters
concerning the finding of Dr. Livingstone,
is now generally conceded. Mr. Stanley is
a young man, not much over thirty, who is
well known in Colorado Territory and in
Omaha. There is a little romance connected
with his history, as it is alleged that he
fixed his affections on a young lady whose
name is not unfamiliar to the people of Salt
Lake, she having appeared on the boards of
the theatre here for a season; and that she
did not reciprocate his warmth of feeling.
It is said that as a result he became some-
what misanthropic and sought literary em-
ployment that weuld take him away from
familiar scenes and faces. He became cor-
respondent for the New York “Herald” in
Abyssinia during the British war against
the Emperor Theodore, and through his
correspondence the British government first
learned of the success of their arms and the
fall of Magdala. He was subsequently se-
lected to lead the “Herald” expedition to
search for Dr. Livingstone, and succeeded
in finding the great explorer at Ujiji in the
interior of Africa.


