BROTHERS.
				—
	Girls, are not your brothers generous and
loving to you? It is, unqestionably, very
much your own fault if they are not.
	If brothers are not what they should be,
the influence of good-natured, sweet-tem-
pered, pure-minded sisters has much power
as an incitement to reflection and reform.
Few men are naturally so very vile that
the gentle, persuasive voice and affection-
ate ways of a true woman, have no weight
with them. Yet, sometimes, brothers are
mean, cross, and altogether worthless; and
it is not in the reach of mothers or sisters to
reclaim them. And even such ones some-
times get wives with tender hearts to break.
	I have frequently heard elderly ladies say
to young ones, “Never marry a man who is
not kind, and thoughtful of the welfare and
comfort of his mother or sister.” This is
excellent advice, to which sensible girls
mostly give head. Yet, even such men
are sometimes won over to a beautiful con-
sistency by a prudent, cheerful wife whose
affectionate words and ways are the only
disapprovals he gets for his cross ones. A
man should be as careful in selecting a
wife, if he would enjoy life under the influ-
ence of hymen’s power, not to get one who
is ungrateful, and regardless of her father or
brother’s happiness.
If a man has been brought up with a
mother and sisters who were unreasonable
and extravagant in their demands for atten-
tion, he will naturally have acquired the


habit of making refusals, and look to be
found fault with for doing so; and anything
else will seem out of place to him. It is as
unfair for sisters and wives to want to be
petted and indulged all the time to keep
them in good humor, as it is for brothers
and husbands to be ungracious and arbitrary
and never deign to gratify the wishes of
those who depend so much upon them.
		“There’s no belief in man,
		Not even in a brother;
		So girls, it you must love.
		Love one another.’'
	These words are said to have been found
in a lady’s scrap-book at a hotel. I don’t
like them—they are too deprecatory of one
of the ablest and most devoted supports we
ever find—a brother.
	What should we do without broth-
ers? Those who will confide in us to the
very last; and even ask our advice in
matters that other people might think us
too frivolous and childish to have ever
thought of.
	There is belief in man; and until some
one is found who will take still greater re-
sponsibilities upon himself for your sake,
young lady, cling closely to your brother
and be thankful for him. And if you know
he is not the sort to make a good, noble
husband for some chaste creature, either coy
or dignified, (for all good men cannot be
suitable companions to all good women,
there is so great a variety of tastes and
sentiments,) help him to become so, for
that is what God designed him to be.
