WHO IS TO BLAME?

	It has become so popular among the fashion-
able women of society, to be weak and sickly,
and under the care of a physician, that a woman
who is blest with good health and has sense
enough to appreciate it, is likely to be consid-
ered coarse, masculine and non-sensitive in her
mental as well as physical organization. If a
girl can enjoy exuberantly a bowl of hominy
and milk, and not be ready to die with dyspep-
sia in an hour afterward; if she can make her
own bed and sweep the room, or indulge in a
genuine, hearty laugh, and not complain of a
fearful pain in the side for the next forty-eight
hours; she is thought to be vulgar and unculti-
vated, and no matter how chaste and finished
her educational developments, she is an unfit
associate for those gentler, more delicate and
refined (!) creatures to whom the sight of “mo-
lasses preserves” serves as an emetic, and who
can faint away at the smell of “soap-suds.”
The reason of this is, that such a young lady
can not possess that prevalent, yet senseless
and inhuman taste, which delights in suffering
the pangs engendered by tight lacing, wearing
high heeled boots; and, in short, the whole
toilet of the fashionable lady of the day, which
makes a sacrifice of health and all real happi-
ness, and cannot fail to inflict premature death.
More than half the fault, for this fashionable
folly, may justly be charged to men, though
women are so severely blamed for it all. For
no true wife, of a kind and faithful husband, is
going to far over-reach the line in any respect,
by which he would see her guided. Were there
more true husbands, there would be more true
wives. For nearly all women can be influenced
and led by just and intelligent men, and are
always ready to unite their efforts with those


of man for the promotion of good. And if hus-
bands and wives would co-operate as they
should do upon those points, not many of their
daughters would run wild after the silly vani-
ties of the world, but would live and work for
nobler and higher aims. But men of the world
do not wish their wives and daughters to be
prudent and temperate, or they would set bet-
ter examples before them than they do. If
women were anything better than the extrava-
gant, sickly, silly, vain things that they are,
men, taking them generally, in their present
degenerate state, would sink to nothingness be-
side them.


