CLOUDS.
			     —
	How much the face of nature, in its vari-
ous aspects, resembles the hearts and lives
of human beings! Sometimes the sky ap-
pears so clear and beautiful one could almost
imagine that never again would storm clouds
gather to mar the loveliness and regularity
of its soft blue features; and the lives of in-
dividuals often seem the same. There is
nothing to distress or to disturb; all is sun-
shine, peace and tranquillity. But, as over
the summer sky, shadows creep, almost im-
perceptible at first, the tiny white clouds
that dot the brilliant azure in varied forms
growing larger and darker, until the rain
drops begin to descend, and thickening and
blackening into terrible tempestuous war-
riors arrayed against the humbler elements;
so also is the serenity of the soul often over-
cast with clouds of sorrow and regret; clouds
that appear too small and trifling at first to
shade the glorious sunlight of mental peace,
or tend to make earth’s garden less a para-
dise to the inexperienced and innocent;
yet, clouds that will sometimes expand and
gather blackness till they shut out all the
light, and then, triumphant, shower down
their wrath upon the poor, unsheltered hu-
man heart. But every cloud must have
spent all its fury and poured out all its sor-
rowing tears in some great hearts, that
seem to have been tried to the core, and to
have overcome temptations, until the adver-
sary has no further power with them to
tempt or to annoy. I have known a few in-
dividuals whom I believed to possess such
hearts, and to me they are the happiest and
most loveable of all earth’s inhabitants. If
a gloom would settle over those around
them, they seem to have the power to
chase it off. They are those who have
learned to acknowledge the hand of God in
all things; who have overcome selfishness.
For this one demon—selfishness—is the
foundation of evil and unhappiness. And
till the heart has overcome this fiend, clouds
of remorse and gloom will never cease to
throw their shadows o’er its otherwise
cheerful and blissful course.
								L.


CHILDREN.—“I like children," he said
to me one day at the table. “I like ’em,
and respect ’em. Pretty much all the honest
truth-telling there is in the world is done
by them. Do you know they play the part
in the household which the king’s jester,
who very often had a mighty long head under
his cap and bells, used to play for a
monarch? There’s no radical club like a
nest of little folks in a nursery. Did you
ever watch a baby's fingers? I have, often
enough, though I never knew what it was
to own one.” The master paused for half a
minute or so, sighed—perhaps at thinking
what he had missed in life—looked up at
me a little vacantly. I saw what was the
matter; he had lost the thread of his talk.
	“Baby’s fingers,” I intercalated.
	“Yes, yes. Did you ever see how they
will poke those wonderful little fingers of
theirs into every fold and crack and crevice
they can get at? That is their first educa-
tion—feeling their way into the solid facts
of the material world. When they begin
to talk, it is the same thing over again in
another shape. If there is a crack or a flaw
in your answer to the shoulder-hitting ques-
tions, they will poke and poke until they have
got it gaping just as the baby’s fingers have
made a rent out of the atom of a hole in
his pinafore that your old eyes never took
notice of. Then they make such fools of
us by copying on a small scale what we do
in a grand manner.”—“Dr. O. W. Holmes."


