FACTS AND FIGURES.
				—
	STOKES is said to have spent $7,500 on his
trial.
	A seventeen-year-old rooster died lately
at Mobile, Ala.
	THE dog census of the United States is
set down at 21,000,000,000.
	THE value of the fruit product of Califor-
nia is estimated at $3,000,000.
	THE Isabel, a species of stone color, is
now the fashionable tint in London.
	A $3,000,000 hotel is to be erected in
London and run on the American plan.
	ENGLAND has 1,000,000 paupers, not one
in twenty of whom ever attended school.
	A FULL glass of water at bed time and
another just after rising, will often relieve
dyspepsia.
	A TEXAN cattle dealer is considered a
poor man if his drove does not number a
thousand head.
	AT THE old Mission of San Diego are 300
olive trees that are from eighty to one hun-
dred years old.
	SOME artesian wells 150 feet deep in Los
Angeles county are discharging live trout
two inches long.
	TWO twin boys in Warren county, Indi-
ana, aged 72 years, are tenderly cared for
by a mother of 96.
	ONE of the results of the civilization of
Japan is to leave 10,000 Buddhist priests
penniless and without employment.
	RECENT careful and scientific observa-
tions are said to show beyond a doubt that
the Colorado desert was once the bed of a
sea.
	THE dying gift of Bennett, of the New
York “Herald,” was $250,000 toward com-
pleting the Catholic cathedral in New York 
city.
	SIX thousand one hundred and seven
persons drank at the Cincinnati ice water
fountain during twenty-four hours last
week.
	THE tules or reed vegetation of the Cali-
fornia swamp land has been found to yield
fifty or sixty per cent, of paper pulp, equal
to that obtained from cotton.
	THE largest emigration to southern Min-
nesota ever known is now settling in the
frontier counties. It far exceeds the im-
mense immigration of 1866.
	DR. R. J. DODD, of the United States
navy, has given $4,000 to the Woman’s
Medical college of Pennsylvania, for the
establishment of the Hannah Matilda Dodd
Scholarship, in memory of his wife.
	CHICORY raising promises to become quite
an item in the valleys of the San Joaquin
and Calaveras rivers, Cal. The yield is said
to be fifteen to twenty tons per acre, and
the price $5 per ton. Chicory is used in
enormous quantities in adulterating coffee.
	THE Mikado of Japan can trace his pedi-
gree back for two thousand years. Queen
Victoria’s genealogy is traced back to the
foundation of the Saxon Heptarchy, A. D.
827, only a little more than one thousand
years, and the kings of France are reckoned
back about four hundred years earlier.
	AN insane man, who left his home in
Michigan about a year ago, has since been
traveling about under the impression that
he was somebody else, but retaining at the
same time a peculiar interest in his real self.
He would write home to his wife occasion-
ally, inquiring after her husband, being es-
pecially anxious to learn whether he had
“got over his crazy spell or not.”


