A RIGHT RECOGNIZED.
				—
Before the women of Utah enjoyed the elec-	
tive franchise those who clamored loudest for 
its being extended to them were parties who
had political "axes to grind," and who were
filled with the bitterest feelings of animosity
against the people of Utah. They foolishly
imagined that if our sex in this Territory had the	
legal right to vote, they could lead us by the arts
which politicians are accustomed to use, to turn	
against men whom we had tested through long
years of trouble and sorrow, and follow their 
lead. Upon no other hypothesis can their urg-
ent demands on Congress to bestow the right of 
suffrage upon us be explained. For when the 
Territorial legislature did enact such a measure,
and it became law by the signature of acting- 
governor Mann and the approval of Congress; 
and when they found that we could think, and
that thinking we intelligently supported the 
candidates of our choice, they were even more
clamorous that Congress should pass a law de-
claring illegal that which they had beforetime
sought to have legalized. They contended that
the exercise of the franchise byus would not stand
the test of the courts, and endeavored to have our
votes declared a nullity. But the decision of the
Supreme Court of the United States in the
Engelbrecht case declared, in plainness, what
power was vested ih a Territorial Legislature.
Then, finding that the highest tribunal of the
country had declared that the acts of the Legis-
lature, when not disapproved by Congress, were
of binding force; and as the elective franchise


was so conferred upon the women of Utah and
was consequently valid, their next move was to
practically recognize that which they had so
violently denied and disputed.  At the general
election, on the 5th inst., the candidate put for-
ward by these same individuals was voted for
by the ladies who would not support the Peo-
ple’s ticket; and thus quietly but pointedly they
acknowledged a right they could no longer gain-
say. But what shall be thought of men who,
knowingly, refuse to recognize every right to
others which they claim to exercise themselves,
and yet talk of their respect for republican gov-
ernment and the glorious principles enunciated
In the Declaration of Independence! Their
political honesty of to-day is on a par with
the “philanthropy” of a few years ago that
urged an extension of the right of suffrage to
the women of Utah; and both are arrant hypoc-
risy!


