HOME AFFAIRS
			    —
	THE ELECTION has come and gone, and the
majority of votes polled for the People's Ticket
shows that the people were alive to the import-
ance of the occasion.
	THE THEATRE in this city has been re-opened
and is now lighted with gas, which works a
wonderful change in enhancing the appearance
of the interior, and rendering the performances
more pleasant and agreeable.
	INDIAN DIFFICULTIES in the Sanpete region
are threatened; and yet the Indians say they
only want a little food and some blankets. Has
Government suddenly grown poor? Or does it
tie the hands of the Indian agent so that he is un-
able to do anything for these "red wards" of the
"great father?"
	AN ABUNDANT harvest has blessed the agri-
culturists of Utah this year, as a general thing;
and though grasshoppers have caused destruc-
tion in some parts of Summit and Morgan
counties, there is much cause for thankfulness
that the scourge has been limited when com-
pared with the past few years.
	MATTERS ARE progressing for the erection of
water works in this city, and the work of sur-
veying for laying the piping has commenced.
The water will be carried from City creek to the
principal parts of the city, in sufficient volume
to meet any demand for extinguishing fires,
and for household uses, being purified and
filtered in its passage from the creek for the
latter purpose. It is an important improve-
ment.
	PREPARATIONS ARE being made for a Terri-
torial Fair, to be held in this city on the 3rd,
4th, and 5th of October next. We hope the
ladies will do as they have done at previous
Fairs; let it be seen how much their handiwork
aids in home development, It will be an excel-
lent opportunity for the Relief Societies to show
speciments of work which willing hands, in-
spired by warm hearts, do in the cause of benev-
olence.
	A FEARFUL crime is reported from Weber 
county. Two little boys seized a young girl
who was out hunting a cow on horseback, drag-
ged her from the horse, violated her person after
she had violently struggled against them, and
then pushed her into a slough where she was
drowned, because she said she said would tell
her mother. The heart sickens while thinking of
the deed, and every feeling of humanity and
justice asks, what punishment should the crim-
inals receive. They are in prison.
	AN IMPRESSION prevails in some places that
subscriptions for the EXPONENT can only com-
mence with the beginning of a volume. This
[2nd column]
﻿is a mistake which we wish to correct. There
are no continued articles in the EXPONENT, and
subscriptions can begin at any time. Those
who subscribe will receive the paper for the
term for which they pay, whether six months
or a year, commencing with the number which
they first receive. The only continued article
yet published was the history of the first organ-
ization of the Female Relief society in Nauvoo,
by Sister Eliza R. Snow, which appeared in
the first and second numbers; and this, as we
we have before stated, it is the intention to re-
publish at an early day, that those who did not
receive the numbers in which it appeared may
be enabled to obtain it. The rapid increase in
circulation of the EXPONENT is most gratify-
ing, and if the friends of the little journal will
continue to assist us as they have done, we
hope by the close of the present volume to make
such improvements in it as will render it in
every way more efficient in accomplishing the
objects for which it was started. While thank-
ing all who have aided in extending its circula-
tion for their efforts in its behalf, we would still
request a continuance of those efforts, until the
EXPONENT is found in every family in Utah.


