PEN AND SCISSORS.

	A SPRING bed—a bed of radishes.

	THERE can certainly be no greater felicity
than to be able to look back on a life use-
fully and virtuously employed, and to trace
our own progress in existence by such
tokens as excite neither shame nor sorrow.
	WHAT is the ultimate scope of our present
pursuits? Are they, as they should be, such
that we can justify them to ourselves, and
likely to produce anything that will survive
the moment and bring forth some fruit for
futurity?
	LITTLE Robbie went to a show, and saw
an elephant for the first time in his life.
When he came home, his mother asked him
what he had seen. Robbie replied, “An
elephant, mama, that gobbled hay with his
front tail.”
	IT was a happy thought for Dr. Doremus
to say that if he were challenged to fight a
duel, he would suggest to his opponent that
both should take poison, and then sit down
and play poker for the exclusive use of the
stomach pump.
	A COUNSEL mimicking a witness, who as
a north countryman pronounced the word
“water” as if it had been “watter,” in-
quired of him whether in his part of the
country they spell “water with two t’s?”
“No,” said the witness, “but they spell
manners with two n’s.”
	TILL we have reflected on it, we are
scarcely aware how much the sum of hu-
man happiness in the world is indebted to
this one feeling—sympathy. We get cheer-
fulness and vigor, we scarcely know how or
when, from mere association with our fel-
low men, and from the looks reflected on us
of gladness and keen enjoyment.
	IT IS not what people eat, but what they
digest, that makes them strong. It is not
what they gain, but what they save, that
makes them rich. It is not what they read,
but what they remember, that makes them
learned. It is not what they profess, but
what they practice, that makes them right-
eous.
	THE weeping willow has a romantic his-
tory. The first scion was sent from Smyrna
in a box of figs, to Alexander Pope. Gen-
eral Clinton brought a shoot from Pope's
tree to America, in the time of the revolu-
tion, which, passing into the hands of John
Parker Curtis, was planted on his estate in
Viriginia, thus becoming the progenitor of
the weeping willow in this country.
	A CURIOUS portrait of General Washing-
ton, on earthenware, is displayed in a New
York jeweler's window. It is stated that
soon after Washington's death an American
traveling in England discovered some sets
of earthenware with these portraits en-
ameled upon them. He purchased the
whole lot, had the portraits cut out and
framed, and distributed them among his
friends.


