SPLINTERS.	
				—
	One of the chief objects of attention and
sensational conversation in London, now, is
Gladstone and his great triumph........Miss
Amy Sedgwick, the popular London actress,
will visit this country next season......A
new comedy, in five acts, from George Sand,
is among the recent additions to stage litera-
ture....Elinski, a Polish exile, is lecturing
in Oregon and gives a history of the late
revolution in his own land.......A turkey in
Scipio, New York, has laid one hundred
eggs in one hundred days, never missing a
day......Ochre is used in making bricks and
pottery ware in Kansas.....Senator Brown-
low says if Greeley and Brown are elected
we are placed back where we were in 1861,
when the traitors fired upon Fort Sumpter.
......Boston gave a grand banquet to the
Japanese Embassy, August 2nd......At To-
peka, on the 27th of July, Mrs. Thomas
Mattingley drowned herself and a three
year old child, on account of domestic un-
happiness......The wedding presents of Miss
Nilsson, married in London to M. Boussand
amount, in value, to $60,000....Since the
death of President Juarez, the French think
of renewing diplomatic relations with
Mexico......General Sherman attended th
funeral of the son of the Duke of Aumale at
Paris......Senator Schurz charges Grant with
using Federal arms to influence the States
and overawe them......Heavy mining strikes
are reported in Pioche Dictrict.....About
1,000 acres of cotton was planted in Califor-
nia this season......Disraeli’s wife, Lady Bea-
consfield is ill beyond hope of recovery.....
In a competitive examination at New York,
the nomination for a cadetship at the Na-
val Academy was won by a ragged news-boy.
......A Missouri paper makes calculations
that Grant will receive a majority of
10,000 in that State......The value of the
gold now extant is estimated at upwards of
$5,000,000,000.....All record of the late de-
vastation in Paris is reported to be disap-
pearing......The “American Settler” is the
name of a paper lately started in London....
Among the peasantry in France, it is said,
not one in a hundred can read or write......
A California inventor has produced a rail-
road tie of vegetable fibre, held in asphal-
tum......The contract for building a seminary
to cost one thousand eight hundred and
forty dollars, has been let at Napa, Califor-
nia......Thiers will send one hundred thou-
sand men to suppress the mining riots on
the northern frontier of France,if necessary.
......George E. Pugh, an eminent Ohio Cop-
perhead, tenders his services as a stumper for
Greeley and Brown......One hundred thou-
sand dollars of diamonds are said to have
been lately received in San Francisco, from
New Mexico, discovered years ago by Kit
Carson......A tailor in California, named
Ledig, shot his wife twice the other day.
The wounds are supposed to be mortal; he
then shot himself and expired......A San
Francisco youth, named Harley, has been
committed to trial for burning the faces of
small boys with nitrate of silver......Ex-
tremely hot weather is reported, all through
the 'Western States...... Rumor says the
“colored folks” are nearly all for Greeley....
In company with his family, Greeley will
visit his old home in New Hampshire and
probably remain a month or more.....
A sarcastic paper says the West Point
cadets are pleading to let their moustaches
grow......Independence Hall, in Philadel-
phia, is being restored as nearly as possible
to its condition in 1776......Two men in St.
Charles, Michigan, have become maniacs by
exposure to a hot sun while buggy-riding.
[new column]
......The “diamond fields” of Arizona are the
latest attraction to excited hunters after pre-
cious stones......A Kansas woman has been
paralyzed by the sting of a wasp.......Du-
buque has a religious society for children.
called “The Seeds of Mercy”......A female
horse-thief in male attire has been caught In
Michigan......Bret Hart is said to be engaged
to write one article a month for the “Atlan-
tic” at $10,000 a year......The youngest bride
of the season, at Niagara, is a young lady of
Stonington, Connecticut, aged fourteen. She
left her skipping-rope at home......Nicholas
C. Sennat, a once prosperous merchant who
was ruined by the Chicago fire, committed
suicide in St. Louis recently because of his
reverses......A farmer named Williams was
thrown in front of a mowing machine a few
days ago in Suffolk county, New York, and
was cut to pieces...."Who carried North
Carolina in the late election is still an open
question......A Fon-du-Lac, Wis., woman
has sent a bill of $200 to the saloon keepers
of the town, being the amount legally due
her for a beating inflicted by a drunken
husband......General Banks, of Massachu-
setts, and General Farnsworth, of Illinois,
are among the latest prominent Republicans
that have come out for Greeley.


