HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
				——
	MRS. ABELL says: “A woman who has
the habit of observing closely, knows so
well what belongs to social and domestic
comfort, that she never enters a room of her
own dwelling without seeing in an instant
every trifle upon which comfort so much de-


pends. If the fire is too low or the hearth
unswept, if the chairs are not standing in
their places, or books and papers disar-
ranged, her quick and well-trained eye de-
tects in an instant what is wanting to com-
plete the pleasant air of comfort and order
which belongs to her to diffuse over her
whole household.  While, on the other
hand, if her attention has never been directed
to these matters, she may sit down without
once perceiving that the chairs are in dis-
order, drawers left open, the hearth-rug
turned up, the fire smoking, the room too
dark, or the sun pouring in its fiercest rays
to the damage of carpets. A woman want-
ing in this habit of observation, though
actuated by kindly feelings, will be guilty
of much neglect and be likely to have the
reputation of unkindness or ill-breeding.”
	LEMON DUMPLINGS.—With ten ounces of
fine bread-crumbs mix one large tablespoon-
ful of flour, half a pound of finely chopped
beef suet, the grated rinds of two small
lemons, four ounces of pounded sugar, three
large eggs, beaten and strained, and last of
all, the juice of the two lemons, also strained.
Divide the mixture into four dumplings, tie
them in well-floured cloths, and let them
boil an hour.
	LEMON TART.—Take half a pound of
lump sugar, slice three lemons, and lay them
in the sugar for the night; cover the bot-
tom of the dish with a pound of biscuits,
lay over them slices of candied orange and
lemon-peel, four ounces of pounded almonds,
and one of butter; put in the sugar and
lemons, and cross-bar the top.
	SCALLOPED MEAT.—Take any kind of
cold roast meat, cut it into exceedingly thin
slices of about an inch across, season it well,
pour over it enough wine, gravy, and melted
butter to moisten, place it in buttered scal-
lop shells, sprinkle bread-crumbs pretty
thickly on the top, and place them in a hot
oven till well browned; cold rabbit, sweet-
breads, poultry, veal, and different kinds of
fish, are specially adapted for coquilles.
Serve in the shells.
	HOUSEKEEPERS should heed the following:
When a carpet is taken up to be cleaned, the
floor beneath is generally covered with dust.
This dust is fine and dry, and poisonous to
the lungs; before removing it, sprinkle the
floor with diluted carbolic acid, to kill any
poisonous germs that may be present, and
to thoroughly disinfect the floor and make
it sweet.
	WALNUT CATSUP.—Beat about a hundred
green walnuts in a marble mortar till they
are completely broken, and then put them
into a stone jar, with half a pound of es-
chalots cut in slices, one head of garlic, half
a pound of salt, and two quarts of vinegar;
allow them to stand for ten or twelve days,
stirring them night and morning; strain off
the liquor, and boil it for half an hour, add-
ing two ounces of anchovies, two of whole
pepper, half an ounce of cloves, and a quar-
ter of an ounce of mace; skim it well, strain,
and when perfectly cold, pour it gently from
the sediment into small bottles; secure from
the air by sound corking, and store it in a
dry place. The sediment is usually reserved
for flavoring sauces.


﻿“WELL, I did not think, when I married
you, that you would grow to be such a goose!”
said a young married man to his bride, who
was pouting because she could not go to a
party in the evening. “Neither did I,”
she replied, “but your mother was telling
me, only yesterday, how much I was grow-
ing into your ways.” Both laughed, and
they concluded to make up and be good-na-
tured.


