NEWS AND VIEWS.

 THE usual deluge of summer “poetry” is
being poured out..
  EX-EMPRESS EUGENIE finds warm sym-
pathy in cold Scotland.
  A FAILURE.—PlautamouFs comet to put
in an appearance on the 12th, insf.
  PRESIDENT GRANT and would-be President
Greeley are “swinging around the circle,”
and their admirers are feting" them.
  POLITICAL parties charge political .corrup-
tion on each other, and the facts reveaL ah
alarming amount of truth in the charges,
 MR. JEFFERSON, the actor, is.recovering
his eyesight, and Rip Van Winkle,.as.per-
sonated by him, may again delight thou-
sands,
  SUSAN B. ANTHONY has announced-her-
self strongly in favor of President Grant’s
re-election. Miss Anthony has done wiser
things.
  THE Presidential campaign has given
Utah, a breathing spell from her persecutors.
Every blessing should be thankfully ac-
knowledged.
  POLITICIANS changing parties and tiie
people pressing on to the accomplishment of
a settled political purpose, arc among the
signs of the times.
  A RECENT magazine says: “ Fifteen dol-
lar will buy a lovely homestead of eighty.
acres in Florida.” But is it worth the money?
And how much of a fortune does it take to
make the homestead profitable.
  GARIBALDI, it is said, has quit soldiering
I and turned novelist, and is preparing for the
press a novel the scenes of which nrc'laid in
France during the late war. “ Take away
the sword, states may be saved without it.”
  LADY Wentworth, of England, has left
the roof of her husband, and Lord Went-
worth advertises her as if they were “vulgar
plebians.” The leveling tendencies of the
age have struck oven the haughty English
aristocracy.
  THE rejection of the side-saddle for ladies’
riding is warmly agitated just now, without
making much headway, A revolution in
dress will precede the change, and then
sensible women will cry halt, and consider
the matter.
  "LET us have peace" was the cry on
which General Grant was elected to the
Presidency in 1868; and still the Republic
cries and yearns for good peace and has not
yet found it. Election watchwords are as
hollow as worthless reeds.
  BALDNESS, it is said, is becoming fearfully
prevalent among the ladies as a result of 
wearing chignons. Where nature's orna-
ment of hair is cultivated in place of mon-
strosities of fashion, this deformity is
avoided. But fashion makes fools of mil-
lions.
  RUSSIA stands no newspaper nonsense. A
report was circulated in the United States
that the Grand Duke Alexis was secretly
married; and two Russian editors have been
fined and imprisoned for alluding to the mat-
ter. It is a reflection on the profession, but
sad to say a truth, to add that if all the edi-
tors in this country that publish false reports

were imprisoned, the penitentiaries would
have to be enlarged.
   BOSTON shipped 489,500 gallons of Med-
ford rum to heathen Africa in the last six
months. With a sufficient stock of mission-
ary tracts and red flannel jackets Africa
should be in a fair way to be "Christianized"
and "civilized." Bnt that Boston thus ex-
porst the gospel of rum to the heathen is a 
stain on the "Hub" which it should cover
with the mantle of charity for the short-
comings of other place less pretentions in
regard to piety, literature, and the higher
virtues.
  FIVE young ladies of New York announced
through a leading newspaper the other day
that they would ride in a public part of the
city, on horseback, in the style men use—
without side-saddles.  Whether the exploit
was an illustration of moral courage, or a
speciman of "fast" life, the public can deter-
mine ; but the act of itself shows that the
modesty which our great-grandfathers ad-
mired in our great-grandmothers is not so
popular as it might be to the benefit of well-
ordered society.
  HON. John A. Bingham, who was so anx-
ious last session of Congress to have some
harsh, prescriptive, anti-Mormon bill passed,
has been kindly permitted by his constitu-
ents to retire after the 4th of March next.
They declined to nominate him, and he can
now pass to the living tomb of politicans
with Cullom, Colfax and others, who sought
to make political capital by pressing a cru-
sade against the people of Utah, and became
bankrupt by the operation.
  AN English astronomer once said that a
comet striking an ex-
press train going forty miles an hour would
have on the train. M. Plantamour, the Swiss
astronomer, evidently did not think so when
he predicted fearful results to this planet by
its coming into collision with a comet on the 
12th instant. If the comet encountered the
earth at the date specified, the blow must
have been a light one, as nobody appears to
have felt it.
  DID Stanley, the New York "Herald"
correspondent, find Dr. Livingstone, or did
 he not? Did he write the letters attributed
to him, or were they written in the "Herald"
office in New York? Is there anything
genuine about Stanley's account of finding
Livingstone, or is the whole, a "bohemian's"
fabrication, bred in a vivid imagination and
designed to secure cheap notoriety for
wonderful journalistic enterprise? These
are questions of the hour. And the news-
paper that can so thrill the pulse of the
civilized world with a fabrication—if it be
one—has won a triumph of notoriety that
respectable journals will not envy.
  THE Emperors of Germany, Russia, and
Austria, are soon to meet in Berlin, and the 
ex-Emperor Napolean is going to drink the
waters of Carlsbad. Emperors do not con-
gregate in this manner to exchange courtes-
ies. There is danger to the peace of Europe
in their gathering together, and millions of
homes may be filled with mourning because
of the meeting of Willhelm, Alexander and
Francis Joseph. Such are the fruits of
imperial ambition; and such will be the

fruits of a lust for power while men are the
slaves of passions which prompt them to
work woe in the world that they may be
great and raised far above their fellows.
  "THE Sleeping Beauty of Tennessee" is
the title given to a woman in that State who
presents one of those physical phenomena
which baffle science and apparently set all
ordinary laws of nature at defiance. She
is described as white as marble, thirty-
one years ago, and having slept for
twenty-three years, awaking thirteen times
every twenty-four hours and remaining
awake exactly seven minutes each time,
during which she eats, drinks and talks. It
is said no earthly power can make her keep
awake a second longer than seven minutes
at a time; and that she breathes only at in-
tervals of five minutes. The circumstances
connected with the peculiar case are related
at length in the Louisville "Courier Jour-
nal" and bear marks of genuineness. Where
is the pundit or savant that can give a satis-
factory explanation of the phenomenon?
  IT is reliably stated that "trichina spira-
lis" has been found in a ham imported to
California from Chicago. The action of these
parasites upon the human system is fatal,
and death is preceeded by tortures of the most
horrible character. They breed in the in-
testines, in the flesh, and through the entire
body of their victim, making it a nursery for
death-dealing insects. In seeing how widely
hog's flesh is used, and thinking on the un-
clean nature of the animal and the serious
consequences that often follow eating it, we 
sometimes think of Dr. Adam Clark's
"grace," when asked to "return thanks"
over a meal where a young roast pig was on
the table. He had an aversion to swine,
but a politeness prevented his declining to
ask a blessing, and in the course of it he
said: "Lord, if Thou canst bless under the
Christian dispensation, what Thou didst
curse under the Jewish dispensation, bless
that pig!" Avoid the use of hog's flesh as
much as possible; but when it must be used
endeavor to learn how the animal was fed,
and be sure to have the flesh thoroughly
cooked. 
	THE first gun of the Presidential cam-
paign was fired at North Carolina, and no-
body seem to be aware whether anyone was
hurt by the discharge. First it was alleged
the State had gone Republican; then Demo-
cratic; then again 'Republican; and both
parties have rejoiced hugely over it in turn.
Seemingly, the Republicans, by a lavish ex-
penditure of money and the use of all the
means at the command of the administra-
tion have elected their candidates for the
Governorship and the several State offices;
while the Democrats have elected a majority
of members of Congress and of the State
Legislature. This virtually makes it a victory
for neither side, so that each can count honors
and rejoice in having won something. The
next elections of interest are those of Cali-
fornia and Maine, the former on September
2, the latter on September 9; with Vermont
coming off on September 3, but as it is cer-
tain to go for Grant less interest attaches to
it. In a month from the present date
politicians will begin to figure with a greater
degree of certainty on the chances of Grant
and Greeley in the November struggle.


