WHY WOMEN ARE WEAK.
				—
	When we consider what an intricate system
of defiance to all known physiological laws
a woman’s dress has become; the tender age
at which this defiance begins, and the re-
lentless pressure of it upon the formative
and the recuperative energies of the consti-
tution; the murderous thinness and scanti-
ness of her underdress; the effect of the ab-
sence of flannels, and the custom of baring
the neck and arms, upon the sensitive tis-
sues of the lungs and heart; the check to all
even circulation of the blood and healthy
condition of the skin inflicted by the imper-


feet and compressed covering of her feet
and hands; the unhealthy heat of the head,
consequent on the manner in which custom
requires her to collect her hair into a wad
of padding at the base of the brain; the
clasp of a rack of steel and whalebone about
all the vital organs of the body; the straight- 
jacket snap with which the seams of her
dress meet about her shoulders, arms and
chest; the results inevitable upon making
the hips the pivot upon which her heavy
clothing is hung, and the fulcrum upon
which all the motion of her body must
swing when walking—if, indeed, we apply
that term to the infantile toddle to which wo-
men are driven to get about the world;
above all, the unreasonable and cruel custom
which compels her to drop heavy skirts
about her lower limbs and feet, thus en-
dangering  her life on all occasions, her
health on any but a dry summer day, and 
her self-reliance forever; when we consider
the extent to which the common occupa-
tions of a woman deprive her of the open
air, of exercise, of change of scene, of ac-
quaintance with the world; of the extent to
which they are adapted to produce all the
varieties of sedentary disease; when we con- 
sider the unlimited influence of the mind
upon the body, of happiness upon health, and
the brooding morbidness and acute suffering
which the lives of women so largely induce
in them—shall we find it a matter of sur-
prise that women as a race are diseased and
feeble, and are bestowing upon the world 
a future legacy of diseased and feeble chil-
dren? Shall we wrap this ruined creature 
away in a shawl to die, and say, with sor-
rowful assurance: “Behold woman as God
made her?”
	Woman as God made her! As man and
the devil and her own cowardice have made
her! God never made such women as are
cradling the next generation in this land to- 
day. Side by side with “female illiteracy”
female feebleness is running a race among
us. Neglected brains and tortured bodies
are working their own way upon our actual
and possible mothers. Thoughtful physicians
are perplexed and alarmed. We are a
beautiful, useful and elevated order of ani- 
mals; the world has done the right thing by
us; it stalled and fed us; it has petted and
praised us; who can complain?—Elizabeth
Stuart Phelps.


