SENSIBLE RETRENCHMENT.

   Among the many rich points, finely dwelt
upon by Presidents B. Young and G. A.
Smith, in connection with the testimonies
borne by several of our prominent elders,
at the late two days’ conference held at Lo-
gan city, the importance of retrenchment
in cooking and in dress, was forcibly pre-
sented for the consideration of the sisters.
The use of unnecessary and injurious
beverages and tobacco was earnestly dis-
countenanced. Immorality in every form
was spoken against; and truth, virtue, be-
nevolence, and every attribute of a redeem-
ing and exalting nature, were strongly
vindicated. President Smith advised la-
dies, when cooking and arranging a dinner
of which friends were invited to partake,
not for each one to think she must excel
everybody else, and for this, “work herself
to death and have more dishes dirtied than
she could wash in a week.” Two or three
hours should be time enough in which to
prepare a good, respectable meal, and if her
company came filled with the Spirit of the
Lord, as they should do, it would be much
more satisfactory to them than if she
worked three days and went to unreason-
able expense to provide a sumptuous repast.
This is sound, wholesome advice, which
every woman in Utah should gratefully re-
ceive and profit by. When Abraham and
Sarah entertained Angels, instead of pud-
dings, pies, tarts and sauces, with tea or
coffee, they had bread and butter and milk,
and some veal for dinner. And when Jesus,
the Son of God, prepared a meal and invited
His disciples to dine with Him it is not re-
corded that He spread before them any
greater variety of dainties than broiled fish
and bread. Much wisdom is manifested by
a few of the Latter-day Saints in seeking
to adopt some of these simple and healthful
rules, and spending time, means and
strength, to better advantage than in, get-
ting up costly suppers. And it is to be
hoped that many more will follow the same
wise example. Much labor is performed by
the women of to-day to great disadvantage
and to no real purpose. Retrenchment in
almost every branch of industry could be
aptly applied without the least injury to art
or convenience and comfort. And thus
woman might secure much valuable time,
for gaining information herself, and impart-
ing it to her children, which now seems to
be unavoidably wasted in hard work.


﻿BOYS AT HOME.—An intelligent and
thrifty farmer says:	“But for the co-opera-
tion of boys I should have failed. The
eldest is near twenty-one, and the other
boys in the neighborhood have left their
parents—mine have stuck to me when I
most needed their services. I attribute this
result to the fact that I have tried to make
home pleasant for them. I furnished them
with attractive and useful reading; and
when night comes and the day’s work is
ended, instead of running with other boys 
to railroad stations and adjoining towns, 
they gather around the great lamp, and be-
come interested in their books and pa- 
pers.”


﻿IT IS the duty of every true woman to
look as beautiful as she can. It is her duty
to brighten and gladden the world with her
loveliness just as the flowers and trees, the
skies and waters gladden it. Her sense of
the beautiful should always and everywhere
be cultivated, for thus will her thoughts be
made pure, and her mind the home of sweet
and lovely things. Refinement comes of a
love of all things beautiful.—Ex.


