NEWS AND VIEWS.

	IT IS now generally conceded that the
colored vote of the country will be cast
almost solid for Grant.
	PARIS HAS nearly six thousand less of
population now than in 1866. War is a ter-
rible enemy to population.
	MAINE HOLDS its election on the 9th inst.
Both the Grant and Greeley parties are
making strenuous efforts to secure a victory.
 	THE CLERGYMEN of Wilmington, Dela-
ware, are on a "strike," demanding new
terms for attending funerals. What next!
	CAMP MEETINGS are in full blast through 
the country, yet the ranks of the uncon-
verted are but little thinned, while religious
insanity increases.
	THE GENEVA board of arbitrators, to set-
tle the difficulties between England and
America, are reported nearly through their
work. At last!
	CARLYLE SAYS he has no faith in any
man now controlling public affairs. This is
hard on Blanton Duncan of the "straight
out" Democrats.
	J. P. NEWMAN and Henry Ward Beecher
favor croquet. There is one other thing,
besides Grant, on which they are in accord.
Is this the foreshadowing of the millen-
nium?
	THE DIAMOND mania has reached Salt 
Lake, and "gem-hunting expeditions" are
moving towards the borders of New Mexico
and Arizona. Expeditions to hunt the dia-
monds of truth are still scarce.
	THE ELEMENTAL war raged furiously in
many parts of the east during last month,
and numerous deaths from lightning were
reported. Are the elements preparing to
"melt with fervent heat?"
	THEODORE TILTON says U. S. Grant and
Horace Greeley drink more whiskey than 
any other two men in the United States,
and that Greeley doesn't drink a drop. The-
odore is more pointed than polite.
	FIFTY thousand dollars, Mr. Stanley says,
his Livingstone expedition cost the New 
York "Herald," and now the question is
being asked, what is to be the paying result
of the discovery? Mercenary age!
	THE ITALIAN Republicans are split into
two factions, the Mazzinians and Interna-
tionalists, each hostile to the other, and
both hostile to the Government; and thus
the democracy of Europe emulate that of 
the United States.
	THE San Francisco "Pioneer," woman's
rights paper, repudiates Grant and Greeley,
and strongly advocates George Francis
Train for President. Unfortunately women, 
in States, are yet powerless at the polls, and
the sisterhood can do but little for the "next
President of America."
	IT IS reported that two millions of people
have already perished by the famine in Per-
sia, of whom one hundred thousand have
died in the city of Teheran alone. And yet
how little do we hear of its horrors? And 
what is being done to relieve the suffering 
and dying? Is the charity of Christian na-
tions asleep?
	THE TEMPERANCE party is troubled
whether to support General Grant, who it
is admitted uses alcoholic liquors, or Horace
Greeley, who is a total abstainer; and re-
gret that neither the Philadelphia nor Balti-
more conventions put a temperance plank 
in their platforms. To be consistent they 
should support the cold water candidate.
	A COLORED prayer meeting was "arrest-
ed" in Richmond, Virginia, on August 19;
and "parson, deacons, converts, penitents,
brethren and sisters" were rudely conveyed
to the police station on a charge of disor-
derly conduct, where the Judge discharged
them with the injunction to "go and sin no
more!" Probably they were practicing 
camp meeting religion.
	LOVE and patriotism are made to play 
severely against each other in Alsace and 
Lorraine, the departments wrested from
France during the late war. The German 
government has informed the ladies of
those departments, that the brothers and 
lovers of such of them as are most violent
in their demonstrations of hostility to Ger-
many, will be selected to serve in the Ger-
man army after the 1st of October. This is
the refinement of tyranny.
	SECRETARY Boutwell made a speech dur-
ing the North Carolina canvass, which is
likely to work serious consequences. He
endeavored to rekindle the bitter feelings of 
the war, and urged upon the negroes that
the success of the Conservative party would
result in their being placed back in slavery. 
The feelings of animosity caused by such
political speeches, are strong enough to pro-
voke, at no very distant day, a war of races
which might become even more terrible
than the war of secession.
	MR. CLAGGETT, Delegate in Congress
from Montana, who manifested such bitter-
ness during the last session against the Mor-
mons, sought re-election at the hands of his
constituents last month, and was respect-
ably shelved, Mr. Maginnis, his opponent,
being elected by a handsome majority.
After the 4th of next March Mr. Claggett
may air his anti-Mormon views anywhere
he pleases—except in Congress. He has 
been retired with Colfax, Cullom, Bingham
and others. "The mills of the Gods grind
slowly."
	IT IS reliably stated that at Niles, Michi-
gan, recently, a white girl desiring to marry
a negro, and being unable to take the oath 
that she had negro blood in her, tapped the 
arm of her sable lover with a penknife,
sopped a piece of bread in his blood, swal-
lowed it, hurried to the magistrate’s office,
swore that she had negro blood in her, and 
was married. Whatever may be thought
of her determination, her taste was ex-
ecrable; but she was bent on legal miscege-
nation, and cheated the law by an evasion 
which amounted to perjury.
	MR. GREELEY made a political speech at
Portland, Maine, on the 14th of August,
 the first he made since his dual nomination;
and of it the New York "Herald," which
has until lately been a strong administra-
tion paper, says, it "will disappoint those
who seem to believe that it is impossible
for a man of genius and talent to talk in a
practical sensible manner." And, again,
"the speech is a neat, shrewd, little affair,
and will not harm the liberal candidate."
It was a candid, manly, honest statement of
facts, and a denial of several political calum-
nies uttered against him.
	THE savants of Zurich, Switzerland, are
somewhat narrow-minded. The professors
of the University in that city, being unani-
mously opposed to the admission of further
female students, intend to apply to the fed-
eral government of the republic for a bill
restricting the rights of studentship to
males. Why do they not go a little further, 
and restrict the number of males? These
antiquated specimens of book-worms do not
seem to be aware that the world moves, and
that woman is asserting her right to the 
possession of knowledge; a right which all
progressive minds are now freely conceding.
	STRANGE, is it not, that Charles Sumner,
so long the favored son of Massachusetts,
should be berated by the press of the State
in the most bitter manner! But such is
popular favor. The idol of to-day is to-
morrow flung in the dust and trampled un-
der foot. Even the negroes, in whose behalf
the better part of Sumner's sixty-two years
has been spent, turn against him and repu-
diate him. And all this because he will
not play demagogue, but looking at the
present and future of the country as a states-
man, he sees danger in the policy of the
administration, and declares his hostility
to it.
	THE METHODIST Book Concern, of New
York, the rascality connected with which 
raised such a stench through the country a
short time ago, objects to a Greeley and
Brown banner in front of the building, and
asks for its removal. Dr. J. P. Newman,
who was so anxious to make political capi-
tal out of the discussion with Professor Or-
son Pratt in this city, and so signally failed,
is doubtless among those who are at the
bottom of this bit of spleen, as he is endeav-
oring to manipulate the Methodist church
for the re-election of President Grant. "No
union of politics and religion" has been a
favorite cry with many of the enemies of 
the "Mormon" people; yet such union is 
very distinct, and being used for personal
purposes with considerable effect, during
the present Presidential campaign.
	FEARFUL RIOTS have occurred in Belfast,
the chief city of the north of Ireland. Com-
mencing on the 15th of August they con-
tinued for a week, during which a
number of lives were lost and a vast amount 
of property was destroyed. The rioters
were Protestant and Roman Catholic mobs.
that in their zeal to prove the superiority
of their respective creeds, shed blood, pil-
laged and destroyed. And each party pro-
fesses to believe in the Prince of Peace; in
a gospel of love and salvation! And to
show that they do so, they act like fiends,
trampling every God-like principle under-
foot, and practicing a faith of hate, revenge
and murder! No wonder infidelity grows
among intelligent men and women who are
unacquainted with the gospel of truth; for
who could intelligently consider such acts,
and reflect that the teachings of priests and 
clergymen have caused them, without being
satisfied that there was something radically
wrong in the systems which produce such
results.


