WOMAN’S VOICE.
				      —
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Somehow, it seems to me that if all those
“strong minded” women would but allow
themselves to consider, they could hardly
help seeing that, at present, there cannot
be devised any better system for the con-
traction of the social evil, than the Mormon
principle of plurality of wives.
	They believe the majority of women to be
superior to the majority of men. How then
can they hope to procure a suitable husband
for every good and pure woman, save by
letting men who are worthy take more than
one worthy woman each, or many of them,
since there are a great many more women
than men in different parts of the world?
	They believe in equal rights for all.
What equality is there to be found in a
society where only one woman out of a
great number is to be favored with a moral,
temperate husband? While the rest must
remain in “single blessedness,” and die
without having fulfilled their mission to the
earth. Or else, marry poor, worthless,
drunken vagabonds who will desert them
and perhaps their helpless children, when-
ever they tire of them.
	How is it that they cannot see that it
would be better to have a husband that can
be trusted, and a father for the children,
that they need not be ashamed to own?
With all my weakness and selfish feelings,
I can see that women in the world have
much more cause for anxiety and trouble
than we have in Utah.
	Our F. R. Society is not doing much now.
We haven’t had a meeting for ever so long.
I feel sorry to have things so neglected, for
I think we should be awake and at work
for the general good of mankind, ourselves
included; but it is not my place to make any
move unless so directed. So I wait patiently,
saying good words and encouraging where
ever I can, and feeling assured that all will
be well.							F. S.
	Dear sisters, who have so nobly stepped
forward to stem the tide of arrogance, ignor-
ance, and assumption; seeing in your paper
an invitation to come and do likewise I offer
a few of my scattered ideas for your columns.
My feelings have been aroused, or, in other
words, I have “been set to thinking” by
some remarks I saw in a late paper relative
to “Mormon women awakening up to a full
realization of our grave situation.” Have
we ever been asleep? I trust not. There is
no thinking woman among us but what will
say our situation is grave; has ever been
grave. My mind wanders back in retrospect
to the days when I was “one of Christ’s
little ones, too” and I could give many
things from memory to show that our situa-
tion was grave. The days of anxiety and
nights of fear in Nauvoo; the days of sick-
ness and destitution in the scorching sun,
as we traveled through Illinois, Iowa or
Missouri. When at Council Bluffs the flower
of our little band was taken from us to fight
on the plains of Mexico for the land we now
inhabit—fathers, husbands, and brothers;
and their bones were strewn by the wayside
a sacrifice of loyalty to their country; leav-
ing only the old and infirm, and boys too
young to stand the fatigues of camp life, to
support and protect the women and children.
Our situation then was truly grave. Beneath
burning suns on the sandy plains of the
“great desert,” and amid the chilling cold
and eternal snows of the Rocky Mountains,
it was still grave. We may have tried to
slumber and bury our wrongs in forgetful-
ness, but it was like sleeping in a nest of
mosquitoes; there were too many bills pre-
[new column]
sented (not excepting Cullom’s) to permit us
a peaceful repose.
	But why renew this subject, or repeat
these things? Many are tired of hearing
them, because we are not afraid to open our
mouths and testify to the wrongs we suffered.
How have our affections and hopes been
blighted? I will tell you. When amid all
this privation and sorrow we have reared
our little daughters, according to the best of
our circumstances and ability, they have
been snatched from us by the hands of liber-
tines and villains. When the onward course
of “civilization” has washed its waves on
our rock-bound shores and brought for our
sons the billiard table, the gambling saloons
and the dens of infamy; when the people
would make laws to take from us our hus-
bands and protectors, leaving us a prey to
officers and politicians, the base and- un-
principled, to fill houses of wretchedness
and ill-fame; our children illegitamized, our
names a by-word, then, sisters of Zion, our
hearts may bleed, for that is the system
that strikes at the root of womanhood and
blights our affections and hopes. See our
sons, bright and noble, not disgracing
the image of their Creator! See our daughters,
fair and gentle, types of noble womanhood,
fit to become the mothers of a noble race,
exalted in health, in dignity, in purity and
virtue!  We have obeyed the command-
ments of God and the dictates of our own
conciences, and this is our reward. We are
tender mothers and honored wives. Have
we fainted or faltered by the wayside?
Perhaps we have. How many of our
Christian sisters, fearing pain or dreading
the cares of maternity, have done the same
and committed their names in cowardice
and shame to the grave of oblivion? But to
those who have nobly contended against the
tide of ignorance, error and public opinion—
who have fought the good fight and won
the victory, how great must be their satis-
faction, as they receive the blessings of God
and the approbation of their own hearts!
