F. R. SOCIETY REPORTS.
			  —
	SMITHFIELD, Cache County, July 31, 1872.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	I congratulate you on the success of your
paper. I am very much pleased with it,
and am always anxious to see each coming
number. I wish you prosperity in every
good work.					J.S.C.
	We herewith send you a financial report
of our Society, since its organization. We
held our annual meeting on the 13th of
May; had a good attendance, and all felt
well. Our Society is in a prosperous condi-
tion. Since our organization we have re-
ceived in donations and increase of value on
property $858.50; which we have disposed
of as follows: Given to the poor, $319,06;
paid for the educating of dependent children,
$183.15; to assist in gathering the poor,
$77.00; for public expenses, $50.00, and
have a balance now in the Treasury of$229.-
29. A share in the railroad, and shares in
the Co-operative store are included in our
property on hand.
		MRS. E. T. MOREHEAD, President,
		MRS. JANE S. COLEMAN, Secretary,
		MRS. MARGARET STORY; Treasurer.
				   ——
	The following report is from the 17th ward,
Salt Lake City:
	The semi-annual meeting of the fifth year
of the F. R. Society of the 17th ward, was
held in the Union Hall, Thursday, August 6.
	The semi-annual report, which was read
by the Secretary, showed the society to be
in good order. The sum of $158.44 had been
disbursed to the needy during the past six
months.
	We have a large class of Scandinavian sis-
ters who devote some hours a week to the
study of the English language, and are
taught by Sister Julia Howe, who realized
the amount of good that would accrue to
them through a knowledge of the English
language.
	During the meeting the sum of $50.00 was
donated to the Perpetual Emigration Fund.
President Mrs. M. A. Hyde suggested that
a synopsis of the proceedings of the meeting
be sent to the EXPONENT which, being put
to vote, passed unanimously.
	A good feeling prevailed and all felt to do
all they could to aid the poor and suffering.
	Since the organization of the Society, four
years and a half ago, we have raised in dona-
tions, $2,667.42 1/2; disbursed t othe poor,
$1,797.15; and have at present in the treas-
ury, in cash, upwards of $300.00.
			MRS. G. A. ALDER, Secretary.
-


