HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE EXPONENT continues to increase in cir-
culation, for which we thank the friends whose
exertions are directed for its success.
	THE FIRST load of granite brought by steam,
from Cottonwood, was landed at Temple Block,
in this city, on the morning of the 28th ult.
A track has been laid from the U. S. and U. C.
depot to the Temple Block, along which a loco-
motive can pass with loaded cars of rock to the
foundation of the Temple.
	A BIBLE society for Utah has been organized
in this city. While we are anxious to see the
truths contained in the sacred volume still
more widely disseminated, would it not be ad-
visable, for consistency’s sake, for the gentle-
men who have moved in the matter, either to
recognize more widely the principles taught
in it, or advocate an altered version that would
better agree with their opinions?
	TWO DAYS’ meetings were held at Logan,
Cache county, on the 17th and 18th ult., and at
Farmington, Davis county, on the 24th and
25th ult,; attended by the Presidency, some of
the Twelve and other Elders. At each place a
great deal of valuable instruction was given,
and the large numbers that attended were
much edified and strengthened in faith by the
teachings and exhortations of the speakers.
	A WOMAN ran the danger of being burned to
death in this city last Saturday night, by
placing a coal oil lamp on a hot stove. The
lamp exploded, scattering the burning fluid
over her apparel, and she was only saved by
having the blazing dress torn off her. The
recklessness with which many persons handle
inflammable fluids is surprising considering
the vast number of accidents that are continu-
ally occurring.
	ONE of the most notable events that has oc-
curred in the Territory since our last issue, was
the holding of the Indian council at Spring-
ville, Utah county. A few straight-forward
promises satisfied the Indians assembled, who
expressed themselves warmly in favor of con-
tinued peace, but believed they had not been
justly treated. If the promises again made to
them are performed, there need be little fear of
trouble from them; but if they are broken and
if the assurances given prove empty words,
more trouble may be looked for. In a long
course of experience with the Indians, Presi-
dent Young has ever retained their confidence,
simply because he always performed all that
he promised, and they never had reason to
doubt his word. It is said that much of the
late cause for uneasiness relative to the Uintah
Indians might have been avoided, had the In-
dian agent not been over anxious to show that
he swayed high authority, and, disregarding
the advice of men having experience with the
Indian character, he took a course calculated
to irritate instead of conciliate them. There
are hostile Indians still supposed to be in the
neighborhood of Sanpete and the Sevier, and
against these troops have been dispatched.


