IGNORANCE AND BIGOTRY.
				——
	The San Francisco “Pioneer,” edited by Mrs.
Emily Pitts Stevens, is devoting some space to
Utah affairs and developing an inordinate
quantity of meaningless sentimentality in
treating of them. The last effort in this direc-
tion, in the issue of the 8th inst., starts out by
asserting that “tyranny and fanatacism go hand
in hand in Utah” which might justly be sup-
plemented by the assertion that ignorance and
bigotry go hand In hand everywhere, and nota-
bly so in the “Pioneer” office. The article in-
dulges in such sweet and loving phrases as
"simple devotee," "unscrupulous tyrant," "the
doctrine of polygamy savoring of every foul at-
tribute of slavery," "this canker upon the body
of Christendom," "humiliations which these
Mormon women bear," "spreading leprosy,"
and so on. The article is one of those tirades
in which strong adjectives are compelled to do
duty for sound reasons. Narrowed down to its
actual value, it is simply half a column of un-
reasoning abuse, for there is not an argument,
nor the shadow of one, in it from the opening
word to the closing sentence. It assumes that
"polygamy" is "a canker upon the body of
Christendom," and like scores of such efforts
rests satisfied with the assumption. The fetid,
festering, gangrene spots upon "the body of
Christendom" are sufficiently numerous to call
for the surgical aid of these would-be doctors of
morality without troubling themselves serious-
ly relative to the marital relations of Utah; but
evidently the "Pioneer" and others of the
same class, are more anxious to hold up their
hands in affected horror against an imaginary
evil and point to an assumedly sickly condition
of society at a distance, than to look upon the
[new column]
pestilence of corruption which surrounds them
at home, striking down the fairest and the
loveliest, victims of man's lust and woman's fol-
ly. The "Pioneer" is terribly exercised because of
the "humiliations these Mormon women bear,
mingled with an inward sense of shame and
outrage;" but as the "humiliations" only exist
in the imagination of the "Pioneer" and others
of like stripe, she can spare her sympathy until
it is solicited. And when she uses the language
"mingled with an inward sense of shame and 
outrage," she is impertinent, and would be in-
sulting if her bigotry were not the result of
ignorance, which few sounding sentences can-
not hide.
	We have closely watched the practical work-
ings of plural marriage for years, having been
brought into daily contact with it; and have
formed very decided opinions on the subject.
And when some of these people who are so fond
of indulging in abuse concerning "the cruelty
of Brigham Young," as this writer phrases it,
and the "downtrodden women of Utah," as
they are pleased to call us, will advance some
solid reasons based on scripture, morality,
physiology, or social science against plural 
marriage, we shall be pleased to weigh them
and give them due consideration. But neither
impertinence, abuse, nor slander will commend
them to our judgment. And when the editor
of the "Pioneer" can point us to as pure, as
happy, and as temperate a community in all
things, where she resides, as can be found in
Utah; to men in whom women can so confide
without having their confidence abused, and to
women as chaste, take them as a whole; then
we may possibly begin to have some faith in
the excellence of theories which the experience
of centuries has proven hollow and worthless.
And, further, when the editor of the "Pioneer"
can point to such a condition of society as a re-
sult of her efforts aiding those "honest preach-
ers" of whom she speaks, we will be prepared
to accord her and them more credit than that of
which the present condition of society indicates
they are worthy.


