SIMILARITIES.
				____
	When quite young, I remember reading a
story of some physicians, who experimented
on a young man, to ascertain if it were pos-
sible to frighten a person into a disease, of
which no symptoms were manifest, by mak-
ing him believe that he had taken the dis-
ease and was likely to die in consequence.
They made a joke of the experiment, car-
ried it a good way, and the poor boy was
actually scared into a fit of sickness, while
in a state, physically, of perfect health.
	To-day, while reading some articles, this
little anecdote was brought to my mind, and
I mentally compared our would-be physi-
cians, the moral, highminded (!) people of
the day, to those experimentists. We are,
in a word, all right, but these quacks would
like to frighten us into hysterics over our
situation,and make us believe we are crushd,
trampled on, benighted, and about to die.
One of them, (a lady editor,) says in an art-
icle headed “The wolf in sheep’s clothing,”
“Mormon women are powerless to help them-
selves out of their Church ; it is sad to say
that some of them are so blinded by ignor-
ance and bigotry as to consider that they are
serving God by suffering daily in this state
of polygamy; but even those who are en-
dowed with a higher order of intelligence,
and who would hail freedom from polygamy,
as did the Southern slave the emancipation
proclamation, dare not lift up their voices
against this incubus which is weighing
them down to servitude and degradation.
  	*	*	*	*	*	*
Let every reformer north, south, east and
west, come to the rescue of these Mormon
women, and hurl this Goliah to the earth.”
	Now, if we could only be brought to con-
sider that we are laboring under a terrible
“incubus, which is weighing, us down to
servitude and degradation;” as the strong,
heathy boy was made to see that his face
was spotted and swollen, his eyes red and
dilated with spotted fever, what a grand
terminus for the experiments of our would-
be physicians! “Ye Doctors, heal yonr-
selves!”								G.


