MISCELLANEOUS.
			   —
	CHEERFULNESS.—What a world of sun-
shine, beauty and sweetness is concentrated
in this one attribute. Innocence and chas-
tity are its constant companions, for it can-
not in its refined state, exist where there is
impurity, or vulgarity. When it brightens
the countenance and wreathes the lips with
smiles, even a plain, commonplace face ap-
pears to good advantage; while without its
warm and genial expressions, the most fault-
less features are unlovely. Whether mani-
fested in looks, words or actions, it is the
outpourings of a frank and generous heart;
and is actuated by virtuous and unselfish
principles. No intelligence, however su-
perior, can make a person an agreeable com-
panion without the maintenance of some de-
gree of pleasantry. But with a reasonable
share of it, some people render themselves
fascinating, and their company very desira-
ble though their intellectual developments
may be meagre and their education limited.
Rude and boisterous gaiety, that which is
calculated to excite, weary and create after
dissatisfaction, is no part of genuine cheer-
fulness. But happy tears as well as quiet
laughter may be the overflowings of inno-
cent joyousness.
	THE GREAT BELL IN RUSSIA.—The
largest bell is in Russia, in the city of Mos-
cow. The Russians call it “the king of
bells.” It is nearly twenty feet high, sixty
feet around at the bottom, two feet thick,
and weighs four hundred thousand pounds.
Just think of a round room the shape of a
bell, twenty feet across, with walls two feet
thick, and you can have some idea of how
big the bell is. Would you like to ring it?
It takes twelve men to ring it. They tug
and pull, and it booms and tolls so as to al-
most deafen one. Its tongue or clapper is
fourteen feet long. When they were making
this big bell, some of the nobles and rich
people were so proud of it, that they put
gold and silver rings in with the metal.
	A VIGOROUS old agriculturist, living near
Abilene, Kansas, while hoeing corn the other
day, chopped his toe off with his hoe, but
never stopped to pick it up until he had
finished the row. He then went back and
found the amputated appendage, brushed
the dirt off and carried it to the house,
where with the help of his wife and some
fruit jar wax, he replaced it and then went
to work again. He is a self-made man, be-
longs to a Greeley Club, is a deacon in a
church, never imbibes in the the ardent,
neither swears nor chews gum.
	A GLANCE, a twinkle, or an earnest look
often expresses volumes when there is no
time for words. Eyes are not only given for
sight but for the expression of ideas.


