HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
				—
	INSTABILITY AND a love of change,
among domestics is an evil in our country,
which might be remedied in a great
measure, if employers, especially the mis-
tresses of families, would take more pains
to make their residences agreeable and to
attach domestics to their families by feelings
of gratitude and affection. It is not merely
by giving them good food, comfortable
rooms, presents and privileges that the at-
tachments of domestics are secured. These
things are necessary, but not all that is re-
quired. A kindly interest should be mani-
fested for the hapiness and welfare of the
domestic. Make her feel that you are really
her friend, and can afford, occasionally, to
make little sacrifices to accommodate her
feelings, which may be as sensitive and as
susceptible of enjoyment as your own.
	IT DOES not speak well for womankind,
that washer-women, and those who go out
to day’s work, prefer to work for gentlemen.
Yet they positively aver that gentlemen
find less fault with their work and are much
more liberal in their prices for work than
ladies. The Golden Rule should be kept
in view—ladies should once in a while wash
and get up their own collars and ruffles that
they may be able to consider the real esti-
mate of the labor, and not underrate it when
settling with the poor creatures, who are
thus obliged to work to gain a livelihood.
	PUDDING.—Take a pound of stoned raisins,
six eggs, a wine-glass of rum or brandy,
some beef marrow, a pound of corn flower
or maizena, some sugar, two tumblers of
milk, citron or lemon peel, and nutmeg to
taste; mix perfectly; and add in bread-
crumbs until you get sufficient consistence. 
Tie tightly in a cloth and boil four hours.
	POTATO SOUP.—Boil two or three pounds
of potatoes, mash them well, add slowly
good broth, sufficent for your tureen; let
this well boil, and then add some spinach,
sorrel, a little parsley, lemon, thyme, mint
and sage, all chopped fine; boil all five min-
utes; pepper and salt to taste; just before
taking off the fire, add two well-beaten eggs.
	RENDERING FABRICS INCOMBUSTIBLE.—
Dissolve borax in hot water, soak the cloth-
ing in the liquid, and afterward let it dry.
If will not be impossible to inflame it, al-
though it will burn away with a slow com-
bustion. Alum has been recommended for
the same purpose, but it is injurious to the
clothing; the carbonate of potash may also


be used, but it is apt to contract moisture
from the air, and thus render the clothes
damp.
	STEWED CALF'S FEET.—Divide the feet
at the joints, and split the claws, put them
into a stewpan, and pour in cold water to
cover them completely. If a thick slice of
the lean of an unboiled ham or knuckle of
bacon be laid at the bottom of the pan it
will greatly improve the whole preparation.
When the boiling takes place, throw in a
little salt, and after the scum has been re-
moved, add some parsley, celery, onion,
cloves, mace, and pepper. Stew softly until
the flesh parts entirely from the bones, take
it from them, strain part of the gravy, skim
off the fat, flavor with catsup, and thicken,
when it boils, with flour and butter; put in
the flesh of the feet, and serve immediately.


