MISCELLANEOUS.
			   —
	TO TALK well and just enough is an ac-
complishment and wisdom possessed by
very few.
	EXTENSIVE beds of peat of the best qual-
ity have been discovered near Los Angeles,
on the line of the San Pedro railroad.
	A CONNECTICUT man rolls in wealth ac-
cumulated in the business of manufacturing
“genuine relics from the Holy Land.”
	YOU may fail to shine in the opinion of
others, both in your conversation and ac-
tions, from being superior as well as inferior
to them.
	THE London society for the prevention of
vice, has caused the suspension of the “Day’s
Doings.” A like society here could find
some, work to do.
	GRATITUDE is the great incentive to all
happiness. Without it, the wealthiest can-
not procure real enjoyment; with it, the
poorest cannot be miserable.
	WHAT we truly and earnestly aspire to
be, that in some sense we are. The mere
aspiration, by changing the frame of mind,
for the moment realizes itself.
	DURING the session of the Oregon legis-
lature two years ago, a minister preached
from the text “Thou shalt not steal.” Sev-
eral legislators, considering it a personal
insult, got up and left in high dudgeon.
	FASTIDIOUSNESS, az a general thing, iz a
holyday virtew, and i hav frequently notis-
sed that thoze individuals who are alwus
afrade they shall cum akrost sumthing hily
improper, are generally looking for it.—
 “Billings.”
	LOVE is said to be blind, but it is better
to believe that it voluntarily overlooks the
failings of its object, and, with more than
common sight, sees also the finer and more
obscure virtues which a casual observer
would never find out.
	WILLIAM LAWSON BARRY, of Nashville,
Tennessee, is the oldest printer in the Uni-
ted States, having just entered his ninety-
third year. He commenced learning his
trade in 1797, and set up Washington’s
obituary in 1799. Barry was born in Vir-
ginia, but has spent most all his life in Ten-
nessee and Kentucky, and has had a
considerable acquaintance with all of the
eminent men of those States. He is still
vigorous, and works at his trade occasion-
ally.
	KINDERHOOK, Illinois, possesses the
champion preacher. A few Sundays since
he had preached an eloquent sermon, and
at the conclusion exhorted his hearers to
embrace the opportunity presented. None
came forward, and after waiting some time,
the minister, raising his voice to the high-
est pitch, exclaimed: “Well, sit there, and
be .damned.” On the same Sunday he called
out to the janitor: “Open that window; I
don’t like to preach in a barrel with the
bung drove in.”
	AS MME. LUCCA is expected to visit us
during the coming year, the following esti-
mate of her powers and style, from an Eng-
lish journal,is of interest: “Madame Lucca’s
action is warmer and more tragic than that
of Nilsson. Her vocalization has more color,
passion and enthusiasm; is less a cold, con-
structive body of- beauty; fuller of pulse,
vividness and vitality; more sensuous and
living; less like a splendid statue of ice,
brilliant, scintillating, reflecting every
passion of lyrical drama, but possessed of
none. As a consequence, her style is more
sympathetic and exacts an equal sympathy
from the audience.”


