	PEN AND SCISSORS.
				—
	MANY errors which we see in others we
convert into virtues in ourselves.
	HATS with thermometers in the roof are
the latest invention. If the mercury gets
too high you stand on your head until your
equilibrium is restored.
	MISS Emma S. Eastman, of Worcester, a
former student of Vassar College, and Miss
Sophia B. Fleming, of Ithaca, N. Y., are the
first lady students at Cornell.
	AN intelligent writer, closes a letter to his
employer thus, “I remain very sincerely,
your friend and mule puncher, J. I.”
	“HAVE you had an invitation to the
ball?” asked a bashful gentleman of a young
lady. “Yes sir,” said the lady, to which
he replied hastily, “O! well, I did not come
to invite you, I only thought I’d like to
know if you were going to be there.”
	MR. J. J. Adams and the late Surveyor
General, and now Senator, Mr. Phineas Post
Office Hitchcock, had an interview on the
streets of Omaha.
	P. W. H.—“Did I ever pay you five cents
for a vote, Mr. Adams?”
	A.—“You never did, but I sold you two
votes for the Senate, and the bargain was
made in the presence of United States Dis-
trict Judge E. S. Dundy and Hon. John I.
Redick. Do you dare to deny it? If you
do, you and I for it.”
	The redoubtable Senator did not deny the
assertions of Adams, who makes good his
statements to Dr. Child and Judge Hyde,
and crams them down the throat of Hitch-
cock himself.—“Omaha Herald.”
	M. D. CONWAY says that Miss Kate Field’s
successful after-dinner venture in London
will probably have the effect of breaking
down prejudices against female post-pran-
dial privileges.
	MR. Proctor thinks that the great explo-
sion on the sun, witnessed by Prof. Young
in September last, indicated a force sufficient
to project matter beyond the sphere of solar
attraction. His opinion strengthens the
hypothesis that many of our meteors were
ejected by the sun.
	SAYS the “Golden Age,” The courtesies
of the White House, during the next Ad-
ministration, will be administered by Miss
Ida Greeley, the Presindnt’s handsome
daughter, a sweet little woman of the most
winsome kind.
	OF the sixty-four chemical elements
which compose our globe, nineteen have
been found in meteorites, and as no single
element has been discovered in them which
was not previously known on earth, it is
supposed that the most distant parts of the
universe are similar in composition to our
sphere.
	THE Sacramento “Daily Union” says:
“The Gentile sisters at Salt Lake City wear
silks at church-goings and flash their
diamonds in the eyes of their Mormon sis-
ters. The female adherents of the prophet
don’t like the contrast very much.”
	Dont they, indeed! If any one has
noticed an expression of sadness on the face
of a humble, plainly attired Mormon lady
while coming in contact with her gaudily
dressed “Gentile sister,” it has been elicited
by feelings of sympathy for the poor, unin-
telligent creature who can so inconsiderately
waste time and money.
	MRS. MARY F. SNOW, of the Pacific Slope
Woman Suffrage Convention, says that a
great many more men than women, propor-
tionately, seem to realize the necessity and
favor the enfranchisement of women.


