ABOUT WOMEN.
			_____
	THE ladies of Albany are about to organ-
ize a Grant and Wilson Club.
	MRS. Greeley is said to be unable to walk,
and is in such poor health as to give Gree-
ley great anxiety about her.
	MRS. Stowe is announced for public read-
ings at New Haven in the Fall. She is
spending the Summer at Hampton Beach.
	THERE are six ordained female pastors in
the Universalist Church in the United
States. This is the only church where wo-
men are admitted to ordination.
	BY a new law, married women in Penn-
sylvania may purchase sewing-machines
without the consent of their husbands, and
the contract will be binding.
	MRS. Lincoln, the widow of the President,
has presented to the State of Illinois a very
valuable oil portrait of the late Colonel E.
D. Baker, a favorite son of Illinois.
	LAURA De Force Gordon is making her-
self famous in the East as an earnest and
eloquent pleader for the cause of Human
Rights.
	SOME Detroit women, of the practical
missionary stamp, lately visited a sick and
widowed neighbor, shingled her house,
planked her side-walk, picketed her fence,
painted one room and papered two, and split
and piled a load of slab wood.
	“HENRIETTA,” said a landlady to her
new girl, “when there’s bad news, particu-
larly private afflictions, always let the board-
ers know it before dinner. It may seem
strange to you, Henrietta, but such things
make a great difference in the eating in the
course of a year.”
	A MARRIED woman of the Shawnee
Indians made this beautiful reply to a man
whom she met in the woods, and who im-
plored her to love and look on him: “Old
man, my husband, who is forever before my
eyes, hinders me from seeing you, or any
other person.
	AN unhappy citizen of Cleveland, was re-
cently entrusted by his wife with the fol-
lowing message to her dressmaker: “Tell
her, dear, that if she thinks it would look
better with ten bias flounces without puff-
ing, and box plaited below the equator,
which should be hem-stitched gudgeons up
and down the seams, with a gusset stitch
between, she can make it up in that way in-
stead of fluting the bobinette insertion, and
piecing out with point applique as I sug-
gested yesterday.”
	A YOUNG HEROINE.—The Royal Humane
Society has awarded its medal, with suita-
ble testimonials, to a young woman, named
Annie Lord, the daughter of a bathing at-
tendant at Lynmouth, Devonshire, who, at
the imminent risk of her  life, saved a
young lady, named Fremlin from drowning.
The circumstances, as elicited by the Com-
mittee of the Society, were briefly as follows:
	Miss Fremlin, accompanied by another
lady, her sister-in-law, went into the sea to
bathe. The sea was very rough at the time,
as it was just after the turn of the tide, and
Miss Fremlin’s companion was struck by a
wave and carried out of her depth. Miss
Fremlin immediately hastened to her assist-
ance, but was herself swept out to sea, and
was in imminent danger of drowning, as no
one was near who was able to swim. Their
perilous position was witnessed by the bath-
ing attendant, who shouted for assistance,
when Annie Lord, who was in a cottage
near, hearing her mother’s cries for help,
ran to the rescue of the two ladies. She
undressed herself as she ran, divesting her-
[2nd column]
self of everything but her chemise, and
bravely plunged into the water. In the
meantime a crowd of people gathered on 
the beach with ropes, etc., but none were
bold enough to swim out. This, however,
Annie Lord did, and soon reached Miss 
Fremlin, who by this time had been carried
some distance out, and was perfectly help-
less, although her companion, whom she
had endeavored to save, had by this time
struggled to shallow water. Grasping Miss
Fremlin by her hair, Annie Lord supported
her, and swam, pushing the drowning lady
before her towards the shore; but Miss
Fremlin was quite insensible, and but for
the heroic perseverance of the young wo-
man, Annie Lord, must have inevitably
been drowned. The other lady, too, was
happily saved.


