In Memoriam: President Joseph F. Smith.
The Church and the world have bidden a temporary farewell to the kingly spirit of President Joseph F. Smith. He passed beyond Nov. 19, 1918. Born in extreme privation and exile, November 13, 1838, at Far West, Caldwell county, Missouri, while his father was in prison with the Prophet Joseph, and his mother's bed was protected from the pouring rain by vessels held up under the mud roof, he experienced trouble enough to begin with. As he grew, however, his sturdy frame and powerful constitution thrived in the midst of mobbings and drivings, while his spirit took on added force, and only reacted the more generously to trouble and sorrow in others because of his early privations. His mother, Mary Fielding Smith, was his ideal and his guiding star all his life. Her courage and loyalty to the truth, her gracious courtesy and sympathetic tenderness, softened his natural stern and rigorous temperament. With what vividness he recalled his mother's historic crossing of the plains in 1848, under the most trying and forbidding circumstances! With what faithful reverence did he enshrine her memory!
[THIS IS FIGURE: Photo labeled "Pres. Smith in 1876."]
 .
He recalled with circumstantiality his brief childish experiences in Nauvoo, when he was intimately and lovingly associated with his father and his adored uncle, the Prophet Joseph Smith. He drove one of his mother's ox teams across the plains and entered with her into this valley September 23, 1848. Plowing, harvesting and wood-chopping hardened his muscles and taught him resourcefulness and initiative. From herdboy to farmer, he graduated into the university of mission life, spending many years at that, returning to take his spiritual post-graduate preparation in the Historian's Office under the liberal education and tutelage of his "uncle," President George A. Smith, for years the Church Historian and Counselor to President Brigham Young. He was an active participant in the labors of the Endowment House, during his early manhood. He filled three missions on the Sandwich Islands, his first undertaken when he was fifteen years of age, and paid several visits there at various periods, early acquiring the most perfect control of the Hawaiian tongue vouchsafed to any Utah missionary, and winning the ardent and constant devotion of those dusky natives, such as no man had ever done before or has ever done since. Two missions to Great Britain, in the second of which he was president of the European Mission, taught him, among many other things, life's balance between man-made churches and divinely revealed religion. Not only did he serve his Church assiduously, but he was an active member of the Salt Lake municipal council for several terms and urged the dedication of Liberty Park to the city, and later Pioneer Square was also purchased through his efforts. He served in the legislative assembly, and during a portion of the time, he acted as the president of that body. He also was president of the constitutional convention held in 1882. He served in every capacity in his own Church, from a deacon to the President of the Church, and was counselor to the First Presidency in the administration of both President Wood-
[THIS IS FIGURE: Photo labeled "Pres. Smith in 1884"]
ruff and President Snow. The years of his own administration were most fruitful in constructive measures. School buildings and churches, both at home and abroad, were built under his policy. Land was purchased, meeting houses bought or built, not only in all our intermountain states and Utah, but also in Chicago, the Eastern States, Southern States, California, Sandwich Islands, Europe and Mexico. He chose the sites and dedicated them for the erection of the temples in Cardston, Canada and in Laie, Sandwich Islands. He was a patron of the arts and sciences and was devoted to the cause of education for the young. Home industry claimed his deep allegiance. He rigidly sustained all forms of home industry, and encouraged home manufacture in every sense of the word. Among other public utilities which he fostered are our great heating plant and lighting system, the street car service and the splendid gymnasium, built for both Church schools in this city and for those in other parts of the Church. His wise, conservative financial policy was demonstrated in the successful banks, stores and institutions of which he was the head. He was a foe to debt and obligations of all kinds. Among the activities of his administration the Hotel Utah will be a monument to his liberal views; the beautiful Church office building, unsurpassed for design and construction in the west; the L. D. S. Hospital, and other public structures, all testify to his constructive powers.
President Smith was by nature a happy mixture of progressivism and conservatism. His great reverence for authority and precedent made him an ideal leader and state builder. His wives, Julina Lambson, Sarah Richards, Edna Lambson, Alice Kimball and Mary Schwartz, are well known women in this community. Each is a queen in her own right. They have been and are as faithful and fond wives, as true and wise mothers as ever lived upon the earth. Each has borne a galaxy of children. Much and deserved credit is accorded to President Smith for the remarkable family of children which he honored by his fatherhood, but at the same time it must be said that the five noble and high-principled "mothers of his children" — as he loved to call them — deserve and should receive equal share in the credit for the beneficent training and careful nurture given to their families. President Smith himself would be loath to see this article appear in the leading women's Magazine, in the Church, without due affectionate notice given to the women who have helped to mold his own character and that of his children.
6 .
His mother is little known in our historical annals — chiefly because of her retiring dignity which enveloped her personal character with a delicate veil of reserve. She it was, however, who started the Penny Subscription Fund, in Nauvoo, prior to the organization of this Society; and she, of all the women belonging to the families of the Prophet and Patriarch, remained faithful to the body of the Church, coming out to Utah with the early pioneers. Her untimely death, in 1852, left her motherless children to mature with the inspiring memory of her rigid domestic virtues and her loyalty to truth.
Mrs. Julina L. Smith, who has acted for years as the Second Counselor in our Relief Society presidency, is amply qualified by her own native housewifely and social abilities, her broad sympathy and just understanding of the sacred principle of celestial marriage, to stand at the head of her great husband's kingdom. She said when looking into the coffin of her adored husband, "I am grateful beyond my power to express that 'papa' has 'Aunt Sarah' 'over there' to comfort and take care of him now."
What tribute could be greater to two noble women, the living wife and the dead! The devotion of the members of this Relief Society and of the women everywhere in the Church to this sweet-natured, fond wife, faithful mother and loyal friend, has deeper sources than mere human limitations. For we perceive on reflection what her unassuming, modest worth means to womanhood and to humanity by a careful guess as to what an opposite influence would have meant in her husband's family and in this Church itself. The sisters love her because she loves us, and always has been so ready to serve and help in any place or time. She is indeed a saint. She is the mother of President Smith's noble representative sons, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., Bishop David A. Smith, George and Wesley Smith, while her handsome and faithful daughters are worthy of their high parentage. Her children are her best testimonial.
[THIS IS FIGURE: Photo labeled "Pres. Smith in 1891"]
Mrs. Sarah Richards Smith, daughter of President Willard
PRESIDENT AND MRS. JULINA L. SMITH On their Golden Wedding Day, May 5, 1916.
8 .
Richards, now dead, was beautiful, courteous and extremely intelligent. All her life was guided by high principle, and no mean or ignoble word or act marred the gentle standard of her fine character. She bore a family of refined, noble sons and daughters. Her son Richards, the President's oldest son, is a man, just and righteous. He lives religion rather than preaches theology. His tender respect and reverence for his father's wives and children — each and all — is an ensample to all Israel. "Nonie," Sarah's oldest daughter, now dead, was always referred to by her father as the living representative of his own adored mother. Sarah's second son, Willard, is as fine and true a man as can be found in all Israel. Sarah died March 22, 1915, leaving a whole family in tears and deep mourning at her departure.
Mrs. Edna L. Smith presides over the sisters in the Salt Lake Temple. She is like a lightning flash, instant in speech, strenuous in activity, yet she is an ardent lover of deep spiritual truths. Her diversion is reading the Scriptures, and she tolerates no departures from the rigid code of morals and conduct which guides her own activities. The sister workers in the Temple who know her best give quick and willing service under her swift, directing hand, and love her for the sterling virtues which buttress her character with unyielding fortitude and strength. In return, she mothers them all, jealously guarding their rights and privileges, allowing no one to attack or decry her treasured band. She has suffered many blows from destiny's hammer during the recent past — the death of her prized daughter, Zina; then her eloquent and promising son, Apostle Hyrum M.; then his wife, Mrs. Ida Bowman Smith, and now her husband has gone, and she is left. But the first opportunity which offered she gave faithful greetings to President Heber J. Grant with the characteristic remark, "This is the Church of the Christ, not of my husband or of any other man. You are His chosen representative on earth, President Grant, and you have my faith and prayers."
Mrs. Alice Kimball Smith, daughter of a prophet, wife of a prophet, is a lovely, sensitive, highly spiritualized character. Devoted to her home and its constant needs, she has yet found time and strength to act as General Treasurer of the Y. L. M. I. A. for years. She has traveled much, and everywhere has lifted her eloquent and appealing voice in warning hope, and sure testimony, of the Gospel. She inherits her father's keen, incisive humor, his dignity, and many of his seeric gifts. She is a most devoted wife and fond mother, giving her wealth of passionate service without personal regard, or at times without self-protection. In recent years she has been sorely afflicted. Nothing mortal would daunt her courage or still her vivid testimony. Her husband and children are her fortress, and he who would attack or even ignore her rights must reckon with sharp and
Top row: Julina L. Smith, Sarah R. Smith Center: Mary Fielding Smith. Lower row: Edna L. Smith, Alice K. Smith, Mary S. Smith
10 .
vigorous counterattack; disloyalty to her family would merit eternal severance of friendly ties and affections. Practically her whole family were prostrated with the influenza plague at the time of her husband's passing, and but for the kindly ministrations of her friend, Mrs. Zina Y. Card, sad indeed might have been the results. As it was, the wife was not present at the deathbed, but came, stricken and pallid, upheld by her indomitable courage and will to attend the obsequies.
Mrs. Mary Schwartz Smith, niece of President John Taylor and mother of five stalwart and exemplary boys, was a beautiful bride, and has proved a loyal and devoted wife. She has bequeathed to her children the quick intelligence, the love of literary and educational pursuits, which she, too, inherited from superior ancestry. She has not disdained, however, to take up a farm and to lead her sons by precept and example to love Mother Earth in all her changing bestowals. Homely toil has dignified their ideals, solidified their natural gifts, and today her family testify in their response to our country's need, in their fine and scholarly promise, to the value of her teachings and example.
The words of Bishop Charles W. Nibley, spoken at the funeral services over the grave of the President, express eloquently the feelings and views of the people concerning President Smith:
"Surely it is a great honor to be asked to say a few words at the grave of our dear President, one whom we all loved so much. Difficult though the task may be, yet I feel that I should make the effort, for a few moments, and if I can master my feelings, say what I can in respect to him.
"I have known President Smith most intimately for more than forty years. I have traveled more with him and have been his companion more than any one in the world outside of the members of his immediate family, so that I know him better, perhaps, than any man living. I can testify to you that here lies the body of a great man, a good man, a virtuous, clean man — clean as any man, or woman either, who ever walked the earth. At this separation, this parting, my heart has been saddened beyond anything that has ever come to me; but I think of the great rejoicing in the meeting with his father, with his uncle, the Prophet, with that precious and most blessed mother of his, with Aunt Sarah and the children, his own children — Hyrum, and Nonie and Zina and Allie and others who have gone before. What a glorious, and happy and blessed reunion there! For he loved his family. He honored the very memory and name of his mother and his father. He was great in all these qualities. He did not set him-
12 .
self up to be great; for he was so simple, so unostentatious, so gentle, loving and kind; and yet, when his spirit was roused at any indignity, at any insult, no man could or would more fiercely or more quickly resent it; but his life was gentle, and he was a man such as we seldom see. I say, from my point of view, here lies the body of the greatest man and the best man in all the world.
"The Church, seventeen years ago, was greatly in debt. The work that he has done in managing its affairs, as Trustee-in-Trust, speaks for itself. The Church never was in better condition, financially, spiritually, or numerically — never was stronger than now. His was the guiding, steadying hand of it all, under the blessing and favor of the Almighty, which he, more than any one else, always and on every occasion acknowledged. How often have we heard him say, 'It is not I that is doing this, it is the Lord who is guiding and directing and blessing it all.'
"It would be unwise to try to go into any extended remarks at this time and place, concerning his virtues, his greatness, the purity and blessedness of his life, in every way; but I will say this, that with all the greatness that you know of, and his goodness also, the greatest work of all is his magnificent family, this large family, the largest in all Christendom, and no better in the world. Here is the work of a man indeed! Nay, is it not more like the work of a God? For what work is there that we do in this world that is so godlike as the rearing of a family; and in this large family there is not one 'black sheep,' not one renegade, not one that is not a good citizen — clean and upright. What a magnificent, noble and splendid work for a man to do. Why, it shall live forever. It was his glory, and honor and the pride of his life; and it is the greatest work that any man can ever do.
"Now, my brethren and sisters, and friends, what of the future? We could not keep him always. I am glad to know that he stayed with us as long as he did, that he was a blessing to us for so many years, giving guidance and direction to the affairs of the Church of Christ. We could not keep him always. What of the future? While we have life and health and strength given us, it is our duty to work to build up the kingdom of God. If he were to speak to us now, his voice, his instruction would be for us to sustain the administration of President Grant, as we have sustained his administration, and try to make it as splendid and glorious, and even more so, if possible, for we should progress and learn more and more as we go on in this work to make us better and accomplish more than we have ever done hitherto. This would be his word — his word of counsel and advice — to us. This was always his counsel, his instruction to stand by the kingdom of God, to sustain it, magnify it, and make it great; not to the honor of Joseph F. Smith, particularly, and yet he was the instrument in the hands of God, whom we honored, and whom
God honored, but it is not for man's honor or glory or credit that we work, but for the honor, and glory, and credit, and renown of our God and His Christ, forever. Amen."
The friends of President Joseph F. Smith, whose death occurred November 19, 1918, encompass the membership of the Church, but do not stop there; men everywhere who knew him honored and revered him for his integrity, his breadth of vision, his charity, his loyalty to truth. We are fortunate in possessing in this Church so many of his deserving and promising descendants and we joy in the fact that they do have and will have increasing opportunities of service in the Church in the various organizations, and quorums of the priesthood. His first wife, Julina, is President Emmeline B. Wells' Counselor, and his daughter, Donnette Smith Kessler, is our latest General Board member. The Relief Society have every reason to mourn the present loss of President Joseph F. Smith, and to prepare themselves as members for future associations with him and his.