At Less than half cost of cream
Quality Foods
It's easy to sell poor quality groceries and meats cheap, but it's rare when one can buy the best brands from clean, modern stores at cut rate prices. In this, as in many other ways, the O. P. Skaggs System stores are the most unique.
O. P. SKAGGS
"A Surety of Purity"
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
"YOU CAN'T GO WRONG"
THAT'S WHY WE SAY "Buy Blue Pine Food Products" and if for any reason your purchase is not entirely satisfactory, go to your Grocer and he will refund your money.
BLUE PINE FOOD PRODUCTS
HEIDI is one of the most delightful stories that has been written for children—and the remarkable thing about it—Mother and grandmother find it equally interesting.
Priced at 50c, $1.50 and $2.50.
Hundreds of other Good Books in Stock at
Deseret Book Company
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
P. O. Box 1793
44 East On South Temple
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
You can Cook BEST WITH Natural GAS
THE IDEAL FUEL
BETTER, more comfortable, more economical cooking is one of the advantages of this fine new fuel—Natural Gas. Its heat is instantaneous. No waiting. And it can be accurately controlled to just the degree you want. Besides, it is so clean—no smoke, no soot, no ashes—and so convenient—always ready in any amount needed—and so economical!
Natural Gas is also the ideal fuel for House-heating, Water-heating, Automatic Refrigeration and Sanitary Incineration. Low rates put Natural Gas, and its manifold advantages and convenience, within reach of every family.
Come in today and find out more concerning this fine modern fuel—Natural Gas.
Utah Gas & Coke Co.
149 SOUTH MAIN -- PHONE WASATCH 1416
Serving Salt Lake City
Ogden Gas Company
127 TWENTY-FOURTH ST. -- PHONE 174
Serving Ogden
Wasatch Gas Company
45 SOUTH MAIN -- SALT LAKE CITY PHONE WASATCH 3
Serving KAYSVILLE -- LAYTON -- FARMINGTON -- BOUNTIFUL -- CENTERVILLE -- MAGNA -- TOOELE
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
SAFE from Basket to Clothes Line
The weekly washing represents an investment worth careful treatment. The most delicate garment is safe in the Maytag satin-smooth cast-aluminum tub. Even buttons are not harmed by the Maytag Roller Water Remover. The large, flexible top roll carefully and thoroughly squeezes out the soap and dirt that hides in the meshes of the clothes, and leaves no hard-to-iron wrinkles.
For homes without electricity, the Maytag is available with in-built gasoline motor.
PHONE for a trial Maytag washing. If it doesn't sell itself, don't keep it. Deferred payments you'll never miss.
MAYTAG INTERMOUNTAIN CO.
Distributors
211 South State Street
Salt Lake City
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
WINTER EXCURSION FARES
Via Southern Pacific Lines
To LOS ANGELES AND RETURN BOTH WAYS $50.50
To LOS ANGELES via SAN FRANCISCO returning direct or route reversed $58.00
Proportionately low fares from all other points in UTAH, IDAHO and MONTANA.
STOPOVERS ALLOWED AT ALL POINTS.
TICKETS ON SALE DAILY
FINAL RETURN LIMIT 6 MONTHS
For further information CALL, WRITE or PHONE
PRESS BANCROFT, GENERAL AGENT
41 SO. MAIN ST.
PHONES WAS. 3008—3078
Salt Lake City
Complete Printing and Binding Service
OFFICE RULING AND BANK BOOK FORMS
BINDING
SPECIAL ATTENTION TO MAIL ORDERS
We offer special prices on binding Church Magazines. These volumes should be preserved as valuable additions to your library.—Write us about them.
The Deseret News Press
29 Richards Street
SALT LAKE CITY
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Ask Your Dealer for Z. C. M. I. Factory-Made
CHILDREN'S ALLOVERS
Khaki and White Khaki and Peggy
Backed Denim for Boys Dutch Kut Clothes For Girls
The Famous MOUNTAINEER OVERALLS
Give Splendid Satisfaction
Be Prepared When Winter Comes!
Joy, comfort and security are yours if you own a face brick home!
FACE BRICK—charming in their soft color tones and textures, each individual brick taking part in carrying out the architect's designs, enables the builder to achieve beauty, dignity and personality in each home.
The Salt Lake Pressed Brick Company
319 Kearns Bldg.
Salt Lake City
Phone: Wasatch 951
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
BLUE BLAZE COAL
Will Keep You and Your Family Comfortably Warm This Winter
BLUE BLAZE COAL CO.
1102 WALKER BANK BLDG
LISTEN TO OUR WEEKLY PROGRAMS ON K. S. L.
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
Seven Times Champion of the World
Sent to you on Free Trial
Utah Power & Light Co.
And
Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Co.
177 E. 3rd So. St., Salt Lake City
ANOTHER CARLOAD OF ROUND OAK FURNACES
Just received from Factory—new low prices—easy payments.
No better Furnace made at any price—see the Jenkins Furnace used continuously for 38 years and still in good condition. New Combination Gas and Coal Burner use coal or gas without changing Fire Bowls or Grates. Let us give you estimates on your furnace problems without extra charge. Expert workmen to make your installations—satisfaction guaranteed.
MODERN FURNITURE COMPANY
236 So. State St., Salt Lake City
Telephone Was. 7187
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
He'll come in—looking like a mechanic!
Make him clean the spots himself
These husbands! They invariably have to tinker with the car, spot their clothes and come in all greasy before company. But you can make them clean the spots themselves—for punishment. It isn't much punishment, though, with Shell Dry Cleaner. This new solvent is a remarkable fluid produced at Shell laboratories. It is non-explosive and perfectly safe to use on any fabric. Keep a can of it handy. It will save you a lot of time and save you the embarrassment that soiled things cause you. A score of daily home uses—cleans shoes, hats, ties, clothing, furs, upholstery—all fabrics
At grocery, drug and department stores and Shell stations—pint, pint and gallon cans—with the red and yellow label—the Shell colors
Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer.
CITY LAUNDRY
Hyland 190
Distinctive Work
Office 319 S. Main St.
Building—Remodeling—Improvement
FLEXO-SEAL Metal Weather Strips
The Finest Metal Weather Strip Specification Written
ASK YOUR ARCHITECT
Or Write For Full Particulars
R. E. BREWER CO.
Intermountain Distributors
135 So. Main St.
Salt Lake City, Utah
Shay's Cafeteria
137 South Main Street
FOR HEALTH'S SAKE!
TRY OUR SPECIAL PLATE DINNERS—
Well-Balanced Menus!
Priced 20c, 25c, 35c, 50c per plate
Served From 11 a. M. To 8 p. M.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

CONTENTS
Portrait of Mrs. Emily S. Richards Frontispiece
Emily Sophia Tanner Richards Alice L. Reynolds 521
Lula Greene Richards 526
National Conference of Social Workers Amy W. Evans 527
'Aunt Em's' Life portrayed in Pageant 539
Autumn Elsie E. Barrett 541
Editorial—Social Problems in Palestine 542
Vacation Camps in Idaho 544
Ed's Delusion Minnie I. Hodapp 548
Vesta Pierce Crawford 549
Health Work in the Schools David H. Fowler 550
Gay October Jessie Sundwall 553
Beauty and Romance of Ramona's Marriage Place Glen Perrins 554
Prayer Claire Stewart Boyer 557
Tea and Coffee Harold L. Snow 558
Message and Characters of the Book of Mormon 559
Notes from the Field 565
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah
$1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c
Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
Phone Wasatch 3123VOL. XVI OCTOBER, 1929 No. 10
Emily Sophia Tanner Richards By Alice L. Reynolds
In the spring of 1918 it was my pleasure to accompany Mrs. Emily S. Richards to the city of St. Louis, where she was a delegate to the convention that celebrated the fiftieth anniversary of Wyoming's receiving its suffrage. It was soon evident, after our arrival, that Carrie Chapman Catt, Dr. Anna Howard Shaw, Rachel Foster Avery, and other suffrage leaders knew her well; they spoke of her as "our dear Mrs. Richards from Utah." This title she had earned through years of devotion to the cause. So familiar were the chief executives of our State with her record that from Governor Caleb West to Governor George H. Dern she was kept in mind and given appointments to conferences and congresses on behalf of philanthropic and progressive moves for women and children.
Emily S. Richards was the daughter of Nathan and Rachel Tanner. She inherited the lofty bearing and physical beauty so prevalent in her father's family. James Matthew Barrie has one of the characters of his play say, "If you have charm you don't need anything else." Mrs. Richards had personal charm. Good looks, cheerfulness, graciousness of manner, combined to make of her a lady to the manner born. I have never seen her when she was not cheerful and dignified. But Mrs. Richards had more, much more, than the personal and spiritual graces that go to make charm. Descended from a family noted for intellectual achievement, she had the type of mind that could distinguish a worthwhile cause, and the courage to ally herself with it. Another factor that has worked materially in assisting her to carry out the well defined purposes of her life has been her husband. Franklin S. Richards and Emily S. Richards stood side by side. They were lovers always; everything she said bore evidence of the fact that he was giving her not only the material support to carry on, but that encouragement which is often so necessary
522 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
to keep up the real drive of the soul. I saw her at the age of sixty-nine beam at the reception of his letters and telegrams as a young girl beams over letters from her first lover. Franklin S. Richards has always been a fitting companion for his wife. He has appreciated through the years her worth, and as we consider what their union and comradeship has been, it suggests in a number of ways the life of Alice Freeman Palmer and George Herbert Palmer of Harvard fame.
Mrs. Richards is descended, as is also her husband, from one of the prominent families of the Church. Father Nathan Tanner was a friend of the Prophet Joseph, as had been his father John Tanner before him. Nathan Tanner was with Joseph when the latter was taken by the mob to Carthage jail. He died at the age of ninety-five, a revered patriarch of the Church. Of him President Joseph F. Smith said: "Nathan Tanner's devotion to the Prophet would alone insure his eternal salvation." He and his wife Rachel became the parents of Emily Sophia, born the 13th of May, 1850.
Emily passed her childhood days in pioneer surroundings, which did not shut out God's sunlight and air. She loved the fields, the flowers, and responded in joyous manner to the beauty around her. She was six years of age when her father moved from South Cottonwood into Salt Lake City. This gave her an opportunity to attend the best schools that Salt Lake had at the time. She was proud with others to have been a student of Bartlett Tripp, a man of such outstanding culture that he became the first governor of South Dakota, one of the judges of the supreme court of that state and later served the nation as United States Minister to Austria. She was eighteen years of age when she became the wife of Franklin S. Richards. Their first home was in Ogden where three sons were born to them, Franklin Dewey, Joseph Tanner and William Snyder, two of whom have preceded her to the Great Beyond. Her family was augmented later by two daughters whom she adopted and on whom she bestowed much care. The daughters were named Wealthy Lucile and Emily Helen.
It would not be fair to this good woman to continue long a sketch of her life without taking into consideration her faith in God, in the Latter-day work, and her joy in the religious life. At the beginning she was connected with organizations of the Church, serving as president of the Retrenchment Association, as an officer in the Mutual Improvement Association, and in the Relief Society. Her husband's mother, Jane Snyder Richards, was conspicuous in the organization of the Relief Society; at one time they were both members of the General Board. Emily S. Richards served on the General Board of the Relief Society about thirty years, under three presidents?a period of time that is unusual for any one person to serve on a central board.
EMILY SOPHIA TANNER RICHARDS 523
In 1888 a congress was held in Washington which was known as the World's Congress of Representative Women. Women's organizations from all over the world were invited to participate. They had met to organize an International Council of Women. This meeting marked a very critical time in the lives of the Latter-day Saints. There was much prejudice afloat. Mrs. Richards, who represented the Relief Society, had been invited to make an address. Through an oversight her name did not appear on the program. A note was sent to Miss Anthony telling her of the situation. She went to the rear of the platform and conducted Mrs. Richards to the rostrum, thus dispelling any thought of an intentional omission. Mrs. Richards was listened to with great respect. It was one of the experiences of her life that made a very deep impression; it was also one of the decided achievements of her life.
Yet her extended service was not alone on the General Board of the Relief Society; she was a director of the Orphan's Home of Salt Lake for some forty years, and a charter member of the board of directors of the Sarah Daft Home from the time of its coming into being until a very recent period. Her influence and effort were felt in the selection of the present site and in the erection of the building in 1914. Those acquainted with her will understand why she was sought for in these public offices. She always assumed her share of the responsibility, often carried more than her load, and did not shrink from attending to any detail for the success of the work at hand.
She was in the vanguard when suffrage was written into the Constitution of the State of Utah, having been appointed chief organizer for Utah by the National Suffrage Association. She was also a member of the National Executive Committee. She organized the Utah State Council of Women, standing at the head of the work when the battle came on. Fortunately for the cause, her political affiliations were the same as that of the Constitutional Convention. Her husband was one of the number and assisted in placing Suffrage into the Constitution of the State. It was not an easy task. I have often listened to her relate in glowing terms the story of the anxiety of the women as the opponents of the cause flooded the chamber with oratory meant to kill the movement; of the anxious night spent in sending telegrams to women all over the State, asking them to see to it that their representatives would stand flatly for the incorporation of a suffrage clause; for truly they feared lest some might falter.
After Utah became a full-fledged suffrage State, Susan B. Anthony and Anna Howard Shaw visited the State. Their visit marked the high peak in the suffrage history of Utah. The meetings in the city, which were notable in character, were followed by a reception in Mrs. Richards' home in which Governor Caleb
524 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
West, with his staff in brilliant uniforms, became part of the receiving line, along with the host and hostess and their special visitors. When at last she was triumphant, party leaders asked her if she did not wish the honor of being the first woman to be elected to a state senate. She declined, but was intensely interested in aiding in the election of Mattie Paul Hughes Cannon, who had that honor, to the Senate of the State of Utah.
But she was not only a leader when the flags were flying and the drums beating. After the cause was won in Utah, the women of the State became more or less apathetic, while there was yet much to do to give suffrage to the women of the United States. The success of the movement depended largely on the States that already had suffrage. It meant a severe struggle to secure a federal amendment to the Constitution. Mrs. Richards kept the home fires burning. She visited our Congressmen in Washington, urging their support. She gave liberally of her own means and collected what she could from others, so that always the leaders of the movement knew on whom they could depend. When in 1920 the national suffrage amendment was passed, Mrs. Richards was still holding on. She attended the special session of the Utah State legislature that ratified the amendment. Later, she called a meeting with a view of organizing the League of Women Voters, an organization replacing the American Suffrage Association, which was attended by Carrie Chapman Catt and Dr. Valeria H. Parker. Here Mrs. Richards turned the reins over to others, having fought a long and good fight?a fight covering a period of twenty-five years. In view of the quality of her service, it was certainly fitting that in 1918, at St. Louis, she should have been singled out by Rachel Foster Avery as her special dinner guest.
In 1891 the Relief Society and Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association were affiliated with the National Council of Women, and through that with the International Council. On that occasion, Mrs. Richards was in Washington with other women from Utah. Mrs. Richards attended meetings of both the National and International Councils of Women. An outstanding occasion was her visit to the quinquennial meeting of the International Council at Berlin in 1904. It was a notable session, remembered by those who visited it for contributions from American women of the class of Charlotte Perkins Gilman, and was brilliant in its social aspects. The delegates were received in the Kaiser's palace at Berlin where they saw the Kaiserine in robes of state. After the convention, Mrs. Richards toured Europe with her husband, which was a joy, giving experience to her.
EMILY SOPHIA TANNER RICHARDS 525
To continue, she was appointed president of the Utah board of lady managers to the Columbian exposition in Chicago in 1893, and during the summer session of the World's Fair was hostess in the Utah building. She received appointments also as vice-president of the Utah delegation to the California mid-winter fair in 1893-94, and to the International Exposition at Atlanta in 1895.
Mrs. Richards was noted for her interest in peace. For a number of years she served as a member of the State Peace Society. She was president of the Mother's Congress of Utah and was Utah's representative to National and International Congress of Charities and Corrections, from time to time. In political fields Mrs. Richards has served as national Democratic committeewoman for Utah and has been a member of the national woman's Democratic committee. She was alternate delegate to the national Democratic convention in 1896.
Her contribution to education is noted in the fact that she was for ten years trustee of the Utah Agricultural College, and also a member of the board of trustees of the Salt Lake Public Library. It was inevitable that one of her vast experience in public affairs should be sought during a catastrophe such as the World War. She was a member of the Utah State Council of Defense, as well as a member of the Woman's Liberty Loan Committee. She served her county as a member of the executive committee of the Red Cross. Those of us who recall the strenuous days of the war will recognize that a full quota had been allotted her. The vigor of her service at this time showed clearly that she had not grown weary in well doing. She, too, was one of the one hundred selected women who, led by Mrs. Catt, went to the White House and offered to President Wilson the services of two million organized women pending an outbreak of war.
Mr. Richards' professional duties took him to Washington a good deal. At one time he was in residence there for practically five years. During this time Mrs. Richards became acquainted with the leaders of women's movements. She also met the wives of the senators at their weekly afternoon receptions. When they later returned to Utah and built their home, it was her desire to build in such a manner that in the event of any of these leaders coming to Salt Lake she would have a place where they might be entertained. Her wish was gratified in full measure. Her beautiful home was always a social center. Many citizens will bring to mind special occasions when she entertained. Some of us will recall an evening when Ella Wheeler Wilcox was the guest of honor; others, when Susan B. Anthony, Anna Howard Shaw, and Rachel Foster Avery were at her home; while yet others will remember Carrie Chapman Catt, Dr. Valeria H. Parker and Mrs. Emily Newell Blair.
526 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Mrs. Richards passed quietly away at the family residence, 175 A Street, Salt Lake City, on Monday afternoon, Aug. 19, 1929. In the morning she had been in town where she had seen a number of her friends, among them Mrs. George H. Dern. She expressed great pleasure at seeing and visiting with her friends. She passed as those who loved her would have her pass, free from extended suffering, with her family at her side.
It is remarkable how much one person can accomplish when the head and heart are set in the right direction. Mrs. Richards was a leader born, and to the very last exhibited characteristics of leadership. She inspired in the minds of those who knew her great admiration on the one hand and tender devotion on the other. One of the choicest of choice women, she has served her family and friends, her State, Nation, and Church, nobly and well. She has made her place, which is a place of sacredness and of honor; she has left a memory around which is bound much of what is lovely and ideal. It was eminently fitting that at her service, President Heber J. Grant should be there to express his appreciation for her religious life; that Orson F. Whitney, a poet, should stand as a symbol of the ideality that was so much a part of her; that Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon should symbolize her great contribution to the progress of women, and that her brother, Mr. C. C. Richards, should pay tribute to her home life.
Emily A loving tribute to Mrs. Franklin S. Richards
"Come unto me, ye blessed of my Father."
Kindness and friendliness beamed from Emily's eyes. Her heart and hands reached out to works of love. Last evening bright and glad?today surprise Brings message of "her going home"?above!
No ling'ring hours of weariness and dread? But ready transport to her God instead.
Her soul's companion, children, grandchildren, friends, Confess God's hand in this benign release. To hearts bereft His matchless grace extends Sweet consolation, hope, and sacred peace. May we live worthy, from earth's changing clod, To meet her in her heavenly home with God.
?Lula Greene Richards
National Conference of Social Work June-July, 1929 By Amy W. Evans
With all the hospitality of the most hospitable Californian, the fifty-sixth annual Conference of Social Work was made welcome to San Francisco. It was a most cordial welcome. The local committee made excellent arrangements and were so thoughtful and considerate for the comfort and convenience of their guests, that the out-of-town members in attendance would be unanimously inclined to give them credit as well for the marvelous weather enjoyed throughout the week.
The registration this year reached a total of 3,387. One thousand of those attending came from east of Denver?a much larger number than was estimated would come from the East. Yet Porter R. Lee, the president, states that the conference was geographically rather more broadly national in character than are meetings in the East. Utah was well represented, with an especially large delegation from the Relief Society.
In making a brief report of the Conference it is impossible even to mention what occurred in each of its twelve divisions, much less to include kindred groups that held meetings just before and during the week of the Conference. Only the outstanding sessions can be touched upon.
One of the most stimulating and picturesque sessions was the meeting on "Pacific Relations," which was addressed by Dr. Ray Lyman Wilbur, Secretary of the Interior, and by John S. Burgess of Princeton-in-Peking. About fifty natives of foreign countries were seated on the platform as guests of the Conference; their presence reinforced the points made by the speakers. Secretary
Wilbur, chairman of the Division of Health when the subject "The Economic Aspects of Medical Care" was discussed, contributed greatly to the session. One session, the Division of the Immigrant, especially interesting to Relief Society delegates, was devoted to the Indian problem. Two of the best informed persons on the subject in the United States, Mr. Lewis Meriam of Washington, D. C., director of the recent Indian Survey, and Mr. Henry Roe Cloud, himself a Winnibago, addressed the session. Mr. Meriam stated the chief program?how to set in motion those social forces by which the American Indians may be enabled to work out the Federal paternalistic supervision, which too often amounts to a rigid military system 528 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE into a natural adjustment of the life of the modern world, "like any other people." Mr. Cloud, a fine appearing Indian and a graduate of Yale University, gave an eloquent address on the Indian problem from the viewpoint of his race. What the Indian needs most, he argued, is to be released?a release for his personality, a release from subjugation; to be recognized as a human being and to be aided toward his own development. As a famous Indian chief once put it. "He needs the right to make his own mistakes instead of having others make them for him." Mr. Cloud stated also that many Indians are becoming landless from drifting to large cities, where they usually live in the poorest sections. A motion was made that a telegram of appreciation be sent to Mr. Rhoads and to Mr. Scattergood for their public-spirited acceptance of President Hoover's request that they head the United States Indian Service. The executive committee of the Division was requested to appoint a section to consider, for the 1930 Conference at Boston, a program on the Social Problems of the Indians. The subject of unemployment was discussed in the Division of the Family, also in the Division of Industrial and Economic Problems. These sessions were well attended, the subject being of such vital importance that the chairman had difficulty in controlling the floor; many entered the discussions and had much to say. That the family worker should know what unemployment does to the lives of the individuals in the family group and to community life as a whole, was shown by Mr. Lynde of the Cleveland Associated Charities. To bring home this truth to all who can be of influence in solving the problem, was his aim. The Division of Children was addressed by men and women of accomplishment in this field of social work. Among these was Grace Abbott of the Federal Children's Bureau, who spoke of the opportunities and responsibilities of the Juvenile Court, of the necessity for trained social case workers as investigators, also of probation officers with the newer conception of child study and child guidance. She thought the \Juvenile Court should not be cluttered up with non-support cases, divorce, adult offenders, and mothers' allowances. A report of the Conference would not be complete without mention of Dr. Miriam Van Waters, who was elected president for 1930. Miss Van Waters is referee of the Los Angeles Juvenile Court and author of "Youth in Conflict" and other books on social subjects. It has been four years since a woman was elected president. Miss Margaret Vaile having been chosen at Denver in 1925. "The New Morality and the Social Worker" was the subject of a notable address given at one of the general sessions by Dr. Van Waters. In a message published in the Conference Bulletin she says, "A National Conference of Social Work is like a religious CONFERENCE OF SOCIAL WORKERS 52Y revival in that it thrills many for the first time to a life beyond the problems of the self. As revivals do not accomplish the realization of the aims of religion, so conferences are not intended to exhaust the interest and enthusiasm of social workers by means of one big meeting a year." Rather does the Conference broaden the interest of the social worker so that it extends beyond his neighborhood to the entire city in which he serves, then to his state, then to the nation. 'Aunt Em's' Life Portrayed in Pageant " "We live in deeds not words," is truly manifest in the lives of those who through the years strive to help their fellow men. To men and women who hold high the lamp of life and let its light shine to brighten the path of others, there is no death. The spirit in their lives proves its immortality in the heart of memory; therefore, as the years go by, those lives devoted to others' advancement still shine on in the world. 'This summer at Mackinac Island, Michigan, the Professional and Business Women's Club held its national convention. The closing session consisted of a pageant portraying in succession the life of the most outstanding woman of each State in the Union. The clubs of the organization in the respective States decided by vote the selection of its most noted woman. The Utah clubs voted for Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells. They considered her the woman who had rendered the greatest service to the women of her State, Utah. Miss Ora Harmston of Richfield, State president of the Utah society, Miss Elizabeth Fitzgerald, assistant principal of the Salt Lake West High School, and Miss Margaret Stewart of Ogden were the delegates from Utah; on them was placed the task of presenting Utah's part in the entertainment. The pageant was prepared by Miss Nelson of Richfield, state secretary of the organization. It was written in three parts? education, suffrage, and philanthropy?including the unique story of the storing of the wheat. The personal call of President and Mrs. Wilson, in behalf of the nation to express to Mrs. Wells his ?the President's?grateful thanks for the large amount of wheat bestowed at the time of the World War was interwoven in the story, which was read by Miss Margaret Stewart of Ogden to the music of the song, "Our Mountain Home So Dear," composed by Mrs. Wells. To represent Mrs. Wells, Miss Elizabeth Fitzgerald was 530, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE chosen. She wore the actual costumes, including the well remembered paisley shawl and silver-colored bonnet, with the beautiful Utah silk dress, now the property of the Daughters of the Pioneers. She was declared to be a perfect representation of the character. Miss Fitzgerald's slight build, classic features, and soft grey hair?so like "Aunt Em's'?made her delightfully real in the quaint costume. On their return home, the delegates were enthusiastic over the success of the pageant, pronouncing it the finest one presented and the one that received the most applause. The popularity of the pageant was reiterated in a letter from Miss Fitzgerald written on board a Cunard liner on the Atlantic ocean, as she was on her way for a tour of Europe at the close of the convention. She wrote that "Even after going to New York, and since I have been on the boat, I have had to tell her story over and over again, adding many of the little incidents that our limited time at Mackinac did not permit us to tell. Over and over again I heard at our convention this expression: 'I think Utah presented the most interesting woman.'" She further writes, "I am sure our little bit will make people understand that the women of Utah were among the leaders in any forward-looking movement." 'It is always gratifying to know that one of our dearly beloved women has received such honors, and to feel, as in this case, that they are worthily bestowed?a verification that our good deeds live after us and that the sweet influence of "Aunt Em's" life has left its shining light, a guide and inspiration for the women of Zion and all women. _ Autumn By Elsie E. Barrett The Autumn is present with color and tints; On all trees and bushes it makes its imprints. Gay time of the harvest, of fruits and all grains, And ev'ry thing living is chanting glad strains.. The green of the summer has turned red and gold; _ All nature is saying?"My beauties behold." THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS. Motto?Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON::: -::: President MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN -. First Counselor MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD: -. - Second Counselor MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND - -: - Genera] Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Elise B. Alder Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Ida P. Beal Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Kate M. Barker Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor ? Alice Louise Reynolds Manager Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager. -Amy Brown Lyman Room 20, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, salt Lake City, Utah Vor. XVI OCTOBER, 1929 No. 10 EDITORIAL Social Problems in Palestine People in the civilized world will generally regret the outbreak in Palestine. Aimed particularly at the Jews, it has caused the death and injury of many of that race. All the modern science that can be brought to the aid of the Arabs, as well as all the appropriations for education given by the Zionists' organization, will be of small value unless something can be done to teach the people dwelling in that land to be tolerant one towards another. The streets of most oriental cities are narrow; people who dwell in them cannot walk up and down without rubbing against each other; yet their ideas are as far apart as the north pole from the south pole. Any one who has ever visited that country must be aware of these deep-seated antagonisms, A guide who was a Christian Arab, having been taught the religion of the 'Quaker by his father, had spent enough time in New York to learn the English language. One morning, when his party was leaving Jerusalem to go to Nazareth, he apologized because he wore the fez or tarboosh, which is the prevalent style of hat in that country. Turning to his party, he said, "I have a Panama hat that I brought from New York, and which I should very much like to wear on such a day as this; but if I went among the Arabs with it they would take me for a Jew and probably kil 532 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE me. If I wear my tarboosh they will think I am Mohammedan, and that probably will protect my life." The people belonging to the Zionist movement have built a Jewish university on Mount Scopus, which is a part of the Mount of Olives. When it was dedicated, April 1, 1925, the British government sent Lord Balfour, one of their most talented speakers, to make an address. So bitter was the feeling of the Arabs towards him that he had to be taken to the coast under special guard to embark for home.; The Arabs hold their destiny in their hands. If they are determined to stir up strife and massacre and kill the Jew, who has knowledge and material wealth that can be used to redeem the land and bring back in a measure its former glory, then the hour of their redemption will be delayed. It is incumbent, also, upon the Jews to be tolerant to those who are at present living in that land and who, like themselves, are the children of Abraham. It is of little avail for the Jews to seek the Wailing Wall and plead with the Lord for the re-establishment of their people as a nation in the Land of Promise if they are part and party to the stirring up of strife, and not willing to do everything in their power to bring about harmony and establish good will. Another matter to be regretted is that the small body of Christians living in that country do not always use their good offices to maintain an attitude of good will between Arabs and Jews. As followers of the meek and lowly Nazarene, they should be anxious to do all they can to induce the Arabs, with whom they have influence, to be law-abiding and tolerant, that the hour may not be far off when that land, which gave birth to the Savior, and in which he died that all men might be saved, shall cease to be a hiss and a by-word from the standpoint of modern progress and Christian ethics. Vacation Camps in Idaho Miss Marion Hepworth has demonstrated her vision. Vacation Camps in the State of Idaho have become a real institution. There women gather and are brought into contact with an educational program suited to their particular needs. To make this program possible, the most attractive vacation resorts in the State have been selected for the encampment, where women from five or six! Counties assemble. At the camps a three-fold program is carried on, emphasizing information, recreation, and inspiration. The theme this summer has centered around the child. Illustrative of the idea, on Tuesday, July 30, at Mack's Inn, Miss Marjorie Eastman gave a talk and demonstration on children's garments for health and play. The recreation was under the EDITORIALS 533 leadership of Mrs. Eldon Sessions; the music, which has been featured at the camps for two sessions, was under the direction of Mr. T. R. Neilson of the Southern Branch of the University of Idaho. On the first evening, Governor Baldridge of Idaho made an address, also David O. McKay of Salt Lake City. The music deserves special mention; it was the best sort of demonstration of the theme Mr. Neilson was presenting, ?Music in the Home." It consisted of an all-Neilson quintette, the performers transferring with perfect ease from one instrument to another. Mrs. Neilson is the accompanist, ordinarily two of the sons play the violin, while the father and the eldest son play the clarinet. Sometimes they resolve themselves into a saxophone quartet consisting of father and three sons with the mother at the piano. This orchestra accompanies the women as they sing, under Mr. Neilson's leadership, their State songs and the popular airs of America. On these programs for two seasons the Relief Society has been represented. Last season Miss Alice L. Reynolds of the General Board took part on the program at Fish Haven and Lava Hot Springs. This summer the General Board of the Relief Society has been represented at four camps?Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter appeared on the program at Fish Haven and Lava Springs, and Miss Alice L. Reynolds at Starkey and Mack's Inn. Miss Reynolds subject both years was Books that pay Interest and Reading for Children. Mrs. Baxter spoke on Character Training in the Home, and The Poise of the Mother in the House. The conception is unique, amply deserving the popular support that it is receiving. Beyond question, it carries a message from the Agricultural College and University of Idaho into the homes of the State?the real purpose of an Extension Division. Miss Marion Hepworth, State Home Demonstrator, with her assistants in the counties, is to be congratulated on the impressive program she has assembled, and the excellent piece of educational work she is putting over. Mrs. Alveretta S. Engar is the author of the poem "Recompense," which appeared in the Relief Society Magazine, September, 1929, page 483. It is regretted that her name did not appear with the poem, Ed's Delusion By Minnie I. Hodapp "A little wine once in a while doesn't hurt me," said Ed Hale in low, persuasive tone to his sweetheart Retta Lee. "Just so a man can keep his head and not let drink get the better of him, a little wine once in a while doesn't matter." Ed smiled as though he felt quite sure of proving his point, but a look of pained sadness crept into the deep brown eyes of unconvinced Retta. "How long since you began tasting a little wine now and then, Ed?" ? Ed hesitated, then replied falteringly, "Oh, quite a while ago?say two or three years ago." Retta looked amazed, stunned. "I always know when to quit, Retta. I've never-missed a class recitation or lost a practice-case over tasting a little wine once in a while. I always know when I've had enough. It pays to be on one's guard, you know, as the directors at the medical college are quite exacting with the students." Retta felt that this confession, unpleasant as it was, revealed Ed's downright integrity. His non-denial of his indulgence was more fascinating than disgusting. She wished to draw out his story. "Why did you start tasting wine, Ed?" "Why? Partly due to my work. The sight of so much pain and suffering began to unnerve me. I thought I needed a stimulant. So once in a while, say every six weeks or thereabout, I began taking a little wine." Retta's answer was a low moan, tearless, yet full of anguish. Ed's heart smote him as he saw how his secret disturbed her. "Retta my dear," his voice dropped to a soothing apology, "I should not alarm you in this way. You've been brought up to look at these things seriously, and in the main you are right." "Yes," came faintly from Retta. She was too much overborne by emotion to take up further argument. Turning to the table she looked again at the peerless white roses Ed had given her that day. The girl trembled lest she might find a canker worm feasting amid their satin-snow petals. "Oh, Ed," she moaned. "What is it Retta?" "I thought you were far, far too wise for anything like this." "Girlie, a little wine once in a while," he began pleadingly, then stopped abruptly for Retta was paler than the flower in the vase on the table. A flyte-note from the band-concert in the neighboring park ED'S DELUSION 535 broke into the room. It summoned them to the park. As they rode in Ed's car, it took but a few minutes. "Let's mingle with the crowd," said Retta observing that the program was well advanced. They soon joined some friends on a grassy bank toward the edge of the throng. Darting in and out among the trees behind them, they espied a lone youth. Ed peered into the grove, then said, "Why, it's Herman skipping to and fro like a dancing shadow. He has a bunch of handbills." "Hey, Herman! Bring me one," called Ed. The youth hastened forward and handed Ed a bill. Retta watched the young man as he moved lithely back among the trees. '"What's the matter with his right hand," she asked Ed. "I've never found out except that it is useless. Poor Herman! He never did play basketball in high school on account of his handicap, but he did a lot of other things." Retta began reading the bill by way of changing the subject. Her sympathy was acute, and the retiring behavior of Herman haunted her. The advertisement was concerning an excursion to Ellen Isle on June twentieth. "Shall we go?" asked Ed. "I just can't refuse," declared Retta. "Mother will leave for the coast on the nineteenth and I'll have to take care of little Bob. Maybe I'll coax him to stay with Aunt Louise that day." "Or you may take him along. A child usually delights in a boat ride." "That's just it! He might become too venturesome. I don't want to feel worried about him. It would spoil the outing." "Well, just leave him with Aunt Louise," said Ed. "I don't want that day to be marred for you by a single worry, however slight." Retta beamed her approval of these considerate words: Ed gave her hand a little squeeze and said, "We'll hire a nice, new boat and have a capital time on the water." "And Tl pack a lunch in mother's big picnic basket. For tis a fact, I'd rather spend a day at Ellen Isle than at any summer resort you can name." So the lovers arranged their perfect day. Never had Retta seen Ed happier and handsomer than when he helped her into the boat on Lowell River on the morning of the excursion. The glassy water wound smoothly down toward Ellen Isle, six silvery miles away. It mirrored the mountains and trees. A perfumed breeze rustled among the wild roses along either bank, Ten thousand blossoms seemed to vie with one an- 536 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE other 'neath the blithe June sky. The-sight moved Retta to fondest admiration and she recited for Ed: "Yon blithely smiling wild rose hedge Ablooming by the water's edge So innocent and free! With silken petals pink and fair Aflutter on the balmy air In guileless rivalry!" In snatching for a spray of low-bending blossoms along the edge of the stream, Ed almost upset the boat. "Sit down," shrieked Retta, as he danced a jig on the floor of their little craft., Placing the flowers in Retta's lap he said, "Lady fair, I really must Either poetize or bust." As they glided past the silent, sunny fields the cadence of a meadow lark came now and then, like a ripple of purest joy to their love-enchanted hearts. By and by Ed ceased to row, folded his arms and gazed into the deep, silent current that flowed on and on so peacefully. Gradually the boat neared the shore, and Retta, enraptured, beheld the grassy knolls and fragrant bowers of Ellen Isle. At the mooring Retta was somewhat surprised to meet the young man whom she had noticed dancing in the shadows on the eve of the band concert. He was on duty here and he locked the boat with willing alacrity. Retta watched him closely. To her mind, Herman seemed more skillful with his one useful hand than some persons are with both. "I'm edified in studying his case,' remarked Retta as they turned toward an inviting knoll. "Really?" said Ed with a slightly forced laugh. Ed spent the forenoon fishing and had unusual fisherman's luck. At noon he built a small campfire and arranged the fry. Meanwhile Retta spread out their luncheon in a grassy nook close by. "I believe I'll go and fetch a pail of water from the westside spring before we eat," said Ed. "I won't be gone many minutes." ' He reached the springs and watched the cold, pure water bubbling from the quicksand. He filled his bucket and stooped down to pick some watercress when a hearty-sounding voice arrested his ear. "Hello, Ed, old timer!" It was Newel Simons who spoke, "Why, hello, old pal," responded Ed, ED'S DELUSION 537 "Here's something better than water, Ed," began Newel; then, noticing Ed's reluctance he went on, "Come on, old timer. You're off duty today. Make it a real holiday." Although the sparkling flask looked deliciously tempting to Ed, he hesitated and turned with the bucket of water to go back to Retta. "Here, here!' called Newel holding out the flask entreatingly. Ed put down the bucket and remarked almost in the language of the ancient Rip Van Winkle, 'This drink won't count." He sat down on the bank beside Newel and the two friends began a game of mumble-peg in the damp soil. Retta waited half an hour, but Ed did not appear. Ten anxious moments were added to the half hour. Still no Ed in sight. She stirred up the little campfire to keep the fish warm. She walked forth and back under the arbor. Growing restless, she climbed a tree for diversion. "I'll just await him here, and he'll wonder what's become of me." When she came down from the tree she was much relieved to see Mrs. Mecham coming toward her, crocheting as she walked. Retta welcomed her and she prolonged her visit as much as possible. Mrs. Mecham was glad of the change, as she wished not to disturb baby Robert's nap by chattering over him. Not until the child's own voice gave the signal of awakening did she retrace her footsteps toward him. It was half past two o'clock when Retta started toward the spring to find Ed. As she neared the spot two men from under the trees lifted their boisterous voices in greeting. The girl's quick glance fell upon four empty wine flasks piled against the tree. The loquacious, unsteady voices of the two friends made her instantly aware of what had taken place. Angered and disappointed, Retta turned back. She would go and pack the untouched luncheon into the basket. (What a patient Griselda she had been!) She hastened her steps, but alas a hungry dog had watched his chance, and during her absence, had made a feast of the meal, leaving not a morsel. At sight of the dog's muddy footprints on her dainty table linen, Retta sat down and wept. A far-off peal of thunder caused her to look up. "Oh, I hope a storm isn't brewing! How on earth will we get home? Ed is in no condition to handle the oars." She placed the tablecloth and forks and spoons in the basket, then hastened down to the boat at the river's edge. "You seem to be troubled about something. May I help you?" asked the alert, dark-eyed young man who had charge of the boats. 538 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Yes," answered Retta in low tone. I need help. Someone must help me and so I?ll turn to you. "Will you please go with me to the spring and help me induce Ed Hale to come down and get into the boat. Do hurry! I want to get him away from here before too many of his friends find out. He's been drinking wine and more wine and more wine ?Oh, I can't tell you all!" "I understand," answered Herman. "Say no more about it." By skillful maneuvering Retta and Herman enticed Ed to walk between them down toward the mooring. Here Herman took a robe and a cushion and made a bed in the floor of the boat. Little by little, Retta persuaded Ed to get into the boat and lie down for a nap. This done she seated herself in one end of the boat and took an oar. Herman unlocked the boat and pushed out into the middle of the stream, meanwhile assuring Retta that she would reach home before many of her friends found out Ed's folly. Hide it she would for her own sake and Ed's! "You manage the boat so well," said Retta to Herman. "Of course I try to do the best I can, Miss Lee," answered the young man; "but I have my limitation," glancing down at his helpless right hand. Retta's eyes spoke truest sympathy as she replied, "You are surely patient and brave through it all. May I ask the cause of your affliction?" "T cannot explain," said Herman, "without involving a friend who has been very good to me all his life. It was his mistake, and for the sake of his good name, I hold it a secret." "That's hard to do, isn't it?" asked Retta. "Not so hard," answered Herman, ''when one bears in mind that a weak character is oftentimes more dangerous than a wicked one."; "Oh? You don't mean to say that?" "Yes, Miss Lee, I mean exactly that. One doesn't trust a wicked man, but it is easy to forgive the weakling and trust him again and again." "I suppose you are right," mused Retta sadly. In that same interval a mourning dove uttered its sweet and plaintive cry from the river bank. Its song almost broke Retta's heart. Even the wild rose hedges seemed unsmiling and drooping and stricken with blight. When the boat finally landed, Ed was able to get out and walk toward home. "Goodbye, Retta,"' he said sadly. "Goodbye, Ed." There were tears in Retta's eyes, for she felt that this was indeed the last goodbye. She was not surprised to receive next morning this message from Ed: ED'S DELUSION 539 "T know I acted the part of a contemptible fool, Retta. I don't ask you to forgive me this time. Confound it all! What made me taste that wine? Words cannot express the disgust I feel toward myself, and I know full well that I've made myself forever odious in your sight." To this letter Retta made no reply. Words failed her and her emotions were too conflicting to be trustworthy. Besides, Ed was aware of his over-powering appetite, his pathetic infirmity of will. Oh, but wasn't he paying in regret, remorse, chagrin and self torture? Weeks passed. No word from Retta to Ed. No further message from Ed to Retta. Neither made the least attempt to break silence. Secretly Ed was very grateful to Retta for having kept his folly hidden. It gave him a better standing in the neighborhood. Folks had confidence in him still. Although he had one more year to complete his course at the medical college, his near and dear friends would occasionally call for his assistance in case of emergency. He dressed Edwin Brown's hand when his fingers were crushed in the pulley. He bandaged Jay Hendrick's sprained ankle and helped to set Gene Francom's leg. And it was with a heart throb of pride that Retta heard these things related. "Dear Ed! He may win out yet," she told herself. Naturally Ed avoided Herman. It annoyed him to feel that this simple Swiss immigrant boy had shown himself Ed's superior in the eyes of Retta. Ed would not willingly meet Herman again. No; not under the most favorable conditions. It happened one evening when Ed called to leave a book at the home of a soldier who had lost his eyesight in the late World War, he found Herman there reading to him. "Go right on, Herman," requested Ed, seeing him pause as if to lay aside the book. So he continued the lesson. It was a French text and Herman translated it phrase by phrase and sentence by sentence. When the lesson was finished, Herman, much to Ed's relief, said goodbye and left the two friends alone. "How often does he help you?" "An hour each evening." "You're fortunate," answered Ed. "Herman knows his Latin, too, and that thoroughly." "But I understand he has a physical defect," remarked the blind student. "His right hand, I believe.": "Yes, through an accident. I don't know the details; but if I had to change places with Herman I'm afraid I should curse the fate that heaped upon me so cruel a handicap." "Oh, there are worse things," replied the blind student, "Forgive me, friend," said Ed feelingly. "I spoke with considerable warmth. But Herman's case seems to haunt me for 540 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE some reason. Perhaps it's because I've seen his struggles?always fitting himself into a niche for service?elevator boy, janitor, usher, guide, assistant night clerk. And he has real ability could he but rise to a particular calling wherein his handicap need not figure." The phone rang. A voice of frenzied alarm cried:.. "Ts this you, Ed?" "Yes, Retta. What's wanted?" "Oh, Ed, come! It's my little brother. He's eaten a wild parsnip and is in a convulsion." Ed was soon in the Lee home beside Retta working over little Bob. "If he should die," cried Retta, "how would I tell mother? She left him in my care?she left him in my care." Ed worked rapidly. His calm presence lent strength to Retta. Although an agonizing period to her, within fifteen minutes little Bobbie was relieved and Ed said that he was out of imminent danger. Retta's joy knew no bounds. "I want to hold him, Ed." So Ed lifted the little boy from the bed and placed him tenderly in Retta's arms. What a picture of gratitude she was as she sat beaming upon Ed while she nestled little brother close. "Don't leave yet," said Retta. I shan't feel safe about him with you gone." This entreaty fell like sweetest music upon the ears of Ed, and a wave of protective tenderness surged through his heart. "I'll stay with you until you feel entirely at ease about him," said Ed. Ed did not leave until past midnight and he promised to call again first thing in the morning. The forenoon visit was thrillingly happy. Little Bobbie was up and playing marbles in the front yard. Ed and Retta sat engaged in blissful conversation while they watched his play. The occasion seemed to revive all their once fond happiness. In the course of the hour they planned a party for Retta's birthday the following Thursday. "And I'll come extra early," said Ed, "to help you with the pantomime." So Retta began at once with the preliminary details of her birthday party. While she worked, her heart sang a wondrous love-rhapsody. Ed had made a new resolve and was not going to disappoint her any more. His golden promises made Retta's future shine "like leaves and flowers and strawberries a growing on one vine." Thursday came and Retta marked the place cards and matched the silver, all the time thinking how Ed had offered to come early ED'S DELUSION 541 in order to help her stage the dear little pantomime. He had stressed this promise and how she counted on it! _The first arrivals at the party were Nell and Walter. Such early comers they! Was it to their credit to be so punctual, Retta wondered. A few minutes later Phyllis and Ralph, John and Margaret, and Louis and Helen arrived in Ralph's car. Such a merry bunch! Their laughter echoed through the room as they chatted in gay confusion., Herman next. He came alone. How genially he bowed to the assembled guests. Retta welcomed him warmly, all the time feeling what a slight return was her hospitality compared with the great way in which he had befriended Ed. A sudden summer shower seemed to hasten the arrival of the other guests. Retta was greeting them one and all, when an agitated voice whispered in her ear. 'Land sakes, child, why don't you have your company set up to the table?" "Is it time to eat, Polly?" "Time to eat! Why child, I've been standin' ready to dish the victuals the last half hour. The dinner will spoil if you wait much longer." "We'll commence at once," said Retta, glancing at her watch. "You're right, Polly. We are half an hour late. I'll have them seated presently." Once more Retta stepped onto the porch and looked up the street. Ed wasn't in sight. "How can I lead out at this dinner without Ed? Won't it look awkward for a hostess at a formal dinner party to be without "Come on, Retta. Don't delay the dinner," called out Polly. A bright idea entered Retta's mind. She walked over to Herman.:, In a moment it was arranged and Herman was seated beside the hostess. No sooner had dinner commenced than the phone rang. "Ed insists on speaking to you," said Retta's aunt. So the young hostess, much perplexed, left her guests. "Hello, Retta. This you?" came in loud, garrulous tones from Ed. "Say, Retta, is it tomorrow or next day that your party's coming off? Is that so? Well, I've got it all mixed up. Why didn't I make a note of it? Confound the luck." So selfish and unapologetic was Ed that Retta hung up the receiver with a bang. How it relieved her feelings that the telephone was in Grandma's room, two doors from the dining room. No one had heard a word. She would dismiss the affair from. Her mind and try, with Herman's aid, to make a complete success of the evening. 542 - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE But in a few moments the phone rang again and Aunt Louise, covered with embarrassment, summoned Retta the second time to leave her guests. "Retta," said Ed, "I'm all ready but I can't find my car. It's, lot in the garage. What am Ito do? Oh, say, that reminds me,.. [ believe I left it in Newel's front yard. Yes, I've been out for a lark with Newel. Great time we had! Say, Retta, I'll be there - after a while. I'll go and get?" "Never mind, Ed. Never mind. Don't hurry, whatever you - do." Thus finishing the conversation, Retta calmed her inner feelings as best she could and brightened her face with a forced' smile as she returned to the table. She found her guests laughing merrily. "You missed a fine story," whispered Ralph. Herman soon told another one equally good. As the dinner progressed Retta felt relieved and glad. She resolutely pushed into the background her dismay concerning Ed, and determined to be gay and gracious to all. Instead of the pantomime, Retta asked Herman to introduce a Swiss folk dance. It's novelty charmed the dancers and they repeated it again and again from sheer delight. Ad On viewless wings the hours passed, and at last, when nearly everyone had gone home, Herman lingered by the door to bid his charming hostess goodbye. His look was eloquence itself as he said in his simple way, "Retta, you've been more than kind to me tonight." Peering at Retta and Herman from a car parked near the front yard, was a darkly frowning face. "So the withered hand is going to reach out and take Retta away from me?" growled Ed under his breath. "I'll wait for him on the corner of Center and First West, and when I get his eye, I'll make his duty clear to him.". So Ed watched for Herman on the corner. An appalling traffic jam, yet he was easily identified pacing along with the. Others. A rumbling truck rounding the corner?a mother's anguished scream for her child, and then Ed saw Herman leap in front of the truck, snatch the baby boy and hurl him toward his mother. It was all over within the twinkling of an eye. A huge policeman stooped and gathered Herman tenderly in his arms. * "Here! Here!" cried Ed. "Bring him to my car. I'll see that he's taken care of." Half an hour later, Herman lay with bandaged head in a clean, white hospital cot. Ed hovered over him with ceaseless vigilance.; "I guess I'm pretty much done for," said Herman to Ed. ED'S DELUSION 543 "Oh, you'll be better soon," said Ed, although he knew full well the hopelessness of Herman's condition. "In case I'm not, I'd like you to take a message to your sweetheart for me." "Tell me, Herman." "She's one person to whom I'm willing to explain the cause of my afflicted right hand." "Yes, Herman, go on if you can," whispered Ed. "It came about through an accident acquired at my birth." "At your birth?" "Yes, Ed. The doctor, though a good man, had a notion that drinking a little wine once in a while wouldn't hurt him. The night I was born this doctor had attended a wine wedding. He left the wedding and came directly to my mother's bedside unfit for his serious task. In ushering me into the world, he somehow did permanent injury to my right hand. I've really never cared to speak of it to anyone, but Retta wished to know for herself. So just tell her that it was all through the mistake of a good man who thought that a little wine once in a while wouldn't hurt him." There was silence in the room for many moments, broken at length by a low sob from Ed. "Ts that all I'm to tell her, Herman?" "Yes, Ed." And in that moment Ed knew, by the invincible surmise of his soul, that the withered hand had reached out and saved him from himself. Harvest By Vesta Pierce Crawford This day I have been harvesting. In my gorgeous gleanings here Behold the colors of a painted year, I walked beneath a bannered tree And passed by flaunted field; I touched a blazing flower face And plucked from heavy vine, With Autumn walked and made her colors mine. Health Work ln the Schools By David H. Fowler Three million persons is the number authoritatively given as the average sick list for this country. To this number, I judge that we could conservatively add as many more who are somewhat ailing, but are still "holding down" jobs or attending to daily work; not sick enough to go to bed, yet dare not. Stop work. Many of them cannot afford either to say or to think they are out of health. Thus, 6,000,000 people in the United States are not enjoying good health. Placing our population at 150,000,000, which: perhaps is high, and allowing the usual five to the family, gives 30,000,000 families affected by lack of health. Do you see what this means? As we count homes along any street, city, or country, every fifth house or apartment contains a person suffering from some kind of ill health. To draw a pessimistic picture is useless unless it leads us to face the facts?with a remedy in view. Wise men tell' us that the first step in solving a problem is to face the facts, however disagreeable. Ly The net of man's experience since the dawn of history, shows him that while his body is a marvelously tough machine, adjustable and adaptable to an amazing degree, yet it is in some respects a delicate mechanism. Nature has had a hard task to develop a body that will withstand all the conditions to which some people subject themselves. In the second place, there are hereditary tendencies to certain physical weaknesses in some human beings, accentuated by a low state of health of the mother during the period of gestation. So there are two good reasons why a few common-sense health habits cannot be ignored without paying the price. The price is as fearful as our opening paragraph suggests. How we pay and when, was suggested to the writer by the large number of people we hear complaining of some chronic physical ill in middle life. That it is then, for many of them, too late to act, redoubles the tragedy of it. There is one time for every parent to think this thing through and to get ready to guide each child away from the dark, grey road these six million travel. That is before the child's birth. The best time for health-habit forming is from birth to school age. Since much of it is left to the schools, the kindergarten teacher must begin on it at once, by simple HEALTH WORK IN THE SCHOOLS. 545 "health chores", which are expanded somewhat as the learner goes from grade to grade. What these simple "health chores" are is common knowledge to parents. If carrying-them out as a program equaled this knowledge, this article never would have come to a publisher's desk. Some parents have for years had a close view of the Modern Crusaders' Health Chores for children, for the reason that some school districts have been guided by superintendents with a clear vision of what is of first value to school children and with moral courage to make this health work really "fasten upon" the pupils' minds. In the hands of each eight-year-old is placed a score card, with his name on it, which really represents an expansion of the program of simple health practices given to six-year-olds or to five-year-olds. The card looks like this, with spaces added at the right for the record of four weeks: Daily Chores 1. I washed my hands before each meal today. 2. I brushed my teeth thoroughly. 3. I tried hard to keep fingers and pencils out of my mouth and nose. 4. I carried a clean handkerchief. 5. I drank three glasses of water, but no tea nor coffee. 6. I tried to eat only wholesome food including vegetables and fruit. 7. I drank slowly two glasses of milk. 8. I went to toilet at regular time. 9. I played outdoors or with windows open a half hour. 10. I was in bed eleven or more hours last night, windows open. 11. I had a complete bath on each day of the week that is checked (x). Total number each day
Each morning the child scores himself for yesterday. Teacher and parents survey his scoring. The program widens each year till the sixth grade is finished or till these "chores" are confirmed as habits.
In Grade Five the score card reads thus:
Daily Chores
1. Besides my hands, I washed my face, ears, and neck. I combed or brushed my hair today.
2. I cleaned my teeth after breakfast and the evening meal, brushing front, back, and chewing surfaces of all teeth.
3. I did not use a "common" cup or towel. I coughed or spit only when necessary and was careful to protect others.
546 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
4. I was careful to keep myself and my desk neat, and helped keep the whole school and grounds in order.
5. I drank four glasses of water and no tea, coffee, nor any harmful drinks. I did not wash my food down.
6. I chewed my food thoroughly, ate slowly and did not run soon after meals.
7. I ate either some beans, eggs, cheese, fish or meat at one meal. I ate watery vegetables or fruit.
8. I attended to toilet at my regular time, and washed my hands afterwards.
9. I tried to keep good posture and to breathe fresh air always, through my nose.
10. I was in bed ten or more hours last night, windows open. I stretched out "long" when waiting for sleep.
11. I took a full bath on each day of the week that is checked (x). I put on clean underwear at least once this week. Total number each day
Now comes the test as to whether the children are going to "grow into" life-time habits that bring steady health and zest for life, or whether these health seeds fall on stony ground. That test is: Does the teacher in every school room of those tender grades make a daily check-up of each pupil's score card and let it be known by all that she makes such checkup? If that is done and done through the early years, the child grows into a natural, common-sense way of living, which steers him away from the physical ills that bite so deeply into middle age. When these few simple health practices are confirmed as habits in the youngster, he or she attends to them automatically and even experiences distress of mind if something blocks the way, if only for once, of doing one of them. And since they come to be attended to automatically, there is no danger of ailments that arise from turning the mind back upon the bodily organs. It is often so turned in middle life, when a carelessly treated body, beginning to protest, painfully fights back.
The teacher's daily check-up of these "health chores" is vitalized and reinforced by frequent discussions with her class of the whys and wherefores of each point in them. With stories, poster-making, games and dramatizations, she amplifies in interesting style and popularizes the whole matter. Individual examinations of children by the school nurse, and the correction of their defects by a physician when her findings reveal it necessary, is the other wing of the bluebird of physical happiness.
For a school head to engineer a program like this takes both vision and moral courage. He cannot go into it half-
HEALTH WORK IN THE SCHOOLS 547
heartedly; yet to arouse teachers to full cooperation requires energy and enthusiasm. By a hundred devices he must educate his public. And here comes the test of his courage: The mass of the public, inclined to resist all change, hug delusively what is and fight all efforts to introduce what ought to be. Among the people, however, there is ever a sprinkling of the more enlightened public. These form the nucleus of the forward-looking educators' strength, acting as the first-line defense. The work is accomplished when educators themselves see clearly and are willing to devote vast energy to their work.
Dr. Cabot, national authority, suggests that the best book on health is the short one. Anyone, child or adult, can learn the few simple things about it that need to be learned; and it cannot be much trouble to carry them out. I imagine that every person already lives some of these habits. All one needs to do is to start with the others. For anyone to clutter up his mind with a great number of faddish rules of health will slow down his work. Such a course diverts the mind upon the body?a condition that breeds ill health. The main idea is, whatever your age, start today on this little common-sense program and stick to it.
Gay October By Jessie Sundwall
All red and gold comes gay October dancing, With magic gifts her basket running o'er, She scatters wide a gorgeous trail of color, And leaves her ripened fruit beside my door.
She clears the air of summer's heavy sweetness, That we may see a sky of brighter blue; She filters tinkling waters for the brooklet, And sends it sparkling on to us anew.
So crisp and fresh comes gay October dancing; The morning's frosty breath is here to stay; Then greet the golden harvest month in passing; Too soon alas, October hies away.
THE GARDEN
Ramona's Marriage Place
Beauty and Romance of Ramona's Marriage Place By Glen Perrins
Nestled in the quiet center of Old Town, the very beginning of California, established in 1769, lies the picturesque and romantic mission, "Ramona's Marriage Place." It was here that the brown-robed Franciscan, Juniper Serra, planted the cross and erected the first of the chain of twenty-one missions which dot El Camino Real, the King's Highway, from San Diego to Sonoma.
What a beautiful spot! Thomas P. Getz, the owner, says:
"There's a certain charm about it, With its flowers and the bees, That seems to rest your spirit And set your heart at ease.
It brings back fond old memories, That time cannot efface, And you feel that God is smiling On 'Ramona's Marriage Place.'"
Years ago the sleepy little hamlet Old Town did not realize the romance and sentiment attached to Ramona's Marriage Place, but that was before Mrs. Helen Hunt Jackson wrote the throbbing love story, "Ramona," so filled with life and sympathy. The story sent a thrill around the world. The old church with the first Mission Bells brought from Spain, became well known and appreciated over night. The palm trees, the old graveyard, with
RAMONA'S MARRIAGE PLACE 549
THE WISHING WELL Ramona's Marriage Place
crumbling walls and faded wooden headboards, became famous. Everyone wanted to see the first brick house in Southern California. Old Town became a beauty spot resplendent. Tourists by the hundreds stopped and have since stopped each year to see the wonderful marriage place of Ramona, where she and Allessandro, her Indian sweetheart, were married in the old chapel near the Plaza in Old Town, San Diego.
The front of Ramona's Marriage Place occupies the entire block and each wing is almost 100 feet long. The adobe house with its thick walls rests upon huge timbers bound together with rawhide thongs. "Built originally in 1825 by Don Jose Antonio Estudillo, a pure Castilian, whose family was prominent in California Mission history," says Mr. Getz, "it became the favorite gathering place for the culture and refinement of Southern California and the generosity and hospitality of the Estudillos made
THE FOUNTAIN Ramona's Marriage Place
550 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
them beloved by all. * * * The tender tradition of Ramona's marriage, which had taken place within this house, never departed from it."
The beautiful story of Ramona has cast a spell over the place. The Patio or courtyard shelters beautiful yellow acacia, olive and pepper trees, shrubbery, climbing vines, roses and old fashioned flowers. Orange trees, lemon, loquat, fig, mulberry, guava, zapata, and Catilia cherry trees all blossom and fruit in season there.
One of the beauty spots in Ramona's marriage place is the wishing well. At this romantic place thousands of tourists each year drink of the sparkling waters, toss a coin into the well, and wish. It is said that many of the wishes are granted. The goddess of Good Luck extends her best and choicest favors to travelers at Ramona's Marriage Place. A grape vine, grown from a
THE SPANISH OVEN Ramona's Marriage Place
RAMONA'S MARRIAGE PLACE 551
cutting taken from the grave of Napoleon at St. Helena, twines about the arbor, always green. In the museum rooms at Ramona's Marriage Place are hundreds of quaint old relics of the past?Indian prayer sticks, bead work and statuettes, autographed letters, curios, etc. One also gets a glimpse in the garden of the "Caretta" of Broad Wheeled Mexican wagon over 200 years old, and also of the old Spanish bake oven.
On a slab of redwood in the garden some unknown poet has written:
TO RAMONA
The world may burn, the sun may quench Its fiery splendor in some vast celestial sea; The moon and stars may fade, like love of fickle jade; It matters not, so long as I have thee.
Prayer By Claire Stewart Boyer
Prayer may ride on the Autumn wind And miss the gates of heaven; But to the kneeling one it gives A sort of leaven.
Prayer may stifle in a room Too suffocant for peace; But to the one whose lips move on It brings release.
And whether prayer sing in the heart of a king, Or whether a fool make plea, To each is left that blessed boon? A true humility.
Prayer may ride on the Winter wind, Nor reach the gates above; But to the soul that prays is born New hope, new love.
Tea and Coffee By Harold L. Snow
Let us be strict in our abstinence from drinking tea and coffee, as well as in our observance of the Word of Wisdom generally. When we study the situation, we may be able to see why Brigham Young made the "advice" given us by the Lord through the eighty-ninth section of the Doctrine and Covenants a "law" of the Church.
We probably then will quite willingly accept that good fatherly advice given us by One who sees so much better than we can what is good for us and just what is not. A pure body and a clean mind are usually willing to make a little sacrifice for something that will draw them a step or two closer to that "Great Power for Good" which is our love for and testimony of the Lord.
Tea, coffee, alcohol, and tobacco, along with failure to pay tithing, may all be compared to little worms that gradually eat away the strong foundation of our testimony that the gospel is true. So here are a few facts concerning the effects of tea and coffee on the human body, to show that both are harmful to the system, just as the Lord suggested in the Word of Wisdom. No; they are not so bad as some of the stronger poisons; but they are injurious to our health and longevity, not to mention their effects on character development. If a person leads a normal life and is able to master his temper, artificial stimulants will not be necessary to make him "be himself," nor to act as a consolation factor whenever disappointed or depressed.
The drug caffein contained in coffee is present in amounts varying from one to two percent. The ordinary cup of coffee contains from one and a half to three grains of the drug. This is as much as the physician gives as a dose of medicine in many cases to people whose sickness requires caffein to offset some physical depression. Because of the increase in blood pressure resulting from the caffein, coffee should be absolutely forbidden people who have hardening of the arteries, a disease occasionally present in those past middle age. Coffee does, for a time, brace one up for working. But the work is paid for with interest by the tearing down of important organs of the body. One of the first questions asked a nervous individual when taking a physical examination is "Do you drink coffee or tea?"
As far as the stomach is concerned, coffee is not so injurious as tea, which also contains caffein in addition to a greater supply of tannin than is in coffee. Especially when there is an over-
TEA AND COFFEE 553
acidity of the stomach they should be avoided. In general, coffee is decidedly injurious in affections of the stomach.
Personally, I have never drunk a cup of tea nor coffee in my life: about twenty-five years. I am thoroughly convinced of the fact that tea and coffee are meant for medicines, and that the habitual use of them makes drug addicts of us to a certain degree. Besides the ill effects of habit-formation which go with the drinking of tea or coffee, there is the unnecessary stimulation along with various other evil effects which are called by some the "wear and tear" on the body. These effects result not only from the caffein, but also from the tannin and other constituents of tea and coffee. In the case of us Latter-day Saints all these and other bad effects are bundled up together with the breaking of a religious principle. We have a good gospel. Let us try hard to live it, not only in regard to some but according to all the principles which have been given to us.
Message and Characters of the Book of Mormon
We are gratified to welcome another book intended to extend appreciation for the Book of Mormon. It comes at an opportune time and is a fitting contribution to mark the centenary of the publication of the book. In a sense it is the story of the Book of Mormon with some of its divine teachings, told through its characters, therefore is very properly entitled, Message and Characters of the Book of Mormon. It is told in modern English, and grips the reader with its fascinating style. The task is not an easy one; consequently we congratulate the author, John Henry Evans, on his signal success.
A thing worthy of note is the fact that the spirit of the book has been preserved. It emphasizes what is perhaps the most important message in the Book of Mormon?the testimony that Jesus is the Christ, which all the prophets bear witness to. Each chapter opens with a story or a bit of philosophy that adds to the interest of the chapter. As an example, we include the following from Chapter Thirteen:
"Hold a fresh lily to your eye and examine its wonders?its white purity, its exquisite outlines, its delicate tracings that no human hand can ever hope to match. And yet all this rich beauty has been made out of mud and slime that gives you a shudder just to look at it. Through the fine arteries of that long, tender stem shooting up out of the still water, in silence and without effort,
554 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
that filth has been lifted up and been transformed into a thing of incomparable loveliness.
"It is often so in human life. Good may be got out of everything?provided we have a transformer inside us. A lightning stroke that killed his companion made Martin Luther a monk. The ridiculous shoutings and other emotional antics of a religious revival turned Joseph Smith's thoughts to God. And the horrible murder of the Prophet Abinadi awoke in one of Noah's priests a conscience that stirred up great masses to religious devotion. Truly, the blood of a martyr is the seed of the Church, as has been proved over and over again in the history of the world.
"This chapter, therefore, is to tell of one of these wonder-working miracles in the human heart, which have often been known to transform a man into something that surpasses even the splendor of the lily."
The titles of the chapters have a modern smack and add to the interest of the book; for example, "Two Thousand Boy Scouts," "A Nephite Iago." We wish to say something about the mechanics of the book. It is one of the very finest books from a mechanical standpoint ever turned from the press by a local author. It is a beautiful book, bound in brown leather, with a full size statue of the Angel Moroni in gold and a gilded representation of the plates upon the cover. The paper and print are of excellent quality; they are soft to the eyes, making easy reading. It is a source of gratification to have a book issued in such thoroughly artistic form. It should be said in passing that the drawings illustrating ancient American culture and civilization are the work of John Henry Evans, Jr.
When the Sun is Blotted Out
A total eclipse of the sun is a rare sight, indeed; scientists often travel halfway around the earth to observe the phenomenon, which seldom lasts, in any one spot, more than four or five minutes. It is an awesome spectacle to watch the sun disappear, to become aware of darkness shrouding the landscape, to see the stars "come out," and to be startled by the flaming corona of the sun?the blazing gases that fling themselves out into space beyond the black disc that hides the sun itself.
In an eclipse the sun fails. Primitive peoples become afraid thinking perhaps some god has been offended and has blotted out the sun forever. Indeed, the very word eclipse suggests this failing, for, according to Webster's New International Dictionary, it comes from the Greek for "a forsaking, failing." When the sun forsakes the earth in an eclipse scientists quiver with expectancy and excitement while the ignorant tremble in mortal alarm.
Notes From the Field
Northcentral States Mission
A most interesting report of the Relief Society activities in the Northcentral States Mission reached the office shortly after the release of President John G. and Sister Allred. Accompanying the letter was a fine photograph of the Minneapolis Branch Relief Society.
MINNEAPOLIS BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY Northcentral States Mission
Sister Allred writes: "I wish to acknowledge the hearty cooperation and help that we have received from the district presidents and lady missionaries. Sometimes I think that without their support and wise counsel we could scarcely have carried on, especially where numbers were few. All of these branches in the last four years have held bazaars, food sales, and in many other ways have worked hard to acquire funds. The Minneapolis and St. Paul, as also the Winnipeg sisters, have put on plays and pageants.
"I am pleased to report that our Magazine subscriptions have increased from 51 in 1925, to 95 in 1928. We hear many good things about the Magazine, and find that those who take it are the ones who best appreciate the lesson work. The new theology lessons have been very much enjoyed, as also the literary lessons and social service."
The mission was organized in 1925, the membership steadily increasing. In the larger cities summer work has been tried, but so many members go on vacations or move into the country for
556 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the summer that it has been scarcely worthwhile. During the year 1928, Sister Allred visited and held conferences in all the branch Relief Societies. There are nine branches in the mission. All are in good working order, being led by capable and efficient women who have a warm testimony of the gospel.
"In closing I would like to express my joy and satisfaction in being able to help in this work. It has been a great pleasure to mingle with the sisters and to help out whenever I could. It is unnecessary to say that with genuine regrets I am leaving many wonderful people. However, we are ready to welcome Sister Welling; and I am sure that every sister in the mission will sustain the splendid work of the Relief Society."
Northwestern States Mission
A letter from Sister Pearl C. Sloan, mission president, says: "We are very proud of the work of this Relief Society, of which we are sending the picture.
MISSOULA BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY Northwestern States Mission
With one exception every member of the Missoula, Montana, Relief Society is on the picture; the sister who is not there was ill at the time.
"We have had an unusual year's work, and are looking forward with pleasure to the next season."
In Missoula, Montana, a Relief Society was organized October 31, 1928. There are 27 members of this organization, the picture of which appears, and 26 out of the 27 are subscribing for
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 557
the Magazine. "We are happy to have the Book of Mormon for the theology lessons next season, and feel that it will help us greatly in the missionary work. Members of the various Relief Societies are planning to read the Book of Mormon during their vacation. The Kelso, Washington, Relief Society is offering a prize of a year's subscription to the Relief Society Magazine, to the first sister finishing the reading of the Book of Mormon."
Northern States Mission
News from still another one of our progressive missions: Sister Allie Y. Pond writes: "On July 28, we had a conference with four of our districts at Nauvoo, Illinois. It was a wonderful gathering?something I shall never forget."
Throughout this mission the benefit of the Relief Society to young mothers has been stressed.
YOUNG MOTHERS University Branch, Northern States Mission
"The enclosed picture is a photograph of the young mothers, and is evidence that the efforts of the leaders in this branch have been most successful."
Juab Stake
On June 25, 1929, with appropriate exercises in the tabernacle, the Juab stake commemorated the organization of the Relief Society. Members from all parts of the stake and General Board representatives were in attendance.
558 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
A movement is now actively under way to exterminate the flies in this community. The campaign is sponsored by the Juab stake Relief Society. A committee consisting of Mrs. Itha B. Parkes and Mrs. Ethel C. Gadd, has taken the responsibility of having fly traps made and sold to the citizens at a minimum cost. With the assistance of the Boy Scouts, a number of effective traps have been constructed, and it is planned to have enough to supply all the homes of the city. As an indication of the interest and support of the citizens in this movement, at the initial display of the trap, orders were given for the entire supply now ready for distribution. The campaign to rid the community of flies is meeting with gratifying cooperation from citizens in all walks of life.
Lehi Stake
On July 9, 1929, under the direction of the Lehi stake Relief Society, an enthusiastic group of sisters met at the Lehi Fifth ward chapel to celebrate the stake's first birthday. A program, excellent in drama and music, was provided. An outstanding feature of the afternoon was a history given of the Lehi Relief Society, beginning with its temporary organization in 1865, up to the present time. A cut glass vase full of choice roses was presented to eleven of the fourteen surviving members of the permanent organization, effected October 27, 1867, under the direction of Sisters Eliza R. Snow and Sarah Kimball. A color scheme of white and gold was carried out. After luncheon an exhibit of the handwork done by the Relief Society members was opened for the public.
Sunflowers By Kate Thomas
Down on West Temple just above Third South In some garage place there's a bunch of gold That gleams as fair as any pirates' hoard Grilled on the rock of any barren isle.
Sunflowers! Sunflowers! Happy yellow things Flirting with gay old Sol; bowing to his whims As lord of day and flattering his conceit, But never caring really; just glad.
There with the line of junk shops, dirty bricks, (The moulders of a city seldom know The glory of a street they let run down!) They send their broad smile through the smoke and filth.
One could not pass without an answering smile, Oh, truly, sunflowers know just where to grow.
Guide Lessons for December
LESSON 1
Theology and Testimony. (First Week in December)
BOOK OF MORMON
Lesson 3: TEACHINGS OF JACOB, LEHI'S SON
1. This lesson, which centralizes thought and discussion on the teachings of Jacob, son of Lehi, covers the Book of Mormon from page 70, chapter 5, to page 106, chapter 25.
I. Narrative.
1. The colony divides into (a) Nephites, and (b) Lamanites.
2. Conditions of Nephites. (a) Distance (many days). (b) From tents to buildings. (c) Temple for worship. (d) Industries. (e) Religious life.
II. Doctrines Taught (chapters 9, 10).
1. The resurrection. (a) It is literal. (b) It has been taught often.
2. The Atonement of Christ. (a) Jesus is to appear among Jews. (b) Christ is God. (c) Resurrection is universal as the fall. (d) Atonement must be "infinite"; that is, divine.
3. The Spirit of Man. (a) There is a human spirit. (b) Spirit without a body subject to devil. (c) Spirit knows guilt or innocence after resurrection. (d) After resurrection men are "righteous" or "filthy" still.
4. Qualities of God. (a) Righteousness. (b) Mercy. (c) Justice.
5. Woes pronounced upon. (a) The "learned" in things of this world only. (b) The rich in things of this world only.
560 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
(c) The deaf as to things of God. (d) The blind as to things of God. (e) The liar. (f) Those who "commit whoredom." (g) The idolators. 6. Invitation to come to Christ.
2. The words of Jacob, found especially in chapters 9 and 10, constitute a very remarkable exposition of doctrines, one of the finest we have in any sacred book. Also it is remarkable in some of its ways of putting these teachings. To summarize its ideas, we have there the idea that there is a human spirit distinct from the body; that this spirit will, after death, be reunited with the body literally; that Jesus Christ is God and will offer himself for sin; that the atonement must be by some divine person in order to be efficacious; that God has devised a "plan" for the salvation of man, through which are shown His mercy, justice, and goodness; that this plan is free to all, "without money and without price;" that things of the spirit are not to be known through human learning, but only through revelation.
Jacob is here speaking not from information derived from reading books, but from absolute knowledge derived from experience. He says himself that an angel appeared to him and taught him divine things, and Nephi tells us that "Jacob also has seen him [the Lord] as I have seen him." Here then is the unadulterated testimony of one who is a witness of the things concerning which he speaks.
In these days when everybody thinks himself competent to speak of spiritual matters?heaven and hell, angels and devils, the human soul and immortality, God and Jesus Christ?too much emphasis cannot be placed on this matter of the source of knowledge of divine things. For there is a distinction between what we experience and what we read, between mere information and knowledge. When a person has experienced religious truth, he is competent to talk about religious truth, and not otherwise. This would rule out such persons as Clarence Darrow, Luther Burbank, and others when they tell us that there is no human spirit or a future world, because they are telling us what they think, not what they know through experience. And this distinction cannot be called to the attention of our younger generation too often. Because a man is an authority in law or biology or what not is no reason why his utterances are of any value on religion.
3. One of the chapters quoted in the lesson from the Prophet Isaiah includes that oft-repeated phrase about "beating swords into plowshares and spears into pruning hooks." Professor Moulton says about this passage in Isaiah in its whole setting: "Quite apart from any question of theology, it may be said that no more precious legacy of thought has come down to us from antiquity than
GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 561
this Hebrew conception of a golden age to come. It is difficult to overestimate the bracing moral influence of an ideal future. The classical thought of Greece and Rome took an opposite course; their age of gold was in the remote past, the progress of time was a decline, and the riches of philosophy claimed to be no more than a precious salvage. The result was the moral paralysis of fatalism, or at best individualism. The imaginative pictures of Biblical prophecy inspire spiritual energy by bringing a future to work for, and, on the other hand, the weakness of a luxurious optimism is avoided in the writings of an author who, while he puts forth all his powers to exalt the future, insists always that the only way of entrance to this future is the forcible purging out of evil."?Introduction to Isaiah in the Modern Reader's Bible.
4. Of the thirty-five pages covered by the present lesson, twenty-one pages are quoted from Isaiah. The passages quoted are almost identical with those by that Prophet in our English Bible. Nephi and Jacob both, it seems, laid great store by Isaiah's writings, as also did our Savior when he visited the Nephites, after his resurrection. Nephi excuses himself for quoting so much from Isaiah by saying that "whoso of my people shall see these words, may lift up their hearts for all men," thus expressing exactly the same idea of "a bracing moral influence" just quoted from Professor Moulton. In all, sixteen chapters are thus included complete in the two Books of Nephi, besides isolated passages here and there. And Jesus in his personal ministry among the Nephites quotes one chapter, with the introductory clause, "Great are the words of Isaiah."
It appears that the mind of the average Nephite struggled as much as the average modern mind in its endeavor to understand the writings of the Prophet Isaiah. For Nephi explains that "Isaiah spoke many things which were hard for many of my people to understand." And he tells us why they found them hard to comprehend. It was because, having for the most part been born after Lehi and his party had left Jerusalem, "they knew not concerning the manner of prophesying among the Jews." This is the reason, in the main, why we also find the old prophets difficult, especially Isaiah. For one thing, the prophets were always more or less dramatic, as when Jeremiah went about the streets of Jerusalem with a common yoke on his neck to show his countrymen that the Babylonish king would take them captive. And for another thing, they often spoke of the future as if it were present, as when Isaiah, more than six hundred years before the event, says concerning Christ, "He is despised and rejected of men."
It is interesting also to note the striking difference between such a prophet as Isaiah and the Nephite writers when their proph-
562 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
ecies concern the same thing. Both Isaiah and Jacob, for instance, speak of the coming and the earthly ministry of Christ. But the language of the Hebrew prophet is highly figurative and imaginative, even poetic, while that of the Nephite is couched in homely, plain, understandable phrases, such as one person would use to another. The result is greater clarity in the latter, but greater beauty in the former. That is why the writings of Isaiah are prized today, for their expression almost as much as for their substance. It may, of course, be that this difference is due in part to the languages in which these two men wrote, but it was due most likely in the greater part to what Nephi calls "the manner of prophesying."
5. Recurring to the thought that Jacob is an expert in things of the spirit, we ought to add another thought in this lesson. It has become fashionable in certain quarters in our times to deny the existence of a personal devil, of angels, of a personal God even, as well as of a human spirit as a thing of itself. The best answer to such a teaching is to set beside these negative ideas, which admittedly have no basis at all in a spiritual experience, the very positive ideas of Jacob and men like him, who experienced the things they talk about. Experience is the only way in which we can really know anything. This has been said before, but it can hardly be said too often in days like ours when those who have no experience in spiritual matters talk as glibly and as loudly about religion as those who have had such experience. How then can a person without that experience expect to be seriously listened to when he tells us that there is no such being as a personal devil, or a personal God, or angels, or another life? The idea itself is negative, and you cannot of necessity experience what does not exist. About all one can really say in the situation is that one does not believe in these things; one cannot by any possibility know that they do not exist. Compare with this the absolute knowledge of Jacob in the text. He knew because he had experienced. He had seen God, he had been visited by angels, he had felt the power of the Holy Ghost. It was not guesswork with him, it was not a conjecture, nor the result of the reasoning processes; it was a knowledge based on experience. This knowledge any one can obtain for himself, just as Jacob received it. Indeed, Nephi makes a point of this. He had tried to get all his brothers to go to the Lord for confirmation of their father's visions, as he, Nephi, had done. And Jacob had followed Nephi's advice, and received knowledge direct from God.
QUESTIONS
1. What was the cause of division in the colony of Lehites? Tell some of the results of this division to both sections.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 563
2. Why is this text (chapters 9, 10) so remarkable? Who was Jacob? How did he get his knowledge of the things he spoke about?
3. What does he say of the human spirit, of the resurrection, of the atonement, of God, of the cost of salvation? What is meant by the term "plan" as applied to salvation? Does salvation cost anything?
4. What is the difference between "information" and "knowledge?" How do men obtain knowledge of spiritual truth? Why don't people have a right to speak of spiritual things when they have not had spiritual experience? Apply this thought to the scholars of our own day.
Give the substance of the quotation from Professor Moulton concerning Isaiah. Can you think of any ideas taught by our Church that furnish such a moral stimulus by looking forward? How can this forward look -be made more powerful in our lives today? 6. Contrast the teachings of the text and the ideas. That prevail today on the topics mentioned there. On what grounds would you place your preference for the Book of Mormon teachings respecting these points? LESSON II Work and Business (This topic is to be given at the special teachers' meeting the first week in December ) TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR DECEMBER: REVERENCE AND RESPECT. I. Reverence for God and-respect for worthiness in mankind are prerequisites for progress and perfection. ~ Real life rises no higher than the hah We. Grow like what we revere. II. Reverence is an unconditional fealty to some one completely worthy of respect and love. "It is an affection, a love, as positive, real, warm and imperative in its demands for activity, as the parental instinct." It is best expressed in prayer and service. III. Respect is a just regard for the worth of self and others. 564 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE It is the power of discerning and taking delight in what is beautiful in visible form, and lovely in human character; and, necessarily, striving to produce what is beautiful in form and to become what is lovely in character?Ruskin. It is best expressed in a clean personal life and in tolerance and sympathy for mankind. IV. Reverence and respect can be cultivated throughout life. Small children learn reverence and respect through learning obedience; being great imitators, they follow the example set by their elders. Adolescents are influenced chiefly by ideals worthy of reverence and respect. Adolescence is the period of hero-worship. Adults can cultivate reverence and respect in adolescents (1) by service to worthy causes, and (2) by themselves showing greater veneration for established customs and beliefs. V. Reverence and respect are part of our civic, religious, and personal life. Reverence is the chief joy and power of life?reverence for what is pure and bright in your own youth; for what is true and tried in. The age of others; for all that is gracious among the living, great among the dead and marvelous in the powers that cannot die.?Ruskin, The preamble to the Declaration of Independence recognizes a "decent respect for the opinions of mankind." Bacon says, "Cleanness of body was ever deemed to proceed from a due reverence to God." VI. Reverence and respect will lead to: Development of personality by emulation of high ideals. Support of worthy laws and customs. Tolerance and sympathy for humankind. Greater faith and satisfaction in obeying the laws of God. Copies of A Son of the Middle Border are now available at $1.00 each, postpaid. Orders should be addressed to Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. The lesson outline on A Son of the Middle Border is scheduled to appear in the November number of the Magazine. GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 565 LESSON III Literature (Third Week in December) AN AMERICAN IDYLL By Cornelia Stratton Parker Cornelia Stratton Parker, author of An American Idyll, was born in Oakland, California, September 1, 1885. She took her A, B. Degree from the University of California in 1907. She later did post-graduate work at the same university and at the University of Washington. In 1907 she married Carleton Hubbell Parker, who died March 17, 1918. They had three children, Carleton Hubbell, James Stratton, and Alice Lee. In 1919 Mrs. Parker moved, to New York, where she worked in factories in order to write for Harper's magazine articles on the factory worker. She also lectured on labor problems. In 1923-26 she went to Europe and lived in Geneva, Switzerland. She has written a number of interesting articles and books. Among these are: An American Idyll, 1919; ? Working with the Working Women, 1922; Ports and Happy Places, 1924; Jenny the Joyous, 1924, and other similar things. Her address is 140 Broadway, New York City. When Cornelia Stratton Parker set about the business of writing "The Life of Carleton H. Parker," her husband, which has been entitled An American Idyll, she did it, she says, because something within her urged her to it. She felt that the world, most of all their children, should know him from the many sides which made him, in her opinion, unique among men. At that time Cornelia Parker probably did not know that she was giving to the world the annals of an idyllic love which would so catch the imagination of the American people that the book would run through many editions. In this little book she has given to her readers a love story so sweet, so intimate, so true, that she has transcended fiction, proving that true romance does exist in the world of fact as well as in the world of fancy. A writer in The Chicago Evening Post wrote of the volume? "If you admire strong men and true; if you enjoy biography, if you like love stories, if naivete appeals to you, if a tale of happiness well told brings you pleasure, then this book belongs on your reading list. It is a book I have heard recommended a dozen times, but no one has been able to describe its charm or fascination." One year after the death of her husband, when success had crowned their labors and the world seemed theirs, Cornelia began the outpouring of this story of idyllic courtship and married life. 566 ' RELIEF.. SOCIETY MAGAZINE She seems to have opened the flood-gates of memory and to have allowed her soul to pour out through her pen into this little book. The story is so intimate that. One can easily understand Mrs. Parker's feelings when she learned that four thousand copies of her biography were to. Be issued by the Atlantic Monthly Press. "At that, I came down to earth with a thud," says she. "Four thousand people reading the very inner experiences of our lives! Why it was like these nightmares people have of appearing unclad in public. It was terrible. I had longed to pass on and perpetuate for a few the personality of a great man I knew and loved. But four thousand people?of that number so many would not understand, so many would lose the beauty and helpfulness I wanted to consecrate in the feeling that such things never should have been shared with others." Yet I believe she was right. Thousands will read, will understand, and will be helped by this idyllic companionship of a man and a woman. Somebody has said that words are little buckets which come up full of the feeling in the heart of the writer. Mrs. Parker's words came up full, indeed.: Here, again, we have a biography written by one who loved deeply. Therefore, we. See, naturally, only the Carleton Parker that his wife idolized. Occasionally she hints briefly of criticism others made of him; but before the criticism is really voiced, she rushes to his defense. In that, of course, as a biography, the book is faulty. The reader knows only one side of Carleton Parker: though, it is true, that is a fine, big, beautiful side. One wonders as he reads if the book does not reveal Mrs. Parker as fully as it does her husband, and if she, herself, isn't worthy of close acquaintanceship. Few wives would have taken the gambler's chances she did at the behest of the best of husbands. The wife, eager to preserve her husband's fame as a sociologist and a mediator, quotes occasionally from some of his papers; but it will not go. The reader hastens through to closing quotes, eager to see again the lover-husband.: If an idyll is 'a little picture," or if it is a naive, simple, pastoral love story, then in their case this is an idyll, for it surely is a little picture and just as surely it is a simple naive love story. Mrs. Parker makes no attempt to organize her. Subject matter, but seems to carry on the narrative in a chronological order much as the incidents must have come to her. One can hardly believe that such a courtship as is described in chapter three could have occurred in so short a time ago. It is refreshing to learn that a young lady can be courted on $10.25 or "any other cheap figure," and that she can enjoy such a courtship. Carleton H. Parker must, indeed, have been of unusual clay or else?Mrs.. Carleton Parker was. " GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 567 Chapter fifteen is especially delightful and might well be read by every married couple. It is the very idyll of the idyll. Few people have learned to live so well, for few people can so follow their hearts without wondering what the neighbors will say about them. Yes, the book has charm. The language is simple, direct, but full of feeling. It is as fresh and unconventional as the lives of the two young people it describes. In fact, Mrs. Parker breaks a number of rules of grammar and rhetoric occasionally?thank goodness?but always in the interest of charm. Through the medium of this romantic chronicle we come to know two genuine people?democrats of the first water?who will no doubt be of great help to us in freeing ourselves from some oi the tinsel with which we have gauded up our lives. According to this narrative, Cornelia Stratton met Carleton H. Parker on the campus of the University of California, September 3, 1903. He was a senior, she a freshman. Their acquaintanceship soon ripened into love, and they became engaged; but owing to lack of funds and her father's hesitancy about giving consent for his daughter to marry a young man with no particular prospects, they did not marry until after her graduation. The ceremony took place September 7, 1907. Carl Parker, like many young college men, had tried all sorts of work and had begun upon many careers before he finally found his niche. The two had dreamed of a honeymoon in Idaho, but lack of funds and lack of time shattered their dream. Instead they hired two old horses and a buckboard and went for a three weeks' trip up the Rogue River in southern Oregon. The comradarie of that honeymoon is typical of their short married life. For that reason I shall quote a paragraph., "That honeymoon! Lazy horses poking unprodded along an almost deserted mountain road; glimpses of the river lined with autumn reds and yellows; camp made toward evening in any spot that looked appealing?and all spots looked appealing; two fish-rods out; consultation as to flies; leave-taking for half an hour's parting, while one went up the river to try his luck, one down. Joyous reunion, with much luck or little luck, but always enough for supper: trout rolled in cornmeal and fried, corn on the cob just garnered from a willing or unwilling farmer that afternoon, cornbread?the most luscious corn-bread in the world, baked camper-style by the man of the party?and red, red apples, eaten by two people who had waited four years for just that. Evenings in a sandy nook by the river's edge, watching the stars come out above the water. Adventures, such as losing Chocolada, the brown seventy-eight-year-old horse, and finding her up to her neck in a deep stream running through a grassy meadow with perpendicular banks 568 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE on either side. We walked miles till we found a farmer. With the aid of himself and his tools, plus a stout rope and a tree, in an afternoon's time we dug and pulled and hauled and yanked Chocolada up and out onto dry land, more nearly dead than ever by that time. The ancient senile had just fallen in while drinking." The narrative continues with the struggles Parker had for an education, but so sympathetic was Mrs. Parker and so hallowed by love were all the discouraging days and nights that their struggles were lifted into a world of high romance. What might have been heart-breaking to some couples was heart-making to these two. Wherever Carleton Parker went in search of education in his field, went Cornelia Parker and their children as they came along. After Harvard, the two of them, with only borrowed money to live upon and with two tiny children, sailed off for Europe in search of more sociology and economics and a Ph. D. Degree. "People wrote us in those days,' Mrs. Parker says, " 'You brave people?think of starting to Europe with two babies!' Brave was the last word to use. Had we worried or had fears over anything, and yet fared forth, we should perhaps have been brave. As it was, I can feel again the sensation of leaving New York, gazing back on the city buildings and bridges bathed in sunshine after the storm. Exultant joy was in our hearts, that was all. Not one worry, not one concern, not one small drop of home-sickness. We were to see Europe together, years before we had dreamed it possible. It just seemed too glorious to be true. 'Brave?' Far from it. Simply eager, glowing, filled to the brim with a determination to drain every day to the full." There you have the spirit of these two of this delightful book. In due time the family returned, Ph. D. And all, to take up life at Berkeley again; he as assistant professor on $1700.00 the year, but still the courageous, democratic lover he had always been; she still adoring. Later he was called to the University of Washington as Dean of the College of Commerce. In the meantime, however, he had become nationally known as a mediator between capital and labor. His last piece of work was in connection with the threatened strike in the flour-mills during the World War. 'In all he had mediated thirty-two strikes, sat on two arbitration boards, made three cost-of-living surveys for the Government.", On Wednesday, March 6, 1918, he took a fever, which developed into pneumonia (possibly the "flu" as it was sudden and strange) and never recovered. He died March 17, 1918. "His body was cremated, without any service whatever?nobody present but one of his brothers and a great friend. The next day the two men scattered his ashes out on the waters of Puget Sound. I feel it was as he would have had it." GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 569 That is the simple story Cornelia Parker has told of her husband. He was but forty when he died, just prepared to enter upon his career. Despite the fact that in so short a time he had become nationally known in his field, if the name of Carleton Parker is to live beyond this generation, it will be because he was genuine, a great lover, and the husband of a wife who could give to the world An American Idyll. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Why did Cornelia Parker write 4n American Idyll? Were her motives good? 2. Do you get an adequate picture of the man? If not, why not? 3. What are some of the endearing qualities he possessed? Did his wife possess some of the same qualities? 4. Give reasons why this book has become so popular. 5. Select and read passages that illustrate the charm of the narrative. Sketch of the Life of Carleton H. Parker Carleton H. Parker, the subject of this sketch, was born March 31, 1878, in Vacaville, California, of Western pioneer parentage. He had two brothers and one sister. The other two boys, according to Mrs. Parker, had been encouraged to see the world.: Carleton planned to spend fourteen months in Europe, his serious objective upon his return being to act as secretary to Professor Stephens of the University of California. During his youth, in search of means with which to continue his college work, he worked at almost everything that a young Westerner might find to do. He was farmer, miner, and other things. He even became a member of the Western Federation of Miners. He studied at the University of California; there, on September 3, 1903, he met Cornelia Stratton, who was then in her freshman year. He had recently returned from a trip in Idaho, where he had been hunting with some friends. He soon became rather well acquainted with Cornelia, and to her he related many of his adventures. A friendship was struck up which soon changed into love. The two decided to marry as soon as possible, to enjoy a honeymoon in Idaho, and to go to Persia. Mr. Stratton, Cornelia's father, however, was not over enthusiastic, since young Parker had nothing upon which to marry. The wedding day was therefore postponed, but not given up. Carl went away to Europe, and Cornelia continued with her studies until she graduated with a Bachelor's degree.
570 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Upon his return from Europe, Carleton lectured for the University of California Extension Division upon trade unionism and South Africa. On September 7, 1907, the two young people married. Their trip to Idaho had to be abandoned, but it was given up cheerfully, as was also the dream of Persia. The two went for a three weeks' honeymoon on a trip up the Rogue river in southern Oregon.
The first months of married life were a period of struggle for the two young people. Young Parker tried the bond business, but did not like it nor did he succeed very well. His work caused many separations, which for the two were hard to bear. For that reason chiefly they decided that he was to go into university work. A period of study then ensued. Borrowed money and rigid economy made it possible for the family to keep together, though a son was born the year after they were married and other children came rather regularly. They went to Cambridge, where Mr. Parker enrolled at Harvard University. Later, in order to finish his education in the field of economics, he went to Germany, where he received his Ph. D. Degree. They especially enjoyed Heidelberg. Upon their return to America, Carleton Parker was engaged as an assistant professor at the University of California and was later taken to Seattle as Dean of the College of Commerce of the University of Washington. He had held that position only a short time when he died.
LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in December)
Lesson 18. Summary
In this?the last?lesson we shall restate and sum up the main facts and principles discussed in the seventeen preceding lessons. Based on The Child: His Nature and His Needs.
As previously announced, the next six lessons, January to June 1930, will cover The Field of Social Work. No book will be required for the new series. Monthly outlines in the Magazine will contain references to appropriate readings.
I. The course of study we are just completing has had two purposes: (1) a survey of present-day knowledge concerning child nature; (2) the promotion of the well-being and education of the young. It is an attempt to furnish the parent and the social worker with a resume of up-to-date, scientific information on
GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 571
child welfare. In seventeen lessons, it was possible to deal merely with the big, broad principles involved; a wealth of minor facts and details, remains still unexplored. It is hoped, however, that our members will continue their study of one or more of the subjects treated.
The first main division of the subject dealt with our present knowledge of child nature. Here we considered the child's instincts and impulses; his active nature and needs; the development of his intelligence; his social and moral growth; and, finally, his mastery of the arts of expression. In the first chapter, Dr. Baldwin showed that the science and practice of child development and training are today intimately associated more than ever before in the history of psychology and education. This fact points to many far-reaching changes in education. In order to keep pace with this advance, teachers and parents alike must change their methods of child-training. It was pointed out that children differ widely; individual differences constitute perhaps the most significant of all of the principles of educational psychology. A third principle, also stressed at the outset, can be stated thus: The basis of a strong character and a wholesome personality is a normal, healthy body.
In the matter of instincts and impulses, two things are important to remember: The first is that the infant is not an adult in miniature, but rather a bundle of impulses and instincts,?the raw materials out of which complicated behavior and adult personality are later built. The second is that instincts and impulses cannot be suppressed; they can, however, be directed and socialized. Wise guidance of the child's original nature is the chief task of both parent and teacher.
Another major principle is that the normal healthy child is active, physically and mentally. Much of his activity is play, which is an invaluable preparation for adulthood. Wise parental guidance of the child's play-life is one key to wholesome personality and strong character. Closely related to this principle is the fact that, other things being equal, superior minds are more likely to be found in healthy bodies.
As we pass from the child's physical and mental nature to his moral growth, we discover a principle of great importance, stated thus: Character is affected by a multitude of factors?heredity, general health, food, home life, street life, school life, newspapers, movies, parents, companions, habits of thought, occupations; therefore to ensure desirable character in a child, parents and teachers must control all the factors directly or indirectly affecting his moral development.
572 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
"There is no such thing as a distinct training in character apart from the rest of the child's development." A child's personality is the joint product of heredity and social influence; and to facilitate the "abundant life," both factors must be intelligently controlled by parents and by society.
In considering the child's mastery of the arts of expression, we saw that language, for instance, is an extremely complicated piece of behavior. Learning a language constitutes the child's first educational task. It challenges and measures not only his own mental powers, but the guidance-skill of his parents and his teachers.
II. The second big division of our subject dealt with present knowledge of child well-being. Here we examined the principles of child-care as they are illustrated in nutrition, mental hygiene, delinquency, the care of the intellectually inferior, and of intellectually superior children.
Specifically, we saw that the five chief causes of malnutrition are:
Physical defects. Lack of home control. Over-fatigue. Faulty food habits and improper food. Faulty health habits.
Among the principles of mental hygiene we noted the following:
Most mental handicaps are preventable.
Almost all persons have some degree of inferiority-feeling. Compensations for actual or imagined inferiority are quite normal. The problem of child guidance is therefore one of facilitating appropriate compensations.
All children and grown-ups normally demand a confidante, i.e. some understanding person who will listen without moralizing.
Many personality problems are overcome when the handicapped person is able, through the assistance of others, to objectify his own problems, i.e. to analyze his own difficulty as though it were the problem of another.
In problems of juvenile delinquency two significant principles stand out. First, that "each delinquent child is the product of nine or ten subversive circumstances, one as a rule preponderating and all conspiring to draw him into crime." Second, that it is far
GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 573
more efficient and humane to deal with children's misconduct in a scientific way than to resort to the old, dubious process of punishment.
The elements of a State program for the care of mental defectives, we found to be:
Identification.
Registration.
Special education in the public schools for the high-grade defective.
Segregation in a separate state school for the low-grade defective.
Segregation in a separate state institution for the defective delinquent.
We noted that twenty out of one hundred school children selected at random are of such superiority as to demand special education facilities and guidance. About six children out of the average hundred warrant even more flexible classification and more intensified guidance in the schools.
IV. The third division of the course dealt with our present knowledge of education. Here we noted the obvious gap between educational theory and educational practice, a condition due primarily to social change and the social process. More specifically, we saw how education is becoming scientific by means of (a) objective, verifiable rules and principles, (b) the more or less successful practice of measuring the results of instruction, and (c) the marked tendency to experimentation and research.
Finally, we considered (a) the changing objective in education, (b) recent modifications in the course of study, and (c) newer techniques of teaching. The chief objective in education today, is the development of a wholesome personality in the child. By means of emphases on vocations and character, courses of study are more or less converging to this broad purpose. The methods, too, because of the pragmatic tests to which they are being constantly subjected, are more efficient than ever before.
The child is a many-sided creature. His nature?though complex?can be understood; and his needs?though many?can be supplied. Intelligent parenthood is the only answer.
QUESTIONS FOR THE FURTHER STIMULATION OF THOUGHT
What important principles of child care, other than those mentioned above, do you feel should be listed in this summary?
574 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Why do we not attempt more individual guidance of children, both in and out of school?
What are some of the safe rules for the control and elimination of fear in children?
What is the nature and extent of character education in the public schools of your community?
How can society regulate?if it should?the group affiliations of children without supervising such groups and therefore destroying one of the desirable aspects from the standpoint of the child?
What are the mental hygiene problems of your community? Is any attempt being made to solve these problems?
Outline and consider together a program for preventing juvenile delinquency in your community.
Is it necessary that education lag behind social development? Explain.
Sunsets By Grace Mister Frost
Yesterday's sun went down in crimson glory That flamed the heights with hectic after-glow; Today's sun told the world a different story, It spilled a flood of gold, its wealth to show, Above the azure rim of western hills. And of a mist of pearl enhanced the beauty, With opalescent gems and pastel frills.
Tomorrow's sun?how will it pass? Will it go down beyond a bank of cloud, Holding in leash the hoarse voice of the thunder That fain would break forth into clamor loud? Or will it rend its shroud, and from the darkness Shine out, clad in a purple majesty That, exulting in the splendor of its starkness, Reveals a soul's unswathed divinity?
Oh, to go down in such sublimity, When there shall come the end of day for me!
[ADVERTISEMENTS SECTION]
PRIVATE SECRETARY Dress well, have money of your own, and work among congenial, successful people. Hundreds of girls have been prepared for stenographic and secretarial positions at L. D. S. Business College. We assist graduates in finding positions. Free booklet describes plan which will train you thoroughly at reasonable cost. Write your name and address below and send in this ad for full particulars?today.
ADDRESS L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE 80 North Main Street
CONVENIENCE The O. P. Skaggs System way has changed grocery buying from a dreaded ordeal to an anticipated pleasure. Stores are roomy, convenient and pleasing. Food displays large and attractive and prices so low that all can afford good things to eat regularly.
O. P. SKAGGS "A Surety of Purity" When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
"YOU CAN'T GO WRONG" THAT'S WHY WE SAY "Buy Blue Pine Food Products" and if for any reason your purchase is not entirely satisfactory, go to your Grocer and he will refund your money. BLUE PINE FOOD PRODUCTS
SALT LAKE VISITING NURSING SERVICE For general information call K. M. Hudson, R.N., 46 Truman Ave., Salt Lake City, Utah, Phone Hy. 6177. Service includes, Routine Visits, Maternity Service, Surgical Assistance at minor operations and Hourly Service by appointment, for special treatments or dressings.
We Are a Utah Company Manufacturing WATER HEATERS, and FURNACES either HOT WATER, STEAM or WARM AIR and these furnaces burn either GAS or OIL. They save all the HEAT, and are fully automatic. For further particulars call on COUNTERFLO HEATER CO. 406 Atlas Block SALT LAKE CITY Tel. Was. 7745 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
It is an easy matter surprisingly inexpensive to install a modern Natural Gas House Heating conversion unit like that pictured here, in your present warm air furnace, vapor, hot-water or steam boiler. Then you have the luxurious comfort and convenience of an automatically heated home. No more tending the fires?no more running down stairs and back, half a dozen times a day?zero mornings included?no more smoke, or soot, or dirt, or ashes. Just a correct, healthful temperature in your home all the time, without thought or attention on your part. Ideal living conditions! Come in today, or phone, for further details. We'll gladly give you an estimate of costs for your home.
Natural GAS THE IDEAL FUEL
Wasatch Gas Company 45 SOUTH MAIN -- SALT LAKE CITY -- PHONE WASATCH 300 Serving KAYSVILLE (Branch Office) Phone Kaysville 200 - LAYTON - FARMINGTON - BOUNTIFUL - CENTERVILLE - MAGNA - TOOELE - GARFIELD - MURRAY (Branch Office Phone Murray 59 - MIDVALE - SANDY
Utah Gas & Coke Co. 145 SOUTH MAIN -- PHONE WASATCH 800 Serving Salt Lake City
Ogden Gas Company 414 TWENTY FOURTH ST. -- PHONE 174 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
WHAT NEED OF OUR RELIEF SOCIETIES?
Have you ever stopped to consider what a fine big brother LIFE INSURANCE has been to the Relief Society?
Thousands of families who are now able to carry on entirely on their own would never have been in this independent position were it not for the LIFE INSURANCE POLICY the husband and father so wisely provided.
If every family carried sufficient Life Insurance protection, the great work of the Relief Society would be lessened by half and many unfortunate children would have an equal chance in life.
SURELY YOU WILL NOT BE ONE OF THE NEGLIGENT PARENTS
The Big Home Company Has a Policy to Suit Your Purse?Lowest Rates?The Best Protection
ALL BENEFICIAL POLICYHOLDERS SHARE IN THE NET EARNINGS OF THE COMPANY
Ask Any Beneficial Representative. He Will Gladly Give You Information Without Obligation on Your Part
Beneficial Life Insurance Co. Home Office, Vermont Building, Salt Lake City, Utah HEBER J. GRANT, President E. T. RALPHS, General Manager
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
