WINTER EXCURSION FARES
Via Southern Pacific Lines
To LOS ANGELES AND RETURN BOTH WAYS $50.50
To LOS ANGELES via SAN FRANCISCO returning direct or route reversed $58.00
Proportionately low fares from all other points in UTAH, IDAHO and MONTANA.
STOPOVERS ALLOWED AT ALL POINTS.
TICKETS ON SALE DAILY
FINAL RETURN LIMIT 6 MONTHS
For further information CALL, WRITE or PHONE
PRESS BANCROFT, GENERAL AGENT
41 SO. MAIN ST.
PHONES WAS. 3008—3078
SALT LAKE CITY
Fresh GASOLINE
How the Freshness of Gasoline Affects its Quality and Performance
Gasoline that is stored for any length of time, or is shipped considerable distances, loses much of its efficiency through evaporation.
Pep gasoline comes to you fresh from the refinery. It is made right here, within a few miles of your service station. That's why it is the freshest gasoline you can buy.
Stop by a Pep pump for fresh gasoline.
The GAS with a PUNCH
Manufactured and Guaranteed by
UTAH OIL REFINING COMPANY, Salt Lake City
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Ask your dealer for the famous Z. C. M. I. Factory-Made
MOUNTAINEER OVERALLS
For men, youths, boys and children.
9-oz. Copper-Riveted WAIST OVERALLS
For men and boys.
Wear 'em and let 'er buck.
Guaranteed for Quality, Fit and Service
ALLOVERS and PLAY SUITS for Children
THE BRICK MAN Says:
HOME!
There is no word in any language that suggests quite as much as home. Love, contentment and rest are implied by this simple word.
BRICK
There is no material in all the world more suitable for the purpose of home building than brick. You do not experiment when you use brick. It has stood the supreme test of time. It will not fail you.
The Salt Lake Pressed Brick Company
319 Kearns Bldg.
Salt Lake City, Utah
Phone: Was. 951
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
L. D. S. GARMENTS
AUTUMN AND WINTER LINE
Selected from our extensive line of L. D. S. Garments we suggest the following numbers of autumn and winter wear:
No. 1 New style, ribbed light weight cotton with rayon silk stripe. An excellent ladies number $1.25
No. 2 Old style, ribbed light weight cotton, our standard summer weight $1.25
No. 3 Ribbed medium weight cotton, bleached. Our all season number $1.50
No. 4 Ribbed heavy weight unbleached cotton. Our double back number $2.25
No. 5 Part wool, ribbed unbleached. Our best selling wool number $3.00
No. 6 High grade rayon tricot silk. For particular people $5.00
No. 7 Light weight new or old style, mercerized—silky finish $2.00
No. 8 Ribbed heavy weight unbleached cotton and wool. Our 60% wool number $3.50
No. 9 Light weight silk for ladies only, new style only $7.50
No. 10 Medium weight silk for men and women, new style only $8.50
In ordering, be sure to specify whether old or new style garments, three-quarter or ankle length legs, short or long sleeves are wanted. Also give bust measure, height and weight to insure perfect fit. Postage prepaid.
FACTORY TO YOU—THE ORIGINAL
Utah Woolen Mills
28 Richards Street
Briant Stringham, Manager
One-Half Block South of Temple Gates
READING TIME IS EXERCISE TIME—For Your Mind
Your Mind needs exercise the same as your body. Reading good books is good mind exercise. Cold winter nights makes reading a double pleasure. Send in for our catalogue of all Church Books now available.
Deseret Book Company
44 East on South Temple St.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
L. D. S. GARMENTS
Good grade, and well made. When ordering, state Size, New or Old Style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid. Sample on request.
BARTON & CO.
Established in Utah 45 Years
ORDER FOR THANKSGIVING DINNER
CREAM IN FOOD—vital as Sunshine protected
ICE CREAM
ORDER OFFICE NOW, LOBBY, BROOKS ARCADE BLDG.
PHONE WAS. 2843
L. D. S. GARMENTS
Direct From Factory
You are guaranteed unusual wear and satisfaction from Cutler Garments. They are made from the best long wearing, combed yarns.
No. 76 Ribbed Light Weight Lisle $2.95
No. 64 Ribbed Medium Light Cotton, bleached $1.70
No. 62 Ribbed Medium Heavy, unbleached $1.70
No. 27 Ribbed Medium Weight 50% Wool $3.85
No. 39 Ribbed Heavy Weight 50% Wool $3.85
Fine Wearing Rayon, "Elbow"
Cutler's Fine Quality BLUE SERGE SUIT $37.00
In ordering garments please state if for men or women and if old or new styles are wanted. Also give bust, height and weight.
SPECIAL—When you order three pair of garments or hose at one time we allow you 15% discount on the third pair. Marking 16c. Postage Prepaid.
WHITE SHIRTS Collar Attached or Without $1.95
HAND BAGS
BRIEF CASES
SPECIAL MISSIONARY DISCOUNTS
CUTLER GARMENTS LONG WEARING CLOTHES
142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST.
Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
No. 68 Ribbed extra light cotton knee length
No. 68 Old style or new style, ¾ or long legs $0.85
No. 74 Ribbed light weight cotton $1.10
No. 84 Ribbed mercerized lisle $1.85
WHITE TEMPLE PANTS 8 oz. Heavy Duck $1.75
147 Spring Needle, Flat Weave $1.10
208 Light Weight Rib $1.33
32 Combed Cotton, Light Weight $1.50
222 Cotton Rayon Stripes $1.65
294 Ladies' New Style, Rayon $2.00
302 Ladies' New Style, Rayon $2.50
307 Men's New Style, Rayon $2.75
No. 61 Ribbed medium heavy unbleached double back $1.70
No. 56 Ribbed heavy cotton bleached $2.15
No. 55 Ribbed heavy cotton unbleached double back $2.15 and Knee Length $2.35 Long Sleeves and Legs $2.85
258 Double Card Cotton, Medium Weight $1.05
628 Mercerized Lisle, Light Weight $2.25
264 Rayon Silk, Fine Quality $3.00
748 Unbleached Cotton, Heavy Weight $2.00
754 Bleached Cotton, Heavy Weight $2.25
908 Unbleached Cotton, Extra Heavy $2.75
1072 Mixed Wool and Cotton $4.00
Today's Milk Today
Braithwaite's Cottonwood Dairy
Our High Quality Milk is gathered—Perfectly Pasteurized—bottled and delivered the same day.
1063 E. 21 So. Hy. 670
NOW There Are More Than 2,000 Iron Fireman Stokers Operating in the Inter-Mountain Territory
They are providing greatly improved heating conditions and are paying for themselves over and over by the savings they make in fuel and labor costs.
Heating plants in many L. D. S. Buildings are now equipped with Iron Fireman Stokers.
There is a Small Iron Fireman for the Home.
Sold by
Forced Underfire Corporation
Salt Lake Denver Chicago Omaha
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
All mussy... It's baby's fault perhaps... But you can "fix it" quickly
DOES the baby keep you looking like a charwoman? He's worth it all, of course, and you can't always dodge! But here's a way to clean up the spots, quickly and easily. Simply sponge them with Shell Dry Cleaner. This new non-explosive fluid is a wonderful solvent. Cleans silks and fabrics you wouldn't dare wash. Keep a can of it handy to use in emergencies. Don't let greasy, dirty spots bother you any longer.
At grocery, drug and department stores and Shell stations—½ pint, pint and gallon cans—with the red and yellow label—the Shell colors
A score of daily home uses—cleans shoes, hats, ties, clothing, furs, upholstery—all fabrics
Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer.
CITY LAUNDRY
Hyland 190
Distinctive Work
Office 319 S. Main St.
1930 BROWNING-DRAKE RADIO
SCREEN GRID—ALL ELECTRIC
The Radio Season is on
The Outstanding Radio—This Season—
No Exaggerated Advertising—But the Quality Built Into The Set Throughout.
Ask for your Demonstration—Phone or Write
Browning-Drake Distributing Co.
135 So. Main St., Salt Lake City
SACRAMENT SETS
RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS. NOW IN STOCK
REFERENCES FURNISHED
Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and intermountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands.
Basic metal, Nickle Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver.
SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE
Satisfaction guaranteed
Inquiries cheerfully answered
Bureau of Information
Temple Block
Salt Lake City
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
INDIVIDUAL Will water a life time Glasses
Phone Wasatch
CONTENTS
Joan of Arc, Painting by Bastien Lepage Frontispiece
Domremy's Maid Kate Thomas 579
Joan of Arc (Statue at Orleans) 579
Fifth Centenary of Joan of Arc Kate Thomas 579
Young Death 583
Joan of Arc as Portrayed in Literature Blanche Kendall McKey 584
Joan of Arc (Bronze Equestrian Statue) 591
Joan of Arc Andrew Lang 592
Joan of Arc (After the Victory) 593
Editorial—One of the Immortals 594
Joan of Arc - The Maid of France in Sculpture 596
Joan's Vision 599
Joan of Arc (In the Music—Its Message Alberta H. Christensen 601
Gratitude Mrs. D. W. Stevenson 602
A Kind Heart 604
Pioneers Lala Vernon Hales 605
Notes from the Field 607
A Thanksgiving Prayer Elsie E. Barrett 611
Guide Lesson for January 612
Raked-Up Leaves Vesta Pierce Crawford 628
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah
$1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c
Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
Phone Wasatch 3123

VOL. XVI NOVEMBER, 1929 NO. 11
JOAN OF ARC Painting by Bastien-Lepage Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York City
Domremy's Maid By Kate Thomas
DOMREMY'S maid is standing 'neath a tree With listening in her eyes, and in her face A growing purpose; fingers interlace Then part to grasp the sword that is to be.
England be wary, oft rebuked is pride, Better a pact with God than Burgundy. There shall be once He is not on your side: Domremy's maid is standing 'neath a tree.
JOAN OF ARC By Princess Marie of Orleans Erected at Orleans
VOL. XVI NOVEMBER, 1929 NO. 11
Fifth Centenary of Joan of Arc By Kate Thomas
Oh, to be in Paris when the guide's eyes glow as he leads you from one to another of the Joan of Arc paintings in the Pantheon! If wishes were horses, beggars might ride; and if they were fishes, beggars might swim. It would not be such a bad sensation to be geysered from the nostril of some obliging porpoise if it landed you where you want to be?in France with the marvelous Maid.
Character of the Maid of Orleans
No more romantic figure exists in history than Joan of Arc. However we look at her: as the result of egotism, fanaticism, plain downright superstition, high-souled mysticism, or pure, spiritual worthiness in the hand of the Divine Discerner of tools, she is still a theme for speculation, an object for the tenderest, most reverential love. Calm, gentle, purposeful, heroic Joan! Unschooled, but gloriously alive little peasant girl with her patriot's heart swelling for the woes of France. Simple, serious, dutifully domestic, young maiden with ears strained for the voices that speak only to her! Keen, determined, full-armored general, raising the siege of Orleans at seventeen years old! Brave, brilliant strategist, following up her victory with a quick line of success (Jargeau, Beaugency, Patay) that in but one week's time had driven the English beyond the Loire! Modest head of the army and exultant subject placing the ruler of her adored country upon the throne! Betrayed, trapped, tricked, and tortured Maid of Orleans, Deliverer of France, still worshipful, still true and still trusting, burned at the stake before she had turned twenty!
The Troublous Time of Her Birth
Who so stilted that he does not thrill through this enchaining story? Let us, from half a dozen references, summarize it briefly:
580 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
She was born in troublous times. So had been her parents before her. War, as you know, has always been the curse of the earth. In 1338, England and France began what was afterwards called the Hundred Year War. Joan was born in 1412 (at Domremy, January 6). English kings, by marrying French princesses, felt that they were heirs to the throne of France; and the French people had too strong a national spirit to adopt that view. Now in October of 1415, when Joan was about three, the king of France, Charles the sixth, met the invading king of England, Henry the fifth, at Agincourt, and was defeated. At that time France was practically in a civil war; and the Burgundian faction, which favored England, was the real ruling power. "Uneasy lies the head that wears a crown," says Shakespeare. Charles sixth of France might have thought that also if he'd had any head to do it with. But he was mentally unfit. The queen, too, preferred a wide-awake prospective son-in-law as ruler rather than a deranged husband. So four years after this decisive battle of Agincourt the queen and the Burgundians made a treaty with the English at Troyes (May, 1420), through which Henry, by marrying the French princess, should be king of France when Charles sixth died.
Intrigues of Kings
Joan's child life was in all this mix-up. For there was the young dauphin, son of Charles sixth, who had not inherited much strength of character from either his unsound father or his English inclined mother, who, except for this treaty, was next in line to the throne. To make things still more interesting, two years after the Treaty Henry the fifth died, leaving an infant son to inherit both thrones. Two months later of the same year (1422) Charles sixth died also. And there was the nineteen-year-old dauphin. France had two kings! Which one would beat the other to the actual crowning? Joan was only ten now. But it was not the sugar-fed, irresponsible ten of "infantile America." It was the hard-lived, working ten of the peasantry. France was in a turmoil, having no stable government to combat the general system of brigandage that was going on everywhere. The people needed a king badly, but he should not be an interloper! France was in bondage. The peasantry, always the chief sufferer, was greatly excited.
The Life of Joan of Arc
It had been prophesied that a maid should deliver France from bondage. At thirteen, beneath the "enchanted tree" Joan listened to voices that told her she was that maid?the voices of St. Michael, St. Catherine and St. Margaret; and from them she learned
FIFTH CENTENARY OF JOAN OF ARC 581
where to find the sword of Charles Martel, which they bade her carry. Little Joan wanted a real king and a reliable government. She was too young to realize that the aimless dauphin would never form a reliable court, neither did the, to her, unjust agreement of Troyes mean anything but unspeakably disgraceful union. France to be a slave! Forever! And to be finally merged into England! Never! So from ten to seventeen (that mystic number seven!), her heart was a seething 'they shall not pass.' And as those years went by and the English, already in possession of the North, were moving on to Orleans, the key to the South, her voices became more insistent and she with them. It was now the year 1429. Joan, after many strivings, had at last succeeded in gaining the attention of the dauphin. He gave her an army of five thousand men. She was now the Maid. April 29 she entered Orleans. In May she raised the siege. The dauphin was crowned!
Betrayal of the Heroine
Incensed at the broken pledge of Troyes, Burgundy redoubled his efforts to capture Joan. The young girl wished still to obey her voices; and they were telling her that, now her mission was accomplished, she must return to her home in Domremy. But she was too loyal to her new-made king, who was to be such a traitor to her. Yielding to his importunity she stayed with the army. To her sorrow! When she attempted the capture of Paris, the king deserted her, disbanding his army. Jealousy, too, was putting its green finger into the fire. Able officers who had doubtless supervised her, did not like all the laurels of victory to be handed to a girl. Perhaps this is partly the reason that in fighting against Burgundy at Compiegne she found herself separated from all but her own brothers, who manfully fought to protect her; but she was pulled from her horse by a Burgundian and taken prisoner. She was sold to the English by the Duke of Burgundy and John of Luxemburg for thirty-two hundred dollars.
Baseness of Two Nations
The English, through the persistent evil machinations of an unspeakably base priest, a Burgundian sympathizer, Pierre Cauchon, who had been ejected from his own see but who seems to have had enough influence with the University of Paris and the Holy Inquisition to bend them to his wishes, returned her to the French Inquisition for trial. And there she met no mercy. Cauchon, the dragon, was her accuser, he was her condemner. By keeping France a nation she had thwarted his ambitions to an archbishopric under Anglo-Burgundian power. Besides, she had received revelation direct to herself rather than through the
582 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
church. He had her pat on that. Joan, her faithful heart stung at the charge of heresy, and her flesh, that had borne the wounds of war so bravely, shrinking from a hideous death by burning, piteously pleaded for the intercession of the supreme earthly judge, the pope. Coldly told that the pope was too far away, she was excommunicated; then, in Rouen, May 30, 1431, burned at the stake as a heretic.
The Nobility of Her Soul
So this sweet, pure, loving, tender, girl-warrior, who wept at the tragedy of killing, who dismounted from her horse to minister to a hurt enemy as carefully as she would tend her own, must know the agony of biting flames that sear her lithe, live body; and learn the bitter lesson of the lonely great when, deserted by church and state, he falls back in despair upon his own "unconquerable soul"? And that hope which is the immortal part of us?the justice of the coming generation and, beyond, "what gods may be!" In her case both are working. France today, by placing tablets at the various points of her achievements, is celebrating the wonderful year of 1429. And on February 23, the date on which she had set out to offer her sword to France, the first memorial stone was laid, while bonfires blazed, whistles blew and church bells rang! A later pope withdrew the charge of heresy against her. In 1894 Leo thirteenth declared her venerable. She was canonized May 13, 1920. As for Cauchon, he was excommunicated after his death by Pope Calixtus IV, "and his body exhumed and thrown into the common sewer." Vive Jeanne d' Arc!
It is pleasing to note how many English writers are willing to pay high tributes to Joan. As an instance of this we quote from "Jeanne D' Arc," by Alfred Austin, the present Poet Laureate of England:
"You with your unarmed innocency Scaled The walls of war, and, where man's might had failed, Crowning, enthroned the Annointed of the Lord. And should France yet again be called to scare The stranger from her gates, and hurl back thence Feet that would violate her frontiers fair, Not meretricious sycophants of sense, But the pure heart and patriotic prayer, Once more would prove her rescue and defense."
From The Independent, May 5, 1904.
Young Death By Blanche Kendall McKey
When roses nod I see your waiting face, Dawn-tinted, smile above the hedgerow fair; I close my eyes and feel that you are there? And then? All the beauty of the Junetide, Your smile rare, I feel again! Again!
When stately lilies lift their frail cups pale, I see the pallor of your rounded cheek; I close my eyes and see you, lily-fair, And cannot speak; And then? All the beauty and the glory that hearts seek I feel again? The rise and fall of hushing prayer, The heavy, flower-laden air? I breathe "Amen" Again!
When winter stars look down on snow-wrapped fields, I think of tender hopes that young hearts fed? So flaming bright they quicken what seems dead; And then? In spite of lilies' breath I know you are not dead! You live, I live, and No Man's Land between Through tears springs green; There is but one word that my heart repeats And sings again: "When?"
Roses! Lilies! Starlight! "When?"
Joan of Arc as Portrayed in Literature By Blanche Kendall McKey
Even the casual reader of history will not fail to note that out of the great mass of people who dominate the ever-changing scenes which constitute "the past," a few dramatic, appealing figures stand forth boldly, challenging the interest and curiosity of each succeeding generation. Just such a vivid figure is Joan of Arc.
An Enigma of the Ages
For over five hundred years the Maid of Orleans has been the subject of controversy among men. Before the short eighteen years which she lived had gone by, men of the soil of France and of England, military leaders, theologians, and kings, had contended hotly as to whether she was a saint or a witch, and the differences of opinion did not die out with her death fagots. But she not only puzzled her contemporaries, she has likewise baffled succeeding generations. Religionists and scientists have sought to explain her in terms of doctrine and science, but they have not succeeded very well. She remains forever an enigma of the Middle Ages.
An Inspiration to Writers
The study of Joan of Arc as reflected in literature is fascinating. Since 1429 she has been a lamp of inspiration to creative writers. Much that has been penned about her has been lost, but an abundance of material has been preserved and is constantly being augmented. In an incomplete bibliography brought down to 1894, there are found 667 works that deal with her life in general. There are 849 monographs that deal with different phases of her life. There are 160 dramas in verse and 21 operas?2,286 works in all. The compiler, Pierre Lanery d' Arc, says that it would have been easy to pass the 3,000 mark had certain other publications been taken into account. All these contributions antedate 1894. Since that time hundreds have been added.
Contradictory Portrayals of Her
In acquainting oneself with the abundance of material inspired by the Maid of France, one is first of all impressed with the great amount of reiteration to be found in it. From one angle of approach or another, similar ideas are constantly occurring. There appear to be but a limited number of possible explanations of Joan in literature. She is portrayed as a heretic and a witch; as a saintly maid; as a courageous, love-craving woman; as a subject
JOAN OF ARC IN LITERATURE 585
of ridicule and a tool of the clergy; as a shrewd, natural girl. By selecting outstanding examples to be found in each of these classifications one can gain a fairly clear idea of Joan as creative writers conceive her. Let us choose Shakespeare's La Pucelle in "Henry VI," Mark Twain's Maid in "The Recollections of Joan of Arc," Schiller's "Die Jungfrau," Voltaire's "La Pucelle," and France's "Vie de Jeanne d' Arc," ending with Bernard Shaw's "Saint Joan."
On May 30, 1431, when Joan of Arc climbed the high scaffold to her death, she had been found guilty, among other things, of being a heretic and a witch. This is the picture we get of her a century and a half later in the first part of Shakespeare's "Henry VI." But the portrayal is full of inconsistencies.
Pictures of a Fallen Angel
In the beginning of the play she is drawn with a certain amount of sympathy. King Charles addresses her as "Bright star of Venus, fallen down on earth." She is a heroic Amazon: "Fight till the last gasp; I will be your guard," she cries. Later one is uncertain as to her character. In the end she becomes a wicked impure woman, who needlessly repudiates her own father; a falsifier in league with the devil, who aids her in her fight against the righteous cause of England. While the Pucelle of "Henry VI," taken as a whole, is utterly untrue to history, in certain respects she suggests the real Joan of Arc. She is like her in personal appearance, in her warlike attitude, in her patriotism, and in her power to influence people.
Pictures of a Saint
Among the many contributions that depict Joan as a saintly Maid, Mark Twain's "Recollections of Joan of Arc" stands out conspicuously. The German critic Viereck, in 1925 said that Twain's study of the Maid is probably America's greatest offering on the subject. Mr. Clemens gives the eighteen years of Joan's life in detail, holding close to historic facts, especially in the part dealing with her trial and martyrdom. His Maid is appealing, pathetic, wonder-inspiring; she actually sees saints and hears their voices. Spiritually is her fundamental characteristic. "Joan's eyes were deep and rich and wonderful beyond anything merely earthly." In Twain's creation the reader perceives a living, appealing personality, but one removed from the realism of life. She never appears without her halo. This author said of the Maid that she was "easily and by far the most extraordinary person the human race has ever produced." The Maiden Romantic Somewhat closely related to the saintly Maid is the romantic Joan; and of this type Friedrich von Schiller's "Die Jungfrau" 586 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE is an outstanding example. His contribution is one of the noblest delineations we have of the Maid of Orleans. However, it is radically untrue to history. Die Jungfrau is a girl of sixteen, beautifully moulded, with child-like features. Her body being somewhat delicate, her strength comes from on high. Animated with divine spirit, she is poetical in her actions and speech. Making a covenant with God, she is led to success so long as she subdues all traces of earthly passion. Unfortunately she falls in love with an English general, Lional, and victory deserts her. Later she overcomes desire, purifies her spirit, and saves her king, dying bravely on the field of victorious battle. According to Viereck, Schiller saw in the fate of Joan the struggle of fearless humanity against overwhelming odds. The Ridicule by Cynics Joan as a subject of ridicule and tool of the clergy is treated by two great French writers, Voltaire and Anatole France. Voltaire's "La Pucelle" is a burlesque poem in twenty-two cantos, in which the Maid figures in a variety of adventures that bear witness to her imaginary lack of chastity. Charles VII, Agnes Sorel, Dunois, and other historical characters with Joan make up the action. The poem is comparable to "Don Juan" rather than to any other work. Although the Maid is pictured sordidly, Voltaire aims his satire, not at her, but at society. The poem extends through two volumes. In regard to the Maid, Anatole France expresses himself thus: "I believe there is nothing in the life of Jeanne d' Arc which will not yield, at the last analysis, to a rational interpretation." From this realistic viewpoint, M. France wrote his "Vive de Jeanne d' Arc," explaining her voices and visions as hallucinations, her actions as the result of the instigation of Catholic priests. He sees Joan as an ordinary shepherdess subject to hysteria. She is over-good, "saintly"; medieval "saintly." One might suggest, stupidly "saintly." The clergy take advantage of her abnormal state of mind and make her a medieval prophetess. M. France does not give the Maid much credit for what she actually achieved, claiming that it was the Archbishop of Rheims who brought about the coronation. This skeptical conception of the Maid met with immediate and violent opposition from layman, clergy, and historian. Among these are Delteil, Monahan, F. C. Lowell, Andrew Lang, and many lesser writers. "A Shrewd, Natural Girl' Among the many writers who today conceive Joan of Arc as a shrewd, natural girl, Bernard Shaw stands out noticeably. His realistic Maid, robbed of actual Saints and audible Voices, has not always been received kindly, some people being loath to JOAN OF ARC IN LITERATURE 587 accept her visitations as manifestations of intuitions formed within the secret depths of the soul. Shaw feels that the operations of divine grace do not interrupt the course of nature, and that if we understood all her laws there would be nothing unnatural, not even the appearance of saints. Like Voltaire's, Shaw's satire is not aimed at Joan, but at society. Although literature reveals cases of apparently satisfactory individual explanations of the Maid of France, there is little agreement in the theories about her. No matter how individuals may feel, the world as a whole will doubtless always regard the Maid as an enigma, for her life is too far removed to admit of much new evidence. From the facts which history discloses, almost any theory may be reasonably proved, but up to the present time literature offers for this girl's baffling life no explanation that has been generally accepted. Public Opinion Divided Nor has any one writer's conception of the Maid as an individual been accredited by the reading public as a whole. The so-called Shakespearean portrait of Joan as a heretic and a witch passed out with the national prejudice that inspired it. Today, Shakespeare's Pucelle is looked upon with interest as a study, but not as a piece of clever characterization or as a reflection of the historic Maid. Joan's voices are doubtless the chief problem which her life presents, and Shakespeare disposes of them by depicting her as a conjurer in league with the devil, receiving her inspiration from evil spirits. The Realistic Dreamer While the saintly conception of Joan of Arc in literature is satisfactory to some, to others it is inadequate. Writers who conceive Joan as saintly reflect her fundamental quality of spirituality to excess while they slight her practicality. History shows that Joan of Arc was more than a visionary, for she brought her dreams to fulfilment. She gave precise directions in regard to her sword and her banner. At her request the former was brought from St. Catherine's church at Fierbois; the latter she designed herself. The field of the banner was sown with the lilies of France, the country she was to save. In the midst of the lilies God, who had sent her, was painted, holding the world and sitting upon clouds. The motto was "Jesus Maria," her watchword. As the banner materialized out of her dreams and her purpose, so did the attack on Orleans, where, lance in hand, she led a charge upon the English. The Goal of Her Life From the beginning her goal was the crowning of the dauphin at Rheims. During this ceremony she was ever near the king, 588 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE holding her standard in her hand. The great audience was deeply stirred. Paine comments: "The peasant girl had made good her promise. Unknown in January, in July she had crowned a king. They were witnessing an event without counterpart in human. History." As an award for her services, Joan asked that the people of Domremy and Cruex be forever exempt from taxation. This was a most practical and impartial way of relieving her heavily burdened people. In her replies to her tormentors during her trial, the Maid's good sense and clear insight were demonstrated. Many readers feels that the writers who depict Joan of Arc as merely a saintly Maid rob her of much of her charm. Was it "the Will of God?" However, the saintly Maid of literature reflects faithfully her prototype in regard to visions and voices. According to Joan's testimony, her Saints and their Voices were as real as any experience in her life. A large class of writers accept the Maid at her word in this respect, feeling that she was super-naturally inspired. Bangs says: "It was the will of God that France should live.' Wheaton claims that "God intended France to be, not a vassal, but a country complete in herself, and he chose a selfless instrument for the most difficult part in the accomplishment of his design." The great French historian, Quicherat, a free thinker wholly devoid of clerical influences, admits Joan's voices, saying that the evidence for them is as good as for any fact in her history. There is a class of writers who portray a saintly girl and yet who, like John Lord, neither affirm nor deny divine inspiration. These view her as a religious phenomenon and offer no explanation. Her Soul's Real Love As a subject for romance Joan of Arc has been treated in many varying lights, sometimes without regard to historical facts, as in the case of Schiller's "Die Jungfrau." Although the creative Joan of Arc is so often treated romantically, the real Joan was not concerned with love. She was child-like in this respect, and had never experienced a conflict between spirit and flesh caused by earthly passion. She was not torn'by desire, as Schiller pictures her. During her long imprisonment and in her martyrdom she was not sustained by the love of the handsome Duke d' Alencon, as Percy Mackaye depicts. Nor was she attracted to the king, as Delteil and other writers conceive her to have been. The real Joan's love for her king was love of her country, of which he was the symbol. Joan was the spirit of medieval chivalry. She was not sexless; she spoke of marriage and of sons as a future JOAN OF ARC IN LITERATURE 589 possibility, but her concern up to the time of her capture was the saving of France. As a rule the romantic Joan in literature, like the saintly one, is depicted as a visionary, actually seeing personages and hearing supernatural voices. Men's Censure and Their Praise The disparaging portraitures of Joan of Arc drawn by the two great French writers, Voltaire and Anatole France, have had little influence upon the world's conception of the Maid. The humor of Voltaire's travesty depends upon the reader's acceptance of his Maid as a contradiction of what she really was. His creation is not to be taken seriously. France's skeptical conception, in spite of his skill in the presentation of it, has been accepted by very few people; for history does not bear out France's treatment. As an historical character she is real, not a legend. Shie is neither a goody-goody nor a victim of hysteria. Among the writers who protested strongly against Anatole France's "Vie de jeanne d' Arc," Andrew Lang stands out conspicuously. His "Maid of France" was written in repudiation of the Frenchman's explanation. Lang feels that Joan was possessed of a genius that should be the wonder of the world, and that her voices would have availed little in saving France but for her exceptional endowments. Wheaton, Ince, Delteil, and many others entertain a similar opinion. To one who accepts France's premise, his explanation of the failure of the voices is very plausible. He holds that inasmuch as they told her what to do and say, the priests were Joan's real inspiration. During her long imprisonment, shut away from their promptings and admonitions, she made statements which grew into false predictions. A. "Modernistic'" View Modernism throws a new light upon Joan of Arc, revealing her as a shrewd, natural girl. Saint-Beuve, Joseph Delteil, Michael Monahan, Bernard Shaw, and others all present this interpretation of Joan, although differing widely in their explanations and conceptions of her character. The modern Joan is real. She is endowed with keen insight, extreme practicality, and good sense. She is possessed of the strength of character necessary to make her dreams come true. She is a great warrior and as such reflects well the historic Maid. But the modern Joan, to an extent at least, has lost much that is spiritual and supernatural in her. Delteil thinks the Maid drew her inspiration from Nature, suggesting slightly F. M. Myers' explanation of Joan in his hypothesis of the Subliminal Self. Both of these treatments suggest Plato's theory of Ideas. Shaw thinks Joan's voices and visions were the result of pure 590 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE imagination; Sainte-Beuve believes that they were hallucinations caused by the return of projected thought. Many modern Spiritualists, among them Conan Doyle and Leon Denis, hold that the visions and voices of Joan of Arc can be explained only through the actual appearance of spirits. Indeed, M. Denis promotes the theory that Joan was a great medium. The More Striking Portrayals Bernard Shaw's treatment of Joan in the Epilogue to his play is an excellent example of a certain light in which the Maid has been admirably portrayed by many writers. He shows her here as tradition has made her, as the poets sing of her: the Joan who has grown into an ideal, into a symbol of the whispering of God (be he Nature, or Subliminal Self, or an impersonal divine Power, or a Deified Man), into the typification of national patriotism. This tendency in the treatment of Joan of Arc is evident in a great deal that has been written about her. After five hundred years of controversy and speculation, the riddle of Joan of Arc's inspiration remains unsolved. However, although disputes have arisen over inferences drawn from facts, the facts themselves concerning her life are indisputable. It was Sainte-Beuve who said: "The miracle of this girl's life is best honored by the simple truth." Indeed, Joan appears to be an exemplification of the adage, "Truth is stranger than fiction;" for although writers have enriched literature because of her, they have not glorified her life as history discloses it. The more one studies her brief and tragic career, the stronger grows one's conviction that the literary representations do not eclipse the real Maid of Orleans. Unquestionably, literature has enhanced the theme of Joan of Arc.; but the girl herself, in her simplicity, her spirituality, her courage and lack of self interest, as her words and deeds in history depict her, is greater than the pictures which creative writers give us of her. The Mystery Unsolved The historic Joan is not a heretic and a witch. She is not a subject for ridicule, a tool of the clergy, or a romantic love craving woman. She is neither a saintly Maid nor a shrewd, natural girl. She is such a mysterious blending of the saintly and the natural as no creative artist as yet has shown. She may never inspire greater literature than she has already inspired, but as yet the historical Joan of Arc in her fullness of character has not been reflected in any one literary creation. JOAN OF ARC Bronze Equestrian, by Paul Dubois. JOAN OF ARC By Andrew Lang (Reprinted, with permission, from The Living Age, May 31, 1902) H. Eyes were of the ocean gray, And dark as Hyacinths her hair, No moonlight blossoms of the May With her mailed bosom might compare. There are no maidens anywhere, There have not been, there shall not be, So brave, so gentle, frank and fair As she! The honor of a loyal boy The prowess of a paladin, The maiden-mirth, the soul of joy, Abode her happy heart within. From doubt, from fear, from shame, from sin, As God's own angels was she free, Old worlds shall end and new begin To be. Ere any come like her who fought For France, for freedom, for the King, Who counsel of redemption brought Whence even the warrior-angel's wing Might weary sore in voyaging; Who heard the Voices cry, "Be free!" Such flower no later human spring Shall see!  Saints Catherine, Michael, Margaret, Who sowed the seed that Thou must reap, If eyes of Angels must be wet, If Saints in Heaven have leave to weep, In Paradise, a pain they keep, Maiden! An awful memory, A sorrow that can never sleep O For Thee! JOAN OF ARC After the Victory, by Allouard 2. Joan's Vision By Clinton Dangerfield (Reprinted, with permission, from Munsey's Magazine, January, 1903) She did not wait for touch of skillful hands On harps athrill?she did not wait a hall Rich carpeted, with mullioned windows set Through which the light should eloquently fall. She saw her vision in the homely fields? The trodden fields that all too well she knew. You of environment contemptuous grown, Lies there no lesson in this thing for you? ?Copyright by The Frank A. Munsey Company, 1903. all JOAN OF ARC In the Luxembourg, Paris, by Henri Chapu. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto?Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - -: S - c President MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - -:: - First Counselor MRS. JULIA A.F. CHILD -: - - Second Counselor MRS, JULIA A. F. LUND - - - - General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Elise B. Alder Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Ida P. Beal Mrs. Jennie B, Knight Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Kate M. Barker Mrs. Lalene H, Hart Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edwards, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - -: - Auice Louise Reynolds Manager - - - - - - - - - - - Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager: Amy Brown Lyman Room 20, irons Rane Salt Lake City, Utah Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Vor, XVI NOVEMBER, 1929. No. 11 EDITORIAL One of the Immortals Since Joan of Arc, the French Jeanne d' Arc, or Maid of Orleans, was martyred by the people whom she had liberated and served, five centuries have passed. In the trial nobody came to her rescue, not even the French king, whom she had caused to be crowned, nor the people whom she had freed from the English yoke. Today, barring the Christ, of course, who was of divine origin, she is to some people the most extraordinary person that this world has ever seen. Her immortality seems secure. If monuments in marble and bronze, if paintings on canvas and representations in beautiful colored glass can make one live forever in human thought, then Joan will never die. Ifa deep-seated admiration and an interest that is far-reaching in all of its ramifications are signs of lasting immortality, then is Joan of the immortals. By what law of contrast comes it that the girl whose existence her persecutors strove to blot out by fire, should for centuries stand as guard of the cathedral at Rheims, the place where the unfortunate Charles was made king? Shrapnel from big German guns demolished the left tower of the cathedral, while it did little or no damage to the equestrian statue of Joan. Standing there, in armor, she appears to be defiantly: guarding this sacred shrine. In Bernard Shaw's drama, St. Joan, the Maid is shown some EDITORIAL 597 of the monuments that have been erected in her honor, among others the statue before the cathedral at Rheims. When she sees it she exclaims, "Is that funny little thing me?' And Charles replies, 'It must be you; that is Rheims Cathedral, where you had me crowned." Then Joan cries, "Who has broken my sword? My sword was never broken. It is the sword of France." Another says, "Never mind swords; swords can be mended. Your soul is unbroken, and you are the soul of France." In this last expression Shaw has reached the pinnacle of wisdom and insight. This girl, in the history of the world the youngest person who ever led a national army, is in a very real sense the soul of France. There are two persons who, dead, dominate France more completely than do any who are living. These two are Napoleon the Great, who, despite his faults, cast over the country a glamor that the French will never forget; and the youthful girl Jeanne d' Arc, who in a sense gave to France both national and spiritual life. Joan of Arc That a girl of seventeen should be able to grip the imagination of twentieth century civilization, is one of the amazing facts of history; yet this is true of Joan of Arc. Albert Bigelow Paine, in the Mentor of March, 1926, wrote: "After five centuries Joan of Arc remains the most fascinating figure of history. More than ever she stands revealed as the marvel of all times, the little peasant girl who at seventeen led an army, and in a few brief months threw back an entrenched enemy, led a timid prince to his coronation, and made conquest of a war-weary and all but vanquished people." An article in the Bookman of March, 1926, by Joseph Collins, says: "The ashes of Joan of Arc were thrown into the Seine five hundred years ago. Simultaneously her spirit entered the bodies of men. It has softened their hearts and inspired and elevated their minds. It has convinced them of their close kinship to God. Next to Paul she is today the most illustrious personage of Christendom."; Again, Mr. Collins has remarked concerning her: "When a writer, novelist, poet, biographer, playwright, or historian has exhausted his material he turns to Joan of Arc." So, too, Mr. Collins says: 'Now she," referring to Joan, "is the mother of her country, as George Washington is the father of his." Each year on May 8, a national fete is held in Orleans. This year, 1929, because it marked the fifth centenary, a special program was prepared. May 8 was the date on which Joan first brought food to the beleaguered city of Orleans. Ten days after, the English surrendered to the French. From April 29 until May 8, a celebration was held each day, presenting, say the papers, "on an unprecedented scale the epic of its great heroine, St. Joan 598 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of Arc." At noon on May 7, from the top of the museum tower, a fanfare of artillery announced with great ceremony the unfolding of Joan's standard. Another feature of the celebration was the placing of a memorial stone in every part of the country that Joan visited. "At crossroads, on the parapets of bridges and elsewhere, the stones form a continuous line marking Joan's travels from Domremy by way of Poitiers, Tours, Orleans, Troyes, Soissons, Rheims, Epernay, Laon, Compiegne, Beauvais, and Chantilly, many of them since 1918 historic points in the fighting history of the United States army.. "Paris itself received two of the stones?one at Porte Saint Honore and the other at Port Saint Denis. The design of the stones was determined by competition. The first memorial was set up at Vaucouleurs. Myron T. Herrick's introduction to "We," written by Charles A. Lindbergh, says, "When Joan of Arc crowned her king at Rheims she became immortal." There seems to be abundant material to justify the statement of our French ambassador, who so recently represented the United States in the country of Joan's birth and unprecedented triumph. The Maid of France in Painting and Sculpture Except the Virgin Mary it would appear that no other woman has inspired so much art as has Joan of Arc. Joseph Collins says: "She is the inexhaustible material for sculptor or for painter." In the Pantheon at Paris, the building in which France honors her great dead, something after the manner the English honor their dead in Westminster Abbey, there is a group of magnificent mural paintings in which the life of Joan is depicted. It begins with a portrayal of the simple life she lived in Domremy and ends with her death amid flames. At Chartres Cathedral, one of the most beautiful cathedrals in France, the story of her life is told in colored glass windows of rare beauty. In the chateau at Chantilly, the castle held four days by the Germans in the late war, there is a white marble statue of her kneeling, praying?one of the rarest pieces of sculpture in all France. On the streets of the cities of Paris and Orleans and many other French cities there are statues of her. A gilded, equestrian statue of Joan in military attire with her sword at her side, stands directly in front of the cathedral at Rheims. A beautiful, white marble statue of Joan the Saint, adorns the Cathedral of Notre Dame in Paris. She is one of the few women to whom a monument has been erected in America; a statue of her is found in the city of New York, 7 Music?Its Message By Ida Peterson Beal "Music is very much like individuals; some pieces are acquaintances, some are friends?depending on their qualities. So called 'popular music' resembles acquaintances?those who come casually into our lives, who attract us for the moment, but who, having no power of sustained interest, pass out of our ken to make way for others like them. They leave no marked impress upon us, nor do they represent character, which is the cross-section running through every conceivable relation. Musical masterpieces, on the other hand, are friends. As is so often true with human beings, their great and enduring qualities, their beauty of character, are not at once apparent, but grow on us with each new hearing until they become a very part of our lives." It can be said with confidence and without a thought of exaggeration that music should be considered a necessity in the lives of our people-today. Its importance is so thoroughly recognized that it is not looked upon as a luxury but as a necessity. It is one of the chief agencies that afford us an understanding and an enjoyment of the beauties around us. Being one of the elevating and inspirational gifts of God to His children, it spurs us on to deeds that are higher and nobler, while it aids in the building of a real character. In our material, bustling age we need much beauty to add balance to our lives. To catch the message of music will make us sensitive to loveliness in sight and sound. Our leisure time can become a great opportunity with which to gain enough musical inspiration to become missionaries for music in our homes, in our churches, and in our secular institutions thus bringing color and joy to thousands. Music is a universal language, the language of the emotions; and the best music is often the simplest, lying easily within the child's comprehension. Every child should grow up in a home wherein music is played. A musical home will be a blessed memory to the child, whose soul will be sweetened thereby. From the very beginning of our growth in Utah the development and encouragement of music has been demonstrated. Our leaders recognized its limitless benefits in the general welfare of the people. Community singing has always been a great stimulant to tired, weary men and women, and was a real tonic to the pioneers as they traveled westward. Music should be urged as a common-sense, wholesome necessity. We must bring our people in large numbers to a real understanding of good music, and a desire to have part in that music. The intelligent singing of good 600 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE songs is for every one a profitable investment in culture; for it establishes an interest in and an appreciation of this art. "Encourage song as the door through which all may normally enter into musical enjoyment," says one writer; "and listening as the key to an understanding appreciation of music." An error difficult to overcome is the idea that to sing good music cultivated voices are demanded. Such is not altogether the case. Asa matter of fact a chorus of untrained singers may be taught to produce an amazingly good tone. The bond that helps produce this result is a love for good music. Whenever large numbers of people take part, music offers a strong stimulus to community feeling. In Germany they do not think that when a man has left school his education is finished. Their experience has taught them that attendance at the theatre, the opera, and the symphony concerts constitutes a life-long source of aesthetic and moral education. Thus music enters into the lives of all the citizens. The children, brought up in a musical atmosphere, absorb all that is rich and fine, and this culture appears again in a discriminating appreciation of what is good in music. Mechanical devices such as the victrola, the ampico piano, and, last but not least, the radio, are entering into the musical education of the people. Walter Damrosch is taking up educational work through the microphone. It is his great love for good music that stimulates him in this new venture. '"Through radio," he says, "science reaches out her powerful arms to carry music to millions of people to whom the names of great musicians were formerly little known. The radio audience has shown through its criticism that it knows the difference between a great artist and a mediocre one. "I confidently hope that our radio concerts will be the means of laying the foundation of a nation-wide love of good music among the youth of America. Given the means of reaching people, as we can through the radio, it is possible to educate them musically without limitations. It is just as easy to accustom them to good music as to bad. The main thing is to catch our young people early enough and to lead them gently into the magic land of music?in a way which will not bore them, but rather will stimulate their sensibilities and awaken their spiritual appetites?a way that will make them want to know more of this wonderful art." It has been said that "we march forward on the feet of little children." If this is true, and if we wish to become a musical people with an intelligent discrimination of good music and a judgment sharpened and developed by the richness of artistic offerings, we must begin early an intelligent study of music, instill into the minds of the young the love of good music for its own MUSIC?ITS MESSAGE 601 sake. Later, these young men and women who are interested in singing as well as in instrumental music, will want to express themselves musically, and their accomplishments in music will become a real asset to their community. In his preface to the hymn book of 1530, Luther declares music to be "the beautiful and heavenly gift of God. Next to theology, with my small ability to judge, I would set nothing higher." Gratitude I thank Thee, Lord, for faith:? That simple faith which bids me sow the field, Not doubting that the harvest time will bring A bounteous yield. And for that faith which scaffolds o'er the mire Of human wrongs, to form a generous span Of confidence and trust in erring man. For that sweet faith, from childhood's lips reclaimed, Which builds a rainbow pathway down the years, And prompts me in the solitary hour To share 'with Thee my hopes, my needs, my fears. I thank Thee, Lord, for faith. ?Alberta H. Christensen. A Kind Heart By Mrs. T. W. Stevenson It was the morning before Thanksgiving. A biting cold wind whistled around the point of the mountain. It swept powdered snow down the gully, and shook the bare trees along the Jordan river bank.; A child walking on the frozen road struggled to draw the thin worn coat more closely to cover hands blue with cold. A truck was approaching, spluttering and back-firing. "Even the truck is cold," thought the child, as he stepped aside and held up a hand. "Give me a ride, Mister," he shouted, as loud as his quivering chin would permit. The pleasant-faced driver thought, "Well this is once I'll break my rule of never picking up a youngster." Putting on the brake he shouted, "Where are you going this cold morning?" "To the city," answered the child. "To the city!" cried the man. "Why you'd never get there unless the wind blew you there. Climb up here beside me, I'll take you." And he reached down a hand to help the trembling child. "Now," said the man, as he put a corner of the blanket around the boy, "What is your name?" "Tom?just Tom," he answered hastily. "Tom," said the man softly, more to himself than the child, "I wish it hadn't been that." "Why there are lots of Toms," said the child. "Yes, I know," he said. "I had a little 'Tom' of my own last Thanksgiving. I?I don't like to see anyone named 'Tom' in trouble." "I ain't cryin' 'cause I'm in trouble," said the child. "The cold just makes me seem like I'm cryin'. Anyway, Uncle Chuck said I ought to have trouble, I've made him so much." "Ought to have trouble, hey!" said the man, stopping the engine and drawing a thermos bottle from under some sacks in the bottom of the truck. "It was so cold this morning Mother made me bring this hot cocoa that we had left from breakfast. It hasn't been off the stove fifteen minutes," he said as he filled the bottle cap and gave to the child to drink. "Maybe that will warm you a little." "That's fine," said Tom when he had swallowed the last 'drop. He did not say, "I have tasted nothing before, today." Why should he, when there had been so many days like this in his short life? The man replaced the bottle, pulled the blanket up even with Tom's chin, and started the engine. 4A KIND HEART 603 "It's mighty cold," he said, "but it's good weather for me, I get better prices for my eggs and chickens." "Oh, are you a chicken-man? It must be nice to have lots of eggs and chickens. My Uncle hates rich people. Poor folks can't have high-priced things. Cold weather is hard for them to live through," said Tom thoughtfully. "You must have come from one of the farms around here; didn't you raise any chickens?' asked the man, looking down at the thin face. "I lived with my Uncle on a dry farm across the river. Seems like the farm was no good, and he couldn't take care of chickens, he said, after his sister ran off and left me on his hands." "What's your name?your last name, I mean?" "On the slip of paper she pinned on my dress she said, 'You can call him Tom Daft. If he's daft enough he'll stay with you on that deadly forsaken ranch; I won't and I'll never come back'." "Oh, your uncle is Chuck Allen. Guess I've heard of him," said the man. He drove along in silence, recalling talk he had heard through the years about the Allen family. Only yesterday someone had said that Chuck Allen was tramping to the Coast for the winter. Presently he asked, "Are you going to some relatives in the city?" "Yes, Uncle said if he was ever gone longer than two days for me to go to the city and find cousin Sarah." "Have you the address?" "No. He didn't have no address," the child said with fresh tears streaming from his blue eyes. As they passed the city and county building the clock reminded the farmer that he would be late for market. If chickens were plentiful and buyers scarce he would not get his price. In the rush of unloading and interesting buyers, the child slipped away. It was a busy day. When the chickens were all sold there were errands to do for Mother, and the truck needed some repair work. It was late when he drove back to the market to get things he had left there. The lights were on. Stores and markets shone, as they always do the evening before the great feast. Never were garlands more green, never were apples more red, or poultry more plump. Market-men were beaming as they rubbed their hands with satisfaction as customer after customer walked away with arms loaded with bundles. The chicken man shouted a cheerful "Good night" as he passed along. All he wanted now was a hot supper before he started home. He had been thinking of dollars and cents all day, now he began thinking of home, and his wife waiting alone in the big brick house, and his little Tom, for 604 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE whom he had taken home candy and a toy balloon last Thanksgiving. He had forgotten the homeless child he had brought to the city. A heavy hand was laid on his arm. "Stand back a moment," whispered a voice. He looked up and saw a large policeman watching a child at a box of apples. It was his little fellow traveler. "That's a sharp youngster," half laughed the officer, under his breath. "This thing is going on here all the time. Nothing is safe." The little blue hand was already on an apple. It faltered a moment, then grasped tightly, then dropped it. He hid his face in his hands. The chicken man stepped up to him and touched his shoulder gently. The child knew without looking up who it was; he had but one friend.: "I couldn't do it; oh, I couldn't," he sobbed, "but I'm so awful hungry," and he fell against the box.  * * * The stars were shining cold and clear. The chicken man's wife sat at the window looking out, wishing the thermometer could go up without lowering the price of eggs and chickens. "It's so cold for John riding from the city alone," she said to herself. She opened the door, hoping she could hear the truck, but the piercing wind sent her back to the blazing fire. She thought of last year when she did not sit alone. She imagined she heard the little voice though it had been hushed nearly a year. How plainly she could see the smiling face, though it had been gone so long. She hurriedly brushed away the tears as she heard the truck. "John must not see me sad," she thought, opening the door, and turning on the porch light. John came in with something wrapped in the blanket; he laid it on the big dining room table. "Don't say 'no,' Mother. Let us do something for our Tom's sake this Thanksgiving." "Are you crazy?" she said, as he uncovered the thin face. "Wait till I tell you all." When he had told his story he said earnestly, "How could I go to church tomorrow and thank God for his care of us if, with no little one to care for, I had left this child alone in the city?" "You did right, John," she said, "you always do." In everything I give thanks??I Thess. 5, 18. He is ungrateful who expresses his thanks when all witnesses have departed.?Seneca. Pioneers By Lais Vernon Hales Back-Trailers From The Middle Border?Hamlin Garland In this the fourth and closing number of his "Trail" books, Hamlin Garland completes his fine record of the development of the Northwest as experienced by the members of a single representative family?his family. The three earlier books told vividly and so honestly of pioneer days and of Mr. Garland's own youth in the West. In Back Trailers from the Middle Border he tells how, in middle life, he took the back-trail to the East?the place whence his father began his western march?and completed the circle. Mr. Garland feels that in taking the back-trail he and his family are as typical of our times as. Our fathers were of theirs. He feels that the age of physical exploration is almost ended. "The average man of today is too gregarious to be a pathfinder. * * * The love of crowds, the wish to live in great centers, is well-nigh universal. If all the people who wish to live in New York were able to follow their inclination, we should have a city of twenty millions instead of seven." It is this growing power?this rushing together of those who love cities?that brought the Garlands to New York, where with occasional interesting trips to New and Old England, they reside. On the physical side Mr. Garland hates the city. He "loathes its bad air, its ugly brick walls, its noise, and its ever present garbage _cans; but he finds in it the intellectual companionships which he craves.' Deep down in his consciousness is a feeling of guilt, a sense of disloyalty to his ancestors; but it is not strong enough to alter his course. Mr. Garland feels that to outline the dangers of the city is only to add to its charm and appeal, and accelerate this world-wide moving, seeking, integrating. As his first three books embody the spirit of the pioneer, so his last book shows clearly, and I believe honestly, the centripetal forces that are drawing old and young to the large cities of the world. Coming from "a land where nothing is venerable," Mr. Garland appreciates fully the shrines of our cities. He feels himself at the source of legend when he visits Washington and Mount Vernon, where America's first great president dined and slept. He feels keenly the pathos of Martha Washington's last days in the little attic room, whose window looks out over the grave of her illustrious husband. Garland laments the decay of the pioneer spirit in himself. He no longer cares to pioneer, even in the literary sense. He has no desire for further hardship. Yet he senses deeply the beauty of the pioneers and pays tribute again to their solid, sterling qualities. 606 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Of the Middle West he says, "Confident, ready, boastful, it is for a time only. It is tragic or it is humorous (according to the observer) when a people so hopeful and so vigorous dies out upon a plain as a river loses itself in the sand." Of the pioneers, he says, "That our forefathers and our foremothers lived in a world as real as our own and with far greater hardships is true. It is probable that their hours of rejoicing were fewer than ours, and yet I shall go on believing that they enjoyed a more poetic world than that in which I live and that they had more courage and less enfeebling doubt." Back-Trailers from the Middle Border is rich in references to the "intellectual companionships" which Mr. Garland values so much and which are primarily responsible for his back-trailing. He likens the life of an author to a man digging for gold. Once your vein "pinches out, nothing remains but to climb from your shaft and hunt a new lead." One of the first men Garland met after he moved to New York was William Dean Howells, now old and not at all well, of whom he says, "In the tones of his voice, I detected the wistful resignation of hopeless age." Mr. Howells was troubled about the life after death, and he and Mr. Garland exchanged views on the thought of the old Saxon poet who figured the life of man to be like the coming of a swallow out of the dark into the light of the house for an instant, and then on into the night again. John Burroughs, a revered friend and later a neighbor of Mr. Garland's, is mentioned often, with love and understanding. Of his "intellectual companionships" in Europe, those of Maurice Hewlett, Joseph Conrad, A. A. Milne, and James Barrie are the most vividly and fully given. As one reads of these delightful companionships with the greatest men of his time, one can understand how the finely grained, charming, gentle Hamlin Garland was drawn eastward from the land of his pioneer forebears. To those who have not experienced the hardships incident to pioneer life, Mr. Garland's appreciation of his home "in the land of Rip Van Winkle" will perhaps seem far-fetched. But Garland has had much of poverty and illness in his life and he enjoys the feeling of security which he experiences in the city. He has granted the heroism of the pioneer, praising also their loyalty and patient hardihood. About this book there is the sadness of something completed. For fifteen years Hamlin Garland has been working on this series of books and now with Back-Trailers from the Middle Border his story is told and his face is turned to the fireside and the past. But what a past! Though he has his moments of doubt and wondering as to whether the irritations of the subway and the tumult of the pavement are adequate returns for the loss of mountain dawns and prairie sunsets, we feel sure that he will happily blend them and rest content. Notes from the Field Botse Stake BOISE SECOND WARD RELIEF SOCIETY This picture was taken at the opening social in the Second Ward, at Boise. It tells its own story?efficient mothers and beautiful children. Nebo Stake In the Nebo Stake Tabernacle, on Sunday, August 18, 1929, a thoroughly successful Relief Society Class Leaders' Convention was held, President Mary P. Harding presiding. Professor William H. Boyle from the Brigham Young University gave an illuminating address on fundamentals in teaching. Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund of the General Board of Relief Society, followed, emphasizing the same thoughts. John F. Oleson, stake seminary instructor, asked for the support of the Relief Society, in the seminary work. Special instructors in the various departments were: Theology, Professor Boyle; Literature, Mrs. Algie Baliff of Provo; Social Service, Miss Hermese Peterson of the Brigham Young University; Music, Mrs. Hannah Condie Packard of the puke Young University; Visiting Teachers, Mrs. Julia A. F. Und. _ The Class Leaders' Convention, together with the large stake social the preceding Tuesday, made a very fine beginning for the 608 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Relief Society work of the year. In the social, all the wards took part. Those who participated in this delightful entertainment numbered, perhaps, more than four hundred, mostly members of the Relief Society. Morgan Stake At Como Springs, August 20, 1929, was held one of the best socials and flower shows ever put on by the Morgan stake Relief Society. Present at the invitation of the stake president were: Mrs. Louise Y. Robison, General President of the Relief Society, and other members of the General Board. The program was both musical and literary, each ward furnishing a number. In variety, quality, and number, the flower entries would be difficult to duplicate. Following the program and the display of flowers, luncheon to 280 guests was served by the stake board. Shelley Stake From Shelley stake comes a most interesting report of activities during the past year. One very fine accomplishment was realized through the thrift and energy of the stake Relief Society. More than $500.00 was earned and contributed toward the stake tabernacle, which has just been completed. The stake officers planned also and consummated three summer events, one for each month. That for July was a stake outing held on the 9th in the Goshen ward?a most successful entertainment, nearly every woman in the stake being present, making a total of 575. Tithe August event was a flower show, which was held during the quarterly conference, August 17 and 18, in the beautiful new tabernacle. In this show, planned and carried out by the Relief Society civic pride committee, each ward had a separate display, all blending most harmoniously. That there had never been so many beautiful flowers grown in the stake before, was the opinion of all present. After the conference four large loads of choice blossoms were taken to Idaho Falls and given, with the compliments of the Relief Society, to the two hospitals there. The event for September combined a district teachers' convention and a banquet. In each ward during the summer months a Relief Society conference was held. Stake officers report all ward workers much interested in their program, and eager for the lesson work to begin again. Rigby Stake A gratifying report of Relief 'Society activities in the Rigby stake, covers the fiscal year just ending. The Society was active during the summer months, holding its annual flower show, class leaders' convention, and two clinics. One clinic was held for the examination of heart and lungs, another for children of pre-school NOTES FROM THE FIELD 609 age. By enlisting the services of a public health nurse, this stake has co-operated well with other agencies. During the late winter months, at the home of Stake President Lettie E. Call, the stake board entertained its ward presidents, counselors, and secretaries. Salt Lake Stake In order to demonstrate some outstanding piece of work that has been accomplished, it is the desire of the Salt Lake stake Relief Society board to set aside one day towards the latter part of the year. This year the field of art work was chosen. Members were asked to bring any piece of work?sewing, rugs, quilts, or any type of article made during the year or at a previous time?but it must have been a result of lessons in the art department, or must have been accomplished through inspiration received from Relief Society activities. The exhibit, held in the spacious new Nineteenth Ward Amusement Hall, was most successful. The room was redolent with the fragrance of a flower garden placed in the center, while, side by side around the room, were thirteen booths variously decorated and filled with pieces of art work?afghans, lampshades, rugs, quilts, flowers, painted articles, remodeled clothing, and soon. The booths, decorated with flowers made by the women of the Relief Societies, were gay and beautiful in their originality. "Excellence in art," says Hilliard, "is to be attained only by active effort, and not by passive impressions; by the manly overcoming of difficulties, by patient struggle against adverse circumstances, by the thrifty use of moderate opportunities." If Mr. Hilliard had been in the Relief Society and had its activity in mind, he could not have spoken more truthfully. By earnest hard work, under many difficulties, these women produced an especially fine exhibit. The judges declared it impossible to select any one booth and call it the best, because all were so praiseworthy. Prizes were given to each ward for some distinctive display: For the greatest display of outlined articles, for the best general display, for the best quilt and handwork, and for the most artistic booth, also for the one with the greatest 'number of useful articles, and for the best exhibit of remodeled clothing. Refreshments were served on small tables, and music was furnished by the excellent West Junior High School orchestra. This affair, all declared to be one of the most charming ever given. Pioneer Stake As a fitting close to the season's work, and also to celebrate the organization of the Pioneer stake Relief Society in 1904, a delightful entertainment was given by the officers of the Pioneer stake Relief Society, on June 28, 1929, in Pioneer Stake Hall. The 610 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE hall was beautifully decorated with summer flowers. After a short musical program, a pageant depicting the organization and growth of the Relief Society work of the Pioneer stake, was given. It was an excellent portrayal of the patriotic service rendered by these women during the 25 years since the organization. Dealing with a very important historic period, it showed the manifold activities? philanthropy, patriotism, and also the educational and spiritual development. The pageant portrayed the helpful work of the women of this stake during the World War, the institution of a stake library, and other examples of real progress. Music was furnished by a string orchestra. Beautiful costumes in pastel shades, worn by the dancers, who were a part of the pageant, made a very lovely picture. Not the least interesting, however, was the living picture of the women responsible for this work?the former presidents of the stake. After the closing remarks, the afternoon was spent in games and social entertainment, at which all the wards of the stake were guests, and were served with delicious refreshments. Big Horn Stake The motto for the year 1929 in the Big Horn stake has been "Self Improvement." At the same time it was the special aim of the Relief Society to build up and improve the work of the visiting teachers. The work is responding to the efforts put forth, and improving in a satisfactory manner. At the Work and Business Meetings a plan has been put into effect whereby every member, no matter how varied the talents, would be interested and employed. One group would furnish the entertainment, and another the luncheon, the latter often supplying a recipe for the dish served if the members so desired. The second group would paint vases or frame pictures, while the third would be making quilts or some one or the other of the old home arts. This plan, decidedly successful, has greatly increased attendance at the Work and Business Meeting. Big Horn stake has gone through the process of early pioneering, where all energy was spent in subduing the soil. Maintenance of life having been successfully accomplished, the sisters of the Relief Society feel that beautifying the land is the next great achievement. To this end, the flower department of the Relief Society has asked every woman to plant a shrub or ornamental tree. Over a thousand shrubs have been planted, one ward alone planting 243. Ward conferences this year have been in keeping with the flower program, the churches being always decorated for the occasion. One little branch held its conference so early that there was not a flower in the village, nevertheless a beautiful bowl of Chinese Lilies graced the speakers' stand. It was only on close NOTES FROM THE FIELD 611 scrutiny that it was discovered that the bulbs were onions, while clever paper flowers duplicated real lilies. Annual day, in the Big Horn stake, is fast becoming an outstanding event. The wonderful spirit at these gatherings adds much to the work. Good programs both spontaneous and previously arranged, together with pageants and one act plays, help to make the day enjoyable. The Glee Club is carrying out a fine program, and furnishes excellent music at the various meetings. The work of compiling the Cook Book is nearly completed, and the stake board is convinced that it will be a monument to the good cooks of the organization. So many of the wards desired to continue the weekly meetings during the months of July and August that the following program for summer activities was decided upon: For July, Testimony Meeting: theme, "Ideals of Our Pioneers"; at the \Work and Business Meeting, besides continuation of the present plan of work, a program giving biographies of the early stake presidents; on July 16, "The American Indian;" on July 23, Home talent: night or a pageant; and so on through the summer, always with something particularly appropriate to the times, Woodruff Stake On Thursday, August 15, 1929 *the Woodruff stake Relief Societies held an exhibit in the Evanston ward chapel. One hundred and fifty persons were present. The exhibits comprised diverse kinds of handwork, cut flowers and living plants. Each ward made a special prize quilt, the quilts being especially excellent. Officers of the Lyman stake were present, and acted as judges of the exhibit. During the program a thirty-second silent tribute of love and respect was paid to the memory of Mrs. Sarah Martin of the Hilliard ward, recently deceased, whose loss is deeply felt. The exhibit was an unqualified success, promising much good for the future. A Thanksgiving Prayer By Elsie E. Barrett Dear Lord, we are thankful for health, For the bearing of burdens each day; For the friends who have made our lives brighter, For Thy mercies along the dark way. Grant us wisdom, O Lord, every hour, All the true from the false may we see; May we find greater joy in true service, And be worthy all blessings from Thee. Guide Lessons for January LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in January) BOOK OF MORMON LESSON 4?PROPHECIES AND DOCTRINES This lesson includes the matter between Second Nephi, chapter 25, and the end of the Book of Jacob?pages 106 to 150, inclusive. There is almost no narrative or story details in the lesson, the only thing of the kind being the account of the kings after Nephi I, the incident about Sherem, and the suggestion of difficulties between the Nephites and the Lamanites. The great bulk of the matter, as suggested in the title of the present lesson, is an explanation of doctrines. Following is a brief outline: I. The Word of Nephi. 1. Prophecies (Chapter 25-30). A. Concerning the Jerusalem of Nephi's day. B. Concerning Christ among the Jews. (1) His name foretold. (2) Rejection of him by Jews.. Concerning the "last days." (1) Coming of the Book of Mormon. To whom given. How viewed by Gentiles. Value to mankind. (2) Conditions at time book is given. (3) Times subsequent to appearance of book. 2. Teachings. A. Baptism of Christ?significance. (1) Obedience in ordinances. (2) Narrowness of way suggested. B. Reception of Holy Ghost. C. Prayer a safeguard afterwards. II. Book of Jacob. 1. Jacob receives "Small Plates." 2. Political events?kings. 3. Teachings and warnings. A. Pride over riches. B. "Fornication and lasciviousness." 4. Parable of the Vineyard. GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 613 a. The parable itself. B. Interpretation of it. 5. Incident of Sherem. A. Sherem's fascination and doctrine. B. What became of it. 6. Conflicts with Lamanites. Notes ? 1. The Miracle of Prophecy. Of all the miracles we read about in sacred literature, the least explainable or even understandable is that of prophecy. Yet it was one of the commonest with the ancient prophets, whether in the Hebrew or the Nephite nation. And certainly one of the most remarkable is the one by Nephi in this lesson. For in it he tells us about Christ among the Jewish people and the Nephites, who was not to come for almost six hundred years; about the coming forth of the Book of Mormon and how it would be looked upon by the people among whom it appeared; about the religious conditions at the time of its appearance; and what would take place among the nations after its coming forth. One part of this prophecy, or rather series of prophecies, is equally striking whether we regard the prediction as being uttered by Nephi twenty-five hundred years ago or by Joseph Smith a year or so before its fulfilment. It is the statement of how the book the prophet was then translating would be received, or, strictly, rejected by the people. 'A bible!" they are made to exclaim, "a bible! We have a bible and need no more bible." As a matter of fact, that is the very language objectors to the Book of Mormon have been using for a hundred years?Christians, all. The remarkable character of this forecast would at once appear, if we should ask any author today in the beginning of his work to foretell the exact words the public will use when it is issued. 'One of the puzzling things about this attitude of Christian people towards the Nephite Record is their thoughtless inconsistency in the matter. For here they are, on the one hand, hopelessly divided religiously, a condition due to the inadequacy of the Hebrew Scriptures, and there they are, on the other hand, refusing even to consider a volume that purports to be from God and that makes 'plain what is obscure in the book they accept as the word of God. 'Oh, consistency, thou art a jewel!" 2. Nephi on Baptism. It is a strange thing that Nephi should give a discourse on baptism six hundred years before John the Baptist teaches it. Which goes to show that it is one of the oldest of the ordinances in the Church, and not at all confined to the Christian dispensation and after. But Nephi has some views on the subject that have not been sufficiently considered, even by those who have taught and 614 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE practiced the ordinance as much as we have. For instance, he gives two reasons for the baptism of our Savior, and this centuries before the event. They are, first, that Jesus wanted to set the pattern in obedience and, second, that he wanted to show how strait and narrow the Way is. (The word is improperly spelled "straight" in the Book of Mormon; in the Gospel it is given as "strait,' which means ''confined, distressful, difficult'"?very obviously Nephi's meaning.) In addition to that he throws light on the remission of sin in baptism. It is in the "baptism by fire and the Holy Ghost" that sins are remitted or forgiven, whereas we have always connected it with baptism by water; and Nephi's explanation appears the more reasonable. The prophet says nothing about faith and repentance here, but takes it for granted that they will have been already adopted by the candidate for baptism. For no one would be baptized unless he had repented first, and he would not have repented unless he had believed before that. So Nephi's exposition may be termed an exposition of the "first principles and ordinances of the gospel," and certainly it is one of the finest to be found anywhere?brief, clear, simple, easy to understand. Indeed it goes farther than the first step in salvation, for it includes the rest of the plan. And what do you suppose that is? Prayer. Nothing can go to the heart of the matter any better than that. For prayer keeps one in close touch with the divine Spirit, and keeping in tune with that, one is not likely to stray far from the path or be in a quandary what to do as one goes along. An excellent little treatise on the subject, these two chapters, and excellently worded too. 3. The Small Plates. Here is as good a place as any to take up a matter that is often found puzzling in the study of the Book of Mormon. It is the matter of plates. One gathers from several passages in the Record that the people of Nephi were taught to read, that there was popular education to that extent at least. In connection with Sherem we are told that the people "searched the scriptures," after which they "hearkened no more to the words of this wicked man." These scriptures, Orson Pratt thought, were "probably copies made from the Brass Plates"?that is, the writings which Lehi brought with him from Jerusalem. If so, then the Nephites would most likely have copies on some other material than gold plates. For Jacob (4:1) speaks of the "difficulty of engraving our words upon plates," and infers that the reason for writing on plates was "that the things which we write upon plates must remain." And he goes on to say that "whatsoever things we write upon any thing, save it be upon plates, must perish and vanish away." The clear inference here is that they did have "other things" upon which they wrote "things" that were not intended to be GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 615 permanently preserved. What these were the Book of Mormon does not inform us. Nephi began and carried on a history of his people from the time the colony left Jerusalem till his death, and requested that the work be continued by his historian successors?which was done. This work was on what he called the "larger plates," and covered mainly political events. But as he went on, he was requested to make "smaller plates," for a "wise purpose" in the Lord of which he, Nephi, was in the dark, and on these he was to record the distinctively religious history of his people?prophecy, doctrine, religious development, miracles, revelation, and so on. And this he did. This "wise purpose" did not come to view till Joseph Smith translated the golden volume, in 1829. With Martin Harris as amanuensis, he translated the first leaves of the larger plates of the book?which covered one hundred sixteen pages of manuscript. This manuscript Martin Harris lost, and the Prophet was advised not to attempt a re-translation but instead to substitute the "smaller plates" for that part of the "larger plates" of the regular record. Thus it is that we have "the more religious part" of the Book of Mormon to begin with?the first one hundred fifty-seven pages of our present volume. As for the rest of our book, it is nearly all an abridgment of the general record of the Nephites, made by a man named Mormon, who lived toward the close of the Nephite nation?almost a thousand years away from the first Nephi. This is why the Nephite Record as we have it is called the "Book of Mormon." Between the "smaller plates" of Nephi and this abridgment is an introductory chapter, called the "Words of Mormon." So that the Book of Mormon in its present form comprises (1) the small plates of Nephi, (2) an abridgment of the general history of the Nephites by Mormon, (3) an abridgment of the record of an earlier people called Jaredites by Moroni, son of Mormon, and (4) some closing chapters by Moroni. 4. The Sealed Book. In our present lesson Nephi calls attention to a point in connection with the golden volume delivered oy Moroni to Joseph Smith, which deserves a paragraph or two ere. That book, as we know, consisted of two parts?one of free leaves, about two-thirds, and another of leaves that were sealed, about one-third. Only the unsealed part was translated by the Prophet. What was the sealed part about? When are we to know its. Contents? Nephi answers these questions in a general way in our text. The sealed part of the book, according to our authority, is "a revelation from God, from the beginning of the world to the ending thereof." It was not translated by the Prophet and its contents made known at the time because of the "wickedness and 616 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE abominations of the people.' Moreover, "the revelation which was sealed shall be kept in the book until the own due time of the Lord, that they may come forth; for behold, they reveal all things from the foundation of the world to the end thereof." Then these words of the sealed part "shall be read upon the house tops; and they shall be read by the power of Christ; and all things shall be revealed unto the children of men which ever have been among the children of men, and which ever will be, even unto the end of the earth." Hence the Latter-day Saints have something to look forward to in connection with the Book of Mormon. After Joseph had finished translating the Record, he gave the plates, sealed and unsealed, back to the angel, "who has them to this day." So that when the time comes for the part which was sealed to be made known, the book will be available for the purpose. It is a very interesting world in which we live. Questions 1. Tell about the sealed and the unsealed part of the Book of Mormon. 2. Explain the larger plates and the smaller plates of which Nephi speaks in the text. 3. What was the "wise purpose" in the making of the small plates? 4. Give the substance of Nephi's discourse on baptism. 5. Why is prophecy miraculous? Would it be a good thing for us to know all about what is to happen to us before it comes? Why? 6. Is what is prophesied bound to happen because it is foreseen? Or has the foreseeing of it anything to do with making it come to pass? Explain in the light of Martin Harris's episode and the small plates. 7. What does Jacob have in mind when he speaks of wives and concubines? LESSON II Work and Business TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR JANUARY (This topic is to be given at the special teachers' meeting the first week in January) CHEERFULNESS I. Cheerfulness implies a bright and equable temper and shows itself in the face, the voice, the action. GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY ol7 Il. Cheerfulness a Gospel Doctrine. 1. Men are that they might have joy.?III Nephi, 2:25. Faith promotes cheerfulness; repentance assures us of it; the Gift of the Holy Ghost gives utterance through a cheerful heart. Scriptures admonish us to be cheerful. Serve the Lord with cheerful heart and countenance.? Doc. And Cov. Sec. 59:15-18. Be of good cheer, it is I? Matt. 14:27. Be of good cheer, Paul.?Acts 23:11. A merry heart doeth good like a medicine?Proverbs 17:22. Ill. Cheerfulness a Positive Power in Character Building. Be It can be taught and learned. Serenity of mind comes easy to some, hard to others. Teach the duty of happiness as well as the happiness of duty. Let the child feel the joy of doing some kind act each, day for some one else, and to express his feelings to you, his mother. Encourage children to sing and whistle at their work, to see the funny side, to look for and tell a good joke as Abraham Lincoln did. Cheerfulness is as contagious as measles. Children are sensitive to the emotional moods of the family. How essential, then, for parents to be cheerful. Cheerfulness dispels gloom and doubt. Cheerfulness in the home is to children as sunshine is to flowers. If people only knew the medicinal power of laughter, of good cheer, of the constant, unrepressed expression of joy and, gladness, then half the physicians would be out of work IV. Cheerfulness an Asset in Winning Success. It is the bright and cheerful person that wins the final triumph. Everybody avoids the company of those who are always "blue." Be an optimist; cheerful people are welcome in any group. "Fate served me meanly but I looked at her and laughed, That none might know how bitter was the cup I quaffed, Along came Joy and paused beside me where I sat, Saying, 'I came to see what you were laughing at. ? 99 618 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE LESSON III Literature (Third Week in January) A SON OF THE MIDDLE BORDER By Hamlin Garland Hamlin Garland, author of A Son of the Middle Border and many other novels, poems, and articles, was born in Wisconsin in 1860. His birthplace was a frontier farm; his parents were pioneer people who were wresting from the wilderness a meager living. Before young Garland was eleven years of age, the family had moved three different times ever westward to more thinly populated territory. Like frontier boys of our own state, Garland attended school only a few short months during the winter, but finally graduated from the Cedar Valley Seminary, Iowa, after which he taught school for a few years. Becoming interested in literature, the young man finally went East to Boston, where he met a number of literary men including William Dean Howells. Beginning to write, he soon was making a fair living. His Stories Are Stirring After he had been somewhat weaned from the West, he returned to visit his parents and family. The prairies took on a new light. He saw the drudgery and the hopelessness of farm life as it was then. Returning East, he wrote a book of short stories, which he called ''"Main Traveled Roads." This book was published in 1891. These stories, in the opinion of many people, still rank as Garland's best, for he was at home in them and spoke out of a sore heart. Fred Lewis Patee says: "What Mrs. Freeman did for New England, Hamlin Garland did for the Middle West, the only difference being that Garland was the pioneer depicter of his middle border farm lands and Mrs. Freeman was the last of a long line of story tellers dealing with Yankee life." "His pictures grip the imagination like Zola's," Mr. Patee continues; "they do not depress, they anger, they stir the blood, they call for action." Garland has written a number of strong poems also. Though he is now a man 69 or 70 years of age, he is still at work. Few of the things he ever wrote can be loved for their sweetness, but they can all be admired for their strength and vigor. Anyone who has been reared on a farm any place in the West will find in Garland's A Son of the Middle Border, a partial relation, at least, of the story of his own life. In this story of a pioneer GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 619 family, Mr. Garland has given us pictures of farm life that in color and realism have never been equaled in any other literature that I have read. Gives Both Sides of Farm Life Usually those who know little about farm life have been the ones who have romanced about it. James Whitcomb Riley, for instance, a youth who never spent a day on the farm in his life except as a visitor or on-looker, gave us "When the Frost Is on the Pumpkin" and other similar poems; true pictures, certainly, but revealing only one side of farm life. Mr. Garland has given us in a masterly manner both sides. On account of his realism, Hamlin Garland has been classed with the writers of protest. His Matin Traveled Roads, a book of short stories mentioned in A Son of the Middle Border, reveals, as no other stories have ever done, the sordid side of farm life, the drudgery, the struggle. In fact, they have been important in bettering conditions on farms. They are the "Uncle Tom's Cabin" of the farmer and his wife and children. So austere were they that even many farmers said they were overdrawn; but they served to hold up before the American people the hopeless condition of the farm folk. Fred Lewis Patee in his American Literature Since 1870, says of A. Son of the Middle Border, "It is an autobiography and it is more; it is a document in the history of the Middle West. It has a value above all his novels, above all else that he has written, saving always those tense short stories of his first inspiration." Typical Pictures of Men and Boys In this book we have an excellent picture of Garland himself, and in addition some epic pictures of his relatives, fearless and fine pioneers of the Middle Border. The Garlands, the McClintocks, and a few of. The neighbors are drawn with a masterly hand, as are the farm scenes that adorn the pages of this most interesting volume. "The Old Soldier," Garland's father, is a typical pioneer such as are found in scores of homes in our own intermountain West, yes, in practically every family. Few of us who read the book will lay it down without saying, "This man Garland was just like father," or Uncle Jim, or some other of our relatives or friends. Ever looking beyond the sunset, ever eager to engage in the struggle with virgin sod, ever determined to make next year pay, Mr. Garland was just like many a "Mormon" pioneer who has written history in the sage and soil. David McClintock, especially, is another picture of a great man that will haunt the reader. Big, brave, but artistic of soul, 620 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE he was not especially made for the prairie, where his lot was ever cast and where he played a losing game. A dreamer who could not bring himself steadily to fight the grim battle expected of him, he saw his less talented yet thriftier neighbors increase in property as he declined. That story has been told a thousand times on the frontier, where there never is a variety of employment. The misfits are always pathetic though lovable and fine. Hamlin Garland is called a realist, a writer who sees the romance of life, but penetrates it and tells also of the realties. As is indicated in this book under consideration, he was a worshiper of Howells and Walt Whitman, brief portraits of whom he gives in his masterly manner. The very fact that The Hoosier School Master was so keenly enjoyed by this middle- border boy would indicate, perhaps, that in his own writing he would turn rather to realism than to romance.
"This Land of My Childhood"
The whole gamut of a farm boy's likes and dislikes is run in this book?from Thanksgiving on the farm to milking cows in muddy weather and fanning wheat by hand. Nothing, or very little, at least, is left out. The author's memories are so strong upon him that he bursts out, after describing a country Thanksgiving visit, "It all lies in the unchanging realm of the past?this land of my childhood. Its charm, its strange dominion, cannot return save in the poet's reminiscent dream. No money, no railway train, can take us back to it. It did not in truth exist?it was a magical world born of the vibrant union of youth and firelight, of music and the voice of moaning winds?a union which can never come again to you or me, father, uncle, brother, till the coulee meadows bloom again unscarred of spade or plow."
That nature, surrounding the boy on the prairies, had its effect upon him is indicated by passages like this one taken from Chapter Eight: "Meanwhile above our heads the wild ducks again pursued their northward flight, and the far honking of the geese fell to our ears from the solemn deeps of the windless night. On the first dry warm ridges the prairie cocks began to boom, and then at last came the day when father's imperious voice rang high in familiar command, 'Out with the drags, boys! We start seeding tomorrow'."
In the latter part of the book the budding author and school teacher is more and more in the East with his work; but his heart remains in the West despite the commiseration he feels for his family when he returns to visit them.
Garland's Own Life Is Portrayed
The Son of the Middle Border is his autobiography. It begins with his very early youth when his father, a soldier in the Civil War, returns home at its close to take up life where he had
GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 621
left it off. The story pictures the Garlands and the McClintocks, a family of which Hamlin's mother was a member. It then goes forward picturing the grim struggle with poverty on one hand and the stubborn virgin soil on the other as the family moves westward, ever westward, until they at length reach North Dakota. Young Garland obtains an education through self-struggle. And with a little help prepares for teaching. Eventually he goes East, where he meets a number of authors whose influence leads him to attempt to write. His first productions were what we would now call feature articles; later he began writing short stories and novels with the farm life of the Middle Border as the backgrounds. With these he was very successful, for the reason that he had struck into a field which had never before been used to any great extent by writers. His parents grew poorer and poorer on their big homestead in Dakota until at last the successful young author returned, induced them to sell their farm and return to Wisconsin to a home he had awaiting them.
"The first question which you have a right to ask me is this: Is it true?" says Mr. Garland in a foreword addressed to "My Young Readers." He replies, "My answer is as direct as your question, It is." Since this book will probably be in every public library and in most high school libraries and since an excellent edition may be obtained for $1, I shall not attempt to quote more from it. My suggestion would be for the one who gives it in the class to have the book with her well-marked in order that she may read striking passages or passages that give good pictures of these pioneers of the Middle West who, after all, are much like our own pioneers. Some of the farm scenes might be read and discussed as well as passages of beauty such as are found at the close of chapter fifteen, in the middle of chapter twenty and elsewhere. This book, as printed in "The Modern Readers Series," has questions and helps at the back which may prove helpful.
Questions and Problems
1. Who is Hamlin Garland? Why has he a right to picture farm life?
2. How does he rank as a writer of short stories and novels?
3. Are his pictures of farm life too grim?
4. Why might his stories be called the "Uncle Tom's Cabin" of farm folk?
5. Read "Under the Lion's Paw" and "Up the Coulee" and "Among the Corn Rows;" then comment upon their pictures of farm life.
6. Read passages that to you were especially impressive.
7. What effect has the life of Hamlin Garland had on the west?
622 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in January)
THE FIELD OF SOCIAL WORK
Lesson 1. THE NATURE AND SCOPE OF SOCIAL WORK
We now begin a consideration of the six lessons devoted to the Field of Social Work. The purpose of this and the five lessons which follow is to acquaint our members with the nature and scope of social work as an endeavor to promote human happiness. We shall, of necessity, have to be brief. Class leaders and others will find the references cited in these lessons helpful in elaborating the subjects treated. The six lessons will include (1) the nature and scope of social work, (2) poverty and dependency, (3) physical and mental diseases, (4) physical and mental defects, (5) crime and delinquency, and (6) the organization and administration of social work.
WHAT IS SOCIAL WORK?
The following definitions are selected from among the best and most representative:
Social work is not a clearly defined single field corresponding to a single need, but includes many diverse occupations which have as their tasks to supplement the work of the other professions. For example, the school visitor supplements the work of the teacher; the public health nurse the work of the physician; the family visitor the work of parents; the Bureau of Personal Service, or Legal Aid Society, or probation officer, and the settlement worker is found on many kinds of committees. (Tufts, Education and Training for Social Work, Russell Sage Foundation, 1923.)
In the United States of America "social work" has come into use in recent years as a comprehensive term, including reformation and all other conscious efforts, whether by the state or on private initiative, to provide for the dependent, the sick, and the criminal; to diminish the amount of poverty, disease, and crime, and to improve general living and working conditions. (Edward T. Devine and Lilian Brandt, American Social Work in the Twentieth Century.)
Social work is the business of producing, changing or adjusting social organizations and procedure in the interests of human welfare according to scientific standards. (L. A. Halbert, What is Professional Social Work? The Survey, New York, 1923, page 25.)
Perhaps the nearest we can come to a definition is to say that social work is the art of adjusting personal relationships, of helping to overcome the difficulties which may arise?for example, between native and foreign born, between employer and employee,
GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 623
between school and home. (Stuart A. Queen, Social Work in the Light of History, Lippincott, Philadelphia, 1922, page 18.)
WHAT FORMS DOES SOCIAL WORK TAKE?
There are many ways of classifying the various fields of social work. As a matter of fact, there is no one exact way. The following, for instance, is a classification of the fields of social work based on their relation to various institutions and to society as a whole. It is the work of Tufts, in the book cited above, page 24.
1. As related to the Family:
Care for the family as a whole, Family Welfare Societies,* Home Service of Red Cross, Public Welfare Departments doing "case work" in families.
Care for special types of adult or adolescent individuals such as deserted wives, unmarried mothers, the aged; Domestic Relations Courts.
Care for children, in their own homes, through child-placing agencies, through protective agencies, in institutions.
Housing, considered from the point of view of the homes of families, and of men and women not in families.
Visiting housekeeper or visiting dietitian.
2. As related to Government:
Civic agencies designed to organize public opinion for reform or improvement of government or for co-operation with it, reform leagues, city clubs, committees of various sorts with professional executives or secretaries.
Offices of government, particularly in the administrative departments which have to do with giving relief, with mothers' pensions, with factory legislation and child labor laws, with institutions for the care of the blind, the insane, the sick, the dependent and the delinquent. The Children's Bureau, juvenile research bureaus.
The legal field, including especially the juvenile court, with its agents; probation officers, and parole officers; legal aid societies, for aiding discharged prisoners; societies which include both public officials and others interested in penal problems, such as the American Prison Association and its various affiliated societies.
3. As related to Economic Institutions:
Agriculture, county agents, home demonstrators, leaders of boys' and girls' clubs, such as poultry clubs, corn clubs, and the like.
Commerce, associations of commerce, chambers of commerce, in so far as these take an interest in community problems.
*The L. D. S. Relief Society would be classed as a family welfare society.
624 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Industry, employment management, arbitration procedure, nurses, recreation leadership, administration of workingmen's compensation, labor unions (in certain aspects.)
4. As related to Hygiene and Medicine:
Public health, including physicians, inspectors, nurses, laboratory workers, and other officials.
Special fields, anti-tuberculosis campaigns, tuberculosis sanitaria, social hygiene committees and leagues.
Visiting nurses.
Hospital social work.
Nutrition work (which might be included also under care for children or under work of home demonstrators in the rural field).
Psychiatric social work.
Mental hygiene.
5. As related to Organized Recreation:
(This is analogous to 3 above in that Recreation like the economic field is supposed to be primarily left to individual initiative, but is found to need attention from the point of view of social and public interests.)
Recreation for children, playgrounds, summer camps.
Recreation for young people and adults, club work, gymnasiums, community music, pageants, dramatic presentations.
(Recreation cannot be sharply defined from the fields of hygiene, of education, and of ministration to the higher community life through the nobler arts.)
6. As related to Education and the Arts:
The school as social center in both rural and urban districts.
The work of school visitor or visiting teacher.
Vocational guidance.
Providing scholarships for children otherwise unable to remain in school.
The public library.
Clubs for study, reading, parliamentary practice, debate.
Boy Scouts, Campfire Girls.
Education of special groups, such as immigrants, workers, illiterate adults, et cetera.
Education in music, and the graphic and plastic arts.
7. As related to Organized Religion:
Work of the church or synagogue along similar lines to those noted under 1, 4, 5, and 6 above.
Work of the Young Men's Christian Association and Young Women's Christian Association, Knights and Ladies of Columbus, and the Young Men's Hebrew Association for young people in cities.*
*The Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association, the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, and the Primary Association naturally fall into this group.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 625
Rural work of the church.
Community work of the Young Men's Christian Association and Young Women's Christian Association.
Industrial work of the Young Men's Christian Association and Young Women's Christian Association.
Work of the Salvation Army, Volunteers of America.
8. As related to Institutions for cultivation of Friendship or Mutual Aid:
Clubs for children and adolescents.
(Certain types of social work are not comprehended under any of the above classes. The reason why they cannot be placed in relation to some one institution may be either because they supplement several institutions, or because they aim to supply some need or to promote some end for which society has not as yet organized any specific institution.)
9. Activities for certain groups, racial, geographic, occupational, which combine several of the fields above named:
Work with immigrants, with the Negro, with the American Indians.
Specially organized work for the mill village, the mining community or the lumber community, or for homeless and migratory groups.
City clubs, community centers, the Country Life movement.
10. The Settlement.
A second method of classifying social work is that of listing the various types of work done in a typical community. The following list, taken from the charities directories of New York and Philadelphia, presents a cross-section of social work. The multiplicity and range of social-work activities will readily be seen.
1920 New York Philadelphia Agencies having to do with health...............412 224 Child welfare agencies..........................233 147 Settlements,* social centers and housekeeping centers...................................227 60 Relief societies...............................180 102 Societies for civic and economic betterment by means of surveys, investigations, education of the public, etc................157 36 Adult homes...................................136 112 Agencies for obtaining or providing employment..................................123 46 Special educational opportunities, agricultural, musical, etc......................118 71
*The Neighborhood House is perhaps the best example of a settlement that we have in this region.
626 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Philanthropic agencies with a predominantly religious purpose.............................96 191 Agencies interested in naturalization, colonization and work for immigrants.........91 28 Correctional and protective agencies.........81 54 Societies serving special groups.............81 60 Negroes..................................29 36 Soldiers, sailors, or their dependents....25 10 Clergymen................................8 Medical men..............................7 Indians..................................5 Artists..................................4 Firemen..................................3 Recreational facilities.....................63 88 Banking, loan and saving societies..........23 10 Milk stations, diet kitchens and lunch rooms.20 23 Conferences and federations which include social work agencies......................12 20 Legal Aid societies.........................11 7 Societies for the protection of animals......9 14
A third method is illustrated by the divisions of the National Conference of Social Work, an organization of social workers which meets annually in various parts of the United States to consider the current problems and practices in the field.
Division I?Children. Division II?Delinquents and Correction. Division III?Health. Division IV?The Family. Division V?Industrial and Economic Problems. Division VI?Neighborhood and Community Life. Division VII?Mental Hygiene. Division VIII?Organization of Social Forces. Division IX?Public Officials and Administration. Division X?The Immigrant. Division XI?Professional Standards and Education. Division XII?Educational Publicity.
HOW IS SOCIAL WORK RELATED TO THE OTHER PROFESSIONS?
Measured by the accepted standards of a profession, social work and social workers are truly professional. In the first place social work and social workers have no ulterior purpose in their work. The client in social work, as the patient in medicine, is the center of attention. His interests and his welfare are always uppermost. In the second place the field comprises a definite body
GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 627
of principles and practice for which training is necessary. In the third place the profession is controlled by its members and all who are identified with it are governed by a democratically-evolved set of ethical standards. In these respects and in many other ways social work is on a par with law, medicine, engineering, nursing, teaching, etc.
Social work is both auxiliary and a separate field of activity. It is auxiliary in the sense that many of its services are the logical extensions of already-existing professional activities. As has already been suggested, the medical social worker, for example, might be viewed as an auxiliary to the physician; the legal aid worker as an auxiliary to the court; the visiting teacher as an auxiliary in the school, etc. And yet, in a very real sense, social work is a distinct profession, coordinate in rank and independence with the traditional professions just mentioned. Thus, the service of the family case worker is altogether unique and is auxiliary to no already-existing profession or field of endeavor. This is also true of many other social workers, such as the community organizer, the public welfare administrator, the social executive, the social investigator, etc. In these respects then we have a new profession calling for education and skill, the equal of that required in law, in teaching, and even in medicine. Proof of this fact is the existence in the United States today of over twenty schools?most of which are connected with colleges and universities?for the professional training of social workers.
To be sure, a great deal of social work has been?and still is?done by intelligent, untrained volunteers. The tendency, however, is more and more in the direction of professional training. There are, however, many forms of social work which can be done by volunteers working under the direction of trained social workers.
One of the outstanding features of Relief Society work is the stupendous service which has been rendered by thousands of intelligent Christian women whose chief equipment for their work is their general education, their common sense and their love for their fellowmen. It is unnecessary to add that this work is greatly appreciated.
Questions
1. In what respect do the definitions for social work given above differ from one another? What is your own (or your class leader's) definition?
2. What are the specific problems attacked by social work?
3. What social and economic conditions have brought social work about?
628 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
4. How is social work related to alms giving? How does it differ?
5. What are the specific forms of social work in your community?
6. How does the procedure of a trained social worker differ from that of an untrained volunteer?
7. What are some of the commoner objections to professional social work and social workers? How valid are these objections?
8. What, in your opinion, are the qualifications for a social worker, on the side of (a) personality, (b) education, (c) training?
9. What problems in your community might be better solved if the services of trained social workers were available?
References
(In communities where there is a public library, stake officers will do well to ask the local librarian to secure and place on reserve the following books.)
1. Karl De Schweinitz, The Art of Helping People Out of Trouble; Houghton, Boston.
2. Stuart A. Queen, Social Work in the Light of History; J. B. Lippincott and Company, Philadelphia.
3. Alice S. Cheyney, The Nature and Scope of Social Work; American Association of Social Workers, New York, price 50c.
4. The Annual Proceedings of the National Conference of Social Work; University of Chicago Press, Chicago, Illinois.
5. Robert Kelso, The Science of Public Welfare; Henry Holt and Company, New York.
6. The Survey (published twice a month).
Raked-Up Leaves By Vesta Pierce Crawford
Here are the last of all the leaves. Painter, I've seen your new-budded tree And your summer-swayed bough, I've seen your Autumn grandeur, But these leaves, you cannot paint them now.
Once they wore the colors of the dawn; Now they are raked-up leaves With all their splendor gone.
Give Your Son or Daughter a Practical Education
BANKING DEPARTMENT New Students Enrolling Each Week
Students placed in good positions upon completion of course. None of our Graduates out of employment. See our School in Session?Visitors Welcome.
J. C. HENAGER?D. B. MOENCH
THE SCHOOL WITH A NATIONAL REPUTATION
Henager's Business College Phone Was. 2753 45 E. Broadway
Why buy unknown brands of sub-standard Irons when you can get a fully guaranteed HOTPOINT 6 LBS. HOUSEHOLD IRON FOR AS LITTLE AS
More Value per Dollar; longer, better and more dependable Service. Our Guarantee back of every Iron we sell. Call in or phone us your order.
Modern Electric Company Was. 2307 128 South State
Electrical Gifts are appreciated for the continued service they give.
COURTESY
It's easy to distinguish a high class institution by the degree of courtesy extended the Public by its employees. The greatest compliment paid the O. P. Skaggs System stores is the noticeable courtesy of each of our employees. Our stores are high class and any other type of men would be out of place there.
O. P. SKAGGS "A Surety of Purity" When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
"YOU CAN'T GO WRONG" THAT'S WHY WE SAY "Buy Blue Pine Food Products" and if for any reason your purchase is not entirely satisfactory, go to your Grocer and he will refund your money.
BLUE PINE FOOD PRODUCTS
SALT LAKE VISITING NURSING SERVICE For general information call K. M. Hudson, R. N., 46 Truman Ave., Salt Lake City, Utah, Phone Hy. 6177. Service includes, Routine Visits, Maternity Service, Surgical Assistance at minor operations and Hourly Service by appointment, for special treatments or dressings.
CHECK UP NOW
Far too many people check up their insurance after a loss. Then, in many cases, they realize that they overlooked something?that they were not adequately protected.
Let this agency check up on your insurance now. We who are paying losses day in and day out know how many dollars might have been saved if people had called a reliable insurance agent in time.
It is our business to keep you out of trouble. Years of experience protecting other property owners have given us valuable knowledge of the risks that threaten you, and the insurance that will protect you.
See Our Agent in Your Town
UTAH HOME FIRE INSURANCE CO. HEBER J. GRANT & CO., General Agents SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Temple and Burial Clothes
COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN Variety of Grades and Prices
Prompt and Careful Attention To Mail?Telephone? Telegraph Orders
Open Daily, 9 a. M.?5 p. M.
General Board Relief Society Phone Wasatch 3286 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Complete Printing and Binding Service
OFFICE RULING AND BANK BOOK FORMS BINDING
SPECIAL ATTENTION TO MAIL ORDERS
We offer special prices on binding Church Magazines. These volumes should be preserved as valuable additions to your library.?Write us about them.
The Deseret News Press 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Fulfilling Those Desires
Would it not be a great joy to know positively that the financing of your child's future education was assured? This is accomplished through a BENEFICIAL LIFE contract. Whether it be for the child's education. Or to start him out in business, or any other purpose, the money will be there, at the time you want it there.
The insurance benefit must carry as designated by the parent. It cannot be revoked or altered in any way at the desire of the child.
The BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. Now offers policies on the lives of children from the age of one day until age fourteen.
THE BIG HOME COMPANY
Beneficial Life Insurance Co. HOME OFFICE, SALT LAKE CITY HEBER J. GRANT, President E. T. RALPHS, Gen. Mgr.
