[Vol3 | February 1916 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Editorial | Title: Efficiency Editorial]

Efficiency. The word used in modern business is this rather What is — modern word efficiency. We have efficiency Efficiency? engineers and efficiency experts in every depart- ment of the modern strenuous life men who are — able, competent and extremely alert men who cut down ex- ; penses, men who discover weakness, and men who promote activity, who would teach other men how to accomplish re- sults. These modern ideas of efficiency have actually Efficiency invaded the home. Devices and "contraptions" in. The for the lessening of work in the home, arrange- Home, ments to save steps, to lessen the friction every- where in the domestic machiner}\ through small compact kitchen laboratories, are the order of the day. Budgets to compose and adjust the household expenses are introduced into all the Home Science Departments in the technical schools. Efficient housekeepers, home-makers, wives, mothers and daughters, are the great modern requirement. no RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. The efficient housekeeper has many of the ele- The ments of success required to offer for the efficient Efficient woman in any public business. Women who Woman. have learned to regulate their own affairs, to con- duct their own intricate domestic problems, are, as a rule, qualified for a wider usefulness, a broader sphere of activity. But, alas, so few women, in the mass, are really efficient housekeepers. To do things in "any old way," at "any old time," is too often the rule in most households. And yet, this thing we call efficiency can be cultivated. We are — — never too old we Relief Society women to learn and to progress. Every truth we learn here, every fault overcome, every virtue acquired is just so much efficiency laid up in our bank on the other side. And spiritual efficiency will be the circulating medium hereafter. Are you an efficient wife and mother? An ef- Are you ficient housekeeper and homemaker? An efficient Efficient? Relief Society member, teacher, or officer? If not, why not? Are you capable, competent, and faith- ful? Can you be depended on? When you say you will at- tend to anything, do you keep your word? Do you take re- sponsibility? Do you give good service? Do your labors, pro- duce the effects intended, or are they largely abortive? Do you earn, really and truly earn, no matter what you may be ])aid;do you earn efficiency wages or only day's wages? Is your activity productive of the most useful effects, or do you "jump up and down in a bucket all day and holler", as a Yankee grandmother characterized a certain woman's foolish waste of time and energy? These are the questions I ask myself, and I hereby pass them on to you. The world, the Church, and above all, the Relief Society, wants efficient women, members, and officers. ATTENTION! GENEALOGICAL COMMITTEES. In answer to many inquiries the General Board wishes it luiderstood that the genealogical visits to be reported are official visits paid to the Temples by the ward Relief Society. Private visits of individuals to Temples need not be recorded on our reports.