HON. A. A. SARGENT.

	Hon. A. A. Sargent, ex U. S. Senator from
California, and since minister to Berlin, whose
death was announced recently in the papers, was
a friend and advocate of woman's suffrage, and
also a firm believer in justice and rights for all,
even "Mormons."
	His wife showed great kindness and courtesy to
the "Mormon" women who attended the Eleventh
Annual Convention of the N. W. S. A. in 1879, of
which she was at that time one of the officers, and
is a most interesting women, and an active worker
in the suffrage and in other ways for the advance-
ment of women. Mr. and Mrs. Sargent have, we
are told, spoken many times in favor of our peo-
ple when an opportunity offered, which our people
can fully appreciate, as it is the custom of the
world at large to denounce Mormons. Those who
are free from prejudice are the exception.
	We sincerely sympathize with Mrs. Sargent in
her great loss. When such men die there is cause
for sorrow, for the world needs such honest and
upright men to fill positions of honor and trust in
the government.
	The following letter from Senator Sargent to
Miss Anthony will clearly demonstrate his stand-
ing in the woman suffrage movement:
	"1 regret that the necessity to proceed at once to
California will deprive me of the pleasure of at-


tending your convention of July 19th, the anniver-
sary of the spirited declaration of rights put forth
thirty years ago by some of the noblest and most
enlightened women of America. Woman's rights
have made rapid strides since that day in juster
legislation, in widened spheres of improvement,
and in the gradual, but certain recognition by large
numbers of citizens of the justice and policy of
extending the elective franchise to women. It is
now very generally conceded that the time is
rapidly approaching when women will vote. The
friends of the movement have faith in the result,
and its enemies generally admit it. Courage and
work will hasten the day. The worst difficulties
have already been overcome. The movement has
passed the stage of ridicule, and even that of abuse,
and has entered that of intelligent discussion, its
worst adversaries treating it with respect. You
are so familiar with all the arguments in favor of
this great reform, that I will not attempt to state
them; but I wish to say, that as an observer of
public events, it is my deliberate judgment that
your time is near at hand. There are vastly more
men and women in the United States now, who
believe that wemen should have the right to vote,
than there were in 1848 who believed the slave
should be freed. This is a government of opinions,
and the growing opinion will be irresistible.
	"Respectfully yours,
