IMPROVEMENT.

	First we must remember to do unto all people
as we would they should do unto us. Love our
enemies, and do good to them that despitefully
use us. Some of the sayings of our enemies are
too true to a great extent. One of their general
remarks is that the greater portion of our young
people can not tell why they are Latter-day Saints.
This should not be, for the time will soon come,
when all those who do not know this to be the
true Church of Christ, will cease to be members
of this Church, and thus become like seed sown
on stony ground, which thrived for awhile and
then died out. First we should live each day so
as to enjoy the Spirit of the Lord, to guide and
direct us. Secondly, we should study the scrip-
tures, more especially the Old and New Testa-
ments, so we will be thoroughly posted on the
principles of the Gospel, and able, at any time, to
defend the same. Unless we do so every time an
opportunity presents itself, we will be condemned
for neglect of duty; and it would have been better
had we never been connected with the Church.
	A few years hence our parents will have passed
from this stage of action, and we in their place
will have to take hold of this Kingdom with its
mighty labors and problems and roll it on. And
also the time is not far distant when we will be
the only people who will sustain the constitution
of the government under which we live, which
guarantees to every person the right to worship
God according to the dictates of their own con-
sciences, and freedom, liberty and equal rights to
all; of which the present rulers of that govern-
ment are striving and, to a great exteut, depriving
us. And thus unawares fullfilling the prophecies
predicted by Joseph Smith as well as many pro-
phets of old.

[Column 2]

	Now in view of the great work and mighty
problems which this kingdom and the govern-
ment under which we live comprise, each young
person should ask himself the question: am I
better fitted for this great work than my parents
or the rulers of the day? Worldly prosperity alone
will not fit us, nor mere book learning endow us
for the great labor that awaits us; but a faithful
performance of every duty and a gradual advance-
ment upon all true principles connected with the
government upon the earth. This Gospel will
fit us for this great labor. We have no time to
idle away, until we have fully posted ourselves
with the principles of the Gospel.
	There is so much to be done, so many duties to
perform. We should attend Sabbath School
regularly, and every other meeting we possibly
can, especially the Improvement Association, and
feel willing to perform our parts in the programme.
I should be pleased to note a greater interest
among the young in these meetings, a greater de-
sire to improve themselves. I think the officers
more especially should attend and feel deeply
interested in this great work.
	We should also read all the good books we can.
We can then say with Sir Wm. Wallace: "I am
sure to converse with none but wise men, but
abroad it is impossible for me to avoid the society
of fools." And as Sir John Herschel, calling good
books the best society in every period of history:
"Were I to pray for a taste which should stand me
instead under every variety of circumstances and
be a source of happiness and cheerfulness through
life and shield against the ills, however things
might go amiss, and the world frown upon me, it
would be a taste for reading good books." By
doing this you are placed in the best society, the
wisest, wittiest, tenderest, bravest and the purest
characters that have adorned humanity. One can-
not wonder that Tenelan said: "If the crowns of
all the kingdoms of the empire were laid at my
feet in exchange for my books and my love for
reading, I would spurn them all;" or that the
Historian, Gibbon, wrote: "A taste for books is
the glory and pleasure of my life. I would not
exchange it for the glory of the Indies." All these
words of wise readers show that they who rightly
cultivate the reading habit, can not only have the
best society and friends always at hand, but at
length can say with all modesty, if he reads right
and remembers well. My mind to me a kingdom is.
	May we ever be found faithful to the cause of
truth, is the prayer and desire of a brother.
		R. F. BARR.
Nephi, March 26, 1887.


