IN MEMORIAM.

	It is with feelings of the deepest sorrow that we are
called upon to record the death of Sister Phebe Singleton,
which took place at the residence of her daughter, Sister


Annie Patterson, in Summit, Davis Co., Utah, August 21st,
1887, after a long illness of typhoid fever.
	Deceased was born on the 29th of March, 1828, at
Hucknal, Parish of Sutton, Nottinghamshire, England.
Was baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints on the 19th of March, 1850, by Elder James
Stone. She never faltered in her faith, and her life was de-
voted to the discharge of her duties as a Latter-day Saint
in every position in which she was placed. She leaves a
husband and four children and many friends to mourn her
loss.
	In November, 1880, the Primary Association of the
Slaterville Ward was organized, and at that time Sister
Phebe was appointed First Counselor. In that office she
labored with faithful and devoted interest; she also held the
office of Assistant Secretary in the Relief Society for a
considerable length of time. She died as she lived, a
faithful Latter-day Saint, with a hope of coming forth in
the first resurrection.
	We, the Primary Association of the Slaterville Ward, de-
sire to offer a tribute to the memory of Sister Phebe, our
beloved Counselor, whom our Heavenly Father in His
great wisdom has seen fit to call unto himself.
	She was loved and respected, and we would offer to her
bereaved family our sincere sympathy, and say, while we
mourn the loss of a dear sister, we shall look forward with
joy to the time when we shall meet the dear departed in
that land of rest, where all tears are wiped away.
	We pray God our Heavenly Father to bless and com-
fort those who mourn, and give unto them the sweet peace
that the Gospel affords, and help them to realize that al-
though their departed one has ceased to labor here, she
has gone to continue her labors in a higher sphere.

	Our sister now has gone to rest,
		She has gone to dwell on a brighter shore;
	She has gone to meet those whom she loved.
		Whom death had parted long before.

	And may the loyed that here remain
		Prove true and faithful to the end;
	In faith and works united be,
		Your mother’s pure desires to free.

						ANN HOLLEY, President,
