WOMEN OF INDIA.

	When a Hindoo girl is born, there is no re-
joicing in the house; often there is actual
sorrow. She must be married before she is
ten years of age, or her father is disgraced.
When she is married, he must give a large
dower with her, and if he is a poor man he
gets hopelessly in debt in order to do this.
He borrows money at an exorbitant rate of in-
terest, and is ever after at the mercy of the
saw-car or money lender.
	When a son marries, he brings his wife and
her dower home to his father's house, and the
father is made richer thereby. But the
daughter brings nothing into the house; she
takes away, and the father is made poorer.
This is the great reason why the girl baby is
not welcome. But more than this, females are
of no importance, either in this world or the
next. They are classed that outcasts. It is
degrading to the Hindoo Shastras to teach
women and outcasts.
	In the Bhagawad Gita, the poet represents
Krishna as saying: "Even those who are born
in sin—even women, Vaishyas and Sudras—
take the highest path if they have recourse to
me. How much more, then, sacred Brahmans
and pious Kshatryas."
	A woman's future depends entirely upon her
husband, and her chief and only aim is to in-
sure his salvation, in the hope that through
him she may be saved eventually;  that in one
of the succeeding births, she may be born a
man instead of a cat or rat, as she has been
taught to expect if she does not make herself
her husband's slave. She must cook his food,
so that he will run no risk of being poisoned.
No woman would poison her husband, and
thus become a widow. To be a widow is the
greatest calamity that can befall a woman, and
is what she most dreads. She cooks his food
but can never eat with him, or before he has
eaten. His sons may eat with him, but not
the wife or daughters. A woman who eats be-
fore her husband is turned into a bat.
	A Hindoo man is anxious to have sons be-
cause no one but a son can light the funeral
pile and perform the other funeral ceremonies
for the father. If no son is born to him, he
must adopt one. A man who has never mar-
ried cannot be cremated. He is tied up in a
blanket and slung on a pole like a dog, then
carried to his grave by two coolies, where he
is buried without coffin or shroud.
	In some castes, if a woman has not borne a
son by the time she is twenty-eight years old,
the law allows the husband to take another
wife. If a woman loses her eye-sight, or from


[Column 1]

any other cause is unable to cook her hus-
band's food, he at once brings home another
wife.  
	The average age of Hindoo girls when mar-
ried is about seven years, but they are be-
trothed much younger than that, sometimes at
two months. According to Hindoo law this
betrothal is a legal marriage, and if the be-
trothed husband dies, the little girl is a widow. 
If she belongs to a high caste, she must remain
a widow to the end of her life. Her head is
shaved in the presence of a jeering multitude;
her jewels are taken away from her; she is for-
bidden to wear the choli or jacket, so must go
through life with naked arms and shoulders. 
She must be the drudge and slave of the
household, and no indignity or abuse is too
great to be heaped upon her. She is told that
she is as much the guilty cause of her hus-
band's death as though she had murdered him. 
This even when she is too young to know what
a husband means. At the funeral she must
walk at least two hundred feet behind the other
women, so that her shadow may not fall upon
them and they too become widows. Her own
mother dare not speak kindly to her, even
though she herself may be a widow, lest per-
chance the gods should overhear, or the by-
standers see that she pities the child. She can
only eat one meal a day, and must wholly
fast one day in each week, no matter how feeble
may be her health. At stated times she must
fast for several days together. Otherwise she
loses "caste" and forfeits the respect and care
of her family. She must not be taught to
read or receive any instruction whatever. One
of the widows writes:
	"The English have abolished suttee, but
neither the English or the angels know what
goes on in our homes. The only difference for
us since suttee was abolished is that we then
died quickly if cruelly, but now we die all our
lives in lingering pain. While our husbands
live we are their slaves; when they die we are
still worse off. They have all they wish here,
and promises for the life to come, but for us
there is nothing."
	The theory, as enunciated by the ancient law-
maker "Menu," is that "a wife ascends to hea-
ven if, after the decease of her lord she de-
votes herself to pious austerity; but a widow
who slights her husband by marrying again
brings disgrace on herself here below, and
shall be excluded from the seat of her lord."
He directs that she shall emaciate her body by
living on roots and fruits, "but let her not, 
when her lord is deceased, even pronounce the
name of another man. Let her continue till
death, performing harsh duties, avoiding every
pleasure and cheerfully practicing the incom-
parable rules which have been followed by such
women as were devoted to only one husband."
All over India are seen little tomb-like struc-
tures, bearing a certain symbol. These show
that widows have been burned there with their
dead husbands. Since the government abol-
ished suttee, no widows have been burned
alive, except occasionally in native states be-
yond the reach of British jurisdiction. This
happened in Nipaul a few years ago, when the
prime minister died, several of his widows be-
ing victims to the cruel custom. According to
the last census, there are 21,000,000 widows in
India, half of whom have never been wives.
	Many Hindoo mothers have so much dread
of their daughters' becoming widows that they
marry them to the bael tree, which is said never
to die.  If the tree does not die, the girls of
course cannot become widows. Again, in some
castes the reverse of this is practiced. When
a father cannot find a suitable husband for his
daughter, he marries her to a flower pot. Then
he breaks the pot and the girl is a widow and
he is saved from disgrace. Many girls are
married to the gods of the temples.
	It is never said of a young wife that she is
taken to her husband's house, but to her
mother-in-law, which is done when she is ten
or eleven years old. Previous to this she has
remained in her father's house, and there is a 
most trying scene when she is separated from
her mother. The air is filled with sobs and
cries and groans from both persons. The little
girl now becomes an abject slave to her mother-
in-law, and she may not speak in her presence
without permission. She must do the hardest
part of the family work—the grinding of the
grain, carrying of the water, etc., and what-
ever else the mother-in-law chooses to put upon
her young shoulders. Until she has a son of
her own, she has no authority or place in the
house. After this she is treated with some
degree of respect, but she has no individuality.  
She is henceforth known as "the mother of
Rama," or whatever his name may be. One
would suppose that after her own hard experi-
ence as a daughter-in-law, she would treat her
own son's wife differently, but she will not. 
She will domineer over her, and treat her just
as she has been treated. This is her revenge. 
A Hindoo woman is forbidden to pronounce
her husband's name. She speaks of him as
they, the plural number being considered more
respectful. She also addresses him in the
plural number, but he is always careful to ad-
dress her and the children alike—in the singu-
lar. 
	A dozen years ago no Hindoo gentleman
dared appear in public with his wife. If they
were to go to the same place, they went in
separate carriages, his a few rods in advance of
hers. But now, in the large cities, they go out
together, both walking and driving. This is
largely due to European influences, and to the
"Brahmo Samaj," the members of which take
their wives and daughters everywhere. Now, 
the orthodox Hindoos are following their ex-
ample to some extent. 
	There is a small "widow re-marriage" society
in Bombay, the members of which pledge
themselves to do all in their power to encourage
widowers to take widows for wives, instead of
little girls, as is the usual custom. One mem-
ber of this society has had a dozen of these
marriage ceremonies performed in his own
house, he bearing the expense of the wedding
festivities. There is another such society in
Gujeral, and one in Rajamundry and Madras,
so there is a gleam of hope for the widows.
When a married woman dies, she is carried to
the burning-ground in her richest dress and
jewels, but a widow is carried in the plain dress
which she wore during her widowhood. It
would be unseemly for her to appear before
her husband in another world with jewelry and
fine clothes. It would appear as though she
fine clothes. It would appear as though she
had not cared for his death. A Brahman
woman who dies before her husband, will have
a ceremony performed in her memory, as will
be seen by the following letter by a man to ex-
cuse his absence from work: 
	"Respectable Sir;—This being the hospitably
auspicious day on which all the Brahmans
whose parental mothers did not die the death
of a widow, that is who died before their hus-
band's death, are immutably required to make
perform an annual ceremony in their honor.
For this necessity reason, I am compulsorily
unable to attend to my office duties at the
punctual moment."
	Hearth and Hall.
