AN “EMERGENCY” CABINET.

	In every house, especially where the family
is large, there should be some provision for ac-
cidents, and sudden attacks of painful disease.
A contemperary describes such an "emergency”
cabinet, as a box or closet arranged to hold a
variety of articles, such as wide and narrow
bandages of muslin neatly rolled and ready
for use, the former for cuts or hurts on the
body or limbs, and the latter for wounded
hands or fingers. There should also be a packet
of court-plaster, a roll of diachylon or adhesive
plaster, pieces of old linen, lint, cotton, a small
bottle of collodion for cuts, old muslin for mus-
tard plasters, pins, scissors, and other neces-
saries that will suggest themselves, and are
known to good housekeepers.
	Among useful things to be added to the
above are such following simple remedies, as
essence of peppermint, spirits of camphor, some
first-rate olive oil, aromatic spirits of amomnia,
water of ammonia, a little alcohol, common
salt in fine powder, bicarbonate of soda, and a
box of mustard. 	
	The aromatic spirits of ammonia and
camphor should be kept in every house where
there are aged persons, as they are subject to
sudden attacks of faintness, and both these
agents afford relief and help to restore impeded
circulation of the blood.
	Mustard is a valuable-nauseant, in cases of
suspected or accidental poisoning. It may
here be added that copious draughts of tepid
water taken until vomiting ensues, and there-
after repeatedly until the poison is supposed to
be thrown off, is a good remedy to use until
the help of a physician can be procured. If
pains are felt in the bowels, give copious in-
jections of tepid water also, and rid the sys-
tem in both ways of the poison as speedily as
possible.
				—Phrenological Journal.


A daughter of Ogden Bradly, of New York,
an 1 niece of Bishop Neely, of Maine, has won
a diploma from the famous Paris School of
Medicine, passing a brilliant examination and
receiving the maximum mark. Her thesis
was “Iodism,” and for an hour and a half she
was shrewdly and ably questioned by four of
the leading professors of the school, each of
whom had been provided with a copy of the
thesis. She wore the black gown and white
fichu prescribed for candidates.

	A horrible instance of the inhumanity of
courts toward women is related in a New
Orleans paper. Carrie Johnson, colored, was
convicted of stealing fifty cents and sentenced
to one year’s hard labor in the penitentiary.
In company with other convicts she was put to
work on a plantation, where twenty-six men
and four women died from exposure and ill-
treatment, and she returned a physical wreck,
and had to be put in the Charity Hospital. Is
not this a travesty on justice?—Ex.


Patents have been granted to women during
the week ending August 2,1887, as follows:
	Bell Epperly, Lamor, Mo., Corset.
	Clara Lenenberg, New York, N. Y., Armpit
dress-shield.
	Mary E. Morgan, Gainsboro’, Tenn., Churn
	Sarah J. Schack, Chicago, Ill., Stocking-sup-
porter.


