EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	On the morning of June 20th, the day pre-
vious to the one appointed for the State Service
to be held in Westminster Abbey, London
was, for probably the first time in its life, in
true holiday attire. The day was one of those
pure, clear days, when no density of atmos-
phere or suspicion of fog marred the full
beauty of the effect. Our grand old buildings
were never shown to such advantage. St.
Paul's Cathedral, from a turn on the river,
came into full view, and every part of the
dome and cross was clearly discernible. The
sun shone gloriously upon the gilt tracery of
the House of Parliament, that stood out grand-
ly in relief with the back ground of clear blue
sky. The gloomy, somber air London usually
wears, when contrasted with the bright conti-
nental cities, was nowhere to be seen, and in its
stead we had sunny weather and balmy air.
One might have imagined Comus had taken us
all under his control for the time being. It
was a general holiday, and every one seemed
bent upon enjoyment. Surely no fete day in
Paris had ever rivaled the West End of Lon-
don in picturesque style. Piccadily, Bond
Street and Waterloo Place was fairyland itself.
Standing at the Duke of York's Column, and
looking up to Piccadily circus, we could well 
imagine we were in the grounds of an enchanted
palace, with the double approach of triumphal
arches. Garlands of roses were festooned
across the streets, and hanging baskets of
flowers suspended by cords from either side.
From Constitution Hill to the Mall the decora-
tions were the finest and most splendid, on ac-
count of the richness of the materials em-
ployed. Silk velvet, brocades and tapestries
were much used here with good effect. At
Piccadily circus end a triumphal arch was 
erected, which spanned the street and was sur-
mounted by the royal arms, and bore this 
motto: "Victoria, all nations calute you." This
was followed down the incline of Regent Street
and Waterloo Place by a number of panels
(thirteen in all) suspended from the houses in
a transverse direction to give the appearance
of a continuation of the arch. The mottoes
on these were as follows: "1837, Jubilee 1887."
"The British Isles." "The Indian Empire."
"Your Colonies and Dependencies, in Europe, 
in Asia, in Africa, in America, in Australasia,
and Oceana Give You Greeting," and at the
end of these a triumphal arch, similar to the
first, was erected, bearing these words: "Victoria,
our Queen." Pall Mall and St. James was
a blaze of red cloth and fanciful devices.
Piccadily had some very handsome decorations
by private individuals; conspicuous among
these were Baroness Burdett Coutts, who
spared no expense; it consisted of crimson

[Column 2]

velvet, gold bullion fringe and a festooned
drapery of blue and silver. The white pillars
were alternately bound with blue and silver
cloths and sprays of ivy, and was most artistic;
it stood out in pleasing relief to the endless
red and yellow along the route. This house
certainly carried off the prize in that vicinity.
Devonshire House was also very effectively
decorated, but the arrangements for the
illuminations seemed to be the feature here.
Another noticable feature was the decoration
of Charing Cross Grand Hotel and the Consti-
tutional Club, which were trimmed with blue
and primrose color, the former being a blaze
of crimson and gold.
	Northumberland Avenue, on which the
hotel stands, was gay with venetian masts fixed
from lamp-post to lamp-post. Besides these,
what may be termed general decorations,almost
every house was more or less elaborately de-
corated.
	All night throngs of people traversed the 
route, and as early as four in the morning
most of the people had assembled, ready to see 
the procession, that took place nearly seven
hours later. But jubilees are rare occasions,
and the crowd seemed determined to put up
with any discomforts, without grumbling or
being ill-humored, during the long hours of
waiting. The weather being fine, it made it
more pleasant, and even dustmen and water
cart drivers came in for many a ringing cheer
from the bystanders, who felt inclined to be
joyful.
	The first part of the procession set out from
Buckingham Palace at 10:15, and consisted of
Indian chiefs and members of the Royal family
and their suites. At 11:15 the Queen's pro-
cession started, and consisted of eleven
carriages, the first five containing Lords and
ladies in waiting; the next five contained the
children and grandchildren of Her Majesty,
and the eleventh contained the Queen, the
Princess of Wales and the Crown Princess of
Germany. Behind the Queen came the grand-
sons, sons-in-law and sons of Her Majesty.
Then followed the Master of Horse, Keeper of
Her Majesty's privy purse, Aides de Camp to 
the Queen, Equerries to their Royal Highnesses,
etc., on horseback. The processional route
was from the Palace, up Constitution Hill,
Hyde Park corner, Piccadily, Regent Street,
Waterloo Place, Pall Mall, Lockspur Street,
Northumberland Avenue, Embankment Bridge
Street, to the west door of the Abbey. The
Ladies and officers of the Queen's household
awaited the arrivals at their door, and joined
Her Majesty's procession to the Dais. All the
leading Clerical dignataries were present, in-
cluding the Bishop of London, the Dean of 
Westminster, the Arch Bishop of York and
Canterbury. The clergy preceded the Queen,
and were followed by the Princes in their
orders; then came England's Sovereigu, with
the Master of Horse and Ministers of the
Robes following; then came the Princesses, who
rode with the Queen and their attendants,
and the remaining daughters and grand-
daughters of Her Majesty with a host of attend-
ants too numerous to mention.
	A grand march by Handel was played on
the organ by Doctor Bridge, as the procession
advanced up the nave, and the Queen took her
seat upon the Coronation Chair on the dais,
surrounded by her children and many crowned
heads and representatives of foreign nations.
On the marble slab of the altar stood the costly


[Column 1]

Communion Plate. The Golden candlesticks
held candles, but they were not lit, and be-
tween these were placed four large bunches of
white lilies, a rare decoration in Westminster
Abbey. The ladies wore morning costumes—
long dresses, but high necked, with bonnets,
and most brilliant and costly jewels. Full
dress was worn by the gentlemen. The costly,
magnificent costumes worn by the ladies, com-
bined with the showy uniforms of the Princes,
and dazzling appearauce of the Indian visitors
and Kings and Queens, who literally blazed
with jewels, all presented a spectacle never to
be forgotten by those who witnessed the impos-
ing ceremony of publicly returning thanks to
the King of Heaven for His mercy and good-
ness.
	After the guests were all seated, a Fanfare of
trumpets, by the State trumpeters, announced
the Queen's arrival to those inside. This was
the signal for every one to rise to their feet
and remain standing till the Queen was seated.
The service that had been ordered by Her
Majesty for the day was then gone through,
and at the close the Queen presented her hand
to the Princes and Princesses to kiss, and in
return gave them a motherly kiss on the cheek.
This seemed to impress the spectators very
much, such a natural and affectionate display
on the part of the Queen to her children, that
verified the truth of the statement that, "One
touch of nature makes the whole world akin."
The procession then reformed and returned by
Parliament St. to the Palace, where Her
Majesty held a reception, and in the evening
gave a grand banquet to her noble guests.
	The Queen looked very well, and was at-
tired in black and white. Her ornaments
were diamonds, and the usual orders were worn.
If any proof was required that English peoole
could be loyal, the Queen had ample oppor-
tunities of observing, and we are sure the most
exacting person could not have had more hom-
age paid; and may the remaining years of that
noble lady's life be amidst friends, and in
peacb and happiness.
	The streets were lined with people all day,
and in the evening all traffic being stopped,
the crowd was immense. The illuminations
were of a very elaborate nature. Thousands
of pound’s worth of gas was consumed that
night. The buildings that were most illumina-
ted were the Mansion House, the Bank of
England, the Royal Exchange, Devonshire
House and the Charing Cross Hotel. These
were hung with tiny colored lamps, that stood
out in strong contrast to the sombre looking
buildings they illuminated. The Crown and
V. R. were everywhere displayed, and one of
the softest and prettiest effects was the lighting
of private houses and gardens by these fairy
lamps, as they are called. Several houses
were outlined from attic to cellar with gas jets,
which was effective and brilliant. Altogether
London seemed transformed into a very desir-
able and fairy-like abode. Each one had
striven to be successful, and they were. The
next day, June 22nd, the children's fete took
place in Hyde Park, which was crowded to ex-
cess. There were 30,000 children from various
schools, and their teachers were appointed to
take care of a certain number each. A drink-
ing mug was presented to each child, and
amusements of every description were provided
for them. The mugs were manufactured by
Doulton and Lon, and on either side a portrait
of Her Majesty and the year of her accession
and the date of the present one. A little girl
of twelve summers, Miss Dunn by name, had
the honor of receiving her mug from the
hands of the Queen, who passed through the
Park on her way to Windsor;. This was pre-
sented by the Queen because, for some years,
the child had not once missed attending school
or been unpunctual. No doubt the little
maiden inwardly trembled when the Prince of

[Column 2]

Wales introduced her to the Queen, who, in the
kindest and most motherly manner, handed
her the cup, saying, "I am glad, dear child, to
give you this token in remembrance of my
Jubilee." This, no doubt, will be a memorable
incident in the child's life, and let us hope she
may receive a crown from the King of kings
hereafter; this will also encourage her compan-
ions to be diligent and study carefully, and so
gain knowledge, which means power.
	I will endeavor to write you a further ac-
count shortly.
