ANNIVERSARY.

	The Primary Association of the 21st Ward
of this city held an annual meeting in the
ward meeting house, on Wednesday, August
24th, 1887, Mrs. Mary Davis presiding. Meet-
ing opened by singing, "Supplication." Prayer
by Sister Ellen C. Clawson. Singing again,
"Anticipation." Minutes of last annual meet-
ing read and approved. An address suitable
for the occasion was given by Counselor Annie
Steers; Recitation. by Eva Barfoot, "The Smile
Triumphant;" Recitation, "The First Robin
Song," Lillie Papworth; Recitation, "The
Kingdom of God," Joseph Williams; Recita-
tion, Minnie Tilt; Song, "Learning," four little
girls; Recitation, "The Battle of Life," James
Woodruff; Dialogue, "Home Manufacture,"
Kate Moss and Emily Farnes; Recitation, Al-
fred Sylvester; Recitation, Sarah Gunn; Recita-
tion, Gertrude Arbuckle; Recitation, "The
Orphan Child," Deseret Dover; Recitation,
"Rowing the Boat," Emily Farnes; Song,
"Speak gently, it is better far," etc., Rosie
Davidson; Recitation, "Mind Mother," Rebecca
Williams; Recitation, James Moss; Duet, Louie
and Lena Walsh; Recitation, Bertie Williams;
Recitation, "Truth," Alfred Sylvester; Duet,
Lillie and Annie Olsen; Recitation, Walter
Williams; Recitation, "I must not tease my
mother," Ada Folger; Recitation, Belle Folger;
Recitation, four little girls, a verse; Recitation,
"Apple Time," Daisy Westwood; Recitation,
Lizzie Sherwood.
	Interesting and encouraging remarks were
made in brief by Sisters Ellen C. Clawson,
Camilla Cobb, Lydia Ann Wells, Presendia L.
Kimball, Emmeline B. Wells, Emma Toone,
and Counselor Herbert Foulger. Closing ad-
dress by President Mary Davis, who urged the
children to attend the conference on the 17th
of September, in the Assembly Hall. Meeting
was adjourned. Singing, "Parting Hymn."
Benediction by Counselor Eliza Schutts.
	After the close of the meeting the invited
guests, with the officers of the Association and
sisters of the ward, were ushered into the Re-
lief Society Hall adjoining, where a large
table was spread with a bounteous repast;
fruits and flowers in great profusion helped to
beautify and grace the tables. The children
were not neglected or forgotten, and each little
one was served by willing hands, and all were
satisfied and gratified. It was a day of pleasure
and we trust of profit to all gathered to com-
memorate the occasion.
	Sister Davis, and her aids and assistants, de-
serve the praise and commendation of the
parents of the ward, for the kindly care and
interest they have manifested for the little
ones since the organization of this helpful,
educational department of spiritual labor.


Mary Peabody, of Salem, became the wife
of the late Horace Mann, who had a head as
destitute of imagination as Hawthorne's was
full of it. She wrote the novel of slave life in
Cuba entitled, "Juanita," which was published
last spring, a few weeks after her lamented
death, and was the constant companion of her
sister Elizabeth, who is the original promoter
of the Kindergartens, which Mrs. Quincy
Shaw has taken under her special protection.
Sophia Peabody had the fortune to wed the
shy but powerful romancer, Nathaniel Haw-
thorne. She was equal to the situation, and
in the "Life of Hawthorne," which has been
written by his son, there is nothing more beau-
tiful than the womanly sympathy which she
supplied to the man of genius.—Ex.


