EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE Quarterly Conference of the Relief So-
ciety of the Juab Stake of Zion will be held in the
Nephi meeting house, on the 23rd of September.
The Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associa-
tion and Primary Association on the 24th of the
same month, the day following.
	THE Stake officers of Y. L. M. I. A. are hereby
officially notified to prepare semi-annual Stake re-
ports, carefully, upon printed blanks, and forward
them as early as the 15th of September, that a
complete and satisfactory report may be made to


the general conference in October. Direct the 
reports to Miss Mary E. Cook, 323 E., Third
South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.
	THE Stake Secretaries of the Relief Society
are hereby officially notified to prepare semi-an-
nual Stake reports, and forward them directed to
Dr. Romania B. Pratt, Deseret Hospital, Salt
Lake City, Utah. All reports should be in the
hands of Dr. Pratt as early as September 20th, in
order that she may have sufficient time to prepare
the general report for the October Conference.
	THE Conference of the Relief Society of this
Stake of Zion will be held in the 14th Ward As-
sembly Rooms in this City, on the 15th of this
month (September) commencing at 10 a.m. and 2
p.m. It is hoped by the President and officers of
the Relief Society of this Stake that there will be
a fair representation from each organization in
in the county. As it is the time for written reports,
and as the secretaries have been so often reminded
to send the reports punctually to the secretary as
early as the 5th of the month, there will of course
be no failure in that respect. All those interested
in the Relief Society and its benevolent work are
cordially invited to attend.
	THE Y. L. M. I. A. Conference of this Stake
will be held on Friday, the 16th, at the 14th Ward
Assembly Rooms, commencing at 10 a.m. and 2
p.m., and it is earnestly desired there should be a
good representation from all the several Associa-
tions in the County. Brethren and sisters inter-
ested in the work of improvement mentally, moral-
ly and spiritually of the young people of Zion,
are invited to attend the meetings of the confer-
ence.
	THE Primary Associations of this Stake will
hold their conference on Saturday, the 17th inst.,
in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, commencing at
10 a.m. and 2 p.m. It is expected there will be
an interesting programme and exercises by the
children, and it is hoped that each Association
in the county will be represented, and a large
number of children with the presidents and officers
from the several wards in the city. The spiritual
development and training of the little ones is cer-
tainly an important work, and those who have
charge of these Associations should receive en-
couragement from the parents in their labor of
love and duty.


