EDITORIAL THOUGHTS.

	Behold, we count them happy who endure.—JAMES
v, II.

"Well, to suffer is divine;
Pass the watchword down the line,
	Pass the countersign, "Endure!"
Not to him, who rashly dares,
But to him, who nobly bears.
	Is the victor's garland sure."

	These significant lines, how much truth they
contain, and how intensely the Latter-day Saints
can appreciate such sentiments. The quotation,
"Behold, we count them happy who endure," in-
deed how much these few words imply. We see a
brother or a sister who has patiently and nobly
borne suffering, privation, hardship and bitter
experiences, laid peacefully away in the silent
grave, and we do indeed count them happy; they
have endured to the end of their days, and have
gone to a better and higher sphere; they have
fought the good fight and gained the victory, not-
withstanding all the doubts, trials and temptations
they had to encounter.
	To achieve some great public good, to accom-
plish some grand purpose in life is praiseworthy
and ennobling; to add to the happiness of others,
or to help them to rise in the scale of being, to in-
crease in knowledge and intelligence above one's
contemporaries by diligence and application, all
these are laudable ambitions, and may be counted
worthy objects for which to have lived and worked
and gained success; but yet one or all of these
may be done, and even well done; and after,all the
needful courage may fail, doubts may multiply,
friends may prove false, troubles may hedge one
round about, jealousies may creep in unawares,
and the firm resolve, the fixed determination may
waver, and little by little one may give way, with-
out scarce knowing or realizing the failing strength
of endurance, until the hopes and ambitions that
animated the once happy man or woman, are lost
sight of; the spirit that buoyed up the drooping
heart in other times of trial has departed, and the
unconscious one may be drifting away alone, with
a mind darkened and disconsolate. If to all such
could come in forcible language the words of
Scripture, "The race is not to the swift nor the
battle to the strong, but to him who endureth,"
it might help many a weary traveler on the high,
way of life.
	The only sure and steadfast anchor to the hu-
man soul is the Spirit of God, and how can one
always be in possession of that spirit? By being
obedient to all the commandments given, so far as
it is possible for poor frail humanity; by keeping
in view at all times the pattern given by the Savior,
"To do unto others as we would wish them to do
unto us," by loving our neighbor as ourself, and
striving to overcome evil with good from morning
till evening, and evening until morning,dedicating
ourselves anew to God each day of our lives, and
helping our brother or our sister, as occasion or
opportunity offers, not only in deeds of truly
Christian charity and benevolence, but in words of

[Column 2]

kindness, and in a spirit of meekness, and with a
sincere desire to bless and comfort.
	The prophecies of ancient and modern times
foretell the falling away of many, and indeed there
have been many zealous, devoted members of the
Church who have fallen out by the wayside from
various causes. This apostacy from time to time
causes all thoughtful people to inquire into their
own condition, and examine their own hearts; not
that one should wait for examples or reminders of
this kind, but it is natural, when all is serene and
prosperous, to float along carelessly with the tide,
but when one or more chance by accident, or lack
of caution, to go beyond their depth, or run
against a snag that detains or upsets them, those
who are in the same stream or channel naturally
take warning and seek to avoid the breakers
against which they have been dashed, or the shoal
where they have foundered.
	We often hear these days spoken of as "the
days of trial," "the test is coming," and similar
sayings, but are not, and were not the people of
God in all ages tried, and "tried as by fire?" Every
reader of sacred history knows this to be the case.
This may be a dark time; to those who see no pur-
pose in it, it must be so; but the light of the Gos-
pel, the testimony that this is indeed the work of
God, should be ever-present, or there is danger of
stumbling. What the Latter-day Saint wants to
look for is light, not darkness, nor that which will
tend to darkness, but if there is only a little light,
only a ray of hope, as it were, in the hour of bitter
trial, cherish that little, and it will grow brighter
and brighter. One should not dread the trials too
much; the promises of the Savior are always con-
soling, always new; just as fresh and good to-day
as they were two thousand years ago. The in-
spired poet said:

When thro' the deep waters I call thee to go.
The rivers of sorrow shall not thee o'erflow."

	Sorrows and trials are often sanctified to those
who "pass under the rod," if they are endured
with fortitude and resignation to the divine will.
Christ Himself is spoken of as a "man of sorrow,
and acquainted with grief." Then if one wants to
be like unto Him he must drink the bitter cup.
Has not the Lord said He would have a tried peo-
ple? Then what can the Latter-day Saints ex-
pect? To weather the storm however fierce the
gale; if they have the courage to stand firm and
maintain their integrity they will live to see the
clouds break away,and a brighter light shine forth
from the darkness, or if they die in defense of the
right it will be well with them.

	"The darkest day,
(Live till to-morrow) will have passed away."

	Do not brood over the dark fofbodings, or try to
steady the ark of the covenant, but gather up
courage and strength equal to the greatest occasion.
The kingdom of God has been established never
more to be thrown down, or given to another peo-
ple. Knowing this, let each one be sure of him-
self by trusting in God and keeping His Spirit,
and all will be well with those who keep on the
whole armor of faith, and those who endure unto
the end will be saved, and we shall count them
happy indeed.


