CHARITY. 

	We are taught that "Charity covereth a mul-
titude of sins." Very many are so near-sighted
as to believe that when the Apostle spoke of
charity, he meant simply the giving away a
small portion of our goods, the loss of which
would never be felt by ourselves or families.
Having given a cold dinner now and then to
tramps, and perhaps dropped a twenty-five
cent piece into the poor-box once or twice in
the course of a year, the average church mem-
ber feels satisfied his charities have been large
enough to cover what few small sins he may
feel inclined to commit. Then there are others
who are very liberal as far as giving money is
concerned, who are not possessed of the faint-
est spark of true charity in their souls. There
are men and women who give simply that their
names may be seen and spoken of by others as
heading the list of those who give large sub-
scriptions to charitable objects. They are anx-
ious to be spoken of as charitable, large-
hearted persons, and for that reason often give
large sums of money, which is, in reality, often
badly needed in the homes of these same char-
itable persons. Very often this class of givers
receive their full reward when their names, to-
gether with the large amount they have sub-
scribed, appear in some one or other of the
religious papers for which most of their more
fashionable or wealthy friends subscribe.
	Why not? The Pharisees had a similar re-
ward.  It is possible to give very liberally, even 
beyond our means, and still not be possessed of
true charity, for St. Paul has said, "Though I
bestow my goods to feed the poor;  though I 
give my body to be burned, yet have not char-
ity, it profiteth nothing."
	The God who measures our charities is able
to look beyond the action to the motive which
first prompted that action.  In his eye the
widow's mite counted for much, simply because
it was given freely;  not because she expected to
have praise from her neighbor, but through
the desire to do all the good that lay in her 
power to those who were less favored than her-
self.
	The charity of which the Apostle spoke
meant more than the giving of money, food,
or clothing. Giving our goods is only one way
of showing that we possess charity. To me it
seems that generous sympathy, freely expressed
in time of sickness or trouble, where no mate-
rial help is needed, will be accounted to us for
charity. 
	In my observation of people I have found
very little of "The charity that thinketh no
evil." I have met very few who were willing
to credit their neighbor with right motives, al-
though his actions might not seem in accord-
ance with his profession. People generally are
too willing to judge others from their own stan-
dard of right and wrong, forgetting that no two 
persons view an action from the same moral
standpoint.
	A woman may belong to a dozen charitable
societies for the poor, yet, if she can see very
little that is good in her neighbor's actions; if
she is continually on the watch for something
in that neighbor's manner of life or dress with
which to find fault, surely she is not possessed
of the "Charity that is kind."
	Why is it that women have so little charity
for one another? Let a woman make one false
step in life, and her whole sex at once forsakes
her. Sisters, schoolmates, intimate friends alike
ignore her. Not one of all her intimate friends
will stretch out a hand to lift her up to the
moral plane from which she has fallen. Not
they.  They are all too busy, perhaps, in or-
ganizing a society to send the Gospel to the
heathen in Central Africa, to waste thought or
sympathy on a fallen sister at home. They
feel that there is more respectability in organ-
ized effort. Then, too, it is very gratifying to

[Column 2]

human vanity to see one's name often in print
in connection with some kind of gospel society,
thus giving others the impression that one is
very charitable.
	It would not be considered at all proper,
even in our enlightened Gospel land, for the
most charitably inclined sister to be seen speak-
ing to one of these fallen ones. Society, even
if it were sure that she were trying to reclaim
the lost one, would turn its back on the woman
who would dare thus to lower herself. All she
can do, and retain her position in that wonder-
ful organization called "Society," is to attend,
at stated periods, the meetings of charitable
societies, and give liberally of her money to
Christianize heathen women in Central Africa, 
or India, or some other far-away country—and
from which, in many instances, they never re-
ceive any benefit—while perhaps more than a
dozen women in the same block in which this
charitable woman lives are perishing, both
body and soul, their remorseful and agonizing
cry to be saved remaining unheeded and unno-
ticed because no Christian woman can be found
who will take them by the hand and help
them to forsake their old life, and find honor-
able, respectable employment. In thus denying
to fallen women all means of returning to a
better life, society has made a fearful mistake;
assumes to be more just than Christ Himself,
who commanded the sinner to sin no more;
and, until a broader charity is manifested, and
something more is done by way of reclaiming
the fallen at home, would it not be just as con-
sistent, and much more modest, to say less about
our "Charitable Societies for Converting the
Heathen."—Selected.
