YOUNG.

	Mrs. Mary Ann Young, wife of President
Brigham Young, was the daughter of James
W. Angell and Phebe Morton Angell. Her
father was born in Smithfield, Rhode Island,
Oct. 15th, 1776, and her mother in or near
Utica, New York, March 28th, 1786. Their
daughter Mary Ann, some items of whose his-
tory we are about to give, was born June 8th,
1803, at Seneca, Ontario Co., New York. Both
parents were of a religious nature, and the
teachings and early training of Mrs. Young
were calculated to develop the most sublime
and devotional tendencies. Her father was a
great reader, particularly of the Scriptures, and
was a man of good understanding. Her mother
too, was very fond of reading and explaining
the Scriptures to her children, and especially
the words of the Savior. Mrs. Young says,
when she first commenced attending Sunday
School, the first text she learned to repeat was,
"When thou prayest, pray not as the Pharisee
and hypocrit, but enter into thy closet and
shut thy door." This text was very strongly
impressed upon her mind, and the feeling it


[Column 1]

implanted was conducive to secret prayer. She
once asked her mother why the first books of
the New Testament were so much alike; this
was when she was a very little girl. Her
mother replied, to make the testimony stronger,
that the testimony of three or four witnesses
substantiated the truth of the statement. Such
early instructions were the foundation of re-
ligious principles, proving the power of thus
disciplining the mind by a simple process in
early life into a religious channel of thought
and feeling.
	Mrs. Young's parents, while she was a child,
removed to Providence, Rhode Island; and it
was in that city she grew to womanhood. She
was naturally of a devotional nature, fond of
reading the Bible, especially the prophecies
and sayings of the Savior. At an age when
she felt competent to decide upon religious
matters, she united with the Free Will Bap-
tist Church in Providence, because of the be-
lief in baptism by immersion, and because they
extended the right hand of fellowship to all
the professed followers of Christ. Mrs. Young's
parentswere both members of the same de-
nomination. She was for many years a regular
and efficient teacher in the Sunday School of
that church; and this spiritual training fitted
her better for the work which afterwards de-
volved upon her in this Church and kingdom.
	She heard casually of the Book of Mormon,
and being intensely interested in religious sub-
jects obtained a copy for examination. She
testifies that when she took the Book of Mor-
mon in her hands, the Spirit bore witness of
its truth, and she could never afterwards doubt
its divine origin. Her parents were then visit-
ing friends in the State of New York. Miss
Angell commenced writing letters to them con-
cerning this Gospel. Thus her parents and
their friends were led to investigate Mormon-
ism. She soon after went to the State of New
York, where she had the privilege of hearing
the Mormon Elders proclaim those sacred
truths which she had already believed for more
than two years before she was baptized by
Elder John P. Greene, brother-in-law to Brig-
ham Young.
	Before her parents were ready, Miss Angell
emigrated to Kirtland, Ohio, at that time the
gathering place of the Saints. Our readers
will readily perceive by the train of incidents
related, that Miss Angell was a young woman
of more than ordinary strength of character,
and well calculated to stand as a helpmeet to
one who was destined to lead the hosts of Israel
in the last days.
	In Kirtland Miss Angell became acquainted
with Brigham Young, who was at that time
intimately associated with Joseph Smith, and
an earnest and zealous preacher. She had
always been exceedingly particular in receiv-
ing attentions from gentlemen, and had de-
cided that she would never become a wife un-
less she could feel assured that the one whom
she would choose for a life companion would
be a man of God. Mr. Young had been be-
reaved of his wife, and was left with two little
motherless girls, for whom he naturally felt
anxious to obtain a mother, as well as a wife
and companion for himself. Joseph, the
Prophet, had called Brigham Young to the
ministry, and just at that time, through the
dispensations of a watchful Providence, he was
guided and directed (no doubt) in choosing for
his bosom friend one who possessed all those
amiable and generous traits of character which
make woman motherly in her nature before
she becomes a mother to her own offspring;
also those sublime and heroic elements that in-
spire to courage and devotion to the Diety, that
help woman to stand firm in the hours and
times of the strongest temptations.
	Brigham Young and Mary Ann Angell were
married in Kirtland in the beginning of the
year 1834. Mr. Young's eldest girl, Elizabeth,

[Column 2]

was then in her ninth year, and Vilate, the
youngest, in her fourth, but Vilate being a
very delicate, sickly child, required the most
tender and constant care.
	The testimony of these two women, reared
to womanhood by Mrs. Young, is, that she was
a true mother to them in every sense of the
word, ever bestowing upon them the truest
affection, and manifesting for them the earnest
solicitude which characterizes the mother
whose heart is in her labor of love.
	Mrs. Young subsequently became the mother
of six children, three sons and three daughters,
all arriving at maturity except one (named
Mary) twin sister of Brigham Young Jun.,
now Brigham Young, one of the Quorum of
the Twelve. This little girl died in Nauvoo at
at the age of seven years.
	At the time of the dedication of the Kirt-
land Temple there were many powerful mani-
festations. Mrs. Young says one evening her
husband came home very late to his supper,
and she inquired the cause. He replied, "The
upper part of the Temple was illuminated, and
I have been watching my friends." On hear-
ing this peculiar remark, Mrs. Young said,
"Where were they? Did you converse with
them?" He replied, "The brethren who had
been ministering in the Temple had been quietly
observing personages passing about in the upper
portion of the building." There were many
similiar testimonies borne of these wonderful
manifestations of the power of God at that
time.
	Persecution raged in Kirtland soon after the
Temple had been dedicated, and the spirit of
apostacy was rife, even among the Twelve, and
ran through all the quorums of the Church.
Mr. Young being one of the most forward and
active in assisting the Prophet Joseph to dis-
pose of these difficulties, was bitterly perse-
cuted in assisting the Prophet Joseph to dis-
pose of these difficulties, was bitterly perse-
cuted, and on the 22nd of Dec. 1836, on a very
cold stormy night, with jnst one man for a
traveling companion, Mr. Young fled for his
life from the hands of his enemies, and from
his home, commending to God and to heaven
his wife and five helpless children. Mrs.
Young had twin babes, and her eldest son,
Joseph A. Young, well known since to this
people as a man of stern integrity and unusual
business capacity. She was left alone to strug-
gle as best she could under the complication of
adverse circumstances surrounding her, relying
upon God, in whom she ever implicitly trusted,
to carry her safely through all the difficulties
and trials which beset her way. She suffered
from the depredations of those who were filled
with the spirit of persecution, who had some
of them been before time associated with the
Saints, but had fallen away. The mob would
come to her house, and, professing to believe
her husband was hid up there, frighten her until
her nervous system became completely broken
and shattered. In consequence of the hard-
ships, frights and exposure to which she was
subjected, a quick consumption set in, which
seemed likely to prove fatal. The following
spring Mrs. Young left Kirtland with five
small children, alone, to join her husband in
Missouri. She traveled the first hundred miles
to Wellsville by private conveyance, and the
remainder of the journey in steamboats to
Richmond, Missouri. Worn out with travel
and the fatigue of having the sole care of
her children, when her husband met her he
was so astonished and shocked at the change
in her appearance, that his exclamation was,
"You look as if you were almost in your
grave."
	But in Missouri the Saints were not allowed
to rest; the spirit of mobocracy raged in the
hearts of the inhabitants, and the Saints were
driven from their homes in the middle of a
severe winter. Many of the brethren and sis-
ters were obliged to leave on foot, having no
other way of traveling, their footprints not un-

[Column 3]

frequently marked with blood upon the frozen
ground and ice. Mr. Young having charge,
in consequence of Joseph the Prophet being at
that time in prison, with such teams as could
be procured, would move forward, and, seeking
some temporary place of shelter for his wife
and little ones, would leave Mrs. Young to
take care of herself and family, and return
with such assistance as he could get, and gather
up the poorer and more destitute of the brethren
and sisters; also the widows and helpless orphans
of those who had fallen victims at the hands of
the cruel mob, and help them forward upon
their journey. Thus it transpired that during
the short interval of three months Mrs. Young
kept house in eleven different places, previous
to arriving at the place of destination. She
being a woman of great firmness of character,
as well as strong and powerful faith, was
qualified not only to take charge of her own
household, but to render much wise and judici-
ous assistance in helping her husband to dis-
charge the great responsibilities that even then
rested upon him as a leader during the time of
the Prophet's persecution and imprisonment.
	To be Continued.


