HOW TO BECOME USEFUL IN LIFE.

	How very many different ways there are of be-
ing useful, but to become most so, I can scarcely
determine.
	There is a great diversity of opinions upon this
subject. Many very talanted persons, who possess
superior intelligence and intellect, devote them-
selves, almost exclusively, to the pursuit of science,
perhaps some particular branch, and then most
generally give the world the benefit of their inves-
tigations. Perhaps it has been a life-work; then
the whole world is the gainer, consequently we
may say such have really led lives of true useful-
ness.
	There is another class who aim to be great
statesmen and politicians, and exert all the energies
they possess to attain a complete and thorough
knowledge of how best to govern and control the
affairs of state. This class, if they really desire
the interests of the people and seek to make the
condition of their fellow men better, must assuredly
rank among the useful of mankind.
	Then again there is the philanthropist, who, per-
haps, denies himself that which would be pleasant
and agreeable to him, that he may materially bene-
fit others. He tries by every means in his power
to improve the social condition of his fellow men,
and to elevate them in the scale of being. He
seeks to raise up those who are bowed down, to
alleviate the suffering, to ameliorate the condition
of the captive, and in short, we must acknowledge
that his life is to all within his reach, useful and
beneficial.
	Others again live only to be useful in the service
of the Lord, caring little for the usages of society;
they seek not the pride of the world, or the perish-
able things which pertain thereto, but labor to
save the souls of the children of men; to teach the
principles of salvation according to their peculiar
ideas or religious beliefs. They, too, may be ac-
counted useful.

[Column 2]

	There is still another class of useful men and
women I will mention, who exercise their brains
to invent all the several branches of mechanism,
some one thing and some another. These in-
ventors, if successful, are not only benefactors to
the age in which they live, but in many instances
to succeeding generations, and thus their names
are held in honorable remembrance. But to men-
tion each and every class separately would occupy
too much time. There is an endless variety of
ways in which to be useful both to ourselves and
others, but which is the best or most successful
way for each depends more or less on surrounding
circumstances, and yet we may all arrive at some
general conclusions.
	But perhaps you will say I have particularly al-
luded to men. That is true; men seem to take
precedence in all these things, and yet there have
been women who have filled prominent positions
with as much dignity and credit to themselves as
men. Women have ruled over nations, and have
been honored in their stations, and have conferred
as great benefits upon their subjects, and given
quite as much satisfaction (and in some instances
more) as men, and women have made themselves
of great use to the world, or the age in which they
lived. But I will try to come down to the subject
as relates to myself. I have spent considerable
time, and I hope some of it in preparing to make
myself useful to others, but as yet, comparatively,
I do not seem to have accomplished much, still I
have not been indolent; my time has been almost
entirely occupied, and I reflect a great deal how
to make the best use of it possible.
	There are a multitude of little trifles performed
every day, that seem nothing, and yet each of
these are of use; their worth should be estimated
by their numbers, not by their magnitude.
	I cannot satisfy myself on this subject, but will
sum up my ideas thus: The one who helps most
to do good to others, lives most truly a life of use-
fulness.
		EMMA WELLS.
January, 1874.


[Column 1]

