EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I feel it a duty, or more as a privilege, to
pen a few of my thoughts on paper. I take
the opportunity with a thankful heart on ac-
count of the invitation extended through the
paper.
	We as a little branch of God's kingdom
upon the earth have also a little to bear with
the rest in regard to persecution. Four of our
brethren are cast into prison for conscience
sake. We all feel that it is hard to bear. One
of the four is the Superintendent of the East
Harrisville Suuday School—Levi J. Taylor—
a man whom we honor and respect, and that
we all love with pure hearts. Oh, how can
our Father in Heaven look upon such scenes!
But we know as His children humble in the
dust, calling for deliverance night and day, the
little as well as the big, the rich as well as the
poor, He can cure this wound that is so sore
and is tried so many times. Oh, Father above
all fathers, come and cure this wound of Thine
humble children, for we feel there is no one
else. Cry unto Him, ye children, and He will
soon come from His hiding place and deliver
those that love Him and keep His command-
ments, and His power shall be manifested on
the mountains to the pure, noble and brave,
and to those that have suffered persecution for
His name's sake shall He give a crown of
glory, which no one else can wear but those
that have suffered, and they will be remembered
through all eternity. Therefore, fear not, oh
ye sons and daughters of God, for endless is
the glory that awaits you if true here upon
the earth.
	O, ye mothers in Israel, for you my heart
swells, with your little costly jewels around
you given from above unto you. Mother, what
art thou? Art thou of no worth on this earth
in this age and time? Have you borne sons
and daughters in the kingdom of God? For
what purpose? Are they to be despoiled, or
destroyed by our enemies? Would you not
rather they be taught the principles of the
Gospel when around your knees, than to see
their ruin and destruction, and of no worth
to you in the eternal worlds? We as mothers
cannot afford it; they are too precious for a
mother to have them go to ruin; there is too
much love for them we own; next to the heart
of God is our love for them, O, ye mothers.
Where is that being on the earth that posseses
the love of a mother? And this love is pure;
therefore, oh ye mothers, are ye pure inasmuch
as ye possess this love; and inasmuch as ye
bring up your children unto God ye are saved,
and great is your salvation, which is waiting
for you.
	Therefore, let us be watchful, and stand like
guards in our places in the kingdom of God;
and let us never allow any wrong to be com-
mitted in our little circle, but with sharp eyes
look to the point of duties in every direction,
come life or come death, and nothing can pre-
vent the blessings of God resting upon us.
	I close with a humble prayer in my heart


for the Lord to bless all the mothers in Israel.
	Yours in the Gospel,
	ELIZABETH CHRISTOPHERSON.
Harrisville, Aug. 29, 1887.


