[Vol1 | May 1914 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Home Gardening for Women]

HOME GARDENING FOR WOMENLesson V. "Thou shalt not sew thy seed with mingled seed." Lev. xix: 10.
The moral and spiritual lesson of mingling seeds: "Be ye not unequally yoked together." The question has been asked, Of what use are the lessons on home gardening to our women?
Let us say in answer to this query First, to stimulate the: mother to action, and to secure the co-operation of husband and children in assisting to meet the needs there are for a greater variety of vegetables and food products for our own home use.
Second, to demonstrate, by word at least, that gardening pays.
It occupies a portion of time for the smaller children, cultivates a desire in them to see something grow; and, we hope, a still greater anxiety to work in the garden and to assist mother.
Reliability and responsibility start with the light chores of childhood.
We feel that the pendulum must swing back and that we shall all have our little garden patches as our mothers had them in olden days.
Thus we may find ourselves producing more of life's necessities.
With this little beginning, we hope to prove further the real need of home gardening for women.
We trust that in previous lessons we have given you sufficient information to have stimulated you to action, and that you will now have ready your plants for transplanting.
We can describe to you in no better way the great need of properly worked soil than by giving the following story, told in an old school reader: "A father, upon his dying bed, advised his sons to dig up the garden, as in it was a buried treasure." They dug it up so thoroughly that it yielded an enormous crop that fall, which showed them where the fortune really lay In good tillage.
Transplanting.
Cabbage and Cauliflower.  Cool weather and moist land are desirable for both.
These may be grown on ground that  has been well drained.
When transplanting, the young plants should be kept damp and cool.
Planting in the cool of the daygives better results.
Have the ground moist, and water as soon as your plants are in the ground.
Try the red and purple, as well as the white, variety of cabbage.
If the cabbage industry is carried on properly, it is one of the most profitable enterprises of the country.
A farm of one hundred and ninety acres, located near Chicago, produces about 1,200,000 cabbages annually.  Tomatoes, Pepper and Egg Plants.
Some provision should be made for a few extra tomato, pepper and egg plants.
Take them from the hotbed, keep them in a slightly cooler place, transplant them in paper cups.
The soil for egg plant should be equal parts of fine, rich manure and sandy loam. "When setting out the plant, shift them quickly, wet the paper cups, tear out the bottoms, and set cups and all in the hill.
Let them have full effect of the sun, as this hastens the maturing of the fruit, especially tomatoes.
Beware of frost, and keep covered at night when you have only a few plants.
Let this be the duty of the children.
Potatoes.
Light, rich, loamy soil is preferable for potatoes.
Do not select your seed from the first crop.
Take those. that were not matured when the early fall frost nipped the vines.
They produce more vigorously, will mature earlier, and yield a decided increase per acre.
You will notice that potatoes having the greatest number of eyes are beginning to run out; it is not necessary that seed potatoes should be as large as those grown for market, but they should contain fewer eyes.
Place seed potatoes in a dark room.
When the sprouting begins to take place, do not allow the sprouts to become too tender, but expose them to light and air, for a few days before the planting begins.
Early Rose and Beauty Hebron are both excellent for quality and quantity.
Corn.
In selecting a space for corn, let the children also popcorn. have a spot, allowing them to plant a few hills of They will be able to sell sufficient to give them their Christmas pin money.
Hundreds of pounds are sold in Utah alone.
Any soil that is good for field corn is good for popcorn.
It should be planted at least twenty rods from yellow field corn, as the wind and insects can carry the pollen dust from one to the other and ruin both varieties.
A good table corn is the Sweet Ever Green; on good average soil two stalks to a hill and three and one-half feet part each way is preferable.
Cucumbers.
And who with a small piece of ground would
12 be without a few hills of cucumbers? about four seeds in a hill.
Plants may also be started in the hotbed and then transplanted.
The White Spine is considered one of the best varieties.
Watermelons, Muskmelons and Squash.
Melons and  squash thrive best in temperate districts.
They require a rich, sandy loam, with plenty of sunlight and water.
They should' not be planted too close together, as they pollenate, as in the case of corn, and ruin both crops.
We wish to encourage the raising of muskmelon, especially the old-fashioned kind.  Flowers.
Dahlias are a tuber-like plant and require plenty of moisture.
They should be planted about the last of May or the first of June, as they are tender and easily affected by frost.
There are many varieties both in shape and color.  Poppies, Asters and Pinks.
May be sown in the open ground.
Asters, however, bloom much earlier if planted in a house box, and then transplanted in May or June.  Verbenas and Petunias.
Do well in house boxes, transplanted in May or June.
Do not crowd together, as they require more room than many other varieties.
The double petunias are very beautiful and easy to raise.
Plants that are raised in house boxes should be well protected when planted in the open, as they are tender, and the warm sun, or the frosty nights, will destroy all your past efforts with them.
For planting vegetables, follow the rules given in the tables in our April issue, on page eleven.
A shallow box placed in the window, with well-fertilized soil, makes up in richness what it lacks in depth.
In this you may plant mustard and cress, which will serve as the basis for many a green salad.
These two plants grow and will be ready for use in from, two or three weeks a constant supply; can be sown at regular intervals, until the ground outside is in condition to give us other salads which cannot be procured from the indoor garden.
An abundance of water must be provided for these plants.
If they are to flourish, water them frequently, as the warmth of the kitchen will soon dry the soil.
Table of Reliable Kinds of Vegetables.  Cabbage (white) Wakefield and Sunhead.  Cabbage (red) Savoy and Red.  Tomatoes Dwarf, Champion, Stone, Beauty.
  Peppers Bull Nose, Ruby, King.  Watermelons Cuban Queen, Kolb.  Muskmelons Jeremy, Lind, Rocky Ford, Montreal.  Squash (winter) Golden Hubbard, Boston, Marron.  Squash (early) Summer, Crook Neck.
May