[Vol1 | May 1914 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Editorial Peace]

EDITORIAL.
PEACE.
The month of May, with its world-wide celebrations of peace, suggests the beauty and the value of this ideal condition, while it also brings to mind the dangers and difficulties of its counterfeit.
What is peace?
It is a condition of mind, it may be ours in the midst of sorrow and affliction, of poverty and alleged disgrace.
It may also, however, take its flight in the midst of prosperity, health and congenial surroundings.
Too many people fail to weigh their emotions in the balance of good judgment, and are swayed solely by their feelings and impulses.
Latter-day Saints, if they but stop to consider, can easily define the quality of peace, and describe the persons who possess it.
Peace is the harmony of the human soul with the Infinite will, I have seen mothers weeping over their children, wives desolate in their fresh widowhood, yet deep in their hearts lay the perfect peace that passeth understanding; for peace and joy are not necessarily close companions.
The mother's heart may be torn with sorrow over the death of her beautiful babe, but there may be no quality in that sorrow which disturbs  deep foundation of her perfect peace.
If that mother stands helpless and distraught while her son or her daughter glides over the precipice of personal virtue, or apostasy, peace cannot be hers, for her heart is torn with the bitterness of a second death.
If peace is ours when we are in harmony with Infinite law, how are we dispossessed of that exquisite quality?
The answer is obvious.
If we are out of harmony with our neighbors, with our husbands or wives, with those who are over us in the Relief Society or in the Church, there is no possibility of peace in our souls.
We may be unconscious of the source of the constant misery which gnaws at our vitals, but a spirit of disturbance or rebellion against constituted authority in this Church, whether in the home, or in the broader fields of Church activity, will poison the very springs of our peace.
But when we have conquered our stubborn pride, or shall have bowed in submission to the proper authority, then comes peace, heavenly peace.
It is amusing, if not distracting, to listen to foolish people who see things only from surface indications, talking about the glories of peace.
Such people would set aside the discipline of the home, the state, and the nation.
They would have us believe that peace is only gained when the child, the youth, the man, or the nation pursues the foolish path of personal and national self-will.
It is impossible for each child, or for each individual, to have his own way completely, and not thereby interfere with the rights and privileges of others.
There must be a constant submission of one will to another, in order to have peace in a household, in a state, or in a nation.
To give and to take is the universal law.
Especially is this true in religious matters.
He who spake as no man ever spake has told us that He came not to bring peace, but a sword; and He gave the one and only law by which we may achieve in the fullest degree that peace which we so ardently crave.
Love thy neighbor as thyself, was his perfect counsel.
In other words, seek the welfare of others, in preference to your own, or at least, with equal ardor and justice.
Yet, in that consummation comes the point of the sword into our own hearts and into every discussion and problem, both in the home and in the nation.
Discipline must necessarily precede peace.
Do not forget that, you mothers, and grandmothers, if you would have peace in your homes, in your society, and in your community.
Discipline your children and yourselves, before asking for the priceless boon of perfect peace. 6 May