the Prophet Joseph Smith... I cheerfully comply, as follows: I first met the Prophet Joseph Smith in the fall of nee at my home in the town of Scarborough, Canada West. When I first shook hands with him I was thiilled through and through and I _knew that he was a Prophet of God, and that testimony has never left me, but is still strong within me, and has been a monitor to me, so that I can now bear a faithful testimony to the divinity of the mission of that great man of God. During the three days series of meetings held in a new barn which my husband had built, the Prophet made his home with us. The use of this barn became a necesbecause the Methodists, who were bitterly opposed to us, refused to let their churches to the Prophet and saints. As an example of Brother Joseph's humility, as well as his respect for authority, I mention the following: As soon as he reached Toronto, Canada, he inquired who the presiding officer was. On learning that it was the late President John Taylor, the Prophet said, "Send for him, as I desire to hold a meeting with the people." When President Taylor arrived, Brother Joseph said, "Brother Taylor, I am the Prophet Joseph. I want you to call a meeting, as I would like to talk to the saints." While in Canada he visited all the branches of the Church, and gave the saints instructions on the organization and order of the Priesthood, respect for proper authority, corrected some of the mis-translations of the Bible, and took pleasure in answering questions pertaining to the gospel and the organization of the Church. Brother and Sister 'Taylor, my husband, and I enjoyed the privilege of accompanying the Prophet on these visits. During the year following the Prophet's visit to Canada, my husband and I removed to the United States, and finally settled in Quincy, Illinois. *Sister M. Isabella (Mary I.) Horne, a prominent pioneer leader in Relief Society activities, was born in Kent, England, in 1818, the daughter of Stephen and Mary Ann Hales. The family moved to Canada in 1832, and in 1836 Isabella married Joseph Horne. That same year she became acquainted with the missionaries Orson and Parley Pratt and soon thereafter joined the Church. The Horne family later made their home in Nauvoo, Illinois, and were close friends of the Prophet Joseph Smith. In Utah, Sister Horne served for many years as general treasurer of Relief Society and was a member of the executive board of the Deseret Hospital Association, which was organizd in 1882. For thirty years she was president of the Senior Retrenchment Association. She also served as president of the Woman's Co-operative Mercantile and Manufacturing Association, established to encourage manufacturing in the mountain valleys and to give women an opportunity to use their sewing skills. She was counselor to Sister Zina D. H. Young in the Silk Association of pioneer days, and was outstanding for her leadership in the suffrage movement. Sister Horne died in 1906. Many of the descendants of her fifteen children are now active and outstanding social and religious leaders. Page 158 Willard Luce THE BLUE MOUNTAINS, SAN JUAN COUNTY, UTAH r) on 2. * eae