The American National Red Cross On Guarp—AT Att Times—AT HoMeE AND ABROAD Information submitted by Pacific Area Office, American National Red Cross THE seventy-year-old history of the American Red Cross is the king-size story of more than five thousand disasters which have at one time or another coil affected virtually every section of our Nation. Last year alone, aid was extended through Red Cross to 223,400 persons who were victims of 390 regional disasters. Red cross relief specialists are... Still handling the rehabilitation of hundreds of damaged homes, farms and businesses on the basis of actual needs... Not by financial loans but by outright money grants... On behalf of the American people. A goal of $85,000,000 has been set to achieve Red Cross objectives for the 1951 fiscal year. - On the nation's civil defense front, the responsibility of Red Cross is a major one since government officials have assigned it the gigantic task of training 20,000,0c0 persons in First Aid. In addition, a quarter-million women will receive training as Nurse's Aids, while another million women will be instructed in Home Nursing. The past year—bringing with it the grim Korean conflict—has seen the rapid stepping-up of Red Cross assistance to servicemen and veterans. Red Cross representatives were dispatched with the first troops sent into Korea. 'They distributed supplies, under battle conditions, and helped maintain GI morale. At scores of veterans' hospitals, Red Cross specialists and trained volunteers have assisted Veterans Administration officials in fulfilling medical, recreational, and welfare duties. Several million more vets have depended upon Red Cross guidance in applying for government benefits. The Armed Forces have asked the Red Cross to use its resources to collect blood to save the lives of battle-wounded servicemen. This assignment is in addition to its normal program of providing the life-giving fluid to hospitals and clinics in areas served by its regional centers here at home. Added to this is the staggering problem of planning for reserves of blood plasma for civilian defense—which also the Red Cross must do. And the organization is playing a vital role in co-ordinating research in the development and production of blood by-products, such as serum albumin and dried plasma. The Secretary of Defense recently said, "We, of the national military establishment, need the work of the Red Cross as we need a strong right arm " Help keep it strong during our national emergency.... Mobilize for Defense by Supporting Your Red Cross 1951 Fund. Page 169