Sixty Years Ago Iixcerpts from the Woman's Exponent, March 1, and March 15, 1891 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN OF ALL NATIONS" AN OLD BOOK An old torn book, with one pale rose Crushed in its yellow pages: I have not held it in my hand. Nor read it thus for ages. Nay, formerly, the print was good, ' Or else mine eyes were better; For now they're full of tears-—too full To see a single letter. —tLady Lindsay SUFFRAGE: Why are women not as competent to vote as men? 'They are oftener sober. Woman has the early care and training of the child, she plants the first seeds, makes the first and lasting impressions; and the influences that she exerts over the child's mind remain with it to its dying day. It is impossible for man to go very far in advance of woman, or for woman to far surpass man in intellectuality, but the development of the one means the onward march of the other, and a systematic dedevelopment of both, for do they not have the same origin? We cannot impart to others what we do not possess; and when it becomes an acknowledged fact that she is best fitted to perform the duties of a wife and mother, and to have the care and training of the representatives of our future government, who is best informed upon political, civil, religious and domestic affairs, the zenith of woman's glory will have been reached, and great things may be expected from the offspring of such a people. —Lexia Harris A CALL Awaken! Arise! Let thy slumbering heart In the march of Right take a noble part! Thou shalt share the palm by the victor's side, And rejoice with them who for Truth have died. —Ruby Lamont THE MOTHER OF OUR SAVIOR: To contemplate the life and mission of this most noble woman, creates within the mind the deepest, purest reverence and admiration that mortal is capable of feeling for mortal. What an incentive the contemplation of this beautiful character and divine mission should be to every young woman, to guard her purity and virtue with the strictest tenacity, to "magnify the Lord and rejoice in God." —L. L. G. Richards RELEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE: 'The second annual conference of the Relief Society will be held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, in this city, on Tuesday, April 7, 1891. The officers and members of the Relief Society and all those interested in this benevolent work are cordially invited to attend the Conference. —Relief Society Presidency Page 170 RESIDENT and Mrs. David O. McKay, dearly beloved throughout the Church, celebrated their golden wedding on January 2, with a festive dinner with their six children, eight of their sixteen grandchildren, and a few other relatives, numbering altogether about sixty in attendance. 'They were showered with good wishes and remembrances from many friends. Their family life has been gracious, happy, and rewarding. A former educator, Mrs. McKay is talented in music and very much interested in drama. This writer remembers her when, as Emma Rae Riggs, she was an impressive Sunday School teacher to the little girls in the Seventeenth Ward, Salt Lake City. We also heard members of the Church in Great Britain comment on the lovely way in which Sister McKay had told inspirational stories at their conferences some years before. HE nine women members of the eighty-second Congress are: Senator Margaret Chase Smith (Maine); Representative guerite S. Church (Illinois); Katherine St. George (New York); Ruth Thompson (Michigan); Frances P. Bolton (Ohio); Reva Beck Bosone (Utah); Cecil M. Harden (Indiana); Edna T°. Kelley (New York); Edith Nourse' Rogers (Massachusetts). Mar