[Vol32 | March 1945 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes to the Field]
TIE APRON
BUTTONED APRON Front View
BUnONED APRON Bade View
Page 183
^<$s»
FROM THE FIELD
Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer
Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the Field"
appear in the Magazine for February 1944, page 104.
MESSAGES FROM THE MISSIONS
(Continued from February Magazine)
East Centra] States Mission npHE following reports from four of the
branches of this mission were received during 1944. Their Mission Relief
Society President, Leone W. Doxey, submitted all but one.
''In the country district of Gretna, Virginia," wrote Sister Doxey, "we have
a Relief Society with sixteen members, thirteen of whom are not members
of the Church.
''The meetings of tlie Gretna Relief Society are held Tuesday afternoons in
the home of Sister Maria Rowland, 'Granny,' as she is lovingly called by all

who know her. The home is a ﬁne old Virginia farmhouse that had been the
home of her husband's father and mother. Granny moved into it as a bride.
She is now nearly eighty years old and has been a member of the Church
for more than forty years. She teaches the theology lessons in Relief
Society and is an inspiration to everyone there."
Mrs. L. H. Snow, president of the Chadottesville (Virginia) Relief Society,
wrote July 20, 1944:
"In and around this city and also other big towns, we see many beautiful
little country churches closed for lack of preachers. Women from
Page 184
some of these churches are joining the Relief Society and are glad to get
something to do. I wish you could see our women working, making rugs,
quilts, et cetera. The people in the country want to piece quilts so I am
taking them the material. I am also taking them samples of a miniature red-
checked apron and a tiny pair of blue and white striped overalls, to help in
the collection of contributions to the building fund. A note in the apron
pocket has space for ﬁlling in the woman's name and her waist
measurement, and carries the suggestion, "A penny for every inch." A
similar note in the overall pocket suggests that the men pledge either work
on the chapel or a cash donation. We also have one member in Hampton,
and she is making something for the bazaar in October. Some members up
in the Blue Ridge near Standardsville are making quilts—one woman gave
the top, ﬁlling, and bottom for a quilt last night. This project is getting
every one doing something, and in that way they learn what we stand for
and what we are doing in trying to teach the gospel. The people are hungry
for the gospel and for friends."
Sister Doxey reports an unusual
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
185