[Vol32 | March 1945 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: Gifts Cooper]
Such a blessing is the well-earned reward of our gifted lady, Alice Merrill Home. And here, dear friend, while you are living and working, is our bouquet of appreciation and admiration! GIFTS Grace A. Cooper When gods of sound and goddesses of color send Down gifts to man, their gems and blooms and music blend; Like silence, drugged, the pearl-gray fog escapes the bay, Soft murmurs from the golden glow of summer day Join whispered converse of the leaves of verd and jade; Late roses echo reds of rubies' deeper shade.
When beryls raise their batons, all is statue-still, Then amethysts and violets, in cadence, trill; Turquoise and larkspur improvise a symphony, The diamond and jasmine play their melody.
Between the black and darkened clouds are silver rifts  For gods and goddesses, to mankind, blend their gifts. Sixtii LJears Kjigo Excerpts from the Woman's Exponents, March i and March 15, 1885 "For the Rights of the Women of Zion and the Rights of the Women of All Nations" Love.
This is a little word of only four letters, yet how potent, how powerful, and with it comes our liberty or bondage. If we love right, we are free; free in our souls, pure in our hearts, let come what may, though oft through surrounding circumstances and worldly influence we are swerved from the right, not having the moral courage to resist evil, or know for ourselves the sad results of weakness and hatred until too late....
Where can we find pure love? In the homes of the Latter-day Saints; there it sits enthroned. If sorrow and death visit such a household there is comfort and relief at hand.... Our principles are perfect, and we will continue to love them and strive to live them, God being our helper; protect the rights of others, envy no one, be pure in our daily walk in life and leave the result in God's hands. Zina D. H. Young.
Editorial Notes: On Saturday, March yth, a number of ladies, intimate friends of Mrs. Rachel R. Grant, met at her residence in the 13th Ward, it being the anniversary of the lady's birthday. The time was spent in social converse, supper being announced at six p.m., when the guests repaired to the residence of Apostle H. J. Grant, where a sumptuous repast had been prepared for the occasion. The table was handsomely set out, and the viands were delicious. Mrs. Lucy Grant, the amiable hostess, and her sister, Mrs. JuHa Woolley, with Miss Maggie Ivins assisting, waited upon the ladies in the most charming manner, and every one seemed to thoroughly enjoy themselves.
About ten o'clock the party broke up.
Many good wishes were expressed for the lady who is a great favorite with her friends. May she live to enjoy many more years of prosperity and happiness.  R.S. REPORTS Alma Ward, Mesa City. Editor Exponent: Owing to our isolated situation we see but few communications from this part of the country in your valuable paper, hence the liberty I take in penning a few lines to you, hoping you will be kind enough to give them space in your paper. We were organized May 31st, 1883, under the direction of President McDonald, with Anna Klienman, President; Henrietta Standage and Laureta Staples, Counselors; Sarah M. Mullens, Secretary; Sophronia A. Standage, Assistant Secretary; Hannah M. Stewart, Treasurer. We have thirty-five names enrolled, with an average attendance of nineteen. We hold our meetings semi-monthly, and have a very good time. The sisters are trying to live their religion and serve God. The Exponent is read in our meetings, with other Church works, striving to render them a source of benefit and mutual improvement.
Wishing f Jr the success of the Exponent, I remain, Your sister in the Gospel, S. A. S. Bluff City. Editor Exponent: Thinking that a few lines from Bluff City would not come amiss, we take pleasure in writing that our Relief Society is trying to keep along evenly with the rest of the branches of the Relief Society as near as possible under the circumstances, with a good spirit and feeling at heart. We hold our testimony and teacher's meetings once a month, and our working meetings once in two weeks. We are few in number, but our meetings are well attended and our desire is to do all the good we can in helping to build up the Kingdom of God in this far off land.... We have had a very pleasant winter and the health of the people is very good.
There has been no sickness nor death, for which we feel very thankful, and realize as a great blessing.
Ever praying for the welfare of Zion, we remain, Your sisters in the Gospel, Jane M. Walton, President; Irene Haskell, Secretary. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon FOR the first time in the history of Utah, or of any other state in our country so far as can be learned, a woman has been selected as legislative chaplain in the person of Dr. Maud May Babcock who occupies that position in the Utah State Senate.
Years ago, President Brigham Young's daughter, Susa, attended a class in voice building at Harvard University, taught by Miss Babcock. The pupil did not rest until Miss Babcock was in the employ of the University of Utah, where she built up one of the best known speech departments in the country, serving for fifty-two years, longer than any other faculty member. She became a convert to the Church, was the first president of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association in the Eighteenth Ward, and introduced the study of literature into the Mutual program.
FIVE women have been elected to the Utah House of Representatives: Mrs. C. L. Jack, Mrs. J. B. Bearnson, Mrs. Clara L. Jarvis, Mrs. Della L. Loveridge, and Miss Frances B. Smith. Mrs. E. E. Erickson is the only woman senator. She outranks any other Utah woman in length of legislative service. Singularly honored this year with the chairmanship of the important educational committee, she is also a member of the committee on appropriations, on state and municipal
affairs, on public institutions, social relations, and relief.
MISS ERIKA MANN, daughter of the great novelist, Thomas Mann, who exiled herself from Germany and became an American citizen, recently spent seven months in the occupied countries and on the first-line battle fronts of Europe. In Salt Lake City, she gave an account of her experiences, with comments on allied policies, and suggestions for attitudes in postwar problems.
AMIDST the beauty of her native land, one of the most spiritual and beloved Hawaiian Latter-day Saints, Mrs. Lilia Wahapia Kaneihalau, passed away in November. In another forty-five days she would have been 120 years old. For ninety-one years she had been a member of the Church, and served for thirty-three years as president of the Relief Society, released in 1926 at her own request due to her age.
FRANCE has a woman mayor for the first time in history. She presides over Thann, one of the liberated towns in Alsace.
HENRY WISE MILLER, husband of the late Alice Duer Miller, author of The White Cliffs of Dover and many other beautiful poems, has written a book on the life and works of his wife. Page 157 


VOL. 32 MARCH 1945 NO. 3
