[Vol32 | March 1945 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Though a Host Encamp Robinson]
Third Prize Story Annual Relief Society Short Story (contest Though A Host Encamp Against Thee Dorothy Clapp Rohinson JULIA scraped the coals closer under her bakeoven. Even if she was nearly eleven, bread-making took the starch right out of her. The wood Isaac brought didn't make good coals. She was going to tell Pa well, maybe not now. Lately Pa didn't seem to love them any more than Heavenly Father did. It wasn't as if they didn't know, 'cause they did. All year the saints had talked and prayed about it, and if that wasn't enough there were her own secret prayers. No, Heavenly Father didn't have the excuse of not knowing; but Pa might not know about the chopping. At noon she had tried to tell him. "I am not leaving." He had scowled at her. "Nothing short of the United States Army will move me." Julia didn't know about the United States Army. All she knew was Johnson Army. Everybody was moving south to get away from him. Everybody, but them. Julia wasn't hankering for a move. She'd had too many of them. This place in the canyon was the only real home she could remember. But burning it and moving south would be better than the chopping. DOROTHY CLAPP ROBINSON "Brother Williams says he is following the Move so his family will be safe." For a moment Pa hadn't spoken. When he did, his voice was the way it sometimes got when they talked about Ma. "Maybe I should have taken you to your grandma; but Grantsville is a long way." He looked about the Page 

  MARCH 1945 room. "I snaked these logs out of the canyon. Your Ma helped me raise them. I will put my trust in the Lord and stay here." When Pa used that tone of voice there was no use going on.
Trusting was all right for him. He was an old man, nearly thirty-six, and old men are not afraid. Dorcas Williams had whispered to her about the chopping. She said when Old Johnson Army got to the Valley, if he found any young'uns there, he would cut off their ears, and maybe chop off both hands and both feet. Like Squaw Bill. She'd done something and the bucks of her tribe had chopped off her hands. Now she lived with the Williamses.
After banking the fire Julia went outside. At the woodpile she found a long, thick sliver. She would use it to try the bread. Sister Williams had put her on to that. No sense trusting to looks. The first time she had baked after Ma died, she had her lesson.
Because the bread was brown she'd thought it was done.
Spreading one of Ma's snowy dish-wipers on the hearth, she had lifted the oven to turn out the bread.
Instead of coming out in loaves, the crust had broken; and dough had run all over the dishwiper. She'd scooped it back in a hurry with her bare hands, so none of it would be wasted.
That had been a mess with burned hands and only slow-poke Sally to help. As Julia started toward the house with her sliver, she saw a curl of smoke far down the Valley then another. The burning had started!
That meant Old Johnson Army was close. She sat down on a stump and tears trickled down her thin cheeks. Oh, Ma, why couldn't you have stayed. Pa would listen to you. President Young when he was up to see Pa said, "You're a brave girl, and don't worry, Ma is happy." Huh.
Heaven must be something; or Ma had changed in a hurry. She knew Hi was only ten months old and that Sally was slow as molasses in a snowdrift. Well, maybe Old Johnson Army would kill all of them. It would be a relief, at that, to turn Sally and Isaac over to Ma. FOR supper they had bread'n'milk and Injun-meal mush. Pa got a slice of the new bread. He worked hard, and if he liked it, he might listen about the chopping. He liked it. He even said Julia would soon be as good a breadmaker as her mother; but when she tried to talk "Move" he laid down his spoon and looked at her. "I am not being chased out of my home again. Besides, when you put your trust in the Lord you leave it up to him." "We'll be alone.
