[Vol55 | November 1968 | Page 837 | Fiction | Twice Blest | Helen Romrell]
[Twice Blest Helen Romrell]

837 November 1968

 letter he had told of a wonderful family who had invited him to share their Christmas with them. Her heart was full of gratitude as she thought of this unknown nonmember family who were giving—giving a gift of love— wasn't that what the lesson brought out today? As the social relations lesson "A City ona Hill," with its beautiful message of Christmas unfolded, Ann again felt grateful to those who had true love in their hearts, and were willing to share. The lesson was finished all too soon—Ann hated to break the magical spell, and was engrossed in her own thoughts as she heard Sister Wright say, "If anyone wishes to give a true gift of love this holiday season, I know a girl at college who is most deserving. She is from the East and cannot go home for Christmas. She will be all alone this season." Ann's heart pounded. She could hardly wait for the meeting to close. Would this be her chance to repay those unknown friends by giving a gift of love to another one in need? Quickly she found Sister Wright. "We would love to share our Christmas with the girl you mentioned—tell me more about her." The Wrights had made it a tradition to extend their Christmas beyond the normal limits of family and close friends, and this year as they were planning their special project, they had asked the help of a professor at college. He surely would know someone who needed help. With his assistance, they had made their plans, but today as Sister 838 3 Wright had listened to the lesson Linda's name kept coming to mind. Linda was one of the girls Professor Wilson had told them about while discussing possible projects, and now she told to Ann Linda's story. Linda was very shy, and had a difficult time looking people in the eye. She went around with her head down most of the time. Her parents sold stove wood for a living. Her mother wrote to her often and expressed her love for her, but her father never wrote. He seemed to resent her coming West for school, perhaps because he felt he could not help her as he should. She had worked to earn her own money to go to school. She was withdrawn, but courageous. She surely needed a gift of love! The arrangements were made and Ann and her whole family anxiously awaited Linda's arrival. A very small, shy, frightened girl came up the walk in a shapeless coat, carrying a very small suitcase and wearing a well-worn, drab, plain, green dress. It wasn't long until she responded to the warmth and the love of the family. She had no brothers, and Ann's four boys were a new experience to her in family living. She loved the baby! Ann and Linda got along well, and a close relationship soon developed between them. The following Sunday the bishop asked all of the students home for the holidays to bear their testimonies and tell about their schools. As he called on Linda, he explained she was a convert of only two years, and was a guest in the ward. Would she care to respond? It took a great deal of courage for Linda to respond with her sweet, humble testimony, and the hearts of the ward members were touched. On the following Wednesday Linda went to Relief Society with Ann and met many of the sisters in the ward. Again she wore the plain green dress, the only dress she had brought with her for a two-weeks visit! Ann took Linda_ shopping, and together they picked out some lovely woolen material, and Ann made her a beautiful wool dress, the first wool dress she had ever owned. How thrilled she was! Not long afterwards, Sister Wright called. She wanted to do something for Linda, too. Would she like to go shopping for a new coat? Linda was hesitant at first, but soon warmed to the graciousness of Sister Wright. It was a radiant, happy girl who returned home that evening in a most becoming red coat. Linda left Ann's home on Christmas Eve to spend the night and part of Christmas day with her roommate in a nearby town. They had wanted to be together, and these were the only two days Twice Blest they could accommodate her. As she left, her arms were full of gaily wrapped packages, gifts from many members of the ward. No one had organized a plan, no one spread the word of her need, but many families had sensed her need and individually responded with a gift of love for this sweet girl! On Christmas morning things were not quite the same at Ann's home. The family was excited, opening their gifts, but something was missing! But not for long— suddenly the telephone rang. It was Linda! She was thinking of them, missing them, and wanting to share the excitement of this very special Christmas with them. "Perhaps the best gift of all" Linda's voice broke, "I just received a letter from my father! My very first! And he sent me ten dollars, and more important, for the first time that I can remember, he told me that he loves me." Ann's eyes were full of tears as she put the telephone up. She turned, walked away from the family noise and into Linda's room. "Here I thought I was doing something for someone, helping someone else, and it is I who have been blessed!" Ann whispered. R CHOICE Who walks with lowered eyes Instead of gazing far May find a penny, lost, But miss the evening star. —Vesta N. Fairbairn. Yy 839 Photograph by Dorothy J.