[Vol55 | November 1968 | Page 866 | Lesson | Homemaking Let's Be More Courteous (Continued) Celestia | J. Taylor]
HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Discussion 5—Let's Be More Courteous (Continued) Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, February 1969 Southern Hemisphere: June 1969 OBJECTIVE: To show how we can teach our children to be habitually courteous and well mannered. INTRODUCTION It is natural for parents to want their children to behave well, but too many of these parents forget that the conduct of their children is a natural outgrowth of observation, practice, and training. Any conduct which is not the product of one or all of these processes is not natural but is artificial. Good manners are not artificial but, as we learned in our previous discussion, they are the outward indication of the inner virtues of love, kindness, and consideration for others. To act courteously is to fulfill the laws of good conduct, and these laws, like all others, must be taught and practiced. If children are taught at an early age—in fact, the earlier the better—by example and by practice to do "the kindest things in the kindest way," it will become a natural part of their lives. The old proverb "Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it" (Proverbs 22:6) is as applicable here as it is in any other phase of his learning process. 866 The manners and courtesies we teach our children are a part of them throughout their lives. This is particularly valuable to missionaries representing their families and the Church throughout the world. They are better and more effective missionaries if they extend courtesy to all with whom they come in contact. Good manners are an important asset in gracious living. HOW SHALL WE TEACH OUR CHILDREN TO BE COURTEOUS AT HOME? One young Relief Society class leader and mother of ten says: My wonderful husband deserves a great tribute because of his kind and thoughtful nature. For instance he will say, 'Son, please open the door for your mother,' or 'Help your mother on with her coat.' He is always appreciative of my work in the house, and he thanks me for sewing on buttons, mending, and doing any other little chores. He also is very considerate in remembering to thank the children when they help out in any way. I. By constantly practicing acts of courtesy one with another. A. Responding to all requests and favors with "Please" and "Thank you." B. Showing respect for each other in conduct and speech. 1. Listening attentively to each other. 2. Avoiding' displays' of temper between parents or children. 3. Respecting each other's privacy. (Even small children desire moments of privacy and seclusion.) By practicing and_ teaching obedience. 1. Honoring the priesthood. 2. Maintaining and teaching a respectful attitude toward parents and Church leaders. 3. - Observing all family rules and requirements. 4. Responding promptly and willingly. 53. Fulfilling personal responsibilities and commitments. By maintaining cleanliness and order. 1. Observing personal habits of cleanliness. 2. Practicing politeness and rules of good conduct at mealtimes. 3. Keeping one's room and personal belongings in order. By frequently expressing love and appreciation to each other and to the children. (Love should be the motivating force for all of our thoughts and actions. ) By realizing that each member is an individual with his own personality, his own abilities, and his own needs and that he should be treated accordingly. By observing regular family prayers, with each _ family member taking his turn and by teaching—from infancy—the great importance of individual prayers. Lesson Department HOW SHALL WE TEACH OUR CHILDREN TO BE COURTEOUS IN PUBLIC? I. By teaching them the principle of the second great commandment, "Love thy neighbour as_ thyself." (Mark 12:31.) II. By teaching them respect for other people's rights and property. III. By teaching them respect for officers of the law, public officials, and teachers. IV. By teaching them to observe civil law. A. Traffic rules and signs. B. Property signs—public' and private. C. Any others. VI. By teaching them to help other people whenever possible. A. Crossing streets. B. Opening doors. C. Giving up seats to the elderly. By teaching them the proper use of public services and utilities. A. Telephone rights and courtesies. B. Escalators, elevators, swinging doors, etc. C. Bus and streetcar deportment. VIL. CONCLUSION When children have been reared in a loving home and have been taught to be obedient to their parents and to their Heavenly Father—when they have been taught to have respect for law and consideration for the rights of others—when, in addition, they have had nurtured within them a prayerful heart— then we can be sure that their conduct will be courteous and well mannered.