[Vol55 | November 1968 | Page 801 | Article | The Swallows | Dorothy J. Roberts]
Swallows Dorothy J. Roberts Back beyond the far edges Of time, refuting thunder And the violence of sound, Up from the cool meadows The swallows of my childhood come, To perch in silent symphony, Black notes on a wire staff Above the impending storm. They shift, move, Rewrite the score Of black notes on the coral Of a sunset cloud, Still composing in the lingering twilight Their silent melodies. Never a burst of song Though wings are everywhere. Only the lost chord of silence To assuage the dreamer's ear. The Cover: Design by Dick Scopes Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: Symphony of Swallows Photograph by Dorothy J.

Roberts Art Layout: Dick Scopes Illustrations: Mary Scopes From Near and Far While vacationing at beautiful Fremont Lake in Pinedale, Wyoming, I have had a very enlightening experience of reading some two and three year old issues of the Magazine. Thank you, sisters, for publishing the wonderful Relief Society Magazine. You cannot imagine how much the Magazine means to us who live at the end of South America field of alfalfa, wild flowers on the hillside, a hummingbird all the beauty of God's world. Ardath Esplin Staheli Enterprise, Utah "Say Peanut Butter" in the May 1968 issue of the Magazine, by Janice Dixon was delightful. I always say a little levity leavens the loaf. Florence Bittner Salt Lake City, Utah I thank the ladies of the Twenty-third Ward, Ogden, Utah, for sending me the lovely Relief Society Magazine. I read every word, from the front to the back. Each article and lesson is inspiring. My hands are crippled with rheumatoid arthritis, and this is the only Magazine I can read, so I appreciate it. Betty Ipsen Young Ogden, Utah I appreciate the delightful illustration in the July issue (page 508) for my article "The Lady Who Bakes Cakes." Gladys Thomas Pasadena, California I am writing to tell you how much I enjoy our wonderful Magazine. The features, articles, stories, and photography are superb. I have always loved the honor given the sisters who are pictured with their lovely handwork. Genevieve G. Bullard Roy, Utah Belle S. Spafford Elected President of the National Council of Women of the United States October 1968 Counselor Marianne C. Sharp w A new honor came to President Belle S. Spafford when she was elected the President of the National Council of Women of the United States in New York on October 17, 1968. Previous to this she has served as second and third vice-president on the board, and, more recently, as chairman of the Constitutional Review Committee. The Council is to be congratulated on its newest president. President Spafford has represented the Relief Society at the annual Council meetings since she became president of the Relief Society in 1945. Her outstanding abilities were soon recognized and responsibilities have come to her in increasing numbers over the years. She has been named as a United States delegate to the triennial meetings of the International Council of Women, in Philadelphia; Helsinki, Finland; Montreal, Canada; Washington D. C.; and Teheran, Iran. At the Helsinki conference in 1954, she was the chairman of the United States delegation. President Spafford is recognized for her fearlessness in espousing and defending those causes which she feels are right. Her tact, friendliness, and wisdom are appreciated. She has made friends with women throughout the world. She was the featured speaker at the recent Eightieth Anniversary of the Council last May. This is the first time that a National Council president has not resided in or near New York City, but special plans for holding meetings and carrying on Council affairs have been arranged so that President Spafford may take on this added heavy responsibility in addition to her vital Relief Society work. As she travels to the faraway stakes for Relief Society, she will also be cementing international ties for the National Council with the women of the free world. 804 Our Rights Versus Our Responsibilities President Belle S.