[Vol55 | November 1968 | Page 834 | General Feature | Editorial Tell It to the Generations | Vesta P. Crawford]
[Editorial Tell It to the Generations Vesta P. Crawford]
TELL If Walk about Zion, and go round about her: tell the towers thereof. Mark ye well her bulwarks, consider her palaces; that ye may tell it to the generation following. (Psalms 48:12-13.) In the days of harvest when the fruits of the earth are gathered once more and the cycle of the year is completed, there are many who feel to rejoice in their blessings. Whatever the season of harvest, though the time be different in the hemispheres, the contemplation of gratitude and the words of thankfulness have similarities in all the lands of the earth. It is natural for those who have received an inheritance, a portion of the earth for their homeland, to praise the Giver and express their gratitude. A feeling of reverence has been recorded throughout the generations, as the Psalmist said: ''The mighty God... Hath spoken, and called the earth from the rising of the sun to the going down thereof." (Psalms 50:1.) Love of home, reluctance to leave, and joy upon returning are inherent in the lives of people everywhere—those who dwell in the shadow of northern mountains, the people of the plains, inhabitants of islands where summer is continuous, and the people of deserts and wilderness. together and all the SONS Of Gog Shouted for Joy." An elderly woman once Was asked to Summarize her thoughts re. 8arding her life Span, its beginnings and its boundaries. To her, life had seeme SPtritua] Pilgrimage S, ev the dst Of her fam ly, 'N Broups of People, she h elt lone} » thinkin "Lam a Stranger all my fathers Wi € recalled the wo ds of Eliza R W from the son Saint early Ove, "ofttim €cret Omething whispered, ou' Nger here: Nd I felt hat Ip dered from a Ore exalted here," hen € wo ho had €€n asked to summa life UPON the arth related th Pand & phases of Spiritual insi; yea learnin and the blessj f her Nowledge of Pre-existe € andh testimo y OT eternal Pprec ation of "earth tj » he Called her €Mporal ys, 'NcCreased b acceptance of ol esign Planned fo her and Or all the s NS and aughters fG nother » More delayed N her sp Itual en ghtenment, r JOICed jn Mor Ppat Splendor Of the h, Ch she Could See or hear or h—the right asturti Ss h Oryard the UMMming. Rd that visited th Olu INe€; the Pired Ountains at Surround her with Peace. S as so Sratetul fo tion of the €arth that he fe} as the kj g's d hter in the Bible « I 8lorious Within," There man N, also, Who fee} a deep, Imost NexpressibI JOY in th relation hip famili S—devotion Parents, Oyalty ang Ove for hus a Evotion to Children, all as a €quence jn the plan the Heavenly Father has Prepared for his daughters, It is the realization of the eternal Plan that lends a 8lory to the earth 835 ATTENTION: English-speaking Southern Hemisphere Stakes and Missions @ In the Southern Hemisphere, where eight cultural refinement lessons are needed and only seven are published in The Relief Society Magazine, the General Board suggests that each Englishspeaking stake and mission use the eighth cultural refinement lesson period to review the objectives of the seven preceding lessons, pointing out the values which have come to the class members in their lives as women, in applying the objectives to their own lives. Seven assignments might be made in each ward or branch. Since the.