[Vol55 | November 1968 | Page 821 | Article | Report and Official Instructions | Belle S. Spafford]
[Report and Official Instructions Belle S. Spafford]

REPORT OF MEMBERSHIP OF CAMPUS RELIEF SOCIETIES Membership figures as of August 31, 1967 showed a slight decrease over those of January 1, 1967. This would have caused concern had we not realized that there are approximately 10,000 sisters enrolled in college campus Relief Societies. After these sisters leave the campus in the late spring or early summer, no record is kept of their Relief Society membership until it is again recorded when they return to school in the fall. We estimate that had the May membership figures for campus Relief Societies been used in compiling membership figures, rather than those of August 31, Relief Society would have shown a_ normal twelve-month membership _increase in excess of 10,000. The General Board now recommends that membership figures as of May 31 be used for campus Relief Societies rather than those of August 31. NEW NURSERY MANUAL We are pleased to advise you that a new Relief Society nursery manual has been prepared through the service of the Church Correlation Writing Committee. We think it is delightful. It contains a few general instructions. It has lessons, stories, songs, finger plays and other recom- 822 mended activities that have been carefully chosen to teach our little pre-school children through enjoyable, meaningful activities. The manual, available for stake and ward, mission and branch Societies, may be used for several successive years. It is to be obtained, through the stake or mission district, from the General Board Office. Price $2. Where wards are far removed from the stake or mission district center, the manual will be mailed direct to the ward or branch upon request. The book is not translated into foreign languages, however. STRENGTHEN LAMANITE ORGANIZATIONS We appeal to you sisters who have Lamanite Relief Societies within your stakes and missions to do all in your power to strengthen these organizations so they will meet the needs of the Lamanite sisters. Help these sisters to live comfortably in the Church and the social environment in which they find themselves. Help them to make their homes inviting to their children. Certainly we. Would not have them lose the beauties of their own culture, but we would offer them every advantage offered every other woman through Rehef Society. No new special lessons are being prepared for use in 1968-69 by the Lamanite sisters. These sisters 'will repeat, as needed, lessons formerly contained in Special Lessons, Volumes 1 through 4. They will also use the regular Homemaking Discussions, Visiting 'Teacher Messages, and the Social Relations lessons printed in_ the Magazine for the current year's educational program. It is anticipated that a new set of lessons will be prepared for the Lamanite sisters for use during 1969-70. EDUCATION As an institution providing general and balanced education that meets the basic needs of woman, Relief Society is without peer. Approximately 25,000 sisters are serving as class leaders, going before their classes well prepared and involving the sisters in meaningful participation in the class discussions.

Education materials are available to accompany the 1968-69 courses of study. You have been advised of these through a General Board bulletin issued in July and in the Notes to the Field Department in the August 1968 issue of The Relief Society Magazine. We are pleased to advise you at this time that a picture of the late President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., author of the book used as a text for the Melchizedek Priesthood lessons with which our Social Relations lessons are correlated, is available through the Deseret Book Company. If one to five pictures are purchased, the price is 35c each, postpaid; six or more may be purchased for 25c each, postpaid. We regret that the Cultural Refinement textbook, Out of the Best Books, Volume IV, was unavoidably not ready for distribution in time for most leadership meetings held in September. The textbook is now ready and may be obtained from the Deseret Book Company for $2.60 per copy, surface mail postpaid. Report and Official Instructions HOMEMAKING We call your attention to the importance of the discussions prepared for use in the homemaking meeting for the forthcoming season. These discussions are concerned with the principles and practices whereby we may achieve beauty and good taste in our home environment and in our family relationships and thereby contribute to the development of spirituality in the home. They should not be neglected; nonetheless, they should not infringe upon time that should belong to other homemaking activities. RED CROSS HOME NURSING CLASSES The General Board has felt the urgency of encouraging Rehef Society members to take classes in home nursing. Through the generous and wholehearted cooperation of the American Red Cross, for which we are very grateful, classes have been conducted with a high degree of success in the Phoenix and Mesa areas in Arizona and are now underway in Southern Arizona, Provo, Ogden, and Seattle areas. Plans are in the making, also, to extend the classes into the Portland area. Other areas will be reached as arrangements can be worked out by the General Board in cooperation with the Red Cross. It is our expectation that thousands of Relief Society homes will benefit from this program. The General Board will appreciate being notified by you when it is felt that a home nursing course may be established in your area. 

823 November 1968

 COMPASSIONATE SERVICE In the eight-month period, January through August 1967, there were 24,500 eight-hour days bedside nursing care given the sick in their homes. Assuming this same rate of service was continued for the next four months, there was an annual increase in the service of over 5,500 eighthour days. The volume of other types of compassionate service is heartening as you will note in the report published in the April 1968 Relief Society Magazine, and bears evidence that Relief Society is indeed meeting its responsibilities to those in distress. SPECIALIZED WELFARE SERVICES As many of you know, the First Presidency has assigned to the Relief Society General Presidency responsibility for directing the specialized welfare services of the Church. These are services requiring state license, such as adoption and foster-home care of children. We call to your attention Section XVII in the booklet, Administering Assistance that is being distributed by the Regional Representatives of the Twelve in the Regional Conferences now being held. Relief Society stake presidents will receive a copy of this booklet. We also wish to advise you of a statement on these Specialized Welfare Services that will appear in a forthcoming issue of the Priesthood Bulletin. We urge a careful reading of both these statements for your information in order that you may safeguard yourselves against any wrong 824 procedures in dealing with these matters by following the recommendation. RECORDING WELFARE HOURS Relief Society continues to support the Church Welfare program as directed by the General Priesthood Welfare Committee. A new ruling prevails with regard to recording the hours contributed by females on welfare projects. Hereafter, you will record only the number of hours 'contributed by Relief Society members. VISITING TEACHING The Visiting Teacher program continues to grow in size and improve in quality of service with approximately five million visits having been made to homes by 132,000 visiting teachers. The importance of this program has long since been proved. We commend the sisters for their service and Relief Society presidents for their conscientious efforts in directing it. MUSIC There comes to Relief Society through its music program esthetic richness, enjoyment, opportunities for the development of talents, as well as for cultural and missionary service. How spiritually impoverished _ this Conference would seem could we not join in singing the hymns of Zion, and did we not have the blessings of the glorious music of our Singing Mothers choruses, our gifted soloists, and our great accompanists, our beautiful and reverent prelude and postlude music. We are heartened by the growth in the number of Singing Mothers choruses and the excellent quality of their work. These choruses are being recognized, and invitations to sing for important events are increasing. As examples, I cite the presentation of the chorus from the New York and New Jersey areas, conducted by Sister Ellen N. Barnes on last year's 30-minute nation-wide N. B. C. Christmas Eve program entitled "Voices of Christmas," also the recent presentation at Hemisfair of a combined chorus of 375 voices from eight. Stake Relief Societies in the South led by Sister Montez Anderegg. Other choruses have sung on important occasions. The General Board requests that any plans for your Singing Mothers choruses to give concerts outside your own stakes be referred to the General Board for counsel and approval. SONG CONTEST In order further to promote music and through the generosity of Sister Cleone Eccles, a gifted musician and former member of the Board, we are pleased to announce that the General Board will conduct annually a contest for Latter-day Saint women in song writing (lyrics and music), to be known as "The Relief Society Song Contest." The purpose of the contest is to encourage creativity in this form of art-excellence in the general field of music among the women of the Church. This year's contest (1968-69) opens with Report and Official Instructions this announcement and _ closes March 1, 1969. The General Board will be happy to receive entries following this announcement until the closing date of the contest. The rules of the contest are published in the October 1968 issue of the Magazine. MAGAZINE It is with deep appreciation that we acknowledge the service of stake and ward presidencies and the Magazine representatives in the Magazine circulation program. The present combined circulations of the English and Spanish editions is 273,000. The importance of the Magazine in all aspects of our work is recognized by all of us. GARMENT DISTRIBUTION We also most sincerely thank stake Relief Society presidents for the willing spirit and the excellence of efforts in the Garment Distribution program. You have caught the spirit of this great assignment and are conducting your programs so that the purposes desired by the First Presidency in assigning the work to Relief Society are being realized. It is my personal opinion that Relief Society has never been given by the First Presidency a special assignment of greater or more far-reaching importance and that Relief Society presidents perhaps have never accepted an assignment with a more sincere desire to fulfill it as desired by the Brethren. May we all continue to be blessed in our work with this sacred clothing. 

825 November 1968

 FUND RAISING We commend ward and stake Relief Society presidents for the wise direction being given to fund raising, for the wisdom shown in making expenditures and_ for the accuracy of the financial accounting. We suggest that you review with your officers Section X, "Funds," pages 61-69 in the new Handbook of Instructions, with special attention being given to the paragraph, "Participation in Commercial Selling,' page 63. We caution you with regard to a growing trend to enter into arrangements for persons to give demonstrations at the homemaking meeting where the sisters, in making the articles demonstrated, can obtain the materials or equipment only through purchase from the demonstrator or a company she represents. Sisters, to hold office in Relief Society is a distinct honor involving responsibility and_ trust. Relief Society leaders need the blessing of the Lord.. We announce at this time the change in the ruling with regard to setting apart of Relief Society leaders, which appears in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints General Handbook of Instructions, Number 20, 1968, page 31, as follows: Bishopric to Call Ward Auxiliary Officers. Auxiliary officers are chosen, interviewed, and called by the bishopric, and, following the sustaining vote of the ward membership, are set apart by the bishopric. Officers and teachers in the auxiliary organizations may be nominated by the auxiliary heads and should be interviewed and approved by the bishopric. They may be sustained in their regular meeting of the respective auxiliary and are to be set apart by or under the direction of the bishopric. Auxiliary leaders should not contact new workers until the bishopric has interviewed the prospective candidate and has issued the call. This ruling supercedes the ruling in the new Relief Society Handbook of Instructions on page 41 with regard to the setting apart of officers, class leaders, and visiting teachers. With regard to visiting teachers, they are called by authority of the Priesthood for this special assignment, and they go out as emissaries of Relief Society. It is not regarded as necessary under these circumstances that they be set apart. We understand that this is in harmony with the regulations on home teachers not being set apart. Sisters, the women with whom you work are precious women, eager to do right, to meet life with intelligence, and in harmony with the will of the Lord. It is your task to direct the work of Relief Society so that these choice women may delight in their Relief Society membership and through it, be blessed according to their needs and desires. May choice blessings be yours. A candle in the sunlight