
WOMAN'S EXPONENT
		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 20.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 1, 1891.			No. 1


CONTENTS.

	Summer Vacation—Aunt Em. A Few Reflec-
tions—M. E. Kimball. Memorial Day— E. B. W.
Letter from Miss Anthony—Woman's Tribune.
An Interesting Party—E. B. W.	R. S. Reports
—Hyrum—Mesa—Bear Lake. Primary Fair,
Social Hall—E. B. W.	Notes and News.
	EDITORIALS:—Notice to Agents. Significance
of the Times. 	Old Folk's Red Letter Day.
	POETRY.—A Hundred Years or So—L. M.
Hewlings. Words of Cheer—Emily H. Wood-
mansee. Springville's Song of Welcome—Wm.
Clegg. Old Folk's Song—Henry W. Naisbitt.


[Column 1]
A HUNDRED YEARS OR SO

Roll up the curtain, backward turn the wheels of time
One hundred years, or so ago, todays of "Auld Lang
	Syne"
Spinning-wheel and loom were the fashion of the day,
All the folks wore homespun and women raked the hay.
Mixed their bread in kneading troughs, yellow corn and
	rye,
Baked in huge brick ovens, with pudding, beans and
	pie,
Rich pumpkin pie, the golden crown of every feast,
And then; their famous dinners regular boiled dish,
Luscious vegetables of every kind then known
Corned beef, mutton, pork, fairly made the tables groan
Piled high on pewter platter three feet by four,
Generous mugs of cider could any ask for more?
Women milked the cows then at eventide and morn, 
Made the butter and the cheese, often hoed the corn,
Scrubbed the floors as white as snow, strowed them o'er
	with sand,
Skipped barefooted o'er the mead, Queen of all the land.
Made hats, bonnets too, cut straw from fields of rye,
Small time for dress parade, in those old days gone by,
Banged hair was then unknown, men only wore the cue,
Plaited ribbon bowed like our modern pigtailed crew,
Fun they had at "raisings", big jolly times, they say,
Men and boys the country round out for one whole day,
Some at "killing bees" hogs slaughtered by the dozens,
Portions sent to neighbors, uncles, aunts and cousins,
Huskings, quiltings, apple bees, work combined with
	sport,
There was where the old folds say, Cupid held his court.
Charming rides in winter time, over snow and sleet,
Wrapped in robes of buffalo, furnace at their feet.
Horses spirited and gay, bells deep merry chime,
Glad hearts beat in unison sweeping on in line,
After supper dance begins, hear the prompter call!
"Scotch reel" or "Money musk," "choose your partners 
all"
Huge pine knots light up the house tallow-dip or whale,
Homeward bound at dawning light, thereby hangs a tale.
Coachman four in hand or six, hero of the day,
Toots his horn, and cracks his whip, all must clear the
	way.
Sixty miles, a wondrous trip; passengers and mail
Shades of Ceaser! who then thought of riding on a rail?
In winter's drifting snows, to clear the road of school, 
Sturdy oxen beat the track, strong hands plied the tools.
Three months of summer, the same in winter taught,
Quite enough of teaching, our old grandparents thought,
The pupils Eden was the spelling match at night,
Crown of all their studies that gave them most delight,
Many there were mated—their legends tell us so!
They married then for love, one hundred years ago!
On oaken settles seated, fronting fires glow,
Toasting apples, cracking nuts, spinning flax or tow,
While their sires repeated deeds of volor done,
Clearing up the wilderness, making Redcoats run.
Rallying days they had—election came in May,

[Column 2]
Trainings,general musters, were all the go they say,
The glorous Fourth was'nt celebrated slow;
Earnest demonstrations made patriotism grow.
Every human creature the oldest to the babe,
Drank its inspiration, helped to swell the grand parade,
Then the cannonading, and. beacon fires glow,
Roused the whole creation, one hundred years ago.
"Our Fathers where are they?" who struggled on for years
Toiling for a country, 'mid blood and sweat and tears,
Sustained the declaration, only fought for right,
For God, for home and freedom, united in their might,
Firmly laid foundation, that liberty might grow,
Smile not now, in thinking their progress very slow
Of their sowing and reaping, sickle scythe, and flail,
While fleeing through the country; riding on a rail
Wondrons things have happened one hundred years now
	gone,
Quarrels and dissensions on Uncle Samuel’s farm.
Now the sheller and the reaper play an active part,
Then neither would been known from Noah's ancient ark,
Lightning speeding messages sent around the globe,
Great countries unknown then now opened and explored.
Steam power perfected and kingdoms overthrown;
Yet one thing is certain the world has not outgrown, 
Since the pair turned from Eden to toil, till and plan;
Old time has never faltered in reproducing man.
Still human nature lives tho' fashions come and go,
Query! has it improved, since one hundred years ago?
Roll down the magic curtain, we'll view the scene apart'
The question is before you; answer from the heart.
	L.M. Hewlings
	Atchinson, Kans.


[Column 1]
SUMMER VACATION

	We are drawing near the summer vacation.
The schools, academies and universities are
about closing, or have already finished the last
semester and have held their graduating ex- 
ercises. The teachers have distributed their
prizes for essays, readings and speeches, and
normal students received their certificates, the
valedictory has been read by some talented
young lady in white, with soft creamy lace
and a flutter of ribbons, and the usual excla-
mation from the young men “how pretty,”
and so forth, and the farewells have been gone
through, some tears shed and a great many
kisses exchanged (among the girls, of course),
with fervent promises to write often. Possibly 
some of these students need a vacation and a
 rest—but there are many others, too, who need
it as much, and it may be more,—people who
need to recruit after long and steady applica-
tion to business. Does any one need change 
and rest more than the mother, the wife, the
one to whom all the household look for every
comfort in the home? And yet how often it
happens that she, self-forgetful, is left to pick
up and put away, to repair and re-arrange,
while other members of the family go pleasur-
ing “over the hills and far away.” Well, so
it is, and so it will be until women think of
their own health and the necessity of econo-
mizing strength, nerve force, and brain power
that they may prolong their own lives, which
is quite as noble as to sacrifice them to the 
selfishness of others.
	But leaving this vexed question of the 
rights of mothers for future discussion we will 
go back to the topic—summer vacation
People of leisure go to the seaside, or into the
mountains, to escape the heat and dust, to rest
weary mind and over wrought brain; to loiter
on the beach and catch the soft, invigorating
sea breeze, occasionally “gathering shells” or

[Column 2]
writing in the sand, humming rhymes and
ballads that have immortalized the seashore
as well as the poet who wrote them perchance
far away from the seashore itself; or, wander
among the hills, resting in shady nooks and
dells, soothed by the songs of birds and often
startled by the glare of some handsome serpent 
and here methinks one might moralize, for
there are a sort of serpents whose charms are
not only poisonous but fatal, who frequent
summer resorts, but we will let that pass now,
and only speak of tired people and their
places of resting, while they breathe in with
summer idleness intoxicating draughts of
heavy fragrance, sweet with all the sweets of
woods and shrubs and flowery perfumes. These
seekers of pleasure, try to forget the toils and 
bustle of the cumbrous, noisy machinery of 
active business life, and often care not even
for the daily papers, but amuse themselves in
various idle ways, as though life had no higher
aim than to banish care. It maybe that to
linger thus in some secluded spot, amid the
beautiful, near nature’s heart, passive if not
forgetful, exhilarates and strengthens the mind
as well as the body for the harder, fiercer con-
flicts wieh which all must sometime contend
unless life be like a smooth,  summer sea with-
out scarce a ripple; but our lines here are not
usually so serene and placid, we wot not what
the future may be, but are happier in believ-
ing that we shall not be weary there in the
“great beyond,’’ that all tears will be wiped
away, that the flowers will bloom forever and
summer will be eternal, and pleasures never
pall, 
	‘‘Here summer hath its heavy cloud,
		The rose leaf must fall, 
	But in that home joy wears no shroud,
		Never doth it pall."
But while we remain in this probation we are
very susceptible to annoyance and excitement
some perhaps more than others,  but all more
or less, and there are many ups and downs,
hard knocks and hurtful wounds, that need
careful and tender treatment, and consequently
we need help, self-help that comes from forces
well developed and thoughts well defined; and
we need to have self control, and to have this
concentrated power, there must be an equil-
librium, a self poise that can only be attained
when all the vast machinery of the human
system works harmoniously; no organ,  no
function must be out of tune, or discord will be
the inevitable result.
	Following this course of reasoning, it must
be true that those who take proper rest and
recreation are best fortified for every emer-
gency and can endure greater strain of mental
and physical power and still maintain a dignity
of balance, a placidity or solidity that those
over-taxed and over-worked are not equal to.
These summer vacations may leave or create
a reserve force for future consumption that is
not supplied to those who keep up an incessant
and continuous labor year after year, wearing 
away the vitality that if frugally used might
prolong life and usefulness. However circum-
stances, control these summer vacations with a
large class of people. Some event transpires
that gives time and opportunity for the relief
nature requires, and thus without planning and
exertion the needed relief or pastime comes.
We call this chance, and yet we cannot but
feel that in the great struggle for mastery right
 ometimes conquers might in unseen ways,


[Column 1]
and the rest so essential to the ardent worker
comes unsought as though some good angel had
his welfare at heart and made the necessary
arrangements.  Sometimes wealth inclines its
fortunate possessor to seclude himself from the
“dear five hundred friends” that throng around
and fawn and smile upon him, and with a
favored few he resorts to some locality where
he is unknown, that he may be for a short time
at least at his ease, and act himself without the
restraints of “polite society,” in the sense that
Madam Grundy applies the term.
	Then another class still must strain every
nerve in order to afford the time to take a run
out of town, to clamber over hills, or sit by the
side of the winding stream to fish a little, mus-
ing meanwhile, and only starting into remem-
brance of the occupation when there is a bite;
working harder for weeks and days beforehand
to get ahead with business, and after returning
to make up for what is termed “lost time.” To
such the pleasure scarce compensates for the
toil, and yet it is after all, a change from the
constant monotony of everyday work.  Happy
are they who have means and opportunities to
spend a few weeks of the dry summer months
in some pleasant manner, that will awaken
latent powers, refresh memory, and develop
greater activity and freshness of body and
mind, thus prolonging life and increasing use-
fulness.  Why should we not make the most
of our life here upon earth?  It is in this wise
if we live nobly, that we will fit ourselves for
the greatest and highest advancement hereafter.
We are told by students of health, hygiene, and
philosophy, that we must take plenty of rest
and out door air as well as exercise, to store
our minds with knowledge and intelligence, for
we all know how incapable of accomplishing
any great good is a person deprived of healthy
activity, with a positive lack of nerve force
and the innate power to overcome difficulties
and to rise superior to misfortunes or unhappy
circumstances.
	Country air is healing, generally speaking,
and the great contrast to city life is so widely
apparent that one soon feels the difference.
The habits of country people, their “sweet
simplicity” and homely ways are so genuine
and natural, that one feels much benefit from
the contact, and an experience in studying
character that develops another phase of
human life, and adds to the stock of information
on a subject which is always interesting. 
	It is said everywhere, and it seems to me by
everybody, that this is a fast age, things move
rapidly and the people seem more in a hurry.
It is the age of new and strange inventions
all of them tending to rapidity, and approach-
ing a greater degree of excellence in attain-
ment to whatever they represent.  Yet though
much of the hard labor once done without
machinery of any kind, can now be accom-
plished by some of these new inventions, and
thus much human strength saved; yet there
seems to be plenty of work for all the workers,
and people seem quite as weary nowadays as
formerly.  It makes one wonder what it all
means.  I suppose there must be just as much
time as there ever was, that is, days are twenty-
four hours long, and every hour contains sixty
minutes, and each minute sixty seconds, but
one can scarcely believe it when this spirit of
hurrying gets possession of him.  There are
to be sure a good many idlers, not those who
need rest, but who live idle lives all the year
around, and perhaps this is one of the reasons
why the diligent laborers have so much more
to do, and can seldom get even a summer
vacation of a week or two.  Idleness is a vice
but not considered a crime, that is, before the
law (and law is gospel in these days, so some
people think), although it often leads to it, but
some people live a long life of idleness at the
expense of faithful industry on the part of
relatives or friends.  Referring to the country
[Column 2]
and summer, inevitably carries me backward
to the merry days when I was a little country
girl, and wandered among the hills gathering
wild-wood flowers, and sang as I rambled,

"Flowers; wild-wood flowers, in a sheltered dell they grew,
I hurried along and I chanced to spy
This small staff flower with a silvery eye,—
Then the blue daisy peeped up its head 
Sweetly the purple orchis spread.”

And so on, and on.  I roamed in the deep
forests like a very wood nymph and thought
like the poet,

	‘‘That Nature hides her very loveliest things
	Deep in the heart of woods." 

And by the ponds I gathered often, I have
since thought at the risk of my life, the water
lilies, pond lilies we children called them, the
same poet quoted above, says:

	"Yes! e’en those lilies, simple as they are,
	And beautiful as well—are quite beyond 
	The reach of careless fingers.  Would one grasp 
	Their od’rous beauty one must wade far out,
	Regardless of the flags and tall rough sedge,
	And ferns, and rushes harsh, that fringe the edge.”

	But I am much afraid my taste for country
pleasures prolongs this article beyond the
patience of the reader, but if he or she be
tired, and over-worked, let him or her take a
summer’s vacation and camp out in the cañons
it will whet the appetite and do more for the
nerves than all the doctors’ medicine.  The
languor of these beautiful summer days really
makes one desire to rest a little, and to in-
dustrious, indefatigable workers, such rest as
one may find among brooks and birds and
mossy rocks and shady dells would be a stimu-
lus more potent and exhilarating than the city
can offer in the way of luxury or recreation. 
	AUNT EM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	A FEW REFLECTIONS.
		
	THE FULFILLMENT OF A PROPHECY.

	Yesterday while reading, Section 130,
Doctrine and Covenants, I felt strongly im-
pressed with the idea that this prophecy was
fulfilled in the year 1890.
	It reads thus: "Joseph my son, if thou livest
until thou art 85 years old, thou shalt see the
face and the Son of Man; therefore let this suf-
fice, and trouble me no more on this matter."
In another verse, "I was left thus without be-
ing able to decide, whether this coming re-
ferred to the beginning of the Millennium or to
some previous appearing, or whether I should
die and thus see His face. I do not think He
will come before that time."
	I should say however, in another previous
verse it reads, "I was once praying very
earnestly to kno the time of the coming of
the Son of Man, when I heard a voice repeat
the following," as written above. This re-
minded me of a text from which I heard a
sermon preached in Utica N. Y. It was this:
	"Surely the Lord God will do nothing but
He revealeth His secret unto His servants the
prophets." He took this text from the Bible
Amos 3rd chap. 7 verse. I feel satisfied how-
ever that this has been, and will be the case
when there are people on the earth who have
this gift. And you know what St. Paul said:
'Seek earnestly the best gifts, but rather that
you prophesy."
	St. John the Revelator tells us that the testi-
mony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy. Ac-
cordingly those who will apply their minds to
the study of those principles, and live in ac-
cordance with the same, with humility of heart
can obtain this precious gift for their own bene-
fit, if no more.

[Column 2]
	I am positive that weak, frail, and as im-
perfect as I am, I have been blessed with a 
foreknowledge of something to my benefit, but
it came in a night vision and not with an
audible voice; and I was left to watch for the
result. It was comforting when it came, and
I felt to say the Lord does hear and answer
prayers today as He did anciently. Did He
not say in the last days He would pour out
His spirit upon all flesh. Then if we do not
obtain those blessings which He has promised
it is our fault, not His. I sometimes think
we are very much like children at school. I
am told that those the most bright and intel-
lectual are not always the best students. They 
think, oh, I can grasp taht intelligence when I
give attention to it, but now wish to do some-
thing else. When the next time arrives they
are not so well prepared to give their minds to
it But the dull student feels the need of this
intelligence and applies his mind and every
energy of his soul to grasp the same, and
asks the aid of his teacher to accomplish it,
because he knows how much he is in need of
the knowledge and appreciates it as he
would gold.
	I believe the Prophet Joseph to be one of
this class, an earnest, faithful student when he
saw the importance of the work; feeling his
own weakness, he sought earnestly the aid of
Divine assistance; and as we are told that God
is a spirit and those who worship Him must
worship in spirit and in truth. Such He de-
lights to bless.
	Joseph Smith was born in 1805, accordingly
he would be 85 in the year 1890. We are
told in Sec. 30 and 3rd verse that the work
of the Lord is never frustrated, but the work 
of man. The fourth verse reads: "For al-
though a man may have revelations and have
the power to do many mighty works, yet if he
boasts in his own strength, and sets at naught
the counsels of God, and follows after the
dictates of his own will, and carnal desires, he
must fall and incur the vengeance of a just
God upon him.
	We learn since this great work of the Dis-
pensation of the fulness of times is going on
that it behooves us all to watch and pray. Not
only so but to study the Scriptures that we may
have oil in our lamps, and not be like the
foolish virgins; I am inclined to believe the
Savior's work is now about to begin with the
blood of Israel the Jews; and it seems that the
year 1890 is to be the commencement of that
portion of the work.
	I remember that Apostle Orson Pratt once
said we were Gentile Saints. If so we must
improve upon that we have learned, and re-
member the Jews are to be saved and do a
work in the last days; and perhaps be more
zealous in the cause than we are today, for we
find ourselves overwhelmed by the cares of
this world many times, that we neglect the im-
portant lesson of "Seek and ye shall find,
knock and it shall be opened unto you."
	May we not become weary in well doing, for
in due time we will reap if we faint not. This
we can learn from Holy writ. But if we become
careless and indifferent in keeping the laws of
our Father, we will certainly lose our reward,
and darkness and confusion take the place of
light and truth.
	Let us therefore watch and pray, lest we
enter into temptation, and lose our reward.
	M.E. KIMBALL.
	Salt Lake City, June 22, 1891.


Love is a method of protracting our greatest
pleasure.—Goldsmith.
	The most distinguished literary woman in 
Rome is the Countess Lovatelli, who lives in 
a palace at St. Angelo,


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WORDS OF CHEER.

TO THE AUTHOR’S ESTEEMED FRIEND MRS. HANNAH
T. KING.﻿
	A Fragment.
’Tis easy sailing in the summer weather,
	Athwart the tranquil wave;
But ’tis the storms of life that show us ever
	The true, the staunch, the brave.

Fate wills it that the sunshine’s warmest lovers—
	But rarely feel its glow,
Yet ’neath affliction’s cloud that o’er them hovers,
	Many in beauty grow.

And never is their courage so surprising,
	Their efforts so supreme—
As when Misfortune’s billows fiercely rising—
	High as the mountains seem.

Their loyalty to truth, their brave persistence;
	Is never sway’d by fear;
So firm their faith in Heav’ns benign assistance
	The faint of heart they cheer.

Hail, dauntless hearts! who ’reft of fairest chances,
	Are never vanquished quite:
Hail, sterling souls! whose steadfast help advances
	The victory of Right.

Oh wherefore are they sorely bruised and tempted,
	These earnest ones and true?
These burthen’d souls, who scorn to be exempted,
	From helping others too?

Beloved and honor’d friend so highly gifted—
	Yet often times distressed;
Rejoice in this, that those who strengthen others
	Must needs in turn be blest.

Life, cannot be a failure, blank and dreary
	To one who joy imparts,
Whose aim, whose pleasure ’tis to help the weary
	And comfort sorrowing herrts.

Not to the soul who glides through this probation
	Will God award a crown?
The noblest spirits rise through tribulation
	To glory and renown.

Was ever pathway thornier and rougher—
	Than that which Jesus trod?
Oh is it strange that those who toil and suffer—
	Are well beloved of God?

“Our Father”, with His children sympathises—
	And bids the angels keep—
A strict account of all our sacrifices;
	“And all who sow will reap."

Nothing is lost, the hardest well-learned lessons—
	Fit compensation bring;
And there’s an endless future bright with blessings
	For Hannah Tapfield King.
	EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.
Salt Lake City.


MEMORIAL DAY

IN REMEMBRANCE OF HANNAH T. KING.

A few of the very particular friends of Mrs.
H. T. "King (deceased) spent a very pleasant
afternoon at the residence of Mrs. Sarah M.
Kimball on Wednesday June 17th. The object
was to observe the day in memory of that
venerable lady, authoress, and poet, who had
contributed so much for the enjoyment of
others. The idea originated with Mrs. Kimball
the hostess, she communicated it to Mrs. Eliza-
beth Howard, and they confered together
cards of invitation were issued to twelve ladies,
and meantime Mrs. Kimball made the neces-
sary preparations. The afternoon was spent
in reminiscences of Mrs. King, the reading of
interesting letters she had written to the ladies
present, poems, fragments of poems, sketches
etc., these with conversation concerning her
life and friendships occupied the time, until
dinner was announced at five p.m. Vases of
beautiful flowers, roses predominating orna-
mented the table and beside each plate an


artistically arranged bouquet of the choicest
and most fragrant blossoms and leaves, a
double card tied with white ribbon with the
name of the lady on the outer card and open-
ing underneath was a motto to Mrs. King and
a verse from one of the Psalms for each per-
son. Mrs. Kimball made this a sort of tri-
bute, to Mrs. King’s memory as she was
specially fond of the Psalms. Mrs Kimball
opened- the Bible for each of the ladies and
wrote the verse on which her eye rested.
	After the dinner, which was a sumptuous
one with ice cream and strawberries for desert
by request of the hostess each lady read her
card and each one seemed to feel she had an
appropriate verse. Then Mrs. Kimball taking
the lead the ladies rose, and before leaving the
table each in turn made a little speech allud-
ing to their association with the one in whose
honor they had met together, and it was, de-
cided to meet again next year at the home of
one of the ladies present.
	After dinner conversation upon the same
subjects was continued and other literary
papers of Mrs. King’s were read, it was a very
enjoyable and exceptionally agreeable party,
and the ladies were very grateful to Mrs. Kim-
ball for her unique tribute to the memory of
one so dear to them all. It was a day never
to be forgotten by those present.
	The names of those who responded to the
invitation were Mesdames -Louisa Spencer,
(Mrs. King’s daughter), M. Isabella Horne,
Elizabeth Howard, Fewson Smith, Elizabeth
Mc’Farlane, Alice Weinel, Emily H. Wood-
mansee and Emmeline B Wells.
	E. B. W.


LETTER FROM MISS ANTHONY.

	Rochester, New York, June 12th 1891.
MY DEAR MRS. COLBY:

	Enclosed is report of our house-warming
last evening. I reached home the night be-
fore, to find lovely new rugs on the floors and
new paint and paper on the walls. My sister
has been in the midst of repairs of the old
home the past two months and more; and when
the masons, carpenters, painters, haugers, etc., 
were done with their part, she placed the few
nice old bits in my rooms, and Mrs. Greenleaf,
Mrs. L. C. Smith and other friends, placed
carpets, chairs, etc., which with dear Rachel’s
nice old oak bed-room set, and my elegant,
great writing desk, and Mrs. Sewall’s splendid
chair, make our rooms look cosy and home-
like once more. Since the death of our dear
mother, eleven years ago, my sister has not
kept house, but only kept her upper floor,
renting the first one, and taking her meals
with the renters. But now we have the entire
house all to ourselves and our friends who
come to see us. Next week to the Adiron-
dacks with the Rev. Anna Shaw, to visit a
few days with Mr. and Mrs. George W.
Banker, in their summer home. After June
25th I shall be at home with and to myself and
friends until the time to go to Washington; and
then, no Riggs House with dear Mrs. Spofford
in it, but we shall have a home with her, I
trust nevertheless. I wish I could tell you of
my journeyings. I had a pleasant visit with
Mrs. Hooker in her dear old home in Hart-
ford; a nice time in Brookline with the Garri-
sons, the week of the Boston Anniversaries
which seemed to have resolved themselves into
those of the liberal religious and reform
societies; Unitarian, Universalist, Free Re-
ligious, Heredity, Moral Education, Nationalist,
Woman Suffrage etc. En route home, I spent
a few days with Mr. and Mrs. William Whit-
ing in their beautiful home in Holyoke. One
day was devoted to a luncheon party of a
hundred or more ladies in their farm log cabin!
[Column 2]
three miles down the river. The Connecticut
valley is lovely, and their log cabin! with ex-
quisite fire-place, worthy the grandest old back-
log and fore-stick, beautiful polished floors,
and the lunch served by a Springfield caterer
in most approved modern style, not that of our
dear old Grandmother’s. After the tables
were cleared, Mrs. Whiting called on me for
a talk, which I proceeded to give them for
another hour, of which Mrs. Whiting writes
me the enclosed! The other day was spent in
driving up the lovely valley six miles to Mount
Holyoke Seminary, going through the various
buildings, seeing the girls, over two hundred
of them, and in the great old kitchen looking
upon neat plateaus of beautiful light sweet-
smelling bread, biscuits, and cake, all made by
the girls during the morning. Two hundred
dollars gives a girl all the advantages of this
school, and each one must do a certain amount
of the work of the house. Now the coarser
and heavier parts of it are done by hired wo-
men, but still there is plenty for them to do;
making the beds, sweeping the rooms, ironing
their own clothes, setting and serving the
tables, washing the dishes, etc, and all is done
in the memory of the sainted Mary Lyon,
whose monument stands under the grand old
trees that surround the buildings.
	Then on Sunday I went to Cheshire, to dine
with my mother’s dear cousin, Mrs. Anna
Jenks Richardson, 95 years of age, bright and
cheerful in her on-look. She and her husband.
Ira Richardson, and my grandfather Read,
were Universalists in the long ago when it cost
much more not to believe in eternal torment
than it does Brother Briggs now. Then I
hied me to the house of my grandfather
Anthony, who lived in it from the day of his
marriage with Hannah Lapham in 1792, to
his death at the age of ninety-six years. There
I met the two youngest brothers of my father
seventy-three and eighty-three; thence with
my cousins, I drove to Bowen’s Corners, on
one of which, my father and mother built their
house the year they were married, where their
three older girls and eldest son D. H. were
born. Old Graylock Mountain rears its head
on the West and Green Mountain chain for-
tifies the East, while Hoosick River winds its
way northward to the Hudson, with factories
of all sorts lining its banks. The scenery is
more beautiful than I can describe, and now
clothed in its June dress, it is simply lovely!
	Accompanied by my cousins, I spent Monday
morning in going over the immense print
works of Arnold and Company, in North
Adams, and such things of beauty of all pos-
sible colors and figures as they bring forth
from the plain unbleached muslin are simply
miraculous. The next day I spent driving up
the Battenkille, on which are the towns of
Battenville and Center Falls, where we lived
from 1827 to 1845. There I went through
from garret to cellar the two very old houses
in which we lived and enjoyed, and the new
large brick house that my father built in
Battenville, in 1832, the large old school-room
over the wood-shed, in which we, and our
neighbor’s children were taught by the best of
teachers those days afforded. Well I lived
over the olden times, though but very few of
the older people were there. On that evening
went to Saratoga Springs, and took a drink
from the Old Congress Spring, and on Wednes-
day evening reached home at 9:30 and on
Thursday evening the paper tells you what
happened, and now I am enjoying all the
good will of all my dear friends of today.
Lovingly yours,
Ex.	SUSAN B. ANTHONY.


There are 402 women studying in the Swiss
universities.
	Mrs. May Wright Sewall sailed for France
June 13, with Mr. Sewall.


Woman's Exponent

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
gne copy one year, $1.00, one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	Exponent office, No. 25 E. South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
			SALT LALT CITY UTAH.

Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake Cily Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	July 1, 1891.


NOTICE TO AGENTS.

	The subscribers and agents of the EXPONENT
in the several localities will please notice that it
is time to renew subscriptions and to pay up
arrears, and we hope and trust that there will be
a special interest taken in the paper because of
its being the official organ of the Relief Society,
and also as it is the only publication in Utah that
keeps posted on the Woman Suffrage question,
and that takes pains to publish for the Primary
Associations. The WOMAN'S EXPONENT has an
established reputation outside among the wo-
men's papers, and has been the means of adver-
tising the status of the women of Utah more
than any other periodical. This is not an asser-
tion without proof. It is placed on the list of ex-
changes of prominent papers in England as well
as America, and in its columns the women of
Zion have an opportunity to express ther ideas to
the world. The value of a publication of this
kind can hardly be over-estimated, and the sisters
should be alive to the importance of this matter
and increase their efforts to enlarge the circulation
and make it more attractive in appearance which
cannot be done without money. If the exertion
were made generally this could be accomplished
successfully. Will each agent try what can be
done in her particular locality to secure more
subscribers; $1.00 a year is very little to give to-
wards supporting a literary enterprise. Send in
your lists as early as possible, with the money, do
not delay.


[Column One]
SIGNIFICANCE OF THE TIMES.

	Wherever the ballot has been given to woman, 
whether for special purposes or equal suffrage, the
best results possible have been obtained, and 
opponents to woman suffrage are unable to point
out disastrous consequences, because of woman’s
vote. It is without doubt a time in the history of 
nations, when woman’s voice, her influence and 
power is absolutely necessary, to accomplish the 
grand achievements and reformations, morally and 
politically that are on the tapis. The time is fast 
approaching when men will find woman’s help
necessary and they will undoubtedly ask for it,
and then let woman be prepared to maintain the
position, and advantages that will be offered un-
derstandingly. So far all along the way of pro-
gress she has had to contend for her just rights,
and demand recognition, but it will not always be 
so; men will see that it will be for their own good
and the uplifting of humanity to acknowledge
woman’s equality, and even already they are 
slowly awaking to this supreme fact, and eventu-
ally they will reach out the “olive branch of
peace,” to woman and whenever this transpires, 
as it surely will, we trust woman’s intuition will
lead her to accept gracefully the proffered favor,
[Column 2]
even though she may think it only her rightful
heritage.
	The sleep that has fallen upon the race, women 
as well as men, has been so deep and ab-
sorbing that they only awaken as from a night-
mare, alarmed at the growth of ideas and it will 
take time to bring them out of the stupor back
to their primeval condition. Some have awakened 
early in the morning of these changes, and these
are the pioneer workers men and women bringing
to pass the revolution in politics and morality,
that is to redeem society from the evils under
which it has been laboring so long. 
	Co-operation will be essential, the united and
organized effort of both men and women. This
will be the lever that will move the great ob-
stacles out of the pathway of legitimate progress
in all that will tend to the advancement of the
state or the nation and the purification of the
home, and of society. Men and women do their
best work together, for as the Scriptures tell us
“Man is not without the woman nor the woman
without the man in the Lord.” Neither can one
do any important work without the other, the 
physical and the spiritual forces must both har-
monize and be properly adjusted, if any great
struggle is on hand.
	Our readers will remember in this connection 
the story of the deliverance of Israel by Borak
when he refused to go to battle without Deborah
and said unto her “If thou wilt go with me, then I
will go; but if thou wilt not go with me, then I
will not go.”
	‘‘And Deborah went up with him.” All who
read the Bible know the result of this enterprise
and how they praised the Lord in song afterwards
and it was called “the song of Deborah and
Barak.”
	It is true the argument is brought forward that
this was an exceptional case, and that Barak was 
a coward to want a woman to go up with him to 
battle, but she prophesied unto him nevertheless,
and the Lord inspired her to do this great work;
in the 7th, verse of the 5th chapter of Judges it
reads “The inhabitants of the villages ceased,
they ceased in Israel, until that I Deborah arose
that I arose a mother in Israel.”
	Who does not know at a later time the history 
of Joan of Arc?
	And yet men in this nineteenth century bring 
up the paltry plea against woman suffrage, that
they are the protectors of women.
	In thousands of instances men need women to
protect them, and prevent them from committing
grievous wrongs?
	It is the restraining influence from evil that
women possess that protects men and it is an ele-
ment that is needful in political as well as
social life. It is not necessary to go into details to 
prove this fact, the proofs are all around if one is
not blind to see.
	As to the significance of the times when in
twenty-six states of this union women are allowed
to vote on some questions, and almost every day
brings news of some victory for woman in the 
direction of progress, what may not be expected
and what will be the ultimatim? It will be
equality before the law, and that will bring about 
many radical changes for the better, and woman’s
place will be by the side of man, his counselor,
his helpmeet, his companion, as much in the
political as in the social world.
	The day is hastening on, and although the
women of Utah may deem the time afar off be-
cause of the peculiar conditions existing here,
yet in the time when “a nation shall be born in a
day” what may not transpire in other respects?
There is something important expected of woman
in this day, or she would not have wakened to
the conflict and felt the need of pushing forward
to the issue, as it is manifest she has done. So
we conclude there is special work for women, and
their best efforts must be brought into exercise to
[Column 3]
accomplish it. This spirit to educate the masses
to the idea that a few have received, as it were by
revelation, is fast gaining ground; slowly and 
surely the seed is being sown and the harvest
will be a surprise to those of little faith.
	Meantime women should work diligently, and
silently if necessary, to prepare themselves for
the issues at hand whether local or national, and
seek to comprehend the great questions that are
agitating the political world. Many women are 
ignorant of the simplest laws relating to their own 
individual rights and the rights of property.
Somebody brings them a paper to sign asks them
for their signature, and even without reading the
article or agreement and regardless of the conse-
quences the pen is taken and the name written,
when perhaps by simply witholding the signature,
the most serious consequences might have been 
averted.
	This is not an idle tale but a stern reality, a 
stubborn fact. Women do not look into these
matters as they should, the writer knows of an 
instance where the husband and father of a family
when on “a drunken spree” sold the cow one day
and the next day the home; the wife was sitting
milking the cow when the man who had bought
her came to take her away and she was utterly 
powerless to prevent it; the next day, men came 
to tell her that she must leave the house, they 
had bought and paid for it, she remonstrated, but
to no purpose, and before that man (husband and 
father) had come to his senses again, the wife and 
children were homeless; in the state where this 
circumstance transpired the law has been materi-
ally changed through the intercession and peti-
tioning of woman suffragists. And yet with
these facts staring them in the face, women will
say, they do not want the ballot, they are willing
to leave such matters in the hands of men.
Whenever we hear women reason thus, we know
that they are ignorant of the conditions of women
at home and abroad; such women should be edu-
cated if possible in that which pertains to the
social and moral well-being of womankind, and
they would then see the actual necessity that
exists for woman’s help in the great stride that is
being made to advance in the scale of human 
progression.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The Relief Society  Conference of Weber
Stake was held in the Tabernacle in Ogden City
on Thursday, June 18, Pres. Jane S. Richards
presiding. Apostle F. D. Richards was present
and addressed the meeting in a very interesting
manner.
	The news from Canada of a little son born to
Mrs. Zina Y. Card on the 9th of June will be very
gratifying to the relatives and friends of her
mother Pres. Zina D. H. Young, who left here on 
the 13th of May last, to visit her daughter in her
Northern home. Mrs. Young arrived there on
the 19th of May, she will very likely spend the
summer months in that delightful climate, and re-
turn home in time to make some visits to organi-
zations outside Salt Lake, who are looking for-
ward to her coming previous to the October Con-
ference. Meantime the sisters everywhere will
be glad to know that she is well, and sends her
love and blessing to them all.
	On Monday afternoon June 15th, the Relief
Society of the 16th Ward of this city held its
annual meeting in the Ward meeting house, Mrs.
Diana Reid presiding. There were present as 
visitors, Mrs. M. I. Horne, Mrs. B. W. Smith,
Mrs Jane S. Richards and the writer,also Bishop
Kesler. Brief remarks were made by each of the
visitors, the President Mrs. Reid, and others
upon subjects of special interest to the Society
and after the close of the meeting the officers and


[Column 1]

﻿their visitors repaired to the residence of the Presi-
dent, where they found preparations for supper—
the tables profusely decorated with lovely flowers
and the large dishes of cherries and strawberries
added to the fine appearance of the tables and the
fragrance of the feast of good things. It was
a happy occasion and one long to be remembered
from the interchange of thoughts and senti-
ments.
	The Western Association of writers have sent
us a very polite invitation to be present and par-
ticipate in the literary and social enjoyments of 
their Sixth Annual meeting to be held at Warsaw,
Ind. At this meeting a large number of important
questions are to be discussed by some of the
ablest scholars and thinkers in the country. A
choice miscellany, literary, musical and elocu-
tionary will add to the interest of the occasion
supplemented by numerous pleasure excursions,
boating, sailing etc. The Convention will be
held at Warsaw, Ind., with a Reception at Eagle
Lake Hotel on Monday evening July 6th, and
close with a Banquet on Friday evening July l0th.
Daily sessions will be held at the Tabernacle, 
Spring Fountain Park, with one day’s session in
the Pavilion at Lakeside Park. Each afternoon
will be devoted to rest and recreation and it will
doubtless be a delightful week at this summer
gathering, and for "literary fellowship.” 
	The Agricultural College established at Logan
is in a flourishing condition, and especially so
considering the short time it has been in active
operation. It is as stated in the Annual,"an edu-
cational departure,’’and what would formerly have
been considered an absurdity to actually teach
farming as a science but it has come to this.
"First and prominently it will teach such branches
of learning as relate to agriculture and the
mechanic arts.” Fancy some of the old farmers in
New England a century ago being told how to
farm from books or newspapers? How indignant
they would have been and yet it has come to pass.
It is the fashion, the custom of the day in fact, the
world has come to this understanding of doing
things in order and in the season thereof. There
is much interesting reading matter in the Annual,
and we noticed with much satisfaction the follow-
ing clause, "The young women of the Territory
attending the College will be put on an equal
footing with the young men for obtaining a special
education for their sphere of life.” Judging from
the pamphlet issued for 1891 and 1892, it would
seem that the look out for the future is hopeful
and its success pretty well assured. It is certainly
a great blessing to have a college for agricultural
purposes and pursuits in a Territory depending
so much upon the tilling of the soil for the sus-
tenance of life.
	Tuesday, June 16th, the Relief Society of the
22nd Ward held an annual meeting, the second
since the organization, in the new and handsome 
Ward meeting house, to which the Relief Society
has contributed generously. Mrs. Rachel Whipple
presided; she was formerly President of the 19th
Ward, which included both wards now known as
19th and 22nd, but as population increased and
spread out over a wider district of country, it be-
came necessary to divide into two wards. The
house is very handsomely finished inside as well
as out and at this meeting the sisters had brought,
several handsome bouquets of flowers, that al-
ways add to the attractiveness of any assembly
or gathering. Mrs. M. I. Horne, Mrs. B. W. Smith, Mrs. E. Stevenson and the writer were
visitors on this occasion, and each made a short
speech, dwelling upon the significance of the
times and the position of woman, the training of
children, and the need of faith and a testimony of
the Latterday work.  After the meeting there was
a sort of banquet at the residence of Mrs. M. L.
Nebeker one of Mrs. Whipple’s Counselors,where
all the active members of the Society were in-

[Column 2]
vited as also the visitors. The tables were loaded
with good things and fruits and flowers in abun-
dance added to the enjoyment, of the repast. At
Mrs. Nebeker’s we found Mrs. H. D. Brinton
and Mrs. Lorena Nebeker old friends of former
times, who are both now very feeble, but in good
spirits and rejoicing in the Gospel. These
reunions are productive of good feeling,and often
bring together those who seldom meet except on
such rare occasions, because of the busy life of
women nowadays, and various duties that occupy
their time and attention to the exclusion of social
entertainments.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

﻿OLD FOLKS’ RED LETTER DAY.
          
	The Rio Grande Western Railway with their
usual generosity gave free transportation to the
Old Folks to and from Springville for the annual
“outing,” and early Thursday morning June 18,
fourteen coaches and a baggage car decked with
the stars and stripes left the Denver depot en-
route for their destination. At the stations south
as far as Draper aged people were taken on the
train. The run to Springville was very smooth,
and a happier company was seldom if ever seen,
than were on board that train. The Committee
were kind and assiduous in their attentions to all
and the “Old Folks’ Choir," sung in each car for
the entertainment of the veterans, “The Con-
tinental Railway.” 
When the train reached Springville there was
a most inspiring sight greeted these aged people;
the crowds of happy faces both of children and
grown people with cheers of welcome, and the
Springville band playing national airs to welcome
and honor their aged visitors. The walk to the
grove was strewn with new mown hay, a most 
delightful aroma, and there was an archway at
the entrance, decorated with bunting and ever-
greens with the words “Veterans Welcome.” On
thp right of the path were the young men and
maidens in line, dressed for the occasion with red
white and blue turbans the same color of rosettes
or floating ribbons on the right arm, they made
quite a pretty showing and behind them were the
tables tastefully laid out and ornamented with
flowers, in rich profusion, fairly “groaning with
the weight of the feast.”
 Packard’s Grove where the company assembled
is a delightful place, beautifully shaded with the
soft graceful foliage of the tall and handsome
trees, and everything had been made ready for
the comfort and convenience of the assembly. A
stand with a large and commodious platform and
seats, sufficient for the purpose, where very soon
Presidents Wilford Woodruff and George Q.
Cannon, Bishop W. B. Preston, Presidents
Jacob Gates and George Reynolds of the Seven-
ties, and Presidents Angus M. Cannon, Joseph E.
Taylor, and Charles W. Penrose of the Salt Lake
Stake, also Pres. A. O. Smoot of the Utah Stake
and Bishop Packard of Springville with quite a
number of ladies, committee, choir, and reporters
were seated. The stand was draped with the
stars and stripes and streamers floating in the
breeze. There were hanging around mottoes of
the differents states with the date of their admis-
sion into the union.
	The exercises, conducted by Don C. Johnson
begun with patriotic music by the band, after
which the Springville choir sang,
SPRINGVILLE'S SONG OF WELCOME 

To the Veterans Visiting us June 18th, 1891.

	Tune—“Mandor.”
Vet’rans here we gladly greet you,
Welcome to our lovely town, 
We will try to entertain you  
With the very best we own.

You deserve consideration,
We make no partition w'all,

[Column 2]

And we wish on this occasion
Pure goodwill to show to all.
 
Gratefully we all remember 
  Honors that to you we owe,
You have passed the life’s December
 And our love we wish to show.

We would so reveal affection,
 While you stay with us today,
That from mutual recollection
It may never fade away.
 
When our mortal lives are ended, 
 When we pass to other spheres,
May our pleasure be extended
 Through unending happy years.
	WILLIAM CLEGG.
Prayer was offered by the chaplain, Bishop  
Packard.
	Hon. F. C. Boyer delivered an address of wel-
come; in which he praised the originators of the
movement and congratulated the visitors on the 
great harmony that existed even though there
were differences of views and opinions among 
them. He also read a welcome in verse written
by Lucretia H. Mower an aged lady of Spring-
ville.
	Pres. Geo.Q. Cannon who was called upon to re-
spond to the address of welcome, in the course of 
his remarks said that the honor paid to old age 
was a test of the civilization of a people an evi-
dence of their advancement. Expressed his 
pleasure in seeing religious and political differ-
ences banished for the time and all meeting as 
members of the great human family. Thought it
would indeed be a red letter day to the people of
Springville as well as the Old Folks, invoked
upon the assembly the blessing of heaven. 
Mrs. Lillie Boyer Gleason sang “Bring Back
the Old Folks,” she has a fine voice and excellent 
expression, her singing was very sweet and en-
joyable. The following address was then de-
livered by Mrs. Geo. E. Andersen, the lady has 
a full clear voice and forcible in tone and man
ner.
THE OLD FOLKS
	What memories cluster around this hallowed
name; the names of parents now with  us and
those departed to a better land ! They always
have the warmest corner in our hearts, the holiest
shrine in our memories.
	Our old folks, whom we honor today, from the
septuagenarian to those hoary locks crowned
with the star of a hundred years, where else upon
the broad earth can such a sight be witnessed?
Veterans from every clime,patriots from all lands,
here seated beneath the cool shade of Utah’s 
verdure, swept by the vivifying breezes from 
Utah’s grand mountains, bending above us the 
bluest of blue skies. Here co-mingling with each
other, is seen the type of many nationalities; the
sturdy Briton, who first saw the blue Albion vales 
the land of Shakespeare, Hampden and Crom-
well, coursing in their veins is the blood of the
Plantagenets, they have brought to our glorious 
America, and infused into our blood, that liberty
loving spirit so prevalent in the breasts of loyal
Americans. Some present here today first
breathed the air in bonnie Scotland, the land of
Scott, Livingstone and Burns, the home of the
blue bell and heather. Natives of Scandinavia
swell the ranks of our Old Folks’ party today,
the freedom loving spirit of the old Norsemen
burning in their veins; Denmark’s low sea girt
isle furnishes of her sons and daughters to make
up the numbers of our Old Folks’ jubilee. The
sons from the “ould sod” swell our numbers in
honor of this jubilee.
	Sunny France, classic Italy, romantic Spain
and many other nationalities are represented by
the Silver Grey veterans before us, honored
by all. We feel proud to do you honor; we look
to you as pioneers of human progress; it was


[Column 1]

﻿that spirit of liberty that brought you to our shores;
you have been upon the borders of civilization
most of your lives; to your efforts we owe our
grand mountain home; to you is due the credit
for the homes we enjoy. You who are crowned
with the star of a hundred years are almost as
old as that glorious flag which waves over our
heads. Today many of you can remember when
but thirteen stars graced its tri-colored folds, but
now it bears proudly forty-four stars, each repre-
senting a sovereign State; her colors stream
proudly in every clime, it is respected by all
nations; from Alaska’s ice bound shores to the
southern land of flowers it waves majestically
over a people free, independent and progressive.
Upon every sea it waves a token of free men, free
women and free institutions. From the Arctic
sea to the land of the southern cross, America’s
shipping, displays the Stars and Stripes. It is
flung free to every breeze and is emblazoned upon 
the crest of every surging billow. All of you are
older than the railway train which moves like a
rolling palace on its steel causeway, bringing you
in luxuriant comfort and ease to us today. All
of you have seen the old crooked snath, with its
two nibs and five fingers, give  place to that
chariot of progress, the mowing machine. In
your time the old hand loom has yielded to the
power fabricators of modern science, the flail and
threshing floor of scriptural times to the grand
steps of modern improvement. You have seen the
birch canoe and flat boat fade before the head-
light of the steamboat. In your day the Indian
trail and old emigrant road have been obliterated
by the railway track; the grassy plains for 2000
miles are transformed into fields and orchards,
cities and towns; and to you we give thanks for
these changes. May the residue of your lives be
one continual jubilee, and such a jubilee as only
your descendants know how to give. And when
you make your exit behind the curtain which
separates us from our veteran fathers and mothers
who have gone before, tell them of us and our
work, and determination to walk in the paths of
honor, truth and patriotism which they marked
out for us,—that when we have arrived at the
silver period of our existence we may be counted
worthy to be numbered with the Old Folks.
	The Old Folks, our Old Folks-dear
	We greet you all with kindly cheer,
	Our vales and mountains honor thee;
	To your grey hairs we bow the knee
	The only sovereigns to whom we bow
	We render willingly homage now,
	To Old Folks all we vote three cheers,
	And the honored crown of a hundred years.
			P. C. J.
	Music by the brass band followed the address
and Elder George Goddard made one of his
characteristic speeches and presented the oldest
veteran present, Father J. B. Lewis of this City,
aged 95, who was given three cheers by the as-
sembly. Mrs. Agnes Olsen Thomas rendered in
her own sweet way “The Old Folks at Home,”
she always charms with her melodious strains.
Dinner was next announced, and a sumptuous
banquet it was indeed; the good people of Spring-
ville were most generous in their hospitality, and
there seemed no lack of variety or abundance.
The handsome young people who served the
company were specially attentive and under the
delightful shade of the waving boughs, it was a
picture for an artist. The clouds rolled up and
thunder was heard in the distance and a soft
gentle rain began to fall, but it soon passed over
and the sun shone out again.
	After returning to the grove the band played
some lively airs and Moses Johnson recited a
humorous selection “The Old Tiner.” Elder W.
C. Dunbar whose singing always pleases every-
body,rendered the song written expressly for the
occasion by Elder Henry W. Naisbett, the choir
joining in the chorus:

[Column 2]

	For many a year now passed away,
		We've had this glorious treat.
	To spend with friends a summer’s day
		And glad each other meet!
	From quiet homes, not often left
		Because of weary years,
	By car or team and reil, so kept,
		That smiles oft turn to tears!
				CHORUS.
	Here's three-score ten and four-score years,
		Beyond this, quite a few,
	Who all enjoy their annual out,
		And thank their friends so true!

	We've Governors had and Judges too,
		As year by year hath fled;
	The Utah Centeral, U. P. now,
		in this good work long led;
	To-day upon the Rio Grande
		We take this looked-for spin;
	God bless this fresh and liberal hand,
		Which thus our hearts could win!–[Chorus; 
	Our Committee have toiled and tried,
		In every needed way
	To make our long or shorter ride,
		A grand high holiday!
	Their faces and their voices speak.
		In sympathetic tone.
	They're brethren, sisters for they seek
		The aged and the lone!—[Chorus.

	Then presents we have had, galore,
		From many a thoughtful hand,
	Who vied in giving, more and more
		Than Old Folks e’en could stand,
	Without a heartfelt prayer to God
		That such may e’er be blest
	With plenty on the earth's green sod,
		And then with Heaven’s own rest.—[Chorus.

	Since first the Old Folks found good friends,
		To give their time and means,
	'Tis deemed that neighbor love extends,
		Which everywhere redeems!
	And many a tired and patient soul
		Who at the first came out,
	Has reached the other shore, the goal
		With glad triumphant shout!—[Chorus

	We’re passing on with stumbling feet,
		Our ranks are breaking down. 
	New faces—badges hence will greet
		And wear the Old Folks’crown.
	They’ll have their friends, as we have had,
		While soul in Utah stirs;
	Her towns in rivalry make glad,
		These special guests of hers!

	Song hath its charm, and oft our choir  
		Have sung the old songs o'er;
	Now we can catch the same true fire,
		And join as ne'er before;
	God bless each one who lends a hand,
		To make this well known day.
	And when they’re old; may thousands stand
		With welcome and hurrahl—[Chorus.

	Brother Goddard and the Old Folks’ choir sang
“Hard Times,” and Bishop W. B. Preston ad-
dressed the old folks in a particularly happy man-
ner. The committee distributed some gifts, with
which they are always well supplied on such oc-
casions by the liberality of the public, to the aged
people of Springville. Brother C. R. Savage
held up a band-box and called out for an old
lady who had not had a new bonnot for ten years
but did not find one, then for five years etc., and
then for one who had to wash for her living, and
no one replied, so he presented the bonnet to the
old lady who had composed the poem that was
read in the morning— Lucretia H. Mower. Philo
Dibble, aged 85 well known in Mormon history
from having been shot through the body in the
times of the early persecutions of the Church,
was given a nice arm chair, also Sarah Parrish,
80; Matilda Streeper, 87; Hannah Shepherd, 78;
these were all invalids, and Anna E. Harper, 75;
dress patterns, fancy baskets with contents, china
ware, gloves, and collars, were given to other old
ladies of Springville; and canes, slippers, etc., to

[Column 3]

the gentlemen: Hannah M. Dibble, 82; James
M. Peirce, 77; Neman Bulkley, 74; Andrew
Larsen, 73; Eliza A. Mendenhall, 81; Hailey P
Averett, 76; Noah Packard, 80; Polly P. Childs, 
76; Orson Hulett, 76; Tobias Dallen, 85; Abram
Taylor, 73; Hannah Harrison, 73; James Wis-
combe, 76; Ann Bramall, 70; Charles Avery, 72;
Mary Ann Rayland, 82; Eliza Devenish, 72;
Agustus Cox, 74; Ann D. Bringhurst, 70; Lausen
Roundy, 73; Mary Snelson, 73; Mary A. Doug-
lass, 78; Rachel Spafford, 85; Martha Stephen-
son, 77; William Cranmer, 77; Jeduthan Averett,
75; Jacob McCurdy, 73; Eliza Deal, 75; Lucretia
H. Mower, 72; Benjamin W. Brindle, 73; Sarah
Brindle, 70; Mary A. Herbert, 73; Jacob Houtz,
76; Wm. Mendenhall, 76; Sarah L. Mendenhall
73; Harriet Kindred, 74; Wm. Giles, 70; Ann
Giles, 70; Margaret Parrish, 82; Cyrus Sanford,
76; Richard Bird, 70; Catherine Boyer, 74;
Edward Pentington, 71; Elizabeth Whiting, 77;
James Chadwick, 81; Cerina Johnson, 70; Hila
Nelson, 74; Joseph Allen, 73; Mary Ann Full-
mer, 75; Solomon Johnson, 74; Caroline John-
son, 71; Shephard Hutchings, 73; John Hatfield,
72; Jane James, 76; Hyrum W. Clark, 72. The
announcement was made by the Committee, that
the presents would be given to the aged people on
the train as they were returning home.
	President Wilford Woodruff spoke a short time,
he stated that in all his extensive travels he had never seen an assembly that impressed him so
forcibly and pleasantly, or made him feel better
than this assembly. He felt thankful that we
were alive and had been strengthened to endure
the vicissitudes through which we had passed,
and had been able to redeem this desert land, and
make it blossom as the rose.
	Pres. Woodruff spoke with reverential feeling
of the aged veterans and felt to appreciate the re-
spect shown to the Old Folks by the citizens of
Springville. The President is himself 84 years
of age, and so well preserved, that he shows none
of the signs of old age, either in his appearance,
his voice, or his walk, he walks as erect and firm
as a young man. There are few men in the world
at his age could speak as well, in fact there are
very few young men that can be heard so clearly
and distinctly in the large tabernacle, or in an
outdoor meeting as he can.
	Elder W. C. Dunbar amused the assembly very
much by playing his Scotch bag pipes. Brother
Goddard who has a remarkably clear voice for his
age sang “Maggie’s by my Side.” Elder C. R.
Savage spoke in his usual happy style, thanking
the Springville people and calling the place, the
Old Folks’ banner town, he thought the reception
surpassed any heretofore accorded the old folks.
The benediction was pronounced by Bishop
Packard, of Springville and the company began
to disperse, many going to the cars; others im-
proving the opportunity in conversing with old
friends, etc. The committee who had charge of
the affair at Springville were Nephi Packard, H.
M. Dougall, Don, C. Johnson, L.D. Franton and
F.C. Boyer.
	Elder Jacob Gates, now senior President of the
Seventies,stated that it was the anniversary of his
baptism into the Church, fifty-seven years before,
at St. Johnsbury, Caledonia Co., VL, by Elder
Orson Pratt, and that he was confirmed on the
same day by Orson Pratt and Zerubbabel Snow,
better known as Judge Snow. Brother Gates is
now over 80, hale and hearty, traveling and
preaching among the seventies, most of his
time.
	On the trip homeward there was more singing
by the Old Folks’ choir, more lemonade cakes,
candies, and oranges distributed, and suitable
presents given to all the Salt Lake Co., old folks,
and every one seemed pleased and satisfied with the
day;nothing having occurred to mar the enjoyment
of the happy occasion. The management of the
train was perfect, and the coaches were the finest


the old folks have ever had. The officials of the
Denver and Rio Grande Western Railway de-
serve special praise for their generosity, con-
sideration and attention. The Committee con-
sisting of Presiding Bishop Preston, Elders
Geo. Goddard, C. R. Savage, Wm. Eddington,
Wm. Naylor, W. L. Binder, John Kirkman and
Bishop Nelson A. Empey did everything possible
for the old folks and watched over them constantly
with tenderness and untiring vigilance.
	There were about nine hundred people on the
train, of these there were of those from 70- to 80-
235 men and 280 women, total 515; from 80 to 90,
42 men and 33 women, total 75; from 90 to 95,
there were four men and no women making in all
a total of 594; this does not include those in
Springville or Utah Co. Altogether it is a very
pleasant thing to be able once or twice a year to
bring together so many of those whose lives are
more or less lonely and monotonous; the care
and the happiness, of those who are descending
the hill of life ought to be considered, and this is
a beautiful custom inaugurated by this committee;
Brother Savage was the good angel who first
originated the idea which has been so well de-
veloped and perpetuated and has resulted in so
much enjoyment for this class of citizens for the
last sixteen years. All honor to the old folks and
to those who contribute to their happiness.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


AN INTERESTING PARTY.

	Thursday evening June 4, a very pleasant
party of ladies and gentlemen gathered at the
hospitable residence of Mr. and Mrs. J. W.
Eardley.  The affair was in the hands of a
committee who must have been very efficient
to make it such a complete success.  The en-
tertainment was of a most interesting character
throughout; refreshments of various kinds of
delicacies were tastefully served; conversation
brilliant and humorous; and later on vaired by
music and recitations; the singing of Mrs. Lizzie
Felt awakened tenderest emotions, her voice is
rich, clear and sympathetic.  Mrs.  Susie
Talmage recited "Only a Girl" most feelingly,
she has a sweet voice and pleasing address.
Mrs. Nellie Colebrook well and favorably
known on the Salt Lake stage, gave some
charming renditions of favorite poems, show-
ing well her dramatic power.  Brief speeches
on the present political situation etc., were
made by Apostle John W. Taylor, Counselor
Joseph E. Taylor, Elder B. H. Roberts and
Dr. C. F. Wilcox.  Altogether it was a charm-
ing entertainment and a credit to the Com-
mittee, of whom we believe Dr.  Maggie C.
Shipp was the able Chairman.  Among the
guests present were Bishop Samuel Woolley
and wife, Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith, D. E.
S. Barney, Rodney Badger and wife, and
others, perhaps fifty in all.	
						E. B. W.


[Column 1]

﻿R.S. REPORTS.

HYRUM.
EDITOR EXPONENT: 
	Report of the 23rd anniversary of the Re-
lief Society of Hyrum, Cache Stake; meeting
convented at 10 a.m. on the 9th of May.
President E. Liljenquist presiding.
	Sister A. Barber, Pres. R. S. Cache Stake,
Sister Thatcher and M. E. Cook favored us
with their presence, also Pres. Molen, Bishop
Wright and counselors.  After the usual ex-
ercises,  Pres.  Liljenquist addressed the con-
gregation, “I have presided over this branch
of the Society for 21 years.  I love to work
with my sisters, it has been a great pleasure to
me, but my health is poor and the spirit tells 
me my work is accepted, and I wish to resign,
I hope you will kindly release me.”

[Column 2]
Bishop J. F. Wright, replied, “Sister Lil-
jenquist is advanced in years, we appreciate
her labors, she has been a friend to the poor.”
Pres. Liljenquist was then honorably released.
	Coun Alice Unsworth was the next speaker
felt to work in the Society to the best of her
ability.  President Barber addressed the meet-
ing,‘‘I am pleased that Sister Liljenquist has
laid down the burden, as she is getting feeble;
she has been faithful and her labors will
never be blotted out.
	Sister M. E. Cook spoke very interestingly
on the laws of health,  Sister J. E. Molen
also spoke a short time, said Sister Liljenquist
has truly been a faithful worker in the Society.
Pres. S. M. Molen and Bishop Wright each
spoke to the sisters, exhorted them to sustain
the officers that should be chosen to preside
over them.
	Alice Unsworth was then nominated and
sustained as President by a unanimous vote,
with C. C. Hansen as first and H. A. Shaw as
second counselors.  Meeting adjourned,singing;
benediction by Coun. James Unsworth.
					H. M. NIELSON, Sec.

MESA STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of Mesa
Stake was held March 20th, 1891.  Opened
with prayer by Noah Brimhall.  Pres. Sarah
M. Pomeroy presiding, who said if we meet with
the proper spirit we shall be blessed and bene-
fited—take the step that lays open before us,
and another will be presented and so on till
our work is ended. 
Coun. M. A. Hakes reported the Mesa Ward
having till recently been Pres. of that branch,
she had taken great pleasure in her labors
therein, found the sisters faithful saints, had
visited with the sisters and found other wards
much the same.
	Sister Louisa Harper reported the Lehi
sisters as being faithful and willing to do all
the good they could, with a desire to improve
every opportunity for building up the kingdom
of God on the earth.
	Sister Lovina Brimhall reported the Nephi
Ward.   The saints there were in a scattered
condition but were trying to be one with other
organizations in bringing about the purposes
of the Almighty.
	Pres. Susan Savage said since the high
water they had had no Lamanites to their
meetings but previous to that time there had
been a good attendance.  Felt the loss of their
faithful co-laborer, Thankful Harmon, but felt
to submit to the decree of the Almighty, said
she had been a faithful, energetic worker in
the Indian mission.
	Pres. Lizzie Macdonald felt rather depressed
having just returned from the funeral of Sister
Harmon whom she felt had had an especial
call in the Lamanite labor; thought it very
important we should teach our children to be
meeting goers.
	We had good speaking and teaching by
Coun. Sarah Ann Robson,  Addie Passey,
brothers E. Ellsworth; Brimhall and Stewart
also Bishop Wm. Passey.
	Sister Barbara Lang who had been chosen 
as President of the Mesa Ward spoke briefly.
	Pres. C. I. Robson spoke a short time upon
the duties and privileges of motherhood; ex-
horted the mothers to use the time well while
the children were around their knee in infancy,
to make lasting impressions upon them and
teach them to do right, because it is right, and
shun evil because it is evil.  Closing remarks
by Pres.  Sarah M. Pomeroy. Benediction by
E. Ellsworth, adjourned for three months.
 
BEAR LAKE STAKE.

	The conference of the Relief Society of the
Bear Lake Stake of Zion convened in the
new tabernacle at Paris, May 30, and 31.

[Column 3]
there were present on the stand Stale Pres.
J. P. Linsdsey and Counselors Elszabeth
Collings and L. M. Hart, Pres Annie E.
Laker, Pres. Nancy E. Pugmire, also Counselor
J. S. Richards of the Central Board of the
Relief Society, Sister Sarah Jane Cannon,
Pres. Louie Felt of the P. A., Apostle F. D.
Richards, Pres. Wm. Budge, and Pres. J. H.
Hart.  Meeting commenced by singing
“Praise to the man.” Prayer by Pres. Wm.
Budge Singing “Hail to the Prophet."  Roll
was called and minutes of the previous con-
ference read and approved.
	Stake Pres. of R. S., J. P. Lindsey, made a
few opening remarks, expressed her pleasure at
having the visitors from Salt Lake City with
us, and hoped we would all be greatly
benefited by their coming:  The branches of
Relief Society were reported as follows.
Paris first and second wards, Bloomington
St. Charles, Fish Haven, Ovid and Montpelier
all as being in good condition.  Coun. Jane S.
Richards was pleased to meet with the Sisters
of Bear Lake Stake under such favorable
circumstances.  Thought the first duty of the
Relief Society was to look after the poor and
sick and to be a comfort to one another in
times of trouble; said this is a progressive age,
the rising generation had a better chance for
improvement than the older ones had in their
day and ought to be qualified to fill the places
of trust and honor when we had passed away.
Thought it very necessary that the Relief
Society hold testimony meetings often.  Spoke
on various subjects in a kind motherly way
that will long be remembered.  Sister Cannon
made a few very encouraging remarks.
	Pres Wm. Budge esteemed it a great
privilege to meet with the sisters, had been
exceedingly well pleased with their remarks;
the words of the sisters were so kind they
should have an excellent effect and he hoped
they would reap the fruits of their good labors.
	Pres. Louie Felt had enjoyed the meeting
invited the parents and and all to attend the
Primary Conference, that they might see the
improvement the children were making. 
Stake Pres. J. P. Lindsey addressed the 
congregation for a short time, gave many
words of counsel and encouragement.  Felt
to thank the sisters for their visit and prayed
that the Lord would bless and protect them
on their journey home.  As Mrs.  Lottie
Price was unable to act as Cor. Sec’y any
longer,Miss Sylvia Broomhead was appointed
and sustained by unanimous vote to act in
that office.
	Apostle F. D. Richards thought the Relief
Society of great importance, realized they were
doing a great amount of good.  The statistical
and financial reports were then read.  Confer-
ence adjourned until Nov. Singing “0
Praise Ye the Lord.  Benediction by Apostle
F. D. Richards.
			LOTTIE PRICE, Cor. Sec'y


PRIMARY FAIR, SOCIAL HALL.
	The Primary Fair of this Stake was held
in the Social Hall June 18, 19, and 20th,
under the direction of Ellen C. Clawson and
her Counselors. Several of the wards were
unrepresented, but of the Associations that
were represented there was a very good show-
ing of work. It was utterly impossible to
observe all the nice things even, but among
those that we did notice were of boy’s work,
Johnie H Boberg, Draper 9 years old,ladder,
rake and boot jack, Willie Turner South
Cotton Wood 13 years old, a puzzle rattle
cut in wood, also Geo. C. Brown, of the same
place, ladder and rake. Earl Cummings 13th
Ward this City, 3 brackets, Josiah Midgley 7th
Ward,13, tin bucket, Charlie Spencer 7 years
old, crochet covered ball, Stanley Partridge


[Column 1]

aged 15 years, doll settee and chairs cut wood-
work; Charles Madson 4th Ward, 13 years
old, small lounge made and upholstered; stone
work carving of letters, by Eddie aged 11 and
Elias Ashton aged 10, 15th Ward, Ray Jacobs
17th Ward 10 years old, paper weight and
penholders cut from cigar box and gilded very
tasteful; hearth rugs and woolen patchwork
by Ralph Grames 3rd Ward, aged 9 years,
bedstead for doll, Geo. J. Fox 14th Ward aged
13, a very complete miniature pile driver by
Johnie Bowers 7th Ward, he also melted the
lead and shaped it. Brackets and scroll work
Walter Wallace 7th Ward, 13 years old, Ray
Williams Mill Creek, double harrow 12 years
old, Forestdale in miniature by Alma
Bullock of the 16th Ward, 10 years old was
the most attractive piece of work made by any
of the little boys. It was perfect in ap-
pearance though very small, streets laid out,
shade trees, houses exact even to the sign and
advertising, the proportions were all good it
was made principally of pasteboard and painted
in imitation of Forestdale itself. It was quite
a novel idea. Lee Richards of the 20th ward
had a very handsome satin banner on exhibi-
tion, ornamental painting and letter-
ing, certainly very creditably done and
artistically finished off for a little boy. showing
considerable talent in this direction.
	The work of the little girls was in very
great variety and it is impossible to more than
give a passing notice to a few of the most
uoticable. One quite attractive little thing
was a large bunch of paper snowballs hanging
pendant so true to nature that several of the
visitors thought that they were real, these
were made by Chloe Hunter aged 9 years,
water lilies in waxwork, Annie Gundson aged
12 years, Ardelle Cummings aged 12, had
several specimens of drawn needle work that
were very pretty and quite creditable for a
child. Sophia Youngberg, Draper, aged 14
had some very fine plain hand sewing, work
on ribbon done in arasine very handsome and
fine work, Phronia Nelson Draper. aged 11
years, Gertrude Winder aged 13, handsome
lamp-mat made of ribbon fastened with cord
of chenille, May Gilbert banjo and mandolin
silk work, covered pasteboard, there were
very odd and quite pretty. Rhoda Miller,
Mill Creek, aged 10, babies bibs worked neatly,
Edna Jackson paper platting very nice aged
7, Olive Cushing 11th ward, 7 years old
woolen scarf crocheted. Louie Coulam 11th
ward 9 years old stocking darning very neat.
Sophia Youngberg aged 14, yarn' home spin-
ning, very fine, Evelina Youngberg 7 years old,
very fine darning. Fannie Coulam 11th ward
12 years, old cut fitted and made a dress waist
sewing very good, button holes well made.
Hannah Thatcher 9 years old, cut fitted and
made in goodstyle a doll's dress. Pearl Carlisle,
Mill Creek, 15 years old, large, heavy table cover
embroidered on felt in chenille, arasine,
riberdine. very elaborate in design and quite
elegant as a whole, showing talent, patience,
and neatness. Birdie Carlisle younger sister,
a table scarf handsomely embroidered. Belle
Weiler 4th ward, 13 years old a pretty apron
made by hand trimmed with novelty lace and
insertion done very neatly. Free hand draw-
ing by Alice Clawson 14 years old, these
copies and drawings showed considerable
talent; cross stitching on gingham by little
girls six and seven years old, horse shoe
watch case, covered and filled in with silk
filled and wound round with ribbon. This
was a very attractive article and as it hung
attracted considerable attention. Laura Jones
16th ward, large sofa cushion of silk, pieced
log-cabin pattern. Janette Pitt aged 9 years,
carriage robe, made of woolen pieces in form
of rosettes raised and worked in colors. Ella
Keyting 17 years old elegant silk banner,
ornamental, delicately painted and mounted.

[Column 2]

Table cover from the 17th ward Primary
intended for the Logan Temple, embroidered
in the four corners. Louie Groesbeck 12,
corner marguerites, Cathie Dougall sun-
flowers, Geneva Ellerbeck, poppies; Stella
Jacobs, fuchias, Alice Taylor 17th ward,
10 years old darning, mending, marking,
tucking, in fact of all kinds of needle work,
very good indeed. Ray Grant 13th ward,
handsome handkerchief case made when
eleven years old. Edith Dinwoody 7th ward,
aged 14, painting on China very well executed.
Ray Chamberlain 8th ward, 6 years old,
paper cutting kindergarten work very pretty.
Bessie Frost 8th ward, 13 years old, apron
hand sewing, neatly done, crochet trimming
fine and even. Eva Sheets 8th ward, 14
years old a handsome bunch of artificial
roses. Minnie Oakey, 8th ward, aged 12, 3
owls on a thorny branch very natural attracted
a great deal of notice.
	Bessie Binder [--]th ward, 13 years old, a
child's white dre[--] hand sewing with 23 tucks
all even and ne[--] stitches. Clara Hanson 7
years old croche[-] work: cream colored scrim
apron and croche very odd and pretty, pillow
shams worked in birds and snnflowers crochet
lace very deep, edged with colored floss to
correspond with the embroidery, sofa pillow
and head rest, embroidered with chenille and
arasine, in moss roses and pansies several
specimens of penmanship, and dozens and
scores of other things too numerous to mention.
Machine embroidery a swan in the water
among the rushes was quite pretty; this was
by Lutie Ashton 9 years old. There were
only two essays notwithstanding the call made
through the papers and the offer of a prize.
	There were some very well executed paint-
ings in oil by Kate V. Moris 15 years old, 15th
ward. The best was a copy of Conway
Castle in North Wales; Scene in the Yellow
stone Park painted when she was only 13
years old; Council Bluffs a copy from one of
Fred Pierce's paintings taken when she was
14. Two plaques painted in flowers, one of
roses, leaves just falling. and one of poppies;
also a larga piano cover painted quite
elaborately.
	In addition to these there were many other
things well deserving mention if our space
would permit, besides cooking of an excellent
quality and in great variety. The Fair
was a success in every respect and the children
deserve great credit.
			E. B. W.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


Mrs. Martha D. Lincoln, of Washington
D. C., better known as "Bessie Beech," be-
gan her literary work at sixteen, contribut-
ing to the Morning Star of Dover for several
years. Since then, she has been a contributor,
correspondent and reporter for many papers.
For several years past she has been engaged
on "Central Figures in Science," a book now
nearly finished. If she ever makes a collec-
tion of her "Beech Leaves,"they will cover al-
most every event of prominence in social life
at the capital for twenty years after the war.

	An effort will be made by influential
women in New York to send one of their
number to sit in court whenever a woman is
tried, in order to give her the protection that
women so much need under such circum-
stances. An official who was consulted said,
"But, ladies, you will hear much that will be
unfit for ladies to hear." After attending a
trial, one of the ladies said to him, "We
heard nothing unpleasant." "Oh," he said,
"of course not--when ladies are present." If
the presence of good women would purify the
atmosphere of our courts, it is a strong argu-
ment for having some motherly woman present
whenever an unprotected girl is to be tried.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	[Resolutions of respect to the memory of Sister Aramita
Ashton who departed this life Wednesday June 10th
1891.]
	Whereas;—Our Heavenly Father has in His infinite
wisdom removed from our midst our beloved sister
Aramita Lawrence Ashton, and whereas: her faithful
labors as a teacher in the Relief Society and Sabath
School, also the interest she manifested in the Young
Peoples Association, both by her presence, and wise
counsel, make it fitting that we record our appreciation of
her labors.
	Therefore be it resolved;—that we the officers and
members of the Lehi Relief Sobiety, do mourn her loss,
realizing that we have lost,a noble and benevolent sister,
her heart being always willing, and her hand ready to
help the poor and comfort the sick and afflicted.
	Resolved;—That we tender our heartfelt sympathy to
her bereaved husband and children, her aged mother, and
her sisters in their great affliction.
	Resolved;—That a copy of these resolutions be placed
on the records of the Relief Society, and a copy be sent
to the bereaved family, the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and
the Lehi Banner.
			M. A. STANDRING,
			KATE ALLDRED
			SARAH EVANS-
	[In behalf of the Lehi Relief Society.]


Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
AND STATIONARY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, latest
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc.  Stamping done to order.  But
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 123 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET, Opposite City Hall.

﻿R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS, RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FOR[--]
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice.  Orders from
he country promptly respond to.
	DAVID JAMES, Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 20.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 15, 1891.		NO. 2.


CONTENTS.
	The Old Garret—Aunt Em. Woman's Work at
Pocatello. A Little Girl's Letter—Hattie. The
Woman's National Council. A Sketch of the Life
of Orpha M. Everett—Emily B. Spencer. R. S.
Reports—Tooele—Salt Lake—Box Elder. W.
S. A. Salt Lake Co. Women Vitally Concerned.
A Jury of Women—Ex. Notes and News. Wo-
men Inventors—Ex.
	EDITORIAL:—Independence Day. Editorial
Notes. Judge Zane's Views. Character Recep-
tion—L. T. F. Interesting Visit to the Primary
Associations of Cache Stake—Lillie Freeze.
	POETRY:—July; The Year's Sweetheart—
Madeline S. Bridges. Love's Young Dream—
Emma P. Seabury. To a Friend—Augusta Joyce
Crocheron. The Heroic Life—Sarah K. Bolton.
Love's Fate—M. B. Finch. Sunset—E. C. R.


JULY: THE YEAR'S SWEET HEART.

	All things beautiful love her:
		The butterflies light and fleet,
	The branches that bend above her,
		The mosses that kiss her feet;
	The ripening grain in the meadow,
		The birds, singing sweet and near,
	The opened flowers in the shadow,
		The brook, with its ripple clear;
	The bee in his clover sleeping,
		The locusts, that drone and whir,
	The rain from hills, down sweeping,
		And the clouds—are in love with her!
	For she, oh, the shy new-comer,
		So dear to the world, so dear!
	Is heart of the heart of summer.
		And sweetheart of all the eyar.

MADELINE S. BRIDGES, in Ladies' Home Journal.


For the Woman's Tribune.
	LOVE'S YOUNG DREAM.

	Oh the sweetest of life is love's young dream,
		No matter what gladness your hearts may know
		And wherever your wandering bark may go,
	It will oftenest drift with the winding stream,
		Where memory's beautiful rhythmic flow,
	Sings over and over the things that seem.

	Dream on, nor think there are waking hours.
		When all your sky may be overcast,
		The heaven born of our souls will last.
	We all have our April days and showers,
		But we have the sun when the cloud is passed
	And the sweet perfume of our withered flowers.

	Dream on, dream on, 'tis the sweetest dream
		That angels give. May so reverent be
		The morning's kiss to the future's sea,
	That the things that are, and the things that seem
		Shall blend in perfect accord. Ah, we
	Knowing nothing so sweet as love's young dream

			EMMA P. SEABURY.
	Denver, Col.


TO A FRIEND.

Like gentle showers to the barren earth,
	Or friendly voice to pilgrim feet astray;
Like some loved face to greet the weary eyes
	Long closed in fevered dreams, back to the day;
Thus came into my solitude so long and deep
	Thy kindly message, proving unforgot
My place within thy circle as of old,
	Where oh, so oft, my sheaf of dreams I brought.

Forgetting and forgotten, so it seemed—
	My days went by, each other like the last,
A monotone of duty drawn by faith;
	Life's lightest moments scattered down the past:


'Till weary grown with "hope so long deferred,"
	O'erweighed with cares that faster seemed to roll,
I strove no more, but silent sat alone—
	Then—through the silence thou didst call my soul.

Thou didst not call me forth to joyous throng.
	To join in festal pleasures or in mirth:
Not praise or honor waited for my steps,
	Too feeble were my works to earn such worth,
But—for my soul's own sake thou didst awake
	My weary halting in the path of life:
That I should labor further to upraise
	Some better mark to shine above its strife.

And through my weariness a thought did steal,
	(As echoes follow after song has died,)
Perhaps—the Master too hath not forgot
	His pilgrim faltering by the long way side.
Perhaps—thy voice an echo of His will
	That shall throw open wide the hidden way—
Arise my soul! once more take up thy staff,
	Nor let the rough grown paths thy steps delay.

			AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
July 5th, 1891.


THE OLD GARRET.

	In the old fashioned garret! Methinks I
hear some one say, rubbish! that's all there is
in the garret. Not so fast, gentle reader; al-
low me to tell you in the garret there is inspi-
ration for the muse, and for me there is
romance in the old NewEngland garret which
haunts me still, and

"Oft in the stilly night,
	Ere slumber's chain hath bound me,
Fond memory brings the light,
	Of other days around me."

And I find myself among the "old lumber"
in the selfsame garret where I played so
much when a child and I wrote my first,
poor verses, at eight years old, and where I
was continually making new discoveries of
old lace and ribbons for my dolls. There is
as much poetry in it as there is in the par-
lor, and more. Parlors are very prosy, prim
affairs, and one is always afraid of doing the
wrong thing in one of those old-fashioned
ones, that are never opened except on grand
occasions; and never, one might almost say,
for children. I remember parlor chairs with
their straight, upright backs, and funny, tall
legs, used to seem to stare at me. When a
little girl I crept in softly to take a peep
around; and I said then, and I maintain it
still, that I would never shut up the best
room in the whole house and make it
gloomy and dark, to be used only for com-
pany.
	But if there is anything more inspiring
than a musty old garret, it is spring time,
groves, meadows brooks, waterfalls, woods,
orchards and the like—nature's haunts; these
are all suggestive and poetical and especially
when the birds are singing their sweetest
notes in the tree tops, and the boughs nod-
ding and swaying, keeping a sort of irregular
time to the unwritten music of the songsters.
Ah, yes, apple-blossoms, they come with the
early spring, and if I am going to talk of
garrets, and old books, and antiquities
generally, and grandmothers, and old maids,
and love letters, I must shut out the scent of
lilacs, the violets and the pink and white ap-
ple-blossoms, with their dainty, subtle per-
fume, or I shall wander off into dreamland.

[Column 2]

I must confess that garrets are not so ex-
quisite or charming as these, but they have a
history, some of them at least.
	I do not know if there are any such old
houses standing now, as there were in the
country towns in Massachusetts, thirty-five
years ago, but the pictures of them, outside
and in, are fresh in my mind to-day. I am
very much afraid most of them are remodeled,
for this is a stylish age we are living in; but
when I was a little girl there were many such
romantic places, and each one of them had a
garret.
	In one of these, "long, long ago," a little
girl was playing; her dolls were finely ar-
ranged in dainty bits of beautiful things, and
she herself in such a funny gown, (not dresses
then, but gowns), she had found in an old, old
dresser.  It was gored in long, narrow strips,
and withal would scarcely even fit her little
figure,but it was red and blue changeable silk,
bright and gay, heavy enough to stand alone,
and the short waist and shorter sleeves were
trimmed with very yellow lace, just ready to
drop in pieces with age. The child was a
quaint one, and the dress was queerer still—
but a spell seemed upon her, she was always
thoughtful, and at this particular time she
was also very pensive. I don't mind tell-
ing you a few of her thoughts. She might
almost be called visionary, for she seemed to
see the future all in a panorama, spread out
before her, very much as we who have lived
long, look back over the days that are past.
She had been rummaging more than usual,
and trying to rake up something fresh; and
she had succeeded, for away in the further-
most corner of the garret, from under the very
eaves of the house, she dragged out a budget
of old papers, tied in bundles. So sitting
upon a broken stool, in her silk and lace, she
began to investigate these old papers. First
of all, she soliloquized, I like old things that
are pretty and have a history, like old pic-
tures, and silks, and laces, and beads, and
jewelry, that I hear the big girls talk so much
about, and I dearly love to play here in the
garret, and make believe that I am a woman
and all that, but old papers like these are use-
less. I can't see what people save them for,
unless they are deeds, or records, or valuables
of that description, and those are always
locked up in desks, and some man carries the
key. Yes, some man, I wonder why women
don't? They have the keys of the parlor and
cellar and pantry, and the big chest of draw-
ers, where valuable linen is kept, but then I
suppose women have nothing to do with pa-
pers, and documents, and so on.
	But I am afraid I am telling you too much
I mustn't tell you all she thought and felt, but
merely say that she became so fascinated with
the contents of the papers, that she forgot the
curious way in which she was rigged out, and
kept on reading and reading until it began to
grow dim in the strange place, and all the
while through the open window came the
dainty perfume of the apple-blossoms, for it
was springtime then; O so many years ago, I
was about to tell you how many,but I think I
won't, or you might guess how old that little
girl is now, and that would be too bad, you
know, for women, I've heard, seldom like to
have their correct age known. By and by,her
sister came to look for her, and made her
take off all her finery and scolded her too
for getting herself so dusty and musty with


the old papers, and told her they were only
rubbish that  ought to be burnt, but (we'll
call her Rosabel) didn't think so, as she
went back day after day, until it was a
byword in the old home, that—Rosabel lived
in the garret. She didn't go there without
purpose though she left off playing with dolls
all of a sudden, and forgot to dress herself up
any more, but she remembered to leave the
window open to let in the sunshine and the
sweet scent of the lilacs and apple-blossoms,
and hour after hour she would sit so quietly
that the stillness was almost painful, and yet
no one must disturb her.
	A light had dawned upon her in that out of
the way place, she had found out that women
sometimes put their thoughts upon paper, and
she conceived the idea of making rhymes, or
jingle; that was why she wanted to be alone,
and needed the fresh perfume from outside; it
rested her, and helped  clothe her thoughts.
A little at a time the secret leaked out that
Rosabel actually thought she could write a
book. Was this very absurd? Folks seemed
to think so, and her mother, who was very
practical, tried to convince her that little
girls didn't write books all at once, and there
was much hard work and study to be done
by way of preparation. That even her grand-
mother had studied hard,  and had a good
education before she attempted to write those
old love letters, which had so enchanted poor
Rosabel. "You are getting strange notions in-
to your head," she said to the child; "you
must go away to school and write composi-
tions and have them corrected, after a  long
time may be that you can write something
readable." Poor Rosabel! how crest fallen,
all her glorious visions of fame were about
to be dispelled, for I will tell you another
secret now, her mother was strongminded,
and wanted her daughter to be a woman,
and not a sentimental wishy-washy novel
writer. I can't tell you all Rosabel's life his-
tory now, but some day I am almost certain
some little girl or woman, poking about the
musty old garret, will find that history in man-
uscript.
		AUNT EM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


[Column 1]

WOMAN'S WORK AT POCATELLO.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Dear Sister Wells: Many of our members
take your much valued paper. All take an
interest therein, and as we see reports in it
from different branches of the Relief Society,
we take the liberty of sending a little account
of some of our work here in Pocatello, espe-
cially of our first Fair which was held on Feb.
13th, and 14th. It was got up for the bene-
fit of our new meeting house which has been
constructed during the past year at an ex-
pense of over $1,800. And as all the
people here have to depend on daily wages
for all their means, it has been quite an un-
dertaking and we all had to cast in our mite.
The Relief Society members have also been
willing to cast in their mite. They have
given in the last half year $218,00 But I
was going to tell you of our Fair. Most of the
church members donated freely of their means
to the Fair of articles to be sold; and also
many of our outside friends donated liberally
and visited us during the Fair and we had a
very good turnout indeed. Our Fair con-
tained knitting, needle work, paintings,
crochet, plain sewing and all kinds of handi-
work well executed, as well as all kinds of
eatables which were served for lunch and sup-
per. We had good order and good music for
dancing parties in the evenings.
	I must tell you of our gold ring cake we
cut and sold it 25 cts. a piece, for which we
got $15. One of cur brethren found the ring.

[Column 2]

The cake was made by Bro. Stinger, the town
baker. This made a good deal of work for
the presiding officers and committee and they
all did their best; many of the articles were
sold and a few of the best articles were dis-
posed of in other ways.
	All the eatables that were left, were divided
among the poor.
	Our numbers are small in the Relief Society
but what there are they are very good and
come to their duties. Our meetings are very
interesting and we have many of our outside
friends visit us and they are paying strict atten-
tion to what is said; so I think that there is a
good mission being done here in this little
railroad town, which could not be done with-
out an organization. I often read in your
little paper of our Sisters from Salt Lake
visiting around in different places to cheer the
sister's up in their duties. It does us good to
hear this; but it would do us more good if they
would give us a call, and encourage us a little.
I was promised at one time that some of the
Salt Lake sisters would come and see us; and
we will wait with patience yet to see them.
	The Young Ladies and the Primary are
doing as well as can be expected for the few
there are and they all seem to take hold in
doing good in the Church and Kingdom,
which is a great and glorious thing, and I fear
we cannot fully appreciate the blessings which
are bestowed upon us.
	Myself and my oldest son have just been
back East as far as Omaha, Nebraska, where
I have two brothers living, which I had not
seen for over thirty years, and their families
have grown so large and most of the children
were those I had never seen before it was quite
a treat for us, to see the difference in crossing
the plains now and when I came with ox
teams in 1863. Omaha was very small then.
There has been great improvement made since
that time, as also along the plains. It is almost
all built up now; then there were no houses,
but now it looks beautiful.
	We had a good time with all the folks. They
all treated us well and with respect, which
they did not do in 1861, although they are
much against this gospel and cannot see the
truth, still they know the Bible almost by
heart; they are very religious and have their
morning and evening prayers, and ask the
blessing on their food, and give thanks after
eating as regular as the day comes; and
this was so everywhere we went; my brother
had a Bible which they have read so much
that it is perfectly worn out and in rags. But
still they won't believe it as it is; they would
have their babies baptized by sprinkling, and
when I showed them plainly what the Savior
says in St. Mark 16 chapter, 15 and 16 verses
in which he says, "Go ye into all the world,
and preach this Gospel and he that believes
and is baptized shall be saved," they
would have it that the Savior had done it
all; and that he had atoned for all their sins
they are doing every day; and would believe
that what He said on the cross that everything
was fulfilled meant the future as well. I had
a great deal of talk with them, but oh, how
darkened they are in their minds and would
not listen. Much could be said upon this
visit, more than would fill a book; but I hope
and pray that the Spirit of the Lord will work
upon their hearts, and all the honest in
heart that they may come to see the truth, and
I know there is many an honest heart yet to
come into this gospel. As the scripture say
that the field is wide, and the laborers are few,
so it is. There has never been a mission-
ary in that part of Nebraska, and it would
take a good worker, as they are all very reli-
gious and hard to deal with.
	I am thankful to my heavenly Father, that
I have been worthy to be one who has been a
partaker of the great and glorious work, and

[Column 3]

am Thankful that the Lord has enabled me to
stand faithful to this time, and hope I shall
be able to stand fast to the end and be saved
with all the faithful which is my wish.
			R. POND, Prest. R. S.
			E. KOLHEPP Sec. R. S.
			E. STINGER Treas. R. S.
			MINNIE THOROGOOD,
			ESTHER GARNER,
			EMMA SPILMAN, 
Committee	TILLIE BECKETT
			ROSA ROUSCH,
			RASO BECK.
				Committee of Fair.
Pocatello, Idaho, June 22, 1891.


LETTER FROM MRS. STANTON.

		Basingstoke Hants.
	DEAR MRS. COLBY:
	I have been taking a vacation, down by
the sea shore for a month, reading novels and
looking at the ocean; talking to agreeable
people, playing chess and whist in the evening
—a mere society woman; banishing the
suffrage movement, and The Woman's Tribune
wholly from my thoughts!
	Bournemouth, where I have been, is one of
the loveliest sea side places in England. Here
in the grounds of St. Peter's church is a
beautiful new monument to the Shelley family,
where Mary Wolstonecraft and William
Godwin are buried. Their remains were
recently brought from St. Pancras church
yard, London. Here, too, are Mary Wolstone-
craft Shelley, and her son Percy Florence
Shelley, third Baronet. The sexton told us
there were a large number of people daily
visiting the grave of Mary Wolstonecraft.
Her great work "Vindication of the rights of
Women" has recently been republished with
an introduction by Mrs. Fawcett.
	Thus is this noble woman honored in her
death though so persecuted and ostracised in
her life.
	At Christ's church, six miles from Bourne-
mouth, is a beautiful bas-relief of Shelley, the
great poet, just lifted from the waters covered
with sea-weed, supported by the angel of
death. You remember he was drowned in the
Gulf of Spezzia. After reading Dowden's
biography of Shelley, my daughter and I sat
by the fire discussing the poor poet's checkered
life, late one night, pitying him in his
struggles and disappointments,and condemning
his father for his coldness and severity, when,
with a deep sigh Mrs. Blatch said, "poor
fellow, it was too bad after being in hot water
all his life, to die in cold water at last." She
did not see the comic aspect of her remark
nntil I burst out laughing, though the facts
were indeed sad enough for tears.
	I have just read Mrs. Besant's grand speech
in The Woman's Tribune. I am very sorry
that she could not stay longer in America.
The sad news of Madame Blavatsky's death
met her as returning. She was cremated
only the day before Mrs. Besant reached
Queenstown. I shall now apply my self to
"Rems" again to make room for the budgets.
Sincerely yours,
		—ELIZABETH CADY STANTON.
	Woman's Tribune.


"The international Copyright Law enacted
by the last Congress, went into effect July 1st.
and in anticipation of it the governments of
Great Britain, France, Belgium and Switzer-
land signified to the United States govern-
ment, through the proper diplomatic channels,
their readiness to avail themselves of the faci-
lities offered by the new law to their citizens
for copyright here, by granting to American
authors equal privileges with their own citi-
zens."


WOMEN'S EXPONENT.


THE HEROIC LIFE.

BY SARAH K. BOLTON.

I like the man who faces what he must
	With step triumphant and a heart of cheer,
	Who fights the daily battle without fear,
Sees his hopes fail, yet keeps unfaltering trust
That God is God—that, somehow, true and just
	His plans work out for mortals; not a tear
	Is shed when fortune, which the world holds dear,
Falls from his grasp; better, with love, a crust
Than living in dishonor, envies not
	Nor loses faith in man, but does his best,
Nor ever murmurs at his humbler lot,
	But with a smile and words of hope gives zest
To every toiler. He alone is great
Who by a life heroic conquers fate.
			Woman's Journal.


LOVE'S FATE.

MARY BAIRD FINCH.

As blossoms wake 'neath sun and rain
I heard you sing love's tender strain,
With all love's sweet delight of pain.

Then softly on my heart it fell,
The story you stooped low to tell
Like spring-time's dawning miracle.

'Twas years and years we had not met,
Where 'mid the prairie grasses wet
You brought the first pale violet.

And we had grown so wondrous wise
To guard love's secret with our eyes—
How soon love saw the yain disguise!

And while his love was on us laid
That kept us both as half afraid
Love knew us for a pair betrayed.

Love came and smiled—I turned away—
Maids do the same this very day
The while they question love's delay.

Love weeping grieves and cries, "too late,"
And tender pity mourns his fate,
Yet lower now swings heaven's gate.
			Woman's Tribune.


SUNSET.

'Tis sunset, o'er the Wasatch range
	The mellow sunlight falls,
The mountains take a fairer hue
	O’er their grim, rocky walls.

Fainter it grows and fainter yet
	The golden summer's sun—
Its rays are lost on yonder peak,—
	'Tis gone, the day is done.

Farewell O sunset! linger still
	On Mem'rys mountain height, 
And flood these valleys full of glow
	Ere comes the shadowy night!

Farewell O daytime! may the joys
	That thou hast brought to light
Still fold me in their soft embrace,
	I welcome thee O night!

Far among thy shadowy shapes
	I see the loved one's form,
I feel their soft breath on my cheek,
	Their hearts beat true and warm.

Hold them O nightshades here awhile,
	Nor let them from me flee,
I thank thee for these shades, for this
	O night, I welcome thee!

		E. C. R.


[Column 1]

A LITTLE GIRL'S LETTER.

	FREMONT, PIUTE Co., Utah, June 8, 1891.
Miss Eva Young:
	Dear Sister:—June came but not decked

[Column 2]

with roses, for she was accompanied by her
stately lover, chilly December. The summer
sun came blazing forth and the gallant prince
fled to his northern home. He must have left
the gates open in his hasty flight, for the wind
and those friendly little companions of his
summer hours (the gnats) have not been lack-
ing in quantity or quality since.
	Well, I've returned from my trip to the
"Sunny South," and according to promise will
give a brief account of the winter's travels.
My companions and I, were permitted to take
a journey over the great Western continent,
North and South America.
	We started late in Sept., visiting all the
states and their principal cities in the Union,
also all the places of renown, a few of
which I will mention. You will understand
that the whole of this journey was taken by
the aid of that great railraod, the human
mind.
	We first passed down Grand Canyon to Co-
lorado, through which the Col. river runs,
some places faster than the fastest R. R. train,
while on either side rise abruptly solid gra-
nite walls to the height of half a mile. Next
we visited the sugar maple and grass regions of
the New England and Middle Atlantic States.
The former contain the greatest number and
most important factories in the U. S. The
Merrimac, a river of New Eng. drives more
machinery than any other river of its size in
the world. The Middle Atlantic States have
the most extensive coal beds in North Ameri-
ca. They also produce petroleum or rock oil
and iron in great abundance. N. Y., the
Empire State, contains one tenth of the po-
pulation of the whole country. N. Y. City,
the metropolis of America, has a population of
1,206,299. In commercial importance it is
surpassed only by London, Eng.
	Pennsylvania produces the most coal, iron
and petroleum, and also ranks among the first
in dairy products.
	The dismal swamps lie between Virginia
and North Carolina. Nothing will decay in
these swamps. A body was found there a
few years ago in a perfect state of preserva-
tion. Perhaps the body of "the maid" or
"lover so true."
	The cotton fields of the Southern States and
the Orange Groves of Florida were of special
interest,but we failed to get any oranges, except
in our dreams.
	I, being a lover of nature, was especially in-
terested in the Mammoth caves of Kentucky.
They extend nine miles into the earth. To vi-
sit all parts requires 150 miles travel. There
are deep holes, natural domes, and lakes con-
taining eyeless fish.
	The Yellow Stone park of Wyoming, with
its numerous geysers and other natural won-
ders was very attractive.
	Our own Great Salt Lake, of which the
poet sings, is the only pure salt lake in the
world.
	What took my fancy more than all was the
beautiful Yosemite valley of the Sierra Neva-
da Mts. in California. With its gardens of wild
flowers, and beautiful water falls one of which
is the highest fall in the world, descending
1,500 feet which pours down over a granite
wall more than half a mile high, into the
Eden below. Here are boiling springs, mud
volcanoes, and the biggest trees in the world.
some being 2,000 years old, and so large that a
man can ride seventy-five feet through the
hollow trunk of one that has fallen to the
ground.
	This is only a review of what I've studied,
but I believe it is good practice for me; it
helps me to remember.
	Fond love to all, I'll write to auntie soon.
			HATTIE.


THE WOMAN'S NATIONAL COUNCIL.

	The executive board of the Woman's
National Council met at Indianapolis, May 30th.
	A telegram was sent to the General
Assembly at Detroit asking that the Presby-
terian women be allowed a voice in the ratifi-
cation or rejection of the creed.
	Committees were appointed to ask that
women be admitted to the General Confer-
ence of the Methodist Episcopal church; to
ask the next triennial of Sunday-school
workers of the United States and Canada
that they be placed upon the committee on
Sunday-school lessons that they be placed
on the National Divorce Reform League; to
press upon the attention of the next and each
succeeding Congress the bill providing that
all government employees be paid equal wages
for equal work; and to invite the International
Council of Women to meet in Chicago during
the Columbian exposition in 1893. The
National Council will assume the entertain-
ment of all accredited foreign delegates. No
American delegates will be recieved into the
International Council, except from organiza-
tions that have become members of the
National Council of the United States.
	A committee was appointed to prepare a
symposium on dress, to be published under
the auspices of the National Council in
one of the popular magazines during the com-
ing year, and to report to the conference of
the executive board of the Council of May,
1892, its idea of a business dress for women,
accompanied by a model of the same.
	The corresponding secretary was authorized
to correspond with Marion Harland about a
stone to be placed in the monument to Mary
Washington, and to collect the money for the
same.
	The president was authorized to form a
committee to collect funds and secure plans
for the erection of a women's temple at
Glen Echo.


A SKETCH OF THE LIFE OF ORPHA
M. EVERETT.

	Orpha M. Everett was born March 25,
1814 in Lodi, Cattaraugus Co. New York.
	When 22 years of age in 1889, she embraced
the Gospel, being baptized by Curtis E.
Bolton and confirmed by Parley P. Pratt.
	She was married to Addison Everett on the
16th of Feb. 1838 by Lucien R. Foster.
They were the first couple married in the New
York Branch of the Church.
	They came to Nauvoo in 1843, and with
the rest of the afflicted Saints left there for
an unknown wild.
	Her husband was one of the Pioneers and
therefore she drove, with the assistance of her
stepson 12, years old, her own team composed
of two yoke of oxen, across the plains in 1847.
	She has one daughter living. She has 13
grandchildren and 4 great grandchildren.
She taught school a large part of her life.
Her husband died January 12 1885,, and up
to that time they had been baptized for 5000,
of their dead, and endowed for 3000
	Since the death of her husbend she has still
labored faithfully for the dead, and at her
departure from this life to the spirit world on
the 3rd of April 1891, a host of friends and
relatives were ready to greet her.
	She was loved by those acquainted with her
and many of her former pupils visited her in
her last illness, and some of them bore her
from her house to the Tabernacle where the
funeral services were conducted.
	Honored and respected in her old age, she
was laid away to await the resurrection of the
just in the St. George Cemetery.
			EMILY B. SPENCER.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
gne copy one year, $1.00 one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	JULY 15, 1891.


INDEPENDENCE DAY.

	The fourth of July 1891, has come and gone
with its usual amount of noise and parade all over
the great Republic that glories in the stars and
stripes, drums and fifes; in its lauded patriotism
and the freedom and advance of its civilization.
In only one small portion of this grand country is
there really political equality for the sex who
form one halt of the numerical strength of the
United States of America. In Wyoming alone
does equal rights for men and women mean one
and the same thing. Even this outlook is hopeful;
the day star has risen in the West, that is going
to light the world with its effulgence. Wyoming
can afford to celebrate joyfully on Independence
Day in honor of this independent state.
	Utah did her very best this year, to celebrate
this day of days for free America; in this city
there was parading, music and speeches. All
grievances were laid aside or forgotten, none but
the best of feelings prevailing, but the fates were
not over-propitious, for in the midst of the exer-
cises in Liberty Park, up rose a tremendous
thunder storm and the rain fell in torrents ac-
companied with hail and wind, and trees were
torn up by the roots and other damage done; the
elements for some reason were in great commo-
tion, and the fine apparel donned for the occasion
was sadly bedraggled, to say the least. However
there was no great harm done, only it put an end
to the fun and merriment for the time being.
	Ogden fared a little better in this respect; the
day was comparatively a fine one; the parade
there was quite gorgeous and the procession
elaborate. The exercises in Lester Park were
uninterrupted by storms of wind or rain and in
the evening there was a grand display of pyro-
technics at the Park, followed by dancing which
kept up until a late hour.
	Provo, Logan, Richfield and other large towns
and cities in the Territory celebrated in the ap-
proved style with bands of music, processions,
patriotic speeches, fine singing and all the essential
adjuncts, to make the day a festive and jolly oc-
casion, and to impress all, and especially the
children, with the importance of making it the
day of all days in the history of the country.
	Every child born on this side of the ocean doubt-
less is imbued more or less with pride in the victory
so appropriately perpetuated throughout the
Union, in the remembrance of the people, and a
positive enthusiasm is always inspired when the
band plays Yankee Doodle, the Star Spangled
Banner, or America, and yet withal there is still
something to be desired for this glorious land of
liberty; and until the time comes when women
as well as men enjoy political privileges there
will always be a hollowness and an uncertain
sound in the rejoicing on Independence Day.
	But when the time comes, as it assuredly will,


that women are accorded equal suffrage then
there will be a jubilee, the echo of which will
reverberate around the world. Until then woman
cannot truly celebrate her independence but
thousands will continue to work for the emanci-
pation of all women, which means the uplifting
and broadening of all humanity.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball visited Lehi and
American Fork recently in the interest of the
Woman Suffrage movement, and attended meet-
ings of the association, speaking at both places.
	The Young Ladies' Associations in several of
the wards of the city have given strawberry festi-
vals of late, the object being for social and
friendly reunions, and also to gather means for
benevolent purposes, or towards books for their
libraries.
	In the article published in the last issue of the
EXPONENT entitled Memorial Day, when sum-
ming up the names of those in attendance, the
name of Julia C. Howe was accidentally omitted.
It should have been one of the first names men-
tioned, for she was a very intimate friend of Sister
Hannah T. King's.
	Enthusiastic and interesting political meetings
of citizens have been held in this City during the
last few weeks, and the agitation of the subject
of government and kindred topics thus brought
before the people will be educational to the
masses, and especially so to the young people
who have had little knowledge of the principles
of the national parties.
	The Relief Society of Farmer's Ward held a
meeting on Thursday July 9th, at the residence
of Mrs. Margaret Peart, Pres. Emma Woodruff
presiding. There were present as visitors Sisters
M. Isabella Horne, Sarah M. Kimball, Elizabeth
Howard, E. B. Wells and Dr. E. S. Barney.
Meeting opened with singing "How firm a founda-
tion." Prayer by Sister E. B. Wells; singing
"O my Father thou that dwellest," etc. Minutes
of previous meeting read and approved after
which Pres. E. Woodruff made a few opening re-
marks and expressed her desire to hear from
Pres. Horne and the other visitors; brief ad-
dresses were made by Sisters Howard, Horne,
Kimball, Barney and Wells, upon subjects of
special interest to the sisters at the present time,
particularly the political situation, the advance-
ment of woman, her influence upon society, and
the need of being prepared to stand alone and re-
main true to the faith in the midst of trials.
Coun. S J Cannon made brief remarks express-
ing her appreciation of the good teachings the
sisters had given, and her own desire to improve
and do good. Pres. Emma Woodruff thanked
the sisters for their visit and the good instructions
that they had given, desiring to prove faithful unto
the end. Singing "O, say what is truth," etc.
Benediction by Sister Taylor. After the close of
the meeting refreshments were served to all
present, and social conversation indulged in for
about an hour, when the sisters separated, having
enjoyed a very pleasant meeting together.


[Column 1]

﻿JUDGE ZANE'S VIEWS.

	We sincerely hope and trust that this speech of
Judge Zane's will be read and widely circulated;
coming from a Judge holding the position that he
does and having such opportunities for knowing
the people of whom he speaks, his words should
have weight with the public.—EDITOR.
	Mr. Chairman and Gentlemen of the Conven-
tion:
	Feeling an interest in the organization of

[Column 2]

national political parties in this Territory, I
stepped inside the door to see what you were do-
ing, not intending to make a speech. Since you
called on me, I will depart so far from the course
I have hitherto pursued as to say a few words be-
fore taking my seat. I will say, gentlemen, that
I am heartily in favor of this movement. [Great
applause.]
	Whenever I deem it to be my duty to speak
out on any subject, I do it. About nine months
ago when it was announced by the head of the
religious organization known as the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, that he pro-
posed to obey the laws of his country, and ad-
vised all the members of that church to do like-
wise; and when the general conference repre-
senting the church, passed resolutions stating that
that advice was binding on its members, I chose
to believe it was in good faith. [Applause.] It
was just what I had been insisting that the or-
ganization ought to do, and after they did it, I do
not feel like turning around and saying that they
were not sincere. I have seen enough of them to
convince me that many of them, at least, had con-
victions—that they possessed consciences, by
which they were governed. I have seen them
pass man after man from this court-room to the
penitentiary rather than promise to obey the law.
And when the People's party, composed of mem-
bers of that church, through its committees an-
nounced that the People's party had disbanded,
and the announcement was acquiesced in, I
chose to take it in good faith.
	And when they stated that they proposed to
vote with one or the other of the two national
parties of the nation, that was right, and that the
public good so demanded, I chose to attribute
good motives to them.
	The People's party and the Liberal party of
this Territory have been organized with respect
to religion. It is a bad thing to have political
parties, in any country, organized with respect to
religious faith and worship. Since the Mormons
have abandoned polygamy and the People's party
has disbanded, there is nothing for a third party
to do but to pursue them on account of their re-
ligious beliefs. Their conduct, as the conduct
of the members of any church, may be defined as
crime and punished, if injurious to society. But
their beliefs cannot be so defined, prohibited and
punished. In abandoning polygamy and in dis-
solving the People's party the Mormons did right.
And they deserve credit for it, not censure and
abuse. In so doing, I give them credit for pat-
riotic and good motives. I went as far as the law
would allow in suppressing polygamy; but I dare
not invade the right of conscience. No earthly
power has a right to penetrate the human bosom
and eradicate from the soul of man its religious
beliefs. If that work can be done, it must be
performed by a power that is higher than any-
thing human.
	If any man in his worship does not act in-
jurious to society, by what authority may you or I
or all of us, stand between him and his God? If
we may pursue one man for his thoughts and be-
liefs, we may another. An individual may con-
trol his conduct, but he believes what he can.
The human intellect and conscience must be left
free. If we may suppress one church because of
the beliefs and the modes of worship of its mem-
bers, we may another, and whose religion will be
spared? The Constitution of the United States
declares that Congress shall make no law respect-
ing an establishment of religion or prohibiting the
free exercise thereof. This is a cardinal principle
of our system of government, both national and
state. That being so, why organize political
parties with respect to religious beliefs or wor-
ship? Whenever government attempts to pro-
scribe men on account of their beliefs before they
have cropped out into human actions they at-
tempt that which belongs to a Power above us.


We must believe as we can—I may not believe
as my friend who sits here, but he may be as
honest as I am. We cannot believe just what we
want to, and to punish a man because he does not
believe just as we do is tyranny and oppression.
[Great applause.]
	In bygone ages despotic governments at-
tempted to invade the sacred domain of human
conscience, and in their attempts they have
reddened the path of the human race with the
blood of brave men. Political parties may be
organized with respect to actions and conduct,
but not merely for the purpose of suppressing
human thoughts and convictions.
	We cannot organize political parties with re-
spect to churches in this land—my friend says
there are one hundred and forty of them; I pre-
sume he has not got them all.—Governments
must be liberal enough to tolerate all religions.
We must not fetter the mind and conscience of
man—such proscription dwarfs the mind and be-
littles the conscience. I did not rise to make a
political speech—only to call attention to a prin-
ciple to which all parties that ought to exist
should conform. I call attention to the prin-
ciple because I think there is a disposition on the
part of some people to violate it.
	I believe that the Republican and Democratic
parties in this Territory should present their
principles to the people and invite them to unite
according to their convictions.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CHARACTER RECEPTION.

	A delightful literary and social entertainment
was given by Apostle Lorenzo and Mrs. Minnie
J. Snow, at their residence in Brigham City, on
the occasion of their 20th wedding anniversary,
June 12th 1891.
	The house was wreathed in vines and roses
with the artistic skill for which the hostess is
noted, creating a charming effect. The scene was
one of refinement and beauty; the pleasure of the
company was marred only by the absence, through
force of circumstances surrounding us as a peo-
ple, of the honored Groom; but a slight recom-
pense was afforded in a beautiful and touching
conjoint address of welcome in verse from Brother
and Sister Snow read by their little daughter
Mabel, this being the first exercise on the deli-
cately printed programmes presented each guest
as a souvenir.
	The unique design of the entertainment re-
quired each guest to assume the character of
some noted person, author, actor, singer, musician
statesman, etc., according to ability, and present
some favorite production of the character per-
sonated. This character personage was intro-
duced by name and title and any failure to 
properly address during the evening was to be
punishable with a forfeit, which is always apt to
cause considerable merriment. Mrs. M. J. Snow
sustained the character Felicia Hemans. She was
attired in a charming costume of black velvet
and cream lace, and sang the author's immortal
"The Captive Knight" to which Sir Walter Scott
never tired of listening. Mr. A. H. Snow ap-
peared as "Bret Harte" and gave a fine rendition
of "John Burns of Gettysburg." Mrs. Lillie
Snow so well qualified to represent the beautiful
and interesting Mrs. Cleveland, read one of that
lady's favorite peoms "No sects in heaven." Mrs.
Lillie Freeze, as Ella Wheeler Wilcox,gave "The
Disappointed" one of that lady's sweetest poems.
An address "The sunshine of life," delivered by
Prof. J. F. Moench of Ogden recalling the
pleasant reminiscences of over twenty years
friendship was a bright gem, and his gifted wife
favored the company with a tender little poem
suited to the occasion. A recitation "The new
Church Organ," by Mrs. Mattie Horne Tingey,
created ripples of laughter. Pres. Rudger Claw-


son paid some bright tributes to the noble char-
acter of Apostle Snow while relating experiences
shared together when confined in the Utah Peni-
tentiary for conscience sake.
	The very sweet singing of Mr. and Mrs. Wm.
Jenson, Mrs. H. J. Snow, Ettie Madsen and the
excellent instrumental selections by Miss Amelia
Ghrael, Maye Taylor and Miss Aggie Campbell,
completed a highly intellectual entertainment,
after which an elegant repast suited to the sea-
son with a bountiful supply of strawberries, was
enjoyed with lively social conversation. A com-
plimentary serenade by the Brigham City band
was tendered the respected entertainers at their
separate places of abode, and altogether the new
social venture was a success to be long re-
membered with pleasure by those participating.
			L. T. F.


[Column 1]

INTERESTING VISIT TO THE PRIMARY
ASSOCIATIONS OF CACHE STAKE.

	Accepting the duty of visiting the Primary
District Conferences 6 in number, of the above
named Stake in place of Pres. Louie B. Felt of
the Central Board who was prevented from filling
the engagement previously made with Stake Pres.
Jane F. Molen, we arrived in Logan June 13,1891, in
time to attend the afternoon session of the Logan
district conference held in the 4th Ward meeting
house owing to the Tabernacle undergoing repairs.
comprising the 7 wards of that place, also Provi-
dence and Greenville; the house was crowded
with parents and children—encouraged by the
presence and teaching of Stake Pres. Orsen
Smith and Coun. Isaac Smith.
	The programme was well rendered by the child-
ren in clear, distinct tones, natural emphasis, and
where required, with true dramatic effect. We
would love to mention many exercises worthy of
special notice but as upwards of one hundred and
twenty-five, all worthy of praise were rendered
during our visit, it would be impossible to make
distinctions, so we will only note some of the items
for the benefit of other workers. Instead of hold-
ing one general Stake Conference where,owing to
distance, lack of teams etc.,it is utterly impossible
for hundreds of the little ones to attend, Pres.
Molen has very wisely organized district confer-
ences including three or four branches—changing
the conference each year so that all may share
alike in the benefit and pleasures. These Annual
Conferences are faithfully visited by the Stake
Presidency Jane E. Molen, Mattie B. Hansen and
Emma Pike, and the occasion made one of
especial interest by presiding authorities and
parents and children turning out en masse to sus-
tain and encourage the Primary cause. Besides
attending these, all annual meetings, entertain-
ments, fairs, etc., are promptly visited by one or
more of the Stake officers and the energy, enter-
prize and persistence of these devoted workers are
every where manifest in the advancement of the
children. Quarterly officers' meetings are also
held in Logan, where methods are devised, plans
discussed, mistakes corrected, reports given, and
all business transacted, but above all where
strength and courage are imparted from a perfect
understanding of each other, and love and con-
fidence engendered by such frequent association,
that duty becomes closely allied with pleasure.
	Complying with the wishes of Apostle Moses
Thatcher and Sister Zina D. Young, staunch
friends to the Primary work, all officers and those
taking part in the exercises remove their hats
during the services; the advantages of this custom
should be considered by all.
	The children accept the minutes in concert and
the boys are required to take their proper place
at the head and lead out on the programmes. It
was with much astonishment that we beheld so
many boys attending meeting—the girls are every-

[Column 2]

where—ever present, but by actual count there
were 550 boys at the various meetings; we were
anxious to learn by what means this was accom-
plished, and concluded that it was due largely to
the co-operation of parents, and the loving tact
of the officers that make the boys feel themselves
an actual necessity.
	Monday we visited beautiful Hyrum. The Con-
ference was held there in two meetings, compris-
ing Millville, Paradise and Farmers Branch, with
112 boys at the morning session and an excellent
programme; the manuscript paper was a little gem
and the recitations were particularly good.
	Tuesday, we reached Mendon and held two
meetings. The programme was rendered by the
children of Mendon, Wellsville not represented,
and Petersboro.The latter is a farming district con-
taining only 12 families scattered miles apart, yet
the class exercises on Church history and good
manners were among the best; it is a matter of
surprise how these children are brought together
and taught to speak and sing in such harmony!
	In Mendon we were attracted by the number
of children able to play on the organ, and their
correct singing was quite praisworthy.
	Wednesday we attended the Smithfield Confer-
ence which included Hyde Park, and Benson
Wards, the latter absent and the Smithfield
schools being in session, the large morning meet
was composed mostly of Hyde Park people. In
the afternoon Smithfield was well represented
and throughout the day the exercises made a de-
lightful entertainment, the singing being especi-
ally good.
	The weather so far had been most favorable,
but Thursday morning Richmond was favored
with a heavy shower which, though ceasing just
before the meeting hour we feared would detain
many at home, but to our surprise the large meet-
ing house was well filled and in the afternoon
crowded. We were promised a treat in this
place and were gratified beyond anticipation.
The stands were tastefully draped with festoons of
evergreens and flowers and house plants artisti-
cally arranged. Here, places of business are
closed and the people give their undivided atten-
tion to the Primary Annual Conference which in-
terest must secure success.
	Lewiston and Cove Ville are here represented
and the programme was full of interesting variety
2 or 3 selections of local interest composed by the
Richmond poetess was a pleasing feature, the
choir flourishes under a young lady organist and
leader, and a Christmas carol, with bell accom-
paniment by 7 girls in white dresses and wreaths,
was enchanting. We had asked for mouth organ
solos in all places, but was only favored by one
little boy, but here to our delight 3 girls gave a
very good solo on this handy little instrument. A
blind boy from Lewiston also favored us with a
solo. We saw the picture of the former Primary
band in full uniform, but they have all passed into
the senior class, and we hope others will take
their places.
	Friday we were ready to attend Conference in-
the little town of Newton, and wondered where
people would come from, to fill the house, but
both meetings were crowded and chairs borrowed
to give seats to all. Clarkston belongs to this
district and here as elsewhere they "were up to
the times" full of energy and good works as
shown by the creditable work represented by the
children, this being the first conference since the
death of their former Pres., Sister Bessie Griffin.
A touching exibition of the love she had won was
given in tears and signs of loving remembrance
at mention of her name.
	In this place our labors ended. Though begun
by bearing up the cross in fear, they ended with
an outpouring of God's blessing upon those who
labor for His cause striving to turn the hearts of
His children to Him in sincere love and reverent


worship. The exercises to be rendered at these
conferences are all sent to the President of the
association, where the meeting is to be held, and
a complete programme is made out for the day,
preventing tedious delays and loss of time. In
all places we were cordially welcomed and hos-
pitably entertained by the officers and other kind
sisters, and return home with the full assurance
that the Primary cause is in a progressive condi-
tion in that part of the vineyard, and much credit
is due those who labor incessantly with brain
and body to accomplish the mighty work com-
menced in Zion. 
LILLIE FREEZE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	R.   S.   REPORTS.

	TOOELE STAKE.

	Minutes of the conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Tooele Stake, held in Grantsville,
June 13, 1891. President Mary A. Hunter
presiding. There were present on the stand
Apostle F. M.  Lyman, Stake President H. S.
Gowans, his Counselors Chas. L. Anderson
and Geo. F. Richards and Bishop Atkin of
Tooele; of Salt Lake, Sisters Jane S. Richards
and Bathsheba W. Smith, Counselors to Prest.
Zina D. H. Young. The time was spent in
the morning by good instructions being given
by Sisters Jane S. Richards and Batheba
W. Smith. The attendance was not very
good because of the prevailing disease, diph-
theria. No Primary Association Conference
was held because of the above stated reason.
Sunday afternoon Conference was continued
and attended by the same few who attended
before. The Sisters again spoke in a very in-
teresting manner. Apostle F. M. Lyman in
his usual interesting way addressed the con
gregation. The officers of the Relief Society
were presented and sustained. Singing, and
then the benediction was pronounced by Prest.
H. S. Gowans. Conference was then ad-
journed for six months to be held in Tooele
City.
	ANN TATE, Cor. Sec.

	SALT LAKE STAKE.

	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief So
ciety of Salt Lake Stake was held in the
Assembly Rooms 14th ward of this City,
Friday June 19th, 1891, Prest. M. I. Horne
presiding. Conference opened by singing,
‘‘We thank thee O, God for a Prophet,” etc.
	Prayer was offered by the Secretary Eli-
zabeth Howard. Singing,
“Now let us rejoice in the day of Salvation," etc.
	On the stand and platform with the Pre-
sident M. Isabella Horne, were Sisters E1-
mina S. Taylor, Elizabeth Webb, Elizabeth
Stevenson, Sarah M. Kimball, Maria W.
Wilcox and several other branch presi-
dents.
	Roll called 18 Presidents, 11 Counselors,
and 2 Secretaries responded. Minutes of the
last Conference read and accepted.
	Prest. Horne in her opening address wel-
comed those present and exhorted the sisters
to diligence and faithfulness, cautioned them
to beware of carelessness and indifference in
attending to their meetings and other duties,
that were for their spiritual welfare.
	First ward S. L. City reported by Ann
Young, Counselor; 2nd ward Ann McGre-
gor, Counselor; 3d Elizabeth Weiler, Presi-
dent; 5th Mary Buchanan, Counselor; 7th
Mary Alice Lambert, President; 9th E.
Webb, Counselor; 10th Charlotte Fawcett,
Teacher; 11th Agnes Child, Teacher; 13th
Louisa Spencer, Counselor; 14th M. W. Wil-
cox, President; 15th S. M. Kimball, Presi-
dent; 16th Diana Reid, President; 17th Em-
ma Bull, Secretary; 18th Hannah M.
Wright, Counselor; 19th Ann E. Neal, Pre-

[Column 2]
sident; 22nd Mary Jeremy, Counselor; Sugar
House, Betsey Balwinkle, Secretary; Big
Cottonwood, Emily Stevenson, President;
South Cottonwood, Mary Rawlins, President;
Draper, Mary Smith, Counselor; Union, Mary
Ann Smart, Secretary; Mountain Dell, Mary
Jane Dixon, President; Sandy, Harriet Wil-
son, Counselor; South Jordan, Ann Halt,
President; West Jordan, Agnes Cutler Trea-
surer; North Jordan, Emily Beckstead, Coun-
selor; these branches were reported in
good working order and the members active
and desirous of performing every duty de-
volving upon them in caring for the poor, at-
tending to the sick and improving in spirit-
ual things.
	President Horne made a few suggestive
remarks and the meeting adjourned until 2
p.m. Singing;
	"Lord dismiss us with thy blessing."
	Benediction by E. S. Taylor. Afternoon
session opened with singing.
	"O, happy souls-who pray," etc.
	Prayer by Mrs. Elizabeth Stevenson.
Singing, 
	"O, ye mountains high," etc.
	The first speaker was Elvira Hirst, Presi-
dent, Pleasant Green, who reported that
branch, followed, by Jane Silcock, President,
Riverton; Mary A. Mousley, President, Bluff-
dale; Charlotte Neilson, President, Hunter. 
These sisters gave good reports concerning
their respective branches, and bore faithful
testimonies to the truth of the Gospel.
	Prest. Horne spoke of the store established
by the sisters; had hoped to have a report of
the six months at the next conference;
thought the sisters should take an interest in
this home institution and give it their sup-
port and patronage, and have faith in its suc-
cess; some of the greatest achievements had
very small beginnings. Referred to the Pri-
mary Association. The whispering of theSpirit
to Sister Amelia Rogers of Farmington had
been to organize the children, it had a small
commencement, but it had grown and in
creased and become a success. Felt we must
trust implicitly in the blessing of our Father
in heaven upon all of our efforts, and what-
ever we establish for mutual benefit.
	Lula Greene Richards, Treasurer 20th
Ward, represented that society as being in
good condition, though there had been a great
deal of sickness during the winter.
	Sarah M. Kimball, gave some encourage-
ment to the Secretaries, hoped they would
comprehend the blessings of the position and
become more fully developed through the
discipline of this important labor; gave some
suggestive hints upon dress, thought we should
make an improvement in this regard for the
benefit of our health and that we might have
more complete activity of every organ of the
human body.
	E. B. Wells spoke of intellectual and spirit-
ual development; urged the sisters to strive to
improve in speaking, and not be afraid of their
own voices, commended the diligence and the
liberality of the sisters, and referred to the
visit of the Delegates to Washington and the
good she thought would be derived therefrom
as a step, in advance.
	Helen M. Whitney expressed her grati-
tude in being able once more to attend
Conference, and spoke at some length upon
faith and prayer and the blessings to be
obtained thereby; also spoke of her great
desire to be of some use in the world, and
to endure all trials patiently even unto the
end; thought it necessary that we should be
united in order to obtain wisdom and pow-
er to rise above earthly things that we
should be humble and examine ourselves
and exercise charity.

[Column 3]
	The Sisters joined in singing a verse
from the hymn,
	"How firm a foundation."
	Elizabeth Howard felt we should be cau-
tious about evil speaking and liberal in our
feelings religiously and politically; in edu-
cating our children’s religion should be the
first consideration, the sisters should interest
themselves more in study politics.
	Mrs. Kimball made a few further remarks
upon politics; thought we should educate our-
selves to become educators; and should
stand upon a platform of equal rights, we
ought to understand the results and bearings
of the different laws before we can teach
these things. 
	Prest. Horne endorsed the remarks of Mrs.
Kimball and gave some specific instructions
to the Relief Society in reference to their
duties, and urged them to make an effort to
get younger women to co-operate with them
in visiting as teachers and in the active la-
bors of the Society. Spoke of the high esti-
mate the Prophet Joseph put upon the work
of the sisters, and that he organized it for a
strength and help and blessing to women.
She realized that women were coming on to a
higher platform, thought their intelligence
and ideas should be as great as those of men;
and be interested in everything that is for the
good of the community.
	Dr. Conger was accorded the privilege of
addressing the conference for about twenty
minutes, on the subject of health and how to
secure this inestimable blessing. His remarks
were good and his words well-chosen, and very
suggestive as well as highly interesting.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
	Singing. Doxology. Benediction by E.
Webb.
	E. HOWARD, Secretary.

	BOX ELDER STAKE.

	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of Box Elder Stake, convened in the
Tabernacle at Brigham City on the 10th of
June. Pres. Olivia Widerborg presiding.
Singing, "Lord we come before Thee now."
Prayer by Brother Crawford singing, “Come
come ye saints;' roll called, minutes of pre-
vious conference read and approved. Annie
Bowring acting as Sec., pro tem.
	Pres. Widerborg:“Let us chase all care away
while we are here, let us ask ourselves, what
have I learned since last conference? How do
we stand? The Lord is so anxious to bless us.
God help us to truly treasure up knowledge,
to love one another and fulfil the mission we
came here for.”
	Sister Hubbard, Pres. Willard: “I am happy
to meet with you; I need the spirit of the Lord
to be with me every moment of my life; we
come here to secure words of comfort, we
should have charity; I believe I know what
that means, let us strive to be one that we may
truly be the children of our Father in heaven.
	Sister Albertsen, Pres. Bear River City:
"We feel well in our ward, the Lord has blest
us much, I feel the Gospel is as sweet to me as
it has always been."
	Sister Booth, Pres. first ward Brigham City:
"It is our duty to meet often together; we
should encourage our young people to read
Church history instead of novels; let us com-
fort and sustain one another; and keep near
unto the Lord."
	Sister Perry, Three Mile Creek: "I can say
we are truly a hand of sisters; I hope it may
be our happy lot to be counted among the
faithful; our President, Jane Perry, is very
sick, which causes us to mourn."
	Sister Dewey, Pres. Deweyville: "My prayer
to our Heavenly Father is that I may have
wisdom to counsel and devise. I feel to say,
God bless the Relief Society; I miss Sister
Perry, she has been so faithful.


[Column 1]
	Sister Watkins, Pres. 4th Ward Brigham
City: “We should rise up to our duties; we
know the predictions of the prophets will be
fulfilled.”
	Sister C. Jensen, Pres. Mantua: “I think we
have a splendid set of sisters we have been
greatly blest of the Lord; I can bear testimony
that He has heard my prayers.”
	Sister Jane S. Richards of Ogden: “I am
pleased to meet with you; we generally say,
we see the same ones to meeting always; I am
glad it is the same ones and a few more; we
become attached to each other; I have never
enjoyed myself better; what we have heard of
the sisters, I would have said; I feel when I
speak to you that you know just what I know;
we are approaching the time when things shall
try this people; what shall we do that we may
keep oil in our lamps? all are willing and
kind to donate and help the sick; the world
will do that, we should be charitable, forgive
each other’s faults; only when we have an
abundance of the Holy Spirit can we see our
own faults, therefore we need much. We need
to have a humble, childlike feeling; we should
be pleased with everybody; we want to feel
friendly; when I look upon an assembly I feel
thankful that so many sisters have had a desire
strong enough to go to meeting;” spoke of
her sick sister; many times our duty keeps us
with the sick. I like education, but we must
not dote upon it, but use it for the benefit of
others, not be haughty and proud; we had
Sister Eliza R. Snow to educate us in these
things; she felt so full of love for the sisters,so
full of charity and was so forgiving; she was a
true mother to all; may we overlook each
other’s little follies.”
	Singing, “Come thou glorious day of
promise.” Benediction by Counselor Mary
Wright.

	Afternoon session. Singing, “’Mid scenes.”
Prayer by Bishop Dewey. Singing “O God to
Thee, thanks for our blessings free.”
	Pres. O. Widerborg: “We have spent a
pleasant time, the Lord has poured out His
spirit. Sister Richards proposes that we turn
this meeting into a testimony meeting. I want
to say for our Primary, I attended their
officers’ meeting yesterday it would do every
mother good to see and understand the work
of these officers.
	Apostle Lorenzo Snow: “Fifty-five years ago
I remember distinctly, the most blessed meet-
ings we had were those in the Temple in
Kirtland, as is here proposed. Father Smith
presided, took immense pains to have every
sister and brother say shortly what the Spirit
had to say; sisters would speak in tongues,
others interpreted, the Spirit of God was upon
us; these were glorious times, glorious seasons
I believe it depends a great deal upon the
sisters, if our fast meetings are well attended,
I believe things are coming that will try every
one; if persecution comes let us be prepared,
no matter what comes, so we have abundance
of the Spirit of God. We saw the great work
last night of the Primary; do all you can to
save your daughters to attend these organiza-
tions. God bless you and your officers,and all
who are working for the advancement of Zion.
Amen.
	Pres. Rudger Clawson: “I know we can not
spend our time or develop our talents better,
than in the interest of Zion. We should en-
courage our children as they grow up, we should
instil in them the principles of the Gospel, to pay
tithing from early childhood; let them feel they
are somebody, they are the hope of Israel; we
must educate them in the Gospel of Jesus
Christ.
	Sister Richards: “we have not been speaking
much of obedience. I think it is impossible for
us to do any good, comfort or aid unless the
Lord should put it into our mouths; of course
[Column 2]
we are full of faults and failings, sometimes
say and do things that we should not, there is
so much expected of us, it is quite an under-
taking for mothers to do their duties at home
and attend meetings. I hope we may someday
be perfect, if we have heaven at all it must be a
home full of that kind feeling, love and
charity; we don’t want to do any harm, we
have been poor and needy like those we visit;
how much we have to be thankful for, if we do
not live like Latter-day Saints, it is a great
deal of comfort to try to live as one. We
should be greatly thankful that we are among
those few favored children of the Lord; all
He wants us to do, is, to try to serve and obey
Him;” spoke of the Primary: “mothers should
visit them and help these sisters, you are here
so am I, to do good; may God bless you,
Amen.”
	Sister Harriet Hunsaker, Pres. Honeyville:
Sisters Celia Nelson, Call and Harris bore
their testimony. Sister Reeves told how the
Lord had given her a strong testimony, that
she knew the principle of Celestial marriage
was true.
	Sister Robinson bore her testimony. Sister
Davids told how she was shown the man she
should marry in plural marriage although she
had never heard about that principle yet;
bore a faithful testimony that the principle
was true though we had not now the privi-
lege of living in it.
	Margaret Evans and Sister Nelson bore their
testimony.
	Hymn sung by Brother Booth, joined in by
the congregation, “The spirit of God like a
fire is burning.” Pres. Widerborg. “We will
lose nothing if we prolong our meeting one
half hour.” Brother Crawford told how he
had received a testimony.
	Brother Gibbert and Sisters Phoebe W.
Snow, Perry, Gilbert, Mortensen and Rees
bore strong and faithful testimonies.
	Pres. Widerborg: “I feel to thank the
Priesthood and Sister Richards for visiting
us. Sister E. B. Wells sends her love to all
the sisters of Box Elder.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, “How firm a foundation.” Benedic-
tion by Counselor Adolph Madsen.
	EMILIA D. MADSEN, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


W. S. A. SALT LAKE CO.

	The regular meeting of the W. S A. of
Salt Lake Co., was held in the 13th Ward As-
sembly Rooms, June 16, 1891. Pres. Eliza-
beth Howard occupied the chair. Prayer by
Phebe C. Young. May Talmage was appointed
to act as Sec., pro. tem. Minutes of previous
meeting read and approved.
	Elizabeth Price read a very carefully pre-
pared article on “Republicanism,” containing
the platform of that party, also some interest-
ing points on “Government,” taken from
Chamber’s Encyclopedia.
	Elizabeth McFarlane read from “Hand
Book of Reference,” on the Government of
Utah.
	Phebe C. Young thought the present a very
important time in as much as there was now a
division of the political parties. We should
inform ourselves on the platform of each
National party and on all the leading questions
of the day, said she had enjoyed the fran-
chise for 17 years and had never failed to ex-
ercise her rights; said she would like to see
not only the ladies have their rights restored
to them, but all those natural born citizens of
the other sex who had been deprived of the
same.
	Dr. E. S. Barney had taken an interest,
when young, in studying the principles of the
different parties, but had not thought so much
about it of late years,until the recent change in


our political affairs; thought we should all
strive to be on the right side whatever name it
bore.
	Pres. Howard said she thought it quite time
we understand our positions and on what
footing we stand. In her opinion the day
would come when men would be raised up in
these valleys, who would be able to carry out
the principles of our Government in their
purity, and not for the love of gain. She re-
gretted the fact that more of our mothers and
wives did not manifest a greater interest in
our meetings. Read a short extract from an
article in Blackwood’s Magazine, entitled“A
Pessimistic Observer” giving the result of
the research of an English scholar, on the
subject of United States politics and govern-
ment.
	Louisa Spencer was heart and soul in the
cause of suffrage; thought the women of this
community well adapted to make their mark
in this direction.
	Emily S. Richards said, “We cannot afford
to be ignorant on the subject of politics.
We must study for ourselves. Read the
Declaration of Independence and the Consti-
tution, also Amendment to Constitution, and
the platforms of the parties.”
	Ann McGregor made a few remarks and
the meeting was adjourned till the 3rd Tues-
day in July.
			MAY TALMAGE,  Sec. pro. tem.


WOMEN VITALLY CONCERNED.
	Women who take the least concern in pub-
lic matters must feel that their claim for a
voice in the affairs of their country is
stronger now than ever. If there is one top-
ic which is emphatically a woman’s, it is
the training of the young, and Parliament
is now entering on one of the most momentu-
ous changes ever made in the great scheme
of primary education, and the womanhood
of the nation is powerless to say yea or
nay. The questions, also, which women are
too apt to regard as purely political, and
therefore outside their sphere, concern them
as vitally as they do men. For instance,
as Miss Tod, of Belfast—whose name has so
long been associated with every effort for
women’s enfranchisement—writes in a letter
to an Irish daily, the “Land Purchase Bill
touches the interest of woman farmers, of
whom there are nearly 60,000 in Ireland,
and of woman land owners great and small
who amount to about an eighth of the total
number. The Factory Bills affect the lives
of tens of thousands of women. The educa-
tional changes impending in Ireland are
watched with more anxiety than hope by
the friends of girls, who have barely es-
caped from the action of a ukase which
would have stopped the education of three-
fourths of the girls of Ireland at the level
degrading to them and fatal to the progress
of the community. The way out of the di-
fficulty is for the Government boldly to say
that they will no longer leave the welfare of
half the nation to the mere goodwill of in-
dividual members of Parliament, but admit
those holding the usual qualification to the
position of electors and the responsibility it
brings with it.”—Westminster Gazette (Eng.)


“The deputy postmaster general at London
is filling all vacancies in the male clerical staff
at the postoffice with women clerks. One
hundred and ten women have just passed the
requisite open examination called for by the
civil service regvlations, and will be employed
at first at salaries of £60, their duties being the
same as those performed by male clerks.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT﻿


A JURY OF WOMEN.
	Mrs. Ingersoll, proprietess of the Valley
House, the principal hotel in the city of
Douglas, Wyoming, refused to pay the wages
of two of her girls who quit work without giv-
ing previous notice of their intention of doing
so. They appealed to the law and the case
was brought before Judge Robinson.
	Mrs. Ingersoll demanded a jury. The usual
form of summoning six male citizens was
being proceeded with, when Minnie Jones, one
of the plaintiffs, appealed to the Court. She
said:
	“Mr. Judge, this is a woman suffrage county
and as we are all women in this case, can’t we
have a a woman jury?”
	Judge Robinson consulted the attorneys for
both sides, and as both were willing he direct-
ed the bailiffs to summon women to serve on
the jury.
	This was done, and by the time the jury
reached the court room the unusual proceed-
ings were noised about and the room was
crowded with spectators.
	The testimony of the plaintiffs and defend-
ant was given and the case was argued at
length by the attorneys for both sides.
	The jury listened attentively, and several of
the ladies asked questions as the case was
heard. They retired to the jury room when
the case was concluded and in a business-like
way gave a verdict for the servant girls. The
result was applauded by the spectators and
the jury women were warmly congratulated as
they stepped up to the clerk’s desk to receive
their warrants for the jury duty.—Ex.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	The consular reports on labor matters lately
collected for the English Parliament, showed
that legislation for the protection of women
and children is everywhere in progress.”

	“Mrs. Grover Cleveland is much interested
in mission work. She is vice-president of a
mission kindergarten, and visits the mission
frequently.

	“A Swiss woman has invented a watch for
the blind, on the dial of which the hours are
indicated by twelve projecting pegs, one of
which sinks every hour.”

	“It is reported that Queen Victoria has of-
fered to make Lady MacDonald a peeress, in
recognition of her husband’s distinguished ser-
vices to the empire.”

	“Miss Palmer, of Philadelphia, who is the
champion of a new silk worm, is making pre-
parations to start a ribbon factory at Topeka.
She will, it is said, furnish the capital her-
self.”
	Mrs. Julia Ward Howe’s energy of mind
cannot be better illustrated than by the fact
that she began the study of Greek when she
was nearly 70 years old. Now, at 72, she has
just read the plays of Sophocles in the origin-
al.
	“The bill providing for a woman’s profes-
sorship at the State University of Michigan
has become a law. This is the result of the
movement begun by Mrs. Lucinda H. Stone,
and seconded by the women’s clubs.”
	
	“Miss Minerva Parker, the architect of the
Woman’s Century Club building in Phila-
delphia, and the Isabella Pavilion of the
World’s Fair, is a slight, willowy young wo-
man with a Madonna face, from which the
dark hair is combed back smoothly, and beauti-
ful dark eyes.”


WOMEN INVENTORS.

	Patents have been granted to women for the
week ending May 5, 1891, as follows:
	Louisa H. Clomer; Philadelphia, Pa., Inven-
tion not specified.
	Helen V. Holmes, Chicago, Ill. Device
for stretching and drying curtains.

	For week ending May 19:
	Alice R. Eaton, Louisville, Ky., Comb-
Cleaner.
	Mary S. C. Hartmann, Redding, Cal.,
Steamer for Culinary Vessel.
	Marie Mahondeau, Paris, France, Extract-
ing Sugar from Molasses.
	Carrie McGrew, Cincinnati, O., Card Hold-
ing Attachment for Typewritting Machine.
	Mary A. Turley, Yonkers, N. Y., Ironing-
Support or Seam-Pressing Machine.
	Abigail H. Bullock, Philadelphia, Pa.,
Cosmetic.
	Bertha J. Requardt, Baltimore, Md., Tonio
for the Hair.

	For week ending June 2:
	Mary H. Brigman, Penn Yan, N. Y.
Brush.
	Emma R. Burt, Gatesville Texas,
Chemise.
	Lydia Stecknell, Atchison, Kan., Dough-
Kneader.
	Ex.


ONE MORE GONE TO REST.

	At Richville, Morgan Co., May 6th 1891, we were called
to part with a noble woman, Sister Fanny Parks Taggart,
wife of Geo. W. Taggart.
	She had been a member of the Church 55 years. Was
one of those sisters who made the sacrifice of her husband
to go and assist in the war with Mexico. Came to Utah in 
1852, and finally settled in Morgan Co., where she died.
She was President of the Relief Society about 14 years
which position she honorably filled until about a year be-
fore her demise, then she resigned on account of declining
health She was an exemplary woman, always ready to
help where assistance was required.
	The counsel she gave will long be remembered by young
mothers with whom she was associated.
	She was the mother of 3 children and 31 grand-children.
She bore a strong testimony to the work of God and died
as she had lived a faithful Saint. Retained her right mind
until the last moment of her life. We do not wish her
back to this world of sorrow, but feel that we have lost a
true friend, and mother in Israel. May she rest in peace
until the morning of the first resurrection.
							MARYETTE WALDRON.


IN MEMORIAM.
		
	We, the sisters of the Relief Society of the Fourth Ward,
Provo City, unanimously adopt the following resolutions.
To the memory of our esteemed sister Mary S. Bennett,
who departed this life May 20th, 1891.
	She was born in Roland, England, March 2nd 1839.
She was married to John Bennett, Feb. 1st 1863, was the
mother of twelve children, ten sons and two daughters,
seven sons who survive her.
	She was a faithful member of our Society, and an active
teacher for several years, she had a kind and cheerful dis-
position, and was ever willing to help the sick and those in
trouble, she was an affectionate wife and indulgent mother.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father has seen fit to call from
our midst by the hand of death, our beloved sister and
friend,
	Therefore be it resolved that we recognize in the death
of our sister the loss of a faithful teacher and co-laborer in
the Relief Society.
	Resolved that we esteem her goodness and patience and
uncomplaining endurance worthy of our imitation.
	Resolved that we extend our heartfelt sympathy to the
family of the deceased, and with them acknowledge the 
hand of our Father in heaven.	Resolved that these resolutions be entered into the
Relief Society record, also a copy be presented to the be-


reaved family, and printed in the Utah Enquirer and WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT.
	M. M. WATSON,
		President.
	ADELAIDE J. MELDRUM,
	RACHEL ANN GATHERUM,
		Committee.


Woman’s Voice
AND PUBLIC SCHOOL CHAMPION.

	A bright newsy weekly paper, treating of all
reforms that affect women; is a firm defender of 
the public schools, and gives information concern-
ing them.
	It contains reports of the W. C. T., the King's 
Daughters and Missions.
	Exposes the dangers threatening the nation
from Immigration, the Liquor Traffic and Roman-
ism—gives full reports of the world-renowned
Boston Music Hall Patriotic Sunday afternoon 
meetings.
PRICE $1.00 PER YEAR.	SAMPLE COPY 3 cts.
Address: ELIZA TRASK HILL.
Editor and General Manager, Room 9, Tremont
Temple, Boston, Mass.

Woman’s Co-operative Inst’n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, latest
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc, Stamping done to order. But
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 123 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
Opposite City Hall.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	DAVD JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 20.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 1, 1891.	No. 3.


CONTENTS.
	Constitution of the National-American Woman
Suffrage Association. In Memoriam—L. L.
Greene Richards. Eighty Years Old. Sympathy
—Mary Y. Corby. A Box on the Ear. Forgive-
ness. R. S. Report—Cassia Stake. W. S. A.,
S. L. Co. The White Cross Movement in Edu-
cation. A Pleasant Gathering. Self-Sacrifice.
Old Maids Organize—Ex. Miscellaneous.
	EDITORIAL:—Agitation is Educational. Edi-
torial Notes. Love-God-Now,—S. W. Richards.
Love Thy Neighbor as Thyself—Eliza D. Gibbs.
Executive Session.
	POETRY:—‘‘Does Love Forget?”— Woman’s
Journal. Regret—Jean Ingelow. Fancy’s Pano-
rama—E. B. W. Unto the Least of These—
Louise Betts Edwards. At Evening—E. B. W.


“DOES LOVE FORGET?”
“Does love forget all it forgives?” once said
The fair young Greek, who sadly learned to know,
Though much we love, we ne’er forget a blow.
The scar itself remains, though pain is dead,
And was forgiven when the wound was red.
True love remembers, but forbears to show
The hand that only should caress bestow,—
The hand that to sweet waters should have led.
The perfume that in flower unconscious lives,
The light that paints to tints the dullest forms,
Are not more subtle than the love that warms
The human heart. From Him who much forgives
It comes, A gift divine,—a touch as yet
Of perfect love that needs not to forget.
	Woman’s Journal.


REGRET.
Oh, that word regret!
There have been nights and morns when we have sighed
“Let us alone, regret! We are content
To throw thee all our past, so thou wilt sleep
For aye.” But it is patient, and it wakes:
It hath not learned to cry itself to sleep,
But ’plaineth on the bed that it is hard.
We did amiss when we did wish it gone,
And over: Sorrows humanize our race;
Tears are the showers that fertilize this world;
And memories of things precious keepeth warm
The heart that once did hold them. They are poor
Who have lost nothing; they are poorer far
Who, losing, have forgotten; they most poor
Of all who lose and wish they might forget.
For life is one, and in its warp and woof
There runs a thread of gold that glitters fair
And sometimes in the pattern shows most sweet
Where there are somber colors. It is true
That we have wept. But oh, this thread of gold,
We would not have it tarnish; let us turn
Oft and look back upon the wondrous web,
And when it shineth sometimes we shall know 
That memory is possession.
	JEAN INGELOW.


FANCY’S PANORAMA.
I see, within the shadows of past years,
	A panorama all unrolled to view,
In many places blurred with woman’s tears, 
	But life-like in its outlines, clear and true.
Visions of wildest fancies come and go,
	And whisp’rings of some dear delicious hours;
And soft and deep and musical the flow
	Of mem’ries river murm’ring ’mid life’s bow’rs.
How silently we summon to our aid
	The monitors then wont to be our guide,


And where our weary feet ’mong brambles stray’d,
	And sorely in our anguish we were tried.
Stern duty was our motto, and we sought
	To tread the narrow path, and trust in God,
Braving life’s battles though with perils fraught,
	And bowing meekly ’neath the chastening rod.
And brighter grew the way as years rolled on,
	And light beam’d up where all around was dark,
And well we deem’d it that some toil was done
	E’en though accomplished by a glim’ring spark.
’Tis pleasant thus to contemplate, at times,
	The pictures which remembrance conjures up,
List’ning to echoing bells of long-lost chimes,
	Though seemingly we drain the bitter cup,
’Tis but in thought, and life looks brighter still
	By contrast of those ills and griefs and fears; 
And humbly may we our true mission fill
	Through all the changes of the coming years.
	E. B. W.


[Column 1]
﻿CONSTITUTION OF THE NATIONAL
AMERICAN WOMAN SUFFRAGE
ASSOCIATION.

ARTICLE I.
	The name of this Association shall be THE
NATIONAL-AMERICAN WOMAN SUFFRAGE
ASSOCIATION.

ARTICLE II.	
	The object of this Association shall be to
secure protection in their right to vote to the
women citizens of the United States by ap-
propriate National and State Legislation.

ARTICLE III.
	SECTION 1. All citizens of the United
States subscribing to this Constitution and
paying not less than one dollar annually into
the treasury of this Association shall become
members thereof, and shall be entitled to at-
tend all its meetings, to participate in all dis-
cussions that may arise, and to receive reports
and other documents published by it.
	SEC. 2. The payment of fifty dollars ($50.-
00) into the treasury of this Association shall
constitute any citizen of the United States a 
Life Member of the Association, with all the
privileges belonging to the regular annual 
members.

ARTICLE IV.
	SECTION 1.  The officers of this Association
shall be a President, a Vice-President-at-large,
a Recording Secretary, a Corresponding Secre-
tary, a Treasurer, a Chairman of the Execu-
tive Committee, and two Auditors. The
officers named in this Section shall be nomi-
nated by an informal ballot at a business ses-
sion of the Annual Convention of the Asso-
ciation. The three persons receiving the
highest number of votes for any office shall be
considered the nominees of the Convention for
that office, and the will of the Association shall 
be taken by a formal ballot.
	SEC. 2. Wherever State or Territorial As-
sociations auxiliary to the National-American
Association exist, the Presidents of such As-
sociations shall be considered Vice-Presidents
of the National-American Association, repre-
senting therein their respective States and
Territories.
	SEC. 3. Each State or Territorial auxiliary
Association shall elect from its membership
one person to serve on the Executive Com-
mittee of the National-American Association.
	SEC. 4. The President of the National-
[Column 2]
American Woman Suffrage Association shall
appoint a Vice-President to represent on its
Executive Board any State or Territory where
no State or Territorial Association exists
auxiliary to the National-American Associa-
tion.
	SEC. 5. The officers enumerated in the pre-
ceding Sections of this Article shall constitute
the Executive Committee of this Association;
of these officers, fifteen shall constitute a 
quorum for the transaction of business.
	SEC. 6. The Executive Committee shall
elect annually from the veterans of our cause
ten or more Honorary Vice-Presidents.
			
ARTICLE V.
	This Constitution may be amended by a
majority vote at any annual meeting, notice of
the amendment having been given at any pre-
ceding annual meeting.

BY-LAWS.
BY- LAW 1.
	For the accomplishment of the object speci-
fied in Article II. of its Constitution, this Asso-
ciation shall seek to concentrate the efforts of
all the advocates of woman suffrage in the
United States by the following methods: (1)
It shall hold annually in Washington one
meeting of delegates (according to the basis of
representation stated in By-Law II.) for the
transaction of business, the election of officers,
and the advocacy of its principles; and it may
hold one or more other conventiens annually
for the advocacy of its principles. (2) It shall
form State or Territorial Associations auxiliary
to itself in every State and Territory where
none such now exist, and, recognizing the
authority of its auxiliaries in their respective
States and Territories, it shall promote their
local work by every means in its power. (3)
It shall publish tracts, speeches, and other
documents, and shall furnish the same at actual
cost. (4) It shall prepare and circulate peti-
tions to Congress and to State and Territorial
Legislatures on behalf of the political and civil
equality of women, and take such other
measures for the promotion of woman suffrage
as the Executive Committee shall determine
upon, subject always to the will of the
Association.
BY-LAW II.—BASIS OF REPRESENTATION.
SECTION 1. Any State or Territorial Wo-
man Suffrage Association may become auxil-
iary to the National-American Woman Suff-
rage Association by paying annually into the
treasury of the National-American Association
ten cents per member of the State Society and
of its paid-up local auxiliaries.
SEC. 2. It shall be the duty of the Treas-
urer of each auxiliary Association to send to
the Treasurer of the National-American Wo-
man Suffrage Association, before January 1st
in each year, a list certified to by its Record-
ing Secretary of the members of said organi-
zation for the current year.
SEC 3. Every such auxiliary Association
shall be entitled to send three delegates to the 
annual convention of the National American
Woman Suffrage Association, and one dele-
gate in addition for every one hundred mem-
bers of the State Society and of its paid-up
local auxiliaries.
	SEC. 4. All officers of the National-Ameri-
can Woman Suffrage Association shall be ex-


[Column 1]
﻿officio delegates at large, and every such officer
shall be entitled to one vote in all the business
meetings of the Association.
	
	BY-LAW III.—CREDENTIALS.
	All delegates (except the delegates at large
specified in Section 4 of By-Law II.) must
present credentials properly signed by the
President and the Recording Secretary of the
organization represented. Membership cards
properly signed by the Treasurer of the
National-American Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion shall serve as credentials for the members
of that body who are not delegates from other
bodies.

	BY-LAW IV.
	The Executive Committee of the National-
American Woman Suffrage Association shall
hold one session preceding the opening of each 
annual convention in Washington,and another
session after the conclusion of such convention;
and the Committees having in charge the ar-
ragements for the annual convention shall al-
ways take cognizance of such meetings of the
Executive Committee and make provision for
them.
			
	BY-LAW V.
	The decisions reached by the Executive
Committee shall be presented in the form of
recommendations at the business sessions of
the convention.

	BY-LAW VI.
	Every delegate shall be entitled to one vote
on all questions, but only on the election of
officers shall the delegates be entitled to cast
the full vote to which the organizations repre-
sented by them are entitled.

	BY-LAW VII.
	The Committee on Resolutions shall consist
of one person from each State and Territory,
elected by the delegation from the organization
represented. 

	BY-LAW VIII.
	After each annual convention, the Business
Committee shall elect the following Com-
mittees: a Committee on Petitions,a Committee
on Programme, to consist of five persons, one
from each section of the country, and of which
the President shall be chairman, to arrange
the programme for the next annual meeting;
and a Congressional Committee, to have in
charge the direct Congressional work during
the year which shall intervene between the
time of its appointment and the next annual
convention in Washington.
		
	BY-LAW IX.
	The report of the Treasurer up to the first
of January preceding the annual convention
shall be read at the first business session of that
body.

	BY-LAW: X.
	SEC. 1. The General Officers named in
Art. IV., Sec, 1 of the Constitution, viz.: the
President, Vice-President-at-large, Recording
and Corresponding Secretaries, Treasurer,
Chairman of Executive Committee and two
Auditors, with the National Lecturer, shall
constitute a Business Committee to provide for
and control the general interests of the work
in the interim of the annual meetings in Wash-
ington, D, C., and to perform all other busi
ness not otherwise assigned. Of these four
shall constitute a quorum when assembled
after due notice, or a majority may act by
correspondence in response to a circular letter
addressed to every member of the Business
Committee not less than days beforehand, by
the President.
	SEC. 2. The President may call special
meetings of the Business Committee when

[Column 2]
deemed necessary, or in response to the written
request of any three members of the Business
Committee; and shall perform all other duties
usual to such office.
	SEC. 3. The Vice-President-at-large shall
perform all duties of the President in case of
the President’s absence or disability.
	SEC. 4. The Recording Secretary shall at-
tend all business meetings of the Association,
of the Executive Committee and of the Busi-
ness Committee, and the Executive Sessions,
and shall keep a correct record of their pro-
ceedings, and shall give due notice of meetings
of the Executive Committee, and shall apprise
members of committees of their appointment,
and at the first Executive Session of each
annual convention shall read in their order, for
action by said meeting, the minutes of all
meetings of Business and Executive Com-
mittees since the last annual meeting, and shall
also read the report of the Business Committee;
and shall also perform all other duties usually
pertaining to such office.
	SEC. 5. The Corresponding Secretary shall
conduct all correspondence of the organization,
and perform all duties usual to such office; and
shall  also send to the Secretary of each
auxiliary Association notice to prepare a report
of work done by said auxiliary, blanks for
credentials of delegates to the annual meeting
to whom said auxiliary is entitled, and a notice
of the necessity that said auxiliary shall send
dues and list of names and addresses of mem-
bers to the Treasurer of the National-American
Woman Suffrage Association.
	SEC. 6. The Treasurer shall keep accurate
accounts of all receipts and disbursements of
money, and shall present a detailed report
thereof to each annual meeting, to be after-
ward published, and shall pay no bill except
on an order signed by the acting President and
Recording Secretary, and at the annual meet-
ing shall give to the chairman of the Com-
mittee on Credentials the whole number of
delegates to which each auxiliary is entitled,
according to the number of members and
amount of dues paid: and shall perform all
other duties usually pertaining to this office.
	SEC. 7. The Chairman of the Executive
Committee shall preside at all meetings of the
Executive Committee, and shall perform all
other duties usually pertaining to such office. 
	SEC. 8. The Auditors shall examine and
verify the books of the Treasurer,and shall give
a report thereof at each annual meeting.
	SEC. 9. The General Officers of this As-
sociation shall be elected on the last day but
one of the annual meeting.
	SEC. 10. The term of the General Officers
shall expire at the end of the last session of
the (annual) convention proper, and the term
of the newly-elected officers shall commence
with the session of the Executive Committee
held after the conclusion of the convention
provided for by By-law IV.
	SEC. 11. The Business Committee shall fill
any vacancy that may occur in itself during
the interim of annual meetings.
	SEC. 12. In case of the absence from the
annual convention of the National-American
W. S. A. of a State President or State Mem-
ber of the Executive Committee,the delegation
from that State may elect a proxy to represent
the absentee on the Executive Board during
the convention.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


The glorified spirit of the infant is as a star
to guide the mother to its own blissful clime.
—Sigourney.
 	Those men who destroy a healthful constitu-
tion of body by intemperance and an irregular
life do as manifestly kill themselves as those
who hang, or poison, or drown themselves.—
Sherlock.


IN MEMORIAM.

Oh! sweet and perfect rest,
	Which cometh to the blest,
Who have their earthly missions nobly filled;
	The spirit freed from strife,
Springs forth in higher life;
	The feeble mortal pulse alone is stilled.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	On Sunday, June 14th, 1891, the funeral
services of Sister Jane Sabine were held in 
the meeting house of the 20th Ward, Salt 
Lake City. Several of the brethren who
had been acquainted with Sister Sabine from 
her early youth, testified to the goodness
and purity of her heart and her life. She
wae the daughter of Stephen and Maria
Holder and was born at Colern near Box,
Wiltshire, England, November 6th, 1825.
She was married Oct. 9th, 1853, to James
Sabine. On the 6th of April, 1857, she was 
baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of 
Latter-day Saints, by Elder Samuel Neslen,
at Chippenham, in Wiltshire. Emigrated to
Utah in 1868, arriving in Salt Lake City,
Sept. 2nd. She and her husband made their
home in the 20th Ward, where she resided
until her death, which took place at 2
o'clock p.m. June 11, 1891.
	Sister Jane Sabine was one of the many dil-
igent and faithful workers in the Relief So-
ciety whose labors of love will never be for-
gotten by the poor and sorrowing, who are re-
lieved and comforted by acts of kindness from
generous hearts and willing hands. For
many years, Sister Sabine ministered as teach-
er of a district in that branch of the Relief
Society with which she was connected; and
even after being chosen Second Counselor to
President Jane Miller, she still retained the
position of teacher, and faithfully performed
its duties. Only one week previous to the
day of her death, she attended the Fast
meeting and Relief Society meeting, and as-
sisted in arranging and carrying means of
relief to the aged and poor  of the ward.
Two days later, she was suddenly and severe-
ly attacked with pnuemonia, which terminated
fatally in six days. The companionship and
able assistance of Sister Sabine, will be
greatly missed among her friends and asso-
ciates; but to the bereaved husband and children
(a son and a daughter,) and several young
grand-children, her loss cannot be estimated.
But they know in whom to put their trust,
and from whence to seek consolation.
Bless'd children of our God,
	Who, passing 'neath the rod,
Can still look up and say "Thy will be done!"
	And finding sure relief
From loneliness and grief,
	Bow down and praise the Father and the Son.
	L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


EIGHTY YEARS OLD.

	Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe was eighty
years old on the 14th of June, being
one year older than her biographers have
stated. The Hartford Times is authority for
the statement that Mrs Stowe is physically
well, but her mind is clouded and her mem-
ory impaired. She however remembers per-
fectly the old hymns and music with which
she is familiar and it is her habit to walk
over every day to her sister's (Mrs. Hooker),
a quarter of a mile distant, and sing hymns
with her. She is very happy and "her life,
in these, her last years, like a long splendid
summer turning into autumn, may be said
to have reached its late October time,—but
it is still the sunny October afternoon, even
if the sun's light be somewhat curtained by
the gathering autumn haze; and it lapses
away in calm and peace."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


UNTO THE LEAST OF THESE.

	LOUISE BETTS EDWARDS.

Out from homes of want and squalor,
	Little hands are stretched to you,
Empty, eager, mutely pleading.
	All the long, hot summer through,
Little hands lie restless, aimless.
	Can we stand before Him blameless
	If in vain those hands should sue?

From the crowded courts and alleys
	Little voices we can hear,—
Fretful, plaining little voices,
	Lacking all of childhood's cheer.
Little voices, hear them pleading;
Can we go our way unheeding
	While, that cry falls on our ear?
	Housekeeper's Weekly.


AT EVENING.

How softly fall the evening shadows pale,
	Golden and purple sunsets blend and fade;
Night robes earth quietly with mantling veil,
	And peace, and rest the gentle hour pervade.
Great nature, soothing with her potent pow'r.
	Breathes to the "world-worn heart" her sympathy;
And 'mid the tranquil of such spell-bound hour
	The mem'ries of the past steal tenderly.
Athwart the scene the moon with golden trail,
	As'erst, with pitying glance and mellow'd light,
Sweeps through the empty space with steady sail,
	And floods with beauty and enchanted night.
It is the hour for sweet and tender thought,
	And whisperings of the life that is to be
And Faith and Trust with holy impulse fraught,
	Speak, to the soul in nature's poetry.
Unconscious of ourselves we yield to sleep
	And bright-robed beings round our couches stray,
In sacred stillness holy vigils keep,
	And night assumes the sceptre of her sway.
	E. B. W.


[Column 1]	
	SYMPATHY.

	How often in times of sorrow these words
recur to our minds—"The heart knoweth its
own bitterness and a stranger intermeddleth 
not with its joys."  Those who have expe-
rienced sorrow of any kind know what it is to
long for sympathy—we have most of us some
sore spot in our heart which needs its soothing
balm.  Sometimes our spirits give way amidst
the fretting cares of life—our heart is discour-
aged—our faith and desires after holiness
weaken, and the enemy of our souls takes holiness
weaken, and the enemy of our souls takes ad-
vantage of this state of mind and suggests
that we will not be able to hold out to the end.
A cloud hangs over us which hides for a
time the brightness of our Father's counte-
nance, until we remember there is no help but
in Him.  We go to Him dry and withered
and we plead His promise—"I will be as the
dew unto Israel." We await at His feet until
the dew descends into our souls, and we are re-
freshed, and strengthened and prepared to
face the burden and heat of the day with the
power and freshness of life, and we are led to
see that He has been leading us into closer
communion with Himself by the discipline of
apparent withdrawal—that He may teach us
to lean on nothing but Himself.  We may
have unbroken communion with out Heavenly
Father and may enjoy day by day His sus-
taining presence, still there are seasons of sor-
row and suffering when we yearn for human
sympathy,  when a kind word or deed would
be more than food or medicine, but often it
comes not, and our heart feels crushed until
we think of Him who was divine as well as
human and yet, He yearned for human sym-
pathy while in the flesh, but found it not; al-
though He was ready to sympathize with any
any who suffered.

[Column 2]
	All through the course of His life the shadow
of His cross was upon Him, for He knew all
things from the beginning, what should take
place, and it grew deeper and deeper until He
entered the cloud and on His humanity must
have fallen a mysterious fear, yet He failed not
but steadily set His face to meet it.  Though
He had all power and could have asked and
received "twelve legions of angels," yet, He
must "tread the wine press alone", for His
sorrow was a sealed book to His followers,
"They understood none of these things."
He would sometimes tell them what things
He must suffer and seemed as though He
would fain have brought them into the cloud
with Him—just as we, when some strange
dread hangs over us, we seek to share it
with another, seek how often in vain, we
feel that if we try to express our feelings,
our words are misunderstood, and we cry
out of our sore disappointment, truly,  "the
heart knoweth its own bitterness,"  we are 
ready to faint under the pressure of our own
life, the pain of which none may help us to
bear.
	Let us glance for a few moments at our
Lord's unselfishness and sympathy while
passing about amongst suffering humanity.
The want of devotion in His disciples did
not prevent Him from assisting those who
needed His help.  He healed the sick, cast
out devils, gave sight to the blind, un-
stopped deaf ears, raised the dead, fed the
hungry, and did many works of mercy, yet
He sometimes longed for human sym-
pathy.
	When retiring into the garden of Geth-
semane—whither he went to receive fresh
strength to meet His approaching trial—He
said to His disciples—(those who had hith-
erto shown most devotion to Him) "sit ye
down here while I go and pray yonder." But
when He returned—He had to exclaim in
tones of disappointment—"what, could ye not
watch with me one hour?"
	Again He manifested His sympathy when
betrayed by Judas and arrested by soldiers, He
asks them "whom seek ye?" they answered
Jesus of Nazareth He said unto them, "I have
told you that I am He, if therefore ye seek
me, let these go their way." Though passing
through untold suffering Himself, he did not
wish His disciples to suffer with him, though
in bondage Himself, He would have His
friends enjoy their freedom. Follow Him a
little farther and we see Him in His last
struggle—even in the agonies of death—not
only suffering all that tyrants can heap upon
Him, but even His father withdraws his pres-
ence, yet in the midst of it all He remembers 
His weeping mother, and commits her to
the care of His beloved disciple John.
	And was not His sympathy manifested for
us, when He suffered Himself to be led as a
"lamb to the slaughter" and "poured out His
soul to death"; thereby "bearing our sins and
carrying our sorrows", and which caused His
bleeding heart to send forth an exceeding bit-
ter cry in His last moments when we remem-
ber that "He was wounded for our transgres-
sions and bruised for our iniquities," and that
He bore it all without a murmur, how is it
that we cannot bear our little trials—which
are but a speck compared to His? O how is
it that we cannot bear them patiently, joy-
fully, thankfully?
	But why is it that this subject has forced
itself upon my mind at the present time? It
is because there seems to be such a lack of
sympathy amongst us Latter-day Saints, such
a want of union of heart—of that oneness of
spirit of which Jesus speaks when He says,
"If ye are not one, ye are not mine."  It is
very evident that we must as a people, have
more love, more humility of spirit, more of
that mind which was in Christ Jesus, before

[Column 3]
we can be saved in the Kingdom of God
We are commanded to love the Lord our God
with all our heart, might, mind and strength,
and our neighbor as ourself." St Paul tells us to
see that we love one another with a pure
heart fervently." Thank God there are
many amongst us who are striving to walk in
the footsteps of our Redeemer, and is it not
worth while?  The signs of the times and
the iniquity that abounds proves to us that
the time is getting very short, let us endeav-
or to think less of this earth and more of
that long "hereafter" which lies beyond.
	MARY Y. CORBY.


A BOX ON THE EAR.

	One of Browning's most beautiful and 
pathetic poems commemorates the act of an old
Earl of Arundel, who, having struck his little
child on the head, had the picture of himself
and child painted, the child as he became in
after years, imbecile from the effects of that
blow. It would be well for every parent, and
for those having children on their hands, to
commit these verses to memory; for the injury
dene to children by the quick and careless box
on the ear, that is thought nothing of at the 
time, is something incalculable.


FORGIVENESS. 

	There is no bravery like that involved in
the forgiveness of injuries. The man who for-
gives has two victories—one over himself, one
over the person who has injured him. Men
are not slow to appreciate and applaud virtues
they are not so ready to imitate. They will
understand that the sublimest human act is
that of forgiveness. But to appreciate a
noble act is a great deal easier than to per-
form one precisely like it, just as it is compara-
tively easy to look upon the sublime heights
of a mountain; but it requires a powerful, long
continued effort to reach and stand upon those
heights. The man of meanest capacity makes
himself more than the peer of the man of the
loftiest capacity if he forgives him. He who
revenges an injury makes himself the inferior,
not only of his enemy, but of all others, be-
cause he has stooped to a base act. Revenge
is generally disproportionately severe, even
if a man's judgment is taken as a standard,
and he who practices it has laid up for him-
self a long harvest of regret and remorse,
while the man who forgives is at peace with
himself and all  the world, and has transformed 
his enemy into his friend.


L. May Wheeler whose death has been 
widely published in the newspapers of the
day, departed this life at Orange, Mass. June
24, 1891. Mrs Wheeler had a national
reputation as a newspaper woman, and an
advocate of equal rights. She established
The Woman's News" a bright and interesting
paper, always newsy as its name indicated, in
Indianapolis and afterwards removed it to
Springfield, Ohio, where it is still published
though the name is changed to "Womankind."
She was one time editor of "The Budget," a
political paper in Springfield. She filled the
position of Chicago correspondent for the
Minneapolis Tribune, and the Indianapolis
Sentinel, and at one time edited a woman's
column in the sunday issue of the Sentinel.
Mrs. Wheeler was born at Winehendon Mass.,
Feb. 25, 1845, and was of the old Puritan
stock. We remember with pleasure some
very friendly letters from this talented woman,
but at that time had no idea, she was born so
near our own home.—ED.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS.	Editor

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail, 
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday. 
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as 
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	AUGUST 1, 1891.


[Column 1]

AGITATION IS EDUCATIONAL.

	The people of this Territory are likely to be
pretty well posted in the principles of the two
great national political parties, judging from the
agitation kept up during the last few weeks on
Democracy and Republicanism in the various
precincts; the best speakers on both sides have
been proclaiming their views on the platform in
the most interesting manner possible, and eluci-
dating the subjects, pertaining to their respective
parties, explaining all the doubtful points, and
giving every one a proper understanding of the
platform he would subscribe to if he voted on
either side.
	These matters are essential to all concerned in
the welfare of the government and all should be
whether voters or not—and if one comprehends
one party and not the other it is not enough, both
parties and the principles of each should be in-
vestigated, otherwise a man (or woman) voting
would be like the Judge we hear of, who when he
had heard one side of the case, decided it because
he argued, if he should hear the other side he
might get muddled, or change his mind; but as it
was the case was clear. It is to be hoped that each
of the great national party platforms are more
correctly understood, now there has been much
agitation of the subject and the case ought to be
clear, and no muddle over the affair from hearing
both sides. It is high time that the great differ-
ences in this Territory were amicably adjusted
after the concessions that have been made to
comply with the requirements of the special laws
framed for the people, who were driven here by
cruel persecution on account of their religion.
	Here they have subdued the desert land and
made it habitable; and founded a provisional gov-
ernment previous to the organic act creating a
Territory. Here they have lived in peace and
security and afforded safe protection for all who
came, whether Jew or Gentile, or of whatever
faith without excessive taxation; the poor could
obtain homes of their own through industry and
frugality and live comparatively independent,
enjoying the blessings of freedom, but the situa-
tion and conditions attracted those who were
desirous of power and influence caring not how it
was obtained, and they flocked hither and saw the
opportunities open to them for wealth, and took
advantage of the unpopularity of an unpopular
people to oppress them for their own aggrandize-
ment.
	Among those who came were some of the
honorable, upright, high minded men and women,
who had other motives in settling here, and these
have shown themselves to be on the side of
justice and equity; they recognize how the
pioneers who came here labored to make it pos-
sible for a great highway to be opened up over-
land from the Pacific to the Missouri river through
these mountain fastnesses.

[Column 2]

	Now the situation assumes a different aspect to
what it has ever done heretofore. The two great
national, political parties have organized in Utah,
and there is still an element calling itself
"liberal" that is opposed to this condition of
things; and after all the requisitions proposed
have been complied with, this opposing power
still continues its determined resistance to the
very people upon whose rights and privileges
it has been trampling. What magnanimity
of character and of purpose they do display in
this persistency. What an anomaly the name
liberal becomes thus misapplied.
	The people who are looking to the best in-
terests of the country are anxious to see the
official positions filled by honorable men whether
Democrats or Republicans, and not by those who
would wrest all the vested rights from the ma-
jority of the original settlers and pioneers and
tax them to build up such institutions as foster
vice and immorality, and lead away the unwary,
and the young and rising generation from the
paths of rectitude and virtue into the sloughs of
evil and iniquity; as some have boasted would
be their delight. Whatever the result may be of
the coming election we feel sure agitation on
political subjects and conditions must necessarily
be educational, and as God rules still in the earth
all will be well with those who put their trust in
Him, though the powers of darkness combine,
and Satan and his emissaries boast of their
strength and skill; yet the Saints know how easy
the Lord can turn and overturn, when His people
hearken unto Him. When the walls of Jericho
fell, how simple was the means the Lord used to
accomplish his purpose.


[Column 1]

EDITORIAL NOTES.

	John and Isabella Beecher Hooker cordially
invite their friends to call on them (without
presents) at No. 234 Pearl St., Hartford Conn.,
from 3 to 9 o'clock Wednesday, August 5th,—
the fiftieth anniversary of their marriage—1841—
1891.
	Mrs. Minerva W. Snow is in the city on a visit
to her children, and will probably remain until
the time for the opening of the Manti Temple,
August 26. Her friends will be likely to see her
by calling at No. 55. N. First East St. inside the
Eagle Gate.
	We received a friendly call on Wednesday the
29th, ult. from Mrs. M. A. P. Hyde, President of the
Relief Society of Sanpete Stake who is spending
a few days with relatives in this City. She is
looking and feeling well for a woman of her years
being considerably over three score and ten.
She stated that probably the next Relief Society
Conference in Sanpete would be held in Mt.
Pleasant.
	Mrs. Presendia L. Kimball, lovingly known
as Aunt Presendia among the Saints, has just re-
turned from the Logan Temple, where she has
been officiating for a few weeks past, with health
and strength quite renewed. Sister Kimball has
been suffering for some months past from a
severe injury caused by a fall, which at her time
of life is not easy to recover from, however she
is now able to go about a little upon crutches,
and even that is better than remaining all the
time in one position. Her many friends will we
are sure be glad to hear that she is able to be up
and about once more, even though she can not as
yet dispense with her crutches.
	President Zina D. H. Young of this City has
returned from her trip to Canada and her address
for the present will be No. 55 N. West Temple
St., Salt Lake City. She has enjoyed her visit
very much and reports favorable conditions for
the people in that country, the women's or-
ganizations prosperous, and the health of the peo-

[Column 2]

ple generally good. Mrs. Young left the City,
May 13, and returned home July 23. She is in
need of rest for a few days, but will then be pre-
pared to visit in the several Stakes of Zion and
attend to the duties of her office and calling as
usual, with the assistance of her Counselors and
aids.
	We publish in this issue of the paper the "Con-
stitution of the National-American Woman Suff-
rage Association," By-Laws and Basis of Repre-
sentation, as revised and prepared by the special
Committee, of the Association, and voted upon
article by article, and section by section at the last
annual convention held in Washington D. C., in
February of this year. It is quite necessary that
every county and district W. S. A. should
have these by them, and in fact that every member
of the Association should have a copy. We
have taken great pains to publish these rules and
regulations and all revisions of them that are made
from time to time for the benefit of the women of
this Territory, and also minutes and proceed-
ings of the several Associations, that there may
be a uniformity of methods and action and that
those unacquainted with these matters, may be-
come familiar with what is being done in Utah.
In view of this it seems essential that women
taking part or interested in the advancement and
enfranchisement of women should subscribe for
and read the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, also those
engaged in Relief Society work or the childrens'
Primary Associations. The EXPONENT is the
only paper in Utah that keeps posted on these
subjects; and one dollar per year is very little to
pay for so much reliable information on the
various topics that women are discussing at the
present time.
	During the last few weeks a great number of
strangers have visited the City and in strolling
over historic gronnds have called at this office,
and in most instances have seemed specially in-
terested in the past and present of Utah. Some
of them have been people one remembers with
pleasure. Among these we recall F. M. Smith,
and wife of New York, who had called on us at
the office in the summer of 1875, and who re-
membered our conversation on Mormonism and
many of the questions we answered for them at
that time; Prof. Elizabeth J. French, of Phila-
delphia, a briliant lecturer on Temperance etc.
Mrs. W. L. Stanard and Mrs. Annie Mears,
Detroit; Mr. and Mrs. W. A. Montgomery,
Chicago; Mrs. J. M. and Miss Ethelyn Loring,
St. Louis; Mr. and Mrs. A. H. Blanke St. Louis;
besides these of interesting people we must
mention Dr. Geo. H. Roby of Detroit, who came
with a letter of introduction from a friend, and
was accompanied by his daughter, Mrs. L. C.
Waldo, and three children; also Mrs. Rosa Cad-
man Conger, M. D. of Chicago, who is a very
attractive lady, and many others including Mr.
and Mrs. John E. Mc'Elroy, Albany N. Y. who
called when we were absent in Manti, we very
greatly regretted not meeting this gifted and ac-
complished lady, who for some time presided in
the White House at Washington.


LOVE—GOD—NOW.

BY S. W. RICHARDS.

	I have chosen these words for the readers
of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, not because of any
novelty they suggest to the ordinary reader but to
the sensitive appreciation which woman is ever
capable of exercising they may be made to ap-
pear both interesting and profitable in their im-
port.
	Love is the sweetest word we ever speak. It is
the ground work of all our happiness. It is the
kindling of those emotions which are as infinite
s the soul, and is inherited from the Father of


our spirits as the purest quality of his being. A
virtue transmitted to every child of God's great
family wherever found. Without it, life is but a
dreary waste. Its exercise sanctifies every con-
dition, and makes all things lovely. Its develop-
ment in every human being is found to some ex-
tent, but in woman more supremely so. The
youthful maiden's love, so pure and free, makes
man more manly, subdues his stubborn will, and
makes more holy all his aspirations. It is the
great conqueror of all adversaries; subdues the
passion of hate from whence our evils flow and
brings man in harmony with his God. "God is
Love."
	God is the greatest word in our language. It
implies all that is great as well as good; all that
is lovely or loveable. It represents the highest
degree of excellence conceivable to the human
mind in all the virtues and excellence that has a
lodgement in the soul of man,—the image and
likeness of his Maker.
	His greatness is manifest in all, through all, and
over all. His works are marvelous in the eyes of
man. The first and the last—the end from the
beginning He comprehends. We contemplate
Him as perfection in every attribute of our nature
that is commendable, elevating, or desirable
His power and greatness is without limit to our
understanding; filling immensity with His spirit;
all, for the immortality and eternal life of man
for whom the earth and all its joys were made,
entirely adapted to man's happiness, as it once
was. All that the word "God" implies is far be-
yond our finite comprehension. None need un-
dertake to fathom it.
	Now, is a word that seems more simple, more
easy of comprehension. It relates to the present
of our being—a part, a moment of time, of which
we are creatures. It relates to our existence and
involves the conditions that attend us today—this
very moment, the shortest period of time express-
able—all of time that we can say is ours. Now,
the present is certainty, all else is uncertainty.
To-day we live, to morrow we may die. Now is
the time for all things; the time to love, the time
to do, the time to think, the time to act, the time
which is alloted to all things. It does not admit
of procrastination; it has no substitute in time.
	These three words associated together as at
the head of this article imply the whole duty of
man, his greatest and sweetest duties. Yes!
		Love God Now.
	This love of God, begets love to man, and works
no ill. It fills the soul with peace and good will
to man. It gives to man an approving conscience
one void of offense towards God and man. Love
to God is manifest by keeping His command-
ments,—doing His pleasure. We seek to please
those whom we love. We may more profitably
seek to please Him who is the source of all good
and who will withhold no good thing from those
who love Him. This apparent duty should be
done now. The unborn to-morrow may never
come, it is never our's. The soul that is filled
with love to God has love in his soul for all His
works and words. No harm or ill, by words or
works, to fellow-man, can come from him whose
soul is inspired by the Love of God. Let love
then prevail everywhere; in the family, in all its
relations; in the community, in all its associations
and conditions; in the State with all just de-
mands; and charity, the love of God, become the
key-word that shall admit us to the fulness of that
joy, peace, and happiness, of the divine presence
which results from doing duty now.—Love God
supremely.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

LOVE THY NEIGHBOR AS THYSELF.

	"Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy
heart and with all thy soul and with all thy
mind."
	This is the first great commandment; and the

[Column 2]

second is like unto it; "Thou shalt love thy
neighbor as thyself."
	On these two commandments hang all the law
and the prophets. (Jesus).
	How few contemplate this momentous subject.
How little we realize the importance of these
sublime and weighty words, or even give them a 
thought throughout the routine of our daily occu-
pations. To our sin-beclouded senses it seems
almost like an improbability.
	Too frequently are they considered to be too
pure and sacred for fallen humanity to observe;
but we must not attribute to the Savior such an
absurd idea—as such an injunction surely would
be if impossible to obey it.
	It certainly would require a large amount of
the Spirit of God to enable poor, weak, selfish
natures to arrive at such a high and holy stand-
ard.
	That Infinite love which inspired the Redeemer
to give His life for the salvation of a fallen world
must also inspire an individual to observe that
 which comes so very much in contact with
worldly, selfish natures. If that love, love thy
neighbor as thyself, was universal throughout the 
length and breadth of the universe what a lovely
and delightful state of existence, how different
from the present cruel, and polluted specimen of
Satan's handicraft. But it pleased the Father of
our spirits, in His Infinite wisdom and providence
to place them in a sphere where sin and darkness
abounds, in order to gain an experience which
could not be obtained in any other way. Thus
the purposes of the Creator are obvious to every
reflective mind; for the experience acquired in
this state of probation is not only essential but
absolutely indispensable for improvement, ad-
vancement and progress under all circumstances
throughout time and the endless ages of eternity.
The apostle said Jesus was perfected through
suffering, if so, if it required suffering and afflic-
tion to perfect so pure a personage as the Savior,
how much more so poor, weak, sin-contaminated
individuals?
	Then let us not complain and repine because of
our trials, though the billows of affliction roll high
and threaten to overwhelm us in its turbulent,
murky flood, but acknowledge the hand of our
Heavenly Father in everything, and under all
circumstances, and He will assuredly overrule our
severest trials for our best good, and they will
prove our greatest blessings, if not in time, they
will in eternity.
	At present as time rolls on oppression and
crime with all their numerous retinue of adherent
evils are marching forward with rapid and gigan-
tic strides throughout the whole habitable globe.
	Instead of love for neighbor every device is
brought into requisition by a great majority of
mankind, to wrest from a fellow-being his all of
this world's goods to replenish one's own coffers.
Even the home sanctuary is not exempt from this
selfish, covetous spirit; such is the sad condition
of the world that love thy neighbor as thyself,
sounds almost like an idle word.
	If there is a citadel on earth where a spark of
that Divine attribute can be found it is in a
mother's heart. A mother's love comes the
nearest to Divinity of anything earthly. It is
that pure, unselfish love that personates the
Deity in His love for the human family. A true
mother will lay down her life for her offspring if
need be.
	All selfish and mercenary feelings are swal-
lowed up in that inherent quality; but alas! how
often ill repaid! Nevertheless, although they
neglect, disobey, abuse and trample that heavenly
boon under their feet, they cannot extinguish that
spark of Divinity, that heavenly germ which
stimulates and nerves a mother through her
various trials and arduous tasks, cares, and
anxiety in her unavoidable and almost endless
routine of perplexing and intricate duties com-

[Column 3]

prised in rearing those priceless treasures,
heaven's choicest blessings to poor fallen human-
ity.
	No, that heavenly link between heaven and
earth will survive the drouth of unrequited love.
It will outlive the shame and unutterable anguish
inflicted by a career of vice and crime. It will
follow its votaries to prison and the scaffold.
	Death that mighty conqueror whose fiat lays
low alike, the monarch and the beggar cannot
conquer that Infinite portion of the Deity, that
pure, unselfish love which every saint of the most
High should aspire to, which alone can enable
them to observe that great commandment, "love
thy neighbor as thyself."
	It is a sacred injunction of vital importance for
it essentially concerns our eternal slavation.
	The Lord of life and glory never issued a man-
date that was not essential.
	Then all ye who have adopted the sacred name
of Saint, beware, lest ye dishonor that exalted
appellation through a spirit of avarice, which is
so prevalent throughout the civilized world. That
detestable spirit of greed for wealth and fame is
the bane of our land, its pernicious effects are
visible on every hand and side. Oppression
sways its scepter over the poor and defenceless
without mercy, or remorse, for the burdens and
miseries it inflicts. The cries of the widow and
orphan fall unheeded on the parsimonious and
greed-polluted souls.
	In their frenzied pursuit for wealth and emolu-
ment they stop not to reflect, neither do they
comprehend that there is a higher power, whose
all seeing eye is taking cognizance of their every
act and the cries of the widow and orphan, ming-
ling with oppressed millions are daily ascending
to the ears of the Lord of Sabaoth, who hearkens
even, to the raven's cry, Who ere long will mar-
shal His hosts and avenge the wrongs of the
trodden-down and oppressed with a just and 
mighty retribution.
	Already we behold the dawning of a brighter
day when He whose right it is to rule will bind
the power of the unlawful and covetous despots
and proclaim peace and rest to the oppressed of
every nation.
	Then, when the bright effulgence of that
glorious epoch illuminates the earth will love and
peace abound; then will "love thy neighbor as thy-
self," be universal from sea to sea, and from pole
to pole, and the knowledge of the Lord cover the
earth throughout all its vast domains.
			ELIZA D. GIBBS.


EXECUTIVE SESSION.

MINUTES OF THE CONFERENCE OF THE EXECU-
	TIVE BOARD OF THE NATIONAL COUNCIL
	OF WOMEN OF THE UNITED STATES.

	Indianapolis, May 30, 1891.
	Present at the meeting, Mrs. May Wright Se-
wall, President; Mrs. Rachel Foster Avery, Cor.
Sec.; Miss Frances Willard, and Mrs. E. S.
Burlingame. Mrs. Burlingame did not vote, as
she came representing informally the President
of the National Free Baptist Woman's Missionary
Society, Mrs. Mary A. Davis.
	In the absence of the Rec. Sec., Mrs. Isabella
Charles Davis, the Cor. Sec. was made Rec. Sec.
of the Conference.	
	The President opened the meeting with a
statement of the reason why the various memori-
als and letters, authorized by the Executive Ses-
sion in Washington had been allowed to wait, it
being thought best that the method of carrying out
the work indicated by the Resolutions passed in
Washington, should be determined by this meet-
ing.
	The Washington Resolutions were then read


[Column 1]
as a whole by the Sec. after which they were
taken up seriatum.
	Resolution 1st.

	Resolved:—That the National Council of Women of the
United States send a memorial to the clergymen of the
Methodist Episcopal Church, asking, inasmuch as 62 per
cent of the membership of that denomination has already
by formal ballot expressed a desire that women be ad-
mitted to the General Conference, that the clergy shall, in
accordance with the will of the laity, grant the admission
of women to that body.
	At Miss Willard’s suggestion, it was 
	Resolved:—That the following be sent to the fourteen-
leading Methodist Journals:
	“The National Council of Women, through its
Executive Board, respectfully memorializes the
the Clergy of the Methodist Episcopal Church,
asking that, inasmuch as 62 per cent, of member- 
ship of that denomination has already by formal
ballot expressed a desire that women be admitted
to the General Conference, that the clergy shall,
in accordance with the will of the laity, grant the
admission of women to that body." 
	Resolution 2nd.
	Resolved:— That the National Council of Women ask
that women be placed on the Sunday School Lesson Com-
mittee.
	The Cor. Sec. was elected to send a copy of
this Resolution to Dr. Warren F. Randolph,
Newport, R. I., Sec. of the International Sunday
School Lesson Committee, requesting him to lay
it before the next Triennial Meeting of the In-
ternational Sunday School Workers of the United
States and Canada also to Dr. John H. Vincent,
Buffalo, N. Y.; also to H. Clay Trumbull,
Editor of the Sunday School Times, Philadelphia.
	Resolution 3rd.
	Resolved:—That the National Council of Women ask
that women be placed on all committees appointed in the
various churches, for the revision of the creeds.
	The Cor. Sec. was directed to send Resolu-
tion 3 to the official address of the Secretary of
eacn denomination which has appointed, or shall
before 1895, appoint a Committee on Revision of
the Creed.
	It being known to the Conference, that, at the
very time of the meeting, the General Assembly
of the Presbyterian Church was convened in
Detroit for this purpose, the following telegram
was sent:
	Indianapolis, May 30, 1891.
	To the General Assembly of the Presbyterian
Church Convened in Detroit, Michigan, (There is
no record of this telegram in the public proceed-
ings of the Assembly, but it was given to the As-
sociated Press and aroused some comment fn the
papers.)
Gentlemen:—
	Presbyterian women having as yet had no voice
in the revision of the creed, we respectfully ask
that, in its ratification, they be now invited to
participate.
	By Order of the National Council of Women
of the United States.
	Pres., MAY WRIGHT SEWALL.
	Cor. Sec., RACHEL FOSTER AVERY.
	It was mentioned to the Secretary that both the
Reformed and United Presbyterians are moving
toward a revision of their creeds. 
	Resolution 4th.
	Resolved;—That the National Council of Women urge up
on the National Reform Divorce League,the eminent fitness
and consequent obligation of placing women on its Board.
	After some discussion, it was decided, to ap-
point the following committe to appear before
the National Reform Divorce League, to present
Resolution 4 to that body and sustain it by argu-
ment.

[Column 2]
	Resolution 5th.
	Resolved.—That the National Council of Women shall
present to the proper authorities a formal request that in
all departments of its service the Government shall pay its
employees equal wages for equal work, and that both in
engaging and promoting its employees, it shall consider
efficiency and not sex, and thus set a standard for the
country.
	A Committee was appointed to carry out Reso-
lution 5 by securing the presentation to Congress
of a Bill containing such a provision, and to work
for its passage every Congress until such a Bill
shall become law.

	The Sec. was instructed to make it plain to
each member of thfs Committee that, whatever
memorial it may issue to the Government author-
ties, such document must first be submitted for
the signatures of the General Officers of the
Council.
	Resolution 6th.
	Resolved;—That inasmuch as the Columbian Exposition
of 1893 will afford an exceptional opportunity for the con-
vening the representatives of all countries, the officers of
the National Council shall invite the officers of
the International Council of Women, Millicent Gran
Fawcett, President, to hold its first meeting in Chicago in
the summer of 1893
	In connection with Resolution 6, the following
formal resolution was passed by  the Confer-
ence:—
	Resolved;—That in the meetings of 1893, the National
Council, in inviting the International Council of Women to
assemble in Chicago, will assume the entertainment of all
accerdited foreign delegates to the International Council of
Women; Therefore, so far as it affects the women of this
country, only members of National Associations that have
already entered the National Council can be accredited as
delegates to that meeting.
	Resolution 7th.
	Resolved;—That the general officers shall appoint a
committee whose duty It shall be to report within a year
suggestions for a business costume for women which shall
meet the demands of health, comfort, and good taste.
	In order to see that action be taken on Reso-
lution 7, a committee was appointed to prepare
a Symposium on Dress to be published under the
auspices of the National Council of Women, in
one of the popular magazines during the coming
year;
	And it shall be the further duty of this Com-
mittee to report to the May 1892 Conference, of
the Executive Board of the Council, its idea of an
every businese dress for women, accompanied, if
possible by a model of the same.

	The Cor. Sec. was directed to correspond with
Marion Harland as to the cost of the block of
stone or marble to be placed by  the National
Council in the monument to be erected over the
grave of Mary, the mother of Washington. She
was further authorized in the name of the Coun-
cil to collect money for the same. 
	The following contributions were at once
pledged: Miss Willard, $5.00; Mrs. Burlingame,
$5.00; Mrs. Sewall, $10.00; Mrs. Avery, $10.00.
	A letter was read from the Young Woman’s
Christian Association declining to join he Coun-
cil. A letter was also read from the Officers of
the National Chautauqua at Washington, D. C.,
asking whether the Council would be represented
at their coming meeting.
	The Sec. was instructed to secure, if possible,
a presentation at the meeting, of the work con-
nected with the Council.
	The Sec. was also instructed to correspond
with Mrs, Jennings as to the cost of a tent ot of a
permanent signboard bearing the name of the
Council, to be placed on its lot at Glen Echo.
	The President was authorized to form a com-

[Column 3]
mittee to collect funds for a Woman’s Temple to
be erected at Glen Echo, and to report at next
year’s meeting.
	The following Resolution was passed:
	Resolved;—That at the National Council in 1895 every
State Council may send two fraternal delegates. In States
where no State Council exists, City Councils may each
send one fraternal delegate. No fratemal delegates shall
be received at the National Council from states or cities in
which no Councils have been arganized.
	Resolved;—That a letter be sent out by the officers of
this Council encouraging the formation of City Councils
	A letter was read from the School of Industrial
Art asking how it could secure admittance to the
Council.
	The Sec. was directed to state in reply, that no
ocal associations can enter the Council, and to 
suggest the formation of a National Federation,
of such schools.
	After a long discussion of the proposed motto
of the National Council, the selection of which
was left with the retiring Board of Officers (two
of them being present in person and a third by
representation, and the opinion of the other two
being known.)
	“LIGHT, MORE LIGHT’’
was determined upon. The selection of a design
was left to Mrs. Avery. (Mrs. Avery and Mrs.
Sewall, though in favor of this motto at the time,
were not satisfied entirely because the vote was 
not unanimous, and resolved to hold further con-
sultation on this subject with the retired Board of
Officers.)
	The Cor. Sec. was authorized to proceed with
the publication of the "Transactions of the
National Council of Women."
 	It was resolved that the President of each As- 
sociation which had entered the Council should 
have sent her for distribution fifty copies of the
Council Number of the Business Woman's
Journal, and fifty more should she so request. 
	The meeting then adjourned having lasted from
10 a.m. till 5:30 p.m. with an hour and a half re-
cess for luncheon.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORT.

	CASSIA STAKE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society of Cassia Stake con-
vened in Conference at Elba, June the 19th,
1891.
	There were present a full attendance of the
Stake officers, representatives from all the
wards except one. Stake President H. D.
Haight, first Counselor and leading
brethren; also a large congregation.
	Minutes of two preceding conferences were
read; also statistical and financial reports
showing good work.
	Remarks from Prest. Louisa Haight were
followed by favorable verbal reports from the
various wards, showing how the majority of
the members endeavored against many disad-
vantages to keep up the spirit of their
duties.
	Counselors E. Tuttle and Ann Wilson each
addressed the conference in a forcible and in-
structive manner.
	During the afternoon session, Prest. H. D.
Haight and Counselor Moroni Pickett spoke
at some length upon the sisters duties and
wherein the brethren could and should render
them assistance in their labors.
	Remarks also by Sisters Priscilla Worthing-
ton and Louisa Read touching upon
the elevation of the young; dealing with traits
of character, self-education and other top-
ics.
	Prest. L. Haight extended to the brethren
a standing invitation to attend the conferences
of the Sisters.


General and Stake authorities were sus-
tained by the conference.
	The Elba choir rendered sweet music; every
one seemed blessed with a righteous and
friendly spirit.
	Conference adjourned to meet at Oakley in
three months.
		LOUISA READ, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


W. S. A. S. L. CO.

	Minutes of the regular meeting of the Salt
Lake Co., W. S. A. held in the 13th Ward
Assembly Rooms July 21st, 1891. Pres. Eliza-
beth Howard in the chair. Prayer by the
Chaplain.
	The Secretary not being present at the open-
ing of the meeting, Elizabeth Mc'Farlane read
an Essay on Democracy, after which the Sec-
retary having arrived, the minutes of last
meeting were read and adopted. Pres.
Howard announced that the Suffrage Song
Book could be obtained at the EXPONENT
Office, at 10 cts. each, and hoped that all would
provide themselves with one.
	Pres. Territorial W. S. A. Sarah M. Kimball
addressed the meeting, defining the difference
between Democracy and Republicanism:
thought we should not mix religion with poli-
tics, but always acknowledge God. We should
seek to intorm ourselves upon the political
questions of the day and assist others to do so,
that when we do have the franchise again we
may be prepared to exercise it intelligently.
	Said there had been a fear expressed that
through our differences of opinions in politics,
there might be a division among us as a
people, did not think that we should discuss
those subjects in an ungenerous spirit, but
seek to properly understand the different
methods of government.
	M. Isabella Horne, said she did not like
strife in politics, and if women were in danger
of being corrupted by politics, it was time
politics were purified, and that she fully be-
lieved that we should again have the franchise.
	Emily S. Richards was sorry to have missed
hearing Mrs. Mc'Farlane's speech, believed in
Democratic principles of government; our
children should be educated in politics, and we
should be educated ourselves in order to
properly educate them.
	Pres. Howard, suggested a second reading of
Mrs. Mc'Farlane's Essay, as some of the ladies
had come in late and had not heard it, which 
was done.
	Mary A. B. Freeze said that she had enjoyed
the meeting more than she would have done a
dozen concerts, thought that we should discuss
these questions with the kindest of feelings.
	Dr. E. S. Barney made a stirring speech.
The Secretary apologized for being late, and
gave some of her ideas about the subject under
discussion.
	Mary A. B. Freeze and Margaret A. Caine
were appointed to write articles, one on Re-
publicanism, and the other on Democracy,
Elizabeth Price to write on the Tariff, for the
next meeting, the meeting was then adjourned
until the third Tuesday in August, same time
and place.
			CAROLINE C. R. WELLS, Sec.


[Column 1]

THE WHITE CROSS MOVEMENT IN
EDUCATION.

FROM ADDRESS OF FRANCES E. WILLARD BE-
FORE THE NATIONAL EDUCATIONAL
ASSOCIATION.

	"The White Cross!" Never was name
more fortunate or purpose loftier than
that indicated by this new combination of
letters, happily grown already familiar to our

[Column 2]

ears. The poetry of religion and the insignia
of a chivalric age here veil a meaning some-
times too rudely told. Although but seven
years have passed since the White-Cross
movement became "A spell to conjure by" in
England, it has spread to Australia, India,
and America, finding everywhere a kind re-
ception, when its plans are understood. Sa-
cred and beautiful is the mission of the White
Cross. The fulness of time has come, the
world is ready for it, and the twentieth cene
tury shall lift it to the sky, the cross of Him
we love—no longer red with tinge of war and
carnage, but white with promise of manhood
that bears forever in its breast the lily of a
spotless life, while as of old its gleaming le-
gend still shall be: "By this sign we con-
quer."
	The work was introduced into this country
by Rev. B. F. Da Costa, rector of the church
of St. John the Evangelist, New York City
and has been adopted as part of its organic
plans by the Church of England and the
Episcopalian Church in America. It con-
templates a distinct effort to educate toward
personal purity every boy or youth in Chris-
tendom.
	This is the White Cross pladge:
	I promise by the help of God—
	First: To treat all women with respect,
and endeavor to protect them from wrong
and degradation.
	Second: To endeavor to put down all inde-
cent language and coarse jests.
	Third: To maintain the law of purity as
equally binding upon men and women.
	Fourth: To endeavor to spread these prin-
ciples among my companions, and try to help
my younger brothers.
	Fifth: To use all possibls means to fulfill
the command, "Keep thyself pure."
	The principle on which this movement rests
is that to be forewarned is the only way to be
forearmed; that virtue based upon knowledge
is safer than innocence based upon ignorance;
and the recital of the creative mysteries from a
mother's or a teacher's lips imparts to the
child's mind such a solemnity and sacredness
as cannot be otherwise obtained. The girl,
and even more especially the boy, who feels a
confidential freedom in bringing to the
home sanctuary the mysterious questions,
sure to be asked and answered somewhere,
will be likely to maintain purity of word and
deed even amid youth's manifold temptations.
Happy the child whose mother has his entire
confidence all his life long. I have been told
by many a fortunate mother that her son
indignantly repelled the degradation of the
common school boy talk upon subjects he had
learned to regard as sacred, by reason of con-
fidences exchanged between himself and her
who bore him.
	The first White Cross pledge ever offered
was sent by me to a bright young fellow of
sixteen, an athlete on the college campus of
our university at Evanston, and a
chief student in the classics. When his
mother handed him the pledge on my behalf
he read it carefully and said: "Well, that's
what I call hard sense. This town is Evans-
ton, and we Methodists like to call it Heavens-
ton, but I doubt if there is a boy here, eight
years old, who hasn't plenty of weeds sown
in his heart. I'm glad the white-ribbon wo-
men propose to plant some lilies there." I
was helped by those frank words. I under-
stood the situation better and believed more
in the work.
	A young minister wrote a prize essay for
the work on the White Cross. He said that
until ten years of age he never went from the
home where he was most carefully nursed by
his widowed mother. On the first day in
public school he heard such language at re-
cess as outraged his sense of purity, and rush-

[Column 3]

ing home he poured out his heart to the dear
mother whose name stood first on his
calendar of saints. But to his astonishment
she turned away from him with indignation
saying: "Charley, never come to me again
repeating what the boys have said, for I won't
hear it." As she thus spoke it seemed to him
that the hand he trusted most was roughly
snatched from the helm of his life barque,
and he thrust out to sea without a guide, nor
did he regain the port of purity until after a
storm of sin that lasted many years. In happy
contrast to this experience is that of many a
white-ribbon mother who has said to me: "My
boy often comes home from school saying,
'Mother they tried to make me laugh at some
of their vulgar words. but I wouldn't listen to
them after the way you and I have talked;
for the mother's gentle lips had keyed the
boy's thought of things forever sacred, to the
heights of holiness. But here comes in the
motto, Noblesse oblige. For all mothers are
not what we could wish. The average teacher
is greatly superior in character and culture
to the average parents whose children are
placed under her care. She knows far better
what to say and how to say it. Every
school-house has three classes of children—
those from homes celestial, terrestrial, and
diabolical. It is so much easier to sink than
climb that, in seeking an equilibrium, the
lowest minds spread their contagion widest;
and the tendency is to keep time at the
slowest step in the last battalion of the
"little soldiers newly mustered in to this
army of temptation and of sin."
		[To be continued.]


A PLEASANT GATHERING.

	The teachers and a few of the members of
the Relief Society of Union Ward met on the
12th of June at the residence of her daughter,
Mrs. Lucy A. Brady by way of a surprise to
our aged and much beloved President, Mrs.
Elizabeth Richards, on the anniversary of her
82nd birthday. The time was most pleasantly
spent in social conversation, songs with organ
accompaniment and recitations. She received
a very nice present from her sisters with bless-
ings and good wishes.
	And, though feeble in body, her desires are
to see the work of the Lord triumph. All
partook of a bounteous supper which had been
prepared by the ladies of the Association, and
in the twilight of the evening all bade her an
affectionate adieu, realizing it is good to bless
and to be blessed.
	Sister Richards has been associated with the
Church from the days of Nauvoo; her house
always being open to the brethren and Saints her
hospitality is well known; she is one of those
loveable persons, whom to know her longest, is
to love her best.
			M. A. SMART, Sec.


SELF-SACRIFICE.

	It is useless to talk of sacrificing self to
others unless there is something in self that
others need. It is the full and rich life, not
the poor and empty one, that can fill and
enrich others. True benevolence, then, must
obtain that which would give. To acquire
honorable money or leisure or power, to
cultivate health and, to gain wisdom and
knowledge, to develop interest in human
affairs, to cherish just principles and generous
impulses—these things are essential if we
would pour out blessings and benefits upon
our fellow-men, while at the same time they
ennoble and gladden our lives. We are all
influencing others in the direction in which
we ourselves are tending.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


OLD MAIDS ORGANIZE.

	The young women of of Woodhaven, N. Y.
have organized an "Old Maids' Consolation
Association." They aver that they have been
neglected by the young men, and now propose
to retaliate. Not to be outdone, several young
men met and organized an "Old Bachelors'
Sympathetic and Consolation Society." Pre-
amble and resolutions were adopted as fol-
lows:
	WHEREAS. It having become known
that the young women of this city have orga-
nized an "Old Maids' Consolation Association"
setting up as a primary cause "the inattention
of the young men," and announcing their de-
termination to exclude from their society the
male offenders, and fearing that if such plan
were carried into effect it might cause too
great a devotion to the historic black cat and
strong tea; therefore
	Resolved, That we, as representative young
men of the community, deploring their hasty
action in assigning themselves so prematurely
to old maidenhood, earnestly request them to
reconsider their action. At the same time we
extend our heartfelt sympathy and penitently
promise to atone for past neglect.
	Resolved, That we appoint a committee to
attend the next meeting of the "Old Maids'
Consolation Association," and do all in their
power to effect a consolidation of the two socie-
ties under the title of the "Mutual Consolation
Association."
	After singing the hymn "Come ye Disconso-
late," the meeting adjourned, subject to the
call of the chair.—Ex.


[Column 1]
	MISCELLANEOUS.

	The strength of a nation, especially of a re-
publican nation, is in the intelligent and well-
ordered homes of the people.—Sigourney. 

	God takes men’s hearty desires and will, in-
stead of the deed, where they have not power
to fulfill it, but He never took the bare deed
instead of the will—Baxter.

	It would be an unspeakable advantage, both
to the public and private, if men would con-
sider that great truth, that no man is wise or
safe but he that is honest.—Sir. W. Raleigh.

	Too much idleness, I have observed, fills up
a man’s time much more completely, and
leaves him less his own master, than any sort
of employment whatsoever.—Burke.

	Of all injustice that is the greatest which
goes under the name of law, and of all sorts
of tyranny the forcing of the jetter of the law,
against the equity is the most insupportable.—
Sir. R. L'Estrange.

	If you make yourself up in a bundle of
falsities, you will only attract other such
bundles. If you are true to yourself, you will
attract other true people and things. “True”
means, “express yourself,” it does not mean
“disguise yourself,” nor “suppress yourself.”
If you think a fashion is vulgar, let nothing
induce you to follow it; if you think a costume
suitable, let nothing induce you to abandon
it. Being true in dress is one way of con-
tributing to freedom of the human race.
	With all the pomp and glitter of royalty,
the marriage of Franziska Josepha Louise
Augusta Marie Christina Helena, better
known as the Princess Louise of Schleswig-
Holstein, and Prince Albert Joseph Alex
ander von Anhalt was solemnized at Wind-
sor, England, Monday, July 6. The bride
is a younger daughter of Prince Christian
of Shleswig Holstein, and the Princess Hele-
na, of England, daughter of Queen Vic-
toria. She is 19 years of age and, contrary

[Column 2]
to the general rule of royalty, is decidedly
good looking. The groom is the third son of
the Duke of Anhalt-Dessau. He is 27 years
of age, and is a lieutenant in the First Prus-
sian Dragoon Guards, a regiment of which
Queen Victoria is the honorary Colonel. The
betrothal took place in December last, with,
the usual ceremonies prescribed by the Ger-
man Imperial Court. By the Queen’s express
desire the wedding took place in the private
royal chapel of St. George, which is located
within the royal grounds, a short distance
from the castle.
	The Phrenological Journal for July has
something to say of Prof. Briggs and the
church controversy, and says it clearly and
well, giving a portrait of the reverend critic.
A remarkable Irishmen and public character
was Mr. Kavanagh, who is described, and how
he made his way in the world, despite the fact
he had neither hands nor feet. The character
of Hayden, the great musician, is well limned,
and Dr. Reynolds relates certain interesting
incidents of animal intelligence. In the de-
partment of Practical Phrenology the reader
will be much entertained. It contains a strik-
ing and profusely illustrated article on the
study of character by photographs, and the
first prize essay on the “Utility of Phrenol-
ogy.” “A Pink of Perfection” hits off a cer-
tain type of childhood capitally, and “Wrong
Side Out” is a good illustration of motherly
tact. “Refined Physical Culture” takes up
the subject of exercise on a line that has
novelty, and “Grape Juice” will probably open
the eyes of some of the temperance people.
In his second article on “Systematic Moral
Culture,” the editor opens a new field, and
shows the fallacy of expecting moral stability
without a definite training of the moral
faculties. Many other titles in this number
(631) are deserving mention. Price only 15
cents, or $1.50 a year. It is offered “on trial”
six monthe from this number, the first of the
92d volume, for 50 cents. Send on this,
amount and try it. Address Fowler & Wells
Co., publishers, 777 Broadway, New York.


OBITUARY

	Departed this life April 17th, 1889, at Orderville, of 
dropsy Mary Blackburn the wife of Thomas Blackburn;
and daughter of William and Elizabeth Wallace: she was
born in Holbach, Lincolnshire, England, March 15, 1821;
was married to Thomas Blackburn Nov. 12, 1847. She 
emigrated to Australia in 1851; was baptized with her hus-
band Dec. 10, 1855, at Makeland in Hunter river by A.
P. Dowdle, and emigrated to Utah by way of San Francis-
co in 1868; moved to Long Valley 1871. She was aged 
70 years, 1 month and 3 days, and was the mother of four
children, of which three died in their youth. She leaves a
husband, one son, and three grandchildren to mourn her
loss. She was a dutiful wife, a loving mother, and an
affectionate grandmother, and a good and faithful Latter-
day Saint. She was a member of the Relief Society and al-
ways a friend to the poor.

	MEMORIAL AND RESOLUTIONS.

	Memorial of respect to the family of Mary Blackburn.
	WHEREAS, Our beloved Sister has been called away 
by the hand of death, and therfore be it
	RESOLVED, That we the members of the Relief So-
ciety do deeply deplore the loss of an earnest worker
and a true friend, and that we tender to the bereaved 
husband and son, our heartfelt sympathy, and pray our
Heavenly Father to let the comforting influence of his
Holy Spirit rest upon them in their hour of bitter
trial.
	HANNAH HOYT,
	SUSAN HEATON,
	AMELIA CARROLL,
	SARAH ROBERTSON,
	Committee,

	We miss our Sister sadly,
	And those orphan children dear


Miss grandma's admonitions,
And her kind and loving care;
But she's resting from her labors,
Where no pain to her can come;
And we bow to Father's wishes,
And say His will be done.
	CLARISSA WILHELM, Sec.


Woman's Voice
AND PUBLIC SCHOOL CHAMPION.

	A bright newsy weekly paper, treating of all
reforms that affect women; is a firm defender of 
the public schools, and gives information concern-
ing them.
	It contains reports of the W. C. T., the King's
Daughters and Missions.
	Exposes the dangers threatening the nation
from Immigration, the Liquor Traffic and Roman-
ism—gives full reports of the world-renowned
Boston Music Hall Patriotic Sunday afternoon 
meetings.
PRICE $1.00 PER YEAR. SAMPLE COPY 3 cts.
	Address: ELIZA TRASK HILL.
Editor and General Manager, Room  9, Tremont
	Temple, Boston, Mass.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
	Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
	ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
	AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
	POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, latest
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
	No. 123 E FIRST SOUTH STREET,
	Opposite City Hall.

R.K. THOMAS

26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St., 
	SALT LAKE CITY.

	The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R. K. THOMAS

	Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
	Will be found the latest styles and productions 
	in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
	RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
	And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Sir

	DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from 
he country promptly responded to.
	DAVD JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

	VOL. 20	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 15, 1891.	No. 4.


CONTENTS.
Answer to Little Girl’s Letter—Evadna.
Foreign Letter—Lib. May Wright Sewall’s Let-
ter. Woman’s Day at Chautauqua—Woman's
Tribune. Woman Suffrage — Augusta Joyce
Crocheron. Death of James Russel Lowell. R.
S. Reports—Maricopa—Juab. American Fork
W. S. A. Weber Co., W. S. A. The Suffrage in
Victoria. Golden Wedding—H. B. B. The
White Cross Movement in Education.
EDITORIAL:—Women in Politics. Visit to
Kaysville. Editorial Notes. Charles Ellis' 
Pamphlet. Death of Sister Merrill. Again Com-
forted—M. E. K.
POETRY:—Singing Evermore—Augusta Joyce
Crocheron. The Magic of Musical Echoes—E.
B.W. Zinlka Latuni—Augusta Joyce Crocheron.


SINGING EVERMORE.

Should I veil my face in passing
Thou would'st know me without sign,
Thou would'st know me still unchanged
As my own heart knoweth thine.
Though in solitude I dream on
Thou dost sit my soul beside,
Thou dost answer all my asking
O'er the distance dark and wide.

Other eyes may change their meaning
Wiser grown as years pass o'er,
But thine own rhyme with thy singing
Through the silence evermore.

All I strove to do, though failing—
Thou dost know the meaning's worth,
Waiting for the better future
To complete the hopes of earth.
Matters not though great or idle
Discords come and changes pass,
Time holds fresh as souls are deathless
What was valued in the past.

Often life may hush to silence,
All their praises done and o'er,
But thine own to me are singing
Through the silence evermore.
	AUGUST JOYCE CROCHERON.
August 9th, 1891.


THE MAGIC OF MUSICAL ECHOES.

There's a strain of music floats on the breeze,
And its echoes, the rhythm of fairies tell,
And mingling with notes of the sighing trees
It enchants the soul with a weird-like spell.
And the sweetest visions of long ago
Are afloat on the summer breeze again,
And we pause as we think of times swift flow,
And we listen to catch the sad refrain.
The thoughts that come with that musical strain
Bring the past enrapt in a mystic light—
And the halo of memory once again,
Beams dim o'er our path on a moonlit night—
Away in the shadowy, hazy past,
Ere clouds had darkened the azure skies;
Our pulses were quick, and our hearts beat fast,
And earth in its beauty seemed Paradise.
The tender chords of the heart may be stirr'd
By a sweet strain of music soft, and low,
Repeating the echoes that erst were heard
From the depths of the years of  long ago.
A lingering sweetness of cherish'd hours,
Sweeps through our lives as we journey along
As delicate perfume from fragrant flowers,
Or the melody of some long-lost song,
Which wake in our soul where remembrance stays,
The joys which e'en time can never outlive;


And in hours of pleasure, or darkest days
A nameless charm doth their influence give.
	E. B. W.


[Column 1]
ANSWER TO A LITTLE GIRL'S
LETTER.

	Smithfield, June 16th, 1891.
	MY DARLING SISTER: 
	Your dear, pleasant letter, descriptive of
your journey, (through the Geography), was
duly received, thrice read, and much appre-
ciated.—One point, I wondered at your hav-
ing missed; didn’t your guide direct you to
the world famed Falls of Niagara? I should
like to have had your opinion of them.—
Wouldn’t it be fine if we could really travel,
you and I, and visit some of those places of
interest?—
	But sometimes I wonder if we, young peo-
ple favored to be Utah born, duly appreciate
the grandeur and beauty of scenery by which
we are surrounded, here at home; or if we
realize as we should, the peaceful, happy cir-
cumstances under which we have been privi-
leged to be born and reared; I fear that often
we do not.
	Today I have been strolling by the lovely
clear stream that flows through, and gladdens
the heart of this settlement. Have gathered
sweet, wild flowers; rested in a quiet, shady
nook; listened to the songs of praise from the
throats of the feathery warblers which inhabit
the tree tops, and heard also the voice of
thanksgiving in the sound of the rippling
waters, as they sped onward, joyously fulfilling
the parts assigned them in the great perform-
ance of Nature. And my own heart was
awakened to a sense of the deep gratitude due
from me to my Heavenly Father, for His
abundant mercies. Thoughts of my dear
home, which it is now nearly a year since I left,
recalled to memory’s view, the peaceful
thoughtful face of my father, who still remains
to comfort, encourage and instruct his little
flock, and lead them in the path of truth and
honor. My gentle mother, too, whose fair
face smiles beneath a crown now tinged with
gray, and whose dear voice I seemed to hear
exclaim, “Oh! Father bless my absent child,
and bring her safe to me again.” And Auntie,
with her kind and loving heart. My brothers
brave and true; my sisters pure and chaste
and happy hearted, all gathering round the
hearth at home.—But now they do not gather
as in days gone by. For men who know
nothing of the joys which we have known, say
we must no longer dwell in peace as we have
hitherto done. And God, for some wise pur-
pose suffers it to be so now. But though
power is granted men to separate us in our
homes, they cannot break the band of love
which unites our hearts, thrt one strong band
of everlasting love. And though they may
disturb, they cannot destroy our peace of mind.
Those whose hearts are united in the love of
Christ, whose lives are spent in doing good,
who strive to know and do the will of God,
seeking to gain Eternal lives in the world to
come, will always find much to rejoice over.
	These and many other reflections have passed
through my mind. And while all nature lifts
the voice of praise to the Great Creator, shall
not we praise Him too with prayer and song,
for His protecting care?

[Column 2]
	While listening to the gentle ripple of the
stream, and watching its playful, sparkling
dimples, I thought, how like its wayward, noisy
course, had the hours of my childhood glided
by. No clouds of care or trouble ever made
me sad, or even thoughtful of the great waves,
of the rushing tide so soon to be reached in the
busy life of womanhood; the days, weeks,
months and years passed so swiftly by. To-
day, for the first time in eighteen years, I have
plucked wild flowers within the shady grove,
where oft in childhood I, with other free,
light-hearted children played.
	On my way to this place, as the train
rounded the point of the mountain, emerging
from the canyon, and coming into full view of
this beautiful valley, I gazed upon the home
where I had passed the happiest days of my
childhood, the place in which all my school
days were spent; bright days long to be re-
membered; loved teachers, never to be for-
gotten. I called to mind the first lines of one
of the beautiful songs our uncle D. sings:
	
	“Fond recollections, like visions steal o'er me,
	Taking me back to my once happy home;
	Scenes of my childhood are ever before me,
	Fresh in my memory, wherever I roam.”

	Then I scanned briefly the pages of memory’s
volume, turning them one by one, and noting
the swiftly changing, shifting scenes; sometimes
smooth and clear as summer skies, and some-
times dark and cloudy. But I am not going
to dwell on sorrowful themes. You should see
uncle D. and his wife, if you would behold,
what seems to me, a perfect representation of
wedded life. They are so well suited to each
other, and so happy in each other’s love.  And
what picture can be more interesting than
such a reality as this?
	In a little book which aunt has lent me, I
find these lines:

	O FAIREST OF THE RURAL MAIDS.

	“Oh fairest of the rural maids!
	Thy birth was in the forest shades,
	Green boughs and glimpses of the sky,
	Were all that met thy infant eye,

	Thy sports, thy wanderings, when a child,
	Were ever in the sylvan wild;
	And all the beauty of the place
	Is in thy heart and on thy face.

	The twilight of the trees and rocks
	Is in the light shades of thy locks,
	Thy step is as the wind that weaves
	Its playful way among the leaves.”
	W.C. BRYANT.

	Now Hattie, I consider this a long, long let-
ter for me to have written, don’t you? Please
share it with all the loved ones at home, and
answer promptly, for you know how anxiously
your letters are watched for by,
	Your affectionate sister,
	EVADNA.


FOREIGN LETTER.

	Douglas, Isle of Man July 5, 1891.
DEAR MARY:
Since I last wrote to  you I have seen
several places. Castletown is a very, very
old town, which was once inhabited by
smugglers. The houses are all very strongly
built, the walls very thick to resist attacks


The town derives its name from Castle
Rushen, which is a more imposing and
majestic than picturesque castle. It was
thought to have been built 947 from those
figures in Arabic, which were found cut on an
old beam in a recess behind the old gateway,
by some workmen who were making alterations
in the building; “but the ground for this
assumption was completely cut away by the
fact that Arabic figures were unknown in
Europe for nearly three centuries later A.
D. 947.” The wall around the Castle is 25
feet high and 9 feet thick In the Castle is a
curious old clock which was presented by
Queen Elizabeth in 1597. The clock has
been ticking ever since with the exception of
the time for repairs.
	A few days ago Ma and I took a long
walk into the country.  We walked two
miles along such pretty lanes, with the butter-
cups, daisies and other wild flowers growing
on the grass by the roadside and in the fields.
We passed some gipsies who wanted to tell
our fortunes, but we did not care to have
them told. There were many fruits and
flowergardens along the road. We went into
one and bought some strawberries in a cabbage
leaf. They had a delicious flavor just fresh
from the garden.
	We had horrible weather a week ago, but
for the last few days, it has been fine lovely
and warm.
	Yesterday the fonrth of July it was a lovely
sunny day, the sea had scearcely a ripple on
on it. Of course there were no celebrations
here. Today it is very windy and it has been
raining almost continually.
	We have moved from the place we were
staying first in a house just above it, as at the
first place, the owners of it had rented their
apartments to some one else before we
had decided to stay a week longer. In the
dining room we have now, there is a book
case full of good books with which we amuse
ourselves, when we are not out of doors.
	July 13:—I haven’t been anywhere much
since writing you last except to Saxey to
see Saxey wheel. We went on a steamer, it
is only about seven miles from Douglas.
The wheel is a huge affair. Just imagine
a wheel fully as tall when standing on the
ground as a four story house, each story as
high as ours at home. There was a winding
staircase to go up to the top, but I didn’t care
to go. A man who went up was just shaking
when he came down and he said he never felt
so nervous in his life as when he was up at the
top. The wheel is used in a lead mine to
draw the water out.
	Many of the girls here have lovely hair
and complexions, but their teath are almost
all bad.*	*
	It seems a shame, but I wonder if it is not
with drinking so much hot tea. Most of
them have tea four times a day, two cups at
each meal. The landladies think we are very
strange as we do not care for the English tea
and do not have supper just before we go to
bed at 10 o’clock. *	*	*
	Your Loving Friend.
	LIB.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.﻿


[Column 1]
MAY WRIGHT SEWALL’S LETTER.

	The anticipated conference of French wo-
men with Mrs. Potter Palmer, referred to in a
former letter, took place at Mrs. Palmer's
apartments in the Grand Hotel, on the after-
noon of July 1. The first part of it assumed
the character of an informal reception. About
forty persons were present, who constituted
quite a distinguished assembly. M. and Mme.
De Morsier, M. and Mme. Bogelot, M. Mansais,
L. Poeot. Mme. Marie Martin, and Mme.
Kôchlin Schwartz, with other representatives
[Column 2]
of the French Congress, recalled the committee
meetings of 1889. The presence of Mme.
Yoes Gyat (wife of the minister of Public
Works) with Mlle. Gyat, her daughter, of M.
Jules Siegfried, (one of the most influential
members of the Chamber of Deputies,) and 
Mme Siegfried, and the arrival of M. Jules
Simon lent a sort of official recognition to the
affair.
	Among Americans present may be named
Mrs. J. Robert  McKee, Mrs. Russell Harrison,
Mrs. John A. Logan (accompanied by her son
and daughter-in-law), and Mr. Theodore
Stanton. Among other interesting people
whom we met was M. Napoleon Ney (grandson
of the illustrious Marshal Ney), who is deeply
interested in modern sociel problems, and
whose wife is conspicuously identified with
various charitable works conducted by wo-
men.
	Mrs. Palmer received and entertained her
guests with much grace and cordiality. After
an hour spent in sociability and in partaking
of delicate refreshments, Mme. DeMorsier
called the meeting to order and explained its
objects. Mrs. Palmer followed with an ac-
count of the formation of the Board of Lady
Managers, and a statement of its wishes in re-
spect to foreign countries. Great interest was
manifested, and many inquiries propounded
particularly by M. Jules Siegfried, who evi-
dently thought it more important that the ad-
vancement of French women in liberal ideas,
in charities, in education, and in associated
effort should be represented in the various 
congresses to be held in connection with the 
Exposition, than that the actual results of their
industry should be displayed in the Exposition
itself.
	I had been advised that I should be asked to
speak on behalf of the International Council
of Women to be convened in Chicago in 1893;
but, fearing that the discussion of the Council
would result in confusing the minds of those
less thoroughly informed concerning its organ-
ization than are Mme. De Morsier and her
immediate associates, I asked Mme. De Morsier
to excuse me, so that the entire time of the for-
mal séance might be given to discussing the
representation of women's work in our great
Fair. I, however had an opportunity to talk
about the Council in private conversation with 
many of the leaders here, and I have every
reason to believe that men and women alike of
the progressive school will exert themselves to
see that several representative delegates from
organizations of French women sit in the
Council of '93.
	An amusing incident of the conference was
a lively discussion in regard to the construc-
tion of the honorary committee. The name
of M. Jules Siegfried was suggested, but the
nomination, though heartily supported by all
present, was positively declined by the nomi-
nee, who boldly asserted that it was unfitting
to place any man at the head of such a com-
mittee, and advocated with no little eloquence
the propriety of placing Mme. De Morsier at
the head of a committee composed entirely of
women, with the understanding that the gen-
tlemen interested should form a sort of un-
official advisory board. However, all the wo-
men present evidently thought a man at its
head absolutely essential to the dignity of the
committee, and the friendly dispute was termi-
nated by the arrival of M. Jules Simon, who,
upon Mme. De Morsier's motion, accepted the
honorary presidency of the committee, to the
evident surprise of some, but the equally evi-
dent satisfaction of all parties. With this ac-
tion the formal conference adjourned to con-
vene at the same place on the following day,
Thursday, July 2, at two o'clock.
	In this second conference I also had the pleas-
ure of participating. There were present only
fourteen, but the number included no Americans
[Column 3]
excepting Mrs. Palmer and myself, and the
serious enthusiasm with which preliminary
committees were made up and practical  ques-
tions discussed augurs well for the representa-
tions of French women in the Exposition of
'93.
	Arrangements were made to bring the mat-
ter properly before the government in order to
secure its approval and aid. The result of
Mrs Palmer's interview with the minister I
have not learned, as on July 3 we left Paris,
where we had lingered a week beyond our
original plan, in order that I might use the op
portunities afforded by the various conferences
and meetings going forward at this time to en-
list the sympathies and interest of the French
women in the International Council of Women
and to watch the steps being taken to con-
federate their own various societies into a
National Council of women of France. Their
steps are being taken with great circumspec-
tion, but the result is considered assured by
those who are best informed concerning the
progress of social reform in this country.
	Rome, July 14, '91.
					The Woman's Journal.


WOMAN'S DAY AT OLD
CHAUTAUQUA.

	A letter just received from Miss Anthony
gives a glowing account of the programe
carried out Chautauqua, New York by the
Chautauqua County Political Equality clubs
and on invitation of Bishop Vincent.
	Miss Anthony writes that Bishop Vincent
himself welcomed the Clubs and their friends
and sat through the first address "that of dear
Mother Wallace, who in her own way rescued
the Bible from its old interpretation against
equality of rights for women." We quote a
brief notice of the day from the Jamestown
Sunday News:—
	"The platform was appropriately decorated
with bunting, flowers, drapery and banners.
Over the speakers' heads was an enormous
banner inscribed "Political Equality!" flanked
by others, bearing the legends, "Woman's
Ballot means Enlarged Opportunities for do-
ing Good," and "Governments Derive Their
Just Powers from the Consent of the Gov-
erned." Around were grouped the beautiful
silk insignia of a local Political Equality
club.
	County President Elnoras N. Babcock, of
Dunkirk, presided, supported by the other
officers of the county P. E. organization. Not
less than a full regiment - one thousand ladies
proudly wore the gold tinted badges that pro-
claimed them either affiliated with the P. E.
club or avowed suffragists. Lilly Dale sent
a contingent of a round hundred, and every
township in the county was well represented.
As the day cleared auspiciously the amphi-
theater was filled by five thousand enthusiastic 
listeners. 
	Mrs. Zerelda G. Wallace received a merited
ovation, not only by her address on political
equality, but as an ideal American matron.
	Rev. Anna Shaw's grand physique domi-
nated the rostrum and her resonant voice
penetrated to the remotest tiers of the thronged
amphitheater, and her cogent eloquence was
worthy of the magnificent audience, the occa-
sion and her august theme," "The Fate of
Republics," which competent critics pro-
nounced the most statesmanlike discourse ever
given in western New York.
	Woman's day was justified by the reception
given to that intrepid Arnold Winkelried of
women, Miss Susan B. Anthony.—Woman's
Tribune.


A man who will lie on his knees won't tell
the truth anywhere.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


ZINTKA LATUNI.
(LITTLE LOST BIRD.)
Cold fell the snow on the mountains,
Fierce fell the fire of the foe, 
Yet safe in her fur cov'ring
Little Lost Bird slumbered low.
Cold were the arms of her mother
Clasping her still though in death,
Her lips answ'ring not with caresses
Little Lost Bird's tender breath. 

Then when the dead were all counted,
The wounded gathered aside;
'Mid voices of soldiers and red men—
A baby in loneliness cried!
Lifting her out from the death clasp,
To the General's tent she was borne, 
And in pity, he claimed from the carnage
The babe that the Nation made mourn.

Far from her birthplace and people
They bore her with tenderest care,
For the heart of the man, in the Soldier
Was reached by the dead mother's prayer.
Now in the home of the General—
They keep her sweet Indian name;
O, Lost Bird! may the soul of thy tribe
Stay with thee forever the same.
AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON
Feb 91.


[Column 1]
	WOMAN SUFFRAGE.

	The spectacle of American women ( in this
"Land of the free and the home of the brave,")
convening in serious assembly to present their
views and wishes, and claiming that they have
not already, all the rights and privileges of free 
born citizens in a country whose CONSTITUTION
sets forth the statement that "all men are born
free and equal;" seems at first thought strange. 
But, knowing it to be an undisputed fact, that this 
is figurative rather than real, it may be wisdom
to illustrate the inefficiency of poetic and 
chilvalric sentiment, to compensate for the lack
of the legal and more substantial certainty of 
woman's rights. That American women are 
pre-eminently high souled, patriotic, devotional
intellectual, energetic and industrious, is ac-
knowledged. Brave, upon the frontiers of her 
country, faithful in adversity and strong in 
hope for the future of her children reared in 
the solitudes afar from the splendors of civili-
zation, deeming not even the Senate or the 
Presidency an impossibility for them; who shall
dare to call her weak-minded and incapable of 
attaining to greater usefulness that housewifery.
She who has built well, by her spirit and labors
the foundation stones of manhood and woman-
hood, - must she stand back behind those
pillars of strength that her spirit has guided
and reared aloft and be seen only as a shadow
of their greatness? Think of the mother of 
Lincoln, the mother of Garfield! When the 
victory of Washington was achieved he 
hastened to pay his respects to his aged
mother. At the Inaugural of Garfield, at its 
conclusion he turned first to kiss the mother who
had the place of honor beside him. Were all
men like these in nobility of soul, there would 
never be need of a Woman Suffrage Association;
and though there may be thousands of men as
noble and tender in their households yet the 
lever of justice is needed to "leaven the whole 
lump" of humanity. 
	Our own States and Territories differ in 
their own laws for women and children, there is 
not a uniformity of legal protection and justice
throughout America. A man may do in one 
State what in another would be an outrage.
In one eastern State an Amercian girl married a 
foreigner and her husband had legal authority 
to send her children to Europe to be educated
and detained her at home. Another on his death 

[Column 2]
bed bequeathed his three children to his own
relatives in China, and left so little a portion to 
their mother that she was unable to follow
them, nor could she legally do so.
	A noted actress became intemperate, because
her husband pocketed the large sums which 
her popularity and ability earned, spent it in 
high living and gambling and doled out to her
what he considered proper. Had he a right
to her earnings? A man of humbler origin, 
refused to work for less than three and a half 
a day, because it would be lowering himself in 
the eyes of his trade (mining,) so he stolidly 
waited, "holding the fort" of his dignity all 
summer, while his wife went out washing five
days in the week to provide for six children,
pay the rent and furnish him with tobacco and
overalls. Thus, the dignity of manhood and
the submission of wife were properly sustained.
Thus; the lights and shadows are scattered
over land, - forever passing before us is an 
endless panorama of scenes that enliven or dis-
hearten the thoughtful. Where woman is so 
much concerned, can it be inappropriate for
her sisters of freer spirit and stronger courage
to speak in her behalf? Can it be wrong for 
those noble and generous of nature, touched by 
sympathy, to inquire into our laws and see if 
something cannot be done for those less fortu-
nate? What harm or injury has ever resulted
from woman's studying Law a little? What
if certain eminent ladies learned and famous
have quarrelled! Have not eminent legal
gentlemen done the same? And have not per-
sons with no attainments at all quarrelled also?
It ever takes a cause to produce a result!
	Then, again, of our cause or reason is good, 
(for humanity's sake) for studying law or poli-
tics, why not go ahead? As the opposite sex
has crossed over into our domestic domain
and taken some of our avocations from us, why
should we not overtake the invader and capture
some of his professions and emoluments? If
men in certain eastern cities have the right to
control the laundries, and give ladies' clothing
into the Chinaman's hands to wash, thus tak-
ing that branch of business from women, is it
not time that free women arose and said some-
thing?
	But we must not look on the study of poli-
tics as either aggressive or defensive, though
sometimes such are its uses.
	The study of politics is one of the grandest
and perfect, next to religion; in reality one of
the powers of God. It is a portion of His
grand system. I once heard an illiterate man
thus begin a prayer: "Almighty God, King
of Heaven and earth." This is a truth. Can we
think of Him otherwise than as a King? And 
how can it otherwise than enoble and
strengthen us, if we study government, order, 
and justice from the highest and best of earthly
sources, seeking also by the spirit of prayer
and the words of revelation, the more perfect
plan.
	The most beloved Sovereign on earth is a
woman, her Court the purest in morals, her
judges beyond bribes, her soil a refuge for the 
persecuted, and - Oh, America! there the 
Apostles of Truth and the humble convert to 
the faith are safe from mobs, and Courts of
bigotry. "The sun sets not on Her dominions,
and its eternal lights and warmth are the em-
blems of her rule and reign. Look upon 
Victoria, Queen of England, and Empress of
India and judge! by that beacon light so high
that all the world can see, if study - attain-
ments, splendor and power; knowledge the 
broadest and highest, opportunities unlimited -
and freedom unrestricted have made her less a 
wife, - less a mother, - less an honored woman?
	Daughters of Zion, our Heavenly King and
Father has shown us along the pages of His
Holy Book, what woman has been, with His 
approval; and He has a work for us in the 

[Column 3]
future. We were called upon to take be
ginners' lessons in our different Associations
and Societies, and felt weak at first but learning
our duties, found them not too hard. Perhaps
it will be the same in this new branch of knowl-
edge. Let us learn all we may and do the
best we can to help womanhood. The voice
of the many is a power, and, according to the 
Census, women outnumber men; therefore, the
majority of our sex, and the weight of our sex's 
claims for justice weigh heavily in the balance.
We are willing to step into the scales. Gentle-
men - assist us to ascend the steps, and please, 
remain by our side.
	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
	May 26, 1891.


DEATH OF JAMES RUSSEL LOWELL.

Boston, August 12;—At the mansion of
Elmwood estate, where Lowell died, there are
no members of the family today but the
daughter and son-in-law of the poet. His body
lies in the sleeping apartment where the last
hours of his life were spent. His death was
extremely peaceful. Although it was known
he could not live much longer, his death was
nevertheless rather unexpected. The transition
from sleep to death was so easy that for a few
moments nobody in the room observed that he
had ceased to breathe. His eyes were closed
and they never opened. He passed away with
only a heavy sigh to indicate the separation
of a great soul from a worn-out body. The
funeral will be held Friday at noon in Ap-
pleton Chapel, Cambridge. It is probable that
Bishop-elect Phillips Brooks will officiate.
	Lowell's health has been impaired ever
since his return to this country in 1855, after
concluding his diplomatic services abroad. A
year and a half ago his condition became
serious and a fatal termination was feared, but
his health then had a chance of recovery.
Mrs. Burnett, his only child, has been with him
constantly. She is his only near relative except
a brother, whose whereabouts is unknown.
	It appears that the poet was taken sick
about five weeks ago. About two weeks or
more ago he became delirious, and up to
Monday he recovered consciousness only at
brief intervals, when he gave the members of
his family signs of recognition. Monday after-
noon, when the nurses changed his bedding he
suffered intensely when moved, and finally said:
"Oh, why don't you let me die." Those words
were his last. He seemed from that time to
lose heart, and gradually his life faded away.
He continued in a comatose condition until
5:15 o'clock this morning, when the last spark
of life went out. Beside him in his last mo-
ments were the sister of his first wife, his
daughter, Mrs. Edward Burnett, and her hus-
band, the ex-congressman, as well as the nurses
and servants of the household.


The English suffragists, always active; are
stirred afresh by the announcement of Lord
Salisbury. The dames of the Primrose League
are said to be earnestly considering the
propriety of seeking for suffrage in accordance
with the Premier's suggestion, in order to
promote the triumph of Conservative principles.
On the other hand the Woman's Herald
quotes from meetings of Liberal Leagues in
many places, urging immediate action to
induce the Executive Council of the National
Liberal Association, at its meeting next
October, to place woman suffrage on the
Liberal programme. The National Society
for Woman Suffrage is also moving "to put
the female franchise in the forefront, and to
start an active campaign on the subject all over
the country."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT	

WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, 		                      Editor.

Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms: 
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No 
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail, 
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.  
Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil 
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount 
to regular advertisers. 
EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m 
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday. 
Address all business communications to 
	PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT, 
			SALT LAKE CITY UTAH. 

   Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as 
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	AUGUST 15, 1891.


WOMEN IN POLITICS.

	Almost every day and sometimes more than
once in a day we are asked the question, "What
are you women going to do in political matters in
Utah?" Occasionally one adds "are you going to
organize on national lines?" I suppose people
think, newspaper women are the ones who ought
to talk or have an opinion on the subject.
	As for doing, studying politics to begin with
and finding out how few rights women have com-
pared to men, and how far they are protected in
those few rights, might do to begin with, con-
sidering, the Edmund's Tucker law dealt such a
sweeping blow to all women voters, that there is
scarcely a shadow of a chance to have the fran-
chise restored until very radical changes take place
in the condition of things in this Territory.
	It is possible, to be sure, for women to decide
in their own minds, whether they lean more to the
Republican or Democratic party, but it is an old
saying "the proof of the pudding is in eating it,"
and as neither the one or the other of these or-
ganizations seem disposed to recognize women
in any positive way, women are not very likely to
do more than to look on, and see those who have
it in their own hands, appreciate all the golden
opportunities to benefit themselves.
	It is sometimes a good thing to stand and wait,
and as waiting seems to be about the only thing
women can do at present in a political way, per-
haps its just as well to keep silence too, though
"they do say" that is impossible for women.
There is an opportunity to look on and learn and
if failures are useful lessons, there may be some-
thing gained.
	The Woman Suffrage Associations throughout
the Territory ought to be wide awake in plans
and methods of study that will give them practi-
cal as well as theoretical information, that will
be available at any and every point where wo-
men can help in securing good and honest gov-
ernment for all even if they do have to pay taxes,
and have no voice in saying what shall be done
with the money.
	There are some places in which woman's help
may be asked for, and certainly many places
where it is needed, even if she has no vote. The
way matters stand here with reference to women
it would be best to work for the Sixteenth
Amendment to Congress. In fact we always
have believed in the Sixteenth Amendment, that
would be killing a good many birds with one
stone. That would help all women and when
they had the ballot secured to them by an act of
Congress, it wouldn't be possible for the Legis-
lature or Governor of any State or Territory to
say it wasn't legal and whisky rings couldn't
buy up the votes and enter protest. Our idea is
the sixteenth amendment, and by that time we
will have studied the national questions and
[Column 2]
policies pretty thoroughly, and be prepared to
decide. In the mean time if there is any open-
ing for women, any possible chance to give her
political equality, there are those shrewd enough
to observe it, and report all along the line; so
that immediate action could be taken.
	Women are sufficiently interested in each other
to watch the progress of affairs politically as well
as spiritually, and to take advantage of any
suggestion that will promote the advancement
of their interest. The signs of the times signify
the onward progress that is being made through
organized effort, and the effective help women are
likely to render each other and all humanity in
the great upward movement. The increase of
love towards one another through these united
efforts is one of the most hopeful signs of the
age. The gathering together of women of so
many Nationalities and assimilating their thoughts
and ideas is almost a marvel. Even here in Utah
how many different nations are represented in
Womens' Associations. It proves conclusively
that there is a power and influence binding women
together, such as has not been heretofore; this
spirit pervades the most highly civilized and en-
lightened portions of the earth. No one can
doubt this who reads of the great organizations
of women all over the United States, Canada,
Great Britain, France, Scandinavia, and many
other countries of the old world. While all these
great events are transpiring outside, we at home
in Utah will assuredly be occupied with important
matters, civil, political, educational, and spiritual;
therefore it behooves the women of Utah to study
and find out the great underlying principles of all
good government, and note how these principles
are applied in the national parties, but it does not
yet appear to be the time of woman's choosing in
political issues until further developments of diffi-
cult questions now pending are made in this Terri-
tory.


[Column 1]
		VISIT TO KAYSVILLE.

	On Aug. 7 in company with Sister Elizabeth
Howard we had the pleasure of attending the Re-
lief Society Conference of Davis Stake held at
Kaysville- Bishop Peter Barton was present and
offered. the opening prayer.  Mrs. Susan Grant
presided at the meeting; both of her Counselors
Mrs. Mary S. Clark, and Mrs. Jane Holt were
present, Mrs. Phebe Sessions read the minutes of
the previous quarterly Conference which were
exceedingly interesting.  Reports were then read
from the several branches in the Stake showing the
condition of each organization.  We were greatly 
surprised at the amount of work that had been
done by the sisters especially in Kaysville. Mrs.
Sarah B. Layton who presides over the Relief 
Society in that place, in untiring in her energy and
is possessed of indomitable perseverance.  The
sisters there have been liberal in their donations
to the Deseret Hospital for which they deserve
thanks and appreciation; they not only pay their
monthly dues but there are quite a number of 
sisters too who have kept up their membership
fees and in many places this has been sadly 
neglected.  The associations at Kaysville have
also given fruit, quilts and other things which
have been very gratefully received and although
no public acknowledgement has been made, these
acts of kindness from the benevolent are duly ap-
preciated by the members of the Board of Di-
rectors who have had a hard struggle to keep up
the institution.
	Pres. Grant made some opening remarks
warmly welcoming the visitors and the congrega
tion, she was followed by Sister Howard who
spoke freely upon the present situation of the
people, the signs of the times, and the encourag-
ing hopes held out in the future to those who
could stand steadfast in the midst of trials, and
[Column 2]
endure to the end.  Her remarks were excellent
and she spoke in a very forcible and impressive
manner.  Counselor Mary S. Clark spoke with
much earnestness and power, of the past, present
and future of this people; and dwelt, upon
obedience to the commandments of God.  Sister
Sarah B. Layton spoke of her joy in the labors
she performed and her desire to ever keep in the 
straight and narrow way.  Rejoiced in all the prin-
ciples that had been revealed knew they were all
true and were for the salvation of all who would
obey them and live rightous and upright lives.
Sister Margaret Randall also bore a strong testi-
mony to the truth of the work in which we are
engaged and expressed herself desirous of doing
good to all and assisting in every good work.
The day was a remarkably fine one, and the
green fields and orchards loaded with fruit were
a pleasant sight to behold;  the new mown hay
was everywhere agreeably fragrant and the
flowers abundant. The sisters dined at Sister
Sarah Layton’s and the visit during dinner was
very enlivening. It goes without saying that the
table was loaded with delicacies for Sister Lay-
ton’s hospitality is widely known.
	There was a much larger attendance at the
afternoon meeting and the Primary Associations
were present, to sing for the Conference which
was a very pretty idea, and their fresh young 
voices made sweet melody and the music was an
inspiration in itself.  Brother Phillips made the
opening prayer, the writer addressed the sisters
upon various subjects pertaining mostly to the
progress of the work of the organizations,
gave a sketch of the visit of the wo-
men delegates to the National Council
and made some explanations in regard to
the Council its design and the privilege to be
obtained through being connected with it.  Coun-
selor Jane Holt made a few timely remarks, and
after singing and benediction the meeting was ad-
journed for three months.  These reunions among
the sisters are productive of great good in the in-
terchange of ideas and methods of work whether 
spiritual or temporal; and always promote union
of spirit and harmony of purpose.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The Woman's Tribune is certainly one of the
best papers in the United States for women. It
gives general information on all subjects in which
women are interested. It is published weekly in
in Beatrice, Neb., and during the winter in Wash-
ington, D. C. 
	President Zina D. H. Young and Counselor
Jane S. Richards of the Presidency of the Relief
Society attended the quarterly Conference of the
R. S. of  Morgan Stake on Saturday Aug. 1st
and also the Conference of the Young Ladies'
Associations of that Stake. Mrs. Lillie T. Freeze 
of the Y. L. M. I. A. went up to the Conference
of the Young Ladies' and we are informed that
they had a most interesting time, and an excellent
spirit and feeling with good instructions in all the
meetings. In Ogden Sisters Young and Richards
attended a meeting of the Woman Suffrage Asso-
ciation and addressed the ladies. 
Sister Hannah Sorenson who has been giving
lectures on health and hygiene, and subjects con-
nected therewith, also teaching nursing and
kindred subjects to classes of ladies for some
time past,  and meeting with excellent success
and appreciation in the different settlements
where she has taught, has been invited to speak
to select audiences of gentlemen only in Spring-
ville, and complied with the request after some
deliberation. Why should not a woman Doctor 
speak to men as well as men, Doctors to women?
One seems no more inconsistent than the other.
There ought to be one code of morals for both


sexes and that is what people of advanced views
upon reforms are working to bring about.
 
 Sister Olivia Widerborg, President of the
Relief Society of Box Elder Stake, in company
with the Presidency of the Stake, has re-
cently visited Snowville, Park Valley, and
Grouse Creek, at each of which places district
conferences were held lasting two days. Presi-
dent Widorberg was invited to speak at each of
these places in connection with the brethren; she
enjoyed herself very much and was given the ut-
most liberty and treated with the utmost cordiality
by the brethren traveling. These districts are so
far removed from the centre of the Stake where
the quarterly conferences are held that it
is impracticable for the people to attend, there-
fore the necessity for these district conferences

The Secretaries of the Relief Society in the
Salt Lake Stake are earnestly requested to send
semi-annual reports correctly prepared to the
Secretary of the Relief Society of the Stake,
Elizabeth Howard, No. 58. E. 4th South St. Salt
Lake City. Mrs. M. Isabella Horne has visited
nearly every R. S. in this Stake during the past
few months. In nearly every branch visited the
sisters are energetic and persevering, desirous of
performing every duty, and anxious to make
spiritual improvement, as well as to take care of
the needy and the sick. These visits of Pres.
Horne and her Counselors and aids will be bene-
ficial in promoting harmony, unity and love, and
in encouraging all to press forward and be more
and more diligent and faithful.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


CHARLES ELLIS’ PAMPHLET.

   We have only recently scanned the pages of the
pamphlet by “Charles Ellis” (non-Mormon) en-
titled, “Utah 1847 to 1870,” although we had
previously heard two of his famous lectures in
the Theatre in this City. The little book seems
to be a very concise account of the condition
and circumstances of this people during the
period mentioned and also of the treatment they
received during that time from the government
officials and the mobs etc.
   Mr. Ellis’ description of what we term the
grasshopper famine, is quite graphic, and in ad-
dition to what he has told there, thousands of
other similar facts might be given to the world,
and many hundreds of the saints are still living
witnesses of these truths. When we recall circum-
stances which came under our own observation,
the tears will start in despite of every effort to
hinder their falling. Remembering the hard-
ships and privations of those early years in the
valley and the exodus from Nauvoo, the writer
can never listen to murmurings or complaints
without alluding to the past. It seems as though
the hardest-hearted must weep over the famine
for bread in the land. Is it any wonder in view
of these things that mothers should be anxious
to store up grain against another such fearful
time? Mothers whose children have cried for
bread when there was none to give them, are very
likely to impress this solemn fact upon their
daughters if not their sons. This little book
written by one who is not a believer in the Mor 
mon faith but only looks at the matter honestly
and fairly ought to be widely circulated to help in
removing prejudice against this people, who are
struggling to secure and to maintain good gov-
ernment and equal rights to all parties, Mormon,
Jew or Gentile who settle within the Territory.
   The compliment he has paid to Brigham Young
is every word of it true and much more might be
said; even the outside world are beginning to ac-
knowledge the greatness and magnanimity of the
character of this departed leader. Mr. Ellis says
as others do quoting their words, “Brigham was
a great man.” Speaking of him in the following
terms.
   “He was; and when the world sees him as he
was; when the clouds of falsehood condensed
above the quagmires of hate have been scattered
by the sun of truth and the world is permitted for
the first time to see the man, it too will declare
that Brigham Young was a great man! From 1847
to 1870, through trials that would have left an
average man defeated and broken before he had
fairly entered upon them, he was a William of
Orange, a Cromwell, and to his own people, a
Washington.
   His enemies have never wearied of pointing to
the great walls he had built in Salt Lake as evi-
dence that he was preparing to defy the govern-
ment. Those walls would be no obstacle to an
army, and they were built in the years when
thousands of poor Mormons were coming into the
country without means of subsistence. Brigham
was opposed to feeding paupers, and to make a
way for wise charity, he kept hundreds of poor
men at work building cobblestone walls, that he
might support them by the church funds. Well
it would be if all charity were as wisely bestowed.
He made men industrious, and filled Utah with
thriving farmers, by teaching the importance of
industry.
   In the stormy days of that infamous “war” he
was a king among men—“aye, every inch a king!"
He was the invincible protector of a people who,
had done no wrong; who had been guilty of no
crime save that of holding a faith that was re-
pudiated by crystalized and corrupt theology.
Such kings as he

			“Repress the bold,
	And while they flourish, make an age of gold.”

   He found Utah a desert; he made it a garden.
From the despotisms of social life in other lands
he took tens of thousands of people unto whom life
offered nothing, for whom a Christianity of caste
had nothing but stones and scorpions, and made
them prosperous, loyal citizens of the fruitful
valleys of this divine mountain land.
   He lived and died a lover of the Constitution
of his native land, and left behind him a great,
strong, united people, who, when the ambitious
Catholic priesthood and the intriguing combina-
tion of protestant priesthoods have clutched the
Constitution of our country to destroy it and
banish freedom from the land, will be among the
foremost to spring to the rescue and drive back
the vandal hosts of tyrranny! For all these rea-
sons, I say Brigham Young never was, the Mor 
mon people never were, are not now, and I have
faith that they never will be, disloyal to the Con-
stitution and the flag.


DEATH OF SISTER MERRILL.

	Extract from Elder Wm. O. Lee's letter dated
Fagalii, Samoa, July 15, 1891.
	"We have very bad news to report this month,
and our hearts are filled with sympathy for all
those who will be affected by the same. In re-
porting Sister Merrill's condition last month we
thought she ws recovering, but she had a billious
attack and could not keep any food on her
stomach. As a result she became very weak and
a premature birth was the consequence. This
happened on the 28th of June. The child died
next day. An hour after the death of the child,
the mother called Sister Lee to her bedside and
after thanking her for waiting on her during her
sickness, said that she was "going to die;" that
she "could not stay" because "they had come for
her." She then talked with her husband, kissed
him goodbye, and all was over. The sad event
has left a cloud of sorrow behind that nothing but
time and the Spirit of God can dispel. The
funeral was held the next day. The mother and


baby boy were buried in one coffin. By permis-
sion from the manager of the German plantation,
we buried them on the brow of a hill about 200
yards S. E. from the mission house. They were
buried in a dry, elevated place, so that when
Brother Merrill's mission is ended he can take
the bodies home with him. We received the
sympathy of our white friends here and also
many offers of assistance. We can say all that
is good about our dear departed sister. She was
good and pure, had a great desire to fulfill her 
mission and do all the good in her power."
   It is always sad to record the death of the
young but this is specially sad because of the
circumstances, her absence from home, in a
foreign land, so far remote, and while filling a 
grand and noble mission, makes it painful to all
concerned. We remember this young woman
when a child in the Primary Association. May 
our Heavenly Father comfort her husband and
all those who mourn her early departure.
   "Katie Eliza Hale Merrill was born in Grants-
ville, Tooele Co., Utah, Dec. 10, 1871—and was
the daughter of Alma H. and Sarah A. Clark
Hale. She left home with her husband Elder
Joseph Harris Merrill, of Smithfield, last February
and had been an active worker in Sunday School
and Y. L. M. I. A. She is the first sister who
has died while on a mission."


AGAIN COMFORTED.

	Is it not humiliating to be ruled over by those
who hate us? but since the Lord will have a tried
people He will help us bear our trials, if we will
put our trust in Him; for He has said, such shall
never be confounded.
	He also says those whom He loves He
chastens. Remember it is in love and not in
anger, that we have this chastisement today. We
know it is in love when we behold the elements,
how lovely and pleasant has been this summer
when every prospect last winter was drouth, as it
had been two previous seasons. Wells dried up
that had never been dry before.
	But what do we see, lovely clouds floating in
the horizon with cool and refreshing showers
continually, until all nature is looking luxuriant
and prosperous, yes vegetation and fruit are both
excellent this season.
	I also notice that Judge Zane's remarks before
the Republican party were sound and god. I
am told he is an infidel, yet he is an honest man,
we can see in those remarks. He has chastised in
severity at times, but I can forgive him since he is
true to his convictions of right, and maintains
those principles he holds to be right; and is
anxious that good laws should be observed and
kept. Our Father in heaven will require the
same in His kingdom when it shall be set up on
the earth; for we realize this is a preparatory
work to that great event.
	I think our rulers are a little too fast in making
improvements however. They wish them to be
superior to ours; accordingly hurry up matters.
For instance my sister's family, last year put
down a new side walk, it cost 96 dollars. This
season a notice came to have another of a different
kind, put in its place making greater expense.
The law must be obeyed no doubt, and those who
own property must pay the expense, and the taxes
too however high. Yet we still hope they will be
reasonable, as they are sometimes; and again
they are more austere and severe.
	It seems to me that this "liberal" party show
more venom and bitterness than any other. Well
let us search ourselves and see if we need such
severity to make us true Latter-day Saints. We
have the promise "if ye will live Godly in Christ
Jesus ye shall suffer persecution." The Lord can-
not make saints of a proud people. Let us re-
flect, and study our own hearts thoroughly is the
desire of your aged friend.			M. E. K.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

MARICOPA STAKE.
	Minutes of Relief Society Conference held
at Mesa, June 18th, 1891, opened by the usual
exercises there being a good attendance from
the several wards. Of the brethren there were
present Brothers Wm. Passey A. F. Stewart,
C. R. Hakes and Pres. C. I. Robson and
others.
	Pres. Sarah M. Pomeroy presided. The
Society of each of the wards was represented
by the respective President; Barbara Lang re-
ported the Mesa Ward, said the sisters deserved
a good report, they had held their meetings
regularly and were trying to live their relig-
ion.
	Pres. Ann Kleinman, thought the Alma
Ward sisters were trying to improve and keep
the commandments of God.
	Pres. Esther Openshaw said the Nephi Ward
had not held all their meetings during the last
quarter but she thought there was a general
good feeling.
	Pres. Lizzie Macdonald said the Society in
the Lehi Ward was doing well although it
was the same faithful few to be relied on; en-
couraged the sisters to attend to their spiritual
duties.
	Pres. Susan Savage reported the Papago
Ward, said the Lamanites were the "Children
of Promise," and she had great faith in their
future.
	Pres. S. M. Pomeroy felt pleased with the
reports, thought the Papago Ward should
have more encouragement, exhorted the sisters
to more faithful performance of their duties.
	Sister M. A. Hakes knew we were battling
for a great cause, thought we were all striving
to do right each in her own way.
	Sisters S. A. Robson, Charazda Averett,
Syrena Biggs, Emma Rogers and Harriet
Burton, made some timely remarks and gave
good counsel.
	Coun. C. R. Hakes spoke upon the varied
labors of the Latter-day saints; spoke upon
the subject of charity and mercy, said "to err
is human and to forgive divine."
	Bishop Wm. Passey and A. F. Stewart
added good counsel to the Relief Society
and the Saints in general.
	Pres. C. I. Robson spoke of the purposes
of the Relief Society, referred to a report of a
meeting held at the residence of Judge Pyper,
Sugar House Ward years ago, and of the many
changes since then.
	There was a general good feeling manifested
at the conference and all felt to renew their
diligence. Adjourned for three months.
	F. E. Robson, Sec.

	JUAB STAKE.
	The fiftieth Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Society of Juab Stake of Zion con-
vened in the Nephi Tabernacle, June 23, 1891.
Pres. Pitchforth presiding; the choir sang "The
Morning Breaks." Pres. Paxman offered
prayer; singing "I'll praise my Maker while
I've breath." Officers roll-called; minutes of
previous conference read and accepted.
	Pres. Pitchforth said she was pleased to see
so many present on this the 23rd anniversary
of our organization. Spoke of our loved ones
departed who had labored so faithfully in the
interest of the Relief Society; Sister E. R.
Snow, Sister Amelia Goldsbrough our first
President, and Sister Picton her Counselor;
and many others that have gone to labor in a
higher sphere; spoke of Sister Zina Young and
her counselors and all associated with her in
the interest of the Association. Said we have
much to be thankful for, the needy have been
provided for, and if any have suffered it has
been because it was not reported. Prayed

[Column 2]
that the blessings of God might rest upon us
during our Conference.
	Pres. E. R. Udall reported the Second Ward
Society as being in good condition and ex-
pressed her desire to be faithful. Pres. Ann
Wilkey reported the First Ward in good work-
ing order, said both officers and members were
doing their duty to the best of their ability;
invoked the blessings of God upon all present
that we might be united as the heart of one.
Sister S. A. Andrews sang an appropriate
song.
	Apostle A. H. Lund said: "I am pleased to
have the privilege of meeting with the sisters,
and to hear of the good work they are per-
forming, comforting the sick, and caring for
the needy, it is a great mission; it is better to
be good than great; it is a mission of love to
help those who are in need; thought the work
of the Sisters of Charity was good, even if they
did not have the light and knowledge that the
sisters of the Relief Society had, they were
doing good and performing a noble mission;
but he was sorry they had chosen so lonely a 
life, for “the noblest mission on earth is that of
motherhood; look after the needy especialy
those who do not always ask; for there are
those who can not make their wants known;
give in a way that they will not feel like
paupers, but sons and daughters of the same
father, extend the same charity as you would
to your own brothers and sisters;" he spoke of
the power of healing, and how thankful we
ought to be that our husbands held the priest-
hood; we must put our trust in God, the bless-
ings of the priesthood far exceed gold and
silver and all else in this world; spoke of the
necessity of faith, we must not condemn those
who have not faith sufficient to be healed; they
can have faith unto salvation; recommended
good nursing for the sick, and less medicine;
thought it was right to use caution in con-
tagious diseases but not to the extent of leav-
ing the parents to bury their own dead, that is
too much; hoped the sisters would always be
willing to help; said we should all hold each
others characters sacred, we will gain by de-
fending, lose by slandering. Strengthen each
other, that when the end comes it may be said,
he or she has overcome, we shall eat of the
Tree of Life, every good act gains reward.
Prayed the Lord to bless us with every good
blessing that we might all endure to the end.
	A song by Miss M. Morgan and company.
Sister Aaggard reported the Levan branch in
good order; felt well in her labors with the
sisters. Sister Easthope reported the Juab
branch, said we are few in number, we have
very good meetings; hoped we would all put in
practice the good teachings we had heard from
Brother Lund. Sister Easthope sang "Beauti-
ful Zion for me." Counselor Bigler read a
letter from the Eureka Branch reporting the
Relief Society as doing well, their meetings are
well attended.
	Sister Bryan spoke in her kind motherly
way, advised the sisters to be kind to each
other and build each other up. May we all
stick to the old "Mormon Car," that Sister
Anderews sang about.
	Counselor Hannah Jones was much pleased
with the good advice and counsel of Brother
Lund. Thought there were many who would
give their lives if necessary to save their
friends. Read a very appropriate article from
the EXPONENT called "The School of Sorrow."
The stake and local officers were sustained by
unanimous vote.
	Pres. Pitchforth moved that we sustain each
other, exhorted all to be faithful and strive to
carry out the good counsel we had received
from Brother Lund.
	Bishop Parks felt that we had been blest
with a heavenly influence. Spoke of the good
work the sisters were doing, hoped all would
continue in their labors of love, asked the Lord

[Column 3]
to bless them to that end. Singing "Great is
the Lord." Benediction by Bishop Parks.
Conference adjourned till 2 p.m.
	Afternoon session: choir sang, "I know that
my Redeemer lives." Prayer by Patriarch
Bigler; choir sang, "With all my powers."
	Sister Linton read the report of the 1st
Ward of Nephi, and Sister Delia Clayton
read report of the 2nd Ward. It being the
twenty-third anniversary of our organization
in Nephi, a programme was prepared consist-
ing of songs, recitations, and select readings,
also a number of organ solos. The young
ladies, as also some of the young gentlemen,
did all in their power to make our entertain-
ment a grand success.
	Sister Pitchforth expressed her appreciation
of all that had been done and said. Pres.
Paxman felt honored to be present at the 23rd
anniversary of the Relief Society organization,
highly appreciated the songs and recitations
and music, and heartily endorsed all that had
been said of our loved ones that had passed
away, many names had been mentioned and
there were many more whose lives had been
spent in this grand and noble work; spoke of
the time when we would meet our friends that
had passed away; exhorted the sisters to do
all the good they could, and hoped we would
all meet again in our next anniversary, and
live in joy and peace throughout all the ages
of eternity. Choir sang, "When shall we all
meet again." Benediction by Counselor C.
Sperry. Conference adjourned for three
months.
	ELLEN GOLDSBROUGH, Ass't Sec.


AMERICAN FORK W. S. A.
July 31st was our monthly meeting we had
a very entertaining and instructive programme.
Father Spratly gave a speech on political
questions which was very instructive, though
the old gentlemen is over 80 years of age his
voice was as clear as a bell. Millie B. Garff
sang a song entitled “The Maid of the Mill”
Ray Robison gave a recitation entitled “The
Smitten Rock.” Misses Lee and Mc’Neil
sang a song entitled “The Old Tree in the
Lane.” Emily Keeperieck, read a poem “The
Woman’s Flag.” Instrumental music Ida Chip-
man.
We also displayed our new flag at meeting,
which is twelve feet long with a single star,
about in the center; golden, for Wyoming.
We intend to make each star golden as each
state grants the right of suffrage to women.
We also gave a ball and strawberry festival
from the proceeds we gave our home band
forty dollars to encourage home talent.
It was resolved by the band committee that
resolutions be passed, thanking us for our gift,
but for some reason it did not appear in our
weekly paper the Independent.
HANNAH S. LAPISH, Pres.


WEBER CO., W. S. A.
The womaan’s suffrage meeting was held in
the Fifth Ward institute, Ogden, July 29.
Besides a good attendance of ladies several
gentlemen were present.
The opening exercises over, Mrs. Jakeman,
the agent and correspondent of the Young
Woman’s Journal, addressed the meeting. She
related her experience in advocating woman’s
suffrage in Sanpete county. Sometimes the
work was very discouraging as the idea
generally entertained was that woman was in-
ferior to man, and that her position in life was
a menial one. It, however, took both man
and woman to train and raise a family; in
like manner it required the joint influence


and work of both of the sexes to benefit and
bless the Nation. Woman should not feel dis-
couraged; her cause is not hopeless. She ad-
vised the study of political principles, their
proper classification, and an urgent advocacy
of them in subject form, and woman’s influ-
ence for good would be felt and respected.
Mrs. Moench next delivered an able address
on “Woman’s Sphere.”
Mr. Thomas Shreeves thought there were
many public questions in which woman was
concerned and which required her help. He
believed there would be less crime and fewer
social evils existing if women had a voice in
politics. He commended a union of action
and a support of their leaders in the advocacy
of woman’s claims upon mankind. “Fear not
the hand that rocks the cradle rules the
world.”
After a brief address from the president
Mrs. Stanford, the meeting adjourned for one
month.
The Standard.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE SUFFRAGE IN VICTORIA.
Advocates of Woman Suffrage in this
country will learn with something like envy
that a measure similar to that which has so
often come to grief in the Imperial Parlia-
ment has become a Cabinet question in
Victoria. The Prime Minister of that
colony has submitted his project to his col-
leagues, and it will be interesting to watch
for the result. There is no intention to pro-
pose the enfranchisement of women at
large, for which change the time has not
arrived either in Australia or the United
Kingdom. The measure simply provides that
all women who obtain a place on the municipal
register shall be eligible also for the Parlia-
mentary register. These women may be
married or unmarried; all the requirement is
that they shall be of full age and entitled to a
municipal vote according to the laws of
Victoria, and the municipal roll shall furnish
the basis of that for Parliamentary purposes.
Colonials move faster than their kindred at
home. The roots of their institutions are not
yet deep; very few obstinate prejudices have
descended to them as inheritance, and they
can face problems unshackled by sentiments
and considerations which retain vitality in our
older system. They are setting a good example
in this endeavor to remove a harsh disability
from the gentler sex, and we trust their en-
lightened courage will be rewarded with suc-
cess.—Liverpool Mercury.


GOLDEN WEDDING.
	
	The golden wedding of John and Isabella
Beecher Hooker, at Hartford, Ct.,
August 5, was a notable occasion. The 
reception occured in the new City Mission
Building. The interior was beautified by
masses of flowers, ferns and plants. Yellow
was the predominating color, symbolical of
woman's suffrage. The building was thronged
with hundreds of leading citizens, among
them Senator and Mrs. Hawley, of Hartford. 
The attendance from out of town was
numerous and distinguished, including ex-
Senator W. M. Evarts and Miss Evarts.
William Loyd Garrison, John Hutchinson, 
of Hutchinson family fame, Rev. Edward
Beecher, D. D. and Mrs. Beecher, Rev. T.K.
Beecher, Rev. C. E. Stowe, Miss Grace King,
Lynde Harrison and Mrs. Harrison, Susan B.
Anthony, Caroline G. Rogers, Mary S. Howell, 
Charlotte Porter, Rachel F. Avery, Kate T. 
DeRoode, Helen Clark, editor of Poet Lore.
and Mary F. Seymour, of the Business
Woman's Journal.


Among representatives of the World's
Columbian Commission, of which Mrs. 
Hooker is a member, were Mrs. Trautman,
first vice-president Mrs. Pope, Miss Ford,
Miss Brusselle, Mrs French, Miss Dailey
Miss Ives, and Miss Cozzens.
   Letters of congratulation were received,
from the three editors of the Woman’s
Journal and many other absent suffragists.
   Supper and singing were followed by the 
presentation by the Equal Rights Club of
Hartford of a bride’s loaf covered with gold
dollars to Mrs. Hooker, the presentation speech
being by Mrs. Virginia T. Smith, of the City
Mission, and the singing of a couple of old
fashioned hymns by the assembled company.
The evening closed with remarks and a prayer
by the venerable Dr. Edward Beecher.
   John Hooker is to-day the oldest lawyer
in Connecticut, having been appointed reporter
of the Supreme Court of that State in
January, 1858. He has declined a seat upon
the supreme bench, and his ability ha
received special recognition from the Legis
lature. He has written many poems. At the
two hundred and fiftieth anniversary of the 
adoption of Connecticut's first constitution,
he delivered an address and poem. For
years he was the only anti-slavery lawyer in
the state, and gave his first vote to J. G.
Birney, an act at that time unpopular. Since 
1869 he has been an active co-worker with
his wife in the woman suffrage movement.
   Isabella Beecher Hooker is the daughter of
Lyman Beecher, and posesses many of the
traits which have made the Beecher family
illustrious. She is sixty-nine years of age,
with all her powers in perfect vigor. She is 
president of the Connecticut Woman Suffrage
Association. and for years has been devoted to
the amelioration of her sex.
	H. B. B.     Ex.


THE WHITE CROSS MOVEMENT IN 
EDUCATION.

FROM ADDRESS OF FRANCES E. WILLARD BE-
FORE THE NATIONAL EDUCATIONAL
ASSOCIATION.
	How early shall we teach? The age will 
vary, but be sure to let purity have the first
word. The child will ask questions early;
let not the coarse reply get in its work
before the chaste one comes. Science is like
fire, it burns away dross; tell him what science 
says. God's laws are all equally clean and
holy; tell him of the laws of God. But in 
what way shall we teach? According to the
truth of things, The bird in its nest the
flower on its stalk, the mineral in its crystals
all show forth one law. The sanctities of
parentage might best be the key-note. As a
rule, no one is reverenced and beloved by
the child like the mother who bore him.
Teach a little boy to revere and protect all
women for her sake, and teach the little girl
to shield as the "eminent jewel of her soul,"
the potentiality of motherhood. A noble
young woman of my acquaintance, teacher
in a country school; wrote me that she saw
such impurity carried on before her very eyes
in her little school house thot she could not
forbear speaking with her pupils one by one;
and noticing how they gathered in groups at
recess in mysterious fashion, she went out
with them to their plays.
   Would it not be better to abolish recess
altogether, and let gymnastic exercises, under
the teacher's supervission take its place?
This seems to be one of the best practical
means to a higher civilization in our public
schools. Such is the opinion of experts in
education with whom 1 very generally con-
sulted before preparing my address. A dis-
tinguished high-school principal sent me these
hopeful lines:
   "The public school is a composite of lawn
and back alley, parlor and saloon, hovel and
home. But its atmosphere is sweeter both
indoors and out, than in my boyhood days,
and this has come through the inheritance of
better traits of character, the introduction of
better methods of discipline, the abolition of
the promiscuous outdoor recess, the control of
children's reading, the giving of fewer chil-
dren to each teacher, and by a higher moral
ideal among young people themselves."   
   No factor in the woman-question evolution
is more significant than that women are teach-
ing the men that are to be. A solid respect
for women's mental powers must be the
mental habit of the boys thus trained.
Meanwhile there are enough men of brain
and brawn at the head of our educational
system to furnish boys ideals towards which
to grow. With all my heart, I believe there
are two motives on which a lady teacher can
rely: one is a boy's love for his mother 
and his sisters, the other a boy's desire to please
the lady who teaches him: and it is possible
to establish such esprit de corps. that boys
will not do what they would be ashamed to
heve her know, or what she assures them
would be bad examples for the smaller pupils.
Add to this the concept, emphasized by
White-Cross teaching, in the minds of boys,
both large and small, that in every woman
they behold the sacred sex to which each
boy's mother and sister belong, and a great
gain will have been made. The Arabs have 
a choice phrase that they apply to the noblest
young man of the tribe, saying that he is "a
brother of girls." This ideal is the true one 
for teachers to set forth. We send mis-
sionaries to Fijis, but we leave the play-ground
of our common schools practically in the 
hands of a pagan influence, and doom little
children out of sheltered homes to the malaria
of associations as harmful to them spiritually
and physically as the small-pox would be.
We turn them out to take their chances with
the rest. We know the imitative faculty of
the child naturally takes hold of what is
imitated; that impure literature is circulated
freely; and marks that are the insignia of
baseness are often on the walls.
   What we must have in all large schools is
a guardian of the play-ground; a moral
horticulturist whose specialty is physical
ethics; an apostle of health whose gospel
outranks that of head or hand, for without it
the head is apt to swim, the hann to tremble
and the heart to be a cage of unclean 
birds. 
	In contemplation of my present golden
opportunity of speech I have written to 
capable teachers whose names were given
me by leaders of the host, and have two
sentences to quote in this connection:
   "I take it for granted that you know, even
to the extent of being heart-sick over it, the 
frightful condition of most schools in respect
to the impurity in language, actions, and
defacement of school buildings and grounds.
Rural schools are usually worse than those
of cities and towns—for I really believe that
rural life tends to be more depraved in this 
respect than it is possible for the life of a
busy city to become."
   Another leader contrasts the condition of
things in an ordinary town with one where
women are on the school board and give
careful attention to the condition of the 
school building in this regard. Sixteen Statei
have now given women power to be school
officers, and in the name of health and holiness
let them be up and doing as house-cleaners for
the commonwealth.
Ex.


"Mrs. Ida May Davis, recently elected school
trustee in Terre Haute, Ind., will, according
to custom, serve as secretary of the board dur-
ing the first year of her three years' term."

   "MRS. TODD, who assisted Colonel Higgin-
son in editing the poems of Emily Dickinson,
recently gave some interesting reminiscences
of the recluse poet. "Toward the middle age,"
"Miss Dickinson ceased to leave the house;
even her loved garden was deserted for a con-
servatory. By letters and gifts she kept up
her connection with friends; and to children,
to whom she was always a good fairy, she
would lower sweet surprises and gifts from the
window. Only a few of the manuscript poems
left by this strange and gifted woman have
been published."

   Women taxpayers are constitutionally
empowered to vote in Montana. The Daily
Leader of Great Falls, Montana, says:
   Some of the people of Washington may try
to prevent it in their feeble way, but woman
suffrage is already an assured, a successful
fact. Wyoming is an example of its success.
The Montana constitution says: "Upon all
questions submitted to the taxpayers of the 
State, or any legal subdivision thereof, women
who are taxpayers shall, equally with men,
have the right ta vote." This is a broad
provision, and high legal authority declares
that it gives women taxpayers a right to vote
at any election. Twenty-five years from this
time they will exercise the right of suffrage in
every State in the Union, and the rising
generation will wonder at the stupidity and
intolerance of their ancestors who stood in the
way.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


OBITUARY.
DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	It is with feelings of sadness that I here record the death
of our beloved Sister Stena Ericksen, which took place in
Mt. Pleasant on the 11th of July, at 17 minutes past 10
p.m., of pneumonia, she had been sick two weeks and
everything had been done that human skill could devise,
but all to no purpose.
	She peacefully passed from this sphere, surrounded by
her husband, children, and many dear friends, who deeply
mourn her sudden departure.
	Sister Erickson was a good woman, a true and faithful
Latter-day Saint; she embraced the Gospel in her native
land, Denmark, when a girl, and availed herself of the first
opportunity of emigrating with the Saints, to this the land
of her adoption.
	She became the wife of Brother Ericksen, by whom she
had 8 children, 9 of whom still survive her, two sons, and
four daughters.
	She was a faithful member of our Relief Society and a
most energetic teacher for the last fifteen years; of a kind
disposition, always on hand to help the sick, or those who
were in trouble; an affectionate wife, and a most indulgent
mother, and the counsel and admonition she gave her
children while she was able to talk will long be remem-
bered. May they emulate her good example and profit by
her wise and judicious instructions, and show that her
labor in their behalf has not been in vain.
	We deeply sympathize with the bereaved children on
this trying occasion seeing their mother has been taken
in the midst of a life of usefulness, being only 51 years
old. May she rest in peace, and may we who mourn her
departure, prepare to meet her again, that our joy may
be full.
	M. F. C. MORRISON,


DEATH OF JANE M. WALTON.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Sister Jane M.
Walton, who was suddenly deprived of life in a most sad
and shocking manner by being accidently shot while
attending a social party on the 24th of July at Monticello
where she resided.


Sister Walton was born the 16 of July 1846 making her
45 years and 9 days old. She was one of the Pioneers of
the San Juan Mission being one of the first who landed
here in 1880. She lived in Bluff about 8 years when she
with her husband was called to help build up Monticello.
A husband and three grown up children are left to mourn
her loss.
	Sister Walton was President of the Bluff Ward Relief
Society as long as she lived there, and was also Stake
President of the Relief society from the time the Stake was
organized till the time of her death.
	She was an earnest and faithful worker wherever duty
called her, and was universally loved and respected where
she was known.
	Whereas:—Our Heavenly Father in His infinite wisdom
has suffered to be removed from our midst our beloved
Sister Jane M. Walton. Her faithful and zealous labors
as President of the Relief Society of the San Juan Stake of
Zion, also the great interest she always manifested for
the young, and as a teacher in the Sabbath School, both
by her presence and wise counsel, make it fitting that we
record our appreciation of her labors.
	Therefore:—be it resolved that we the officers and
members of the Relief Society of the San Juan Stake do
mourn her loss, realizing we have lost a noble and
benevolent Sister, her heart being willing and her hand
 ready to help the poor and comfort the sick.
	Resolved:—that a copy of these resolutions be placed on
the records of the Relief Society of the San Juan Stake
and that a copy be sent to the bereaved family and to the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	MARTHA HAMMIND,
	JOSEPHINE WOOD,
	ELIZA A. REDD,
Committee.
Bluff, San Jaun Co. Utah, Aug. 6, 1891.


IN MEMORIAM.
Juarez, July 6, 1891.
MRS. E. B. WELLS,
	DEAR FRIEND;
	I have desired to write a few lines in memory of our
two dear young friends, so suddenly and unexpectedly
called away, Parley and Aurelia, or Eda, as we called her,
son and daughter of Heleman and Victoria Pratt, beloved
and prized beyond measure by all in the home circle, be-
loved and mourned by all who knew them.  Their last
visit to Juarez was to attend the conjoint meeting and
Eda's name was on the programme for the next meeting
they took the deepest interest in the Improvement Associa-
tion, coming twelve miles to attend that and the Sunday 
School and meetings.
	May the Lord comfort those upon whom the loss falls so
heavily, as He alone can comfort, giving peace to the
aching hearts, and may He help them to realize that they
had a mission in the Spirit world, that they were prepared
and ready for the Father's work there, as they were ever
ready to do their part in the labors of this life, their will-
ing hands and cheerful presence will be sadly missed in 
the home circle, and among their friends, and associates
and although the parting is hard--

	'Tis sweet to give them back pure as they came,
	Untarnished by a tint of sin or shame—
Now with the ransomed we can write Parley and Eda's
	name.

But oh, the hearts at home are very sad,
Longing for those who always made them glad,
And the poor throbbing brain goes almost mad,

Thinking of vacant places, of why they had to go,
So young, so full of life, in youth's first morning glow,
When all looked bright to them and beautiful below.

Dear Eda said, sobbing by Parley's grave,
"I cannot live without him," and the wave,
Of death rolled back, and her we could not save.

So now the sunlight rests upon the two,
Still side by side as thus in life they grew.
Loving and kind and ever good and true.

Two silent graves upon the mountain's crest,
Two mortal bodies sleep in quiet rest,
Two glorious spirits with the pure and blest.

Mysterious birth entrance to death and pain,
Mysterious death, portal to life again,


And happy they who this blest life attain,
There victory will be the victor's cry,
There never, never more the loved ones die,
There never, never more will come good-bye.

Peace to the dear beloved one's gone before,
Treasured their memories 'til time shall be no more,
And we'll meet in glad reunion upon the golden shore.
	S. E. R.


Woman's Voice
AND PUBLIC SCHOOL CHAMPION.
	A bright  newsy weekly paper, treating of all
reforms that affect women; is a firm defender of
the public schools, and gives information concern-
ing them.
	It contains reports of the W. C. T., the King's
Daughters and Missions.
	Exposes the dangers threatening the nation
from Immigration, the Liquor Traffic and Roman-
ism—gives full reports of the world-renowned
Boston Music Hall Patriotic Sunday afternoon
meetings.
PRICE $1.00 PER YEAR. SAMPLE COPY 3 cts.
	Address: ELIZA TRASK HILL.
Editor and General Manager, Room 9, Tremont
	Temple, Boston, Mass.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
AND STATIONAERY, EQUI-
POISE WAITS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates 
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 123 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
Opposite City Hall.

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS.  Pumps Repaired on short notice.  Orders from
the counry promptly responded to.
	DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.



﻿CLloman’s Voice
-AND PUBLIC SCHOOL CHAMPION.
A bright newsy weekly paper, treating of a]l
reforms that affect women is a firm defender of
the public schools, and gives information concern-
ing them.'It contains reports of the W. C. T., the King s
Daughters and MissionsExposes the dangers threatening the nation
from Immigration, the Liquor Traffic and Roman-
sm—gives full reports of the world-renowned
Boston Music Hall Patriotic Sunday afternoon
meetings.
PRICE $1.00 PER YEAR. SAMPLE COPY 3 cts.
Address? ELIZA TRASK HILL.
Editor and General Manager, Room 9, Tremont
Temple, Boston, Mass.
sis's Si-pitm Mi
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Malting In all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, lints and Uonnets cleaned and retrimmedt
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping douc. to order. But.
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
TvT 10Q TP FIRST SOUTH STREET, ‘
JNO. iziO Hi. r‘ opposite City Hall.
R.K. THOMAS
26,28,30auJ 32 East 1st SulliSt,
1'aSALTLAKECITY.t,
The Leading Retail, 
Casli Hou-se,
R.K. THOMAS
h Special to the Ladies. .
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found tf' latest styles and pioductioris.
n
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES, .
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS, 
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIPIS
. - And an elegant assortment of
DRY aOODS..,
Special department for Ladies1 Misses’ and In-
fant’s .Shoes.
112, 114, 116,-118 East Temple Sir.. IDAVIDIES&..CO.
TINNERS CAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Kg- Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORL’fc.
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
DAVD JAMES, BOX 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 20.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 1, 1891.	No. 5.


CONTENTS.
	A Midnight Meditation—Mary Y. Corby. In 
Rural England—A Story.  Our National Flower
—M. Sears Brooks. Cheerfulness—Minnie Hul-
bert.  Woman's Rights—Sarah B. Layton.
"Obedience"—Jane John.  R. S. Report.  A
Picture of Home—Dr. J. G. Holland.  The Train-
ing of a Nurse—Mary Cadwalader Jones.  Wimo-
daughsis Club House—Emma M. Gillett.
Personals. Miscellaneous. 
	Editorial:—Women in the World's Fair. 
Editorial Notes.  Death of Mary Ann Pratt.  W.
C. M. and M. Institution—Gladys Woodmansee, 
Sec. Pacific Coast Women's Press Association.
Letter From Mexico—M. A Mistake Corrected
—M. E. K. 
	Poetry:—God O'er Ruleth All Things Right
—Emily H. Woodmansee.  Weaving the Web—
Julia C. F. Dorr.  A Fragment—E. B. W. The 
Oregonia—C. Horatio Jessen.


GOD O'ER RULETH ALL THINGS
RIGHT.

When our narrow-sighted vision—
Cannot trace th' Eternal aim!—
Let us wait His wise decision, 
Let us trust Him still the same. 
Past our feeble comprehension—
Is God's comprehensive care, 
Yet we know that all who seek Him—
Need not perish in despair.

Never can consistent goodness—
Heed the fledgeling raven's cry—
And neglect His suffering children—
Or His promised aid deny.
The beneficent Creator—
Kindly watches over all—
And without His gracious notice
E'en a sparrow cannot fall.

Bruised reeds shall not be broken—
Smoking flax shall not be quench'd;
E'en though many a pain and sorrow
Must be borne—and keenly sens'd. 
Griefs that seem to tear asunder—
Tender'st fibres of the heart—
Are but chords to draw us to Him
Who alone can heal the smart.

Crush'd and bruis'd—are sweetest blossoms—
All their fragrance to distill;
Precious souls are tried and proven—
Love's own purpose to fulfill.
Humbly let us bow before Him?—
Who from gloom evolveth light?
And with trusting hearts acknowledge—
God, o'er ruleth all things right.
	EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.


WEAVING THE WEB.
"This morn I will weave my web," she said,
	As she stood by her loom in the rosy light,
And her young eyes, hopefully glad and clear,
	Followed afar the swallow's flight.
"As soon as the day's first tasks are done,
	While yet I am fresh and strong," said she,
"I will hasten to weave the beautiful web
	Whose pattern is known to none but me!

"I will weave it fine, I will weave it fair,
	And ah! how the colors will glow!" she said.
"So fadeless and strong will I weave my web
	That perhaps it will live after I am dead."
But the morning hours sped on apace;
	The air grew sweet with the breath of June;
And young Love hid by the waiting loom,
Tangling the threads as he hummed a tune.


"Ah! life is so rich and full," she cried,
	"And morn is short though the days are long!
This noon I will weave my beautiful web,
	I will weave it carefully, fine and strong."
But the sun rode high in the cloudless sky;
	The burden and heat of the day she bore;
And hither and thither she came and went,
	While the loom stood still as it stood before.

"Ah! life is too busy at noon," she said;
	"My web must wait till the eventide,
Till the common work of the day is done,
	And my heart grows calm in the silence wide!',
So, one by one, the hours passed on
	Till the creeping shadows had longer grown;
Till the house was still and the breezes slept,
	And her singing birds to their nests had flown.

"And now I will weave my web," she said,
	As she turned to her loom ere set of sun,
And laid her hand on the shining threads
	To set them in order, one by one.
But hand was tired, and heart was weak;
	"I am not as strong as I was," sighed she,
"And the pattern is blurred, and the colors rare
	Are not so bright, or so fair to see!

"I must wait, I think, till another morn;
	I must go to my rest with my work undone;
It is growing too dark to weave!" she cried,
	As lower and lower sank the sun.
She dropped the shuttle; the loom stood still;
	The weaver slept in the twilight gray.
Dear heart!  Will she weave her beautiful web.
	In the golden light of a longer day?
	JULIA C. F. DORR.


A MIDNIGHT MEDITATION.

   Our Father! who does not love those endear-
ing words?  Some of us can look back to days
of our earliest childhood and remember when
our earthly father took us by the hand and led
us to the house of God to mingle with His
people in his worship.  We remember with
what confidence we placed ourselves in his
care--how perfectly safe we felt, how happy 
in his company as he led us to the place "where
prayer was wont to be made," and how we
loved him, for was he not our father.
   Some of us can remember when our earthly
father was laid among the "clods of the valley."
and we lost his protection, his counsel and
perhaps his help, and we shall see him no more
until the resurrection of the just, but we have
still our Father in heaven, who cares for us
more than any earthly parent can do.  He
permits us to be called, "The sons and
Daughters of the Lord Almighty" The beloved
disciple John says.  "Behold! what manner
of love the Father hath bestowed upon us,
that we should be called the sons of God."
Notwithstanding this we have often sinned
against Him and the fruits of our disobedience
have been bitter, because it has caused Him to
hide His face from us, but when like the
prodigal we have returned to Him with contri-
tion of spirit, confessing our sins and wayward-
ness, He has been ready and willing to forgive,
and the still, small voice of love has whispered
to us. "Return unto me, and I will return
unto you," Let us then examine ourselves
and see how we stand in relation to our
Heavenly Father. Let us look back again a
few years and call to mind how we treated our
earthly father.  how we received him, how
willing to run at his call and do his bidding,
how dutiful and obedient—even when he


chastised us, we loved him, for we had confi-
dence in his superior wisdom, and felt that he
knew best what was good for us, and "If we
had fathers of our flesh which corrected us and
we gave them reverence, shall we not much
rather be in subjection to the Father of Spirits
and live."
	We have not minds large enough to compre-
hend all the goodness our Heavenly Father has
manifested towards us.  Even in our primeval
state, we were upheld by His power and good-
ness, and when it pleased him to permit us to
come to earth, His watchful eyes was still
over us for good, and none have more fully
experienced the watchful care of our Father in
heaven, than the Latter-day Saints, to whom he
has revealed the Everlasting gospel, also His
mind and will concerning us.  He has gra-
ciously made known unto us by commandment
what our duty is, and by promises what we
may look forward to, if we keep his perfect
law.  Our time of trial here will be but short,
when we shall pass behind the veil—to mingle
with Prophets and Patriarchs and all who have
fulfilled the requirements of the Gospel. Let
us at all times, seek to possess the Spirit of God
and live nearer to Him—"Nearer my God to 
Thee—Nearer to Thee."
		MARY Y. CORBY.


IN RURAL ENGLAND.
  		I
   Descriptive passages in a story are not always
acceptable to the public, nevertheless one can-
not well avoid dwelling upon romantic scenery
when writing of a country as charming as 
England, and especially the rural districts;
one reads of them with delight, but what must
it be to see and wander through such
picturesque scenes, and places as are familiar
to the native-born English man or woman.
   In one of the most beautiful parts of the
country a young maiden was wandering alone,
her eyes were downcast, as though her thoughts
were intensely occupied, she stopped now and
then a moment in her walk to pluck a wild
flower, and then nervously picked it to
pieces, and scattered the leaves to the soft sum-
mer breeze.  Evidently she was much perplexed;
sometimes she would pause for a moment as if
she would retrace her steps, and then dart
rapidly forward, looking about her as though
in doubt or fear.
   As she neared the outskirts of a magnificent
forest she glanced cautiously around, then
plunged, as it were into the thicket of under-
growth that hemmed in the woods.  As she
did so she listened now and again like one in
alarm.  Why had she ventured thus far alone,
she, who was always so well attended?  her
face, her manner everything about her betok-
ened one of "gentle blood."  Her figure was
slight and willowy, her slender arms and neck
were of the most graceful contour, her hair
loosely twisted was falling from the pearls with
which it had been fastened and shimmered in
the sunlight like burnished gold.  Her dress
was of some soft airy fabric, of that charming
sea-green color that reminds one of a sea-nymph, 
over her shoulders she had thrown in the most
néglige fashion, a rich India cream colored 
shawl, a leghorn hat was tied with lute-string
ribbon under her fine cut dimpled chin; her
cheeks were glowing with the flush of excite-
ment and as she stood in the thick of that deep


[column 1]
wood, she trembled and shivered like the leaves
above her.  She seemed too restless to be seat-
ed but paced up and down between the tall
stately beechwoods, and ocasionally stamped
her dainty little foot as though in anger to be
kept waiting.  Anon a sound was heard in the 
distance and she listened anxiously at first but
afterwards more in fear, for she had percieved
that the noise was the gallop of a horse instead
of footsteps as she had expected. How is it 
that when danger approaches one loses all
presence of mind and seeks safety in any way 
except to brave it openly?
	In this way those who wish to escape obser-
vation often betray themselves, whereas by
self-possession and presence of mind they might
avoid suspicion and matters be easily 
explained.
	In this particular instance the young lady 
was very much disconcerted; and when the 
horseman approached nearer to where she stood
she leaped on stepping stones across a winding
stream into the very depths of the rushes and 
willows on the opposite side, her feet sinking 
into the marshy ground.  On the mossy banks
of this clear pebbly brook she had loved to lin-
ger until the dark shadows warned her that the 
sun was setting, and her maid who was always
with her in these rambles, would chide her for
staying so late, lest she should take cold from
the dew; now she neither feared cold or damp
nothing but having her whereabouts exposed.
	Nearer and nearer came the horse's hoofs
until it seemed as though the ground was giv-
ing way under her feet,and as if the footprints
of the horse's hoofs were penetrating to her
very heart; she did not weep, she did not scream,
not even pray; she knew though her brain was
dizzy with excitement, that the plans she
had contrived to shun observation had been 
discovered; yet could not imagine how,—"did 
her father know?" was her first rational thought,
for it so, she would rather die there than brook
hsi anger—"Hello, Hello" shouted the rider
as he cracked his whip again and again, until 
the echoes ran through the woods.  Simultan-
eously with the call of the rider came the heavy
tread of a man's footsteps cracking the brush
and dry branches as he hastily strode along,
for not finding his sweetheart at the trysting
place, the impatient young lover pressed for-
ward peering here and there, but hearing the
"Hello" scarce knew which course to take.
At the moment he caught sight of the 
horse and its rider, he also detected a glimpse
of something on the other side of the brook
not far off, and suspected it to be the one they
were both in search of.  Quick as thought he
called, "What ho! fair lady what brings you 
here at such speed?  whom seek you at this
hour, some recreant lover? know you not there
is danger for one so young and fair?"  The 
young man spoke almost incoherently, and 
sprang hastily forward to assist the lady to
alight.  In the same breath almost the lady
replied testily I only seek my cousin who came
in this direction unattended and I fear some
ill chance has befallen her; she is not used to
stray away in this fashion, and it bodes no
good;" and as if fearing to betray the emotion
she felt the speaker paused, for she would not
have him suspect what she really thought lest
he should baffle her.
	"O, your cousin is safe let me assure you,she
is not hereabouts or we should see her; why
should she come to this lonely place, it doth
not suit a gay young girl's mood,she is always 
singing and laughing as merry as the warbling
birds or the rippling brooks that run on forever,
let me help you to mount your horse and I
will accompany you to the edge of the wood,
and you will cross the fields swiftly and reach-
ing home find your fair cousin there before
you." "No! No! she is here somewhere you
 must help me find her, my uncle will miss her
on his return and every one at the Castle will
be called out to seek her, night is coming, I
must find her," and the poor girl almost
screamed so great her agitation was becoming.
"I believe she has crossed the stream I will find
her at all hazards," and without another word,
she sprang acrose the brook before the young
man could intercept her way, soon she heard a 
low moan a little farther back and there lay
her fair cousin prone upon the damp earth
among the tall rushes; "Help! Help! quick,
cried the girl and with a bound the young man
sprang to the spot and lifting the prostrate
form in his strong arms carried her to a rock
near by and they bathed her face and chafed
her hands; until consciousness began to return;
the ardent, impassioned lover looked at the 
brave young horsewoman, who seemed so self-
posessed, while he trembled, as if to ask what
could be done, she returned his glance with
a look of scorn; decision at such a time was
necessary and this young woman was strong
and firm as well as brave. Carry Mis Hil-
liard to the other side," and following quickly
she loosened her horse, jumped into the saddle
and bidding him lift up his burthen, he laid her
in the arms of her heroic but indignant cousin,
and with out a word to the disappointed lover,
she gave rein toher good steed and was soon out
of sight; across the fields she fairly flew, she felt
not the weight in her arms, she only thought of 
safety to the beautiful young creature, so 
crushed and helpless; as she neared the Castle
however she pondered how she could avoid
suspicion. She had taken the horse for a ride
in the fields, the groom would question why
she stayed so late, besides how could she get
down with her cousin in her arms; and who
would be in the way, she considered all this,
but fate was propitious, the coast was clear;
there seemed no one about, she rode cautious-
ly up the long avenue, and stopped in a 
secluded place; all this time her cousin had
not spoken or made a sound, she was too
humiliated to know what to say, benumbed with
cold and fear, her very heart seemed paralyzed.
She knew not what to expect but felt death
would be a relief.  Just as one tries to arouse
those who are dying of cold, so the brave 
cousin of Miss Hilliard tried to make her un-
derstand she must exert herself, and strange
to say she succeeded. Almost without her
own volition she slid herself down at the steps
of her father's castle and crept rather than
walked up the steps and hallway into the
house; her cousin following, leaving the horse
without waiting for a servant, fearing questioning
might follow.
	Once inside Miss Hilliard was undressed by
her cousin Jane and assisted into bed, the family
physician was duly summoned, who pronounced
the case one of nervous prostration, and no
one in the house except the cousin knew what
had brought on this serious illness.  Cousin
Jane had removed all the disordered clothing,
before even the maid had been summoned,
and there lay the patient, pale and listless
when the Dr. arrived. "Where is Sir Ed-
ward?" inquired Dr. Hammond.  "Gone up to
London," was the answer given by the maid
in waiting.  "Is there any danger then?" said
cousin Jane anxiously, "No! no! only I thought
her father might like to know just how his
daughter was, she is very ill, quite low, but
not dangerous."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OUR NATIONAL FLOWER.

	If the question of a National Flower has
not been decided, why not place the matter in 
the hands of the Woman’s Board of Manage-
ment of the Columbian Exposition for final 
settlement? Wherever a flower has been 
adopted by any country, it has been because
that in some way it represented some historic
event or some characteristic quality by which


it became symbolic. Perhaps we have no
flower that approaches these conditions more
nearly than the Wild Columbine.
	First, because it wears our national colors. 
Growing in every section of our country, its
color at the South is more often blue; at the
North it is white; in the Middle and Western
States it is red, with a golden interior. Its 
name, “Columbine” is derived from the same
Latin word as that of Columbus, the discov-
erer of our country, and of Columbia, the
name our nation rightly bears; also of the dis-
trict where our nation’s capital is fixed; of one
of our largest rivers, of one of our most im-
portant colleges, and of numerous towns and 
villages in every State of the Union; last, but
not least, of the name of our great exposition 
itself.
	Botanically, the Wild Columbine belongs to 
the genus Aquilegia, thus bearing a double 
significance. The word Aquilegia is derived
from the Latin Aquila, or eagle, the emblem of
dignity and might, and our nation’s chosen
emblem. From the foregoing we may assume
a symbolic claim on the part of the Wild
Columbine to be regarded as our national 
flower to which no other flower can pretend.
	In its typical character we see that it grows
and thrives under the most adverse circum-
stances, clinging to the bare rock, even as our 
forefathers did when first they opened their
eyes upon a new world. Like the eagle it
chooses the highest cliffs for its dwelling,
courageously overhanging the deepest and
most dangerous precipices. Its trumpet-shaped
petals cluster around a central shaft, typify-
ing the tongues of many nations joined in one.
It dances just as gaily in its wildwood home as
in the highly-cultured garden, its only change
under cultivation being a multiplicity of
trumpets, one within another, to sound the 
praises of a free and glorious country. It has
all the delicate beauty and power of endurance
belonging to American womanhood; all the
courage and hardihood of America’s noble
sons. Like the voices of our honored states-
men, the trumpet-shaped petals, their office
fulfilled, fall singly, one by one, beautiful to 
the last, leaving the central shaft which they 
protected, fruitful with seed for coming gen-
erations. 
	Graceful in poise, attractive in form, under
no circumstances becoming a noxious weed, 
wearing an air of prosperity as it swings its
dainty bells from the crevices of bare rocks,
what more can be said of any flower, as the 
emblem of American independence and thrift,
than may be said for the Wild Columbine?
Let our great Columbian exposition weigh the
matter.
					    M. SEARS BROOKS.
	Woman's Journal.


Malice drinks one-half of its own poison.— 
Seneca.
	Laziness grows on people; it begins in cob-
webs and ends in iron chains. The more busi-
ness a man has to do the more he is able to ac-
complish, for he learns to economize his time.

	Justice is itself the great standing policy of
civil society, and any eminent departure from
it under any circumstance lies under the sus-
picion of being no policy at all.—Burke.

	He that visits the sick in hopes of a legacy, 
let him be never so friendly in all other cases,
I look upon him in this to be no better than a 
raven that watches a weak sheep only to peck 
out its eyes.—Seneca.

	In early childhood you may lay the founda-
tion of poverty or riches, industry or idleness,
good or evil, by the habits to which you train 
your children. Teach them right habits then 
and their future is safe.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 35


A FRAGMENT.

I only take my hand in thine, and all my pulses thrill to
	thee;
An indefinable, transporting joy, which lifts my soul in
	ecstacy;
Some charmed spell which life invigorates, 
A potent power that wakens tenderness;
And truest comfort doth to me impart 
An intuitation of my woman’s heart, 
Which seems of some lost love a counterpart 
And adds its joy to human happiness.

The pent up fountains of my inner life gush tenderly to
	thee; 
Thou call’st from out the deep recesses of my soul sweet
	sympathy
I’m launched as ’twere into a maze of doubt—
I seem in retrospection's cloudy land
And misty phantons shift and change to view,
And all the sombre past wears violet hue,
And shadowy forms appear which erst I knew
While I sit silently and hold thy hand.

Methinks I wander dreamily ’mid bow’rs of roses without
	thorns,
And e’en the air is conscious, with the beauty which the
	scene adorns.
And rippling brooks make music in my ears,
And lightest zephyrs whisper 'mid the trees,
As though the fairy elves made holiday,
And witching charms of nature's melody
Envelop ev’ry sense in mystery, 
And subtlest perfumes float upon the breeze.

Thus wrapt with silence as a mantle round my soul,
	thoughts come and go.
And answ’ring echoes from the distant past seem rippling
	soft and low.
And all the while I feel the magic touch 
That brings such harmony of sight and sound
And charity and love my bosom swell,  
With that intensity no tongue can tell,
And thy bright presence vivifies the spell; 
And I am treading on enchanted ground.

Thou’rt gone! the vision’s fled! and moon and stars are
	dull, and sober night
Reigns all around in darken’d robes, and mocks as ’twere
	my lost delight;
And then some pitying angel softly speaks  
Mortal ’twas but a glimpse of love and heaven,
Back now to earth and thorny paths again,
Stern duty holds thee with a tightened rein.
Plod on, and strive some vict’ry to obtain,
And love eternal will to thee be given. 
	E B.W.


THE OREGONIA.
CANTO FIRST.
Slow sinks the orb of day, but ere his beams
Of purest crimson vanish to illume
Another world, his parting lustre streams
Along the wooded height where greenly bloom
The buds of Autumn, while the emerald plume
That heavenward points from Nature's temple, bends
Glory's sea—and wood and crag assume
Each heavenly tint that evening kindly leads,
Till in one lovely scene, Earth's wildest beauty bleeds. 

Upon this pine-clad cliff I sit me down
In Nature's mighty presence; round me rise
Perennial snows that soft and coldly crown 
The rock-ribbed palace of Eternity's
Untrodden realm, mingling with azure skies
Its icy dome; while o'er the heights I scan,
A solitary eagle proudly flies,
As if to mock the vanity of man
Whose pride can not e'en tread where lesser natures
can.

Speed on majestic stream! eternal tide
Of beauty and sublimity, speed on!
Stern grandeur lingers on thy pictured side
And views his form in living crystal, drawn
From purity's untainted snows; upon
Thy shore, crag-crown'd Nature rears her fane
In solemn stillness; as Creation's dawn
Beheld, her mingled beauties still remain—


Time hath not soiled her charms, nor mortal marr’d her 
reign. 
Bright are thy skies—thy frowning cliffs as wild
As ever shaped in Nature’s magic mold;
Thy shores as green as Eden’s garden smiled,
When earth to man her heavenly stores unrolled.
Degenerate the heart—the bosom cold, 
That looks on thee, Columbia, nor glows
With rapture, where the soul may hold 
Converse with Nature, and from her repose,
Guide grateful thought to Him, beneath whose power she
rose.
And I have loved to haunt thy mossy dells,
And gaze upon thine ever-changing scene.—
To pass the hours where Meditation dwells
In woodland stillness, or to deck serene 
Reflection’s shrine with memory’s wreath unseen
By mortal gaze; full oft my step hath trod
Thy shore where human form hath rarely been,— 
Where Contemplation consecrates the sod,
And views beyond the realms of Nature, Nature’s God!

How deep the stillness! ’tis the twilight hour
When gentle zephyr waves her downy wings
And from the bloom of foliage-mantled bower
Where bends the cypress and where softly swings
The laurel’s graceful pendant, kindly flings
O’er slumbering earth her perfume’s balmy spell,
How blest the calm that peceful twilight brings
What reverent awe her solitudes compel,
As pausing Nature hears departing Day’s farewell.

Now heaven and earth are still; celestial night
Hath drawn her curtain’s inky folds, and borne
On dusky pinion, wings her drowsy flight.
No clustering gems her rayless crown adorn—
One star, but one, precursor of the morn,
Looks on the slumbering earth, and in the stream,
That cleaves its rushing course between rock-worn
And mossy cliffs of gloom, its heavenly beam,
Glassed in her running crystal, glows with living gleam.
C. HORATIO JESSON.


CHEERFULNESS. 

	There is no greater, every-day virtue than
cheerfulness. This quality is like sunshine to 
the day, or gentle, renewing moisture to
parched herbs. The light of a cheerful face
diffuses itself, and communicates the happy
spirit that inspires it; the sourest temper must
sweeten in the atmosphere of continuous good
humor. Be cheerful always. There is no
path but will be easier traveled, no loads but
will be lighter, no shadow on heart or brain 
but will lift sooner in presence of a determined
cheerfulness. 
	It may, at times, seem difficult for the 
happiest tempered to keep the countenance of
peace and content, but the difficulty will
vanish when we consider that sullen gloom and
passionate despair do nothing but multiply 
thorns and thicken sorrow—cultivate cheerful-
ness if only for personal profit. You will do 
and bear every duty and burden better by be-
ing cheerful, it will be your counselor in soli-
tude, and your passport in society. Genuine
cheerfulness is an almost certain index of a 
happy mind. 
	MINNIE HULBERT.


WOMAN’S RIGHTS.
	
	Gentlemen and Ladies:—Having been called
upon to write upon the subject of woman’s
rights, I have prepared a few words in response
to the invitation and as a true expression of
my individual feelings. Woman’s rights
seems to me to be of so much importance
that every woman should be interested in it, 
and should most earnestly endeavor to con-
tend for it in a proper way and manner. There
are only a few women who have their just 
rights, and who is it that deprives them of 
these? It is our brother man. I often think


that man has uncalled for and unrighteous
authority over those of the “weaker sex” as
he is pleased to term woman, but everything
that goes wrong is in many, yes, in most cases,
put upon woman’s shoulders, for her to carry 
as best she can. 
	I believe in honoring man in his own place
but at the same time I do believe his wife
should have equal rights with him. I am 
pleased to see the ladies striving to shake off 
the chains that have so long enslaved us, and
I shall rejoice to see the day when freedom’s
banner for woman shall wave not only over this
our fair land, but over all the world. When 
that day comes many evils will be trampled
beneath our feet, that today are tolerated by
man.
	I am in every sense of the word an advocate
and a defender of woman’s rights, and I trust
the day will shortly come when woman’s cause
will triumph and she will stand free and un-
trammelled by any of the restraints now im-
posed upon her sex.
	SARAH B. LAYTON.
Kaysville, Utah.


“OBEDIENCE.” 
	God formed the body and spirit of men and
women. He breathed into us the spirit of life,
hence we should obey Him.
	O, Israel what doth the Lord require of 
thee, but to fear the Lord thy God, and to keep 
His statutes, He commands us to believe, and 
why? that we may be saved. 
	A child of God is delighted to obey, hence,
“I have rejoiced in the way of his testimonies
as much as in all riches.” A king is made
happy in the obedience of his subjects. Parents 
are honored by the obedience of their child-
ren. We like to see children manifest affection 
toward their parents. If a child loves its
parents it should be manifest in its obedience
to their wishes. An obedient child does honor
to the parents, to its teachers and should be the 
pride of home and the schoolroom. ‘‘To obey
is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the
fat of rams.” “Honor thy father and thy 
mother, that thy days may be long inthe
land,” is the voice of the word of God.
	The Savior says, “Not my will but Thine be
done.” This we call obedience. A carnal 
heart is willing to render obedience as long as 
it will serve selfish ends, it goes no further, but
true obedience is the forsaking of our own 
wishes, to the will of our parents while under
their care and to our God always. God com-
mands perfect and absolute obedience to His 
will. Obedience is no framer of excuses, don’t
dispute, argue, and reason, but obeys the will
of God forever.
	“Sir,” said the Duke of Wellington to one
of his officers, “I did not ask your opinion, I
gave you my orders, and I expect them
obeyed.” Such should be the obedience of 
children to their parents. The best obedience
is a willing and cheerful one, this kind of a 
spirit is as sweet as honey. A little boy once 
said, “I wish I could mind God as my little
dog minds me, he always looks so pleased to 
mind me, and I don’t want to mind Ma.”
Shall the poor little dog thus obey his master, 
and our children rebel against their parents
and God? I hope not. 
	JANE JOHN.
Provo, Utah.


Surely happiness is reflective, like the light
of heaven; and every countenance bright with
smiles and glowing with innocent enjoyment is
a mirror transmitting to others the rays of a
supreme and ever shining benevolence.—
Washington Irving.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT
WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.
   Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
   Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
   EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
Address all business communications to 
PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as 
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,    -     -    SEPTEMBER 1, 1891.


WOMEN IN THE WORLD'S FAIR.

   ﻿Mrs. Potter Palmer President of the Ladies
World’s Fair Commission has returned from
Europe where she has been working up an in-
terest among women, in regard to representation
in the World’s Fair of 1893, she has been received 
with honors, and has succeeded in arousing
enthuiasm abroad and since her return home has
called a meeting of the lady Commissioners to be
held in Chicago early in September.
   Mrs. Margaret B. Salisbury Chairman of the
Utah commission is absent from home and Miss
Keogh, alternate will go on to represent the inter-
ests here and Mrs.Whanla of Ogden who is also a
Lady Commissioner, will leave for Chicago at the
same time to be present at the meeting and to get
information concerning what is expected to be
done here by the women of the Territory.
   This Fair is a mammoth enterprise and what
little such a small Territory can do, may seem
insignificant but, if a united effort is made by
the ladies here something creditable can surely
be accomplished. It is high time to begin, and
any one who can arouse the energies of those 
skilled in the various trades, industries and pro-
fessions to commence special articles at once with
a view to putting them on exhibition will be do-
ing a public good. There are many women in- 
genious and skilled in certain departments of
work, who need encouragement and perhaps 
means to get material to work with, all these
things should be talked of in the locality where
such persons reside, and if necessary application
made to those who have the matter in hand, and
the proper assistance rendered; as this is not
merely a personal affair, but one in which all
have a general interest
   The Territorial Legislature will surely make a
generous appropriation for the women of Utah,
who are really deserving of something in a pub-
lic way considering all the taxes they pay without
representation. Every facility ought to be
afforded to those, who are helping in this laud-
able undertaking. Men and women who have
chosen Utah for a home should be as proud of
what can be accomplished in this new country
even though it may be a little crude, as those in
older States and countries where greater progress
in the arts, sciences, professions and industries
has been arrived at.
   The women and girls throughout this Territory
should respond to the invitation extended to pre-
pare something for the coming Fair, and begin
without delay as there is no time to be lost.
Mrs. Salisbury will be at home soon and will call
a meeting of the Committee which consists of
about twenty-five ladies, and make more definite
arrangements concerning what measures will be
taken to reach all the outside counties. Mean-
time talk up this matter whenever an opportunity
offers among the ladies and consider what can be


done individually. The silk culture and manu-
facture might be one of the important branches of
development in the Utah exhibit.
   We intend to keep this matter before the
ladies and inform them from time to time con-
cerning the Woman’s Fair Commission; probably
before another paper is issued there may be
something more tangible to present in regard to
what postive steps can be taken to forward the
enterprise in Utah.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.
	In the first line of the last verse of the poem
‘‘Singing Evermore” published Aug. 15, the 
words “Often life” should read “Other lips.”
	The Relief Society Conference of the Weber
Stake will be held in Ogden on Thursday, Sep-
tember 10th, Mrs. Jane S. Richards presiding. 
	The quarterly Conference of the Relief Society
of Sanpete Stake will be held at Mt. Pleasant on 
the 9th of September. Mrs. M. A. Hyde Presi-
dent wishes the County well represented. 
	Bouquets of late summer flowers have lately 
graced our sanctum, gifts from Sisters Jane
Cowan, Mary Gunderson and Jane Holt. We
also had a basket of delicious cherries from Sister
Grey; for these most acceptable favors, we wish
to make grateful acknowledgements. 
	The Relief Society Conference of Cassia Stake
will be held at Oakley on the 19th of September.
It is expected that Pres. Zina D. H. Young, her
Counselor Jane S. Richards and Aurelia S. 
Rogers, Pres. of the Primary Associations of 
Davis Stake will go to attend this Conference and 
also the Primary and Y. L. M. I. A. This is the
first visit of the leading sisters of the Relief 
Society to Cassia Stake. Mrs. Louisa Haight is
the President, and Mrs. Louisa Picket Secretary.
	Mary Emma Vanscoonhoven, M.D., has returned 
from Ann Arbor University, Michigan, having 
graduated a full-fledged physician and surgeon,
after a four years course, and has now established 
herself in practise in this City. Her office is in 
the Constitution building opposite Z. C. M. I., 
Rooms 324 & 325 on the third floor, reached
easily by the elevator. Mrs. Van as she is best
known here where she has lived from childhood,
had quite a successful practise as an obstetrician,
and in treating children etc., previous to entering
the University having taken regular courses in 
those studies under some of the leading
physicians here.
	The Latter-day Saints College will open its
annual session this month in the Social Hall
as formerly. The trustees having secured 
permanently the property formerly owned by 
Mrs. Etta Ellerbeck, and where it is anticipated
putting up suitable college buildings as soon as
circumstances will permit, and laying out and or-
namenting the grounds handsomely. Dr. J. E. Tal-
mage the Principal of the institution has recently re-
turned from a trip abroad whither he went during 
vacation, one object being to attend the meeting
of the Royal Microscopical Society in London of
which he is a member; he also visited France,
Switzerland, Belgium and Northern Germany, 
spent considerable time in Paris and during his
travels has collected much valuable information
of a literary, historical, scientific and general
character.
	The quarterly Conference of the Relief Society
of this Stake will be held in the 14th Ward As-
sembly Rooms, on Friday September 11th, meet-
ings commencing at 10 a.m. and at 2 p.m. as
usual. It is expected there will be an interesting
[Column 2]
Conference, and the President M. I. Horne is de-
sirous there should be a full attendance and each
branch have representation through its members
The Conference of the Primary Associations of this
Stake will convene the following day in the Salt 
Lake Assembly Hall, and there should certainly 
be a large representation from the various
branches, as this is a suitable season of the year
for the children to assemble and show what im-
provement has been made. Meetings will com-
mence at 10 a.m. and at 2 p.m. All interested in 
the spiritual welfare of the children are invited to
attend. The Y. L. M. I. Associations of this
Stake hold their Conference Sep. 1, in the As-
sembly Hall. Meetings commence at 2 p.m., and
7:30 p.m. The programme of exercises as pub-
lished in the daily papers ought to ensure a large
audience. Mrs. Mary A. Freeze is the President
and a cordial invitation has been extended to the
public.


DEATH OF MARY ANN PRATT.

   Mary Ann, widow of Parley P. Pratt, departed
this life at her home in Pleasant Grove Utah, at
3:20 a. m. August 24, 1891.—Deceased was the
daughter of Aaron and Susan Frost and was
born at Groten, Vermont, Jan. 14, 1809; her 
father’s family moved to the State of Maine,
where they embraced the Gospel as early as 1835,
Mrs. Stearns was baptized by David W. Patten.
She was a widow then having married Nathan
Stearns in May 1830, by him she had one daughter
who is still living. Her husband died one year
after their marriage. After receiving the Gospel
she went to Kirtland and was married to Apostle
Parley P. Pratt, May 1837, he being a widower 
at the time.
   In Missouri Sister Pratt and her husband en-
dured many sufferings. Their eldest son Nathan
was born in Caldwell Co.
	“Three months later Mr. Pratt was arrested
by an armed mob and taken to prison,
his wife meanwhile lying sick of a fever and not
able to leave her bed. After her recovery she
visited him in prison, remaining with her child-
ren six weeks, in a dreary dungeon. During
this time her daughter Mary Ann accidentally had
her arm broken by the trap door, and at this
supreme moment Sister Pratt, at her husband’s
suggestion, took from the jail a manuscript which
contained much church history and delivered it
to a friend. Thus many important items were
saved for the  church. The deceased was
banished from the State with her helpless child-
ren, while her husband was compelled to remain
in the dungeon. She settled at Quincy, Illinois.
   Brother Pratt afterwards joined his wife and
children at Quincy. They moved from there to
Nauvoo. In the fall of 1840, Sister Pratt, with
her sister Olive, their three children, Mary Ann,
Parley P. and Nathan, started for England with
Elder Pratt, they being the first women among 
the Latter-day Saiuts to go to a foreign land as
missionaries. They made Manchester their head-
quarters, when Brother Pratt established the
Millennial Star.
   On June 1st, 1841, their daughter Olivia was
born. They remained in England two years and
on their return home another daughter was born
on board the “Maid of Iowa,” just one week be-
fore they landed at Nauvoo. They named her 
Susan.
   After arriving home, sorrow visited their
household; Nathan and Susan both died within
a short time. Their next child was a son, Moroni
L. Sister Pratt was expelled with the saints just
after the battle of Nauvoo, and settled at Winter
Quarters—now Florence, Neb. She afterwards
made a visit with her children to her relatives in
the State of Maine, and came to the valley in the


fall of 1852, that winter she spent in this City, and
in the spring went to Pleasant Grove where she
has mostly resided since.  She leaves three child-
ren, Mrs. M. A. Winters, Mrs. B. W. Driggs, and
Moroni L. Pratt, and a host of relatives and
friends, who will miss her society, companionship
and advice.
    Sister Mary Ann Pratt was quite a historic
character and her reminiscences of the wander-
ings and journeyings of the Church would be of
great interest were they written up in detail, as
they were often graphically related by herself to
her children and acquaintances.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


W. C. M. AND M. INSTITUTION.
	Minutes of the first semi-annual meeting of the
share holders of the Woman’s Co-operative Mer-
cantile and Manufacturing institution held in the
14th Ward Assembly rooms, Aug. 15, 1891.
Meeting opened by singing and prayer. After
which Pres Horne said that she always believed
in asking the blessing of the Lord upon all of our
undertakings—therefore the reason of opening
this business meeting by prayer.
	Spoke of the disadvantages under which the
Inst. had labored and the apparent non-interest
manifested by some of the stock-holders. Also
spoke of the splendid set of women employed in
the Inst., and of the good spirit which existed
among them. Spoke of the dullness of business
all over the city, and of the cost of fitting up the
store and getting started, such things will not have
to be purchased again but the means now re-
ceived will go into the business. Also spoke of
the opposition that has been brought to bear
against this movement.
	The Secretary then read the report up to Aug.
1st showing the condition of the business.
	Pres. M. I. Horne expressed her satisfaction
with the report, and hoped with the help and
patronage of the sisters to do much better in the
future and soon to be able to pay a dividend.
Mrs. M. W. Wilcox spoke in favor of the Inst.
and of the interest manifested by the Officers.
Solicited the patronage of the sisters and hoped
they would come forward and take more stock.
	Mrs. E. Woodmansee said she had not much
to say, but would testify to the integrity, economy
diligence and unselfishness of all the ladies who
had any thing to do with the Inst. She had
heard a great many complaints but nevertheless
we are doing well, and must not expect too much
at first. Mrs. C. C. R. Wells read an in-
teresting article from the Woman’s Business
Journal, and urged the necessity of stock-holders
patronizing their own Institution.
	Pres. Horne then spoke of the Dressmaking
department and testified to the ability of Mrs. M.
P. Spencer, in connection therewith. Mrs. Z. D.
Young spoke of her experience in the silk
factory which had taught her a useful lesson.
Regretted that it had been abandoned as we
should now be exporting silks. Referred to the
grand achievements resulting from small begin-
nings and gave encouraging words to all engaged
 in this enterprize. Mrs. B. W. Smith called at-
tention to the efforts that have been made to in-
duce us as a people to trade with our own folks.
Trusted that we would all be united now in sup-
port of this Inst. Why should we not succeed in
a business enterprize as well as the women of the
world.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Stevenson expressed her faith
in the Inst. Was not an extensive stock-holder,
but would be could she follow her inclinations;
she had perfect confidence in the officers and
thought the showing very good. Dr. E. S. Barney
spoke encouragingly; was encouraged by the re-
port. Spoke in praise of the different officers
and expressed her desire to aid and promote the
welfare of the Inst. Some other ladies spoke as


being well satisfied with the showing made by
the report. Pres. Horne gave notice of the first
annual meeting of the stock-holders which would
be held Feb. 15th,1892. After singing and bene-
diction by Mrs. Elizabeth Howard, several ladies
came forward and had their names put down for
more shares.
GLADYS WOODMANSEE, Sec.


PACIFIC COAST WOMEN’S PRESS
			ASSOCIATION.

	The members of the P. C. W. P. A. met again
in Union Square Hall Aug. 11th. When the
Correspondents so ably took the lead, that it was
unanimously declared one of the most successful
meetings ever held by the Association.
	The President Mrs. N. B. Eyster, very grace-
fully introduced the distinguished visitor of the
occasion, Mrs. Sallie Joy White (Editorial Staff
of the Boston Herald), who in an agreeable and
forcible manner addressed the ladies for a short
time on the subject of Women’s Press Associa-
tions. When it leaked out that the Pacific Coast
Women’s Press Association was the outgrowth
of that of New England, of which Mrs. White
was the first President, much merriment was
caused by that lady re-introducing herself as the
‘‘mother” of those present; and her statement
that she was proud of her “children” met with
vigorous applause.
	Mrs. Hannah L. Neal then read a poem “White
Nuts” followed by Mrs. S. P. D’Evelyn who
gave an admirable paper entitled “Practical
thoughts on Correspondence,” the gist of it being
that subjects of general interest written in the
smallest space are the most acceptable. Mrs.
Leila Ellis next stepped forward and in a dra-
matic manner related some of her experiences
during “A recent visit to New York,” after which
Mrs. Lydia Prescott gave a very thoughtful paper
on “Should motive underly the work of a Cor-
respondent?” Mrs. Matheson followed with a
unique sketch entitled “A Paper Without a Sub-
ject,” and ripples of laughter floated over the
Hall as in a humorous and graphic manner she
described her sufferings when supplying a weekly
column for a country Editor, who would take
nothing on Politics, Climate or Scenery, but who
insisted on news pure and simple. Mrs. M. V.
Lewis, last but not least on the programme then
read a paper on “The field for Correspondents in
California,” which proved her to be the happy
possessor of a cultured and thoughtful mind.
	This talented young lady is also a member of
the New York Press Club, but has signified her
intention of remaining on this Coast for an in-
definite period, which is a source of congratula-
tion among her sister writers of the West.
Hearty hand shaking and an interchange of
kindly greeting, closed a most delightful meet-
ing.


[Column 1]

LETTER FROM MEXICO. 

			Colonia Diaz, Mexico.
	MRS. E. B. WELLS,
		MY DEAR SISTER:
	After days and weeks of thinking I would write
you, every day promising myself I would write to-
morrow, I now make an attempt to fulfill my
promise to tell you something of Mexico though
my knowledge of the country is limited, living on
the border and not having traveled in the interior,
but I can tell you a little about our little Colony,
and La Ascension about four miles from here,
where the Custom House Officials live. From
Deming, New Mexico to Diaz, about ninety miles,
and as far as the eye can reach beyond is a level
country covered with mosquito brush with here
and there a windmill to relieve the monotony.

[Column 2]

No high mountains but only a range of low hills
far in the distance, encircle a very large valley.
The days are hot but the nights as a rule are re-
freshingly cool. The soil is sandy, and so hot
that it burns your feet through your shoes, but
yet the children go barefoot, but I notice they do
not stand still long at a time, they run to keep
their feet from burning.
	This is an unusually dry season, the rains have
not started yet and vegetation is sadly in need of
rain, as the river is very low and the water for
irrigation comes into town only once in four
weeks. Those who have windmills are greatly
blessed as they can keep their gardens watered
during the dry season. Good water can be
obtained at a depth of eight or ten feet so that
nearly every family has a well near the door.
Water being so near the surface of the earth it is
difficult to have deep cellars, but the sisters
manage to make good butter in this hot weather,
without cellars. Some of the sisters in Utah
would wonder how it could be done perhaps.
It is an old adage that "necessity is the mother of
invention," and so it is here. The sisters find
ways to keep articles cool. One way is to keep a
wet cloth wrapped around the butter or milk and
stand it in a draught, wetting the cloth often, you
would be surprised to find how cool it keeps. All
kinds of vegetables are raised here in abundance
Now is the melon harvest; people invite their
neighbors to feast on melons. I have attended
two such feasts today and for once in my life had
all I could eat. In a few years there will be
plenty of all kinds of fruit as hundreds of fruit
trees have been set out. Strawberries, grapes
and tomatoes do well.
	Meetings are well attended, even during
these very hot days the meeting house is gen-
erally crowded. Fast meetings are as well at-
tended as the Sabbath meetings and a good spirit
prevails. The Relief Society, Young Ladies, and
the Primary organizations are all in good work.
ing order and have well attended, interesting
meetings.
	We had a celebration on "Pioneer Day," which
was kept much the same as it is kept in Utah.
The meetinghouse was tastefully decorated with
pictures, flowers and evergreens. A large Mexi-
can flag was draped over the stand. It is red,
white and green with a large eagle in the center,
standing on a cactus with a snake in its mouth.
A programme of speeches, songs, recitations,
toasts and sentiments was rendered in a credit-
able manner. In the afternoon races for prizes
were run causing a good deal of sport; and a
dance for the little folks. In the evening there
was a meeting where everybody was expected to
take part if called upon. They called it a "suc-
cotash" programme but it was the best feature of
the amusement.
	The Officials from Ascension were invited and
ten of them accepted the invitation, among the
number being the Administrator and the Presi-
dentee (or Mayor) it being their first visit to the
Colony. The Administrator made a speech,
through an interpreter, and said they felt honored
by the invitation, that they had enjoyed them-
selves and that they felt kindly towards the
Colony and that they would do all that the law
allowed in favor of the Colonists. It is hoped
and believed that their visit will have a good
effect. The Administrator is a jolly gray-haired
blue eyed man, with a broad forehead.
	La Ascension can be described in a few words
It is verily a mud town. The houses are built of
mud, or adobies 12x18 inches, without rock for
foundation, flat roofs, with a hole for a window
but no glass. There is no order about the way
they build as regards blocks. In the business
part of town the houses join each other, it re-
minds me of the old fort walls that we had in the
the days of Indian wars in Utah in the long ago.


As you look along the street it looks like a solid
mud wall with here and there a door with some
sort of a sign and if you inquire or enter, you
find stores, meat shops and saloons. No trees,
no flowers, no grass, no running water to be seen,
everything is of the same color, and that is a mud
color except on the public square where a few
trees are to be seen. Seats of mud a few yards
apart surround the square and a stand is in the
center where the band sit when they play on
holidays.
	The women wear on their heads, in summer
and winter, a long scarf usually black alpaca, but
sometimes black lace. They often attend our
meetings and seem pleased that some of our peo-
ple are learning their language.
	Though there are some unpleasant features and
some hardships to be endured in settling a new
country, living among a people who do not un-
derstand us or we them, yet there are also some
great advantages. Our children are not thrown
into temptation on every hand. No saloons are in
our midst, no smoking or gambling. I have not
seen one drunken person, nor seen one person
smoke or speak a profane word since I have been
here except by the Mexicans.
	We have an excellent School Teacher, who
was educated in the B. Y. Academy so that our
children are not neglected in their spiritual or
secular education. The people are working hard
building up the country, making it blossom as
the rose. They have done well in the short time
they have been here considering the many dis-
advantages they have had to contend with.
Many of the brethren are at work on the Rail
Road that is expected to connect us with the
outside world before long, when it is completed
no doubt many of our Northern friends will visit
us.
	Praying the blessings of God to attend you in
all your labors.
		I am your Sister,
			M.
	August 9, 1891.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A MISTAKE CORRECTED.

	I wish to correct a mistake made in the last
issue, under the heading, Comforted Again.
	The mistake is simply this: I said the side-
walk put down this season cost 96 dollars. I am
told it was only repaired at the cost of 69 dollars,
quite a mistake you see. But when newly laid
down it cost 120 dollars.
	I also wish to give credit to the officers for
patience, for they are not in a hurry as we sup-
posed, and surely deserve our respect when they
show themselves thoughtful and careful of those
under their care.
	I would again give them credit for their kind-
ness to an old lady over 70 who sold her home
because she could not pay her taxes.
	The officer asked her if there was any reason
why she should not pay a tax on the 1.000 dollars.
She replied, "this is my daily bread and it is so
small I do not know how to divide with you."
The tax was not required.
	She says she feels satisfied that her Father in
heaven heard her prayers for those officers and
they will deserve the benediction, "Blessed are
the merciful for they shall obtain mercy." Also
says she will continue to pray for them, that the
light of truth may shine into their hearts and
clear their vision to that degree that they may
love their neighbor as themselves and deal out
equity and justice to all nnder their care. When
this prayer is answered upon our nation, will we
not be a happy people. They need great wisdom
at the present time, and where will they get it?
Only at the fountain of light and intelligence.
			M. E. K.
	Aug. 18th, 1891.


R. S. REPORT.

	STAR VALLEY CONTTONWOOD WARD
MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	DEAR SISTERS:
		In reading the
columns of your most excellent and interesting
paper, I see you are receiving reports of the
different branches of the Relief Society through
out the various Stakes of Zion and as we wish
to be numbered among the co-workers of so
noble and grand an organization I feel im-
pressed to relate the condition of our Society.
We have been organized a year the 24th of
June last, and the Society is in a good work-
ing condition; and I am pleased to say we are
united in this noble cause although we are very
few in number, and widely scattered; all seem
to take a great interest in coming to meetings
to partake of the sweet influence of the spirit
of God that is present to assist us in doing
good; true we are making a new settlement
here, and meet with a great many disadvan-
tages, and inconveniencies, but we feel
encouraged knowing the same God is watching
over us, and is ever willing to pour out his
blessings upon us in as much as we are faith-
ful in performing our duties and magnify-
ing our positions. We have a good, kind
President, who is zealous in her duties and ever
encourages the sisters to be one in all things
pertaining to the noble work we are engaged
in; all are eager and willing to fetch in their
little mite to help along, and we feel that we 
are blessed, and are progressing very favorably
under the circumstances in which we are
placed. We hope to improve in all things as
fast as circumstances afford us means and bet-
ter conveniences, We hope some time in the
near future to have the honor of a visit from
some of the sisters who stand at the head of
the Relief Society to encourage and instruct
us in the grand work we are engaged in.
Praying that the Spirit of God will guide and
direct us in all our righteous endeavors. We
remain your Sisters and co-workers in the
cause of truth.
		JANE PARSONS, PRES.
		ELECTA L. WALTON, SEC.


[Column 1]

A PICTURE OF HOME.

	I recall a home long since left behind in
the journey of life, and its memory floats back
over me with a shower of emotions and
thougths toward whose precious fall my heart
opens itself greedily like a thirsty flower. It 
is a home among the mountains—humble and
homely, but priceless in its wealth of associa-
tions. The waterfall sings in my ears, as it
used to through the dreamy, mysterious nights.
The rose at the gate, the patch of pansies
under the window, the neighboring orchard,
the old elm, the grand machinery of storms
and showers, the little smithy under the hill
that flamed with strange light through the dull
winter evenings, the wood-pile at the door, the 
ghostly white birches on the hill, and the dim
blue haze on the retiring mountains—all come
back to me with an appeal that touches my
heart and moistens my eyes.
	I sit again in the door-way at summer night-
fall eating my bread and milk, looking off upon
the darkening landscape, and listening to the
shouts of boys upon the hill-side, calling or
driving home the reluctant herds. I watch
again the devious ways of the dusky night-
hawk along the twilight of the sky and listen
to his measured note, and the breezy boom
that accompanies his headlong plunge to the
earth.
	Even the old barn, crazy in every timber
and gaping at every joint, has charms for me.
I try again the breathless leap from the great
beams to the hay. I sit again on the thres-

[Column 2]

hold of the widely open doors—open to the 
soft south winds of spring—and watch the
cattle, whose faces look half human to me as
they sun themselves and peacefully ruminate
while drop by drop the melting snow on the
roof drills holes through the wasting drift be-
neath the eaves.
	The first little lambs of the season tottle by
the side of their dams, and utter their feeble
bleatings, while the flock nibble at the hay-
rack, or a pair of rival wethers try the strength
of their skulls in an encounter half in earnest
and half in play. The proud old rooster crows
upon his dunghill throne, and some delighted
member of his silly family leaves her nest, and
tells to her mates and to me that there is
another egg in the world.
	The old horse whinnies in his stall and calls
to me for food. I look up the roof and think
of the last year's swallows—soon to return
again—and catch a glimpse of angular sky
through the diamond-shaped opening that gave
them an ingress and egress. How, I know
not and care not, but that old brown barn is
a part of myself—it has entered into life and
given me growth and wealth.
	But I look into the house again, where the life
abides, which has appropriated these things,
and finds among them its home. The hour of
evening has come, the lamps are lighted, and
a good man in middle life—though very old
he seems to be—takes down the bible and
reads a chapter from its hallowed pages. A
sweet woman sits at his side, and brothers and
sisters are grouped reverently around him. I
do not understand the words, but I have been
told that they were the words of God, and I
believe it. The long chapter ends and then
we all kneel down, and the good man prays.
I fell asleep with my head in the chair, and
the next morning I remembered nothing of
how I went to bed.
	After breakfast the bible is taken down, and
the good man prays again; and again is the
worship repeated through all the days of many
golden years. The pleasant converse of the
fire-side, the simple songs of home, the words
of encouragement as I bent over my school
tasks, the kiss as I lay down rest, the patient
bearing with the freaks of my restless nature,
the gentle counsels mingled with reproof and
approval, the sympathy that meets and as-
suages every sorrow and sweetens every suc-
cess; all these return to me amid the respon-
sibilities which press upon me now, and I feel
as if I had once lived in heaven, and staying
lost my way.
	Well, the good man grew old and weary and
fell asleep at last with blessings on his lips for
me. Some of those who called him father lie
side by side in the same calm place. The others
are scattered and dwell in new homes, and
the old house and barn and orchards have
passed into the hands of strangers, who have
learned, or are learning, to look upon them as
I do now.
	Lost, ruined, forever left behind, that home
is mine today, as truly as ever it was, for have
I not brought it away with me and shown it
to you? It was the home of my boyhood. In
it I found my first mental food, and by it was
my young soul fashioned. To me, throuogh
weary years and many dangers and sorrows, it
has been a perennial fountain of delight and
purifying influence, simply because it was my
home, and was and is part of me. The rose at
the gate blooms for me now, the landscape
when I summon it, and I hear the voices that
call me from lips which memory has made
immportal.
		DR. J. G. HOLLAND.


Beneath the rule of men entirely great the
pen is mighter than the sword.—Bulwer
Lytton.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]﻿

THE TRAINING OF A NURSE.

BY MARY CADWALADER JONES.

	Within the memory of most of us nearly
every family boasts some member who was
said to be a "born nurse," who came to the
fore in time of sickness, and whose labor of
love was sometimes shared by a paid outsider,
usually a motherly body supposed to have a
great deal of experience. But that time is
past, and now no one who can afford a
trained nurse thinks of taking a patient
through an illness without one, any more than
a captain willingly takes his ship through a
dangerous channel without a pilot.
	This means that a new trade or profession
has been created for women, and it may be
told once more that they owe it to one of the
noblest women of her time.
	At the close of the Crimean War the
passionate gratitude of the English people to
Florence Nightingale found expression in a
great public meeting, at which fifty thousand
pounds was subscribed as a testimonial to her.
She refused, however, to take it for herself,
and at her request it was devoted to a founda-
tion which was quaintly termed "An Insti-
tution for the Training, Sustenance, and
Protection of Nurses and Hospital Attendants,"
in connection with St. Thomas's Hospital,
London; and thus the first English training
school for nurses was started in June,
1860.
	Accounts of this great reform, which spread
in England from year to year, reached this
country more or less vaguely, but were with-
out result until, in 1872, the men and women
belonging to that branch of the State Charities
Aid Association which visited the sick in
Bellevue Hospital felt that they could not do
any good or lasting work until the existing
system, or want of system, should be entirely
changed. The nurses were too few in number,
nearly all illiterate, some immoral, and others
intemperate, and had sought their places
simply as a means of livelihood, and not because
they had any aptitude for, or knowledge of their
profession. The members of the Bellevue
Association therefore applied to the Com-
missioners of Charities and Correction for
permission to establish a school for nurses at
Bellevue Hospital, pledging themselves to pay
the additional salaries and all other expenses
of a better class of women and to put two
more nurses in each ward. The consent of
the Medical Board of the hospital, to whom
the Commissioners refered this appeal, having
finally been given to what many physicians
considered a doubtful experiment, the Bellevue
Training School for Nurses was started on
May 1, 1873, with a superintendent and five
nurses, having five wards under their care.
	In 1890 the school had 62 pupils and has
graduated 345, while as a direct outgrowth of
that modest beginning there are three other
great schools in New York alone. These are
the New York City, which has 64 pupils and
has graduated 263; the New York Hospital,
48 pupils and 132 graduates; and Mount
Sinai, with 50 pupils and 111 graduates. There
are also smaller schools in the city, but, great
or small, Bellevue must always be honored as
the pioneer. Her graduates are at the head
of most of the important schools and hospitals
in the country, and have even gone so far
afield as England, Italy, and China.
	The next school to be established was the
New York City, which was started by the
Commissioner of Charities and Correction in
1877, and is entirely supported by the City.
Until last year it was known as the Charity
Hospital School, because it began there, but
as it grew its work spread until the old name
was misleading and had to be changed. It is
now the largest and in some respects the

[Column 2]

most important of all the schools, as it,
nurses five different hospitals—Charity and
Maternity on Blackwells Island, the Infant's
Hospital on Randall's Island, Gouverneur at
Gouverneur Slip, and Harlem, at the foot of
East 120th Street, the two last being accident
or emergency hospitals, while at Charity the
cases are largely chronic. Besides the pupils
of the school, there are thirty-two permanent
trained nurses at Charity and Randall's
Island, making nearly a hundred in all, for
whom the superintendent is directly responsible
and over whom she has full authority. The
other schools in the city are supported from
the funds of the hospitals which they nurse.
	I have said that nursing is a trade or pro-
fession, for it is really both—being a trade, in
that it exacts manual skill and dexterity, and
a profession because it requires mental ability,
judgment and progressive knowledge. The
hospital is therefore at once a workshop and a
college, with this essential difference, however,
that its scholars exist because it has need of
them, not they of it. So much talk has been
made about nursing as a noble "vocation"
that it is easy to lose sight of the fact that
hospital training schools are run first of all
because hospital patients must be taken care
of. When Florence Nightingale led her
little band of workers out of England it was
not in order that women should have a new
vocation, but because men were dying like
flies in the hospitals at Scutari, and the
women who started the Bellevue School did
so because they found the hospital could be
well nursed in no other way.
	In most of the schools the nurses receive
each $10 a month during the first year of
their service, and $15 the second, and at the
present time there is some discussion as to
whether they should be paid at all, or should
give their time in return for their professional
training, as the house physicians do. This
seems reasonable enough to an outsider, but in
the first place much of a nurse's work is of a
routine kind, repeated far oftener than is
necessary for her education, and such as a
doctor is rarely called upon to do, and in the
second the most desirable pupils are those
who could be self-supporting outside the schools
and will not be a burden on their families while
in them. In this country there is a large class
of conscientious and industrious women whose-
education and early associations lead them to
look for some higher and more thoughtful
labor than household service or work in shops,
who have received the good education of our
common schools, and who are dependent on
their own exertions for support. These women
can be trained to make the best possible nurses,
and it is the unanimous opinion of the superin-
tendents of the large schools that it would be
false economy to seek to deprive such pupils of
the small salary which now keeps them inde-
pendent during two years of very hard work.
	We will suppose that a woman of this kind
has decided go into one of the large schools,
and has applied to the superintendent for infor-
mation. She receives in return a circular
giving the rules, requirements and course of
study, and in due time finds herself with other
candidates waiting for examination in the
superintendent's office. When her turn comes,
and if her credentials are satisfactory, the
superintendent usually talks to her a little while
in order to find out what grade of nurse she is
likely to make; for candidates are admitted
only oh their own merits, and where there are
more applicants than vacancies it is important
to secure the best. A short examination in
spelling, dictation, and simple arithmetic
follows, and also in reading aloud, but this is
often past over if a candidate is evidently too
nervous to do herself justice.
	Varions experiments have been tried as to
Examining Boards, but the best result is always

[Column 3]

gained by choosing a good suprintendent, and
then leaving her free to select her own nurses,
without fear or favor, from those who present
themselves, as she must train discipline, and
live with them for two years, and has therefore
every reason to take only those who are likely
to do her credit.
	Apart from articles in professional journals,
much that has been written about hospital life
is apt to strike one familar with it as somewhat
vague and sentimental, and there may there-
fore be some interest in the following sketches,
by pupils now in the New York City Training
School. The first gives a general outline of
the work.
	(To be continued)


WIMODAUGHSIS CLUB HOUSE.

	Our beloved Wimodaughsis has secured by
purchase a most desirable house, being 1328
I St., N. W. This house is a comparatively
new, press brick front, containing fifteen rooms.
It has a frontage of thirty feet, and the lot
runs back one hundred and thirty-four feet to
a wide alley, which gives ample opportunity
for additional buildings. The location is par-
ticularly desirable, as it fronts on Franklin
Square which is one of the most beautiful of
the many parks in the city. It and the
Lafayette Park are said to contain the greatest
varieties of trees and plants of any parks in
the world. The street is quiet and retired,
and yet it is near all the car lines and prin-
cipal hotels. The Board feels very much en-
couraged at having secured so excellent a
place, and have every confidence that the
friends of the enterprise which has been so
fully explained in your columns, will rally to
aid in making payments as they mature. There
is also need of many gifts to furnish the house
and build up the library. It is especially de-
sired that this should be a woman's library, in
which their words and works may be fully
recorded and represented. Articles that have
belonged to prominent women, and their
portraits and autographs will be specially
welcome now that a permanent place is secured
where they can be properly cared for. An
appeal will soon be sent out, and if it fails to
reach any one who is interested, it is hoped
she will not delay on that account, but send
whatever she feels the ability and inclination
to give.
	Cordially yours,
		EMMA M. GILLETT.
Woman's Tribune.


PERSONALS.

	Di Vernon has just written an article on
"Sea-side resorts of California" for the Ameri-
can Press Association.
	Mrs. S. T. D. Evelyn has an article in the
August number of the Chicago Woman's Jour-
nal, on "Women Holidaying."
	Mrs. Gertrude Franklin Atherton has
written a new novel entitled "A Question of
Time."
	Di Vernon wrote an article in the Pacific
Rural Press on "How I built a greenhouse '
(Aug.15th).
	Louise Franci had an article in the Pacific
Rural Press Aug. 15th on "Take comfort in
canning fruit."
	Mrs. R. F. English of the W. P. A. has
been appointed to take charge of the training
school in connection with the Normal School
at San Jose.
	Mrs Barbara Ruell has discovered a fine
Bay-Salt Quarry on her property at Los
Guilicos.


Mrs. Romualdo Pacheco a distinguished
member of the W. P. A. will shortly rejoin her
husband in Guatemala.
	Miss Virna Woods author of "The Amazons"
read a strong original poem recently at Pacific
Grove reflecting great credit on the P. C. W.
P. A.
	Mrs. Alice Moore Mc.Comas of the Los
Angelos Express is at Chino writing up the 
sugar beet industry for the P. C. W. P. A.
	Clara Spalding Brown has just returned
from Mount Wilson, where she has been
writing up Wilson's Peak and photographing
its scenery.
	Mrs. E. S. Y. Parkhurst goes as Delegate to
the International Federation of Women's Press
Associations, which assembles Nov. 15th in'
Boston.
	Ella Higginson's poem "The New West'
read at the convention of the P. C. W. P. A.
in March last has been re-published in the
"Review of Reviews" London.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Keep cool and you cammand everybody.
St. Just.
	The best armor is to keep out of gunshot.—
Lord Bacon.
	Reason and virtue alone can bestow liberty.
—Shaftesbury.
	Good manners are the small coin of virtue.
Woman of England.
	The greatest difficulties are where we are not
looking for them.—Goethe.
	The first step in debt is like the first step in
falsehood.—Samuel Smiles.
	True merit, like a river, the deeper it is the
less noise it makes.—Halifax;
	Our deeds determine us as much as we de-
termine our deeds.—George Eliot.
	The ways of the heart, like the ways of
Providence, are mysterious.—Ware.
	He that calls a man ungrateful sums up all
the evil a man can be guilty of.—Swift.
	My gems are falling away, but it is because
God is making up His jewels.—Wolfe.
	Youth is in danger until it learns to look
upon debts as furies.—Bulwer Lytton.
	Libraries are shrines where all the relics of
saints, full of true virtue, and without delusion
and imposture, are preserved and reposed.—
Bacon.


ONE MORE GONE TO REST.

	At Eden Ward, Weber County, June 5th 1891. we were
called to part with a noble woman, Sister Margaret Mc'
Bride, President of the Relief Society of the Eden Ward.
	Margaret Howard Mc'Bride was born Dec. 21, 1814, at
parish of North Miles, Lancashire, England. Married at
the same place in the year 1833, Nov. 25. Baptized into
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints on the
4th of Jan. 1838, by Heber C. Kimball, in Preston, Lan-
cashire, England; and emigrated on the 10th of May 1856.
Crossed the plains with handcarts, her husband dying upon
the way; he was found dead under his wagon covered with
snow and was buried in connection with 14 others all in
one grave.
	She arrived in Ogden, Dec. 24, 1856, with five small
children the youngest three years old: she was the mother
of ten children five of them are now living, and are mem-
bers of the Church; she has forty-six grandchildren.
	She was chosen as President of the Relief Society of the
Eden Ward on the 7th of June 1878, and has ever been a
faithful sister and an active President.
	Therefore be it resolved that we recognize in the death


of our sister the loss of a faithful President and kind
friend.
	Resolved that we esteem her goodness and patience and
uncomplaining endurance worthy of our imitation.
	Resolved that these resolutions be entered in the Relief
Society record,and also a copy be printed in the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT. 
MARTHA A. FERRIN,
MARGARET LARSEN,
	Counselors.
CATHARINE ANDERSON, Sec.


EXPRESSIONS OF LOVE AND RESPECT.
	The members of the La Platta branch Relief Society
wish to express through the columns of the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT, the love and esteem they felt for the late lamented
Sister Jane M. Walton, their Stake President.
	We feel that in her we have lost a wise counselor, a true
friend, and an agreeable associate.
	She was a meek and lowly follower of Christ, and what-
ever she was called upon to do she did it with that child-
like dependence on Him that impressed one at once that
she was ever guided by His will. We never saw in her
any marks of arrogance, but always leaning upon those in
authority for counsel, for guidance and for support.
	You will doubtless hear of her from those who have
been more immediately associated with her, and have been
blessed for so many years with her presence, in sorrow and
in joy, for she was always near when a word of comfort
was needed or help in sickness of any nature.
	She was certainly an enviable women for she lived a life
of usefulness and has gone to receive the reward of the
just, has left none behind but that feel to breathe blessings
on her name.
	A loving wife, a tender parent, a true friend. May the
Lord help us to emulate her example, that we may have
the privilege of associating with her where wicked men are
not permitted to prey upon the just.
	Members of the La Plata branch of the Relief Society
of the San Juan Stake. Farmington N. M. Aug. 5, 1891.


IN MEMORY
OF
OUR BELOVED PRESIDENT.

"He giveth His beloved sleep."
	Sister Sarah Smith Wheeler, who died in this City July
10, 1891, was born in Westbury Parish, Gloucestershire,
England, the 2nd November in the year 1806. She married
Thomas Smith when a quite a young woman, and when the
Gospel was first introduced in that part of England where
they resided, in 1841, her husband was among the first to
join the Church of Latter-day Saints. Sister Smith was
baptized a year later, 1842. They emigrated to this
country in 1852, Sister Smith having the sad misfortune to
bury her husband while journeying to Zion of which they
had both talked so much and anticipated so much joy in
reaching. Sister Smith however continued her journey
with her son and daughter, being ever desirous of continu-
ing on in the path of right and duty. 
	The Millennial Star has the following obituary pub- 
lished after hearing of her husband's death.
	"We regret to learn, by intelligence from America, that
Thomas Smith, late a Traveling Elder in the Bedfordshire
Conference, England, died of chills and fever, at St. Joseph
Missouri, U. S. A., on the 28th of May, 1852.
	"Elder Smith was well known in many parts of this
Island for his zeal, energy, and courage, in propagating and
defending the principles of the Everlasting Gospel. He
departed this life, maintaining the same unflinching testi-
mony which he had so long borne to the truth."
	Sister Smith Wheeler was chosen to preside over the Re-
lief Society of the Second Ward in this City in the year
1869 and honorably and faithfully discharged the duties of
her calling and was greatly beloved by all those associated
with her in the ward in which she resided and also among
the Saints wherever she was known. For the past two years
owing to her feeble health she has been unable to attend
to the duties of her office, but her Counselors have pre-
sided in her absence feeling it a pleasure to perform this
duty for one so well beloved.
	The sisters of the Relief Society of the Second Ward,
Salt Lake City feel to value her most earnest labors as
worthy the emulation of all. Ever since she joined the
Saints it has always been her zealous and most earnest


wish to do good to those in need. She was ever most
charitable, loving and kind to all, ever striving in the path
of duty to be a Saint of God. Her words to all who were
in trouble, were, “no matter how dark your path may
seem, put your trust in God and He will bless you.”
	May we who are left not mourn her loss here, but fol-
low in the path which she has always advised us to walk
in and ever be found striving to follow in the path of duty
that it may be said of each of us, as it is of our beloved
President, she is a fit subject to enter into that glorious
mansion which is prepared for the faithful, for, “A good
name is rather to be chosen than great riches and loving
favor rather than silver and glod.’’
SARAH E. MITCHELL, Sec.


THE WOMAN’S TRIBUNE,
Edited and published weekly at Washington,
D. C., by CLARA BEWICK COLBY.
Price, $1.00 a year. Trial Subscriptions, five
weeks for 10 cents.
The Woman’s Journal, of Boston, and the Woman’s Tri-
bune, of Washington, D. C., will be sent to one ad-
dress for $3.00 per year.
MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
OFFICE.—324, 325 Third Floor, Constitution Building
HOURS—8 to 10 a. m., 4 to 6 p. m.
Womans’s Co-operative Inst’n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles. Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed.
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But.
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 123 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
Opposite City Hall.

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House. 
R. K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions 
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortmenf of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
DAVD JAMES. Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 20.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 15, 1891.	No. 6.


CONTENTS.
	In Rural England. Relief Society in Mexico 
—Ida I Allred. Pleasant Primary Work—Lillie
Freeze. Visit in St. George Stake—Ann C.
Woodbury. W. S. A. Salt Lake Co. Weber Co.
W. S. A. Training a Nurse—Mary Cadwalader
Jones. Personals—Marian Taylor. Notes and 
News.
	EDITORIAL:—This and That. Editorial Note.
Aunt Presendia’s Birthday. A Whitney Gather-
ing. A Relief Society Reorganized. A Trip to
Canada—Zina D. H. Young. First Annual Con-
vention of the P. C. Women’s Press Association.
Letter from Arizona—W. East. Franchise Notes
From Wyoming—Therese A. Jenkins.
	POETRY:—To Mrs. Augusta Joyce Crocheron
—L. M. Hewlings. Twilight Reveries—E. B. W.
Let the Dead Bury the Dead—Selected. Dear
Son Seymour—Phebe C. Young.


TO MRS. AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
[On reading her beautiful Poem, “An Ideal Home.”]

I was reading your beautiful poem,
Of a charming ideal earth home,
When my thoughts took the wings of fancy,
Away over mountains to roam,
Over white-capped peaks of winter’s crowning,
Where fierce winds their strength spend in vain.
A down rugged steeps wild torrents stemming,
In search of your fairy domain.
Over cities and valleys of beauty,
I threaded the pathways along,
Viewed pictures from fancy’s revealing,
Of your home, protrayed in sweet song.
Securely sheltered from rough winds sweeping,
From a world’s busy care and strife,
Where smiling peace her vigils are keeping,
To sweeten the waters of life.
Where light of morning ever finds welcome,
Where evening brings quiet and calm,
Hallow’d all labor—grateful thoughts blending,
To Him who is giver of all.
Where the robin and song-bird of springtime,
Come early to gladden and cheer,
Each shrub and tree, with life-draughts full laden,
As stream from rock-riven flows clear.
Sweet bud and blossom pathways surrounding,
Scattering perfume from near and from far,
Home of beauty, with music abounding,
Worship is joy, with love’s guiding star.
Here in this home; this charming ideal,
Fain would I abide in its rest,
Destined by fate to turn to the real,
I’m merely in fancy a guest.
L. M. HEWLINGS.
Atchison Kans.


TWILIGHT REVERIES.

The shadows rest upon the mountains high,
And blue and purple haze enwraps them now,
And clouds, fantastical, pil’d ’gainst the sky,
Wreath quaintest garlands round the mountain's
brow.

How gently blend shadows and clouds so gray,
Changing to dullness things but late so bright,
Yet from the beauteous west the closing day
Casts glim’ring glances of its fading light.

Oft have I watch’d the phantoms twilight made,
Dissolving day and night in one another,
And in similitude my fancies play’d
With light and shade, entwining them together.

The soft breeze gently whispers in the leaves,
The tones so musical, and sweet, and low,
The echoes thrilling me—’till mem’ry weaves
The reveries of the hour with “long ago.”


The visions of the past fill all my soul,
And through the vista of the years grown grim
I trace the outlines, as upon a scroll,
Of forms and scenes familiar though so dim.

I see the forests near my childhood’s home
And hear again the voices in the breeze,
And troop on troop the floods of mem’ries come,
And I seem wand’ring ’mid those ancient trees,

And all that then was mine, of youthful hope,
And sweet affection, with her myriad powers,
All these, I gather in the shadow’d scope
Of fancy as I muse in twilight hours.

Sweet tones of love fall lightly on my ear,
Again I feel the clasp of hands now cold,
And shudd’ring pause, ’twixt happiness and fear,
As the vast panorama is unrolled.

’Tis pleasant thus to view the path we’ve trod,
And mark where here and there our feet have stray’d,
Where sometimes fell a heavy chast’ning rod
And soft the whisper, be not thou afraid!

Sooth’d all the wound—and cheered us ever on,
And list’ning close the still small voice we hear,
Now plainer grown than when life first begun,
Helping and guiding as the goal we near.

If on our way some shadows in the years,
Darken’d our path, and hid the light from view,
Now looking back through mists of bitter tears,
We know WHOSE HAND guided us safely through.
	E. B. W.


[Column 1]
IN RURAL ENGLAND.
   All through the lonely watches of that night,
the devoted cousin sat and carefully nursed
Miss Hilliard according to the good old Dr’s.
instructions, and kept the maid within call;
not wishing her to see and hear what might
pass between them in case the young lady
would rouse from the stupor into which she
seemed to have fallen, and should make a con-
fident of her; which she longed and prayed for
in order that she  might know better how to
protect, and help her, and free her from any 
embarrassment on account of her father, or the
young man, who had followed her to the woods
evidently by appointment. Cousin Jane felt
this must be the case, though she knew noth-
ing of the intimacy that had existed between
the two young people. She was deep and far-
sighted, and had noticed some things in Miss
Hilliard’s manner of late, that had given rise
to suspicions, that she scarcely dared to admit
even to herself, and feeling conscious that her
cousin Anna (Miss Hilliard) was not as strong
in character, as herself, and knowing she was
several years younger and had seen so little of
what is termed society, she determined to stand
guard, without being officious, and find out if
possible why Miss Hilliard took such long 
rambles and whether there was any real cause
for concealment. So far she had not been
able to discover anything tangible upon which
to base her suspicions, or that would give her
an opportunity to speak to her cousin except
in the most casual way; to be sure she had
sometimes said, “your charities take up a great
deal of your time, can’t you divide this benevo-
lent work with me?” To such questioning Miss
Hilliard would generally reply, “O, I like to
go among the poor and sick, and take notes of
the way in which my father’s affairs are
managed; indeed I should like to see many
improvements made in the condition of the

[Column 2]
working people.” Though these answers did
not quite satisfy cousin Jane, yet she would
not persist in her questionings, but once or
twice had made the remark, “Cousin Anna
you never have seemed to me to be in the least
practical certainly your tastes do not tend
in that direction.” “Appearances are
sometimes deceptive,” Miss Hilliard replied on
one occasion, and then smiled significantly.
The intonation of her voice, more than the
words, had pained her cousin, she could not
help thinking it was a covert reply, and that
perhaps she had, though spoken in jest, a
double meaning.
   Cousin Jane was only a visitor at the Castle,
she knew she had no positive right to claim
the confidence of her imperious cousin, but
she saw how peculiarly embarrassing was the
situation Miss Hilliard occupied for a young
girl, and how much was expected of her from
her father of which she was totally ignorant.
With only the aid of hired governesses and
masters to instruct her, and these changed at
the caprice of the father whenever they of-
fended him; cousin Jane had judged from the
first, and rightly too, that such influences were
not in the least calculated to discipline her
cousin in proper channels of thought, or guide
her inclinations, or actions towards lofty or
grand aspirations to qualify her for the re-
sponsible position she would be expected to fill
in the near future.
   Her mother Lady Hilliard had died when
she gave birth to the little girl “Anna,” and
the father had never married again, nor had
he devoted much time or thought upon the
education or training of his only child and
heir. Disappointment at first because she was
a girl, had made him cold and indifferent to
the little one, and even the death of his wife
had not softened his heart; though as the child
grew in years, she developed more and more
the tender graces of her angelic mother; but
even this did not touch any sympathetic chord
in the bosom of this man of the world, whose
pride was more than his fortune, and whose
lineal rank far exceeded his merit. He al-
lowed little Anna to grow up almost entirely
under the tutelage of a French governess, who
had been educated in a convent and was full
of duplicity and cunning; she had an Italian
music master, whose temper was almost uncon-
trollable and who was entirely without prin-
ciple, petting and praising her or
scolding her by turns; these and the servants
constituted the household, except on rare occa-
sions some distant relative would come for a
few days and relieve temporarily the dreary
monotony, but Sir Edward never encouraged
such visits, and the stay was always brief. He
had his particular friends, now and then to
dine, or for the hunting season, but Miss Anna
was never brought out on such occasions. She
had scarcely been allowed to associate with
any of the young girls when a child, though
she had often been invited; her father was very
strict in his way and when occasionally she
had asked permission of him to attend some
little party or gathering, he had been so un-
kind and uncivil that she preferred staying at
home, rather than brave his displeasure or
risk a refusal.
   The governess, however, was very fond of
going out herself and as she was Miss Anna’s
chaperone at all times, consequently would
intercede with the father until he would con-
sent to their going if reluctantly. Miss Anna


[Column 1]
had been taught dancing under a proficient
master, and in this accomplishment she ex-
celled all the girls in that vicinity even as a
child.  Her education in dancing, music and
society manners had not been neglected; al-
though morally no foundation had been laid
upon which to build character.  Beautiful,
fascinating, abounding in ideality, with all the
charms of budding womanhood, this tender
sensitive girl was left to grow up without any
proper balance to control her feelings or her
judgment, and without any domestic affection
filial love or any true love at all, as a guide or
light upon the pathway of life.  What is
wealth or distinction of rank or empty titles
or even a Castle for a dwelling place without 
love? And yet many children are thus reared
in luxuriant homes (if such they can be called)
as well as in the hovels, the by-ways; and also
in the Asylums where the children of the
poor, aye, and sometimes of the rich grow up
utterly alone in the world, so far as love is
concerned.
	Cousin Jane had only been a short time at
the Castle when she became aware of the
great lack in Miss Hilliard’s life, and she
studiously set about working a reform, but
planning wisely and carefully to pave the way
for a change in the young girl’s life.  Luckily
Miss Jane Conway was the niece of Sir Ed-
ward, the daughter of a favorite sister, who
had however married a poor clergyman, but
he forgave her when she died and had the
generosity to invite her only daughter to come
to the Castle with him, after the funeral was 
over, adding, “I think my Anna will be glad
of a woman in the house, and it will be a re-
lief to me.”
    Once installed in the old mansion, which
was little more than a ruin, her presence was
felt by all in the establishment—her quiet
dignity and self-possession, her modest deport-
ment at all times, and her cheerfulness, even
though it was apparent she realized the loss
of her mother, won all hearts.  Her stern old
uncle unbent a little when with her persuasive
eloquence she besought him to give them more
of his company in the drawing room, aud he
was not at all aware that he was yielding little
by little, to this rather plain, unpretentious
young woman, whom he had only thought to
shelter for a time beneath his aristocratic roof.
	Cousin Jane did not question Miss Anna
when she woke from her restless, unrefreshing
sleep, she was too wise for that, she saw how
prostrate in body she was, as well as crushed
in spirit, and she only treated her as if she
were a little child, and sought to soothe her in
every possible tender way.  She was glad
when the Dr. came in with his cheery good
morning, and asked in a fatherly way after
his patient; glad too that he suspected nothing
amiss, but only spoke of her having taken a
heavy cold; and that she would be all right
in a few days, with good nursing.  During the
day cousin Jane noticed how very uneasy her
cousin was, and that every time the door
opened or any one stirred outside how dis-
turbed she seemed, and she guessed that she
was in constant expectation, or fear of the
coming of the daring young man, who had 
caused this misfortune, and from whom her
cousin Jane thought she had only been rescued
by a special interposition of Providence.
What her feelings were towards him, or in
what way or by what means he had beguiled
her unwary feet Miss Conway had no knowl-
edge.  She was fully aware however of the
weakness of Miss Anna’s character, and that she
had never been taught any of the practical
lessons of life, by which she had received
definite instruction, illustrated by the true and
noble example of her sainted mother.
	Miss Hilliard did not once ask for her father,
nor for any one, but lay moaning and tossing
though docile as a child with her cousin; the
housekeeper and the governess had both asked
to see her, but, the self-reliant nurse had re-
fused them, telling them kindly she needed no
further help than from Miss Hilliard’s own
maid, and they retired crest-fallen, for they
mistrusted something unusal and were full of
curiosity as the groom had told them that
morning that he was sure Miss Conway had
brought “My Lady” home on horseback, for
only one horse had been saddled, or taken
out, and he found him loose, with the saddle
slipping off by the old elm near the front 
entrance, and “he was all in a foaming sweat
and just ready to drop with fatigue, and sure
it’ll take him days to get right again.”
    “What’ll ye tell the master,” said the house-
keeper, “you can’t keep him from knowing
about the horse any way?” “Leave that to me
I knows my own business!” And away he
went grumbling to himself about “wimen folks
al’ays a prying into other folks business.”
   The days went by, one after another, and
there was very little change in Miss Hilliard’s
condition; her father had returned late one
night, bringing a party of gentlemen with him;
and on his arrival had been told almost im-
mediately of his daughter’s illness by the
housekeeper. At first he was somewhat alarmed 
but became re-assured after hearing from Dr.
Bland, his own physician, that there was really 
no danger, and that it would be quite unneces-
sary to have a nurse as Miss Conway was fully
competent, and most faithful in carrying out
the Dr’s. instructions.  The only objection the
father raised to this was, “I wanted my niece
to take charge of my guests, to sit at the table
with us, and entertain them, she can relieve
me greatly in these matters; I have always
had to do all this myself, and Jane is neither
young nor pretty, so there is nothing to risk in
her case.  She talks well, is well read, knows
all about the laws and statutes of the country,
is well versed in history, and can ride a horse
as well as most gentlemen trained for the
chase;—I’m proud of her and I like to have
her near me, she always knows the right thing 
to say to people, and is modest withal, and ‘by
Jove’ I’ve never seen a woman like her.”
   The Dr. listened attentively until he had
finished and then in his cool, deliberate way,
politely informed him that his daughter’s re-
covery was of more consequence than the en-
tertaining of his guests.  Sir Edward winced
a little under this sarcasm, but replied, “a
hired nurse would do just as well and save my
niece the fatigue of night-watching.” “No
hired nurse however competent would do as 
well as Miss Conway, because she loves her,
and love is everything,” was the Dr’s re-
joinder.
   “You’ll have your way I suppose in despite of
me, Dr’s, always do, so let the matter rest, I
hope Anna will soon be out again!”
   “In a day or two more she’ll be able to
come down stairs, her constitution is a remark-
ably fine one, there is scarcely such a girl in
the kingdom, beautiful as a midsummer night’s
dream.”
   “O, as to that, she is just like her mother
a sort of lily, dainty and fair, but frail and
weak, and yielding, that is my ideal for women
we do not want them to be our masters,” said
Sir Edward.  Dr. Bland retorted “how about
Miss Conway then, she is not frail, nor weak,
nor yielding, according to your estimate of
her, yet you admire her amazingly?” “Just
as I would a young man, or boy, she pleases
me, amuses me in fact, she is the most inde-
pendent specimen of womanhood I have ever
seen;” and so the colloquy ended.
	Sir Edward did not show the least affection
for his child even in her illness, when he
visited; her to be sure he patted her on the 
head and smoothed back her shining hair;
remarking at the time “how very like your
mother,” but there was no depth of feeling,
the fountain of his heart was not stirred,
though he saw her prostrated with physical
suffering and yet she was all he had to bestow
affection upon.  The poor girl was longing for
love, her nature required it, she would have
repaid it a hundred fold, but no! no! it was not 
to be.  The selfish, heartless father feasted
his friends and rode after the hounds, while
his only child lay feeble in body, and melan-
choly in mind, without a father’s tender care,
and only inquired after from day to day
through the servants.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY IN MEXICO.

COLONIA DUBLAR, CHIHUAHUA MEXICO.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking a few lines from this far off land
would be of interest to the readers of your
valuable paper, I will endeavor to give you an
account of our condition here. This ward was
organized on the 19th inst. by Apostle George
Teasdale, who called a meeting on the following
morning at 11 o'clock a. m. for the purpose of
organizing a Relief Society.  There were pres-
ent of the Priesthood, Apostle George Teas-
dale, Bishop Winslow Farr, Elders Willard 
Carroll and B. H. Allred.  Meeting was called
to order by Bishop Winslow Farr, singing
"Let Zion in her beauty rise, &c;" opening
prayer by Elder Willard Carroll, singing
"Where the voice of friendship's heard, &c."
Apostle Teasdale then called for an enrollment
of all the sisters who desired to  become mem-
bers of the Society, all the sisters present gave
their names, being thirty in number.  Apostle
Teasdale in connection with the Bishop and
Elders present then proceeded to organize 
the Society; the officers are as follows: Ida I.
Mortensen, President; Lydia K. Young and
Charlotte Carroll, Counselors; Phebe I. Allred,
Secretary; Josepha Wright, Ass't. Secretary;
Nancy Williams, Treasurer.  We were blessed
with the out pourings of the spirit of God, and
had a goodly time.  Meeting was adjourned
until 3 o'clock p. m. singing, and benediction
pronounced by President Ida I. Mortensen.

	Three o'clock p.m., meeting was resumed,
Pres. Ida I. Mortensen presiding, singing,
"Once more we come before our God, &c."
Opening prayer by Coun. Lydia K. Young,
singing "With joy we own Thy servants Lord
&c."  The roll was called showing the presence
of 29 members, minutes of the morning meeting
read and approved.
	Apostle Teasdale said "I want an expres-
sion of the sisters' that I may know how they 
feel."  A goodly number of the sisters arose
and expressed their desires to improve the
opportunity now presented through this organi-
zation, and that they had greatly felt the
lack of the Relief Society, were grateful that
the time had come that they were favored
thus etc.
	Apostle Teasdale then addressed the as-
sembly, spoke at some length giving the sisters
good instructions, promising them in the name
of Christ his Master that if they were faith-
ful in the discharge of their duties that it 
would not be long until they should have 
their own grain bins, and meeting houses, and
they should be blessed to overflowing; he ex-
horted all to diligence, and invoked the bless-
ings of God upon the people of this Colony.
	Bishop Winslow Farr also spoke very en-
couragingly to the assembly.  Meeting was
then adjourned until the first Thursday in
August. Singing, "A Saint, and is the title
mine, &c."  Benediction by Bishop Winslow
Farr.	
	IDA I. ALLRED, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


"LET THE DEAD BURY THE DEAD"

'Tis gone, with its joys and sorrows;
Its sunshine and storms of rain:
Look not away in the distance,
On relics of grief and pain;
Look up, dear friends, instead:
Let the dead year bury its dead!

What if our pride has suffered?
What if the hour of need
Has shown that the friend we trusted
Was worse than a broken reed?
Look up, though our hearts have bled:
Let the dead year bury its dead.

Let us count the abundant mercies
Our one great Friend has sent;
The days of our light and darkness—
All gifts of one sweet intent.
No matter the tears we shed:
Let the dead year bury its dead.

Ah, youth has been taught stern lessons,
And we of maturer years
Have learned a yet keener knowledge
Of life's vain hopes and fears.
How surely God's hand hath led!
Let the dead year bury its dead,

And the new-born year shall find us
Courageous, alert and strong;
Girt up for the strife before us,
Though sharp the trial and long.
On, on, with a firmer tread,
While the dead year buries its dead.
	SELECTED.


DEAR SON SEYMOUR.

I am sitting all alone tonight,
So thought I would a letter write;
For though I know that scribbling rhyme,
Is often but a waste of time;
And that I think I see you smile,
Yet I will thus the time beguile;
Last night from you I had a line
To say that you'd arrived on time,
And though I had but just come home
started out once more to roam,
Through snow and mud; that I might tell
Helen and children all were well.
I found them well and busy too;
Preparing things to come to you;
The little children round me came,
I almost thought they were the same
That once had nestled on my knee,
So sweet and full of love for me.
Oh foolish heart! How vain the thought,
(Though for a moment! soon 'twas naught)
That time had stopped upon his track
And given me my children back;
For it was but the other day
That you were small and young as they;
I murmured not when hard my lot
Nor thought too many I had got,
Though wearied oft with cares and noise
I loved you well! My girls and boys;
When they were sick Oh how I wept,
And watched and prayed while others slept,
And held their heads, and soothed their pain
And then when they would smile again,
Would not have changed for wealth of worlds,
For I had still my boys and girls;
From two loved ones I had to part,
And lay them by with breaking heart,
And though I shed most bitter tears.
Yet wisdom cometh with the years;
And now I know they're free from strife
And life's turmoil with sorrow rife;
And though they left me at life's dawn,
Yet in the Resurrection Morn;
I shall again receive with joy,
And welcome back, my girl and boy.
But where are all the others gone?
I see them all at night or morn?
No more they prattle at my knee,
No more their little plays I see,
And thus I find now years have flown,
That I am left almost alone;
For though 'tis true I sometimes see


Some men and women come to me 
Who boldly talk of snares and strife 
Of business cares, of husband, wife 
Though other loves and joys they claim
And they for this are not to blame,
But can it be they are the same?
That once I rocked upon my breast,
And lulled them in my arms to rest.
Oh, how I grieve to see them go,
And yet I know it must be so,
May the good God who reigns above
Preserve the children of my Love,
That we may meet upon that shore,
Where tears and partings are no more.
Where freed from life's vain cares and noise,
I there may find my girls and boys 
PHEBE C. YOUNG. 
February 28, 1891.


[column 1]
	PLASANT PRIMARY WORK.

	Sunday Aug. 23rd, we saw quietly laid to
rest in the Spanish Fork cemetery the remains
of a good woman, a faithful Latter-day Saint,
and our life long, devoted friend, Sister Millie
Lewis Gay and with a resigned though sor-
rowful heart turned away from the kind and
patient husband, and six children ranging
in age from the wee toddler to the youthful
maidens verging into the slippery paths which
too often lead astray. Trusting them to the
loving care of Him who doeth all things well.

	We joined Sisters Anna K. Smoot and
Eliza Taylor, of the Stake Presidency of the
Primary Association of the Utah Stake and
traveled on to Santaquin, where a meeting of
the children awaited us at 10 o'clock on Mon-
day morning. A house full of parents and
children was a cheering sight; the exercises
shert, cheerful, and suitable for children, were
well rendered to the credit of Pres. Wall and
Counselors.
	At 3 p. m. we met with the Association of
Spring Lake Villa, lately organized and doing
creditable work, considering all things—under
the care of Sister Butler and Counselors who
felt encouraged to still press on in their up-
hill work, of training the little ones in widely
scattered homes.
	That evening we met with the officers of the
Payson district at the home of Pres. Amy
Hancock, who kindly entertained us. It was
a treat to meet with those who were intimate
with Joseph Smith and are ever ready to tes-
ify that he was a Prophet of God.
	Tuesday morning at 10 o'clock the children
and mothers made a good-sized audience in
the Payson meeting house; here, too the child-
ren rendered some very creditable exercises
and kept good order, and appeared to enjoy
singing, "We are the children of the Saints,"
while marching, led by one of the visiting
ladies. At noon we were entertained by the
officers in the vestry which was tastefully
decorated with vines, flowers and flags, and
enjoyed one of the most inviting picnics with
ice cream, fruit, etc., and were sent on our way
rejoicing to Salem, where we were surprised to
see the house full by 3, p. m. Prompt lively
singing by all the children was a delightful
feature, and a well rendered programme satis-
fied us that all were persevering, energetic,
workers.
	In the evening we passed up to Spanish
Fork and held a meeting with the officers of
that District and gladly sought rest and
strength for the coming morrow.
	Wednesday Aug. 26th was an interesting
day for Primary people large and small, in
Spanish Fork; at 10 a. m. the officers, from
all parts of the Stake, met in the
meeting house; this was an assembly to be
proud of, and thankful for; excepting one or
two, every association was represented from
the Lake shore to the canon heights, at Mill

[column 2]
Fork, where the Primary is the only living
organization. Coun. Sarah E. Cluff, Sec.
Mabel Pratt, Ass't Sec. Ida Cheever and
Treas. Ottelia Measer joined the company
making what is seldom seen at any meeting a
complete corps of Stake officers. Here is
Pres. Smoot's special field of action, with
anxious, yet womanly dignity, she hears all
reports; accepts suggestions and wisely attends
to all details of business pertaining to Primary
work. The perfect harmony of feeling, unity
of purpose, and loving consideration toward
each other came the nearest to our ideal of
what should exist of anything we had yet seen.
	At 3 p. m. the Conference opened with a
house crowded in every part, a number of
brethren, among them Bishop Snell, en-
couraged us by their presence, and the exercises
under the direction of District Pres. Argyle,
were all well chosen, varied and short, and
every detail of the conference pre-arranged
with careful fore thought and hard labor.
The singing, under the direction of Brother
Owen Rowe was an evidence of patient pains
taking interest in drilling the little ones for
this occasion, they all sang with force, vim and
sprightliness, so attractive in childish music—
and pleased us better than anything in our
travels. Two original addresses, very prettily
delivered, delighted us, as did much that we
have not space to mention, and the benedic-
tion was pronounced by a little boy about 6
years of age, and could be distinctly heard by
the congregation.
	At noon the good people of Spanish Fork,
more firmly established their reputation for
hospitality by entertaining all visitors. A
sumptuous dinner being served in the dancing
hall. The long tables groaned under the
weight of the good things of the earth so
lavishly spread, and temptingly served by
pretty Primary girls, in airy white dresses and
dainty caps,—some of the young ladies lent a
charm to the hour with sweet strains from voice
and piano. Beautiful flowers gladdened the eye.
and altogether it was a scene long to be re-
membered with joy. One of the hospitable
druggists of the town, invited all the visitors
to quench their thirst at his soda water foun-
tain which was gratefully accepted.
	That night we left Spanish Fork with a
sense of true satisfaction in our profitable
reunion; and on Thursday another time of re-
joicing similar to the last only on a smaller
scale awaited us in Springville. A large
audience of parents and children was
gathered at the meeting house;—the largest
attendance of mothers seen at any place. One
song by the children, "Why parents don't visit
the school," was sung in excellent style by the
little ones, having been carefully trained by
Sister Hannah Friel, and repeated by request;
the programme throughout was a credit to
teachers and children.
	Coun. S. E. Cluff gave the children some
timely advice against the growing evil of card
playing.—and at the close all visitors repaired
to the home of District Pres. Elizabeth
Packard where they were waited upon by the
officers to a tempting and substantial dinner.
Here we all parted with a hearty "God bless
you" for each other. Our faith strengthened
in the "Hope of Israel" and a fixed determina-
tion to more firmly establish the Primary
cause, in all the Stakes of Zion.
	LILLIE FREEZE.


The late Mrs. Sawtelle made an excellent
lawyer, notwithstanding the fact that only a
few years ago many well-meaning people said
that no woman could make a good lawyer.
Probably the majority of women cannot make
good lawyers. Neither can the majority of
men.—Boston Globe.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor. 
Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No 
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount 
to regular advertisers.
Exponent office., No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second 
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m 
to 5 p.m. every day, expect Sunday.
Address all buisness communications to 
PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.
Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as 
Second Class Matter. 
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	SEPTEMBER 15, 1891.


[Column 1]
THIS AND THAT.
ONE of the best things we have heard of re-
cently is the gratifying news of the Amnesty
granted to Joseph F. Smith by President Harri-
son. To be under the ban of the law suffering
for conscience sake, for a religious principle for 
so many years, is to a man like him a severe
ordeal to say the least, and to be once more free
to breathe the pure air of heaven without fear of
molestation, must be joy indeed to such an inde- 
pendent American. To see Pres. Smith once
more in his accustomed place upon the stand in
the House of the Lord on the Sabbath day will be
a general cause of rejoicing.

TELEGRAMS from New Zealand under the date
of September 5th, announce the fact that "the
House of Representatives of New Zealand passed
a bill granting the residential suffrage to women
and qualifying women for election to Parliament."
This is indeed startling news and we hope the
same influence may spread far and wide; and it
will, when once the doors of legislative halls and
parliaments are opened to women, it will be a
lever to move other obstacles out of the way of
woman's progress, and one by one, the walls of 
prejudice will be broken apart and inroads made,
that will give greater light and power and strength
until all barriers will at last be removed, and the
women of the near future stand equal with man
and a grander and nobler and purer condition of
things in all the departments of life and work
because of the more complete harmony which will
be the result.

	WE had hoped and expected ere this to have
had something more positive to report from the
Lady Commissioners for Utah in regard to Wo-
man’s work for the World’s Fair, but have heard
nothing except by telegrams in the daily papers.
We present the following as the most important
of these dispatches.
“Late last night at a conference of the com-
missioners and lady managers of the Territories,
it was agreed that the Territories should consoli-
date in erecting one building for their exhibits.
It shall cost not less than $10,000. 
Behind closed doors the board considered the
circular letters that have been sent out from time
to time in connection with the Queen Isabella
Association. Mrs. Wilkins introduced a resolu-
tion, which was carried, that the lady manager
who assisted or encouraged the sending out of
literature derogatory to the board, should be ex-
pelled from the board and the State sending her
requested to remove her from all connection with
the board.
“The board of lady managers of the World’s
Fair, Sep. 8, appointed a committee to select ex-
amples of specially notable and brilliant achieve- 
ments of women, to be made into a separate dis-

[Column 2]
play in the woman’s building. This display will
range from literature and art to cookery. It was 
announced that a portion of the money set apart
for foreign advertising would probably be made
available for sending agents abroad to work in
the interest of the women's department.

THE Young Woman’s Journal has just com- 
pleted its second volume, it is edited by Susa
Young Gates, daughter of Brigham Young, pre-
viously a well-known and popular writer over the
signature of Homespun. Mrs. Elmina S. Taylor 
President of the Y. L. M. I. A. has charge of the
Department devoted to the special interests of
that organization. The Journal has been quite
successful during the past two years of its publi-
cation and has undoubtedly a brilliant future be-
fore it, for the young women of the Church seem
to have taken hold of the work with determina-
tion and energy and with them there should be no
failures. The poetry it contains has been excep-
tionally good; and the editor has spared no pains
to make it useful and acceptable and entertaining
to the young people. Her efforts in this direc-
tion are worthy of great praise. The biographic- 
al sketches of young women actively engaged
in association work, with their pictures is a de-
lightful feature of the journal. The circular for
the coming year has been issued and contains
notices of the several departments into which the
magazine will be divided, among which are many
noticeable features, viz; The picture gallery, the
literary department, fashion department, Consti-
tutional Government, hygienic department and
several others of equal interest. The mechani-
cal work of the magazine is a great recommenda-
tion. It is published at the office of the Juvenile
Instructor, and that office has every facility for
doing good work in the way of printing, binding
etc. The Journal is $2,00 per year, and it is
well worth the price. We wish the Journal the
utmost success and sincerely hope and believe it
will do missionary work at home and abroad.


EDITORIAL NOTE.

	If subscribers who do not receive their papers
will make direct complaint to this office and give
their proper address the matter will be promptly
attended to, if the fault is here, and if elsewhere,
we will endeavor to find out the cause of delay
and remedy it. Mistakes are certainly not made
intentionally; and it is always better to make a
formal complaint as it gives opportunity to set the
matter right, and by doing this much annoyance
might be avoided. Our agents in the various
wards of the several Stakes are earnestly urged
to renew their diligence, and canvass their dis-
tricts thoroughly, that the paper may receive the
support and patronage so much needed, to pub-
lish it, at so low a figure as one dollar a year,
which price should put it within the reach of
every family in Zion. If a sufficient number of
subscribers could be obtained, the EXPONENT
could be issued weekly, which would make it
much more desirable to the public and a greater
help to all the womens organizations it represents.


AUNT PRESENDIA'S BIRTHDAY.

	Some of the friends of the veteran Mother in
Israel, Sister Presendia L. Kimball gathered at
her residence on Monday, September 7, in honor
of the 81st Anniversary of her birthday. There
were two gentlemen and about forty ladies pres-
ent, her sister Pres. Zina D. H. Young being one
of the number, and they had a most enjoyable
time. After partaking of some delicious refresh-
ments, brought with them for the occasion, they
had a spiritual feast of singing, prayer, and bear-
ing testimony; the gifts of the Gospel were also
manifest and altogether it was a time of rejoicing


to all present. Sister Kimball has been confined
to the house for some months, until very recently
and now can only get out on crutches. Her
lameness was caused by an accident, when she
put her hip out of joint,and she has suffered ever
since. We join with the many friends of this
honored lady in wishing her every blessing that
her heart desires, and that her last days may be
her best days, and that she may continue in the
future as she has in the past to bless the daughters
of Zion.


A WHITNEY GATHERING.

	At the residence of Brother Geo. D. Pyper on
Tuesday Sep. 8, there was quite an interesting
gathering of the Whitney family. The party was
in honor of the birthday anniversary of Sister
Mary C. Whitney, Mrs. Pyper's mother. Count-
ing children there were about fifty in all. There
were two of the daughters of Bishop Newel K.
Whitney present, Mary Jane Groo, and Mell C.
Woods, daughters-in-law Helen M. Whitney and
Mary C. Whitney; grandchildren quite a number,
among whom were Bishop O. F. Whitney, Horace
G. Whitney, Vilate Groo Taylor, and Emma
Wells Sears, each representing a distinct branch
of the family. All the children of Mary C.
Whitney, eleven in number, were present, and as
five of them are married there were daughters-in
law, and sons-in-law, and grandchildren, and a
fine looking company they were; of which the
mother may be justly proud; and indeed she
looked radiantly happy and satisfied.
	The evening was passed very pleasantly in
social conversation, and (of course) supper was
served in the most approved and hospitable style;
tables tastefully arranged and nothing lacking to
tempt the most fastidious; after the feast was
over and the parlors were filled again, there was
more brilliant conversation; and music vocal and
instrumental by the Whitney boys and girls their
husbands, wives, and beaux. This was the most
enjoyable feature of all, though perhaps the
party would not have been a perfect success
without the supper, but "music hath charms,"and
when we hear such voices as those of Messrs. Pyper
and Whitney, and young Ensign and Owen, and
we must not forget Bishop Whitney, or the
Whitney girls either, Helen Bourne, Em Pyper,
Flod Dinwoody, these are not all, but suffice it to
say, the singing was the cream of the entertain-
ment at least to the writer.


A RELIEF SOCIETY REORGANIZED.

	The Relief Society of the Second Ward in this
City was reorganized on Thursday September
3rd; the death of the former President Sister
Sarah Smith Wheeler, necessitating its reorgani-
zation. The meeting was held at 2 p. m. in the
Ward meeting house. Bishop L. G. Hardy and
Counselors present, also Sister Zina D. H. Young
who presides over the Relief Society as a whole
in all its Stakes and branches, and Sister E. B.
Wells. Sisters Ann Mc'Gregor and Augusta
Leech, Counselors to Sister Wheeler and also
the Secretary, Sister Sarah Mitchell and the
Treasurer, Sister Phebe C. Young, with many of
the teachers and members of the Society made a
fair sized audience. After the usual opening ex-
ercises of singing and prayer, the Bishop placed
in nomination the name of Sister Mary Elizabeth
Bassett as President of the Relief Society of the
Ward, which was voted upon unanimously. Sister
Bassett chose for her Counselors Sister Sarah
Mitchell and Maria Corbett who were sustained
in this position by all present. Sister Margaret
Caine was selected for Secretary, Sister Johanna
Olsen, Ass't Sec., and Sister Phebe C. Young as
Treasurer. These sisters were all sustained b


vote making the organization complete. The
Bishop and his Counselors Brother Gallagher
and Brother Jenson with Brother Wm. Hart set
the new officers apart.
	A vote of thanks was tendered to Sisters Mc'-
Gregor and Leech for their able services during
the many years they had labored in the Society.
Suitable remarks were made by the Bishop, who
gave the sisters every encouragement to perse-
vere in the path of duty; the retiring officers
spoke appropriately, also the newly elected board
of officers, and Pres. Z. D. H. Young gave some
valuable instructions to the sisters, and enjoined
upon them to cultivate love and union, urged
them to patronize home publicatians and especi-
ally the EXPONENT. Sister E. B. Wells followed
in a similar strain, and also explained some
matters not quite clearly understood pertaining
to the National Council and Woman Suffrage
Convention. Meeting closed with singing and
benediction.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
A TRIP TO CANADA.

	Our Duty and Pleasure; by making this our
motto how much more pleasure we can enjoy in
this life, and be all the time preparing wisely for
the next existence. And how pleasant it is to be
associated; and dwell with those we love.
	I left this City May 13, last; a worthy brother
and his wife were my company from Logan to
Canada, all went well on the journey, until we
came to Great Falls the last station in Montana;
this is a thrifty town, pleasantly situated on the
Missouri river, with two iron bridges, several
Churches etc., etc. On Saturday the 18th, it was
announced “no train from Canada until Mon-
day.” All right, Sunday morning at 9 a. m. a
brass band was in full blast, lovely music, there
was a team with five banners, then came 17 citi
zens carriages,and a team with two span of horses
filled with beer kegs. Sabbath Day there, is a
day of pleasure; the people were mostly Scandi-
navians, a gala day. At 3, p. m. a heavy shower
caused the return in less order than they left, but
the 72 kegs of beer had been drank.
	Monday evening we arrived at Lethbridge and
Tuesday morning took carriage and in the eve-
ning arrived at Cardston amidst the dear ones.
My daughter had been blest through the young
sisters fasting and praying and the blessing of
the Relief Society, after a four weeks siege with
lagrippe and as it were, was recued by the bless-
ing of the Lord from leaving a young family with-
out a mother. It called forth a mother’s grati-
tude to the Lord and to the sisters.
	On the 24th of May Pres. Card arrived home
from Utah in good health, business had detained
him much longer than he expected.
	The 2nd of June the Relief Society met at
Pres. Card’s house; before the meeting closed
the news came that Brother Leavitt was dying,
and as he was living but a few steps distant I
was asked to go over; in about fifteen minutes
afterwards all was over. The day before he was
dressed and out of doors, no one thought of his
going to leave us, he was a tower of strength in
the little settlement, always at his post of duty;
all felt the bereavement.
	All here are very busy attending to the duties
of living in a new country, the sisters were ever
diligent in their duties attending meetings and
looking after the needy of which there are but
few, but all well cared for spiritually and tem-
porally. 
	Ten children were added to the number in
Cardston the short time I was there, I never saw
more healthy children than those born in that
country, not one but was fine-looking that I saw
in Canada. The sweet, quiet, spirit of peace that
reigns there is like the former days in Salt Lake.
	On the 5th of June, we were favored with the

[Column 2]
arrival of Wilby Dougall from Salt Lake City,
whose genial and devoted spirit in the Gospel
cheered us all, and the settlement with his music,
at all our meetings especially the Sabbath
Schools.
	We had a number of distinguished visitors
looking after the welfare of the citizens. In this
thrifty little town there are about 400 Latter-day
Saints; the country has been written up on ac-
count of the lovely grass, grain and vegetables
that it produces, but it must be seen to be appre-
ciated.
	The morning quiet (for the sun rises about four
in the Summer and shines right in the North
window), the quiet is somewhat disturbed by
Brother Bate’s wagon filled with cans gathering
up the milk for the cheese factory; about 500
gallons are daily made into cheese; this is quite
a help to the sisters; for butter making they have
a good ice-house, but no refrigerators as yet;
the season here has been cool and rainy as it has
been elsewhere.
	On the 3rd of July at 9, a. m. a true Latter-day
Saint finished a good work upon earth; he was
one of our most useful men, Morgan L. Hinman,
who had been for a long time a sufferer with con-
sumption. So closed the mortal career of this
good faithful man, his wife who is here has
buried 8 children and two husbands, yet like unto
Job patient and true.
	For several days and nights it rained almost
continuously until the water was never higher,
the people lined the banks, their anxiety was so
great.
	On the 13th of July, Monday, at 3 p. m. was
Primary Day, the children of the Associatio
with the officers, the Relief Society and Youn
Ladies’ Association, met at the meeting house,
and this was the parting or farewell spiritual
feast. It was the first time my daughter had at-
tended meeting for a considerable time. The
gifts of the Gospel were bestowed on this occa-
sion to comfort and cheer us, for all present were
separated from loved ones; the Lord is no re-
spector of persons; His spirit is given to all those
who diligently seek for it. After the meeting we
parted with the dear sisters there assembled
knowing in whom to put our trust, which
lightens the parting, and grateful and full of love
we felt to those who had so kindly remembered us.
	On the 14th of July at 9 a. m. we left our dear
ones there, thankful we had enjoyed the privilege
of visiting the dear daughter and family; I had
again a touch of Lagrippe and therefore thought
it best to return home earlier than I had antici-
pated.
	On arriving at Logan, and once more having
the privilege to look upon the Temple it was truly
joyful to me. I stayed to see the friends there
two days and arrived at home in Salt Lake City
on the 23rd of July to meet with the dear ones
here, and see the walls of another Temple, with
its towers almost completed, and the other sacred
edifices wherein we assemble to worship before
the Lord from time to time; and I was in time to
witness with thoughtfulness our silent 24th of
July which caused many reflections in my  mind
upon the changes that have taken place.
	I am pleased that I had the opportunity of
visiting the saints in Canada and I can testify to
their faithfulness, and humility; they are striving
to perform their duties, yet they labor under
many disadvantages, and have not the precious
privileges we enjoy, who live as it were “under
the droppings of the sanctuary.”
	I am grateful to my Heavenly Father that He has
preserved my life to return home again and be
associated with my sisters in the labors of the
Relief Society; and I am ever desirous of mak-
ing duty a pleasure, and I pray for all my dear
sisters that we may ever have the blessing of the
Lord upon our efforts to labor in the line of our
duty to which we have been called, and that we

[Column 3]
may have an especial care for the needy, the aged,
the sick, and the suffering in love and in meek-
ness, and by so doing our efforts will be pros-
pered and great good will be the result.
	I would recommend also to the sisters to sus-
tain our home interests, trade with our own peo-
ple and patronize home industries. The Woman’s
Store has been established by our sisters, let us
sustain it by our works and our faith; and do not
forget to sustain our woman’s paper the EXPON-
ENT, all these things are to our interest and we
should be diligent in little things as well as in
greater ones. Let us pray for each other and
for all the household of faith, these are a few of
my thoughts for you my sisters and may we re-
main faithful in all things unto the end.
			Lovingly Your Sister,
						ZINA D. H. YOUNG.


FIRST ANNUAL CONVENTION OF THE
P. C. WOMAN’S PRESS ASSOCIATION.
	The lady writers of the Pacific Coast will hold
a three days’ Convention (instead of two as be-
fore stated) commencing Sept. 21st. There will
be a session each morning at 10 o’clock and
another in the afternoon at 2, for business only,
but the evening of Wed. 23rd inst. will be de-
voted to a literary and musical programme, when
the doors will be thrown open to the public. The
meetings commence at 8 p.m. and will include ad-
dresses by Mrs. Nellie B. Eyster, Pres. P. C. W.
P. A., Mrs. Emily S.Y. Parkhurst, Cor. Sec. P.
C. W. P. A., Miss E.D. Keith (Di Vernon S.F.
“News-Letter”), Mrs. Alice C. Waterman, Ade-
line Knapp, S.F. “Call,” Alice Kingsbury Cooley.
	Short poems will be given by Mrs. Emily B.
Powell, Charlotte Perkins Stetson, and Lillian
Plunkett. Those who will represent the musical
portion of the programme are, Henry Kirke
White Jr., Miss Jerome and Mrs. Marian Taylor,
L. C. M. Complimentary tickets may be obtained 
from Mrs. Parkhurst, 1419 Taylor St., or from
any member of the Association, but as the de-
mand for them is already very great, it will be
necessary—for those who wish to be present—to
make an early application, in order to receive 
their admittance.


LETTER FROM ARIZONA.
Pima, Arizona, Aug. 21st, 1891.
MRS. E. B. WELLS,
MY DEAR SISTER:
Your dear, welcome letter was duly received
and was a comfort to me as I was just recovering
from a severe attack of la grippe having been
very low; this accounts for my long silence, I 
thought I would wait until I collected some
money due on EXPONENT and able to write my-
self, and tell you how happy I was in the society
of your dear husband, and the comforting influence
that rested upon me and my dear daughter, now
they are both gone; but that does not erase that
bright spot in my life.  Truly he was one of God's 
noble ministers, ministering to heirs of salvation.
I am now regaining my health; and I begin to
more than ever feel that truly the harvest is great
and the laborers are few, and that I must double
my diligence and make an extra effort to perform
my labors, because of the lethargy and indiffer-
ence there is over the people which is almost un-
bearable.  When the people of God cease to
reverence their leaders by teaching their counsels
to the rising generation they cease to make that
progress that should characterize His saints.
	Now dear Sister remember me to the sisters
 of the Central board of the Relief Society and all my
dear sisters and friends.  The Lord willing I
hope to come to the April Conference, as it would
not be wisdom for me to come in the winter on
account of my lungs.


The EXPONENT is worthy of our best endeavors
and recommends itself to all the faithful.
	God bless you in your labors is the prayer of
your devoted Sister.
			W. East.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


FRANCHISE NOTES FROM WYOMING.

	Oregon has at last organized for active work.
A letter from there says:
	Henceforth we expect to be classed with the
advance guard on this question. Mrs. R. M.
Robb, Fossil, Gilham County, has been appointed
State Superintendent of Franchise.
	Arizona is putting on her holiday attire for the
Constitutional Convention, which will meet in
September. The women are hopeful, for the
Legislature came near giving them the right of
suffrage last winter. They have very little op-
position to contend with, only indifference. We
feel hopeful that Arizona will soon wave the
banner of equal rights for all. Mrs. S. C. Hughes
is a grand worker for a Constitutional clause.
Many of the members-elect have written to Wyo-
ming for documents.
	The annual reports are coming in. So far
there are thirty-five State Superintendents of
Franchise, a gain of fifteen over last year. We
have been very successful in organizing.
	Mrs. Belle M. Perry, one of the hardest workers
for suffrage in Michigan, has been obliged to
resign the Superintendent of Franchise position
on account of extra work in other lines and ill
health.  She has, however, had a brave, strong
worker put in her place.
			THERESE A. JENKINS,
		National Supt. of Franchise W. C. T. U.
	Aug. 5, 1891.


[column 1]
VISIT IN ST. GEORGE STAKE.

Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
		DEAR SISTER:
Thinking a few items from this part of the
vineyard would be of interest to some of your
readers, I will give you a sketch of a trip—
made by President Anna L. Ivins and Coun-
selors to the sisters of the organizations in the
Eastern part of St. George Stake of Zion.
	We started from St. George on the 17th of
July and held a meeting with the Relief Society
of Washington ward at 10, a. m. the same day;
and as there was a vacancy in the presidency
of this society, Sister Mc'Crevey was the choice
of the sisters as 2nd Counselor to President
Susan F. Chidester, we had an enjoyable time;
the sisters appeared to be glad of a visit and
were encouraged in the discharge of their duties.
After partaking of lunch we drove to Harris-
burg; this is a branch of the Leeds ward, the
Relief Society is in charge of Sister Laney
who is nearly discouraged, on account of so
many people moving away, but expresses a
willingness to continue.  Our meeting was
held at 3 p. m. and was well attended.  After
partaking of the hospitality of Sister Laney,
we continued our journey to Leeds, where we
spent the night at Bishop Mc'Mullens.  At
10 a. m the next morning we met with the
sisters of Leeds, who are presided over by
Sister Anna Wilkenson, this sister is in poor
health.  Notwithstanding the smallness of the
settlement the sisters turned out well and we
had a good meeting at the close of which we
made our way to Toquerville, where we held
another meeting, Sister Bringhurst who pre-
sides over the Society at this place, was from
home, but we had a good time with the sisters
who are all desirous of doing their duty.
	On the 19th inst., following the windings of
Nephi's Twist, which leads up from the
Leverkin, we found the road in pretty good

[column 2]
condition owing to the late rain; we reached
Virgin City where we held a meeting with the
Relief Society at 2 p. m. the sisters there feel
well and are spirited in the discharge of their
duty.
	At 5, p. m. we met with the Primary Asso-
ciation.  Sister Pratt has been very energetic
with the children and deserves great credit.
On the morning of the 20th we bade our
friends adieu, and continued our journey up
the Rio Virgin River to Duncan's Retreat
which is a branch of the Virgin City ward;
there were but few sisters at this place (yet
the word of the Lord was fulfilled wherein
He says," where a few are met together in my
name I will be there and that to bless.") Sister 
Martindale, who presides there, is a fine
spirited woman.
	After traveling 3[-] miles we came to the
Grafton ward, which is located on the same
River.  At this place Sister Ballard is the
presiding officer of the Relief Society, she has
lately buried her husband; and although
there were but few sisters in attendance we
had a good time; we remained with the good
people of Grafton over night.
	On the morning of the 21st we resumed our
journey; at Rockville we met with the sisters
at 2 p. m. when Sister Lizzie Calkins Smith,
(who has been very faithful in her labors
among her sisters as well as in the Primary
Association) resigned her position as President
of the Relief Society of Rockville, and as she
was going to move away, her resignation was
accepted; and Sister Henrietta Stout was sus-
tained as President with Sister Kesiah Hall as
Ist and Clorinda Langston as 2nd Counselors.
The Primary Association of this ward was
 also reorganized with Sister Dally as Presi-
dent.  Bishop Hirshe met with the sisters and
encouraged them with his counsel.
	On the 22nd we continued our journey taking
the South Fork of the Virgin River until we
reached Shonesburg; it is wonderful how the
people ever found this place, as it has to be
reached by dug-ways for the want of room
along the River bank for a road; and if they
ever had any land to farm worth speaking of,
the floods of the last few years have taken it
away, leaving the people with but poor pros-
pects for the future; they certainly deserve
credit for their staying qualities.
	At 2 p. m. we held a meeting with the good
sisters of Shonesburg and reorganized a Relief
Society with Sister Emily De Mill as President
and Fidelia De Mill as 1st and Jemima Beale
as 2nd Counselors.  This place being at the
end of the road, we were obliged to turn back
down the River to the North Fork, which we
followed up to Spring Dale, which we found to
be a most romantic spot; surrounded as it is
by crags and peaks, and this branch of the
Virgin seems to be less fickle as it allows the
land along its banks to remain in  undisturbed
repose; while the husbandman gathers its
abundant yield of lucerne.  It is astonishing
to think how the people have sustained them
selves on this river; their land in many in-
stances being entirely washed away; leaving
them nothing but their garden or orchard;
some have turned their attention to stock while
others have moved away; many more are fix-
ing to go.  Thus situated many people ad-
vanced in years have to strike out and begin
life afresh; yet withal these discouraging cir-
cumstances we found all happy and full of hope,
because of the revelations of the Holy Spirit
that they are in possession of. 
	We held meeting with the Relief Society
presided over by Sister Gifford and had a nice
time; also talked to the children of the Primary
they regretted that we could not stay longer.
We returned to Rockville where we were en-
tertained by Bishop Hirshe and family, who
did all in their power for our comfort.
	On our return to Toquerville on the 23rd

[column 3]
we met with the Primary Association at 6,p.m.
and had quite a nice meeting.
	On the 24th we took in Leeds, held meeting
with the Primary Association at 10, a. m. here
Sister Angel is earnest in her work with the 
Primary.  We continued on to St. George,
where we found all well; and felt assured our-
selves that the Lord had blest us on our eight
days trip; and thankful that He has counted
us worthy of a place, and standing in His
Church and kingdom.
	With kind regards I remain your sister in
the Gospel.
			ANN C. WOODBURY.


W. S. A. SALT LAKE CO.

	Minutes of the meeting of W. S. A. S. L.
Co., held Aug. 18th 1891, in the 13th Ward
Assembly Rooms. Pres. Elizabeth Howard in
the chair. Prayer by Sophia Long. Minutes
of last meeting read and approved.  Roll
called, and three new members voted in. 
Elizabeth Price read an excellent article on
Tariff. Pres. Howard introduced Hannah
Lapish, Pres. of the American Fork W. S. A.
who gave a short sketch of the organization
of that branch of Utah Co., said she hoped to
see the day, in the near future, when she could
cast a vote, for the men of her choice. Mary
A. Freeze read an essay, giving some of the
main features of both the Democratic and
Republican systems of government.
	Elizabeth Mc’Farlane complimented the
ladies, (Price and Freeze) on their excellent
articles, said all the fault she could find with
them was, that they were Republican, said a
Democratic government, was distinguished as
an economical one, and economy could bring
about almost anything, the Tariff protected
people who owned their hundreds of millions,
while the poor were oppressed, all around
them. Hoped that party would soon have a
chance again to prove their abilities in that
line, and had very strong faith that they
would.
	Dr. Maggie C. Shipp was decidedly Demo-
cratic in her views, said she did not feel
qualified to discuss the political questions of
the day, to any great extent, but felt that she
would like to see the majority benefited
Thought it best to resign her position as one
of the Ex. Com., as she did not have time to
attend to that, with her numerous other
duties. But after some discussion, decided to
continue on, for the present.
	Phebe Y. Beatie thought there was good in 
both forms of government, thought the Tariff,
did not create so much difference between rich
and poor as the ability of different individuals
to get along in the world, as some would get
rich, where others under like conditions, would
remain poor.
	Zina D. H. Young made a brief speech,
giving some of her views of the questions
under discussion. Pres. Howard invited any
of the ladies in the hall who wished to do so,
to speak.
	Dr. E. S. Barney said she had for many
years advocated the co-education of the sexes.
	Jane Freeze said she was heart and soul
with the ladies, in favor of equal rights
thought we should look at both sides carefully
before deciding our course, but she had a
leaning towards Democracy.
	Dr. Shipp did not wish to be understood, as
wishing to resign her position on Ex. Com.,
from a lack of interest in the cause, as it had
her hearty support, but purely from want of
time to attend to the duties thereof.
	M. Isabella Horne speaking of the Tariff,
thought that the Almighty had so ordained
affairs in this world, that no nation could be
independent of the others.
	Sarah M. Kimball, said we are engaged in


a grand cause, and must think and act for
ourselves, not be something because some one
else was, we want to be Stateswomen, and will
have to be educated up to a higher standard,
before we are ready for many things that are
in the future for us.
	Pres. Howard requested the Ex. Com., to
remain for a few minutes after the close of the
meeting.
	Adjourned until the third Tuesday in Sept.
same time and place.
		CAROLINE C. R. WELLS, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

WEBER CO. W. S. A.

	The regular monthly meeting of the
Woman's Suffrage association, held in the fifth
Ward Institute, Ogden, on Tuesday afternoon
September 1st, was one of more than ordinary
interest to the members of that society and to
those who frequent those meetings.
	The first speaker introduced, after the
opening exercises, was Mrs. Emily S. Richards.
She regretted that circumstances had prevented
her from personally meeting with the associa-
tion to report orally regarding her visit to
Washington as the delegate from Weber.
County to the Woman's National convention.
She had been treated with great respect and
courtesy. She had had the honor of speaking
of Ogden and the ladies of Ogden in the meet-
ings of the Executive session of the convention,
where there were delegates present from
all parts of the country and many were the
warm expressions of congratulation and
interest extended by a host of friends. "These
conventions are a source of education to the
ladies, as much valuable information is impart-
ed. Woman's aim is to do good.
	"These ladies who are agitating questions in
which the welfare of women are involved are
not the ones who need help, but they are
working for the good of others. Many women
suffer from the labor they perform, and receive
such poor compensation for their work that it
is distressing to think of. Woman in part is
to blame for these things. She must educate
herself for different pursuits and claim the
rights pretaining to them. She should not
depreciate men as all the rights women will
receive will be given by them.
	"The franchise, if given to woman, will not
straighten all that is crooked in life. Woman's
energies and efforts must be directed to do
good, to educate her sons and daughters and
make that education equal. Politics should
form part of onr education. The ladies have
been honored with places on committees for
the World's Fair, and the ladies of Utah
will be called upon to do their part and let us
do that part well."
	Hon. Franklin S. Richards next delivered
an interesting and eloquent address. He
believed the subject of woman's suffrage an
important one. By this meeting he was
reminded of the first woman's convention he
attended ten years ago in Washington there
were but few people at the meeting, not so
many as there are here this afternoon." Since
then he had attended such gatherings and the
largest halls are now crowded," so you ladies
must not get discouraged, the principles you
advocate are correct and men are proud to-
day to acknowledge the work of such gifted
and able women as Cady Stanton and Susan
B. Anthony." Mr. Richards referred to
woman's condition in the past ages, and
explained clearly that the higher the civili-
zation of any nation, the greater the opportuni-
ities and advantages accorded, to woman.
He then related some of the experiences of
Mrs. Belva Lockwood in her efforts to acquire
an education, how she strove against the
objections raised to her entrance to the college
for the study of law but by perseverance she

[Column 2]

succeeded in two years, but was refused her
diploma simply because she was a woman, and
no precedent could be found for awarding a
diploma to a woman. The courts next
objected to her practicing, but by her
indomitable will she broke down every barries
in her path and has proven herself to be an
intelligent and able lawyer. There are now
about ten ladies practicing law in the United
States."
	Mr. Richards then refered to the change
in public sentiment and feeling prevailing all
over the world to that which existed only a few
years ago, regarding woman, and her influence
for good but in a brief synopsis it is impossible
to do justice to the subject so intelligently
handled by Mr. Richards. A vate of thanke
was extended the distinguished visitors and
after a few terse remarks from the Hon. F. D.
Richards on the subject of woman's privileges,
also from Mrs: J. S. Richards and Mrs.
Stanford in appreciation ot the discourses
delivered, the meeting adjourned for one
month.
		LIZZIE STANFORD, Sec. pro tem.


[Column 1]

THE TRAINING OF A NURSE.

BY MARY CADWALADER JONES.

	"We each begin our duty in the hospital
as probationers on a month's trial. That
beginning is very new to most of us quite
unlike anything in our previous lives.
Before entering the school, some of us may
have imagined that we had a peculiar fitness
for nursing, even if we did not consider our-
selves born nurses. We may have made up
our minds that we knew how to make a
poultice, and to care for the sick by being
kind to them and ventilating their rooms.
We may possibly have read Miss Nightingale's
"Notes" and so are quite sure that we know
something of nursing but that the hospital
training will give us a sort of standing, and
therefore it will be a desirable thing to have.
As we proceed with our training we discover
that we did not know how to make a poultice,
nor how best to care for a sick person. Some
of us, again, know nothing at all about
nursing, but we are not required to know
anything. A head nurse prefers to train the
raw material, so to speak, in her own way.
What is required is that the probationer be
receptive, that she be intelligent and, above
all, active; and in case she has any knowledge
of nursing, or ideas, or opinions, if she is
discriminating she will keep them to herself.
	We have no dreaming time there is no
place for sentiment, and very little for
sympathy in the ordinary sense of the word.
Were we to sympathize with all the woes that
we see, we should be used up, we should
die.
	A probationer enters the ward for the first
time, and is introduced to her head nurse.
She is then probably set to do some simple
piece of work, such as arranging a closet or
folding clothes and the like. On the next
day she will have her regular duties to learn.
As the afternoon goes on she may find her-
self looking at the clock watching for 5:30 P.
M. to come so that she may go off duty, and
she has probably a bad headache. There is a
hospital atmosphere, produced by the smell
of drugs and other unavoidable oders, pre-
ceptible to a fresh nose there are strange
sights and sounds which, combined, give a
sort of shock for the first day. The new nurse
may not be able to sleep that night, and by
the end of the week she may find herself cry-
ing in bed, with pain in her feet and legs.
These little ailments she keeps to herself.
She is anxious to give satisfaction, and she
has to do unquestioningly all that she is

[Column 2]

directed to do. A head nurse is nearly always
considerate, if necessary helping her through
with her work and encouraging her.
	Time goes on and the probationer becomes
a junior, a senior, and finally a head nurse,
and as we proceed with our training, each day
if we will we can learn something we gain
confidence in ourselves and others gain
confidence in us.
	I suppose we are rather an ordinary class
of young women, we never talk of ideals
we may not even think of them perhaps we
have not any. We are essentially matter of
fact we have to deal with human beings and
with facts. Our two years' service to most of
us is a means to an end, and that a material
one, viz: the earning of money. Some one
told us at our commencement that we had
done well to have chosen a profession which
would not go out of fashion and which could
not be done by machinery. That is a good
start anyway, I am speaking of us as a
whole in the school we are told we cease to be
individuals. That does not mean that we
become automatic, for, I suppose there is no
calling for women which needs more per-
sonality, more individuality.
	Whatever may have been the rush,
monotony, or otherwise of our day (and
there are some days in which everything
seems out of joint), when our time to be re-
lieved comes we go away from the hospital
and if we choose we need not give it auother
thought for the next twelve hours. Out of
the hospital we have not a care, unless it is
for ourselves we know how to appreciate our
leisure we are cheerful and apparently happy,
and sometimes frivolous in fact, we are quite
sisterly, as behooves all good nurses to be.
	Our training is divided into what we call
"services." We have so many months train-
ing in the different services. They are
medical, surgical, maternity, gynecological,
eye, skin and throat, and the care of infants.
About six months of our time is spent on
night duty, spread over the two years in
periods of about six weeks' duration. The
large wards of Charity Hospital have each four
nurses—two juniors, one senior and a head
nurse. In the emergency hospitals a nurse
has usually the charge of a ward by herself
with a supervising nurse over all. There are
also "special cases," the patient having a room
to himself and a day and a night nurse
appointed in charge. We each have our
preferences and dislikes, which are of no
account as far as the distribution of the service
is concerned it makes us something to talk
of, but we are under discipline we go where
we are sent.
	We begin our duties in a large ward of
Charity Hospital. The probationer will have
charge of one side of the ward, with the care
of from ten to fifteen patients and all belong-
ing to them. The head or senior nurse will
go round with her and work in with her for
the first time, She is shown how to make
the beds, to change all soiled linen how to
remove a very sick patient from one bed to
auother how to cover a patient and save her
from fatigue while sitting up to have her
bed made the best way for her to get in and
out of bed to keep an eye on the beds that
the patients are able to make themselves, and
so on throughout the details of the morning's
work. The latter part of the day is taken
up with waiting on the patients and keeping
her side in order all the time. The probation
month is especially a time of learning some-
thing new a good deal has to be got into
that month afterward things come more by
degrees. Should the probationer be accepted
she becomes a junior nurse and has the same
kind of work for about three months. She
then goes on night duty she is "on the land-
ing" as we call it, that is, has charge of the


two or three of the wards opening on to that
landing. The junior nurse is feeling some.
what independent and consequential by this
time. She does not have to act by herself;
there is always an experienced nurse on the
top floor to whom she can refer in case of
emergency or otherwise.
	A nurse may never have been up all night
in her life before, so the first night is rather
exciting and anxious; she is very wide awake
until two or three o'clock in the morning when
the effort to keep awake is really painful. A
night nurse does not sleep, that goes without
saying, and should she dose when all is quiet
she has always one ear open. Imagine a
rather young nurse peering around the large
ward with the aid of an antiquated lantern?
It would throw all shadow and the least
possible ray of light and anywhere but where
it was wanted. Sometimes its miserable little
light would go out and the wick have to be
pricked up and relit, then it would spit and
splutter as though it meant to burn well, but
somehow it never would and the gas burnt
low on the landing. When I think of that
lantern I can go all through my night duty
over again. We have a helper to fetch and
carry things for us, and she can be very useful
in many ways. She may be as "good as a
nurse" or she may have a fancy for gossiping
with her friends during the day and so prefer
to sleep at night, and such a lady is rather a
trial.
	The patients have a way of dying at night
in spite of the very best efforts of the nurse
to keep them alive until morning. Some
helpers "never could go anigh a dead body,"
but they "don't mind fetching the things and
standing outside of the screen." It requires
considerable nerve on the part of the nurse to
"lay out" a patient in the small hours of the
morning; when the wards are silent and
gloomy there is something uncanny about it
there is not much of the "beauty of death"
in these cases, but we get used to it after a
time.
	When we become more experienced we have
our emergency hospital night duty. We
occasionally speak of this in rather strong
language; call it "that awful night duty,"
"that deadful night duty." Here is where
a nurse's mettle comes in. She has long
hours—fourteen, and besides the care of the
patients she has the real "ward work" to get
done before eight o'clock in the morning. The
patients in this hospital are very sick; there
are no "chronics," the nurse has critical cases
to watch, and upon her devotion and judgment
the life of the patient man depend. Here the
doctors are hard worked both day and night
and the nurse, if she is considerate, is very
reluctant to call the doctor, and so often has
an anxious time, Some of the cases that
come in during the night are truly
heart-rending The burnt cases are the worst;
if they are not too badly hurt their sensibility
is acute and they suffer dreadful agony.
At about five o'clock the nurse begins to feel
rather badly. She has to brace herself up
and put on a big spurt to get through the
morning's work, and perhaps at eight o'clock
she will go to bed without her breakfast.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


PERSONALS.

	Mrs. Sarah B. Cooper W. P. A. spoke
eloquently 'on the subject of "Kindergartens"
at the Reception given President Jordan in
San Francisco, Aug. 16th.
	It would be better if a certain well known
Journalist of San Francisco had more of the
milk of human kindness in his composition;
we can afford to smile when he attacks his
own sex—but when with a zeal, worthy of a
better cause he persistently directs the shafts


of his caustic wit at a woman who is nobly do-
ing her duty in life's hard battle and who
strives to brighten her toil by sprinkling o'er
her pathway some of the sweet flowers of
poesy, we feel that he prostitutes his genius
by putting it to a debasing use. In all charity
we will presume the gentleman to have been
dyspeptic at the time of his article on the
poetesses of the "Call" and so with the well-
known magnanimity of our sex we extend to
him our heartfelt sympathy.
	Why does a leading San Francisco Daily
devote so much space to Professor Annie
Oppenheim the English Phreno-Physiogno-
mist and her so called "novel profession"
when we have in our midst a lady who has
devoted 35 years of her life to this important
science; who eleven years ago published her
first book on "Physiognomy" and who now has
a magnificent and exhaustive work before the
public, one which has received the highest in-
dorsement, and has been translated into
several languages? We refer to Mrs. Mary
O. Stanton of the Women's Press Association
who has been asked to Lecture before the
medical fraternity of the Toland College, and
we think that when intelligent Americans
have listened to, read and digested the
wonderful discoveries of their own country-
women, it will then be time to run after
foreign professors.
			MARIAN TAYLOR.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Anna M. Rothest, of Brooklyn, has just
been granted a patent for an upper case
treadle attachment for typewriting machines.
	To the query, "What have women to do
with politics?" the best answer generally is,
"Politics have so much to do with women."—
Westminster and Lambeth Gazette.
	The Woman's Union for Good Works,
organized at Haverhill, Mass., some months
age, has nearly 300 members, and has under-
taken, as its first important work, the opening
of a boarding home for young women. The
society comprises women from all the churches
and is strictly undenominational.
	The fine art of life is too little considered.
The end of life is life itself. It is not a book,
or a statue, or a painting, or a newspaper; it
is character. Because one is doing or en-
deavoring to do a great work, does it follow
that he shall permit himself to grow irritable,
exacting, jealous or contemptible in his man-
ner of contemplating life? Is not the life
more than meat?—Lilian Whiting.
	Let us labor strenuously to convince the
rising generation of girls—the girls who are to
win our cause for us, if it is ever to be won—
that woman suffrage means nothing else than
the legal right to express an effectual opinion
on questions of interest to every intelligent
woman. Whether that woman be a physician,
or a leader of society, or a sheltered house-
mother, matters not a whit she need give up
no iota of her habits of life to be a suffragist
and, later a voter.—Dorothy Lundt.
	Miss Marion Foster, the "little invalid
artist" of New York, is at the Ocean House,
Newport. Miss Foster is a niece of Secretary
Foster, of President Harrison's Cabinet, She
is looking up subjects from every State in the
Union for her historical painting for the
World's Fair at Chicago, in 1893. Miss
Foster proposes to put on canvas the most
distinguished statesmen, senators and mem-
bers of Congress, who will be in office in
1892 and 1893. The paintings, after the ex-
hibition of the World's Fair, will be returned to
the capital.


Mrs. Frances Woodring has held the office
of superintendent of a coal mine, at Ashland,
Pennsylvania, since the death of her husband
several years ago. She employs 180 men, and
is liked by them. At an early hour she ap-
pears at the head of the shaft, and she remains
there until the men have all gone to work.
She keeps a close supervision over the prop-
ping of the mine and the air supply, and is
actively benevolent to the wives and families
of the miners. Not a single accident has oc-
curred in the mine since she assumed charge
of it.


THE WOMAN’S TRIBUNE,
Edited and published weekly at Washington,
D. C., by Clara Bewick Colby.
Price, $1.00 a year. Trial Subscriptions, five
weeks for 10 cents.

The Woman's Journal, of Boston, and the Woman's Tri-
	bune, of Washington, D. C., will be sent to one ad-
	dress for $3.00 per year.

MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D. 
OFFICE.—324, 325 Third Floor, Constitution Building
HOURS.—8 to 10 a.m., 4 to 6 p.m.

Woman’s Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making: In all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed.
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But-
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 123 E.  FIRST SOUTH STREET, 
Opposite City Hall.

R.K. THOMAS

26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes. 
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE 
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
DAVD JAMES, Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 20.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 1, 1891.		NO. 7.


CONTENTS.

	In Rural England. Personals. Notes and
News. A Sister's Sacrifice—M. A. Y. Green-
halgh. R. S., Y. L. M I. A., and P. A. Reports 
-St. John's—Beaver—Utah—Box Elder—Sco-
field. Colonia Diaz, Mexico—Ada A. Earl. Lord
is It 1?—Mary Y. Corby. The Training of a
Nurse—Mary Cadwalader Jones.
	EDITORIAL:—Conference Notice. Notices of
Meetings. Ter. W. S. A. Convention. Confer-
ence Grand Concert. The Irrigation Congress.
The Woman's Store. The Woman's Club.
Poetry:—"The Broomstick Train"—Dr. Oliver
Wendell Holmes. Real and Ideal—E. B. W.
Memory's Guidance—L. M. Hewlings.


"THE BROOMSTICK TRAIN."

	Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes has discovered the motive
power of the electric railways. In the Atlantic Monthly
for August he describes "The Broomstick Train," telling
how the Salem witches, impatient at their long imprison-
ment petitioned to be released, and how when the Evil
One allowed them their liberty, they played such mad
pranks that he called them together and, for punishment,
made them pull the electric cars.

	Since then on many a car you'll see
	A broomstick plain as plain can be;
	On every stick there's a witch astride—
	The string you see to her leg is tied.
	She will do a mischief if she can,
	But the string is held by a careful man,
	And whenever the evil-minded witch
	Would cut some caper he gives a twitch.
	As for the hag you can't see her
	But hark! you can hear her black cat's purr,
	And now and then, as a train goes by,
	You may catch a gleam from her wicked eye.

	Often you've looked on a rushing train,
	But just what moved it was not so plain.
	It couldn't be those wires above,
	For they could neither pull nor shove:
	Where was the motor that made it go
	You couldn't guess, but now you know.

	Remember my rhymes when you ride again
	On the rattling rail by the broomstick train!


REAL AND IDEAL.

At times sweet visions float across my mind,
	And glimpses of the unknown bright and fair,
Where all the objects seem so well-defined—
	Tasteful in color, and in beauty-rare,
That I must pause, and think if they be real,
Or only what the poets call ideal.

I well remember when a little child,
	I had these same strange, wand'ring fancies;
And I was told my thoughts were running wild,
	That I must not indulge in such romances,
Wasting in idle dreams the precious hours,
Building air-castles and gazing from the towers.

E'en then I seemed to see familiar things,
	Pertaining to a dim, uncertain past;
And to my recollection faintly clings,
	A sense of something, which the shadows cast.
That showed me what my future life would be,
A prophecy, as 'twere of destiny.

There was an intuition in my heart,
	An innate consciousness of right and wrong,
That bade me choose a wiser, better part,
	Which, in rough places, helped to make me strong


And though my path was oft bereft of beauty,
Still urged me on to fulfil ev'ry duty.

O, happy childhood, bright with faith and hope,
	Enchantment dwells within thy rosy bowers,
And rainbow tints gild all within thy scope,
	And youth sits lightly on a bed of flowers,
His cup of happiness just brimming o'er,
Unconscious of what life has yet in store.

What glowing aspirations fill the mind—
	Of noble work designed for man to do!
What purity of purpose here we find—
	What longings for the beautiful and true;
Ere know we of the toil, the grief and woe;
Or dream that men and women suffer so.

Though all along life's weary, toilsome way,
	We meet with disappointments hard to bear,
Yet strength is given equal to our day,
	And joy is oft'nest mixed with pain and care;
But let us not grow weary in well-doing,
Still persevere the upward path pursuing.

Thus ever struggle on, 'mid doubts and fears,
	While changing scenes before our gaze unfold,
Till, through the vista of long, weary years,
	We see heav'n's sunshine, thro' its gates of gold;
And feel assured it is an answering token.
Aye! though our earthly idols have been broken.

Tho' those we've cherish'd most have been untrue,
	And fond and faithful ones have gone before,
Still let us keep the promises in view,
	Of those who're pleading on "the other shore,"
Whose tender messages are with us yet,
The words of love we never can forget.

And while we muse and ponder, shadows fall,
	And a sweet spirit whispers, "Peace, be still,"
What of the past—'tis now beyond recall;
	The future, we with usefulness may fill.
Yet sometime, we shall find in regions real
Those dreams fulfilled we only term ideal.
			E. B. W.


[Column 1]

IN RURAL ENGLAND.

III

	Notwithstanding the intimacy that naturally
followed between the two cousins from their
association as nurse and patient, there was
still a reserve that it seemed impossible to break
and Miss Conway knew no more of her
cousin's love-affair at the end of a week from
the time of her illness, than she did when she
followed her on that day to the woods. The
young man had been extremely cautious, for
Miss Conway had kept a strict watch, and not
a line or message had come to the Castle, of
this she felt perfectly sure, and moreover
that her cousin was pining to know something
concerning his welfare though she never spoke
of him or in any way alluded to what had
occurred. The two girls sat together day
after day, and when Anna began to move
about the room, she took up her lace work
and busied herself with the needle, her cousin
meantime entertaining her with reading, or
telling her stories out of her own and her
mother's past life, while she too plied her
needle though carefully noting every motion
and glance of her beautiful cousin.
	The summer was fading into Autumn and
the woods were putting on their purple and
crimson robes and the sunsets were growing
more gorgeous in their brilliancy, and the
leaves in the avenue that lead up to the
house were like a heavy carpet upon the

[Column 2]

ground, ere Miss Hilliard was sufficiently re-
covered from the terrible shock she had sus-
tained to warrant her leaving the house.
	As she sat looking put with longing eyes,
and such wonderful eyes they were, with that
far-away look in them, that tells more than
words, she turned to her cousin and hesitat-
ingly, as though she dreaded the answer, "Have
no letters ever come for me during all these
long tedious weeks?" "No, my dear not any
did you expect any message?" was Jane's re-
ply, though she knew well enough that her
cousin was longing for some assurance, some
testimony of the fidelity of one for whom she
had risked so much. "Yes," replied the
young girl, "I did expect a message of some
sort and I can scarcely believe it would be
so long delayed, my father may have letters
for me Jane, do you know if he has had any?"
and her lips quivered as she spoke, it seemed
to be her last hope. "No I do not know but
he has said nothing to me of any, and when
he went away instructed me concerning his
own mail, to take charge of it etc."
	"My father seems to have perfect confidence
in you, Jane, and trusts you with all his
affairs?" "Yes, dear, even his most precious
jewel, his darling child Anna." "But he does
not love me, nor does any one else, I have
never known what love was, no one has ever
made a sacrifice for me until now. I begin to
feel that you have, O, I hope you have some
love for me, true friendship, that I may trust
you speak to you freely." Even this sudden
outburst was too much, for no sooner had she
spoken from the fulness of her heart than her
sobs and tears stifled her utterance, and she
swooned and would have fallen, but Jane
caught her in her arms and soothed her as one
would a little child; meantime the great bell
of the Castle rang furiously and Miss Conway
was called away leaving her cousin in charge
of her maid, who under the training of Miss
Conway was becoming quite an adept at
nursing.
	The summons was from Mr. Walton who
almost unceremoniously demanded entrance
to the Castle. The good old door keeper was
almost beside himself when this impetuous
young man insisted upon seeing Miss Hilliard,
but bethought himself sufficiently to send for
Miss Conway, and when she appeared upon
the scene, the lover's ardor cooled momentarily.
He saw in Miss Conway the daring young
horsewoman who had out-witted him before,
and he meekly inquired whether it were pos-
sible to see the young lady, the daughter of
Sir Edward Hilliard, as he had learned since
his arrival in town that the Baronet was
absent. "Miss Hilliard has seen no visitors as
yet, she is not recovered from the serious ill-
ness brought on by the nervous shock," she
could not finish the sentence for just then a
sob and a scream all in one breath broke in
upon them and turning in the direction from
which the sounds proceeded there came Lady
Anna down tho staircase, her loose raiment
falling about her slender figure, her arms out-
stretched, her hair falling about her shoulders
and neck like a shower of gold. With one
great bound her lover rushed forward, but
Miss Jane intercepted him and in a moment
as it were she was in her own room again and
her brave cousin sought to allay her excite-
ment, telling her she would bring her what-
ever message Mr. Walton might leave for
her. While Miss Conway was absent from


[Column 1]

the room the young man had time to collect
his thoughts and commune with himself and
he felt as though he had spoiled all by his
untimely coming.
	When Miss Conway returned she sought to
ascertain what his coming meant, and to per-
suade him to leave at once and wait until he
could come openly and honorably when Sir
Edward was at home. Miss Conway reasoned
with Mr. Walton earnestly and was firm in
her refusal not to allow any interview until
the father should be cognizant of the acquaint-
ance between Lady Anna and this masterful
young man who seemed to have such determi-
nation that Miss Conway strong as she was in
character, seemed almost powerless to defend
the position she had taken. She succeeded
however and Mr. Walton went with a heavy
heart down the avenue of linden trees to the
"lodge," where his horse was in waiting.
Slipping a gold coin into the hands of the
lodge keeper he mounted his horse and rode
away, not even casting a glance backward lest
his courage should fail him.
	"She has baffled me twice" he muttered to
himself as he rode onward, "the third time I
shall win, I am sure of it," and he put spurs
to his horse and dashed on to the mainroad
like wildfire.
	Miss Conway flew to her cousin as soon as
she assured herself the lover was out of sight
but instead of finding her in a dead faint as
she had expected she was standing at the
window in a fit of abstraction as it were and
scarcely noticed her cousin's entrance. "My
dear Anna," Jane said as she drew near to her
and putting her arm around the fair form now
still more delicate than ever, "I am very sorry
for you, I know how much you wanted to see
this defiant young man, but it must not be in
my uncle's absence."
	Lady Anna made no reply, and Jane con-
tinued, "there must be a reason why Mr. Wal-
ton does not have permission to see you, and
if he loves you truly why does he not ask
the consent of your father to pay his addresses
in a proper manner?"
	"Go ask the wind that whispers in the tall
pines, or the singing brook that runs on forever,
do they know why?" "My dear cousin this
is not reason, if you love this young man you
know why, or if not that, you must know,
why the secret is kept from your father, who
ought to be the first person to know, O, Anna
dear, I fear you do not know the danger you
incur in carying on this clandestine intercourse;
let me warn you to beware of one, who does
not seek you openly!"
	Lady Anna turned upon her cousin now
with flushed cheeks and eyes wild with excite-
ment, "do you doubt his honor cousin Jane?
He is everything that is noble, he comes of a
family as old as our own, and as grand in
every particular, with far more money, and
his mother is in the best society, has been at
Court and is royally aristocratic."
	"I grant all that cousin mine if you will, but
that does not weigh a feather against what I
said to you; he must come to the Castle honor-
ably, openly, or not at all. I will not be a
party to any scheme or plot, I will maintain
the honor of the house in your father's absence,
and you are only a child, not yet eighteen I
cannot see how any man dare speak to you of
love and plan secret interviews; it must not be,"
and the lady drew herself up to her full height
and gave her gentle cousin a most authorita-
tive look as she uttered the last words.
	Poor Anna overcome with grief and emo-
tion too deep for any other expression except
in sobs and moans, dare not even ask her
cousin if any tender message had been left for
her, and only wept until her whole frame
shook, and the Dr. had to be summoned that
night to quiet her ere she could sleep.
	The morning found her better and she re-

[Column 2]

solved to enquire whether Mr. Walton had left
any loving token or assurance of his love and
fidelity, but her heart failed her when she
heard the maid announce to her cousin that
Sir Edward had arrived during the night, and
wished her to come down to breakfast with
him.
	She lay thinking over her beautiful past
while her cousin was down stairs, somehow
she had the utmost confidence in Jane that
she would not betray her secret, she felt sure
that she had not even told the Dr. and she
was too unsophistacated to be suspicious. She
did not know what the outcome was to be,
but she felt to leave it all to cousin Jane and
fate. She ate her dainty breakfast, and
sipped her tea as if she had not a sorrow in
the world, so calm are we all at times just before
a storm bursts forth in all its fury. In fact
Miss Hilliard grew quite confident as she
thought over what had happened the day be-
fore and she said to herself, "Maitland loves
me and his mother cannot control his affec-
tion or his conscience." She felt compara-
tively reconciled as she mused alone, the sun
was shining brightly and the air was full of
that rich sweetness that comes with the golden
Autumn. She looked from her window to the
Eastern hills and she breathed a fervent prayer
to God though she knew not how to frame it
in words, that her life might be like the sun-
light to him she loved so ardently that no
sacrifice seemed too great for her to make so
strong so absorbing is woman's love, even
when she knows it not;—innocent as a child
was this fair young girl, it was her first trial,
her first sorrow, and it had come upon her so
unexpectedly. Her beauty, her artlessness,
her simplicity had completely captured young
Walton when he first saw her; and in their
lonely rambles in the fields he had told her
that to be true to him, she must not reveal
even their acquaintance because his mother
had decided long ago, that he should marry 
another, and besides "your father hates my
mother and all our race," and Anna trusting
him so utterly never inquired further; no
thought of evil, or harm, no suggestion of
impropriety crossed her mind, she had been
left so much to herself and her own thoughts
and so pure was she in every attribute of her
nature, that she could not understand the
danger that threatened her, nor did she know
that even now a volcano was about to burst
forth in her very presence that might consume
all her hopes of happiness, and turn that day
into blackest night.
	"Do you know Jane," said the Baronet to
his niece when they were seated at the break-
fast table, "that this house is quite a different
place since you came, I wish you could initi-
ate Anna into the air and manner of house-
hold management that you seem to possess,
you are my mother over again in every re-
spect, she looked just as you do, she had the
same intuition, knew everything beforehand;
by the bye Jane how is Anna has she re-
covered, she never would come down fo break-
fast, never!" "Uncle Edward I am very
much concerned about Anna she has some-
thing on her mind and is very excitable."
"I do not see why, she never has had any
care nor any responsibility, she has been
left to do as she pleased, in fact I have been
too much occupied with other things to know
much about her, and bless me she's only a
mere child, not old enough to be reasoned
with, if her mother had lived it would have
been different, I don't know anything about
women, why should I? Its years since I had
any association with any one of them except
to meet them casually. To be sure I have
met them abroad, I don't go into society,
there's only your Aunt Matilda and her
daughters and my Aunt Judith and cousins
Hannah and Susannah, and one or two others,
chance acquaint ances, I wouldn't want Anna
to pattern after any of them, and now I
really do think I would like you to stay here
and take charge of Anna and the house and
of your old uncle if you think you can.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PERSONALS.

	The Say Diego Union, and Santa Paula
Chronicle, are using an ink made of crude
petroleum and find it very satisfactory.
	The New York Journalist gave more than a
column to news of the P. C. W. P. A. re-
cently.
	Mrs. M. O. Stanton of the P. C. W. P. A.,
has the honor of being the first lady to lecture
before the Faculty and students of the Toland
College, San Francisco; she having lately de-
livered three lectures there on "Phreno-
Physiognomy." An invitation has also been
received by the same gifted lady to give a
course at Jepherson College, Philadelphia.
	Mrs. Kate Douglas Wiggin of the P. C. W.
P. A., who is spending her vacation in a Maine
farmhouse, has completed a new work for girls
entitled "Polly Oliver's Problem, which may
be called the sequel of "A Summer in a
Canyon," and which like the latter has its
scene laid in California.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The Ft. Scott (Kansas) E. S. A. will
present the Kansas Historical Pageant in that
city about the middle of October.
	The Trades and Labor Council of the
Dominion of Canada, at its meeting in Quebec
on Sept. 3, passed a resolution asking for the
appointment of women as factory inspectors.
	There are 108 ladies now serving as Poor
Law Guardians in England and Scotland,
and the number of women elected to this
position increases every year.
	Mrs. Julia Fillmore Harris, sister of Presi-
dent Fillmore, who lately died in San
Francisco at the age of seventy-nine; was a
woman of unusual ability. She fulfilled her
duties at the White House during her
brother's administration with courtesy and
kindness, and it is said that the president often
applied to her for advice on public questions.
She believed in suffrage for women, and was
an active worker with her pen in that cause.
	The American Social Science Association,
at its meeting last week in Saratoga, N. Y.,
elected two women among its vice presidents
for the coming year, Dr. Grace Peckham of
New York, and Mrs. John E. Dodge, of
Boston. Among the papers read was one by
Dr. Frances Emily White, of the Women's
Medical College of Philadelphia, on "Spiritual-
ism and Hypnotism," arguing that these
phenomena could generally be accounted for
by purely physical causes.


The eye of the master will do more work
than both of his hands; not to oversee work-
men is to leave your purse open.—Franklin.
	It is impossible that an ill-natured man can
have a public spirit; for how should he love
ten thousand men who never loved one?—
Pope.
	True patriotism and national recognition
will never sully the fair name or honorable
character of any Christian woman. Women
would attend the polls with the same impunity
they do the rallies and national celebration.—
Western Rural.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


FOR THE EXPONENT:
	MEMORY'S GUIDANCE.

Over the moonlight, misty fields,
	In freedom I have roamed tonight,
Review'd at will old by-gone scenes,
	Time carried away in its flight.
Night had hushed the shadowy earth,
	Soft fleecy clouds curtained the sky,
Birds to their nests had all gone forth,
	And the winds breathed scarcely a sigh.
With mem'rys aid I climbed the wall,
	The massive wall of gather'd years;
O'er leaped barriers at her call,
	And chasms, bridged with sighs and tears.
I traveled back to love's young dream,
	And saunter'd 'neath its witching spell,
Rehearsing o'er life's sweetest theme,
	Tongue hath not the power to tell.
I quenched my thirst with glad delight,
	With water from a bubbling spring,
Gather'd violets fresh and bright,
	That thickly clustered round its brim,
Sang o'er the sweet old songs of youth,
	Blushing to hear my lover's praise,
And rambled with him, nothing loth, 
	With all the zest of love's young days,
Beside a streamlet flowing near,
	Soft rippling o'er its pebbly bed,
We planned in hope the coming year,
	The gladsome year when we would wed.
Mem'ry like some returning dove,
	Wakens to life these scenes long past,
With joy akin to that above,
	We hail her guidance to the last.

			L. M. HEWLINGS.
Atchison, Kan


[Column 1]

A SISTER'S SACRIFICE.

M. A. Y. GREENHALGH-

	I was for many years connected with various
societies in the city of London, England.
These societies were organized for the protec-
tion, and assistance of young women, strangers
who had left their homes in the country to
seek employment in the great metropolis. To
what terrible temptations, and privations,
many of these girls were subjected, and to what
straits some of them were reduced, no tongue
can tell, or pen describe. Ladies and gentle-
men who spent much of their time and means,
in the good work of providing respectable
homes for them at a cost low enough to be
paid out of the small wages many were able
to earn, did a noble work, but their utmost
efforts could reach but a comparative few of
the vast numbers who flocked to the city, every
year. Yet among those few these Samaritans
often saw or heard of extraordinary, and
touching incidents of unselfish suffering and
endurance.
	Referring to my journal of the year 1879 I
find recorded the death of a young woman,
whose life had been wrecked, and shortened,
through her devotions to an unscrupulous, and
worthless brother.
	I had taken a strong interest in her and her 
room-mate, for they were both honest, virtuous,
and industrous girls, who had suffered many
privations patiently. One day I received a
note from one of them stating that her com-
panion was ill, she feared dying, and begging
me to visit them as soon as passible.
	I at once did so, taking with me a good
physician. As soon as the medical man saw
her, he whispered to me "too late." She died
that evening, calmly, peacefully as a child
falls to sleep from sheer weariness. We laid
her away tenderly for we knew nothing of
her family; if there were any left they did not
trouble about her. I took her companion
home with me for a few days so that she might
rest and recuperate, after the care and fatuige
she had experienced while nursing her sick

[Column 2]

friend; and from her I heard the sad story I
am about to relate.
	The name of the dead girl was Ellen Morris,
she had come from a sea-side village in
Suffolk, three years prior to her death; she
was then a pale, thin girl of 18 summer's
growth, upon whose well turned cheeks
lingered some sparkles of light, and freshness
of her country home. She would have been
more than pretty, had not some untimely sor-
row checked her beauty in the bud. Perhaps
it was sudden poverty, or loss of parents, per-
haps both combined; still evidence remained
to show how bright those deep black eyes
would be did happiness shine in them, how
radiantly lustrous that finely chiseled counte-
nance if lit up with gaiety and joy.
	She was clad in rusty mourning, and her
stock of clothing was of the scantiest.
	"This poor girl and I" said Mary, "through
disappointed effort became associated in life,
and friendship."
	"The first time I saw how wonderfully joy
could transfigure her pensive features, was one
morning when she met me with the glad tid-
ings that she had found work for both of us
in the city, and poor as the price was, I caught
at the offer for I was reduced to my last
sovereign, and Ellen, poor child, to her last
sixpence. The work was necktie making, per-
haps the worst paying employment we could
have found."
	"We at once rented a small room, in a
decent house near the factory, and after two or
three weeks practise we could earn, by working
early and late, about 18 shillings per week be-
tween us; this sufficed for our actual wants,
and by and by after a long and trying interval
the pressure upon the springs of industry
were loosened, and Ellen and I, were offered
more work than we could do, at advanced
prices; and but for some secret drain upon her
purse, Ellen's savings would have exceeded
mine, for she was a much quicker hand at the 
work we were supplied with than I was."
	"Yet she was always short of coin, and she
had surrounded herself with such an atmos-
phere of reserve that I found it impossible
to question her upon the evidently painful
topic."
	Several times I had seen her, and always
when it was dark, in hurried conversation
with a showy but shabbily dressed young man,
whose features I had never been near enough
to get a distinct view of. After these inter-
views Ellen was always excited and distressed,
so I concluded that the stranger was in some
way connected with the absorption of her earn-
ings and the growing melancholy which op-
pressed her naturally buoyant spirits. Once I
asked her, had she ever had a lover?" "I have
loved and been beloved, by one long since
dead, had he lived I should not have been
here," was her reply."
	"Have you no relations, I ventured to ask,
fearful as I always was, of giving her pain,
by striking upon some hidden chord of
anguish?" "Yes," she said, "one, a brother,"
adding as she left the room, "he is a sailor."
	"The following year was a prosperous one,
trade was good, and I obtained an excellent
situation in Bond Street. Ellen might have
gone with me, but she preferred taking an en-
gagement in the City where she could have
piece work, and be able to earn more money,
by working more hours than at the West
End. She would take home so much that she
could only get through it by sitting up three
parts of the night. She was killing herself, that
was evident, in spite of the remonstrance of
her employer and myself, she refused to mod-
erate her suicidal toil.
	"I have never seen a cleverer, or more taste-
ful hand than Ellen and for that reason she
could command the highest remuneration her
employers could afford to give; and with her

[Column 3]

employers most profitable patrons she had be-
come a great favorite; they would be waited
on by no one else, and thought no cap or
bonnet elegant that had not passed through
her transforming fingers. To her employers,
and myself, this craving for money in one so
young was perfectly astounding, and inexplic-
able, still we could do nothing but remonstrate
with the insatiate worker. Mrs. Wilson, her
employer, and myself were one evening debat-
ing upon what course to pursue toward this
girl whom we both loved, when she entered
the room, with a determined look and air.
At sight of me she appeared surprised and
somewhat confused, though her greeting was
kind and cordial. Poor, wan, haggard girl,
what madness can make her thus sacrifice
herself, was my thought as I held her thin
wasted hand in mine, and looked into her eyes
now preternaturally bright with the consum-
ing fire of her life blood."
	She comprehended that silent questioning
and in reply said in a low, sad voice, "There
is a cause Mary, I cannot just yet slacken my
exertions and it would be useless even for you
to urge it.
	"Then turning to Mrs. Wilson, asked, "is
it agreed that I undertake the whole of the
order I received on Saturday from Mrs.
Laird." "You could not possibly accomplish
it," replied Mrs. Wilson, "this is Monday, and
on Friday every article must be delivered as
you know." "I can, and will do it, unless you
give it to some one else, and if you do, I shall
at once transfer my services to another house."
The words ingratitude and insolence were on
my tongue and would have been spoken but
for Ellen's deprecating look and exclamation.
"There is a cause, I tell you Mary, and you
shall know afterward, why I want a particular
sum by Friday evening, I must have the money
by that time at the latest."
	It would, I saw, be time thrown away to try
to dissuade her from her purpose, and Mrs.
Wilson yielded, and gave her the work. On
Friday when her self imposed task was com-
pleted and she held in her hand the money, her
strong will gave away, and she fainted, when
restored to consciousness, she went into violent
hysterics.
	I was at once sent for, and when I arrived
my unhappy friend seized my arm, and pulling
my head close down to hers gasped out, "The
money Mary, the money, take it to 24 Sun
Street Clerkenwell, do not delay a moment,
my brother is there waiting for it, he is un-
worthy, but he is my brother, let him have
it."
	"I delivered it safely to that dissolute,
thoughtless man, whom the delay of another
day would have consigned to a prison, and
who had systematically deprived his sister of
her hard earned wages.
	He sailed for America the next day neither
knowing, or caring that the money he had re-
ceived was the price of his sister's life. It was
the last she ever earned, and she left herself
without a sixpence, to live upon, and she was
laid to rest by strange hands."
	"You saw," said Mary to me, "how peace-
fully she passed away, within a month after his
departure, and surely such a sacrifice should
be a passport to that country, where selfishness
and injustice are unknown."
	Such a life as Ellen's adds another testi-
mony to demonstrate that among the poor and
lowly of the earth more of the spirit of the
Redeemer, and the eternal Father is found,
than among the wealthy, and those the world
calls great. Poverty and suffering draw us
closer together, soften and purify the heart,
create sympathy toward those who are fellow
sufferers in poverty and distress. While wealth
and prosperity often cause us to forget that
the same towns hold the poor and the afflicted.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
gne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delievered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	OCTOBER 1, 1891.


CONFERENCE NORICE.

	The Sixty-second Semi-Annual Conference of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
will commence at ten o’clock on Sunday morning, 
October 4th, 1891, in the Tabernacle, Salt Lake
City.
	A cordial invitation is extended to all the
officers and members of the Church to be present
at the meetings. 
	WILFORD WOODRUFF,
	GEORGE Q. CANNON,
	JOSEPH F. SMITH.
	First Presidency.


NOTICES OF MEETINGS.

	A meeting of the officers of the Primary Asso-
ciation from the several Stakes of Zion will be
held at the residence of Elder Charles Felt, 155
N. Main St. this City at 7:30 Sunday evening
October 4th; a full and prompt attendance is de-
sired by the President Louie Felt.
	The General Conference of the Primary Asso-
ciation will be held in the Assembly Hall in this
City on Monday October 5, commencing immedi-
ately after the close of the afternoon session of
the Conference. Presidents of Stake Associa-
tions and of branches, and all officers and mem-
bers of the Primary who can, should be in at-
tendance of hear the instructions. Sister Aurelia
S. Rogers of Farmington is expected to deliver
an address on Primary organization, its origin
and what it has accomplished.
	The General semi-annual Conference of the
Relief Society will be held in the Assembly Hall
in this City October 7, commencing at 10 a. m. 
Officers and members of the organization from all
the several Stakes of Zion are most cordially in-
vited to attend the morning session as there will
be but the one meeting, the Y. L. M. I. A. hold
ing their Conference the same day.
	ZINA D. H. YOUNG, President.
	JANE S. RICHARDS,
	BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
	Counselors.
	The First General Conference of the Young
Ladies Mutual Improvement Association will be
held in the Assembly Hall in this City, October 7,
meetings commencing at 2 o'clock p. m. and 7:30,
in the evening. It is desirable that there be rep-
resenttatives present from all the Stakes of Zion
and a general invitation is hereby cordially ex-
tended to the young people and to all interested
in the work of the Association.
	ELMINA S. TAYLOR, President.
	ANNIE M. CANNON, Ass't. Sec


TER. W. S. A. CONVENTION.

	The Annual Territorial Convention of the Utah
Woman Suffrage Association for the election of
officers and other purposes will convene in the
14th Ward Assembly Rooms in this City on
Saturday October 3. Meetings commencing a
10 a. m. and at 2 p. m. The morning meeting
will be an Executive session devoted to business
and it is earnestly desired that Presidents of the
Auxiliary Associations in the several counties at-
tend or send representatives. In the afternoon
session it is expected to present an interesting,
miscellaneous programme. A general invitation
is extended to all friends of the cause.
	SARAH M. KIMBALL, President.
	ADA CROXALL, Secretary.


CONFERENCE GRAND CONCERT.

	MONDAY EVENING OCTOBER 5, 1891
	IN THE
	TABERNACLE SALT LAKE CITY.
For benefit of the Deseret Sunday School Uunion.

	700 Voices—40 Instruments—11 Soloists. The
whole under the direction of E. Stephens. Ad-
mission, 50 cts. Children under 12, half-price.
Doors open at 7 o’clock; Concert begins at 8.
	Programme: Invocation. Grand Chorus, “Let
the Hills Resound" Tabernacle Choir (350
voices) and Great Organ. Male Quartette, “O
World so Wondrous Fair,” Boshard and Pyne
Brothers, (Provo.) Song, “Love's Sorrow,” Mrs.
Bessie Dean Allison. Instrumental Selection,
Ladies’ Mandolin and Guitar Club, (40 Instru-
ments, Miss Ella Olsen, Conductor.) Duet,
“Flow Gentle Deva,” Tout Brothers, (Ogden.)
Grand Double Chorus, “Anvil Chorus,” Juvenile
and Tabernacle Choirs. (At this number the
Juvenile Choir will take the centre of the large
platform, the choir taking each side, the whole
force uniting in singing the second stanza, with
banners waving.) Duet, “The Sailor Sighs,”
Mrs. Agnes Olsen Thomas and G. D. Pyper.
Organ Solo, Joseph J. Daynes. Duet, Boshard
Brothers, (Provo.) Scotch Ballad, “Mary of
Argyle,” R. C. Easton. A good old time Song,
George Goddard, (76 years of age). Chorus by
everybody. Grand March, “Harlech.” (Original
words by Geo. A. Meears,) Combined Choirs
(700 voices) and Great Organ. Benediction.
	E. Stephens, Conductor. J. J. Daynes, Ac-
companist.


[Column 1]
	THE IRRIGATION CONGRESS.
	The Irrigation Congress held in Salt Lake City
September 15th, 16th, and 17th, afforded an op-
portunity for practical information on the subject,
to men from all parts of the country, who are
specially interested in redeeming desert lands for
the public good. The remarks of President Wil-
ford Woodruff who was invited to speak in the
afternoon of Wednesday the 16th, furnish such
valuable suggestions and give such historical
data of the settlement of these valleys, the ar-
rival of the pioneers, the building of the ‘‘Old
fort,’’ and the means used to fertilize the land, and
are so clearly set forth, concise and to the point
that they are well worth a place in every journal
of the country.
	President Woodruff and President Cannon
were introduced to the congress by the Chair-
man, Hon. Wm. M. Stewart, of Nevada.
PRESIDNT WOODRUFF’S ADDRESS.
	“Gentlemen of the Irrigation Congress: I feel
thankful that I have lived in the flesh long enough
in this Territory to behold the faces of such a

[Column 2]
congregation of gentlemen as I see here today.
It is not my purpose to occupy your time or at-
tention in arguing or talking, or conversing par-
ticularly upon the subjects or at least those prin-
ciples for which you have gathered together; but
what I will say will be a few words concerning
our arrival here, and upon the principle of irriga-
tion. Fifty-one years ago the 24th of last July I
entered this valley with 143 emigrants, or in other
words pioneers. We were led by President
Young. This country that we arrived upon was
called the Great American desert, and certainly
as far as we could see it did not deviate from that
in the least. We found a barren desert here.
There was no mark of the Anglo-Saxon race, no
mark of the white man—everything was barren,
dry and desert.
	We pitched our camp a little distance to the
southeast from here about 11 o’clock in the day.
We had a desire to try the soil to know what it
could produce. Of course all this company—
nearly the whole of us—were born and raised in
the New England States, Vermont, Maine, Massa-
chusetts, Connecticut—had no experience in irri-
gation. We pitched our camp, put some teams
on to our ploughs (we brought our ploughs with
us), and undertook to plough the earth, but we
found neither wood nor iron was strong enough
to make furrows here in this soil. It was like
adamant. Of course we had to turn water on it.
We would have done anything. We wept and
turned out the City creek. We turned it over
our ground. When we came to put our teams
upon it, of course they sunk down to their bellies
in mud. We had to wait until this land dried
enough to hold our teams up. We put in our
crops and we stayed here one month. During
that time President Young laid out this city as
you see it today in the midst of sage brush, with
not a house within a hundred miles of us. We
built a fort around ten acres, three sides of adobe
walls eighteen feet high, and one side with logs
out of the canyon. We then returned home and
some two thousand men followed us. President
Cannon here was one of the company that came
in after we did.
	Now what I wish to say is this: You gentlemen
come here today; you see the city, you go through
the country. Here are a thousand miles, I might
say, through these mountains filled with cities,
towns, villages, gardens and orchards, and the
produce of the earth sustains the people. With-
out this water, this irrigation for which you have
met today, this country would be as barren as it
was in 1847, as we found it. This irrigation is
what you have met to engage in and give your
views upon- How I am satisfied it matters not.
Whatever you decide npon in this matter and
you unite upon, I am satisfied it will prove a
blessing, not only to Utah but to every State and
Territory where these arid lands abide, and who-
ever occupies these lands of course has got to
have the water to perform the work. We have
had to do the same. We have had to learn by
experience, and all that we have obtained in these
mountains has been by irrigation. There are
portions yet which have not been irrigated, and
as one gentleman said here, if you can make two
drops of water where there was one, or two
spears of grass where there was one, you are a
benefactor to mankind. I say God bless you in
in your efforts. (Applause.)
EXTRACTS FROM PRESIDENT CANNON'S ADDRESS.
	I look upon this as one of the most auspicious
days to the Territory of Utah since 1865—the
assembling of so many representative men from
the various States and Territories interested in
this great question of irrigation. I think myself
that whatever the conclusions you may arrive at,
they are sure to be of great benefit to all this
country. The interchange of views, the ming-
ling together and becoming familiar with each


other's ideas must inevitably, I think, result in
great good and I look for grand results to follow
the meeting of this Irrigation Congress in Utah.
	I think that Utah receives great honor in being
selected as the place for your deliberations.
	This question of irrigation is one, of course,
that we have been deeply interested in from the
beginning.  I think that whatever any other sec-
tion may claim in the way of priority in irrigation
we can claim that we are the first Anglo-Saxons
who ever had recourse to this method of raising 
	There is one point that I think of great im-
portance, and I think it worthy the consideration
of this body.  We have refrained, I was going to
say religiously, from forming large corporations
to take possession of the water--we have not
been taxed for our water in Utah, but settlements
have combined together and by their own labor
have taken the water out and have contributed by
their labor in forming dams and digging ditches
to obtain the necessary supply for their acreage.
I think this is a very important feature in this
territory. We have not had to pay for our water
by their own labor.
	Another feature of our system has been that we
have had small holdings.  When we settled this
city the lots were divided out; each lot was an 
acre and a quarter.  The lots were laid out in such 
a way that the front of one lot faced the side of
another. It was designed to be a city of villas
and to have plenty of room.  You see the breadth
of our streets and the amplitude of our lots; this
was the original design.  Then, next to our city a
tier of five acre lots was laid out, then a tier of
ten acre lots, then a tier of twenty acre lots.
There were no lots laid out of a larger extent than
twenty acres.  That there might be perfect fair-
ness, we cast lots for these.  The mechanics were
expected to want five acres; those who were in a 
better condition it was thought would require ten
acres, while the farmers twenty acres.
	We have kept from monopolizing the land and
been willing to have it disrupted in small hold-
ings, so that every man might have a foothold.  I
believe that I do not overstate the truth when I
say that in no part of these United States is there
a population containing so many people living on
their own lands and owning their own houses as in
Utah Territory.
	In 1853, or thereabouts there was scarcely
enough water in City creek to water the gardens
of Salt Lake City, and it was thought then that 
we had reached the utmost limit of our supply.
But it is a fact that our water has increased in
almost every stream throughout all these moun-
tains.
	I believe there is a kind Providence that
watches over man, that wherever man goes Pro-
vidence is there to said him in his efforts. Legis-
latures and others who do not particularly be-
lieve in diving interposition may attribute this to 
natural causes, that is, to the presence of rail-
roads.  I find some attributing the increase of
rain to the presence of railroads, the rails running
through--some to the increase of trees.  What-
ever the cause may be, it is undoubtedly the fact
that man himself, his presence, the very fact that
he is here and cultivates the ground, brings to
him and to those associated with him increased
blessings.  We have proved it in this country.
	Gentlemen, I trust that harmony will charac-
terize your proceedings. I have no doubt it will
I am profoundly thankful myself that such a con-
course of intelligent men from many States and
Territories is here. We want Utah to be known.
I believe that the gathering of this assemblage

[Column 2]
will lead to a better understanding of Utah and
her people.  No one in the world will yield with
greater gratitude and satisfaction than myself to
a more familiar acquaintance with Utah and her
people on the part of our neighbors.  We welcome
Nevada, California, Arizona, Kansas, Nebraska,
Colorado and all the states and all our neighbors.
if there is anything we can do to add to the satis-
faction of your visit we shall do it gladly.  I in-
voke the blessings of God upon you proceed-
ings.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN’S STORE.

	The Woman’s Cooperative Mercantile Institu-
tion established last January, has recently been
moved to 63 E. First South Street, three doors
west of the theatre. The location is much more
desirable than the former one and the announce-
ment made to the general public ought to bring
custom to the establishment and success to the
enterprise. The ladies keep on hand an ex-
cellent quality of goods, particularly in the line of
millinery. Feathers, ribbons, laces and various
kinds of hat trimmings, in fact a full line of
millinery goods, direct from one of the leading
houses in Chicago. A bright young lady ex-
perienced in the business and formerly employed
in the fashionable store of Madame Button has
charge of this department of work. The dress-
making department is under the supervision of a
young woman who has had great experience in
this direction and is thoroughly competent to un-
dertake the most stylish and fashionable work.
The Children’s Book by Augusta Joyce Croche-
ron, is also for sale at this place.

	This store keeps on hand Ladies’ Equipoise
Waists and Jenness Miller’s Underwear. All
sorts of wax flower materials and Ladies Fancy
and Furnishing notions. Stamping and Pinking,
Buttons covered and Feathers cleaned etc. Burial
suits kept on hand or made to order if preferred.
	There is still some Capital Stock to dispose of
and ladies are invited to take shares and co-
operate for mutual benefit.
	If we would succeed in any home enterprise
we should give it our patronage and seek to
secure that of our friends and interest them in
the good cause. The Woman’s Cooperative
Store fills an important place and fits in admirably
with the organizations of women that are so per-
fect and complete with us as a people. It is an
undertaking that should meet with the hearty
support of women who are looking to home in-
terests,and home industries that will give suitable
employment to those who possess ingenuity and
skill of various kinds.


THE WOMAN’S CLUB.

	The Woman’s Club is the title of a new book
just recently issued by the United States Book
Company successors to John W. Lovell, New
York City. Olive Thorne Miller the well-known
and popular writer and whose famous books
about birds etc., have given her a world wide
reputation is the author of this new work, which
she has dedicated in the preface to the “Women
of America,” and has designated upon the title
page, “a practical guide and hand book.” The
book upon perusal commends itself to all in-
terested in club work or thorough organization,
and teaches many important things pertaining  to
practical and effective systematic work. The
contents are well arranged in chapters touching
upon various subjects in detail, and giving ideas
so clearly, that one not versed in these matters
would be able to comprehend readily how to or-
ganize and carry on the work of a club without
difficulty, and even to those familiar with practi-
cal organization of associations it gives many


valuable hints, and suggestions and helpful in- 
formation. We noticed particularly the opinion
in reference to a Board of Directors or an Ex-
ecutive Committee; and we most heartily endorse
the views she has expressed on this subject.
Miss Miller says, “They are in law the Trustees
of the Society, they are responsible for its deeds,
they should therefore have power commensurate
with the seriousness of their office.” Again the
selection of the members of this Board is more
important than that of any other of the officers.
They should never be very young nor should
they all be changed at once. Work would drag 
and blunders occur, if there were no old members
knowing the routine to initiate the fresh ones.
Speaking of the Ex. Com. the author says, “It is
not wise to have it composed of the club officers
alone for two reasons. First every active officer
in a club that has life has enough to do to fill her
own place well. Secondly, it may be necessary
sometimes to deal officially with an officer, and
therefore to have a power above all other officers.”
   The book contains much that is useful in the
matter of organizing, preparing a Constitution
by-laws etc., in fact the work is alto
gether the most complete of its kind,
showing the uses and needs and good results to
be obtained from women cooperating together in-
a way that reaches all and uplifts as well as har-
monizes those elements in society and in home
life that are otherwise left to individual cultiva-
tion or restraint and by mutual effort and sym-
pathy much greater benefit to all must necessarily
follow.
   The price of the book is $1,00 and it is well
worth the money.


R.S., Y. L. M. I. A., AND P. A.
REPORTS.

		   P. A. ST. JOHN’S.
	Primary Conference of the St. John’s Stake
convened at St. Johns, Sept. 5, 1891. There
were in attendance of the Stake Presidency
Pres. E. B. Coleman, Coun. Anna Mohr, and
Sec. Nancy L. Noble. After the opening exer-
cises the Central Board, Stake, and Local
Officers were unanimously sustained by the 
Conference. After several recitations by the
children, Pres. Coleman encouraged the chil-
dren to tell the truth, be kind, and honor
their parents. Exhorted the parents to look
to the training of their boys, as a great deal
of our future hope depends upon them. Coun.
Anna Mohr, Sister Clara Neilson, David
Rencher, Wm. Gibbons, and Pres. David K.
Udall made interesting remarks. Reports of
the various Primaries were read. Singing,
benediction by Sister July Bingham.
		NANCY L. NOBLE, P. A. Stake Sec.


BEAVER.
Editor Exponent:

   At the last quarterly Conference of this
Stake Apostle Lyman united the two wards
of Beaver City into one.  This necessitated a 
change in the organization which had been
divided. In a general meeting of the sisters
called for this purpose by Bishop Mumford, the
two branches of the R. S. of Beaver ward were 
consolidated and Sister Ruth Tyler sus-
tained as President with M. A. White and
Jane Bickley as Counselors, and Alice M. J. 
Tanner, Secretary.
   The last quarterly conference of the Relief
Society held Sep. 4th, was a very enjoyable
one although but few attended.
   There were present of the brethren C. D. 
White, Pres. of Beaver Stake, Geo. Mumford
Bishop of Beaver ward, and Patriarch Daniel
Tyler. 
   Our Stake President, Sister Lucinda Howd


<column 1>
﻿thought that on account of her age and in-
firmities it would be for the best interests of
the Society for her to resign which she accord-
ingly did. The sisters, however, could not
feel to give her up and after a spirited discus-
sion showing the long and faithful labors of
Sister Howd she was unanimously sustained
as President of the R. S. of Beaver Stake,
with full permission to throw the most of her
labors upon her Counselors which are not yet
chosen.
	The reports were encouraging showing that
notwithstanding the dull times, and general
slackness of the people, the sisters have kept
in line with their duties remarkably well,
caring for, and visiting the sick and poor.
	Much good instruction was given with re-
gard to our duties, raising our children, stor-
ing grain, sustaining the EXPONENT etc.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, benediction by Patriarch Daniel
Tyler. 
			Louisa Jones, Stake Sec.

		UTAH STAKE.
	The branches of the Relief Society of Utah
Stake held their quarterly conference, Aug.
28th, 1891. Pres. Mary John presiding with
her Counselors. Conference opened with sing-
ing and prayer. Pres. John said it should
not be tedious for us to listen to the reports,
for we should all wish to know where our
means are used. The sisters are doing a
good work; spoke of the subjects of charity
and love, etc., would like to hear from the
different Presidents, and would now give way
for them.
	The reports that were given in before the
intermission were favorable to those repre-
sented showing unity and faith and a desire
to do right and continue to be faithful to the
end. Conference adjourned till 2 p.m.

	Afternoon session opened with singing and
prayer. The presidency of the Stake were
present with us.
	Counselor Marilla Daniels the first speaker
thought it a great privilege we had of meet-
ing together in these conferences of the Relief
Society which was organized by the Prophet
Joseph for the purpose of doing good. This
Society is on the increase, we perform our
labors quietly but we should always strive for
the spirit of' God to guide us with humility
and love. Let us visit the sick and encourage
and build them up, etc.
	Pres. Smoot had not met with us for some
time but was pleased to do so today; spoke on
the duties of the Relief Society, which was
to help the poor and needy, visit the sick and
those in distress, comfort those that mourn,
and bind up the broken-hearted; the means
collected by the Society for the poor was to be
used for that purpose and no other, and if any
branch of the Society has any surplus means
on hand, let them give to a branch where
there are poor that need help. The sisters
are not debared from helping in any industry
they please, or in doing good in any other way
but the means collected by the Relief Society
for the poor, should be used for that purpose
and for no other purpose whatever. Pres.
Smoot also spoke to the mothers in regard to
their children, advised them to know where
their sons and daughters were at night and be
careful who they associated with, etc. 
	Pres. John endorsed Pres. Smoot’s remarks,
made some additional remarks on the same
subjects. Pres. Cluff followed on the same
subject; eulogized the Society for the great
work they had done and the help they had 
been to the Priesthood in caring for the poor,
etc. Conference was then adjourned for three
months, after singing and prayer.
	CAROLINE DANIELS, Sec.
<column 2>
	BOX ELDER Y. L. M. I. A.
    The Young Ladies Mutual Improvement
Association of Box Elder Stake met in con-
ference at Brigham City, Sept. 9th, President
Minnie J. Snow presiding. A splendid pro-
gramme was provided by our energetic Presi-
dent who spares neither pains nor labor in her
efforts to make these meetings, as also every-
thing pertaining to the association, a success.
	As it is the very busiest time of the year,
the fruit season, some little anxiety was felt
as to whether the conference would be well at-
tended, but never did the young ladies turn out
better than on the present occasion; and the
animated faces and pleasant smiles told plainly
how well everybody felt repaid for coming.
All the wards with the exception of the three
fartherest away were represented. The exer-
cises were highly interesting, instructive and
ably rendered. There was an address on “Wo-
wan’s Influence,” by Mrs. E. Vance; a dis-
course on ‘‘What Franchise Would do for
Utah Women,” by Mrs. A. H. Snow; an essay
on “The Light of Home,” by Miss Janie
Hubbard, Willard. Then a correspondance
' How is Charity regarded by the Latter-day
Saints,” replied to by Miss M. F. Peters; and
next an address on “Obedience by some one
from Fair View; followed by an article entitled
“Observance of the Sabbath,” by Mrs. J. Jen-
sen, Mantua.
	In the afternoon “Manners and Customs of
American Women,” was treated on by Mrs.
Lillie Horsley; and “Customs and Characteris-
tics of European Women,” by Mrs. S. Valen-
tine; Mrs. Mary Nelson followed with an
article entitled “Woman’s Rank in Life;” and
“Are the Gifts of the Gospel still with the
Latter-day Saints,’’was treated on by Mrs.M.T.
Forsgreen. A Book of Mormon sketch “Life
of Alma and Mosiah’s sons,” was given by
Helen Thompson, Bear River City.
	A programme so varied and well responded
to intermingled with vocal and instrumental
music, among which were, “Love’s old sweet
song,” Maggie Widerborg; instrumental duet
“Golden Clouds,” by Misses Effie Ensign and
Emeline Peters; and the Sacred Quartets
“Jesus Lover of my Soul,” and “God in Mercy
hear my prayer,” effectively rendered by ladies
voices, as well as with short and timely re-
marks by different sisters, was proof against all
weariness although the day was very warm.
	At the close of the exercises, President
Clawson spoke very encouragingly about the
association, dwelt on the greatness of woman’s
work and gave some good and sound advice to
the young people. He was followed by Coun-
selor C. Kelley who expressed his gratification
at having been present at this conference of
the young ladies, which he thought was the
best he had ever attended and thought this was
indeed a mutual improvement association.
	Pres. Minnie Snow made the closing re-
marks, in her usual brisk and practical way,
offering suggestions here and there—and re-
minding the girls of Him from whom all
knowledge comes and exhorted them to make
Him the foundation of all their works. After
singing and benediction, the conference, alto-
gether the most enjoyable affair we have had 
for a long time, adjourned for three months.
		SOPHY VALENTINE
	SCOFIELD.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	On Monday, August 10th, 1891, the Relief
Society of this place gave an Anniversary
Entertainment to all the people of the ward,
to commemorate the third year of its exist-
ence; it being just three years since we were
organized.
	The entertainment was under the immediate
supervision of the President and her Coun-
selors.
<column 3>
	There was an abundance of the good things
of the earth prepared to which all present did
ample justice.
	There was a good programme rendered con-
sisting of songs, speeches, (short ones of course)
recitations etc.,among other things the follow-
ing original poem written by John F. Ander-
son for the occasion was read and well received:
LINES OF HONOR TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF
SCOFIELD.
Relief Society—a name of honor too,
What is the mission you are sent to do;
Is thy name a byword, or thy mission here in vain?
Oh! that I could tell it—thy mission and thine aim.

To tell of thy great mission designed by heaven above,
Requires that inspiration that in the Prophet moved,
It moved him to take action, to organize you here,
That you might bless humanity, in this your humble
	sphere,

On every hand they’re sighing, to get relief to-day,
Every place you travel in they need relief some way;
It may not be for clothing, it may not be for food, 
But for a word of comfort to bless the weary head.

’Tis true that bread and clothing in times of need doth
	prove
A blessing far, far greater than any word of love;
But very few are lacking for those needful blessing here,
But many souls are sighing just for a word of cheer.

And oh! how kind words cheereth the heart that’s sinking 
	low,
When all seems dark and gloomy, through life’s troubles
	here below, 
When clad in heavenly feelings a sister enters then
Her loving words prove blessings, to hearts that are in pain.

This may all seem simple unto the simple mind,
But these are daily blessings, desired by human kind; 
For every soul that mourneth—many hearts do sigh
To get a word of comfort, from a sister passing by.

There are many souls now thirsting for blessing in this
	way,
Who’ve plenty food and clothing yet unhappy all the day
Because some words of anger or hatred found its way,
With all its meanness stinging, into the heart that once
	was gay.

This to me appears life's mission, aim, and end,
To bless poor erring mortals wherever they are found;
In brief it is the mission of our sisters gathered here
To cheer and bless each other, in their Society dear.

Now may there be reunion with our sisters in this place,
May their meeting and their doings be blest with great
	success,
And may their humble efforts to comfort one and all
Be crowned with heaven’s favor from the great unto the
	small.

May they sustain each other in their assemblies here
And envy, strife and hatred, be banished from their
	sphere;
May to their names be added these words—most noble,
	true,
Excuse the rhyme and writer, I bid you all adieu.

	After the rendering of the programme
dancing was indulged in until a late hour.
Every one expressed their appreciation of the
efforts of the Relief Society, and praised them
without stint for the excellent and ably con-
ducted party they gave.
	RACHEL HOOD, Sec.
Scofield, Emery Co. Utah, Sep. 1, 1891.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


COLONIA DIAZ, MEXICO.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We have been advised by Pres. Teasdale
to send you a report of the organization of
our Relief Society, and also a Statistical and
Financial Report. We were organized by
Bishop William Derby Johnson Jr. on the
5th of January 1888, with six officers and
twenty-four members. This was in the early
days of this settlement, when we were living


in tents and tabernacles like Abraham Isaac
and Jacob of old. Now our Society has
increased in numbers and we have been
steadily growing in experience, and love of
our pleasing labors, that have brought to
us so much benefit and profit. We number
now, officers and members, seventy-seven, and
our average attendance is forty. We have
most excellent meetings twice a month. We
meet on the afternoon of every Fast Day, the
first Thursday in every month, for testimony,
and are generally favored with the presence
of some of our leading brethren, who have
always encouraged us in our duties and
labors of love. Then once a month we hold a
work meeting. These meetings are well at-
tended by our earnest faithful sisters and are
exceedingly interesting. Sister Lucy Johnson 
is our President, with Sister Anna Jorgensen
as her first, and Verona Whiting as her
second Counselor; Sister Ada A. Earl Secre-
tary and Mary J. Johnson Assistant Secretary
Emma Barker Treasurer. We have seventeen
Teachers. Our report dates from our
organization, in the future we shall send semi-
annual reports. With kindest regards your
Sister.
ADA A. EARL.

	Statistical and Financial Report of the
Relief Society of the Diaz Ward, of the
Mexican Mission, from Jan. 5th, 1888 to
Sep. 1st, 1891.
	To cash received from Jan. 5th, 1888, $55 20.
To property received from Jan. 5th,1888,
$51.10 By Cash and Property distributed to
the needy $42.05. By Cash for Sacramental
Set presented to the Ward $25.00 By Cash
donated to the Academy Building $16.00.
By Property donated to the Academy Build- .
ing $8.90. By Cash on hand $9.85. By
Property on hand $4.50. Total $106.30.
	77 members. 24 Meetings a year 86 in all,
to date, Testimony and work. 40 average
attendance.
	LUCY JOHNSON, Pres.
	ADA ARVILLA EARL, Sec’y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LORD IS IT I?

	This question as we are all aware, was put
to our Lord by every one of His disciples
(Matt. 26, 39,) as He was partaking with them
of the last supper, when the sorrows that were
before him weighted heavily upon his spirit
and He was constrained to open his heart to
the beloved disciples and told them that He
was about to be betrayed by one of their num-
ber into the hands of his enemies, which called
forth the question "Lord is it I?" The
answer He gave to Judas soon proved to them
who it was that should do this thing, for Judas
immediately rose up and went out into the
darkness of the night to carry out into the
darkness of the night to carry out his wicked
purpose. "Having procured a band of men
and officers," he entered the garden of Geth-
semane whither Jesus had gone to commune
with His Father as was His custom when any
greater trial was before Him, but the treacherous
Judas had done his work and our Lord was
consequently arrested.
	But we are all familiar with these facts--
cannot we gather a lesson from the subject
that may be useful to ourselves? Let us
notice the conduct of the disciples and ask
ourselves, would we have acted the same under
the same circumstances? would we have asked
"Lord is it I?" would we not rather have
looked around that little group and tried to
think which would be the most likely to prove
guilty of such a deed? would we not have
screened ourselves and thought any one of the
others more likely to commit such a dastardly
act?  But not so with them, they thought only

[Column 2]
of themselves--"Lord is it I?" was the spon-
taneous  question from them all.
This question should be put to our hearts
every day or lives--Is is I, will forgot my
prayers this morning because I have remained
in my bed till the last moment and there spent
my time which ought to have been spent in
prayer and thanksgiving to our Heavenly
Father for His preserving care during the
past night?  "Is it I," who will this day mis-
represent the words of a fellow saint, and
thereby make an unfavorable impression about
him and so lower him in the estimation of his
friends? Is it I who will be so swallowed up
in the whirlpool of business or pleasure as to
be unable to meet my Father in the spirit of
communion and freedom which it is my privi-
lege to do, and which is absolutely necessary to
prosperity of soul?
	If we were sometimes to put these questions
to ourselves, and act according to the answers
we would receive from our own consciences, our
souls would nto be so barren for want of 
heavenly nourishment, we would be prepared
to meet the little troubles and annoyances of
life as necessary to our soul's well being, we
would not need to take the microscope to mag-
nify the words of others, which, if spoken at
all, may have been spoken thoughtlessly with
no evil intent, "we should watch unto prayer,"
that we may not in an unguarded moment do anything that would dishonor our Heavenly
Father, or grieve the Holy Spirit and cause
it to depart from us.  Would to God we had
more of the mind of Christ who was "meek and
lowly in heart," whose "meat and drink it was
to so the will of His Father in heaven. He
far as He could do them good.  Slander or
misrepresentation never escaped His sacred
lips but His teaching was--"Every idle word
that man shall speak, shall they give account
of in the day of Judgment."  Let us retrace
our steps to the table where the Lord sits with
His disciples.The words He uttered on that
occasion were full of consolation and hope to
the true believer. He said to His disciples--
"Verily I say unto you, I will no tdrink hence-
forth of this fruit of the vine until that day
when I drink it new with you in my Father's
Kingdom." Also in 27 sec. Doc and Cov., in,
a Revelation given through Joseph the Seer,
He said--"The hour cometh that I will drink
of the fruit of the vine with you on the earth,
not only with the Ancient Prophets," whom
He named, "but with all those whom my
Father hath given me out of the world." These
words of our Lord assure us, that if we con-
tinue faithful to the end, we shall surely sit
down with Him and partake of the new wine
of the Kingdom, and if we are looking for-
ward to the enjoyment of such a privilege
"what manner of persons ought we to be in all
holy conversation and godliness." Surely such
a state of blessedness with our Lord and all
those who have gone before, is worth striving for.
St. Paul says--"Eye hath not seen, nor ear
heard, neighter hath is entered the heart of man
the things which God hath prepared for them
that love Him."
	May the Holy Spirit help us to continue
faithful to the end, that we may be able to lay
humble claim to those blessing promised to
us in the Gospel of Jesus Christ.
	O glorious day! O blessed hope!
	My soul leaps forward at the thought;
	When in that happy, happy land,
	We'll take the Ancients by the hand;
	In love and union hail our friends;
	And death and sorrow have an end.
	MARY Y. CORBY.


The less a man who won't pay his debts
prays in church the better


THE TRAINING OF A NURSE.

BY MARY CADWALADER JONES.
	
	A senior nurse’s duties are somewhat
different from those of the juniors. To begin
with, she feels herself of some importance;
she has charge of linen closets; she sees to the
giving out of the food and gives out the 
medicines; when the doctor makes rounds, if
there is time she accompanies the head nurse;
she makes herself acquainted with the state of
the patients, and often has to be in charge of
the ward.
	To any one not initiated into the ways of
medical men, “giving out the medicines”
might mean a spoonful of something in a
little water.  A medicine list is an appalling
undertaking at first, there may be thirty names
on the list, some patients having as many as
five or six different medicines; in fact, it prac-
tically amounts to one-dose prescriptions. 
Different quantities are given—drops, drachms,
ounces, and so on.  With some practice and
with some one to take the medicines around
quickly a nurse can get through the list
accurately in a remarkably short time, say
fifteen or twenty minutes, but this is not often
done; we usually take our time. (A nurse
has learnt something of the properties and
doses of the medicines in her class.) 
	When a nurse has charge of a ward, or
becomes a head nurse, any notions she may
have had of her importance as a senior
disappear.  She feels herself responsible for
the condition of the ward, the care of the
patients, the instruction of the nurses,  in fact
for whatever is done or neglected.  The
doctors rely upon her for the faithful carry-
ing out of their orders and altogether she
needs a good deal of judgment and tact.
	After receiving the notes of the night nurse
and seeing that all the work is going on well,
the head nurse goes round, note book in hand,
and inquires into the state of each patient;
she questions them and listens to what they
have to say; she also makes her own obser-
vations.  In this way the nurse becomes
acquainted with her patients, while she reports
everything of note to the doctors.
	There is an etiquette odserved in the wards,
but it is not very oppressive; the nurses on
duty are subordinate to the doctors for the
time being, and everything goes on with order
and decorum.  This may sound stiff and
formal, but it is not so; it is only the fitness of
things.  We usually all work well together
and there is seldom any friction.
	The patients in Charity Hospital are the
very poor of the city; some of them are only
morally sick and needing a home; they
puzzle the doctors to make a diagnosis.  Most
of their sickness, as we nurses know, has been
brought on by over-work, poverty, drunken-
ness, laziness, and the like, but some are
worthy and deserving persons.
	Often when a person comes into the hospital
she enters a moral atmosphere which is new
to her.  She is cleaned and made fairly
comfortable; she has to drop many of her old
habits of speech, and be a decent member of
the hospital for the time being.  If she is not
too degraded she can see what is expected of
her at once.  We seldom have any trouble
with the patients and rarely hear an improper
word.  A nurse never need submit to in-
subordination; on her complaint the patient is
dismissed, but a very sick patient is seldom
beyond endurance.
	They are often very witty, and if we are in
the mood we can get lots of fun out of them.
They are also very religious.  They thank
God for everything; everything is the will of
God—their sickness, their troubles their
death; it never seems to occur to them that
they might have a will of their own.  In one


[Column 1]
way they have not much variety; they usually
object to soap and water.
	As a rule the nurses are as good to the
patients as they can be. Many of them 
remain in the hospital for a long time, and a
nurse has the opportunity of showing . them
small kindnesses, perhaps writing a letter or
giving them a garment or a few cents to pay
their car fare. In those tedious cases of
phthisis where the treatment is only palliative 
a nurse can be much to the patient. the 
patients in the emergency hospitals are some-
what different; they are mostly of the mechanic 
class and usually quite sick. That means 
business and getting them well, and they pass
on. They are not so poor they can even offer
us money, either by way of bribe or reward.
I heard of a nurse having the handsome sum
of ten dollars offered to her, and I came near 
having a pair of diamond ear-rings, only the
patient changed his mind and would not 
undergo the operation."
	The helpers spoken of in this sketch are 
women sentenced to the workhouse on 
Blackwell's Island for, varying from three
days to six months, and for such offences as
drunkenness, vagrancy, and fighting in the
streets. From the workhouse they are sent to 
do the scrubbing, laundry work, etc, in the 
institutions controlled by the Commissioners
of Charities and Correction, who are obliged
by law to use their labor. Most of them are
the sodden, frowsy creatures who huddle into 
the prison van after the laconic "ten days" of 
the poilce justice, but they are "all ages of
bad eggs," as one of them once said to me, 
and taken together they form a curious class.
They are most punctilious in always speaking
of each other as "ladies," and in the much-abused
word is somewhat amusing when applied to a
stout virago with a variegated eye.
	Drunkenness. their common vice. and the
cause of all their woe is delicately alluded to 
as a "weakness" or a "failing," and some of 
them seem rather proud of the number of
times they have been "sent up," while others 
regard it as the inevitable. Once I had to
pass a woman who was scrubbing in the
doorway at Charity, and as she moved her
pail I recognized her and said, "What, Mary, 
are you here again? I thought you weren't
coming back." Her face fell as she answered,
"Yis, m'm, I thought so too," and then she 
brightened up and said proudly, "But it was
the iligantest wake you ever see."
	Some of them again are decent and quiet
enough when not possessed by the devil of
drink, and it often happens that one of this
better class will stay on as a helper after her
sentence has expired, perhaps felling that she
is protected from herself while the river is
between her and her boon companions, but
sooner or later she is missing some day, she
has "gone over," and if she comes back it is 
in the prison boat.
	Here follows the journal of an ordinary 
day at Charity Hospital, by one of the head-
it nurses:
	"Time: 7.30 A.M.
	Sceue: Ward 3, Medical. Beds all unmade,
a few patients up - these have faces washed 
and hair combed - the majority in bed with
this duty still to be performed for them. A 
part of the floor at the front of the ward
scrubbed. Mary one of my prison helpers
is washing dishes at the table, and Bridget, 
the other, is taking soiled cloths from a large
can and sorting them for the wash.
	The atmosphere contains none too much 
oxygen; this can be explained by saying the
night-nurse is finishing her work in one of
the other wards, and the patients in her
absence have taken the precaution to close all
the windows for . fear of taking cold. After 
giving an order for the window to be let
down, I take up the night notes and read:

[Column 2]
	Murphy—Died at 3 A. M.
	Ryan—Temperature, 108 degrees; pulse 120; respiration,30; 
Antifebrine, grains iii., and other medicines given as 
ordered. Poultice applied last at 6 A. M.
	Patient passed a very restless night.
    And so on, through the other cases in the
ward. These notes are signed by the night 
nurse, who now comes in with the keys, look-
ing pretty well fagged. 
	"Good morning; I am sorry I have kept 
you waiting for the keys, but I have been so 
busy I could not get down sooner. Had a 
death in Ward 4, as well as the one here, 
and a patient in Ward 6 suffering from
delirium tremens, besides the ordinary work."
	I now go over to where my assisstants are
putting on their caps and aprons and getting 
together the things necessary for work. Miss 
W. and Miss A. are here but where is Miss
H? Miss W. answers:
	"She was called up last night to go on the 
maternity service. The superintendent missed
you, and asked me to tell you that another
nurse could not be spared to-day."
	Oh, dear, thirty-two patients in the ward, 
and five of them so helpless that they have to 
be fed and cared for like babies, two pneumonia
cases, and the usual number of phthisical and
rheumatic subjects. Well, well, grumbling
won't do the work, so we'll have to make the
best of it. 
	Each of my assistants armed with a pile of 
clean sheets and pillow-cases, proceeds to the
lower end of the ward and commences the
task of getting beds made, while I go to write
the list of clothes fro the laundry. Bridget 
counts the clothes while I stand by and take
down the number of each of the different
articles. This done, they are tied in large
bundles and sent to the wash-house. 
	Now the medicines are to be given out. I 
measure and prepare them, while a conva-
lescent patient carries them round to those in
bed. My list is a long one, and it takes fully
thirty-five minutes before they are all dis-
tributed, the bottles wiped off, and the 
medicine closet put in order. My next move
is to take a list of medicines which need to be 
renewed, and leave it ready for the doctor's 
signature. it is now twenty-five minutes past
eight, and Miss A. and Miss W. are making
as good progress as possible at their respective
rides; for it must be remembered that a nurse
has often to stop what she is doing to attend
to the wants of some particular patient, or
to carry out an order if the time is due.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	To the memory of Mary Ostler Ockey, who departed
this life, Sept. 9th, 1891, of typhoid fever. She was born
Sept. 28th, 1849, in Bridgeford Dorset, England. She
was the daughter of John and Sarah Ostler, and the wife
of Charles B. Ockey and the mother of thirteen children,
ten of whom are living. Deceased was an active member
of Relief Society holding the office of teacher at the time
of her death.
	Whereas it has pleased our Heavenly Father to call
from our midst by the hand of death our beloved sister
and friend; therefore be it.
	Resolved, that we recognize in her death the loss of a
true friend and co-laborer in the Second Ward Relief 
Society of Nephi
	Resolved, that we the members of the Relief Society of
Nephi, tender our sympathy to the bereaved husband and
children who are deprived of the care and counsel of their
beloved mother.
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be sent to the 
family, also published in the Ensign and WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT, and that the same be placed upon the records of 
this Society.
"Weep not that her toils are over, weep not that her race
       is run;
God grant we may rest as calmly when our work like hers
       is done;
'Till then we would yield with gladness, our treasure to
       Him to keep,


And rejoice in the sweet assurance, He giveth His loved
        ones sleep.
					MARY PITCHFORTH,
					REBECCA UDALL,
									Committee.
					EDITH CLAYTON, Ass't. Sec.


DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP
Will commence another class in
     Obstetrics and Nursing,
-----ON-----
Monday, October l9th, 1891,
	AT HER OFFICE,
No. 18 S. MAIN STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
THE WOMAN'S TRIBUNE,
Edited and published weekly at Washington,
	D. C., by Clara Bewick Colby.
Price, $1.00 a year. Trial Subscriptions, five
		weeks for 10 cents.
The Woman's Journal, of Boston, and the Woman's Tri-
	bune, of Washington, D. C., will be sent to one ad-
	dress for $3.00 per year.
		MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
OFFICE.—324, 325 Third Floor, Constitution Building
HOURS.—8 to 10 a. m., 4 to 6 p. m.
Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
		Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
       ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
	       AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
		   POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed,
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But-
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 63 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
		 Three doors west of Theatre.
	R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
	 SALT LAKE CITY.
	 The Leading Retail
		Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS
	Special to the Ladies.
	    AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
		       in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
		RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
	And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str
	DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from 
he country promptly responded to.
DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

Vol. 20. 			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, 1891.			No. 7 [7 crossed out and 8 written]


CONTENTS.

	Woman—Frances. In Rural England. Notes
and News. R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., and P. A. Re-
ports—Colonia Diaz, Mexico. W. S. A. Salt 
Lake Co.,—C. C. R. Wells, Sec. Utah W. S. A.
—Ada Croxall, Sec. The Training of a Nurse—
Mary Cadwalader Jones.

	EDITORIAL:—General Semi-Annual Confer-
ence. Relief Society Conference. The Annual 
Territorial Fair.

	POETRY:—Good Wishes—Lula. "Land of Too
Late—L. M. Hewlings. Comfort for the Mother
—Augusta Joyce Crocheron.


GOOD WISHES
		AFTER CONFERENCE 
			October, 1891.

If memory could but keep, in constant view,
The many, many precious things we’ve heard;
So simple, yet so grand, so plain and true;
The thoughts awakened and the feelings stirred;
Then might we live by Father’s every word.

How near to Him—Our Father—we are brought,
While list’ning to the plans His love reveals!
How bright the visions of His presence caught, 
How to our hearts the sacred voice appeals,
While Truth sublime His testimony seals!

By Prophets spoken, and of God approved—
Yea, giv'n of God, those words of life and peace!
May their blest influence never be removed, 
But daily, hourly with the Saints increase,
Till Truth shall triumph, sin and sorrow cease.

May that sweet Charity which conquers wrong,
From Zion's portals o’er the world extend;
That Unity which makes God’s people strong,
Yet stronger grow all virtue to defend;
And Christ, in glory, soon to earth descend.
									LULA.


"LAND OF TOO LATE."

There's a land in the ocean of life,
	Weird, desolate, lonely and drear,
Where the day-star of hope enters not.
	With brightness to gladden and cheer.
There is never a dawn on its shore,
	Nor rift through its cloud darken'd gloom,
Never soft swaying breezes flit o'er,
	This bleak land of terrible doom.
Restless billows surge on there for aye,
	Beat fierce on this land of "Too Late".
No power e'er can hinder or stay,
	Or turn back the tide of regret,
There's no path in the land of "Too Late"
	That e'en genius, can ever retrace,
And never a spot can there be found.
	To commence anew in life's race.
On the cold barren land of "Too Late"
	Opportunity ne'er holds sway,
To bear onward to nobler estate,
	That never admits of delay.
Ever goes forth a despairing cry;
	From this desert of direst fate,
Opportunities all gone by,
	Wrecked for aye, on the land of "Too Late."
							L. M. HEWLINGS.


[column 1]
WOMAN.
---
	Woman is, or should be the equal of man. 
She would be if those rights and privileges,

[column 2]
political, social and otherwise, to which she is
justly and fairly entitled were not fraudulently
withheld from her.  Woman in herself is a
study, and as man at all times has misunder-
stood, and failed to understand or to recog-
nize her true merit, to comprehend of what
she is capable and competent of doing,it is time
woman herself undertook this stupendous and
Herculean task, and to man for the time be-
ing let her remain as a riddle unsolved. Let
her thoroughly examine, discuss and analyze
woman from every point of view.  She per-
ceives many evils at the present time for which
apparently there is no remedy.  Truth is per- 
verted, the Constitution of the United States,
which was founded and established under the
inspiration of Almighty God, spoken of and
treated as a dead letter.  Dead!  Who shall
redeem it?  Raise it from the dust under
which it is trodden? This is a question which
presents itself to the mind of thinking woman.
Is she a fit instrument for such a mighty work?
In what way could she, lone, unaided woman
effect the needful and welcome change. It
would take time, perhaps not in this genera-
tion could the grand consumnation be reached.
Has she patience, perseverance, fortitude and
all the necessary qualifications sufficient to
carry her through?  Let her read herself as
before stated, and become thoroughly ac-
quainted with woman; her ability, and re-
sources, before contemplating a work of such
vast magnitude, and for which she may be
utterly incapacitated.
	Woman in the beginning, when placed in
the garden of Eden, by her Creator to be a
helpmeet for man was in no way either physi-
cally or mentally the inferior of man. But
says man she transgressed the laws laid down
for them by their Maker, in partaking of the
forbidden fruit, she also tempted Adam to
partake of the same, thus being the first to
commit sin and to bring trouble into the world.
Very true, but the probability is if Adam had
tasted it first he would have kept the knowl-
edge to himself and have not offered to share
it with his companion.  Woman has always
since that time had the reputation of being of
an inquisitive nature.  And what is inquisi-
tiveness? but a thirst for knowledge, a desire
to find out something that will be of mutual
advantage to others, and the person immedi-
ately concerned. She wished to share that
which was good with her fellow creature
which is a credit to her, and certainly showed
her to be actuated solely by motives of a purely
unselfish and generous character.
	Woman is generally spoken of and univers-
ally acknowleged to be the weaker sex. 
That she is not mentally and intellectually is an un-
disputable fact, as the abundant literary pro-
ductions produced by women of the past and
present day go to show, some of them being
the most able historical works ever written,
requiring as much careful discrimination and
profound thought as could ever be conceived or
imagined in the brain and mind of her would
be superior, man.    As far as morals are con-
cerned, woman is decidedly in the advance.
One has only to read and observe that in all
criminal offences and of vice in all its various
forms and phases man practically takes the
lead.  It may be argued that woman is just
as corrupt only she does not happen to get
found out.  She denies that, but taking for
granted that it was so, it would go to show that
she possessed superior skill in planning and

[column 3]
devising, and a large amount of executive
ability, which if operated in the right direction
would produce great results.
	That women in civilized life is physically 
weaker than man is beyond a doubt, but that
she was ever created or designed to be so by
her Maker she fails to see; If there were a
difference it should be in her favor as she
has not only to nourish herself but others. 
That woman can endure prolonged labor pri-
vation of food and sleep, in most instances 
better than man has been particularly noticed
and referred to by physicians and others, and
there are living to-day quite as many aged 
and vigorous women who have been as active
and hardworking through life as men.
	The healthy woman is she who has some- 
thing to do, and who finds a reasonable amount
of enjoyment in so doing.   The weakly woman 
is either she who has very little else to do ex-
cept in helping others to make her pretty
things to wear, laces tight, compressing her 
body out of shape; eats everything which is
calculated to disagree with her, thus rendering
her dyspeptic, dances to excess, and outrages 
nature’s laws generally; and she who having 
to work twice as hard as a man, for a small
pittance barely sufficient to keep body and
soul together; or having a large family to take
care of and obtaining no sympathy from her
husband, is allowed to work unceasingly and
beyond her strength, thus destroying her
health, making room for disease, and at length
becomes a confirmed invalid.  This is woman's
fault to a great extent, and should be rectified
by her. 
It is a pretty idea, that of the sturdy oak
and clinging ivy, but is useless in the affairs of
practical and every day life.  Woman needs
something more than poetry, she finds she has
to face the stern realities of life just the same 
as man.  If she commits a crime she is 
punished as severely as man.  But if she per-
form a day’s work just as well, intelligently 
and conscientiously as man, she does not re-
ceive the same remuneration.  The lord of
creation has wrested her natural-born rights
from her under the pretence that she is not as 
competent in fulfilling a duty as man.  She is 
not considered capable of understanding or 
reasoning on such matters as politics and so
forth, and therefore deserves no voice in the 
same.  Man calls her his darling, his love and
his dear, which is all very pretty, but hardly
satisfying in these days when truth is rocked
to sleep, justice chloroformed and politicians 
will persist in viewing woman through green
spectacles.
Well, says man, what is it you require do
you want to sit in Congress, and all that sort
of thing?  No, woman craves no such thing
(although if she ever gets there it will be be-
cause she is fitted for that position.) She
simply asks for what ought to be voluntarily
extended to her, the right to vote, let her stay
at home, mind her own business, and attend 
to her household affairs.  Certainly, Sir, that 
is what she intends to do, but as one conscien-
tous gentleman remarked to a party of ladies,
“If a man cannot spare his wife for fifteen
minutes once in every six months to cast her
vote, he is not deserving of a wife at all."
Exactly, woman entirely coincides in that
opinion.  She is not likely to stop on the road 
to procure a drink of whiskey, neither could
her vote be bought for the same.  That
quarter of an hour would not be wasted


There would be no need of man losing his 
supper on that account, or the mending of
the children's stockings being postponed.  The
laws effect her just as much as they do him,
in fact they effect her more seriously.  Take 
for instance the condition of a widow at the 
decease of her husband,she can touch nothing,
she is not even the guardian of her own chil-
dren, without first requesting the favor of be-
ing allowed to become so.  But the tax card
drops in just the same.  Does the country
need better and more able politicians? De-
cidedly, men who will recognize and assign to 
woman that which belongs her.
*	*	*	*	*
	Let women improve the present time, the
moments are golden do not let them pass by
unheeded. Let woman educate herself, and 
cultivate her mental and intellectual faculties
to the fullest extent.  A healthy mind will
help to build up a healthy body, the two
working in harmony together will make of
woman what she ought to be.  Let her first
study herself, and having learned the alphabet
progress step by step, until she becomes versed
in all matters pertaining to the present and
future welfare of a great nation.  Then having
thoroughly learned the science of government
let her teach it to her sons and daughters, they 
in turn will impart to theirs.  By this means
the peerless and glorious constitution of
America will be preserved that a correct form
 of government be maintained.
	Let woman bestir herself and prove equal
to the emergency.  It is only when stern
necessity and matters requiring the greatest
expediency stare her in the face that she ever
renders herself conspicuous.  Man need not be 
afraid she will ever disgrace any privileges
which may be accorded to her, or usurp the
rights which properly belong to man.
	There is a grand reformation at hand, a great
future opening up before us.  The organiza-
tion of the Woman Suffrage Association was
an important step in the right direction.  The
men of Mormondom,(speaking of the majority)
are the only men on the face of the earth who
appreciate and estimate woman at her true
value.  The little stone which was cut out of the 
mountain without hands, has rolled forth, and 
will eventually fill the whole earth.  There is
something in the far distance which can only
be discerned by the eye of faith.  It is the
reformation not of a nation, but of the whole
world, the time spoken of in Holy Writ when
men shall beat their swords into ploughshares,
their spears into pruning hooks, when nation
shall not rise up against nation, neither shall
they learn war any more.  This is the grand
consummation of all things.  The opening up
of the Millenium in which one of the chief and
prime movers will be woman.
				Frances.
	Fountain Green, Sanpete Co.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	IN RURAL ENGLAND.

	IV
	“My dear uncle,” replied the thoughtful
niece, in answer to his question, as they sat to-
gether at breakfast that first morning after his
return, “I am indeed willing to do all I can
for your comfort and happiness, but I cannot
play a false part, and therefore I must speak
out plainly, to you after your generous offer
of a home for me, I have been quite contented
here with one exception.  Remember uncle I
have been carefully taught by a wise mother,
and it may seem to you prudish, but I cannot
countenance any freedom on the part of men,
toward young women, or girls, especially; and
I have always been told men were the pro- 
tectors of women.” “And who says they are
not, by Jove I’d like to see the man that dare

[Column 2]
venture into my domain without first consult-
ing me, getting permission in fact, he’d have a
sorry time of it, might get his head broken.
But Jane what do you mean?” observing that
his niece turned very pale, and trembled as she
poured out his coffee.
	“Uncle Edward I think you should know
everything that concerns your only child, and
I have made bold to speak to you, because,
well because it is right, and it must be for the
best, for her and for you.”
	Sir Edward held his cup in his hand and 
paused, “for her and for me, who Jane, whom
do you mean?  have the servants been having
a high time below stairs in my absence?  I
trouble little about them Mrs. Hess (the house-
keeper) manages well—I don’t care even if she
were to leave, so long as I have you Jane.”
	“But it is quite another person in whom I am
so deeply interested, your own daughter, my
cousin Anna.” “Well isn’t she getting on all
right, the Dr. has been attentive you told me,
she’s improving, I’ll go up and see her directly
surely no man, has dared to approach my
house with a view of making love to her, she’s 
a child, a mere child, you are her chaperone
now, that is you must be, I shall expect it out of
you.”
	“Let me see Jane, she will be eighteen on 
her next birthday, just after Christmas, O,
how the years fly, I’ve been abroad since then
more, than once, yes in Italy, and in Greece,
and everywhere her presence my own darling
wife has haunted me, but now that you are
with me I shall stay at home, and look better
after my own affairs, they are in a ruinous con-
dition I fear.”
	Miss Conway saw that he was drifting away
 from the subject and scarcely knew what she
ought to say, didn’t want to make too serious 
a matter of it, and so waited to see what turn
his conversation might take, for she felt deeply
that now her cousin was better something must
be done.
	Finally when Sir Edward had finished his
morning repast—he looked across to his niece
and said, “Jane you have not answered my
question, do you mean to stay with me? be-
cause if not I shall pack up and be off, its far
too dull in this gloomy old place in the winter
time,” “In that case,” Miss Conway replied,
“you would take Anna with you, it might be
the best for her.” ‘‘But how about yourself
Jane?  Not very pleasant to stay here alone
even for a few months, besides what opening
have you?” 
	“I could go as companion to some gentle-
woman,” “or governess,” added her uncle. “No!
never!  I am not even capable of taking care
of one young girl.” “And why,” retorted the
uncle quickly. “Have you and Anna dis-
agreed so soon?”
	“Allow me to explain uncle Edward, we
have been the best of friends Anna and I, but
she needs advise from you, in fact your care,
yes, she needs your presence here at home, or
if she goes abroad, she needs you with her.”
Miss Conway paused, she had spoken plainly
to this austere man, whom even his own child
dare not approach with any save common-
place matters.  In fact father and daughter
were wide apart, each occupied a different
world as it were of thought and feeling; and
this young woman, this stranger relative had
come and grasped the situation intuitively as
it were, and touched the heart even, (if heart
he had) of her haughty uncle.  She trembled
violently as she stood before him awaiting his
answer, she knew not if he would deign to
reply at all, but in her fearlessness she cared
not, for to herself she had said of late,—“Anna
must be saved at all hazards.”
	After this explanation the unsuspecting
father began to comprehend there was some
mystery and he flew into such a violent passion
and swore, and threatened, and created such a

[Column 3]
furore that the Dr. had to be sent for, though
the imperturbable Jane never lost control of
herself for a single moment.
	During the entire scene Miss Conway kept
the servants in awe by her tranquil manner,
and the old Dr. when quiet was at last re-
stored, declared she was a veritable heroine.
However he warned her against rousing the
violent temper of the Baronet again as it
might prove fatal, and in reply received the
astounding announcement from this daring
young woman, that whatever the consequences
he must be warned in time. “Aha,” said the
Doctor who began to suspect something con-
nected with his daughter.
	Miss Conway was puzzled, she scarcely knew
whether to make him a confident or not—and
so replied quietly, “it is a family affair,” add-
ing apologetically, “and I have no right to
make it public.” “But if it concerns my
patient, and he must be apprised of it then I
am the one to whom you should speak, or per-
haps I can solve the difficulty without his as-
sistance and inform him afterwards,” said the
Dr. evidently intent on making the best of the
situation.
	“Dr. Bland you are older and wiser than I
am,” the young woman answered, “it is my
first experience with a difficult problem of the
sort and perhaps I was too pronounced, but
you surgeons, when you have to probe a wound
go to the root of the matter; cut deep so to
speak, Uncle Edward’s pride is strong—but I
want him to remedy the great wrong he is
doing in leaving his child to herself so much.”
“You are right so far Miss Conway,” said the
Dr. but he is not likely to take this advice
from any woman; it must come from one he
would recognize as an adviser, and it cannot
be done just yet—and you Miss Conway are
quite capable of dealing with this “difficult
problem’ as you term it, for the present;
though I have no idea just what it is, I should
infer from your ‘beating about the bush,’ that
Miss Hilliard is in danger, has fallen in love!
poor child don’t know what love is, though I
am well aware she is intensely emotional.”
	“That my cousin knows nothing of love I
grant you, but she imagines a great deal,” was
the reply rather curtly given.
	“So long as it is only imaginary, and there
is no real object, no man in the case, I cannot
see the actual harm unless for the future, and
we can look out for that,” continued the Dr.
intending gradually to draw Miss Conway out
to confide in him.
	And so he did, almost inadvertently he
learned the facts, without incidents, that some
one had without permission of the Baronet
sought the company of the young Lady of the
Castle,and that unsophisticated as she was and
in a certain sense unprotected, he had pre-
sumed beyond the bounds of propriety to say
the least.
	Miss Conway did not need to explain to the
Dr. that her cousin was totally uneducated in
such matters, he was well aware of the fact,
but like her father looked upon her as a mere
child.
	“Your coming to this house Miss Conway
was certainly Providental, and you must stay
at whatever cost until things shape themselves
differently; your nncle needs you now to nurse
him, no one can do it so well, and get Anna
interested in helping you, it may lead to
greater confidence between father and child”—
with this and other fatherly advice the genial
old Dr. left her to think over what he had 
said, and went back to his patient, whom he
found in a high fever, tossing and moaning,
and talking incoherently.  As soon as he could
leave the room he informed Miss Conway of
her uncle’s condition and that he should re-
main through the night; sent off messages to
his young assistant, and gaveinstructions that no


one should be admitted to the house except by
his approval.
	Miss Conway followed the Dr's. advice and
took her cousin with her to the sick room, but
she possessed none of the aptitude or adapta-
bility for nursing that seemed so natural to
her cousin Jane. The two girls were widely
different in every respect, Jane possessed those
qualities that in a man would be termed
masterful,yet there was no display of authority.
Anna was the very opposite, she was without
the balance of character, that under other cir-
cumstances, she might have acquired; her gov-
erness had taught her that ladies only needed
accomplishments; and the books she had read
only fed her vanity and filled her head with
false ideas of love. French novels were her
great admiration, and it was with much per-
suasion that her cousin had induced her to read
books of a better kind, which she selected,and
talked of them to her in such a way as to
awaken an interest in her. Is it any wonder
that with her mind fed upon chaff or poisoned
with sophistry she should be weak and vacil-
lating in character, incapable of judging right
from wrong; she had no standard to judge by;
religion to her was a myth, and yet she was a
girl of good impulses, innocent of wrong in-
tentions as a child, and susceptible of truth
when presented. Her cousin Jane was the
best tutor she could have, for without any
exercise of authority she impressed her with
her personality, and could no doubt have
molded her in mind and developed her best
capabilities, had it not been for the unfortunate
attachment she had previously formed for
Mr. Walton.
	When Miss Hilliard was informed of her
father's illness she was greatly shocked,though
she was wholly unaware of the cause; she
feared her only parent more than she loved
him, but now when she saw him lie so low and
helpless, this great, strong man, she felt a sort
of pity akin to tenderness; and she forgot her
own weakness in devoting herself to him. It
was a new experience, and it was good for her
in that it brought her out of herself—and gave
her new thoughts and fresh duties.
	In a few days Sir Edward was able to sit
up and Jane began to wonder if the Dr.
would keep his word. She realized during the
time of his illness, how proud he was of his
rank and how unforgiving; it leaked out in
his deliriam, and how hard it was going to be
for him to forgive even his own daughter for
and indiscretion; Anna's health improved
rapidly and Jane's fear was that she would
soon be going out in the grounds and meet
with Mr. Walton, for with her quick percep-
tion she passed judgement upon him at their
first interview and believed him capable of
any intrigue or plot, should he be unable to
obtain an interview openly.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
		COMFORT FOR THE MOTHER.
	The following was written to Mrs. A. R. Shaw of Ogden
on the death of her infant son.
[Republished by request]
A flood of light the midnight filled
And every sound to silence stilled,
And right before the mother stood
A stranger, mighty, pure and good,
He looked into her anxious eyes
Watching the varying feelings rise,
And knew her soul’s calm, steadfast truth
And all her blameless life from youth;
Then answering her eyes of prayer
He opened one white hand, and there
Lay three rich jewels, Oh more bright
Than e’er had met her mortal sight.
And ere she yet could understand
He laid them in her trembling hand.
“Study their beauty well’’ spake he,

[column 2]
"They are thine for all eternity."
Lo! by their light new life began,
New thoughts through all her being ran,
While ecstacy thrilled through her frame
The stranger gently spoke her name,
 And as she raised to him her eyes
Took from her hands the precious prize,
"The Father sent these but to show—
What ’waits you while through life you go,
Safe in the keeping of His love
They shall be yours again, above.’’
Nor artist’s power nor poet’s spell
The words he taught could keep or tell, 
They went beyond the things of earth
To where the mysteries have birth;
Teaching why wrong and sin should grow
They took from sorrow half its woe,
Why the soul's idols turn to clay
And God’s own gifts are drawn away,
And how, though thorns bestrewed her path
Her soul its guardian angel hath.

Then, when the holy guest was gone
A lesser light came, it was dawn.
Like one alone yet fearing not—
Silence—with sacred meaning fraught,
God’s blessing seemed so near her there, 
Life’s dullest burdens seemed no care,
For that sweet sense filled all her soul,
And lightened, strengthened blessed the whole.
Was this life zealot’s faith, ideal?
No, by His blessing this was real,
Stripped of the curse by childlike faith.
Earth wounds pain less, no trials scathe;
And while the mortal still endures,
Through deeper tests still strength assures;
Just as the heart of His own Son
Bore suff'ring ’till his time was done,
Not for wrong doing but to prove
The soul God guards, naught else can move.

The days went on and oft she thought
Of the bright gems the stranger brought.
Smiling to know their light should shine
Her own ’mid splendors all divine,
And strove that outward grace to win
Worthy the grace of soul within;
Yet only half their meaning knew—
That splendors cast their shadows too.

Heaven remembered her and gave
The gift her riven heart had craved,
A babe, whose wondrous eyes revealed
Pure mysteries from earth concealed,
Their silent beauty almost speech,
Diviner truths and love to teach.
They led her soul 'mid earthly scenes
Forgetting earth, where—downward leans
The Unseen—so close to the veil 
It almost touches spirits frail,
Worn faint with trial, 'til the breath
Through joy or woe—is kissed by death— 
And there her soul heard other things
Just as the blind feel passing wings!
So, day by day they lived until
Life seemed so fitted to God’s will;
And prayer the sceptre; ’neath its sway
Real, grateful bliss filled each fair day.

Day hath its end, its night; souls too,
Have lost their sun of  life from view;
No hands that lift, no voice that calls
But vainly on the darkness falls
Until His hour. However lost
In sorrow's wild, His love hath crossed
The trackless waste, He knoweth where
The mourner kneeleth in despair.
O, mourning mother! Not alone 
Thy riven heart in sorrow’s moan,
Not bitter only, is thy lot,
Thou hast not been by heaven forgot;
No stain of earth had marred the name
Of that fair boy thy soul did claim,
No fault had dimmed those beauteous eyes,
Too bright were they for these dull skies;
Thy boys—lo—God hath taken them,
Thy jewels, thy soul’s diadem.

Remember her that mother pure,
Who didst the agony endure

[column 3]
On Calvary’s hill thou know'st in part
The anguish of her sacred heart.
Thrice blessed is that home wherein
The shad'wy wing of death hath been;
Thou hast had joy, possession, love,
Now, each of these, lifted above
Earth’s marring or its robbing, bear
Their witness to thy portion there
Where blessings past and present all
Upward ascending, ever call
The tireless sonl and wearied feet
With them before His throne to meet.

The sweetest voices earth hath known
Were those attuned to sorrow’s moan, 
And nearer sanctified are they,
Where grief hath washed in tears away
The idle thoughts of cloudless hours,
Forgetting how, for sins of ours
The only Sinless, bowed his head,
And worlds with Mary wept her dead.

Not wind and wave in furious storm,
Snatched from thine arms his precious form,
Not stealthy foe nor cruel flame
Thy lovely babe had power to claim,
Not blighted by long suffering
Ere the loosed soul its flight could wing—
Rejoice, O, mother! In thine arms
Death could not thrill him with alarms;
His last sweet words were unto thee,
Thine the last face his eyes could see,
Safe in our mountain home he sleeps;
While the wide world still onward keeps 
It’s headlong course of pride and wrong,
Warring ’gainst Truth with hatred strong—
O! better in that little grave,
With mission ended, spirit saved.
				Augusta Joyce Crocheron.
South Bountiful, June 13, 1889.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mrs, Julia Ward Howe, at the Woman's
Congress, at Grand Rapids, will read a paper
on "Aliens in America."

	A lady (Miss Coffin) has been appointed
Assistant Superintendent of Schools in Detroit
Michigan.

	Miss Susan B. Anthony and Rev. Anna H.
Shaw addressed an immense crowd on Wo-
man's Day at the Western New York Agri-
cultural Fair at Rochester, Sept. 23.

	It is reported that there are only ten persons
in the State Penitentiary of Wyoming.
Wyoming is the only place where women have
had full suffrage for the last twenty-two
years.

	Miss Vinnie Hall, a young woman of twenty
is editor and publisher of the Edgely (N. D.)
Mail.  She began by learning to set type, and 
while at Aberdeen, S. D., she was a member 
of the Newspaper Union for two years and a 
half, being promoted to forewoman of the com-
posing room.

	Mrs. Therese A. Jenkins of Wyoming,
National Superintendent of Franchise, has
been invited to present to the National W. C.
T. U., at its coming convention in Boston, a
banner to represent the Franchise Depart-
ment.  This will be one of the most interest-
ing incidents of the convention.

	Miss Florence Balgarnie gave three lectures
in Detroit, Sept. 20, 21, and 22, to full houses.
Her subjects were "Women in Public Life,"
"The Modern Factory Girl as I knew her in 
East London," and "Ourselves and Our Great-
Grandmothers."  The second subject proved 
especially interesting to those who are studying
the labor question, and elicited many inquiries
and comments.  Miss Balgarnie won many
admirers among the ladies of Detroit.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, 	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.  Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.  No
reduction made for clubs.  City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office.  Business hours from 10, a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT, 
  	SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,  - OCTOBER 15, 1891.


[Column 1]

		GENERAL SEMI-ANNUAL
			CONFERENCE.

	The Sixty-second semi-annual Conference of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
convened in the large Tabernacle in this City at
10 a. m., October 4, 1891. President Wilford
Woodruff presiding. The First Presidency of
the Church Wilford Woodruff, Geo. Q. Cannon
and Joseph F. Smith were all present which was
a source of great Joy to the assembled multitude.
Of the Apostles,President Lorenzo Snow, Frank-
lin D. Richards, John H. Smith, H. J. Grant, F.
M. Lyman, John W. Taylor, M. W. Merrill,
Anton H. Lund, A. H. Cannon occnpied seats
upon the stand. The congregation was very
large and attentive and the teachings were im-
pressive and inspiring.
	In the afternoon the house was crowded in
every part and there was also an overflow
meeting in the Assembly Hall; the speakers there
were Apostles H. J. Grant and A. H. Lund,
Bishop O. F. Whitney and Elder B. H. Roberts.
In the Tabernacle Pres. L. Snow, Apostle F. D.
Richards and Pres. Woodruff addressed the peo-
ple. The sacrament was administered and the
services were altogether of a nature calculated
to impress the vast congregation assembled there
with that solemnity that should characterize de-
votional exercises upon the Sabbath day. Presi-
dent Woodruff especially spoke with great power
and intense earnestness that found a response in
the heart of every true saint of God.
	The Conference continued to be specially in-
teresting and instructive throughout but the last
day (Tuesday) was a time ever to be-remembered
in the history of the Church, because of the re-
markable power manifest in the eloquent dis-
cources delivered and also the steps taken to re-
fute the misrepresentations made in the Report
of the Utah Commission in regard to the position
of our people.
	A committee was appointed in the morning
session of the Conference to draft resolutions ex-
pressing the views of the people assembled in
Conference, upon misrepresentations made con-
cerning matters in this community. In the after-
noon these resolutions were formally presented.
	The following were read by Hon. John T.
Caine:
			COMMITTEE REPORT
MISREPRESENTATIONS OF THE UTAH COMMISSION
				DENOUNCED.
	President Wilford Woodruff and members
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints in General Conference assembled:
	Brethren and Sisters.--Your committee ap-
pointed to formulate an expression of the Con-
ference relative to certain statements made by

[Column 2]

the majority of the Utah Commission in their re-
port to the Secretary of the Interior for the year
1891, beg leave to report the accompanying Pre-
amble and Resolutions, and recommend their
adoption by the Conference.
		Very respectfully,
		John Clark,
		W. H. Rowe,
		Chas. W. Penrose,
		John T. Caine,
		Franklin S. Richards,
Salt Lake City, Oct. 6, 1891.
	PREAMBLE AND RESOLUTIONS.
 
	Whereas the Utah Commission, with one ex
ception, in their report to the Secretary of the
Interior for 1891, have made many untruthful
statements concerning the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints and the attitude of its mem-
bers in relation to political affairs; and,
	Whereas, said report is an official document
and is likely to greatly prejudice people of the
nation against our Church and its members, and
it is therefore unwise to allow its erroneous state-
ments to pass unnoticed.
	Now therefore be it resolved by the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter day Saints in General Con-
ference assembled, that we deny most emphati-
cally the assertions of the Commission that the
Church dominates its members in political mat-
ters and that Church and State are united.
Whatever appearance there may have been in past
times of a union of Church and State, because
men holding ecclesiastical authority were elected
to civil office by popular vote, there is now no
foundation or excuse for the statement that
Church and State are united in Utah or that the
leaders of the Church dictate the members in
political matters; that no coercion or influence
whatever of an ecclesiastical nature has been ex-
ercised over us by our Church leaders in refer-
ence to which politcal party we shall join, and
that we have been and are perfectly free to unite
with any or no political party as we may individu-
ally elect; that the People’s Party has been en-
tirely and finally dissolved and that our fealty
henceforth will be to such national political party
as seems to us best suited to the purposes of Re-
publican government.
	Also, be it resolved that we do not believe
there have been any polygamous marriages
solemnized among the Latter-day Saints during
the period named by the Utah Commission; and
we denounce the statements which convey the
idea that such marriages have been contracted as
false and misleading, and that we protest against
the perversions of fact and principle and intent
contained in the report of the Commission, and
declare that the manifesto of President Woodruff
forbidding future plural marriages was adopted
at the last October Conference in all sincerity
and faith, and that we have every reason to be-
lieve that it has been carried out in letter and in
spirit; and all statements to the contrary are en-
tirely destitute of truth.
	And be it further resolved, That we appeal to
the press and people of this country to accept our
united declaration and protest, to give it publicity
and to aid in disseminating the truth, that false-
hood may be refuted and justice be done to, a
people continually maligned and almost univers-
ally misunderstood. And may God defend the
right.
	The preamble and resolutions were unani-
mously adopted by raising the right hand and
shouting aye.

Hon. John T. Caine read the following

DECLARATION  BY THE FIRST PRESIDENCY OF
			THE CHURCH.

	Concerning the official report of the Utah Com-
mission made to the Secretary of the Interior, in

[Column 3]

which they allege, "During the past year, not-
withstanding the 'manifesto,’ reports have been
received by the Commission of eighteen male per-
sons who, with an equal number of females, are
believed to have entered into polygamous marri-
ages, during the year,” we have to say, it is ut-
terly without foundation in truth. We repeat in
the most solemn manner the declaration made by
President Wilford Woodruff at our General Con-
ference held last October, that there have been
no plural marriages solemnized during the period
named.
	Polygamy or plural marriage has not been
taught, neither has there been given permission
to any person to enter into its practice, but on the
contrary, it has been strictly forbidden. 
						WILFORD WOODRUFF,
						GEORGE Q. CANNON,
						JOSEPH F. SMITH.
	First Presidency of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints.

	Apostle Moses Thatcher moved that we receive
endorse and adopt as true the statement of the
Presidency. Unanimously adopted.
	The Authorities of the Church were presented 
and unanimously sustained by the Conference,
Elder Jacob Gates, Patriarch Lorenzo Young,
and President Geo. Q. Cannon addressed the
congregation and closing remarks were made by 
		PRESIDENT WILFORD WOODRUFF,
	Before dismissing this Conference I want to say
that to me it has been the most interesting I have
ever attended,I have never bdfore seen the Latter-
day Saints as ready as on this occasion to spend
the same number of days together in listening to
the teachings and counsels of the servants of God. 
The Lord has said:“Whomsoever ye bless shall be
blessed and whomsoever ye curse shall be cursed.”
I never cursed anybody in my life,and I do not feel
like doing so now, for my heart is full of blessings
to the Latter-day Saints, to my Counselors, to the
twelve Apostles, to the Seventies, to the High
Priests, to the Elders, Teachers and Deacons, to
the Lower Priesthood—all our brethren and
sisters throughout the Church.
	I entertain the same sentiments as have been
expressed here by President Cannon toward those 
who are not of us religiously. There is a feeling
of friendliness toward us, I think, in these valleys
on the part of those outside of this Church; they
seem to feel in their hearts to give us those rights
and privileges which belong to us, under the laws
of God and man. Some of the judges have been
ready to receive our testimoy, our manifestoes
and have seen fit to give and administer righteous
judgment. All such men have my blessing and
prayers, and confidence. I feel that God will
bless them and all who perform their duties with
clemency in righteousness toward their fellow
men.
	The choir sang:
			Let the hills resound with song.
	The benediction was pronounced by President
Woodruff.
	Adjourned till April, 1892.
	The Conference was exceedingly interesting
throughout, and if the spirit of the teaching is
diffused throughout the valleys of the mountains
and the instructions carried out,great good to all
Israel will be the result, and faith and integrity be
increased among the people.


[Column 1]

	Prayer was offered by Counselor B. W. Smith.
Continued by singing,

"School thy feelings, O, my brother, &c."

	Sister Zina D. H. Young remarked when giv-
ing out the hymn, that in this case it should be
"School thy feelings O, my sister. A synopsis of
the minutes of the last April Conference were
read by E. B. Wells, Cor. Sec'y., and accepted
by the assembly. Pres. Zina D. H. Young wel-
comed the congregation in the most kindly man-
ner and spoke a few words suggestive of what
was expected of the Relief Society. She then
called upon the Presidents of Stake organizations
to make brief reports not to exceed five minutes
each. Pres. Anna Ivins, St. George Stake was
the first speaker, thought the sisters were doing
well and had good desires though the attendance
was not so good as it ought to be, they had not
many poor; the settlements in their stake re-
quired much time to visit on account of  long
distances.
	Pres. Lydia Rich, Morgan Stake, gave a good
report, some sisters were ever ready in all good
works, they hold conferences quarterly and an-
nual meetings in each branch, felt they were do-
ing a good work.
	Pres. Temperance Hinckley, Bannock Stake
had visited this year and thought in that new
country they were improving, realized the import-
ance of the labor.
	Pres. Julia Lindsay, Bear Lake Stake made an
excellent report of what had been accomplished
there, and mentioned that the new region of Star
Valley which was included in their Stake was a
long way off yet had not been neglected.
	Pres. Harriet Bunting, Kanab Stake spoke of
the long distance they were away from the lead-
ing sisters, and  of the many reverses they had
experienced in the way of floods, that had
washed away their dams and improvements, and
the great changes these ravages had made, water
that used to be on the surface was now a hun-
dred feet deep". You may ask how the people
there maintain themselves, the sheep and stock
ranges are the principal resources. We call Long
Valley our Egypt; we go there for our grain. In
Orderville the sisters meet every third Thursday
in a Fast and Prayer meeting, they are 125 miles
from us. We feel that if we are poor in this
world's goods, we are rich in spirit."
	Pres. Barbara Myers, Panguitch Stake, "we
have twelve branches, our stake reaches over 200
miles there is one part where it would not be wis-
dom for us to travel without some of the brethren
we are trying to do the best we can and visit as
often as is practicable, we feel strong in testi-
mony."
	Pres. Susan Grant, Davis Stake, "we hold
quarterly conference, our brethren attend and are
of great assistance to us," &c.
	Coun. M. J. Hammond, San Juan Stake, said
we live four hundred miles away, we labor under
many disadvantages; we have this year met with
a great loss in the death of our President, Sister
Jane M. Walton.
	E. B. Wells read a letter from President Will-
mirth East, St. Joseph Stake, which was very in-
teresting  and stated that letters had been received
from Wasatch, Emery and Maricopa Stakes and
also made some brief explanations upon other
matters.
	Counselor Sage Jones, Parowan Stake, stated
that they were in a prosperous condition this
year had a great deal of grain and other things,
and bore a strong testimony, thought power was
increasing, &c.
	Pres. Mary Pitchforth, Juab Stake, was glad to
hear from all over this Territory and from other
Territories; since dividing Nephi into two wards
the Relief Society had increased in numbers, re-
joiced in her labors, held quarterly conferences,
and generally visited quarterly except Eureka
which was some distance away.

[Column 2]

	Pres. Adeline Barber, Cache Stake, we have
22 or 23 branches to visit; hold two conferences
a year, we try to hold district conferences or
meetings in remote parts of the Stake; those
who have had grain laid up have done good with
it; in the settlements they mostly have bins or
granaries. The Apostles visit the Stake with
us and Brother George Thatcher lets the sisters
who have not a place to store their grain have a
place in his mill, and will give it back bushel for
bushel when we want it. Excused the secretary
not having a written report on account of sick-
ness; spoke earnestly of the work for the dead.
	Pres. Olivia Widerborg, Box Elder Stake, the
President introduced her by saying she suc-
ceeded Harriet Snow who had often stood here
in her majesty, her husband's testimony on her
death bed was that she"had been faithful and true
in all thingsr" Sister Widerborg gave a good
report of the Stake etc., and spoke of the society
of Scandinavians, who had an emigration fund of
their own and had sent means and brought 42
poor sisters from the old country; said "we have
an excellent fire proof granary; and a good lot of
grain stored in it in good condition. We all feel
it is good to serve God, He has planted for us
the pearl of great price, may we all live for it."
	Counselor Jane S. Richards, President Relief
Society Weber Stake, said she was thankful for
the opportunity of coming to this Conference;
she had been all through the Conference in spirit
if not in body; "the duty of the Relief Society is
to take care of the sick and if the sick are in our
own house it is as much our duty to take care of
them." Spoke of her acquaintance with Sister
Hammond and many others of the good sisters
from a distance that had spoken during the morn-
ing; commended the brethren who had shown
her so much honor wherever she had traveled,
and in the Stake where she presided, said there is
no jealousy with us, no want of holding offices,
they are all humble; was sorry there was any
Stake where they couldn't hold conferences four
times a year, as that was President Young's
counsel and President Taylor and President
Woodruff had never said to the contrary; had
visited a number of the Stakes, every where the
brethren were kind and good; wanted to men-
tion Cassia Stake, "Sister Zina and myself went
to Kelton by train and the President of the Stake
came there to meet us; it took him two days to
come and two to return; we went with him to
Oakley where the Conference was held, traveled
there one way and came back again another way
in order to meet with the different branches of
the Society that are isolated, and we rejoiced in
the good feeling and spirit that prevailed. Presi-
dent Haight accompanied us upon our journey,
and we had an excellent time.
	President M. I Horne, Salt Lake Stake, felt
happy and pleased to hear those who came from
a distance, felt they were worthy to stand in the
positions they occupied, "example is more than
precept," the teachers in the Society should have
the spirit of God with them to comfort, encourage
and bless those whom they visit; she was glad
the Lord inspired Joseph the prophet to organize
the Relief Society; advised the sisters to hold
annual meetings, knew the results to be good;
the people will come to an annual meeting when
they could not come to regular meetings; the
sisters who are not in the Society make a grand
mistake in not becoming members; if mothers
are full of the spirit of God they will impart it to
their families, "I'm proud to say our sisters here
in this Stake are doing well, we have assisted in
emigrating some families;" made other excellent
remarks.
	Sister Louissa Jones, Sec. R. S. Beaver Stake,
said they had many calls made upon them, there
had been much sickness this season; they held
quarterly conferences, and annual meetings; we
have good times and the sisters generally are

[Column 3]

faithful and true as the sun, some who have their
names enrolled never come to a meeting, and
others never join, but there are always the few
who are on hand.
	Coun. Elizabeth B. Mitchell, R. S, Uintah
Stake, said their President was not present but
she gave a good report of the condition of that
scattered place; such a long distance away and
so far to travel that but few could come; they
were trying to keep up with the times and attend
to every duty.
	Coun. Marilla M. Daniels, R. S. Utah Stake,
said she had not expected to represent the Stake,
had been away in Manti, working in the Temple
for the dead, but knew that Pleasant Valley and
some other branches fartherest off had been
visited; had rejoiced during the Conference, there
was such an outpouring of the spirit of God in
our hearts; when the sisters can come from such
a long distance I feel that we are a host in our-
selves.
	Sister Horne gave a report of Sevier Stake
where she had visited and attended the Sisters
Conference,the sisters then were just starting out
on their regular visit up into the mountains.
	Pres. M. J. Atwood, R. S. Summit Stake spoke
of their branches in Wyoming, and that Pres.
Cluff went with them to visit there; last year
Sister Howard went and visited all the branches
with them, said they had emigrated some of the
poor with their means. "We have had several
Fairs and in this way raised money; have con-
tributed, $3,000 to the Stake Tabernacle, also
bought the pillars for the Tabernacle; the Y. L.
have helped some."
	Sister Eliza Whicker reported Millard Stake,
said their President was detained at home on ac-
count of sickness, at the last Conference they
had a very good time, all the branches had been
visited.
	Dr. R. B. Pratt Assistant Secretary read the
totals of the full report of the Relief Society.
	President Z. D. H. Young spoke tenderly in re-
membrance of Sister Eliza, her presence, and her
nobility, her great mind and grand work and said
when Pres. Woodruff says "go ahead and do as
you have done and as Sister Eliza did there
ought not to be a corner in the Territory where
there should be a wedge to break the union of
the sisters. Who are the mothers, who are to
train the statesmen; the mothers! Geo. Q.
Cannon was an orphan, he promised his mother
he would never taste liquor and he never has;
 emember this mothers, the training of a child
when young. To the mothers who are left alone
my heart goes out in pity to them, gather your
children around you, teach them, tell them Bible
stories, I've had seven of them on the bed at once
in the morning telling them stories out of the
Bible, true stories,and they would say "mother is
that true?" think of the impression, plant the
seeds of truth in them. We've got revelation
from heaven in our books, and a book hid in the
bowels of the earth,to come forth for us. Can we
come together too often? a book of remembrance
was kept of those who spoke often one to another.
Teach our daughters to pray and read the Scrip-
tures. Bishop Whitney spoke beautifully of
mothers administering; what it would save the
Elders; I wish you could all have heard him.
Humility and Obedience should be the watch-
words of the daughters of Zion. If I should never
speak to you again, remember your duties. O
how many there are who would give anything to
have some one say a comforting word to help
them.
	The saving of wheat is an important mat-
ter. When there is an organization and the Presi-
dent is chosen she should have something to say
in reference to her Counselors. Sisters when
you attend your meetings you do your work better
than when you neglect them; never speak ill of
your husbands or of the authorities of the Church;


it weakens our energies, weakens our power; the
Spirit of God makes this manifest in our hearts.
May you all take home a double interest in the
work of God. Sister Zina also spoke of the
necessity of sustaining the Hospital and also the
EXPONENT, thought agents should act efficiently
and see that we sustain our own paper, a circula-
ting medium, our only organ for the Relief
Society; felt she had much to say but was tres-
passing upon the time. Adjourned for six months.
Singing,

"O, my Father Thou that dwellest," &c.

	Benediction by Counselor B. W. Smith.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	The Third Semi-annual Conference was held
in the S. L. Assembly Hall in this City, Tuesday
Oct. 7, 1891, commencing at 10 a. m., Pres.
Zina D. H. Young presiding. Conference opened
with singing,

"Prayer is the soul's sincere desire, &c."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE ANNUAL TERRITORIAL FAIR.

	The annual Fair which closed on the 9th of this
month made a creditable showing of Utah pro-
ducts, manufactures etc., cattle, horses; and the
poultry of various kinds was remarkably fine,
and many awards were made to the producers,
and the stock raisers. All these departments
were well and carefully represented as also the
horticultural and flori-cultural departments, and
those interested in this work who carried off
prizes and premiums will no doubt make a more
successful showing another year, and others will
be stimulated to compete in excellence.
	The Art department consisting of painting,
drawing, etc., was to the writer the most attrac-
tive though perhaps not the most useful to the
Territory at large; the sculpture by Utah artists
deserves special mention, as it has been less cul-
tivated than some other branches; but Utah is
very proud of those who have attempted this
branch of work, and the representation of the
immense statue which is to be used on the cap-
stone of the East tower of the Temple, is indeed
a work of art and considering the subject and the
interest attached thereto by this people, one must
naturally feel that it should be perfection in every
detail. The statue of Brigham Young was as
true to life as any model of the kind could be and
that of Wilford Woodruff gives people an oppor-
tunity to judge for themselves whether it is like
the man himself. Surely there are young men
and women in Utah who should distinguish them-
selves in this line of artistic work. C. E. Dallin
should not carry off all the honors in the years to
come although today he stands at the head and
almost alone in this particular line of sculpture.
	In painting and drawing there were many clever
rivals, and the variety of pictures, sketches, portraits
landscapes, etc., were well worth a longer time
for exhibition. In fact one can scarcely do justice
to such a showing without being a veritable
connoisseur. It is supposable that the judges in
this department were, or at any rate they should
be thoroughly well qualified.
	The Educational department was not by any
means what it ought to have been for Utah, though
the showing of the Agricultural college at Logan
deserved praise, as also some others, Ogden
schools for instance, the Salt Lake schools as a
whole, and some work in particular, but to our
certain knowledge, much more could have been
done in this direction to good advantage.
	In the department of Woman's Work every-
thing seemed too crowded to show to advantage,
and it would be better in our humble opinion to
accord a little more room at another time; this
may seem selfish but being interested in the Utah
exhibit for the Chicago World's Fair in 1893—
we would have been glad to have seen more
showing of rare and tasteful work at the Utah
Fair; because we are sure there are many such
specimens of woman's work that  might have been
on exhibition.
	At another time we shall have more to say in
regard to both the Utah Exposition and the
World's Fair.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., AND P. A.,
REPORTS.

	COLONIA DIAZ, MEXICO.
MRS. E. B. WELLS,
		DEAR SISTER:
	We have been very remiss in sending re-
ports of our Primary Association partly
through ignorance, not knowing where to send
to. Then again we have been considerably
out of doors, so to speak, here in our new
settlements of Mexico. As you are aware the
first public building erected is a school house.
Before we had such a building, we had a
school and a Primary Association and we met
under the trees. The Diaz ward Primary
Association was organized on the 4th day of
November 1886 by Apostle George Teasdale;
and since then we have held weekly meetings.
Our first organization was as follows, Sister
Nora Savage, President; with Teressa Leavitt,
1st and Domer Johnson, 2nd Counselors; Irena
Richardson, Secretary; Hannah Mortensen,
Assistant; and Maria Mortensen, Treasurer;
and about 39 members. In 1888 we had a
reorganization, and the following named sisters
were the officers—Teressa Leavitt, President;
with Sarah Gale as 1st and Domar Adams
2nd Counselors; Hannah Mortensen, Secretary;
Herra Johnson, Assistant, and Mary Ander-
son Treasurer, with about 90 members. In
May 1889 we were again reorganized with
Sister Sarah A. Gale, President; Nellie Gru-
well 1st and Roxy Wilson 2nd Counselors;
Millie Gruwell, Secretary; Lizzie Jorgensen,
Assistant; and Lizzie Mortensen, Treasurer;
and this is our organization today, with 147
members enrolled. We have held three fairs
which were very successful in point of de-
veloping the talents of the children, surpris-
ing for a new country. Our average attend-
ance is 75. Our programmes consist of reci-
tations, readings, dialogues, questions and
answers, testimonies, speeches and songs. The
funds we receive are used for the purchase of
necessary books, stationery and contributions,
having lately donated a handsome quilt to-
wards the building of our Academy.
	We send you these few items thinking per-
haps you might deem them worthy of a place
in the valuable columns of the EXPONENT,
which we regard as an important record of
all such events. For the future we purpose
sending proper semi-annual reports.
	Your sisters in the cause of truth.
			SARAH A. GALE, Pres.
			MILLIE GRUWELL, Sec.


W. S. A. SALT LAKE CO.

	The W. S. A. of Salt Lake Co., convened in
the 13th ward Assembly Rooms, Sep. 15 1891,
Pres. Elizabeth Howard in the chair. After
prayer was offered by Elizabeth Price, Mary
A. Freeze by request of the Pres. made a brief
speech in which she said that one of our
brethren had immortalized his name in her
estimation, by giving it as his opinion that a
husband and wife should constitute a firm
from which neither should draw funds without
the consent of the other. She believed also
in women jurors, and legislators, and thought
when the time came that woman should serve
in those positions, there would be a vast differ-
ence in the laws, and that the change would
be beneficial. Spoke in glowing terms of
praise of the noble women in the world, who
were in many respects, themselves blest with
happy homes, and surrounded with comfort,
but had raised their voices in behalf of all
womankind, and that we should accept with
grateful hearts, the benefits derived from their
untiring devotion to the cause of universal
suffrage.


Ardella W. Eardley read the first article of
the Consitution of the U. S.
	Margaret A. Caine read some extracts, and
Emily S. Richards read an excellent essay on
Democracy.
	Sarah M. Kimball said she had been much
interested in Mrs. Richard's very able article
on Democracy, but if either party soould offer
Woman Suffrage, and not advocate principles
which would be for the good of the nation, she
would not join that party. Her politics were,
police matrons, insane asylum matrons, women
superintendents of reform schools, and women
legislators. Said there were perhaps some wo-
men, who could work only in a very limited
sphere, if so let them work in that sphere, but
others could benefit society by their public
labors, and had the capacity to do so, let them
do it, all men had not the ability to perform
public duties, no more than all women, let
each one do all in their power for the good of
all. Said there would be a Convention held
next month, and thought that we would be
surprised to see the progress that had been
made in this work.
	The minutes of the last meeting were read
and approved. Elizabeth Mc'Farlane read an
article on Suffrage, by Ellen Jakeman. Pres.
Howard expressed her pleasure in the exercises
of the meeting, and announced that the meet-
ing was adjourned until the third Tuesday in
Oct. at the same time and place.
			C. C. R. WELLS, Sec.


UTAH W. S. A.

	An executive session of the Utah Woman
Suffrage Association was held in the Four-
teenth Ward Assembly rooms October 3rd, at
ten o'clock. Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie chair-
man.
	Mrs. Howard was appointed chaplain and
opened the meeting with prayer. The minutes
of the executive meeting held April 3rd, were
read and adopted.
	A compilation of the national and territorial
by-laws designed to govern the Utah associa-
tions were read and discussed by sections and
adopted as printed below. The duties of
honorary vice presidents were defined, on sug-
gestion of Maria Y. Dougall. The nomination
of territorial officers was held with the follow-
ing result; President, Sarah M. Kimball; Sec-
retary, Ada Croxall; Cor. Sec., Julia Taplor;
Ass't. Cor. Sec., Nellie Little; Treasurer,
Margery Dwyer; Auditor Dr. E. S. Barney;
Chairman Ex. Com., Phebe Y. Beatie; vice-
presidents; First, Emily Richards; second
Ann Groesbeck; third, Caroline Dye; Emmeline
B. Wells, chairman publishing committee.
	The following are the names of the Terri-
torial honorary vice-presidents, whose duties
and privileges are defined by the constitution:
Zina D. Young, Jane S. Richards, Bathsheba
Smith, M. Isabella Horne, Emmeline B. Wells,
Elmina S. Taylor, Mary A. Freeze, Maria Y.
Dougall, Emily H. Woodmansee, Augusta J.
Crocheron, Ellen Jakeman, Lula G. Richards,
Mrs. Haymond.

	The Territorial Woman Suffrage Convention
convened Oct. 3rd, 1891, at 2 p. m., in the
14th Ward Assembly Rooms of Salt Lake
City. The hall was decorated with stars and
stripes and above the stand hung two large
portraits of Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Susan
B. Anthony.
	Pres. Sarah M. Kimball presided. The
Convention was opened by prayer, offered by
Zina D. H. Young.
	M. A. Y. Greenhalgh was elected temporary
chairman while the Territorial officers who
were nominated in the Executive Session were
placed before the Convention. They were
then confirmed.


[Column 1]

	Sarah M. Kimball having been unanimously
sustained as President, again resumed her
position and also made a few remarks.
	The revised Constitution was read by Emily
Richards.

ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION.
	Article I. This Association shall be called
the Woman Suffrage Association of Utah, and
the officers and delegates shall pay an initia-
tion fee of 50 cents.
	Article II. The object of this Association
shall be to work for the enfranchisement of all
women without regard to party, sect or creed,
and to take such steps from time to time as
shall be wise and expedient for the political
advancement of woman.
	Article III. Sec. 1. The officers of this
Association shall be a president, three vice-
presidents, a secretary, corresponding secretary
and treasurer, with an executive committee of
not less than five, and two auditors. The
officers named in this section shall be nomi-
nated at the business session preceding the
annual convention. The three persons receiv-
ing the highest number of votes for any office
shall be considered the nominees of said con-
vention for such office.
	Sec. 2. The officers of this Association
with the executive committee shall elect an-
nually from the veterans of the cause, hon-
orary vice-presidents, who shall have all the
privileges of other vice-presidents, and whose
duty it shall be to advance the cause.
	Artical IV.—Sec. 1. the officers of this
association with the executive committee shall
have power to change, or amend the by-laws
and regulations at an executive session, and
such changes or amendment, shall be submitted
at the regular meeting where they may be
adopted by a majority vote.
	Sec. 2. They shall also devise plans of
work suited to the development and progress
of the association, and encourage young people
to speak, write essays, and discuss questions
upon political matters and civil government
and such other subjects as relate thereto.
	Article V.—Sec. 1. All county associa-
tions organized throughout Utah may become
auxiliary to this association by adopting this
constitution and that of the National Ameri-
can Woman Suffrage Association, and paying
annually their percentage specified in the basis
of representation.
	Sec. 2. The president of such association shall
be considered a vice president of the Utah Wo-
man Suffrage Association, and will be expected
to attend conventions, report progress, have a
voice in electing of officers, and entitled to all
the privileges pertaining thereto.
	Article VI. The names of the delegates to
the annual convention of the National Ameri-
can Woman Suffrage Association at Washing-
ton shall be nominated at the executive sessions
of the association, and be presented to the
annual convention, where they shall be elected
by a formal vote.
	Article VII.—All official papers and docu-
ments shall be signed by the President and
Secretary, or in the absence of the President
the Vice-President next in order. All official
correspondence must be signed by the chair-
man of the executive committee, or the presi-
dent and corresponding secretary.

BASIS OF REPRESENTATION.
	Sec. 1. To comply with the constitution of
the National American Woman Suffrage Asso-
ciation and that of the Utah Association in
Article Five (5) ten cents per member is re-
quired to become auxiliary to the Utah Wo-
man Suffrage Association, and ten cents to be
forwarded to the National American Woman
Suffrage Association at Washington.
	Sec. 2. It shall be the duty of the treasurer
of each auxiliary association to send to the

[Column 2]

treasurer of the Utah Woman Suffrage Asso-
ciation at Salt Lake City, a list certified to by
its recording secretary of the members of said
organization, with their annual percentage be-
fore October 1st of each year.
	Sec. 3. The corresponding secretary shall
send to the auxiliary association notice before-
hand to prepare a report of work done by said
auxiliary, and a notice of the necessity that
said auxiliary shall send this and lists of
names and addresses of members to the treas-
urer of the Utah Woman Suffrage Association
before Otober 1st.
	Sec. 4. All officers of the Utah Woman
Suffrage Association shall be ex-officio dele-
gates at large, and every such officer shall be
entitled to vote in all business meetings of
county associations.
	The officers of this association with the ex-
ecutive board and chairman of the publishing
committee, shall constitute a standing com-
mittee to transact all business, and shall also
fill any vacancy that may occur in itself dur-
ing the interim of annual meetings.
	Adjourned till 2 p. m., to meet in con-
vention.

	The Woman Suffrage Association met at 2
o'clock October 3rd at the Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Hall according to adjournment.
	The minutes of the previous Convention held
in April 1891, were read and accepted.
	Reports being called for from the delegates
from the different counties, Elizabeth Howard
of Salt Lake County was the first to respond.
She stated that nearly two hundred members
were enrolled but that only a small portion of
them attended the meetings regularly also that
those few had given very efficient help.
	Joanna Patten of Utah County said there
were many good organizations in that county,
that two meetings were held per month at
which the Constitution of U. S. was studied.
	Mrs. Stanford of Weber County reported
that there were over two hundred members in
that county and that interesting meetings were
held all summer. Victor Hugo had said that
the nineteenth Century was the century for
women and she also felt confident the time
would soon come when women would be at
the front.
	Millard County was represented by M. A.
Y. Greenhalgh. Although it was but a small
county the members numbered over 300 peo-
ple, and there were local associations in all
the settlements except two. Spoke of the
efficient help given, not only by women but
men also, in sending her as delegate to Wash-
ington.
	Lucy A. Clark of Davis County said there
were four associations there and more to be
taken up. As in other counties they had
been making a study of Civil Government.
	Ellen Jakeman of Sanpete County although
not a delegate from there, gave some informa-
tion concerning the associations there.
	Morgan County was reported upon by E. C.
E. Francis. That being the smallest county
and the people very scattered, it was rather a
difficult matter to get the ladies together but
meetings were held quarterly in Morgan City.
	Emily Richards having been requested to
speak on the World's Fair, did so and ex-
horted those present to use their influence in
getting their sisters to send their best work.
Was too  much of a suffragist to pass by that
therefore she spoke a few words on
Woman Suffrage.
	Pres. Kimball also spoke a short time on
the World's Fair.
	On motion the Convention was adjourned
"sine die."
			ADA CROXALL, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A preacher with the big head is a man the
devil loves to look at.


THE TRAINING OF A NURSE.

BY MARY CADWALADER JONES.

	The "railroad beds" are still unmade.
(A "railroad bed" is one that is unoccupied
during the day, and therefore as it were,
"shunted" and only rolled out at night. They
stand close together in the middle of the ward.)
Occasionally we have a convalescent patient
who can do this part of the work very well.
We had one in this ward last week, but alas,
for the frailty of human nature, she showed
a disposition to quarrel with the other patients
on very small pretexts, so she was dismissed.
With a rueful thought of what might have
been, I go to work at the beds. A patient
goes ahead and strips them for me. We work
with all our might, and they are finished at
ten minutes past nine. The side beds, too,
are nearly finished. This part of the work
necessarily takes much longer, as sick patients
have to be placed in chairs and wrapped up
in blankets, or, if they are too weak, lifted
into other beds, so that their own can be 
made.
	My next work is to take morning tempera-
tures; when I have finished this I see a large
tin can standing near my table. It contains
crackers, butter, eggs, and sugar. These
have to be put away in their proper place,
and the quantity noted. Now, I must write
my diet-sheet, and order the supplies necessary
for to-morrow. It is twenty-five minutes past
nine, the beds are all made, the stands in
order, the floor swept, and the table scrubbed.
The junior nurses are obout through with
washing faces and combing heads, and it is
now high time that I should make a round of
the ward and find out if there is any change in
the patients' condition to which the doctor's
attention should be called.
	While this has been going on the gruel and
milk have been standing on the table, and the
distribution of this falls to my share to-day
also, as I have no senior nurse. Each bed-
patient who cares for it is served with a
portion on a tray; afterward the walking
patients seat themselves at the table and take
theirs. Now the doctors come in to make
their morning visit, the house doctor is told of
any special complaints; he examines these
patients, also any new ones who may not
yet be under treatment, and leaves the new 
orders on my book.
	While doing this work all morning, I have
been trying to keep an eye on what my helpers
are doing, and now take this time to make a
thorough inspection of all parts of the ward,
bath-room included. In the meantime the
special diet has been divided among the
patients needing it most. At eleven o'clock
tonics are given out, afterwards eggnogs and
milk-punches are made and distributed.
	We now begin to breathe freely—the worst
pressure is over if we get no new patient.
Our hopes along that line are doomed to
disappointment, for the helpers from the
woman's bath-room now announce the arrival
of two new patients, and Miss W. disappears
to superintend their bathing.
	I am congratulating myself on not having a
"stretcher case" at any rate, when two men
come in with one. Miss A. quickly places
screens round a bed, and a rubber sheet over
the clean bedclothes. The woman is lifted on
the bed and her temperature, pulse etc. taken.
Her own clothes are soon removed, and a
warm sponge-bath given and hair combed.
These operations have effected a wonderful
change in her appearance, and she now looks
a little more like a Caucasian, whereas, be-
fore the bath, she might have belonged to
one of the darker races of mankind.
	The doctor is notified that there are three
new patients in the ward. It is twelve


[Column 1]

o'clock; Miss A. and I go to dinner, and leave
Miss W. to superintend the patients meal,
and give out medicines afterward. We return
at one o'clock, and Miss W. goes, with the
right to remain off duty till four o'clock.
	The ward is now to be swept again and
put in order for the afternoon. This is
hardly accomplished when two huge bundles
of clothes are carried in, and in ten minntes
time two more. These have to be sorted
and counted. Before we proceed to the fold-
ing of them the afternoon milk and other
extras are given out. That done and the
table cleared, we fold the clothes as quickly
as we can. In due time this is finished, Miss
A. is making a poultice in the bath-room,
and I am putting the clothes in the closet,
when some one calls "Nurse, nurse!" I turn
to see where the sound comes from, and
notice several patients pointing to a bed in
the far corner of the ward. I hurry down
and find the patient's clothes saturated with
blood—a hemorrhage from the lungs. Screens
are immediately placed round the bed, cracked
ice given, and the doctor summoned. He
comes at once, the flow of blood seems to
have ceased, medicine is ordered, and the
doctor goes. The patient's clothes are now
changed very carefully, and she is made as
comfortable as possible. The screens are
just put away when another stretcher is
brought in, and Miss W. who has now re-
turned gives the usual treament.
	It is time for the afternoon tonics, and
eggnogs and punches are again distributed;
after this I take advantage of a few spare
minutes to enter the names and addresses of
patients in a book kept for the purpose.
Discharged patients are also marked off
	The patients have supper between half-
past four and five. At half-past five Miss A.
retires from the ward, the remaining time till
half-past seven being hers to rest.  In the 
meantime the doctor has been in and left a few
orders.
	The giving out of the evening medicines
falls to me, while Miss W. attends to the
patients' needs in other ways. If I had a
fourth nurse I might be relieved from duty;
but it cannot be thought of now. This is
the evening for carbolizing the side beds; the
helpers do this, while we follow and restore
things to order. The rest of the time till
half-past seven is spent in making patients
comfortable for the night, and writing down
new orders and notes on the patients' condi-
tion for the night nurse. We are quite
willing to deliver her the keys when she
comes in, and bid her good-night, while we
go home tired enough to sleep soundly."
	Charity Hospital, as I have said, has chiefly
chronic cases. The work in the accident or
emergency hospitals is somewhat different, as
will be seen by the following notes:
	Leaving the Island at 7  A. M., after
three quarters of an hour's ride in boat and
car, I reach Gouverneur Hospital. On my
arrival I receive from the night nurse both a
verbal and written account of all that has
happened of importance during the night—
arrival of new patients, serious symptons
which may have developed in certain cases,
new orders which have been given by the
doctor, or old ones which may have been
countermanded, etc.
	Then begins the work of the day. The
ward is thoroughly scrutinized, to discover
little things which the helpers are apt to do
slightingly, or not to do at all, stands are
dusted, clean covers and curtains put on; if
necessary; every patient and bed must under-
go thorough inspection.
	Everything is done as quickly as possible,
for the "visiting" may be looked for at any
time after 9 A. M., and it is the ambition of
each nurse to have her ward spotlessly clean.

[Column 2]

	I have six pneumonia cases, who are
poulticed regularly every three hours; they
are also kept on milk diet, and, of course,
require particular attention. I have just
finished putting on the last poultice when
the "visiting" comes in, followed by the
house surgeons, senior and junior. I ac-
company them to the different beds, ready to
receive all orders, and impart any information
which may be required of me. During the
rounds of the physicians, an ambulance call is
given; in due time the man is carried in on
a stretcher; I rush to prepare a bed, which
consists in turning down the covers, and
protecting the whole with a rubber sheet;
with the assistance of one of the helpers the
patient is placed in bed. It proves to be a
poisoning case. As quick as possible I get
ready pitchers of tepid water, a pail, and a
stomach-pump. The doctor then begins his
operations, and I stand near to assist him.
If the patient is very weak, I administer
stimulants hypodermically; an emetic is given.
Fortunately, the case has been attended to in
time, and is soon out of all immediate danger,
although very weak. A little boy has been
brought in with hand and wrist literally
pulverized; the poor little fellow's cries are 
heartrending; an anaesthetic is administered, I
carefully sponge the blood away from the
injured parts, get ready the different solutions,
gauzes, bandages, splints, etc., and stand
near to assist in any way that I can. (I took
care of the little boy for six weeks after that,
and he was seut home cured, having lost but
two fingers.)
	Standing by waiting his turn, is a stone-
cutter. He must have taken his thumb for a
stone, for he has simply hammered it off. The
compression of his lips and the pallor of his
face give evidence of the pain he is suffering.
A thin piece of skin on one side keeps the
thumb from being entirely severed from the
hand; the doctor replaces it and sews it on,
but eventually to save the hand it has to be
amputated.
	Fortunately there are no more accident
cases on hand and I am free once more to
attend to my other patients. I give out the
three-hour medicines, renew my poultices, and
take the temperature, pulse, and respiration
of the patient that came in about an hour
ago; but finding his temperature normal, I
let him remain seated until the doctor
comes in.
	After dinner I give out the noon medicines,
examine the beds of the helpless patients, and
find out from them if there is anything I can
do to add to their comfort. After attending
to their wants, and performing numberless
duties which it would be impossible for me
to relate, I finally feel satisfied that every
patient was comfortable; then I tear up
bandages, which are given to the convalescent
patients to roll; prepare solutions and different
kinds of gauzes to be used during operations;
in the meantime keeping a watchful eye on
all around, so that no patient shall suffer
from want of attention.
	About 4 P. M. I have to take the tempera-
ture, pulse, and respiration of each patient,
which, in  a ward where there are twenty,
takes quite a length of time. After the
temperatures are taken I see that each patient
has his supper, then write an account of all the
orders I have received, which are to be con-
tinued during the night, renew the poultices,
give out the medicines, see that the ward is
in perfect order, and am relieved at 6 P. M. by
the night nurse."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A man has no more right to say an uncivil
thing than to act one; no more right to say a
rude thing to another than to hnock him down.
Johnson.


Liberality consists not so much in giving a
great deal, as in giving seasonably.—Bruyere.
	Better is a dinner of herbs where love is
than a stalled ox and hatred therewith.—Solo-
mon.


DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP
Will commence another class in
Obstetrics and Nursing,
on
Monday, Octobor 19th, 1891,
AT HER OFFICE,
No. 18 S. MAIN STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
THE  WOMAN’S  TRIBUNE,
Edited and published weekly at Washington,
D. C., by Clara Bewick Colby.
Price, SI.00 a year. Trial Subscriptions, five
weeks for 10 cents.
The Woman's Journal, of Boston, and the Woman's Tri-
bune, of Washington, D. C., will be sent to one ad-
dress for $3.00 per year.
MRS. M. E. VAN. M. D.
OFFICE.—324, 325 Third Floor, Constitution Building ,
HOURS.—8 to 10 a. m., 4 to 6 p. m.
Woman’s Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles. Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed.
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping don[-] to order. But-
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 63 E. FIRST ST SOUTH STREET,
Three doors west of Theatre. 
R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail 
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS
Special to the Ladies,
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found th[-] latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
DAVD JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 20.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH NOVEMBER 1, 1891.		NO. 8. 9


CONTENTS.

	The leaves Are Falling—Aunt Em. In Rural
England. Address by Aurelia S. Rogers. R.
S., Y. L. M. I. A., and P. A. Reports. W. S. A.
Salt Lake Co.—C. C. R. Wells. Pacific Coast
Woman's Press Association—M. Taylor. The
Training of a Nurse—Mary Cadwalader Jones.
Earnestness is Power. Obstetrics and Nursing.
Notes and News. Miscellaneous.
	Editorial:—The Blessings of To-day. Edi-
torial Notes. In Sacred Remembrance—C. D. P.
In Memory of Jane M. Walton.
	Poetry:— Life Worth Living— Western
Christian Advocate. Widowed—Lu Dalton.
Loving Words—The Woman's Journal. A Per-
fect Day—Ella Gilbert Ives.


LIFE WORTH LIVING.

Is life worth living? Yes, to him that lives:
	Whose soul hath caught the music of the spheres;
	Who o'er all earth-jars, heavenly music hears,
And to attune his life thereunto strives.
Is life worth living? Ay, to him that gives 
	His life to God through few or many years;
	Come talents one or ten; come faith or fears;
Come freedom's glorious strength or prison gyves.
God give thy sons to live love-leavened lives,
	To lift themselves to Thee by lifting others,
To know that charity the spirit shrives,
	That selfishness the fire from heaven smothers;
To know that he that lives is he who gives,
	Who counts the world his home, all men his brothers!
				Western Christian Advocate.


WIDOWED.

O Death, thou grim and ghastly shade
	With brow of blackest gloom,
Thou'st changed to haunted dark my day,
	To deep midnight my noon!
I lay upon this silent heart
	My dazed and throbbing head,
Believing not that we must part—
	Denying he is dead
Oh speak! thou dearest friend of mine,
	This awful silence break!
Shake off this dreadful sleep of thine!
	To life and love awake!
'Tis I, my love, low at thy side
I kneel to kiss thy hand;
	I find it clammy, cold and white;—
I cannot understand.

Go quickly! bring my children near,
	His tenderness to claim;
He never yet has failed to hear
	When they called father's name.

In vain—in vain—they call in vain.
	Nor sobs nor tears will move—
Is death so like cold, cold disdain?
	Does death extinguish love?

O, quiet hands and eyelids pale,
	O brow so white and chill,
O ears that heed not orphans' wail,
	O heart so cold and still,
O lips that answer not my kiss,
	Breathe not one kindly word,
Is death so cruel, hard as this
	By no entreaties stirred?

The giddy earth reels 'neath my feet,
	The skies grow black o'erhead;
And through the throbbing darkness beat
	The words My love is dead.


I, grasping blindly, blindly clasp
	My orphans to my breast,
Lest life slip through my failing grasp
	And leave them twice bereft.

God pity my poor little ones,
	And make my weakness strong;
My shrinking heart with pain is numb,
	And dread forebodings throng;
My faltering feet are loth to tread
	The hard and thorny way
Which seems through clouds and darkness spread
	Beyond my sight away.
			LU DALTON.


[Column 1]

THE LEAVES ARE FALLING.

	The falling of the leaves has a tendency to
impress us with serious thoughts, to remind us
that all things decay, that life itself is full of
changes and we are ourselves only hastening
on to that season when "we shall fade as the
leaf," but notwithstanding all the significance
of the Autumn and the falling leaves, one who
revels in the beauties of nature must admire
and enjoy this glorious season though the
woods do grow "brown and sere."
	It is the sentiment the Autumn carries with
it too that speaks in language unmistakeable
to the susceptible soul of those things that
beautify as well as typify human life. Aside
from animal life there is nothing  more human
than the trees they speak in all languages,
they sing, they whisper, they dance, and play,
and flirt, and coquette, and array themselves
gaily, gorgeously at times as though conscious
of power, and when their leaves are falling
they moan as though in mortal agony; the
wind is the music to which they keep time,
discordant often, but could the wind play as it
does, could it make such music if there were
no trees, no leaves to flaunt and flirt about?
And even when they have fallen, and lie like a
heavy carpet upon the ground, the savage
wind routs them about again hither and
thither at will.
	The poet tells us that the falling of the
leaves brings regrets for the beauties and joys
that are past, and passing away from us. It
is good to be reminded of the sweetness we
only half enjoyed, and if a tinge of sadness
mingles with it—the deeper it will sink into
our hearts and lives, and the more telling will
be the lesson it will teach. We all need re-
minding of the "sunny hours" that pass all too
quickly, and if we had no shadows, no contrast
but were always basking in light and sunshine
we should not even know it was the perfec-
tion of beauty what would we know of day-
break if there was no night, would we rejoice
as we do in the roseate dawn of each glorious
morning if we had not felt the shadows and
the darkness? Certainly not; we can all
answer—and would we have the splendor of
the gorgeous sun sets, were it not that day
is departing and night coming on. And if it
were always summer, we should not drink in
as we do the resplendent glories of the
Autumn.
	The Autumnal tints of the foliage are quite
beyond the art of the painter; the hills are
literally crowned with purple glory, shaded
with a mantle of beauty like "Joseph's coat of
many colors." We gaze and admire, and turn
and look again in wonder and amazement,
and we try to carry in our hearts and interpret
in our lives the language conveyed to our

[Column 2]

souls, by the beauties of the hills, the fields,
the trees, the woods, the trailing vines—and
we cannot grasp it all, but little by little we
are learning to interpret in our weak way, the
wondrous things that pass human wisdom and
understanding.
	Possibly there is no other season of the
year so rich in the lessons it teaches as the
fall—the death of the flowers, the falling of
the leaves, the mournful sighing of the wind,
all these are like sorrows, and warn us that
we too are frail and may soon be touched by the
frosts of time, and pass away, that we too must
finally die, and yet these things teach us we
shall live again, for every flower and tree and
bulb and vine contains the germ of life with-
in that shall spring forth again in all its pris-
tive beauty according to its time and season.
And yet we know so little, and we pay little
heed to that which admonishes us of our weak-
ness, nor do we consider as we should wherein
lies our strength. There is no season of the
year, no day, nor night, nor anything that
God has planned but contains lessons of beauty
of wisdom and of truth that would make us
nobler, better, more loving and tender if we
would study as we should the application it
bears to the human side of our lives upon the
earth. This is a beautiful world, and filling
our lives up with beautiful deeds, and shedding
around us the fragrance of loving words and
happy smiles, will do much to beautify the
paths of others who have not had so much of
sweetness mingled in the cup of life given
them to drink. Speak of the beautiful and
true, keep these before you, make these your
guides and talisman and the touch of enchant-
ment will be yours to gild the lives of your
friends and associates.
			AUNT EM.


IN RURAL ENGLAND.

V

	Sir Edward Hilliard sitting in dressing
gown and slippers in his luxurious apartments
was a striking type of the English aristocrat of
the last century. It was a cold, raw November
day, he was now getting on famously, his
appetite was good and he slept well, thanks to
the good nursing, the Dr. said, and yet, one
familiar with his countenance would observe
that he was troubled. it was his mind more
than his body that hindered his entire recovery;
he was low-spirited, almost melancholy on this
dull leaden morning, as he sat facing the
fire.
	Miss Conway had occasionally reminded
Dr. Bland that her uncle was quite well
enough to be made acquainted with the secret
she had inadvertently entrusted to him, and
that morning after leaving the convalescen's
room the Dr. had replied to her questioning
"all in good time, leave that to me, don't
venture upon such dangerous ground again,
another such scene might be his death."
Miss Conway felt "better his death han his
daughter's dishonor;" but she checked herself
and replied, "Dr. Bland I will not remain in
this house, unless my uncle is soon informed of
the true condition of the matter, which weighs
so heavily on my mind."
	"In that case Miss Conway you would leave
this uuprotected girl without a single female
friend to advise her, is that your idea of right?
she is your cousin, you are of one family, you


[Column 1]
﻿confess you have not spoken freely to her,
love will do more than anger, her father may
drive her to take a step she will never cease
to regret; perchance you may be a savior, try
what love will do for this misguided cousin of
yours."
	Miss Conway burst into tears, the Dr. waited,
and when she found voice, she said, “I will
make another effort to dissuade her from
clinging to the remembrance of this fascination
she seems to have for Maitland Walton.
Who he is I know not except that Anna tells
me he is of good family, proud and wealthy,
and his mother is a queen in society.”
	"You did not tell me his name before, now I
can understand better why he comes unbidden,
thereby hangs a tale, a love affair in the days
past and gone, and it seems uncommonly
strange that young Walton should find his
way here, and fall in love with Lady Anna,
his mother cannot possibly know it, and now
my mission I find is indeed a hard one.”
	"Dear me," and the Doctor looked very
serious, “could it be Sir Edward mistrusted
who this intruder was, on that inauspicious
morning when he fell senseless to the floor.”
	Miss Conway bewildered almost by what
the Dr. had said, began to realize how
complicated the affair was growing to be, and
she scarcely knew whether she ought not to
fly from it all and seclude herself somewhere,
leaving fate to do its worst. In this state of
mind Dr. Bland left her; both were puzzled,
and wanted time to reflect in fact to be
alone; for when some weighty matter must be
adjusted, it should be looked at on all sides
and so thought Dr. Bland, as he rode slowly
homeward muttering all the way to himself, a
habit he had when much disturbed. Miss
Conway was sitting in the library after this
conversation pondering upon what had been
said, and dreading to go up to her uncle’s
room, when in flew her cousin in great haste,
her face in a glow of excitement her large
lustrous eyes beaming with delight, her silken
robe trailing gracefully and holding in her
dainty white hands a letter. “See cousin mine,
Mr. Walton has written me the sweetest letter
I have ever read, can you doubt him now?
He will soon be able to declare himself openly,
and asks me to tell you; he has some business
affairs of his own to arrange, and if by that
time his mother still refuses to allow him his
own choice, then he will brave her displeasure;”
the enthuastic girl could scaacely control her
voice she was so elated with her first love
letter and with the idea that she could now
silence all her cousin’s objections; she believed
as sincerely in her lover’s fidelity as though he
had made an honorable proposal.
	Cousin Jade stood aghast while the excited
girl reiterated the assertions of this ardent
young man, and when she paused to take
breath exclaimed, “And you believe all this,
and will go on trusting him without inform-
ing your father?”
	Lady Anna had not expected this, she
thought the letter which so delighted her would
satisfy even the punctilious cousin.
	Take the letter to your father dear Anna,
he will be able to judge of this young man’s
motives, men of his experience are far-sighted
in these things, and do not decide hastily, he
may know the family of this young man and
that is something, depend upon it in any case
he will give the best advice regarding the
interest of his own child!’’
	"My dear cousin I cannot, I am under the
most sacred promise not to reveal our friend-
ship;—you accidently learned of it through
some suspicion, and followed me"—here
Lady Anna paused and turned deathly pale,
her cousin feeling the conversation was likely
to result, in a scene, which might prove
disastrous to her own calculations, changed
the subject by saying, ‘‘I must go and attend

[Column 2]
to your father shall I tell him of the letter ”
“No, No, wait until he is well and by that
time, there will be a change in affairs and
Mr. Walton will speak out; I hope so at all
events for unless he does I may be away; by
the bye, my father mentioned the other day
that he should go abroad as soon as he had
recovered sufficiently, and take you and I with
him, be wants to spend the winter in Italy or
some warm climate how would you like that?”
	“I should like, it very much indeed, and I
believe it would be beneficial to your health
dear, and besides travel improves and develops
one’s mind wonderfully and I have always
had a desire to see the continent, and have
never yet had an opportunity of journeying
anywhere except in England.” Each of the
young girls had tried to divert the other's
attention from the subject heretofore under
discussion, and for a moment it really was in
part forgotten, by the thoughts of travel.
Those were not the days of fast trains and
steamers and a journey to France or Italy was
quite a serious matter.
	Further conversation was interrupted by the
maid who came to summon them both to the
Baronet’s room; they hastened with some
trepidation not knowing what the call was for,
and both of them fearing they knew not what.
Once inside Sir Edward burst forth complain-
ingly—about being left alone, on such a dis-
mal morning reproaching his daughter bitterly
for her lack of affection for “her poor old father,”
and declaring in the most vehement
language, that he would leave the house as
soon as he could get out, and she should be
left alone, adding “and I’ll see that you are
kept within proper bounds, there shall be no
gay young men coming here when I’m away,
your cousin shall take you in charge.” Lady
Anna was so shocked and bewildered that she
lost her self possession entirely and dropped
the letter she had been trying to conceal upon
the floor. “What’s that” almost screamed her
father, “a letter, let me have it! Jane that letter
hand it to me!” Anna was pale as ashes, she
sank down upon the nearest chair, while her-
cousin picked up the offensive little white-
winged messenger, and with all the composure
possible placed it in her uncle’s hands. “A
man’s hand and addressed to my child without
my consent, the scoundrel, how dare he,” and
his hands shook, "here Jane read this to me,
and mind you read it correctly, stay fetch me
my glass. I’ll read for myself—and adjusting
the glass he looked at the signature, it was
enough—it was his turn now, his face grew
livid with passion, his niece called far help,
and without a word he was carried to bed still
holding tight in his grasp the letter, turning
his face to the wall, he lay for hours without
speaking.
	Miss Conway waited with fear and tremb-
ling, and Anna sat sobbing and crying like a
child, where she had seated herself when she
dropped the letter that had caused all the
trouble—finally seeing no sign of any recogni-
tion on the part of this strong man stricken
down instantaneously—Jane left the room
followed closely by her cousin who was so
over-whelmed with emotion that she could not
restrain her anguish any longer, but clung to
her cousin, and, begged her to intercede with
her father for forgiveness. "I dare not speak
to him myself his temper is so violent, many
a time have I seen him in a towering passion
over trifles, you who are so brave and good he
might listen to, but not to me.” When he has
had time to think, and when he has read the
letter then I will try what can be done, mean-
time we must see Dr. Bland and inform him
of your father’s condition." Miss Conway did
not tell her cousin what she suspected, that
there was some special enmity between the two
families; the Hilliards and the Waltons, but she
was convinced of it now even more fully than

[Column 3]
when the Dr. had first aroused her suspicious
but she did not yet understand the situation,
and she hesitated to give her views even when
her cousin urged her to tell her what she
should do.
	The Dr. came and Miss Conway had an in-
terview with him before he went to her uncle’s
room; she told him all that had transpired—
“it is better so, it must have come sooner or
later, and as it has happened, he knows how
matters stand without being told, and his
pride will not suffer as much, I am heartily
glad, he will not use any harshness depend
upon it, make your mind easy on that score;
after I have seen him, I will speak to you
again,” and the Dr. lit his pipe and left
room.
	Left to herself Jane soliloquized something
after this fashion, “my uncle is reaping the
fruits of his own neglect, he has been more at-
tentive to his hounds and his horses, than to his
own daughter, and now he has cause to repent
his indifference and it may be for the best
after all, though we must all suffer for his folly,
and poor Anna most of all."
	The Dr. remained up stairs for hours, and
refreshments with plenty of wine were served
for them, in the Baronet’s apartments and
when Dr. Bland came into the drawing room
to speak to Miss Conway he seemed in high
spirits, and his good humor put the young wo-
man more at her ease, “have no fears,” he said
“the old Baronet’s pride has had a severe blow
he has been used to having everything his own
way so long, nobody to cross him, and to find
his own little girl has ignored his parental
authority altogether, why he seems to think
the whole household has been in a conspiracy
against him even you, Miss Conway—I stayed
with him until he got cooled off, and convinced
him how anxious you had been that he should
understand the peculiar nature of Miss Anna’s
attachment. Mind you it was not so much the
letter as the man; he is the son of his sworn
enemy, once his successful rival, and how can
a man like Sir Edward ever forget such an
injury, its in the blood, pride and resentment;
though he swore savagely at first and vowed
vengeance on the young scapegrace as he
called him.
	My cousin Anna seems wholly devoid of
this sort of pride, and yet she is an aristocrat
every inch of her,  it is plainly visible in
every movement,” “Your cousin is a woman
and has all the natural instincts and the
refinement of a true lady not so much from
education and training, as she inherits by birth
the gentle blood that tells through genera-
tions.” Dr. Bland and Miss Conway talked
seriously of this affair between the two young
people and the decision they arrived at was
that as soon as possible Sir Edward must
be induced to take his daughter to the conti-
nent, “and you” said the Dr. to the young wo-
man, “ought to accompany her, though my own
feelings 
would prompt me to keep, you here.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


The Business Woman's Journal, for October,
contains fine portraits of John and Isabella
Hooker, with an account of their golden wed-
ding anniversary. Other original articles of
interest are "Women in Government Offices
at Washington," by Emily L. Sherwoed;
"Advice to Mothers," by Madame F DeHart,
M. D. "Women on the Wheel" by Mary
Barton Lamberton "Women and Women's
Clubs in California," by Emelie T. Y.
Parkhurst and Ella B. Smedley; "Popular
Ignorance of Fine Architectural Effects," by
Miss Minerva Parker. and "New England
Newspaper Women," by "Jean Kincaid."
The editor, Miss Mary F. Seymour, begins a
series of lessons in phonography in this
number.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LOVING WORDS.

Loving words will cost but little,
	Journeying up the hill of life;
But they make the weak and weary
	Stronger, braver for the strife.
Do you count them only trifles?
	What to earth are sun and rain?
Never was a kind word wasted;
	Never one was said in vain.
When the cares of life are many,
	And its burdens heavy grow
For the ones who walk beside you,
	If you love them tell them so.
What you count of little value
	Has an almost magic power;
And beneath that cheering sunshine
	Hearts will blossom like a flower.
So, as up life's hill we journey,
	Let us scatter all the way
Kindly words, to be as sunshine
	In the dark and cloudy day.
Grudge no loving word my brother,
	As along through life you go,
To the ones who journey with you;
	If you love them tell them so,
	The Woman's Journal.


A PERFECT DAY.

BY ELLA GILBERT IVES.

O beautiful! October's flower
	Of days!
For one consummate hour
	She stays,—
Fleet-footed loveliness!—
And with a swift caress,
Brief, boundless, holds me to her heart of fire,
And kindles high desire 
For the Ideal Beauty: nothing less
Will satisfy the heart that on her breast
Has felt the flame of a divine unrest. 
The passionate tumult of her being thrills
	My coarser clay;
And, as the tide refills
	The arid bay, 
This rich life-current all my being floods, 
And lifts me to the level of high moods.
O'er purpling hills she glides,
	Enchanting day!
Her misty robe half hides 
	And half reveals 
Her loveliness. A shadow steals
Across her mobile face.
She cannot, if she would, retrace
	Or longer stay
Her steps. In swift pursuit
I follow on, enamored of her mute
	Alluring ways.
She scatters gems and gold,—
This millionaire of days,— 
With royal largess, knowing that her hold 
	Of life is brief;
With Midas-touch, each beggar bush
	And suppliant vine 
She changes to a thing divine;
And over all a holy hush
Doth brood,—a joy akin to grief,
As now she nears the golden gate
That never backward swings.
One moment more, too late! too late?
Despairing love my spirit wings;
She turns, and mirrored in her face,
The light of other worlds I see;
The source of her enchanting grace
At last an unveiled mystery.
One moment, infinite! behold!
She passes through the gates of gold
That never backward turn.
	I cannot follow yet,
	The bound is set.
But, O defeated spirit! learn
That for ideal grace to yearn
	Is good;


The glory flashed from those blue eyes,
To lure thee to thy native skies,
Was something more than sweet surprise, —
	A new beautitude!
	The Woman’s Journal.


ADDRESS BY AURELIA S. ROGERS.

ON THE ORGANIZATION OF PRIMARIES.

	Having been called upon to give an address
I will try and do so, trusting that I may be
directed by the right spirit.
	The first Primary Association was organized
in Farmington, Davis Co., Utah on the 11th
of Aug. 1878,—with Aurelia S. Rogers,Presi-
dent; Louisa Haight and Helen M. Miller,
Counselors; Rhoda H. Richards Secretary; and
Clara A. Leonard, Treasurer. As the move
was a new one our Bishop, John W. Hess,
suggested that we visit the ward and get the
names of all the children between the ages of
five and fourteen years, which was accordingly
done; a meeting was then appointed which
was the commencement of Primaries. Soon
afterwards a Primary was organized in the
11th ward, Salt Lake City, with Louie Felt,
President.
	The aim and object of these meetings, is not
for me to speak upon today, but it is probably
well known that your humble servant was an
instrument in the hands of God in helping to
bring them about. Although I may have been
the originator of the idea of such a move, to
Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith should be given
the credit of doing the most work. It was
Sister Eliza, who in company with Sister
Zina D. Young and others, traveled through
the Territory of Utah, and with the assistance
of the Bishop organized a Primary in nearly
every settlement. It was Sister Eliza who
compiled the Primary hymn book, also pre-
pared a book of questions and answers on the
Bible, two Primary Speakers, and a tune book 
for the songs that had been selected. And
may the name of Sister Eliza be remembered
with honor, by the children of the Latter-day
Saints. Up to this time there had been no
one appointed to preside over the whole. In
April 1880, while attending a Primary meet-
ing in the 12th ward. over which Sister Ellen
C. Clawson presided, Sister Eliza who was
present came to me and said that it was thought
best to have some one chosen to preside over
all the Primary Associations in the Territory;
and suggested that the person selected should
reside in Salt Lake City, as that was central
she asked me who I would propose to take
this position. I told her I could not tell on
so short a notice, but would reflect for a few
minutes. After doing so the name of Sister
Louie Felt came to my mind; as soon as I told 
Sister Eliza she said that was her choice, and
was also Sister Clawson’s choice; this satisfied
me that Sister Felt was the one to hold this
important office, and I have all confidence in
her and have a love for her, which love I
think is necessary for us to have toward those
who preside over us.
	Sister Felt commenced her labors in this
new calling in June of the same year,
with Matilda M. Barratt, and Clara C. Cannon,
as her Counselors; Lillie T. Freeze, Secretary;
and Minnie Felt, Treasurer. Later on through
the resignation of Sister Barratt, Lillie T.
Freeze was chosen first counselor, and May
Anderson, secretary.
	The next thing to be done was to appoint
Presidents over the Primaries in each Stake,
Sister Ellen Clawson, who has charge of the
Associations in Salt Lake Stake, was the first
one called to this position, which was in June
1880. Afterwards you and I my sisters, or
many of you were chosen to fill these offices,
and may we fill our appointments with honor

[Column 2]
be helps indeed and try to have our reports
ready in time so they can be handed in at the
general conferences. This completed the or-
ganization of the Primaries up to the present
time.
	But the question might be asked, Are these
Associations necessary? Are not the day, and
Sunday schools sufficient for educating and
instructing our children? I will endeavor to
explain that these schools are not enough, ac-
cording to my way of thinking, and that Pri-
mary Associations are quite necessary. By
way of illustration I will liken the organiza-
tions of this Church to a fruit tree, which
when fully developed has a root, body,
branches and fruit, the leaves might be com-
pared to the clothing of the tree. In order to
make my comparisons plain, we will commence
at the beginning, when this Church was first
organized with six members on the 6th day of
April 1830, (it is understood that no woman
had her name enrolled at that time), the
priesthood of God was restored to the earth,
and this might be likened unto man as the
root of the tree. As time rolled on the gospel
spread and the Church grew till it formed
quite a body, and finally the Saints settled in
the beautiful City of Nauvoo. Then, and not
until then, was a Relief Society organized, the
Prophet Joseph Smith himself stated that such
an organization was necessary, and even
blessed and set apart certain sisters to preside
over the same. Our attention must now be
drawn to the fact that no man was a member
of said society or held any office therein.
	This organization then can be likened unto
woman as the body of the tree. We will now
skip over a lapse of years till the Saints have
arrived in the Valley of the Great Salt Lake,
have begun to make themselves comfortable
homes,and also raise up branches of the Church
in Europe and in other parts of the world.
About this time it was thought best by Presi-
dent Brigham Young, to have what was then
called a Retrenchment Association, especially
for young women. This was on account of the
fashion and style that prevailed in our midst
at the time, this move afterward led to an
organization of the Young Men, which was
the starting point of the Mutual Improvement
Associations. This we think will compare
with the branches of the tree. So far, we
have the tree in its perfect state, with the ex-
ception of the fruit, and this we all know is
the last to make its appearance, and even then
it takes some time to mature. In the summer
of 1878 Primary Associations were first thought
of and brought into existence, and through
the unceasing efforts of Sister E. R. Snow
Smith and others have been organized through-
out the Territory. If then Primaries are
typical of the fruit, we have the tree in all its
beauty.
	Before closing I will call attention to the
fact that all the Associations of the Saints are
centered in the Sunday School.
	For while the children assemble to be taught
there are young men and young women, who
assist in this work, also members of the Relief
Society, and even men holding the priesthood
who officiate as teachers and Superintendents
in this grand institution of the Church of
God.


Good manners is the art of making those
people easy with whom we converse; whoever
makes the fewest persons uneasy is the best
bred man in company.—Swift.

	Women govern us; let us render them per-
fect. The more they are enlightened, so much
more shall we be. On the cultivation of the
mind of the women depends the wisdom of the 
men. It is by women that nature writes on
the hearts of men.—Sheridan.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT
<column 1>

WOMAN'S EXPONENT
EMMELINE. B. WELLS,	-	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.,
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m 
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	Salt Lake City Utah.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

Salt Lake City,	-	-	November 1, 1891.


<column 1>
	    THE BLESSINGS OF TO-DAY.

	There is so much in the present day of the
material and practical to be met with, and people
are so swallowed up and environed about with
all sorts of problems that tend to develop these
faculties of human nature; there is really so much
realism and the age seems to have developed
these attributes, and of necessity too, for the
new forces, and inventions, demand it, and also
require means as well as method to bring
to perfection the new discoveries of science, that
as a race, we are somewhat in danger of losing
sight of higher endowments, or going backward
in other directions.
	The push and rush for gain, the excitement and
rivalry for business success, and the ambition for
popularity in public life, coupled with the race
after pleasure, or recreation, which follows ex-
cessive toil in the accumulation of wealth, these
seem to discount the sober pursuits of former
days; and the simpler pastimes and amusements
that were the delight of our forefathers and fore-
mothers; are not to be thought of in this fast age
of excitement and high living. The tranquility
of those days has almost passed away, and instead
of that we have the extreme of hilarity, the high
tide of popularity, and the excess of vanity. This
is the spirit of the world, and if persisted in will
eventually kill out the spirituality and tenderer
sentiments, refinements and graces, those that
sweeten and purify the atmosphere of human life,
and give zest and tone to the higher attributes
that lead to the cultivation of heart and mind;
and we shall find to our sorrow that though we
have gained knowledge of material and practical
things and have surpassed every other age in
improvements of a temporal kind, we have not
secured unto ourselves that jewel above all others
which we need most to brighten and adorn our
own souls, and without which, all else will pal[-]
upon the senses; the cultivation of our own
hearts; the lessons that we can only learn through
obeying the laws of God; the golden rule, to do
to others as we would they should do to us, to
love our neighbor as ourselves; to imitate Him
who went about doing good, to forgive as He for-
gave; to overcome our own weaknesses, our love
of self, of self-aggrandizement, to become as
little children, to be willing to trust our Heavenly
Father, and believe He is able to make us strong
wherein we are weak, to love one another as
Jesus loved us; to suffer if need be. Do we not
all need to stop now and then and consider
whether we are living for today, or if there is not
something greater and higher and more endurable
than what we lay bold of so greedily in the race
of life.
	Especially the Latter-day Saints who have
come out of the world, many of whom have left
their possessions of a worldly nature for the sake of
the Gospel, strange indeed that they should think
<column 2>
these grosser things of such great importance, as 
to neglect the spiritual.
	And this it is that often causes people to fall
into darkness, and error, and unbelief in the
things they once knew and testified to, and lose
the spirit that leads into all truth.
	How careful should we all be to keep continu-
ally with us the spirit of humility and obedience
to the requirements of the Gospel. Remember
too the admonitions of the Savior to the ruler who
asked Him what he should do to inherit eternal 
life? And Jesus said “Thou knowest the com-
mandments;” and He repeated some of them to
him, and the ruler replied, “all these have I kept
from my youth up.”
	Jesus answering said, “Yet thou lackest one
thing, sell all that thou hast, and distribute unto
the poor, then thou shalt have treasures in
heaven, and come follow me.”
	It is not only necessary to be exemplary in our
lives but to make some sacrifices, of those
things we hold as treasures, perhaps almost as
idols, to lay those upon the altar, without murmuring
and trust in God, is indeed approaching to that
sublimity of character that will secure eternal
blessings. The Savior said unto Peter, on one
occasion, “There is no man that hath left home
or parents, or brethren, or wife, or children for
the kingdom of God’s sake, who shall not receive
manifold more in this present time, and in the
world to come life everlasting.” 
	Such are the promises held out to those who
are willing to make sacrifices, to pass through
trials, and to endure privation and affliction, and 
still hold fast to their integrity. 
	In order to endure with meekness and forbear-
ance the various vicissitudes and experiences that
beset the people of God, who are trying to serve
Him, it is specially necessary to put away selfish-
ness, to be self-sacrificing as well as to bestow
goods to the poor; and this is the hardest task of
all to men and women, and harder perhaps in this
day of prosperity and comparative grandeur, than
it was in the days of adversity and primitive sim-
plicity. To give out of the abundance the Lord
has given is easy compared to some other things.
	Though we are surrounded today as a people
with many temporal blessings, yet we are getting
some hard lessons; they are exceedingly inter-
esting to those who have learned thoroughly
some of the simpler ones given long ago, but to
those idle students, who have looked on while
others were learning, they are indeed difficult to
comprehend. In fact the Latter-day Saints have
got into the higher mathematics. It will be abso-
lutely necessary to have both faith and works,
and those who have cultivated the spiritual sense
will be able to cope with the abstruse problems
presented, far better than those who depend en-
tirely upon their reasoning powers. There are
many things that transpire in the course of one’s
life, that cannot be reasoned out conclusively,
notwithstanding materialists will tell you so. And
to the sincere and devout Christian these are not
stumblings blocks to faith in God, but testimonies
of an over-ruling power that increase the bond
of faith, that chain which unites the finite with
the infinite. It is the spark of divinity awakened
within the soul, that gives light to the mind, and
enables those who suffer, to grow stronger in faith
and brighter in the hope and assurance of the
future, and animates them with a desire to go on
to perfection, and to reach out a helping hand to
others, to all “our Father’s” children, to teach
them the lessons the Saints are trying to learn
more perfectly, for in the happiness of others in-
dividual happiness consists. And knowing our
own weaknesses and shortcomings, we should
grow to be charitable to others.
	As our minds enlarge, and we become enlight-
ened with that true knowledge of spiritual things
we see, as we had never been able to see before
the great need we have of being clothed with
<column 3>
the mantle of charity, that we may do good to our
fellows; we cannot approach them without love,
it is the great lever of the universe, love that will
uplift them, the love our Savior exemplified in
His life, the love which is the outgrowth of faith
that softens and subdues evil passions, and
counteracts evil influences.
	This is not the love of riches, or of power,
or of worldly pleasures, it is something
far above them; the humblest Latter-day Saint
may possess this supreme gift, if he or she lives
for it, though they may be dwelling in the lowliest
cot, or even in a tent; how often do we hear the
expression “We were far happier in the days of
our poverty, we had less anxiety, and annoy-
ances.” It is not wealth that brings content,
then why seek it graspingly, at the risk, of better
things?
	It reminds the writer of a simile used by the
Prophet Joseph and which was often repeated by
one of his brethren (now long since passed away)
speaking of men who had the disposition to
grasp everything within their reach, Joseph said 
it reminded him of a child (who invariably as we
all know) when picking up apples would fill his
apron as full as he could, but so long as he could
see an apple he would keep on trying to carry
more than the apron would hold and leave no
place to hold on to when down would go the
whole apronfull rolling away from him one after
another and all was lost—moral, “don’t grasp
more than you can carry or you may lose all.”
It would be a most deplorable thing if this people
should, because of worldly prosperity, grow proud
and haughty, and look down upon the poor and
lowly; who perhaps many of them might be their
superiors in intelligence and perchance in educa-
tion too—the Lord said to the Nephites,“Beware of
pride.” And the Book of Mormon teaches
many lessons upon this subject that the Saints
could well profit by.
	It cannot be denied that the Lord has blessed
this people“in their basket and in their store,”but
it is to be hoped they will not forget that they are
only stewards, and must use wisely the means
placed in their hands. One often hears the remark,
“such a one has talent he ought to cultivate it for
the good of others, to bless and benefit mankind,
he is culpable if he does not develop such gifts,”
and yet men whom the Lord has blessed with riches
seldom think it necessary to use it for the bene-
fit of others; in both cases, it is doubtless the
duty of the possessor to assist others, and so also
should those who have the gift of faith, not hide
it under a bushel, but apply it in a way to bless
mankind. Opportunities for doing good are all
around us, and they should not be overlooked. A
kind word is sometimes more acceptable than
an expensive gift. Kindness, gentleness, for-
bearance, these are all virtues, of great value in
our daily lives, that will increase and add to the
happiness of others and the loveliness of the hu-
man character. Great things are made up of
trifles, the world itself is composed of atoms; the
smallest courtesies we can render to those with
whom we are associated help to bind us more
closely in their affections. Too often in the pur-
suit of some pet scheme, some far-off bauble we
overlook the pearl that lies close to us, lucky for
us if we do not crush it in our haste to push on-
ward. The Savior said “whoso shall offend one
of these little ones, which believe in me, it were
better for him that a millstone were hanged about
his neck, and that he were drowned in the depths
of the sea.” How tender then ought we to be of
each other, especially in times of trials and per-
plexity, never wound another’s feelings, or exult
in any sorrow, or misfortune that may overtake
even those who have injured us. The Savior
taught us to forgive as we would be forgiven, and
in His marvelous language said, “Love your
enemies bless them that curse you, &c" Would


we could always have the sublime courage to
carry out in our lives these divine teachings.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	President Zina D. H. Young attended the Relief
Society Conference of Emery Stake held at Price
on Saturday the 17th of October last. And in
company with Counselor Jane S. Richards at-
tended the Relief Society and Young Ladies'
Conference of Cache Stake at Logan on the 20th
of October. M. Isabella Horne President Relief
Society Salt Lake Stake attended the Relief
Society Conference of Davis Stake held at East
Bountiful on Friday Oct. 23rd. At each of these
conferences the sisters enjoyed themselves and
report a good work being accomplished in the
several localities.
	Report of Relief Society from Uintah, Cassia,
Salt Lake and other Stakes of Zion will be pub-
lished in due time—as we cannot devote too much
space to minutes of meetings and exclude other
interesting matter that helps to make variety. We
are very anxious to receive original articles and
poems from the sisters, or experiences which will 
be instructive and edifying and do good to the
writer as well as the reader. Sisters if you have
ideas that will benefit others put them upon paper
and send them to the press, they will reach a
larger number of people in that way, and by that
means you may be sowing some good seed that
will eventually bear fruit. Remember the saying
of Scripture "Cast your bread upon the waters it
will return after many days."


IN SACRED REMEMBRANCE.

	In our associations in life, how pleasant it is to
meet with spirits congenial, especially in visiting
the sick and afflicted.
	How joyful to meet with those whose faith and
confidence in God and His power is strong, with
the testimony of Jesus in their hearts.
	In memory of—and with love and respect, I
will refer to the many good times I have had with
our much respected, and beloved sister, Emeline
M. Benedict, whose funeral rites were solemnized
 at her late residence in the Ninth Ward in this
City, Thursday morning, Oct. 1st. Being ac-
quainted with our dear sister many years and her
acquaintance with my mother also, in my youth,
I had the pleasure of taking a few notes from her
own lips.
	When conversing with her about the beginning
of the Church. the power of God, manifested at
that time through the gifts belonging to the
Gospel, she bore a faithful testimony, filled with
the spirit of the Lord, to what she knew to be
true.
	Speaking of her early experience she says:—
	"I left N. Y., in 1841 or '42; your mother was
the first female Mormon I ever saw in N. Y., I
think she was the first messenger of her sex that
came into the Church at that place, and your
grandmother, Mrs. Ann Rhodes embraced the
Gospel soon after. I have heard your mother,
Eliza Rhodes Dollinger, speak in tongues, and I
always felt that her's was the true gift from God,
that there was no mistaking the power by which
she spoke, and by that was led to investigate. 
We lived on L. I., together, also in N. Y. We
attended the same school as girls, and together
embraced the same Gospel; almost if not at the
same time. We were always intimate, and how
we loved each other in those days when we first
learned the true Gospel. Brother Lucian R.
Foster, was the first President of the Brooklyn
Branch of the N. Y. Conference. I was first
baptized by Elder Daniel Lane and I am not sure
but he baptized your mother too. Your grand-
mother was converted through your mother's in-


fluence, but it was through great hardships and
persecution that she became a member of the
Church. A Brother Whaley and wife embraced
the Gospel also but fell by the wayside. Your
mother was so pure in heart and principle that
I never doubted one action of her life; her
promptings were of the Holy Spirit; she was a
mighty speaker in bearing testimony of the things
of God, and we all loved her so; we had our
evening meetings and they were so sacred and
holy to us, we never thought of neglecting them
for any thing else, O, yes, I remember well, and
the more we talk, the better I feel, and many
more things come to my mind, which perhaps,
will be interesting another time."
	Sister Benedict's house in the East was a refuge
for the Saints at all times and they loved to gather
there, and she was honored in death with the
presence of Pres. Woodruff and Pres. Joseph F.
Smith who attended the funeral services.
	Blessed and sacred be the memory of Dear
Sister Emeline Benedict, for her good works will
live while her mortal remains await in peace the
resurrection morn, when she will rise with the
just and rejoice with the saints of God, clothed
with immortality and eternal life, where sickness,
sorrow, pain and death is no more.
								C. D. P.


IN MEMORY OF JANE M. WALTON.

	The members of the Monticello Relief Society
feel it a duty to record a few incidents from the
life and memory of Sister Jane M. Walton, who
was accidently killed on the night of July 24th;
last, (and whose death has already been pub-
lished). Sister Walton was born July 16th, 1846.
She with her mother, Sister Jane Hatch of Bounti-
ful, emigrated to Utah in her childhood.
	At the age of 20 she married Charles E. Wal-
ton of Bountiful. Three children, one boy and two
girls, came in turn to brighten their home. They
have now grown to man and womanhood.
	Sister Walton with her husband and family
were called upon the almost famous "San Juan
Mission," in 1879, traveling with the pioneers,
and settling with them at Bluff City. The com-
pany was over six months upon that weary
journey, being out all winter, but Sister Walton
was never known to complain, but regarded as
the life of the company, always giving words of
cheer, and trying to make others feel happy. She
has shared in all the hardships that the Saints of
San Juan have been known to pass throngh, liv-
ing in a wild country hundreds of miles from civi-
lization, and surrounded by Indians. When
starvation stared every one in the face, she was
the one to comfort. Her faith in God never
wavered, she said "It is by God's will that we are
here He will not let us starve," although her
bread was ground in a coffee mill for many weeks.
Sister Walton's house was always a gathering
place for both old and young. She was truly a
leader in society. Three years ago she and her
family were called to Monticello, where she has
resided since, enduring the trial of starting
another new home in a new country, her home
was just beginning to be comfortable. Sister
Walton was conceded by all to be a perfect
housekeeper. It was always a pleasure to her
friends to spend an hour at her home, its very
surroundings breathed peace and rest.
	Her faith in the Gospel was undying, she filled
a number of prominent positions in the women's
organizations of the Church, at the time of her
death.
	Her funeral took place July 26thth, the services
being held in the meeting house, Pres. F. A.
Hammond presiding.
	Consoling remarks were made by Bishop Jens
Nielson, Elders P. D. Lyman, Allan and Jones,


also Pres. Hammond who spoke at length upon
the good qualities of the deceased and family.
	A large number of Sister Walton's friends came
from Bluff to attend her funeral.
	The remains were borne by six of the brethren
friends of the deceased, from her residence to the
meeting house, the different Societies of Sisters
marching in order behind.
	The floral decorations were the offering of her
lady friends, and were beautiful. A long cortege
accompanied the remains to the grove where they
were placed in their last resting place, by affec-
tionate hands.
	Thus passed from our midst an honest and de-
vout woman, an affectionate wife and a loving
mother. The hymns sang were, "White robes
are waiting for thee." "Over the river of death,"
and "Nearer my God to thee." Prayer was
offered by Elder K. Jones. 
				MARY M. JONES, Pres.
				ANNIE BAILEY, Coun.
				SARAH JANE ROGERSON, Sec.
	Other papers please copy.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., AND P. A.
				REPORTS.

				ST. JOSEPH. 
	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of St. Joseph Stake was held at Central
Aug. 30, 1891, Pres. Wilmirth East presiding.
Conference opened by singing “Our God we
raise to thee.” Prayer by Bishop D. Mathews,
Continued by singing “The time is nigh.”
Present on the stand with Stake and local 
authorities of the Relief Society, were Pres.
C. Layton and Counselors, Patriarch Merrill,
and a goodly number of Bishops and their 
Counselors.
	Minutes of the last quarterly conference
were read and approved.
	Pres. East gave some very good instructions
to the sisters which were teeming with love
and kindness, asked them to be careful and
have their minutes and reports correct.
	Verbal reports were then called for and
were responded to by the following Presidents,
Layton Ward, Annie Packer; Thatcher, Eliza-
beth Moody; Central, Jennie Cluff; Pima,
Lydia Williams; Mathew, Clara Mathews;
Graham, Mary Peterson; Bryce, Caroline
Bryce.
	Coun. Cyrena Merrill spoke of the blessings 
we enjoyed. thought of all people we were the
most blessed; felt to appreciate the society of
our brethren in our meeting; thought we
should try and make duty a pleasure.
	Coun. Mary L. Ransom said she was well
pleased with the reports, felt to encourage all
to attend the meetings of the different organ-
izations and sustain and help the officers, was
very thankful our President, Sister East was
well enough to be with us again. Conference
adjourned till 2 p. m. Singing. Benediction
by A. Cluff.
	Afternoon session: opened with singing,
“Will you go,”&c. Prayer by Patriarch
Merrill. Continued with singing. Stake
officers were unanimously sustained by the con-
ference.
	Pres. C. Layton said he was pleased to be
present, would like to have seen more out.
Urged the people to be true and faithful and
remember we are working for the Kingdom of
God. Spoke of our looking after our spiritual
welfare Wished the branches of the Society to 
do their business on a strict business plan.
Asked the Lord to bless them.
	Brother George Cluff, of Heber City, was
invited to occupy some of the time; he spoke
very well upon the redemption of man through
Christ. Urged the young people to reflect
more;-and spoke of the bad influences they had


[Column 1]

to withstand when they set out to serve God.
Beautifully portrayed the need of mental
training, and showed the good advantage of a
well cultivated mind; especially when a family
are depending mostly upon us for their train-
ing. Hoped the young men and women would
be noble fathers and mothers, which was always
pleasing to God.
	Pres. East encouraged the Relief Society
branches to hold FAIRS in their wards and
asked the Y. L., and P. A. to join them.
	Patriarch Merrill said the women should be
prayerful that they might be able to teach
their children aright who were born heirs to
the Priesthood that they might appreciate the
magnitude of this blessing.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, "Sweet is the work," &c. Benediction
by Wm. Johnson.
		RHODA E. Foster, Cor. Sec.

	COLONIA, JUAREZ, CHIHUAHUA, MEXICO.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Juarez Relief Society of the Mexican
Mission was first organized July 13th, 1887,
with the following officers, Elizabeth Hawkins
President, with Sarah A Corden first and
Phoebe Fife second Counselors; Hannah Croft
Sec., Selina Cordon Treasurer—60 members
enrolled. It was reorganized July 10, 1890,
with Phoebe Fife president, Mary B. Eyring
first and Susan Martineau, second Counselor
D. E. Eyring, Secretary, Keturah Baker,
Treasurer, with 73 members. We have held
some 50 meetings, average attendance 30. Our
finances or requirements have not been very
large. Cash donations $17.35; provisions and
merchandise $95.80. Disbursed cash $15.25;
merchandise and provisions $85.80. Cash on
hand $2.10, merchandise $10.00.
	The Society in the first years of its organi-
tion labored under great disadvantages. There
was not much aid needed, until we had a few
cases of small pox, when the Saints being
called upon donated $68.00 to the needy. Our
prospects as a Society are improving and we
trust in the near future to be able to make a
better report. The organization at present is
as above, with the exception of S. E. Russell
acting Secretary, and Cynthia Bailey Treas-
urer.
	With kindest regards, your sisters,
			MARY B. EYRING,
			S. E. RUSSELL.

PACHECO WARD.
	The Pacheco Relief Soci ty was organized
Jan. 1, 1891. Its officers are Mary Porter,
President, Olive Moffett, and Pauline Naigle,
Counselors; Eliza Farnsworth, Secretary; Mary
A. Smith, Ass't. Sec'y.; Sarah A. Lunt, Treas-
urer. Besides the officers there are 33 mem-
bers enrolled making a total of 39—during
the time they have held 15 meetings with an
average attendance of 19—their financial re-
port is a very good one.

DUBLAIN WARD.
	The Dublain Relief Society was reorganized
July 20, 1891. Officers are Ida J. Mortenson,
President; Lydia K. Young, and Charlotte
Carroll, Counselors; Phebe I. Allred, Secre-
tary. The officers and members number 38—
meetings held 5. Average attendance 25.
Work meetings 2, average attendance 20.

JUAREZ, Y. L. M. I. A.
	The Association was organized Jan. 1, 1891,
officers as follows, Anice R. Scowson, President;
Cynthia Bailey and Sarah E. Russell, Coun-
selors; Caroline Romney, Secretary; Mary A.
Hall, Ass't. Sec'y. and Treasurer. Names en-
rolled 57; average attendance 30; meetings
held 23.

[Column 2]

PACHECO Y. L. M. I. A.
	This Association was organized Jan. 1, 1891,
at a meeting called for the purpose of organiz-
ing different associations in the Mexican
Mission, Bishop J. N. Smith presiding. Meet-
ings held 11, members enrolled 21, average
attendance 15, Testimonies 29, Bible exercises
6, Book of Mormon exercises 3, Select read-
ings 13; songs 8, recitations 3, essays 2, con-
joint sessions 3. Meetings discontinued April
10, 1891. Sabra Naigle, President, Sarah
Bancroft, Secretary.

DUBLAIN Y. L. M. I. A.
	This Association was organized August 15,
1891, with Catharine E. Porter, President,
Mary E. Call, and Nancy A. Williams Coun-
selors, Charlotte E. Carroll Secretary, Harriet
Call, Ass't. Sec'y., Persis A. Young, Treasurer,
Amanda E. Williams, Librarian; members en-
rolled 27, meetings held 6, average attendance
17, testimonies borne 44, miscellaneous readings
9, recitations 3, songs 5, essays 3, Bible
lectures 2, other lectures 3.

DUBLAIN P. [-].
	This Primary was organized Aug. 18, 1889,
Julia A. Jones, President, Jeanette Bluth and
Mary E. Lake Counselors, Hattie Call, Secre-
tary, Sarah J. Williams, Ass't. Sec'y., Hulda
Bluth Treasurer. Members including officers
92, meetings held 94, average attendance 41.

PACHECO P. A.
	This Primary was organized Jan. 3, l861,
Laura Meecham, President, Sarah Lunt and
Martha Porter, Counselors, Mary E. Foster,
Secretary, Viola Scott, Ass't. Sec. Total
number of names enrolled 59, meetings held
24, average attendance 25.
	These organizations all give very good re-
ports of their financial condition, and the
whole will be recorded with the full report of
the respective organization to which they be-
long.

W. S. A. SALT LAKE CO.

	The W. S. A. of Salt Lake Co., held its
regular monthly meeting in the 13th Ward
Assembly Rooms on Tuesday the 20th, of Oct.
1891. Vice President Louisa K. Spencsr in
the chair. Prayer was offered by Phebe C.
Young. Roll called. The Secretary read the
minutes of the last meeting, which were ap-
proved. Programme of exercises was carried
out as follows, reading from "Roberts Rules
of Order," by Dr. M. C. Shipp; address, sub-
ject, "Women Jurors," Lillie T. Freeze; com-
ments on the Constitution, Phebe C. Young;
song, Maud Pratt; speech on the "Influence of
Women when United," Elizabeth Mc'Farlane.
Lillie T. Freeze in speaking on women as
Jurors, thought them eminently qualified, by
nature and education for the position, as they
have constantly to weigh evidence, and pro-
nounce judgment, in settling difficulties among
their own children; and a conscientious mother
will strive to do justice to all and as every at-
tribute which we possess is increased by culti-
vation, she thought that mothers especially
would stand at least an equal chance, with
men who are selected, not because of any quali-
fication they possessed, other than that of sex.
	Phebe C. Young in her comments on the
Constitution, wished that the term citizen could
be defined for her, as in Article XV. Section
I. of the amendments to the Constitution it
was stated, "The right of citizens of the United
States to vote shall not be denied or abridged
by the United States, or any State, on account
of race, color, or previous condition of servi-
tude," she found that she had no right to vote
but when the tax collector came around, she

[Column 3]

could feel, for a short time, at least, that she
was a citizen.
	Caroline E. Dye made a short speech.
Emily S. Richards considered that the ladies
had been insulted, in a speech made by a
prominent politician at the late political
convention held in this city, who becoming
impatient at the delay in dispatching, the busi-
ness of the meeting, exclaimed, "let us get to
work, and not act like women and babies."
	Motioned and carried that Dr. Maggie C.
Shipp, be appointed critic on rules of order. Mrs.
Richards suggested that some rules be made,
for dealing with officers who did not act, after
being appointed. The meeting was adjourned
until called together by the President in con-
vention, for the election of officers for the en-
suing year.
	Nellie Colebrook Taylor, led and all the
ladies joined in singing, "New America," after
which benediction was offered by Elizabeth
Mc'Farlane, which concluded a very interest-
ing session.
			C. C. R. WELLS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PACIFIC COAST WOMAN'S PRESS
			ASSOCIATION.

	The women writers of the Pacific Coast
held a very successful three days' Convention
in San Francisco, Commencing Sept. 21st,
which included six business sessions, and one
public entertainment on the evening of the 23rd.
At the private meetings the following subjects
were discussed:
	First "Criminal Advertising and the Method 
of suppressing it;" second, "How to Promote
Immigration to our Coast;" third, "The Pres-
ent Apparent Arrest of Business Progress in
the West and its Cause;" fourth, "Newspaper
Work Beneficial to the Community;" fifth
"The Newspaper's Part in Social Economy;"
sixth, "The Difficulties besetting Women Pub-
lishers and Editors;" seventh, "The Line of
Work to be taken up by the Association as
a Whole to Create a Unity of Purpose."
	The Officers for the year are Nellie B.
Eyster, President; Eliza D. Keith (Di Vernon)
1st Vice President; Sarah B. Cooper, 2nd
Vice President; Jeanne C. Carr 3rd Vice
President; E. T. Y. Parkhurst, Cor. Sec.; M.
V. Lewis, Assistant Cor. Sec.; Emily B.
Powell, Recording Sec.; S. T. D'Evelyn, Ass't.
Recording Sec.; M. L. Hoffman, Treasurer;
Isabel Raymond, Auditor; S. E. Reamer,
Librarian; Hannah L. Neal, Elwood Cooper,
and A. C. Waterman, Executive Committee.
	The Public Entertainment was an unquali-
fied success, Union Square Hall was literally
packed, and many were unable even to get in-
side the doors. There was a charming address
by the President, in which among other things
she told that the membership of the P. C. W.
P. A. has reached 150. Miss E. D. Keith
(Di Vernon) and Miss Adeline Knapp dis-
coursed brilliantly, the former about "A
Choice of Subjects," the latter on "Hints to 
would-be Newspaper Writers." Mrs. Emily
B. Powell, Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Stetson,
Mrs. Lillian Plunkett recited beautiful original
poems;" and Mrs. Alice Kingsbury Cooley
gave a dramatic reading from her latest novel
"Asaph." The musical portion of the pro-
gramme was sustained by Miss Jerome; Miss
Grayce Howell, Mrs. Marian Taylor, and
Messrs. H. Kirke White, Martinez, Northrup,
and H. Clay Wysham.
	To the great regret of the members, Mrs.
E. T. Y. Parkhurst was prevented by illness
from being present and giving her paper on
the Duties of a Corresponding Secretary,"
which was a loss not easily bridged over and
many were the loving speeches privately
uttered about the much valued absentee. Mrs.
A. C. Waterman too was unable to read her


paper through sickness; another cause of re-
gret! but these were the only shadows that
dimmed the brightness of this, the 1st Annual
Convention of an Association which is already
a power for good on the Coast, and we wish
our friends in Utah to unite with California in
wishing the cause "God Speed."
						    M. TAYLOR.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

THE TRAINING OF A NURSE.

BY MARY CADWALADER JONES.

	The following is an account of the routine
of a night at Gouverneur Hospital:
	"The night nurse at Gouvernour does not
often arise with bright face and laughing eye,
feeling as fresh and happy as a lark, at half-
past four in the afternoon of a hot July day,
but she scrambles out of bed and dons the
"stripes" (the uniform of the school is blue
and white striped seersucker) as quickly as
possible, that she may not be late for the
dinner at five o'clock. At six we get to the
wards to relieve the day nurses from duty,
and are often greeted with, "Well. I think
you will have rather a hard night."
	As I look around the ward I find the man
in the first bed is a sunstroke case, with a
temperature of 105°, and the orders are to
keep ice-bags on head and abdomen, give ice-
baths, and take temperature every fifteen
minutes until the temperature falls below 102°,
The child in the corner has pneumonia and
has on a poultice of linseed-meal, which must
be changed as often as it becomes cold, and
the child watched very closely. The delirious
patient in the other corner is to have an ice-
cap on his head, which must be kept well
filled with cracked ice. He has a fracture of
the base of the scull, and he raves and shouts
most, of the night.
	We have two patients more than we have
beds, consequently we must prepare four
patients to be transferred to Bellevue, in
order to have beds for the patients who will
come in during the nsght.
	At nine o'clock the doctors make their
rounds, and oftentimes there are dressings that
the doctor has had no time to do during the
day, and the nurse must always be ready to
wait upon the doctor the moment he enters
the ward.
	At eleven o,clock there is an ambulance
call and a man is brought in with three stab
wounds. He is covered with blood, hands,
face and clothing, has a long wound on the
face, a deep one in the shoulder, and a small
one in the abdomen. The wounds are sewed
and dressings put on. These dressings are
scarcely finished, when there comes another
call, and the ambulance brings in this time a
fine looking young man with a deep wound in
the forearm. From his nervous tremor and
restlessness I conclude he has been drinking
heavily, and this is confirmed when the house
surgeon gives the order for a "half-ounce of
the D. T. mixture immediately." His wound 
is dressed, and he is launched into bed and tied
down. Presently he begins to see snakes and
all sorts of creeping things upon his bed, and
he wants to get up and eat the man in the
bed next him. He finally becomes so violent
that he is put into handcuffs and taken to the
"Alchoholic cells" at Bellevue.
	Then things quiet down for perhaps an hour,
which time must be devoted to the man with
sunstroke and the child with pneumonia.
These, however, have not been wholly neglected
for there was time to make a poultice for the
child, and the helper has attended to the
bathing of the man, whose temperature has
fallen only one and one-half degree.
	Now it is time to begin the morning's work
of the wards, for they  must be all in order
for the day nurse when she comes on duty at

[Column 2]

eight o'clock. The temperature, pulse, and
respiration of each patient in the ward must
be taken and noted upon the chart, also any
new treatment ordered during the night, and
anything noteworthy in the condition of the
patient. Each bed is to be made, bed-linen
and patients clothing to be changed, if soiled,
while the floors are swept and washed by the
helpers.
	The medicines are given out at various
times through the night as each becomes due.
Then there is the patient's breakfast to look
after, and to see that all are served who may
eat the food, and that those who are on
special diet may get nothing but that allowed
them, whatever it may be."
	It would certainly seem that these women
earn ten or even fifteen dollars a month besides
their board and lodging. Here is an account
of a serious operation from a nurse's point
of view.
	"The nurse is responsible for making
antiseptic everything connected with an
operation except the surgical instruments.
She prepares the room, has the floor and
paint scrubbed, and every table and ledge
(there is no superfluous furniture) washed
with antiseptic solution. The dressings are
most scrupulously prepared, being boiled and
soaked and wrapped in antiseptic towels, or
kept until needed in large glass jars. The  nurse
is further responsible for having everything in
the room which the surgeon may possibly
want, such as hot-water, ice, hot-water bottles,
stimulants,ect., and must be prepared for every
emergency which, during the operation may
possibly arise. The patient is prepared by the
nurse, who gives a full bath, braids the hair, puts
on clean and suitable clothing, and arranges
her on the table, where she is always covered
with a sheet or a single blanket if necessary.
Another nurse helps the doctor give the
anæsthetic, and in fact, there are usually
three nurses at an operation of any importance,
the head nurse being in charge and the other
two her aids. She herself keeps her best eye
on the operator and stands in a certain place
where she can readily hand him hot towels,
sponges, bowls of solution, anything he may
need. The second nurse watches the supply
of hot towels, solutions, sponges, hot and cold
water, etc., while the third helps the junior
doctor who is etherizing the patient, and
fetches and carries, i.e, empties out water,
and puts it outside the door, where some
patient is stationed to carry it away and fill
up empty pitchers. In running an operation a
nurse always aims at having it go off without
a hitch, and sometimes it does, and sometimes
 not. Occasionally an operator is unreasonable
and asks for the moon, and occasionally he
makes a mistake and loses his head, and then
the nurses have a poor time of it, being
blamed if they have no boiling hot beef tea or
brandy when there is no means of heating it
in the room, the operation having already
lasted over an hour. A doctor if he is a
gentleman, usually thanks the nurse after a
long operation, and then she feels like doing
anything for him."
	Their hard day over the nurses go to the
Home, which is the stone building at the south
end of Blackwell's Island. These they have a
comfortable sitting-room with books and maga-
zines and a piano, and in summer they can play
lawn tennis outside or rest and watch the crowd
of boats that is always going up and down the
great river. But all the evenings are not
given to amusements, except during July and
August. The school is divided into junior, senior,
and graduating classes, and each has a "quiz" or
lesson once a week, and sometimes oftener,
which is usually taught by the Assistant
Superintendent. A skeleton, some large
colored diagrams, and a manikin who is re-
presented as if he were skinned, which gives

[Column 3]

him an unpleasant likeness to Marsyas or St.
Bartholomew; and who takes to pieces in a
startling manner, are much used at these
lessons, while some of the physicians and
surgeons of the visiting staff give lectures to
the classes from time to time. When at last
the two  years course is over, a board of
physicians hold the final examination which a
nurse must pass before receiving her diploma.
	At private nursing a woman receives from
$15 to $25 a week, which would pay her well
if she were always busy; but she is subject to
be overworked for some months and idle for
several more, and an excellent nurse said
recently that she should be satisfied to be sure
of making $600 a year.
	There are signs that the market is begin-
ning to be overstocked. The four large schools
which I have already spoken of have already
911 graduates, and every hospital of whatever
size must now have its training-school, so that
each year brings them a new crop of certifi-
cated nurses, more or less trained, according
to their capacity and opportunities. Some of
the schools announce that they have more
applicants than they can take, from which
outsiders have naturally been led to conclude
that pupils would be willing to come without
pay, but the superintendents, who are already
feeling the effects of competition, know well
that any such move would be fatal to a really
high standard. This competition between the
schools has not been without good results, in
that it has stimulated the different boards in
charge of them to greater efforts in the di-
rection of comfort in the Homes, and a distinct
and attractive course of instruction. And it
is to be hoped that something may be done to-
ward shortening the long hours of work in
the wards.
	In regard to graduates, the time has come
when the profession, if it is to be such, must
be protected. This can best be done by the
formation of a central committee or board,
which shall recognize only graduates of
standard schools, shall take the testimony of
their superintendents as to the fitness and
worthiness of such graduates, and after
submitting them to an examination, shall give
them a degree or diploma not obtainable in
any other way.
	The law sets the standard for physicians by
recognizing only the degreesof certain colleges,
which might be difficult in the case of train-
ing schools, but something must be done to
indicate and to protect the women who have
earned the best right to live by their trade.
It is not enough to let the stronger crowd out
the weaker, as in the case of stenographers or
telegraph operators, because doctors have
learnt to expect intelligent help from a trained
nurse,and if she fail them in a critical case, it
may mean the defference between life and
death.


EARNESTNESS IS POWER.
	
	Earnestness is power. He who is in earnest
will impress himself on others, whether he
would impart to them or would receive from
them. Yet no man will gain in earnestness
by seeking to be earnest, nor will he convince
others that he is in earnest by saying that he
is in earnest. In order to show earnestness a
man must be in earnest, and the man who is
in earnest cannot help showing it. Earnest-
ness is of the man's self, and it is drawn out by
the cause that can draw it out. When it is
drawn out every one who sees and hears the
man knows that his earnestness is real. If
therefore, a man is in earnest in behalf of
anything he undertakes he may know that he
has power in that direction, but if he lacks
earnestness it is of no use for him to try to 
seem earnest.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBSTETRICS AND NURSING.

	For the past fifteen years Dr. Ellis R. Shipp
has taught two classes yearly in Obstetrics
and Nursing, and her students have gone to
all parts of Utah on their missions of useful-
ness and good works. The members of her last
classes who have passed successful examina-
tions and received certificates of efficiency are
Mrs. Clara Kofford, Mt. Pleasant; Mrs. Emma
Green, and Miss Hattie Richards, Salt Lake
City; Miss Eliza Thackeray, Croyden; Miss
Susannah Hunsaker, Honeyville: Mrs. Abba
Stephens, Mrs. Emma Burnham, Mrs. Abba
S. Young, and Miss Mary A. Burnham, New
Mexico; Miss Emma Kofod, Levan; Mrs.
Camilla Danielson, Hyrum; Mrs. Penelope
Killpack; Mill Creek; Mrs. Artemesia Ander-
son, and Miss Jane Faux, Moroni; Mrs. Susan
A. Yates, Scipio; Mrs. Allie Young, Rabbit
Valley.
	Ladies desiring to join these classes will do
well to communicate with Dr. E. R. Shipp,
either personally or by letter at No. 34 South,
7th East St. Salt Lake City.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The Woman's Voice, in an editorial on the
women voters of Boston, says that from
present indications the woman's vote will
amount to at least 10,000 and will constitute
the balance of power in the coming school 
election.
	
	The ladies upon the Missouri State Board
of Commissioners of the World's Fair have
asked for $25,000 of the appropriation made
by the Legislature, to be applied in the
women's departments.  The supposition is that
the request will be granted, as the Com-
missioners favor the propisition.

	Ibsen is said to be contemplating a visit to
his native home, and will remain six muoths, 
either in the northern part of Scandinavia or
at a Danish watering place.  It is scarcely ex-
pected that he will return to Munich, but
that, on his return to Germany, he will take
up his residence in Dresden.

	Probably most people wonld be surprised to
learn that there is a spot in Africa where
women have even limited suffrage, but
under the government of the Cape of
Good Hope, which rules several hundred
thousand square miles of territory, women
have municipal suffrage.—Boston Daily
Journal.

	The spot which was selected for Lowell's
grave, and which, it is understood, was of his
own choosing, is under two large horn-beam
trees one of which is directly at the foot of
the grave and the other on the right of its head.
These trees are never trimmed, and their
cheif charm is natural and weird growth.
The lot is in a valley in the rear part of Mt.
Auburn cemetery, directly in the shadow of
the Longfellow lot, on Indian Ridge avenue.
Thus the two poets, who were neighbors in
life, may be said to occupy the same relation
in death.


MISCELLANEOUS.
	
	Be not simply good; be good for something.
—Thoreau.

	It is well to think well, it is divine to act
well.—Horace Mann.

	Night brings out stars, as sorrow shows us
truths.—P. J. Bailey.

	Modesty is to merit as shades to figures in


a picture, giving it strength and beauty.—
Bruyere.

	Use your gentlest voice at home. Watch 
it day by day as a pearl of great price; for it
will be worth more in days to come than the
pearl hid in the sea. A kind voice is joy, like
a lark's song, to a hearth at home. It is a
light that sings as well as shines.—Elihu
Burritt.

	And yet, in spite of this universal world
which we see, there is another world quite 
as far-spreading, quite as close to us, and more
wonderful; another world all around us, though
we see it not; and more wonderful than the 
world we see, for this reason, if for no other, 
that we do not see it. All around us are
numberless objects, coming and going, watch-
ing, working, or waiting, which we see not.—
John Henry Newman.


OBITUARIES.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	To the memory of our esteemed sister, Elizabeth Sabin,
by the sisters of the Relief Society of Payson Ward.
	She was born May 31, 1811, was baptized in the year
1842, emigrated to Utah 1850, and died Aug. 16, 1891.
Aged eighty years, two months and fifteen days.
	She was an active member of our Society, and untiring
in attending and blessing the sick, an affectionate wife and
kind mother, and,
	Whereas, our Heavenly Father has seen fit to call away
our beloved sister,
	Be it resolved that we esteem her goodness and faith-
fulness
	Resolved that we extend our sympathy to the family of
the deceased.
	Resolved that these resolutions be entered on the record
of the Society, also a copy sent to the bereaved family, and
printed in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
			M. A. HARDY,
			ANN PICKERING,
			ARTEMISIA WHITE,
				Committee.

	To the memory of Maria M. Jenson. Deceased was
born March 12, 1855, emigrated to Utah in the year 1872;
died in Salt Lake City, the 11th day of August 1891, leav-
ing a husband and six children, with a host of friends to
mourn her loss.
		IT IS NOT DEATH BUT SLEEP.
	Sister Maria Jenson has been a member of the Relief
Society of the Second Ward of this City since the year
1884; and has labored faithfully as a teacher of the same
for a number of years, and we deeply mourn the loss of a
loving sister, a kind and tender mother, and a true wife
and Latter-day Saint; always gentle and kind ever striving
to make peace and good-will among all with whom she was
called to unite with, and we feel to value her memory ever
among the sisters of the Relief Society of the Second
Ward, of S. L. City, and to say may God bless her hus-
band and family who are thus bereft of her society and may
we feel that all is well with the loved one who has gone,
and perhaps she  may be a stronger link in the chain that
binds us to our Father in heaven.
			SARAH E. MITCHELL, Sec.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Passed by the Y. L. M. I. Association of Moroni, on
the death of Sister Olive Thomas, who departed this life
Sept. 15, 1891. She was born in Moroni July 17, 1873.
	Whereas, it has pleased an Allwise Providence to call
from our presence our beloved sister, Olive Thomas, a
faithful member and everwilling worker in our Association
whose life of promise has thus been cut short in the bloom 
of youth and usefulness.—
	Be it resolved, that while we mourn the loss of her un-
wavering example to us in her steadfast integrity to the
principles of our Holy Religion, we are comforted in the
assurance that it is well with our sister, who has gone to
receive the reward of a faithful member of the Church of
Jesus Christ.
	We hereby extend our heartfelt sympathy to her parents
and relatives who mourn her loss. May their hearts be
consoled in the assurance that all is well with our sister.


And may we all be as energetic in the performance of our
duties as our sister was.
						ANNA RASMUSSEN, Pres.
						CAROLINE JENSEN, 
						HANNAH LARSON,
									Counselors.
						IDA LAURITZEN, Sec.


DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP
Will commence another class in
Obstetrics and Nursing,
ON
Monday, October 19th, 1891,
AT HER OFFICE,
No. 18 S. MAIN STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
THE WOMAN'S TRIBUNE,
Edited and published weekly at Washington,
D. C., by CLARA BEWICK COLBY.
Price, $1.00 a year. Trial Subscriptions, five
weeks for 10 cents.
The Woman's Journal, of Boston, and the Woman's Tri-
bune, of Washington, D. C., will be sent to one ad-
dress for $3.00 per year.
MRS. M. E. VAN. M. D.
OFFICE.--324, 325 Third Floor, Constitution Building
HOURS.--8 to 10 a. m., 4 to 6 p. m.
Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
AND STATIONARY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles. Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Speciality.
NO. 63 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
Three doors west of Theatre.
R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS
Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118, East Temple Str
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
DAVD JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 20.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 15, 1891.	NO. 9 10


CONTENTS.
	A Man's Advice About Woman Suffrage—D.
P. Felt. In Rural England. The Ballot as a
Measure of Reform—Etta L. Gilchrist, M. D. 
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., and P. A., Reports—Cassia
—Uintah. Utah Co. W. S. A.—W. White, Sec.
	EDITORIAL:—Fear Not For Zion. Editorial
Notes. A New Story Book. Press Women in
Boston. Woman's Press Club Organized. Ex-
tracts From President Woodruff's Sermon at
Logan.
	POETRY:—Autumn—Lue. Victory in Obscurity
—Ruby Lamont. The Spirit of Right and Wrong
—Zina E. Crocheron. Two Faces—Lula.


FOR THE EXPONENT:
				AUTUMN. 

	Charming, golden days of Autumn,  
		In thy paradise we roam,
	Revel in the sweet profusion, 
		Of thy gifts around us thrown, 
	All thy voices cheer and echo,
		Thro' the realm of mind and soul,
	Raising aspirations ever,
		Upward toward the wished-for goal.
	One by one we twine together, 
		Leaves like golden coins dropped down,
	Fadeless leaves from Queen of summer,
		With poetic beauty crown’d.
	Thanks that 'mid life's trial and bustle,
		We may gather some few flowers, 
	That may aid to charm and soothe us, 
		In our daily trial hours. 
	Raise our thoughts to fadeless blossoms,
		In immortal gardens fair, 
	Far above earth-toil and striving,
		And its sound of ceaseless care.
										LUE.
Atchison Kan.


FOR THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		VICTORY IN OBSCURITY.

		    BY RUBY LAMONT.

Thou sayest, sweet woman that not for thee
	Are those strains of music, glad and grand,
That but for the victor, the brave, the free,
	The hero who dies for his bleeding land,
The proud or the lovely, the young or gay,
Breathe the waking strains that o’er joy bear sway.

Thou say’st, whilst thine eye with a tear is blurred,
	That thy life is too narrow and dull to sing,
That thy rising soul as a pinioned bird,
	Is beating a clipped and troubled wing;
And thou pleadest the beautiful song to cease
A strain that can only undo thy peace.

Oh, what is thy life I would question thee?
	A thing so dull and so useless and vain
That even an angel’s soft melody,
	Would sadden thy soul as an autumn rain?
Thy lips would quiver; thy breast would heave
And o’er blighted fancies thine heart would grieve?

And who is the victor and who the brave 
	And whose is the life that is grand and true?
For whom should the banner of glory wave
	And whose is the crown from an angel's view?
Oh, deep is the ocean and wide the span
And we judge not aright of our fellow man! 

Sad mother the angels are writing a song
	Of a beautiful life that is grand and sweet,


Whose silent waters shall flow ere long,
	In tranquil joy to the Savior's feet;
It will tell of a cross that was meekly borne
Through faith and love to the gates of morn.

So the angel's song will be never sad,
	And thy spirit will vault to a height unknown,
Thou wilt wonder to hear it so strong and glad,
	And thine heart shall no more be depressed and lone;
For the song that the angel will sing, somg day,
Shall be of a life that was fair as May. 

It will tell in a clear, triumphant strain,
	Of self forgotten, of holy love,
Of vigils lone by the couch of pain,
	Of a constant faith in the Hand above;
Of a lovely crown for a noble strife,
As a bright reward for a faithful life!
	*Suggested by Mrs. Hemans' "Triumphant Music."


[Column 1]

﻿A MAN'S ADVICE ABOUT WOMAN
SUFFRAGE.

	I have frequently had occasion to give vent
to my opinion in regard to woman suffrage in
a short but no-wise complete manner, hence
have had my ideas so contorted as to entirely
destroy my actual position as an earnest advo-
cate of your cause in public life. Now on the
contrary, you have my hearty support, but I
think you, or many of your prominent advo-
cates, take a wrong shoot and instead of lay-
ing a foundation for your noble cause, you
branch out in leaves or small branches as it
were, and if your ideas, which are naturally
sanguine or over enthusiastic, fall down you
always find some horrid man to witness your
fail, and he will invariably laugh at your pre-
sumption on so weak a foundation, to aspire
to do something with nothing, pardon my
candor, this is what always drives my suffrage
friends from me disgruntled, without giving
me the opportunity to fully define my position,
but in my opinion such is the condition today
and will so remain unless you change your
tactics, and build a foundation that will re-
quire at least two generations to erect a struct-
ure on that will stand the storms of ridicule
that today beat against your frail house, and
invariably causes either depression or the en-
tire crush of the structure.
	We are told in our earliest histories that
man was made first, and that woman was so
dependent on him, that even the first woman
had to secure a start from man, and that after-
wards she was placed in subjection to him,
but this I doubt. I think it only originated
from man's superior strength and never was a
divine wish or expectation—was only a mun-
dane retrogression that must first be checked
before woman can attain her God-given posi-
tion on strict equality with her liege lord,
man.
	It has been the prevailing idea with mankind
from as far back as history goes, that the son
and heir are the acme of perfection. How did
our Roman mother feel if her child happened
to be a girl? the poor chld was neglected, her
physical development was neglected, her edu-
cation was of decidedly second consideration
to the son already born, or the one to come.
Even before hand,	*	*	preparations were
made for the full development of the physical
and mental tenure of Rome's future army.
This was right as far as it went, but compare
the two children of those days? The boy was
carefully taken, given a rigid and severe course

[Column 2]

in its physical development and a thorough
training in war tactics, while the girl was
turned over heartlessly to a nurse and more or
less neglected all through life except when fill-
ing the office of motherhoods.
	Tracing the history of mankind down to the
present, can any one tell me whether it is
much better today? I've heard many mothers
say even in this age "Oh if I can give my boy
an education, my girl will marry some one
who will get the bread in the house and if I
teach her to bake bread and do plain sewing
these are all the requirements of a girl."
While my boy must have a good education
and make his way in the world. Of course
this, like as in the days of our Roman mothers
is all right as far as it goes, but why should
we neglect our girls? are they not future
mothers? and should they not be as intelligent
as the fathers? Most decidedly yes, and more
so say I; who, I will ask, are the persons to
whom we first appeal for our food? who is the
first one to hear our plaintive cry when we are
sick? who is the one to whom we first look for
sympathy in our infantile troubles? who is the
one who first leads our baby footsteps to the
altar of prayer and teaches us what to say?
when our struggling mind bursts into a desire
to know where God is, what the moon is and
the stars, and a hundred other childish ques-
tions, to whom do we go? As time rolls on
and we find an intelligent adviser into whose
willing ear are all our questions and confi-
dences poured, even to the time of choosing
our life mate? I'll answer all these questions
by the words Our Mothers. Will any one
dare to say, I am wrong, I think not. Hence
for a mother to fill these important functions
she must not have her education neglected,
she must either be qualified or qualify herself
to make a mother in every sense of the word;
a mother who knows how to take care of her
God-given charge from the moment of its con-
ception until she lays down her body with a
large concourse of intelligent children as
mourners; a mother who when she taught her
child to pray that she adopted the very best
language, that when sickness comes on she will
know better than all the quack neighbors that
drop in with their harrowing tales of their ex-
perience; a mother must know how to answer
the infantile questions that are asked by all
intelligent children or if unable to know how
to answer in such, a way as to retain the con-
fidence of the child in other words know the
child; as the child grows up she must be the
one who lays the foundation for a solid char-
acter, must prepare him for scholastic and
academic life. Her education, if confined to
baking bread or sewing on a button only,
would, when her bright little child asks "how
are stoves made necessitate reference to other
persons for information, it will be so with all
other questions asked and ere long your child
will appeal to you no more for information, he
will go away from home and the chances for
defective or immoral teachings are more prone
to be met with in promiscuous associations
than home, to say nothing of the desolation
created by the child or growing youth or
maiden who is turned over to an unfeeling
world, whose teachings are fraught with any
but maternal or trustworthy instincts. What
is home without that comfort giving essential
confidence. Its loss can invariably be traced
to that one defect in our girl's education.
	To raise up that standard of equality you


must fight a custom that has for its parents
the bigotry of man’s superior strength, you
must show by your excellence in what you
are best qualified, which I will not attempt
to particularize. It will take a generation
perhaps to prove that you are the best teacher
for the school it may take generations to show
that you are the best qualified for type
writing.
	It will certainly take a long time for you
o show by hard training and steady perse-
verance that you have your points even in the
arts and sciences that will enable you to stand
in the van with any. To do this turn your
attention to the education of your girls.
	Have as much pride in seeing them get their
diplomas as you have for your boys, drive
those notions of confining the girls education
to just what is required the day they start to
learn remember the future day when they
will have daughters of their own—you know
progression is nature and if you have these
aims, theirs will be in a more advanced degree
and ere long the sun of your dreams will have
arisen and your great granddaughters will be
standing shoulder to shoulder with the men of
the age, for the same labor receiving the same
or better pay, they will be exercising their
benign and refining influence on all the pro-
gressive ideas and customs of the age. So
educate your daughters in various channels of
public life that if it does not qualify them it
will their daughters, impress on their minds
the finer instincts and aims of woman’s rights
do not try to teach them that they should be
burly policemen or sit on a jury, that in-
cludes men with the fair prospects of remain-
ing together days perhaps. Do not say it is
your right to sit on the Judge’s bench and
listen to all phases of immoral life. Let their
aspirations be of a higher nature, all these are
revolting to a young lady and will drive her
from you instead of making a convert. First
educate her in all the branches of life, the
common school, politics, religion and if pos-
sible science, art and music. Then let her
highest aim be her true position as a mother—
let none be secondary to this, then your suff-
rage ideas when confined to woman’s physical
ability, then her mental if trained right will
assume its true level as water does and ere long
a race of beings will people this earth that
will be bound to recognize woman in her true
position to man, he being utterly unable to
dispense with woman in all phases of his life.
*     *     *     *    Woman in her position
to man is so decidedly essential that were it
possible to people the earth without her, that
man would soon die off from sheer misery and
loneliness therefore for any one to say they are
not his equal in everything but strength is
preposterous, and the inference is only the re-
sult of custom from man’s, earliest history.
This custom is what you must change and to
do this will require ages, you must strike at 
the root of future generations. Educate your
daughters to this ultimatum.
							D. P. FELT.
	Provo, Oct 28th, 1891.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

IN RURAL ENGLAND.

IV
	After the conversation between Sir Edward
and Dr. Bland, Miss Conway's mind was more at
ease, she felt that the responsibility must here-
after rest with the father, yet no understanding
had taken place between her cousin and her-
self, and she wondered whether her cousin had
replied to the letter from Mr. Walton, and felt
reluctant about making any inquiry or calling
the matter in question.
	A few days passed, and Sir Edward im-
proved rapidly, he was more cheerful and
talkative, though he never in any way referred

[Column 2]

to young Walton or the letter. Finally he
announced positively his intention of going
abroad soon, and requested the young
ladies to prepare their wardrobes, so as
to be ready on short notice. The Dr. had
given his permission, in fact had stated to Sir
Edward that it was the best thing for his
health and spirits. Sir Edward sent off to
London for his solicitor, so that all arrange-
ments might be made without his having to
leave temporarily the house, and the lawyer
was not long in answering the summons, for
knowing of the recent illness of his Lordship,
he naturally enough imagined that his affairs
should be looked into while there was oppor-
tunity.
	Mr. Burke (the family solicitor) knew more
of Sir Edward's family than even Dr. Bland,
and the three men were closeted together on
several occasions, which caused some anxiety
on the part of the household, especially the
young ladies. The upper servants gossiped
considerably over the matter, and the house-
keeper who assumed a great deal of import-
ance, having been left so much in charge pre-
vious to Miss Conway's coming, repeated to that
young woman some of the servants’ gossip, one
day when she was particularly loquacious, and
although the young lady did not think the
information altogether reliable, considering the
source, and feeling sure it had been obtained
by eaves-dropping, yet she felt there might be
a spice of truth in it and therefore listened a
few minutes to the housekeeper's version. Mrs.
Hess in her most gracious manner said "The
master would na go up to London to see after
his own business for fear Lady Anna might
get to see that young feller that came prowl-
ing around while he was away before—he's
after na good, I can tell ye Miss Conway
doubtless he's na better'n his father were, and
he stole Sir Edward's sweetheart away, and all
the time ptetendin to be his best friend. Rich
folk are na better'n poor ones, and not as 'onest
sometimes, do'ye know Miss Conway that
lawyer from London is makin a new will out,
and the old'un is burnt, and the master's afraid
he'll die in foreign parts and he wants things
settled so's if Lady Anna marries that feller
he'll not get his money not a shillin."
	Miss Conway thinking Mrs. Hess had gone
quite far enough into the secrets of the family
coolly replied, "I cannot listen to gossip like
this, excuse me, my uncle will be wanting me.',
The housekeeper was quite offended and
muttered to herself, "gentle folks are all alike
never want their affairs talked over, may be
she thinks we don't know how poor she was
when her uncle took her in, and now she don't
even want to be spoken to by a decent body
like me, that's been in this house ten years an'
more," and off she went to her own room to
regale herself with tea and something stronger
that she "al'ays kept by her in case o'sick-
ness."
	Miss Conway could not help thinking over
what the old lady had said notwithstanding
her distaste for 'servants gossip," and she felt
rather uneasy lest her cousin should be de-
frauded of her rights, still she placed great
coufidence in Dr. Bland's judgment and felt he
would be interested in having all legal mat-
ters disposed wisely.
	The same evening after this harangue of the
housekeeper's, a most unexpected occurrence,
transpired, that gave Miss Conway's sensibil-
ities another shock. The day was a very cold
one and the wind whistled and moaned ground
the old buildings, and swayed and bent the
great bare elms in the yard, as though in
agony and gloomy forebodings settled down
upon the mind of the Baronet's niece, she
seemed to dread something she knew not what:
she tried to throw off the feeling, took up a
book to read, unfortunately the book contained
only old legends that impressed her more

[Column 3]

gloomily she laid it down, stirred the fire in
the grate, the very air seemed oppressive, she
looked at her cousin, who sat silently musing,
it was growing dark, she rose and was about to
draw down the blinds, when she perceived the
shadow of a figure in the shrubbery, when she
looked more closely it had disappeared;
feeling sure some one was lurking  near
with a purpose in view, she left the library
where her cousin was sitting so composed, and
taking up a scarf that hung in the hall, and
carelessly wrapping it around her, so as to
screen her face a little, she stepped out
into the open air and soon reached the old
garden, where she felt sure some one was in
waiting. She was right, a woman came hastily
forward evidently greatly agitated and with-
out attempting to conceal her emotion in a soft
mellow voice and touching Miss Conway's arm
nquired, "Are you Lady Anna Hilliard?"
"No, madam, I am her cousin!" replied the
young lady, at the same time realizing she was
most awkwardly situated and by her own voli-
tion; she was sorry for having come into the
garden, and a hundred thoughts and evil pre-
monitions crept into her mind momentarily.
	The stranger hesitated when she learned it
was not the one she had supposed, and her
silence was only broken by suppressed sobs
that seemed to come from her inmost heart.
At last she said "I am treading on dangerous
ground, but my errand here justifies the
veuture. I am the mother of Lady Anna's
lover, and I must see her if it be possible, you
who refused my boy admittance, will surely not
deny his mother, I implore you to allow me to
speak to her for a few minutes here and alone.
My carriage waits outside the grounds of the
Castle. I have stolen my way hither, must I
ask in vain of you—a woman?" All this
seemed to come in a torrent of speech, and
Miss Conway regretted more than before that
she had precipitated this unexpected interview,
she did not dare to promise, she was afraid of
the consequences, but some reply must be made
immediately, and she answered with as much
assurance as she could collect. "My cousin is
not well; excitement would be dangerous for
her, my uncle is at home, and his consent
would be necessary." The lady hesitated and
finally said "I will even risk that if it can be
done without the knowledge of any other per-
son. My presence here would be ruinous to
all my son's hopes. I will wait until you re-
turn," and the lady shivered with nervous
tremor. She was wrapped in heavy furs, her
long cloak came to her very feet, her face
though sad was extremely lovely, and she had
the peculiar fascination that in woman seldom
fails to secure its object.
	While Miss Conway was absent she paced up
and down the old, wild garden, her thoughts
busy with the past, how strange that she
should come bending for favor to this place
where for nearly thirty years she had been an
utter stranger, and to him of all others, who
had thrown her love away as though it had
been a blight upon his life; the time seemed
long to this beautiful woman, yet it was only
a few minutes.
	Poor cousin Jane seemed doomed to be a
mediator and messenger of evil tidings and on
this occasion, strange, passing strange was her
message to her uncle she did not stop to con-
sider the danger to herself, or to him; she
thought only, how important must be the
matter that would cause a lady of rank and
station to come at night, alone, unbidden into
the garden of her sworn enemy; the very
thought gave her courage; she hastened to the
house knocked at the door of her uncle's room
and in a moment was in his presence. Before
he could speak, she hurriedly explained her
errand, and was surprised when he said, "I
will see Lady Walton myself, if she will come


[Column 1]

into the drawing room with you, but she must
not see Anna."
	Miss Conway did not wait for her uncle to
change his mind but flew to the garden, and
delivered his answer in the exact words.
Meantime Sir Edward suffered the most con-
flicting emotions. It was years since he had
seen this woman, he fancied that like himself
she would have grown old and clumsy, and
yet somehow his heart beat more rapidly as he
neared the drawing room;—he opened the
door. she was not there, he stood a moment
waiting, and growing more uncomfortable, for
such meetings are more awkward when one
waits, he heard footsteps and felt nervous
enough to hide himself like a bashful boy—
but Jane came to his relief, with the lady
leaning upon her arm, he was non plussed when
he saw this charming aristocratic woman in-
stead of one faded, wrinkled and grey that he
could scarcely even say "Lady Walton"—but
he was a man of the world, and he would not
let her see his embarrassment. His niece had
arranged seats for them by the fire, and with-
out the ceremony usual among people of rank
they were soon seated; while Jane stood as if in
doubt what the next move was to be. "I
make no apology for my presence here which
must be in the light of an intrusion, but I come
to speak for Maitland, my son," said the Lady,
"he has fallen desperately in love with Lady
Anna, your daughter, do not destroy his happi-
ness, and wreck his hopes as you once did
mine;" the Baronet rose to his feet, and turned
deathly pale—Jane feared he was going to
faint—she knew not what to do, or say, the
look upon his face was alarming, he tried to
speak—Lady Walton too had risen from her
chair, it was the first time they had met for
many years, and no explanation had ever been
made, and now the truth was coming to light,
the deception that had separated them, at last
he stammered, "I do not understand you, but
I cannot speak of that terrible past it is buried
forever." "Shall there be peace between us
then?" said Lady Walton in her sweetest voice,
the tears filling her eyes as she spoke, and
reaching out her hand to him, from which
she had hastily removed her glove. Sir Edward
would have been a brute indeed if he
could have refused such an offer, he was about
to raise the proffered hand to his lips, but she
withdrew it from his grasp and retreated a few
steps backward, and as she did so, said, "Sir
Edward what answer have you to make to my
question concerning our children?" "I cannot
answer on the impulse of the moment, this in-
terview has been a painful one I fear to both
of us, I will think the matter over, send the
young man to me I will see what there is in
him, as for Anna, she is a child, her mother
over again, she does not know what love
means, I am going to take her abroad, thought
of leaving the old ruin tomorrow;"—"but you
will wait until you have seen my boy Sir
Edward," said Lady Walton. "I suppose I
must, women generally have things their own
way, but remember I make no promises." And
so ended this strange meeting, without a good
nigh;t the Baronet insisted upon seeing her to
her carriage, but she would not permit it, his
niece accompanied her and saw her safely
seated inside, then hurried to the drawing room
where she had left her uncle; he was watching
for her to inquire what the Lady had said after
leaving him. "Not a word about you or the re-
sult of the interview, she pressed my hand at
parting and said, you are a wonderfully self-
possessed young woman, your presence gave
me great courage." "Sit down Jane" said her
uncle, "I want to talk to you, of the past, it
has been a sealed book for many long years;
but I must open its pages now, the time has
come, and you Jane are worthy my confi-
dence."
	It was late when the Baronet retired to rest

[Column 2]

that eventful night, and his nurse had to give
him an opiate, lest he should not sleep at all,
the remembrance of the past was awakened,
and the woman whom he had hated with
bitterness had come entreating a favor at his
hands; that she was still beautiful was greatly
to her advantage, had she been ugly and
wrinkled her cause might have been lost. He
had opened his heart to Jane, told her how
this woman had jilted him, and how after some
years of bachelorhood he had married Anna's
mother, a sweet-tempered, affectionate, angelic
young girl, an only daughter of an illustrious
family, who adored him with her whole soul.
	As for Jane she never closed her eyes, that
night at all, she hardly knew what to think,
she had only been in the house a few months,
and strange events had crowded one upon
another until her brain was almost bewildered
clear headed as she had thought herself; as
she lay trying to rest herself she pondered
upon the morrow, the coming of Maitland
Walton, her uncle had signified what his
answer would be to this young man, in his
conversation with her, and she could not help
wondering what would come next, and whether
after all they would go to Italy, at any rate
she hoped so, and that might change many
other things.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE SPIRIT OF RIGHT AND WRONG.
			   
	There's ever a spirit of right and wrong,
		A spirit of joy, and sorrow;
	But no matter how dark today may seem,
		There's hope for a bright tomorrow.
	Tho' friends may be few, if their hearts are true
	Take courage dear friend, there’s hope for you.

	How oft in this world do our friends prove false,
		And how oft dark clouds hang o’er us;
	But we ever may rise above our foes,
		And clear a bright path before us.
	Put our trust in God and hold fast the rod,
	They will surely fall as low as the sod!
							ZINA E. CROCHERON.
Bountiful, Dec. 25, 1890.


TWO FACES.

"You can't have your dinner, Benny,
	Till you go and wash your face;
It's all daubed with cake and candy,"
	Softly whispered cousin Grace.

"Some un' else has got the basin,"
	Ben said, turning up his plate,
"And I am so awful hungry,
	I don't feel 's if I could wait."

"Well you must wait," answered Gracie,
	"Go and wash you, nice and quick;
For to eat with face so dirty
	Would make anybody sick."

"You look in the glass," said Benny,
	"See your awful daubs of paint;
Must have made you sick already,
	You look 's if you're goin to faint.

'F you should lick your lips, you'd poison;
	Cake and candy's nice and sweet
Gracie! 'fore ye go to wash ye,
	Please to give me some'un t' eat!"
				MORAL
Consult your mirror, e'er you lightly trace,
What looks like dirt, upon another's face.
								LULA.


The love that never speaks until it does it
on a gravestone doesn't mean much.

	Romance is one thing, but making an
honest living and paying your debts is another.

	More men would be rich if they were not
afraid to trust their wives with the care of
their money.


THE BALLOT AS A MEASURE OF
				REFORM.

	I feel a great reluctance to come before this
audience today to talk upon a subject which
has been so ably and thoroughly discussed by
those so much more capable than myself at
the recent Suffrage Conventions; and my only
apology for so doing,is,that it is only by repeti-
tion that principles and ideas are taught and
fixed in the mind.
	It would seem that in this latter part of the
19th Century, there should be no need to prove
the value of the ballot, as a weapon of defense
protection or reform; and yet, although en-
lightened men all over our country are willing
to grant to us this privilege, many women are
holding back and saying "We do not want it.
We wouldn't be so unladylike as to vote, and 
besides we have all the rights we want.”—So
much has prejudice done to woman.
	A happy wife blessed by all the comforts of
home,and the protecting care of her husband,
her children by her side, and sheltered by her
loving arm, feels that she has all the rights
desired and sneers contemptuously at the agi-
tators of suffrage, thinks they had better be at
home caring for their households, and holds
herself up as a pattern of propriety by con-
trast.
	My dear other women have talked the same,
but the time has come in their lives when be-
reft of the protecting care of husband and
father, they have been brought face to face
with the protecting arm of the law, that law
made by men for men, and have felt their own
powerlessness and at what disadvantage, a wo-
man stands when thrown upon her own re-
sources for livelihood; and in their extremity
have said, "Oh for a voice in making these
laws?"
	Vast improvement has taken place in the
condition of women since that day when a
small band went out from a man's convention
and in a session room organized the first suff-
rage society. Women are enjoying the results
of the labors of those pioneer workers.
Property rights have been multiplied,great gains
have been made in educational opportunities,
in business advantages,and greater freedom is
enjoyed from restricting prejudice, so that it
would almost seem there is little more to ask
for. Yet how many realize to whom they are
indebted for these privileges they enjoy, when
they shake their heads at suffrage agitators.
	The mother of that boy just growing into 
manhood, comes face to face with a problem
which proves to her how important is she as
the guardian of the home.
	Rev. Anna Shaw said to us, that the fallacy
and untruth of the old saying "The hand that
rocks the cradle moves the world," lay in the
fact that the children do not always stay in
the cradle. Alas no! If they did, the 
mother might move them and the world,
but a few years takes them from the cradle
into the world so full of pitfalls, and then the
mother's hand is powerless to save. And when
she sees her boy being drawn into the seething
maelstrom of vice, the cry that comes from
her agonized heart is not alone, "God save my
child?" but it is "oh, that I might stretch forth
my hand, and with the mighty weapon of the
ballot close those doors of perdition that open
before him!"
	Even yet in some of our states a mother has
no legal right to her own children; and al-
though the smallest school boy will tell us a
Republic is a government by the people and
for the people, and that the United States is a
Republic, we are forced to correct him and say,
oh, no, my son, the United States is governed
only by one half the people. The other half
are slaves, governed, controlled, cared for and
protected by the half who wield the ballot—
		[ Continued on page 78.]


[Column 1]

THE BALLOT AS A MEASURE OF
REFORM.

	[Concluded.]
And he says why should the goddess of
Liberty be a woman and be placed upon the
Capitol building at Washington?" And we
say, "Oh, that is only a poetic fable. It looks
well!"
	More than one-seventh of all the bread-
winners of the United States are women, and
we know how underpaid their labor has been
and is.
	We are told that in New York City 200,000
women work at trades.
	Of these 27,000 support their husbands. In
the employments where the lowest wages are
paid 70 per cent of the workers are women,
while in those employments where as high as
20 dollars a week are paid only 3 per cent are
women.
	The industrial disenthrallment of women is
then one of the measures not yet fully ob-
ained.

[Column 2]

	The old objections to woman's suffrage are
seldom heard now-a-days. There are few peo-
ple who will claim woman is so mentally in-
ferior to man as to be incapable of using the
ballot.
	The position that woman has taken in all
kinds of labor, trades or professions has
proven the absurdity of such an objection,
With women lawyers, doctors and preachers
taking high rank in their professions; with
woman at the head in art, literature or
science the fact of their mental strength has
been satisfactorily demonstrated. If they are
physically weaker. the ballot has been as will-
ingly bestowed upon the weakest man as upon
the pugilist Sullivan, and every foreign immi-
grant who lands upon our shores can in a
short time become an American sovereign by
virtue of the ballot, regardless of his height,
weight or mental capacity, if he falls short of
complete idiocy or lunacy. Sex only is the
crime to debar them from franchise.
	Of the 12.000.000 American women it has
been found by the last census that 89 per cent
of them can read and write while a large pro-
portion of men cannot read the ballot they
cast, thus proving, if intelligence was made
the standard of qualification for franchise as
it should be, the lines would not be drawn
where they now are.
	As to the old objection that it will take wo-
man from her cares and cause her to neglect
her family, no thoughtful person will enter-
tain such an idea.
	It certainly will take no longer for a woman
to go out and vote, than to go shopping, to
the circus or to an afternoon tea, and probably
some one can be found to take care of the baby
upon voting day as well as upon the other
hundred and one occasions when a woman
spends an hour from home.
	Women seem to have time to attend any
society or club where their especial province
is to get up supper's, or help raise money &c.,
and no one seems to object, not even the wo-
men themselves.
	A very intelligent lady of Ashtabula, said to
me a few days since. "I believe in woman
suffrage, but I do not think women should
hold office. I think it would be a terrible
thing for a woman to be President of the United
States."
	Well I have not worried about that yet. I
think it would be a terrible thing for a wo-
man to run for the Presidency, with the politi-
cal parties in the condition they are at present.
To be dragged in the filth and mire of politi-
cal intrigue and wire pulling during a cam-
paign, and be obliged to toady to every
whiskey distiller or beer brewer, who controled
a large number of votes, I do think it would
be a terrible thing. But I also think it is a
terrible tiling for a man, to run for office
now-a-days. I sympathize with Col. Mulberry
Sellers when he asks what he has ever done,
that his friends should think so meanly of him
as to want him to stoop to be a congressman.
	No, we will not look so far ahead as that.
What we see now, is the nation's need of wo-
man to purify politics; to lift politics out of
the control of King Alcohol, and when lifted
and purified if the nation should ever find that
the fittest citizen for chief executive, in all
this great commonwealth was a woman we
will try and bear the infliction with becoming
womanly fortitude hoping that by that time,
the position will be elevated sufficiently to
meet the exigency of the case, and that woman
may not be degraded by accepting it.—The
history of England under Victoria and Eliza-
beth's reign will prove woman's ability to fill
a position of power.
	Another argument in favor of Equal rights
of the sexes is, that any thing which elevates
educates or broadens the mind of the mothers
of the race, must benefit the race. When we

[Column 3]

are free, our sons will be born of free women,
and we can expect greater statesmen, and
nobler men with enfranchised, thinking
mothers.
	We do not believe that all women are now
sufficiently educated to vote intelligently. Few
men are.
	We do believe if suffrage is granted to wo-
man she will conscientiously strive to know
what she is doing, and on all moral questions
she will be inclined to right that she will look
more to the character, and record of the con-
didate than to the party he represents. Indeed
it is said in Wyoming that a man dare not run
for office there, if he has not a clear record be-
hind him.
	It is also said, women do not seem to seek
or desire office for themselves but they are
mighty particular whom they put in office.
When our country has men with white souls
and clean hands in office then shall the muddy
stream of politics run clear.
	We do not expect that women will always
vote right. In fact they have a right to make
mistakes, a few of them, when their brothers
have been making them for ages. Carlysle
says "Man's walk is a succession of falls," and
if a woman stumbles occasionally even in
politics we cannot wonder. One thing is in
her favor. When she slips she is quite apt to
land upon her feet.
	As to tariff and free trade and protection,
and protection free trade and tariff, we believe
with Miss Shaw in home protection, and if we
should get into the intricacies of these subjects
we shall probably be as able to disentangle
them, as Sambo was when the franchise was
given him; or as Mike, Fritz, Henrik Forvald
or Antone Jakamo, who have only been here
a year, or even as, Rain in the face, or Trail 
in the mud out in South Dakota.
	We want laws which protect our homes and
make the same standard of morality for man
as woman, not like the amended Wanzer bill
which make our daughters of full age and re-
sponsibility at 16, and our sons free from legal
restraint until they are 21.
	We want to feel the world was made for
women too, and that a woman bread-winner
for the same labor can get as much for her 10
hours as man.
	We do not like to think of those poor sew-
ing women in New York who are making
shirts at 6 cents a piece and furnishing their
own thread.
	And we would like an opportunity to help
men to cast off the shackles of political
"bossism," and aid them to make such restric-
tions as shall put the right of franchise on an
educational basis. And then when no one
shall be enfranchised man or woman who is
not able to read the ballot he or she cast, our
boys who must live 21 years before they can
vote will have a better chance to save our
nation from this element of anarchy and
socialism, which is being poured in upon us
from the prisons and Alms houses of the old
world at the rate of half a million of voters
every five years.
	As for home protection and the need of it,
the mothers realized this when less than 20
years ago goaded on by mother love and the
agony of seeing their loved ones filled by the
relentless destroyer rum, they put aside the re-
straints which prejudice had imposed upon their
sex, and inaugurated the crusade against the
saloons. It was the act of desparation, the up-
rising of the mother spirit which would sacri-
fice itself in defense of its dear ones. But the
saloons are still with us. Our boys are beset
by temptation upon every hand, and still our
government reaps the benefit of the dealers
license to destroy them. There are
12,000,000 citizens in the United States of
suitable age, and elegible to the franchise ex-
cept for the crime of sex who would protest


[Column 1]

against this, but they are voiceless. Since the
days of the crusade what means have been left
untried, what work has been left undone, by
women in defense of their homes.
	Women have prayed, and seen their sons
and husbands die before their eyes from the
effects of drink.
	Every day we have object lessons. Every
newspaper contains a temperance sermon and
yet the saloons are with us.
	We look to the churches and to the clergy
for help and are disappointed and heart sick to
see the apathy and indifference with which
we are met.
	The W. C. T. U. of Ashtabula a short time
age engaged the Hon. Lou. Beauchamp for a
series of Gospel temperance lectures. Ladies
canvassed the town going from house to house
to invite the people to come out.
	But the opening night with only 150 present
a large proportion of those children was so
discouraging as to end the project, and Mr.
Beauchamp left us. Not one clergyman was
present to support him.
	Of course there are reasons why it thus
happened, for we have at least two clergymen
who are usually found present on such occa-
sions. But generally speaking it would seem
as if the modern theology did not teach "woe
unto him that giveth his neighbor drink."
	What then is left for women to do? We
are told to pray. Did it ever occur to you
how willing men and politicians are to have
women do the praying for them? They even
allow them to make the major part of the
church congregations for that purpose, and to
get up socials, and raise funds, etc. But they
are not willing they should have a voice in
the church government.
	Far be it from my purpose to arraign any
church, but the question has been so recently
forced upon us, in the refusal to admit women
to the general conference of the M. E. Church,
that we can but remember it.
	Sixty thousand foreigners landed at Castle
Garden last month, the majority of these can-
not read, write or speak our language, yet in
one year in the Western States where they are
distributed they will become kings by virtue
of the franchise, the right to wield the ballot,
and the political parties will cater to them be-
cause they are voters. While 12,000,000 dis-
franchised women sit quietly down and let them
vote whiskey down their children's throats, and
are powerless to prevent it. If their prayers
are no more effective than when they petition
to men, we may doubt their efficacy. For we
have seen petition after petition set aside and
disregarded because the petitioners were only
women and have no vote. We want to vote
as we pray. It is the voters petition that is
deferred to, that is legislated upon, for the
legislator knows that unless he heeds such
petitions he will so to speak lose his head upon
the block of the party machine or he will at
the end of his term be relegated to the realms
of inocuous desuetude.
	But we are thankful we can see a brighter
day dawning. During the last year under the
charge of the platform committee, two millions
of voters, not women, but men have affixed
their names to petitions for woman suffrage.
Wyoming women will vote for the next Presi-
dent of the United States, Kansas has muni-
cipal suffrage and 22 states school suffrage.
As Hon. E. B. Taylor said at Warren, "the
walls of the political Jericho are undermined,
the women are blowing the trumpets about
them, and they are liable at any hour to fall
in."
	When they fall women will hold the balance
of power. Astute politicians foresee this and
the better class are favoring it, seeing therein
a way out of the control of the bummer ele-
ment in politics. If women only will be true
to themselves and think more of principle

[Column 2]

than popularity, the battle will not be long,
nor the victory afar off. When woman has
the ballot the saloons must go.
	As for woman suffrage causing quarrels in
the family, I believe the reverse would be true.
Look how men cater to and after the voter
now, and think how they will do the same to
us, when we hold the balance of power, or as
we shall do when enfranchised. Why, bless
you, my sisters, your husbands will be kinder
than ever before to you, especially near elec-
tion time. They may do as well by you as
they do by the illiterate voter now, whom
they treat to whiskey and cigars so freely be-
fore election.
	They will at least try and conciliate you if
there is danger of your voting differently from
them, and if you vote with them and for right,
morality and temperance, you will strengthen
the cause one hundred fold.
			ETTA L. GILCHRIST, M. D.
	Ashtabula, Ohio.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
gne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs.  City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	Exponent office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	NOVEMBER 15, 1891.


[Column 1]

FEAR NOT FOR ZION.

	This is indeed an interesting period in the history
of this people, and those who have been looking
forward for a great change to transpire that Zion
might be liberated from bondage, ought to take
into consideration, how often it has been repeated
to the Saints, that the Lord's ways are not as
man's ways, and that great things never come
about as even wise men anticipate. The Lord
works in a mysterious way, and sometimes it is
best to stand and wait, especially until one is sure
of going in the right direction.
	Could anything have been required of the
Saints more uncertain than the exodus from
Nauvoo? many weakened in their faith and had
not the courage to start upon the journey, others
had just faith enough to get to the first stopping
place "Richardson's Point" in the State of Iowa,
and turned back again; the writer remembers
well, the sermon of President Young at that place
and  his prophecy concerning those who left the
camp to go back, and his words were fulfilled to
the very letter.
	It was very trying to endure all the privations
and hardships of that journey and the prolonged
stay at Winter Quarters, and many grew faint
and weary though their faith failed not, and hun-
dreds perished and lie in unknown graves; and
yet looking back upon it today who of all those,
who suffered these perils by the way could say
now, that it would have been better to stay in
Nauvoo, and meet the deadly foe face to face
expecting deliverance in their own way from the
hands of their enemies.
	The Lord revealed to Brigham Young the way
of deliverance and it proved a safe way. It was
not the way Sidney Rigdon and some other lead-
ing men pointed out, but it proved to be the right
way, and those who followed it and sustained the
majority of the Apostles found to their perfect
satisfaction that the Lord had spoken to Presi-
dent Young and opened up a way by which they
could come into a land prophesied of, where
Temples could be erected and the work of re-
demption for the living and the dead could be per-
formed and many thousands of "spirits in prison"
be released from bondage.
	Much has been accomplished in the great
Latter-day work since coming to these valleys,
and there is no doubt much more and greater
work yet to be done before the ushering in of the
Millennium, and the Lord has said He will do
nothing except He reveal it to His servants the
prophets. And when they receive the word of
the Lord, if the Saints are in doubt they should
seek for a testimony, or if they have not sufficient
humility and faith for that, stand still and watch
and pray without ceasing and they will not go far
astray; but if they give way to murmuring, the
experience of the past has proven most effectually
that they will fall into darkness, error and unbe-

[Column 2]

lief, and become backsliders, dissatisfied and un-
happy.
	The Lord is working with His people at the
present time, and some things are undergoing a
change, as great perhaps as the exodus from
Nauvoo, though an entirely different one, and
doubtless there are many who will be tried and
wonder what will be the result, but those who are
humble and trust God implicitly with child-like
faith will be able to stand, but it must be by faith,
such mighty faith as Abram had in the hour of
need.
	Women as well as men need this strong faith
in the Gospel, and without it they will be unable
to endure; they too need testimony and convic-
tion and knowledge for themselves, and as our
Heavenly Father loves His daughters as well as
His sons, and chasteneth those He loveth, women
must take up their cross as bravely and willingly
as their brothers. He has a purpose in view in
the change now being made throughout the
Church, and though His people are not permitted
to see clearly what is to be brought about
through the sacrifice required, trust Him always,
He will never forsake those who rely upon Him.
The ones who are most severely tried are those
who will receive the greater blessings, this should
comfort the sorrowing ones, He will "sanctify to
them their deepest distress." God has not for-
saken his faithful saints, no more than He had
Abraham, when He commanded Him to offer up
his son. If the nearest and dearest are taken,
still the true saint can look up and trust Him.
When the clouds are heaviest then He smiles
through them, and the bitter experiences of those
who have made covenants with Him in holy
places will yet be a stay and anchor to their souls
for those eternal covenants reach behind the
veil.
	The Saints should prophesy good concerning
Zion, and concerning the daughters of Zion, for
the day of triumph is at hand; the inscrutable
ways of the Lord are past finding out, yet His
people need not fear, His work will roll onward
and Zion will prosper and the enemies of the
Saints will be left without excuse.
	Those who are trying to serve the Lord and
help establish His Church in the earth must stand
by the cause they have espoused through storms
as well as sunshine, and if they can endure all
things, then will they be counted worthy to reign
with Him, who descended beneath all. To those
who are aiming for the highest exaltation, nothing
should seem too hard to pass through. Again
and again in ancient and modern revelation has
the Lord said He would have a tried people even
"as gold seven times purified," therefore the
Saints should not murmur as did ancient Israel
lest they lose sight of "the prize of the high call-
ing."

	"In the cruel fire of sorrow
		Cast thy heart, do not faint or wail;
	Let thy hand be firm and steady,
		Do not let thy spirit quail;
	But wait till the trial is over,
		And take thy heart again;
	For as gold is tried by fire,
		So a heart must be tried by pain!"


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	In this number of the paper will be found two
articles upon woman suffrage both of them from
able writers, one a man the other a woman. We
trust these articles will be compared and that
others will give their views, upon this open ques-
tion.
	From Sisters Betsy C. Glover, Jane Cowan
and others, bouquets of late summer and autumn
flowers have been sent to grace our little sanctum
of late; such gifts are always acceptable, they


speak tenderly to the heart and are fragrant re-
minders of pleasant friends, as well as a delight
for the eye to rest upon. Many thanks dear
friends for these tokens of kindly remembrance.

	There will be a Grand Ball given in the Salt
Lake Theatre in this City on Friday evening
Nov. 20th, for the Benefit of the Deseret Hospital.
The tickets are being sold and great preparations
are going on to make the affair an attractive one
and a financial success. The best band that can
be obtained will furnish the music, and a bevy of
young girls will have booths for the sale of
flowers and candy—the greenroom will be hand-
somely decorated for the occasion, and the young
ladies will appear in unique and charming cos-
tumes. The Young Ladies’ Mandolin Club Mrs
Tizzie Clowson leader will appear during the eve-
ing which will be another added attraction. The
Hospital has done an immense amount of charity
work and its doors are ever open to the un-
fortunate and afflicted; in consequence of there
being no special endowment for it, means has to
be solicited from time to time to keep the institu-
tion in running order. The President of this
Stake of Zion and the Bishops have spoken
favorably of this party in public places and no
doubt there will be, as there certainly should be,a
hearty response from the people in the purchase
of tickets, and as the party will be first class in
every sense of the word they will get the worth of
their money in genuine enjoyment, and at the
same time be helping forward a worthy object.


A NEW STORY BOOK.

	There is about to be published at the office of
the Juvenile Instructor in this City, a new home
book suitable for the holidays. It will be entirely
a home production of stories from real life; and
will contain vivid descriptions of scenery and
incidents of New England in the earlier days, and
also the New West.
	The title of the book will be “Aunt Em’s
Stories,” and will open with Hephzibah which
was published sometime ago as a serial.
	There is a field in Utah for books of this sort,
or this class of reading, the supply of home story
books is not equal to the demand. This will be
the first book of the kind published at home.
Many books of a more serious style have been
written and published here and quite a number of
books of poems, children’s books,etc., and this is
therefore a new venture in the field of home
literature.


PRESS WOMEN IN BOSTON.

	Letters, telegrams and notes of invitation have
been sent to us to be present at the first meeting
for the Federation of Women’s Press Clubs in
Boston on the eleventh of the present month—
it has been a source of deep regret that we were
unable to attend and help on with the enterprise
started last winter in Washington.
	The New England Woman's Press Club invited
the members of the Woman’s International
Press Federation to be their guests and will give
a reception at the Parker House.
	The forenoon will be a business meeting the
afternoon will be an open meeting to which all
press women will be invited and the evening a
banquet at the Parker House.
	Such opportunities are rare and ought not to
be neglected, they are the milestones that count
woman’s progress in the path of progression and
enlightenment—and they open up avenues of
communication between those whose lives have
lain wide apart, and perchance misunderstood by
each other and awaken interest in those afar off
that strengthens the bond of human sisterhood


and shows us how much we all have yet to learn
in the lessons of charity and fellowship before
we can come into a knowledge of the whole truths
of the universe and enjoy the universal brother-
hood which through love is to redeem the world.
	The women of the press have an immense
power for good, to mold the minds of others, to
influence the multitudes that may never see them
or hear their voices, yet they can wield a potent
sway by means of the pen, and so subtle is this
impress that it is not perceptible, but grows to
giant proportions without scarcely a sound
even a whisper. How careful shonld the writer
be of the power he exercises, that it should be for
the good of all who may partake of its spirit.
	This meeting and entertainment in Boston has
been arranged to precede the Woman’s Christian
Temperance Convention, so as to secure railroad
rates for both at one time and make the journey
count for two purposes. It is good economy to
begin with, and besides saving of means and
strength. 
	Some of the brightest and brainiest women in
the world, will be gathered at the hub in this 
Federation, as well as in the W. C. T. U.
	It is greatly to be regretted that there are not
better facilities for free transportation to and from 
these great assemblies of women.
	The dispatches will give us news of this meet-
ing ere long, for when such an assembly of wo-
men are gathered in a city as famous as Boston 
the reporters are sure to write them up, and there 
will be something worth telling for the fair and 
the brave, the poet, the scholar, the novelist and
author of many books, the brilliant and witty, and 
the thoughtful will be there. It is a pleasure 
in itself to meet in social contact the people, who 
have made a name in the world of literature by
their own literary efforts and whose books, or
poems, or articles one has read and queried con-
cerning the writer. To see a large concourse of 
women who can earn money by the pen is a
picture worth gazing upon, and a study that is in-
deed worth contemplating; after all human nature
is the highest subject and the most fascinating,
and the people who have really accomplished 
some brilliant undertaking are the ones most in-
teresting to the observer. The very fact of these
women coming together is one of the signs of the 
times, telling in trumpet tones of the rapid strides
being made-towards woman's emancipation from
ignorance and bondage.
	Women are thinking to some purpose not aim-
lessly, not with rivalry nor any sinister motive in
view, but for the best good of humanity and for
this they are willing to make some sacrifices, that
a brighter day may be heralded in and universal
liberty envelop one and all under its broad
canopy of equal rights and privileges.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

WOMAN'S PRESS CLUB ORGANIZED.

	Pursuant to a call made by letter to a large
number of women writers, a meeting was held on
Saturday Oct. 31, 1891, at the Office of the WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT in this City for the purpose of
organizing a Woman's Press Association for the
women engaged in active journalistic or news-
paper work in Utah Ter.
	Quite a number of those invited to attend the
meeting responded to the call, (those living at a
distance sent replies by letter), and after some
consultation as to methods of procedure, E. B.
Wells was chosen temporary chairman and Juie
I Mc'Donald secretary pro tem. Prayer was
offered by Lula Greene Richards.
	The nomination of officers was the first busi-
ness to be transacted, after some explanations
having been made by Mrs. Wells and Mrs. Gates.
A motion was put and carried unanimously that
the nominations be made from the body of the
house. The officers elected are—Emmeline B.

[Column 2]

Wells, President; Susa Young Gates, 1st. Vice
Pres.; Lula Greene Richards, 2nd. Vice Pres.;
Martha A. Y. Greenhalgh, Vice President at
large; Annie Wells Cannon, Cor. Sec'y.; Jose-
phine Spencer, Ass't. Cor. Sec'y.; Ellis R. Shipp
M. D., Recording Secretary; Juie Ivins Mc'-
Donald, Ass't. Rec. Sec'y.; Ruth M. Fox, Treas-
urer; Romania B. Pratt M. D., Auditor.
	The discussion of what the club should be
called resulted in the adoption of the name Utah
Woman's Press Club.
	A motion was made and seconded that the
chair appoint a Committee of three to prepare a
Constitution and By-Laws for the club.
	The chair accordingly appointed Susa Y. Gates
of Provo, Romania B. Pratt of Salt Lake City,
and Lucy A. Clark of Farmington, as such Com-
mittee.
	The Committee drew up the following articles
which were presented and adopted.
CONSTITUTION
ARTICLE I.—Name.
	This organization shall be called the Utah
Woman's Press Club.
ARTICLE II.—Object.
	The object of this club shall be to further the
literary development and interests of women, and
to foster and strengthen individual efforts by
means of organization.
ARTICLE III.—Membership.
	Any woman who writes for a creditable journal
newspaper or other publication shall be eligible
to membership.
ARTICLE IV.—Officers.
	The officers of this club shall be a President,
two local Vice Presidents, one Vice President at
large, a Cor. Sec'y., and Ass't. Cor. Sec'y., a Re-
cording Sec'y., and Ass't. Rec. Sec'y., a Treas-
urer and Auditor, to be elected annually.
ARTICLE V.—Executive.
	The Executive Board shall consist of the Presi-
dent and three officers of the Club, viz: The
second Vice Pres., the Cor. and Rec. Secre-
taries.
ARTICLE VI.—Credential Com.
	The Corresponding Secretary and the Record-
ing Secretary and Treasurer shall compose the
Committee on Credentials.
ARTICLE VII.—Offices.
	No officer shall serve in the same position for
more than two years in succession.
ARTICLE VIII.—Amendments.
	This Constitution may be amended at any
regular meeting of the club, due notice having
been given beforehand.
			SUSA YOUNG GATES,
			ROMANIA B. PRATT,
			LUCY A. CLARK,
				Committee.
	A suggestion was made by Susa Y. Gates that
each member should contribute for the first meet-
ing an original article or address, or such a
selected article as should further the object for
which the club was organized, or be subject to a
fine not to exceed twenty five cents.
	After some practical hints upon club work by
members present an adjournment was taken and
an appointment made for the next meeting to be
held at the same place on Wednesday Nov. 30,
at seven o'clock in the evening.
		JUIE I. MC'DONALD, Sec. Pro tem.


EXTRACTS FROM PRES. WOODRUFF'S
		SERMON AT LOGAN.

		[Sunday Nov. 1st, 1891.]
	I have had some revelations of late and very im-
portant ones to me, and I will tell you what the

[column 2]
﻿Lord has said to me. Let me bring your minds
to what is termed the manifesto. The Lord has
told me by revelation that there are many mem-
bers of the Church throughout Zion who are sorely
tried in their hearts because of that manifesto,
and also because of the testimony of the Presi-
dency of this Church and the Apostles before the
Master in Chancery. Since I received that revela-
tion I have heard of many who are tried in these
things, though I had not heard of any before that,
particularly. Now the Lord has commanded me to
do one thing, and I fulfilled that commandment
at the conference at Brigham City last Sunday,
and I will do the same here today. The Lord
has told me to ask the Latter-day Saints a ques-
tion, and He also told me that if they would listen
to what I said to them and answer the question
put to them, by the spirit and power of God, they
would all answer alike, and they would all believe
alike with regard to this matter. The question is
this: Which is the wisest course for the Latter-
day Saints to pursue—to continue to attempt to
practice plural marriage, with the laws of the
nation against it and the opposition of sixty
millions of people, and at the cost of the confis-
cation and loss of all the Temples, and the stop-
ping of all the ordinances therein, both for the
living and the dead, and the im-
prisonment of the First Presidency and Twelve
and the heads of families in the Church, and the
confiscation of personal property of the people
(all of which of themselves would stop the
practice), or after doing and suffering what we
have through our adherence to this principle to
cease the practice and submit to the law, and
through doing so leave the Prophets, Apostles
and fathers at home, so that they can instruct the
people and attend to the duties of the Church,
and also leave the Temples in the hands of the
Saints, so that they can attend to the ordinances
of the Gospel, both for the living and the dead?
	The Lord showed me by vision anh revelation,
exactly what would take place if we did not stop
this practice. If we had not stopped it, you
would have had no use for Brother Merrill, * or
for any of the men in this temple at Logan; for
all ordinances would be stopped throughout the
land of Zion. Confusion would reign throughout
Israel, and many men would be made prisoners.
This trouble would have come upon the whole
Church, and we should have been compelled to
stop the practice. Now, the question is, whether it
should be stopped in this manner, or in the way
the Lord has manifested to us, and leave our
prophets and apostles and fathers free men, and
the temples in the hands of the people, so that the
dead may be redeemed. A large number has al-
ready been delivered from the prison house in the
spirit world by this people, and shall the work go
on or stop? This is the question I lay before
the Latter-day Saints. You have to judge for
yourselves. I want you to answer it for your
selves. I shall not answer it; but I say to you
that that is exactly the condition we as a people
would have been in had we not taken the course
we have.
	I know there are a good many men, and prob-
ably some leading men, in this Church who have
been tried and felt as though President Woodruff
had lost the Spirit of God and was about to apos-
tatize. Now, I want you to understand that he
has not lost the Spirit, nor is he about to aposta-
tize. The Lord is with him, and with this peo-
ple. He has told me exactly what to do, and
what the result would be if we did not do it. I
have been called upon by friends outside of the
Church and urged to take some steps with regard
to this matter. They knew the course which the
government were determined to take. This feel-
ing has also been manifested more or less by
members of the Church. I saw exactly what
would come to pass if there was not something
done. I have had this spirit upon me for a long


time. But I want to say this: I should have let
all the temples go out of our hands; I should
have gone to prison myself,and let every other man
go there, had not the God of heaven commanded
me to do what I did do; and when the hour came
that I was commanded to do that, it was all clear
to me. I went before the Lord, and I wrote what
the Lord told me to write. I laid it before my
brethren—such strong men as Brother Geo. Q.
Cannon, Brother Jos. F. Smith, and the Twelve
Apostles. I might as well undertake to turn an
army with banners out of its course as to turn
them out of a course that they considered to be
right. These men agreed with me, and ten
thousand Latter-day Saints also agreed with me.
Why? Because they were moved upon by the
Spirit of God and by the revelations of Jesus
Christ to do it.
	I leave this with you, for you to contemplate
and consider. The Lord is at work with us. He
is doing things here that you do not comprehend.
Make these matters a subject of prayer. Do not
worry; do not feel bad about them.
	I rejoice that God has revealed to us the
Gospel. I rejoice I live in a day and generation
when we have the Church of God on the earth.
We have had prophets and apostles among us.
They have worked here in the flesh and saved
many souls. They have died and gone to the
spirit world. Joseph Smith holds the keys of this
dispensation. He will hold them to the endless
ages of eternity, no matter who may lead the
Church after him. The Lord has given us power
to come here and build temples. We have three
temples erected in these mountains, and many of
the dead have been redeemed in them, and they
will have a part in the first resurrection. There-
fore, we ought to be thankful to the Lord. We
want to continue in these temples. We want
them to be occupied by the Latter-day Saints.
We want our brethren and sisters to continue to
go there and redeem the dead and bless the liv-
ing. The Lord will take care of you and your
families. He will take care of Zion, and of this
generation, and He will fulfill all that He has
said.
	I say, God bless you. And He will bless you
if you will hearken to His counsels.
	I want the Latter-day Saints to stop murmuring
and complaining at the providence of God.
Trust in God. Do your duty. Remember your
prayers. Get faith in the Lord, and take hold
and build up Zion. All will be right. The Lord
is going to visit His people, and He is going to
cut His work short in righteousness, lest no flesh
should be saved. I say to you, watch the signs
of the times, and prepare yourselves for that which
is to come. God bless you. Amen.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., AND P. A.
				REPORTS.

			CASSIA STAKE.
	At last the sisters of this Stake were favored
by a very much appreciated visit from some of
the General Officers, there being present,
Sisters Zina D. H. Young, Jane S. Richards
and also Sister Rogers of the Primary Asso-
ciation and Apostle F. D. Richards.
	Pres. Louisa Haight presided over the con-
ference and every ward branch was represented
and reported by its respective officers; financial
reports of each ward were also read.
	Pres. Zina D. H. Young was introduced to
the conference and spoke at some length npon
various subjects, prominent among which were
the blessings and freedom from temptations to
be enjoyed in a wayside place; developing of
woman’s intellect; sister’s manner of speech of
their husbands and those in authority before
the children, and their conducting of religious
items at home; care of the dead, temple work.
	Coun Jane S. Richards expressed great
pleasure in visiting a place where all are brothers
and sisters; spoke of the many impurities of a
city; the change in woman’s sphere, how she
found it difficult to adapt herself to it, but
testimonies brought her to know there was
other work for woman than household duties;
how easy to neglect meetings and the conse-
quences; how a sisters’s care will prosper in her
absence on religious duties; our remembrances
of kindnesses. Spoke at some length to the
teachers.
	In the afternoon session, Pres. H. D. Haight
spoke briefly. Spoke of the joy felt in the
presence of the visiting sisters; hoped we would
not be overcome by the allurements they re-
ferred to.
	Sister Rogers of Farmington followed with
much good counsel concerning the Primary
Association and care of children; mothers
should not neglect children for work; not let
them run loose; provide them with suitable
amusements; stated the object of the organiza-
tion of the associations; of the evil habit of
borrowing; on governing children.
	Pres. Zina D. H. Young further addressed
the conference, giving some instruction to the
teachers in regard to the disposal of wheat and
the practice of raffling.
	Apostle F. D. Richards addressed the meet-
meeting; enconraged the people concerning
their location and felt there was a great future
for the valley; said now while in peace culti-
vate a spirit to stand, for all that can be shaken
will be shaken; spoke of the hickory nut, it
can scarcely be cracked, yet it sprouts and a
tree comes from it, so the Lord will make His
people a tree of life; spoke at great length on

[column 2]
the Prophet Joseph’s views concerning wo-
man’s work and the interest he took to meet
with and instruct them; read several extracts
from discourses delivered to the sisters by the
Prophet; wives are equal to their husbands
save that the power to be head and director in
the Priesthood is given to man alone. Brother
Richards encouraged the sisters in their labors
and exhorted the brethren to assist them; gave
directions as to how they should proceed in
administering to the sick; anything the Lord
has condescended to tell us surely is worthy our
consideration.
	Pres. Louisa Haight hoped we would not
forget but treasure up what we had heard.  
	The General Board and Stake officers of the
Society were sustained by the assembly. Con-
ference adjourned for three months.
				LOUISA P. READ, Sec.

			UINTAH STAKE.
	Seventh Conference of the Relief Society of
Uintah Stake convened in the Ashley Ward
meeting house Sept 7th 1891. Pres. Sarah
Pope presiding. Singing, “Come all ye saints
who dwell on earth,” Prayer Bro. C, F. B.
Lybbert. Singing, "Redeemer of Israel.” etc.
minutes of previous conference read and
approved.
	Pres S. R. Bennion was pleased to meet
with the sisters in the capacity of a Relief
Society conference. “We are living in a very
peculiar time. We should teach our children
to pray it is very necessary for them to grow
up in the fear of the Lord, have thought many
times that there is not as much interest taken
with the children as there should be;” Gave
some very good instructions to wives and mothers
Bro, E, J- Langhurst “The Lord has said
that where there were but few met together
in his name he would be there and that to
bless them. We are the greatest blest
people on the face of the earth if we only
realize it; We have had a testimony of the
truth of the Gospel, and all the promices that
the Lord has made we shall inherit, if we only
prove faithful, but if we do not He will pour
out scourges upon us until we will become as
one. If we lack wisdom let us do as Joseph 
Smith did ask of God, who givith to all men
liberally and upbraideth not.
	Sister Sarah Bird felt thankful for the
privilege of meeting with the sisters; asked
the blesssng of the Lord to rest upon all.
	Bro. N. Merkley said there was nothing
that would make a man feel happier than when
he came in from a hard day’s work to find a
good-natured wife with a clean house and
supper ready, and hear the merry voices of his
children to welcome him home; spoke some
on the principle of tithing.
	Bro. Charles Bartlett said the time was not
far distant when the sisters would have all
they could do in discharging their duties; if
we do not store our minds with useful know-
ledge the time will come when the duties of
motherhood will be a sore trial for us for
when the brethren are all away we will have
to shoulder the whole care of the family,
therefore it is necessary for us to be prepared
to do so. Conference adjourned until 2 P M
Singing, “How firm a foundation ye saints of
the Lord,” Benediction by Sister Phebe Hislop.
	Afternoon session opened by singing, “Who
are these arrayed in white,” Prayer by Sister
A. K. Barlett. Singing, “Think gently of
the erring one.” The Stastistical and financial
report of the stake was then read. The general
and local authorities were sustained by
unanimous vote.
	Sister Althura Collott said we are all weak
and frail creatures here upon the earth but
we must take our part; gave the sisters some
very good advice. Sister Hadlock bore her
testimony to the truth of the Gospel; felt to


rejoice that she lived in this day and age of
the world encouraged the sisters to do right.
Sister A. K. Bartlett thought to be a public
teacher was a very peculiar place to stand in;
we little realize the day in which we live.
We should observe the word of wisdom
especially the young people, gave the mothers
some very good instructions in regard to rear-
ing the children in the fear and admonition
of the Lord. We should always send our
children to Sunday school and whenever an
opportunity presents itself we should be there 
ourselves. Parents should instil the word of
wisdom” into the minds of their children. A
young lady should never go anywhere with a
young man whose breath smells of liquor or
tobacco; spoke of the necessity of mothers 
having faith in the Lord and not give up if
sickness should come but rely on the Lord in
all things and if he sees fit to call one of our
loved ones from us we must submit ourselves
to His will: urged the sisters very forcibly to
teach their girls to become good and useful
mothers in Israel for we are living in the last
and the eleventh hour and it is necessary for us
to improve every moment. Spoke at some
length on jealousy which was very interesting
to all.
	Sister Freestone was pleased to meet with
the sisters, felt to endorse what had been said
spoke a few words in regard to Primary.
Sister Abplanalp made a few remarks and
urged the sisters to attend to their prayers.
Bro James Hacking said he had been very
much edified with the remarks of the sisters,
wondered how many of the husbands under-
stood their duty, spoke of the evil that were 
placed before us, and showed the reason why
we should try to shun these temptations.
	Pres. Sarah Pope had been much edified
with the remarks of the speakers, said if we
keep the commandments of God there would
not be so much sickness in our midst; there is
temptation on every hand to lead our children
astray therefore it is very necessary for us to
teach them the principles of the Gospel that
they may shun those evils that present them-
selves day by day; we should teach them to
set out trees and raise fruit of their own that
they may not go and steal from others;
exhorted the sisters to be prayerful and
administer to their children when they are
sick, made a few closing remarks. Conference
adjourned until the first Monday in March.
Singing, “The spirit of God like a fire is burn-
ing.”	Benediction by Pres. Sarah Pope.
				ADDIE LONGHURST, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


UTAH CO. W. S. A.

	Minutes of a meeting of the Woman's
Suffrage Association of Utah County held in
Provo Oct 23rd. 1891, for the election of
Officers for the ensuing year. Meeting was
called to order by Malvina Wilkins; singing
"O, come come away." Prayer by Joanna
Patten. There were present of the Territorial
Officers Vice President Emily S. Richards,
also Ellen Jakeman, of the County Officers
M. J. Patten, Electa Bullock, Caroline M.
Danials; R. H: Doolan, of the vice Presidents
of the County Jane Finch of Spanish Fork,
Hannah Lapish American Fork, Mary Ann
Webb, Lehi, Sarah A. Boyer, Springville.
	M. A. Y. Greenhalgh, Millard, who was
appointed to act as chairman protem,
Willmirth White was appointed to act as
secretary. Emily S. Richards stated the
object of the meeting said we would elect our
officers according to Robert's Rules of Order.
which gave us the right to vote by ballot or
appoint a committee to select the names and
vote them in by acclamation and only members
had the right to vote; said it had been decided
to have a county organization as well as a


ocal one; and we would nominate the County 
Officers first. On motion of Willmirth White 
the election of officers was proceeded with by 
ballot. Electa Bullock received the highest 
number of votes for President of the County,
R. H. Doolan Secretary, Marilla Danials 
Treasurer. Mrs. E. S. Richards then read the 
Territorial bylaws and on motion of Mrs. 
Lapish the same were adopted by Utah Co. 
The business of the County being disposed of 
it was thought advisable to nominiate Officers
for the local organization which was done by
ballot. Joanna Patten received the highest 
number of votes for President at Provo,
Caroline Danials 1st vice President, Mary 
Ann Martin 2nd vice President,Lelia Meachum 
Secretary, Jane Snyder Treasurer. An
adjournment was then taken until 2 P. M.
	On reassembling at 2 P. M., meeting was 
called to order by Pres. Joanna Patten. Choir
sang "The reason why." Prayer by Hannah 
Lapish. Choir sang “Praise to God.” Emily 
S. Richards was appointed to act as chairman, 
Willmirth White as secretary protem. The
Officers who received nomination at the 
morning session were unanamously sustained.
Next in order was the appointing of an 
Executive committee which was elected as 
follows.
	Willmirth White chairman. Members
Annie K. Smoot, Hannah Dewy, Zina Chipman,
Malina Wilkins, Alice Faweett, Mrs.
Mcbride, Ann Mitchell, Mesdames Emily S. 
Richards, Martha Greenhalgh, Sarah Boyer
Ellen Jakeman, Joanna Patten, Electa
Bullock, and others gave some very fine
speeches on the question of suffrage and the
advancement of Woman. A meeting of the 
Executive Committee was called for Oct. 30th
and meating adjourned sinede. Sang Doxoligy. 
Benediction, Annie K. Smoot- 
						W, WHITE,Sec;


One of the hardest men in the world to get
along with is the man whose religion is all in
his head.
	It won't help your own crop any to sit on 
the fence and count the weeds in your neigh-
bor's field. 
	The best way to get rid of the blues is to try
to push the clouds away from the windows of 
other people. 
	"Blessed are the merciful." Don't forget
that when you have a mortgage on the home
of a poor widow. 
	History is philosophy teaching by example
and also by warning; its two eyes are geography 
and chronology.
	Of all the actions of a man's life his
marriage does least concern other people, yet
of all actions of our life 'tis most meddled with 
by other people.—Selden.


<column 1>
R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K.THOMAS

<column 2>
MRS. M. E. VAN. M. D.
OFFICE.—324, 325 Third Floor, Constitution Building
HOURS.—8 to 10 a. m., 4 to 6 p. m.

THE WOMAN'S TRIBUNE,
Edited and published weekly at Washington,
D. C., by Clara Bewick Colby.
Price, $l.00 a year. Trial Subscriptions, five
		weeks for 10 cents.
The Woman's Journal, of Boston, and the Woman’s Tri-
bune, of Washington, D. C., will be sent to one ad-
dress for $3.00 per year. 

	Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
		   Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But_
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 63 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
Three doors west of Theatre.

[logo of Rio Grande Western Railway]
THE
Standard Gauge
RAILWAY!
. . THROUGH THE . .
ROCKY MOUNTAINS!
Choice of Three Distinct Routes,
AND THE
MOST MAGNIFICENT RAILROAD SCENERY,
IN THE WORLD.
Two Fast Express Trains Daily
EACH WAY BETWEEN 
OGDEN, SALT LAKE AND DENVER.
ELEGANT RECLINING CHAIR CARS!
Free of Charge.
Direct Connections made in Union Depots.
THE MOST THOROUGHLY EQUIPPED RAILWAY
IN THE WEST.
D. O. DODGE, A. E. WEBBY, J. H. BENNETT,
Genl. Mgr. Supt. G, F, & P. A.

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS. 
Special department for Ladies' Misses’ and In-
fant's Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from 
the country promptly responded to.
DAVD JAMES. Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 20.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1, 1891.			No. 10.


CONTENTS.
	Reply to “A Man’s Advice About Woman Suff-
rage”—Sarah M. Kimball. Trying to Solve the
Problem—E pluribus unum. The Kingdom of
God—Mary Ann M. Pratt. A Talk With Mothers
—Ida Haag. R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., and P. A. Re-
ports—Orderville—Emery. Salt Lake Co. W. S.
A. Woman Suffrage. Washington Convention.
Federation of Woman’s Press Clubs—Ex. Notes
and News.
	EDITORIAL:—Transactions of the National
Council of Women. A Pleasant Gathering. Edi-
torial Notes. Extracts From Thanksgiving Ser-
mon. Letter.—Rachel Foster Avery. Reflec-
tions on the Past—M. E. Kimball.
	POETRY:—Man—L. M. Hewlings. The Crown
of the Year—Celia Thaxter. The Mother Author
—L. L. G. Richards. The Indian Summer—Mrs.
Lide Meriwether.


FOR THE EXPONENT:
				MAN.

	What a strange medley being is Man! 
		What a mixture of good and of ill,
	And how wondrous the architect's plan 
		That hath formed such a creature of will, 
	What structure of our world can compare,
		To this perfect symmetrical form,
	There is naught of the earth, sea, or air;
		That hath so many powers combined!
	Mighty fleets of the sea he commands,
		E’en lightning, is held by his power,
	Under ocean, and over the land, 
		Flies his word on magical wire.
	He hath trained too a fiery steed,
		Who for power and strength hath no lack, 
	Like the wild winds it rushes in speed,
		Menacing to all foes on its track
	Thro’ tunnels, o’er mountains, subduing
		The weird wilderness places of earth;
	Thus turning its deserts to blooming,
		And their barrenness into new birth.
	’Neath ocean’s bed, from caverns and caves,
		Treasures are sought for: years clinging there,
	Out from many wrecked mariner's graves 
		Man’s skill hath brought rich pearls for the fair.
	Action, wisdom and glory are his,
		On achievements he builds his renown,
	Art, and science, he grapples with ease,
		And an immortal fame is his crown,
	But this being we designate man,
		With his manifold powers so great,
	With a genius so mighty and grand, 
		This structure, whom the Lord did create,
	Has deep passions, malignant, and dark,
		Base, grovelling, cruel and fierce,
	Buried oft in the depths of his heart.
		Where no arrow of justice can pierce.
	This great being, so God-like in form, 
		Is sometimes a tyrant and fiend,
	Speculating with cold selfish heart,
		In the blood of his fellows and kind.

	Most complicate wonderful man!
		Take heed to your works and your ways,
	For to answer to the wise Builder’s plan
		Ye must live to His glory and praise.
							L. M. HEWLINGS.
Atchison, Kan.


THE CROWN OF THE YEAR.

In sapphire, emerald, amethyst,
Sparkles the sea by the morning kissed;
And the mists from the far-off valleys lie
Gleaming like pearl in the tender sky;
Soft shapes of cloud that melt and drift,
With tints of opal that glow and shift.


For the strong wind blows from the warm southwest
And ruffles the snow on the white gull's breast—
Fills all the sails till the boats careen;
Low over the crested waves they lean.
Driven to leeward, dashed with spray,
Or beating up through the beautiful bay.

Ah, happy morning of autumn sweet,
Yet ripe and rich with the summer's heat!
By the ruined wall on the rocky hight,
In shadow I gaze at the changing light,
Splendor of color that clothes thee round,
Huge orb of the earth to its utmost bound.

Near me each humble flower and weed,—
The dock's rich umber, gone to seed,
The hawkbit's gold, the bayberry's spice,
One late wild rose beyond all price;
Each is a friend and all are dear.
Pathetic signs of the waning year.

The painted rose haws, how they glow!
Like crimson wine the woodbines show,
The wholesome yarrow's clusters fine
Like frosted silver dimly shine;
And who thy quaintest charm shall tell,
Thou little scarlet pimpernel?

The jeweled sea and the deeps of the air,
All heaven and earth are good and fair.
Ferns at my feet and the mullein's spike,
And the soaring gull I love alike;
With the schooner's grace as she leans to the tide
The soul within me is satisfied.

In the mellow, golden autumn days
When the world is zoned in their purple haze,
A spirit of beauty walks abroad
That fills the heart with the peace of God;
The spring and summer may bless and cheer,
But autumn brings us the crown o' the year.
			CELIA THAXTER, in the Idependent.


﻿REPLY TO “A MAN’S ADVICE ABOUT
	      WOMAN SUFFRAGE.”
MR. D. P. FELT,
		DEAR SIR:
	My attention has been called to your
“opinion of “Woman Suffrage’’ published in
the Woman’s Exponent of November 15th.
Suffragists do not recognize what you are
pleased to call “Horrid men.” Hence have no
fear of being “laughed at,” true suffragists love
all men and all women, and labor as best they
can, with the sickly tools they are allowed to
use for the educational uplifting of humanity.
	Women as a rule have listened to the as-
serting voice of men and have been led by
their precepts too long. It has slowly dawned
upon woman’s understanding that man as a
ruler is weak; in many respects very weak and
unreliable, (remember we love him still,) and
she has been compelled for the good of the
great family to explore new paths leading to
broader fields of helpfulness. Women will
make mistakes, and profit by them, all along
the unbroken pathway, but never so fatally
disastrous mistakes as men have made while
holding exclusive power.
	You assert that suffrage advocates take a
wrong shoot, start out on leaves, or small
branches, they must change tactics, etc., this
reminds me of early Colonial history. Did our
forefathers when they struck for freedom, ask
their usurping oppresors what shoot they
should take, what tactics they should adopt?
You complain that your suffrage friends turn
from you “disgruntled” I think they turn
pityingly.

[column 2]
	You say in substance suffragists will amount 
to nothing until they lay foundations on
which it will take, at least two generations to
build a structure, that will stand the storms of 
ridicule, that today beat upon our frail house,
and cause either depression or the entire crush
of the structure.
	The sure foundations of the suffrage cause
were deeply and permanently laid on the 17th
of March 1842, and the structure is far ad-
vanced. It is too stately and strong to be even
depressed by any lingering effort with the weak
weapon ridicule.
	Your advice to suffragists, to turn their at-
tention to the education of their girls is ap-
preciated. But we have our own ideas about
the nature of their graduating papers, the
routine must contain lessons in moral courage,
energy of purpose, and power of execution;
these must be taught as among the womanly 
graces essential to success in life.
	You say do not teach them to be burly
policemen. My dear Sir, if the members of
the police force are burly, there is a crying
wrong to be righted, my daughter or yours
may be placed in circumstances where they
are liable to arrest, are we willing that a coarse
ungentlemanly man should have this daughter,
or sister in charge? This is one of the condi-
tions in which the policeman should not be
without the policewoman.
	Again the police force have access to dens of
infamy where husbands, brothers, and sons re-
sort, you would have woman wear the long nights
her health and her hope away in unavailing
anguish of soul and have written on her tomb
stone “died of heart failure.” I would teach
my daughter to cultivate the womanly courage
to accompany the police to the den of vice
and help to rescue the inmates. It is to be
hoped that Provo has no need of women
police, 1 so rowingly write that at the present
time Salt Lake City has great need of women
police, Boston, Chicago and other cities have
police matrons. Suffragists are next told not
to teach their daughters that they should sit on 
a jury, we like to be consistently obedient
but conscientiously we have to tell our daughters
that such counsel comes from such as have 
eyes open to popular prejudice, and closed to
underlying principle. Women jurists in
Wyoming and in Kansas have made creditable 
records. No woman ever was or ever will be
tried by a jury of her peers when (the jury is
composed exclusively of men, (consistency is a 
jewel;) if there are any improper jury laws
they must be amended. Any man suitable to 
sit in judgment on a jury trial, will be as much
a gentlemen in a jury-box, or a jury-room, as
in a theatre box or a ball room. Thirdly; “we
must not say it is our right to sit on the Judges
bench.”
	Why not? Deborah judged Israel forty
years and Israel was blessed with a peaceful
reign, our nearer neighbor Esther Morris oc-
cupied the judge’s bench creditably in Wyo-
ming Territory; she is reputed to have passed
just judgment in all cases tried before her; she
passed the sad ordeal of sentencing a man to
the gallows, with this experience, she was no
less the lovable and loving wife, mother and
grandmother, nor the less discreet and hospit-
able keeper of the home. When she retired
from the bench she was crowned with the ap-
pellation a just Judge. At the ratification of 
the admission of Wyoming as a State with
equal suffrage, Ex. Judge Morris, aged and


feeble, was wrapped in the National flag and
brought to the front to receive congratulations
and words of commendation from the Governor
and other officials of the State, which were
echoed by the multitude.
	Our daughters and sons are taught to revere
the names and deeds of such women, and hand
them down to posterity with honor.
	Lastly; we are told that woman’s true posi-
tion is that of mother. Suffragists esteem
motherhood under proper conditions as wo-
man’s crowning glory, but for millions these
conditions are not available. Many thousands
are looking for room to earn their bread and
apparel, and asking custom to allow them to
choose their husbands, control their persons,
and participate with their kinsmen in their
highest aspirations for the good of the home,
the church, the state, and for humanity. Such
women will be helps meet, (suitable) for noble
men, they will earn the sympathy, confidence
and ever abiding love of their husbands,
brothers, and sons, and the respect of the good
and true as far as their, sphere, (influence) ex-
tends. Their noble, emancipated, daughters
will rise up and call them blessed. Life’s en-
vironments will thus become purer and far
more harmonious.
	SARAH M. KIMBALL.
Salt Lake City, Nov. 30, 1891.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TRYING TO SOLVE THE PROBLEM.

	Republicanism, what is it? is it today what
it was a century ago? Webster’s unabriged
Dictionary does not give the definition of what
it is today. The next great author and de-
finer will be under the necessity of coining a
new word to give the full meaning of what
Republicanism is at present. I used to think
when a little girl listening to my father in
the exciting times when Dick Johnson of
Tenn., was a candidate for the Presidency and
the Editors were resorting to all kinds of
slander, for Johnson had a colored woman for
a wife which ’twas said was the cause of his
defeat some of his enemies published a poem
defining the political strife that was raging
as follows: that class of politicians that could
be bought and sold were mongrel puppy, whelp,
and curs of low degree. I thought then Re-
publicanism was the father of the Constitution
and the Declaration ot Independence covered
the whole platform of freedom and equal
rights to all of her citizens, are women citizens
if not what are they? Are they classed with
lunatics and crimnals, no wonder women are
contending for their rights when the adminis-
trators of this glorious government have en-
tered the opening wedge. They use political
chicanery pass unconstitutional bills, send out
Commissioners to confiscate Church property,
administer test oaths; those who have bought
their seat in the sacred halls of this govern-
ment with that demon alcohol for the purpose
of violating one single clause in the Constitu-
tion will pass away in dishonor and when they
meet the patriots gone before, their counten-
ance, will be fallen. Geo. Q. Cannon was
the first Apostle that ever graced the halls of
Congress, I feel safe in saying he never bought
one single vote, when votes can be bought and
sold such men are not qualified to keep
sacred and inviolate that heaven born inspired
Constitution that guarantees to all its citizens
the right to worship God according to the
dictates of their own conscience; when the iron
heel of oppression stood heavily upon the neck
of our Puritan Fathers, our Mothers brought
forth patriots and statesmen such as never
graced the earth, who gave their lives to be-
queathe that sacred boon liberty to their pos-
terity who are now in exile. Judge Zane
reports thirteen hundred American citizens
having been imprisoned and even women with


babes in their arms for their religion.
In the days of Herod when Jesus was
arraigned before rulers and Judges He opened
not His mouth like a sheep before the shearers,
He was dumb; when reading the impertinent
questions asked the Apostles I was forcibly re-
minded of the humility of the Savior. Women
can tell the Government how to solve the prob-
lem: let Congress pass a law requiring every
man to marry a wife and the great majority
of women petition that honorable body to
make it lawful for them to have a husband.
Motherhood is the brightest crown that woman
wears, for she not only fills the halls of Legis-
lation with her own sons, but the ranks of the
battlefield with the offspring of her own body and
yet she has not the franchise nor the privilege
of answering the end of her creation.
					E PLURIBUS UNUM.


THE KINGDOM OF GOD.

	Read 2nd Ch. and 44th verse of Daniel
“And in the days of those kings shall the God
of heaven set up a kingdom, which shall
never be destroyed; and the kingdom shall 
not be left to other people, but it shall break in
pieces and consume all other kingdoms, and it
shall stand for ever."
	Daniel said to the king of Babylon that the
God of heaven had shown him what would
be in the latter days, "what should come to 
pass hereafter," the king saw a stone cut out
without hands—and it smote the image upon
its feet of iron and clay and broke them to
pieces—it became a great mountain, and filled
the whole earth."
	Now there was a kingdom to be set up by
the God of heaven, I ask, is there such a king-
dom? does any religious sect of the day pro-
fess to be that kingdom? God says "He will do
nothing except He revealeth himself to His
servants the prophets," He must have prophets
on the earth to reveal himself to in order to
set up His kingdom, why would it be neces-
sary to set  up a kingdom in the Latter-days if
there was one on the earth in which there was
power to break in pieces all others, and stand
for ever. God's kingdom has to be built upon
the rock of revelation, with officers duly
authorized to act in those offices appointed by
the revelations of God's mind and will, to
bring to repentance all mankind for all have
sinned and come short of the glory of God,
not knowing the truth by their own wisdom
neither God, or His attributes. The knowl-
edge of God came by His manifesting himself
to righteous persons, informing them of events
and things that would take place in all ages
of the world as Adam, Moses, Noah, Abraham,
Sarah, Solomon, Samuel, Mary, Elizabeth and
very many others. Joseph Smith and Oliver
Cowdery saw the Lord in the Kirtland Temple
April 3rd, 1836, and the keys of different
dispensations were commited unto them, many
great and glorious things were revealed unto
Joseph the Prophet. A vision pertaining to
the three glories was given to him and Sidney
Rigdon, February 16th, 1832. It would be
well for all Latter-day Saints to read this
vision, and keep in mind the awful state that
those who deny the Holy Spirit after having
received it fall into, and the great joy and
blessings that those receive who are faithful
to the end, they who received the testimony of
of Jesus, and believed on His name, were
baptized after the manner of His burial, being
buried in the water in His name, according to 
the commandment which He has given, and
are washed and cleansed from all their sins,
and receive the Holy Spirit by the laying on
of hands of him who is ordained and sealed
unto this power, and who overcome by faith,
and are sealed by the Holy Spirit of promise,
which the Father sheds forth upon all those who

[column 2]
are just and true. “They are they who are the
Church of the first born," Paul speaks of these
different glories 1 Cor. 15 ch., he says "their
bodies differ, some are celestial, terrestrial and
a lesser glory like unto the stars," Joseph
Smith in the vision calls this lesser glory the
telestial, he saw that these did not come forth
from their graves till the last resurrection,
"some were for Paul, Apollos, Cephas and say
they are some of one and some of another,
but received not the Gospel, neither the testi-
mony of Jesus, neither the prophets, neither
the everlasting covenant.” John says in Reve-
lations, "for the testimony of Jesus is the
spirit of prophecy."
	It is very easy for every one to judge the
truth those who deny it cannot have it, and
truth embraces all things contained in the
everlasting Gospel as revealed to former day
saints and Latter-day saints which is one faith
one Lord, and one baptism. The Lord said
to His disciples that He the Son was the ex-
press image of His Father, therefore we rely
on His word and know of a surety that God
the eternal Father has a body, has parts and
we approach Him as a being like unto His
Son, the Savior of the world, who came forth
from the grave with that body and ascended
up to His Father, and the time is fast ap-
proaching when the Savior will come with that
same body and likeness to dwell with His peo-
ple here on earth, a thousand years. And
who will give heed to the words of a prophet
that God raised up to testify to these things?
I consider the people that live now, will be
under greater condemnation than those who
lived in Christ's day. We have the ensample
of the Jews rejection of the Gospel and the
calamity that fell upon them as a nation, we
have the warning voice on record to the
Gentiles if they reject it, by falling on the
same stumbling block, unbelief, which is caused
by high mindedness and pride.
	Book of Covenants, "And now, after many
testimonies which have been given of Him,
this is the testimony last of all, which we give
of Him, that He lives; for we saw Him even
on the right hand of God, and we heard the
voice bearing record that He is the Only Be-
gotten of the Father.”—Joseph Smith.
				MARY ANN M. PRATT.
	Salt Lake City, Nov. 13.


Frances Willard is re-elected president of
the National W. C. T. U.

	The Countess of Aberdeen is now in Chicago
arranging for the exhibit at the World’s Fair
of laces and other industries by the women of
Ireland-

	A new weekly paper devoted to equal
suffrage, the Woman’s Recorder, has just been
started at Toledo, O. The editor is Mrs.
Claudia Q. Murphy of the Toledo Commercial.

	The Illnois Woman’s Press Association gave
a reception at the Grant, on November 5, to
one of their most gifted and successful
members, Dr. Alice B. Stockham the author
of that most helpful book “Tokology.” The
occasion was a “God-Speed” to Dr. Stockham
on her proposed trip around the world.

	The need of having women on the manag-
ing boards of all institutions for children is
illustrated anew by the case of Rev. Samuel
Cotton, rector of Carogh, Kildare, who was
recently charged with criminal neglect and
ill-treatment of the children in Carogh
orphanage. He has just been arrested for
homicide in having caused the death of a child 
by placing it in a cold bath and leaving it in
the open air all night covered merely with a
sack. In the morning the child was found dead,
with the sack frozen to its body.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE MOTHER AUTHOR.

Beside the bed of her sick child she watches,
	With heavy, anxious eye;
While Time's cold chisel on his tablet notches,
	The hour of midnight, passing grimly by.

Low, bending, o'er the cherished form she measures,
	The hard-drawn, labored breath;
Sensing how near her darling is to pleasures,
	Across the narrow river, bridged by death.

But the morning breaks with a radiance bright,
And the mother's spirit is glad and light;
Broken the night's dark fetter,
Unloosed the icy spell.
For the father of her child hath said,
With hands placed on the precious head,
"We thank Thee, our boy is better,
And, that he will get well."

Oh! blessed boon, and best to mortals given,
	Who have for faith and strength and patience striven,
That they may seek the Lord in fervent prayer,
	And find Him willing all their griefs to bear.

The noon-day finds the mother busier yet,
Her house in working order to reset.
But in her heart and  brain there softly clings,
A bird-like something which forever sings.
A rhythm or a chant, half prayer, half song.
Hopeful and grateful, earnest, sweet and strong.
No time today, to grant expression power,
Too full of other things the present hour;
But there will come a time in future when,
Her girls to women grown, her boys grown men,
Will ask and will receive life pictures from her pen.
							L. L. G. RICHARDS.
Nov. 30, 1891.


THE INDIAN SUMMER.

			A FROST LEGEND.

		BY MRS. LIDE MERIWETHER.

They are coming again, the dusky Ghosts
	From the happy hunting ground;
Low echoes whisper from far-off coasts 
	Of the hunter’s horn and hound;
The air grows dark with the serried hosts
	That rise from each grassy mound.

The smoke of the camp fire slowly curls
	Round the misty mountain side;
The birch canoe its light sail furls,
	Through shadowy covers to glide;
The fisher's spear in the moonlight whirls,
	And sinks in the deepening tide.

Their oars dip soft in the darkling rills
	Where the water lilies blow;
They have lit their bonfires on the hills,
	In the maple's golden glow;
The warrior dresses his crimson quills
	Where the ripening sumachs grow.

The burning bush lights the calumet fire
	'Mid its leaves of gold and green;
The chieftain’s tawny feathers tower
	Where the sourwood's plumes are seen;
He has dropped his scarlet blanket o’er
	Its branches' glistening sheen.

Did you think you had driven him out or aye,
	Pale face, in your cruel pride?
Oh, fools and blind! his memory
	From wood nor wave has died;
His bow still bends in your forests free,
	His skiffs your waters ride.

When summer has breathed her last low sigh,
	When the weird witch-hazel blooms,
The Manitou's voice is lifted high:
	"Red men! to your old-world homes!"
Then ghosts in a thousand graves that lie
	Come forth from their mossy tombs.

And Nature in robes of red and gold
	Decks mountain and vale and plain,


And birds in the depths of forests old
	Re-echo the glad refrain
Of wind, aud water, and wood, and wold,
	To welcome the Ghosts again.

The sparrows twitter, the robins sing,
	The partridge calls in the corn,
The pheasant drums as he did in spring;
	In the hazy autumn morn,
The wild duck spreads his dusky wing
	At the sound of the ghostly horn.

Chieftain and maiden, brave and bride,
	In their pomp and paint appear;
Under the forest leaves they hide
	When the day-dawn draweth near;
You gaze on the wood in its festal pride,
	And say, "The frost is here."

Ye are mortal clay, and your eyes are blind;
	These shapes ye cannot see,
But come where the mandrake grows, behind
	The wild witch-hazel tree;
Its juices shall your eyes unbind,
	To watch their revelry.

You must come to the deeps of the forest old,
	When the midnight moon shines bright;
A lake in its heart gleams clear and cold,
	And their oars are dipping light.
I know their trysting spot of old;
	Will you come with me tonight?
						The Woman's Journal.
Memphis, Ten.


A TALK WITH MOTHERS.

	Just two o’clock in the morning and I
feign would sleep; but cannot, therefore will
jot down a few of my wandering thoughts.
	I fall to thinking and pondering over the
many duties and cares that devolve on us as
mothers in general in the training and bring-
ing up of our children, and many curious
little incidents are brought to my mind that
cause me to question myself in this wise,—
are we not too indulgent sometimes for the
future welfare of our children?
	Are we not, through our great love for
them often blinded to those little faults which 
though small at the time, in after years cause
the ruin and downfall of our beloved ones?
	Should we not through our great future ex-
pectation of them, be more serious and
thoughtful over this matter? I am startled and
my heart aches as a feeling of conviction
steals over me that this is so, and I promise
myself that I will be more careful and guarded
in the bringing up of my own little ones, that
I through selfish love may not be the loser of
them and be responsible tor their downfall.
	A few of the incidents that have passed
under my notice I will give hoping a lesson
may thus be impressed upon those who may
chance to read it.
	“Helen,” to a child ten years old, “will you
run to the store for mamma? that is a good
girl?”
	“Oh, mamma! I don't want to.”
	“All right then, you attend to the fire, and
mamma will soon return.”
	“Charles will you bring mamma an armful
of wood? be a good boy and hurry.”
	“Oh! mamma! I don’t want to.”
	O yes do, poor mamma’s tired?”
	“I can’t I’m sick.” 
(Mother gets the wood.)
				LATER.
	Mother to daughter, “Helen I do not wish
you to go out to-night with Henry Horne your
father would object very much, were he here
to interfere.”
	“But mamma I don’t see why? It is only
for pastime, and father need not know.”
	“But daughter that would not be honorable
and then this Mr. Horne is not of our faith.”
	(But Helen soon overcomes the mother’s
scruples and goes to the party.)

[column 2]
Her fate I will not dwell upon longer than
to add a secret marriage, an early grave, a
death so horrible that as I write I can but
weep.
	And now about Charles.
	“Mother did you black my boots?”
	“No, my son I did not, I have been very
busy and am tired to-night.”
	“The d—l I told you this morning to be
sure to get my clothes ready as I have made
an appointment for this evening, I promised
to be at Dick Jones by seven and it is now
half past six.”
	The mother with a weary sigh submits,
meekly blacks the boots and he is soon
whistling on his way.
	Charles is now a husband and father his
rule at home I will leave all to infer from the
foregoing. 
	Oh, how many indulgent mothers I can re-
call as I lie here writing and thinking.
	I well recollect a few years ago of an in-
cident that occurred while walking on Brigham
St., Salt Lake City bound for the EXPONENT
office, I met a pale, tired-looking little lady
who accosted me with the question, “Did I
know the whereabouts of Sister Wells?” as she
had just called at the office, found no one in,
she lived far out in the country and was soon
obliged to return home, but so much wished
to get a single number of the EXPONENT be-
fore returning. I offered to return with her
and while on our way she remarked it was a
great feast to her whenever she could get
hold of one of them. To my inquiry “Why
she did not subscribe and get them regular,”
she replied much to my surprise in this man-
ner, “that they subscribed for so much Eastern
literature namely Frank Leslie's,Saturday Night
and the New York Ledger that they could not
afford to take any of the Church papers al-
though she dearly loved the little EXPONENT.
	By this time we had reached the office and
found to the delight of the sister, the Editor
had returned, she soon was in possession of the
much coveted paper and left with a satisfied
look on her face; a feeling of pity welled up
from my heart as I watched her retreating
form out of sight and I wondered how many
well meaning parents had made this same
mistake. 
	At another time I remember of, a brother
calling at our house in the capacity of a
teacher, my husband was to accompany him
on his route. While my husband was mak-
ing ready, my eye chanced to fall on a Juvenile
Instructor which I had been reading to the
children, I spoke of it in glowing terms, of
the good it did in our household, when he
made reply thus,—
	“We did take the Juvenile, but have dis-
continued it as the children are more in-
terested in the stories in the Western Weekly,
(a paper then published in Salt Lake City.)
	After this a damper fell upon our conversa-
tion, I could do nothing but think, think.
	Oh how carefully we watch over and
nourish the flowers in our gardens, destroying
every weed that might injure or destroy a
single plant, every bloom that may come forth
is gazed upon with satisfaction. How much
more carefully and tenderly should we watch
over the sweet flowers of our household in-
trusted to our keeping by our Heavenly
Father.
	How good it would be if more of our
Mothers in Zion would talk to us through the
columns of our little home paper on this all
important subject, thus by relating one
another’s experiences and giving ideas of
home life we might often be able to perform 
a great amount of good.  
						IDA HAAG.


Love is blind, but lovers often make a
pair of spectacles of themselves.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
gno copy one year, $1.00 one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50 per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	DECEMBER 1, 1891.


TRANSACTIONS OF THE NATIONAL
COUNCIL OF WOMEN.

	We have for sale at this office the book entitled
"National Council of Women of the U. S. 1891."
This book contains the entire proceedings of the
Council held in Washington D. C., in February
1891. It has also excellent pictures which are
good likenesses of the first board of officers and
also the board elected this year. The book is
quite large and is on excellent paper, clear type
and neatly and firmly bound. It contains 372
pages of printed matter,and is very cheap at $1.00
a copy. It opens with a well arranged table of
contents, and at the close an Alphabetically ar-
ranged index which are always helpful to the
reader. There are speeches in the book which
taken singly are well worth the price of the whole
book. Every Relief Society should certainly
have a copy, and understand the nature of the
Council in which they are entitled to representa-
tion. The speeches cover a large number of
subjects and contain much valuable information,
as well as many excellent and definite hints and
suggestions on various topics. Indeed once
reading these addresses is not enough, they want
studying and digesting; they are deep and far-
reaching. It is a work that will live, and which
mothers and fathers may with laudable pride
hand down to their children and children's chil-
dren. It is indicative of the standard, moral
and intellectual, already reached by American
and English women, and also points to the future
advancement of those who follow the lead of
these grand and queenly lovers of humanity.


A PLEASANT GATHERING.

	In remembrance of Sister Catherine M. Woolley
who passed away some years ago, her daughter
Mrs. Ardella Eardley invited a number of her
intimate friends of the days gone by, to meet at
her residence on the anniversary of her birthday,
Thursday November 19th. Sister Woolley in her
lifetime was quite noted for her hospitable enter-
tainments, dinner and tea parties etc.
	Her daughter Adella is likely to become quite
as celebrated as her mother in this respect, per-
haps more so, because in our day we have greater
and better facilities for entertaining than in the
early days in the valley. Brother and Sister
Woolley were Pennsylvanians and consequently
the party was pretty well sprinkled with people
from the Keystone state, there were more from
there at any rate than any other; there were a
few from New York state, about as many from
Mass., and one or two from Conn., two from
England, and several born in the valley including
four daughters and a son of Bishop Samuel
Woolley and his wife Catharine.


A sumptuous dinner was served to the guests,
and afterwards there was a sort of programme
rendered which opened with a written address by
Dr. Elivira S. Barney. The other speakers were
Sisters Presendia L. Kimball, Zina D. H. Young,
E. B. Wells, Maria L. Nebeker, E. B. Fletcher,
B. W. Smith, Elizabeth Webb, M. L. Woolley, E.
Nebeker, Sisters Pendleton and Starr, the last
lady eighty-eight years of age. Bishop Weiler
considerable over eighty, and Bishop Samuel
Woolley.
	All those who spoke testified to the many good
qualities and the excellent character of Sister
Woolley, her faithfulness and devotion as a wife
and mother, and her integrity to the Gospel she
had embraced in her youth.
	"Her children rise up and call her blessed her
husband also and he praiseth her" may be truly
said of Sister Catharine.
	During the afternoon President Jos. F. Smith,
who had been invited to the party, came in for a
few minutes, and shook hands' all around, though
he excused himself from dinner on account of
urgent﻿ business requiring immediate attention.
The party was a very enjoyable one to all pres-
ent and many things were said instructive and
comforting. Reminisences and experiences were
given that were intensely interesting, especially
that of Bishop Woolley in Nauvoo in regard to
the revelation upon plural marriage. Dr. Barney
spoke with much power in the gift of tongues and
Sister Zina Young gave the interpretation which
was very comforting.
	We cannot but congratulate Sister Eardley
upon her happy faculty of entertaining her guests
which is more than an accomplishment and gives
enjoyment to many.


[Column 1]

EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The Relief Society Conference of the Weber
Stake of Zion will be held in the Tabernacle in
Ogden on Thursday Dec. 10, and the Young
Ladies Conference, Friday 11th, there will be
two meetings each day commencing as usual at
10, a. m. and at 2 p. m.
	The Story, "In Rural England" is omitted in this
issue of the paper in order to publish the Answer
to "A Man's Advice About Woman Suffrage,"
which we consider of more consequence, and as
we asked to have answers written etc., we desire
to publish as the articles are handed in, so our
readers will please excuse the delay in the serial.
	On Saturday the Primary Associations of this
Stake will hold their Conference in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall. Presidents are earnestly
solicited to bring as many children as can con-
veniently come, and to invite all those who take
an interest in the Primary work to attend the
Conference.
	The Relief Society Conference of this Stake
of Zion will be held in the 14th Ward hall in this
city on Friday Dec. 18, meetings commencing at
10 a. m. and at 2 p. m. It is desirable that there
should be representative sisters from all the
branches in the County, and all members of the
Society and Bishops and others interested in this
benevolent work are cordially invited to attend.
	Thanksgiving Day passed off very quietly in
the city, family gatherings were quite numerous
and the usual elaborate dinners doubtless, with
happy greetings and grateful acknowledgements
of divine favors and blessings; which has been
a custom in America ever since the early days of
the Pilgrims. Certainly here in Utah this year
with the rich and abundant harvest of grains
fruits and cereals, we should not neglect to thank
Him, who sendeth the early and the latter rain,
and who causeth the seed to spring up and bear

[Column 2]

fruit in the season thereof, and through whose
blessing this barren land has become as a fruitful
field, and literally the desert has blossomed as the
rose.
	The 20th of November ult. was the anniversary
of the birthday of the veteran Mother in Israel,
Sister M. Isabella Horne, who has now reached
the advanced age of 73 years; and those who saw
her on that evening at the party in the theatre
must have been convinced that it is possible to
grow old gracefully. She was dressed in black
silk, wearing at the neck very elegant real lace,
and a corsage bouquet of autumn flowers which
became her well; her complexion is still clear
and fresh like that of most English women,
and her step is still bouyant and light. She is one
who believes in cheerfulness and also in mental
and physical activity. Her husband though
somewhat her senior bears his age remarkably
well, and they are passing together the evening
of their lives tranquilly.
	The Grand Charity Ball in the theatre on the
20th, of Nov., for the benefit of the Deseret
Hospital was a complete success. The Committee
were diligent and efficient as the result has
proven. The music by Careless orchestral band
was excellent, and the dancing itself was like a
beautiful poem. The young girls who had charge
of the decorating and draping the booths and
platform with flags, colored bunting, Chinese
lanterns, umbrellas, fans and other handsome
materials, did their work artistically and it had a
charming appearance. The flowers and vines in
handsome vases and baskets were very tastefully
arranged and the effect was gracefully pleasing.
The girls themselves were more lovely still, in
simple but pretty evening costumes, and alto-
gether it was a unique affair the rustic well of
lemonade was a new idea and filled a nook in the
corner which was very well patronized. The
button-hole bouquets as also those for ladies
made up by the dainty fingers of the lovely girls,
were very beautiful and sold at high prices; and
the delicious candy made by Misses Nell Clawson,
Allie Davis, and May Jennings, was soon dis-
posed of. In every respect the ball was a bril-
liant and enjoyable one, and the party for the
children the following day was also a pleasant
and interesting affair; the day was not very fine
yet the little folks seemed as happy as though
there had been sunshine outside, there were no
clouds on their faces, and the spectators in the
side seats and galleries enjoyed the music and
seemed serenely happy, watching the little ones
in the merry dance.


EXTRACTS FROM THANKSGIVING
SERMON.

UNION SERVICES AT THE M. E. CHURCH.

	The following paragraph is from the sermon of
the Rev. J. Mc'Niece at the services held in the
Methodist Episcopal Church in this City Thanks
giving day Nov. 26, 1891.
	"I have bad my home here now for nearly fif-
teen years, and feel myself a part of the city. I
cannot help being interested in everything per-
taining to its welfare. And because I love this
city and its people, I want to see a city govern-
ment here that will give our city a good name
from the Pacific to the Atlantic; that will furnish
protection for us when we walk these streets at any
hour of the night; that will furnish protection for
our homes whether we are in them or absent from
them. And because some of us are the descend-
ants of the Pilgrims and of Cromwell and his
Ironsides, we do not intend to sit idly by and let
our city drift to the dogs. But let us be discrimi-


[Column 1]﻿

nating. Let us admit that some of those whom
we elected two years ago have been faithful and
tried to do their duty, though in a minority.
Undoubtedly if our city charter put in the hands
of the Mayor the power he ought to have we
should have secured better government. But
certainly it is another cause for thanksgiving that
the official term of some of those whom we
elected two years ago has only sixty days more
to run! Then we will lay them up on the shelf
to dry and try to put Americans in their places
who will do their duty and enforce the laws."
	The Rev. E. E. Carr secretary of the meeting
spoke eloquently and earnestly upon the subject
of the Church and the Liquor Traffic, the follow-
ing is a quotation from his remarks as published
in one of the City papers.
	"There is too much apathy on the part of
Christians toward the subject of the suppression
of saloons. When we, as Christians, fail to do
our duty in endeavoring to down this monstrous
evil, by voice and ballot, we ally ourselves with
the rumsellers. The church is in league with the
liquor traffic when it fails to do its duty toward
the extermination of the saloons, when its mem-
bers vote for whiskey-sellers and whiskey-
drinkers. If we have in our power to save drunk-
ards and do not do it, are we not responsible?
Promises and talk amount to nothing unless
backed by action. You may talk until the hills
grow dim with age but unless you act your talk is
but wind, and cheap wind at that. Oh that
whiskeyism would keep men from being put into
office! God forgive the man who would vote for
a whiskey-seller in the name of decency, in the
name of morality, in the name of reform—yet such
a thing has been done, and done here in Salt
Lake City. We have got to begin scratching
tickets. We can never get temperance and re-
form by praying to God and voting for liquor
men. We have a very good object lesson in
this city. I am prepared to say that until the
present men in office in this city change their
ways or are succeeded by better men, you will
have no laws to restrict the selling of liquor or up-
holding the public morality. The duty of the
church is to preach the Gospel of temperance
and enforce prohibition as much as possible.
There are enough votes among the churches to
turn the scale of political destiny either way. It
is our duty as Christians to turn them in favor of
prohibition."
	Dr. Mabry is reported as having taken issue
with the Rev. Dr. Carr on the question of the
church etc.
	"He was surprised, yes astounded that a
minister of the Gospel would say to the world
that the church was in league with the liquor
traffic. He objected to such a sentiment going
out from that body that the church had any such
connection; he entered a vigorous protest against
the assertion. The church had all it could do now
to fight the world, the flesh and the devil without
having to bear the burden of being allied with
liquor dealers. Because a member of the church
went astray was no reason why the claim should
be made that the church was wrong."
	Dr. Carr responded to the opposition as fol-
lows:
	"I want to state that I am backed in what I as-
serted by the statements of scores and hundreds
of people, who believe in placing the blame where
it belongs. When I spoke as I did I remembered
that I was speaking to an audience of Methodist
Episcopal ministers. I was just as much ashamed
as Dr. Iliff or Dr. Mabry could be, to state that
the church was in league with the liquor traffic.
All resolutions introduced without work, are wind
—all wind. The Christian church, by her ballots

[Column 2]

is in league with the liquor traffic. [Applause.]
Three-fourths of the people of Utah and the
United States vote to sustain whiskey men in
office. Some one has said tonight that the
whiskey men have $400,000,000 to fight their
battles. We have the votes; they buy our votes.
[Tremendous applause.] It is just as respectable
for a man to stand behind a bar and sell drinks to
damn souls into eternal hell as it is for men to
vote to put them in power to sell whiskey. [Ap-
plause.] I tell you the church is in league with
the liquor traffic. Votes count, and I don't sell
mine. Some of you cheered and cheered heartily
when Mr. Mabry resented the charge that the
church was iu league with the saloon. Yes you
all voted for whiskey men at the last election.
The church is not in league with the liquor traffic!
Oh, no! Sentiment is all right, but it must be
crystalized into action. Lord deliver us from evil.'
[Loud and prolonged applause."
	It is gratifying to learn that some protest is be-
ing made by those who have voted the present
incumbents into the City offices, against the man-
ner of allowing the laws to be disregarded. The
Mayor is excused however because the City
Charter does not confer upon him sufficient
authority to control, but in former days, there was
peace and safety in this City under the Charter;
granting however that a more lawless element has
migrated hither, it probably will be necessary to
amend that document. At any rate it is most de-
sirable that some strong measures should be in-
troduced for the security of the people. If the
saloons could go, then other evils that always fol-
low in their ranks would be abolished too. When
there are no saloons, vice and crime will not exist
as it does today. It is commendable in ministers
of religion that they not only speak, but take ac-
tion against such evils as are beginning to grow
to an alarming extent in this City once so peace-
ful and secure.
	The Latter-day Saints since their advent here
have sought to have protection and safety for all
citizens, and quiet reigned on the Sabbath day,
but how changed now, it no longer resembles the
old New England villages in this respect, as was
often remarked by strangers in the days gone by.
It is very evident now that "Liverals" bear rule.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LETTER.

TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE UTAH W. S. A.

	   The Annual Convention of the N. A. W.
S. A. takes places in Washington, D. C., Jan. 17,
18, 19, and 20, 1892. Please estimate according
to the enclosed Constitution the number of dele-
gates to which your State auxiliary is entitled.
	I hope that you will see that your Association
has its dues forwarded to the Treasurer, Mrs.
Jane H. Spofford, by January 1st. With dues
should be sent the list of name and addresses of
your auxiliaries. I will send you blanks for cre-
dentials as soon as you let me know to how many
delegates your Society is entitled. On this blank
will also be a place for the name of your member
of the Executive Committee of the N. A. W.
S. A.
	I enclose a copy of the proposed amendments
to our Constitution so that your delegates may
know what will come before them.
	Will you also see that your secretary has her
report ready to be read either by yourself or who-
ever represents your Society at the Convention.
May I ask that an extra copy be made and sent
to me that we may have one for advance reports
of the meeting. I hope that you will not think
that this is asking too much.
	More time than usual will be given to the busi-
ness meetings this year, and it is hoped that much
will be accomplished.


I sincerely hope that you will have a goodly
delegation at the Convention this year, and that
they may come full of ideas to impart to others,
and in turn receive many valuable suggestions to
take home which may be incorporated in your
own State work.
	Please may I hear from you on all points as
soon as possible.
			Very cordially yours,
		RACHEL FOSTER AVERY, Cor. Sec.
	P. S. When the Circulars were sent to the
auxiliary associations it was expected that the
Convention would be held in Washington, D. C.,
in February, and consequently there was not so
much need of expediting the work of the branch
associations, but now that the Convention is to
be held in January, the Presidents throughout
the Territory should be more expeditious, in
sending in reports to the President Sarah M.
Kimball, No. 74. S. 1st. West St.


REFLECTIONS ON THE PAST.

	I well remember after suffering from a severe
attack of sickness that nervous prostration fol-
owed; and I felt quite sure that I was about to
he end of the race, and as soon as the gate
opened I should pass through into the world of
spirits.
	I was quite willing to go thinking I had
finished my course and kept the faith and would
soon see the loved ones on the other side. But
an impression came to my mind like this. Would
it not be well to look over my lessons, and read
the Book of Mormon again while I am waiting
for the gate to open? Accordingly I did so.
	I found it more interesting than ever. I could
realize the goodness of our all wise Father to
those who placed entire confidence in Him.
	To such persons were given inspiration, some-
times by visions or dreams or again like Moses
who saw the burning bush, and heard a voice
saying pull off thy shoes; for the place where
thou standest is Holy ground.
	Even so did Lehi. He saw a pillar of fire on a
rock to attract his attention while the Lord spoke
to him. He was told of the destruction of Jeru-
salem, and warned to leave to save himself and
family. He had perfect confidence in the word
of God and was blessed accordingly, in a wonder-
ful manner.
	His son Nephi also was a man of great faith, and
was blessed in proportion to his faith. This we
learn in every instance that where faith abounds
with an earnest desire to keep all the laws of
God, great blessings attend those people.
Neither are we ignorant of this as a people, when
we did earnestly seek to know what was right and
do the same our prayers were answered without
fail by patiently waiting the Lord's own time.
Yet He will do it in His own way, which is better
than we could do it, yea and more effectual, pro-
ducing a greater and better result. I noticed
when the Gadianton robbers were sent out of the
land; how strictly did they listen to those who
presided over the land.
	I also noticed how greatly the people prospered
when humble and faithful in keeping the com-
mands of God and earnestly seeking His aid and
assistance. He always gives wisdom to such a
people.
	This kind of a people lived here in righteous-
ness for four generations after the Savior had
visited them. For He came to this Continent after
His resurrection and taught them the sermon on
the mount, exactly as He taught those at Jerusa-
lem. Here he healed the sick and blessed the
little ones and they spoke with the tongues of
angels and glorified God. Only think only four
generations passed away until pride made its ap-
pearance, and was the first stepping stone to their
down fall.


Indignant and bitter feelings followed in their
train, until one portion of the people swept those
who had been a godly and righteous people from
the earth.
	Several of the nations fell in the same way
pride being the first stepping stone to their down
fall.
	As soon as I regained my health I attended
meeting; and what did I hear? I heard some re-
marks from an aged man, whose character had
always been above reproach; his remarks were
very interesting upon some school question,
showing when it should arrive at the perfection
he desired, he would be proud to see its progress.
Oh I felt to exclaim, do not say proud; only
say as the former-day saints said, I rejoice.
	Did any of the Saints in those days encourage
Pride? Did our Savior ever say one word in His
teachings in favor of pride. No, no. But I have
read His commands which ended in this way,
"Any think either more or less, cometh of evil."
	I think it more than He taught, and there is
danger that He will not be willing that we are
called by His name, for the Apostle says, "He
resists the proud but gives grace to the humble.
	The Prophet Joseph Smith was told, Doc. and
Cov., Section 90 verse 17th. "Be not ashamed
neither confounded; but be admonished in all
your high mindedness and pride, for it bringeth a
snare upon your souls." Are we not in the snare?
Is not the heel of oppression upon our necks. Do
not we need the help of an Allwise Father to
make our burthens lighter at the present time?
I do earnestly desire that we all read the Book
of Mormon again with a desire to know why it
was kept for this generation.
	When this is done you will see the present day
as clearly as you behold your natural face in a
glass. You will learn how the people were
brought out of their difficulties when the opposite
party gained the victory over them.
	It was God alone who delivered them and gave
wisdom from time to time to save them from im-
mediate destruction. Nor did they fail to give
Him the glory.
	The same spirit to-day will produce the same
effect. Not only so but will enable our youth to
live upright, just and true to themselves, and all
under their care. This will cause the smile of
an Allwise Father to rest upon them; and He
will give them of His spirit to that degree they
can make friends of those who came here seek-
ing their destruction. And they will on the con-
trary become their warm-hearted friends.
	Who that ever had the gift of the Holy Ghost
can deny this fact? Our Heavenly Father can do
that which we can not. Do not fail to become
acquainted with Him through the channels which
He has given us. The written word of both
ancient and modern prophecy. This is the counsel of
		Your aged friend
			M. E. KIMBALL.
	Salt Lake City, Sept. 14th, 1891.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., AND P. A.
REPORTS.
ORDERVILLE WARD.

DEAR SISTER:
	I thought perhaps some of the readers of
the EXPONENT would like to hear from our
little branch, Orderville, as there has not been
much said of this place since it was settled.
Our Relief Society is well attended, our Presi-
dent was away this summer but the meetings
were kept up regularly.
	Although there are a good many out on
ranches this season, they have a manuscript
paper which is read once a month, it is full of
good instructions. All the other organizations
are in running order. We feel to thank our
Heavenly Father for blessing us with this

[Column 2]

quiet place where there are so few temptations.
There is not a saloon within forty miles of
here, nor any one that sells liquor of any
kind, which we feel is a very great blessing.
We can sleep with our doors open at night and
there is no one to molest or make afraid. Our
children can play in the open air any where
and there are no bad examples set before
them, all are united in training their children
aright.
	We are trying to live our religion as near
as we know how, some of us at least. I ex-
pect if we should be counted worthy to be
saved in the kingdom of God, we will have to
be tried in many ways yet to test our faith,
and if we stand all the trials and temptations
and come off victorious in the end we will re-
ceive a reward such as we have merited.
	There has not been much sickness here this
summer. There has been but four deaths, and
all these were babies which caused their
mothers grief, but not like those without hope;
for we realize if we are faithful we will re-
ceive them back in our arms in the first resur-
rection as we have laid them down. Joseph
Smith gave instructions in Nauvoo in speaking
of the resurrection of a child.	*	*	Dear
Sisters; the words the Prophet Joseph Smith
preached in Nauvoo are recorded for our con-
solation, what a blessing to have our dear little
children back, where there is no parting, and
no more temptations to lead them astray. 
		CLARISSA WILHELM, Cor. Sec. R. S.
	Orderville, Sept. 1891.
 
EMERY STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of Emery Stake was held at Price, Oct.
16th, 1891. Pres. Anna U. Larsen presiding.
Singing "And are we yet alive." Prayer by
Bishop Frandsen. Singing "Now we'll sing
with one accord."
	Pres. Larsen said she felt thankful to meet
in another conference under such favorable
circumstances, and to be blessed with the pres-
ence of Pres. Zina D. H. Young. The written
reports of different wards were read and ac-
cepted, also the presidents of branches that
were present, gave in very interesting reports.
	Pres. Zina D. H. Young said she had been
pleased in listening to the reports. Said we
should teach our children righteousness, to
fear God and keep His commandments; said
when we were tried and afflicted we should re-
member that we have some one to lean upon,
a Supreme being, that is pleased to bless us if
we attend to our prayers, we are building
Temples for holy purposes and we should live
so we could have the privilege of performing
labors for the dead, as well as for the living.
Encouraged the sisters to attend to their meet-
ings, said the blessings of God will rest upon
the faithful and those that attend to their
duties.
	Bishop Pulsifer said he felt well in listening
to the remarks of Sister Zina Young, said we
should be awake to our duties and have our
lamps trimmed and burning so when the
trumpet sounds we shall be ready.
	The choir sang "We are on our way to
Zion's happy hill." Conference adjourned
until 2 p. m. Benediction by Bishop Olsen.
	Afternoon session: Singing "God attend
while Zion sings." Prayer by Brother Eld-
ridge. Singing "I'll praise my Maker while
I've breath." Counselor Josie Childs said we
should exercise faith and go before our
Heavenly Father for comfort and strength to
rear our children in truth and righteousness;
encouraged the sisters to cultivate patience to
bear with our children and with one another.
Closed her remarks by reading an interesting
and encouraging letter from Mrs. E. B. Wells.
	Coun. Ann Pulsifer said we all have a work

[Column 3]

to perform and we should do all in our power
and the Lord would shower His blessings upon
us.
	Sister Young said whatever is good for us
the Lord will give unto us, encouraged young
mothers to teach their children in the fear and
admonition of the Lord, said our families were
the centre of our happiness, the daughters of
Zion should strive to defend the kingdom of
God, to stand firm and be faithful to the end,
asked the blessings of God upon all.
	Bishop Olsen said we let many privileges
slip away from us which the Lord had given
us and which we will some time regret. En-
couraged the sisters to go on in their good work
and reap the blessings they had set out for.
	Coun. Arthur Horsley felt well repaid for
attending the sisters' conference, felt the spirit
of God was in their midst. Brother Eldridge
said he had been greatly edified in listening to
the remarks of Sister Young to the daughters
of Zion.
	Pres. Anna Larsen said she had rejoiced
with the sisters during this conference. Spoke
of her visit through the Stake, had been kindly
received by all, and the sisters came out to
the meetings and responded to the calls made
upon them; asked the mothers to teach their
children to pray, said the test was near when
it will be known who has oil in their lamps
and are ready to meet their Savior.
	The Stake officers were presented and
unanimously sustained. Choir sang, (Anthem)
"The Lord will comfort Zion." Conference
adjourned until April 1892. Benediction by
Brother Samuel Cox.


SALT LAKE CO. W. S. A,

	The Salt Lake Co. W. S. A. convened in
the 13th ward Assembly Rooms, on Tuesday
the 17th of Oct., 1891. Pres. Elizabeth
Howard presiding. Prayer was offered by
Dr. E. S. Barney. Roll called, minutes of
last session read and accepted. The yearly
financial report was read, by Treasurer E. S.
Barney. Pres. Howard announced that the
time had arrived for the election of officers
for the ensuing year, which was then attended
to. Ter. Pres. Sarah M. Kimball occupied
the chair, while the following named officers
were elected by ballot. President, Elizabeth
Howard, Secretary, Caroline C. R. Wells,
Treasurer, Dr. E. S. Barney, vice presidents
First Louisa K. Spencer, Second, Nellie
Colebrook Taylor, Third, Phebe C Young.
	It was then moved and carried, that the
remainder of the officers be nominated, which
resulted as follows: Asst. Sec, Margaret A.
Caine, Cor. Sec. Emma Finch, Chairman
Ex. Com. Elizabeth McFarlane, Dr. M. C.
Shipp, Ardella W. Eardley, Lillie T Freeze,
Mary E. Irvine and Mary E Bassett.
	Pres. Howard, Vice Presidents Taylor
and Young, briefly thanked the ladies, for
their confidence in them which they had
manifested by electing them to office, which
each expressed a desire to fill, with honor to
themselves and the promotion of the cause, in
which they were engaged.
	Pres. Kimball made some suggestions, as to
the work to be performed in the coming year.
Recommended that meetings be held and branch
associations organized. Vice Presidents be
appointed in the Co. wards outside of the
City, and diligent efforts made to increase
the interest in the association, that it might
be an active one, and the result of our efforts
be felt.
	Several ladies came forward and renewed
their memberships and the meeting was
adjourned until the third Tuesday in Dec. at
the same hour and place.
			CAROLINE C. R. WELLS, Sec,


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S SUFFRAGE.

	The American Fork Woman's Suffrage
Association held a special meeting at that
place on Wednesday Oct. 28th. Pres. Hannah
Lapish in the chair. Sarah M. Kimball, Ter.
Pres., and Emily S. Richards, 1st. Vice Pres.
of Salt Lake City, were in attendance. A
large number of members were present. The
meeting house was tastefully decorated for the
occasion and presented an elaborate picture
of art and taste, amidst the portraits of Mrs.
Cady Stanton, Miss Susan B. Anthony, sat Mrs.
Kimball, Mrs. Lapish and Mrs. Evans, and
the stars and stripes floated upon every side.
	The best speakers in the Territory were
represented at the meeting, and their reports
of the progress of the Association were very
encouraging. Mrs. Greenhalgh a laborer for
fifty years for the suffrage cause, said the
women should have equal rights with men, and
there were political positions that women
should fill. Utah women should work for
their rights, for they of all women have more
freedom than any other women in the world.
She said she was proud of the work done by
the American Fork women.
	Ter. Pres. Kimball, said she was a suffragist,
but not a lecturer. Was not an advocate for
women's superiority but that women should
stand on equality with men. She then gave
her ideas concerning the mission of women.
	Electa Bullock, county president, com-
mended the American Fork Association upon
the good work they are accomplishing.
	Emily Richards said that women would
make the best jurors, especially where women
are to be tried. She did not wish men to think
that women wanted to rule,—they only want
equal rights with the sterner sex. Woman
need not neglect her household duties while
attending to politics. She thereby can make
home all the more cheerful.
	M. Garff then favored the assemblage with
the association's Sunday song, "Equal Right's
Banner."
	Joanna Patten said if women had the
right to vote there would not be so many dens
of iniquity to allure the young.
	Bishop Halliday then addressed the suff-
ragists in his usual interesting and instructive
manner. He complimented the association
upon the work they were doing. He claimed
if the women were to receive the franchise and
vote they would do much to suppress in-
temperance, said that is the evil of this place.
He hoped the women would be successful in
their attempt.
	Msr. Stewart said the time was at our door
when the women would have the right of
franchise.
	Mary A. Evans sang the very interesting
song, "Where is My Boy To-night."
	After which benediction was offered by
Joanna Patten and the meeting was dismissed.


WASHINGTON CONVENTION.

	The National American Woman Suffrage
Association will hold its 24th annual con-
vention in Washington, D. C., January 17,
18, 19, 20, 1892.
	The executive sessions, as well as the
public meetings, will be held in the Church of
Our Father, corner of L and 13 Streets.
	The morning session will be devoted to the
discussion of resolutions, State reports,, plans
of work, constitutional amendments and the
election of officers. The evening sessions will
be given to short addresses by speakers
specially invited.
	As only regularly accredited delegates can
vote, it behooves all local and State societies
to roll up as large a membership as possible
and thus increase their representation. Each


State society that pays its fee into the national
treasury is entitled to three delegates and an
additional one for every one hundred members
of the State society and its paid up auxiliaries.
	In the last annual convention, some thirty
States and Territories were represented by a
hundred and twenty delegates controlling one
hundred and eighty-two votes, and we
earnestly hope that all the forty-four States
and six Territories will be represented in the
coming convention.
	As in December the 12th Congress to
which we have made an appeal will
assemble, the women of the entire nation
should concentrate their influence on their
respective representatives and demand more
earnestly than ever before a full recognition of
their political rights as citizens of the United
States. The necessary step to this end is the
submission by Congress of a proposition for a
16th amendment to the National Constitution
prohibiting the disfranchisement of citizens
in any State on account of sex.
	Though woman's struggle for emancipation
has been long and weary, yet her indomitable
determination to secure the blessings of liberty
has ever made the struggle hopeful, and must
make the end triumphant. With woman's
present position in the trades and professions
with school suffrage in half the States of the
Union; municipal suffrage in Kansas, and full
suffrage in Wyoming, we behold the dawn of
a brighter day for the mothers of the race.
The discussion of the great principles of
conscience and judgment in this republic, for
the last half century, has given us a new type
of womanhood, that can no longer be subordi-
nated to the caprice and tyranny of the
powers that be, in either the church or the
State.
	Let us, then, with renewed hope and
determination assemble in the coming con-
vention, and with united voices make our
demands heard.
		ELIZABERH CADY STANTON, Pres.
		SUSAN B. ANTHONY, V. Pres.
		LUCY STONE, Ch. Ex. Com.
		JANE H. SPOFFORD, Treasurer.
		RACHEL FOSTER AVERY, Cor. Sec.
		ALICE STONE BLACKWELL, Rec. Sec.


[Column 1]

﻿FEDERATION OF WOMAN'S PRESS
CLUBS.

	The Committee on Organization of the
Federation were called to order in the parlors
of the Woman's Journal, Boston, Mass., at 10
A. M., November 11th, by the chairman, Mrs.
Belva A. Lockwood. In the absence of the
secretary of the committee, Mrs. McPherson,
of Washington, was appointed secretary
pro tem. The printed constitution was-
distributed and it was decided that this was
provisional. Mrs. Lockwood read the report
of work done by the committee which had
resulted in the auxiliaryship of the Woman's
National Press Association, the New England
Woman's Press Club, and the Illinois and the
Pacific Coast Woman's Associations, with the
near prospect of Michigan, Utah and Kansas
becoming auxiliary. The chairman in her
report stated that this meeting was not for
the purpose of election of officers, but for con-
ference, etc. To this Miss West objected,
saying that the object of the meeting was to
complete the organization. Mrs. Lockwood
still earnestly supported her wiew of the case.
Mrs. Sutherland, Caroline S. Parks, Miss
Armstrong, and others of Boston, and Mrs.
Rastall of Chicago supported Miss West.
It was then asked that the roll be called,and it
was found that the persons present and
entitled to vote were delegates, Mrs. McPherson
and Clara Bewick Colby, of the Woman's
National Press Association: Helen M. Winslow

[Column 2]

and Miss Armstrong of the New England
Club Fanny H. Rastall, of Illinois, and
Belva A Lockwood and Mary Ellen West,
members of the committee.
	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
	On motion of Miss West the Constitution
was read and discussed section by section. As
adopted its pridcipal features are: Its name is
The Federation of Woman's Press Clubs." Its
objects are to bring into commnnication with
each other the various women's press clubs,
in order that they may compare methods of
work and become mutually helpful; to elevate
the workers, and to forward, by concerted
action through the press, such philanthropic
movements as may commend themselves to the
Federation. No member is to hold more than
one office at a time, and no officer is eligible
for the same office more than one term. The
annual meeting is to be composed of the
officers of the Federation and two delegates
from each club belonging thereto. The presi-
dent of each club in membership is a vice-
president of the Federation or a club may elect
a vice-president. The annual dues of
auxiliaries are $10.
	The election of officers followed. The
nominating ballot resulted in Sallie Joy
White, President, Mrs. Lincoln as vice presi-
dent. Other officers were elected as follows:
Mrs. E. G. C. Edholm of the Pacific Coast,
recording secretary; Elizabeth Merritt Gosse
of New England, corresponding secretary:
Fanny H. Rastall of Illinois, treasurer, and
Belva A. Lockwood of the National Women's
Press Association. auditor. The election of
Mrs. Lockwood was ratified by a rising
vote.
	The meeting took a recess until 2 P. M., at
which time the Federation was called to
order by Mrs. Lockwood and the minutes of
the morning session were read for the infor-
mation of the large numbfer of press women
present. Mrs, Colby and Miss Armstrong
were appointed to escort Mrs. Sallie Joy
Whtte to the Chair, when she was introduced
by Mrs. Lockwood as the president of the
Federation. Mrs. White made a genial and
effective address. She spoke of the growing,
breadth of woman's work on the press which
had been largely assisted by the clubs which
had this day joined hands in a Federation.
Individual women had lacked nothing in
earnestness, nothing in loyalty, nothing in
devotion to their chosen profession which the
world was now beginning to realize was the
noblest that could be chosen by man or woman.
Before this last quarter of the century, however,
only a few exceptional women had been
journalists; to-day there is no well conducted
newspaper without women on its staff. Women
are appreciated not only for their work, but
for their moral force, for the change in the
moral atmosphere of offices where they are
employed.
	The president then introduced Mrs. R. S.
Frost—one of the lady managers for Massa-
chusetts, who gave as a personal message from
Mrs. Palmer an urgent request for the co- 
operation of press women.
	The treasurer and auditor were then
presented to the meeting and-responded briefly.
	Mrs Lockwood said that a lawyer was
accustomed to be on the look-out for delin-
quencies,and she would be most happy to keep
track of the treasurer. Mrs. Lockwood was
then thanked by a rising vote for her services
as chairman of the committee on organization.
	Afterwards letters and reports were read
from several of the States all of an interest-
ing character, which we shall publish hereafter
The gathering dispersed with the singing of
"Auld Lang Syne."
	A beautiful noon lunch was served by the


editors of the Woman's Journal to the dele-
gates and visiting friends. It was a memora-
ble repast, one of the tables presided over by
Lucy Stone, all waited upon deftly, by the
valiant woman's champion, H. B. Blackwell
and their gifted daughter, Alice Stone Blaek-
well, keeping general watch that every one's
bodily and spiritual exhilaration were provided
for.
			Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Queen Christina, Regent of Spain, has
endeared herself more than ever to her people
by her concern for them during the recent
flood. She herself took the lead in organiz-
ing assistance for the afflicted provinces.
	Mrs. Ada M. Bittenbender received about
seven thousand votes for the position of
Supreme Judge of Nebraska. This is most
marvelous that this large number of men
should have so outgrown ancient prejudice as
to be willing to place a woman in this position
of importance.
	The New York Woman's Press Club held
its first evening reception in their new club
house, No. 21, N. Eighteenth St. on Nov. 9th.
The occasion being in honor of Mr. Wm,
Wilde, and his wife Frank Leslie. Mrs.
Croley, president of the Club, Mrs. W. F.
Moss and Mrs. S. Rosenfield received the
guests.
	Lady Henry Somerset, in her speech at the
banquet of the Federation of Women's Press
Clubs at Boston, paid a high tribute to Mr.
W. T. Stead, who, she said, had virtually
fouuded a new school of journalism. All
women owed him gratitude. This was received
with applause by the large body of newspaper
women present.
	An exchange states that Miss Rhoda
Broughton has removed from Oxford to
Richmond, and that she is "a handsome,
dignified, clear-eyed lady, past her early
youth." "Miss Broughton has been for so
many years reported by the press as being a
precocious Miss of sixteen years of age who
has evolved her wonderfnl creations out of her
own brain without any experience, that it is
refreshing to learn the above facts."
	"The successful competitor in presenting a
design for the official seal of the Board of
Lady Managers is Miss Sara Bodtker of
Chicago. The design represents a ship of the
time of Columbus above the eagle and coat-of-
arms of the United States. A circle of stars
symbolizes the Lady Managers. The eagle
holds in his beak the laurel wreath of success,
and under his wings is the ivy vine of
friendship. The award was made by the
sculptor St. Gaudens.
	Frances Willard, in her address at the
banquet given to the Federation of Women's
Press Club in Boston, on Nov. 11, paid a high
tribute to the press and to the work of women
who wield the quill, especially to those news-
paper women whose quills are not borrowed
from the porcupine, but rather from the wing
of some angel seeking to raise humanity to a
higher plane. She closed with a humorous
exhortation to all women writers to use quills
taken either from a dove or from the wing of
the American eagle.


IN MEMORIAM.

	Departed this life on the 10th of Nov., Sister Selinda D.
Bringhurst, beloved wife of Bishop Wm. A. Bringhurst.


She was born in the town of Brandywine Chester Co.,
Penn., she emigrated to Salt Lake City in the fall of 1861
in company with her father, mother, three sisters and one
brother, She was married in 1862 and moved to Dixie in
1866.
	Deceased was the daughter of Mifflin and Catherine
Palmer, now residing in Salt Lake City. She has left a
husband, nine children and seven grandchildrent besides
numerous friends to mourn her loss.
	Sister Bringhurst has presided over the Relief Society of
this place for the past ten years. She was a loving wife
and mother and a faithful sister. Her remains were borne
to the meeting house where funeral services were held, ap-
propriate remarks were made by Brothers Savage, Spills-
bury and Slack. She was then carried to the cemetery
followed by a large procession of relatives and friends,
there to await the Resurrection Morn.
	She was one of the noblest of women, of her it might be
said, fathful and true in all things she lived and died a
Saint in hopes of a part in the First Resurrection.
			ELIZA ANN SLACK, Coun.
			ELIZABETH W. LAMB, Sec.
			MARY F. LAMB, Ass't Sec.


OBITUARY.

	We the sisters of the Young Ladies' Association of
Cedar Valley, feel desirous of sending to the columns of
our worthy paper the following lines in respect to the
memory of Sister Lizzie Bennet Berry, who departed this
life September 28, at about half past twelve a m. She
was the President of the Young Ladies, and we feel not
only the loss of her counsel in this position, but that of a
sincere worker in any spiritual calling and a steadfast sister
and friend.
	She was born July 30th, 1869, was the mother of two
little girls, the youngest but four weeks old. She suffered
untold agony for two weeks, which terminated in inflama-
tion, and although many loving hands were constantly do-
ing, and anxious hearts ever praying for her speedy re-
covery, the Lord saw fit to release her from this earthly
mission and called her home.
MEMORIAL AND RESOLUTIONS.
	Memorial of respect to the family of Sister Lizzie Bennett
Berry.
	Whereas, our beloved sister has been called away by the 
hand of death, and therefore be it—
	Resolved, that we in behalf of the members of the Young
Ladies' do sincerely deplore the loss of a patient worker
and a true sister, and that we tender to the bereaved
parents and husband our mutual sympathy and implore
our Heavenly Father to let the comforting influence of His
Holy Spirit rest upon them in this deep sorrow.
	Resolved that these resolutions be entered into the
Young Ladies' record, also a copy be presented to the be-
reaved parents and husband and printed in the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT.

	How sweet to rest when labor's done,
	As slowly sinks the setting sun,
	How sweet to earn the right to rest;
	And know our labor will be blest,
	And God will call at His behest
	His darling children Home.

			MELISSA WEEKS,
			HATTIE HACKING,
			ATHENA BENNETT,


<column 1>
R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
	SALT LAKE CITY.
	The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS

<column 2>
	MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
OFFICE.--324, 325 Third Floor, Constitution Building
HOURS--8 to 10 a. m., 4 to 6 p. m.

THE WOMAN'S TRIBUNE,
Edited and published weekly at Washington,
	D. C., by CLARA BEWICK COLBY. 
Price, $1.00 a year. Trial Subscriptions, five
		weeks for 10 cents.
The Woman's Journal, of Boston, and the Woman's Tri-
	bune of Washington, D. C., will be sent to one ad-
	dress for $3.00 per year.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
	Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
	ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
	AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
	POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But-
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 63 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
	Three doors west of Theatre.
[Square picture stating 'RIO GRANDE WESTERN RAILWAY' with words that circle around saying 'SCENIC LINE OF THE WORLD']

	THE
Standard Gauge
RAILWAY!
. . THROUGH THE . .
ROCKY MOUNTAINS!
	Choice of Three Distinct Routes, 
	AND THE
MOST MAGNIFICENT RAILROAD SCENEREY
	IN THE WORLD.
Two Fast Express Trains Daily
	EACH WAY BETWEEN
OGDEN, SALT LAKE AND DENVER.  
ELEGANT RECLINING CHAIR CARS!
			Free of Charge.
	Direct Connections made in Union Depots.
THE MOST THOROUGHLY EQUIPPED RAILWAY
			IN THE WEST.
D. C. DODGE, A. E. WELBY, J.H. BENNETT,
	Genl. Mgr.	Supt.	G. F. & P. A.

	Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
	Will be found the latest styles and productions
	in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
	RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
	And an elegant assortment of
	DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple, Sir
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country, promptly responded to. 
		DAVD JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 20.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15, 1891.		NO. 12.


CONTENTS.

	The Poet's Ideal Woman—J. A. MacDonald.
Interesting Letter—Mary S. Burnham. Emily
Hamilton's Christmas,—A Story Notes and
News.
	EDITORIAL:—Christmas Time. "A Green
Tea" Party. Christmas Display. Utah Woman's
Press Club. 
	POETRY:—Trusting—L. M. H. The Mother's
Reverie Christmas Night — Augusta Joyce
Crocheron. The End of the Play—William
Makepeace Thackeray. Christmas Hymn—C.
L. W. Perfect Trust—E. T. Christmas Eve—
E. B. W.


TRUSTING.

We may not see that mystic path,
	That is marked for us to tread,
There may be trials rough and dark,
 	Thro' which we must pass with dread.
It may prove hard for us to say,
	"Not my will but Thine be done,"
And bow submissive to His sway,
	Striving still to overcome.
With living faith and courage strong,
	Leaning on that gracious word,
Which bade the raging seas be calm,
	Moving onward undisturbed?
Although the way be veiled from sight
	Hidden from our human view,
We'll follow, seeking for the light,
	Trusting all life's journey thro'.
			L. M. H.
Atchison, Kan.


THE MOTHER'S REVERIE CHRISTMAS
NIGHT.

Softly the shadows fall, softly the home-lights glow,
Folding the earth in white, falleth the fairy snow;
Voices of gladness float by on the air,
Hearts full of happiness sing everywhere;
Yet, though the throngs pass by, yet though the loved are
	near,
Sadness, steals to my side—Dearest thou art not here.

Say, where thou art, afar, cometh no thought to thee
Drawing thy footsteps near, where once they used to be?
Around us, amid us, though viewless to sight
Art thou not with us this holiest Night?
Come, by the Father's love, come by His mercy free,
Alone 'mid the joy and song, Dearest, I wait for thee.

Come through the shades of night, come thro' the whisper-
	ing snow.
Hearts full of gladness heed not, only mine own shall
	know.
Come with thy dark eyes to answer mine own,
Speak with the voice that was melody's tone;
Come when the silence falls, where I in loneliness weep,
Come, and thy love-lit smile, Dearest, shall bring me sleep.

Come to me in my dreams ere even the daylight breaks,
Only tonight, beloved, close to the heart that wakes.
Bring me the calm of that holier place
In the pure spell of thy heaven-born grace;
Come, that my soul may learn faithful and strong to be,
Tonight, in a world of joy—Dearest, I wait for thee.
			AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.


[Column 1]
	  
THE END OF THE PLAY.

The play is done—the curtain drops,
	Slow falling to the prompters bell;

[Column 2]

A moment yet the actor stops,
	And looks around, to say farewell.
It is an irksome word and task;
	And, when he's laughed and said his say
He shows, as he removes the mask
	A face that's anything but gay—

One word, ere yet the evening ends
	Let's close it with a parting rhyme;
And pledge a hand to all young friends,
	As fits the merry Christmas time;
In life's wide scene you, too have parts,
	That fate ere long shall bid you play;
Good-night—with honest gentle hearts
	A kindly greeting go alway!

Good-night!—I'd say the griefs, the joys,
	Just hinted in this mimic page
The triumphs and defeats of boys,
	Are but repeated in our age;
I'd say your woes were not less keen,
	Your hopes more vain, than those of men—
Your pangs or pleasures of fifteen
	At forty-five played o'er again.

I'd say we suffer and we strive
	Not less nor more as men than boys—
With grizzled beards at forty-five
	As erst at twelve in corduroys;
And if in time of sacred youth,
	We learned at home to love and pray,
Pray heaven that early love and truth
	May never wholly pass away.

And in the world, as in the school,
	I'd say how fate may change and shift—
The prize be sometimes with the fool,
	The race not always to the swift;
The strong may yield, the good may fall,
	The great man be a vulgar clown,
The knave be lifted over all,
	The kind cast pitilessly down.

Who knows the inscrutable design?
	Blessed be He who took and gave!
Why should your mother, Charles, not mine,
	Be weeping at her darling's grave?
We bow to heaven that willed it so
	That darkly rules the fate of all
That sends the respite or the blow,
	That’s free to give or to recall.

This crowns his feast with wine and wit—
	Who brought him to that mirth and state?
His betters, see, below him sit,
	Or hunger helpless at the gate.
Who bade the mud from Dives' wheel
	To spurn the rags of Lazarus?
Come, brother, in that dust we'll kneel,
	Confessing heaven that ruled it thus.

So each shall mourn, in life's advance,
	Dear hopes, dear friends, untimely killed—
Shall grieve for many a forfeit chance,
	And longing passion unfulfilled.
Amen!—whatever fate be sent,
	Pray God the heart may kindly glow,
Although the head with cares be bent,
	And whitened with the winter snow.

Come wealth or want, come good or ill,
	Let young and old accept their part,
And bow before the awful will
	And bear it with an honest heart.
Who misses or who wins the prize—
	Go, lose or conquer as you can;
But if you fail, or if you rise,
	Be each, pray God, a gentleman.

A gentleman, or old or young!
	(Bear kindly with my humble lays;)
The sacred chorus first was sung
	Upon the first of Christmas days;

[Column 3]

The shepherds heard it overhead—
	The joyful angels raised it then:
Glory to heaven on high, it said,
	And peace on earth to gentle men!

My song, save this, is little worth;
	I lay the weary pen aside,
And wish you health, and love, and mirth,
	As fits the solemn Christmas-tide,
As fits the holy Christmas birth
	Be this, good friends, our carol still—
Be peace on earth, be peace on earth,
	To men of gentle will.

		WILLIAM MAKEPEACE THACKERAY.


THE POET'S IDEAL WOMAN.

	The woman of the poet may be said to be
an index to the character of the man; his con-
ception of her worth and relative station mark-
ing him as generous and high minded, or con-
ceited and with a soul of narrow and cramped
calibre. She is also not so entirely an ideal,
but that to a certain degree, she is an exponent
of the time in which the poet lives, as of the
period which he seeks to represent. Those
ages and nations who have raised woman to
the highest pinnacle of importance have al-
ways attained to the greatest mental and moral
excellence; while those who have given her but
a menial or in any way inferior position have
remained correspondingly low in the scale of
intelligence and progression.
	In taking our review of the poet's ideal
woman, we will begin with the grand old
Hebrew writer, Solomon; a man of peace, de-
voted to the interests of literature, art, and all
the refining qualities of a highly civilized so-
ciety, devoted too, if the number and variety
of his female associates be taken as a guide to
the charms peculiar to our sex. In his last
Chapter of Proverbs, he gives us a most strik-
ing picture of his ideal woman. As no words
of mine could be half so telling in their sim-
plicity and power as his own, I shall quote
him verbatim, even at the risk of being con-
sidered prosy by those who are perhaps
familiar with his words.
	Beginning with that which is a woman's life,
he says:—
	"Who can find a virtuous woman for her
price is far above rubies?
	The heart of her husband doth safely trust
in her, so that he shall have no need of spoil.
	She will do him good, and not evil, all the
days of her life."
	Leaving this he turns to her industrial 
qualities:
	"She seeketh wool and flax, and worketh
willingly with her hands.
	She is like the merchants ships she bringeth
her food from afar.
	She riseth also while it is yet night, and giveth
meat to her household, and a portion to her
maidens."
	Of her business ability he makes mention.
	"She considered a field, and buyeth it;
with the fruit of her hands she planteth a
vineyard.
	She girdeth her loins with strength, and
strengtheneth her arms.
	She perceiveth that her merchandise is good;
her candle goeth not out by night.
	She layeth her hands to the spindle, and
her hands hold the distaff."


[Column 1]

	He forgets not charity, that characteristic
so essential in either sex.
	"She stretcheth out her hand to the poor;
yea, she reacheth forth her hands to the needy.
	She is not afraid of the snow for her house-
hold; for all her household are clothed with
scarlet."
	She is not without pride of her good looks
for he tells us—
	She maketh herself coverings of tapestry;
her clothing is silk and purple."
	The same rule must hold good as to her
family, for—
	Her husband is known in the gates, when
he sitteth among the elders of the land.
	She maketh fine linen, and selleth it, and
delivereth girdles unto the merchant.
	Strength and honor are her clothing, and
she shall rejoice in time to come."
	Among the best of her qualities are these:—
	"She openeth her mouth with wisdom; and
in her tongue is the law of kindness.
	She looketh well to the ways of her house-
hold, and eateth not the bread of idleness."
	Happily for her, she receives the meed of
appreciation, for—
	"Her children arise up and call her blessed;
her husband also, and he praiseth her.
	Many daughters have done virtuously, but
thou excellest them all.
	Favor is deceitful and beauty is vain, but
a woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be
praised.
	Give her of the fruit of her hands, and let
her own works praise her in the gates."
	From this picture of industry, frugality, and
piety, if we take a stride to the early Greek
maids and matrons, we will perhaps find less
of domestic industry, but more of blind de-
votion to the opposite sex.
	Honor and virtue are still highly eulogized
but while man is gradually assuming the hero
and protector, woman is losing the heroic,
and sinking to the level of a dependent, or
rather a choice bit of property, to beguarded,
shielded with jealous care, but not to be ad-
mitted to his confidence or counsels as an
equal. Helen of Troy would perhaps be as
good a representative of this type of woman
as has been handed down to us, were it not for
the fact of her domestic perfidy.
	Homer gives us however in a few succinct
words, the status of woman in those days,

	"What calls for vengeance but a woman's cause?
	Are fair endowments and a beauteous face
	Beloved by none but those of Atreus' race?
	The wife whom choice and passion doth approve,
	Sure every wise and worthy man doth love.’"

	The bard of Avon in his magnificent char-
acter of Portia, gives us a striking picture of
the higher Roman woman.
	High-minded as evinced by such thoughts
as these:
	"If to do were as easy as to know what were
good to do, chapels had been churches, and
poor men's cottages princes' palaces. It is a
good divine that follows his own instructions;
I can easier teach twenty what were good to be
done, than be one of the twenty to follow mine
own teaching."
	Obedient where she felt it due, as is shown
by the following:—
	"If I live to be as old as Sibylla, I will die
as chaste as Diana, unless I be obtained by the
manner of my father's will."
	Honorable where she says to him who holds
her heart's best feelings:
	"I could teach you how to choose right, but
I am then forsworn; so will I never be."
	Tender and yielding enough under circum-
stances calling for the exhibition of those
qualities, yet strong to do and dare when neces-
sity demands as is shown in the trial scene.

[Column 2]

	Of all the heroines of the poets methinks
Portia approaches the nearest to the ideal
woman of our own time and race.
	Tennyson has given us a number of views of
the woman of feudal times, yet they do not ap-
proach the high mental and moral standard of
a Portia. Again they are found occupying
the position of the choice bit of property, with
their individuality entirely absorbed in that
of their husbands.
	In the early history of our own America,
the standard of woman again approaches that
of the patriarchal age portrayed by Solomon.
Longfellow of all American poets the peer, has
much to say about woman.
	One of his most familiar and characteristic
thoughts being that which occurs in his Hia-
watha:

	"As unto the bow the cord is,
	So unto the man is woman,
	Though she bends him, she obey him.
	Though she draws him, yet she follows.
	Useless each without the other.

	The following description of Priscilla the
Puritan Maiden, in his Courtship of Miles
Standish, brings forcibly to our minds the
thrifty ideal of Solomon:

"Then, as he opened the door, he beheld the form of the
	maiden,
Seated beside her wheel, and the carded wool like a snow-
	drift
Piled at her knee, her white hands feeding the ravenous
	spindle;
While with her foot on the treadle, she guided the wheel
	in its motion.

Making the humble house and the modest apparel of home-
	spun
Beautiful with her beauty, and rich with the wealth of her
	being."

	A heroine of a little different order yet still
partaking of the biblical character is Evange-
line.

"Fair was she to behold, that maiden of seventeen sum-
	mers.
Black were her eyes as the berry that grows on the thorn
	by the wayside.
Black, yet how softly they gleamed, beneath the brown
	shade of her tresses!
Sweet was her breath as the breath of kine that feed in the
	meadows.
When in the harvest heat she bore to the reapers at noon-
	tide
Flagons of home-brewed ale, ah! fair in sooth was the
	maiden,
Fairer was she when, on Sunday morn, while the bell from
	the turret
Sprinkled with holy sounds the air, as the priest with his
	hyssop,
Sprinkles the congregation, and scatters blessings upon
	them,
Down the long street she passed, with her chaplet of beads
	and her missal,
Wearing her Norman cap, and her kirtle of blue, and the
	ear-rings,
Brought in olden the time from France, and since, as an
	heirloom
Handed down from mother to child through long genera-
	tions.
But a celestial brightness—a more ethereal beauty—
Shone on her face and encircled her form, when after
	confession,
Homeward serenely she walked, with God's benediction
	upon her,
When she had passed, it seemed like the ceasing of ex-
	quisite music."

	So generally have the poet's written about
woman, that she may almost be called the
"Poets Inspiration," yet to review a hundredth
part of them would be to make an article too
long for an occasion like the present.
	It is for us to assist in raising the standard
of the ideal woman of the future, and then,

[Column 3]

not to leave her simply as an ideal, indefinite
and unapproachable, but to make of her a
living, breathing entity, and ourselves her law-
ful and fitting representatives.
			J. A. MACDONALD.
	Nov. 30th, 1891.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


INTERESTING LETTER.

	    New Mexico, 
		     Nov. 30, 1891.
DEAR SISTER:
	I have not forgotten you, nor any of my old
friends in Utah beloved home of childhood;
though my long silence would imply this.
Another year fraught with many blessings,
cares and perplexities has flown. The Summer
and Autumn have been beautiful seasons in-
deed, and though the labor enforced by a rich
fruit crop has been arduous we are very grate-
ful for the tender mercies of an Alwise
Father.
	We have just returned from Mancos, Colo-
rado, where we attended the quarterly confer-
ence. Our spirits were richly fed by the teach-
ings of Apostle Lyman and the Presidency of
the Stake. Surely we all resolved many times
over we would be better men and women than
ever before. God help us one and all to carry
out in our future lives the counsel we there
heard.
	It is a lovely Sabbath day in our quiet home.
The important member of the family has gone
to visit La Platta, the principal part of this
ward and a distance of 14 miles. There are
only three families of our faith at Fruitland,
so meetings are seldom held, yet we have tried
to maintain the Sunday School whenever the
brethren are at home, as we are so few. The
different associations have almost been lost
sight of which all much regret. The sisters
in this little ward have done all they could
and taken an interest in the societies as long
as there was any possibility of keeping them
in working order. We have been led to be-
lieve some of the leading sisters were going to
visit us after the October Conference. We
were much elated and consequently sorely dis-
appointed, but now have settled down to the
inevitable and are as hopefully waiting till
Spring trusting we may not wait in vain.
	Those who are constantly privileged to listen
to the voices of God's authorized servants and
drink in the very spirit of His word can never
fully understand how the soul longs for such
heavenly blessings when for years deprived of
them. Yet we are assured through all that
God will draw very near unto us, if we are
true to him and do we not in such trying
times need his spirit for a constant guide?
	Oh how great would our joy be if we were
not so prone to wander in paths where His
light cannot follow. What is more terrible
than darkness of mind? God pity and help
us my sisters all, to keep above those awful
depths of despair that the unbelieving sink
into.
	We enjoy the papers as much as ever and
trust they may ever flourish. Love and kind
wishes for all our dear sisters in Zion, and
ever praying to be one with you in all good
works, I am as ever your sister,
			MARY S. BURNHAM.


The first Mohammedan woman to take a
degree in medicine lately did so at Odessa.
She expects to practise in Russia.
	A temporary home for messenger girls has
just been opened in Vienna by a company of
charitable women. There is a permanent
teacher, and the cost is not to exceed $2.50 a
week, or less for those who can earn something
in the home.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


CHRISTMAS HYMN.

While shepherds lay on dewy mead— 
When suddenly, and overhead,
Bright angels sung this joyous strain
"Peace on earth, good will to man.’’
These gracious tidings from on high
Echoed along the star-lit sky!
While shepherds seated on the ground
Beheld the glory all around.
These shining Seraphs said to them,
Behold the Star of Bethlehem!
Yea, where it sheds its glorious rays
Your Savior in a manger lays.
All hail! all hail! the happy morn, 
When Jesus Christ the Lord was born,
Let Heaven and Earth, and Angels sing!
Praises to their Redeeming King.
	C. L. W.


PERFECT TRUST.
Take me! comes in plaintive accents
	From the babe close by my knee,
Wearied Now with toy and plaything 
	Comes she now, for rest, to me.
Never doubting, full well knowing
	I would shield her from all harm,
Mother love is all— so potent— 
	To the babe upon my arm.
Baby hands I know are reaching
	Unto me from Spirit Land,
Friends I love I know are waiting
	Until I shall join their band.
Oft I feel their presence near me
	Bringing solace oft midst pain,
Causing tears but leaving gladness,
	“Like the sunshine after rain.’’
When I plead unto the Father 
	For the strength I sorely need
Surely too The Mother listeth
	To a daughter as she pleads.
And with a perfect woman’s wisdom
	With the power born of right,
In mercy too will heed the daughter
	Struggling here amid the fight.
Though the darkness is appalling, 
	And the tempter's brave and strong,
Oft-times when we would be righteous
	We are tempted to do wrong.
But with heaven’s love above us,
	And with spirit-love beside,
We can hope to reach that haven—
	The perfect trust of a little child.
	E. T.


CHRISTMAS EVE.

On a Christmas Eve in the good old times,
	When the young and the gay were strong and brave,
The Churches pealed forth their musical chimes,
	And the rich of their substance freely gave;
Of their right good cheer and the welkin rang,
With “peace on earth and good will to man."
The castles so grand and the abbeys old,
	Resounded with mirth from night until morn.
And the story of Bethlehem was told,
	How lo! in a manger the babe was born;
Even Christ the Savior, greater than all, 
Who came to redeem mankind from the fall. 
And there gathered around the festive board,
	The great and the noble of many a land,
And they feasted and sung and the music poured,
	In flowing numbers and a measure grand;
And they danced to the rhythm of melody,
	In the halcyon days of chivalry.
Music and jest and laughter and song,
	Filled the ancient halls, and the troubadour
Returned from the wars, would the night prolong
	With his love-lorn tales of a foreign shore,
Of a passion, that absence could not subdue
And the Ladies wept for a love so true.


And often the minstrel who sung so well,
	Was a bold brave knight from the war return’d, 
In this simple disguise his love would tell,
	How while far away he had fondly yearn'd
For a maiden fair, whose colors he wore,
And whose faith, was the shield he proudly bore.
Those were the days of the bold crusaders,
	Who fought like heroes for fame and glory,
And freed their land from wicked invaders,
	Their names are writ in romance and story
How they fought in armor with spear and shield
And the bravest fell on the battle field.
But since that time a change has been wrought
	And men are the bravest who sue for peace,
"Good will" was the message the Savior brought,
 	And the time is coming when wars shall cease;
When the right shall triumph over the wrong,
And the weak confound the brave and the strong
	E. B W.


[Column 1]
EMILY HAMILTON’S CHRISTMAS.

“Tell me my dear mamma, what can we do
this year for Christmas, something new and
odd, I’m so tired of the same humdrum way
of celebrating, with a Christmas tree for the
children, and no amusement except having a
lot of one’s relatives to dinner, whom one
never sees except on special occasions, when
they come to be entertained, with eating and
drinking, and telling the same old stories each
year?”
	“Well Emily are you through, finding fault
with our homely ways? And by the bye, what
would you propose for the children in place of
a Christmas tree?” “O almost anything, a
dancing party for instance, then we young folks
could enjoy it.”
	“But my daughter do you know what it
would take to get up a party, and our circum-
stances this year are only very moderate, and
Frank in college?’
	“O, it wouldn’t be so very expensive, and
Frank will be at home, and we shall want a
change for him.”
	“Frank will be glad to see the children hav-
ing a good time, and he wants rest more than
dissipation, I’m inclined to think from his
letters that he will be quite satisfied with our
common village pastimes, and meeting his old
friends in a social way without any extra ex-
pense; besides Emily, your father is not in the
best health or spirits, money is scarce, and he
objects to any lavish expenditure of means, we
have the little one’s future to think of; remem-
ber what it has cost to give you the advantages
you have had these last two or three years.”
	“But mamma, don’t be always bringing up
what everything costs, it makes me feel un- 
comfortable, I guess papa is just as likely to
make more money; his business is all right,
he’s the richest man in town, everybody knows
that, the girls at school knew well enough that
I could afford to dress differently, and I often
felt as if I would like to tell them, that you
didn’t believe in living up to our income, be- 
cause we had a large family.”
	“Emily,” said the mother, “your father has
been a very careful man, and does not believe
in extravagance, he would not approve of your
manner of speaking of his wealth either, he
never makes any boast of it. I am astonished
that you should mention it in such a way; one
would think you would have more discretion
at your age, I should not like the younger
children especially Bessie to hear you talk as
you are doing now; I can’t understand what
has made you so dissatisfied.”
	Emily sat silently and looked into the fire;
she felt uncomfortable, she was restless and
fancied herself very unhappy, she had only
recently returned from a very popular girls’
seminary, where she had been associated with
young ladies who prided themselves more upon
their personal charms, than their sterling worth,

[Column 2]
and she had heard so much of the style and
elegance of palatial residences in the City that
when she returned to the simple country home
from which she had gone forth so free and
happy, it seemed such a dreary place, and the
people with whom she had been wont to asso-
ciate with their plain apparel, did not look the
same to her, as they had before and it made
her feel almost wicked. The fact was she had
seen the outside glitter and show only, and had
not gone deep enough into the matter to find
that “All is not gold that glitters.”
	Miss Hamilton was young and beautiful,
and life seemed to her a vision of loveliness,
she had been the favored one at home, and the
first and choicest of everything was always
her’s from father and mother and brother, and
even the relatives of whom she had spoken so
slightingly were her admirers generally. Her
grandma “just adored her,” according to her
version of the matter, and now she had come
back so accomplished and they all so proud
of her, yet she was scarce willing to be ami-
able with them. Emily Hamilton like a great
many other young girls imagined she knew
more than her mother and grandmother, who
though very well-meaning had not had the op-
portunities of a higher education, which she
fancied made the difference. This was all a
mistake on her part, for it was not the real
knowledge that had given her these false ideas
of life, but simply the dazzling effect of the
companionship of girls whose home training
had been totally neglected, whose mothers
lived for society and expected their daughters
to make brilliant matches in high life.
	Emily's mother was a very sensible woman,
who loved her home and whose virtues were
of the purest type. She had no idea of the
change in her daughter until after she left
school, or she would have vastly preferred to
have kept her nearer home, where she could
have been under her own influence ana watch-
care.
	Somehow Emily had not the courage to
press the question of a party any further then,
but determined in her own mind to have a
change in the family routine at Christmas time
which was very near. The mother was very
thoughtful after, and she also resolved that she
would speak to her husband the first oppor-
tunity, about Emily, the change in her, and
together perhaps they might make an impres-
sion upon her that would have a good effect.
	When Mr. Hamilton came in as usual to-
wards evening, he noticed that his wife was
not so cheerful as usual and Emily was very
cool; without pretending to have observed it
he asked for some music, or “is the dinner
ready? if so we’ll have a song afterwards, said he
his face beaming with love, as he laid his hand
caressingly upon Emily’s shining hair. It is
so pleasant to have you in your old place again,
I never mean Bessie shall stay away from us
as you have, and there will be no occasion for
it, for you will be able to teach her here at
home.” “But papa, I can’t teach, I have not
qualified myself for teaching.” “O, not in a
school, I don’t mean that exactly, but you’ll
superintend, and help your mother, she has her
hands full with so many.”
Emily scarcely knew what to say, but she
began to feel it was more than she was pre-
pared to undertake. She was thinking of a
winter of pleasure, and herein was discontent,
immediately on her return.
	Dinner was announced and although the
father was unusually cheerful, the conversa-
tion lagged. Emily had not expressed a de-
sire to comply with his request, to sing, and
after their return to the parlor, he waited as
if in anticipation before asking again. She
sat moodily folding her hands idly and toying
with her rings, finally Mr. H. broke the
[Continued on page 94.]


[Column 1]
EMILY HAMILTON'S CHRISTMAS.

			[Concluded.]
silence, "Will you sing for me Emily, or is 
anything wrong here tonight?"
   "No, papa only I'm out of sorts, I guess I've 
got the blues,' mamma thinks I'm disagreeable
I've offended her by speaking about the
Christmas, you know, and papa I don't see
why we should always do quite the same things
in the same way just as they did a hundred
years ago?"
   Mr. Hamilton laughed, "a hundred years ago
no, I don't think we do just the same, why
Emily a hundred years ago your grandmother
was not born. No, I rather think if you were
put back a hundred years you would find
quite a difference. Not so many dainty ele-
gances as you girls have nowadays, why your
great grandmother who lived a hundred years
ago, rode through the woods to parties on a
pillion instead of in a luxurious, satin-lined
carriage. As for Christmas I don't think they had
any, Thanksgiving and New Year's were the
holidays in winter,but suppose you sing for me,
an old-fashioned song, I like old tunes and old
songs, and I'm not over fond of new-fangled
things nor ways either for that matter." After 
a little more in the same strain Emily sang
and her voice so full of melody, clear as a bell,
soothed her mother, as well as quieted even
her own rebellious spirit. Such is ever the
power of music over the human heart. When
she had gone over the list of her father's
favorite pieces, she came and put her arms
around his neck and coaxingly said, "come
papa what about a Christmas party?"
   "Supposing we consented your mother and I
to have this party, whom would you invite?"
Don't you know how disappointed all our
folks would be who've been in the habit of
coming here regularly for so many years?
    "To begin with papa Frank will bring one
of his college friends, I wrote to him to invite
his favorite companion," "O, I see Emily you
have arranged for a partner!" "Then we must
invite the young people that we have always
associated with I suppose, though there are
some of them very ordinary, and I don't sup-
pose they know how to get through any of the
new style dances."
   "Which of the families do you object to, or 
is it the young folks only, who are so objec-
tionable?" "Papa I didn't say I objected, not
exactly; there are not many to choose from,
and they, or at least the young men all voted
for your election to office, and I must be
gracious on that account, I don't think I care
much for any of them, but Harry Montague
has been very polite to me and in every way
possible has shown me marked attention since
I came home; we used to be very fond of each
other when we were children; he always helped
me over the brooks, and lifted me down out of
the trees, and gave me the largest berries when
we went out blackberrying." "Then you do
mean to include him," said her father, "shall
we make a list, taking notebook and pencil
from his pocket and writing; "Frank Hamil
ton's friend, Harry Montague, who next?"
Emily felt nettled, she did not quite like to be
subjected to such scrutiny, and to put an end
to it turned to her mother and asked her
opinion about the invitations. Mrs. Hamilton
quietly remarked, "it is your party child and
I cannot think of making suggestions," and
then as though to conciliate her a little said, 
"you know the girls and boys, two years has
not made many changes, only one or two have
gone away, you are aware of that, Harry might
help you or his sister Susie, she's a very lady-
like girl you'll not object to her as she is
Harry's sister."
   A little more of this sort of banter, and
Emily began to feel as if she would like to
give it up, but then she imagined herself help-

[Column 2]
ing to wait upon the aunts, uncles and cousins
and far off relatives and connections and she
took fresh courage. That night when alone
she consoled herself by thinking, she had been
punished for her perseverity, and that she ought
to have the party any way.
   "After all what does it matter about all
those people, who only come when they know
there's a fine dinner, papa could send them
each a present, I'll ask him," then she hesi-
tated. "No, the party will be more expensive,
there's the music, and lots of extras, no I can't 
ask him for anything more, except 1 must
have a new dress, and wondering whether he
really intended she should give the party she
fell asleep.
   Meanwhile Mrs. Hamilton had opened her
heart to her husband, after the little ones had
all been put to bed, and they decided that
Emily should give the party, and have her
own way about inviting, and see if it would
prove more pleasant for her in the realization
than the family dinner. So Emily was al-
lowed full liberty to proceed with the details.
    A few days after these occurrences, Emily's 
grandmother paid them a visit, she lived a
little distance away, and had not seen Emily
for some time. She was very sweet-mannered
and Emily had formerly been very fond of her,
but she saw the difference in her favorite's man-
ner and deplored it very much; she spoke
freely to her son on the subject and asked him
if he could countenance such hauteur under
his own roof. "Why" said the old lady ,"she
will not be a credit to you, or her mother
either, her pride is insufferable, what good is
all her French, and German, and music and
China painting, when she hasn't a kind word
for any of her old friends?" More in the
same strain, the elder Mrs. Hamilton poured
into her son's unwilling ears, he was ambitious
that his daughter should do well, in fact excel,
but he despised ostentation, and he knew his 
mother's view of the case, would be the one
others would take outside his own family.
   Emily's grandmother spoke very plainly to
her on several occasions, and cautioned her
against being so brusque, with the people who
called; most of them really out of respect for
her home-coming.
   "O, grandma you make me weary, I never
can do what you wish, what are all these
village people to me, I don't mean to be one
of them, I intend to go abroad and marry
some rich foreigner." "Some one with a title,
but without either money or brains I suppose,
and how do you propose to manage after
marriage? people have to live you know, there
are some things that can be dispensed with
but not the bread and butter." "I haven't 
got so far as that grandma, he hasn't put in
an appearance yet in any shape, but I dreamed
of him the other night and when I see him
I shall know him at once." "Worse and
worse child, and then when you see him and
know who he is, as you say, you'll go right up
to him and embrace him doubtless, and tell
him your dream and the wild tale of your love
and waiting?" "No grandma I'm not quite
that foolish, but I know lots of girls do marry
foreigners (I prefer Germans) and they travel
and see the world, one of our girls at school, a
special friend of mine, Fanny Osmond, fell in
love with a Count, and ran away from school,
and they were married, and her mamma was
sent for, and she took her home and forgave
her after awhile, and O, there's ever so much
more of the story only you wouldn't approve 
of it, so I'll not tell you about it."
   "No, Emily I don't approve of runaway
marriages in any case, and the sooner you dis-
card all such nonsense the better for you,and all
with whom you are connected; put all such
notions away from you, and marry some good
young man, whose integrity of character and

[Column 3]
uprightness is well established and you will
have more home-happiness depend upon it."
   The days went by and preparations for quite
a grand party were in progress. Invitations
were sent out and the affair made quite a stir
in the town for such elaborate parties were not
often given in the vicinity except on wedding
occasions. Frank returned from college, and
was quite surprised with the news of a grand
ball. His friend came a few days after, for
Frank wanted to know whether his mother
could arrange for a guest, before he made the
invitation binding. Emily was delighted when
she learned that he was quite an accomplished
young man, and that the coming year would
finish his college course, and he would begin
life as an Attorney at Law. Frank had in-
formed her that his father was wealthy, and
would set him up well,and he would not have to
begin with nothing but a bare office and a few
law books as so many young men do.
     Evergreen trees and vines and scarlet berries
were brought from the woods to decorate the
rooms for the coming event. The hot house
too was robbed of its choicest lilies and plants
for the time being and the trailing smilax
graced and beautified the elegant rooms.
Everything bespoke splendor and luxury.
   Frank's friend had arrived and been intro-
duced and made quite a sensation, both Emily
and her sister Bessie 'fell in love with him at
first sight,' as they termed it, and Mrs. Hamil-
ton herself could not help admiring his genial
and polished manner; Fred Boutwell was a
favorite everywhere, one of those men who al-
ways shine in a crowd, he was the life of any
company, his musical talent and fine baritone
voice were great attractions. He played and
sung and whistled, handled the guitar and
banjo with perfect ease like a real troubadour,
the piano keys were magical to his touch.  In
fact Emily almost wished that she had not sent
out her invitations for she enjoyed his society
so much, that she felt other girls would be an
intrusion. Emily Hamilton was intensely
selfish and wanted now to have this fine young
man devote himself exclusively to entertaining
her.  But it was too late now and Fred unlike
Frank Hamilton liked a crowd. He could 
amuse and interest a dozen girls as well as one
and enjoyed the fun very much better.
    After the first day or two at the Hamilton
home, he showed signs of restlessness; he was
accustomed to the City and when he talked of
New York and the gaiety of the season there,
he made Emily feel that he was sacrificing a
great deal to spend Christmas week there. She
longed for the city life he described so glow-
ingly, and the house though teeming with
everthing to make it a delightful place of en-
joyment, looked simple and homely compared
to the pictures Fred drew of the elegant
mansions in New York City. It lessened her
enthusiasm considerably about the party, and
some way whenever she was alone even for a
few minutes, she felt gloomy and sad.  The
elder Mrs. Hamilton was an observant person,
and not being engrossed with care like the
younger Mrs. H. had a good opportunity to
notice the change in Emily's manner. She
was well aware of the cause, for she had seen
much of life and could weigh and balance
character, was a good judge of appearances,
and had seldom been deceived in her estimate
of people. She had looked upon Fred with
suspicion from the first and felt sorry too, but
Frank was so ingenuous and unsuspecting
that he was likely enough to be deceived. Mr.
Hamilton was so absorbed in his business that
he had little time to spend at home except to
eat and sleep there; public duties occupied his
time to the entire exclusion almost of domestic
felicity.
	Christmas Eve came at last and with it a
heavy snow storm; it had snowed all day and
the sleigh bells were jingling merrily, the


[column 1]
﻿children were in the gayest of spirits and
Emily and Bessie quite exuberant with the
prospect of a sleigh ride on Christmas Eve. It
was finally decided that they should all go in
the double-seated rig but Frank would drive
and he would take Bessie with him, and Fred
and Emily might occupy the back seat. The
ride was pleasant and exhilarating and Fred
made the most of his opportunity, for what
time is more opportune for love making than a
long sleigh ride, wrapped in warm blankets
and tucked in together with buffalo robes.
	While the young folks were out sleigh-rid-
ing the children were having a nice time with
ma and grandma, the father too was at home
and casting aside care for the time being
helped mamma fill the children’s stockings,
though there was no Christmas tree. Some
gossip had already reached them through the
servants and children about the party being
too grand for their own relatives etc., but this
had been anticipated, and consequently didn’t
cause them any uneasiness. 
	Emily had said to her mother she wished
Grandma Hamilton would take it in her head
to go home, for she wanted her room for a
cloak room, it was the only convenient place
for one, but she had not been obliging enough
to go, she lived alone, and after having raised
a large family, her Christmas would have been
a lonely one indeed if she had spent it in her
own home, besides her maid always went home
at Christmas, and for years, she had visited
with one or other of her children during holi-
day time. Emily never dreamed that she was
selfish in wishing her grandma to go, if any
one had told her so she would have resented
it.
	About 12 o’clock the merry party drove up
and halloing, ‘‘Merry Christmas,” were soon
unwrapped and sitting by the warm fire regal-
ing themselves with the most tempting viands
the house afforded. It was noticable to all
that Fred drank freely of the wine, and having
been out in the cold it had a decidedly bad
effect. Even Emily observed it and became
embarrassed, for he grew very free and more
talkative than usual. It cast a damper over
the whole group, every one fell to thinking ex-
cept Fred and he talked on and on, and finally
Mrs. Hamilton motioned the girls and they
left the room together. What a night that
was for Emily, she had listened to the sweetest
words from this young man, the words of a
lover to his sweetheart, and thought him
noble and worthy her affection, the love of a
pure young girl. How fallen was her idol
now! she knew full well that her dream was
over, what a short one it had been only a few
days, less than a week, and she seemed to have
lived ages in that short time, she felt as if she
had known him always, that night he had
kissed her, had held her hands caressingly, O,
how could she bear this humiliation!
	She wished over and over again that she
had not insisted upon giving the party, that
things had taken their regular course and that
she would not be compelled to wear a smiling
face under a broken heart to-morrow. Perhaps
Fred would ask her forgiveness when he
realized that he had imbibed too much, he
would certainly be conscious of the fact she
thought, or at any rate Frank would tell him.
She slept little, and woke early with a
wretchedly dismal feeling. She wanted to go
and tell her mother all, but she hesitated think-
ing as her mother was not aware of any love-
making, it would be as well for her to remain
in ignorance of it, for all was over now.
	Mrs. Hamilton had a serious talk with her
husband that night,her Christmas was spoiled,
and she reproached herself for having allowed
wine on her table even at Christmas time. I
should not readily forgive any one who set
wine before my son if he had such a morbid
appetite, and I am resolved now from this time
[column 2]
never to allow it again, not even for my guests
upon any occasion,” she said to her husband.
He did not see it in the same light, men seldom
do, “he must be a man of weak character to
imbibe like that especially in the presence of
ladies, and when visiting in the house of friends
I feel sure it is not the first time, he is in the
habit of drinking immoderately, and is not a
fit companion for Frank, I shall talk plainly
to our boy about him tomorrow,” said Mr.
Hamilton. “And so shall I,” said the mother
never thinking that this stranger, as it were,
had made himself so dear to their darling
Emily.
	The morning found Fred suffering with
headache, could not come down to breakfast;
Frank made a lame apology for him, but they
all knew, why he had absented himself, all ex-
cept the elder Mrs. Hamilton, who began to
inquire, how it was that on Christmas morning,
when every one is expected to be unusually
cheerful, that they should all seem so low-
spirited. "And when the house is to be the
scene of such festivity tonight why is every
one so dull this morning?” She could not get
a satisfactory answer from any one however,
and was obliged to repress her curiosity. The
little ones were gay enough running here and
there displaying the treasures Santa Claus had
brought them and begging Grandma to tell
them stories of when she was a little girl, and
what Santa Claus gave to her.
	The house seemed more as though prepara-
tions were being made for a funeral than a
ball. Emily had no heart to look at her
Christmas presents, though Bessie had come in
early to show hers, but she found her sister
pale and sad, and went away thoughtful,
wondering why Emily should take Fred’s be-
havior so hard as to make herself sick over
it. It never occurred to the child that Emily
could be so interested in Fred that she should
grieve on his account. As she left her sister’s
room she said, “Don’t let Fred’s affair of last
night make you unhappy, Emily, he isn’t
worth noticing, I hope Frank will never bring
home any more of his chums, I’m ashamed of
him, the idea of his drinking like that.”
	Bessie then had no respect for this man to
whom she had given her affections almost un-
sought; she would gladly have shut herself in
and spent the day in weeping, but she must
keep up, and no one must know how she was
suffering inwardly, so she reasoned with her-
self, and the day dragged its weary length
along. Once or twice when she was alone with
her mother, she had feigned a gaiety she did
not feel, but Mrs. Hamilton observed how
little enthusiasm she was manifesting in the
last details of the party, and said “Emily are
you ill, was the long ride in the cold too much
for you? I shall not consent to your being out
so long at another time.” “O, I wish the party
was over and the house quiet once more,”
Emily replied, “I dread meeting these people
now when the time draws near.” “Indeed" said
the mother, that’s very strange after insisting
upon the party, and anticipating so much en-
joyment, and making your own selections of
everything and everybody, I don’t quite com-
prehend it, has anything gone wrong?” “No
mamma nothing, I think I’m not very, very
well, too much excitement perhaps,” and she
broke down and began to weep hysterically.
Mrs. Hamilton thought it was only due to un-
due anxiety, and perhaps some little remorse
of conscience for her selfishness, even Grand-
ma’s room had been taken for a cloak room,
though she had been very pleasant about it.
It never occurred to this fond mother that
Fred Boutwell was the cause.
	It was Emily’s first real sorrow, and she
wondered how she could possibly meet him,
sometimes she hoped he would be too sick to
make his appearance in the ball-room. What
a wretched Christmas it was to her, and she
[column 3]
had expected to meet her young friends so self-
satisfied and happy?
	Late in the afternoon Mrs. Hamilton asked
to see her dress, it had come home the day be-
fore from New York, and she had not even
shown it to her mother or sister. Reluctantly
she consented to try it on to please them; the
dress was elegant and a perfect fit; any other
time the girl would have gushed over it, for
she had never had such an elegant ball dress
before. Now Mrs. Hamilton observed how
very bad she looked, and felt really alarmed.
“Lie down a little while and keep perfectly
quiet, and you will be rested for the evening,”
said her mother fearing that she was really go-
ing to be seriously ill.
	The Christmas dinner was a very stiff affair
Fred evidently had some serious misgivings,
for he was unusually sedate, and altogether
the dullness was irksome, and every one seemed
glad to leave the table and go their separate
ways. Emily intended to avoid seeing Fred, lest
he should ask her pardon; she feared if he did
she might grant it even against her own will,
but the thing she dreaded came about after all;
as she was hurrying through the hall impatient
to get away from his gaze, he caught her hand
and held her fast for a moment, pouring into
her ears the same impassioned words of the
evening before, only with intensified emotion.
Finding no response he said, “Will you not
speak to me?” Before he had time to say
more she had wrenched her hand from his
tightened grasp, and fled like a wounded bird,
frightened at herself, lest she should betray the
love she still felt, though despising him in her
heart for his unblushing effrontery. But such
men are not easily daunted, she’ll come round
all right he thought to himself, give her a
little time..
	Emily alone in her own room fortified her-
self after this interview; she realized that he
did not see that he had made himself objec-
tionable, and she determined to act indepen-
dently. She made ready for the evening with
as much care as she could, her mother and
sister assisting, and even her grandma must
come upstairs to see how superb her dress
was, and how queenly she looked in the elegant
pink crepe and exquisite lace. She wore a
necklace of pearls and a profusion of white
roses that became her fine complexion
wonderfully, and it was not all surprising that
mother and grandmother should admire her.
	The guests came in good time, for the com-
ing party at Hamilton House had been the
talk of the town for many days beforehand,
and it was quite an event in such a quiet sort
of place. The music was inspiring and the
gay company assembled, and the warm greet-
ings of many former friends of Emily’s girl-
hood days, raised her spirits to an exuberance
more than natural. Harry was there and she
soon let him see that she had not been appro-
priated by Fred as the gossips had been saying.
Frank and Emily led in the first dance, and
after that she waltzed with Harry and it was
easy to see how delighted he was with her society.
Fred as if to vex Emily, paid his addresses to
the prettiest girls in the room, but whatever
she felt there was no outward demonstration.
Harry was far sighted in character-reading, he
had met Fred several times during his stay in
town and had suspected his bad habits, and
therefore looked suspiciously upon him; his
gallantry didn’t weigh much with Harry, who
was more of a diamond in the rough,
and when he saw him paying special attention
to his sister, he felt very indignant.
	Before the evening was half over he was
convinced that Fred Boutwell had been imbib-
ing, too freely of strong drink. After supper
he was leading Susie Montague out for another
dance and Harry observing his condition, went 
and asked her to excuse herself as he wanted
to go home, she hesitated and her partner in-


sisted on her remaining, and as she had not
the least idea why her brother wished her to
go, and really enjoyed the dancing as well as
the company of her partner, she took his arm
and walked away. Harry took Frank aside
and told him; what to do was the question and
avoid a scene; together they went to Mr.
Hamilton and while explaining,in came Emily
who had been thoroughly shocked and felt sure
others beside herself had observed Mr. Bout-
well's condition. Here was a dilemma, Emily
sank into a chair and utterly refused to go
back, something must be done quickly to avert
suspicion, Mrs. H. was called, and suggested
that they all return together and join the
dancers. This little ruse succeeded, the atten-
tion of the company was diverted to the old-
fashioned dancing for Mr. and Mrs. H. called
for Sir Roger de'Coverley and a Minuet
and the old-style figures finished the evening
When the last of the guests had departed
Emily confessed to her father and mother not
only her utter selfishness, but how nearly she
come to being in love with Fred, and how
bitterly she repented her folly. "I shall never
want another party, I feel so humiliated over
this affair." Frank took the blame on himself,
but Emily interposed, saying she had insisted
upon his bringing one of his friends; she had
made a narrow escape; and she never forgot
how near she came to being grossly deceived
by fine words and outward appearances. In
time she came to realize that money and posi-
tion in society do not constitute true gentlemen,
and grew to appreciate the honest love of an
upright man, though he had neither wealth
nor distinction by inheritance. Miss Hamil-
ton's grand Christmas ball was discussed and
criticised for weeks afterwards with all its de-
tails elaborated, until Emily felt she never
wanted to hear of Christmas again.
	Harry Montague had loved Emily from
childhood and he finally succeeded in winning
her for his wife. Frank discarded such com-
panions as Fred Boutwell and when he had
finished his studies came home and courted
Susie Montague; and one Christmas three years
after the unfortunate party there was a double
wedding and a happy gathering at Hamil-
ton House. It is needless to add that Emily
Hamilton always after insisted on having
Christmas trees and a good time generally for
the children, aud family parties for the older
ones,and found real happiness in making them
happy, and positively waiting upon them, and
though her manner was always a little distant
she was pretty effectually cured, by a severe
practical experience, of what her grandmother
had termed her "insufferable pride."


WOMAN’ EXPONENT

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE. B. WELLS Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00, one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	Exponent office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, DECEMBER 15, 1891.


[Column 1]
	CHRISTMAS TIME.

	Dear old Santa Claus and the blessed Christ-
mas are always welcome; they bring peace and
good will the message of the angels. Joy and
gladness to the lowliest cot and the humblest
household. The Savior’s mission meant as much
and was as effectual to the poor as to the rich,
salvation to all who receive it, and walk in his
footsteps; and so down through the ages ring the
glorious words peace and good-will on earth, and
this is what we hear in the intonation when the
bells ring on Christmas morn. Joy to the world
for a Savior is born.
	“That to the cottage as the crown
	Brought tidings of salvation down ’’
	All over the glorious land wherever Christ’s
message has been proclaimed is this day observed
with festive celebration, as well as religious cere-
mony. In England perhaps more than any other
country the day is honored appropriately by be-
stowing gifts upon the poor. The rich who are
parsimonious even, seldom fail to remember the
poor on Christmas, this is proverbial, and the
custom is fast gaining ground in America. It is
good for the rich whose coffers overflow, to re-
member those who are not so highly favored by
the fickle goddess fortune; and it is also good for
all whatever their worldly circumstances may be
to remember those around them, who may not be
so pleasantly situated as themselves, or even
though they are, it is comforting to any of us to
know that there are others who feel in sympathy
with us, and show kindly feeling even once a
year. It is at any rate a good thing to look
around and see, if there is not some goodly way
in which one can render assistance or bestow a
favor or a blessing upon a brother or sister (for we
are all brothers and sisters, children of the same
heavenly parent) in some delicate manner that
will elevate and ennoble the giver and happify
the receiver.
	“The poor ye have always with you,” our
Savior said on one occasion, and it is verily so,
for if there are none who lack food and raiment,
there are those who are poorer still, who have
sorrows that call for kindness and sympathy.
And to the sorrowing and the mourner, what
more blessed boon than that of love and friend-
ship. That charity that is more than the giving
of alms.
	But one should not dwell upon the dark and
gloomy side of life at Christmas time, but present
the gay and brilliant, the bright and cheerful at
any rate—there should at least be a time of rejoic-
ing now and then,for the world is full pf sorrows,
and the blessed remembrance of a loving Savior’s
birth, should bring with it a feeling of joy and
pleasure to every human heart, a foretaste of
heaven where He dwells and where all may enter
who follow in his footsteps.

[Column 2]
	The people who dwell in these mountain vales
have much to be grateful for even though they
have some things not so agreeable. The children
for instance, their playhouses overflow on Christ-
mas day, Santa Claus has been very lavish in his
regular supplies for the last few years, and our
children of the present know very little of what
the generation now grown up experienced in the
early years in these valleys. Some of the many
little stockings that were hung up around the
primitive fire places were very scantily filled and
others perhaps not at all. The mothers in those
days didn’t go out looking for Santa Claus, but
many an earnest and heartfelt prayer was offered
with tearful eyes and sorrowing heart, that the
little ones might be happy and contented on
Christmas day with what little it was possible to
bestow.
	Mothers often studied long and hard over these
little things that are settled now without the least
difficulty; rag dolls in those days filled the place
of the “regular beauties" we hear of so often now,
and cakes and candy made with molasses were
much more common than with sugar, for if we had
sugar in those days we paid an enormous price
for it, and it was rarely used for cake. But the
children were as happy as though they had all
the goodies in the world, and there was not nearly
so much sickness. Plain food is always best for
children, and many of them now adays eat far too
much pastry and sweetmeats.
	There are other things to do on Christmas day
besides eating and drinking,and the little children
are as capable of bestowing good gifts and mak-
ing acceptable the good cheer as older people—
sometimes even more so. Home should be a sort
of sanctuary at such times where love sits at the
feast and sweetens every dish partaken of. Chil-
dren can make the heart of father and mother
gladder than all earthly blessings. Indeed
Christmas seems a day for children, for Christ
was once a babe, and his birth was lowly; He
came not to a lordly mansion but in a stable
though he was king of all.
	There are so many beautiful books for children
now—so much done for them in every way, and
on every day, that it seems almost impossible to
make Christmas even a holiday, But if they can
do something themselves, can divide of their own
with another, can cheer some one’s heart who is
sick and lonely,or in sorrow, can speak kind and
loving words at home, cheer up the home,
brighten the faces of those around them with
gracious and graceful acknowledgements of kind-
ness and love shown to them, these little things
will be remembered more than the costliest gifts
or the daintiest luxury.
	Our sisters who are young women now and
recollect those childish days, could tell many
pleasing tales of their own experience at those
well-remembered times, and it would be very
pleasant if they would write them up for the home
papers, that the children of today might have
more  true stories to read and less idle trash, than
is usually the case. Children are always anxious
to know if a story is true, and truth is always
more acceptable, and makes a better impression;
and good and lasting impressions made early in
life are the sure foundations of character. Any
story well told will live, a true description of
scenes and incidents lives in history and becomes
a part of history itself.
	Now that the history of Utah is to be written
how anxious we all feel that it should be not only
interesting, but should give the true idea of the
early times of the people here. Their merry-
making, their festivities, as well as the soberer
and more adventurous part of their former life.
	Sir Walter Scott in his poem of Marmion has
given a pen picture of Christmas in the olden
time in Scotland and the British Isles that any
one can almost see it over again when reading it,
so intensely real has he made it. It has been used

[Column 3]
to illustrate fireside pictures in Holiday books
over and over again and it will last while the
English language is spoken. It is only three
paragraphs but tells so much in such a wonderful
way. Here are a few lines that cannot be mis-
taken in their meaning.
		“Heap on more wood!—the wind is chill .
		But let it whistle as it will'
		We’ll keep our Christmas merry still,
	And again he says:
		The fire with well-dried logs supplied,
		Went roaring up the chimney wide;
		The huge hall-table's oaken face 
		Scrubbed till it shone the day to grace,
		Bore then upon its massive board
		No mark to part the squire and lord.
		Then was brought tn the lusty brown,
		By old blue-coated serving man
		Then the grim boar’s head frowned on high
		Crested with bays and rosemary.
		Well can the green-garbed ranger tell,
		How when and where the monster fell;
		What dogs before his death he tore,
		And all the baiting of the boar.
		The wassel round in good brown bowls.
		Garnished with ribbons, blithely trowls.
		There the huge sirloin reeked hard by
		Plum, porridge stood, and Christmas pie;
		Nor failed old Scotland to produce.
		At such high-tide her savoury goose.
	He also tells us of savage tribes in those olden
times, with what festivity they made merry.
	The pioneers here could tell some delightful
things of festive and social amusements, simple
perchance but nevertheless interesting. It may
be the days are not far enough removed as yet,
for everything old is the fashion nowadays, a few
years later these tales may be more acceptable
than they would be even now, but who will be
able to tell them as well. Our own newspapers,
magazines and children’s books ought to abound
with stories, poems, dialogues and dramas from
the experience of our own people, not to same-
ness, but at least well sprinkled in,that the history
written hereafter may have plenty, of matter to
make a rich variety.
	The songs of a people or a nation are always in-
dicative of their character and lives, and have
lived long after the nation in many instances; so
should this people have a history in poetry as
well as in prose, and songs that may be sung long
after the writer has lain down to sleep in his last
earthly resting place. Who is to write these
songs if not the children of the early settlers?
Are not they the ones who should have the
honor?


"A GREEN TEA" PARTY.

	Mrs. Priscilla Jennings of this city gave "A
Green Tea" to a party of ladies, at her residence,
Thursday Dec. 3. The invitations were issued
for 4 p.m. The house was profusely decorated
with vines and flowers; the fragrance of the roses
lilies, hyacinths and carnations with the pleasant
warmth of the rooms was suggestive of a tropical
clime, but bright wood fires were burning in the
open grates, which made the picture more illusive.
The view from the house which is picturesquely
situated on the hill above the street was more
wintry however and indicated the approach of
Winter in the valley.
	After the cordial welcome of the hostess and
the greetings of friends the ladies were seated at
tables arranged tete a tete, and here again was a
display of green ribbons for each guest as well as
the trailing smilax; the flowers that adorned the
tables gave zest to the delicious viands, and a
sweet and particularly pleasing tone to the enter-
tainment.
	Of the repast it is needless to say that everyone


enjoyed it, and the flow of general conversation
through the rooms was spirited and enlivening.
When the guests rose from the table they wore
their green ribbons, a pretty idea of remembrance
of the day. Some exquisite music by the young
ladies afterwards, gave a still more elevating tone
to the unique gathering, and a feeling of restful-
ness which is always pleasant in social parties.
	Mrs. Jennings presented each of the ladies with
a beautiful bouquet of flowers, roses, etc. After
some further conversational enjoyment, the party
reluctantly dispersed. Mrs. Jennings is a most
genial and agreeable hostess. She has been
much accustomed to this sort of thing, as in her
husband's lifetime (the Hon. Wm. Jennings) they
gave many large parties, and always entertained
in some such way the distinguished people who
visited Utah, the Presidents of the United States
and Senators, Generals and people of rank and
note.
	At the tea party at the Jennings house on this
occasion perhaps the most distinguished woman at
any rate by age was Sister Presendia L. Kimball,
whose four score years and more have brought
wisdom and understanding to her spiritual nature
which surpasses the learning of the world. She
is very large and dignified, stately one might say,
and her complexion fair as a lily, her soft white
hair falls around a face beaming with the intelli-
gence that looks out of the soul. Of other
veteran sisters there were M. Isabella Horne,
Sarah M. Kimball, Bathsheba W. Smith, Jane B.
Taylor and Jane S. Richards, who are entitled to
the rank of Mothers in Israel.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	CHRISTMAS DISPLAY. 
	The City always presents a gay appearance at
holiday time, and this year is not an exception to
the rule, although money is scarce, goods of all
kinds are abundant and of the greatest variety
imaginable, and evergreen trees on the street for
sale make the showing of Christmas near at hand.
The weather is not very cold and there is not
enough snow to make the mountains and valley
look really wintry enough to be as beautiful as
when it wraps its clear white mantle over all.
	The old reliable Art Gallery of C. R. Savage
comes out with its usual and unusual assortment
of pictures, of almost every variety and a novel
sign to attract attention “The New Wonderland
etc.” At this store one may find almost every-
thing to decorate for the holidays, also many
substantial articles suitable for presents in quantity
and quality to please all sorts of fancies. Mr.
Savage keeps painting and drawing materials,
books of almost all kinds, for old and young.
In photography in every style, this establish-
ment is par excellence. It is quite famous for its
views of scenery, not only of Utah but Southern
California and other interesting places.
	D. M. Mc’Allister at the Utah Book and
Stationery Store, though not so long in the busi-
ness has spared no pains in making his place at-
tractive, and he has succeeded admirably in that
respect. His windows are quite a show for the
general public and attract large crowds daily and
especially in the evening when brilliantly lighted.
Books to suit the popular taste maybe found here
as also classical works of poetry and prose and
all the various kinds and qualities of goods that
are kept in much larger stores. He seems to have
a good faculty of economizing space. Up stairs
where the finest goods are kept, the room is taste-
fully and elaborately decorated. Chinese and
Japanese fancy umbrellas, lanterns and trinkets
being used along with the regular Christmas deco-
rations.
	The China hand painted ornaments and colored
pictures and photographs are very artistic. Miss
Kate Wells’ work being particularly good ;in this
branch of coloring pictures, either in figures,
flowers or scenes, Miss Wells does specially fine
work. Mc’Allister’s is one of the most attractive
places in the City. Books of home production
are also kept on sale at Mc’Allisters’; those of
Alfred Lambourne’s being  very artistic and at-
tractive.
	The Woman’s Co-operative Institution has a
very good assortment of holiday goods, both use
tul and ornamental, as well as dolls and a variety
of toys. Mrs. Goddard who has charge of. the
store has been accustomed to handling fancy
goods, materials for embroideries, silk and
worsted work, and is well adapted to this depart-
ment of the business, as also in handling ladies’
dress materials and trimmings. The store is well
supplied with millinery goods and employs a first-
class milliner and dressmaker. Ladies interested
in woman’s co operative industries should be sure
and examine the stock in this Store before buying
elsewhere.
	Margett’s Bros, have a fine display in the Con-
stitution Building they keep everything in the
Book and Stationery line, all the latest and best
magazines, journals and periodicals, as well as
the daily papers of this City, and Eastern and
Pacific Coast. Their store is a very large one
and abundantly supplied. They make a specialty
of toys also and of everything in the line. They
keep all the finest qualities and grades of paper
both American and foreign, and their window is
one of the finest in town in its arrangement, a
fire burning in a miniature fire-place looks very
home like and cheerful to the passing crowds.
	James Dwyer who always understood how to
suit the popular taste as well as to cater to par-
ticular “fads”in the book and variety article line
has opened a florist’s establishment on Main
Street in one of the Daynes windows and there is
nothing more tempting on the Street than the dis-
play he is making of flowers for the Christmas
time. Roses, and lilies of several varieties and
various other kinds of flowers delight the eye
and feast the soul of the lover of beauty in bud
and blossom. The rarity of flowers at this sea-
son of the year make us all the more apprecia-
tive of the gladdening sight.
	The Z. C. M. I. has outdone itself almost, in
its display of goods and fancy groceries, and
other stores, especially Teasdel’s which always
makes a conspicuous and attractive display at holi-
day time, and also shops have made the most of
the space they occupy and their room for display.
The meat markets always decorate with ever-
green, and dress their meats and fowls to make
them as tempting as possible.
	R. K. Thomas on 1st South St., deals in heavy
merchandise as well as a variety of fancy goods,
has a splendid faculty of showing his stock in
trade to advantage, he has always taken immense
pains to gratify the taste of the public for the
beautiful in the arrangement of his wares, and a
more genial business gentleman cannot be found.
He has been accustomed all his life to the hand-
ling and disposing of dry goods, silks, shawls,
ribbons and laces etc., and in this line of pleas-
ing his patrons he assuredly excels,
	Johnson and and Pratt in the Constitution
Building have not only an elaborate display of
drug goods etc., but also of fancy articles in
glass and silver, and other varieties.
	Hardy and Young in the same building have
made their windows very attractive indeed and
their groceries are very tempting, they also keep
a variety of other goods.
	Barnes and Lewis though carrying mostly very
heavy merchandise generally, have also made a
Christmas display, but time would fail to “tell it
all."
	The Juvenile Instructor have fitted up their

[Column 3]
windows quite handsomely; they have a great
variety of good books, keep all the Church works,
and home literary productions in the best quality
of paper and binding, as well as the cheaper
varieties, so that their prices may accommodate
all purchasers. They keep the best supply of
Sunday School literature and prize cards, report
books for these institutions and all the variety of
stationery; albums and a large assortment of
articles suitable for Christmas gifts, and dolls and
toys in great abundance. There is no better
quality of goods of the kind than at the Juvenile
Office for Sunday School and Association pur-
poses. The new store gives them ample room to
make the place an attractive one for customers,
and they are always attentive and obliging in
showing goods.


UTAH WOMAN'S PRESS CLUB.

	The U. W. Press Club met in the parlor of the
WOMAN'S EPPONENT Office Nov. 30, 1891, the
President, E. B. Wells in the chair. Prayer was
offered by Ruth M. Fox. The secretary Dr. Ellis
R. Shipp read the minutes of the meeting of the
organization held Oct. 31, and they were accepted
as read.
	After some informal conversation on matters
pertaining to the press and to Club work, letters
were read by the secretary from Maria M. John-
son, Circleville, Piute Co., Ellen Jakeman, Provo,
Utah Co., Lucinda L. Dalton, Manti, Sanpete Co.
Augusta Joyce Crocheron, South Bountiful,Davis
Co., Martha A. Y. Greenhalgh, Meadow, Millard
Co., and Sophie Valentine, Brigham City, Box
Elder Co. These letters were mostly expressive
of good feeling and interest in press work, and
regret at their inability to be present at the meet-
ing.
	A motion was made and seconded that 200
copies of the Constitution of the Club should be
published in leaflet form for distribution. Carried,
and ordered printed.
	The principal exercises were, an article from
the pen of Susa Y. Gates on the "Local Literary
Field for Women," read by Dr. Ellis R. Shipp.
	A poem entitled "The Mother Author" by Lula
Greene Richards was read by Ruth M. Fox.
	An article in reply to D. P. Felt's opinion on
the Woman Suffrage Question was read by the
President, it was from the pungent pen of Sarah
M. Kimball.
	Julia A. Mac'Donald read an original article on
the "Poet's Ideal Woman."
	Ruth M. Fox an original poem entitled "Greet-
ing," which was very expressive.
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp contributed a poem from her
own pen which she entitled "Love Divine."
	Meeting adjourned until Wednesday Dec. 30,
at the same time and place, benediction by Dr.
E. R. Shipp. Chocolate, cake and fruit were
served to the ladies and all agreed that the meet-
ing had been a most interesting one.
	DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP, Rec. Secy.


The first woman physician in Finland has
practised in Helsingfors since 1883, when she
was employed at a salary of $400 to treat the
poor women of the city. When the contract
was renewed, her salary was raised, and last
year she was chosen as one of the regular city
physicians for certain wards.
	A society of women has been formed in
Amsterdam, the objects of which are to secure
for women educational advantages, the right
to teach in the higher schools, to practise law,
to be appointed to State positions, and to en-
joy legal rights on becoming of age; also to
secure for married women equal rights with
their husbands.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT﻿


[column 1]
			NOTES AND NEWS.
	Ninety working women have formed a labor
union in Antwerp.
	The sad news is received of the death at
Tarpon Springs, Fla., of Dr. Mary J. Safford.
	Mrs. Deming is editor of the Daily Advocate,
Palestine, Texas. Mrs. Buta W. Bowen is
editor and manager of the Cotulla (Tex.)
Ledger.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Stuart Phelps Ward has
completed the biography of her father, Prof.
Austin Phelps. It will be published by the
Scribners.
	When a man goes wrong, “There is always
a woman at the bottom of it.” When a man
goes right, we never hear that there is a wo-
man at the top of it, but there is.— Galveston
News.
	The Woman’s Recorder, of Toledo, Ohio,
says: “The State is experiencing a boom in the

[column 2]
work for school suffrage, which draws to it the
most conservative women and men of the
State. We can all unite upon school suffrage.”
	Mrs. Mary Frost Ormsby, of New York
city is a delegate from the United States to
the Universal Peace Congress held in Rome
this month.
	There are half a million Mohammedans in
Austria, and their women will receive only
women physicians. This has led the Austrian
minister of finance to recommend to the gov-
ernment that women be allowed to practise
medicine generally.
	Mrs. Potter Palmer addressed several as-
semblages of ladies in New York City last
week, and was instrumental in having com-
mittees of women organized for beginning
active work for the World’s Fair. In addition
to securing a practical exhibit of the in-
dustrial, educational and ethical work carried
on by women, an effort will be made to have
women appointed on the State Board of Fair
Commissioners for New York, and to have a
portion of the State appropriation assigned to
them.
	Mrs. Electra E. Smith, has been chosen vice-
president of the Illinois Republican Associa-
tion in Washington. This is one of the
largest State political organizations, made up
mainly of government clerks and office-holders
at the capital. Mrs. Smith was for eight years
postmistress at Sterling, III., having received
her commission from General Grant, and is at
present assistant chief in the sixth auditor’s
office. She is well known in charitable and
society circles in Washington.
	Miss Alice Rideout of San Franci co has
been awarded the first prize in the competition
of women sculptors for the attic and cornice of
the women’s World’s Fair building. The re-
ward carries with it a contract for the execu-
tion of full-sized models of the groups at a
price from $1500 to $2500 for the divans and
from $2000 to $3200 for the great forty-foot
panel.
	The successful competitor is not yet out of
her teens. She has made modeling and
sculpture a study from childhood. Three
groups of figures represent respectively “Wo-
man’s Virtues,” “Woman as the Spirit of Civi-
lization,” and “Woman’s Place in History.”
	Miss Rideout has already done some very
noteworthy work. Her last success is more re-
markable as a number of older and more ex-
perienced sculptors were among her compe-
titors, but her designs were in advance of all
others.


[column 1]
R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House
R.K. THOMAS

[column 2]
MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
OFFICE—324, 325 Third Floor, Constitution Building
HOURS.—8 to 10 a. m., 4 to 6 p. m.

THE WOMAN’S TRIBUNE,
Edited and published weekly at Washington,
D. C., by Clara Bewick Colby.
Price, $1.00 a year. Trial Subscriptions, five
weeks for 10 cents.
The Woman's Journal, of Boston, and the Woman’s Tri-
bune, of Washington, D. C, will be sent to one ad-
dress for $3.00 per year.

Woman’s Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS 
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But.
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 63 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
Three doors west of Theatre.

[Rio Grande Western Railway logo]
THE
Standard Gauge
RAILWAY!
...THROUGH THE...
ROCKY MOUNTAINS!
Choice of Three Distinct Routes,
AND THE
MOST MAGNIFICENT RAILROAD SCENERY
IN THE WORLD. 
Two Fast Express Trains Daily
EACH WAY BETWEEN
OGDEN, SALT LAKE AND DENVER.
ELEGANT RECLINING CHAIR CARS!
Free of Charge.
Direct Connections made in Union Depots.
THE MOST THOROUGHLY EQUIPPED RAILWAY
IN THE WEST.
D. C. DODGE, A. E.WELBY, J. H. BENNETT,
Genl. Mgr. Supt. G.G. & P. A.

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies Misses’ and In
fant’s Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS CAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORC[-]
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to. 
DAVD JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
﻿The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 20. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, 1892. No. 13.


CONTENTS. .
in Rural England—A Story. Another Wo-
man’s Answer—M. A T. Senator Hoar on Wo-
man Suffrage. S. L. Co., W. S. A. Fifty-
Second Congress U. S. Faith, Hope and Charity
—Elliza D. Gibbs .A Sketch From Life—Phebe
C. Young. Woman’s Opinion—M. A. P. H. R.
S.,Y. L. M. I. A., and P. A. Reports—Eden.
Announcements—Clara Bewick Colby. Fine Art
of Tea Making. Notes and News.
Editorial:—An Incident of the Days of Kirt-
land. Fifty Years—Sarah M. Kimball. Decem-
ber 23, 1891—Zina D. H. Young. U.W. P. Club,
—Elis R. Shipp, Sec. Singing Mothers—Bertha
Packard Englet.
Poetry:—Missed—Lucy. The New Era—E.
B.W. For Those We Love—E. R. S. One
Phase of the Divine Mission ofWoman—Julia A
MacDonald. A Lady—Selected. Then and
Now—E. B. W.


MISSED.
I've missed from out life’s Chamber,
Full many a golden ray,
Glad thoughts that cheered and solaced,
E’en when clouds were round my way.
Buoyancy’s brightest flower,
I have missed with much regret,
And many golden hours, 
Each with sixty diamonds set!
Heart-guests of joyful gladness,
Rosy visions of delight,
Sweet dreams unmixed with sadness,
Refreshed with the morning light.
Warm greetings, kind and tender,
Charming smiles imparting bliss,
Of these a countless number,
From my path have long been missed.
I pray the dear All-Father
To grant this earnest wish,
That when from earth I sever,
I may find all, now missed.
LUCY.


THE NEW ERA.

Now, with the dawning of the glad new year,
Comes thoughts of other days and mem’ries dear;
How thrilllngly the finer senses glow,
As retrospective visions come and go;
And lo! we grasp the shadow's quiv'ring ray,
And blend it with the REAL of to-day.

And once again, we wander as of old, 
’Mid scenes which radiant fancies now unfold,
Where loving friends around the cottage hearth 
With song and jest,pour forth their joy and mirth;
We summon to our thoughts the friends we knew,
And linger fondly o'er the good and true.

Oh! hush the throbbings of the pent up heart!
Why will the tears of long-gone sorrows start?
Banish the griefs—put miseries aside—
Let joy replete in merry measure glide—
Yet, pause! methinks I hear the people say,
Another era has begun today.
E. B. W.


FOR THOSE WE LOVE.

Tis joy to work for those we love,
	To know our effort makes their care the less.
For our small sacrifices prove,
	So much of loving tenderness.

For those we love no task’s too great—
	For task it truly ceases then to be,
When little needs we can anticipate—
	And leave beloved ones from sorrow free.

For those we love we work and live,
	To us their lives are Heaven’s choicest gift


That make us e'en forget ourselves,
	And from our selfish aims our feelings lift.

For those we love we breathe a prayer
	To keep them safe from every ill,
Receive our Father’s tender care,
	And know and do His holy will.

For those we love, Alas! the dying year
	Has brought so much of pain and care,
We fain would dry the saddening tear—
	And all their cares and sorrows share.

For those we love we wish the glad New Year
	To dawn with rich effulgence bright!
And as its fleecy pinions flutter near
	To give a glimpse of Heaven’s radiant light.

And who are they? with this touch of art,
	To wake affections sweetest thought.
Go thou and ask each loving Mother-heart—
	For there the perfect love is wrought.
E R. S.


ONE PHASE OF THE DIVINE MISSION
OF WOMAN.

This little sphere, in pristine youth, 
	Tho’ to perfection nearly brought
Still something lacked, to make, in sooth,
	That perfect home the Maker sought.

Transplanted from the realms above,
	Adam, of godly form and mind,
Reigned o’er his kingdom new, with love,
	Yet longed for that he could not find. 

With sympathy the Architect
	Divined his cause of dire distress—
And sent an helpmeet to perfect, 
	His earthly peace and happiness.

A helpmeet mind you not a slave;
	A queen, a priestess if you will:
With him to stand, with him to brave,
	Whate’er betide of good or ill.

Though to perfect a noble plan,
	She fell from favor; Grace Divine
With justice free, removed the ban
	And bade her found a royal line.

"Thy seed,’’ take note, the woman's seed.
	"Thy seed shall crush the serpent’s head;”
By her enslaved—by woman freed!
	Mankind to life e'er-lasting led.

Descended David's royal line,
	Mary, thrice blest of all thy sex;
We count thy mission all divine,
	And to thy cause ourselves annex!
 
The cause of woman! Her to raise
	To equal plane with brother man,
As helpmeet, friend; with meed for praise,
	According to the great, first plan.
JULIA A. MACDONALD.
Dec. 30, 1891.


[Column 1]
﻿IN RURAL ENGLAND.
VII.
	The morning dawned dull and heavy, after
that eventful evening when Lady Walton, the
proud aristocrat had stolen into the grounds
of her former lover, and for many years bitter
enemy, to intercede for her darling son at his
particular request. The young man believed
that had it not been for the interposition of
his sweetheart’s prudish cousin all would have
gone on well with him but she had raised an
[Column 2]
insurmountable barrier, had watched her
cousin, followed her wanderings in the green
fields and shady groves, and had intercepted
the letters, and closed the doors of the old
castle against him. Something must be done
he was in despair, he appealed to his mother
for he knew full well her intense love and de-
votion to him would give her the necessary
courage "to beard the lion in his den;" but he
knew not what he was asking, he was not
aware when he entreated her to go to Sir Ed-
ward and use her persuasive eloquence, of the
hatred between the two families;he had supposed
that the Baronet's idiosyncracies were the cause
of the estrangement between Sir Edward and
his neighbors, as none of the gentle folks round
about were on intimate terms at the Castle.
Sir Edward and his daughter lived in such ex-
clusive retirement that little was known of his
home life.
	When Lady Walton decided to go and ask
Sir Edward's permission for her son
to visit there as Lady Anna's suitor, she felt
no apprehension of her clandestine visit being
discovered,she knew her own purity of motive,
and her husband was away on business, and
was not expected to return for some days, and
she had no forebodings of evil on his account.
In fact though he had been very jealous the
first few years of their married life. he had
never had the slightest occasion to mistrust
her fidelity in thought, word or deed.
	Lady Walton gave her orders to the coach-
man and he drove rapidly across the bleak
strip of country that lay between the estate of
Sir Edward and her own, on that night after
the painful and embarrassing interview, and
reached the Hall almost immediately after her
husband's unexpected return; in fact she had
noticed a carriage a short distance from their
gateway, but had not observed it closely, so
much was she absorbed in her own thoughts;
she was therefore much disconcerted when on
entering the hallway she found a gentle-
man's traveling bag and wraps, and was met
by her maid, who informed her that his lord-
ship had just arrived and finding her from
home, had inquired whither she had gone, and
was met by the reply, that they did not know;
he had found the young master and questioned
him. Lady Walton was in a quandary,
'what had Maitland told his father how could
she ascertain?" but she did not have long to
consider, for the impatient husband having
heard the carriage wheels sent word for her to
come up to his room, she threw off the cloak
and vail she had worn as a sort of disguise to
conceal her features,and hurriedly entered her
husband's presence, not like one who feared
him, but with a face beaming with smiles and
greeting him most affectionately said, "Dear
Henry how delighted I am to see you, I was
thinking how lonely I should be here tonight,
and now all my fears are dispelled, but are
you not well, that you have come so soon?"
Lord Walton had been uncomfortable and in
fact annoyed when he found his wife out on
his coming home, as most men are, for how-
ever uncertain the coming may be, men always
anticipate the wife waiting for them, and she
had entirely disarmed him of any complaining
by her sweet manner and self-possession. All
his misapprehensions vanished and he
answered her question as he would have done
had he found her sitting alone with her needle-
work.
	Later on in the evening he noticed how


[Column 1]

quiet she seemed and taking her in his arms
he looked into her face and said "Helen have
you been crying, your eyes are heavy and
swollen, is there anything the matter? Are
you not glad I am safe at home once more?,'
She answered him confidently, "Yes Henry I
am truly glad you are here again in our own
happy home-nest, I think I am not very well,
your coming is indeed opportune, for I am in
some anxiety about our boy, he is restless and
dissatisfied and needs a change." The father
loved his son with a pride as great, and as deep
as such a man could, but it was the pride of
name, of rank of honors, not the tender love
that seeks the true happiness of the beloved
object.
	He knew that in him the hope of succession
to title, wealth and estates centered when he
should pass away. Like Sir Edward with
Anna he thought him still a child, and now
when his mother had spoken of him; he laughed,
"foolish, fond, over fond mother," he said, "why
the boy is well I have seen him tonight, and
strange enough now I remember he spoke
similarly of you, said you needed a change,
was restless, had gone for a drive across the
country, and when I asked why he had al
lowed you to go alone, replied it was your
own wish to go unattended. It struck me
curiously at the moment I confess, but when
I heard you come in directly after I forgot
everything in the joy of meeting." Lady
Walton was relieved, she knew now the excuse
that had been made for her absence, and she
realized that she must make some further ex-
planation. The servant announced supper and
Lady Walton ordered it brought up here,
for she was weary and troubled, strive to dis-
guise it as she might. She was glad even of
this little break in the conversation, it gave
her time, and her head ached and her temples
throbbed painfully, she wondered at herself
that she could bear up at all.
	Finally she asked "Henry how did you
find your business in London, was everything
satisfactory? Did you see any of our friends
there or were you too much occupied?" "I
saw very little, did not make any calls, but
heard a piece of news that surprised me greatly
in which you may possibly take some interest,
it was about Sir Edward Hilliard, our old
neighbor over there, I saw his lawyer, Burke
of the firm of Burke and Hemenway, he told
me the story, and all about the family; we who
live almost within a stones's throw know less
about our neighbor's affairs than those at a
distance, you know the old saying. Helen 'go
from home to hear the news,' well it proved
true in this case, for I was not aware the
Baronet kept up such an elaborate establish-
ment."
	At the name of Sir Edward, Lady Walton
had trembled, but as her husbaud rattled on she
gradually recovered herself, so much so as to
inquire with self-complacency, what this
strange story was about, and her husband who
was now busy with his supper, stopped to tell
her what he had heard; the substance of which
was, that as the old gentleman had been so
penurious, he had managed to save quite a sum
of money, but had been seriously ill recently
and had made his will, for he had no son and
was fearful lest his daughter should on coming
into possession of the estate, be induced to ac-
cept the hand of some fortune-hunter, etc., be-
sides added the speaker he never has cared for
the daughter and he wanted some other dis-
posal made of a portion of his means while he
was of sound mind, for it is said, he might die
at any moment or lose his mind, he goes into
such violent paroxysms of passion whenever
he is crossed in any thing; his sister died not
long ago, did you know her Helen?" but with-
out waiting for his wife to reply to his question
continued "she married a poor man, a clergy-
man, I think named Conway, they lived in

[Column 2]

Hampton somewhere, and he brought his
niece back with him after the funeral, a deuced
clever young woman, Burke tells me, a fine
manager, and a capital nurse, and the cranky
old man is quite taken up with her, thinks he
can't do without her at all, in fact he is going
abroad, and intends to take her with him."
	"And his daughter too?" inquired Lady
Walton as unconcerned as possible. "O, I sup-
pose so, but his friends say he has no affection
for her never has had, he was so disappointed
when she was born because she was not a boy.
I can't blame the old fellow though I think
I should have been wofully disappointed if our
first had been a girl, and especially now as
there seems no prospect of any more."
	A lull in the conversation followed and the
supper table was cleared, when the door was
closed after the servants, Lady Walton and
her husband talked a little of trifles, home
matters of no particular importance and
the lady began to feel as if she must speak of
Maitland to his father knowing that on the
following day he was to go to the Baronet, and
that as his father had just returned, he would
wonder at his leaving home. Very little more
was said that evening and Lady Walton had
no opportunity of mentioning Maitland except
in a casual way, but she expressed herself
quite enthuiastically on the subject alluded to
by her husband concerning male heirs; for
although she lived long ago she held the
opinion that girls should inherit equally with
boys; in this she was in advance of her time,
and yet she knew that no such advantages of
education were given to girls as the other sex
enjoyed. She was somewhat relieved when
the hour for retiring came, she excused herself
temporarily to get away for a few minutes to
to speak with her boy, knowing how anxious
he would be to know the result of her inter-
view at the Castle. She found him in his
room pacing up and down as men are wont to
do when perplexed or vexed, and related as
briefly as possible what had taken place and
that he was to call on Sir Edward on the
morrow. The young man was elated with
what seemed to him good tidings, but his ardor
cooled when his mother spoke of the probable
difficulty he would have on account of his
father's being at home.
	"I'll be off early and look after some busi-
ness in town and return that way and it will
not take so very long, I hope that the Baronet
will look favorably upon me, and, there is no
reason why he should refuse me is there?"
"Only you are both so young only children,
but good night, and success to you my boy,"
and affectionately embracing each other,
mother and son parted for the night. Lady
Walton's love for her boy amounted almost
to adoration. He was a fine looking specimen
and his gentle blood was easily distinguished
in his manly bearing and magnificent presence.
She knew he could marry the most beautiful
and accomplished lady in the society of which
she herself was a central figure; but this young
creature who had not even made her debut had
so fascinated him, that he had no eyes or ears
for the many dazzling beauties that thronged
the fashionable places where Maitlaud was al-
ways a welcome favorite.
	Lady Walton was a conscientious woman
notwithstanding her love of pleasure and of
popularity, and she queried in her own mind
whether it was right after all to encourage
Maitland in going farther with this affair, now
that his father was at home; she had taken the
initiative step on the impulse of the moment
as it were because of his intercession, but look-
ing at it now in a calmer way, it seemed wrong;
and she slept little that night in consequence.
	The morning found her still undecided as to
what her duty in the matter was, and she was
ill at ease. She wished her husband would
tell her something further of Sir Edward's

[Column 3]

plans, it might open the way, but she had not
the courage to venture upon the matter her-
self, for they had not mentioned his name be-
fore for years, though their lands were not far
apart. Her husband had asked if she knew
Sir Edward's sister, how well she remembered
her, what a lovely character she was, and un-
til now she had not known of her death; it
brought back many tender memories. And
now she knew who this independent young wo-
man was who had obtained the interview for
her, and that had refused to allow Maitland
entrance to the house. "What will she think
of me, this scrupulously exact young woman,"
she asked herself; but it was all in vain she
had no advisor, she was afraid to go to her
husbaud and tried to justify the part she had
taken in the affair. Looking from the window
she saw Maitland ride into the court below
and dismount, she watched him coming toward
the house, his eyes were downward and his
manner thoughtful, she feared he had met with
disappointment; on the way to his mother's room
he encountered his father, she heard their
voices but could not distinguish words, a few
moments later he came up and before Lady
Walton could speak he poured out to her such
a tale, she would fain have silenced him but
her pride forbade her. After listening to his
recital the mother said, you have not told me
Maitland if your visits to Lady Anna are to
be continued or if you even saw her." "No
mother I have not told you, nor do I know
myself, but I saw her for a brief moment,
knowing I was there she waited for me out-
side the gate. Her father will take her to Italy
soon, and mother I must contrive to go there
too." "Poor boy," said his mother despond-
ingly "you must open your heart to your father
I cannot do more, he must know your inten-
tions."
	Meantime all was bustle and noise at the
Castle preparatory to leaving on a long
journey. Jane was as delighted as a child
with the anticipation of travel in a foreign
land, and Lady Anna would have been, but
for her pining and longing for young Walton.
That morning when he came to the house she
had heard her father's voice in loud tones, and
alarmed lest he was too much excited, had in-
quired of his valet who was with him? on being
told it was a dashing, young man she guessed
the rest, though she was not aware of the
stolen visit of the unknown lady the night be-
fore; determined to see him, as well as to ascer-
tain the result of his coming, she wrapped
herself up, and went out into the grounds un-
observed to watch for him. She was utterly re-
gardless of "the proprieties" her cousin Jane
talked of, and when she reached the park
through which she knew he must pass on his
way home, she flew along under the great trees
that swayed and sighed mournfully, filling her
faint heart with vague apprehensions of com-
ing evil.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


The nine lady managers resident in Chicago,
called together by Mrs. Potter Palmer, have
decided to establish a model sanitary kitchen
in the woman's building at the Exposition.
An effort will be made, by a special entertain-
ment or otherwise, to raise the $4,000 neces-
sary.
	"The Woman's Real Estate Association"
was organized in Indianapolis, Ind., a few
weeks ago, and incorporated with $5,000
capital stock. Its purpose is to deal in real
estate, both as rental agents and as speculators,
and it already has considerable property
placed under its control. The members are
ladies of standing. Mrs. Leon Bailey, who
holds a prominent place in the literary and
musical circles of the city is president of the
association.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A LADY.

I know, a lady in this land,
Who carries a Chinese fan in her hand;
But in her heart does she carry a thought
Of her Chinese sister, who carefully wrought
The dainty, delicate, silken toy
For her to admire and to enjoy.

This lady has on her parlor floor
A lovely rug, from Syrian shore;
Its figures are woven with curious art;
I wish that my lady had in her heart
One thought of love for those foreign homes.
Where the light of the Gospel never comes.

To shield my lady from chilling draft
Is a Japanese screen of curious craft;
She takes the comfort its presence gives,
But in her heart, not one thought lives,
Not even one little thought ah me!—
For the comfortless homes that lie over the sea.

My lady in gown of silk is arrayed
The fabric soft was in India made.
Will she think of the country whence it came?
Will she make an offering in His Name?
To send the perfect, heavenly dress,
The mantle of Christ's own righteousness?
To those who are poor and sad and forlorn,
To those that know not that Christ is born?
			Woman's Work for Woman.


THEN AND NOW.

On holidays and such like festive times,
	We gather up the shreds of other years.
And sometimes weave them into dainty rhymes,
	Albeit dotted, not with ink, but tears;
For we recall the bitter and the sweet—
	Dark lines, you know, make pictures more complete.

May be we hide these fancy sketches fair,
	From other eyes in the securest place;
And all the while a smiling face we wear,
	That e'en our friends a vestige may not trace
Of that we hold so sacred and apart,
	Entwined within the tendrils of the heart.

It may be more of sorrow, than of bliss.
	No matter, 'tis a link in love's dear chain,
A "part and parcel" of that happiness
	Which often comes through the severest pain.
We know perhaps, how years have sanctified
	The secret which so jealously we hide.

But ah, methinks I'm dreaming when I say,
	So many years, and oh, so long ago!
It only seems to me but yesterday,
	And yet, 'tis longer far, I can but know.
For many dim old pictures do I find—
	Historic relics, crowded in my mind.

Perchance it would be well to illustrate
	Some of these histories at the present time;
I do not know why one should hesitate,
	As old things now are reckoned "half sublime.”
But if we-tell old stories o’er again,
	Retouch them carefully with modern pen.

Yes, there are many critics now-a-days.
	Who pick in pieces what they could not do,
And seldom volunteer a word of praise, 
	E'en though the work is beautiful and true.
One need be brave, if he would truth rehearse,
	A real story, polished up in verse.

Sure, I’ve been wand'ring, if I did not dream.
	Over the hills, and very far away;
And I’m afraid its not a fitting theme
	I've chosen for the happy New Year's day;
For I've been thinking of deserted halls,
	With faded garlands hanging on the walls.

Well, let us welcome in 'the glad New Year,"
	For there is much to make it bright and gay,
And banish from us every doubt and fear, 
	And live within the present, just to-day;
And like the modest lilies, take no thought
	With what the uncertain future may be fraught.
			E. B. W.


ANOTHER WOMAN'S ANSWER.

DEAR EDITOR:
	Noting you wish to hear other views upon
those articles on the Woman Suffrage question
given in the Exponent of Nov. 15th, I will
give my opinion as it occurred or rather was
presented to my mind, but think probably be-
fore this you have heard from those who are
better able to treat upon this to me interesting
subject. I was proud to hear from such an
observer as D. P. Felt, upon this question and
consider his ideas very good treating upon
Mother's sphere and her ability to do good,
and her God-given right to stand side by side
with her husband in all that pertains to theirs
and their children's welfare, and I say chil-
dren's children and humanity generally and
she should have a voice in making the laws
that are to govern her and her family and to
be privileged to cast her vote for the President
of the nation whose citizen she is woman is
capable of exerting great good, we can see
what she has done, is doing, and is likely to
do.
	I differ a little from D. P. F. in thinking
that woman has not already laid a good
foundation for the emancipation of her sex.
it may not be of such massive proportions as
we are sanguine it will attain to, but it is
nevertheless constructed, and upon a firm
basis for are we not living in a dispensation of
the fulness of times when God has revealed
himself and all that was lost is being restored,
on reliable ground? did not the Prophet Joseph
turn the key showing wherein woman can be
exalted with her husband and work just as
intelligently?
	Not wishing to trespass too much upon the
columns of our paper I will briefly refer to
the communication of Mrs. Etta L. Gilchrist,
which plainly sets forth what has been
achieved by the united effort of women in this
the nineteenth century see if a pretty solid
foundation has not already been established
towards freeing woman from the shackles of
benighted ages, and placing her where her
light can shine; the main branches fruitful
with leaves opening in various fields and avo-
cations for her further advancement; the read-
ing and cultured woman knows her proper
place by intuition and natural instinct; if her
brother will only take her by the hand she
knows where to plant her footprints.
	The work has begun and in an enlightened
age, that is to revolutionize the world and
contempary mankind man is not without the
woman nor the woman the man in the Lord
Notice what has been accomplished by women
in the United States and elsewhere, and you
cannot convince me it has been done without a
foundation, read the statistics in Mrs. Gil-
christ's article and find that a firm foundation
is laid and the structure surely being erected
that other generations can add to and substan-
tiate, that will reflect credit upon this our age
we are to go on to perfection, laying one stone
upon another until the perfect day hoping to
hear from others upon this important and
never to be lessened project.
		Your Sister in the Gospel,
			M. A. T.
	Provo, Dec. 7th, 1891.


SENATOR HOAR ON WOMAN
SUFFRAGE.

	But it is said that our election processes are
unfit for her partaking. I suppose that is
largely true. I suppose the violence or the
cheating which prevail in some parts of this
country, and which have their allies and
apologists in other parts of the country, are
totally inconsistent with the purity and th


delicacy of women. They are totally incon-
sistent also with the honor and honesty of men.
	We propose when woman suffrage is estab-
lished, if not before, to put an end to these
things. I should not like to have any lady of
my household jostled by the rough crowd in
the criminal parts of a great city, or cast her
vote through a shutter of a beer shop. I do
not think that I ought to be asked or com-
pelled to be exposed to the same thing myself.
But I can not see why we can not easily
change all these things where they exist, so
that a woman can go to the polls as comfort-
ably and agreeably as she goes to church.
The Australian ballot, where it has been in-
troduced, has gone far to accomplish all this
already.
	But I believe that the Republic will never
reach the lofty ideal of the conception of our
fathers; it will never attain the high moral
quality which will be alike its strength and its
safety, until that quality shall be given to it
by the help and co-operation of woman. She
who

	"Stays all the fair young planet in her hands."

will then contribute all her full share to what-
ever of glory or honor shall be found in our
story. The moral temperament, which de-
termines permanently the history of any com-
munity, is given to it by its women. Whether
it be true, as physiologists tell us, that as a
rule the mental and moral qualities of chil-
dren come from the mother and the physical
only from the father, it is at least true that
children learn to follow what is excellent in
the example of their fathers from the teaching
of their mothers. If our children in future
generations are to imitate whatever there has
been of heroism in their ancestors; if they are
to love their country; if they are to be brave,
free, generous, gentle, they must learn the
lesson as their fathers learned it at their
mother's knee. No nation, no city, no house-
hold ever took a lofty place, where the influ-
ence of woman did not inspire it with the
heroic temper. But this influence can only be
exerted by woman to its fullest extent when
she shares the responsibility, and takes her
proper and fair part in the conduct of the
State which she is to influence.


S. L. CO., W. S. A.

	The Salt Lake Co. W. S. A. convened in
the 13th Ward Assembly Rooms on Tuesday,
Dec. 15, 1891. Pres. Elizabeth Howard in
the chair. The first exercise was a song read
by the President. Prayer was offered by
Mary E. Irvine. Comments on the Constitu-
tion by Elizabeth Price.
	Adella Eardley was elected Secy. pro tem.
Pres. E. Howard made some interesting re-
marks on the Constitution, thought we should
teach our sons to be honest, honor-
able men, and educate our girls in the same
manner. Made further remarks in regard to
honesty, indebtedness etc., regretted more
ladies did not attend.
	Minutes of the previous meeting were then
read, and with one amendment approved.
	Maggie Bassett then favored the assembly
with a song. Reading from Robert's Rules of
Order by Maggie Bassett. Political clippings
by Adella Eardley.
	Speech by Nellie C. Taylor, upon the order
and system which govern our meetings, and
 the great need of woman uplifting and sus-
taining woman.
	Phoebe C. Young gave a short address.
Pres. Howard made a few closing remarks.
Meeting adjourned untill the third Tuesday in
Jan. at the same hour and place.
			ADELLA EARDLEY, Sec. pro tem.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.
	
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
gne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00.   A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY	JANUARY 1, 1892.


[Column 1]

AN INCIDENT OF THE DAYS OF
KIRTLAND.

	In the early days of the Church in Kirtland the
Latter-day Saints were generally very zealous in
good works, and very united; they were as
humble as little children, and loved one another
with that peculiar love that the Gospel always
creates, inspires and fosters; and they were de-
sirous of being united, and on an equality one
with another, so that no feeling of disunion should
arise on account of position or circumstance.
	At that period in the history of this people the
organization now known as the Relief Society,
had not been thought of, but the spirit of minist-
ering to those who were in need of either tem-
poral or spiritual help seems to have pervaded the
hearts of the Saints who were possessed of means
and they gave liberally of their substance. Re-
cently some of these things have been recalled to
mind, and the sayings of Bishop Newel K.
Whitney and his venerable wife, who were among
the first baptized into the Church in Kirtland
have come vividly to the writer. Do the
Latter day Saints in this day need to be reminded
that they are all of one great family, and that the
Lord is not a respector of persons, because of
wealth or station; but the humble and meek ones
though poor and in straitened circumstances are
as near to Him as the rich, and popular, and the
learned, who are wise in the things of the world.
Wealth brings with it greater responsibility, for
we understand men and women are only stewards
over these things in this world for the good of
humanity, therefore the wise steward remembers
to put his wealth to good usury, that he may
render a good account to the Great Master when
he shall appear before Him.
	This season of the year when the weather is
cold and work is scarce in many places, and
countries, there is great need of Charity that dis-
penses gifts to the poor and distressed, but here
the people are and have been greatly blest in this
respect and there are few who suffer for want of
the necessaries of life; but there are many cir-
cumstances that are sorrowful and distressing
even when well supplied with substantial comforts,
of these things all are aware and yet many are
neglectful in remembering to do little kindnesses,
and extending sympathy and love when it might
be a stay and solace to the lonely and sorrowing
ones, whose lot in life is not a path of roses, and
who have not been favored by ties and associa-
tions of kindred and friends upon whom they
can lean, for guidance and tenderness at all times.
Blessed indeed are those who are thus surrounded
even though the home is lowly for where love
abounds and binds together human hearts, there
is true happiness.
	Among the Saints gathered as they are from
many lands and of many families, there are many
lonely ones; we often hear the remark, "I am

[Column 2]

here alone," or "l am the only one of all my
father’s house who has received the Gospel,"
these sayings are common, and then there are
many aged and widows and orphans, and many
infirm and afflicted who need kindness, comfort
and sympathy. In a word they need love, the
love that the Gospel teaches, the love spoken of
in John, where the Savior said, "This is my com-
mandment that ye love one another." In the
world and surrounded with temporal cares one is
apt to lose sight of the little duties and get
swallowed up completely, as it were, in what is
seemingly of greater importance and yet it is not
really so, and it is good to be reminded of the
tender charities and ministrations of our Savior
that we may do the works He did, that we may
grow more like Him.
	The incident to which we alluded in the first
paragraph of this editorial, we will give here now
in the words of Sister Whitney, as she herself re-
lated it and after it was written, she approved it
and said to the writer, "that is as near as I can
remember." At this later time we wish most
sincerely that we had taken more, and no doubt
had she been minutely questioned, she could have
recalled other facts in this connection.
	That which we give here was published in the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT in No's. 9 and 11. Vol. 7.,
dated Oct. 1. and Nov. 1, 1878, under the title "A
Leaf From an Autibiography."
	"We had always been in the habit of entertain-
ing our friends and acquaintances generously
and hospitably, but after we received the Gospel,
we did not feel like using our means and time in
a way that would only benefit those who had an
abundance of this world's means. According to
our Savior's pattern and agreeably to the Prophet
Joseph's and our own ideas of true charity and
disinterested benevolence, we determined to make
a 'Feast for the Poor,' such as we knew could not
return the same to us; the lame, the halt, the
aged, and infirm."
	'This Feast lasted three days, during which
time all in the vicinity of Kirtland who would
come were invited, and entertained as courteously
and as generously as if they had been able to ex-
tend hospitality instead of receiving it. The
Prophet Joseph and his two Counselors being
present each day, talking, and blessing, and com-
forting the poor by words of encouragement and
their most welcome presence; some are now liv-
ing who were present at that Feast; and many
have passed behind the vail."
	"The Prophet Joseph often referred to this
particular Feast, during his life-time, and testified
of the great blessing he felt in associating with the
meek and humble ones whom the Lord has said
"He delights to own and bless." He often said
to me that it was preferable and far superior to
the elegant and select parties he afterwards at-
tended and afforded him much more genuine sat-
isfaction; and to me it was 'a feast of fat things,'
indeed, a time of rejoicing never to be forgot-
ten."
	These words of "Mother Whitney" as we love
to call her, are simple but expressive and the
spirit of them seems even now to testify of her.
She has told the writer many little things that
transpired in those early days that are not set
down in the books so to speak, and in fact are
not on record anywhere except it be as they are
engraven on memory's tablets in the mind of
those who participated therein, or have heard them
from the lips of the Prophet and those associated
with him. Those who were intimately associated
and acquainted with the Prophet, are fast pass-
ing away, and ere long there will be none, who
knew him personally.
	Another generation has come, and many of them
gone since the days of Kirtland, and those who
are aged now were children at the time when the
circumstance transpired which is recorded here.
The only ones we remember hearing speak of it

[Column 3]

were Bishop Whitney and wife, Sister Eliza R.
Snow and Brother and Sister Billings and these
have passed away; but no doubt there are others.
	According to the remembrance of the writer
this Feast was held soon after the Prophet
Joseph and Bishop Whitney's return from the
Eastern Cities and States, whither they went pre-
vious to the completion of the Kirtland Temple,
but the exact date or even the time of the year,
we have been unable to find.


FIFTY YEARS.

	To the officers and members of the Relief
Society in all its branches; the revolving wheels
of time remind us that on the 17th of March
1892, half a century will have passed since the
organization of women in this dispensation, after
the heavenly pattern. The first enrollment of the
Relief Society members was seventeen and seven
not present were received as members by recom-
mendation.
	Tens of thousands have since been enrolled
and branches are in healthy working conditions
(in various localities) in different nations, and on
the Islands of the sea.
	The good that has been accomplished through
the instrumentality of this Society is incalcul-
able.
	The General Presidency of the Relief Society
will in the near future issue a circular of instruc-
tion.
			SARAH M. KIMBALL, Secretary.


DECEMBER 23, 1891.

	This day is the anniversary of the birth of the
Prophet Joseph Smith, who was faithful to the
last. The Saints know his earthly history, but I
have heard him say we did not know him.
Through the inspiration of God he organized the
Relief Society on the 17th day of March 1842, in
Nauvoo, Hancock Co., Ill., of which I had the
honor of being a member, and a few yet remain to
testify to his words. We also have some written
at the time by our dear Sister Eliza R. Snow
Smith which are much appreciated.
	The 17th day of next March it will be fifty
years since, and how shall we best commemorate
the day? The Prophet said, "we did not conceive
the greatness of the work we were laying the
foundation of." The Gospel has blest us in so
many ways, and an unselfish love is a lesson we
are learning but are not yet perfected in; we wish
all to mutually participate in the Jubilee of the
fiftieth year of the Relief Society. We can esti-
mate means donated, but who can sum up the
deeds of kindness and words of love that comfort
the sorrowing and afflicted, that the faithful sisters
have bestowed. Every faithful saint should aspire
to the honor and privilege of doing good, and as
the word Mormon signifies more good, let us con-
tinue to do more. Some blessings are obtained only
by fasting and prayer, in this way our spirits may
be strengthened and health given to continue our
labors, and as great responsibility rest upon the
mothers there is need of union between the
parents; bow the knee to God as a token of
reverence, thank Him for all the blessings of life,
set this example in your household, that the
children may follow it, and thus claim the bless-
ing of happy homes.
	The Relief Society is to help us to
improve in every virtue, love, kindness, humility
and obedience; we go forth to look after the
needy, to strengthen the faith and cheer the
spirits of the sisters, but let me exhort you never
to neglect the children, our precious gifts. May
we be blest with more wisdom in all things. We
can unitedly pray on the 17th of March and re-
turn thanks to God for raising up a Prophet in
our day, to instruct us how to direct our lives


that we may again behold the face of our Father
in heaven, and may we be filled with charity con-
tinually, as these are days of blessings and trials.
	We desire to extend greetings to all the sisters'
gatherings of every branch of the society through-
out the world,that the spirit of God with love and
union, and forgiving all, may permeate every sonl,
and be assured sisters we have nothing to fear
knowing that God rules. May we be true and
faithful, and our fasting and prayer and rejoicing
be acceptable to God, that Zion may prosper.
The humility of the soul is true wealth.
			ZINA D. H. YOUNG.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


U. W. P. CLUB.

	Minutes of the meeting of the U. W. P. Club
held at the parlors of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
Wednesday Dec. 30th, 1891, at 8, p. m. Called to
order by the President, E. B. Wells. Minutes
read by the Secretary and accepted. An original
poem from the able pen of Julia A. Mac-
Donald entitled "One Phase of the Divine Mis-
sion of Woman" was then read.
	Miss N. V. Davis of the 14th Dist. school told
a very pleasing Christmas story in a happy man-
her. Gladys Woodmansee rendered some fine
musical selections on the piano and and Miss
Davis sang the German Christmas Hymn and
another German song in a very sweet voice.
Treasurer R. M. Fox sent a letter of regret for
non attendance and an original article relating to
the rights of wives and husbands. Dr. E. R.
Shipp read an original poem entitled "For Those
We Love." The President then read a very in-
teresting article on "Club Culture" and remarked
that we wished to obtain all good ideas for club
work as we wanted to do creditable work this
coming year, in order that we may be able to join
the Federation and meet with them at the World's
Fair which will surely prove benefical in the
interchange of ideas and the awakening of new
thoughts.
	The object of this club is purely literary and
all foreign topics will be excluded.
	Gladys Woodmansee read a poem from
Whittier entitled "The Watcher."
	Delicious refreshments were then served by the
President. After which benediction was pro-
nounced by Miss Woodmansee, and meeting ad-
journed until Jan. 30th, 1892.
			ELLIS R SHIPP, M. D., Rec. Sec.


SINGING MOTHERS.

	As night began to spread her shadowy wings
over the great throbbing world about us, from the
open doors and windows of the houses near came
the sweet sound of voices in song. They were
mothers' voices, and no one who heard the wealth
of love throbbing in every line and word could
doubt that some one was being rocked to sleep,
that some little restless head was pillowed upon
a loving arm, that some one's eyes were droop-
ing nearer and nearer the rosy cheek. Yes, in
every house in my immediate neighborhood the
noise and prattle of little children are heard all
day long, and the sweet bedtime song at night.
	Hark ! "Bye O Baby, Bye O Darling." Ah,
 es, that same old song sung to us, I ween, and
to our parents before us. Then in the little white
house just across the way the words, "Jesus Keep
Me Near the Cross," came so soft and low I bent
my ear to catch the words. I fell into a reverie.
How strong and loving and hopeful the voice
sounded, and yet I knew some heart must have
its burden. But burdens must not be laid upon
the little hearts, to sap the sunshine and happi-
ness there. So whatever trouble the mother
knows, the trusting eyes only see a patient, lov-
ing face bending over them. It is ever so. The
papers say, "Meet your husband with a smile;',


and our own hearts say "Meet your children with
a smile;" so we must go on smiling and smiling,
letting the agony at our hearts down, down,
smothered perhaps by and by, by the very smiles
that were so hard to give.
	Ah, what does the world owe to the mothers,
the patient, loving, song-singing mothers? Who
can tell? How many lives have been turned,
changed completely-by the encouraging smile of
the mother, or the song, coming full of love and
gladness to win her child back to the path of
righteousness.
	A lady once lived beside a new house that was
just going up. The workmen were very profane
and as she had a little daughter she feared the
example, as the great oaths followed each other
in quick succession. There were so many of the
men that she could hardly summon courag[-]
enough to ask them to desist, so she thought o
another way. She sang—sweet religious songs
in her clear, strong voice—sang with new en-
couragement as the profane voices were all
hushed, as if listening. As long as she sang
there were no voices, and when the swearing be-
gan and she broke into the sweet old strains of
"Jesus, Lover of My Soul" the voices were all
silenced.
	In the roughest heart some soft spot still re-
mains, and if an old sin-hardened heart can thus
be made different, think of the influence on our
babies. So,dear mothers,let us continue to sing;
sing gladly if you can, even though we do not
feel altogether so ourselves. But let us sing any-
way.
		BERTHA PACKARD ENGLET.
Belmond, Ia.


[Column 1]

FIFTY-SECOND CONGRESS. U. S.

	The Congress of the United States assembled
at the Capitol building in Washington D. C.,
on the first Monday in December 1891—in
the Fifty-second Congress which opened at
12 m. The first business before the assembly
was receiving the resignation of Senators Geo.
F. Edmunds of Vermont and John H. Reagan
of Texas, two very influential members of the
Senate. Credentials were received of Charles
N. Felton to fill the vacancy caused by the
death of Senator George Hearst and of
Charles H. Gibson caused by the death of
Ephraim N. Wilson of Maryland, also of
other new Senators.
	The House was called to order by the Clerk
of the preceding Congress, roll called and
house adjourned.
	On the following day Dec. 8, after reports
of various officers the Vice President laid be-
fore the Senate a number of petitions and
memorials, Colorado asks that all public lands
except mineral lands be given to the State.
Montana prays for removal of mineral re-
strictions upon school lands, and both Colorado
and Montana memorialize in favor of Pad-
dock's pure-food bill. The Ladies Missionary
Society of the First United Presbyterian
Church of Kansas City Mo., petition that the
World's Fair may not be opened on Sunday.
New Senators were sworn in and both Call of
Florida and Dubois of Idaho took their seats
though papers had been filed contesting their
places and referred to the Committee on Privi-
leges and Elections. Then names were pre-
sented for Speaker of' the House by their re-
spective parties Charles F. Crisp of Georgia,
Democrat, receiving the highest vote; this
vote shows the Democratic majority in the
House. Quite a number of deaths have oc-
curred according to the vacancies that had to
be filled in the House. W. B. Cochran suc-
ceeds General Spinola of New York, Charles
E. Belknap, Ford of Michigan, John C. Hank,
L. C. Hank of Tenn., John J. Jolley, Gamble
of South Dakota. James Kerr of Penn., was

[Column 2]
 
elected Clerk; In the drawing of seats Ex-
Speaker Reid of Maine, Holman of Indiana
and O'Neill of Penn., were allowed to make
the first selection of places, these gentlemen
having occupied seats there for over fourteen
years.
	Dec. 9, the only business was listening to
the reading of the President's message, when
the House adjourned until Saturday.
	Dec. 10. Six hundred and twelve bills
were introduced in the Senate, No. 1. being
Paddock's bill to prevent the adulteration and
the misbranding of food. General Mandersen
introduced a bill to establish postal savings
banks and to encourage small savings. Mr.
Sherman to establish a public health depart-
ment. Mr. Voorhees to erect a statue in the
Smithsonian grounds to Robert Dale Owen.
Mr. Peffer to amend the naturalization and
immigration laws. Mr. Plumb to grant a pen-
sion to members of the State militia of Kansas
who are incapacitated for manual labor. A
large number of religious bodies presented
petitions asking that the Worlds Fair be
closed on Sunday. A number of petitions ask
for the prohibition of the slave and rum traffic
on the Congo.
	Dec. 14, Bills of importance introduced into
the Senate; Sen. Squires to erect a monument
to Gen. U. S. Grant at Washington; Sen.
Hale to establish a permanent census office;
Sen. Mitchell to prohibit absolutely Chinese
from coming into the United States whether
Chinese subjects or not; Sen. Frye to provide
for a commission on the alcoholic liquor traffic;
Sen. Manderson to provide for the survey of
Alaska.
	Dec. 15, Bills introduced, Sen. Morrill to
endow Howard University, to erect a bronze
statue of Prof. Baird, of the Smithsonian; to
erect a bronze statue of Columbus in Wash-
ington; Sen. Cullom to amend the interstate
commerce act; Sen. Pettegrew to furnish
rations for the G. A. R. at its next annual
convention in Washington. Sen. Mitchell for
the development of silk culture.
	During the week before Christmas the
House was in session only a part of the time
and was occupying itself mostly with the dis-
position of committees.
	Many petitions for closing the World's Fair
on Sunday were received, two of them from
Congregational Churches, New Gloucester, Me.
and Rock Falls, Ill., ask that Congress loan
$5,000 000, to the Fair,conditional upon Sun-
day closing. It is decided the Committee on
World's Fair be known as Committee on
Columbian Exposition.
	Senator Mitchell presented a numerously
signed petition praying Congress to take action
to invite a conference of the governments of the
world to meet during the Columbian Exposi-
tion, to devise, discuss and recommend
measures by which arbitration may be incor-
porated in treaties, international laws har-
monized, an international court established
that shall have jurisdiction in cases which gov-
ernments fail to settle by negogiation.
	Sen. Daniel for the completion of the monu-
ment to Mary the mother of Washington.
	The shaft which is at Fredericksburg dates
back to 1833, owes its origin to Gen. Jackson.
The pedestal is a wreck and the shaft is bullet-
ridden and has suffered still worse from relic
hunters. It is the opinion of notable women,
who should certainly have their opinions
recognized, "that the statue be erected in
Washington, where it may be felt as the prop-
erty of the whole nation, and appreciated by
multitudes.
	Other bills are; to extend privilege of free
postage to historical societies; to purchase S.
W. Price's portrait of Gen. Geo. H. Thomas,
and Wm. Mathew's portrait of Abraham
Lincoln; to provide for the safety of switch-
men, brakemen and engineers. Sen. Cullom


who presented this bill said they had not de-
cided what kind of legislation was necessary,
but this bill was to ascertain if possible life-
saving devices for coupling etc. Sen. Hoar
explained that Mass., had organized the first
railroad commission in this country and this
matter had been considered but they were met
by the fact that the jurisdiction over railroads
engaged in interstate commerce is national
and not a State jurisdiction. Pension bills to
provide for pensioning militia and telegraph
operators engaged with the Union forces in the
civil war.
	Dec. 17, Sen. Stewart made a speech on the
silver question answering the President's objec-
tions to the free coinage. Sen. Dawes pre-
sented a petition of citizens of Mass., signed
by Harriette N. Shattuck President of the N.
A.W. S. A. of that state and many others
praying for the adoption of a sixteenth amend-
ment to the Constitution of the United States
providing for woman Suffrage which was re-
ferred to the Select Committee on Woman
Suffrage.
	The sudden death of Sen. Plumb of Kansas
on Sunday cast a gloom over the Senate ses-
sion on Monday the 21st and when the fact
was announced the Senate took a recess to
allow preparations for the obsequies which
were held at 1:30 p. m. The President and
Cabinet, Diplomatic Corps, members of the
Supreme Court and House of Representatives
were present. The Chaplain read the burial
service of the Lutheran Church and the hymns
"O, Be Ready" and "Nearer Home." The Senate
went in a body to the station and Senators
Peffer Paddock, Dolph, Ransom and Palmer,
with a delegation from the House accompanied
the remains of the dead Senator upon his home-
ward journey.
	Stephen B. Elkins has been confirmed Sec-
retary of war in place of Hon. Redfield
Proctor resigned.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

FAITH, HOPE AND CHARITY.

	Faith Hope and Charity, these three are
one, but the greatest of these is Charity.
	Thus saith the Apostle Paul. The same
Apostle also says "without Faith it is
impossible to please God This saying is
quite consistent, quite reasonable, for without
faith in the promises of God we question His
veracity. To doubt His word and promises
we impute to His character both deceit and
falshood. Is it reasonable that the Creator
aud Ruler of the universe would be pleased
with such unjust imputations? Holy Writ in-
forms us that God is truth that it is impossible
for Him to lie. Why not then—if a believer
in the scriptures—place implicit confidence in
His word and promises contained therein?
also if a believer in the Gospel and work of
the last dispensation, why not give credence
to the promises given through God's servants,
the prophets and patriarchs, ordained and
holding the holy priesthood? surely their
word should be as the word of God unto us;
surely the Lord will not hold us guiltless if we
treat lightly His promises.
	St. Paul said "Abraham believed God and
it was accounted unto him for righteousness,
he staggered not at the promises of God
through unbelief"
	Jesus said, "if ye have faith as a grain of
mustard seed you should say to this mountain
be ye plucked up and cast into the depths of
the sea and it would be done."
	No doubt many—like the Apostles of old—
would exclaim this is a hard saying who can
believe it. But who dare accuse the Redeemer,
the Lord of light and glory, with uttering a
falsehood. All things are possible with God.
The framer and controller of the universe is in
possession of laws,natural laws, which of course

[Column 2]

mortal man has no knowledge of whereby all
things are obedient to His will.
	What is all the wisdom of finite mortals
compared with the Infinite? scarcely a drop in
the vast ocean. What folly then, who
presumes to question the omnipotent power of
the Deity? rather seek for knowledge and
faith coupled with wisdom to comprehend more
of the power and laws of Him whose wonderful
works and power are manifest in all we behold
and which—although incomprehensible to our
narrow,contracted minds is sufficient to silence
the most obstinate sceptic and cause every
rational being to exclaim nothing is impossible
with such immense illimitable power. Why then
doubt any blessing of Divine favor promised
to weak erring mortals? however improbable
or impossible it may appear to our benighted
minds. Especially we who have espoused the
name of Saint, who profess to believe in direct
communication with heaven; such should seek
earnestly for the faith once delivered to the
Saints. Paul said, "faith was the gift of God,
he also said, "He is the same yesterday, to-
day and forever. Therefore it is our privilege
to seek and obtain the faith the ancient Saints
enjoyed the faith of a Daniel and the three
Hebrews, who were cast in the fiery furnace
and many more too numerous to mention. As
the same Priesthood is restored to man with the
same power, the same gifts, and promises it
is our privilege to avail ourselves of the same
blessings.
	The arm of the Lord is not shortened neither
is He slack concerning His promises. The
Apostle said, "covet the best gifts."  Now
if faith is not the best gift it certainly seems
the most essential for us in these days of
tribulation, judgments, and persecution.
These, are the days of the Lord's controversy
with the world, and the adversary is sowing
the seeds of disease and death broadcast
throughout the entire Universe. Diseases new
and terrible, baffling the skill of human
wisdom laying low the infant and the aged; no
earthly power is adequate to grapple with
the various and dire diseases which are
bursting forth from time to time,and wrest its
victims from the power of the grim destroyer.
	Therefore we can realize the necessity of
that which is attainable through faith in the
promises of the Gospel.
	They are a glorious heavenly boon proffered
on conditions of obedience to the requirements
of the fulness of the Gospel, without money
and without price, whereby we may be able
through the gift of faith to wrest from an
untimely grave our loved ones and prolong
our own existence also. It is not only the
privilege of the Saints but a duty, we owe to
our children, for are they not the Lord's
heritage? how very precious then should they
be in our care. Pure, innocent spirits right
from the bosom of the heavenly parent, com-
mitted to our charge to preserve their
lives and rear them to love, honor and
reverence His holy name and walk in the
paths of truth and righteousness. Thus might
we have the unspeakable satisfaction of return-
ing them to their Heavenly Father unsullied
and without blemish, saying here Father are
the heavenly gems intrusted to my charge; and
receive with what ineffable joy the divine
plaudit, "well done good and faithful servant
enter thou into the joy of thy Lord."
	Hope is also a great blessing which we
should ardently seek for, it should be cultivated
and cherished by every individual, without it
we could not endure the various and almost
unmentionable ills,that beset us at nearly every
turn throughout life's thorny pathway. Hope
is the boon of every son and daughter of afflic-
tion and can be cultivated to a great extent in
order to sustain us under the many trying
vicisistudes we are called to pass through. It

[Column 3]

is an old adage but a true one, "if it was not
for hope the heart would break. 
	Pual speaking of hope says, "faith is the
substance of things hoped for, the evidence of
things not seen."
	He further says, "by faith we stand and re-
joice in the hope of the glory of God." He
also says, "tribulation worketh patience, and
patience experience, and experience hope, and
hope maketh not ashamed." Yet there is
quite a difference between faith and hope.
	Hope according to Webster is a desire with
expectation.
	Faith in God and His promises is a desire
with an as urance of obtaining. Yet faith
without works is dead," so sayeth the Apostle
Paul. St. James also says, "Abraham was
justified by works, when he offered his son
Isaac upon the altar; thus by works was faith
made perfect." Paul says "though he had all
faith so he could remove mountains and had
not charity he was nothing." "Charity never
faileth, suffereth long and is kind, is not puffed
up,seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked,
thinketh no evil, rejoiceth not iniquity, but re-
joiceth in the truth."
	Much more might be said in regard to
charity, but it is evident it does not exist only
in giving to the poor, for Paul said, "though
he bestowed all his goods to feed the poor; and
had not charity he was nothing. There is
one kind of charity which is very essential
for us all to cultivate. It is charity in over-
looking the faults and weaknesses of one
another. It is too much the habit to judge
others, as the saying is, by our own standard.
	Such judgment is not just. We cannot
understand all the surroundings of our fellow-
beings, we know not the circumstances and
temptations with which they may have been
environed. Instead of judging let us rather
thank God that He has preserved us and ours
from such faults and follies, and reach out to
our brother, or sister the helping hand and
assist and encourage them to reform. In so
doing we will show our faith by our works.
Otherwise if we denounce those who err, and
stand aloof from them, saying in our hearts
I am better than thou, the Lord may bring us
into circumstances that will show us our own
weaknesses.
	Thus it is quite important to cultivate a
spirit of humility and charity to all poor fallen
humanity.
	Therefore beloved sisters, contend earnestly
for the faith, gifts, and graces of the Gospel,
which were once delivered to the Saints. They
will prove a bulwark in every time of need.
in the hour of affliction when the sombre
clouds of despondency close around you and
the evil genius of despair stands ready to
clutch your heartstrings, then will they, like
so many sentinels at their post be ready to
come to your relief, with the balm and gentle
influence of the spirit of the Gospel, and in a
still, small voice rebuke the demon of despair
and command him to depart.
	Like the rays of the morning sun after a
dark and tempestuous night, will the effulgent
rays of peace and the spirit of God illuminate
your soul and dispel the clouds of despond-
ency. They will also prove an anchor to the
soul 'mid every stormy blast when tossed to
and fro on the turbulent ocean of life. Like 
a beacon of light in the darkness they will
guide and pilot you into port, like a lamp to
the feet illuminate the straight and narrow
path, that leads to the beautiful haven or
eternal peace and rest.
			ELIZA D. GIBBS.


Kind words are benedictions. They are
not only instruments of power, but of benevo-
lence and courtesy blessings both to the
speaker and hearer of them.


WOMEN'S EXPONENT.


A SKETCH FROM LIFE. 

	Old memories and thoughts of other days
are crowding on my mind tonight; thoughts of
childhood’s companions, and old scenes and
friends who have long since passed away their
looks and words return with vivid force. Why
is it scenes so long passed from the stage of
time have power to return with such force to
the mind that we can almost imagine we are
looking in a mirror where pictures come and
go, or looking upon a scroll on which is
recording the events of the past.
	One of these pictures is that of an old house
situated in one of the most pleasant parts of
old England, a house large and roomy with its
front windows facing the bay where the stately
ships lay in the harbor. Not the steam ships
of to-day, but the great ‘‘Ships of the line,”
each one with a history in itself, there lay the
Britannia, and the Thunderer, and the great
Victoria on which Lord Nelson won his last
battle and received his death wound in the
moment of Victory, things as familiar to the
children that lived in that house, as are the
street cars and the mountains that surround
our children’s nomes today. The house stood
in the midst of a garden filled with fruit and
flowers with evergreens on every side; then
there were the meadows at the back where the
children gathered the primrose, the snowdrops
and the violets in the early days of Spring,
that later in the season were covered with the
daisy and the blue bell and great yellow butter-
cups, with which the happy children weave
garlands, tell one another’s fortunes, and try
whose face will best reflect the golden beauty
of the flowers: haypy days of childhood passed
away all too soon but leaving a trace upon the
heart that bears an influence on all the alter
life. Yes happy children gather your flowers
while you may for soon, the stern realities of
life will be upon you, and in place of the
flowers you gather now your tender fingers
will soon be torn by the thorns and briers of
life’s-wilderness, and your young hearts be
saddened with the knowledge of the evil and
sorrow that exists in the world, that to you is
now a sealed book.
	I recall a day in the month of April when
the voices of the children are not heard shout-
ing to each other in the garden,for though the
cookoo has returned to the old oak tree and is
loudly proclaiming that Spring has come, its
voice is disregarded; they are not searching the
meadows to see which can first discover where
the sky lark is building her nest, or watching
the flight of her mate as he ascends far out of
sight trilling his song of praise to the great
Creator. On the day of which I speak they
are doing none of these things they are within
the house and their voices are hushed in awe
and grief, for the Angel of Death is hovering
on their threshold and is about to claim for
his own, him who is the head, and support of
that house the loving husband, the tender
father is about to pass away.
	It was the month of February preceding
the time of which I write when he returned
to his home with dripping clothing having
been exposed to a violent storm while in the
execution of his duty, he being Captain of the
Earl of Chatham, and it was his duty to meet
the returning ships before they entered the
bay to receive their stores and see that they
were properly deposited in the Magazines; a
responsible position which he filled with
honor.
	Though usually in the enjoyment of robust
health, before retiring for the night he com-
plained of feeling ill, but thought that rest and
warmth would restore him; he said I shall not
leave the house tomorrow but will stay at
home and rest. While undressing a strange
thing happened to him; he sat upon the side
of the bed and seemed to lose consciousness for

[Column 2]
a few minutes, then said to his wife, I could
see inside of myself, and there is a black spot
at the pit of my stomach, I do not know but
the Lord is about to take me away from you
all. He lay down upon the bed from which
he never rose, for although the best medical
skill was called in, and the loving wife and
family had spent weary days and watchful
nights all had been in vain. The strong man
has become as weak as a child and all know
that the end is near. The elder children
have been summoned from their distant homes
and though two are still absent, yet there are
twelve around that bed of death the husband
and father there awaiting the last great change
fears not death, for though he has not had
the privilege of hearing of the restoration of
the Everlasting Gospel, he has striven his best
according to the light He had, to do his duty
to God and man he has ever given good
counsel to his family and been charitable to
mankind; in the days of his strength and pros-
perity he has endeavored to serve his God and
in the hour of His extremity he has not been
forgotten by Him. And now the Angel of the
covenant stands ready to convey him through the 
dark vale of death.
	His eye is growing dim and his voice faint,
he looks around the room and misses the
younger children, who have been banished
from the apartment a short time before, and
makes the request that they be brought in,that
he may look upon their faces once more and
take a last farewell. They come with fear and
trembling and some of them give vent to their
grief in tears and sobs. He looks at them with
eyes filled with love, he speaks their names
and says a word or two to each, and one a child
of ten whose naturally rosy cheeks have grown
pale with watching by that sick bed which no
calls of companions, or thoughts of play could
induce her to leave that sick room, and has
scarcely ever left it except when compelled by
her mother, and often after being sent to her
bed she has waited till her sisters slept and
then crept back and begged to remain, which
she was often permitted to do, notwithstanding
the remonstrauces of friends who rightly con-
sidered that her health would suffer. She it
was who never wearied of reading to him, and
could most readily turn to his favorite passages
of scripture, those words of comfort that he
loved so well, she approaches the bed suppress-
ing every sigh of emotion, for though so young
the child has thoughts and feelings far beyond
her years, and understands but too well the
loss she is about sustain the dying father
makes an effort to raise the hand that lays
upon the coverlet and turning those eyes of
love that she would never again behold in life,
pronounced in a distinct voice the words, “my
poor little daughter the Lord bless you,”
words that thrilled through every nerve and
fibre of the child; words never to be forgotten
by her. The scene is drawing to a close and
when one of the youngest of the children is
borne from the room in the arms of a friend
turns and with quivering lips says the simple
words “goodbye father,” the fountain of tears
are unlocked and none present can restrain
their weeping.
	How plainly 1 recall the scene. I seem to
hear the dash of the waves upon
the beach, the sighing of the wind in the
trees; to see the sunlight shining through the
open windows, the dying man upon the bed,
the fainting wife, the sobbing children.
	Many years have passed since then and
the children who then mingled their tears
together have been separated from each other
and some have gone to solve the problem of
their existence behind the vail; but the one
that received the sweet “God bless you,” from
the lips of her dying father, still remains,
though separated from all her kindred.
	Many and vivid have been the sorrows and

[Column 3]
trials of her life, but the blessing she received
has been as a beacon light in her path, and an 
anchor to hold her amidst the storms of life.
(She still waits.)
PHEBE C. YOUNG.


WOMAN'S OPINION.

DEAR EXPONENT:
	I enjoy reading in the various publications
the beautiful sentiments and arguments of our
noble representative women of the nation for
the emancipation of our sex, from gross and de-
grading oppression by the stronger sex who
have so long retained the ascendancy and
arrogated to themselves the right of making
laws inimical to justice and humanity
which these most excellent and benevolent wo-
men are devoting their energies to rescue from
such thraldom so that woman may be placed
on a proper footing and have influence to
check the progress of inebriety and crime.
Instead, as in the past, women who have hus-
bands have had to toil and labor in poverty to
sustain their families while their husbands are
indulging in intemperance.
	On the other hand hosts of women, un-
married, are exposed to temptation and in-
duced to live lives of dishonor and consequent
misery. 

	Is it not true that the larger proportion of
women worthy to be wives of good men and
true have not the opportunity of becoming
wives and honorable mothers

	I would that all good women might receive
the benefit of the sublime teachings of the
martyred Prophet Joseph in regard to woman
whose friend he was and whose sayings I often
recognize emanating from the pen of writers
who have unwittingly adopted some of his
views. 

	My husband was considered worthy to per- 
form a historic mission to Palestine. In 1840
he was sent by the Prophet Joseph, and went
without purse or scrip, to dedicate that land
preparatory to the return of the Jews in ful-
fillment of prophecy and accomplished the
mission to the divine acceptance.
	Most of the Jews will gather in unbelief, and
by the force of circumstances, are compelled
to fulfill the prediction to return to Jerusalem
(laid waste) to the inheritance of their fore-
fathers.
	M. A. P. H.


R.S.,Y. L. M. I. A., AND P. A.
		REPORTS.

	EDEN WARD.
	Minutes of the Relief Society organization
of Liberty, Weber Co., held in the Liberty
school house Aug. 14, 1891. Pres: Jane S.
Richards presiding on the stand were Sister
Harriet Brown first counselor to Sister
Richards, also Josephine R. West Pres. of the
P. A. of Weber Co., and her counselor Eliza-
beth Y. Stanford, Sister Mamie M. Richards
Pres, of the Second Ward Primary, Ogden,
Brother Richards, Bishop Ferren and Martha
Ferren were also there.
	Meeting opened by singing “Come, come ye
saints.” Prayer by Joshua Judkins, singing
“Hail to the brightness." Sister Richards
said “my dear sisters I am glad we have come
up here to the end of Ogden Valley to or-
ganize a Relief Society, I feel glad that you
have such a nice looking place up here, your
crops are looking nice you must feel thankful
that you have no saloons up here When we
go to meeting in Ogden or Salt Lake we don’t


know half of the people. I do hope the sisters
feel united here in this place; do all you can
and the Lord will bless you, I have been go-
ing to a Relief Society in Ogden in which all
sects are joined, their meetings are a matter of
business, to see after the poor.
	I told them if they saw any of our
poor to let us know, we did not wish them to
take care of our poor for we had plenty to take
care of them; you must try and have your
meetings as often as you can, I think you
should have your meetings every two weeks,
and if you have them regular the Lord will
bless you;” made other good remarks and gave
good advice to all.
	Sister Brown said, this is a great deal
larger place than I thought it was, I am glad
to hear that you are going to organize a society
here, made a few good remarks, asking the
Lord to bless us all.
	Brother Richards, “I feel delighted in meet-
ing with you this morning, I can tell by your
looks that you are feeling well your duty is to
attend your meetings, so as you can speak to
one another, and before you go to meeting
ask the Lord to help you, and when you go
home you can work with less trouble, and be-
determined to come to your meetings and the
Lord will bless you; I have seen the time
when the sisters used to have such good
meetings that the brethren were jealous of
them. Brethren hitch up your teams go with
them to meeting and help them along as much
as you can, let me tell you brethren they be-
long to the Church as much as you do, and
have a right to administer to the sick. I
must not take any more of the time so I will
give way asking the Lord to bless you, Amen.”
	Bishop Joseph Ferren, I was at a Relief
Society a few months ago in Eden there were
some sisters from here, they said they would
like to have a Relief Society in Liberty so that
they could attend meeting oftener, so we in-
vited Sister Richards to come and organize a
Society, and after the organization if there is
any feelings go and make things right.
	Sister Richards said it had been moved and
seconded that Sister Mary A. Judkins be Presi-
dent of the Relief Society of Liberty, a full
vote was given; moved and seconded that
Sisters Mary A. Chard and Mary Campbell be
her Counselors, full vote; moved and seconded that
Sister Mary A. Ferren be Secretary, full
vote; moved and seconded that Sister Christina
Marshall be Treasurer, full vote.
	Sister Martha Ferren of Eden, said “I am
glad to be with the sisters today, we shall try
to meet with you in some of your meetings as
often as we can.”
	Sister Mary A. Judkins,“I was surprised for
the sisters to call on me to act as president,
but with the help of the Lord I will try and
do the very best I can, and we will try and
have our meeting next Thursday at 2 o’clock.
Singing “How will the saints rejoice to tell.”
Benediction by James Ferren.
	P. S. We are holding our meetings every
Thursday at 3 o’clock.
	MARY A. JUDKINS, Pres.
	MARY FERREN, Sec.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


ANNOUNCEMENTS.

NATIONAL AMERICAN WOMAN SUFFRAGE
CONVENTION.
	The twenty-fourth annual Washington Con-
vention will be held in The Church of Our
Father, corner L and Thirteenth St., January
17 to 21st inclusive.
	The address of the Treasurer, Jane H.
Spofford is 1412 G. St. N. W.
NOTICE TO THE MEMBERS OF N. A. W. S. A.
	The amendment proposed by me two years
ago to have the State vice-presidents elected by


the National American instead of as now hold-
ing that position by being president of an
auxiliary State society, will come before the
next convention for consideration. I shall
change my amendment so as to ask that the
auxiliary society elect the person who it may
choose to have represent it as the N. A. vice-
president. The point being to make the office
elective instead of ex-officio.
	CLARA BEWICK COLBY.


FINE ART OF TEA MAKING.

	Tea making in Japan is a fine art. The
teapot is small and dainty, like those sold for
bric-a-brac at Japanese shops, and the teacups,
often of fine cloissonnes with plain enameled
linings, are each no larger than a giant’s
thimble. With them is a pear-shaped pitcher
for boiling water, and a lacquer containing
choice tea. Among the the rich these appur-
tenances accompany a brand of tea so rare
that none of it is ever exported. The Japanese
host scoops out enough of the precious herb
(with an ivory implement shaped like a large
tea leaf) to loosely fill the little teapot. He
then pours over it hot, not boiling, water, and
in less than a moment the tea maker begins to
pour off a steam of pale yellow tea into cups
which are never filled more than half way up,
and they are at once served to visitors and
the family. It is needless to say that the tea
losing no part of its delicious aroma, is as
fragrant and delicate as any concoction can
possibly be.—Boston Transcript.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Rev. Amanda Deyo has been elected presi-
dent of the Lackawanna County (Pa.) Wo-
man Suffrage Association.
	The last number of the Australian Woman’s
Suffrage Journal reprints three of Mrs. Lillie
Devereux Blak'e’s “Suffrage Fables.”
	Montana’s World’s Fair Commission has
set aside $5,000 of the State’s appropriation of
$50,000 for the use of the women.
	At the last meeting of the Beneficent Society
of the New England Conservatory, Mrs. Rufus
S. Frost, one of the two members of the Board
of Lady Managers from Mass., spoke in behalf
of the work ot the Board.
	Mrs. Lillie Devereux Blake is to start early
in January on a tour of Southern meetings,
beginning in Maryland. Mrs. Blake was for
many years president of the New York State
Woman Suffrage Association. She is a well-
known woman, an able writer, and a ready
and experienced speaker, full mistress of her
subject, which she illustrates with a large fund
of interesting and touching stories, all of them
true.
	It is a curious fact that the total number of
men who voted last Tuesday for the Republi-
can candidate for Mayor of Boston (19,534)
was not equal in number to the women who
voted for school committee in Boston four
years ago (19,570) Had those women school
committee voters been enabled by their
victorious Republican allies in the Legislature
to vote for all city and town officers, the re-
sults of last year’s election and of this one
might have been very different.—Ex.


[column 1]
	MRS. M. E. VAN. M. D.
OFFICE.-- 324, 325 Third Floor, Constitution Building
HOURS.-- 8 to 10 a. m., 4 to 6 p. m.

[column 2]
	THE WOMAN’S TRIBUNE,
Edited and published weekly at Washington,
	D. C., by CLARA BEWICK COLBY.
Price, $1.00 a year. Trial Subscriptions, five
		weeks for 10 cents.
The Woman's Journal, of Boston, and the Woman's Tri-
	bune, of Washington, D. C., will be sent to one ad-
	dress for $3.00 per year.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
	Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
	ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
	AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
	POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But.
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
	No. 63 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
	Three doors west of Theatre.

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
	SALT LAKE CITY.
	The Leading Retail 
Cash House.
R.K.THOMAS

[Rio Grande Western Railway Logo]
THE
Standard Gauge
RAILWAY!
THROUGH THE
ROCKY MOUNTAINS!
Choice of Three Distinct Routes,
AND THE
MOST MAGNIFICENT RAILROAD SCENERY
IN THE WORLD.
Two Fast Express Trains Daily
EACH WAY BETWEEN
OGDEN, SALT LAKE AND DENVER.
ELEGANT RECLINING CHAIR CARS!
Free of Charge.
Direct Connections made in Union Depots.
THE MOST THOROUGHLY EQUIPPED RAILWAY
IN THE WEST.
D.O. DODGE, A. E.WELBY, J. H. BENNETT,
Genl. Mgr. Supt. G. F. & P. A. M. E. VAN,
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
DAVID JAMES Box 806. SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

﻿The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.   

VOL. 20. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 15, AND FEBRUARY 1, 1892. NO. 14.


CONTENTS.
	Rights of Wives and Husbands—R. M. F.    In
Rural England—A Story.    Sunday School for
the Deaf—H. C. B.    Birthday of a Veteran. A
Social Event—T. American Fork W. S. A.   S.
L. Co. W. S.    Fifty Years Past, and a Hundred
Years Hence—Dr. Elvira S. Barney.    Woman
Before the Law—Locomotive Firemen's Magazine.
Weber Co. W. S. A.    Interesting Visit Through
Millard Stake. 
	EDITORIAL:— Letter of Greeting.    Relief
Society Jubilee.    Editorial Notes.    In Memoriam.
Faith-Hope-Charity—S. W. Richards.    Christmas
at Mesa—Sarah M. Pomroy.
	POETRY:—A Sonnet—E. B. W.    Love Divine
—E. R. S.    White Lilacs—Annie Fields.  Sunday
School Song—Augusta Joyce Crocheron. Greet-
ing to the Press Club—R. M. Fox.


A SONNET.

I sit in the shadows, and twilight,
	Peering through the deep mists of the grey,
	To the years that long since swept away;
Till around falls the silence of midnight,
But a vision has dawned on my sight,
	And has shown me a path o’er the way
	To the floodgates of infinite day;
Tired footsteps at last guided right.
	Sweet music floats o’er me uplifting,
The strong walls of the past cleave apart;
	Pale light the dense darkness is rifting,
Tears of rapture unconsciously start;
	And memory's wavelets are drifting
To the innermost depths of my heart.
								E. B W.


LOVE DIVINE.

Oh Father if I’ve been unkind—
	Unjust in word or thought—
If any heart my acts offend,
	Or sorrow to a friend have brought,
Forgivness now of Thee I seek,
	And power self to subdue.
O make me strong wherein I’m weak
	Help me forgive like You!

Bless me with charity and love, 
	And faith in human kind;
To see the good in others’ hearts, 
	And to their faults be blind.
A helping hand in love extend
	To any down the hill,
That I may prove a loyal friend
	To suffering, sad or ill.

And if a heart is sad or sore 
	From slight, or words unkind—
May I the balm of solace pour, 
	Their wounds to soothe and bind.
O help me love humanity
	And all its virtues see,
For those who love most earnestly
	Are surely most like Thee.
								E. R. S.


WINTER LILACS.

A bunch of lilacs there by the door,
	These and no more !
Delicate, lily-white, like the new snow
	Falling below;
A friend saw the flowers and brought them to me,
	As one who should see
A trifle, a glove, just dropped and returned
	While a loving thought burned.


Dark all day was that room of mine
	Till those flowers divine
Into my darkness brought their own light,
	And back to the sight,
Of my spirit the fairest days of June
	And the brooklet's tune;
Where the garden-door was left open wide,
	While by my side
One sat, who, raising his eyes from the book
	With the old fond look,
Asked if I loved not indeed that page
	And the words of the sage.
And as we spoke the cool blue sky,
	The robin nigh,
The dropping blossoms of locust-trees
	Humming with bees,
The budding garden, the season's calm,
	Dropt their own balm.

All these, my friend, were brought back to me,
	Like a tide of the sea,
When out of winter and into my room;
	Came summer's bloom;
The flowers reopened those shining gates
	Where the soul waits,
Many and many a day in vain,
	While in the rain
We stand, and, doubting the future, at last
	Forget the past !

So you will believe what a posy may do,
	When friends are true,
For the sick at heart in the wintry days,
	When nothing allays
The restless hunger, the tears that start,
	The weary smart,
But the old, old love and the summer hush,
	And the lilac bush.
					ANNIE FIELDS, in Scribuer.


RIGHTS OF WIVES AND HUSBANDS.

	In these times when so much is being said
about woman and her rights I suppose we may
all have the privilege of expressing our opinion;
no matter how much we may differ with each
other. I do not profess to be up to the times on
this question, so perhaps my ideas will not
weigh much. I do not remember a time in my
life when I did not feel that women were the
equal of their brothers but have always been
willing to accord them the leadership (if they
were worthy men) and believe the Lord so de-
signed it when He created Adam first, and
there is another thing I often think about,
why are we required to promise to obey our
husbands in the marriage ceremony? if he is
not our head, or do we expect sometime in the
future to strike that little word out.
	Now do not smile and think I am an old
fogy as I assure you I am quite willing to be
the neck. But while I am willing he should be
the head it does not follow that I am his in-
ferior. Nevertheless let us each work in our
proper sphere for I certainly think there are
many things that women are not adapted for,
just as I think there are many vocations in
life where men would be entirely out of place.
	As to women being educated in all the arts
and sciences, and being informed on all the
topics of the day, or being Lawyers, Doctors,
Teachers, Editors, Clerks, etc., if they so de-
sire it I certainly think it their right and
privilege, and believe that intelligent thinking
mothers will be repaid with intelligent sons
and daughters, and am convinced that educa-
tion of women will bring about refinement in
men. Women are accused of being weak.

[column 2]
Wherein are they weak? I will tell you
where, in their loves and sympathies, for in-
stance how many faults a woman will overlook
in her lover, and grave ones too, even if she
knows they are serious and has made up her
mind not to tolerate them; a few promises, a
few soft words, and with a few exceptions she
will be won over and conclude that after all
he means to be good, and he will very likely
grow better as he grows older.
	That is where our weak point lies, and the
sooner we overcome that one the better it will
be for us, for while I think we should love, we
should let wisdom lead the way and guide us
and not marry thinking to reform our hus-
bands afterwards; let woman demand that her
husband be endowed with every virtue that
she is expected to possess. There are few
men, no matter how degraded they may be
but think their wives should be the embodi-
ment of purity, and very few would marry a
woman that would smoke or chew tobacco or
use intoxicants to excess; they would laugh at
the very idea; and yet although these were the
least of their vices they think it allright because
they call themselves men, to ask the hand of
the purest woman in the land in marriage.
Custom has caused us to think that degrad-
ing actions in women are trifles in men; this
is all wrong; it is just as bad for a man to sin,
as for a woman and we should let all men
know that women so understand it.
	Many of us have thought we must always
have a watchful eye over our daughters, but
our sons could go almost anywhere and take
care of themselves But I say while we guard
our daughters, as the apple of our eye, let us
also watch over our sons; and teach them that
God requires of them the same purity of mind,
and body that He does of their sisters, let
them understand that society expects it, that
women demand it, and then, and not till then
should they call themselves the lords of crea-
tion. It is unreasonable for a smart intelligent
woman to take an inferior feeble-minded,
whiskey-soaked, tobacco smoked man, for a
husband and look up to him as her head and
dictator, but when he fills the requirements I
have mentioned and is endowed with all the
attributes God designed he should have, there
will be few contentions about our proper place
for such a man will be quite willing to give us
every right, and what true woman will not do
any good thing to please such a husband.
						  R. M. F.


IN RURAL ENGLAND.

				VIII.
	When Lady Anna rushed out of the house
that inauspicious morning that her lover had
called, she heeded not the teachings and advice
of her more self contained cousin, she thought
not of the consequence of her rash act—she
only knew, she only felt that her unbounded
love for him must have expression, and in the
open air she realized a feeling of relief; she
waited until the sound of the horse’s footsteps
were heard and then with all the impassioned
ardor of an unsophisticated child who trusted
implicitly in one beloved almost to adoration,
she stood until she felt the horse’s breath; the
young man was so absorbed, so gloomy and
disappointed that he had not observed her
though she was standing there that he might be


[column 1]
﻿sure to see her. In a moment he had dis-
mounted and before he was aware of it even,he
had caught her in his arms, and pressed her
warm lips to his in a long and passionate kiss.
He came to his senses momentarily and felt
that he was guilty of a flagrant error, but the
girl clung to him and begged him to remember
that she loved him only and always, ever and
for ever, and the hoarse wind echoed her words
upon the breeze,and they came ringing back in
broken numbers,—ever, forever.
	What Maitland Walton’s feelings were at
this unexpected declaration of love from Lady
Anna he could scarcely define to himself. He
knew that he loved her truly notwithstanding
her cousin Jane’s suspicions and her father’s
obstinacy, but now a new objection had arisen,
one that he had never suspected in the positive
enmity of the two families. Both were proud
and unrelenting; assuredly young Walton had
food for thought.
	Lady Anna would probably have fled with
him on that morning had he been as unprin-
cipled as many young men of his age and
class, but he checked his ardor and roused 
himself to a sense of his honor and resolved
that no sin should rest upon him in this matter
that he would win her honorably before all
the world, would conquer every obstacle in
the path to their future happiness, or leave
England forever. He could not remain under
the trees to have any conversation or explain
anything to her in fact all was vague in his
own mind, he made no formal promises or pro-
testations, but she knew instictively as every
woman knows, that his love was not the senti-
ment of an idle hour, a summer pastime.
When he had gone, for he flew as on the wings
of the wind from the temptation that haunted
him, his sweetheart gazed lovingly after him
then fell upon her knees and prayed to die
rather than live without him; little she knew
of prayer, yet as we all when we are utterly
desolate seek the Lord knowing little enough
of His divine character, yet earnestly asking
help from the only Source that is able to give.
Poor girl, she had not been taught faith nor
any of the great and grand principles that are
the rock and refuge of the human soul in times
of trial and of perplexity. Alas! how many
such in the wide world go down for lack of the
simple knowledge of God, that would give
them the true sublimity of courage in the hour
of need.
	But perchance in this case as in some others
her good angel stood by to deliver her in the
hour of peril. She rose hesitatingly and care-
fully retraced her way to the house, and up to
her own room; there her maid found her later
in the day, with wet feet, and damp garments;
but a heavy sleep had come over her after a
violent fit of weeping, and her cousin being
summoned had her undressed and put to bed.
Sir Edward was so upset by the interview
with young Walton that Miss Conway did not
venture to tell him of his daughter’s condi-
tion, but went on with the work of packing for
the anticipated journey; her thoughts busily
occupied with the events transpiring around
her, and what was likely to follow. After
Lady Anna’s adventure she seemed still more
melancholy, she took no interest in what was
going on, and left all home matters to her
cousin, who seemed old beyond her years, and
her decision was the ultimatim on all doubtful
questions. 
	Sir Edward went about more like one in a
dream, than a man in his sober senses after the
visit of Lady Walton. It had left a decided
impression upon him; he was more mellow in
his feelings, but seemingly fearful that any one
should observe it even his own niece or child.
Dr. Bland noticed it and spoke to Miss Con-
way upon the subject, he was being more and
more interested in this peculiarly attractive
and strong-minded young woman every day.
[column 2]
In fact he was beginning to comprehend his
own feelings, and analyze them somewhat in
the solitude of his laboratory, and wonder
what was to be the outcome of indications he
observed in his relations with the lady, who
had made his visits at the Castle of so much
more frequent occurrence. He had never be-
lieved it possible for him to be in love with
any object except his profession; it had been
first and foremost ever since he entered upon
his practice and in his career as a Dr. he
had seen and in fact been brought in close
contact with many beautiful and fascinating
women.
	The evening that the preparations for the
journey were completed and they had decided
to go up to London in the early morning Dr.
Bland made his final call to say Good Bye
and caution Sir Edward in regard to his
health; he had communed with his own heart
had made up his mind to let Miss Conway go
away without declaring himself, and yet he
reproached himself somewhat for being
cowardly, “she will never know and it will be
better so,” he said over and over when alone,
and then he would involuntarily exclaim ‘‘but
she is sacrificing herself to the caprice of this
old uncle who has no regard for her more than
to make his life less burdensome.”
	Opportunities sometimes do for us what we
lack courage to do for ourselves,and so it came
about with the genial kind hearted Doctor.
Miss Conway not suspecting the Dr.’s feel-
ings and not knowing his decision in regard
to herself asked him to step into the drawing
room that she might consult him on a private
matter. Sir Edward was in his own room and
Anna engaged in entertaining him. Alone
with Miss Conway the Dr. was not half as self-
possessed as the young woman, he fidgeted
while she explained that she was about to ask
his advice upon a very delicate matter, and
one that he must keep a profound secret. His
heart seemed twice its usual size, he felt faint
and weak, and begged her pardon without
knowing what he said for being so dull and
promised all and more than she wished. Her
cautious way of stating the difficulties that
had lately arisen, to hinder the intimacy be-
tween her cousin and Mr. Walton revealed
her true character more clearly than ever to
the good man, and when she had finished he
said, “what a fine diplomat you would make
Jane,” at the same moment taking her hand
in his, she drew herself up to her full height
which was not very great, quickly withdrew
her hand from the warm clasp, and turning
her eyes full of indignation upon him was
about to walk proudly away, but all at once
his manliness came to his relief from embar-
rassment, and he conquered by the force of
will-power, that in the best and greatest men
is intuitively recognized even in the most
heroic women; he succeeded in getting Miss
Conway to listen, and urged on by the per-
sonality of her charming presence, he became
as eloquent as any young lover. The quiet
young girl who had made up her mind be-
forehand to a life of single-blessedness, fancy-
ing herself unlovely, and almost without
friends, was completely taken by surprise; for
the first time in her life perhaps she was
totally at a loss to know what reply to make
to such vehement utterances, and stood
like one petrified. “I will not urge my suit
farther at the present moment, but leave you
to decide my destiny after serious reflection,
while absent in person; and without giving
her the least advice on the subject under
consideration previous to his informal
announcement of his own cause, he bade her
a most affectionate farewell and rushed pell mell
out of the house leaving the young lady quite
as astonished as he was himself at his moment-
ary audicity. Jane Conway began to think
the world was turning upside down, coming
[column 3]
from the quiet of her former home into the
midst of the rush and excitement that had
lately taken place in the old ruin of a castle,
that in outward appearance was almost un-
inhabitable; the girl could not sleep, so
strange did it seem that any one should love
her, she almost forgot her cousin’s troubles in
contemplation of her own feelings.
	Morning came at last and after a hasty
breakfast and many admonitions to the old
housekeeper and the steward the lumbering
old coach drove out of the immense gateway
into the open country road. Lady Anna
was silent and thoughtful, traces of tears were
on her fair cheek and Jane was not as attentive
to her uncle’s comfort as usual. Sir Edwrrd
growled at his valet,and was disagreeable with
the girls, but they took no notice until he
broke out all of a sudden in his usual style
more emphatic than elegant—‘ Jane one would
think you were breaking your heart at leaving
the old tumbled down place, by George your
not muah company for a gouty old fellow like
me who needs bracing up, I’m sick of
sentimentality and dont care ever to see the
old place again, I’ll live abroad after this, and
see that my girl steers clear of that young
jack-a napes, and Jane what has come over
you, has Dr. Bland proposed? any one can
see he’s heod over ears in love, you refused
him undoubtedly and he chuckled to himself
I knew he’d make himself ridiculous. If he
knew when he was well off he’d let women
alone, besides I want you to look after me and
your unruly cousin here.” No oue interrupting
or answering him made him savage. Jane’s
cheeks were blazing she would’nt trust herself
to reply and after venting his spleen a few
minutes longer he settled back in the carriage
and fell fast asleep.

SUNDAY SCHOOL FOR THE DFAF.
	The conse t of the Principals of the Deseret
University having been obtained to a Sunday
School for children in the Deal Mute Dept. an
organization was effected.—ED.
	Sketch of organization of L. D. S. Sunday
School for the Deaf, Salt Lake City, Sunday
Jan. 10, 1892. Stake S. S. Superintendent T.
C. Griggs and his Assistants R. S. Horne and
W. C. Burton met Elders H. C. Barrell and
Laron Pratt at the Utah School for the Deaf
where Principal F. W. Metcalf furnished us
with a list of 11 girls and 16 boys as pupils for
our S. School. With them we marched to the
19th Ward Relief Society Room Mr. Metcalf
kindly assisting as interpreter. The pro-
gramme was as follows: Prayer by Supt. T.
C. Griggs, statement of object of meeting to
organize S. School, nearly all present had been
baptized; none held the Priesthood. Elder
H. C. Barrell was appointed as Supt. of S.
School and Elder Laron Pratt as his assistant,
each addressing a few words to the school.
Brother W. C Burton inquired how many had
attended S.School before and many responded.
Brother R. S. Horne related the circumstances
of the crucifixion and death of Christ and Prof.
Metcalf interpreted it. Roll called and
distribution of the first principles of the Gospel
as a lesson for next Sunday. Benediction by
R. S. Horne.				H. C. B.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Two deputy United States Marshals of
Tennessee have been fined $1,000 and sentenced
by Judge Key to twelve and a half months in
the penitentiary for working up frivolous
prosecutions for the purpose of obtaining fees.
Utah should have such a judge, for in this
Territory a large number of cases against the
Mormons are trumped up for the same purpose,
as may be seen from the large number of
arrests and the few convictions. 
	Woman’s Tribune.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SUNDAY SCHOOL SONG.

[Written for the South Bountiful Central Sunday
School.]
Ye children saints of Latter-days,
Assemble at the Throne,
And make your songs of joy and praise,
For mercies God has shown.
For heritage in this fair land,
The choicest spot on earth;
Where God led forth His chosen band,
And proved the Gospel’s worth.

Here desolation long had reigned .
O’er barren wastes and snows,
But God the desert has reclaimed
 blossoms as the rose;
And while astray from holy lands,
No hope the red man knew,
The Book of Mormon brought him joy 
And shaped his life anew.

And here to Him in Sabbath hour,
In gratitude we bend,
Oh may His Spirit’s quickening power,
Our listening hearts attend.
Help us to know Thy holy will,
And faithful servants be;
That rising from this life we’ll find
Our selves at home with Thee.
	Augusta Joyce Crocheron


GREETING TO THE PRESS CLUB.

My sisters so dear in meeting you here
	At this our first monthly meeting,
A word I would say in my own humble way,
	By way of Godspeed and a greeting.

May this little band, increase in the land,
	In numbers and knowledge and grace;
May wisdom here grow, and the good spirit flow,
	And truth ever beam in our faces.

And here if we would, 'tis right that we should,
	Discuss all important, great questions
Take line upon line, in their order and time,
	Thus helping the work of perfection.

Of topics quite new, there are not a few,
	To which we might give our attention,
And principles grand, revealed by God's hand,
	Would be noble themes for reflection.

So here like the flow'rs, amid sunshiny showers,
	May we be refreshed, and renewed,
To take up the strife, in the battle of life,
With new courage, and vigor imbued.

And thus we'll go on, 'tis not very long
	Ere Zion will rise in her might;
And women we'll need, that are women indeed,
	That will struggle for truth and the right.

And is it not true 'tis pleasant to view
	A true band of sisters together?
And if we do good, in the way that we should,
	Our Father will bless us forever.

		R. M. FOX.
Nov. 30, 1891.


BIRTHDAY OF A VETERAN.

	On Sunday Jan. 17, 1892 Patriarch Jos.
Horne attained the ripe age of four score
years. On Monday his family and friends
assembled by invitation to honor him and
celebrate the anniversary of his birth. The
children and grandchildren and friends that
were gathered on this happy occasion were
about as many as the number of his years.
The party was given at the residence of his
daughter and son in law Bro. and Sister
H. C. James. Pres. W. Woodruff with whom
Bro. Horne had long been associated was
present, also Pres. Geo. Q. Cannon, and Pres.
Angus M. Cannon and Pres. Jos. E. Taylor,
Bishop O. F. Whitney and Bishop Geo. H.
Taylor, Bro. David James also Sister Zina D


H, Young, S. M. Kimball, B. W. Smith
Emma Woodruff, Sarah Jane Cannon,
Elizabeth Howard, E. B. Wells, E. S. Taylor,
Amanda M. Cannon, Lissa Taylor, Zine
Whitney, Lydia James and other friends-
	A programme had been arranged consisting
of a variety of pleasing exercises, and opening
with an address from one of the older sons.
There was some instrumental music and a song
by Cornelia Horne Clayton which was very
appropriate,rendered in a sweet voice and with
fine expression, "Dear heart I’m growing old,"
also a recitation by the baby of the family,
the youngest daughter, toasts and speeches by
members of the family all expressing love and
reverence were given, after which Pres.
Woodruff occupied a short time in interesting
reminiscences of days when Bro. Horne and
himself were young,and the great improvements
and inventions since that time; and related
some experiences. Pres Cannon and brethren
and sisters who followed him all spoke of their
friendship and esteem for Bro. Horne and
family and wished him continued blessings of
prosperity, health aad happiness.
	It was a most delightful evening, and a
sweet spirit and influence seemed shed abroad
and filled every heart. Bro. Horne responded
to the remarks made in a very happy manner,
alluded to earlier experiences and his gratitude
in receiving the Gospel in his early manhood.
Sister M. I. Horne his wife, (their marriage
dates back 55 years and more,) directed her
remarks principally to the young members of
the family, who know little of the trials and
privations their parents have endured now
when surrounded with so many comforts and
luxuries. Sister Horne related a few incidents
in her past life, that were very telling, and
calculated to make a lasting impression upon
the young people. Bro. and Sister Horne are
a fine looking aged couple and their family
though large is a very exemplary one. The
eldest son, who also has quite a large family,
resides in Arizona and was not present at the
birthday gathering; one daughter Mrs. Nora
Horne Spencer came from Idaho to participate
in the family festivities.
	A most delicious repast including ice cream
and other delicacies as well, was served by the
daughters and grand daughters of the aged
and venerable patriarch. Such gatherings
and family reunions are pleasant and pro-
ductive of unity and kindly feeling, promote
affection and engender those tender sentiments
that bind together those whose lives as they
grow older, sometimes drift wider apart. A
long and useful life is deserving of honor and
the example of such men as Bro. Jos. Horne is
worthy of imitation


A SOCIAL EVENT.

	On the evening of Dec. 30th, 1891, a
company of invited guests assembled at the
residence of Mr. and Mr. S. O. Crosby at
Panguitch. After a cordial welcome, of the
host and hostess and greetings of friends, a
programme was read consisting of songs,
recitations and dialogues, all of which were
nicely rendered. The music is deserving of
special mention. The singing, which was
accompanied by music on the organ, was
exquisite and gave a still more elevated tone
to the gathering. A sumptuous supper was
served which was freely indulged in by all.
In every respect the entertainment was a
brilliant and enjoyable one and the evening
will long be remembered. After congratulating
our genial host and hostess upon their happy
manner of entertaining their friends, and
returning thanks for the same, the party
was dismissed with a benediction by Pres. J.
W. Crosby Jr.
			T.


AMERICAN FORK W. S. A.

	The W. S. A. of American Fork convened
in the meeting house Nov. 29, 1891 to elect
officers for the ensuing term. The exercises
began with singing and prayer, after which
the secretary read financial report for the
year 1891. President Electa Bullock,
presented the business of the meeting. By
the unanimous vote of the meeting Hannah
S. Lapish, was re-elected for president, Mary
A. Evans, Sec., Alice Elsmore, Asst Sec.,
Mary Bonam, Treasurer. Emily Keppernick,
Chairman of the Executive Committee.
Esther Eastmond, Orpha Robinson, Phoebe
Crysteson and Elizabeth Shelley it was left
until another meeting to choose two more to
make the number complete. The Co. Pres.
expressed herself highly pleased with the
success attained the past year, and felt with
such energetic workers sure of success in the
coming year. A vote of thanks was given to
the several Committees for the efficiency in
which they have performed their different
labors. After singing and prayer—Adjourned.
			MARY A. EVANS, Sec.
	American Fork, Jan. 4th, 1892.


S. L. CO. W. S. A.

	The regular monthly meeeting of the Salt
Lake W. S. A. was held in the 13th ward
Assembly Rooms, Jan. 19th 1892 Pres.
Elizabeth Howard in the chair. Opened by
singing from the Suffrage Song Book "O come
come away" Prayer by Mary A. Freeze.
Minutes of the last meeting read and approved.
Roll called. after which several new members
were voted in and the programme was carried-
out as follows. Speech by C. C. R. Wells
subject, What do we gain by meeting together
as an association. Reading by Dr. E. S.
Barney "The Woman's Manual of Parlia-
mentary Law" also sketches from "The
Woman's Club Book." Elizabeth Price gave
some items on the Constitution and mentioned
that the association contemplated having a
sociable some time in the "near future" the
time and place to be anounced later on. Vice
Pres. Caroline E. Dye made a brief speech.
Vice Pres. Phebe C. Young said some ladies
paid their membership fee, had their names
enrolled and seemed to think their duty done,
which was well so far as it went, but of
course they could not expect to be educated on
the suffrage question without attending the
association aud taking a part in it. Pres.
Howard expressed her pleasure at the way in
which the exercises had been rendered, and
the interest which was manifested by the ladies
in the cause in which we are laboring, and
begged earnestly of the ladies to pray for the
members of the U. S. Congress, and our Utah
Legislature that they might have wisdom to
guide them in their labors.
	Adella Eardley advocated strict order in
conducting meetings, economy of time, short
speeches, variety of speakers and giving all
the members an opportunity of exerciseing
their ability in the management of the associa-
tion. Elizabeth McFarlane said she liked
extremists!. The Lord had said once of Israel,
He would that they were either hot or cold,
liked a person with a hobby, and loved to have
them ride it. Several meetings were
announced for the present and coming week,
after which the meeting was adjourned until
the third Tuesday in Feb. same hour and
place.
			C. C. R. WELLS, Sec.


It is better to suffer wrong than to do it, and
happier to be sometimes cheated than not to
trust.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT

WOMAN'S EXPONENT 

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
gne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate cast of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, 	JAN. 15, AND FEB. 1. 1892.


LETTER OF GREETING.

TO THE SISTERS OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD WE UNITEDLY EXTEND
A HEARTFELT GREETING.

	It will be fifty years on Thursday, March 17,
1892, since Joseph Smith the Prophet organized
the Relief Society in Nauvoo, Illinois by Divine
inspiration.
	Sister Emma Smith was elected President, and
Sister Elizabeth Ann Whitney and Sister Sarah
M. Cleveland Counselors, Sister Eliza R. Snow,
was appointed Secretary, Sister Phebe M.
Wheeler, Assistant Secretary, and Sister Elvira
A Cole, Treasurer; after which the ceremony of
ordination was performed and Pres. Joseph
Smith declared the Society organized.
	This most momentous event for woman causes
us to view with wonder the past, with gratitude
the present and with faith the future. Therefore
it seems fitting in this our Jubilee year at the
close of half a century, that the branches of this
Society in all lands should unite in celebrating
this grand anniversary by meeting together in joy-
ful yet solemn assembly and that this great
gathering may mark an important period in the
history of this organization for woman.

	INSTRUCTIONS.

	First: The President and Counselors of each
branch are requested to notify all members of the
Relief Society of the Jubilee.
	Second; Let the presiding authorities in each
locality, or ward be consulted and a cordial invi-
tation extended to them.
	Third: Let Committees be appointed to assist
in making preparations for the day, and io invite
those who are to participate in the celebration,
that none may be neglected or forgotten.
	Fourth: That all meet promptly at ten o'clock
in the morning, rendering such exercises as shall
be suitable to this important occasion, including a
brief sketch of the history of the Relief Society
to be prepared and read by some one selected for
the purpose.
	Fifth: At 12 o'clock m., (high noon) let all join
in a universal prayer of praise and thanksgiving
to God; after which let each branch arrange an
entertainment according to their circumstances
that it may be a time of rejoicing never to be for-
gotten.
			ZINA D. H. YOUNG.
			JANE S. RICHARDS
			BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.


[Column 1]

THE RELIEF SOCIETY JUBILEE.

	On the 17th of March of this year there will be
a grand Jubilee of the Relief Society held in all
countries where there has been a branch of this

[Column 2]

organization raised up. The programme has not
yet been prepared for the celebration here in the
centre Stake of Zion but will be in good time.
Meantime a Letter of Greeting has been prepared
by the General Presidency of the Relief Society,
and also a few special instructions that there may
be union and a similarity in the services rendered
throughout the world. This seems to be in keep-
ing with the spirit of such a momentous occasion.
	The length and breadth and vast extent of the
work, spiritual and temporal that has been done
during the half century that is past since the first
complete organization, of woman in the West of
which we have any knowledge,which was effected
in Nauvoo, Illinois, March 17, 1842, cannot be
estimated by any method within the reach of our
finite comprehension. To be sure records have
been kept in branches and in Stakes and also a
general record of such items as were considered
sufficiently important.
	But the best things are seldom set down in the
books anywhere, nor indeed can they be, and yet
we have the assurance of our Savior that our
Father in heaven takes note of all these little
things that seem so small even to us who live
upon the earth.
	Thousands have been comforted, encouraged,
fed with the bread of life and ministered unto by
the sisters of the Relief Society, that would prob-
ably not have been thus blessed had it not been
for this perfected organization, that has taught its
members to search out not only the needy and
distressed bodily, but the sorrowing, the erring,
the doubting, and the tempted ones who need the
uplifting hand of kindness and of tender solici-
tude.
	See that ye love one another were the words of
the Great Master in his teachings to the people,
and those who profess to be his disciples, his fol-
lowers should put his precepts into practise in
their lives. Those we love we desire to honor, to
show favor to, kindness, courtesy and attention.
When men and women do more of this, when
they study to imitate the example of Him, who
was without sin, blameless, then they will com-
prehend in a higher and better sense the charity
that Paul spoke of, the charity "that thinketh no
ill," the charity "that never faileth."
	These are some of the simple first lessons to be
learned by the sisters who have united themselves
together to go on to perfection.
	Just how the Jubilee will be kept in all lands, is
not yet known. In places afar off the character of
the entertainments will have to be determined by
those who know better than the officers here can
possibly know, what will be most suitable to their
feelings and most appropriate to their circum-
stances.
	One fact is pretty well established and that is
that the Relief Society has become a power and
wields a wonderful influence wherever its
branches are spread abroad. It is not only
National but International and has become con-
nected to both these great Federations that have
held their Councils at the Capitol of the United
States. In every town and hamlet where a branch
of the Church is raised up, a good proportion of
its members are women, and very soon they are
organized into a Relief Society and become part
and portion of the parent society and assimilate
with it. The spirit of this Society extends to the
most remote branch even upon the far off islauds
of the sea, and there we find the sisters though
unknowing of the methods pursued here in Zion,
doing similar works of charity, benevolence and
kindness. The Jubilee to be celebrated this year
will crystalize the works and efforts of the women
of Zion into something of greater magnitude and
more extensive proportions than the Society has
hitherto assumed.
	The teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith to
the Society in its infancy, should be engraven
upon the minds of the sisters for their encourage-

[Column 3]

ment in that higher development of character
that, they are desirous of reaching.
	It is perhaps not generally known that Pres.
Joseph Smith at that early time donated to the
Society a lot on which to build homes for the
homeless, and also to furnish work to those who
were able to work and were out of employment,
he proposed deeding it to the Treasurer and
her successors in office,for the use of the Society.
Pres. Brigham Young when he reorganized the
Society here in these valleys authorized Sister
Eliza R. Snow and those associated with her to
carry out the original designs as set forth by the
Prophet Joseph and as recorded in the Books of
the secretary that were in Sister Eliza's posses-
sion. This has been the endeavor of those who
have presided all along from that time until the
present.
	And now at the close of the half century of
labor and effort for improvement on the part of
the noble women who have enrolled themselves
as active members of this organization how can
they prove their integrity to the cause,their grati-
tude to God, better than to celebrate in some way
that shall be most general and productive of the
greatest good to all concerned, this day of days,
this woman's Jubilee?


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The suffrage leaflets issued by the S. L. Co.
W. S. Association may be obtained free by ad-
dressing this office, if sufficient stamps are sent
for postage. The leaflet contains the article from
D. P. Fett of Provo, "A Man's Advice About
Woman Suffrage," and the able reply by Sarah M.
Kimball.
	On account of unavoidable circumstances one
incident being the long illness of one of the girl
typo's there will not be a paper for January 15,
except one issued Febuary 1, which is dated on
its title page Jan. 15, and Feb. 1. Compensation
will be made each subscriber however in another
way, so they need have no fear of loss.
	The "Utah Woman Suffrage Song Book" pub
lished by the Ter. Association is for sale at this
office, 10. cts. per copy and we would be very glad
to dispose of them to the local associations or to
individuals. They ought to be used in the suf-
frage meetings having been prepared and printed
for that purpose, as many were at a loss for songs
suitable for these occasions. Nearly all the songs
are by home writers and the tunes are those in
common use, so that they can be available to all,
please send orders and they will be promptly
filled if accompanied with money, as the books
have been on hand more than a year and very
few have been sold, not half enough to pay for
the printing.
	The book of the proceedings at the National
Council in Washington last winter entitled
"National Council of Women 1891," is for sale at
this office, and we should be very glad to have
it circulated among the women interested in
organized work, whether benevolent, social, or
political or in any way progressive. The book
contains speeches and papers from some of the
most eminent women of the country, on many
topics of advanced thought. It is a work that can
be read, reread, studied and discussed and cannot
fail but make an impression for good, the price is
one dollar only and the book contains 372 pages
and is well bound and has photogravures of
the two boards of officers, five of each, the one
elected in 1888 the other in 1891—when sending
for book please enclose twenty cts., postage.
You will get much more than the worth of your
money.
	Special meetings are being held in the several
wards in this City for the purpose of awakening


an interest in and agitating the questions of Citi-
zenship and Suffrage. Women interested in this
movement for political and educational advance-
ment in the respective wards have presided at
such meetings and arranged programmes for the
occasion. The first meeting was held in the
Eleventh Ward on Friday Jan. 15. Mary A.
Freeze Chairman, Lizzie L. Felt, Sec., and the
other members of the Committee were Dr. Ellis
R. Shipp, Sarah White and Jeannette Morris.
After singing from the Suffrage Song Book, prayer
was offered and Dr. Elvira S. Barney read Zerelda
G. Wallace's Suffrage leaflet, speeches by E. B.
Wells and Lillie T. Freeze. The next meeting was
on Tuesday Jan. 19, in the 17th Ward at the resi-
dence of W. J. Beattie, Phebe Y. Beattie Chair-
man and Ella Dallas Secretary. Dr. Barney read
Henry Ward Beecher's suffrage leaflet and
Apostle John Henry Smith made an eloquent ad-
dress on political questions generally touching
upon the local situation and the woman ques-
tion. Pres. Sarah M. Kimball followed with logi-
cal reasonings and E. B. Wells spoke briefly. In
the third Ward Thursday Jan. 21, a meeting was
held at which Della W. Eardley presided and
Miss Irvine was chosen Secretary. Hon.
C. W. Penrose was expected but could not go
and sent a paper instead which was read by Dr.
Maggie C. Shipp, speeches were made by Emily
S. Richards, and Dr. Elvira S. Barney. In the
tenth Ward Friday afternoon a meeting was held
where the speakers were Dr. Elvira S. Barney,
Elizabeth Mc'Farlane, Elizabeth Price, M.
Isabella Horne, Phebe C. Young, Mary A.
Freeze, Margaret M. Caine, and Hon. C. W.
Penrose.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

IN MEMORIAM.

"Of all the thoughts of God that are
Born inward unto souls afar
	Along the Psalmist's music deep, 
Now tell me if that any is,
For gifts or grace surpassing this—
	'He giveth His beloved sleep.' "

	Death often steals away from those who love
them the dearest and the best, the purest spirits,
the fairest flowers of earth, those that gladden
and cheer the home, and whose faces are ever
light with peace and joy. "Death loves a shining
mark," has been written and so it has been in the
sudden departure of the two young women who
died so closely to each other, daughters of the
late President Brigham Young.
	It was a terrible shock to the community when
it was announced that Mrs. Talula Young Wood
only a few months married, was dead, and when
on the following morning it was known that the
spirit of her sister Mrs. Fanny Young Thatcher
had also taken its flight from earth, to those who
loved them most, the blow seemed heavier than
ever. Both were talented and accomplished, and
very generally beloved.
	Fanny the eldest was the daughter of Lucy
Decker and Brigham Young and was born in
pioneer times, January 25, 1849, she died Jan. 21,
1892, nearly 43 years of age; she leaves a married
daughter and two boys and one grandson. Lovely
and tender as a mother, a devoted and affectionate
wife, constant and true in friendship, and faithful
in all the relations of life, and in all the duties
and privileges of a Latter-day Saint; tenderly
loved, and ardently admired for her womanly at-
tributes and graces, of which she seemed not to
lack one; she possessed rare talent in music and
had composed some beautiful pieces when quite
young, but her eyes failing her, she was compelled
to forego this pleasure; her very soul was sym-
pathetically musical and she has gone now to

		"Join, the choir invisible,
	Of those immortal dead who live again.

	When the Central Board of the Young Ladies

[Column 2]

Association was organized June 18, 1880, Mrs.
Thatcher was chosen Treasurer and filled the
office up to the time of her demise. She has
filled the position of President of the Primary in
the 18th, Ward, also President of the Young
Ladies' Association of the Ward, which place she
occupied when called away. Her loss will be
deeply felt in the Ward for she was always ready
to give good gifts as well as sympathy and com-
fort. She had been in delicate health and in fact
suffered a great deal during the past few years,
though she never lost courage, and her faith in
the administration of the ordinances of the priest-
hood was firm to the last. Dear Fanny, sweet and
lovely in her earth life, has gone, we mourn for
the loss of her society here, but she rejoices with
her loved ones there, and we know that "All is
well." May our Heavenly Father comfort the
bereaved ones, the children especially who have
been called to part with an angelic mother, and
may they emulate her noble and wise example,
her patience, and fortitude of character, her self-
sacrifice and deuotion to the principles of the
Gospel.

	"So—by small slow footsteps,
		By the daily cross,
	By the hearts unspoken yearning,
		By its grief and loss;
	So He brings them home to rest
	With the victors crowned and blest!

	So!—by scattered ruins,
		By sweet links unbound,
	By fair blossoms all unheeded,
		Trampled on the ground;
	So He brings them home to Him,
		Where no cloud their joy can dim.

	Talula the younger was the daughter of Clara
Decker and Brigham Young and was born
on the 4th of March 1861, the day Abraham
Lincoln was inaugurated, and died Jan. 20, 1892
aged 30 years, ten months and sixteen days.
Talula was always a delicate child, while at
school she progressed rapidly and inclined to a
classical education but her health would not per-
mit of constant study. She loved art and gave
her attention to cultivation in painting, she had a
truly poetic temperament and appreciated the
highest and best in all that tended to advancement
in this direction and encouraged and aided her
young friends in these lofty pursuits. Her taste
was exquisite, her love of the beautiful, her idea
of harmony in coloring and other matters was
very fine. She was one of those dainty creatures
that we rarely find like a rare flower or a precious
gem. Her constancy to her friends under all cir-
cumstances was one of the strongest attributes
of character. She had a noble magnanimous soul
was true as steel in friendship, if she had once
trusted she could be relied upon though all the
world frowned, she had the confidence of those
with whom she was associated, and they knew
she would never betray it.
	But she has gone beyond recall, and we who
remain know that "Our Father doeth all things
well."

	"If we could push ajar the gates of life,
		And stand within and all God's working see,
We could interpret all this doubt and strife,
		And for each mystery could find a key."

	"And if through patient toil, we reach the land
		Where, tired feet with sandals loosed may rest.
	Where we shall clearly know and understand,
		I think that we will say 'God knew the best."


[Column 1]

﻿FAITH—HOPE—CHARITY.

BY S. W. RICHARDS.

	The columns of the EXPONENT have been used
to investigate the merit of these three words

[Column 2]

which are happily associated together, and I
would be permitted to add my mite to the many
good things already written of their characteristic
virtues which relate to human life and action.
	Faith is treated of, as being the gift of God to
man. True!—and as true, it was the gift of God,
to the spirit of men before man was.
	Faith, Hope and Charity, constitute the ele-
ment of all spiritual intelligences in glorified
worlds. They are to the creations of God in the
spirit world of life, as earth, air and water are to
the human life in this world. They were before
the world and will remain after the world in its
temporal condition shall have passed away. As
it is written—"faith, hope and charity, these three
abide." They are eternal principles.
	These being the virtues and inherent qualities
of the Father, they are transmitted to his children
in the spiritual creation; the likeness of which we
have in the father here, transmitting the virtues
and powers of his own nature to his children after
him.
	Evidence of this fact we have in little children
before their spirits become contaminated with
evil influences that engender doubt and distrust.
They have the most implicit faith in every word
that father and mother speaks to them. They
have no doubts nor fears of the truth of all that
mother can say to kindle their hopes of joy and
pleasure. It is the labor of life, of a mother's
love, to develop what is already implanted in the
spirit by its spiritual creation. Were the germs
not there; they would never be made to grow and'
develop in man, as we understand they are de-
veloped in and constitute the character of our
heavenly Father. The child of innocence, en-
dowed with these heavenly virtues, is a precious
charge with grave responsibilities, committed to
mother's care.
	The life of the child is to be guarded so long
as possible from every false thing whether of
word or act, that create distrust or doubt in the
certainty and truth of humanity, and thereby
weakens the faith that should never be checked in
its growing strength to a full complete develop-
ment in the soul.
	God has imparted the principle of faith as the
foundation for moral action. The mind must have
its moral judgment, its laws of right and wrong
for the development of the spiritual.
	Faith stimulated and brought into lively action
demands works as evidence of its living power,
and these works are always accompanied by hope
of realizing the intent of the act, and thus we find
that faith and hope are virtues always found in
harmony with each other,and are as closely allied
as cause and effect; inseparable in their relation.
These in their operations under the influence of
charity, prompted by the love of God, develop
the character of God in man, and make him like
his Maker. Hope is a rare virtue in the soul's
spiritual development. The soul in which reason
is developed by correct teaching hopes for the
right never for the wrong; for the good and not
the evil; for happiness, never for misery; always
hopes for the reward of virtue, never for vice; is
a power of strength to that endurance so often
necessary to obtain the victory over that which
threatens to destroy, if possible the faith we have
so fondly and justly cherished.
	It is the defender of that faith, the weapon of
our defence against every assailant that would
seek its destruction. The more faith and hope
are cherished, the stronger they become, an
evidence of their virtue and undying merit. With-
out the possession and exercise of them we can-
not please God, the source from whence they are
derived; with them we may be his children, and
inherit the love of God which is charity, the
greatest of the three.
	Charity in this connection—that charity that
never faileth, can only be considered as being the
love of God. "God is love." On this is suspended


all of divine goodness, mercy and favor—all of
truth, justice and judgment. It is the holiest of
all that is holy. It is the prompter of all His
works the very foundation of His tlirone and
constitutes the divinity of His being and' char-
acter.
	For this reason we may safely trust Him, for
love worketh no ill. Like one of old we may say
"though he slay me yet will I trust Him."
Though he may afflict, it is but to purify though
he may chasten, it is to refine, and should he ad-
minister judgment, it is but to redeem and all
these administrations are virtues for man to
pattern after. In this love there is no lurking hate
-to bias the infliction of penalties not justly de-
manded by the law that has been violated. All
men are creatures of his mercy, partakers of His
kindness. His love is not quenched by our in-
difference to it. All these are lessons for us to
emulate, they fill our souls with gratitude to Him
as our Father, and teach us that by loving our
fellow creatures we love what he loves, and as
He is worthy of our gratitude, so may we be-
come worthy and receive the gratitude of others,
by any and all of the administration that love can
devise and acts of kindness demonstrate.
	Faith and Hope reach out for that day when
charity, the love of God, shall prevail over all the
earth, when every thought, word or deed of man
towards his fellow man shall be influenced by its
power, to the bringing in of everlasting righteous-
ness, universal peace, and the fulness of God's
glory be the light of that Millennial day, that
shall bring rest and peace to every child suscep-
tible of these virtues, which constitute the ele-
ment of our immortality, the spiritual strength of
an endless life.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CHRISTMAS AT MESA.

MRS. E. B. WELLS,
		DEAR SISTERS:
	It is with pleasure that I improve this oppor-
tunity of penning a few lines to you. My hopes
and good wishes are that you have enjoyed a very
merry Christmas and happy New Year.
	Christmas passed very pleasantly here a
Christmas tree in our public Hall, loaded with
presents, and distributed by old St. Nicholas him-
self, made the hearts of the children glad, with a
dance for them in the afternoon.
	I myself passed a very agreeable Chrismas
with my family gathered around me, I also had
Pres. Robson and his family with some other
friends. My son Wm. married C. I. R's. daughter
and my eldest son Talmas married a daughter of
B. F. Johnson, formerly of Spring-Lake Villa. At
such a gathering an absent one is miSsed very
much, so I missed Zula, wife of S. F. Kimball.
	Ever having a desire for your happiness and
the success of our little paper, which is such an
able advocate of the rights of women, I will ever
remainlts well wisher.
	Yours with much love.
		SARAH M. POMEROY.


[Column 1]

FIFTY YEARS PAST, AND ONE
HUNDRED YEARS HENCE.

	The 17th of March,1842,was an eventful day
for Latter-day Saint women. Fifty years has
passed 6ince then those years of time were not
ours, they were lent us.
	Now as we have borrowed, should we not re-
turn with usury?
	At least our labors should speak for us in
praise,—that we obey, if we love Him, whose
blood was spilt—His life for us so kindly
given.
	Not only obedience, but humility, was the
great lesson He taught. "Except ye be con-
verted, and become as little children ye shall
not enter into the kingdom of heaven."

[Column 2]

	There was no stereotyped aristocracy of Him
left on record.
	Some have lived many times Fifty Years,
others only so many minutes. This may seem
strange to some, but not strange to the Master.
He gives, and he takes.
	We and all we have is His, if Him we
serve.
	Fifty years .ago a journey was marked out
by a master hand,i he line was straight, but
the road had many curves,to obscure our vision
from hills, and bluffs beyond and lofty peaks
and vales below. With childish eyes we drew
no bounds of distance, and willingly continued
to fill the programme, and complete the
journey.
	In Fifty Years if we have climbed above
the cliffs, we have obtained a magnified vision
by which to scan more closely the lives of wo-
man, and man) and moie safely tread.
	Time now so precious—that we might build
well we must not recount all the labors or
moments of the past, and our own time be
wasted in backward idle gaze, for if to time
lent us, principal with interest is to becom-
puted, we can only reckon and add our future
gain, to our present status.
	What of Fifty years? It is behind us, we
must look before us, some may yet reach it,
but many are past it and with speed are rush-
ing on with all our force and might and if at
twilight only we begin to do the labors of the
day, we are too soon lost in the darkness.
	There is but little time left to complete the
work that God gave us to do, unto the time of
His coining. He said "I'll cut my work short
in righteousness or else no flesh would be,
saved."
	He has given us eyes to see it and hearts
to feel it, for which I praise his high and holy
name.
	What of the next One Hundred Years? (I
will here give a portion of an article which I
wrote on an occasion that called it forth on the
8th of Aug. 1889, refering to one hundred years
hence.) We may believe that,—houses will
then be built as by magic. The works of
man, and the wasting of his muscular force,
will be relieved by electricity, steam power
and other devices. Foreign friends, in almost
a moment, will become our next door neigh-
bors. Our crops in the field will hurry their
growth and maturity by scientific methods un-
til the scriptures will be fulfilled that say,
"The plowman shall overtake the reaper."
The birds of the air will sing the melodies of
the harpist. Our horses will talk to us as with
well written language. The waves of the seas
will dance and be quieted, at the command of
the scientist. The polar seas will be warmed
and yield to the rays of the summer's sun.
The lessons that now seem so hard to the
child, to cope with, will be as simple as the
alphabet is to the sire, for as knowledge ex-
tends, the power of perception will be quick-
ened with the advance of time, and on the
nearing of God's predictions, so will His
power be made manifest, to not only move
upon the scientist to unravel and explain
what appears as mysteries and hidden powers
but He himself, the Great Master of science,
who holds the keys will turn them for man-
kind, in the day of His power and thus solve
the now great problems.
	Let us then leave our neighbor's weak points
to strengthen our own.
	Guyot says "that plants have three periods
of growth. The slowest and longest is that of
the root the next fastest is that of the stem
and last and quickest is that of the blossom
and fruit.
	Henry Ward Beecher in refering to this
says, "I have been wont to think that the
world grew by the root till the advent of
Christ that from the advent of Christ to our
day, it has been growing by the stem and that

[Column 3]

in the period in which we stand it is growing
by the blossom and fruit. Changes that
formerly required a hundred years for ac-
complishment, now require scarcely a score—
things rush to their accoomplishment. And I
make this plea in behalf of woman, not without
hope that I may see, in my day, an improve-
raent in her condition."
	Some movement, it is anticipated, will be
made to celebrate the Fiftieth Anniversary of
the organization of woman in the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints which will
occur on the 17th of March 1892.
		DR. ELVIRA S. BARNEY.
	Salt Lake City, Jan. 11, 1892.


WOMAN BEFORE THE LAW.

	Advocates of equal rights have many annoy-
ing things to contend with, many exasperating
arguments to meet, many disagreeable people
to answer, and these are all embodied in the
woman who "has all the rights she  wants."
There is some excuse for the opposition of
men who are unwilling to share their long-ex-
ercised power. Some allowance must be made
for those men who are conscientious in th be-
lief that the lines will be made harder instead
of easier for women when they possess political
equality, and who oppose it for these kindly,
although misguided, reasons. But patience
reaches its limit when it encounters a woman
who would deny all other women the suffrage
because "she has all the rights she wants."
There is only one person more narrow, selfish
and ungenerous, and that is the woman who
signs a "remonstrance" against granting the
ballot. A few women have done this, an in-
finitesimal number compared to those who have
signed petitions asking for the privilege of
voting, and their posterity will blush to read
their names. The woman of a few generations
hence will be utterly at a loss to understand
the spirit that would inspire one of her sex to
ask that freedom and independence might not
be conferred upon her.
	But let us consider for a moment the con-
dition of these women who "have all the rights
they want." We will glance at the events of
one week, that chanced to get into the daily
print, only a small part of what is happening
in this respect all the time. We find Miss
Irene W. Coit passing with honors the severe
examination for entrance to Yale College and
refused admission because she is a woman.
We see a number of Methodist Assemblies
of ministers voting against permitting women
to sit as delegates in the General Conference
simply because they are women. We read of
the Presbyterian Conference of Alabama vot-
ing that women shall not be permitted to speak
in public. In the city of Toledo a street must
be cared for by two commissioners who own
property on the street. Upon one it was found
that every property owner on the street was
a woman but one. Therefore, instead of ap-
pointing this man and one woman, they
selected a man from another street for the
other commissioner. In New Hampshire a
drunken Canadian farmer stole their child
from his wife and gave it to his parents in
Canada. The mother, protected by a detective
secured the child, which she found Covered
with dirt and rags. The father carried the
matter into court and, sustained by the law, a
constable took the child away from its mother
and returned it to the husband's parents in
Canada.
	In Iowa a man and wife lived together eight
years and had two children, but whether they
were married or not, nobody knew. Finally
the man deserted her and left her to provide
for the children by her own labor, which she did.
One night he stole the children. The law de-
cided that, if she was a wifethe husband


should have the children, if she was a mistress,
she might have them. A fine distinction and
encouraging to matrimony! The man swore
that they were married, and the judge gave
him the children. Down in Kentucky a poor
woman worked three months with her needle
to buy a cow in order that she might have the
milk to raise her three little children. Her
husband “traded the cow for a gun, filled up
with whisky, and started on the war-path.”
The woman was helpless because in that State
the wife’s earnings belong to the husband.
These are mere straws, drift upon the current.
Similar cases are occurring every week out of
the fifty-two year after year. And yet well-
protected, happily-situated women, having no
thought for their less fortunate sisters will lean
back in calm complacency and say, “I have
all the rights I want and 1 am not willing that
the burdens should be lifted from the shoulders
Of other women.”
Do they know what are the laws regarding
Women in their own State? There are only
three or four States in the Union where a
mother has the right to her child. In the
oth rs, either the child belongs absolutely to
the father where he has not forfeited his right,
or where both are proved to be equally capable
of taking care of it, the law gives it . to the
father.In New York the father "may-will his
children away from the mother and at .his
death they will be taken from her and dis:
posed of'as directed. He may will away an
unborn child and at its birth it will be taken
from the mother’s arms. In every State in
the Union the joint earnings of the two belong
absolutely to the husband. In many States
the wife’s property, real and personal, becomes
the possession of the husband at marriage. In
others, if the wife dies without children the
husband takes all the property if he dies the
wife gets but one-third, and in some .instances
only ,a life interest in this. In a number.of
States if the woman earns furniture, clothes
arid food by her own labor, the husband may
sell them and pocket the money. If the wife
breaks an arm or leg she cannot iue for
damages, but the husband sues the cause of the
jnjury for the loss ofher services, and the
money belongs to him. In more than half
of the States little children, from seven to
twelve years of age, may consent to their own
ruin, aUd the mothers are powerless because
the law sanctions it.
in forty-three States women are forced to
pay the full amount of their taxes and are per-
mitted no representation, not even the privi-
lege of voting for the assessor. They-are
compelled to obey laws they have no voice in
making and, when accused of crime, they are
refused trial by a jury of their peers. Space
is too brief to mention all the inequalities of
the law. It is true there have been many
mprovements since the day when the old
commonlaw of England everywhere pre-
vailed, which gave a man the same ownership
of his wife as he had of his horse or cow, but
these changes have represented the labor of
years. It will also be found that almost with-
out exception, the champions who secured the
repeal of the obnoxious laws were pronounced
Woman-suffragists, and they will testify that
the difficulty has been infinitely greater be-
cause’they were working for a disfranchised
class. Our law makers represent their con- stituents, the ones who placed them in power.
They have an eye single to the interests of
those who posse33 the influence of the ballot.
They are not legislating for Chinese or Indians
or idiots or women. Women have the right of
petition, but legislators scorn a petition .which
3 not signed by voters. Massachusetts wo-
men petitioned twelve years for the right to
own the clothes upon tfieir backs. While the
natural progress of public sentiment may, in
the next fifty years, be sufficient tp striko.out
most of these unjust laws, is it necessary to
await the slow process of half a century? Can
any one doubt that if women were enfranchised
it would be one-fourth that time until there
would be an absolute equality of the laws?
it will be observed that in considering this
question only the equity has been noticed.
The social side, the effect of woman’s ballot
upon education,-temperance, morality, and
kindred matters, has b?en entirely omitted,
becnji3e there may be a variety of .opinions
upon these subjects but it does not seem pos-
sible that there can be a difference of senti-
ment upon the point that, in matters of justice
all should have the same privilege and the
laws should bear upon all alike. We ask our
readers of both sexes to' lay aside prejudice
and consider this subject from the standpoint
ef reason, logic and broad humanity,' and ,
answer the question whether a government can
be truly republican, which makes these insid-
ous distinctions.
Locomotive Firemen’s Magazine.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WEBER COUNTY W. S. A. 

	The Woman Suffrage Association of Weber
Co., held their regular monthly meeting in the
Fifth Ward Institute, Ogden City, Nov. 9,
1891. After the usual opening exercises Pres.
E. Y. Stanford addressed the association on
the benefits to be derived from the enfranchise-
ment of women. Read an extract from an ad-
dress delivered by Clara B. Colby, showing
what good had been accomplished by suffrage
in Wyoming.
	Mary Ann Wallace of North Ogden then
delivered the following address on Woman
Suffrage:
	“One of the greatest clouds in the intel-
lectual heavens of today is the question the
right of woman to vote on any and all of the
political issues of our times. The men of our
day are fond of pointing to the grand results
of increasing intelligence among the nations of
the earth. Are these nations composed of men
only? Are the general labors which contribute
to the support of the human race performed by
men alone? Do men make our homes the pure
and hallowed retreats which refresh and re-
new the soul? What is there in the nature of
man which makes him the superior of the wo-
man? Has man any higher source to which
he can trace his origin and existence? He
has drawn the essence of his life from woman
ho owes to woman his form, his intellect, his
brain, bone, and sinew, without her he never
could have seen the light of day, his ideas
have grown into shape under her motherly
care, and man, proud man is today in all his
strength of mind, body and intellect only
what woman has made him. There cannot
be any separate existence for man. God in
the dawn of Creation when he brought man
upon the earth stated this great truth “it is
not well for the man to be alone,”—but when
woman was brought upon the scene and they
were pronounced one then the Architect
finished His work and proclaimed it “very
good.” Let us look at the face of history and
we will find in its lessons the confirmation, of
these principles. Eve stood with Adam; she
being the mother of all living. Abraham and
his lovely Sarah are not separated by the his-
torian. Moses the great lawgiver was the
brother of the generous and great Miriam who
watched his little Ark upon the River Nile,
and the loving heart of a woman, Pharaoh’s
daughter, saved to the world this child to bless
mankind after her cruel father had condemned
him to the watery grave.
	The mother of Samuel the great Prophet
and Kingmaker in Israel; made a covenant
with God which changed her condition and
gave to Israel one of the greatest men known


in history. Jesus the Son of God was the
friend, companion and champion of women
and history tells us that woman was last at his
cross and first at his opening grave; woman
carried from the lips of Jesus the news of his
resurrection.
	Why then should woman be held back from
the Ballot Box, she stands the peer of man
in every other place."
	Short, but interesting speeches were then
made by Jane S. Richards, and Joseph Stan-
ford, Esq.
	After singing by the choir the meeting ad-
journed for one month.
		MARIAN S. WILCOX, Sec'y.


INTERESTING VISIT IN MILLARD
STAKE.

	On October the 29th, Scipio received a very
pleasant surprise, Apostle F. D. and Sister
Jane S. Richards arriving on that evening on a
visit to our settlement, and putting up at the
residence of their neice, Sister Emily L.
Thompson.
	In the evening we called upon them and in-
vited Sister Richards to visit all the branches
of the Relief Society of this Stake but telling
her that there was a considerable distance be-
tween some of the settlements, but if it was
not asking too much of her, we would be very
pleased to have her accompany us on a visit
to them all. Sister Richards very willingly
accepted our invitation and Brother Richards
kindly going with us.
	On the morning of the 30th, Sister Emily
L. Thompson ( president of the Relief Society
of this place) notified the people that a meet-
ing of the Relief Society would be held at
1 o'clock p. m., at which Brother and Sister
Richards would address the Saints. At the
time appointed we met together and received
very valuable and encouraging instructions.
At the close of the meeting at 4 p. m., car-
riages were ready to convey us to Holden. The
party consisting of Brother and Sister
Richards, Emily L. Thompson, Bishop Thomas
Yates and ourselves. We arrived in Holden
in time to partake of hasty refreshments at
Bishop Stevenson's and repair at once to their
beautiful meeting house where we found a
good attendance of brethren and sisters al-
ready assembled. We listened to most ex-
cellent instructions from Brother and Sister
Richards also short speeches from other
brethren and sisters.We all felt greatly
blessed and encouraged.
	Saturday morning, Oct. 31st we proceeded
to Fillmore, ten miles further south. Had a
pleasant drive as the air was fresh and bracing
and the day fine. Many of the brethren were
in from most of the wards of the Stake to at
tend Priesthood meeting, which convened at
10 o'clock a. m. There were two meetings of
the Priesthood which Apostle Richards at-
tended. There was no meeting of the Relief
Society on that day on account of the sisters
not being notified in time. On Sunday, Nov.
lst, attended Sabbath meeting in Fillmore in
the afternoon and in the evening a meeting of
the Relief Society. There was a good attend-
ance of brethren and sisters who paid marked
attention to the encouraging words of counsel
from Sister Richard also the kind, fatherly
discourse of Apostle Richards, who spoke in
high terms of the Relief Society and other or-
ganizations of women.
	On Monday Nov. 2, had an appointment for
meeting at Kanosh, fifteen miles south of Fill-
more, at 10 o'clock a. m., and another at
Meadow, eight miles south of Fillmore at
2 o'clock p. m. We left Fillmore shortly after
8 o'clock a, m.. Stake President Ira M.
Hinckley and Counselors Daniel Thompson and
David R. Stevens accompanying us, and


furnishing conveyances to take us on. We
arrived at Kanosh at the time appointed hut
found funeral services being conducted over
the remains of a little boy Willie George who
had been burned to death. Brother Richards
made very comforting and consoling remarks
at the services.
	On account of the funeral we could not hold
Relief Society meeting. Part of the company
took dinner at Bishop Watkins and the balance
at Sister Adelia Kimball's, president of Relief
Society of Kanosh.
	We then started for Meadow, arrived at
2 o'clock p. m. There was a good attendance
of the people of that place also several wagon
loads of brethren and sisters from Kanosh and
one load from Fillmore. The house was
crowded and we held a three hours meeting,
and the spirit of God was poured out abund-
antly upon speakers and hearers. The speakers
were principally Brother and Sister Richards
and the Stake Presidency.
	At 5 o'clock p. m. left Meadow for Fill-
more. The Young Ladies,of this place had
called a special meeting for that evening. As
soon as we arrived some of them waited on
Sister Richards and other sisters of the party,
and invited them to come and talk to them.
A room in the State House was well filled
with ladies, principally yonng ladies. Sister
Richards and other sisters talked very plaiuly
to the girls and we think they will not soon
forget it. All paid marked attention and we
had an excellent meeting.
	Tuesday morning the parties above men-
tioned including the Stake Presidency, started
for Deseret, thirty miles northwest. We halted
about half way at a spring and partook of a
nice lunch. The weather was very pleasant
but the roads rather rough.
	The next mofning at 10 a. m., the three
wards Deseret, Hinckley, and Oasis met in the
school house at Deseret where we listened to
intensely interesting iustructions from Brother
and Sister Richards and others. Met again at
2 p.m., held a three hours meeting and had a
very full house. All seemed well repaid for
coming and thankful to all who had visitedthem.  
	Left next morning for Oak City. Held meet-
ing at 3 p. m. Some of the brethren and
sisters wished, another meeting there, but
Sister Richards was much fatigned from travel-
ing so far over rough, dusty roads so they had
to dispense with it.
	Friday we left Oak City for Leamington.
Held meeting at 3 p. m, and again received
excellent instructions from all.
	We were received everywhere very kindly
the brethren and sisters doing everything in
their power for our comfort. We all felt
thankful for this and most grateful to Brother
and Sister Richards for their counsel and en-
couragement. Their visit to this Stake will
long be remembered by the saints, and will
certainly result in a great amount of good.
We pray that their long and useful lives may
be lengthened, until they have accomplished
all the good their hearts desire.
	At 3 o'clock a. m. Nov. 7, Brother and
Sister Richards left Leamington by train for
their home in the north and later in the morn-
ing the rest of our company separated for
their homes, which we all reached in safety,
well pleased with our trip and thanking God
that his care had been over us, and for the
kindness of our brethren and sisters.
			ELIZABTH F. YATES,
		Pres. of Relief Society, Millard Stake.
			LORINDA E. THOMPSON,
			MARTHA J. ROBISON,
				Counselors.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
Manners carry the world for a moment
character for all times.

[Column 2]
	MRS. M. E. VAN. M. D.
OFFICE--324, 325 Third Floor, Constitution Building
HOURS--8 to 10 a.m., 4 to 6 p.m.

[Column 3]
T E . WOMAN’S . TRIBUNE,
Edited and published weekly at Washington,
D.C., by Clara Bewick Colby.
Price, $1.00 a year. Trial Subscriptions, five
weeks for 10 cents.
The Woman’s Journal, of Boston, and the Woman’s Tri-
bune, of Washington, D. C., will be sent to one ad-
dress for $3.00 per year.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmedt
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But-
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 63 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
Three doors west of Theatre. 

R.K. THOMAS

26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R.K. THOMAS

The 
Standard Gauge
RAILWAY!
THROUGH THE

ROCKY MOUNTAINS!

Choice of Three Distinct Routes,

AND THE
MOST MAGNIFICENT RAILROAD SCENERY
IN THE WORLD

Two Fast Express Trains Daily

EACH WAY BETWEEN
OGDEN, SALT LAKE AND DENVER.

ELEGANT RECLINING CHAIR CARS!
Free of Charge.

Direct Connections made in Union Depots. 
THE MOST THOROUGHLY EQUIPPED RAILWAY
IN THE WEST.         
D. C. DODGE, Genl. Mgr. A. E. WELBY, Supt. J. H. BENNETT,
Genl. Mgr. Supt. G. F. & P. A. 
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS


The death of Prince Albert Victor, eldest
son of the Prince of Wales, who was the
immediate heir to the throne, has softened
every heart towards the bereaved father.
Prince George Frederic, "Sailor Prince," now
becomes heir in the regular line of succession.
Other deaths of world wide interest are those
of M. Quatrefages de Breau, the well known
Director of the Museum of Natural History
in Paris; Professor Kuenen, the Biblical
scholar, at Leyden; and Charles A. White of
Boston, writer of popular songs and ballads.
A day later the death of Cardinal Manning is
announced, who, leaving the Church of 
England, became a convert to Roman
Catholicism in 1857. He was noted not only
as a writer of ecclesiastical books, but also for
his work in the cause of social and temperance
reform. On the same day, in Rome, Cardinal
Simeon, formerly Papal Secretary of State
died from La Grippe.
			Ex.


It is not work that kills men; it is worry.
Work is healthy; you can hardly put more
upon a man than he can bear. Worry is rust
upon the blade.
	Assuming the population of the world, ac-
cording to the latest estimates, to be about
1,450,000,000 it is estimated that 1,050,000,-
000 are non-Christians, and, of course, 400,-
000,000 only are Christians.


OBITUARY. 

	Died at Clarkston, Utah, Nov 9, 1891, Thaophania
Griffiths, daughter of the late William and Mary Griffin
was born Jan. 6, 1840, at Nanton, Beauchamp, England.
She emigrated to Salt Lake City in 1862, was married to
John Griffiths Nov. 22, and moved to Logan the same
year, moved to Clarkston 1864, at which place her hus-
band died Sep. 27, 1869. She was the mother of two sons
and three daughters.
	Sister Griffiths was chosen Treasurer of the Relief
Society in 1873, which position she held till the time of
her death; she was a faithful Latter-day Saint aud was very
much respected by all who knew her, she took pleasure in
doing good at all times and under all circumstances and
died in the hope of a glorious resurrection:
			Com.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	To the memory of Hannah Howe, who departed thi
life Dec. 24, 1891. She was born in Warwickshire, Eng-
land, Dec. 26, 1830. The wife of Thomas Howe, and the
mother of six children, four of whom are living to mourn
her loss.
	Whereas, the great Ruler of the universe has in His In-
finite wisdom, removed from our midst our worthy and
esteemed co-laborer—Hannah Howe—
	Whereas, the intimate relations held during a two years
membership in the Woman's Suffrage Association of
American Fork City, makes it fitting that we record our
appreciation of her.
	Therefore, be it resolved—that the wisdom and ability
which she has exercised in aid of this association—by
counsel, service and funds will be held in grateful remem-
brance.
	Resolved, that with deep sympathy with the afflicted
husband, children and friends of the deceased—we express
an earnest hope that even so great a bereavement may be
over-ruled for their highest good.
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions, be sent to the
family also published in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Salt
Lake City and the American Fork Independent, And the
same be placed upon the records of this Association.
			HANNAH S. LAPISH, Pres.
			MARY A. EVANS, Secy.
	Adopted this day Dec. 29, 1891.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 20.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 15, 1892.	NO. 15.


CONTENTS.

	Letter From Mexico—M. N. A. W. S. A. Con-
vention—A. S. B. Resolutions of N. A W. S. A.
Party at Centerville—Mary Rockwood. Memoir
of Catharine R. Woodbury—E. B. W. Letters
—L. L. Greene Richards.  Utah W. P. Club—E.
R. Shipp.  R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., and P. A. Re-
ports. Notes and News. Rest a Little.
	EDITORIAL:—In Memoriam. Editorial Notes.
Example is Better Than Precept—S. M. P. Faith
in Prophecy—R. M. F.
	POETRY:—Saint Valentine's Day—L. S. D.
On Finding Some Flowers Under the Snow—M.
A. Y. Greenhalgh. The Ministry of Sorrow—
Elizabeth Lyle Saxon. Parting—E. R. S.


SAINT VALENTINE'S DAY.

WRITTEN FOR THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

A kind old saint, is Saint Valentine
	Traveling over land and ocean deep
Kindly meeting friend and foe alike,
	Gaining from each a secret to keep;
Locked in the treasury of his heart
	Until another glad Valentine's day,
When to each, the other's secret he'll impart,
	That is Saint Valentine's way.

A generons old saint, is Saint Valentine
	Remembering alike, the rich and the poor.
From mansion to cottage he goes
	Wending his way to Poverty's own door,
A message true he leaves to each
	To some, scarcely knows what to say.
To all, lessons of love he would teach,
	That is Saint Valentine's way.

A sad old saint, is Saint Valentine,
	When his kindness is turned to hate,
Saddening some kind gentle heart,
	Like a message of love sent too late;
Throwing a shadow of sorrow and pain
	Over the sunshine of their day,
Or leaving on fair names a stain,
	That is not, Saint Valentine's way.

A happy old saint, is Saint Valentine,
	Wandering about, over hill and dale,
Like trusting youth, meeting youth,
	Telling to each, of love, a wondrous tale,
Bringing to each fair cheek a blush,
	Fair, as the fairest blossoms of May,
Whispering their love in a voice hushed,
	That is Saint Valentine's way.

A glad old saint, is Saint Valentine,
	Stealing a peep,where none is allowed,
Seeing two gray heads, growing gray together,
	Over his missiles of tender love bowed.
The lines of love shine bright as ever,
	The paper now yellow with age and decay
Grows to each heart, dearer and dearer,
	That is Saint Valentine's way.

			L. S. D.
Feb. 14th 1892.


ON FINDING SOME FLOWERS UNDER
THE SNOW.

	This morn I brushed the snow away
		From where last year the violet grew,
	And there a tender blossom lay
		Of perfume rich, and violet hue.

	I raised its modest drooping head
		With gentle hand, and wondering mind,
	Why ere the snow and frost had fled,
		I should this gem of spring-time find.


A farther search revealed to view
	Two purple pansies,bright and rare,
Beneath last Autumn's leaves they grew
	And bloomed,and nestled snugly there

Burn's saw "within the harebells eye"
	The proof that nature had a God,
The violet showed me God was nigh
	And used his power beneath the sod.

I read a lesson from that flower
	A lesson old, yet ever new,
A proof of the Creator's power
	That can from death,young life renew.

I watched the plants at close of year
	And marked them wither, fade, and die,
And yet before the spring is here,
	They're looking upward to the sky.

So shall immortal spirits rise,
	From earthly gardens here below
To bloom 'neath heaven's eternal skies
	And through an endless summer grow.

There, guided by a Father's hand,
	And tended by His watchful care,
They'll live and progress in the land
	And life, immortal, with him share.

Thus, when we lay our lov'd ones down
	Beneath the snow clad cheerless sod,
We know they'll rise and wear a crown
	Fashioned by theirs, and natures God.

Oh, tiny flowret, sweet and pure
	I fain would linger at thy shrine,
Nor let one mundane care allure
	From works of love, and thoughts divine.

		M. A. Y. GREENHALGH.
Meadow, Jan. 20, 1892.


[Column 1]

LETTER FROM MEXICO.

DEAR SISTER WELLS: 
	Knowing the interest you have in the well-
fare of the saints, I send you a few lines that
you and the readers of the EXPONENT may
know how we fare in this far off land of Mexico.
While you are having severe weather and are
enjoying sleigh-rides we are having beautiful
warm sunny days. The ground is dry, birds
are singing and it is like a beautiful May day
in Utah. We have had some severe weather
and two or three little scuds of snow but it
lasted but a few hours. Very little rain fell
during the summer, in consequence crops were
light and provisions are "high," butter 50cts.
potatoes 4 1/2, flour 7, dried fruit 30 cents per lb.
	Though times are hard the spirit of improve-
ment is not dead, but is manifesting itself in
the building of comfortable cottages, and ad-
ditions to houses. We are building a large
addition to our school house, when finished it
will be used for an Academy, having four
rooms, and will be a blessing to us for we are
in need of it. We are blessed with many
bright children who gave much credit to their
Teachers in two exhibitions they have had this
winter.
	The holidays were spent pleasantly and
quietly. There was a meeting in the morning
on Christmas and a programme of songs,
speeches and recitations. In the afternoon the
children enjoyed a picnic party, and in the
evening there was a dance for adults. On New
Year's it was much the same with the excep-
tion of a fellowship meeting in the morning,
in which an excellent spirit prevailed. Many
nteresting testimonies were borne showing the
remarkable manner in which our Father

[Column 2]

answers the prayers of and provides for his
children. During the Christmas week the
"Home Dramatic Club" played "Foiled" to
full houses, and did very well. One of the
"Club" painted all the scenery which was very
creditable.
	In our quiet little town there is not much
news to write to our friends, and some of us
were wishing a few weeks ago that something
would happen to break the monotony. Some-
thing quite unlooked for did happen that
caused great excitement, uneasiness and dread
of what would follow. There had been an
Election in La Ascension and through some
irregularity the votes had been cast aside and
men who were not popular with the people
had been appointed. A mob gathered and
the Presidentee, or Mayor, his Secretary, and
his brother-in-law were killed. The majority
of the residents of the town seem to have been
in sympathy with the rebels, so that there were
not men sufficient on the other side to protect
Government property. A call was made upon
our settlement for help, many of our brethren
responded, and guarded the property, but they
did not want to shed blood unless they were
obliged to do so in self defense.
	The Jefe Politica and troops from Paso Del
Norte came to quell the uprising and on their
arrival,the men who had been under arms at the
mill, dispersed and went to their homes where
some supposed ring leaders, were afterwards
arrested without further bloodshed. We had
been praying for this, for if there had been
fighting our brethren would have had to take
part.
	The President and his brother-in-law were
friends to our people,who feel very bad about
their death and sympathize with their families.
	Some of the leading brethren paid them a
visit and comforted them and expressed their
sympathy, told them of our belief concerning
deathand the resurrection. They appeared to
appreciate their visit very much. The dead men
lay in state, dressed in black dress suits with
their arms folded over their breasts. Burn-
ing candles with bows of black ribbon on them
stood at each end of the Catafalque. They
were buried quietly, no demonstration what-
ever at the funeral.
	Several officials from Paso Del Norte and
from Ascension visited our Sunday School and
afternoon meeting on Sunday the 17th inst.
The children rendered an impromptu pro-
gramme very creditably. At the afternoon,
meeting they heard the first principles of the
Gospel, and a powerful testimony of the truth
of the same.
	A lawyer present, who was one the party,
said it was a very philosophical discourse.
They seemed well pleased with us and what we
had done, and it is hoped much good will re-
sult from their visit.
	The lawyer wanted a hymn book for his
wife who speaks English, and the Jefe wanted
a Book of Mormon, both of which they re-
ceived.
	Thus another opportunity was afforded to
sow the good seed, which "Like bread cast
upon the waters," let us hope will bo found
after "many days."
			M.
	Colonia, Diaz, Mexico, Jan. 24, 1892.


Give what you have; to some one it may be
better than you dare to think.—Longfellow.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


N. A. W. S. A. CONVENTION.

	The twenty-fourth annual convention of the
National American W. S. A. was held in
Washington, D. C., Jan. 16—21. It was, of
course, a small gathering as compared with the
large assembly called together last year by the
Woman's National Council; the report of the
committee on credentials showed 71 delegates
present from 26 different States, and the meet-
ings were earnest, animated and interesting.
	The convention sermon was preached on
Sunday afternoon, Jan. 17, in the Church of
Our Father, by Rev. Mila F. Tupper, of Grand
Rapids, Mich. After the opening prayer by
Rev. Anna H. Shaw, Miss Tupper, a young
and graceful woman, spoke with earnestness
and pathos from the text, "Think on these
Things."	*	*	The meetings which followed
were all attended by interested audiences, in
spite of the weather—true suffrage weather.
*	*	Little yellow flags bearing the names
of States marked the seats of the different
State delegations, and the large flag of Wyo-
ming, with its one star, hung conspicuously
of the wall. The loss of the old headquarters
at the Riggs House, with the cordial and
generous hospitality of Mr. and Mrs. Spofford,
was much felt- But the Cochran, which had
been selected as the substitute for the Riggs,
is very conveniently situated, near both the
church and the Wimodaughsis, and it proved
to be a new hotel, clean and handsome in all
its appointments. The new quarters of the
Wimodaughsis are a great improvement upon
its former habitation. The present house is
opposite a park. The building is cheerful,
roomy and tastefully furnished, and the parlor
rented by the National American W. S. A. has
been prettily fitted up by the District of
Columbia W. S. A., and the furnishings pre-
sented to the mother association. It is im-
possible in this hasty sketch, written while the
convention is still in progress, to give more
than a hint of the earnest discussions, the fly-
ing to and fro of jokes across dinner tables till
the air fairly scintillates with wit, the swarm
of yellow ribbons fluttering on the breasts of
their excited wearers, like butterflies rocking
on flowers swayed by a lively breeze; the in-
terest of comparing notes; the pleasure of
making new friends and of meeting old ones.
Those who have been at suffrage conventions
know all about it; and to those who have not,it
would be hardly possible to describe it.
	The Programme Committee had done their
best to meet the wishes of the Convention as
expressed last year, by allowing ample time
for the transaction of business; but two Con-
gressional hearings were unexpectedly ap-
pointed for two of the mornings on which our
business meetings were to be held, and all other
less important business had, of course, to give
way to this. The hearings were on a petition
for a sixteenth amendment to the U. S. con-
stitution to forbid disfranchisement on account
of sex. On Monday morning, the House
Judiciary Committee was addressed by Mrs.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Mrs. Lucy Stone, Miss
Susan B. Anthony. and Mrs. Isabella Beecher
Hooker. On Wednesday morning, the Senate
Committee on Woman Suffrage listened to
brief speeches from a large number of women,
one from each State being chosen at the suf-
frage convention by the delegation from that
State. The hearings were regarded as emi-
nently satisfactory, and in spite of this en-
croachment upon the time allotted to our busi-
ness meetings, the Association managed to get
through with a great deal of work, as will be
seen when the detailed report of the
proceedings is published.
			A. S. B.
	Woman's Journal.


The innocence of childhood is sacred.


[Column 1]

﻿RESOLUTIONS OF N.-A. W. S. A.

	WHEREAS, "Political power inheres in the
people," and women are people; "Taxation
without representation is tyranny," and women
are taxed; "Governments derive their just
powers from the consent of the governed," and
women are governed, and the only form of
consent known in a republic is the ballot,
therefore,
	Resolved, That we base our demands for wo-
man suffrage on political justice and the ad-
mitted principles of republican government.
	Resolved, That in deciding the political status
of women, we must consider the rights, duties,
and responsibilities that belong to them, first
as individuals, second, as citizens; third as wo-
men; and fourth as wives, mother, sisters and
daughters, incidental relations of life, which in
some cases women may never assume.
	Resolved, That the energy and enthusiasm of
women should be centered in the attainment of
their own political freedom, for until they
have a voice in making the laws and electing
the rulers of their country, they can have no
power to right the wrongs of society and no
direct influence in government.
	Resolved, That the World's Columbian Ex-
position will afford great opportunity for ad-
vancing the woman suffrage movement, there-
fore we urge the friends of this reform in the
different States to raise all the funds possible
in order to supply suffrage literature to be
sown broadcast at that time, and to do such
other work as the Association in its judgement
may deem wise.
	Resolved, That we again urge each State
suffrage society to petition its State legislature
for a thorough revision of its laws regulating
the marriage relation, so as to secure to wives
and husbands equal personal and property
rights, to mothers and fathers equal rights to
their children, and to widows and widowers
equal inheritance of property.
	WHEREAS, Article 2, Section 1, paragraph
2, of the United States Constitution, ordains
that "each State shall appoint in such manner
as the Legislature thereof may direct, a cer-
tain number of Presidential electors," and,
	WHEREAS, President Harrison in his re-
cent message has proposed to Congress to sub-
mit a constitutional amendment curtailing and
restricting this now unrestricted appointment
by the State Legislature, therefore,
	Resolved, that we recommend the friends of
woman suffrage in every State whose Legisla-
ture is now or soon will be in session, immed-
iately to petition that body to enable the wo-
men of that State to vote in Presidential elec-
tions upon such terms and qualifications as the
Legislature may see fit to prescribe.
	Resolved, That the general officers of this As-
sociation address a memorial, enclosing a copy
of the above resolution to each of the eleven
Legislatures this year in session, with the con-
sent, in each case, of the vice president from
the State in question, and ask for a hearing on
the same, and that the National American
President and the President of that State be a
Committee to secure speakers for these hear-
ings.
	Resolved, That a fund be raised by this As-
sociation to defray the expenses of the speakers
in visiting and addressing these or other Legis-
latures in behalf of Presidential suffrage for
women.
	Resolved, That we deplore the partial nulli-
fication by the Illinois courts of the woman's
school suffrage law as a defeat of the Legisla-
ture and as a wrong inflicted upon women.
	Resolved, that we favor the Australian
Ballot at all elections, believing it a move-
ment for a more honest and intelligent vote.
	Resolved, That we request all societies
friendly to our cause to designate a time in
their annual meetings for the discussion of
	n suffrage.

[Column 2]

	Resolved, That in the name of American
womanhood, we declare that our National
honor cannot be maintained by resorting to
the barbarisms of war; that the killing of
hundreds or thousands would not restore to
life the three sailors who were killed by a mob
in Chili; and that the difficulty should be
settled by agreement or arbitration.
	WHEREAS, Believing that women as a part
of the people, and therefore citizens of the
United States possess the right to vote for
members of Congress, therefore,
	Resolved, that the National American Wo-
man Suffrage Association urges upon Congress
the passage of an act to protect women in the
right to register and vote for the members of
the National House of Representatives.
	Resolved, That the school suffrage for women
now established in twenty-three States and
Territories, municipal suffrage in Kansas, full
suffrage in Wyoming, give assurance that wo-
men will eventually be recognized as the politi-
cal equals of men.
	Resolved, That in the six Territories not yet
admitted as States, we will make strenuous
efforts to secure full suffrage by statute in ad-
vance of their admission.
	Resolved, That we urge our women's clubs
and societies to use all the power they indi-
divually possess to make their influence felt
politically in the on-coming election.
	Resolved, That the circulation of woman
suffrage papers is the most efficient method of
creating and sustaining suffrage sentiment, that
every member of a local suffrage association
should be urged to take some one paper in
order to keep well informed of what women
are doing.
	Resolved, that the thanks of this Association
are due to the Rail Roads for courtesies ex-
tended, to all newspapers for full and fair re-
ports given, to Wimodaughsis for its kind at-
tentions and helpful courtesies, and to the
citizens of Washington for their generous hos-
pitality.


PARTY AT CENTERVILLE.

DEAR EDITOR:
	On the 13th day of January was our worthy
and esteemed Relief Society President's birth-
day, Sister Margaret Randall of Centerville,
she has held that office 20 years and is honored
by all for the faithful and noble performance
of her duties. She was 69 years old, and her
life has been full of hardships and sacrifices,
but father time has been good to her and she
carries her age lightly; the Society members
united with her family in getting up a sur-
prise which was successfully carried out.
While she was at her daughter's they took pos-
sesion of her home and tables were spread
and filled with the good things of this earth;
she was then sent for and was much pleased
with what had been done; after supper was
partaken of a few hours were spent in songs,
conversation, and some excellent speeches full
of good advice and counsel to the sisters were
given from Brothers Porter, Randall, Woolley
and Randall. After wishing Pres. Randall
many happy years of usefulness, the company
dispersed well pleased with their efforts to
honor their President.
			MARY ROCKWOOD, Sec. R. S.


Mrs Harriet Taylor Upton will be at the
suffrage parlors at the Wimodaughsis, 1328, I
Street, Washington, D. C., on two mornings of
each week, and on the other days some other
member of the Congressional Committee of the
National-American W. S. A. will endeavor to
be there. Any letters of inquiry relative to
Congressional work should be addressed to
Mrs. Upton, at 1328, I Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE MINISTRY OF SORROW.

I once thought grief and pain were cruel things;
And human hearts, were thus like bruised wings
Of poor hurt birds, made all too weak to fly.
It is not so; pain fits a heart for flights so high,
That human ken can never more its way pursue,
Until its hurt is surely healed, by heavenly dew
From its own bitter anguish fiercely wrung,
And this healing dew, on many another heart is flung.

Be patient then, oh wronged and weary one,
Be patient still. nor wish the wrong to thee undone;
For somewhere in a lone, far distant day,
A lamp in God’s own hand will light thy way,
And thy vision then will to thee plainly show,
That thus alone, can love to his full statue grow.
Not love alone for some fair, smiling face,
But love that helps and heals the human race.
ELIZABETH LYLE SAXON.


PARTING.

This life has many varied scenes
Of joy and peace of grief and pain,
To-day we meet tomorrow part,
Perchance to never meet again.

How oft we part from those we love
In sullen angry thoughtless mood.
And think that we'll soon meet again
Adown life's shining,sunny road.

Bnt days and weeks and months go by,
Yes even long and weary years
Before we see the brightening eye
Last seen in sullen angry tears

And oftentimes it is the last
Of mortal parting on the earth,
And we will only meet again
At our sublime celestial birth.

Then let us live and part in peace
With those we love and all around,
So fellowship and love’ll increase
And not a vain regret be found.

Oh never let the parting sun
Go down upon our childish wrath;
Forgive,forget the wrong that's done
And walk the loving peaceful path.
	E. R. S.


MEMOIR OF CATHARINE R.
WOODBURY.

   Sister Catharine R. Woodbury who died
November 1, 1891 in the 76th year of her age
was the wife of Counselor Thomas H. Wood-
bury of the 7th Ward of this City.
	Sister Woodbury whose maiden name was
Haskell was of Puritan descent on both the
father and mother’s side; the Haskells and the
Maynard’s (her mother’s name before mar-
riage) were among the early settlers in New
England. Catharine was the eldest daughter
of Samuel Haskell and was born in North New
Salem Franklin Co., Mass., July 6, 1816.
When the Gospel was first preached in that
place, she believed and was shortly afterwards
baptized, Nov. 1841, the only one of a large
family, who obeyed the Gospel, though they
were very favorably disposed. The next May
she was married to Elder Thomas H. Wood-
bury and almost immediately left for the
gathering place of the Saints, Nauvoo, Ill.
There her first child a little daughter very
bright and attractive was born, and died. This
seemed a sad blow to the fond mother for such
she has ever been. Other children were after-
wards born to her, but she never forgot her
first born, left in the lonely grave, when in
common with others, she was forced to leave
her home in that beautiful city and journey
westward to seek a place of refuge.
	Sister Woodbury was always a genuine
Latter-day Saint, never faltering in obedience
to the faith she had embraced and for which
she had forsaken father, mother, brothers,


sisters and friends, and the comfort and plenty
of a home, where she had known only love
and tender solicitude.
	Sister Woodbury came to the valley in 1847
enduring the privations incident to that period
living in the Old Fort and passing through the
trying ordeals of those early pioneer times.
Later in life their circumstances greatly im-
proved and Sister Woodbury could enjoy more
of the pleasures and comforts to which she had
been accustomed in former days; which no
doubt she fully appreciated, though she had
never complained, or seemed to think her lot
was hard, while she had her family around her.
She was a most affectionate and devoted wife,
a fond and tender mother, a kind neighbor
and true friend.
	Sister Woodbury was a faithful member of
the Relief Society of the seventh ward and
was early chosen a teacher which office she
filled most efficiently until her health would no
longer permit of her going out.
	She suffered a great deal for a long time but
was very patient and full of faith. She will
be greatly missed and sincerely mourned  by
her co-laborers in the Society. The deceased
leaves a husband and three children, one
daughter, two sons, and several grand children
to mourn her loss. Sister Woodbury has
brothers and sisters in the Eastern States, two
brothers in the West one in Kansas and
another in Iowa, influential men, and a maiden
sister in Hartford, Conn.
	She has lived a consistent life as a Latter-
day Saint and has gone to her rest to await
the morning of the first resurrection. Her
funeral took place from the seventh ward
meetinghouse and was numerously attended.
May our Heavenly Father comfort those who
mourn, that they may have the consolation of
the Holy Spirit in this their sad bereavement.
“Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord
from henceforth they rest from their labors
and their works do follow them.”
						 	E. B. W.


[Column 1]
LETTERS.

   Dear Aunt Em:—Believing these communi-
cations may be interesting to others as well as
the writers, I send them to you.—Lula.
	Jan. 3, 1892.

MRS. L. L. G. RICHARDS,
Salt Lake City.
DEAR SISTER LULA:
   While I have been reading the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT, and musing on its contents for
Christmas, I have been impressed to pen a few
of my thoughts and feelings to you. While
doing so, I hope I shall not be intruding on
your time and patience.
   I would like to tell you a little of my ex-
perience as a friend and sister in the Gospel
of Christ, thinking you may be able to explain
some things which I cannot understand.
   Often I am led to wonder why it is that 
some of our people, who were once my friends,
who came from the same country, and were
poor like myself, have now become rich, and
live in palaces; and because I have not
chanced to be favored in like manner, although
I have always worked very hard, they pass me
by and do not even recognize me. I wonder
too, if it was as hard to endure poverty here,
when all were poor, as it is now when some
are so rich and great.
   We hear a great deal about looking after
the poor among us. But I sometimes think
there is a great lack in seeking to find out the
downcast, and making them happy, I could
mention several instances of this kind which
have come under my observation. There is
too much party feeling exhibited among us as

[Column 2]
a people; and too little friendship and kindly
interest in one another, it seems to me.
   Please take this in the spirit it is given, and
answer as the Good Spirit may suggest to you.
If I am wrong, I look to you for correction. 
My desire is always to improve and grow
better.
   Hoping the present year may be to you a
happy and prosperous one,
		I am your sister in the Gospel.
M. A. 
S. L. City, Jan. 14, 1892.
DEAR SISTER M. A.
	In reply to your favor, I will say that I too
have been interested in the holiday number of
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
   Next. Why should we pause to wonder at
the changes produced in some people, because
of changed circumstances? Do we not know
that only a small portion of our Father's
children possess the true independence which
keeps the heart as warm and generous under
the varied exciting influences which accompany
wealth, as it would be in the more calm and
quiet ways the poor must follow in? If we
have friends who are liable to be overcome
by the snares which riches bring, it is our duty
to breathe especial prayers for them. Our
feelings towards them should be those of pity
not of envy.
   We should ever cherish that spirit of true
moral courage which will enable us to rise
above any despondency which might come to
us because of personal slights, offered by
thoughtless or ignorant people whoever they
are.
   Our sisters of the Relief Society who are
especially engaged in the good work of looking
after the poor and needy have always much on
their hands which must be attended to. And 
if some less imperative cases seem at times
have been overlooked, there are, doubtless,
some features connected with them which
upon investigation, would render the seeming
neglect quite pardonable.
   If we know any who are cast down and in
sorrow and loneliness, it is the duty of any
of us who are numbered among the Latter-day
Saints,to cheer and comfort all such who come
to our notice.
   And now, dear sister, I will give you a few
of my thoughts, concerning the best way of
cheering sad hearts.
   We must look about us, and call to mind
how many blessings have been bestowed upon 
us; how much every one who has faith in the
Lord, Jesus Christ, has to be thankful for; the
darkness and doubt we have been rescued
from; the goodness of God made manifest in
our behalf every day, and the glorious hope
we are looking forward to. No one can con-
template these things understandingly, and be
cast down and unhappy, no matter what the
surrounding circumstances may be. And with
this view of things reflected in mind and heart,
one is ready to speak comforting words to
others.
   We must cultivate peace and good will in
our own hearts: then we shall find happiness
in life, and always have something good to im-
part to our fellow creatures.
   I shall be pleased to hear from you again
and hope for a more cheerful letter next time.
Remember the words of the wise king and
prophet.
	“A merry heart doeth good like a medi-
cine."
	May you always be blest.
L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


Florence Nightingale is so exhausted by an
attack of la grippe that her condition is 
reported as critical. She is about 72 years
old.


116
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B.WELLS, - Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
gne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50 per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	Exponent office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
			PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Clast Matter.
SALT LAKE CITY, - FEBRUARY 15, 1892.


[column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.

	Presendia Lathrop Huntington Smith Kimball,
who departed this life on Monday morning Feb.
1, 1892 was born in Watertown Jefferson Co., New
York, September 7, 1810. Her life has been 
written in the columns of the EXPONENT up to
1882, so we shall only mention a few of the most
important events. 
	Sister Kimball was the widow of Pres. Heber
C. Kimball. Her parents were direct descendants
 of the Puritans and on the paternal side from 
Simon Huntington the noted Puritan who came 
over to America in 1633, and Samuel Huntington 
one of the signers of the Declaration of Independ-
ence, Governor of Conn., and President of the
Continental Congress, was of the same family. 
Her mother was a New Hampshire woman grand
daughter of a celebrated physician who traced his
lineage from the Dymock's of Sir Edward Dymock,
Queen Elizabeth's champion. The Huntingtons
intermarried with the Lathrops, another famous 
New England family from which Presendia gets
the name Lathrop as one of the representatives of 
the family. 
	Presendia Huntington is said to have been the
exact counterpart of Eliza Huntington, who is
given in the geneological book of that family as
the type of race. She had a commanding
figure and was really what one would term a 
magnificent woman physically; spiritually she 
was wonderfully endowed with those gifts and
graces that surround one with a pure at-
mosphere and help to lift humanity to a higher
plane of thought and emotion. Although Aunt
Presendia, the name by which she was best known
was decidedly of a spiritual temperament, yet she
was thoroughly practical and particularly well
balanced between the two. She was a model 
housekeeper and manager, economical and far-
seeing; in her early life had been taught those 
domestic pursuits that fitted her admirably for her
later pioneer work in new countries. 
	Miss Huntington was married at the age of 
seventeen years to Norman Buell a young man 
of industrious habits and integrity and her first 
child a son called George who is still living in St. 
Joseph, Mo., a man of considerable influence,
was born in Mannsville, Dec. 12, 1828.
	Mrs. Buell's second son Silas was born Dec.
25, 1831. and on the 13th of Nov. 1833, he met 
with a terrible accident, and was so badly burned
that he died thirteen hours after. Mrs. Buell 
was in delicate health and the shock to her sys-
tem was so terrible that it brought on severe ill-
ness, during which time her third son was born 
March 8th, 1834, the child died the same day;
they called him Thomas Dymick. 
	Afterwards they moved to Pinbury in Lewis Co.
and there they first heard the Everlasting Gospel 
as revealed to Joseph Smith the Prophet, and also 
of the Book of Mormon. This occured in 1835,

[column 2]
her mother bringing the intelligence when she
came on a visit. Soon after the Buells sold out
and the following spring moved to Kirtland Ohio, 
where Sister Presendia was baptized on the first 
of June 1836 and confirmed by Oliver Cowdery,
and her husband was baptized on the 9th of the 
same month.
	After receiving the Gospel her health was re-
stored and she was again more cheerful than
ever before since the unfortunate and untimely 
death of her little boy. September 8th, 1836, 
another son was born to Mr. and Mrs. Buell
whom they named Chauncey D. this little one
only lived a short time expiring on the 1st day of
October about three weeks old.
	In Kirtland Sister Presendia received
strong testimonies of the faith she had
embraced and saw many wonderful things, she
was one of those who heard the heavenly music 
in the Kirtland Temple, and who saw the angels
clothed in white upon the top of the Temple
seemingly walking to and fro; this was in broad
daylight in the afternoon. There was a great out-
pouring of the Holy Ghost in the Temple on 
that occasion, which was like a baptism of fire,
for every one seemed to partake of the spiritual
gifts and blessings. It was a peculiar season of
rejoicing, Sister Presendia describes one of the 
meetings in the Temple in her own language
thus.
	"The whole congregation were on their knees
praying vocally for such was the custom, at the 
close of these meetings when Father Smith pre-
sided, yet there was no confusion. The voices of 
the congregation mingled softly together. While
the congregation was thus praying, we heard
from one corner of the room above our heads, a
choir of angels, singing most beautifully. They 
were invisible to us, but myriads of angelic voices
seemed to be united in singing some song of Zion
and their sweet harmony filled the Temple of 
God."
	At another time there was what they called a 
pentecost, on that occasion the Holy Ghost filled
the house to such a degree that the congregation 
was startled not knowing what it was; to many it
seemed as though the roof was all in flames;
even Father Smith exclaimed, "Is the house on
fire?" Do you not remember your prayer this
morning Father Smith? inquired a brother.
Then the patriarch, clasping his hands exclaimed
"The Spirit of God, like a mighty rushing wind!"
	The Huntingtons and also Mr. and Mrs. Buell
went up to Missouri in the same company with 
Joseph and Hyrum Smith and their families; they 
settled in Clay Co. Mo. where they were living 
at the time the Prophet and other brethren, Wm. 
Huntington, Presendia's brother being one of the
number, were imprisoned in Liberty Jail, where
Sister Presendia had the opportunity of visiting
them, the first time with Father Huntington, 
Heber C. Kimball and Alanson Ripley; this com-
pany had the opportunity of taking dinner with 
the brethern in prison. Sister Presendia made 
a second visit to the prison with Frederic G. 
Williams; it was after that the Prophet addressed
a letter to Sister Presendia which she has pre-
served in the Prophet's own hand writing as a
precious memento dearer far than gold. 
	Mrs. Buell had a child born in Missouri while
 they were living on Fishing River in Clay Co., in 
a very humble home, there on the 24th of April
1838 her first daughter was born; she called her
Adeline Elizabeth; but this child born under the
most trying circumstances, was not destined to 
live, the hardship had in all probability been too 
great and the excitement of those days when the
country was full of mobs and armed men, was the
cause of many deaths; the child only lived four 
hours. 
	The persecution from various causes that Sister
Presendia endured in Missouri during those
dreadful times of affliction seem almost im-

[column 3]
possible to believe; and through it all she dis-
played the most heroic courage, although her
husband failed in his faith, yet she maintained
the same unflinching integrity and unfaltering
fidelity to the Gospel she had embraced, willing
to forsake all and die if neccessary.
	In the Spring of 1839 the Huntingtons were
obliged to leave Far West and Sister Buell was
left without one Latter-day Saint in that vicinity.
She never saw her mother again, for on the 8th 
of July following Sister Huntington died of the
hardship and fatigue consequent upon the perse-
cution and driving. 
	On the 31st of Jan. 1840, another son was born 
to Mr. and Mrs. Buell whom they called Norman
Oliver. In the fall of that year they moved to
Illinois and settled between Quincy and Nauvoo. 
Here they were living when the martyrdom of the
Prophet and Patriarch took place. Alone and in 
sorrow Sister Presendia mourned, who can de-
scribe her grief, no mortal being can tell the
anguish of her soul when the shocking news 
came. 
	Sister Presendia through much tribulation had
the opportunity of receiving the ordinances of the 
House of the Lord in the Nauvoo Temple and
escaped with the Saints taking her little boy
Oliver, through the assistance of her eldest son
George and afterwards assisted by friends, 
through severe hardship and suffering, she at last
reached a place of safety, this was during the
severe mobbing and driving of the Saints in 
Nauvoo. She succeeded through struggles, pri.
vations, and numerous trials and difficulties in 
arriving at Winter Quarters on the Mo. river; she
was very ill, almost unto death, and just about this 
time her father died at Mt. Pisgah. 
	In Winter Quarters Sister Presendia had
especially wonderful experiences of various kinds
many of these are related in the sketch of her life
published in volumes 11 and 12 of this paper. 
	Sister Presendia came to the valley in 1848,
having been previously married to Pres. Heber
C. Kimball. Sister Presendia drove her own 
team a good part of the way across the plains ar-
riving here on the 22nd of September, and settled
down in the Old Fort. Jan 6, 1849, Sister Kim-
ball had a beautiful little daughter born to her, 
whom she called Presendia Celestia, and indeed
she seemed more spirituelle than as belonging to 
to this earth. 
	In the beautiful month of May the year follow-
ing this little one was accidentally drowned in City 
Creek. This was a terrible blow to the afflicted
parents; the little one had endeared herself to all
the family, Sister Vilate Kimball designated her, 
"The flower of the flock." This sad circumstance
came near being the death blow to Sister Pre-
sendia, who had already passed through so many
trying ordeals. 
	When the work of giving endowments began 
in the old Council House, Pres. Brigham Young
called upon Elizabeth Ann Whitney and Presen-
dia L. Kimball to officiate as Priestesses in the
ordinances of the House of the Lord; there she
labored in connection with Sister Whitney until
the fall of 1851. On the 22nd of Dec. 1851 her
son Joseph Smith Kimball was born. Sister Pre-
sendia looked upon him as a gift from the Lord
and has often made the remark, "He is to me an
Isaac indeed."
	After the death of Pres. Kimball even more
than previously, Sister Presendia gave her time al-
most entirely to ministering and comforting the 
sick and sorrowing, and visiting the organizations
of the Relief Society in the several Stakes of 
Zion, wherever and whenever she was called to 
go. She also held the office of Secretary in the 
16th Ward. 
	Sister Presendia was called to officiate in the
Logan Temple at the time the work was started
in that sacred edifice, and remained some weeks
after the dedication, until she was released to re-


tnrn home.  To attempt telling all Sister Presen-
dia’s labors for the good of the daughters of Zion
in blessing and instructing would be impossible,
but she has finished her earthly mission and has
no doubt received the plaudit “Well done good
and faithful servant.” She made great sacrifices
for the Gospel and remained steadfast through all.
	Her last illness was not very long, she took a 
severe cold and coughed a great deal, suffered
some from acute rhumatism but there is little
doubt that the ailment to which she succumbed
was la grippe.  Loving hands and tender, min-
istered to her wants and were ready to anticipate
her wishes from the time she was taken sick.  Her
sister Zina Young and her son Joseph were with
her constantly, and there was no lack of skillful
help for she was very greatly beloved by the 
sisters.
	Sister Kimball passed away peacefully at last
just as though falling asleep, at seven o’clock on
the morning of Feb. 1, 1892, with family and
friends around her.  It was certainly a beautiful
death, if death it can be called.
	The funeral of Sister Kimball was held in the
Assembly Hall in this city Feb. 3, the body
lay in state from nine until eleven at which 
time the services began; the stands and pillars
were draped in white with trailing smilax en-
twined and the most beautiful Bermuda Easter
lilies, emblems of purity, in vases covered with
white drapery ornamented the stands.  The 
casket was pure white and very elegant, and 
covered with flowers in various artistic wreaths,
stars, pillow etc.  But the calm and pleasant face
of the sleeper within was the grandest of all.
	There was a large concourse of people in at-
tendance and upon the stand were Presidents
Geo. Q, Cannon and Joseph F. Smith of the First
Presidency and some of the Apostles and other 
leading men.  Of the Presidency of this Stake
Pres. Jos. E. Taylor and Pres. C. W. Penrose.
Pres. Jos. E. Taylor presided, the singing was by
the Tabernacle choir under Prof. Evan Stephens
and was excellent, the first hymn was
	‘‘Farewell all earthly honors.’’
	The opening prayer was offered by Bishop O.
F. Whitney, singing the beautiful hymn,
	“When first the glorious light of truth.’’
	Pres. Geo. Q. Cannon addressed the congrega-
tion in a very interesting manner, referring to the 
condition of spirits after death, reading concern-
ing these things from the Book of Doctrine and 
Covenants.  Pres. Jos. F. Smith followed, after
reading some extracts from the Book of Alma,
he spoke upon the resurrection and the conditions
hereafter.
Much good instruction was given, after which the 
choir sang
	“Rest, rest for the weary soul.’’
	The benediction was pronounced by Apostle
John Henry Smith, a long cortege of carriages
followed the remains to the cemetery; the grave
was dedicated by Apostle F. M. Lyman, thus
closed the funeral services, for our departed
sister, and she was laid to rest with the beautiful
snow all around her, emblematic of the purity of
a higher life beyond, whither she has gone, to
meet a host of loved ones.
	Her son George Buell who resides in St. Joseph
Mo., arrived in time to attend the funeral, though
too late to see her again in life.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	In future the address of the President of
the Relief Society Mrs. Zina D. H. Young will be
No. 146. 4th St. Salt Lake City, Utah.
	On account of the sketch we publish in this
 issue of Sister Presendia L. Kimball, and some
other important matter, the story, "In Rural
England,"--is crowded out, but will be continued


in the next issue of the paper. We have on hand
several notices of deaths of our good sisters who
have gone, resolutions of respect etc., also Relief
Society reports that await publication, but will
use them as soon as practicable.
	On Thursday Feb. 4, in company with Mrs. E.
Howard we went to American Fork to attend an
annual meeting of the Relief Society of that place.
A report of twenty-four years work was presented
which made a magnificent showing of what had
been accomplished in that time. Mrs. Mary S.
Hindley who has presided over that Society from
the date of its organization, and has been a most
efficient and really executive manager, was un-
able to attend the meeting on account of having a
severe cold and cough, consequently her first
Counselor, Mrs. Ellen Clark, presided. Mrs.
Mary John, Pres. R. S. Utah Stake and Mrs.
Emily G. Cluff her Counselor were present from
Provo, and there was an excellent attendance at
both meetings afternoon and evening. Bishop
Geo. Halliday manifested great interest in the
sisters labors and spiritual work. The subjects
treated upon were the general work of the Relief
Society, ministration to the sick, the needy, and
the sorrowing, the elevation and advancement as
well as enfranchisement of woman, the care and
training of children, the mother’s influence,
proper and healthful amusements, hygiene and
physiology, and the coming Jubilee on the 17th of
March, also preparation for exhibits at the
World’s Fair in 1893. The visit was a very
pleasant one, and the sisters and in fact the
brethren as well, all seemed to appreciate the
benefits and blessings to be derived from the or-
ganized work and influence of women. The only
drawback to the pleasure of the meetings was the
absence on account of illness, of the honored and
venerable President.


EXAMPLE IS BETTER THAN PRECEPT.

	The truthfulness of this saying has been proven
a great many times. We cannot put confidence in 
a person who is continually breaking the rules he 
prescribes for others.
	We may consider the counsel good and see
that it would do us good to carry out these pre-
cepts, but unless the person lives up to the pre-
cepts he inculcates himself,(or herself as the case 
might be), it does not come with so much force.
Then how necessary it is for each one to set a
good example, and not by our acts cause others
to do wrong, thereby bringing a double weight of 
condemnation upon ourselves. If we would all
strive to exert an influence for good, with our fel-
low creatures, we would not listen to evil reports
concerning a brother or sister. We would have
the spirit of charity and not judge hastily or 
rashly, for “charity covereth up a multitude of
sins.” Let us be so filled with a desire for the
good for others, that we will have no room for
the indulgence of those evil traits, envy and
jealousy. The Spirit of God cannot dwell in the
hearts of those who give way to these spirits,they
cause us to look with an evil eye upon the char-
acters of our associates. We cannot see any
good in them, their acts are turned to evil. But 
to return to our subject ‘Example is better than
Precept,” our teaching would have but little force
were we continually breaking the rules, we were 
trying to enforce upon others.
	How can we impress it upon the minds of
others that slander is a terrible sin, if we indulge
in the habit of vilifying our neighbors onrselves,
would they not throw it in our teeth and say
‘‘practice what you preach.” If we are con-
tinually breaking the Word of Wisdom, which 
the Lord has revealed for our guidance, how can 
we show to others the benefits to be derived by
the disuse of those articles mentioned in the 
Word of Wisdom, we could not have the influ-


ence that we would have, were we strict in the 
observance of these requirements.  We would
lose the spirit of the Gospel, and be classed with
hypocrites, and what is worse than a religious
hypocrite, they are despised by the honorable,
and upright wherever they are found.
								S. M. P.


FAITH IN PROPHECY.

	I have been one of the many that have looked
forward to the year 1891, for something of un-
usual importance to occur; for some scene to be
wound up, for that is what the prophecy states
that was uttered on the 14th of February 1835,
and I claim to have faith in God and in His 
servants and therefore I believed that if any 
prophecy ever came true that one surely would,
as it must have been uttered by the Spirit of God;
it could scarcely be otherwise at such a time
when the Twelve Apostles were being blessed
and set apart to prune the vineyard for the last
time, (even 56 years should wind up the scene)
and while nothing happened seemingly as I
thought it should yet it did not shake my faith for
the Lord says though the heavens and earth
should pass away not one jot or tittle of His word
should fail, so I was willing to believe that al-
though I could not see it this prophecy had
actually been fulfilled, and that if I would wait in
patience the day would come when I shonld know
it. I was thinking about these things one day
when lo! it struck me like a flash. What about
the scene of peace? surely is not peace taken
from the earth? Is not the whole world in com-
motion? Do we not hear of wars and rumors of
wars, are not the wicked slaying the wicked, are
there not earthquakes and famines and pestilence
in divers places, and dreadful accidents by sea
and by land? And have we not had judgments in
the house of the Lord, are not some of us even
now being sorely tried, and have we not as a peo-
ple passed through some very dark days in the
last ten years.
	And while some assert that our own land is in
a state of peace yet in the year '91, we were fight-
ing with the Indians, I was satisfied with this
explanation. What a picture the world would
present could it pass before our eyes like a pano-
rama with its scenes of distress, its strifes, and 
its turmoils I think we should exclaim as the
Prophet Joseph said we should, "O Lord shut out
the vision!" and yet the Savior says that these
things should be but the beginning of sorrows.
Thene where Oh, where will it all end? How
truly thankful we should be that we are numbered
with the people of God, that we are gathered out
of the world into His holy mountains where He
can and will take care of us- If we are faithful
notwithstanding we may have to endure many
trials we know they will be for our purification
and the Lord has said according to our trials so
our strength should be, if we would but trust in
Him.

	Then Lord to thee our hearts we'll raise
	In songs of everlasting praise;
	That we are numbered with the blest,
	Where we may live in righteousness,
	Where we may dwell till strife is o'er,
	Then reign with thee for evermore,	
								R. M. F.


UTAH W. P. CLUB.

	U. W. P. Club met at the parlors of Ruth
M. Fox Jan. 30th 1892 Pres. E. B. Wells in
the chair.  Exercises opened with prayer by
Susa Y. Gates.  Minutes were then read and
approved with one amendment.  Committee
on by-laws  nominated and sustained as follows
Julia A. McDonald Ellis R. Shipp and


Caroline C. R. Wells. Moved and seconded
that these by laws be prepared by the Com-
mittee and submitted for consideration at the
next meeting.
	The Pres. said she had a communication
from Washington in reference to uniting with
the International Federation of Press Clubs
of the women of all lands, which she would 
state for the consideration of the Club; thought
there were many advantages to be gained by
so doing, would be more conversant with other
club work and have greater opportunities, at
 the World's Fair. A motion was made and 
carried that we obtain the money and join the
federation as soon as possible.
	Susa Y. Gates said she had a blank to
which she would like signatures to a petition 
to Congress, to make manuscript postage as
cheap as printed matter. She also offered a
suggestion that all original articles be put in
the hands of a good reader,without signatures
with the object of improvement, thought this
should be included in the by-laws. Miss Davis
suggested that certain ones should be appoint-
ed to prepare original articles for each meet-
ing.
	An interesting original article entitled
"Prophecy fulfilled" was then read by Ruth
M. Fox. A little poem "Parting" read by
Ellis R. Shipp, A poem from the facile pen of 
E. B. Wells entitled "A Fragment" was most
expressively read by our popular elocutionist
Mrs. C. Louise Boyden, selected article on the 
"Ideal Woman's Press Club" read by Miss
Davis who also suggested that we vary our
programme by reviewing the New Publications
of Women.
	Susa Y. Gates suggested that writers should
take the Home Journal and Writer. The 
President then read an article entitled "The
admission of members to Press Clubs,,. The
doors should be guarded against adventurers
of all kinds. In large cities all candidates
should have their vouchers. Various ad-
vantages in having social communion and
refreshments. "Eating together warms the
heart and loosens the tongue" a true
exemplification of this fact then followed
through the courtesy of Treasurer Ruth M.
Fox.
	Five new members were then proposed and
unanimously sustained as members and meet-
ing adjourned till Feb. 26th 1892: Benedic-
tion was pronounced by Sarah White.
			E. R. SHIPP M. D. Rec. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., AND P. A.
REPORTS.

SANPETE.
	Dec. 19, 1891, Relief Society Conference of
the Sanpete Stake of Zion convened in Manti.
Pres. M. A. P. Hyde presiding, choir sang
"How pleased and blessed was I." Prayer
offered by Pres. C. Peterson.  Choir sang "Be-
fore Jehovah's glorious throne."  Pres. M. A.
P Hyde expressed her pleasure in having the 
opportunity of meeting with the sisters in con-
ference, she felt to rejoice in this day although
we have trials of a different nature than we
have had in former times.  "The work of the 
Lord is progressing and it is necessary that we
should have a testimony of the Gospel so that
we will be able to prove faithful to the end of
our lives.  Reports were then given of the
Relief Society of Gunnison, Manti, Mayfield
and Ephraim.
	Coun. Elizabeth Allred spoke encouragingly
to the sisters and bore her testimony to the truth
of the Gospel.
	Sister Minerva Snow said she felt just as
young in her spirit as she did 40 years ago.
Do we appreciate the blessings we enjoy in 
having the Priesthood with us?  Seek first the

[column 2]

kingdom of God and its righteousness and all
other things shall be added unto you.
	Sister Matheni testified that the Lord would
hear and answer prayers; said woman's work is
great in her sphere.  Be humble and prayer-
ful continually that you may not be led away
from righteousness.
	Sister Tuttle, "I have spent nearly all my
life in this Church.  My heart's desire is to do
good and help in redeeming the dead.  She
then spoke in tongues which was interpreted
by Sister Casto.
	Coun. Sarah Peterson spoke at some length
in regard to the storing of wheat and fast
offering. Other sisters spoke encouraging us
to go on in the work of the Lord. Pres. M
A. P. Hyde spoke of the improvement of the 
sisters in the last few years.  Also of wheat,
famine, diseases and earthquakes.
	Coun. John Maiben encouraged us to per-
severe in well doing.
	Pres. Peterson said we should look after
the young people as they are more apt to go
astray than the older ones.  Choir sang "God
moves in a mysterious way."  Adjourned for 
three months.
	Mary Ann Frantzen, Sec.

MARICOPA.

	Report of the Maricopa Stake Conference
held at Mesa Dec. 12th 1891, Pres. S. M.
Pomeroy presiding.
	There were present C. I. Robson, Bishop
Passey and others of the leading brethren and
sisters.  After the usual exercises, Pres. S. M.
Pomeroy said she regretted the small attend-
ance, thought the extreme cold weather (for
this climate) might be the cause.
	Pres. Barbara Lang said the report of the 
Mesa ward was about the same as last confer-
ence, thought they were moving along towards
the right but some were careless.
	Melissa Hunsaker was surprised at being
called upon to report the Alma ward thought
there must be some good reason for Sister Klei -
man not being present, as she was at her post
when possible, had held their meetings regu-
larly.
	Pres. Susan Savage said the Papago ward
were doing a little better than at last report.
	Pres. Esther Openshaw had a band of good
faithful sisters to labor with in the Nephi ward
with the help of the Lord were doing their
duty.
	Lehi ward not reported.  S. M. Pomeroy
had visited all the wards and found things
moving along well.
	M. A. Hakes rejoiced to meet with the 
sisters,felt that the plan of salvation was broad
enough to take in all honest hearts.
	S. A. Robson, C. Averett and Lovina Brim-
hall made a few timely remarks.
	Brother Noah Brimhall and George F.
Wilson gave some good advice to the sisters as
well as to the saints in general.
	Pres. C. I. Robson was an advocate for short
spirited meetings, said we have had a good 
time together spoke briefly upon the plan of 
salvation and its benefits to the human family;
after singing meeting adjourned for three
months, benediction by N. Brimhall.
						F. E. ROBSON, Sec.

	BEAVER.

Editor Exponent:
	Having had a desire, ever since the union
of the two branches of the R. S. of Beaver
City, to see all the sisters together and think-
ing the anniversary of the first organization of
the R. S. in Beaver (City, Jan. 11, 1868,) an
appropriate time, we accordingly assembled in
the L. D. S. meeting house at 11 o'clock.
	There were present about one hundred and
fifty brethren and sisters, On the stand were

[column 3]

Stake Presidents Charles D. White and M. L.
Shepherd, also Wm. Fotheringham Stake Pres.
of S  S., and Bishop Geo. Mumford, Stake
Pres. Lucinda Howd, local presidency of R. S. 
and portions of Stake presidency of Y. L. and 
Primary Associations.  Pres. R. Tyler presid-
ing; after opening exercises Pres- Tyler stated
the object of the meeting in a few opening re-
marks.  Minutes of first organization and
synopsis of rise and progress of the Society
was read by Sister S. M. Dell.  Addresses by
Sisters M. A. Tanner, L. Howd, D. M. Cox,
H. Fotheringham, J. Bickley and R. W. 
Tyler in their respective positions as the 
different local presidents were next in order.
	An elegant and substantial lunch was next
served after which we were addressed by Presi-
dents White, Shepherd and Fotheringham,
Patriarch D. Tyler and Bishop Mumford.  All
spoke highly of the Society, the good it had
done and was still doing.  The disbursements
for charitable purposes during the last six
months being something over one hundred
dollars.
	Songs and music were furnished by our ever
genial friends Brother R. Stoney and W. G.
Bickley, assisted by May Bickley as organist,
and a string band composed of young men all 
of whom kindly lent their assistance to make 
the occasion an agreeeble one.
	During the lunch and between exercises
kindly greetings were exchanged, and after 
benediction by D. Tyler all dispersed to their
homes feeling they had spent an enjoyable
day.  R. W. Tyler, Pres. Mary A. White and 
Jane Bickley, Counselors; Alice M. T. Tanner
Sec. Louisa Jones, Assist. Sec.

	WASATCH.

	The Relief Society Conference of Wasatch
Stake was held at Midway Sept. 24th, 1891
Pres. Emma Brown presiding.  Conference
commenced at 10.30 with singing by the 
Midway choir "O, awake my slumbering
minstrel." Prayer by Bishop N. C. Murdock
singing "God moves in a mysterious way."
The roll was called 14 Officers present, minutes
of last conference were read and accepted.
Pres. Brown said the Lord has blessed us in
many ways, for while destruction is abroad in
the earth we are blessed with peace and plenty.
The Prophet Joseph organized the Relief
Society that it might be a blessing to the poor
and needy both temporally and spiritually.
Heber East Ward was then reported by 
Sister Margaret Muir, she said they
had many good sisters in the ward who were
up to their duties, while some were rather
backward; felt thankful to the Lord for health
sufficient to be able to come to conference,
desired the blessings of God to continue with
 us. Sister C. Foreman in reporting Heber West 
Ward said they had testimony and sewing 
meetings and she knew they were blessed of
the Lord, thought she could see a little improve-
ment, felt well in this work and to see so many
present.  Said we should endeavour to instil
principles of truth into the hearts of our
children and try to live so that when the winds
of adversity blow upon us we may be able to 
stand firm and faithful. Wallsburg was re-
ported by Sister Meacham said she esteemed
this a grand privilege to meet with the sisters
in conference, and we should show that we
appreciate the blessings we enjoy by attending
strictly to our duties as members of the Relief
Society; said there were not many that came
to meeting as a rule, but those that do come
have a good time generally; we should set an
example before our children and the world
that is worthy of imitation, if we prove faithful
the Lord will not forsake us.  Conference
adjourned till 2 o'clock.  Benediction by
Elder Robert Lindsay.

	Conference continued at 2 p. m. by singing


[column 1]

﻿"Arise O Glorious Zion,” Prayer by Elder
John Morton, singing "Once more we come 
before our God.” The Stake report was read 
by the Secretary and accepted. Sister 
Guerney in reporting Midway said they had
good meetings and some very instructive read-
ings, some are on hand to do all the good
they can while some others are quite neglect-
ful which she felt to regret; she felt proud to 
be numbered amongst the daughters of our
Father in heaven,desired the Lord to bless us
all and especially our President Sister Brown.
Sister Melisa Murdock reported Charleston
said they hold one meeting at Charleston and
the next at Baysville and they generally have
good attendance and a good time; bore a 
testimony to the truth and expressed a desire
to be counted amongst the faithful. Center
was reported by Sister Cluff; said they have
good meetings and good attendance and some
are on hand to do good while others do not
seem to realize what they lose by their
negligence. We all like to have our homes
fixed comfortable, but we must also attend to 
our duties, the responsibilities of the children
rests upon the mother, so it stands us in hand
to live faithful and set an example before them 
worthy of imitation.
	Sister Brown was pleased with the reports,
advised the sisters to continue in such a good 
cause; was afraid that those who neglected the
golden opportunities offered would be like
the foolish virgins when the Master appears;
we should visit among those who are weak
and tried,and try to do them good; if all were
to attend who are enrolled what a congregation
would be here. It behooves us to be energetic
and alive to our duties that we may obtain the
blessings promised to the faithful. The follow-
ing brethren and sisters then made some very
appropriate remarks and bore strong testi-
monies of the truth of the work we are all
engaged in Bishop N. C. Murdock, Sister Ann
Murdock, Sister Greene and Elders Morton,
Lindsay and Raymond. Pres. Brown felt to 
thank all who had taken part and the choir
for the good music rendered after which
conference adjourned to meet in Heber the 
last Thursday in May 1892. Singing
“Beautiful Zion”. Benediction by Bro. Geo.
Brown.
HANNA HARBOR, Sec.
____
SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The R. S. Conference of the S. L. Stake was
held in the 14th ward Hall on Friday Dec.
18, 1891. Pres. M. Isabella Horne presiding. 
Opened with singing “O happy souls who
pray etc.” Prayer by Mrs. Jane Silcock.
Singing, “Now let us rejoice etc.” Roll called
18 Presidents, 8 Counselors and one teacher
responded. Minutes of former conference
read and approved. Pres. Horne made some
excellent remarks, and encouraged the sisters
to persevere in doing good. The wards were 
reported, S, J. Cannon, Farmer’s Ward Sarah
B.Gibson,Sugar House, Emma Terry, Draper, 
E. J. Bodell, Herriman, W. Olson, Sandy,
Agnes Cutler, West Jordan, Jane Silcock,
Riverton, M. E. Porter, Granger, M. A.
Hazon, Brighton, Counselor.------------Bluffdale.
	The meeting was then addressed by Pres.
Jos. E. Taylor, he spoke upon true charity and
benevolence, thought the teachers should look
diligently after those in need; earnestly
beseeched the sisters to exercise faith for the 
sick and afflicted, to inspire them with faith
and confidence, keep the word of wisdom, if 
you do this the sick will be healed by faith,
urged mothers to look  after the purity of 
their boys. Wherever the young mothers
have babies they should take care of their 
children first, then their meetings and instruct-
ing their families.
Pres. Z. D. H. Young entreated the sisters to

[column 2]

cultivate faith, spoke much upon the gift of
healing, and not employing Doctors, trust in 
the Lord He will help us said many other 
good things. Pres. Horne made suitable
closing remarks; singing, ‘‘Our God we raise
to thee etc.” Benediction by Pres. Jos. E.
Taylor. Adjourned until 2 p. m.
	Afternoon session, Pres. Horne presiding.
Pres. Z. D. H. Young, Counselors Jane S.
Richards, and B. W. Smith, of the general 
presidency of the Relief Society were present
on the stand, Pres. Geo. Q. Cannon and Jos.
F. Smith of the First Presidency, also other
ladies upon the platform, Pres. Horne, Coun.
E. S. Taylor, E. Howard, Sec., M. W. Wilcox
Cor. Sec. of the Stake—Sarah M. Kimball,
Sec. and E. B. Wells Cor.Sec. of the Central
Board, and other women prominent in the 
work of the Relief Society.
	Meeting opened by singing, “Praise to the
man etc.” prayer by Bathsheba W. Snith'
singing,“We thank thee O, God for a prophet.”
Pres. Horne was very happy to have Presidents
Geo. Q. Cannon and Jos. F. Smith present,
and announced that they would speak to the
congregation.
	Pres. Cannon then addressed the meeting
dwelling upon the objects of the organization,
the benefits arising from such institutions,
said when the sisters meet together it is their
privilege to enjoy the spirit to exhort,
admonish, and to help each other to bear the
burdens incident to this life; we had been
called out from the nations to become a united
people, that we might not partake of the 
evils and sins of the world, we are designated
the people of God, only one here and one
there has received the Gospel, the majority of
the world have rejected it; the Lord will
gather out of this people, a people who will 
bear off this kingdom. Look at the great
responsibility that rests upon the mothers to
teach the children; many years of my life have
been spent abroad, therefore my children 
know very little of my influence only thro’ the
influence of their mother. True it is not
always the mother if the father's influence is
wholesome and proper and both are united 
their life and example will influence the
children; upon our children will rest the great
responsibility of carrying on this work, the
time will come, when it will be said, “Let us
go up to Zion to the House of the Lord,” and
that time is coming rapidly; the destiny of 
this work is upward and onward. Our 
children are our hope and though they wander
He will call them back to Him again and
they will be more easily molded to His will
than we are; they will be the expounders of
the truth.
	It will not be possible to bring all men into
the unity of the Gospel until he comes whose
right it is to reign. It is good to have zeal,
zeal in the right direction. It is now nearly 
fifty years since this organization was estab-
lished a great deal of good has been done, by
the sisters in guiding the young,  controling
the fashions, refining and improving society,
in economizing the means that the Lord has
blessed them with, try and teach those whose 
wants you supply to employ their minds to 
take care of themselves, teach them wisdom,
look after the ignorant and the careless, let
your children draw inspiration from you, to
serve God, to be honest, virtuous, pure and
true. This is but a brief synopsis of his
remarks. 
President Jos. F. Smith, “Woman’s sphere
is more important than women know of them-
selves it is only a short time ago that her
position was understood, and her influence on 
the rising generation; on the parents depends
what kind of people the next generation will
be. Mothers influence has been felt by men
to the last of their lives, either for good or
evil; in the majority of cases among us the

[column 3]

mother’s influence is for good; the speaker 
remembered his mother’s teaching him not to
partake of stimulants; mothers should teach
their sons to abstain from these things; and 
should teach her sons virtue and to be pure in
thought it will have its effect on all their after
life, mothers cannot be too careful in example
and precept. Look at the example of 
Helaman the faith of those young men with
him inspire such faith in your children; and
not only your own but it will extend further,
it will have its influence abroad even in
foreign lands,there are many that need a help-
ing hand; there is a wonderful field for you to
work in for culture and advancement, for re-
finement and purity, let us not set our hearts
on riches, and think you are better than those
who have not as much as you, if you use
means wisely, it will prove a medium of do-
ing a great work in educating those who are 
willing to be taught in many ways. Sisters
make your influence felt in the different
associations, yours is a fine mission, there is no
limit to it, you can find the amplest oppor-
tunity to do great things, help in the govern-
ment of families, educating the children is a 
great art, too much indulgence is wrong,
obedience should be taught as a duty to our
children. We have a fine body of children
good, virtuous,and God will bless such a race;
teach them to love virtue more than life; teach
such lessons to your children that if they ever
go astray you will have the satisfaction of
knowing it is not your fault. God bless you 
in all your labors for the good of Zion.
	Pres. Jane S. Richards occupied a short time
in speaking upon the duties and responsibil-
ities devolving upon the members of the
Society and the teachers particularly, gav
good counsel.
	Pres. Horne made a few remarks felt the
presence and teaching of the brethren was en-
couraging, hoped we would take a new start,
urged the sisters to buy wheat with the money
they had on hand donated for that purpose.
	Pres. Cannon added a few words in which 
he said have high ideals before you and bring
yourselves up to them.” Conference adjourned
for three months singing Doxology. Benedic-
tion by Pres. Jos. F. Smith.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		119


NOTES AND NEWS.
	
	A woman suffrage petition with ten thousand
signatures has been sent into the Parliament
of New Zealand.

	Catherine Cole (Mrs. Field) has in the New
Orleans Picayune an excellent and suggestive
article on "The New Womanhood."
	
	One branch of the Virginia Legislature has
passed a bill authorizing or directing the
appointment of women physicians on the staff
of all insane hospitals where women are among
the patients. This is a humane and sensible
measure, which has been adopted in several
other States.

	The Congressional Committee of the N. A.
W. S. A. has taken up its headquarters in the
suffrage rooms of Wimodaughsis. Hereafter
Wednesday and Saturday mornings some
member of this Committee will be at work and
will be glad to give information concerning
suffrage work in general or that of their Com-
mittee. All letters in regard to Congressional
or press work should be addressed to Harriet
T. Upton, Wimodaughsis, Washington, D. C.

	"Dr. Mary J. Safford who died recently left
two hundred dollars to the Women's Educa-
tional and Industrial Union of Boston."
	Dr. Safford called at our sanctum in 1857
when on her way to the Pacific Coast and to
visit her brother, who was at that time
Governor of Arizona, and we had a most


interesting interview on general questions
pertaining to woman's advancement, and also
upon the situation in Utah, political, social,
moral and religious. We had the pleasure on
that occasion of introducing her to Sister Eliza
R. Snow and several of the leading men of the
Church, Gen. Wells among others in the
President's office. She was quite a remarkable
woman, specially enthusiastic at that time on
the subject sf dress reform; and believed
intensely in woman's total enfranchisement. ED.
	Miss Kate B. Sears, a young girl who, not
many years ago, came from her home in
Kansas to Boston to study modeling, has origi-
nated and developed a new idea in creamic
art. After her study in Boston, she went to
the potteries in Trenton, N. J., to experiment
with modeling as applied to pottery. She
conceived the idea of carving a design into the
dry ware before it was fired. As there were
no tools to aid in the process, she used a pen-
knife, and has carved several pieces. It was
not easy to touch firmly enough to cut the
ware and yet not to crush it, for in that state
it is fragile as a bit of hollow chalk. Each
time the success was more distinctive. The
effect of the work when done and fired,
especially when the pieces are lighted from
within, is that of moonlight falling on the ob-
jects represented. The character of the figures
portrayed is admirably adapted to this treat-
ment. There are cupids and fays and delicate
up-springing figures that are part flowers and
part fairies. And so great is the artistic suc-
cess of the new work that Miss Sears' name is
already spoken of as the designer of a distinc-
tively new and original piece of pottery.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


REST A LITTLE.

	Good mother, maker of numerous pies,
mender of numerous hose, overseer of a great
province—a household, rest a little. Have a
chair by the stove, and when you peep into
the oven, sit while you look, yea, even a
moment after; you will work all the faster
for the short change of posture. While mend-
ing have your chair in the coziest corner
where good light will come in and let the sun
strike upon you if possible, so that you may
get the strengthening, health-giving influence
of it. Drop your hands occsasionally and let
them rest. Let your eyes wander out through
the window glass as far as possible, and rest
your eyes by looking at something interesting
out of doors. Don't rule all the time. Drop
the reins of household government for a little
while, unbend yourself and sit down on the
rug and play with the children, and as it were
become again a child.
	Economize your strength. Sit when you
can. Do not hold the baby when it can rest
and grow just as well in its crib. By resting
when you can, by planning the work to be done
and by being systematic and orderly in all
things a woman's work at home is more easily
done.—Living Issues.


A party in honor of Susen B. Anthony's
birthday will be given in this City tonight.


[column 1]
MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
OFFICE.—324, 325 Third Floor, Constitution Building
HOURS.—8 to 10 a. m., 4 to 6 p. m.
	
[column 2]
THE WOMAN'S TRIBUNE,
Edited and published weekly at Washington,
	D. C., by CLARA BEWICK COLBY.
Price, $1.00 a year. Trial Subscriptions, five
	weeks for 10 cents. .
The Woman's Journal, of Boston, and the Woman's Tri-
	bune, of Washington, D. C., will be sent to one ad-
	dress for $3.00 per year.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
	Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But-
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 63 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
Three doors west of Theatre.

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS

THE 
Standard Gauge
RAILWAY!
..THROUGH THE..
ROCKY MOUNTAINS!
Choice of Three Distinct Routes,
AND THE
MOST MAGNIFICENT RAILROAD SCENERY
IN THE WORLD.
Two Fast Express Trains Daily
EACH WAY BETWEEN
OGDEN, SALT LAKE AND DENVER.
ELEGANT RECLINING CHAIR CARS!
Free of Charge.
Direct Connections made in Union Depots.
THE MOST THOROUGHLY EQUIPPED RAILWAY
IN THE WEST.
D. O. DODGE, A. E. WELBY, J. H. BENNETT,
Genl. Mgr.		Supt.		G. F. & P. A.

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	DAVD JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


GONE TO REST.

	On the 18th of Nov. 1891, we were called to lay in the
silent tomb our much esteemed sister Amanda Dana,
whose death was caused through typhoid fever.
	She was the daughter of Morris and Sarah Phelps was
born in Utah Apr. 27th 1854.
	On the first of Nov. 1869 she was married to Bro George
C. Dana, in Salt Lake City, Utah. She was, for several
years, an energetic laborer in the Primary Association, and
a faithful teacher in the Relief Society at the time of her
demise.


She was a devoted mother, a loving wife and a true
Latter-Day Saint.
	She was the mother of eight children, five of whom are
living and, with their father and a large circle of friends
mourn her loss.
			MARY E. B. FARR
	St. Johns, Ariz.


LOIS HAMBLIN BURK.

	To the memory of Lois Burk who died at her residence,
under very painful circumstances, in Alpine Apache Co.,
Arizona, Aug. 1891. She was the daughter of the late
Jacob and his wife Rachel Hamblin, and the wife of
Hubert R. Burk; and was born in Tooele Co. Utah June
15, 1851 aged 40 yrs. 2 mon. and 15 days at the time of
her death she was the mother of ten children, six of whom
preceded her to the "better world." The last, an infant
daughter, sleeps sweetly with its mother.
	Sister Lois was a true wife and mother and consistent
Latter- Day Saint. She was an active worker in the
Sabbath School, and Relief Society having held the office
of counselor in the Society for a number of years.
	In short she was a true woman, and bore her many
trials with meekness and fortitude.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT. 
	Whereas our Heavenly Father has called from our
midst our esteemed sister, therefore be it
	Resolved—that in her death, we the members of the
Relief Society recognize the loss of a faithful and zealous
co-worker.
	Resolved—that we extend our sympathy to the bereaved
husband and children, who have been deprived of a
devoted wife and tender mother.
	Resolved—that a copy of these resolutions be sent to
the sorrowing family, also published in the EXPONENT
and a copy be placed on the records of our Society. 

Dear Lois on earth your sufferings are o'er,
You've met the the lov'd ones on the "Beautiful Shore",
While bereaved ones repine, Oh sweet be thy rest
Father help us to bow to Thy righteous behest.
			JANE NOBLE.
			VIOLA HATCH.


TO THE MEMORY OF LOUISA SMITH
PARK.

	Sister Park departed this life Oct. 26th 1891. She was
the presiding teacher of the Relief Society of the 2nd Ward
in Provo City.
	Our beloved Sister after a life of toil and usefulness, has
paid the debt of nature, and gone to her rest in the great
beyond, we acknowledge the debt to be the wise decree
of the Almighty upon all in our probation here, and while
we do not regret the change on her part, as she was fully
prepared, by her well spent life, still we miss her kindly
presence and influence at our meetings.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Therefore be it;
	Resolved—that while we feel sad in our loss by this
separation from our sister,—We remember her wise
counsels and practical faith in her religion and her God,
which has so often in its manifestation brought joy to our
hearts. Her words of comfort and exhortatfon with their
prophetic fire still fill our minds with admiration for this
our good and well beloved sister.
	Resolved—that we strive to emulate her faith, her good
works, and follow the good, example of her active and
well spent life.
	Resolved—that we congratulate the sons and daughters
of the deceased on the pattern of a noble life that their
mother has left them, and bid them follow on in the path
she trod.
	Resolved—that these resolutions be spread upon the
Records of the Relief Society of the 2nd Ward and also
published in the Utah Enquirer, Despatch and EXPONENT.
			SARAH HONES,
			JOSEPHINE LOVELESS,
			ELIZABETH D. BROWN,
			SARAH ANN JONES,
				Committee.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

﻿The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 20.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 1, 1892.	NO. 16.


CONTENTS.

	Shakespeare's Birthplace—Marian Taylor. In
Rural England—A Story. Obedience Better
Than Sacrifice—L. L. G. R.  R. S., Y. L. M. I.
A. and P. A. Reports—Woodland—North Jordan.
—Utah. W. S. A. Reports. Do Something—Ex.
Death of a Heroine—L. W.
	EDITORIAL:—The Relief Society. Things in
General. Half a Century. Editorial Notes. An-
niversary Celebration, Woman's C. M. and M.
Institution—Gladys Woodmansee. An Able Ap-
peal.
	POETRY:—Called Home—L. M. Hewlings.
Loose The Bands—Emly H. Woodmansee: Re-
sponse—Hope. Violets—L. M. H. The Song of
the World—Carrie Renfrew.


FOR THE EXPONENT:
	CALLED HOME.

	FANNY AND TALULA.

They have passed away like a gentle breath,
Their eyes are closed in the sleep of death,
In Spring and noon of womanhood,
Tender and loving, wise and good,
Ah! too good for the sinful earth,
Only the angels knew their worth,
So they called them home unto them,
Decking their brows with diadems.—
Better to smile when such true lives,
Are called home from earth's bitter strife,
Better to know their tasks are done,
Trials all ended, glory won.
Sad tears are vain when souls so bright,
Wing their way to the gates of light.—
Called away! but their sweet good will,
Like fragrant odor lingers still;
The tender lesson's mem'ry brings
Love's healing mantle o'er us flings,
We learn to follow paths they trod,
Be more like those, now gone to God.
			L. M. HEWLINGS.
[My heart was touched and moved to write, these lines
after reading the notice of those sisters departure from
earth-life in the last issue of the EXPONENT.]


LOOSE THE BANDS.

List! the song of exultation, (chronicled in sacred pages)
List! the Bards triumphal Anthem—singing through a
	thousand ages!
List, the joyful exhortation—full of promise, hope and
	trust—
"Loose Thy Bands, Oh captive daughters! lift thyself from
	out the dust,"
Loose the bands; Oh captive Daughters, captive Wives
	and captive Mothers;
Life yourselves, 'tis fatal folly, to entirely count on others;
Loose the bands, Oh captive Daughters—claim the privilege
	to be free:
Speed the day of Woman's Glory. Hail! approaching
	Liberty!
			CHORUS:
Loose the bands, Oh captive Daughters—claim the privi-
	lege to be free;
Speed the day of Woman's Glory. Hail! approaching
	Liberty!

Answer! Oh ye captive daughters, answer ev'ry thought-
	ful woman—
Wherefore are we kept in bondage, are we counted strictly
	human?
Born, like men, all free and equal— wherefore are we forced 
	to fight—
Wherefore are we forced to wrestle, for a natural needful
	Right?


In the sacred name of freedom, for the sake of simple
	justice—
With the common right of Suffrage, can't a mighty nation
	trust us?
Oh ye favor'd Sons of Freedom—be magnanimous and
	just;—
Need the "Weaker Vessel" always be compell'd to kiss
	the dust?
			CHORUS.
Apathy, pretends to patience—while conditions harsh and
	hoary—
While oppressive senseless Statutes, mar a nation's name
	and glory;
Antiquated, wrongful Edicts—must be speedily repeal'd;
Woman's Right, must be conceded, Serfdom must to
	Freedom yield;
Join the ranks—and raise the Banner of the Woman Suf-
	frage Army?
Never mind the shafts of envy, never mind the tempests
	stormy;
Liberty! is worth a struggle, worth the cost whate'er it
	be,
Can we ever overvalue, Nature's noblest Legacy?
			CHORUS.
Wiser grows the world—and faster—much is done, and 
	much endeavor'd,
All humanity, rejoices, that the Negro's bonds are sever'd.
Now, in the behalf of progress, as a crowning act of grace—
Let, Consistency, forever, free the Mothers of the Race;
Doubtless, Woman's "Legal Status" is a farce, and noth-
	ing better;
Yet, withal, some "Foolish Virgins" would not loose a
	single fetter;
Wrest from man, the Right of Suffrage—an indignant hosts
	you'd see;
Loose the bands! Oh captive daughters—Hail! approach-
	ing Liberty!
			CHORUS.
		EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.


[Column 1]

SHAKESPEARE'S BIRTHPLACE.

	Just as many a Californian allows the
foreigner to out-strip him in visiting the
glorious world-famed Yosemite Valley, so
there are numbers of Englishmen who have
never seen the birthplace of the immortal
Shakespeare, although it is a place of pil-
grimage to the many Americans who flock
annually to the Continent of Europe.
	Stratford on Avon, in the County of War-
wick, is situated in the very heart of England;
in the midst of scenery breathing peace and
contentment.
	The surrounding country is generally flat,
and might be considered tame but for the mag-
nigcent growth of trees which greet one on
every side, and which add a sylvan loveliness
to historical associations.
	The town itself is like many another in the
midland counties and has the same sleepy look
as though its people were quite content to re-
main a hundred years behind their neighbors
and in fact prefer jogging along at their own
easy-going rate to joining in the mad rush for
wealth that characterizes the large cities. Con-
sidering the world-wide fame of the Warwick-
shire poet, it is strange how comparatively
little is known of him with any certainty; this
much we know however that he was born
April 23, 1564, that he was in all probability
educated at the Grammer School, that when
very young he married Anne Hathaway, a
maiden of the neighboring village of Shottery,
a union which proved unhappy, that a few
years later he went to London in order to es-

[Column 2]

cape prosecution at the hands of Sir Thomas
Lucy,—on whose estate of Charlecote, Shake-
speare had been poaching, that in the Metro-
polis he won fame and fortune first as an
actor, then as a writer of plays; that in 1579 he
purchased a goodly sized house in his native
town, to which he subsequently retired, and
which proved the scene of his death in the year
1616. The houses of Stratford are substantially
built, and give one the idea that there is more
opulence than poverty amongst the towns-peo-
ple, a well-to-do air pervading the place. The
principal hotel is noticable as having all its
rooms named after the different Shakespearian
plays; thus the love sick swain may sweetly
dream in teh "Romeo and Juliet" room, and
the ambitious and secretly blood-thirsty ruffian
may take uneasy slumber in the room desig-
nated "Richard III." The house in which
Shakespeare was born is in Kenley St. and at
no great distance from the Great Western Rail-
way Station. Of it Washington Irving wrote
"It is a small, mean edifice of wood and plaster
a true resting place of genius which seems to
delight in hatching its offspring in by-corners."
This however does not describe the building at
the present time, for after having been fre-
quently half-ruined by repairs carelessly exe-
cuted, it has at length been restored to some
thing resembling its original condition, and its
appearance now tallies with the fact that the
poet's father was a man of some means in his
generation.
	The front door leads into a small kitchen,
in which there is a large old-fashioned English
fire-place, with the cosy ingle nook now out
of date. There are two other rooms on this
floor, but it was in a small room upstairs that
the great Shakespeare first saw the light of day
and thither we wend our way. The few pieces
of furniture call for no notice as they never be-
longed to the poet, but the walls scribbled over
with names remind us of the round chamber
in the Tower of London, that prison of William
Wallace where signatures of high and low are
seen side by side. Turning to the window we
see scratched on the glass the autograph of the
great Sir Walter Scott. The rest of the house
is used as a museum and amongst the curiosities
to be found there is a jug which belonged to
the poet, also a chair which he used at his
club; a gold signet ring bearing his initials;
some wood from the mulberry tree that he
planted in the garden of New Place, and the
juice of the fruit preserved in a small bottle.
	Leaving Shakespeare's house behind us we
enter High St., containing a rich collection of
old gabled houses, one of which bears the date
1596. A little further, and we come to New
Place where the poet died.
	Sad to say, nothing remains of the house
but some of the foundation stones, carefully
netted over with wire; the reason of this being
that a subsequent owner first cut down the
mulberry tree planted by Shakespeare, and
then a few years later razed the house to the
ground, because the rates were too high; a
piece of Vandalism which must cause the name
of Frances Gastrell to be execrated by all de-
votees at the shrine of genius.
	In the garden of New Place is a picturesque
ivy-covered well, at which, the cicerone informs
the traveler, every American stops to drink,
but whether to receive inspiration thereby, or
to slake his thirst is unkown.
	The Shakespeare Memorial next attracts
our attention by its somewhat too showy ex


terior which to a thinking mind seems out of
keeping with the great intellect of the man to
whose memory the monumental building has
been erected. It contains however a pretty
theatre, and sundry rooms devoted to different
branches of Shakespearian study, and from its
tower a fine view can be obtained.
	Last but not least of the gems of Stratford
is the Church with most beautiful avenues of
lime and elm partly hiding its gray walls from
view and which add a softened beauty to the
resting place of the great poet. It is in the
Chancel, within the communion table railing
that Shakespeare lies, and on the slab that re-
cords his name, is written in old English

	"Good frend, for Jesus sake forbeare
	To digge the dust encloased heare;
 	Bleste be ye man yt spares thes stones,
	And curst be he yt moves my bones."

	To the right of Shakespeare lies his wife
Anne Hathaway, and his favorite daughter
with her husband and child lie close by.
A walk of a mile brings the traveler to the
village of Shottery where the poet went a
wooing in youth's golden morning, and as we
tread the path across the fields which it is
said Shakespeare himself took many years ago
we cannot help thinking how fair this country
of England is, and presently when a rosy
cheeked lassie comes tripping along, we can-
not help adding, "and how fair its women are,"
for,

	With downcast eyes and look demure,
 	And yet withal so sweet and pure—
	A pleasant picture doth she make:
 	Enough for any man to stake
	His happiness upon.

But away with soliloquy, for here is the
picturesque though humble cottage which
marks the last leaf in the diary of a trip to
the land of Shakespeare. Again we look on
a small kitchen with ingle-nook, and then
mounting the rickety stairs are shown the
room in which Anne Hathaway was born and
a frame containing some of her needle-work.
After duly satisfying our eyes with the treas-
ures of the interior, we enter the old-fashioned
garden, that we may take a draught of water
from the well whence the lovers extracted
nectar long ago, and then we bid a reluctant
farewell to this the heart of Merry England.
			MARIAN TAYLOR.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

IN RURAL ENGLAND.
IX.

	In those times, the long ago, traveling was
vastly different to what it is nowadays, and
one who journeyed in "slow coaches" could suit
his convenience or his temper; if indeed his
coachman made no strenuous objection, and
Sir Edward Hilliard was Master, as well as
Baronet; it was seldom any one interfered with
his rights, or privileges, or even to speak in
self-defense if he became enraged. No woman
had ever been as self-possessed with him as his
niece Jane, and from her he appeared to ex-
pect the independence of manhood.
	The sturdy, well-fed horses and the old coach
jogged along through the country roads; both
the young ladies were totally absorbed with
their own peculiar thoughts and conditions;
Anna was desperately in love, and Jane knew
not what to think of the declaration so per-
emptorily made by the quiet Dr. to whom she
had gone with perfect confidence for advice in
the dilemma she found herself placed on her
cousin's account. To whom could she go now,
every avenue was closed. Her uncle was heart-
less and resentful; Lady Walton had only
softened him temporarily her presence had been
the magnet; and after meeting the boy, her son,

[Column 2]

he had been more hardened still. There were
many things to be considered, Jane felt as-
sured that young Walton would follow them
to Italy, and she would be at a loss to know how
to protect her cousin. If a man as old as Dr.
Bland and with the training his profession had
given him would show such impetuosity as he
had with her, who had never given him the
slightest reason to think she cared for him,
what might not this determined young lover
do, whom she realized had been given every
encouragement from her innocent and unsus-
pecting cousin. Jane almost regretted leav-
ing the life of toil and poverty that had seemed
her fate at her mother's death, to be thrown
unprepared as she found herself into a whirl
of untoward circumstances, without authority,
or previous experience in such affairs. Re-
luctantly she answered her cousin, who was the
the first to break the silence, though her con-
science reproached her when she remembered
how much more ignorant than her years was this
fair girl, because of her lack of discipline and
womanly companionship. Her own head ached
and Anna complained, and bemoaned the cruel
fate that was separating her from her beloved
Maitland, as she realized they were going farther
and farther away.
	The days dragged on drearily and the
Baronet grew more morose and sullen when
weary with his journey; the channel was rough
when they crossed to France, Anna was very
ill, and her maid was seasick too, and the
whole responsibility fell upon Jane. When
they reached the south of France the weather
was brighter, and the air purer, and the spirit
of at least one of the party grew more con-
tent.
	They were nearing their journey's end, and
there was something to look forward to, though
her uncle still scolded and swore vehemently
and sometimes declared he should die, and
blamed Anna for it all, and "that rascally son
of a rascally father." Patience and endurance
on the part of the uncomplaining niece and
the tears and sobs of his only daughter were
lost upon this irritable old man, who grew
more unbearable day by day.
	They reached Italy at last and found a suit-
able place to winter in, but almost as soon as
they were fairly housed, acquaintances of Sir
Edward's called and invitations to go here
and there poured in; the girls had no heart for
company and the Baronet was almost rude to
his old friends. But when the worst has come
and things get to a crisis a change is inevit-
able, and so it proved in this case. Sir Edward
was taken seriously ill, and Dr. Bland was
sent for, but meantime other physicians were
summoned who pronounced his condition criti-
cal. Jane was attentive and followed out as
near as possible the instructions of the Dr.
under whom she had previously nursed, but
no change for the better resulted; and worn
out with watching and anxiety she was ready
to sink with fatigue, when late one night, after
weeks of weary waiting Dr. Bland arrived;
then she felt that relief had come; the Baronet
had been delirious much of the time and
raved incoherently but now and then Jane un-
derstood it was of Helen he talked, and would
call her to come to him. Never of his wife
or his daughter, and she felt how utterly
barren his life had been, and how destitute
of love and a real home her beautiful cousin,
and her heart softened towards her greatly.
It was good for Jane Conway to have these
sympathetic feelings; she had known the fulness
of love in her early home, and it was some
compensation now to remember the sweetness
of it and it made her more compassionate
towards Anna.
	The Baronet grew worse, but Dr. Bland
succeeded in rallying his scattered senses
sufficiently to know him, and to ask him a
few questions to which he gave straight-

[Column 2]

forward answers; he however insisted on the
Dr's maintaining secrecy from the young
ladies, and wanted no interference from women
folks.
	Waiting in expectancy of death is at all
times a fearful thing, but these two women
far from home, were indeed forlorn, their
only hope for advice lay in Dr. Bland, and
Jane felt the greatest reluctance now to lean
upon him. She had not been willing to trust
herself to speak to him of ordinary matters,
their only conversation had been of her uncle.
Anna leaned wholly upon her more self-
reliant cousin, she would scarcely have been
aware of her father's serious condition had it
not been for the servants; they talked
incessantly of the expected yet dreaded crisis,
until sometimes she would be quite hysterical
and once or twice she had swooned away from
terror, so vividly would they picture the
harrowing scenes. It was a new experience
for her and she longed to hide herself away
from it all; she had written several times to
Maitland but no answer had come as yet and
her very life seemed desolate. Accustomed to
her father's indifference she did not seem to
think it strange that she was never sent for,
and Jane was so engrossed in her duties as
nurse that she seldom had time to think how
lonely her cousin must be, shut up in the
house with only the servants for companions.
The girls had both looked forward to some
gaiety when they were fairly settled and now
how changed was the programme. If Jane
had only spoken out to the Dr. things might
have been different, but her fears lest she
should hold out any encouragement to the Dr.
to speak seriously of his affection, restrained
her from asking help in the time of greatest
need.
	Finally the Dr. himself broke the ice, by
coming upon her suddenly one morning early
as she was out taking a little breath of fresh
air, of which she stood so much in need, with
her constant watching and anxiety, for she
was indispensable to her uncle, though he had
skillfully trained nurses to attend him.
	"At last" exclaimed Dr. Bland without
even a good morning "now you shall not escape
me until I have told you that I cannot go on
living without an answer from you, you should
pity me if nothing more, wearied with long
waiting for some one to love me!" So sudden
were these ejaculations uttered, that Jane had
only voice to say "merci!" But as she did so
Dr. Bland caught the expression of her eyes,
and his heart yearned toward her with an
indefinable feeling of pain, remembering how
utterly alone in the world was this cold and
"proper" young woman. Pale and troubled
she turned away without speaking more "and
you would leave me without another word,
stay, if only for one brief moment, speak to
me." She hesitated but stood like one
petrified, she could not even think so embarrass-
ing was the situation; just then a messenger
approached and mercifully for Jane the
painful interview was over. The servant had
been looking for them through the house,
"his master was worse, the nurse thought him
dying," and quickly the Dr. strode up the
walk and the stairway to the room, where lay
the sufferer; Jane could not summon courage
to enter her uncle's apartments with him after
what had transpired, and yet she knew her
duty lay in that direction; how difficult now
seemed the path of duty, and yet she had
insisted upon others being firm and brave
under all circumstances; how poor her judg-
ment seemed when she was the one interested
but there was no time for brooding, Anna
caught hold of her and like one in despair
begged her to go with her she could not go
alone. Mechanically like one in a dream she
followed her cousin, but when they reached
the doorway, they knew by the look upon the


faces of those around that it was over. A
moment gazing on the bed and both turned to
go, the Dr. came forward and said, 'come in
he is quiet now, no more raving, no more pain
he has gone into the great unknown, he lead
Lady Anna almost stunned as she was and
her cousin walked by her side with the same
stately bearing as ever. No more was said,
the attendants were preparing to close the
doors Miss Conway took her cousin by the
arm and whispered "let us go," and together
they left the chamber of death. The orphaned
girl did not realize her position, she was
thinking less of the dead than the living, she
had scarcely known her father, and could not
be expected to grieve now; it was however a
peculiar experience for them both, and Jane
went over in her mind the list of relatives
who must be notified and what would be
expected of her; she needed sleep and rest,
and while she waited her thoughts flew far
away to her dear old England, and the old
tumbling down house and she wondered were
they to return there or what was to be their
fate?
	We will not dwell upon the harrowing
details of the time that hung so heavily on
the hands of Lady Anna and Miss Conway;
but Maitland Walton found them not know-
ing what had happened and his presence
consoled Anna in her days of mourning;
Jane began to feel that she had been too
mistrustful now that she knew him better;
and it was a relief to her that he could amuse
and entertain her cousin, while she was
engaged upon more important matters. Sir
Edward's solicitor had come over and though
the will was not yet made public, she had
been made aware of some of its contents, and
had been asured she was not left penniless.
The Dr. almost wished she had been, then he
might have hoped she would one day sit
beside his hearthstone, and make the sunlight
of his dreary house. But he felt he would
wait and see whether independent as she
seemed, she would not yet need him.
	After Sir Edward had been laid in the
tomb at Ravenna, and it became necessary
for Mr. Burke the solicitor and Dr. Bland to
return to England, they were anxious to know
if the young ladies wished to go or to remain
until the winter was over; they talked over
the matter and finally decided that it was
Burke's place to speak as he had still charge
of the Baronet's affairs, and their interests.
	Mr Burke felt some delicacy in approach-
ing the subject, and suggested that Mr. Walton
pave the way, to which Dr. Bland assented
willingly. It proved easy for the young man;
and so matters were soon arranged and the
journey undertaken, the only drawback being
that Maitland must not travel with them.
Miss Conway could not be persuaded to consent
to that. The young ladies were in deep
mourning dress,though there was little mourn-
ing in their hearts, and the journey was per-
formed with outany notable incident.
	The coming home however was more
embarrasing; the servants were demonstrative
and the whole place in confusion; all the
establishment seemed to think it their
imperative duty to make a display of their
bereavement and to vie with each other in its
positive expression.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RESPONSE.

DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	
	Your token of friendship has come safe to me
		O'er mountain and desert and plain,
	And the wish that you sent me, I breathe back to thee,
		For it calls up sweet memories again.

	This delicate spray in the corner so fair
		How like the sweet flowers of the heart,


Which if we would save we must garner with care
	And shield from the tempest's cold dart.

A "happy new year" ah, can happiness be,
	While Zion in fetters is bound,
While Satan still reigns on land and on sea,
	And sorrow is everywhere found?

Yet still we will sing a "Happy New Year,"
	For Hope springs afresh in each breast,
So faith all undying dispels every fear,
	And whispers the day dawn of rest.
				With love yours,
					HOPE.
Juarez, Jan 29, 1892.


VIOLETS.

Beautiful Violets! precious and rare,
	Emblems of hope, inspiration of soul;
What joy ye have brought, now banishing care,
	Infusing sunshine and gladness untold.
An angel of mercy sent thee to cheer,—
	To lift up sad hearts this gloomy March morn,
While held in despondence, doubting and fear,
	Worn, weary, wasted, courage near gone.
Loving kindness alone inpelled the thought,
	To convey such beauty fragrance and bloom,
Soothing, enchanting tried spirits o'erwrought,
	Refreshing, and cheering—displacing gloom.
Breath of Elysium prevades the air,
	Fulfillment of promise springtime enfolds
Dainty in loveliness, perfect and fair,
	With never a taint or touch of earth's mold.
Grown out from a bed of darkness and cold,
	Resplendent in colors of varied hue,
Sunbeams of summer, ne'er paint richer gold,
	Green, red and white, royal purple and blue.
We will hold ever in memory's urn,
	Giver and gift, stamped in love and enwreathed,
Fresh green and pure as the day shall return,
	Fragrant with perfume, in blossom and leaf.
			L. M. H.
	Beautiful English Violets sent to the chamber of the
sick on a dreary March morning. By. Mrs. John Sears
1879


THE SONG OF THE WORLD.

	Love, love, love!
Pleads the child heart hungering
For its heritage of heaven;
For its dower of holy leaven
From the All-Compassioning.
	Gently calling,
	Softly falling,
Love, the song the Angels sing.

	Love, love, love!
Beats the hopeful heart of youth,
Thrilling to that vital current
Of divinity inherent,
From the Fountain-head of Truth.
	Though the morrow
	Sob in sorrow,
Love, may speak the trouble smooth.

	Love, love, love!
Throbs life's whispered noontide prayer,
From the lives of toil it rises,
Through the mother's sacrifices,
Through the father's selfless care.
	Ah! to live it!
	Thus to give it!
Is to feel God everywhere.

	Love, love, love!
Sigh the old in underbreath,
'Tis the smile of the immortal
That makes warm the silent portal,
And 'tis all the silence hath.
	While life's gladness
	And its sadness
Slip away to darkling death.

	Love, love, love!
Is the hushed, the smothered cry
Of the world; through evil stealing,
Through the pain and wrong revealing
Man's redemption drawing nigh.


Naught can still it,
	Naught can kill it,
Love of love can never die.
			CARRIE RENFREW.
The Woman's Tribune.


OBEDIENCE BETTER THAN
SACRIFICE.

	"Pastry and Poetry," said grandma smil-
ing upon me, as, at the sound of her bell, I
entered her room and placed upon her table
the desert with which she was to finish her
dinner. "Sit down a moment," she continued.
"I shall not detain you; but that last paint-
ing of Leigh's has made such an impression
upon me, I want to tell you of a circumstance
which it brings forcibly to my memory. The
locks, the water and the ship, Leigh has put
into that picture, represent perfectly, as I
remember it, a scene off the shore of the
Bristol Channel, which I witnessed, one
afternoon, many years ago.
	"There was a beautiful young woman who,
having heard the Gospel taught by the Elders
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, had believed, and applied for baptism.
One of the Elders baptized her and she at
once began making preparations to emigrate
to Utah. On the morning of the day which
Leigh's picture brings so vividly to my
recollection, I found the young woman in
tears and deeply distressed. Sympathetic
inquiries elicited the following sad facts.
	"Four or five years before, her love had
been sought and won by a gentleman of
wealth and high birth; he betrayed and
deserted her. There was a child, a lovely
little girl. The young mother had made up
her mind to take her little one to its father,
and there leave it for him and his relatives to
rear and educate, as they were rich while she
was poor. This she looked upon as being a
terrible sacrifice which she was making for
the Gospel's sake. So it would have been in
one sense. The thought of thus separating
herself from her one and only darling was
breaking her heart; but this was not all. The
Elders had counseled her not to take the step
she was contemplating. They advised her to
keep her child and take it with her to Zion
where it would be taught the way of life and
salvation, promising her it should be a bless-
ing and not a trouble to her. But she had
determined to do otherwise, and hard as it
seemed to consummate the plan, she could not
be persuaded to relinquish it. "She therefore
went aboard the ship, with her little girl, to
make the short run across the channel, and go
to the place where the father resided.
	"What was our dismay at seeing the ship,
when just out of reach of help from the land,
spin 'round and 'round, as if in a gigantic
whirlpool, and then dive down as if swallowed
up in a mighty chasm. Both mother and
child were drowned, with several other
passengers.
	"That was to me,a lasting and very sorrowful
lesson. It caused me to consider how dangerous
a thing it is for any of us to act in opposition
to the counsel of men who have been ordained
of God to lead His people, or any portion of
them; for their words should be to us such
words as will lead unto life and light; and to
disregard them, is liable to lead us unto dark-
ness and death.
	"Our young people should be especially
taught in regard to this matter. It isn't that
one member of the Church is better than
another, but we should honor the authority
which God places upon men and women, and
remember always his admonitions concerning
obedience."
			L. L. G. R.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT﻿.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
gne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
  
SALT LAKE CITY,	March 1, 1892.


THE RELIEF SOCIETY.

PROGRAMME OF EXERCISES.

	[The general Jubilee meeting will be held in the
Assembly Hall or Large Tabernacle in Salt Lake
City, commencing at 10 a. m., Thursday, March
17, 1892, it being fifty years since the first organi-
zation, March 17, 1842.]
	Singing by the Tabernacle Choir, Prof. E.
Stephens, Musical Director—The Grand Invoca-
tion, by Eliza R. Snow, "O My Father, thou that
dwellest."
	Prayer by President Angus M. Cannon.
	Singing, "How firm a foundation, ye saints of
the Lord."
	Opening Address, President, Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young.
	Reading, The Revelation to Emma Smith, Mrs.
Zina Y. W. Card.
	Reading of Sketch of the Relief Society, pre-
pared for the occasion.
	Singing by the Choir, Original Song by Mrs.
Emily H. Woodmansee, "The Daughters of Zion!
The Friends of the Poor."
	After which, Addresses will be made by the
First Presidency, (Providence permitting.)
	Addresses by Counselors, Mrs. Jane S. Rich-
ards and Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith.
	Addresses by the Apostles.
	Speech by Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, Secretary,
and Mrs. M. Isabella Horne, Treasurer.
	Sentiments, The Relief Society, and The Wo-
men of Zion. Mrs. E. B. Wells, Cor. Sec'y.
	Anthem, "Daughter of Zion? Awake From Thy
Sadness."
			Prayer at High Noon,
		By One of the First Presidency.


THINGS IN GENERAL.

	The Territorial Legislature are hard at work
trying to dispatch what business is pending, and
Committees are making good use of their time in
discussing the various subjects and preparing
their reports the House and the Council. The
puzzling question seems to be how to apportion
means, and more important still perhaps how to
get the means to appropriate. The members are
anxious to act according to the wishes of their
constituency, and to fully consider also the
financial welfare of the Territory. There are
many laudable institutions in this young Territory
that need fostering, strenghtening and building up.
Reformatory and educational enterprises should
not be neglected, and yet the future of Utah
should be well considered and such steps taken as
will further the progress, develop the growth, and
ensure permanent enterprises as will
	The Columbian Exposition will afford an open-


ing for world-wide representation, such as never
has been known in the history of this continent.
The great and growing West with its boundless
possibilities is still comparatively unknown in the
Eastern world. The World’s Fair of 1893 will
give such grand opportunities for celebrity as
as have never before been accessible. To let it
pass without an extra effort on the part of the
men and women of this region of country to make
a creditable showing would be a grievous mistake
and one that could never be remedied. Utah is
positively coming to the front in the van of
States, and the resources within her borders
hold out splendid inducements for men of means,
of skill and ingenuity to make available her native
products.
	
	The bills now before the Congress of the
United States asking for statehood and home-rule
are receiving considerable attention, and are
bringing the condition of the Territory, its
material interests, its social and general history
to the understanding of a greater number of peo-
ple than heretofore; partly through newspaper
comments, and if those are not always just and
true they cause people to inquire, and that gen-
erally results in the dissemination of more cor-
rect information.
			
The amnesty bill seems the most likely to re-
ceive favorable notice and the popular vote. One
would think that the people who had submitted
to the enforcement of adverse legislation, and
without a murmur or any sign of hostility, ac-
knowledged their willingness to abide by the de-
cisions of the courts were entitled to some con-
sideration, when they had not infringed upon the
statutes made specially for them.


HALF A CENTURY.
The Relief Society Jubilee which will be cele-
brated March 17, 1892, is now near at hand.
Letters are coming in from various quarters, and
also verbal communications asking if there is any
special instructions in reference to what shall be
done on that day. The Presidency of the Relief
Society in the Circular issued, gave a general out-
line of what would be expected and left the de-
tails to those who preside in the several wards
and localities, to act according to circumstances
and surroundings and be guided by the sug-
gestions of the spirit to them. It would be
agreeable to the President, Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young if in each place where there is a celebra-
tion, in the order of their exercises the beautiful
hymn “O, my Father thou that dwellest” by Eliza
R. Snow should be included.
	The sketches of the Relief Society that are
prepared should be historical, and correct in de-
tailing such facts as are used, as it is anticipated
that all these will be collected or called in, and
compiled, or such matter collated from them, as
will form a complete history of the Relief Society
in all its branches and in all lands. There should
be two copies made by each Society that one
may be preserved by the Society and placed in
its record and the other one forwarded to the
Central Board, when it shall be called for.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The Relief Society Conference of this Stake
will be held in the Fourteenth ward assembly
rooms on Friday, March 11, 1892. Meetings will
begin at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m. as usual. The Presi-
dent, Mrs. M. Isabella Horne, is desirous that
each branch in the Stake should be represented
by one or more of the respective officers, as there
will likely be business of importance to present,
and special advice given relating to the Relief
Society Jubilee that is to be celebrated on the

[Column 2]
17th of March, wherever there is an organization
of this society in all lands, it being fifty years
since the first society was organized by President
Joseph Smith in Nauvoo, Ill., March 17, 1842.

	On Feb. 10, a few ladies met by invitation
at the residence of Sister Julia C. Howe and en-
joyed a pleasant afternoon and evening in social
converse, a delicious dinner was elegantly served
in the most hospitable manner. Mrs. Howe is a
charming hostess, and understands how to delight
her guests, her house has been a favorite resort
for years past, though one by one several of those
who were wont to gather there have gone behind
the vail. We miss their genial faces when we
come together on these occasions, but we know
our loss is their gain, and it teaches the lesson of
appreciation to those who remain. Sister Howe
makes her guests feel so much at ease, that they
are loth to say good night when the hour of part-
ing comes.

	The Relief Society of the Seventh Ward held
its annual meeting Wednesday Feb. 17, Mrs M.
A. Lambert presiding. Bishop Wm. Thorne and
his Counselor Wm. McLachlin were present also
a goodly number of the Society. Visitors present
were Pres. M. I. Horne, and her Counselor E. S.
Taylor, also E. B. Wells. The report of the
Society was very creditable, and showed that the
President and her board had been active and
efficient in their management. Pres. Horne and
the other visiting ladies each addressed the meet-
ing in turn and Pres. Lambert also spoke a short
time. The subjects treated upon were the general
and active work of the sisters organizations, their
advancement in knowledge and intelligence; the
necessity of bringing the younger women forward
in the ranks, the mother’s great responsibility, the
mission of women in the home and in society,
the saving of grain, the coming Jubilee, etc.
After the meeting was dismissed the Society and
Bishop repaired to the R. S. hall in the building
where a sumptuous repast was served to all.
In the evening there was a party in honor of
Sister Annie Dinwoody who was about to leave
the ward having built a new house in another part
of the City. 
	On the 19th of February the ladies of the 19th
ward met in the lower hall of the new meeting
house, Mrs. C. C. R. Wells in the chair, the ob-
ject of the meeting being to diffuse information
and to increase an interest in the subject of equal
political rights and privileges. Mrs. Edwardas cted
as secretary. The meeting opened with singing
from the Utah Woman Suffrage Song Book
and prayer was offered by Mrs. Ann E. Neal.
Dr. Elvira S. Barney read some suffrage notes by
great men and women and commented upon
them in an original manner. Mrs. Sarah Howard
Pres. of a branch of the W. S. A. at South Bounti-
ful, made a short speech, also Mrs. A. J Croche-
ron well known as a literary writer and an in-
telligent advocate for woman’s advancement, Mrs.
E. B. Wells made some explanations and gave
some of the reasons why women should vote and
be eligible to office, substantiating the assertions
made by facts that were apparent in the ordinary
life and sphere of humanity. Mrs. Maria L.
Nebeker made quite a telling speech though it
was her first effort on that subject. Mrs. Rawlings
and some others added a few words also the
Chairman. Altogether the meeting was an in-
teresting one and will no doubt be productive of
good.

	There was a reunion of the brethren sisters and
friends in the 13th ward on Thursday evening,
Feb. 18, at the ward meeting house. Bishop N.
A. Empey in charge with a full-fledged supper
Committee and a programme. Heber S. Goddard
took charge of the programme, announced the
exercises in their order, while the Bishop attended


to receiving and welcoming his guests among
whom were many old residents of the ward in the
days of other Bishops; the house was well filled.
After singing and prayer, there was a musical exer-
cise by the Platte brothers on the guitar and
mandolin, finely given and followed by Elder
George Goddard who gave a sketch of the life of
Bishop Edward Hunter in his characteristic style,
first Bishop of the 13th ward and afterwards pre-
siding Bishop of the Church, relating facts and
portraying incidents in a manner true and telling.
Next followed a brief summary ef the life and
labors of Bishop Edwin D. Woolley who suc-
ceeded Bishop Hunter and presided in the ward
30 years, by George Woolley his youngest
son and now Counselor to Bishop Empey.
Bishop Millen Atwood’s son gave a short history
of his father’s life, labors and mission as an Elder
and Bishop, and these exercises were followed by
singing by a selected choir, and Heber S. Goddard
favored the company with the song entitled, “The
heart bowed down—” which was the gem of the
evening. Delicious refreshments were served to
all in the house by the Relief Society, assisted by
the young ladies of the ward. After the interval
of eating and social conversation, the party was
addressed by President Angus M. Cannon, Zina
D. H. Young, B. W. Smith and E. B. Wells.
Brother Geo. Goddard gave one of his old-time
songs the audience joining in the chorus, and the
party was dismissed with prayer by Elder A. M.
Musser.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATION
	OF 
SUSAN B. ANTHONY’S BIRTHDAY.

Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball the President of the N.
A. W. S. A. of Utah Ter. called a meeting of the
officers of the Association and took preliminary
steps towards celebrating in a characteristic
manner the anniversary of Miss Susan B.
Anthony’s birthday in Entertainment Hall in the
15th Ward of this City.
The hall was handsomely decorated and a very
elegant banner hung over the speaker’s desk with
the motto in embossed letters “Taxation Without
Representation is Tyranny,” on one side the
picture of Elizabeth Cady Stanton and on the
other Susan B. Anthony, flowers and flags in pro-
fusion, the lone star of Wyoming occupying a
conspicuous place, and over all waved the
national stars and stripes. Mrs.Emily S. Richards
acted as mistress of ceremonies, relieving Mrs.
Kimball from the care to occupy the seat of honor.
The exercises opened with the song “Help the
working women,” from the “Utah Woman Suf-
frage Song Book.” Invocation by Mrs. Elizabeth
Howard. Song, “Equal Rights.” 
The opening address was by the President,
Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, and was in her usual
original style, making some strong points in re-
gard to woman’s position, in a style peculiarly
her own, Mrs. Lillie T. Freeze gave a telling
sketch of the life of Susan B. Anthony, National
President of the N. A. W. S. A. Reading“Only a
Girl” by Mrs. C. Louise Boyden an accomplished
elocutionist. Mrs. E. B. Wells gave a sketch of
“Woman’s Work” or “What Some Women Have
Done,” mentioning Zenobia’ Hypatia, Aspasia,
Martia, and at a later time Elizabeth of England,
Joan of Arc, Isabella of Castile, Maria Theresa, 
Catharine of Russia, Margaret of Austria, and
the good and great Queen Victoria of our own
time.
Recitation, “The Brave Ones at Home,” Mrs.
Elizabeth Mc’Farlane. A poem by Mrs. Emily
H. Woodmansee was read by Mrs. Nellie Cole-
brook Taylor, followed by a song by Thomas
Ashworth “As I sat upon my dear old Mother’s
knee.”
Short speeches were made by Pres. Joseph F.

[Column 2]
Smith, Pres. Angus M Cannon, Hon. Wm. Seeg
miller, member of Ter. Legislature, Hon. Wm. H.
King, Pres. of the Council, the gentlemen all
spoke of woman’s influence and their high appre-
ciation of womanliness and motherhood express-
ing the wish that women might be privileged in the
near future to enjoy equal political rights with
men, referring to the time when the women of
this Territory voted and the manner in which they
lost the franchise; after which the refreshment
Committee announced supper, and all repaired to
the lower hall where an elegant repast was spread
and the guests were waited upon by pretty young
girls in caps with yellow ribbons and white
aprons with rosettes of the same “suffrage” color.
The members of the Association all  wore their 
badges and bows of yellow ribbon and the spoons
and cutlery used were also tied with a knot of
dainty yellow ribbon. The tables were decorated
with ivy and smilax in a tasteful manner. After
supper there was music and social conversation,
and a recitation by President Joseph E. Taylor,
upon woman and her mission on this earth, com-
posed many years ago and written in a lady’s
album, by the late President of the Church Elder
John Taylor. A song by Mrs. Maggie Hull was
sweetly sung, “Edinboro Toon” with the true
Scotch accent and her beautiful and melodious
voice touched the hearts of all.
Benediction was pronounced by Counselor N.
V. Jones.
During the early part of the evening the Presi-
dent received the following telegram  from Miss
Anthony in answer to an invitation or ticket for
the party sent to her at Rochester.
	Rochester, N. Y., Feb. 15, ’92.
Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball,
Entertainment Hall 15th Ward.
Greetings dear friends that our Citizens Right
to vote may soon be secured is the prayer of your
Co-worker.
	Susan B. Anthony.

SENTIMENT.
Dear Susan, we appreciate her past labors for
the uplifting of womankind, we love her as a
sister and friend. May she live until the political
shackles are stricken from her sister woman.
This Sentiment I wished to express, or to have
expressed but no opportunity presented. 
S. M. K.


WOMAN’S C. M. & M. INSTITUTION.
	Minutes of an annual meeting of  the stock-
holders of the W. C. M. and M. Institution held in
the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms, Feb. 13th 1893,
after the regular Ladies semi-monthly meeting.
	Prayer was offered by Pres. M. I. Horne. The
minutes of the previous, or semi annual, meeting
were read and accepted, after which Pres. Horne
spoke of the necessary absence of some of the
officers of the Institution which she very much re-
gretted, but we must proceed with the business of
our meeting.
	The secretary then read a financial report of the
busines for six months, or up to Feb. 1st, 1892.
Pres. M. I. Horne spoke of the discouragement
with which we have had to meet through the non-
patronage of the stock-holders, and the sisters in
general.  Referred to the faithful labors of the
officers and their desire to promote the welfare of
the enterprise.  Exhorted the sisters to patronize
the institution; she felt proud of the result con-
sidering the state of business generally.
	The resignations of the Treasure, E. H. Wood-
mansee, and the Secretary Gladys Woodmansee
were then read. Pres. M. I. Horne moved that the
resignations be accepted as the retiring officers
had other urgent duties pressing upon them,
though she regretted that they were not able to


still hold those positions, the motion was seconded
and put to vote. Vice Pres. M.Y. Dougall moved
that a vote of thanks be extended to the retiring 
officers, for their efficient service. The motion
was seconded put to vote and carried.
Mrs. E. H. Woodmansee spoke in praise of the
officers of the Institution and encouragingly of
the business, urged the sisters to come and take
more stock.
	The following Board of Directors were then
voted in.
	Mrs. M. I. Horne, M. Y. Dougall, M. W. Wil-
cox, C. C. R. Wells, Carrie S. Thomas, Matilda
P. Spencer, Z. D. H. Young, E. H. Woodmansee.
From which the following officers were chosen,
Pres., M. I. Horne, Vice Pres. M. Y. Dougall,
Treasurer, Mrs. Carrie Thomas.
	Mrs. Minnie James was voted in as Secretary.
Meeting adjourned until the 15th of Aug. or the
Saturday nearest to that date.
	GLADYS WOODMANSEE, Sec.


AN ABLE APPEAL.
	[To the World’s Fair Committee of the Utah
Legislature.]
	Tuesday morning Feb. 16, there was a meeting
of the legislative joint committee and the ladies’
committee on the World’s Fair, at the Knutsford
Hotel, the object being to discuss Utah’s need of
an appropriation for the Columbian Exposition.
Hon. Joseph Morrell presided.
	Mrs. Margaret B. Salisbury read the following
paper in support of the appropriation of the sum
of $100,000:
	“The board of lady managers of the World’s
Columbian commission desire to develop to the
fullest extent the grand possibilities that have
been placed in their hands by the united action of
Congress, the management of the exposition and
the authorities of the various States and Terri-
tories.
	In behalf of the women of Utah we have the
pleasure to state that thousands of petitioners
from the several counties have sent their appeals
to the Legislature of Utah, now in session, for an
appropriation of $100,000 to properly represent
our Territory at the World’s Fair in Chicago. We
beg to supplement their petitions by our earnest
request that your honorable committee will ap-
prove and recommend such liberal appropriation
of money for this object as will be commensurate
with the dignity, richness, magnitude, productive-
ness and moneyed capabilities of Utah. The wo-
men of Utah are engaged in branches of industry
and we wish to make the best possible showing of
their achievements in every line of labor, educa-
tional, artistic, literary, benevolent, economic. It
is important that we show the bread-winners, who
are fighting unaided the battle of life, the wider
opportunities awaiting them, and what training
will best enable them to seize those opportunities
and make their work of the greatest value not
only to themselves, but to the world. In order to
accomplish these aims in Utah, it will be neces-
sary to thoroughly organize every county so that
a systematic canvass may be made as to the con-
dition of industrial women, their productions and
earnings, whether in the studio, counting house,
schoolroom, factory, mill, dairy, or the farm.
	From the information we have gathered on
these subjects we feel encouraged to assure you
that the women of Utah will meet their sisters of
the different States and Territories in a manner
highly creditable to the energy, intelligence and
talent which characterize the women of the West.
Of the women of Utah there are twelve who have
published one or more books, and several books
are now in preparation, and two newpapers are
published by women. The Salt Lake Tribune,
Herald, the Standard, of Ogden, employ women


writers. We have many excellent musicians, a
few artists in oil paintings, water colors, etc.
Some talented women are now studying abroad. 
Exquisite work is done in China painting,crayon,
beautiful laces, fine needle etc. Silk culture, 
which has been quite an industry in this Territory,
deserves to be encouraged and developed. There
are lawyers and physicians, also, thoroughly edu-
cated women teachers in the public and denomi-
national schools; also in many charitable institu-
tions. In printing offices and bookbinderies large
numbers of women are employed. Women are
also engaged in dairy work. We would add  that
women pay a fair proportion of the taxes. In
consideration of the earnest work being done in
all these branches by women, we again urgently
rqeuest that the legislatnre will generously enable
Utah to make a creditable exhibit of her wond-
rous products and industries at the World’s Fair
in 1893.
	Respectfully,
	MARGARET B. SALISBURY,
	ALICE J. WHALEN,
	Lady Managers for Utah.
	The ladies of the Committee present with Mrs.
Salisbury were Mrs. Alice J. Whalen, Mrs. Judge
Bennett, Mrs. C. W. Lyman, Mrs. E. B. Wells,
Mrs. E. S. Richards, .Mrs. G. H. Young, Mrs. M.
B. Cannon.
	Mrs. Wells answered some pertinent questions
propounded by the Legislature and Mrs. Richards
made a short speech in which she stated it was
the first opportunity given to women by the  gov-
ernment to make a representation and she felt
Utah had been sufficiently misrepresented, &c.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., AND P. A.
	REPORTS.
	WOODLAND.
	On account of the removal of the President
of the Relief Society to Mexico, the Relief
Society of Woodland ward was reorganized on 
Sunday Oct. 25, Stake President, Sister Emma 
Brown being present. The following officers
were unanimously sustained, Emma S. Webb
as President, Jane Van Tassel and Lois Ben-
son Counselors, Lois Benson Secretary, Mary
Ann Moon Treasurer.
						LOIS BENSON, Sec.
			NORTH JORDAN. 
A meeting was held at North Jordan ward
Jan. 12, 1892, for the purpose of reorganizing
the Relief Society. Bishop Heber Bennion
and Counselors met with the sisters, when the
necessary changes were made. Sister Eliza
Spencer (on account of advanced age) not feel-
ing able to attend to her duties was honorably
released. Sister Elizabeth Pixton was chosen
President, and a unanimous vote was taken to
sustain her, with Mary P. Bennion and Mary
A. Webster as Counselors. Sister E. A.
Bennion was released from the duties of Secre-
tary and A. J. Harker was chosen to fill the
vacancy.
	On account of the severe weather our meet-
ings are held monthly. The ward being in a
scattered condition, some members do not at-
tend regularly but a very good spirit is made
manifest, each and all present speak of the
goodness of God, and of the truth of the Lat-
ter-day work.
						ALICE J. HARKER, Sec,

			UTAH STAKE.
	The Quarterly Conference of Utah Stake
was held in the Meeting House, Provo City,
Nov. 27th 1891. Sister Mary John presiding
with her counselors. President Zina D. H.
Young also present with us.
	Conference opened with singing and prayer

[column 2]

The minutes of the former Conference were
read and approved. 
The President was the first speaker, felt
thankful and was glad to see so many out
would like to hear the Presidents of the
branches report after which we would hear
from Sister Young whom we felt it a great
privilege to have with us to-day. A number
of Presidents reported as having faithful and
energetic workers ready and willing to respond
to every call to help the poor and comfort the
mourner etc.
	Sister Young was pleased to hear the
testimonies that had been borne; there were
many sermons in them. The Lord knows
our hearts, we can be his jewels if we try:
sisters do not doubt this work, we will come
off victorious if we are faithful I thank God for
this society. Sisters meet together often;
comfort one another pray with and for each
other, the Lord will hear our prayers and
answer them too. Mothers watch over your
children; know where they are at night; try to
keep them from imbibing bad habits; use
your influence to get them to attend the
Associations organized for their benefit and
profit. I feel as though the Spirit of our
beloved Sister Ma Smoot was with us; sisters
let us be faithful.
	Counselor Marilla Daniels said it had been
a feast of good things,we must love one another
and strive to keep the commandments of God,
and serve Him with all our hearts. We
must look after our children and raise them in
the knowledge of God that they may be
faithful after we are gone etc.
	Sister Young gave some counsel in regard to
questions asked, spoke a short time on various
subjects; spoke of the high calling of the
teachers and the mission of mercy and love
they were called upon to perform. Comfort-
ing the sick and those that were bowed down
with grief carrying the bread of life to them.
Bro. Brigham said we had no conception of the
magnitude that this Society would attain to.
Sisters do not neglect your meetings the time
will come when many will mourn that they
have neglected these opportunities after sing-
ing and prayer conference adjourned till 2
p. m.
	Afternoon session opened at 2 p. m. with
the usual exercises. Part of the time was
taken up with hearing reports from different
parts of the county and as in other branches
they reported diligence in labors and willing-
ness to contribute to the poor that none might
suffer, many strong testimonies were borne to
the truth of this work.
	Counselor Emily G. Cluff spoke of adorn-
ing the minds of our children instead of
spending our time in dressing them so
elaborately etc.
	Sister Young made some additional remarks 
this afternoon. The sisters are gaining and
growing in the knowledge of the Gospel, let
us try to improve by being better wives and
mothers, teach your daughters to pray and all
your children, that they may have faith in
God, be kind and charitable, when we have the
Spirit of the Lord with us we do not feel to
hurt any one’s feelings, there are links that
bind us nearer than kin; let us be strong in
the Lord, my heart is full of blessings for you
my sisters and I ask God to bless you. Amen.
	Bro, C. D. Evans spoke a short time on the
evils of intemperance and exhorted every
mother to use her influence against it. Spoke
also of the great enticements of the Mining
Camps in drawing our young men away from
home, and they soon lose their reverence for
everything sacred or holy.
	Sister Till spoke upon silk culture, they had
on hand considerable silk ready to weave
when they had an opportunity. 
Sister Young had never lost interest in the

[column 3]

silk question. Pres. Young had said the
elements were full of silk etc. Sister John
spoke on the principle of faith, knew the
Lord could save the sick if we ask in faith,
and let us pray for strength to sustain us day
by day. After singing and prayer Conference
adjourned for three months. Benediction by
Rather Groves,
	Caroline Daniels, Sec’y.


W. S. A. REPORTS.

SALT LAKE COUNTY. 
	The regular monthly meeting of the Salt
Lake Co. W. S. A. was held in the 13th ward
Assembly Rooms, Feb. 16, 1892. Pres. Eliza-
beth Howard in the chair. Opened by sing-
ing from the Suffrage Song Book "O come,
come away." Prayer by Mary A. Freeze.
Roll called. After which 14 new members
were voted in; as no programme had been
prepared Pres. Howard said she would be
pleased to hear from the ladies present.
Dr. E. S. Barney read a sketch,—Some of
the reasons why it is necessary for women to
be interested in obtaining the power of the
ballot.
	Elizabeth McFarlane said she would be
pleased to see our young ladies come out and
educate themselves to hold the positions that
await them; experience gives us education.
Women are the peacemakers of the world,
they have fought many bloodless wars. Spoke
of the work accomplished by the great women
in India in settling the slave question; and the
blood that might have been spared had our
own Government accepted the advice of our
women. It has been estimated that had the
bodies of men killed in the late war been put
into coffins and placed end to end they
would have made a complete band around the
world. Spoke of the steps being taken by our
women to prevent war with Chili, and related
other interesting instances of history on the
same subject.
	Miss Louie Poulten favored us with a song
which was beautifully rendered; and for which
she received a hearty vote of thanks.
	M. Isabella Horne said, I desire all to under-
stand I am in favor of the elevation of woman.
Since the death of our Savior men have
oppressed women more and more and tried to
keep them in ignorance. We can see how
rapidly she advances when she is allowed some-
thing of the same opportunities and privileges
as men. Spoke of the honor shown to women
of the Scriptures; women have more real
courage, as strong minds and intellects as their
brothers. A gentleman once told her that God
made man first, "I answered, yes but He im-
proved very much in his second manufacture.
I was invited to attend a debate on this subject
by a party of young men and women, the argu-
ments were very interesting." Also referred
to an article in our last EXPONENT.
	Vice Pres. Louise K. Spencer made a few
pleasing and encouraging remarks.
	Bathsheba W. Smith, "I hope you will
steadily increase in numbers and intelligence;
let us continually bear in mind that we have
duties to others as well as ourselves, if we have
all the rights we care, for there are many who
have not.
	Elizabeth Price made some remarks in re-
gard to the suffrage entertainment of the pre-
vious evening.
	Vice Pres. Phebe C. Young, "I think suf-
frage ladies should be minute women and al-
ways prepared to say or do something when
called on," related in a very interesting man-
ner a sketch of the life of Empress Josephine.
	Emma Finch 20th, and Julia Ridges 22nd
wards, were appointed to act as agents of the
suffrage society in their own wards.
	Pres. Howard, had been greatly pleased


[Column 1]

with the exercises of the day and with the en-
tertainment on the previous evening. "The
other day in looking over one of my old
journals, it was recalled to my mind that I had
the privilege of dining with Acting Governor
Mann on the day he had signed the bill grant-
ing suffrage to the women of Utah; when he
told me he had done so, I arose to my feet and
in my feeble way thanked him in the name of
the women of Utah for having done so.
	Meeting adjourned until the third Tuesday
in March at the same hour and place.
			M. A. CAINE, Ass't. Sec.

WEBER COUNTY.
	The Woman Suffrage Association held its
regular meeting in the Third Ward Assembly
Hall, Ogden Feb 11th 1891. A suitable prayer
was offered by the Hon. F. D. Richards, previous
minutes read and approved.
	Pres. E. Y. Stanford stated that as this was
our annual meeting for the election of officers
she would briefly report the labors and doings
of the association the past year. Regular
meetings had been held which were usually
well attended. Able and interesting addresses
had been delivered by ladies as well as gentle-
men, and she believed that a better under-
standing was now being reached by both sexes
on the subject of Woman's Suffrage, and that
the question was growing in lavor and
popularity. We have had good support from
some of our prominent male friends in this
County. On Monday last we organized an
association in Huntsville with 36 members.
The officers were duly installed and we had
an enthusiastic and enjoyable time. My many
duties and health, however  are such that a
few weeks ago I tendered my resignation but
consented to continue to act until this meeting.
While I retire from the charge of this associa-
tion after a service of three years, my
sympathies are with the cause and I shall
still give it all the support and encouragement
my feeble ability and efforts will admit of.
	Mrs. E. S. Richards of the Territorial
Central Committee here took the chair
tendered her, and called upon Hon F. S.
Richards who in an able manner explained the
object and aims of women in establishing these
Associations, space however forbids an extend-
ed reference to the many good things refered
to. The effort was most appreciatively received
by the audience.
	The chair then announced that the meeting
would proceed to the election of officers for the
organization of an association for Ogden City
instead of Weber County as it was designed to
organize these associations in all the towns
and settlements in the County where desired
by the people. On motion the Chair
appointed the following named ladies a
committee on nomination Mrs. L. Farr, H.
Brown, Jane S. Richards, E. Y. Stanford and
L. M. Richards. In the absence of the
committee to consult Mrs. F. S. Richards,
addressed, he meeting. "As women we need
to be better informed on all public questions.
The young ladies, are not so interested as they
should be in the suffrage. As we have to
appear in public we have to educate ourselves
in public duties. It is not politics that
degrade man,but man too frequently degrades
politics. Woman is not so much weaker than
man, compare her duties with his and her
physical strength in many respects is equal.
In many departments in public service women
should be called upon to do duty. A police
matron is a very necessary officer, woman
should take charge of woman her sex demands
it, but she is diffident and backward."
	The committee announced their readiness
to report and the following names were
submitted. Miss Roseltha Canfield President,
Mrs Kate S. Hilliard 1st Vice Pres., Mrs.

[Column 2]

Annie Dyer Taylor 2nd Vice Pres., Miss
Lizzie M. Stanford Sec'y, Mrs. Ella
Woodmansee Treas. Miss Canfield positively
declini g the nomination, the committee
substituted the name of Mrs. Hattie Brown for
Pres. Each name was then presented in the
order named by the nominating committee and
unanimously sustained by the vote of the
meeting.
	The Chair then stated that it would be
necessary to appoint a County Central
Committee when it was suggested that rs-
presentatives from each settlement be nominat-
ed a committee, to present the names of those
ladies to be voted upon to constitute said
committee. The suggestion was made a
motion and the call of the roll represented as
present Huntsville 6 delegates, Slaterville 2,
Harrisville 5, North Ogden 6, Riverdale 7,
Lynne 3, Marriot 9, Mound Fort 2, Wilson
Lane 1, and a large delegation from Ogden.
The following ladies were elected said
committee, Mrs. J. S. Richards, E. Y, Stanford
and L. M. Richards.
	Short but interesting speeches were then
made by Mr. D. McKay, Mrs. Stanford,
Mrs. Brown, J. S. Richards and L. M. Richards
when the meeting terminated.
			M. S. WILCOX, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DO SOMETHING.

	This was the watchword with which the
National Woman's Press Association called a
meeting at Willards, to discuss the subject of
the Russian Famine, with its attendant
matters; the grain contributions of the west,
the need of ships, and the desire to help in any
and every possible way. Mrs. E. M. S.
Marble stated the object of the meeting in a
spicy speech of two minutes, into which her
breathless articulation compressed the expres-
sion of sympathy, the out reaching generosity,
the utter mortification, degradation and
indignation of the people, who were so
hindered and hampered by the unaccountable
action of the House of (non) Representatives.
Clara Barton then spoke of what was needed,
and refuted the statements that the Red Cross
Association had made any "appeal," also the
newspaper announcements that money had
been raised and sent to her. She said that the
amount of grain already offered could be
quadrupled in three weeks, if only some means
for shipping it could be assured. She also
stated that Russia was entirely willing to accept
this. No feeling of pride or resentment stood
in the way. Russia's people were starving,
and the government was doing all in its
power. Many officials, including the Legation
here, had donated their salaries—(a good
suggestion for our Representatives.) But it
must be remembered that the very cause of
the famine, was also a cause of decreased
revenues, and do all they could, the home
government could not do all that was needed
and without hesitation, Russia would accept
any help for her suffering people.
	Mrs. Joanna Turner read some extracts from
the London Spectator, and spoke with great
earnestness.
	Ex. Governor Hoyt of Wyoming, was
introduced as "Woman's Friend," a title
which he said was the proudest he had ever
had conferred on him. He then outlined the
plan of the committee for sending help to
Russia, of which he is chairman, and spoke
enthusiastically of what is being done, and of
the power which can be wielded by the press
in arousing public sentiment, and crystalliz-
ing the universal desire to contribute toward
the cause. He modestly alluded to his own
position, and the efforts being made by the
committee, and read a stirring appeal, which
had been prepared to be sent to clergymen, to


follow up those already issued to Governors,
Mayors, and Boards of Trade. He had no
stint of praise for Miss Barton, the Red Cross,
and the people who had already so eagerly
come forward with help and encouragement,
and showed no doubt of the ultimate result.
			Ex.


DEATH OF A HEROINE﻿

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	DEAR SISTER:
	It seems as though it would be doing an
injustice to the many friends (who reside in
Utah, adjoining Territories and Mexico) of
the worthy dead, not to give notice of her
demise through the columns of your valuable
paper which she esteemed so highly.
	Susanne Smith Adams daughter of Anthony
Smith and Sarah Mahurau Smith Meeks.
Was born 30th May 1819 in Grason County,
Kentucky. In the fall of 1834 she moved to
Morgan County Ill., where she became
acquainted with Orson B. Adams to whom
she was married on the 20th of March, 1836.
In the fall of the same year she moved to
Brown Co., Ill. where in connection with her
husband she embraced the Gospel in March
1840. In 1842 they went to Nauvoo where
sha lived until 1846. Then she started West
with her husband, crossed the Missouri River
on the 18th of June and arrived at Council
Bluffs on the 16th of July.
	There her husband volunteered in the U. S.
Service to go to Mexico in defense of his
country. Her wish was to go also that she
might share his burdens in that memorable
campaign. Consent was obtained, and she
packed what little wearing apparel she had in
a pillow slip, and started on that toilsome
journey through a wilderness country with
but two quilts for bedding. Without a
murmur she waited daily on the sick,
administering comfort and cheer to all around
her. On the 12th of October she arrived at
Santa Fe, rested five days and took up the
line of march for California. In the Spring
of 1847 she arrived at Fort John, (now
Laramie,) there it was learned that the Pioneers
were a few days ahead. Following their
trail for 510 miles her company reached the
Valley. Just in sight and within three miles
of the Pioneer's camp they had quite a time of
rejoicing. Traveling down to City Creek, a
short distance below the Pioneer's Camp she
pitched her tent on the 28th of July 1847.
Thanking God for the Oasis of the Desert,
and acknowledg ing Him for the good health
and protecting care she had enjoyed during
her weary travels with the Battalion and into
the valley. She was now prepared to continue
her labors in connection with her husband, as
the servants of God might direct. In 1848
Bro. Adams raised 20 bushels of wheat which
was much appreciated by her, having lived
the first Winter and Spring on roots and
greens.
	They now made a home on Mill Creek
where they lived quite comfortable until
Dec. 1851; then they were called to Iron Co.
where they arrived on the 14th of Feb. 1852.
Here for the third time she had her name
enrolled as a member of the Relief Society;
having been a member of that organization in
Nauvoo and also in Great Salt Lake. In
1854 she was set apart by Apostle Geo. A.
Smith to wait upon her sex in sickness. For
thirty eight years she humbly pursued her
calling with great success. Putting her trust
in God she stimulated the faith of those with
whom she labored—bringing peace, joy and
good cheer to all among whom she administered.
In the fall of 1865 she moved to Harrisburgh
Washington County, and in 1866 the Relief
Society was organized in that place, and she


was chosen President, and acted in that
capacity till 1877, when she resigned on
account of ill health and the frequent calls
from the sick. In 1883 her health was
somewhat improved and in March of that
year she was chosen by Sister E. Laney as her
first Counselor which position she held up to
the time of her death, which occured at 10
p. m. on the 23rd of January 1892 at her
residence in Harrisburgh, Utah, after a
protracted sickness with but little pain or
suffering, she passed away without a struggle.
She leaves a husband one daughter and an
adopted son, twenty-three grand-children five
great grand-children, her mother also survives
her and a host of friends to mourn her loss.
	Just previous to her departure from this
life, she called her son-in-law by name, and
urged him to use his best endeavors to direct
the energies and strength of her grand-children
in those channels that would best promote the
interests of the Work of God, in which cause
she had labored nothing doubting for nearly
50 years. Funeral services were held at Leeds
Meeting House where the largest gathering
that had met there for years, assembled to pay
their last respects to the one they loved so well.
Consoling remarks were made by Counselor
Leatham and Elders Steel, Doge, and
Spillsbury.
	All spoke in the highest terms of her many
virtues and unswerving integrity for the
Cause of Truth.
			L. W.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


Miss Hulda Friedricks, a brilliant young
German, has been engaged by the Pall Mall
Gazette to make a tour of the United States
and write up the Social Institutions of the
country and especially matters relating to
women.


[Column 1]

OBITUARIES.

	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Sister Sarah
Jane Goff Blackburn, who departed this life on the morn-
ing of the 28th of December 1891, at Loa, Piute Co. Utah,
born March 22, 1831, Howard Co., Missouri.
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father has seen fit in His alwise
providence to call from our midst our beloved Sister Sarah
Jane wife of Elias H. Blackburn.
	Resolved that we regret the loss of her presence in our
Society.
	Resolved that we deeply sympathize with the bereaved
family and friends in the great loss of an affectionate wife
and mother.
	Resolved that we cherish her memory and regard her
virtues as worthy of emulation.
	Resolved that these resolutions be spread upon our
Relief Society records and a copy be furnished the bereaved
family also a copy be sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for
publication.
			NANCY RIDDLE,
			SARAH S. FORSYTH,
			LEAH BLACKBURN,
			SARAH A. ROBISON,
			ELIZABETH C. JEFFERY.

	Died at Holden, Millard Co. U. T. Jan. 25, 1892 (with
paralysis) Ingborg Jenson, beloved wife of Thomas Stephen-
son. She was born at Freskehws Town, Longby, Malmo,
Sweden, and was baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints Nov. 7, 1857, at Copenhagen. She
emigrated to Utah in 1864 and was married to Thomas C.
Stephenson 1866.
	She has been a faithful member of the Relief Society since
its organization and has been a most efficient and diligent
laborer as a teacher for five years, and was always on hand
when wanted either in work or for means. She has been
to the Temple of the Lord and has done a work for the
dead, and now free from sorrow and pain has gone to meet
with those that will welcome her for the good work she has
done for them.
	Although we miss her company among us we know it is
her gain. She passed away like a child going to sleep
without a struggle; true to her God and the work she had

[Column 2]

embraced and it can be truly said of her she sacrificed her
all for the glorious hope that was within her, she dwells
now in a holier sphere.
	Rest, sweet rest at home in heaven.
		Com.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, the hand of death has again been among us,
during the last month, two of our beloved sisters have been
called behind the veil. The first was Sister Caroline Sykes
Julien, who after a long and painful illness was summoned
to her rest on Dec. 4, 1891. She was born May 26, 1832, in
Yorkshire, England. Came to Utah in 1862, became a
member of the Relief Society in the early days of its or-
ganization, she was a faithful Latter-day Saint, had a kind
and cheerful word for all around her, was also a loving and
indulgent mother. She has left eight children and a sister
behind to mourn her loss which they deeply feel being
fatherless quite a number of years.
	Also Sister Hannah Howe departed this life Dec. 24,
1891, aged 61 years lacking two days. She was born Dec.
26 1830, in Warwickshire England joined the Church in her
youth and came to Utah in 1869. She soon became a
member of the Relief Society and for a number of years
has been a diligent and faithful teacher therein She leaves
a husband and four children to mourn her loss as also
many friends and sisters in the Relief Society. Therefore
be it
	Resolved that we the members of the Relief Society do
recognize in the death of our sisters the loss of two faith-
ful workers in the cause of truth.
	And that we extend our sympathies to the families be-
reaved and pray God our Heavenly Father to comfort
bless and help them in this their trying time.
	Resolved that a copy of these Resolutions be sent to the
American Fork Independent, the WOMAN'S EXPONENET,
and one be spread on the Records of the Society.
			MARY S. HINDLEY,
			ALICE ELSMORE,
			MARY B. ADAMS,
				Committee.

	We the sisters of the Rexburg Second Ward Relief
Society send you the following lines in respect to the
memory of Sister Mary A. Ricks who departed this life
Jan. 30th, 1892. She was born Oct. 28, 1870, and was the
wife of Alfred Ricks and daughter of John and Adeline
Roberts; was a member of the Rexburg Second Ward
Relief Society, was the secretary of the Sunday School and
was a leading member of the choir, she was a lovely singer;
we not only feel the loss of her in our Society, but that of
a sincere worker in any spiritual calling and a steadfast
sister and friend; she was one of the noblest of women; of
her it might be said, faithful and true in all things she lived
and died a saint. She suffered untold agony for a few
hours and although many loving hands were constantly do-
ing and anxious hearts praying for her recovery, the Lord
saw fit to release her from this earthly mission and call her
home. None knew her but to love her. The funeral
services were held in the meeting house, appropriate re-
marks were made by brothers T. E. Bassett, F. S. Bramuel
Pres. Thomas Ricks and M. Ricks. she was followed to the
cemetery by a large procession of relatives and friends to
await the resurrection morn.
	Memorial of respect to the family of Sister Mary A.
Ricks,
	Whereas our beloved sister has been called away by the
hand of death, and be it
	Resolved that we in behalf of the Relief Society do sin-
cerely deplore the loss of a patient worker and a true sister
and we tender to the bereaved parents and husband our
mutual sympathy and implore our Heavenly Father to let
the comforting influence of his holy spirit rest upon them
in this deep sorrow.
	Resolved these resolutions be entered into Relief Society's
record also a copy be presented to the bereaved parents
and husband and printed in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	Deaa sister Mary thou art gone,
		To dwell in realms above,
	To await the resurrection morn
		When you'll meet with those you love.
			Com.


MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
OFFICE - 324, 325 Third Floor, Constitution Building
HOURS- 10 a. m., to 4. 8 to 6 p. m.

THE WOMAN'S  TRIBUNE,
Edited and published weekly at Washington,
D. C., by CLARA BEWICK COLBY.
Price, $1.00 a year. Trial Subscriptions, five
weeks for 10 cents.
The Woman's Journal, of Boston, and the Woman's Tri-
bune, of Washington, D. C., will be sent to one ad-
dress for $3.00 per year.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed.
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But-
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 63 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET, Three doors west of Theatre.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House
R.K. THOMAS

(Black square with white square turned 45 degrees with words: "RIO GRANDE WESTERN RAILWAY  SCENIC LINE OF THE WORLD)
THE
Standard Gauge
RAILWAY! 
..THROUGH THE..
ROCKY MOUNTAINS!
Choice of Three Distinct Routes,
AND THE
MOST MAGNIFICENT RAILROAD SCENERY 
IN THE WORLD.
Two Fast Express Trains Daily 
EACH WAY BETWEEN
OGDEN, SALT LAKE AND DENVER.
ELEGANT RECLINING CHAIR CARS!
Free of Charge.
Direct Connections made in Union Depots.
THE MOST THOROUGHLY EQUIPPED RAILWAY 
IN THE WEST.
D.O. DODGE, A.E.WELBY, J. H. BENNETT, 
Supt.	G. F. & P. A.
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS CAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	DAVD JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


Apostle F. S. Richards

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 20. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 15, 1892.	NO. 17.


CONTENTS.

	Communion—Mary Y. Corby. In Rural Eng-
land—A Story. What is Our Position Today—
Zion's Convert. R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., and P. A.
Reports. W. S. A. Reports. W. S. Party at
Payson, Utah. Two Presendia Kimballs. Wo-
man's Status in Sweden. Press Women in the
World's Congress Auxiliary. Notice to Stake
Secretaries. W. S. A. Convention.
	EDITORIAL:—The Relief Society. The Jubilee
Celebration, Speech of Pres. Jos. F. Smith. U.
W. P. Club—E. R. Shipp, Sec. A Loving Tribute
—S. E. R.
	POETRY:—Ode to Spring—Mrs. James T. Fields.
The Daughters of Zion, The Friends of The
Poor—Emily H. Woodmansee. Easter Morning
—L. M. Hewlings. A Child's Thought—Marion
Taylor. Letter to Lula—Amy E. Cook.


ODE TO SPRING.

I wakened to the singing of a bird;
I heard the bird of spring,
And lo!
At his sweet note
The flowers began to grow,
Grass, leaves, and everything,
As if the green world heard
The trumpet of his tiny throat
From end to end, and winter and despair
Fled at his melody, and passed in air.

I heard at dawn the music of a voice,
O my beloved, then I said the spring
Can visit only once the waiting year,
The bird can bring
Only the season's song, nor his the choice
To waken smiles or the remembering tear!
But thou dost bring
Springtime to every day, and at thy call
The flowers of life unfold, though leaves of autumn fall.
	—MRS. JAMES T. FIELDS, in March Century.


THE DAUGHTERS OF ZION, THE
FRIENDS OF THE POOR.

TUNE—THE STAR SPANGLED BANNER.

[Written for the Relief Society Jubilee March 17, 1892.]
Oh! blest was the day when the Prophet and Seer,
	(Who stands at the head of this last dispensation,)
Inspir'd from above by "The Father" of Love,
	Form'd the Daughters of Zion's great organization.
		And its purpose, indeed, is to comfort and feed
		The honest and poor in distress and in need.
		Oh! the Daughters of Zion, the friends of the poor
		Are exemplars of faith, hope and charity, pure.

CHORUS.
Oh! the Daughters of Zion, the friends of the poor,
Are examplars of faith, hope and charity, pure.

Oh! Daughters of Truth, ye have cause to rejoice,
	Lo! the key of advancement is placed in your keeping;
To help with your might whatsoever is right,
	To gladden their hearts who are weary of weeping.
		By commandment divine, Zion's daughters must shine,
		And all of the sex, e'en as one, should combine,
		For a oneness of action success will ensure
		In resisting the wrongs that 'tis wrong to endure.
			CHORUS.

Oh, woman! God gave thee the longing to bless,
	Thy touch like Compassion's, is warm and carressing;
And there's power in thy weakness to soften distress,
	To brighten the gloom and the darkness depressing:
		And  not in the rear, hence, need woman appear;
		Her star is ascending, her zenith is near;
		Like an angel of mercy, she'll stand in the van,
		The joy of the world, and the glory of man. 
			CHORUS.


Oh! be of good cheer, far-extending we see
	The rosy-hued dawn like a vision of beauty;
Its glory and light can interpreted be:
	Go on, in the pathway of love and of duty!
		The brave earnest soul will arive at its goal;
 		True heroes are crowned as the ages unroll;
		And there's blessing in blessing, admit it we must,
		And there's honor in helping a cause that is just.

			CHORUS.
		EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.


[Column 1]

COMMUNION.

	There is something sweet even in the word
communion, it seems to suggest a close inti-
macy and loving sympathy with friend or
friends, a union of heart and desire for their
company, a wish to please them, to take their
counsel, to willingly give them the preference
in all things, believing their ways and desires
and plans better than our own.
	We do not always find this amount of confi-
dence even between the saints of God, but we
have one—our Father in heaven in whom we
can place implicit trust at all times and under
all circumstances and He never betrays our
confidence. He is always ready to draw near to
us when we draw near to him, and in the hour
of communion with him we are privileged to
confide to His ear—our sorrows and our joys
our wants and our desires—and if we approach
him with pure motives, in humility of spirit
and as dutiful children to a loving Father, we
may always rest assured that He will meet with 
us, and bless us with whatever will be for our
good.
	We have many beautiful examples of com-
munion with God in the sacred scriptures.
Those saints who enjoy the approbation of God
were always those who lived in daily communion
with him. Isaac went out in the fields at
eventide to meditate, or in other words to com-
mune with his God. He had sent his servant
on an important errand and he was doubtless
asking the Lord's blessing on the undertaking.
His servant, though a long way from home was
receiving an answer to his, and his master's
prayer—"and he worshiped the Lord and said,
Blessed be the Lord God of my master Abra-
ham, who hath not left destitute my master of
His mercy and truth—I being in the way the
Lord led me." He had in prayer sought the
Lord's direction and He had led him the right
way. Moses was specially favored of God—
his was truly a life of communion. On Mount
Sinai he communed with his God until his
face shone so that he had to cover it with a
veil before the children of Israel could look
upon him. Hannah was communing with her
Lord when "she spake in her heart; only her
lips moved, but her voice was not heard." She
"poured out her soul before the Lord and He
heard her and granted her request. David
was a man of much prayer, said he, "Evening
and morning and at noon will I pray and cry
aloud and he He shall hear my voice,"
	It was communion with God which gave
strength to the three Hebrew children to bear
the "burning fiery furnace," rather than wor-
ship a false God. It was communion with his
Father which inspired Daniel with courage to
face the hungry lions, knowing that God would
deliver him in the hour of peril. Turn we to
the Book of Mormon and we find Enos to be
a man of much prayer—he gives us a very
interesting description of the way by which he

[Column 2]

obtained remission of his sins. His father had
often spoken to him concerning Eternal life
and the joy of the saints, and it had sunk deep
into his heart, and he says, "My soul hungered
and I knelt down before my Maker and I
cried to him in mighty prayer and supplica-
tion for my own soul; all the day long did I
cry unto him; and when the night came I did
still raise my voice high that it reached the
heavens and there came a voice unto me say-
ing, "Enos thy sins are forgiven thee and thou
shalt be blessed." Like our own Prophet
Joseph, he was inspired with the spirit of com-
munion and like him in the forest, he poured
out his soul before God and he obtained that
for which his hungered.
	Our Lord and Master felt the need of daily
communion with His Father. He never en-
gaged in anything until He first sought his
Father's blessing. When He was about to
heal the sick, He withdrew himself into the
wilderness and prayed—the result was, the
power of the Lord was present to heal. He
let nothing come between him and his Father
to disturb the spirit of communion, sometimes
"rising up a great while before day," at other
times continuing "whole nights in prayer to
God." Whether He was surrounded with
thousands of people clamoring for bread, until
He had to work a miracle to supply them
whether He was healing the sick, or blessing
little children, whether He was publicly preach-
ing, or privately instructing his disciples, He
found time to pray.
	When He found it necessary for his disciples
to have a season of meditation and prayer, He
said to them, "Come ye yourselves apart into
a desert place and rest awhile." He some-
times finds it necessary to say the same to us
and the way He leads us into a desert place,
is to lay the hand of affliction upon us, thus
bidding us to rest awhile till we examine our-
selves and remember our covenants, that we
made with him, when we were buried with
him by baptism and rose again to walk in new-
ness of life, and well will it be for us if we
make good use of these solitary seasons lest by
our negligence we draw down severer judg-
ments upon us.
	Let us endeavor to follow more closely the
example our Divine Master places before us.
Let us follow him as he pensively travels over
the path of life, speaking a comforting word to
the bereaved, relieving the distressed and in-
structing the ignorant. See him at the close
of the day lifting his hand in blessing on the
crowd and bidding them go to their homes,
watch him turning his back upon them and
his disciples and move off to the mountains.
Follow his receding figure until it is lost in
the distance and we know that in that
dense darkness, he is in deep and loving com-
munion with his Father in heaven. If this
was needful in his case, how much more in
ours, who have wants a thousand fold greater.
	Jesus, Brother! help us to find thy knee
prints on the mountain and pray to thy Father
and our Father, thy God and our God. Let
us put aside the pleasures of life, which are so
empty, so vain and unsatisfying, and let us
take deep draughts at the well of communion,
and thus imitate him, through whom we enjoy
the hope of eternal life.

	Cold mountains and the midnight air,
		Witnessed the fervor of His prayer;
	The desert His temptations knew,
		His conflict and His victory too.
			MARY Y. CORBY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

IN RURAL ENGLAND.

X.
	WEARY with the journey and dispirited
because of the continued strain upon the ner-
vous system, the young ladies at the Castle
longed for rest and quiet. Under the circum-
stances this was next to impossible. It was
positively necessary that some action be taken
immediately, and so Mr. Burke informed Miss
Conway. "There is no time to delay this
matter," he said to her. "The will must be
acted upon, the time is now advanced because
of the long journey, and my duty as the family
solicitor compels me to notify all persons
(which I have done) interested to assemble 
here on Friday night." This was the ultima-
tum, then. It was in the evening of Saturday
he had come up from London, and he lost no
time in stating his errand, and he spoke with
authority. "Miss Conway," he continued,
"you will please make this matter plain to her
ladyship, and meantime see that preparations
are made for the entertainment of Sir Edward's
relatives, who will arrive probably a day or
two prior to the date mentioned.
	Miss Conway was mentally glad that there
was something really necessary to be done, other
wise she would brood over the declaration of
Dr. Bland. Nothing further had been said, and 
the self-contained young girl did not know
what was wisest to say or do were he to speak
out again. She had thought over all the ladies
she knew, and wondered if there were one
among them, who could give her safe advice,
and would she take it if it were given? She
was even more helpless than her cousin, for she
could lean upon her, and knew too that she
wanted, while poor Jane was not at all confi-
dent that it would be best for her to accept Dr.
Bland's offer of marriage. She had looked
forward to a life of single blessedness and toil
in the house of some relative, latterly her
uncle Edward's, or as governess, or companion
to some gentlewoman. This had been the extent
of her ambition, except the aspiration to do
right for the love of principle. This seemed
interwoven in her very nature, and an inherit-
ance she clung to tenaciously. And this very
idea made her shrink from  marriage with a
man whom she felt no special preference or
attraction for, that it would be wronging him
and above all wronging her own acute sense of
honor and uprightness. "If I only knew what
was right," she often said when alone. She had
not yet learned that the Lord would guide and
direct her if she sought aright.
	Faithful and true she knew she could be,
even if her marriage should be an unhappy
one. That did not trouble her. She was not
thinking of happiness as the highest good. She
fretted less about her cousin than she would
have done for her own affairs was more puzzl-
ing. When Anna talked to her she gave her
sound advice, and reasoned like one learned in
the art of love-making. Maitland Walton had
kept away from the castle and behaved like a
hero, and she admired his manliness, though
his sweetheart thought it cruel and unkind.
He was waiting patiently to see what turn
affairs would take, or in other words to know
the purport of Sir Edward's last will and tes-
tament. His mother spared no pains in inter-
esting him; she had friends visiting at the Hall
and there was always some amusement—
music, dancing, riding, and the hours flew
rapidly by. Lady Walton had called soon
after their return, and for the first time then
met Lady Anna. Her pale complexion, fair
hair, and delicate figure, with the deep mourn-
ing in which she was dressed, impressed Lady
Walton deeply. "How beautiful she is," was
her first exclamation to her son on his return
home after the interview, and the young man
added, "How could old Sir Edward have

[Column 2]

such a daughter?" and Lady Walton drew
herself up to her full height and looking him
steadily in the eye said, "My son, never let
such an expression pass your lips again con-
cerning her father," and she turned away, that
he might not see her emotion; for though
years had come and gone she had never quite
conquered her own heart, and now that he was
dead, he seemed nearer; that is, she felt it
would not be so very wrong if she mourned for
him as a dead friend. While he was living
she would not dare allow her feelings to con-
trol her in the least. The son was entirely
ignorant of the cause of the estrangement be-
tween the two families. He wondered why his
mother had any interest in such a disagree-
able old fellow as the Baronet had been re-
puted to be; he could not realize, not knowing
his heart history, that he had once been a fine
specimen of one of the old aristocratic, titled
families, whose forefathers had been famous in
English chronicles. But his mother knew
these facts, and what had brought about the
change and made him old before his time. If
she had not visited him that night on her son's
account, she too would have been ignorant of
many things that now seemed plain, things
over which she had brooded in the far distant
past, that had been unfolded in the conversa-
tion with her former suitor, and she could not
help feeling that fate had brought about that
meeting, that some explanation might be made
before he passed away.
	So it was all right, notwithstanding the
embarrassment she had felt, and a sort of
consciousness that she ought not to have sought
him even to intercede for her son. And yet
she had often said in a dreamy way, "It must
be right to know at last that I wronged him
unknowlingly." Lady Walton, like Miss Con-
way, had no one to counsel with; she could
never explain to her son that the father of the
girl he loved had been her own sweetheart and
admirer, and that through all the years he had
lived since then he had carried her image in
his heart of hearts, and so, like Jane Conway,
she kept silence. But her cheek grew paler,
and she cared less for the gay parties where she
had been the gayest of the gay. The death of 
the Baronet could not outwardly affect her;
that is, she was not permitted, according to
conventionalities, to mourn for him; but her
husband noticed a change in her manner, and
frequently found her in tears, and would ten-
derly inquire the cause. She always answered
him in monosyllables, and he grew to think at
last that she was falling into a state of melan-
choly, and proposed more pleasure and gay
society; it was the only remedy he knew. How
could he think she could look back thirty years
and mourn inordinately a summer pastime; so
little do men understand the hearts of women.
His business occupations, looking after a large
estate, left him little time to reflect seriously,
and he had never troubled much about Helen,
except to give her everything a lady should
have to move in the best society. He had
allowed her unbounded liberty, and loved her
in his own fashion, as men do the one to whom
their name is given and their honor plighted.
He looked upon himself as a model husband;
and in some respects he was; still Lady Wal-
ton had longings unsatisfied, and now that she
had come to know the deception practised
upon her that had changed her whole life; she
reviewed the past with some degree of bitter-
ness. "For Maitland's sake I must go into
society," she said one day to a friend. "And
why for his sake? Are you growing old; you
do not look it; you are far more beautiful now
in your full matronly maturity than the young
misses who throng your parlors, or the balls
and parties given in London society?" I can-
not comprehend you of late; you are changed.
Is it that Italian whose fancy for you and your
music is so shockingly absurd, makes you want

[Column 3]

to withdraw from the circle in which you are
the brightest ornament?"
	"No! no, indeed; I am out of spirits, and at
my time of life one should turn her attention to
something more enduring."
	"Lady Walton," said her friend, "if I pos-
sessed your magnetism and power of fascina-
tion I do not think I should ever tire of the
world." You may think differently some day,
my dear Mrs. Emery. I am weary of attention
and of the small talk one hears. I long for ex-
pansion of soul and intellect.
	"I am surprised at your ambition. Fancy,
for instance, Lady Walton, the belle of London
society, termed 'blue stocking.'"
	"Not yet; I have not the talent; but if I had
I would go into seclusion, take a villa away
from here, avoid society, and write a book. I
have the taste for it but not the ability. It
must require originality, feeling, experience
and power of expression."
	"And do you  mean to say you have none of
these?"
	"Oh, perhaps some depth of feeling and a
little experience, but not originality, nor any
practical power to put thoughts to use."
	"I imagine you have seen more than one
love affair that would do to write up in a ro-
mance." "One cannot be in society without
seeing these things; but I have shut my eyes
when I was likely to see too much." "That
might be a good plan; everyone is not so dis-
creet, but seriously, Lady Walton, I cannot
comprehend the change in you."
	"Indeed, my friend, you surprise me; I must
interest myself in something; I am determined
not to live such a useless life; it only brings
bitterness and 'Dead Sea Apples' as its recom-
pense."
	"Bravely spoken, Lady Walton, and I will
join you when you have found a cure for
ennui."
	It was true that Lady Walton was changed.
She longed to go to the Castle and see the two
young women, and she had an idea that if Jane
Conway were like her mother she would be in-
valuable as a friend. If she had but known
that on that fateful night, the Baronet had
confided in his neice and told her of his dis-
appointment and the treachery that had
separated him from her, she might have
gathered courage to go and confide in her, now
when she felt such great need of solace. But
she did not know, and time went on. Miss
Conway had superintended all necessary
arrangements for the coming guests, and thus
time passed quickly. There was much to be
done; many of the rooms had not been used,
only occassionally for some sportsmen who had
come down from London for the shooting, and
no lady's touch had given the apartments the
appearance of home. Now the cleaning had
been thorough, and dilapidated as the old
place was inside it was sweet and wholesome
with a genuine air of home.
	A day or two beforehand (of the appointed
Friday) a lumbering old coach was driven into
the yard by a queer coachman, who seemed to
make himself quite at ease, and out came such
bundles and wraps, and finally at last a very
large old lady, with a stout cane, and more
reticules than she could manage. Miss Conway
was sent for and met her in the hall, when she
addressed her sharply: "You are Lady Anna,
I presume, Edward's daughter; you're not a
beauty though, by any means; your mother was
a rare one, golden hair and such eyes;" and
Jane could not get a chance to tell her she
was mistaken, she rattled on at such speed.
She finally succeeded in getting her up stairs,
her maid following with wraps, etc. When
she had taken off some of her outside wraps
Jane ventured to ask her if she were Sir Ed-
ward's aunt, to which she proudly replied she
was Mrs. Judith Baymore, and his father's
own sister. "Are my daughters not here yet?"


she asked. "Well, they'll be in time. Are
their rooms ready?" and as she put this ques-
tion she looked around the room into which
she had been ushered, which was scrupulously
neat, and a good hardwood fire burning on the
andirons. Seeming to recognize that the room
was comfortable, she sat down in the great arm
chair by the fire with a certain air of satisfac-
tion. "Aunt Judith," said Jane, "you mistook
me for my cousin; I am not Lady Anna; shall
send up your supper?" "Who are you, then,
to call me aunt?" "I am Sir Edward's niece,
Jane Conway." "And you are installed here
as one of the family; I was not aware of this;
how long have you been at the Castle?" "Ever
since my mother's death and burial." "Strange
he never let me know." "Did you not know of
my mother's illness and death?" "I think I
heard of her death, but never knew the par-
ticulars; she kept herself aloof from all her
family, and we never troubled about it."
	Jane turned away; Aunt Judith had opened
a wound; she could not let her go on, and in-
quired again should she send up supper?
	"Yes, Jane, and tell your cousin Anna to
come and pay her respects to her father’s aunt,
if she's not too haughty." "My cousin is not
proud, and has no such nonsense about her; she
is too innocent to have such a thought," and
away flew Jane with her own ideas distinctly
formed concerning the new comer. Before
midnight all those expected had arrived and
were generously provided for, and Jane and
Anna had talked over their relatives and passed
upon them, before retiring for the night.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EASTER MORNING.

O, beautiful morning of Easter!
	Now cheering the world with thy glow,
Breaking thro' the dark clouds of sorrow,
	Releasing the children of woe.
O, rare is the halo of splendor,
	That scatters the darkness of night,
That quickens the earth from her slumber,
	Her treasures revealing to sight,
Blades of fresh green cover the meadows,
	We scent the sweet violets breath,
And the sheen of daffodil's glitter,
	From nature's rich storehouse of wealth.
O, beautiful morning of Easter!
	The hope of our long silent years;
To weary tried hearts giving rapture,
	And banishing doubt's gloomy fears.
Pure lilies we twine in their spleudor,
	With flowers of sweetest perfume,
And homage most grateful we render,
	For light that breaks over the tomb.
O, glorious morning of Easter!
	Of triumph o'er death and the grave,
Blest signs, of an endless forever,
	Thro' Him who is mighty to save.
			L. M. HEWLINCS.


A CHILD'S THOUGHT.

"Oh mother where is heaven—
	I’m drefful tired o' play,
want to see the angels,
	So tak me dere to-day?"

"But darling heaven is yonder
	A long, long way from you—
"Above the house tops mother,
	Above the sky so blue?’"

"Well guessed my fair haired laddie,
	But tho' so far away,
The great, good God can see you,
	And hear you when you pray."

"But mother how do people,
	Reach up to heav'n so high, 
I don't think I could det dere
	No matter how I'd try?"

The child's blue eyes were wistful
	And dark with unshed tears,


When like a bird of passage
	Away flew all his fears.

And gleefully he shoutedf
	"I know what I will do,
I'll det the big step ladder,
	And climb to heav'n won't you?"

			MARIAN TAYLOR,


LETTER TO LULA G. RICHARDS.

DEAR SISTER
	While packing up my things preparatory to starting on
another mission to the Sandwich Islands I came across
these verses which my sister wrote while sitting not far
from you in meeting, desiring to meet you but feared you
had forgotten her and did not like to make herself known.
So I just thought I would copy them and send them as
they were products of early friendship. She is now living
at Swan Creek, Rich Co. Utah. I do not know your
whereabouts but will leave this where you can get it, as it
may be many years before I see you again. I have missed
you at Officer's Meeting and have concluded you must
be living in the country. With kind love and best wishes
for the future I remain your sister in the Gospel,
			LIBBIE NOALL.

		LULA.
	If I'm washing or ironing or scrubbing,
		And as busy as busy, can be,
	I must stop and glance o'er the newspaper
		To read the lines written by thee,

	Thy "Holiday Thoughts" was a treasure
		And the lines to thine aged mother too
	And "The Red Root and Morning Glory"
		Drew my thoughts out responsive to you.

	I have but to see the word Lula
		To know the sweet strains will be there
	That will find in my own heart an echo,
		For thy lines are the products of prayer,

	May the Angels of heaven watch round, thee
		May thy beautiful Gift thus increase,
	For 'twill prove a solace in thy sorrows
		And through it will thy trials find release.

			AMY E. COOK.


[Column 1]

﻿WHAT IS OUR POSITION TODAY.

	What is our position today compared with
the past? Well what shall I say? I believe
that in the eyes of the world we are improving
because we are becoming more like unto
themselves, at any rate many of us are. But
what are we in the sight of Israel's God, our
God? Are we on the improve? Are we a wiser
and better people than we were fifty years ago?
This is the problem I would like to have
solved.
	Did not the Lord say "He that scattered
Israel would gather him as a shepherd gathers
his flocks. I well remember in the year 1842
this gospel was preached in Utica, N. Y., and
how attentively I listened to the same and felt
to say, how plain and sound, how clear to the
understanding is this doctrine. Certainly it is
the same that Jesus taught, but not popular,
neither were His teachings popular, yet the
common people heard him gladly.
	I thought our Episcopal minister to be such
a good man, surely he would see and under-
stand the subject, as I did; for to me it was the
voice of the good shepherd which enlightened
the mind, and enlivened the soul, making the
bible to read plainer and more clearly to my
understanding than ever.
	He thought I was mistaken and that he
could prove it by the bible; he said, whether
there be prophecies they will fail and tongues
will cease; but the next sentence he left out, I
repeated it for him, and knowledge shall
vanish away. He then said, Whoever shall
add to the prophecy of this book to him shall
be added the plagues, &c., the bible was so
complete at that time. Yes, I replied this was
St. John's vision. Whoever said he saw any

[Column 3]

more, or any less, to him should be add the
plauges. But the angel, said thou shalt
prophecy again before many nations, tongues,
and people; but he could not see the subject as
I did, to me this gospel was the same that
Jesus taught, and surely such a church must
be on the earth when he comes again, yes with
the same spirit, the same gifts, and graces that
characterized the church He left when He was
crucified.
	There were six of us baptized one Sunday
morning in Sept. 1842. The next Sunday one
of the sisters could not attend meeting, she
had a sick babe. In the evening I saw the
child healed by the prayer of faith.
	Since that time I have a knowledge of this
gift for myself. Yet there are many gifts, all
have not the same gift. St. Paul compares it
to the body saying if all were an eye, where
were hearing, and shall the hand say because
I am not the ear, I am not of the body &c.
	It is written the Lord will have a tried
people. Now I would ask, are our trials
sanctified to our good? or do we get weary in
well doing? I well remember, after the Prophet
and Patriarch were slain we were driven from
Nauvoo, how cheerfully we left, believing that
God was with us in all our afflictions, and I
know that we were comforted and blessed. As
soon as the camp fires were built the band
struck up sweet music; and while some were
cooking the supper, others of the young peo-
ple were stepping to the music. No sighs or
groans were heard. No, we took joyfully the
spoiling of our goods, knowing there was a
more enduring substance and better days
ahead, yes, hopeful and happy; feeling that
our religion was the true riches, and this life
but short at best. I know that our love was
genuine both to our Maker and also to each
other.
	A letter was sent to the Governor of Iowa
telling him we were going west to find a home
and as all were not prepared for a long
journey, if he would permit some who needed
help to stop and work a few days to get a
better start; he promised to let them stop,
We were invited into the school house to give
a musical concert. We found friends from
time to time, and thanked God our Father for
the same.
	Many have been the joys and sorrows which
have been ours from that time until this, and
with what courage and fortitude who can tell;
only our Father in heaven and those who have
passed behind the veil, and those who are ac-
quainted with, and have a knowledge of the
Gospel of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.
When His spirit accompanies the act, it is not
the same thing which it would be without it.
No, then it would be gloom and sorrow indeed.
But His spirit brings light and joy and peace,
even in making sacrifices with comfort and
consolation.
			ZION'S CONVERT.
	Feb. 15, 1892.


Rev. Ella E. Bartlett, of Madison, Wis., 
has prepared a series of "Talks on Constitu-
tional History" to be given before women's
clubs. The subject is interesting and
important.
	At the executive meeting of tbe National
W. S. A. of Massachusetts, held last week
Friday at 30 West Street reports were given
by the delegates to the recent National-
American convention, one in writing from
Miss L. A. Hatch, and a verbal report from
Mrs. Eveleen L. Mason, who spoke in closing
of the proposed legislation in New York for
the legalizing of prostitution. The Associa-
tion passed, unanimously, resolutions offered
by Mrs. H. R. Shattuck protesting against this
iniquitous measure.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
gne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
         
SALT LAKE CITY,	MARCH 15, 1892.


THE RELIEF SOCIETY.

PROGRAMME OF EXERCISES.

	[The general Jubilee meeting will be held in the
Large Tabernacle in Salt Lake City, commencing
at 10 a. m., Thursday, March 17, 1892, it being
fifty years since the first organization, March 17,
1842.]
	Singing by the Tabernacle Choir, Prof. E.
Stephens, Musical Director, Prof. Jos. J. Daynes,
Organist—The Grand Invocation, by Eliza R.
Snow, "O My Father, thou that dwellest."
	Prayer by President Angus M. Cannon.
	Singing, "How firm a foundation, ye saints of
the Lord."
	Opening Address, President, Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young. 
	Reading, The Revelation to Emma Smith, Mrs.
Zina Y. W. Card.
	Reading of Sketch of the Relief Society, pre-
pared for the occasion.
	Singing by the Choir, Original Song by Mrs.
Emily H. Woodmansee, "The Daughters of Zion!
The Friends of the Poor."
	After which, Addresses will be made by the
First Presidency, (Providence permitting.)
	Addresses by Counselors, Mrs. Jane S. Rich-
ards and Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith.
	Addresses by the Apostles.
	Speech by Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, Secretary,
and Mrs. M. Isabella Horne, Treasurer.
	Sentiments, The Relief Society, and The Wo-
men of Zion. Mrs. E. B. Wells, Cor. Sec'y.
	Anthem, "Daughter of Zion? Awake From Thy
Sadness."
		Prayer at High Noon,
	By One of the First Presidency.


[Column 1]

THE JUBILEE CELEBRATION.

THE NEED OF PRESS REPRESENTATION.

	The Jubilee celebration will mark a most im-
portant event in the history of the women of
Zion, and will doubtless be even more momentous
in the future than those who participate therein
can realize, or appreciate while thus engaged.
We look around and behold things near that
seem common place, events which are transpir-
ing are in themselves so real, that it detracts al-
most from their significance; but when "distance
lends enchantment to the view," when time has
mellowed all the hardness, if any there were,
when ages, or an age, or generation have past,
these same exigencies through which one some-
times passes fearfully as it were, become "foot
prints of time," made glorious because of the
strength and importance they bring in the links
of the chain of history of the times, and of the
world.

[Column 2]

	The Relief Society is a much more important or-
ganization than it has been thought by even many
of those interested in the work; looking back at
the sayings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and
reflecting upon the prophecies he uttered in refer-
ence to this great Society one can see that the
great things predicted have many of them come
to pass and can thus feel assured that other things
will yet have their fulfillment.
	During the last few years the Relief Society
has made rapid strides in recognition outside the
valleys of the mountains.
	In 1888 the Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A.
also the Primary Associations became connected
with the International Council of Women, which
is a Federation of womens' associations all over
the world; this is a wonderful step in the march
of advancement for women everywhere, uniting
them in one great band of sisterhood, a common
sympathy with each others' interests and for the
accomplishment of the greatest good for each and
all.
	In 1891 at the National Council of Women
which grew out of the International, the Relief
Society and the Y. L. M. I. A. became connected
with that organization also, and they stand on the
same platform with all the other great organiza-
tions of women throughout the United States.
The President of the Relief Society and the
President of the Y. L. M. I. A. are Vice Presi-
dents (by virtue of that office) of the National
Council and the International Council, and have
 the privilege of their opinions and wishes being
considered and of a vote in any Executive meet-
ing of the officers, and are consulted when any
business of importance comes before the Board
to be transacted.
	They are also entitled to representation at any
meeting or session of the Council itself, and to
send one delegate who shall have the same privi-
lege as the President herself. This may seem a
very small thing to some people who do not un-
derstand what these great bodies of women are
doing, nor what importance their strength and
number gives to whatever they attempt in the way
of advancement, or reform. One individual alone,
or one organization alone may not get their ideas
presented in a way to be heard and considered,
but when a combination of great organized bodies
come with their expressed views and desires, it
carries with it a power and significance, that is
bound to get recognition, and representation.
	These great and grand Councils of womens'
Societies, Associations and Clubs, form what
might be termed a great Congress where they
represent their constituents in whatever is deter-
mined upon n their respective localities by those
interested in any great measure. They are there
to represent not themselves as individuals but the
organization that has made them its leader or
delegate.
	In view of all this and much more that might
be said upon the subject, and in view of the Relief
Society in its entirety, one can easily see how
essential and almost imperative it is, that such a
great body of women with common interests re-
siding in different locallities, and in many
countries should have special representation
through the press, and through a newspaper of
their own. It does not seem as though it need be
necessary to say to them what advantages it gives
and yet it has been said over and over, and many
of the very women who receive the benefits de-
rived from this source, do not know or compre-
hend the actual necessity of helping to sustain
even by subscription, the paper which for the last
twenty years has championed their cause and ad-
vocated the various improvements, and their re-
 sults, all along the line of march in which women
are steadily advancing to the higher plane of edu-
cation, progress and development, socially, politi-
cally, and spiritually.
	It is a truth, that what one has at home is less

[Column 3]

appreciated than what comes from abroad, and
the saying of the Scripture that "a prophet is not
without honor save in his own country," is also
true, and of many other things it is equally true;
but when one finds himself without that which he
has become daily accustomed to, then he realizes
how necessary, or advantageous, it was to his
welfare or well-being.
	In this Jubilee year of the Relief Society and
especially since it was decided to celebrate it ap-
propriately, as a recognition of woman's advance-
ment in the line in which the best and most
marked work has been done; the calls made from
all quarters, to give information on this and that,
and  answer questions, as to woman's work in the 
Society, and so many other things bearing upon
the same topics, has told more plainly and em-
phatically than ever before how lame the Society
would be without this paper for reference, and
how impossible it would be to keep posted, with-
out the help of the press.
	The writer has called to mind more vividly than
ever before the words of the late President
Brigham Young, when on one occasion he was
giving her some advice about conducting the
paper, said he, very positively, as was his usual
manner, "tell the sisters to take the EXPONENT
and keep it, for it will contain the record of their
work and a portion of Church history;" he also
added "and I give you a mission to write brief
sketches of the lives of the leading women of
Zion, and publish them." These are his exact
words as near as we remember and are written
down in the diary of the writer kept of daily
happenings.
	This celebration must be emphasized very
strongly through the press, and without an organ
expressly for women how could it have the same
prestige. The time has arrived when it has be-
come an actual necessity to awaken a greater
and more wide-spread interest. The matter has
been talked about in the Relief Society Confer-
ences and in different places in the country where
the sisters have visited and held meetings, but so
little has been accomplished in this way, that it is
scaacely noticable.
	Mrs. Zina D. H. Young in one of the General
Conferences of the Relief Society when urging
the sisters to sustain home papers etc, said, she
had advised in places where she had traveled and
thought it proper, to have two sisters appointed
in each ward to canvass for the EXPONENT—and
this is the counsel she gives now, that this be
done. One dollar a year is a very small item, but
if that is too much two or three can join and take
the paper together. And certainly before sub-
scribing for any paper outside the Territory, sus-
tain the one published in your own interest at
home; wherein you have the opportunity to rep-
resent yourself and the organizations with which
you are connected.
	It is to be hoped that this Jubilee will wake up
those that are indifferent to the growth and de-
velopment of women in this age and to the needs
of active help in the present; there is much to be
done in the work of reform and of educational
uplifting and many stand aloof and do not render
any assistance, and even ridicule those who are
brave and earnest and persevering; thinking it
uncalled for, because forsooth perhaps they have
some strong arm to lean upon, but how easy it
would be when thus protected, thus fortified, to
reach out a helping hand to those who stand as
it were alone, and there are many such.
	One of the important lessons which this grand
Jnbilee will possibly teach, or is likely to impress
upon all is that of love and union. Love is the
great power that will lift mankind to a higher
plane, true love, the love that brings out all the
best and noblest qualities of the human soul.
The love of God and the love of our fellow-men.
	This great and grand organization of the Relief
Society that has almost made a band around th


world is joined and linked in all its several
branches in one great whole, one almost perfect
circle; beginning in Illinois on the banks of the
Mississippi it has gone Westward, into the fast-
nesses of the Rocky Mountains, and South West
to the Sandwich Islands, and from thence to
Samoa, and across the continent, thence East
to the kingdoms of Europe, taking in
Great Britain and Holland, the countries of Scan-
dinavia, Germany and Switzerland to Asia Minor,
extending Southward to Australia, Tasmania and
New Zealand.
	This Society everywhere observes the same
uniformity of purpose and practises the same be-
nevolence, extends the same genial sympathy to
the needy, the sick and suffering, whether the
language spoken is the English, French, German,
Hawiian or whatever tongue is used, or whether
the climate in which the sisters reside is hot, or
cold, the same influence directs their works and
their labors, for they are all partakers of the same
Spirit which the Gospel of Jesus Christ brings to
all who embrace it with honest hearts and with
pure motives. That this Jubilee celebration will
more firmly and closely unite the hearts of the
sisters there can be no possible doubt.
	Te celebrate this occasion on the same day all
over the world wherever there are branches of
a Society whether large or small is an event of
peculiar significance, and one almost unheard of
in the annals of history. To be sure there have
been great gatherings in different lands when wo-
men delegates from other countries have met for
some given purpose, but when has a day been set
apart and observed in so many cities, towns and
countries and on both hemispheres and the
islands of the sea? When has there been a uni-
versal prayer offered by the women of any society
in all lands at once? Such an event has not tran-
spired in this age of the world, that there is any
record of. A solemn yet joyful occasion. It por-
tends more than we know. The day of woman's 
emancipation is at hand, already the dawn is be-
ing heralded. And while woman waits the signal
of victory, it is meet that she bows in humility
and prayer for the divine blessing, the inspiration
that only comes through the Holy Spirit.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SPEECH OF PRES. JOS. F. SMITH.

	[Brief synopsis of remarks by Pres. Joseph F.
Smith, at a meeting in this City recently.] 
	He stated that he came to the meeting by in-
vitation, not knowing the object thereof, but was
informed that the meeting was called in the in-
terests of woman suffrage. He was in favor of
woman suffrage; and that women should enjoy all
the privileges and rights that the men enjoyed,
but he was not so ardent an advocate for women
to fill every and all of the offices which men filled,
as some others might be. He was not only will-
ing however, but desired that woman should be-
come eligible to such offices as she was fitted by
nature and ability to fill. He thought there were
some offices in civil government to which woman
was not suited by nature, and no amount of in-
telligence would adapt her thereto, for there
seemed to be offices requiring physical endurance
and exposures, exertions and strength and other
qualities, for which men were better fitted physic-
ally and mentally, than women. He wanted the
men to hold such offices, and the woman to be
promoted to such other positions and callings as
would better suit her physical conditions and
mental qualifications, and yet would place her on
an equality with man as to political, civil and
moral rights.
	He thought woman should not be deprived of
the power to acquire and hold property in her own
right, but should be placed on a par with man in
this regard. There was no reason why there
should be any discrimination between man and

[column 2]
woman in regards to property rights. Each should
be allowed to acquire and own property inde-
pendently of or jointly with each other, as suited
them best—and in that event there should be no
right of dower. 
	The woman who performed the same kind and
quality of work that a man did, should receive
therefore the same wages or pay. If a woman as
school teacher, clerk, accountant or cook ex-
celled a man in those same occupations, she
should receive superior pay, and it is a poor rule
that did not work both ways.
	He thought the women were making a mistake
in asking too much at once—not that they should
not have all that belonged to them, or of right
they should have, but, there were so many things
embraced in the woman’s right movement that
seemed formidable to many, very many men, and
also objectionable to them, that opposition to the
whole movement was the result. If the women
would confine their efforts to woman suffrage
and that alone until they got it, they would have
power in their hands to further contend for and
claim their privileges.
	There was no serious objection to their pos-
sessing the elective franchise, but most men re-
coiled at the thought of their wives, daughters,
mothers and sisters becoming policemen, sheriffs,
constables, jurors or soldiers. Woman suffrage
would meet with less opposition from men and
women too, if it were shorn of these concomi-
tants, and was presented in its more simple light.
	Congress is not the power to which the women
should look for emancipation, but the govern-
ments of the States themselves, as the State gov-
ernments had jurisdiction over the questions of
suffrage.
	He thought the women should organize their
forces, and begin systematic attacks upon one or
more of the states, or upon all of them at once,
aiming first and all the time at obtaining the elec-
tive franchise, and never quit nor faint until they
get it, then they will have the power in their own
hands to make themselves heard and heeded, and
may go on to perfection.
	The women of Utah once enjoyed the elective
franchise, and they used it wisely, and it was an
outrage that it was stricken from them, and he
hoped the day would soon come when it should
be restored to them, and if Utah ever becomes a
State, one of the first enactments her Legislature
should pass, should be an act restoring the suffrage
to woman—and making her equal to her husband 
in her right to acquire, and hold and manage her
own property.


U. W. P. CLUB.

	Meeting of the U. W. P. Club at the
Parlors of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT Office Feb.
27th, 1892.  Pres. E. B. Wells in the chair.
Opened with prayer by Mrs. Phebe C. Young.
Minutes read and accepted.  Eight new names
were then unanimously sustained as members.
There were interesting letters of correspondence
read from Ellen Jakeman and L. L. Dalton ex-
pressing a deep interest in the work of the club,
and regrets for non-attendance.
	By laws having been arranged by the com-
mittee the secretary proceeded to read them as a 
whole and then in sections, but this business,
promising to consume the whole evening, was
laid upon the table with the name of N. V. Davis
added to the committee for revision.
	According to pre-arrangement of some of the
ladies the meeting then took the form of a birth-
day greeting to our President.  The members not
wishing to usurp the rights of those more closely 
allied in ties of kinship anticipated then by offer-
ing congratulations upon the 27th instead of the 
29th the natal day of our sister and dear friend and
President.
	An Illustrated volume of Geo. Elliot's poems


“Polite Society’' and a morocco bound Auto-
graphic Album were then presented to the Pres.
in behalf of members of the club. Congratulatory
speeches were made, and poems read by each
member present, expressive of tender love and
affection and true appreciation of the one each
desired to honor which were responded to in
fitting words of thanks—saying to those who all
seemed to vie with each other to pay honor
where honor is due, “Do not over estimate me,
but love me all you will, for love will yet rule the
world.”
	Delicious refreshments were served and social
chat indulged in till a late hour when all bade
adieu wishing our Pres. many happy returns of
her birthday even sixteen more. One loving
friend remarked “No wonder “Aunt Em’' remains
so young when she only has a birthday once in
four years at this rate she can live to be a
centenarian let’s hope that she may.”
						E. R. SHIPP, Sec.


A LOVING TRIBUTE.

				Juarez, Feb. 18, 1892.
DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	One by one the “Lights along the Shore” are
 being hidden from our view by the shadow that
lies over the River, one by one our pillars of help
and strength are taken from us, one by one God’s
acre gathers them in and one by one the ran-
somed of the Lord are called home to the Father’s
mansions, dear Aunt Presendia, must we learn to
live without her too? Faithfully and true has
she finished her mortal labors, but her words of
counsel, of comfort and blessing will live in the
hearts of the hundreds she has helped to pass
through hours of trial and darkness. No words
of praise for her are needed, her life and works
are before the people, since the earliest days of
the Church, her faith, her hope, her prayers were
for the triumph of God’s Kingdom. Who ever
sought a blessing at her hands in vain, when did
she ever neglect a duty, not even bodily pain and
suffering stayed her work of blessing her sisters
in Zion. Once I said to her—"How often I have
seen your hands laid upon others to bless them,
but how seldom have I seen this done for you, do
you never feel weak and in need of a blessing?”
she looked at me with one of her pleasant smiles
and answered, “In blessing others I am blessed
I have proved this promise of Jesus to be true.”
What she has been to me and mine words can
never tell, she came to us in a sad hour of sorrow
long years ago, and ever since has been a true
unchanging friend and mother. May the memory
of her counsel and example still bear fruit in
Zion. Peace and rest to her weary body until the
resurrection morn.
	Glory and honor and joy be thine for ever
more, Dear Aunt Presendia.
							S. E. R.


R. S., Y. L. M. E. A., AND P. A.
			REPORTS.

		BEAR LAKE STAKE.
	Report of the Relief Society Conference of
Bear Lake Stake held in the Stake Tabernacle
at Paris, Nov. 27th, 1891, Pres Julia P.
Lindsay presiding. Singing, “Lord we come 
before thee now.” etc. Prayer by Pres. Wm. 
Budge. Singing, “Let those who would be
saints indeed.”
	Pres. Julia P. Lindsay addressed the
Conference and said the Lord has said that
where a few are assembled in His name He
will be there to bless them, and He will do so
now.  
	Some branches of the Relief Society, were
represented as follows, Paris first and second
wards, Bloomington, Fish Haven, Ovid,


Montpelier and Dingle as being in good work-
ing order.
	Pres. Julia P. Lindsay was pleased with the
reports given, spoke of the importance of
attending meetings often; they had given the
Primaries a whole day for their Conference
that the children might have a chance to
develop themselves and prepare for the great
work they will be called to do, spoke of the
necessity of depending upon God for grace to
carry the work on, and humility to bring the
children up right. Said God would bless
His children, and help those who help them-
selves. Asked for the blessings of God to be
with all assembled.
	The minutes of the last Conference were
read and approved. Statistical and financial
report of the Stake Relief Society was
then read. 
	Pres. Wm. Budge spoke of the weakness
with which we have to contend, and said the
engagements of this life should not be first.
“This work and all connected with it is eternal;
it requires constant attention, and a continual
progression is necessary to a full salvation.”
Spoke of the necessity of assisting the sick
and poor; and of remembering God,if financial
surroundings were growing better, and said
that it mattered not how little means one
possessed, if it kept him from the service of
God he had too much. “We are receiving
blessings from God day by day, but are we
using them in the right way?”
	The meeting was then adjourned until 2 p.
m. Singing, “Praise God.” etc. Closing
prayer by Bishop Robert Price.

	Afternoon session opened by singing,“Arise
0 Glorious Zion.” etc. Prayer by Pres. Wm.
Budge. Singing, “We thank Thee O God
for a Prophet.” etc.
	Two other wards were then reported.
Pres. Julia P. Lindsay said she would like
all the Secretaries to send in correct reports
in good time, also spoke of improvement.
	Coun. Elizrbeth Collings bore a faithful
testimony to the truth of this work, said those
who have entered the waters of baptism should
have a testimony, and heed the teachings
given, that we may know whether we are in
the right church or not, if we heed the still,
small voice it will lead us into all truth. “The
Spirit which prompts to do right is the right
Spirit,” before she embraced the Gospel she
wonld read the scriptures, but she did not
understand them until the Spirit of God
explained all. “It is for us to know the
mysteries of the Kingdom, and many are
called but few are chosen. May we strive to
be faithful that we may have clear consciences."
	Sister Tumer bore a faithful testimony to
the truth of the Gospel, when she first heard
the Gospel she knew it was true and left all
to gather here, had never wished to go back,
the Gospel was sweeter to her than anything,
and there is nothing to live for but the Gospel;
was determined to do right; set an example to
the children and teach them to be faithful.
Testified of the blessings she had received
through faith. Said that when any one was
sick to go and pray in faith to God to heal
them, and if it was his will He would do so.
“We should hold fast to this good and great
work that we may be crowned with the faith-
ful.”
	Coun. Lizzie Hart spoke of filling the
mission of assisting the sick and poor, also of
improving now and not waiting for a better
time to come to improve the opportunities;
said when we are not in possession of the
Spirit of God all looks dark, but if we seek
for that true faith and pure Spirit all will be
bright; improve opportunities that we may be
fitted for a hard task, give attention to all
bad habits so that we can master and over-
come them, also of the strength and knowl-
edge obtaiued by attending meetings. “We
must overcome every obstacle in our path of
life, the Spirit of God teaches us to be charit-
able. We should pray for strength and
wisdom, that we may gain the prize for which
we have set out.”
	Secretary Nancy Allred said we should
trust in God for He will help us if we help
ourselves, but if we neglect our duties, we will
not have that confidence in God that we would
otherwise have. “It seem as though some-
times our labors are not appreciated. We are
not to be judged according to the actions of
others. Those who have their names enrolled
in these organizations, have a duty to perform,
and the more we attend meetings the more of
the Spirit we enjoy, and whatever is dictated
by the Spirit of God will interest us.” She
also expressed her willingness to help any
Secretary make a report.
	Sister Bonny said she had left all for the
Gospel, was thankful for hearing it and gather-
ing to Zion; her desire was to remain faithful,
she also related the trials through which she
had to pass when she first joined the Church,
but said the longer she lived the sweeter the
Gospel became to her as it makes us better
people. Asked God to help all to be faithful
that when the time comes, we could enter into
the glory of God.
	Sister Sutton also bore a faithful testimony
in regard to the truth of this work, and asked
for the prayers of all present that she might
endure to the end.
	Pres Julia P. Lindsay further addressed the
Conference urged the sisters to patronize the
“Woman’s Exponent.” “Why are we taught
to meet often if it is not essential?” Spoke of
the blessings we all enjoy from God, and
testified of the blessings she had received.
“We should remember we are the chosen
people of God, and not let ourselves be carried
away with the things of this life but remember
the source from which everything comes and
He that giveth can take away.” Spoke of
the benefits to be derived by attending meet-
ings, and of'praying for grace that we can
bear the trials. Gave some good instructions
in regard to taking care of the wheat received
in the society, and expressed a desire to do all
duties required of her.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
Singing, “Mid Scenes of Confussion,”  etc.
Benediction by Elder James Collings.
		SYLVIA BROOMHEAD Cor. Sec’y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


W. S. A. REPORTS.

			MINERSVILLE  W. S. A.
	If you will give us space in the columns of
your most valuable paper I will endeavor to
let the readers know that the W. S. A. of
Minersville is doing well, we have 13 names
enrolled on our books; our society is in the
third year of its organization, we take three
papers viz: the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Woman's
Tribune and Woman’s Column; we have
monthly meetings the first Tuesday in every
month, and through the kindness of Bishop
Walker we hold our meetings in the meeting
house. At our meeting in December a motion
was made that we have a Leap Year party the
first day of January 1892 and also all the
members of the W. S. A. wear a badge of
yellow ribbon with the letters W. S. A. printed
on each. The flag for Wyoming was made
and graced the walls of the room, together
with the stars and stripes of the National flag,
also the representative women of the nation.
The woman’s flag looked lovely, was ten feet
long and the single star in the field of blue
looked lonely, with just the one star and no
more. A short speech was made by the Presi-
dent.
	Success to all the ladies in this New Year in


all their labors, and to the papers that send
their messages forth.
				ADA ROLLINS, Pres.

		SPEECH MRS. ADA ROLLINS.

	Ladies and Gentlemen: The flag you see
before us, that graces the walls so beautifully
is called the woman’s flag of Wyoming, and
the single star well represents that there is one
state in the Union in which women have the
same rights as men, the right of franchise.
And for the benefit of those who seemingly
think it smart to pass some remarks about
woman suffrage, let them pause and consider
if their own dear mothers, sisters and sweet-
hearts too if you please, had not ought to en-
joy that boon that every Liberty-loving peo-
ple who are true Americans would wish them
to enjoy. There is something wonderfully
thrilling and pathetic in the devotion of the
woman suffrage advocates to the flag of the
one star which typifies to them the youngest
of our commonwealth, and the first true Re-
public.  It is the woman’s flag that has the
place of honor at all their public gatherings.
The stripes represent our country to which we
are most loyal with an undaunted determina-
tion to help it to realize the glorious future of
which its proud past has been the prophecy.
But of all the states we honor most, the state
which alone has dared to make women free
citizens, Wyoming.  What a wonderful object
lesson in the great struggle for human freedom
is this Lone Star flag? How can woman see it
and not be fired with enthusiasm. How can
men fail to be moved by it to that patriotism
and chivalry which would make other states
equally just and dear to woman.
	The pictures of those Ladies on either side
of the flag, are ladies who have for fifty years
labored long and earnestly for woman’s eman-
cipation, who like our fathers thought taxa-
tion without representation was not right nor
just.  The one to the right of the flag is Susan
B. Anthony, on the left is Elizabeth Cady
Stanton, these names will be handed down
from generation to generation like those of our
Revolutionary fathers who fought, bled and
died for liberty.
	Then three cheers for our flag and the state
of Wyoming.


W. S. PARTY AT PAYSON, UTAH.

	The Social Hand Shake Party given in Pay-
son on the 13th of Feb. was as near as pos-
sible a complete social and instructive enter-
tainment. Singing, music and dancing, inter-
spersed with recitations, speeches, and social
hand shaking was the order. One speech
given by the Right Rev. Todd, deserves to
be printed verbatim and placed in every wo-
man's hand throughout the Territory.

SPEECH BY PRESIDENT MRS. L. J.  WIGHTMAN.
	Ladies, Members and Friends:—We are
very happy to meet you here this evening;
socially, and we would be pleased could we say
Politically on the same broad plain of Justice
and Equality, though we feel assured that ere
long justice will open wide her doors to women.
From time immemorial, Might held the Power
to make laws and call them right and so en-
force them, by this reasoning women being 
weaker than men have occupied the lowest
place, as among the savage nations and history
tells us with but few exceptions among the
most enlightened nations, that women over the
greater part of the globe today are humble
companions, playthings, captives and beasts of
burden. 
	In England the Nobility established their
privileges as they grew in power. The work-
ing class of men are allowed to vote and hold
office because as their power and might in-


creased they would not be put down, and so
claimed their rights and obtained them. But
women having no physical power to force
their rights must obtain them by some other
means, or be forever slaves; now it is conceded
by all men that as the world increases in
knowledge that justice and intelligence are
supreme in framing the laws that govern all.
Then we must look to justice and reason,
which plainly ask, ‘‘Why shonld not the in-
terests of women be consulted with as much
impartiality as the interests of men? this was
first broached in the nineteenth century and
since has steadily grown till it has become a
political movement, and therefore a subject of
general interest. Now we claim by the light
of political reasoning endorsed by Justice and
intelligence that every individual whether male
or female is born with an equal right to the
protection and consideration of the law, and
if so to secure this right every one man or
women is entitled to and must have the fran-
chise or privilege to vote. Now justice has
given this right to every male without regard
to creed or color. Why in the name of justice
under the broad banner of intelligence should
she withhold the right to protect women by
vote, simply because we are women? No, she
will not long, she cannot. We are neither
Minors, Idiots, Lunatics, or Criminals, but wo-
men, Mothers of the nations of the earth, rock-
ing, the cradles, that rule the states, we say
give us our rights and liberty the right of
suffrage the same as enjoyed by the sons we
rear for our country's good.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TWO PRESENDIA KIMBALLS.

	THE notice we publish below is from one of
the New York papers, and is a brief sketch
of the life of the aunt (father’s sister) of the
late lamented Presendia L. Kimball, and is the
one for whom she was named. It shows how
nearly alike in many respects those two women
were, and how their lives run in the same
channel of benevolent work. Probably no
woman in this Church has prepared more of
the dead for burial than Sister Presendia L.
Kimball.—Ed.
	DEATH OF MRS. PRESENDIA KIMBALL.
	Mrs. Presendia Kimball died at her home,
27 Washington street, last evening, at the ripe
old age of 93 years, 3 months and 3 days.
Mrs. Kimball was one of the oldest residents of
Watertown and of Jefferson County. She was
a daughter of Wm. Huntington. Early in life
she was married to Joseph Kimball, one of the
first settlers in this section, and who for twenty
years was prominently identified with the
business interests of Jefferson County. Joseph
Kimball came here from the Mohawk Valley
before the war of 1812, and during the war of
1812 was an officer in the military command
at Sacket’s Harbor. After the war he was en-
engaged in business at Sacket’s Harbor. He
was a builder and contractor, and while in this
business built the barracks at Sackets, the old
courthouse in Watertown,the Jefferson County
Institute, and other structures well known to
old residents. When Mr. Kimball was mar-
ried to Presendia Huntington he settled in
Watertown, and it is a notable fact that the
place at No. 27 Washington street was the
home of both from the time they began house-
keeping until their death. Mr. Kimball died
thirty years ago. 
	Mrs. Kimball was a life-long member of the
First Presbyterian Church in Watertown, and
before age compelled her to retire from active
work, was one of the most useful and energetic
workers. Many of the older people in Water-
town remember kind offices performed by her
in years gone by. She liyed to see most of her
own generation pass away; indeed, it may be
said that she is almost the last of the early


settlers of this town. She lived to see a city
grow up around her, while the places of those
known to her in youth were filled with
strangers.
	To show how deceased had observed the
passing away of neighbors and friends it may
be mentioned that in the early days before the
village of Watertown boasted of a professional
undertaker, it was the custom of some kind
neighbor to prepare the bodies of the dead for
burial. During her lifetime Mrs. Kimball
performed this last sad duty upon the death of
more than one hundred of her neighbors in the
village of Watertown, south of the Public
Square. 
	Mrs. Kimball was the mother of five child-
ren, two of whom, Mr. J. C. Kimball and Mrs.
H. H. Kellogg, of this city, survive her. She
was a kind neighbor, a devoted mother, and an
exemplary Christian woman.


[column 1]

	WOMAN'S STATUS IN SWEDEN.
	The Swedish girl, unlike her German cousin
is an individual first of all. Her life begins
with the conviction of those about her that
she is destined to be of some importance in
the world in which she lives, and as she lives
and as she grows she learns to be and to do.
			HER EDUCATION.
	The education of the Swedish girl is similar
to that of her brothers, and if she choose she 
can take an academic course.
	The schools, which are under  Government
supervision, supply not only good, but ample
means of improvement, and the Swedish
woman is a cultivated and a learned member
of society. She is an object of interest to all
who meet her and holds her place in what-
ever discussion may be under way. She is
womanly and is possessed of all a woman's
accomplishments, but she is intellectual as
well. Lady Wilde, who writes enthusiastically
of these Northern sisters, tells us that intel-
lectual women hold a higher position than is
granted them in England. That in Sweden
the peerage of the intellect holds sway, and
that able women are treated with distinction
and are honored for their attainments quite
apart from any consideration of birth.
	If, indeed, we may believe all that the com-
mentators on Sweden and its people tell us, the
Swedish woman is queen of women.
		HER SYSTEMATIC TRAINING.
	The State devotes special attention to the
education of the girls and provides for such
trained to serve, and all intermediate pursuits
self-supporting. All grades of work are
taught. Governesses are trained to teach,
servants are trained to serve, and all inter-
mediate pursuits are open to those who wish
to learn, so that the girl who is thrown upon
her own resources is fully equipped for the
battle of life. She is provided with the
implements of work and her labor brings her
honor and respect.
	In the political world the Swedish woman
takes her part, and her opinions are sought by
the men of her family and acquaintance. As
yet the franchise is not hers, but it is thought
by those who know that in this reform Sweden
may yet lead the way. Her women are ripe
to take the responsibility of the change; they
are a thoughtful and an educated body, and
already their counsels are sought by the
masculine pastors and masters.
			QUEENS OF SOCIETY.
	Education is not confined to the few, but is
obligatory, to a certain degree, upon all, so
that the Swedish women throughout the land
are able to understand and to contend with
the problems of the day.
	As girls they are an inspiration to their 
brothers, to their lovers and to their friends;

[column 2]

as wives they are the chosen companions of
their husbands, and as mothers they guide
and educate the children who will follow after
them. They are honored in their homes,
sought after in society, and, in short, occupy a
place in the world not unlike our home.
	In society the Swedish women are leaders
when so inclined, ornaments always: in politics
they are the friends and counselors of those
who rule, and in their homes they are queens.
		THEY ARE NOT COQUETTES.
	They are good linguists, well read and
discourse with grace and decision as if their
opinions were of some importance in a discus-
sion. Intellect, good sense and graceful
dignity are their characteristics, not coquetry
or love of vain display. Many of them are
writers; indeed, very many have published a
volume of some kind or other, prose or verse.


PRESS WOMEN IN THE WORLD’S
		CONGRESS AUXILIARY.
	At the meeting of the National Federation
of Women’s Press Clubs in Boston, last
November, Miss Mary Allen West, chairman
of the woman’s committee of the World’s Con-
gress Auxiliary on Weeklies and Magazines,
presented an outline of its plans and work
and requested the cooperation of the press wo-
men present. These plans have been formu-
lated and published in a circular, from which
we quote:
	In the comprehensive plan of the World’s
Congress Auxiliary, two departments have
been assigned to the work of press women, that
of a Public Daily Press Congress, under the
able superintendence of Miss Mary H. Krout,
and this one on Weeklies and Magazines.
	The weekly press comprises country news-
papers—the best read and the most thoroughly
believed journals—illustrated literary papers,
like Harper's Weekly, religious and reform
journals. Magazines may be classified as
literary, educational, philanthropic, scientific,
historical, legal, artistic, musical, juvenile,
fashion magazines and trades journals. This
classification is not rigidly inclusive nor exclu-
sive. It is impossible to draw the lines closely
where the difierent classes so often interlap.
	Some of the topics suggested for thought
and discussion are:
	I. THE WORK AND INFLUENCE OF THE
				PRESS WOMEN.

	a. Through the country family paper.
	b. On religious thought.
	c. In elevating educational ideas, and bring-
ing them into closer correspondence with child-
nature.
	d. On reform movements.
	e. In forming literary tastes and stand-
ards.
	f. In philanthropy.
	g. As writers for children.
	h. In household economics, in history and
art.
	i. Through fashion magazines, in regard to
correct taste, health and household adorn-
ment.
	j. As editors of trades journals.
	The woman’s work on the paper may be
that of editor-in chief, determining its policy
and writing its editorials; she may be con-
tributing editor, or she may edit contributions,
correspondence and news, seldom writing
original articles, but performing the equally
important function of weighing the work of
others and deciding on its merits and adapta-
bility. She may shape public opinion through
contributed articles, or keep the paper’s con-
stituency in touch with the wide world through
correspondence. Again, she may edit a special
department, for whose conduct she is held re-
sponsible.


II. These varying duties suggest a second
set of topics:

			WOMAN'S WORK.
	a. As editor-in-chief.
	b. As contributing editor.
	c. As contributor or correspondent.
	d. As news-gatherer.

	III. WOMAN’S WORK AS PUBLISHER AND
			BUSINESS MANAGER.

			IV. GENERAL TOPICS.
	a. The future possibilities for women in
newspaper and magazine work.
	b. International copyright, and the laws of 
intellectual property and commerce.
	c. What is the effect upon the individual
woman of engaging in journalism?
	d. What is the effect upon the home life of
those who engage in it?
	e. What is the best training for journalism?
Can it be taught in the schools? 
	f. The industrial and economic aspects of
the question—comparative compensation of
men and women editors, writers and business
managers.
	The preliminary duties of the World’s Con-
gress Auxiliary are to unify the work along a
given line all over the world, to stimulate
thought which shall lead to practical results,
and to arrange for the interchange of views at
the Columbian Exposition in 1893. There is
to be, in connection with the Men’s Branch of
the World’s Congress Auxiliary, a Press Con-
gress for the discussion of living themes. We
also propose conferences of press women for
more informal discussion of themes of special
interest to them as workers.
	The Illinois Woman’s Press Association with
headquarters at Chigago, has secured a com-
mittee room in the Woman’s Building, where
press women from every part of the world will
be cordially welcomed and given such assist-
ance as they require. Here informal confer-
ences will be held, and arrangements are made
for a Press Woman’s Conference in the As-
sembly Hall of the same building. The Asso-
ciation has also applied for space in the Press
Building for regular women correspondents,
where they will have the benefits of telegraphic
and telephonic communications, with all other
needful appliances.
	This, imperfectly sketched, is the work in
which we invite the press women, of the world
to cooperate. They can assist in carrying it
on in the following ways:
	1. By circulating this preliminary plan as
widely as possible, translating where necessary
that women of every tongue may become ac-
quainted with it. Send copies of papers in
which it is printed to the chairman of this
committee.
	2. Send the names of women in various
countries who would do effective work as mem-
bers of our Advisory Counsel.
	3. Study the proposed topics, suggest others
you desire to have discussed, and send names
of women you consider best qualified to take
part in the discussions.
	4. We wish a list of all weeklies and magazines
in all languages, edited or published by wo-
men. Kindly assist, in making this list com-
plete by sending us the names of all such
papers.
	5. The Press Conferences in connection with 
the World’s Congress Auxiliary will probably
occur some time in May, 1893. All women’s
Press Associations are invited to send dele-
gates. The suggested basis of representation
is one delegate for every twenty regular mem-
bers.
	All communications in regard to this depart-
ment should be addressed to Mary Allen West,
Chairman, 359 Claremont Avenue, Chicago,
U. S. A. Mrs. Nancy Hustin Banks, of the
Bureau of Publicity and Promotion, is vice-

[Column 2]
chairman, and Mrs. Mary Stewart Armstrong,
of the Elite News, Chicago, is secretary of the
committee.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
NOTICE TO STAKE SECRETARIES.

	The Stake Secretaries of the Relief Society
are requested to forward their semi-annnal
reports of the last six months immediately to
the Assistant Secretary, Dr. R. B. Pratt.
206 N. Second West, Salt Lake City and be
sure and send the address of the President
and Secretary with the signatures attached.
	E. B. Wells, Cor. Sec.

	    W. S. A. CONVENTION.

	A Territorial Convention of the N. A. W.
S. A. of Utah will be held about the time of
the April Conference, at which it is desirable
there should be Delegates from each Auxiliary
W. S. A. in the Territory, prepared to give
a report of the Association represented.
	E. B. WELLS, Ch, Pub. Com.

 MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
OFFICE.—324, 325 Third Floor, Constitution Building
HOURS—10 a. m., to 4. 8 to 6 p. m

[Column 2]

	THE	WOMAN’S	TRIBUNE,
Edited and published weekly at Washington,
	D. C., by CLARA BEWICK COLBY.
Price, S1.00 a year. Trial Subscriptions, five
	weeks for 10 cents.
The Woman’s Journal, of Boston, and the Woman's Tri-
	bune, of Washington D. C., will be sent to one ad-
	dress for $3.00 per year.

	Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
	Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
	ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
	AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
	POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmedt
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But-
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
	No. 63 E.
	FIRST SOUTH STREET,
	Three doors west of Theatre.
	
R.K THOMAS
26,28,30and32 East 1st South St.,
	SALT LAKE CITY.
	The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

[Image of Rio Grande Logo]
	THE
Standard Gauge
RAILWAY!
THROUGH THE
ROCKY MOUNTAINS!
Choice of Three Distinct Routes,
	 AND THE
MOST MAGNIFICENT RAILROAD SCENERY
	IN THE WORLD.
Two Fast Express Trains Daily
	EACH WAY BETWEEN
OGDEN, SALT LAKE AND DENVER.
ELEGANT RECLINING CHAIR CARS!
	Free of Charge.
Direct Connections made in Union Depots.
THE MOST THOROUGHLY EQUIPPED RAILWAY
	IN THE WEST.
D.O. DODGE,  A. E. WELBY,  J. H. BENNETT,
	Genl. Mgr.	Supt.	G. F. & P. A.

		DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
he country promptly responded to. 
	DAVD JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


Mrs. J. F. Russel, of Topeka, Kan., has
been appointed to succeed her husband, lately
deceased, as superintendent of the county
poor-farm.

	In the Iowa House of Representatives, the
bill to grant women presidential suffrage was
refered to the woman suffrage committee, who
on Feb. 25 recommended its indefinite post-
ponement, four Republicans and all the
Democrats voting against it.

	The Writers’ Club, London, was formally
opened at No. 190 Fleet, on Jan. 30. It
provides a place where women engaged in
literary and journalistic wotk can write in
silence, dine, see the newspapers, and meet
their friends.

	The committee for women’s work of the
English world’s Fair Commission are; Princess
Christian, of Schleswig-Holstein, president,
the Marchioness of Salisbury, the Baroness
Burdett-Coutts, the Countess of Aberdeen,
Lady Alfred Churchill, Lady Agnes Buren,
Lady Brassey, Lady Knutsford, Lady Galton,
Lady Jeune, Lady Roberts, Mrs. Carmichael,
Mrs. Fawcett, Mrs. Bedford Fenwick, Miss
Forcyth, Mrs. Priestly, Mrs. Roberts-Austen,
Mrs. Tyssen Amherst,and Miss Fay Lankester.


A LOVING TRIBUTE.

	Resolutions of respect to Sarah Thornton Coleman who
departed this life March 1st 1892, having been our beloved
president of the Relief Society, for eleven years, from 1868
to 1879: we her co-laborers in meeting assembled, deem
it fitting that we record our appreciation of her labors.
	Whereas:— in the providence of Almighty God, we have
beeu called to mourn the loss of our beloved sister and
friend, who having led a noble life, worthy of imitation, we
her sisters desire to testify to the same, and desire by the
help of God to emulate her example.
	Be it resolved, that we extend our heartfelt sympathy
to her family in this their sad bereavement, having lost a
loving mother and friend, desiring the divine healer of
all sorrow to shed His benign influence to sustain them
in this their hour of trial.
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be presented
to the family, be also entered on the Relief Society
records, a copy sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT and to
the Lehi Banner.
					MRS. MARTHA P. THOMAS,
					MRS. BARBARA A. EVANS,
					MRS. REBECCA STANDRING,
					MRS MARY ANN DAVIS,
					MRS MELISSA WILLIS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT﻿.

	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

Vol. 20				SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 1, 1892.				No. 18.


CONTENTS.
	The Present Administration of the Relief So-
ciety—Dr. R. B. Pratt. Address of Mrs. M.
Isabella Horne. News P. C. W. P. A. Address
of Bathsheba W. Smith. The Agricultural Ex-
periment Station—J. W. Sanborn. Editorial
Notes. Important to the Relief Society. Relief
Society Conference.
	EDITORIAL:—Conference Notice. Relief So-
city Jubilee—Exercises at the Tabernacle.
	POETRY:—Retrospection—Sister Lucy. Too
Late—Marah Rocke. Jubilee Hymn—Hannah
Cornaby.


RETROSPECTION.

	We push the gates of time ajar,
		And mem’ry now roam thro’;
	Threescore and four eventful years,
		Old time hath wrought out for you!
	Stand again at the open door,
		With the same old ardent grace.
	And there reclasp a new-born babe,
		In a loving glad embrace.
	And there each scene renewing o’er,
		With a youthful zeal and thrill,
	Loved ones dear of the cot within,
		To landscape of wood and hill
	We mark the seasons in their flight,
		And recount their changes o’er,
	Sit at the feast, thy birthday night,—
		Time recorded, "aged four."
	Among the merry hills we roam,
		Breathing pure health-giving air,
	And gather around the dear old home,
		As when children free from care.
	Down in the meadow green we stray,
		Cast our lines in “Silver Brook,"
	Trophies eager to bear away
		Of our dainty bait and hook.
	Echoes’ come back of laugh and song.
		We woke in the green wood wild.
	Companions dear around us throng,
		The flower of youthful pride.
	Now to and from the village school; 
		Viewing landmarks by the way,—
	The mill, the pond, the water-wheel,
		Turning off showers of spray.
	Youthful scenes wear an amber glow,
		Touched by mem'rys magic spell,
	We revel in the long ago;
		Hand and heart with "Rosabel."

	The gates close back, the curtain falls.
		Raising now at sixtyfour,—
	In love we greet, and ask for thee,
		Useful life, another score.
	To labor on with ready pen;
		With true heart, and gifted tongue.
	For God, and Home, and every Land,
		Receive the plaudit of "Well Done!"
								SISTER LUCY.

Atchison Kan., Feb. 29th, 1892.
Petname.


TOO LATE

		Some day, I meant,—
	When smoother ran the wheels of life,
And peace and leisure close were blent,
	And all the weary toil and strife
Had given way to sweet content,—
		Some time, I meant
To closer draw love's tendrils dear
	Around my boy, and many ways
So dear to boyish hearts, to cheer
	And brighten all his boyhood’s days,
		And bring content.

		Some time, I thought
To make his life a poem rare,


Replete with noble thought and aim;
A structure great, and good, and fair,
	Crowned by the coronet of his fame.
		I planned for naught.
For, now my leisure hours are here,
	So swiftly time its changes ring,
The scenes that once had been so dear,
	Have now forever taken wing.
		Too late, the thought.

		I little thought
While burdened with life's petty care,
	So swiftly did the moments fly,
That many golden chances, rare,
	Had swiftly, stilly, passed me by, 
		Vanished, unsought. 
My restless boy has learned to be
	Content with other ways than mine,
Has grown away from home and me,
	And left my aching heart to pine.
		Time dearly bought.

		Oh, vain regret!
I should have deemed it sweeter, far,
	His loving confidence to prize.
Sweeter than all life's luxuries are,
	To see the lovelight in his eyes.
		Can I forget?
I should have called most blest, the hours
	That gave him to my loving care,
And shown him wisdom's fairy bowers;
	By many a precept, here and there.
		Oh, sad regret !
								MARAH ROCKE.


[Column 1]
﻿THE PRESENT ADMINISTRATION OF
		THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
				
MRS. ZINA. D. H. YOUNG PRESIDENT.
				
	(Written Tor the Jubilee March 17th, 1892
by Dr. R. B. Pratt.)
	After the death of Eliza R. Snow, which
occurred Dec. 5th, 1887, Sister Zina D.
Young, who had been her first counselor, took 
charge until the semi-annual conference of the 
Church, April 8th, 1888, when she was
appointed to preside over the Relief Society.
	Apostle Franklin D. Richards, after the
authorities of the Church had been presented,
said: “Ourlamented Sister Eliza R. Snow
has been president of the Relief Society ever
since its organization in these mountains, and 
has labored with unexampled diligence for its
welfare and advancement. Her death now
leaves the organization without a president.
Sister Zina D. Young was her first counselor.
It is now moved and seconded that she be
made president. Sister Young was unanimously
sustained.”
	October 11th, 1888, President Zina Young
chose as her first counselor Jane S. Richards,
as her second Bathsheba W. Smith, cor. sec.,
Emmeline B. Wells. They were set apart 
under the hands of the First Presidency of 
the Church.
	The central board of the Relief Society was
then fully organized as follows: President Zina
D.H. Young; first counselor, Jane S. Richards;
second counselor, Bathsheba W. Smith; sec.
Sarah M. Kimball; assistant sec., Romania B.
Pratt; cor. sec., Emmeline B. Wells; treasurer,
M. Isabella Horne.
	One of the most notable features of progress
of the Relief Society was the inauguration of
annual and semi-annual conferences for women,
where special instruction peculiar to their 
work could be given by the President and her

[Column 2]
counselors and other experienced women, and
where verbal reports are made by the Presidents
of Stake and societies or their representatives.
Each society through these privileges is
enabled to receive the benefit of the combined
wisdom and intelligence of the whole
	The first general conference of the Relief
Society convened in the Assembly Hall of 
this City Saturday morning, April 6th, 1889,
President Zina D. Young presiding, assisted
by her counselors. Sister Young wrote an
eloquent address which was read by E. B
Wells. It consisted of special instructions
upon the duty of women as wives and mothers
and Relief Society work.
	The semi-annual Conference of the Relief 
Society, was held in the Assembly Hall in
this city, October 7th, 1889, Zina D, Young
presiding. There were two sessions.
	Conferences were also held April 7th, 1890
October 7th, 1890, April 7th, 1891 October
7th, 1891 the third semi-annual conference
was held in the Assembly Hall in this city.
President Zina D. Young presiding.
	The approximate amount expended in
charitable work during the years 1888-89-90
91, in Utah, Idaho, Colorado, Arizona, Sand.
wich Islands, London and Canada was
$70, 892.04. There are probably over 400
branch societies, with a membership of about
25,300. Besides gathering and dispensing 
this vast amount of means, the Relief Society
has organized and managed many enterprises
called home industries, such as the Woman’s
Co-op Store, millinery parlors and dressmak-
ing establishments. Many branches have
built and own their own halls and wheat
granaries. When we consider the many 
thousands of the poor and needy that this
money has comforted, fed, clothed and kept
warm, the scope and industry of the Relief
Society organization can in a measure be
realized. President Zina Young, her counselors
and other sisters travel extensively among the 
Stakes,organizing new branches and instructing
in the work. They have been indefatigable in
their labors and the fruits thereof are already
seen in every part of the Church which has
been blessed by their presence.


ADDRESS OF MRS. M. ISABELLA
			HORNE.

	[Read by Apostle Abraham H. Cannon at
the Relief Society Jubilee in the Large Taber-
nacle, Salt Lake City, March 17, 1892.]

	My Brethren and Sisters:—My heart is
filled with praise and gratitude to my Heavenly
Father that he has spared my life to meet with
you on this important occasion, to celebrate by
a grand Jubilee all over the world, the Fiftieth
Anniversary of the organization of the Relief 
Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith in the
last dispensation of the fulness of times. I am
thankful that I had the privilege of being as-
sociated with the first organization, and of hear-
ing instructions from the President, Emma
Smith. She exhorted us to faithfulness in the
discharge of our duties, and especially to
humble ourselves and not ask God to humble
us, as He might do it in a way that would 
not be very pleasant to us. These remarks
made a lasting impression upon my mind.
	After the martyrdom of our beloved Prophet
and Patriarch, the Saints were permitted to


[Column 1]

remain in Nauvoo till the Temple was com-
pleted, and many of us received our endow-
ments in that House of the Lord. Soon after
this the people were driven from their homes in
the middle of winter during heavy snow
storms and severe frost. I with my family
crossed the Mississipi river in the month of
February, 1846, and camped with the Saints
on Sugar Creek. After that the river froze
over and other companies crossed on the ice.
Early in the Spring we commenced our weary
journey through mud and storm to find a home
among the savages in the Rocky Mountains.
When we arrived at Council Bluffs a call was
made upon Pres. Young by the Government
for five hundred of our able-bodied men to go
to the Mexican war, which prevented us from
continuing our journey and necessitated our
going into Winter Quarters, where we were
seriously afflicted with that dreadful disease—
scurvy. In June, 1847, the saints were or-
ganized into companies to follow the Pioneers,
and I was with the first company that left
Winter Quarters. The trials, hardships and
privations that the people of God endured on
that long and weary journey were great and
can only be understood by those who ex-
perienced them.
	Children were born on the way before we
reached Council Bluffs, myself giving birth to
a daughter at Pisgah, the company started
forward on the third day after.
	When our pilgrimage was over we found
ourselves in a barren waste, inhabited by
Indians. But we were glad to find a resting
place where we could worship God without
fearing our enemies were coming upon us. The
weather was favorable for building, and the
brethren immediately began to saw logs and
erect small log houses, into which many of us
moved without having either doors windows or
floors.
	Here again there were many difficulties to
overcome. The ground was full of snakes
which used to crawl around our houses, but
these were soon killed or frightened away. The
timber was so full of bugs that it was years be-
fore they were entirely subdued. The mice
also were very numerous, running over us by
day and by night, and destroying considerable
clothing, etc., which caused great incon-
venience and trouble. We were also obliged
to live on short rations, digging roots to add to
our store, in order to make our supplies last
until something could be raised for food.
During that winter many of the Mormon
Battalion arrived, and we were under the
necessity of sharing our food with them. We
could put a little grease into a dish with a rag
in it to make a light, and parch a little wheat
to make our coffee, but when it came to making
soap we were put to our wits' end to get
material to make enough to do our washing. I
can hardly tell today how we did succeed. But
the Lord opened our way and blessed us with
cheerful, contented spirits and thankful hearts.
	I well remember the first harvest home we
celebrated. Apostles Parley P. Pratt and
John Taylor called upon the sisters to prepare
a.feast. They prepared what food they could
from their meagre store and set a long table
in the Fort. Although the food was plain and
everything was done in a humble way, our
hearts flowed with thanksgiving to our
Heavenly Father for the blessings conferred
upon us. Our table decorations were sheaves
of wheat and other things that had been
raised. Although the crops were light we had
enough to last us another year, and some to
spare to our brethren and sisters that came
the following year.
	The second year of our being in the valley
the crickets threatened to destroy our crops;
men, women and children had to fight them,
many were driven into the ditches of water
and were piled where there was any obstruc-

[Column 2]

tion, bushels and bushels. The Lord sent the
quails to devour them and thus we were saved
from starvation.
	In the spring of 1849 many of the people
left the Fort where we first located and moved
to their city lots. During the next few years
our numbers rapidly increased, and many
poor saints gathered. Pres. Young then found
it advisable to again organize a Relief Society.
You have heard a sketch read this morning
of the organization of the Relief Society in
this city both before and after the move, I had
the honor of being chosen as First Counselor
to our President Phebe Woodruff, and Sister
Southworth as Second Counselor, in the first
organization of the society in the Fourteenth
Ward, where we worked faithfully for the re-
lief of the poor, and made many useful articles
of clothing which were given to the poor to
make them comfortable for their journey during
the Move. We were re-organized in the same
ward by Bishop Hoagland in the year 1867,
with myself as President, and Sisters Wilmirth
East and Susan B. Wilkinson as counselors.
	The various branches of the Society have
been in good working order from that day till
the present, and their labors and the good
that has been done cannot be written, and are
only known by our Father in heaven.
	In the year 1877 the Relief Society was or-
ganized in a Stake capacity, and I was selected
to fill the office of President of the Salt Lake
Stake, with Sisters Elmina S. Taylor and
Sarepta Heywood as Counselors, Elizabeth
Howard Sec., and B. W. Smith Treas. Sister
Heywood discharged faithfully the duties of
her office until her death,when Sister Helen M.
Whitney was elected to fill the vacancy. The
officers were set apart by Pres. Angus M.
Cannon and Counselors. The first Quarterly
Conference of the Relief Society of this Stake
was held in March, 1878, and have been held
regularly up to the present time.
	I have been a worker in the Society from the
first, and have rejoiced in the work we were
called upon to perform in looking after the
poor, comforting the sick, watching by their
bedsides, and preparing proper clothing for
them when they passed away. A great many
of our brethren and sisters have been respect-
ably clothed for burial by the members of this
society. Thousands of dollars have been
collected and given to the poor, besides re-
sponding to other calls that have been made
upon us. Pres. Young advised the sisters to
build houses in which to hold meetings and
perform their labors. Many branches have
done this, and also built granaries in which to
store their wheat, according to the counsel of
President Young, who was always interested
in the advancement and progress of the sisters.
	In 1870 Pres. Young called me to fill an
important home mission—that of organizing
the sisters into what was then called the Re-
trenchment Association, its object being to
lighten the labors of the women and give them
more time to devote to mental and spiritual
culture. It was some time before I could gain
sufficient courage to perform this labor, but
Sister Snow urged me to do my duty, so with
fear and trembling I endeavored to do so. In
the spring I invited about twelve presidents of
branches of the Relief Society to meet with me
in my own house. They were all willing to
help in the work. We appointed a meeting in
the Fifteenth Ward Hall and had a good
meeting. It was then that a committee of
three ladies, viz:, Mrs. Amelia Folsom Young,
Bathsheba W. Smith and Sarah M. Kimball, 
were appointed to wait upon Acting Governor
Mann and thank him for signing the bill giv-
ing the elective franchise to women. From
that meeting we adjourned to the Fourteenth
Ward Hall where an organization was effected
with M. Isabella Horne as President, and
Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. H. Young, Margaret

[Column 3]

T. Smoot, Phebe Woodruff, Bathsheba W.
Smith and Sarah M. Kimball as her Coun-
selors.
	After Sister Smoot moved to Provo, Sister
Howard was chosen to fill her place and after
Sister Woodruff passed away Sister Minerva
W. Snow was chosen to fill the vacancy; since
the death of Sister Eliza R. Snow, Sisters
Elizabeth T. Webb and Elizabeth Stevenson
have been added to our number.
	Meetings have been held semi-monthly
since that time, and much good instruction has
been given, and many of the sisters have ob-
tained a testimony of the truth of the Gospel
and the divine mission of Joseph Smith, who
had never thought much about religious mat-
ters before attending those meetings.
	I feel thankful to my Heavenly Father that
He inspired the Prophet Joseph to organize
the Relief Society and thus open the door for
the advancement of woman. May the good
work continue. May we appreciate our privi-
leges and go forth faithfully in the discharge
of our duties as mothers in Israel is the earnest
desire of your co-laborer in the kingdom of
God.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NEWS P. C. W. P. A.

	Mrs Maggie Downing Brainard of the
“Santa Clara Valley” is writing a profusely
illustrated article on the possibilities of
horticulture on the Coast setting forth its
advantages as a profession for women.
	The official seal of the W. P. A. will be a
fac-simile of the badge; a five-pointed star,
bearing the initial of the association and date
of inauguration.
	Mr. Geo. T. Gaden to whom the members
of the W. P. A. are truly indebted for
thorough acts of kindness and who was elected
an honorary member of the association, has
presented a beautiful gold badge (suitably
inscribed) to Mrs. E. T. Y. Parkhurst upon
her retirement from the office of Cor. Sec’y.
of the W. P. A.
	The W. P. A. will make every effort to
entertain in as pleasant a manner as possible
the National Editors Ass’n and in doing thus
will not hold a March Convention.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Vore’s finely illustrated
article on Our Press Ass’n evoked most
praiseworthy comment. The article appeared
in the St. Louis Chaperone.
	Mrs. Lindon Bates of Portland, Oregon was
tendered on March first a handsome Reception
by the Illinois Woman’s Press Ass’n. This
as a compliment to the manner in which their
delegates were entertained at their recent
convention held in San Francisco. The
Reception was held at the Palmer House in
Chicago over 1200 invitations being sent out.
	Mrs. E. T. Y. Parkhurst has accepted a
position on the staff of the National Journal
of Chicago and will henceforth represent
business interests on this Coast not conflicting
with the Californian.
	Mrs. Sarah B. Cooper, Mrs. E. O. Smith,
Mrs. Anna Morrison Read, Miss Mary
Lambert, Miss E. D. Keith and Mrs. L. M.
McCann have been appointed on the board of
Lady Managers for the World’s Fair in San
Francisco and Mrs Isabella Raymond and
Mrs. M. O. Stanton on the Santa Cruz Board.


Solid love, whose root is virtue, can no more
die than virtue itself.—Erasmus.
         
	He who holds back rising anger like a
rolling chariot, him I call a real driver; other
people are but holding the reins—Hindu.
    
	Give not thy tongue too great liberty, lest it
take thee prisoner. A word unspoken is, like
the sword in the scabbard, thine. If vented
thy sword is in another’s hand.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


JUBILEE HYMN.

	Written March 17, 1892 for the fiftieth anniversary of
the Relief Society. organized March 17, 1842, by the
Prophet Joseph Smith in Nauvoo, Ill.

	Well may the songs of gladness
		Within these vales resound,
	Hushed every note of sadness,
		And only joy abound.
	A truce to care and sorrow,
		Let one and all agree,
	Forgetful of the morrow
		To keep this Jubilee.

	The wheels of time have brought us
		With their ever onward pace, 
	Till fifty years their course have run
		For which we render praise.
	We all, God's watchful care should own
		And His great goodness see;
	Only let love our hearts attune
		To keep this Jubilee.

	Nor in our favored land alone
		Will this glad day be kept,
	Where ere the Gospel light has shone
		To show where darkness slept.
	Nations afar and distant lands,
		The islands of the sea,
	With us will join with heart and hand
		To keep this Jubilee.

	The Gospel of Salvation
		With all its gifts and powers
	Has been restored again,
		To light this world of ours.
	And still the poor are with us 
		As Jesus said they'd be,
	Yet all can join with gladsome hearts
		To keep this Jubilee.

	Our Heavenly Father knew
		Just what His church required,
	And in eighteen forty-two, 
		He Joseph Smith inspired
	This society to organize,
		Which through all time will be
	A holiday for us to keep
		A happy Jubilee.

	Since dawned that memorable day,
		How much has been achieved,
	How many sick and suffering ones
		Have had their wants relieved?
	Go ask the living and the dead 
		How great their numbers be,
	Who've cause to join with all their might
		To keep this Jubilee.

	May every officer be blessed
		Who in this work takes part,
	And labor thus for others good
		With undivided heart.
	This work in the beginning small
		Will great and greater be,
	Till happy millions gladly keep
		Each coming Jubilee.

	'Tis meet that we appreciate
		And all due honor pay,
	To the great time we celebrate
		On this auspicious day.
	Nor would we close without a prayer
		Our Father, God to Thee,
	That Thou would'st let thy blessing rest
		Upon this Jubilee.

			HANNAH CORNABY.
Born March 17, A. D. 1822.	Aged 70 years today.


ADDRESS OF BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.

	[Read by Apostle John Henry Smith at the
Large Tabernacle Salt Lake City March 17,
1892.]
MY DEAR BROTHERS AND SISTERS:
	I rejoice that I have lived to see this day—
the Jubilee of our Relief Society.
	Fifty years ago this day our beloved Joseph
Smith organized the Relief Society.
	Fifty years ago this day our beloved Joseph
Smith organized the Relief Society in Nouvoo.
	After the organization was perfected, and


the president, Sister Emma Smith, and her
Counselors, Sister Whitney and Sister
Cleveland, had taken their seats upon the
stand, 17 members were admitted.
	Hundreds joined the Society within a year.
	Bro. Joseph met with us many times and
gave us much counsel and valuable instructions;
he said "Every virtuous woman should
belong to this Society. This Organization is
not only for the purpose of administering to
the sick and afflicted, the poor and the needy
but it is to save souls. If the Sisters come
before the Lord in humility and faith and lay
hands upon the sick and the Lord heals them,
none should find fault. If ye are pure in 
all things nothing on earth or in heaven can
hinder the angels from associating with you."
	At one meeting he said, he would not be
with us much longer to instruct us. This
made us all feel sad. His words soon came to
pass and wrung our hearts with sorrow and
grief for the great loss we had sustained in
losing our dearly beloved Prophet—for a true
prophet I know he was.
	It has been a "Labor of Love." The
sick and destitute have been blessed, the cast
down have been comforted, and the Lord has
filled our hearts with joy and peace.
	Let us take renewed courage and be more
united and earnest in this great work, and if
any one has ill feelings towards another,
banish them and make this a Jubilee in very
deed.
	May the choicest of Heaven's blessings rest
upon all Israel is my prayer in the name of
Jesus. Amen.


THE AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT
			STATION.

			Logan, Utah, March 7th, 1892.
TO THE FARM PUBLIC:
	The Territorial Experiment Station, which
is a department of the Agricultural College of
Utah, has so far matured its organization that
it is enabled to widen its field of work.
	During the present season it desires to co-
operate with the farmers of Utah in the investi-
gation of the following subjects:
	I. SUGAR BEETS. For the purpose of as-
certaining the yield, composition, best methods
of cultivation and cost of production of sugar
beets in the several sections of the Territory,
the Station will furnish the seed of one or
more varieties of sugar beets to one hundred or
more varieties of sugar beets to one hundred or
more farmers and test the beets for sugar at 
several periods of development, free of charge.
	Those receiving seed will be required to keep
the cost of production and yield and to for-
ward samples for analysis from time to time.
	To make the investigation of the fullest
value it will be necessary for farmers of the
several sections of the Territory to join in the
trial.  For this purpose I request those in-
terested to forward their names.  Seeds and a
circular of instructions will be forwarded to
those requiring them, about April first.
	II. ALKALI SOIL.  The Station will make
analysis of representative alkali soils for sev-
eral sections of Utah.  Those interested are 
required to forward samples.  Circulars of in-
structions for sampling will be sent to those
who desire to forward samples.
	III. IRRIGATION INVESTIGATION.  The
College and Station expect to make a specialty
of irrigation problems.  It has already accu-
mulated data bearing on this subject. Through
its Chemist, Engineer, and Professor of Agri-
culture with the appliances at their command
several lines of inquiry will be instituted.
	We desire to secure water from all of our
important irrigation streams, artesian wells,
and reservoirs at varying seasons of the year,
in order to ascertain the sediment carried and


the amount of plant food held in solution in-
cluding the gases.
	At a later date will have other requests to
make relating to irrigation problems.
	IV. The Station will render any assistance
that it can by way of identification of insects
and plants of interest to agriculture.
	V. INSTITUTE MEETINGS. The Experiment
Station Staff assisted by College Professors
will during vacation and probably during the
coming winter deliver lectures over the Terri-
tory at such points as interested citizens may
invite them and make the adequate arrange-
ments for halls. The traveling expenses in
part or in full according to circumstances
will have to be met by the locality extending
the invitation. One or several will attend
these meetings and remain for one or more
days as may be desired.
	The press will oblige by copying at least the
sections of this notice relating to sugar beets
and to irrigating water.
		Very Respectfully,
			J. W. SANBORN,
				Director.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	On account of devoting almost our entire
space to the Relief Society Jubilee and its
history, together with the exercises in the
Tabernacle, we are unable to publish the next
chapter of the story "In Rural England," and
other matter contributed, but the story will 
appear in our next issue, and also important
notices of the celebration of the Jubilee in
other places.
	We hope our correspondents will continue
to favor us with an interesting variety of
articles on the various topics of the day, we
invite those who have something to communi-
cate, young or old to write for the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT and help in the advancement of
truth and purity and all those principles and
ideas which will uplift and strengthen woman
in the various walks of life, and aid in lead-
ing humanity to broader channels of enlighten-
ment and a higher conception of the work to
be accomplished in the redemption of the
human family and the establishment of the
reign of righteousness upon the earth.


IMPORTANT TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY.

	The President of the Relief Society, Mrs. Zina
D. H. Young, desires to obtain, for future use and
reference, historical sketches of each branch of
the Relief Society in all lands where there is or
has been an organization, the sketch of each to
include the amount of charitable work or dis-
bursements made and for what purposes, with
necessary data; also when organized and by
whom, the names of officers, and the changes
that have been made, if any. The President
wishes the minutes of Jubilee celebrations held in
each ward or place, whether in this country or in
other lands, accompanied with the sketch of the
Relief Society written for the occasion. Address
these manuscripts and communications to Mrs. E.
B. Wells, office of WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Salt
Lake City, Utah.


Professor John Gardiner, who is a graduate
of the University of London, and fills the
chair of Biology in the University of Colorado
takes strong ground in favor of the equality
of men and women. He says that the reason
Italy gave a position in Bologna University to
a woman, three hundred years ago, and that
Dante should depict such a character as
Beatrice, was because Italy was a commercial
nation. In peace is woman's opportunity.
Militarism is her destruction. No being has
so much to hope from peace as woman.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
gne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
   
SALT LAKE CITY,	APRIL 1, 1892.


CONFERENCE NOTICE.

	The Sixty-second Annual Conference of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints will
convene in the Tabernacle, Salt Lake City, at 10
o'clock on Sunday morning, April 3rd, 1892.
	At noon on Wednesday, the 6th of April, the
cap-stone of the Salt Lake Temple will be laid
with appropriate ceremonies.
	The officers and members of the Church gen-
erally are cordially invited to attend the meetings
of the Conference. Also to be present on the oc-
casion of the laying of the cap-stone of the
Temple.
			WILFORD WOODRUFF.
			GEORGE Q. CANNON, 
			JOSEPH F. SMITH,
				First Presidency.


[Column 1]

RELIEF SOCIETY JUBILEE.

EXERCISES AT THE TABERNACLE.

	The celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of
the first organization of the Relief Society March
17, 1842, was held in the Large Tabernacle in Salt
Lake City March 17, 1892, and was largely at-
tended by those resident in the City, many
strangers and tourists were also present. The
stands were handsomely ornamented with flower-
ing plants principally Calla and Easter lilies. The
large organ was draped with the stars and stripes,
the flags extending across and a large oil painting
of Joseph the prophet hung high in the centre;
below it an immense key made of the most beau-
tiful flowers, underneath which was the picture
life-size of Emma Smith the first President of the
Relief Society and on her right a picture of Eliza
R. Snow the second President, and on her left
that of Zina D. H. Young the present President.
	Prof. Evan Stephens Musical Director had
charge of the Tabernacle Choir, who furnished
the singing and Prof. J. J. Daynes accompanied
on the organ, the music was specially fine. On
the stand was Pres. Joseph F. Smith of the First
Presidency, Apostles John Henry Smith and
Abraham H. Cannon, President Angus M. Can-
non, Dr. James E. Talmage, and of the officers of
the Central Board of the Relief Society, Presi-
dent, Zina D. H. Young; Counselor Bathsheba
W.  Smith; Sarah M. Kimball, Secretary;
Romania B. Pratt, Ass't. Secretary; M. Isabella
Horne, Treasurer; E. B. Wells Cor. Sec'y.—also
Zina Y. W. Card.
	The exercises of this happy occasion opened
with the choir singing that Grand Invocation by
Eliza R. Snow,

	"O, my Father thou hast dwellest."

	Prayer was offered by President Angus M.
Cannon. The choir and congregation joined in
singing the hymn,

	"How firm a foundation ye saints of the Lord."

[Column 1]

	A most feeling and eloquent address of greeting
and welcome was then delivered by,
		PRESIDENT ZINA D. H. YOUNG.
	My brethren and sisters and friends, I ask an
interest in your faith and prayers on this great oc-
casion, so that the spirit of the living God may
direct the few words I may utter. I now in the
presence of God and before my brethren and
sisters, hail this welcome day of Jubilee which
has been set apart for us—the sisters of the
Relief Society to assemble together. O, that my
words could be heard by all people, not only by
you my brethren and sisters in this Tabernacle
and throughout Utah but that they might be
heard and understood by all the people of this
continent, and not only this continent but the
continents of Europe, Asia, Africa and the
Islands of the Sea.
	This day we greet you and all our sisters who
are everywhere celebrating this occasion in com-
memoration of the organization, by the Prophet
Joseph Smith, of the Relief Society.
	We praise God that our ears have been saluted
with the glad tidings of salvation again restored
to the earth, through the instrumentality of the
Prophet Joseph. We rejoice in the principles of
the Gospel revealed from heaven in this age; that
the Father and the Son condescended to appear to
Joseph, in answer to his fervent prayer for light
and knowledge, and that our Heavenly Father
pointed to His Son and said "hear ye Him."
These things cause us to lift up our hearts to God
with thanksgiving and blessing. This is a glori-
ous day in which we live. It is the dispensation
of the fulness of times when all things spoken by
all the holy prophets will be fulfilled. This is a
a great day for the sisters of the Relief Society.
The daughters of Zion have met here this day, as
also wherever they are organized, to celebrate
this day, the fiftieth anniversary of our organiza-
tion and to lift our hearts in praise to God. We
rejoice at having some of our leading brethren
with us today. We anticipate having a good time.
The peaceful influence of the spirit of the Lord
is with us; it is full of life and joy.
	A word as to the duties and labors of the mem-
bers of these organizations, of the Relief Society
is appropriate at this time; as sisters of this or-
ganization we have been set apart for the purpose
of comforting and consoling the sick and afflicted
the poor and distressed, particularly those who
love and fear God; to comfort one another in
every trial of life, and cheer the depressed in
spirit, on all occasions; this is our special mis-
sion, therefore keep this in remembrance. If we
continue to do these things in the spirit thereof,
the Lord, at the time when He comes to make up
His jewels, will approve of us.
	My sisters everywhere who have humbly em-
braced the Gospel and are true to it are my
sisters. I greet them as such. I pray God to
pour out His spirit upon all of you today, and
from this time forth. This is a day never to be
forgotten because of the goodness of God to us. I
hope the Presidents and members of every Relief
Society on earth will have such a good time today
as will never be forgotten by them. This is my
prayer and desire in their behalf. As sisters we
have to work out and secure our salvation. Let
us honor the Lord for permitting us to live in this
dispensation, also honor Him for the glorious
principles of truth, light and life which He has
revealed to us through His inspired servants.
	We pray and ask our Heavenly Father to bless
these our sisters, that they may continue to visit
the poor and the needy and see that none suffer
among us. I trust our object will be to improve
in good works, that the sisters, in addition to
what they have already done, will build houses
wherein they can hold their Relief Society meet-
ings and worship the Lord. I hope that the
sisters, through the blessings of God will be en-
abled to do this; that they will continue to sus-

[Column 3]

tain the hands of their Bishops, and work
unitedly; that they will not neglect their families,
nor idle their time away, but look after their home
affairs as well as attend to the duties I have named
Let us help our Presidents and each other and
stand shoulder to shoulder.
	We are blessed with glorious privileges, and
have been. The franchise so gloriously given us,
and enjoyed so long, has been taken from us with-
out cause. It may be restored to us again; let us
hope for this. Let us be pure and upright in our
lives and do good continually; be true and humble
all our days; may we be guided by the spirit of
the Lord day by day. Sisters let us bring up our
children in the fear of God. Ask Him to give
you a portion of His holy spirit to guide you in
all things. Do not neglect these matters sisters.
See that you perform your duties humbly and
faithfully every one of you. If there is one
mother present here who does not teach and in-
struct her children properly, in such a way as the
Lord approves of, I plead with you to do so. Call
your children around you in the absence of the
father, and pray with them. Teach them how to
pray and the proper manner in which they should
do so, that your prayers and theirs may be heard
and answered with blessings upon your heads.
Warn the children of the evils that surround us.
Lift up your warning voice against temptations
now so prevalent in our midst that they may not
become a prey to these evils, but grow up in holi-
ness and in purity before the Lord.
	Encourage home productions of every kind.
Support our paper the WOMAN'S EXPONENT by
subscribing for it. This paper should be in the
family of every Latter-day Saint.
	Above all things may we so live as to have the
spirit of the Lord dwelling in us continually.
Let me say to you sisters be true helpmeets to
your husbands. Be one with them in all things
in righteousness. Let your desires be to make
home what it should be.
	When Joseph received his first vision he was
told that his name would be spoken of for good 
or for evil by all men; from that day to the pres-
ent time, this has been verified. We this day
with the saints of God everywhere, honor the
name because of his inegrity to God and the
principles of light and truth which he was the in-
strument of restoring to the earth for our salva-
tion, and that of the whole human family if they
will but accept of the glad message.
	May God grant that we may stand firm and
faithful to the truth, walking in humility and
purity before Him; may His blessing attend this
people throughout the world on this great and
grand occasion, and henceforth. You mothers
and daughters of Israel we greet you and ask
the blessings of our Heavenly Father upon you
and upon all His people on earth. These are the
desires of my heart and may God grant them is
my prayer for Jesus sake. Amen.
	Mrs. Zina Y. W. Card next read in a very clear
and distinct voice the Revelation given to Emma
Smith, through Joseph the Seer in Harmony,
Penn., July 1830, and published in the Book of
Doctrine and Covenants, wherein Sister Emma is
called an Elect Lady.
		APOSTLE ABRAHAM H. CANNON.
	I feel pleased, my brethren and sisters, at hav-
ing this opportunity of assembling with so worthy
an association as the Relief Society. It must be a
source of pleasure to our sisters to look back up-
on the work which has been accomplished since
the organization, by the Prophet Joseph, of this
Society, and it must fill the hearts of many Latter-
day Saints with joy and gratitude to think of the
stupendous work which the sisters, connected 
with these Associations, have done. The great
help they have been to the Church of Jesus Christ
we poor mortals cannot conceive. But we do
know of much that they have ccomplished in


[Column 1]

their mission. We know of many homes to which
they have carried comfort and blessing of various
kinds; in which they have provided food for the
hungry and clothed the naked, and have ad-
ministered relief to those who were sick and
afflicted, God has been with these sisters in their
ministrations. By the power of faith and detection
which has attended them,a great many marvelous
cures have been effected among the people
through their prayers and good works. It has
been a testimony to those who have witnessed
these things that the power of God is in the
Church, and is bestowed upon all those who seek
Him in faith and in humility.
	The work which has already been done by the
sisters and the great good accomplished will be al-
most forgotten in the magnitude of that which the
future will develop, for as the Church shall grow
and as the honest in heart from the nations of the
earth shall be gathered, the field for the exercise
of the talents of our sisters will be greatly en-
larged, far beyond that of which we can now form
a conception, God will put it into the hearts of
those who stand at the head of this institution to
organize reforms and adopt such measures as
shall be of greater benefit to our sisters and to
the brethren than in the past. Their hearts and
sympathies will become greater in the work of
God.
	Now, it seems to me, from the opportunities
offered our sisters, even in this day they can use
an influence and exercise their talents for great
good among this people.
	We speak of charity, of relief which should be
given the poor, but it is mistaken charity to give
to those who are able to earn their own living.
Such charity means the encouragement of idle-
ness among this people, who ought to be a nation
of workers, and become proficient and industrious
in the various occupations of life. Not only young
women, young men and middle aged men, but
our older sisters also should have some object in
life and work for its accomplishment. They
should not alone be taught to use their brains but
also their hands for the accumulation of the materi-
al things of life which are essential to our welfare.
	I remember when upon my mission to Germany
of visiting some of the Industrial Schools which
are there established for girls and young women.
They were taught therein the art of cooking and
other household duties. They received instruc-
tions in these things, and were made to under-
stand, to a certain extent at least, the duties
which would devolve upon them when they be-
came wives and mothers. In these schools they
were also taught to sew and to do all kinds of
fancy work to which women's hands should be
accustomed. Other institutions are in existence
for the good and benefit of the young. It is con-
sidered a disgrace by the people there for a young
woman to grow up in ingnorance of the things per-
taining to her life here upon the earth. But how
is it with us? Among us today we find there are
many growing up with an idea that it is a disgrace
to work. Some of our girls seem to think they
are gaining great advantages in acquiring the ac-
complishments which are to be had at schools or
at home as the case may be, where they receive
knowledge of these things, but they forget the
duties which will hereafter devolve upon them as
wives and mothers in Israel. All such are illy
preparing themselves for the great responsibilities
which the near future will devolve upon them.
	In my estimation it is the duty of our sisters,
who have had long experience to impress our
daughters with the necessity of acquiring those
things which will be a lasting benefit to them.
Teach them the use of their hands, in economy,
in the management ol those things intrusted to
their care, so that when they become wives they
may not be such as will cause disunion in the
household, neither cause a feeling of disappoint-
ment in the hearts of their husbands, but rather

[Column 2]

be fully capable of performing the duties of wives
and mothers, and feel that they have something
to live for in this life.
	Here is a field, unlimited, for the exercise of
the talent of our Relief Society as well as our
Church schools. They should draw into their
Associations every young woman they can find
and teach them to love their fellow creatures here
upon earth and administer to their wants. The
sisters are capable of entering into the feelings of
their sex; of sympathizing with them in their dis-
tress, and of providing for them the proper
necessities in time of need. They should feel
that they have a mission upon earth other than
that of appearing well in society and of shining
brilliantly, because some others do this.
	Brethren and sisters I feel that God is with our
sisters in their labors in these societies, I also
feel in my heart to ask Him to bless and prosper
them, and assist them to do their part in carrying
forward His great work in these latter days.
Amen.
	An historical sketch prepared by Secretary
Sarah M. Kimball, taken from the record
of the Relief Society was read by Dr. James E.
Talmage. The Tabernacle being such a very
large building it was thought wise that the read-
ing of written articles should be by young men
who could be heard in all parts of the house, al
though the sketches and addresses were written
by the ladies themselves.
		THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
	First organization of L. D. S. Relief Society,
and instructions given by President Joseph
Smith.
	By invitation of the President of the Church, a
number of sisters convened in the Masonic Lodge
room, on the 17th of March 1842, President
Joseph Smith, Elders John Taylor and Willard
Richards were present.
	President Smith stated that the meeting was
called for the purpose of making more complete
the organization of the Church, by organizing the
women in the order of the Priesthood.
	John Taylor was called to the chair and Willard
Richards acted as secretary. After singing and
prayer, a vote was taken to know if all were satis-
fied with each sister present, and willing to ac-
knowledge them in good fellowship and admit
them to all the privileges of the institution about
to be organized. All being satisfied, the names
of those present were taken as follows:—
	Emma Smith, Martha Knight, Elvira A. Cowles,
Sarah M. Cleveland, Phebe Ann Hawkes,
Margaret A. Cook, Desdemona Fulmer, Eliza-
beth Ann Whitney, Sarah M. Kimball, Elizabeth
Jones, Leonora Taylor, Eliza R. Snow, Sophia
Packard, Bathsheba W. Smith, Sophia Robinson,
Philinda Herrick, Phebe M. Wheeler, Sophia R.
Marks.
	Pres. Smith then explained some of the duties
that would devolve on members of the Society,
said they could provoke the brethren to good
works, look after the needs of the poor, and per-
form charitable acts. Women must assist in cor-
recting the morals and strengthening the virtues
of the community. Said it is now in order for
the sisters to elect a President to preside over
the Society and let her choose two counselors to
assist in the duties of her office. He would ordain
them, and let them preside just as the Presidency
presided over the Church, and if they needed his
instruction they could ask and he would be
pleased to give it from time to time, Let the
Presidency serve as a constitution and their decis-
ions become precedents for you act upon.
	If officers are wanted to carry out the designs
of the institution, let them be appointed and set
apart, as Teachers, Deacons &c., are among us.
	Elizabeth A. Whitney moved, and Sophia
Packard seconded the motion, that Emma Smith
be elected President of the Society, the vote was

[Column 3]

put by the chairman and pronounced unanimous.
The President Elect, made choice of Sarah M.
Cleveland and Elizabeth Ann Whitney as her
counselors.
	Eliza R. Snow was appointed Secretary and
Phebe M. Wheeler assistant Secretary and Elvira
A. Cowles Treasurer.
	Pres. Joseph Smith read the Revelation to
Emma Smith from the book of Doctrine and 
Covenants, and stated that she was ordained at
the time the Revelation was given, to expound
the Scriptures, to teach &c.
	He then read Scriptures to show that an elect
lady is one elected to preside. By request of
President Joseph Smith, Apostle John Taylor or-
dained Sarah M. Cleveland and Elizabeth Ann
Whitney, to be counselors to and assist President
Emma Smith in the duties of her office, and share
in the blessings pertaining thereto.
	He then confirmed on Emma Smith her former
ordination and blessed her to be a mother in
Israel, a pattern of virtue and to possess all the
qualifications necessary to enable her to preside
with dignity and give such instruction, as may be
requisite in her calling as an Elect Lady.
	Elder Taylor vacated the chair and Pres. Emma
Smith and counselors took the stand.
	A lengthy discussion followed on the question,
What shall this Society be called?" Mrs. Cleveland
and Whitney advocated the appropriateness of the
name Relief Society. John Taylor and Joseph
Smith spoke in favor of the word Benevolent,
Emma Smith and E. R. Snow argued in favor of
Mrs. Cleveland's choice. The gentlemen with-
drew their objection and a motion to adopt the
name Relief Society was unanimously carried.
	Pres. Joseph then said "I now declare this
Society organized with President and counselors.
All who shall hereafter be admitted must be free
from censure and admitted by vote. Pres. Joseph
Smith laid down a five dollar gold-piece to com-
mence a Relief Society fund and said "What I do
hereafter for charity, I shall do through this
society." Sarah M. Cleveland gave 12 1/2 cts. Sarah
M. Kimball, $1 00, Emma Smith, $1.00, Elizabeth
Ann Whitney, 50 cts. Willard Richards, $1.00,
John Taylor, $2.00.
	At the 3rd, meeting of the Society, March 30th.
President Joseph Smith said, the members of the
Society must act in concert, or nothing can be ac-
complished. To move according to the ancient
Priesthood this must be a select Society, separate
from the evils of the world.
	Sixth meeting April 28th. Pres. Joseph Smith
said he was present to speak upon the Priesthood,
as his instructions were intended only for mem-
bers of the Society, he wished those not members
to withdraw. After which he called attention to
the 12th chapter of Corinthians, "Now concerning
Spiritual Gifts &c," said the passage which reads,
"No man can say that Jesus is the Lord but by
the Holy Ghost should be translated no man can
know &c., continued the reading of the chapter, 
and gave instructions respecting the different
offices and the necessity of every individual, act-
ing in the place allotted to him or her, and filling
the office to which they were appointed.
	Spoke of the disposition of some to consider
the lower offices in the Church dishonorable and 
to look with jealous eyes on the position of others;
said it was the nonsense of the human heart, to
aspire to positions not appointed of God, that it
was better for individuals to magnify their respec-
tive callings and wait patiently till God shall say
to them "Come up higher," said it was talked by
members of the Society that some were not doing
right in laying hands on the sick. If they had
common sympathy, they would rejoice that the
sick could be healed. The time has not been be-
fore when these things could be in their proper
order. The Church is not now organized in its
proper order and cannot be until the temple is
completed. He referred to the commission given


[Column 1]
﻿to the ancient Apostles, "Go ye into all the world
&c.," no matter who believes these signs, such as
healing the sick, casting out devils, should follow
all theat believe, whether male or female.
	If the sisters have faith to heal the sick, let
them do so, and let the good work roll on.  It is
no sin for anybody to administer to the sick that
has faith, or if the sick have faith to be healed by
the administration.
	Reproved those that were disposed to find
fault, spoke at some length on the difficulties he
had had to surmount, ever since the organization
of the Church, on account of aspiring men, said
the same aspiring disposition will be in this
Society, and must be guarded against.
	As he had the opportunity he would instruct
the Society how to act according to the will of God.
He did not know that he should have many op-
portunities of teaching them, they were going to
be left to themselves, they would not long have 
him to instruct them, the Church would not have
his instruction long and the world would not be
troubled with him a great while, according to his
prayer God had appointed him elsewhere.  The 
congregation was melted to tears.
	He exhorted the sisters to sustain with their
confidence, their faith, and their prayers, those
whom God had appointed to lead.  Said the keys
are about to be given to you that you may be able
to detect anything false, as readily as the Elders.
If members of the Society become corrupt, you
must deal with them, the sympathies of the 
heads of the Church have induced them to bear
with those that were corrupt, in consequence of
which all become contaminated, you must put
down iniquity and by your good example provoke
the Elders to good works.
	If you do right, there is no danger of going too
fast, resist evil and there is no danger, neither
God, men, angels or devils can condemn those
that resist everything that is evil.  As well might
the devil seek to dethrone Jehovah, as that soul
that resists everything evil.  You are now placed
in a situation where you can act according to
those sympathies which God has planted in your
bosoms.  If you live in accord with your privi-
leges angels cannot be restrained from being your
associates.
	Women if they are pure and innocent can come
into the presence of God.  If we would come
into the presence of God we must be pure.  The
devil has great power, his ways are deceptive.
Do not be contentious, but let the weight of inno-
cence be felt, which is more mighty than a mill-
stone hung about the neck, meekness, love, purity
these are the things that should magnify us.
	Iniquity must be purged out, then the veil will
be rent and the blessings of heaven will flow
down.
	After this instruction you will be more re-
sponsible, it is an honor to save yourselves, all
are responsible for themselves.  Then read the
13th chapter of Cor., "Though I speak with the
tongue of men &c.." said do not be limited in
your views with regard to your neighbors’ virtues,
do not think yourselves more righteous than
others.  You must enlarge your souls towards
others. If you would do like Jesus and carry you
fellow creatures to Abraham's bosom, He had
manifested long suffering and we must do the
same.
	Said “Though one have the spirit of prophecy
&c.," though one should become mighty and do
great things, overturn mountains, and then
turn to do that which is evil, all former deeds
would not save them, but they would go to de-
struction.  As you increase in innocence, virtue
and goodness, let your hearts expand, let them
be enlarged towards others, you must be long-
suffering, and bear with the faults and errors of
mankind.  How precious the souls of men!  The
Society is to get instruction through the order
which God has established, through the medium of

[Column 2]
those appointed to lead, and I now turn the key
to you in the name of God, and this Society shall
rejoice and knowledge and intelligence shall flow
down from this time, this is the beginning of bet-
ter days for you.
	When you go home never give a cross word,
but let kindness, charity and love crown your
works.  Do not envy sinners, exercise mercy to-
wards them.
	Let your administrations be confined mostly 
to those around you.  As far as knowledge is con-
cerned, it may extend to all the world.  But your
administrations should be confined to the circle
of your acquaintance, and more especially to the
members of the Society.  Those ordained to lead
the Society are authorized to appoint officers as 
the circumstances shall require.
	If any have a matter to reveal, let it be in your
own tongue do not indulge too much in the gift of
tongues, or the devil will take advantage.
	You may speak in tongues for your comfort.
But I lay this down as a rule, that if anything is
taught by the gift of tongues, it is not to be re-
ceived for doctrine.
	Pres. Smith then gave instruction respecting
women administering to the sick by the laying on
of hands, said it was according to revelation, he
never was placed in similar circumstances, and
never had given the same instruction.
	At the ninth Relief Society meeting, May 26th,
the Prophet read the 14th chapter Ezekiel, and
said the Lord had declared by that prophet that the
people should each one stand for themselves and
depend on no man or men; in the state of corrup-
tion in the Jewish Church, that righteous persons
could only deliver their own souls. Applied it to
the present condition of the Church of Latter-day
Saints.  If the people depart from the Lord, they
must fall, they were depending on the Prophet,
hence there was darkness in their minds.
	He had two things to recommend to the Society.
Be guarded in your speech, no organized body can
exist without giving heed to this caution.  All or-
ganized bodies have their peculiar evils, weak-
nesses and difficulties, the object is to make those
not so good equal with the good, and ever hold
the keys of power which will influence to virtue 
and goodness.
	When you chasten and reprove, never mention
it again, then you will be established in power,
virtue and holiness and the wrath of God will be
turned away.  God designs to save the people
out of their sins.  Jesus said "Ye shall do the
works which we see me do," these are the grand
key-words for the Society to act upon.
	The tenth meeting was addressed by Bishop N.
K. Whitney, Pres. Joseph Smith being present.
	Eleventh meeting June 9th.  Pres.  J.  Smith,
"It grieves me that there is no fuller fellowship,
if one member suffers all feel it, by union of feel-
ing we obtain power with God, Christ said he
can to call sinners to repentance and to save
them, Christ was condemned by the righteous
Jews because he took sinners in to his society, he
took them upon the principle that they repent.
Nothing is so much calculated to lead people to
forsake sin, as to take them by the hand and
watch over them with tenderness.  The nearer
we get to our Heavenly Father, the more we are
disposed to look with compassion on perishing
souls.  I say to this society if you would have
God have mercy on you, have mercy on each
other.  How mild the Savior dealt with Peter
saying,- “When thou are converted, strengthen
thy brethren,” at another time he said to him,
“Lovest thou me? Feed my sheep.” The Society
is not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls.
	Sixteenth meeting held in the Grove August
31st, 1842.  After relating recent difficulties he
had encountered while being hunted by his
enemies, he said the Relief Society has taken an
active part in my welfare, in petitioning the
Governor in my behalf.  These measures were

[Column 3]
necessary, and your influence helped to bring
about my redemption from the hands of my ene-
mies. I have come here to bless you.  The
Society has done well, their principles are to
practice holiness.  God loves you and your
prayers shall avail much do not cease to let them
ascend to God in my behalf.  The enemy will
never get weary.  I expect he will array every-
thing against me, expect he will array every-
thing against me, expect a tremendous warfare.
He that will war the Christian warfare will have
the angels and all the powers of darkness con-
tinually arrayed against him.
	A few things had been manifested to him dur-
ing his absence, respecting baptism for the dead
which he would communicate next Sabbeth i
nothing should occur to prevent it.  He then
offered a fervent prayer to God in behalf of the
Society.  After the transaction of some business
in the adjustment of which Pres.  Smith offered
counsel.  Said he had one more remark to make
respecting baptism for the dead, which must
suffice for the present and until he had the oppor-
tunity to present the subject at a greater length.
	All persons baptized for the dead must have a
recorder present, that he may be a eye-witness
to testify of it.  It will be necessary in the Great
Council that these things be testified of.  It
should be attended to from this time.  if there
is any lack it may be at the expense of our
friends.  This was the last R. S. meeting that
Pres. Joseph Smith attended.
	During the two years administration of Pres.
Emma Smith and her associates, visiting sisters
were appointed to search out the needy, to find
work for the able-bodied to receive contributions
and to report conditions.
	The labors of the Society were extended to the
four wards of the city.
	1275 names were enrolled as members.  The
recorded receipts were $415.24.
	An appropriate song composed expressly for
the Jubilee by Emily H.Woodmansee, was beau-
tifully rendered by the choir,
	"O blest was the day when the Prophet and Seer."
PRAYER OF PRES. JOS. F. SMITH, DELIVERED AT
	HIGH NOON, MARCH 15, 1892.
[Preliminary Remarks]
	I am sorry to announce that in consequence of
President Woodruff having a severe cold, he did
not feel able to attend this meeting and therefore 
desires to be excused.  He also desires that
the people would remember him in their prayer;
	Agreeable to the with of the Presidency of the
Relief Society we will unite in prayer.  I hope
that all the people who are assembled here will
lift up their hearts unto God, according to their
desires, for blessings upon the Relief Society
throughout all the world, and upon the Church
and those who have been called to preside, and
to labor for the promulgation of the principles
of truth.  We will now unite in prayer.
	O God, the Eternal Father, in the name of 
Jesus Christ thy Son, and in humility before thee
we thy people have assembled here, on this in-
teresting occasion, we desire to lift up our hearts
in prayer and in supplication unto thee, and we de-
sire, Heavenly Father, to draw near unto thee, in
spirit and in truth, in humility and in faith, and
we pray that thou wilt hear and answer our
supplications.  We are grateful unto thee O God,
the Eternal Father, that we are permitted to cele-
brate the 50th anniversary of the establishment
upon earth of this organization, which is called
the Relief Society; and we humbly pray thee
that in our hearts this day, we may feel that
gratitude which is due to thee, that we have
been permitted to pass through a half century,
in comparative peace, that we have been pre-
served by thy powerful arm, from the hands of
wicked men, and from those  who have sought
our destruction and overthrow.  We thank thee


[Column 1]
﻿Heavenly Father that we are permitted to meet
unmolested from the powers of evil and from
mobs, and from such things as were experienced
in the early days of this Church. We thank
thee that thou hast planted us safely and firmly
in these fertile valleys, and that thou hast given
us the rich bounties of the earth, and the fatness
of the soil for our good, our comfort, our pros-
perity and our happiness. While we have been
surrounded by influences which were not calcu-
lated to lead our children in the paths of
righteousness and truth, Thou hast preserved
us from the designs of the destroyer, and from
the powers of darkness. Thou hast given 
unto us a degree of light which has made our
hearts to rejoice and helped us to serve thee. 
Thou hast given us those blessings we have asked
for in righteousness, and power to overcome
many of our weaknesses. Thou hast given us
a desire to establish righteousness in the midst
of the people. Thou hast given us a desire to
establish thy Church in the earth, and to seek
righteousness. We pray that these desires may
continue from this time onward. That we may
live with an eye single to thy glory and labor to
establish thy work on earth, and bring to pass
thy purposes. Wilt thou look down upon us with
much mercy. We invoke thy blessing at this time
upon the aged mothers of the Relief Society.
Many have passed away and those that remain
who witnessed the establishment of that society
by thy servant Joseph Smith, are few, aged, and 
feeble. Wilt thou continue thy mercies unto them
and preserve their lives. Let thy spirit fill their
hearts with joy and peace. Sanctify unto them every
dispensation of thy providence, cause that their
hearts may rejoice in thee and their faith be
strengthened in thy promises.  May thy word
never fail. We pray thee from this time forth
to preserve thy saints, and these aged mothers
until they are satisfied with life. Wilt thou bless
all those who are associated with them through-
out the length and breadth of the land. Bless the
Presidents,Counselors and members of the Relief
Society throughout the earth, in Zion and in
foreign lands, upon the islands of the sea,
and  wherever they are met together this
day to celebrate this 50th anniversary. Wilt
thou be with them by thy spirit to bless
them, to cause their hearts to rejoice before thee. 
We ask thee to bless the mothers of Israel,and to
bless their daughters and bless thy servants and
all thy people. We would remember thine
aged servant President Woodruff, who is bsent
from us on this occasion.  Wilt thou cause that
he may be restored to perfect health and strength.
Continue the vigor of all his faculties; strengthen
him in body and mind, and wilt thou make known
unto him thy mind and thy will that he may be thy
mouth-piece unto thy people and be a father in
very deed unto thy Saints; wilt thou bless also
with him his counselors and the quorum of the
twelve apostles. Cause that the Presidency of thy
Church and the twelve apostles shall be one in
heart, one in spirit, one in purpose, one in their
views for the building up of Zion and the bringing
to pass of thy purposes. May thy servants and
handmaidens be devoted to the establishment of
thy Church in righteousness upon the earth.
O God, bless thy people with those mercies that
they desire in righteousness. Sustain thy servants
and people and preserve them from difficulties and 
the evils that surround them. May thy spirit
direct them and thy power attend them in all they
do. May they dedicate their lives unto thee and
increase in knowledge.  Grant every desire
in righteousness unto thy people.  Heal the
sick, comfort those that mourn; look down in
much mercy upon thy people.  Have mercy upon
the erring ones, call them from the error of their
ways and bring them to a knowledge of thy truth
that they may devote their lives unto thee. Help
us to acknowledge thee in all things.  Unite thy

[Column 2]
people. Bless the elements that surround us; and
the soil, that it may be fertile. Bless thy people
in their incoming and out-going. Grant,O Heavenly
Father, that thy servants whom thou hast chosen
to direct thy work may continue steadfast and
faithful. Bless thou thy handmaidens who have
assembled to commemorate this anniversary.
May we understand thy will and keep thy com-
mandments. Bless all thy people and the honor-
able of the earth everywhere. Fill their hearts with
thy peace. Give unto us such things as we most
need for we desire only such things as shall bring
to pass thy purposes upon the earth.  We humbly
ask all these blessings in the name of Jesus
Christ.  Amen.
		PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH.
   Following is a synopsis of his remarks:
	“This Relief Society, he said, has always had
the hearty endorsement and the approval of the
First Presidency since its first organization fifty 
years ago. It had occurred to the speaker that it
would be an excellent thing to erect a building or
buildings, as the case might be, where there could
be a hall for the Society to meet, and which
would be in a measure self-sustaining. He did
not know whether this matter had been con-
sidered yet.  It had already been stated that the
Prophet Joseph Smith had presented the Society
with a building lot, and he did not see why the
plan of building could not yet be carried out.  It
appeared to him to be an easy matter.
	“With regard to the gift of tongues,the speaker
said, it was one very much liable to mislead. The
adversary can easily take advantage of it.  How-
ever, where the Spirit of the Lord directs it, it is
a good thing.  Sometimes, however, persons
speak under the influence of a wrong spirit.
	“In relation to laying on of hands by sisters, the 
speaker said it is a proper thing for mothers, who
have received their blessings in the house of God
to pray for their sick and to rebuke diseases.  It
is just as much the right of the mother as of the
father, although he, holding the Priesthood, can
do it by virtue of this, as well as in the name of
the Lord. The women are not especially called
upon to visit from house to house to administer to
the sick, but they can do so properly, if called
upon.
	“The speaker was thankful for the opportunity
of meeting with the Saints, and wished that the
Lord might bless the work. He exhorted all to
live their religion and do their duties faithfully.
	AFTER THE DAYS OF NAUVOO.
			By E. B. Wells.
		Read by Apostle A. H. Cannon.
   When the Saints left Nauvoo and during
their journeyings, the Relief Society meetings
were necessarily discontinued, though the
sisters never lost sight of the institution, nor
the promises made to them by Pres. Jos.
Smith, but continued their benevolent work
wherever and whenever an opportunity
presented itself; they were always ready with
willing hands and tender sympathies to
perform deeds of love and charity, and many
were in need of such kindly acts for those were
the days of toil, and of suffering, of scarcity
and of hardship.
   Among the foremost heroines of that event-
ful time should be indelibly engraven the
names of Vilate Kimball, Mary Ann Young
and Elizabeth Ann Whitney, these Mothers
in Israel with kindly deeds and loving words,
inspired many a fainting heart with faith and
courage, and ministered temporal and spiritual
blessings, to hundreds of the daughters of
Zion, whose paths were not strewn with roses,
but were full of thorns and fiery trials.
There were few gifts to bestow, but many
lessons of patience and resignation to be
learned in the school of experience.
   Early in the settlement of the valley in
1851 and in 1852 the sisters had temporary

[Column 3]
societies in several wards and surrounding
places, and though all were comparatively
poor, yet they helped those in greater need,
and fed and clothed the wandering Indians,
whom we have ever thus tried to conciliate.
In 1855 when in a more settled condition Pres.
Young called upon the Bishops to organize a
Relief Society in each ward, and gave Sister
Eliza R. Snow a mission to assist them in
organizing and to take with her Sister Zina D.
Young as her Counselor. Of some of these
branches we have no record, but Bishop
Abraham Hoagland of the 14th Ward in this
City, organized a Relief Society Sept. 14,
1856 and appointed Sister Phebe W. Wood-
ruff President; and she chose Sister M. I.
Horne,  and Southworth her Counselors. 
About that time Bishop N. V. Jones also
organized the 15th, ward and chose Sister
Lydia Granger President, the 9th ward was
organized with Sister Taft President etc.,
other wards followed—but Johnson’s army
coming here, and the move South, which
occurred in 1858—interrupted the regularity
of the work of the Society and it was not until
after the return of the people to their homes,
and when order was again restored that the
Sooiety was perfectly organized; to bring
about these organizations throughout the
several Stakes of Zion Sister Eliza R. Snow,
Sister Zina D. Young and other sisters
associated with them, traveled and labored
assiduously in all kinds of weather, and in all
sorts of conveyances to assist in making a
permanent success of this institution for the
women of Zion.
	One or two important events bearing upon
woman’s work transpired during these years
that should be mentioned in this connection. 
The enfranchisement of the women of Utah—
which occurred in February 1870—the bill
passed the Territorial Legislature and was
signed by acting Gov. Mann, on the 7th of
Feb. two days later the City election took
place and the first ballot cast by women here
was for Mayor of the City. In June 1872 a
Woman’s paper was issued for the first time
in the Rocky mountain region. the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT.
   In October 1876—Pres. Young called upon
the Sisters to store up grain against a day of 
famine, and in accordance with that call, fifty
thousand bushels of wheat have been deposited
in bins and granaries mostly owned by the 
Relief Society. Undoubtedly this is the first
instance in the annals of history of women 
laying up stores of wheat.
   To enumerate all that has been done by the
Relief Society would take up too much valuable
time; but the works have been those of love
and charity and performed in the spirit of
meekness and humility.
	CENTRAL ORGANIZATION IN UTAH.
			By Sarah M. Kimball.
		Read by Apostle A. H. Cannon.
   A called meeting for the election of the
Relief Society Officers was held in the
Assembly Hall, Salt Lake City, June 19th,
 1880. Pres. John Taylor, Sec. John Nuttal.
and Stake Pres. Angus M. Cannon on the
stand. On motion Eliza R. Snow was elected
to preside over all the branches of the Relief
Society in Zion.  Zina D. Young and
Elizabeth Ann Whitney were elected
Counselors, Sarah M. Kimball Sec. and M.
Isabelle Horne Treas. (Sec. John Nuttal
by Pres. Taylor’s request read from the Book
of the Law of the Lord.)
   July 17th Pres. John Taylor met with the
Relief Society in the 14th Ward Hall, gave
instructions and ordained the President,
Counselors and Secretary to their various
positions.
	July, 24th, 1880, the Relief Society took an
active part in the grand celebration of Pion ee


[Column 1]

Day in the fiftieth year of the organization of
the Church. Representatives of the Society
occupied ten carriages, the first carriage carry-
ing an elegant white silk banner with appro-
priate inscriptions.
	Feb. 1880 the Relief Society Secretary was
notified that she was expected to furnish a
general semi-annual stastistical and financial
report of the Relief Society at the President's
Office ten days prior to the 6th of Apr. and
Oct. The first general report is dated March
15th, 1881. It cembined the reports of
sixteen stakes, and gave a membership of
12,288, disbursments for six months $3,468,31.
Elizabeth Ann Whitney Counselor to Eliza
R. Snow departed this life Feb. 15th, 1882
her honored name crowned with the blessing
of Saints.
	In June 1882 the Deseret Hospital was
established with Eliza R. Snow Pres. of the
board of directors. Sept. 1882 Romania B.
Pratt was appointed Assistant Secretary.
	Jan. 21st, 1884 a grand ovation was given
in the Social Hall, in honor of the eightieth
anniversary of the birth day of Eliza R.
Snow.
	Apr. 1885 Annual Conference held at
Logan Cache Co. Utah, Relief Society report
included twenty-two stakes. Total number
of members 16,358.
	Last general Relief Society report (Oct.
1887) during the administration of Eliza R.
Snow, members 17,002, branches 302 disburs-
ments to charity for 6 months $7,689,80.
	Sister Snow in company with her brother
Lorenzo Snow and others, made an extended
European tour in 1872 and 3 visited Jerusalem
and compiled her interesting book "Cor-
respondence of Palestine Tourists." Her
Poems and other writings are much valued.
	She traveled extensively in the various
Stakes of Zion always in the capacity of an
instructor, was everywhere received as a
loving friend and a wise counselor. As an
organizer she was unexcelled. Our beloved
Sister and President closed her mortal eyes in
the Lion House, Salt Lake City, Utah, Dec.
5th, 1887 aged eighty-three years. Her
comparatively long life was eventful beyond
that of most women. This Jubilee day
March 17th, 1892, the name of Eliza R.
Snow will be reverently spoken in various
Relief Society branches and in many lands.
	Apostle John Henry Smith then read the
paper of Mrs. B. W. Smith, and A. H. Cannon
read the article of Mrs. M. I. Horne, both of
which will be found in another part of the
paper.

SENTIMENTS.
E. B. Wells.
Read by Apostle A. H. Cannon.
	The Relief Society celebrate to-day a
Jubilee that reaches around the world. Never
before that there is any record of has a
woman's Jubilee spread over such an extent
of country. Throughout all the wards and
settlements, in all the Stakes of Zion is this
momentous event being commemorated by 
meeting and rejoicing together in praise and
thanksgiving to God. And not only here but
in other parts of the United States, North and
South, in Canada and Mexico, on the Sandwich
and Samoan Islands and New Zealand, in
Great Britain, in Holland and the countries of
Scandinavia, in Switzerland and Germany,
in Asia Minor, Australia and Tasmania.
What does this woman's Jubilee signify? not
only that fifty years ago this organization was
founded by a Prophet of God, but that woman
is becoming emancipated from error and
superstition and darkness. That light has
come into the world, and the Gospel has made
her free, that the key of knowledge has been
turned, and she has drank inspiration at the
divine fountain.

[Column 2]

All  humanity proclaims this the woman's
era. Everything important tends to emphasize
the fact; the spirit of woman's future destiny
rests upon the sisters, and they obey the
impulses of the times in which they live! the
voice of the hour! the fulfillment of prophecy!
They repeat the hallelujah of woman's
redemption; that has been echoed down
the ages. The women of Zion in every
land lift up their voices to-day in glad
Hosannas for the deliverance that has been
wrought out for them, and the blessings that
have come through this great and grand
organization established fifty years ago, and
by means of which so much good has been
accomplished, not  only in works of charity
and blessing, but in the development of the
higher attributes of the human soul, that tend
to purify, exalt and uplift the world. And
while we celebrate this day of days let us
cherish in sacred remembrance the memory of
those who are not with us, but have gone on
before; and especially should we all remember
the three noble pioneer women, who im-
mortalized their names, and reflected honor
upon all their sex, by their undaunted courage
in traversing the unknown desert plains with
the first pioneers to this valley. Let the
names of Clara Decker Young, Ellen Sanders
Kimball, and Harriet Page Young be handed
down to posterity, as the foremost Pilgrim
mothers in pioneering Westward of the Rocky
Mountains, and remember it was their fidelity
to the truth, that gave them the faith and forti-
tude to endure. And after to-day what new
awakening shall come to us who are still in the
field of woman's work? The refreshing remi-
niscences and rememberances of the past should
inspire us with renewed zeal and courage for
the future; and with a more divine consecration
of our labors to the help of all humanity.
	The choir then rendered in full voice and
strength the celebrated English anthem
"Daughter of Zion Awake from thy Sadness."
	This grand anniversary Jubilee exercises
were closed with a solemn benediction of
thanksgiving to God by Apostle John Henry
Smith.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

       The fourth April Conference of the Relief
Society will be held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall in this City on Tuesday evening April 5,
1892, commencing at seven o’clock. It is very
desirable that there should be representatives
from each Stake of Zion, as some business of
importance is to be presented to the sisters.
On account of the greatness of the occasion of
this General Conference of the Church and the
multiplicity of business the Relief Society will
have but one meeting, and therefore a
prompt attendance is essential. All members
of the Relief Society and all interested in this
labor of love are cordially invited.
	ZINA D. H. YOUNG,
	President.
	JANE S. RICHARDS,
	BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
	Counselors.


Christianty commands us to pass by injuries;
policy, to let them pass by us. 
          Passionate reproofs are like medicines given
scalding hot; the patient cannot take them.
If we wish to do good to those we rebuke we
should labor for meekness an[-] wisdomand use
soft words for hard arguments.—Dodd.


[Column 1]
MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D. 
OFFICE.—324, 325 Third Floor, Constitution Building
H URS—10 a. m., to 4. 8 to 6 p. m

[Column 2]
THE WOMAN’S TRIBUNE,
Edited and published weekly at Washington,
	D. C., by CLARA BEWICK COLBY.
Price, $1.00 a year.  Trial Subscriptions, five
weeks for 10 cents.
The Woman’s Journal, of Boston, and the Woman's Tri-
	bune, of Washington, D. C., will be sent to one ad-
	dress for $3.00 per year.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
	Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
	ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS 
	AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
	POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmedt
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But-
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 63 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET, 
Three doors west of Theatre.

R.K.THOMAS
26, 28 ,30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
 SALT LAKE CITY. 
The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K.THOMAS

[Rio Grande Logo]
THE
Standard Gauge
RAILWAY
THROUGH THE.
ROCKY MOUNTAINS!
Choice of Three Distinct Routes, 
AND THE
MOST MAGNIFICENT RAILROAD SCENERY
IN THE WORLD.
Two Fast Express Trains Daily
EACH WAY BETWEEN
OGDEN, SALT LAKE AND DENVER.
ELEGANT RECLINING CHAIR CARS!
Free of Charge.
Direct Connections made in Union Depots.
THE MOST THOROUGHLY EQUIPPED RAILWAY
IN THE WEST.
D. O. DODGE, A. E.WELBY, J.H. BENNETT,
Genl. Mgr. Supt. G. F. & P. A.

DAVID JAMES & CO. 
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFTand FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
DAVID JAMES. Box 906. SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations. 

VOL. 20 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 15,1892. No. 19.


CONTENTS.
	Jubilee Conference Lesson—S. W. Richards.
In Rural England—A Story. A Question of
Evolution—W. M. Bicknell. Thoughts on Wo-
man—E. H. L. Educate Woman—May Brown.
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. and P. A. Reports. W. S.
A. Reports. Birthday Parties—Persis S. Richards
—Rachel Whipple. Julia A. Allred. Apprecia-
tion—Nellie Little. World’s Fair Notes. Notes
and News. Women’s News—Almy Alden.
	EDITORIAL:—Conference and Capstone Cere-
monies. Editorial Notes. Relief Society Notes
—S M. Kimball. Benefits of the Club—M. A.
Freeze.
	POETRY:—The Singing in God’s-Acre—Eu-
gene Field. A Song for a Man—E. Hough.


THE SINGING IN GOD’S-ACRE.

BY EUGENE FIELD.

Out yonder in the moonlight, wherein God’s-Acre lies.
Go angels walking to and fro, singing their lullabies;
Their radiant wings are folded and their eyes are, bended
	low,
As they sing among the beds whereon the flowers delight
	to grow:
	“Sleep, oh, sleep!
	The Shepherd guardeth His sheep!
Fast speedeth the night away,
Soon cometh the glorious day;
	Sleep, weary ones, while ye may—.
Sleep, oh, sleep!"
The flowers within God's-Acre see that fair and wondrous
	sight,
And hear the angels singing to the sleepers through the
	night;
And, lo! throughout the hours of day those gentle flowers
	prolong
The music of the angels in that tender slumber-song:
	"Sleep, oh, sleep!
	The Shepherd loveth His sheep!
He that guardeth His flock the best
Hath folded them to His loving breast-
So, sleep ye now and take your rest—
	Sleep, oh, sleep!”
From angel and from flower the years have, learned that
	soothing song.
And with its heavenly music speed the days and nights
	along;
So, through all time, whose flight the Shepherd’s vigils
	glorify,
God’s-Acre slumbereth in the grace of that sweet lullaby:
	"Sleep, oh, sleep!
The Shepherd loveth His sheep!
Fast speedeth the night away,
Soon cometh the glorious day; 
Sleep, weary ones, while ye may—
	Sleep, oh, sleep!”


[Column 1]
JUBILEE CONFERENCE LESSON.

S. W. RICHARDS.

	The late Jubilee Conference of the sisters
“Relief Society,” held in all the Stakes of Zion,
in commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary
of its organization possessed many of those at-
tractive features which only the ladies can im-
part to such occasions, and by their zealous ef-
forts make truly interesting to all participants.

[Column 2]
	Never before have the labors of that Society
been presented to the public, in such an ap-
preciative manner, and awakened such a lively
interest as has since prevailed.
	Not only the magnitude of the labor done,
but the character of those labors, prompted as
they have been by the purest love, by kindness
and charity, such as only the female heart
under the influence of heavenly inspiration can
feel the importance of, excites the admiration
of every one in the least susceptible of divine
impulses; such as are only prompted by love of
God for fellow man.
	The introduction of the teachings of the
Prophet Joseph relating to that organization,
was a very interesting feature to all who were
favored with them; and it is possible a few of
the most important items might be more easily
remembered by isolating them from the gener-
al instructions such as the following;—
	“Women must assist in correcting the morals,
and strengthening the virtues of the com-
munity.”
	“Must be a select society, separate from the
evils of the world.”
	“The organization of the church more com- 
plete by organizing the women in the order of
the Priesthood.” 
	“Officers, if wanted, to be appointed and set
apart as Teachers, Deacons,&, among us.”
	“The Society is not only to relieve the poor
but to save souls.”
	“Women, if pure and innocent, can come
into the presence of God. Angels cannot be
restrained from being your associates.”
	Each of these quotations are a text a state-
ment of facts, sufficient for a sermon worthy the
eloquence and favor of divine inspiration. By
them, the present accepted field of woman’s
labor in the family is extended to the com-
munity. By them we learn that as woman is
the counterpart of man in all that is essential
to the perpetuity and welfare of the race, so is
the organization of this society in the church,
the counterpart to the Priesthood organization;
and as necessary to the completeness of that
organization, as woman was to man in his
creation. We are also informed that it is
woman’s legitimate sphere to labor for the sal-
vation of the souls of men, as well as to ad-
minister to the temporal wants, the necessities
and comfort of his person.
	As the increasing family demands the con-
stant care, and untiring physical and mental
efforts of the mother, while performing her
many duties to the needy and helpless circle
of her home, so the ever increasing family
of God’s children who coming from afar to
their Zion-home, may by this helpful organ-
zation receive the nurture and kindly admin-
stration so necessary to their growth and de-
velopment, and which these loving hearts and
generous hands are ever ready to impart to
those who are as comparatively helpless and
needy in their new-found-home, as the babe in
the home of its parents.
	The food that satisfies the hungry; the
garments that clothe the naked; the word of
consolation that comforts the afflicted; the
testimony that strengthens the faith of the
weak; the assurance that makes hope the
anchor of the soul, and those innumerable
kindly acts of charity that bespeak the love of
God, are all appropriate to, and come within
the sphere of woman’s love and duty.
	An appreciation of woman’s character and

[Column 3]
position was well expressed by the Poet who
asserts, that:-
	“ Heaven when it had created man,-
	Unfinished found creation’s plan, 
	Though men and angels were akin, 
	A chasm still appeared between, 
	Nor would the links together meet, 
	Till WOMAN made the chain complete."
	Indeed , it is through her, both by teaching
and by the sacred virtues embodied in her love,
that the love of God comes to man.
	Her love, in the kindly administrations con-
templated in this society organization, answers
to the feminine element of the world, as truly
as the stern demands of duty and obligation do
to the Masculine Forces associated with the
authority of priesthood, and is as necessary to
a perfect government, as woman was to man
when it was “not good for man to be alone.”
	These two blended together in the harmony
of their appointments, offer to the race of man
all that humanity can desire, the goal of hu-
man happiness, all that christianity can
impart.
	These lessons so forcibly impressed by the
Prophet, teach us that women should be
organized in their labors. That their organ-
zation makes that of the priesthood more
complete, consequently, is not perfect without 
them. That the society is not only to relieve
the poor, as a leading consideration, but must
assist in correcting morals, strengthening
virtue, and in saving souls. That woman’s
work is one that requires a living faith,
abounding with good works in the midst of the
community. A faith that will not only heal
the sick by prayer, but cleanse from those mor-
al diseases that afflict humanity, and be to man
what angels may be to them, ministers of peace,
light and love.
	This condition reached, it may well be said
that angels cannot be restrained from associat-
ing with women thus pure and innocent, nor
they from coming into the presence of God.


IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XI.
	It was a strange gathering in the great
drawing room at the old Castle on that event-
ful day when the will of Sir Edward Hilliard
was read. Miss Conway and Lady Anna had
talked much together and had so far as
possible prepared themselves for the trying
ordeal. The cousin who had not been expect-
ing a fortune or in fact even a legacy was per-
haps the most deeply thankful of the two, for
her mind grasped the subject in all its bearings
and dwelt upon the probable results, while the
daughter trusted all to those in charge and
only longed to have it all over. Business in
detail she had no conception of and she was so
intensely in love that all other things were
secondary. She listened patiently enough
when her cousin explained how important all
these affairs were, but she comprehended very
little of the matter. How easy it might have
been to deceive Lady Anna, Miss Conway
quite understood.
	Sir Edward's solicitor had everything ar-
ranged in strict accordance with law and the
sense of decorum so apparent in the legal
affairs of the English aristocracy, he was care-
ful in the most minute particular, and it was
almost painful to Miss Conway to be compelled


[Column 1]

to hear beforehand how each one of those far-
off relatives must be seated, and what defer-
ence must be paid to them, whereas she knew
they had only come in expectation of a share
in the estate which in her opinion rightfully
belonged to Lady Anna alone.
	On a damp, drizzly evening in February the
time set for the assembling of all the relatives
of the late deceased Baronet, the family were
seated in the long, low, old-style drawing-room
and solemn and grave was the expression of
each one, as though some sudden revelatiou
was to be made.
	The will was read—the executors named
therein were present and all was silent except
the sobs of the pale, fair girl whose father had
spoken of her as not yet of age, and left her
under the care and guardianship of a man she
had never known. She was stunned and be-
wildered, could not take in the situation, she
had fancied herself free except as her cousin
might advise and now she was utterly at a loss
to know what her obligations were.
	The whole company seemed under a spell,
everything proved so decidedly different to
what had been surmised beforehand. Mr.
Burke and Dr. Bland were the only ones who
seemed composed and equal to the situation.
	One looked at the other as though anxious to
know what the next movement of the play was
to be and as if it were not possible the act was
over, and yet all was silent—finally there was
a signal for rising and a servant announced
"dinner," and Mr. Burke lead the way with
Lady Anna to the dining hall, the Dr. took
Miss Conway, but waited for the guests who
were visiting there to precede them. Aunt
Judith leaned upon a cousin of her's who was
also distantly related to the Baronet, a man
of few words, whose views were strictly in ac-
cord with those of "Cousin Judith's," a thin,
angular sort of a person with weak eyes and
weaker intellect, Mr. Andrews, he had come
simply as a friend not expecting a penny,so he
had stated to Lady Anna distinctly, then fol-
lowed Mrs. Matilda Brookland and her hus-
band a country 'squire from Devonshire, and
her two daughters, Hannah and Susannah with
three half-grown boys, and one or two odd
cousins rather gentlemanly men from a dis-
tance of whose existence until their arrival
neither the family solicitor or the Dr. had
ever heard. This completed the group, and
Miss Conway not been in so serious a mood she
would have laughed outright as they filed in
and were seated at the table where a sumptuous
repast was waiting. They were all in the
deepest mourning garments, and their doleful
faces corresponded with their sombre wearing
apparel.
	A strange party they made indeed, and a
silent one too, there was little in common to be
shared except the Baronet's money and that
was sadly misappropriated according to their
ideas, better understood than expressed evi-
dently from the silence. Gradually the dinner
made them talkative as it generally does and
one and then another gave an opinion to the
next neighbor at table; they spoke low how-
ever, and seemed waiting for an opinion with
which to coincide.
	Finally Squire Brookland the brother in
law clearing his throat and raising his voice
so as to be heard by all present, addressing
himself to his wife said, "I say Matilda your
brother Edward had more money than appear-
ances indicate, but what a miserly life he's
been living all these years in this old place,
and now what'll come of it all, it'll be
swallowed up in lawsuits, aud precious little
good will come of it, not so shrewd a man by
half as I took him for, though it was very little
I ever knew about him anyway," and as he was
about finishing the remark, the cousin of aunt
Judith, Mr. Andrews, in a thin weak voice put
in "I say Squire I don't see why you should

[Column 2]

speak disrespectfully of Sir Edward he's given
your wife a good penny, and here's cousin
Judith his own aunt, who needs help, in her
declining years only a paltry thousand,and his
cousins a bare pittance, and all that lot to some
fine fellow nobody knows who,—what's the
name? I can't remember and who is he any-
how?" That was what they all wanted to know,
and that was the mastery. Neither the lawyer
or the Doctor ventured a word on the subject
and the conversation turned upon the weather
and other topics, and finally the ladies rose
and left the room.
	After the ladies left the table Squire Brook-
land made bold to speak, he had been imbib-
ing some of his relative's old wine, and was
particularly loquacious, he addressed himself
to Burke the family solicitor who had only
condescended to reply to any question by yes
and no.
	"Mr. Burke would you mind telling us who
this stranger is to whom the Baronet has left so
much money, and who is hereafter to take the
name Hilliard, and live in England? Is he a
distant relation or the son of some old friend?"
	"Don't know, never inquired into the matter,
didn't think it was a part of my business."
That was all the answer, and soon after the
gentlemen left the dining hall, and Mr.
Burke announced to the Dr. his intention of
going up to London immediately. The two
withdrew into the Baronet's library, or rather
his "den or smoking room," it was not much of
a library, for he seldom read anything except
sporting news, and there they had a long con-
ference together. "Its going to make a terrible
stir this affair of leaving so much money to
that foreign woman's son,and how his daughter
will take it when she comes to know all I am at
a loss to understand" said Burke in his quiet
way, but so it is and so it must be."
	"We are in no way answerable" the Dr. re-
plied, "and it is no doubt right,a reparation to
be made, to one unjustly treated in his life-
time—the woman who should have been his
wife, and mistress here; what surprises me
most is that he never told his niece, she's a
most sensible young woman."
	"Perhaps he has;" suggested Burke, "she
may be in the secret, but she seems unapproach-
able, however it does not matter, Lady Anna
is the only consideration, her claim to the name
is indisputable, and she may object to this in-
terloper bearing the name, it would be strange
if she were to acquiesce quietly."
	"Better that than have the case go into the
Courts, and a public scandal, and you ought
to tell her so Burke." "But if she don't
speak how are we to know, she looked like a
statue today, pale and cold, yet you say her
color mounted high when she heard that name,
she had never heard of his existence then I'm
quite sure. And Miss Conway I did not
venture to look at. Its a queer affair altogether
a man of the world like Sir Edward who never
seemed to have any love for his own child, born
in lawful wedlock, to leave all that money and
heritage to one unheard of, he must have had
some affection for this woman, or a strong sense
of justice, or a tenderer conscience than most
men."
	And so the two men talked on, the Dr. never
betraying in the least his love for Miss Conway
but he wished in his inmost heart she had not
been left so independent in the will, yet he
felt it was right, but as he was guardian of
Miss Hilliard, and her cousin was to have
charge of her until she was of age, his oppor-
tunities would be favorable to his suit. All
this he recognized and it reconciled him in a
way, and still he was anxious now that he had
declared himself to Miss C.— to have a promise
and in fact to make her his wife. It was quite
in keeping with the man, he had plenty, he
pursued his profession more from love of the
work and of his fellow men than from any

[Column 2]

other motive, but now—there arose another
obstruction, this young fellow, what complica-
tions might there not be, and he would be
necessarily mixed up in the affair. Burke was
to come down from London again in a week,
before that time there would be more news
from the continent, and meanwhile he would
try his fortune with Miss Jane Conway for
good or ill, if he could induce her to speak on
the subject.
	Miss Conway was as much perplexed over
this new heir that had been mentioned in the
will as the others, but not nearly so much
astonished, for she had discovered in her talks
with her uncle that he was susceptible to the
"tender passion," and she had witnessed the
scene with Lady Walton and it had opened
her eyes considerably. She did not feel equal
to broaching the subject to her cousin Anna
though, and determined to wait for Anna to
speak on her own account; things must take
their course she felt, and now she wanted to be
more alone than it was possible with all these
people who had come to hear the will—and
who seemed quite at their ease in the house of
their deceased relative. Aunt Judith particu-
larly with her maid and all her traps kept
things in an uproar, for the maid was fond of
gossip, and the servants were talkative, and
Aunt Judith listened to the gossip from below
stairs reported with elaborations by her maid
and repeated it to Jane her neice wanting all
the explanations. Jane was discreet and never
enlightened her in the least, though she plied
her with numberless questions, about Anna's
sweetheart, and how cruelly he had been
treated etc. And in fact how it was she had
gained such a foothold with her uncle as to be
left almost equal with his own daughter in the
settlement of the estate, while Matilda who was
also his sister had only a small sum and her
children nothing. But Jane was impervious,
no amount of coaxing or wheedling would in-
duce her to say more than that, "she knew
nothing of her uncle's financial affairs." Lest
her cousin Anna should be persuaded to talk,
Jane cautioned her, telling her it was always
best to keep one's affairs from becoming public
property, and that these relatives cared little
except for what they were likely to get, "And
you know cousin Anna" she added, "uncle
Edward never invited them here, seldom men-
tioned their names, never to me but once, and
then not very respectfully, Aunt Matilda is
very well in her way,dignified and lady like but
not like her sister"—and she stopped short for
a sob in her throat, it was seldom, indeed she
ever spoke of her mother, the memory was too
sacred.
	"I remember Aunt Helen when I was very
young" said Anna, "the prettiest picture in my
mind of all the ladies I have ever seen, it is
almost like a dream, so sweet-mannered and
gentle—and so inexpressibly beautiful, and
papa loved her very much I am sure," by this
time Jane was sobbing outright and Anna's
tears were falling out of pure sympathy for
her cousin; when Jane grew more calm her
cousin said, "although you are an orphan you
have the remembrance of a home, with father
and mother while I have never known a
mother's love, that is something to cherish,"
and she paused, as if unwilling to add more,
but Jane knew well what was in her heart;—
that her father had been almost like a stranger
and her home anything but homelike. "We
shall be all in all to each other from this time
Anna, and though there will be many changes
in our life here, yet we have sufficient to live
upon and to travel, we can go abroad, and see
the world, and that will make up some losses,
we have had." "No cousin Jane" said Anna
now warming  to the subject, "I will not go
abroad or anywhere until I know what my
fate is to be, I mean what Maitland will do.
I must see him this separation and suspense is


most trying, you do not know Jane, you have
never loved, and you cannot possibly feel for
me, or know what I suffer."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A SONG FOR A MAN.

A song for a man!
Away with the personal plaint!
Away with the twanging of strings one-ended, centered in
	self!
Away with the pity of self and fie! for the inturned eye.
—Turn the eye outward, and lo! there are the earth and
	the sky.
	(O, friend, arise! Short the day and sad is the frown
		of the evening.
	Weep not, and waste not the  light, and spill not the
		wine of thy living.
	Hast thou a hurt in the heart? Limbless thy brothers
		perhaps.
	Are thy feet stumbling and tired?  Others are down in
		the dust.
	This love you mourn, it may have been better to lose it.
	Blow out the ashes of love with the bellows of work—
	Out of your heart and your life, and be done with
		mere fanning!)

A song for a man! These singers who pipe small and
	fine,
Who sing of a gown or a glove, a vase, or a lady's eye—
Dapper dressed dandies in verse—iambic-setters in trade
—Why should we listen to these, when to today there is full
	on the air
All the good unison, drum, trump and clarion,
Pealing a song for man!

A song for a man! The child and the woman, perhaps,
May have smaller music to hear, with no smiting chord to
	alarm.
Who likes may sing of true love, the life of the ages, and
	he
Who likes may bewail the false love which liker is true—
All little, light, of no worth!
But say, to what key shall be set
An unposioned song for a man?

Ah, listen! You'll catch it at dawn,
When the milkmaid and plowboy go forth.
You'll hear it at evening, at noon,
When the axeman is wielding his blade.
You will hear the wheels take it and droon,
And so will the note be set,
Vibrant and stinging in joy,
And you'll sing though your eye should be wet.
You'll catch it and know it, and sing
That the heart joyed in labor, alone,
Is the one that can know or can feel
Or be home for a song for a man!

			E. HOUGH.


A QUESTION OF EVOLUTION.

	If there is anything in the signs of the times,
woman suffrage will, in no long time, be every-
where achieved. The law of change for the bet-
ter, termed evolution by science, is firmly
established. It is the greatest folly to stand in
the way of the evolving wheels. The world, like
a child, grows towards maturity. It will not
stop at the goal which ignorance, superstition
and injustice set up. Is divinely ordained pro-
gress content with the belief that the sun and
lesser lights move round the earth? Has the
spirit of advancement nothing to say against
the crudities and cruelties of barbaric war and
the halting pace of civilization? Creation was
not finished with the religion and inquisition
of the Middle Ages—is not finished now. Na-
ture abhors a vacuum and stagnancy, there is
so much to move and so many places to be fill-
ed that concern the race. Where is the author-
ity, above that of stronger limbs, for one half
of the citizens to take sole charge of the econo-
mic, educational, moral and administrative
affairs of the government? Man alone born with
that wisdom!
	It would, beyond measure, be well for the


opposers quickly to drop their obstinacy, if
they wish to leave a good name to their child-
ren and to be in at the ovation, and glorifi-
cation of universal franchise to which society
is fast evolving.
			W. M. BICKNELL.


THOUGHTS ON WOMAN.

	Man, the noblest work of God, yet not com-
plete without woman. Infancy, girlhood, but
too soon pass away. Maidenhood in after
years seems but a dream. Wife, then Mother
the crowning part of woman's existence. Love
the poet has written "with man is but a thing
apart, but with woman her whole existence."
	"What is home without a mother?" who so
mindful of all the little comforts and who so
truly anticipates the needs of her husband and
children? Woman in her nature is more gentle,
kind and trusting than man. With what forti-
tude will she sustain the most overwhelming
misfortunes. There are many who live a life
of single blessedness, but it seems as though
they had not filled the measure of their crea-
tion. Woman will stand equal with man in
all save physical strength, and for that reason
is called the weaker vessel. Man has been
represented as the sturdy oak, woman as the
 clinging ivy. Would to God men were always
safe to cling to! What wife would not be
proud to have a husband that she could look
up to at all times. There are many cases
where the wife stands utterly alone, and sad in-
deed is such an one.
	The brain of man is said to weigh heavier
but woman's to be of finer texture. Women
comprise two thirds the number of our
Churches and in our day she is wielding a
powerful influence for good. Grant her the
suffrage and her vote will not be cast either
for whiskey drinkers or whiskey sellers.
	In the ordinary affairs of life, woman has a
greater influence over those around her than
man; especially with her children. The
Scottish poet Burns seemed to thoroughly un-
derstand human nature for he wrote that in
the beginning,

	"God tried His 'prentice hand on man,
	And then He made the lassies."

			E. H. L.


[Column 1]

EDUCATE WOMEN.

	[The Education of Woman in regard to
Civil Government and National Politics or the
Science of Government.]
	The women of today are very desirous of be-
coming well educated and having their minds
cultivated to as great an extent as possible.
When we become well educated we will
acomplish what we are striving for viz. our
rights, and every step taken in this direction
has a tendency to crumble and remove every
obstacle that stands between woman and her
rights.
	During the most successful period of the
Roman Government the works of women con-
stituted a principal feature which led Rome
to her victories. They loved and honored their
government and reared their children in the
same light.
	The golden reign of Queen Elizabeth is a
brilliant star that shines very bright among the
works of the female sex. While she was queen,
England was governed by one of its greatest
and best sovereigns. In this age the great talent
and literary success blossomed. The greatest
writers the world has ever known, Shakespeare
at their head, Bacon, Sidney, Raleigh, and
Spencer were her contemporaries. She coped
also with the greatest politicans and statesmen
of the age. During her reign the Spanish Ar-
mada was defeated, the English colony in India

[Column 2]

was settled. England rose from a third class
nation to a first class. Much adventure was in-
dulged in and in every way when Elizabeth
left England it was much wiser, better and
more successful than it had heretofore been.
This is an example of what the mind of woman
can do if it is cultivated in the proper manner.
	The great Napoleon's success was due not
only to his vigor and strength, but he was guid-
ed by the gentle intelligent powers of
Josephine. As soon as he put aside his gentle
guide his victories died and his strength de-
creased until he was taken captive to the Island
of St. Helena.
	When the Revolutionary War was fought,
what credit is due those who were willing to
sacrifice their lives for their country and their
freedom. But while they were on the battle
field the mothers and sisters prepared food
and clothing, nursed the sick and wounded
and in this way did a great deal in aiding the
soldiers, and on the hill of honor, they stand
side by side, women and men, in wearing the
laurels of their victories.
	We find women who would make good
school teachers, book-keepers etc, and while
working in these positions do not get near the
pay a gentleman would get in the same
position. The time is very near when we can
fill these to a good advantage. When merit
alone shall decide who shall hold offices and
execute the laws, and when this time comes,
our intellects will be strengthened, and our
financial affairs equally based with our contem-
poriaries.
	While we are contending for our "Rights"
the sterner sex should not be jealous  of us and
tax their courtesy as did the gentleman in the
street car. A short time ago a lady, who was a
strong advocate of "Woman's Suffrage" en-
tered a street car that was very crowded. The
conductor asked a young man if he would give
his place to the lady. He answered with indif-
ference: "This lady is a strong advocate of
Woman's Suffrage she wants equal rights with
the men and now she can have them." It is
unworthy, unmanly and ungentlemanly, for a
man to try to push a lady down and build him-
self up. A gentleman will wish his mother, sis-
ter, and wife, to attain to as high a degree of
intelligence as he, himself desires to become,
and will aid her in doing so.
	The growth of this great nation is measured
by the freedom, honor and justice given to
those who have stood side by side with the men
in building up the nation to its present con-
dition. It has progressed well in the past.
How much better would it be in the future, if
the other half of the citizens had their fran-
chise?
	The education of our sex is the feature
which will determine our success in the future.
We must educate, or we must perish in our
own prosperity. We must be acquainted with
the great issues of the day; the two National
Parties. We must decide for ourselves what our
politics are.
	The women of to day are rearing their child-
ren as the proud matrons of ancient Rome
reared so many great Romans.
	In the near future they will be entitled to a
greater credit in modern times than is due the
proud matrons of ancient Rome.
			MAY BROWN.


New York courts have recently rendered
the decision that while a woman is entitled
to money earned outside her home, yet the
husband has a right to her services not only in
household work, but in any other manner
which he may direct. "Such services as she
renders him, whether within, or without, the
strict line of her duty, belong to him, and if
he pays her for them it is a gift," becasue he
cannot make a valid contract to pay her for
"extraordinary services."—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
gne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	APRIL 15, 1892.


[Column 1]

THE CONFERENCE AND CAPSTONE
CEREMONIES.

	The sixty-second Conference now just passed
has been a very important one in the history of
the Church and exceedingly interesting to every
Latter-day Saint. Commencing on Sunday April
3, the services have been calculated to inspire the
people with testimonies of the truth of the Latter-
day work and urge them to practise every virtue
that will make their lives more useful, and to
lift them to a higher and better standard of excellence
here, and create union, and prepare them for the
exaltation to which the righteous may attain
through faithfulness and the love of God. The
congregations have been very large and the
speakers have been greatly blest with the Holy
Spirit which has been abundantly poured out
upon the assembled multitudes.
	President Wilford Woodruff though suffering
from a severe cold has spoken with great power
and earnestness and Pres. Geo. Q. Cannon, Pres.
Jos. F. Smith, Pres. Lorenzo Snow, Apostles
Franklin D. Richards, Moses Thatcher, F. M.
Lyman, John Henry Smith, John W. Taylor, H.
J. Grant, Mariner W. Merrill, Anthon H. Lund,
and Abraham H. Cannon, also Elder B. H.
Roberts, Pres. A. O. Smoot and Elder John
Morgan, addressed the people in the same
earnest and impressive manner, and the Confer-
ence altogether was very significant of the great
work now rapidly progressing.
	 Wednesday April 6th, was the grandest day of
the Conference. The priesthood in their general
quorums according to their order occupied the
stands and main part of the Tabernacle; the peo-
ple filling up the remainder—the east end of the
lower part of the hall and galleries, crowds of
people, an immense multitude filled the doorways
and the yard around. After the morning exer-
cises the meeting was addressed by President
Cannon in response to a resolution that had been
offered during the Conference and Pres. Lorenzo
Snow instructed the assembly as to the order of
the ceremony of laying the capstone of the
Temple, and the shouting of the Hosanna to be
uttered on or after the laying of the capstone, said
the words of the shout were introduced by Presi-
dent Joseph Smith at the Kirtland Temple and
were there used at a solemn assemblage where
the Spirit of God was manifested and the vision
of the Almighty opened up to the brethren. "This
is no ordinary order, but is and we wish it to be
distinctly understood—a sacred shout and em-
ployed only on extraordinary occasions like the
one now before us." Pres. Snow made other re-
marks and then proceeded to give the idea and
the people joined in the hosanna shout, the effect
of which thrilled the hearts of those present.

	PRESIDENT WILFORD WOODRUFF
said in substance: If there is any scene on the

[Column 2]

face of this earth that will attract the attention of
the God of heaven and the heavenly host, it is the
one before us today—the assembling of this peo-
ple, the shout of "Hosanna," the laying of the top
stone of this temple in honor of God. My
brethren, sisters and friends, we want to finish
this Temple; we want to dedicate it unto God as
soon as we can, so that the vast host who dwell in
this region of country may go into it and attend
to the ordinances for their living and for their
dead. I hope we shall all lay this to heart and try
to furnish means so far as we can, in order that
the building may be speedily completed. We
are able, as a people, to do this. I realize that
there are many calls upon the Latter-day Saints
for the work and purposes of the Church and
kingdom of God upon the earth; but this work
now before us is a most important event—the
most important that we have upon our hands. I
well remember the day and the hour when this
first revelation for the redemption of our dead
was received by the mouth of the Prophet of God.
Who can comprehend this? Where is the man
or woman who can comprehend this principle,
that we have the power to go into these Temples
of our God and redeem our progenitors—our
fathers and our mothers, from whom we have de-
scended? They never heard the Gospel; they
never enjoyed the blessings which you and I have
in our day and time through the mercy of God.
We are their posterity. They are on the other
side of the vail, shut up in prison, and will remain
there until their sons and daughters go into these
holy places and redeem them, as Jesus went to
preach to the spirits in prison three days and three
nights, while His body lay in the tomb. Some
of them had laid there a long time—thousands of
years—up to the time when Christ was crucified
and His Spirit went to them in prison. 
	President Woodruff then proceeded to enlarge
upon the blessings enjoyed by the Latter-day
Saints in regard to their work in the Temples,
and said he rejoiced in the knowledge that the
Prophet Jospesh Smith, President Brigham Young,
Heber C. Kimball and others formerly associated
with them in this great latter-day work on the
earth were rejoicing today at what they saw and
heard. The shout of "Hosanna" would enter into
the presence of God and they would rejoice
thereat. So far as we carried out the purposes
which God had placed upon us, and the responsi-
bilities devolving upon us, when we got through
here we should have the privilege on the morning
of the resurrection of sitting down with Abraham
Isaac and Jacob, and those of our relatives who
had already passed away in the family organiza-
tion of the celestial world for ever and ever.
	The choir sang

		The Temple Anthem.
	Benediction by President George Q. Cannon.
	At the close of the services in the Tabernacle,
the priesthood arranged in procession in their
proper order and under the superintendency of
Bishop John R. Winder, marched to the grounds
adjoining the Temple.
	On a stand at the South West corner of the
Temple, were the First Presidency of the Church
Wilford Woodruff, George Q. Cannon and Joseph
F. Smith, of the Apostles, President Lorenzo
Snow, Franklin D. Richards, Moses Thatcher,
Francis M. Lyman, John H. Smith, Heber J.
Grant, John W. Taylor, Mariner W. Merrill,
Anthon A. Lund and Abraham H. Cannon.
Patriarch to the Church John Smith. There were
also six of the seven Presidents of Seventies and
the Presiding Bishopric, Presidents of Stakes and
their Counselors. There were reporters tables
also where the Deseret News reporters and those
for other papers were seated. The platform was
elevated about eight feet above the ground, and
was decorated with the national colors; to the left
was a platform occupied by the Tabernacle choir

[Column 3]

and another stand also decorated with national
bunting, where stood the Conductor Evan
Stephens and an organ upon which Prof. Jos. J.
Daynes accompanied the music. Held's band
stood immediately East of the choir.
	The ceremonies began with the Capstone march
composed by Prof. C. J. Thomas and played by
Held's band. The Tabernacle choir sung the
hymn, composed for the occasion by C. L.
Walker,

	Glorious God, Eternal Father,
		In the name of Christ we pray
	Thou wilt bless us with Thy presence,
		While this crowning stone we lay;
	Let Thy favor rest upon it,
		Let Thy hand protect these tow'rs
	May Thy peace brood over this Temple,
		It is Thine, O Lord, not ours,
	It is Thine, it is Thine, it is Thine, O Lord, not ours.

	Glory, Glory, Hallelujah,
		Heav'n and earth and angels sing,
		Heav'n and earth and angels sing.
	Choirs celestial join the chorus. 
	Christ our King.
		Praise Him, Praise Him, Christ our King.

	Shout hosannas, shout hosannas,
		Glory be to God our head,
	For His everlasting mercies
		To the living and the dead;
	Joy now reigns where once was sadness
		'Midst the prison's dreadful gloom,
	Millions hail with joy and gladness
		Victory over hell and tomb!
	Victory, victory, victory over hell and tomb.
				CHORUS.

	Sound throughout His vast creations,
		All His wondrous heavenly host,
	Glory be to God the Father,
		Jesus Christ and Holy Ghost;
 	Sing ye bright seraphic legions
		Loud as thunder in the sky,
	Pealing through celestial regions,
		Glory be to God on high,
	Glory, glory, glory be to God on high!

	President Geo. Q. Cannon exhibited to the im-
mense assemblage of people a brass plate in-
scribed,

 		HOLINESS TO THE LORD.
	The Temple block consecrated and ground
broken for the foundation of this Temple, Feb.
14, 1853. The corner stones were laid April 6,
1853 commencing at the South east corner. The
names of the authorities of the Church April 6
1853 and the names of the authorities Apri 16,1892
were engraved also the names of the architects T.
Angell and Jos. D. C. Young, and the finishing
words were:
	"The capstone was laid April 6, 1892, by Presi-
dent Wilford Woodruff. This plate and a number
of books were laid in the capstone, Book of
Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants, Voice of
Warning, Spencer's Letters, Key to Theology,
Hymn Book, Bible, Compendium, Pearl of Great
Price, and some others, photographs of Joseph
and Hyrum Smith, Brigham Young, John Taylor,
Wilford Woodruff, George Q. Cannon and Joseph
F. Smith and of the Salt Lake Temple as it now
stands.
	The following prayer was offered by,

		PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH.
	O God, our Heavenly Father, we desire to draw
near unto Thee at this moment and offer unto
Thee the gratitude of our hearts for this pleasant
and blessed opportunity that we enjoy of assemb-
ling ourselves together on this the sixty-second
anniversary of the organization of Thy Church
in the earth in the dispensation of the fulness of
times. We thank Thee that on this occasion we
are permitted and privileged to lay the capstone
of this building which we have been permitted to
erect thus far unto the name of God, our Father


[Column 1]

in Heaven. And we pray thee, O Father in the
name of Jesus Christ, Thy Son, that Thou wilt
behold us in mercy on this occasion, and accept
of our dedication of ourselves, of our labors, of
all that we have and are upon the earth, unto
Thee, the Lord our God; for we desire to be
Thine, and we desire that Thou wilt accept of us
and acknowledge us as Thy children and that we
may feel in our hearts that our lives and our
course of action are acceptable unto Thee. We
feel Heavenly Father, to dedicate unto Thee at
this time the capstone of this Temple. That we
are permitted to lay it this day, we are grateful to
Thee, and thus finish the laying of the stones of
this building, which has been for thirty-nine years
in the course of its erection. We thank Thee for
the privilege. We pray Thee to sanctify this
service to our good. May it go down in the
memories of those that are assembled here, and
may it be retained in the memories of the young
—the children that are here in our midst—that
they may carry it to their latest day. We thank
Thee that there are a few of us here that were privi-
leged to behold the laying of the corner stones of
of this building, and that Thou hast preserved us
through years that have passed and brought us to
this present time under so favorable circum-
stances as those which surround us. Bless this
vast congregation of people; pour out Thy Holy
Spirit upon them; may they have the Spirit of
God to dwell in their hearts, and may the love of
truth actuate them in all that they do from this
time forth and for ever. Bless the workmen that
have labored upon this Temple; bless those that
shall be immediately engaged in laying the cap-
stone; bless Thine aged servant President Wood-
ruff, and sanctify to him the honor which is due
unto him, O God, of laying the capstone by the in-
strumentality of electricity, that great agency, the
discovery of which has been granted unto the
people of this generation.
	We ask Thee Heavenly Father, now to accept
of us, and to accept of our services, for all that
we do we desire to do in Thy name, and to Thy
name’s honor and glory and to our salvation. We
dedicate ourselves unto Thee. Accept of us we
pray Thee and sanctify unto us every dispensa-
tion of Thy providence, and help us to see and
acknowledge Thy hand cheerfully in all things.
	All of which we ask in the name of Jesus Christ
our Redeemer. Amen.
	The choir sang:
		Grant us peace.
	Architect Joseph Don Carlos Young shouted
from the top of the Temple:
	"The cap-stone is now ready to be laid."
		PRESIDENT WOODRUFF
stepped to the front of the platform and said:
	"Attention, all ye house of Israel and all ye
nations of the earth. We will now lay the top
stone of the Temple of our God, the foundation
of which was laid and dedicated by the Prophet,
Seer and Revelator Brigham Young."
	President Woodruff then pressed the button,
thus opening an electric current to machinery
connected with the capstone, the latter being thus
released and placed in position.
		THE HOSANNA.
	The immense concourse of people, led by
President Lorenzo Snow, shouted the hosanna in
concert:
	"Hosanna, hosanna, hosanna, to God and the
Lamb, Amen, Amen, and Amen."
	This was done three times, each shout being
accompanied by a waving of handkerchiefs, ex-
cept when the names of God and the Lamb were
uttered.
	The multitude of people, which must have
numbered from 40 to 44,000, who had gathered to
witness the ceremony of laying the top stone of
the Salt Lake Temple joining in the Hosanna
and waving their handkerchiefs like a great white\

[Column 2]

cloud, in appearance, was indeed beyond descrip-
tion, it was such as one seldom witnesses in a life-
time, emotional, inspirational to a degree the in-
tensity of which can only be realized by those
who participated in the sublime effort to praise
God.
	The choir and congregation then joined in sing-
ing that grand old hymn that has thrilled the
hearts of many thousands,

	"The Spirit of God like a fire is burning."

	This sacred and inspiring hymn sung by the
vast congregation assembled was of itself soul-
stirring and must have awakened many reminis-
cences in the minds of those who had witnessed
the great outpouring of the Holy Spirit on a cer-
tain occasion in the Kirtland Temple when the
same hymn was sung there more than fifty years
ago.
	Then the Union Glee Club sang,

			THE TEMPLE ODE.
	[Words by H. W. Naisbitt, music by Prof C. J.
Thomas.]

		All hail this glorious day,
		This grand, auspicious day.
	The vales resound, the mountains ring,
	The capstone on the Temple bring,
	With gladsome peal, united sing,
			Of truth's still widening way.
		The time is near at hand,
	When Christ shall come and claim His own,
	And mid his Saints erect that throne
		Which on the earth must stand.
			All hail that glorious day!
			The shadows melt away;
				The skies are bright,
				Soon truth and right,
	Shall come to earth from Zion's light,
			And man redeemed at last shall shine,
			Our Father’s image, all divine. 

	APOSTLE FRANCIS M. LYMAN
said: Six months ago—it was last October—
President Woodruff expressed, in a council of the
Presidency of the Church and the presiding
authorities of the Stakes and wards, that he de-
sired to live to see the dedication of this Temple.
It was the feeling in the hearts of the brethren
present that an effort should be made to accom-
plish that work. Next April it will be just forty
years from the time of the laying of the corner-
stones of this Temple, and I have a resolution to
offer to assembled Israel today which embraces
the ground covered by a resolution suggested by
our Brother, Willard Young:

		RESOLUTION.
	Believing that the instructions of President
Woodruff, respecting the early completion of the
Salt Lake Temple, is the word of the Lord unto
us, I propose that this assemblage pledge them-
selves, collectively and individually, to furnish
as fast as it may be needed, all the money that
may be required to complete the Temple at the
earliest time possible, so that the dedication may
take place on April 6th, 1893.
	Brother Lyman then stated that he would head
a subscription list with a donation of one thousand
dollars to aid in the attainment of the object ex-
pressed in the resolution. The resolution was
voted upon unanimously.
	Music by the band.
	Closing anthem by the Tabernacle choir—
"Song of the Redeemed," composed by Evan
Stephens.
		BENEDICTION.
	President George Q. Cannon then pronounced
the benediction as follows:
	"O God, our Eternal Father, accept all our pro-
ceedings this day. Let Thy blessing descend
upon this people and upon all that we have done,
and grant that the Holy Ghost may rest down
upon every one of us, and upon all the honest in
heart everywhere. Bless this entire people from

[Column 3]

north to south and from east to west, and the
honest in heart throughout the earth, which we
ask in the name of Jesus, beseeching Thee to dis-
miss us with Thy peace, in His name. Amen.
	Conference was declared adjourned for six
months.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	"A DICTIONARY of the Book of Mormon" by
Elder George Reynolds, is one of the most useful
new books brought out for some time. It is a fact
that of late years there has been a greater interest
manifested, by our young people particularly, in
the Book of Mormon, and this Dictionary will be
very helpful in the study of the history or record
of the former inhabitants of this country. It con-
tains the names of persons of importance men-
tioned in the Book of Mormon, together with much
other interesting matter in detail, and cannot fail
in accomplishing great good for those who are
desirous of obtaining a more thorough and com-
prehensive knowledge of the Latter-day work
established in the last dispensation by the Prophet
Joseph Smith. This book makes plain some sub-
jects that in reading one might not comprehend so
clearly. It is also a reference book for students
of theological matters. For sale at Parry's book
store, price $1.25.
	We have received from the author, Col. Juan
Lewis, a handsomely bound copy of his "Poems."
—The full title "The Forging of the Sword and
Other Poems by Juan Lewis, Illustrated by
Charles Bradford Hudson." As a whole it is a
dainty volume, quite original in make up and the
poems are some of them quaint and idealistic;
others are strong and deep, and the love poems
are quite emotional, and tender in the extreme.
There is considerable variety in the book which
always makes poetry more entertaining, than
when there is a sort of sameness, as is often the
case. The book throughout gives one a very
good idea of the author, of his originality and
sentiment, his love of domestic enjoyment and
his enthusiastic devotion to his country. Col.
Lewis has been a newspaper, as well as an army
man and is therefore well acquainted with diver-
sification in life. He has written some interesting
serial stories, and a novel quite highly praised
entitled, "Trust Her Not." In journalism his
style is brief, sharp and crisp, in fact one may say
he has the modern style of dealing with matters
and things, and is wide awake on political ques-
tions. Price of the book, Cloth in all colors (full
gilt) $2.00—Leather (all gilt) $4.00.


RELIEF SOCIETY NOTES.

	[From the Record of the Relief Society kept in
Nauvoo, Ill.] These remarks were made by
Bishop Newel K. Whitney, (deceased) at a meet-
ing of the Relief Society May 27, 1842.
	"In the beginning God created man, male and
female, and bestowed upon man certain blessings
peculiar to a man of God, of which woman par-
took, so that without the woman all things cannot
be restored to the earth. It takes all to fully re-
store the Priesthood. This perfect restoration is
the intent of the society, that by humility and
faithfulness, in connection with their husbands,
they may be found worthy.
	"I rejoice while contemplating the blessings
which will be poured out on the heads of the
Saints. God has many precious things to bestow,
even to our astonishment, if we are faithful. I
say again I rejoice in the prospect before us. By
striving for union one with another, we may be
prepared for the day of choosing. Man will not
choose, but God will say who is and who is not
worthy. We must humble ourselves and live by
he rule given for practice—we must lose sight of


vain things and remember that the eye of God is
upon us. If we are striving to do right, although
we may err in judgement many times, yet we are
justified in the sight of God if we do the best we
can according to our judgement. We cannot go
astray if we will strive with all the energy of our
souls to do right. I rejoice that God has given us
means whereby we may receive intelligence and
instruction. It is our privilege to stand in an at-
titude to get testimony for ourselves. It is as
much our privilege as that of the ancient Saints.
We must "prove all things and hold fast that
which is good." It is our duty to humble our-
selves—it is our most reasonable service to do it.
We must proceed to receive grace for grace,
light and intelligence. If we have intelligence we
have power—intelligence is power. I desire all
evil things may be done away. But as far as
possible throw the vail of charity over failings.
When we see one out of the way, we ought in
humility to go and counsel—and strive to bring
back those who have strayed. We must do as we
would wish to be done by; this is the way to win
souls, and bring them back. Far be it from me
to harbor iniquity, and outbreaking sins. We
may have different views of things. Still there is
some criterion which all may come to and by
bringing our minds and wills into subjection to
the law of the Lord may come to a unity.
	It is impossible while finding fault with one
another to be united. Would to God I had power
to bridle my tongue, I am too apt to make re-
marks; have decided to set a double watch on my
tongue and not offend one of the little ones. I
wish nobody harm; wish it were in my power to
save all within the reach of mercy. Some may
say I have not been so faithful as I might have
been, or my voice would oftener have been heard
in the congregations of the Saints, but I rejoice
in God that all is as well with me as it is. I as-
sure you there are great blessings before you that
would astonish you if you could behold them. I
came here for the purpose of listening to Presi-
dent Smith and being instructed by him.
	"I wish to encourage you to persevere in the
ways of righteousness. There are great blessings
to be conferred as soon as our hearts are pre-
pared to receive them. You have my heart's de-
sire for the prosperity of the Society and I pray
my Heavenly Father that you may go on and
glorify your position."
			S. M. KIMBALL.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
BENEFITS OF THE CLUB.

	Mrs. President and ladies.—As my thoughts
seem to dwell more particularly on the benefits 
of Club meetings, I will quote a few sayings from
one much wiser than I, which are strictly in ac-
cord with my own sentiments.  You very likely
have heard them before, but it will do no harm to
have them repeated.
	SKETCHES FROM THE "CLUB BOOK.
	"A Club takes off the sharp edges.—Women in
their comparatively solitary lives—solitary as re-
gards each other—I mean, where each one has
been mistress of her own little kingdom, evolving
and administering her own laws—have naturally
grown in individual ways, all angles and sharp
corners.  When a number of them met in society
they were like a collection of roughly hewn stone,
all shapes and sizes, every moment (to continue
to figure) they were ground against each other, 
and each was wounded by the angularity of her
neighbor, the result was a lack of harmony, that
gave a color of truth to some of the most offensive
“sayings” about women.
	The Club is the power that quietly but surely
polishes off these rough edges, and tones down
the corners, ’til women are like the pebbles on
the beach, all rounded and smoothed, while each
[-]etains its own color and texture, its individuality

[Column 2]
in fact, yet the whole may be tossed hither and
thither by the rude winds of life, without friction
and without injury to any.
   Club arrangements will help to take out the
conceit of one’s special importance.”
   When I think of how few such privileges as we
are enjoying tonight, our mothers ever enjoyed, I
pity them from my heart, and wonder how, amid
the continual strain upon their nerves, and the
work and anxiety they constantly endured with
so little recreation, they could ever be cheerful at
all, to say nothing of real happiness, yet I know
from the remembrance I have of many of them, 
that they could smile and sing too. ’Tis no
wonder that they were somewhat sterotyped and
superstitious in some things.
 	I heard a prominent man say, not long ago,
that he wanted to testify, from his own experience
that getting out to meetings and clubs, enlarged
and broadened the ideas, gave tone and vitality
to body and mind, making women better, and
more faithful wives and mothers, that instead of
their work being left undone, it was done in a
better and more intelligent manner.  He said
getting out of the old rut they were wont to live
in, brightened them up and gave them new ideas
of life, that after such meetings they come home
with cheerful spirits, with a better understanding
of the duties of life.
	The young women of today ought to qualify
themselves to do more good in the world than it
was possible for their mothers to do, for the
barriers that imprisoned the latter are being
broken down and removed one by one, so that all
the advantages woman is capable of using are be-
ing and will be given to her, and she will be left
without an excuse if she does not improve all the
talents God has given her, however, in connection
with these great advantages, she needs almost
supreme wisdom to guide her that she may not
overlook the mightier matters and attend to the
lighter ones.  There are so many seeming duties
staring her in the face, that she is wise indeed, 
who can properly discriminate between them and
give attention to the most necessary ones first.
Every true woman understands that the duties of
home come first of all, but aside from these there
is very much she can do to bless herself and
humanity at large. Through going abroad and
mingling with her sisters, she will learn this fact
along with many other important truths not to be
learned in seclusion from society, hence I think
we are not apt to appreciate too highly this im-
portant factor in the higher education of woman.
	M. A. FREEZE.


R. S.,Y. L. M. I. A., AND P. A.
REPOTS.

ST. JOHN'S P. A.
	Semi-annual Conference of the Primary As-
sociations of the St. John’s Stake, held March
5, 1892. Present of the Stake Presidency,
President E. B. Coleman, Coun. Anna Wohr,
and Sec. Nancy S. Noble.
	Pres. E. B. Coleman presiding.  After the
opening exercises the Central Board, Stake
and Local officers were unanimously sustained
by the conference. After which songs, recita-
tions etc., were recited by the children.  Re-
ports of the various associations were then
read.
	Sister Mary E. Farr encouraged the chil-
dren to honor father and mother and attend
their prayers.
	Pres. Coleman wished to have the Primary
teachers obtain charts as soon as possible, as
it would benefit the children greatly.
	Coun. Anna Mohr and Nancy S. Noble en-
couraged the children to do right.
	Pres. David K. Udall made some excellent
remarks.


Singing by the Primary children. Benedic- 
tion by E. A. Noble.
	NANCY S. NOBLE, Sec.


W. S. A. REPORTS.

		SOUTH BOUNTIFTL.
	At a meeting held in South Bountiful,
Davis Co., Utah, Feb. 11, 1892, a Woman
Suffrage Association was organized as follows:
Pres. Lucy A. Clark of Farmington was
chosen Chairman, Mary Ann Page appointed
Sec’y. pro tem.  After singing and prayer Mrs.
Dye of Salt Lake City addressed the assembly
stating the nature and object of the meeting.
	Adela W. Eardley and Margaret A. Caine,
also of Salt Lake City, gave further instruc-
tions. Mary Clark and Mrs. Stringam of
Farmington spoke encouragingly, giving some
forcible arguments in favor of woman suf-
frage.  Wm. Page of South Bountiful thought
the movement a good one, and also that, what
the ladies of Farmington had done, the ladies
of South Bountiful could also accomplish.
Samuel Howard of South Bountiful was will-
ing that his wife should stand side by side with
him in ‘‘equal rights.” G. W. Crocheron united
in good wishes for the success of the organiza-
tion. Charlotte Atkinson made her first
political address.  The organization was then
effected as follows:
	Pres. Sarah A. Howard, First Vice Pres.
Charlotte Atkinson; Sec. Vice Pres. Rose Ellen
Hatch; Third Vice Pres. Maria Hatch; Sec'y.
Lizzie Hatch Cor. Sec’y. Zina E. Crocheron
Chairman of Ex. Committee, Mary Ann Page,
members of Ex. Com., Louie Johnson, Jane
A. Hatch, Eliza Melson, Emma Moss; Treas.
Sarah A. Atkinson.
	Ten members then enrolled their names, six
ladies and four gentlemen besides the officers
making 22 members in all.
	MARY A. PAGE, Sec’y. pro tem.


BIRTHDAY PARTIES.

PERSIS S. RICHARDS.
DEAR SISTER:
	On the 15th of March. 1892 by invitation of
Sister H. Y. Brown I went to her house and
met other sisters there in honor of the birthday
of her mother, Sister Persis S. Richards, who
reached the ripe age of eighty-six years.
Though feeble in body she has a strong will,
and is very industrious; a great lover of plants
and flowers and at the present time they afford
her much pleasure in tending and caring for
them.
	She is conversant upon subjects of interest
abroad; and takes pains to read the important
changes taking place among the people she
identified herself with in the early days of the
Church. She often speaks of her early asso-
ciations with Sister E. R. Snow, Presendia
L. Kimball and Zina D. H. Young. The 
letters she has received from them of late years
are most precious to her.
	Not being able to meet with us to celebrate
the 17th of March, she wrote a few sentiments
and testified to the divinity of the mission of
the Prophet Joseph Smith with whom she was 
personally acquainted.
	She has endeared herself to me through that
sisterly love which characterizes the true
Saint. I write these few lines as a tribute of the 
retpect to her. If you deem proper to record 
them in the EXPONENT it will oblige more 
than one of us.
	With kindest regards yours truly,
	HARRIET D. BUNTING.
Kanab, March 26, 1892.	
	RACHEL WHIPPLE.
On the 10th day of March was our beloved


President’s birthday, Sister Rachel Whipple,
she having held the office of 1st. Counselor
nine years and President fifteen years. She
was seventy-five years old, and has been ever
faithful in the discharge of her duties. We
met at two o’clock at the residence of Sister
Elizabeth Nebeker,. Meeting was opened with
singing and prayer, after which each of the
sisters bore testimony to her faithfulness and
the joy and happiness they had in being co-
laborers with each other in the Society.
	Counselors Jeremy and Nebeker met with
us and gave us good advice and encourage-
ment, also spoke of the respect and good feel-
ing they had for Pres. Whipple. Meeting then
closed with singing and prayer. The company
then sat down to a bounteous supper which
had been prepared by the teachers and friends.
We spent the evening in pleasant conversation
and was favored with some fine selections on
the piano by Miss Vilate Nebeker. We all
went home feeling we had spent a very
pleasant and profitable afternoon.
	A. Ridges, Sec. 22nd Ward.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
JULIA A. ALLRED.
				—
EDITOR WOMAN’S EXPONENT:
	There appeared in a late issue of the Deseret
News a notice of the death of Sister Julia A.
Allred.  Now feeling that her long standing
in the Church, and the fact that she was a
member in Nauvoo of the first Relief Society
organized in the Church under the supervission
of the Prophet Joseph, and the firm stand she
has always maintained under trying circum-
stances, in defence of the truth, requires that
something more be said of her.  I ask space
to communicate a few incidents of her useful
although somewhat retired life.
	She was born in the town of Henderson,
Jefferson County, New York, on the 7th day
of February 1829. Her father’s family em-
braced the Gospel in the early rise of the
Church, and Elder Orson Pratt married her
eldest sister, the late Sarah M. Pratt.  She
went to Nauvoo in the year 1843 and on the
21st of December of that year she was married
[-]o Reddin A. Allred.
	She, with her husband received their en-
[--]wments and were sealed in the Nauvoo
Temple, and left Nauvoo early in the spring
of 1846, and came up with the advance camp
of Israel at Pisgah.  In the fall of 1851 she
went to Utah and the family located in Kays-
ward, Davis Co.
	In October 1852 her husband started on a
mission to the Sandwich Islands.  He was ab-
sent over three years, and none but those who
have passed through like experiences know
any thing about the hardships through which
she with her little ones passed in those long
years for the Gospel’s sake.
	I will here give a few lines of poetry that
her husband sent home to her while absent on
that mission; which she prized very highly.

		On the shore of the great Pacific sea,
		At times in silence I roam;
		While the sound of the mighty water's roar 
		As they beat upon the rocky shore
		And I think of my far-off home.
		The inmate of my little cot,
		They make it a lovely home;
		And were I free from laboring here,
		I would haste to those I love so dear
		In my Rocky Mountain home.

		One moment alone I dare not reflect
		On scenes so lovely to me,
		Lest darkness enshroud me and despair
		Cause me to neglect the truth I bear
		To nations amid the sea.
		Then first of all is the Kingdom of God,
		And things pertaining thereto:
		There joys eternally will remain,

[Column 2]
		We’ll be rewarded for all our pain,
		For God is faithful and true.

		Then I am resigned and gladly too,
		To dwell with strangers afar;
		As I have received so freely I give 
		That all who will for ever may live,
		And shine like the morning star.
		But oh! the deceitfulness of man,
		How few that glory will obtain.
		May we be remembered among that few
		Oh! keep this object ever in view,
		God bless you till we meet again.

	In the fall of 1879, with the family she went
to Arizona. She frequently talked about go-
ing back to the Temple to perform the work
for the Bates family, as she was the only liv-
ing female of the family who had a standing in
the Church. She was the mother of thirteen
children, and had twenty-two grandchildren.
	Her departure was very sudden, caused as
is supposed from heart failure.  She had not
been well for some time past, but was able to
be up most of the time and attend to her
household duties.  On the 5th inst about five
o’clock p. m., she was taken with a smother-
ing sensation apparently with no pain except
for the want of breath.  And in fifteen
minutes she expired, without being able to
communicate anything to us,—at the age of
68 years and 27 days.
	The funeral services were held in the
Thatcher meeting house on the 7th inst.
Patriarch P. C. Merrill, delivered a discourse
full of comforting words; and after a few
timely remarks by Presidents Layton and
Johnson, the remains were followed to their
last resting place by the sorrowing family and
a long concourse of friends.
	P. C. Merrill made the Dedicatory pray[--].
							  COM.
	Thatcher, Graham Co., Arizona, March 23,
I892.


APPRECIATION.
			———
	I wonder if any of us realize the amount of
good accomplished by the women of Utah,
organized into a society for the aid of the poor
and suffering.
	If, by any means, we could ascertain the
moneyed value of the food and clothing dis-
tributed to the poor for the past 25 years; and
if to this we add the number of hours devoted
to charity, we can readily see there would be
an immense credit opposite the names of these
silent workers.
	Suppose the country were to be deprived of
this society of benevolence, and each one of
us required to furnish his or her quota of time
and money for the benefit of the needy and
helpless; we would then become cognizant of
their merits.
	People in general view their efforts with in-
difference probably because of their lack of
publicity.
	These ladies to whom reference is made do
not pose as martyrs or heroines.
	They do good cheerfully without expectation
of rewards, quite satisfied if they have the
sympathy of those with whom they associate
and the approbation of their Maker.
	Unassuming in manner they seem uncon-
scious of the sacrifices they are daily making
for the welfare of others. Indeed I believe
there is more real heroism in the life of one of
our dear old mothers, than that of Alexander
or Napoleon. She does not seek the applause
of the world, but aims rather to be a follower
of the lowly Jesus; for was not His whole life
spent in doing good, healing the sick and com-
forting the sad? Neither was He unmindful
of their temporal wants, for we read that he
furnished loaves and fishes for the multitude.
The same condition of things exists now as in
the time of Christ. We can easily believe


there are as many Martha's as Mary's. Let us
who are not directly engaged in this charitable
work, be more just than the troubled house-
wife of olden time who administered reproof to
her sister when praise was deservedly earned.
					Nellie Little.


WORLD’S FAIR NOTES.
				———
	Denmark has made a World’s Fair appro-
priation of $67,000.
	More than 180 exhibitors are chronicled
from Philadelphia alone.
	A $6,000 monument of Barre granite will
be one of the exhibits from Vermont.
	New York has made a World’s Fair appro-
priation of $300,000.
	Saginaw, Mich., noted as a salt producing
city, is constructing in miniature a complete
salt plant for exhibition at the World’s Fair.
	The cottage in which George Fox, the
founder of the  Society of Friends or Quakers,
was born, in Leicestershire, England, is being
taken down to be re-erected in Chicago.
	The New York Assembly has voted per-
mission for the raising of one or two old sunk-
en vessels in Lake George for the purpose of 
sending them as relics to the Fair.
	Several of the states are having prepared fine
lithographs of the buildings which they will
erect at the World’s Fair, and through the
sale of them are augmenting their amounts
available for building purposes.
	Pope Leo XIII has written a letter strongly
commending the Exposition, which it is be-
lieved will have a most favorable effect in
stimulating interest in the Fair on the part of 
all Catholic countries and communities.
	A feature of Idaho’s Exhibit at the Fair
will be a practical illustration of the system
and benefits of irrigation. A large section of
sage brush soil will be transported to Chicago.
Through this ditches will be run, and trees,
fruits and flowers will be grown in the soil by
the irrigation system. Prospective Idaho set-
tlers are expected to be especially attracted by
this exhibit.
	The “San Francisco Women's California
Book Exhibit for the World’s Fair,” is the 
name of a society recently organized in San
Francisco. The object of the society is to col-
lect a complete library of books by California
writers, files of papers, scrap-books, scattered
papers and sketches worthy of preservation.
These will be taken to Chicago and exhibited
during the Fair. After the Exposition the col-
lection will be given to the Golden Gate Park
Museum.
	The Board of Lady Managers is making
arrangements for an extensive exhibit showing
woman’s share in the illustration of books, in 
engraving and other forms of picture produc-
tion. During her recent visit to New York Mrs.
Palmer consulted with a number of publishers
and received considerable assistance from
them. A list of distinguished woman illustra-
tors was secured and plans set on foot to obtain
old volumes and manuscripts illustrated by
woman, together with historical data concern-
ing woman’s share in this line of work from
ancient times down to the present.
	A circular has been issued by the committee 
of the Indiana Worlds’ Fair commission on ed-
ucation, art, charities and literature calling at-
tention to its work and asking co-operation in
preparing a creditable representation of the lit-
erary status of Indiana. The committee states
that it desires a tabulated list of authors and 
their works arranged in chronological order,


so as to present the literary devolopment of the
State from the time of its organization; a tab-
ulated list of Indiana journalists and journals,
including religious and secular publications;
a complete collection of books of reputable
character written by natives or citizens of
Indiana; all books written about Indiana, its
resources and people; a complete collection of
photographs of Indiana’s authors and journal-
ists, and photographs representing the homes
of such authors, and a collection of photo-
graphs of club houses and the interiors of club-
rooms.


152						WOMAN'S EXPONENT


NOTES AND NEWS.
	An Athens, Georgia, prophet, says we are to
have a wonderful crop this year, but for the
next three years, there will be the most dis-
astrous famine known.
	In South Australia, women are made eli-
gible for election as members of what are call-
ed Boards of Advise, similar to School Boards.
At the recent election both candidates declared
for women suffrage. The successful candidate
is a member of the labor party, which has
avowed for equal suffrage.
	Judge Caldwell, of the Eighth United States
Circuit, has again appointed a woman to the
position of clerk of the United States Circuit
Court. Miss Adelaide Utter has been deputy
at Kansas City for several years and now on
the death of the clerk, Mr. Walton, is appoint-
ed, to the responsible position.
	THERE is a community in the vicinity of
Dublin, Georgia, that lately whipped severely
three bad women that were in their midst.
Some pertinent questions might be asked.
How does anybody know they are bad women?
What and who made them bad? Do they whip
bad men there? Could these women-whippers
stand the test applied by Jesus, "Let him that
is without sin cast the first stone?"--Ex.

   The Woman's World of New Orleans,
Louisiana, is taking an enforced recess because
of the burning of the plant in the great Canal
Street fire in February. The editor, Miss M.
A. E. Farwell, has been a severe sufferer from
illness, but hopes to have her paper out this
month. It is her main object to help the work-
ing women to more equal wages, and it should
be cordially supported. A little help just now
will be doubly valuable as an encouraging
offset to many difficulties.--Ex. 

   The beautiful crayon portrait of Rev. Anna
Shaw, made by Lillian Moore Candlin, form-
erly of Nebraska,but now of Wilmette, Ill.,and
presented by the Nebraska Woman Suffrage
Association to the Wimodaughsis Fair was not
sold on that occasion, but was afterwards pur-
chased by Mrs. Colby, President of the Ne-
braska W. S. A., to be given on behalf of the
Association to the National American W. S. A. 
of which Miss Shaw is the Vice-president. It
will hereafter adorn the walls of the Suffrage
Parlors at 1428. I St.
	While discussing the appointment of Army
Officers as Indian Agents, Senator Hawley
made the following statements:
   "Under this arrangement you would not
have the services of a multitude of good wom-
en from among the best women in the whole
United States. I think I heard the other day
some one remark rather slightingly of them.
The best women of the United States have
associated themselves with this matter. They
are sentimental, if you choose, and religiously
sentimental, but they do know something about
their business, for many of them have lived
among the Indians and dealt with them, and
they show a practical wisdom in the manner
in which they deal with them."

[Column 2]
   Some one of the papers, in referring to
Colonel Ingersoll's remarks at the Carpenter
banquet last week, made him say that he would
rather go to eternal torment with the woman
he loved than to heaven if women were not
there. This immensely delighted a certain
young woman, who soon after took occasion to
tell him so.
	The colonel heard her through smilingly
and then said,"Yes, yes, very nice, only I
didn't say it." This was a blow, but his eyes
twinkled, so she asked him what he had said.
	He took up a pen and wrote for a mo-
ment in silence, handed her the paper and said:
"There now how does that please you?" This
was what he had written: "According to the
theologians woman brought all the trouble into
the world. If this is true, then I had rather
live with the woman I love in a world full of
trouble than to live in heaven with nobody but
men." And the woman liked it better, ever
so much.—New York Press.


WOMEN'S NEWS.

	On Monday March 28th at Union Square
Hall the ladies of the W. P. A. assembled to 
listen to one of the  most entertaining pro-
grammes of the series, there was music and 
reading of papers. During a short recess light 
refreshments were served, Mrs. James Neal
interested her listeners with the reading of a 
paper on Mrs. H. A. A. Beach who has com-
posed a Mass for the famous Handel and
Hayden society of Boston. Mrs. Beach has the
unique distinction of being the only lady who
has ever produced such a musical composition;
that it has worth is evidenced by its accep-
tation by this great organization. The pleas-
ant meeting closed till the next social, Apr.
11th. Some of the interesting numbers on
the programme were as follows: Vocal Duet
Mrs. Newlett and Miss Morse;Song, "A Rainy
Day" Miss Morse; An original Poem Mrs M.
R. Johnson.
						ALMA ALDEN
	San Fraucisco, Cal.


OBITUARIES.

	Died. — At her late residence on Sunday Feb. 21, 1892,
Jane Bate, wife of Herbert Bate.
	The deceased was the daughter of Jane D. and William 
Shelley.  She was born in American Fork, Jan. 8, 1856,
and was married to Herbert Bate in Salt Lake City on the 
31, day of July 1871.
	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT
	Whereas in view of the loss we have sustained by the de-
cease of our friend and associate Jane Bate, and of the 
still greater loss sustained by those who were nearest and 
dearest to her, therefore be it
	Resolved, that it is a just tribute to the memory of the 
departed, to say that in regretting her removal from our
midst, we mourn for one who was in every way worthy of 
our respect and regard.
	Resolved that we sincerely condole with the family of
the deceased, on the dispensation with which it has pleased
Divine Providence to afflict them and commend them for
consolation, to Him who orders all things for the best; and
whose chastisements are meant in mercy.
	Resolved that this heartfelt testimonial of our sympathy
and sorrow be forwarded to the orphan children (their
father having been suddenly struck with death six days
later) of our departed friend.  Also to be published in the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT of Salt Lake city, and in the
American Fork Independent and that the same be placed 
on the records of the Woman Suffrage Association.
	EMILY HEPERNICK,
	ROSA BOURNE,
	ELIZA BUCKWALTER.


[Column 1]
MRS. M. E. VAN. M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p.m.

[Column 2]
THE WOMAN'S TRIBUNE,
Edited and published weekly at Washington,
D. C., by CLARA BEWICK COLBY.
Price, $1.00 a year. Trial Subscriptions, five
weeks for 10 cents.
The Woman's Journal, of Boston, and the Woman's Tri-
bune, of Washington, D. C., will be sent to one ad-
dress for $3.00 per year.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But-
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 63 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
Three doors west of Theatre.

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY
The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS

[RIO GRANDE logo]
The Standard Gauge
RAILWAY!
THROUGH THE
ROCKY MOUNTAINS!
Choice of Three Distinct Routes,
AND THE
MOST MAGNIFICENT RAILROAD SCENERY
IN THE WORLD
Two Fast Express Trains Daily
EACH WAY BETWEEN
OGDEN, SALT LAKE AND DENVER.
ELEGANT RECLINING CHAIR CARS!
Free of Charge.
Direct Connections made in Union Depots.
THE MOST THOROUGHLY EQUIPPED RAILWAY
IN THE WEST.
D. C. DODGE, A. E. WELBY, J. H. BENNETT, 
Genl. Mgr. Supt. G. F. & P. A.
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from 
the country promptly responded to.
DAVD JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

Vol. 20. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 1, 1892. No. 20.


CONTENTS.
	Maytime Memories—Aunt Em. In Rural Eng-
land—A Story. Jubilee Celebration—Julia Druce.
To An Unknown—Ex. A Letter From Miss
Anthony—Ex. R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. and P. A.
Reports. W. S. A. Reports.  Obituaries. Notes
and News.
	EDITORIAL:—To the Presidents of the Relief
Society. Thanksgiving and Prayer. Relief
Society Conference. A Talented English Woman.
The Woman Suffrage Cause. Editorial Notes.
Utah Silk for the World's Fair—M. A. Till. Laid 
to Rest—Alma Alden.
	POETRY:—The Awakening—L. M. H. To
Bereaved Mothers—E. D. W. April Herald of
Spring—E. B. W. My First Spring Poem—Lue.


FOR THE EXPONENT.
THE AWAKENING.

All night there were whispering voices,
	Thro' the uplands, meadows and trees;
A quiver of life stirred the larches,
	And run with glad speed o'er the leas.
From far sunny south to the northlands,
	Grand strains of sweet music were borne,
And myriad agents of nature
	Were busy at work ere the dawn.
They parted the chains from the river,
	And like a glad child in its play,
Rejoicing in freedom, its murmur
	Echoed thro' the hills far away.
These messengers countless of number,
	Sprang forth from earth's dark silent womb,
Until the whole world from its slumber,
	Awoke into budding and bloom.
	L. M. H.


TO BEREAVED MOTHERS.

Yea, the heart must be proven with sorrow,
	So let not the thy courage fail,
The clouds will be lighter tomorrow,
	And thinner the mystic vail;
For wisdom and grace will be given
	Sufficient for all thy need;
If thy treasures are stor'd in heaven,
	Then follow where Christ shall lead.
Be sure in the midst of affliction,
	While passing beneath the rod,
He'll strenthen the ties of affection,
	And draw thee nearer to God.
Then bravely submit to his dealing
	How bitter so e'er the pain
For the power of Christ is healing
	And thy trails are not in vain.
E'en if weary and broken-hearted,
	With that which thou deemest loss;
Although from the dearest one parted
	He will help thee bear thy cross;
And if the ordeal seems cruel,
	The Father will make it right,
And the brighter thy precious jewel
	Will shine in the realms of light.
E. B. W.


[Column 1]
MAYTIME MEMORIES.

	Memories are pleasant companions, some-
times when we are alone, and we almost live
over again the scenes of the past that come so

[Column 2]
vividly to our recollection; oft in the night
time; music is one of the most powerful agents
in recalling tender thoughts of the "days that
are gone," and we are ready to exclaim from
out the fulness of our souls where are the
loved ones that were with us then? and a thrill
of sweetness almost painful tells us it is only
a memory, though we could almost believe we
were back again among the very pastimes and
enjoyments of the days of youth. Among the
delightful associations of childhood, especially
of those who have lived much in the country,
one ever bright spot in memory's golden chain
is the May-day or May time; the sweet May
time when fields and woods are fragrant with
the early bloom of flower and bud and vine,
and when the awakening of Spring has come 
in its freshness and reality.  The bird songs
are inspiring, the woods resound with gladness
at the wild bird's songs.
	"Among the varied songs of May
		That gladden field or grove,
	I deem blithe bird, thy woodland lay
		All other songs above.
	"The skylark cheers the grassy plain
		The thrush may whistle strong
	From budding elms a wilder straim
		Is thine a dearer song.
	"Sure am I that our Shakespeare's might
		Thrilled at thy woodnotes wild
	And doubtless Milton's darkened sight
		Thy melody beguiled."
The squirrels come from their winter retreat
and run and frisk about in the bright sun-
shine as gaily as though they knew that all
nature was holding a general jubilee of praise
and thanksgiving. The whole world of living
creatures rejoices in the light and warmth and
glow of a May day morning and it is meet that
there should be rejoicing for the return of 
beauty, that shines upon the hilltops gilding
the loftiest peaks and in the lovely vales, there
the violet and lily of the valley hide their
modest heads, yet are they searched out be-
cause of the sweet perfume that betrays their hid-
ing place and makes them more sought for than
the grandest flower of the plain, whose bright
colors flaunt in the sunshine. So is modesty
and gentleness always unobtrusive, lowly and
meek yet because of these precious qualities
when found these attributes commend them-
selves and are held nearer and dearer to every
heart than the haughty and arrogant for they
are often worthless, except in outward appear-
ance. So we can learn useful lessons in life
from the flowers, and from the birds, and from
everything in nature.
	It is a well known fact that the nightingale,
the sweetest songster of the forest, is the
plainest in appearance of all the warblers of 
the woodland. Indeed this bird one would
pass by unnoticed can awaken the soul that
has least emotion or music in its composition.
	Tennyson says in "Enoch Arden,"
		"Where a passion yet unborn, perhaps,
		Lay hidden, as the music of the morn
		Sleeps in the plain eggs of the Nightingale."
	Juliet pleading with her love--
		"It was Nigtingale and not the lark
		That pierced the fearful hollow of thine ear.
		Nightly she sings on yon pomegrante tree,
		Believe me love it was the Nightingale."
	Well do I remember the beautiful Maytime
in the long ago, and how ardently as a child

[Column 3]
I looked forward for the May flowers to blos-
som in the hills and pastures, and O how fair
and radiant all the world seemed in that fairy
vision of childhood.  How good it is to have
this sweet, glad spot in our lives, and to enjoy
 the balmy fragrance of the buds and blossoms
and drink in the exhilarating inspiration that 
comes with the freshening breeze fo the Spring
morning, as one rambles forth to fields and
pastures, woodland and wold and as it were
converses with the little winsome maiden we
call sweet May.
	How the woods and hills resound with the
merry laughter and fresh young voices of the 
May parties, young men and maidens whose
hearts are being touched by "the tender pas-
sion," that comes naturally often to the most
unimpressionable boys just on the verge of man-
hood.  How sweet is love's young dream even 
in memory, no wonder the poet said,
	" 'Twere better to have loved and lost
	Than never to have loved at all.
	And yet it is a question whether one loses
all, certainly not the memory of true love, that
remains through all the changing, shifting
scenes of this dreary, weary world of bustle
and of work.
	Love true and pure always makes one better
by developing the best and purest qualities
and not only better but more beautiful, and 
there is something enchanting in it that never
quite dies out aside from the memory itself;
but I was thinking of Maytime and not of love,
why should one's thoughts wander away upon
other themes, and yet these two Love and May 
time are closely associated in memory.  It
may be in part however owing to my knowing
that most of the girls with whom I went May-
ing fell in love, so it appeared, even when
children. Gay times those were to be sure,
but  my special delight in the Spring time was
to wander off alone, and of all the haunts of
my early years, the hemlock grove was perhaps
the dearest spot of all and where I let my
fancies run wild most uncontrollably.  O
those wonderful hemlock trees how gracefully
they bowed and nodded, and fanned me, how
companionable they were; I seemed to imbibe
inspiration from association with their signing
and tell tale music, even when the birds that
swung to and fro on their daintiest boughs
were silent or had flown away.  The tiny
flowers that hid themselves away under the 
dried leaves and moss and the edges of the 
rocks, were my childish delight, and the wild
flowers were and are my special favorites; no
child ever could have enjoyed more the
secluded haunts of the woods than I did, un-
less their capacity for appreciation was greater.
New England abounds in these resorts, the
meadows are gay with buttercups and cowslips,
and the fields with lilies and daisies and a 
hundred other lovely blossoms, and the groves
and woods, my heart swells with tenderness 
for them; and the memory of those sweet
Spring-times will remain with me while I
live.
	We have an abundance of wild flowers here
in this mountain region, and our children
gather them with the same ecstacy and de-
light that we roamed the New England hills
and woods in the long ago.
	Let the little ones enjoy these beautiful,
simple pleasures, for the memory will be
pleasant throughout their lives, celebrate with 
gladness and thanksgiving the renewal of the


season of beauty.  All these things speak to
the soul of that God who watches over the
whole earth, who never fails to bring the re-
turn of Spring, with the flowers and birds, and
every living thing rejoices in the good gifts
He sends, so bountifully; the fresh green grass,
the dear old-fashioned lilacs, the crocuses and
hyacinths and all the early tender buds, how
tenderly and gently these things remind us of
the watch care of our Father, who never for-
gets to send his blessings in due season upon
the just and the unjust, and here is anotner
beautiful lesson for us the lesson of love to
all mankind; charity that heavenly attribute
that uplifts the human soul; and will at
length bring us into nearer and closer asso-
ciation with the divine.  And so while we re-
joice in the Maytime let us also reflect upou
the lessons to be learned, and seek the happi-
ness of others, forgetting self and especially
remember the children and the lesson the
Savior taught—“Except ye become as little
children”&c.
	 AUNT EM.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XII.
	Things took their natural course after the
funeral; the guests departed, reluctantly per-
haps, but as no encouragement was offered
them to prolong their visit, it was the only
alternative. The old house-keeper had made
them quite uncomfortable, and "spoken her
mind,” as she called it on several occasions,
and Miss Conway felt she had no right to ex-
tend hospitality beyond what seemed a proper
limit, and so the house was cleared at last of
all except the cousins and servants.
	The spring was opening and in the beauti-
ful country places in England the rural scen-
ery is intensely charming; the birds were tril-
ling their highest, sweetest notes in the grand
old trees, and singing on the slenderest boughs,
of the graceful tall bushes, and nature seemed
in its most smiling mood. The grounds about
the house were sort of uncultivated and neglect-
ed, but an admirer of wild and picturesque
landscapes, might revel fancy-free in the de-
lightful solitude offered by the groves and 
shady lanes. Lady Anna was glad to wander
about these secluded haunts and indulge in
expectant reveries of her absent lover, whom
she was constantly thinking would suddenly
surprise her, when rambling alone, as he had
done in the days of their first acquaintance.
	Jane was inclined to be seriously meditative;
she could not help wondering what would hap-
pen next—so many strange events had trans-
pired, and more seemed likely to be in the near
future; for the young man mentioned in the
will was sure to be forthcoming, as the baronet
had provided that he should live in England
and take his name. She could scarcely credit
his being her uncle’s own son, and would fain
believe it was the orphan son of some dear
friend that he felt under obligations to serve.
Anna had not expressed herself fully upon the
matter, though her cousin had several times
tried to learn how she felt about the name.
	One beautiful morning in April the Dr.
overtook Miss Conway as she was wandering
leisurely along one of the many fragrant lanes
near the grounds, and in a very stormy fashion
urged her to accept him as an acknowledged
suitor, even if she had not yet made up her
mind to marry him. The girl was greatly in ,
need of sympathy and of advice; she was al-
most as lonely with her cousin as if she had
been quite left to herself, for Anna was so ab-
sorbed in her love affairs that she could think
of little else; and therefore Jane was more eas-
ily persuaded to allow Dr. Bland to come reg-
ularly to the house. It will be a change at
least from the sameness of our present life,

[Column 2]
thought the young woman, and so it proved;
the visits were pleasant interchanges of ideas
and sentiments, and the time passed swiftly
by, and they grew into favor with each other.
The lawyer came with news from the young
stranger, and arranged with the young ladies
about suitable apartments being made ready
for him; and although it was such a decided
change to think of having a man in the house, 
yet it was inevitable, and they were rather glad
than otherwise. All sorts of conjectures were
flying about, as to who and what he was and
‘‘Dame Rumor’’ was busy, but of this the
young ladies knew very little as they took no
part in society of the country round about
except those living on their own estate, who
were only poor working people, and though
they chatted among themselves of the doings
up at the castle and did not spare the charac-
ter of the late master, yet the young ladies
were not aware of how the baronet was being
abused by those to whom they dispensed their
bounties, and who thrived off the estate. Some-
times the housekeeper would pour out a volley
of gossip to lady Anna’s maid and occasionally,
when waiting upon her young mistress, she
would make bold to repeat an item or two, and
though usually Lady Anna manifested the
utmost indifference, it happened once or twice
that she dropped a word which gave “Timmins”
courage to go on. ‘‘It was from old Ma’am
Farrow we got it,” she explained one night
when brushing her lady’s hair before retiring;
she pretends to know all about the doings
here in days gone by, and says as how there
used to be regular rioting here in the hunting
time, and men, (gentlemen my lady,) had balls
and parties when you was a child, and there
was a sight o’ feasting and that, and carriages
comin’ from a distance and nobody knows who
was in them.” This set the young lady to think-
ing and she determined to tell her cousin Jane,
for though she made no sort of reply to the
maid, except to tell her not “to heed gossip,
or repeat scandal,” yet it had made her feel
very unpleasant, and she lost no time in repeat-
ing all she had gathered to Jane, who had also
seen enough to convince her that the peasantry
were anything but respectful of her uncle’s
memory. She dreaded the arrival of the young
stranger just when these idle stories were float-
ing about in the air as it were, but it was not
possible to avert nor even to postpone his com-
ing, if she wanted to, and she was not sure
things would be better even if she could suc-
ceed in doing so.
	Maitland Walton had written several times
to his betrothed, or so she considered herself—
but she had not seen him, and her heart was
sad and aching for his coming, but affairs were
culminating rapidly towards a climax, not-
withstanding the monotony at the old mansion.
	Dr. Bland was winning his way pretty suc-
cessfully in the affections of Miss Conway; she
was not one likely to fall in love at first sight,
but time and the certainty of uprightness and
sterling integrity were traits she admired in
men, and one she could look up to as her su- 
perior was what she needed. Strength of char-
acter she possessed herself in a large degree,
and a conscientiousness that precluded any pos-
sibility of her bestowing her friendship even,
upon an unworthy man; but she could find-no
fault with Dr. Bland; the more intimately she
knew him the nobler he appeared, and he was
now tolerably sure of securing her hand in
marriage and with it her true heart. Jane
had weighed the matter carefully and had de-
cided that it would be the best for her cousin
to have such protection as Dr. Bland, a mar-
ried man could give; for with her impulsive
temperament there would be more or less dan-
ger, and a young man in the house who might
consider himself at least equal in au-
thority if not even more, would be a constant
terror to such a sensitive nature as Anna’s. 

[Column 3]
	Then there was always the fear of interference
from Maitland Walton, and sometimes in view
of these things Jane wondered if she were
really growing fond of the Dr. or was it only
to better her present condition and relieve
her of the embarrassment that threatened the
future welfare of the household; and indeed it
was not strange that she queried thus. But
circumstances decided speedily what might
have taken a much longer time to settle. Anna
had at last seen her lover and he had confided
to her the cause of his absenting himself from
the castle. Reports had reached his mother
that the baronet had a son abroad, who was
coming into possession, that there had been a
secret marriage and afterwards a separation,
and much more;indiscreetly in her vexation she
had told all this to Maitland, and vowed that
he should never marry the daughter of such an
unprincipled villain. She regretted afterwards,
but her pride was wounded, and she gave vent
to a feeling of jealousy, unwarrantable in a
woman of her years and experience. Henry
Walton had brought the news from London
and had taunted his wife with it, half in jest,
and half seriously, possibly to see if she had
any lingering affection left for his rival; and
the man who had as he believed thrown his
life away because of his early disappointment.
In her anger she had forbidden her son any
further association with the girl he so ardent-
ly loved placing another barrier in the way of
his happiness; she would thus have ruined two
more lives had the fates not taken their destiny
in hand and summarily settled the matter.
	Anna flew to her cousin and told her all she
had heard; Lady Walton had watched Mait-
land but he had eluded her vigilance, disobey-
ed Her positive injunctions and had declared
that nothing should prevent the union when
he became master of his own inheritance; and
she had gladly consented for she could not live
without him, and why need they submit to
such tyranny. Jane reasoned and expostu-
lated and entreated her to listen, give her ex-
amples of such marriages, and the unhappiness
caused by disobedience to parental rule, but
the girl was inexorable, and the result was a
serious illness. Dr. Bland was summoned and
in his position as guardian and physician, Jane
felt he must know all, and it was a relief to
tell it to one who could not only sympathize
but had the wisdom to render aid in such ex-
tremity. He went to Lady Walton and told
her, for he seemed to comprehend the matter
after Jane had related the circumstance of Lady
Walton’s secret night visit, and her own con-
versation with her uncle subsequently he felt
he could consistently express his view of the
situation; he found her ladyship much agitated
for Maitland had informed his mother of his
visit to Anna and his intentions to keep his
promise of marriage to the girl. Lady Wal-
ton knew Dr. Bland’s reputation as a surgeon
and medical adviser and as Doctors are gener-
ally admitted to confidence, he had felt no re-
luctance in paying this visit; and was admitted
without delay upon sending a message to say
he had come as a physician on an important
errand. He was a man to whom any woman
might have entrusted her confidence without
fear of betrayal—this the lady saw at a glance,
he lost no time in telling her she was in the
wrong. Without in the least betraying his
knowledge of her own secret, he made her con-
scious of wrong and anxious to repair the
mischief she had done. Her love for Maitland
was the strongest sentiment she was capable of
and his future was her ambition. Dr. Bland
told her what a lovely disposition Lady Anna
possessed and how delicate her temperament—
that she needed love it was her only hope, per-
haps said he “from a false education by her
French governesses to whom she has been left
wholly in the past until her cousin took up her
abode there.'


“Her father lived much abroad I have been
told,” said her Ladyships though inadvert-,
ently? “Yes, and no,” replied the Dr. “he was
sometimes absent for months but never away
for any great length of time.” “One likes to
know what sort of family one is becoming
connected to, you must be aware Dr. Bland, I
shall have to meet all this in society,you snow
besides his father has not yet been apprised of
any serious relations between the young peo-
ple: he consented to let Maitland go to Italy,
last winter, after much entreaty on my part,
solely to satisfy me concerning his health.”
“Would you like me to speak to your husband
and inform him what has already taken place,
and how seriously the matter appears to me, or
will you undertake the mission?” “I scarcely
know what to do—his father will be offended,
he will say it has all come from my blind
idolatry, indulging the boy in every sort of
nonsense. I know how it will be I shall get
all the blame.”—“And can you not endure his
reproaches for the sake of making happy two
young innocent, beings like Miss Hilliard and
your own and only son?”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


APRIL HERALD OF SPRING.

Now April with its fresh perfume 
	Of fragrant air and gentle showers,
Scatters away the frost and gloom 
	That lingers from the winter hours.
And by the brook, or "moss-grown spring,”
	Fond friends, or lovers, wander near. 
Mellow and low the thrushes sing,
	To usher in the new-born year 
Just opening to virgin life.
	Unconscious of the charms concealed—
The radiant bloom of Summer rife.
	When all earth’s beauty is revealed.
Oh! springtime of the heart’s true love,
	Promise of joy and pleasure sweet,
Well may the cooing of the dove
	Such tender wooing softly greet.
‘Tis fitting time, the early Spring,
	Life's richest treasure to bestow,
While groves and woods with music ring,
	And echoes answer soft and low.
	E. B. W.


MY FIRST SPRING POEM.

I ne’er can tell with what delight,
Tucked up in bed by candle light,
1 read it o'er and o’er at night,
	My very first spring poem. 
Methonght no mortal could refuse,—
That out of hundreds they would choose,
So highly did I prize the muse,
	That wrought my first spring poem.
April Day, on my way to school
Heedless of who might play the "fool,"
Engrossed in thought, not on the rule,
	’Twas sooth to say, my poem.
The joy for me it held in store,
When teachers, schoolmates reading o’er,
Smiling would say, “all must adore,
	That very sweet spring poem.’’
The foreman seated in his chair,
Gave a little start and bigger stare,
Then struck a wondrous tragic air,
	As I produced the poem.
Bowed low, with just the faintest smile,
And said, we've quite a list on file
But if we find yours just in style, 
We'll give it place some season.
This is appropriate for May,
April will do,—please don't delay,
I ventured then and there to say,—
	"I'm sure you'll like my poem."
"No doubt, (he said with elfish grin)
We'll find your poem just the thing,
Yet we have so many in
	I'm sure you'll not mind waiting."
Quite haughtily I turned Away,
Yet on the threshold paused to say,

[Column 2]
"If you don’t publish mine in May,
	it will be too provoking!”
Half angrily welled up the tears,  
"Ah, do not doubt, dispel your fears,
There lies before you scores of years,
	Take courage little maiden!’’
Years rolled around, one whole decade
Merging the dimpled little maid
into a charming matron staid,
	With children round her growing.
Famous histories unbidden,
Far from mortal sight lay hidden,
'Neath the waves of dark oblivion,
	Sharing fate with this spring poem.
Time’s busy wheel its changes wrought,
Kingdoms arose and fell to naught,
Fashions and customs, turning thought
	Into new channels ever.
This morn, my great grandson exclaimed
"Why that was grandma’s maiden name! —
If is indeed, the very same.
	I do believe she wrote it!"
My pulses gave a sudden beat,
I started from my cushioned seat
And stood upright upon my feet,
	Back in life’s early gloaming.
By chance, as subsequently told,
Searching many volumes musty, old,
A parcel dropped, yellow as gold,
	Upon the floor before him.
Thinking it writing of a sage.
He turned to scan the title page,
And soon in reading was engaged,—
	That long neglected poem.
Then by the Prophet’s beard he swore, 
More fierce than he had done before,
“This shall be over-looked no more,
	I’ve found it just in season.”
Just a turn in the wheel of fate.
O’er the world it flies in state.
Charming and fresh, strange to relate,
As nature's springs returning.
Thro’ agencies unknown before,
’Twas sent throughout the wide world o'er
Echoed in song from shore to shore,
	This treasure of a poem.
Eighteen hundred and twenty-nine,
Date quite correct 'twas surely mine.
What bliss in my old age to find,
	Published; my first spring poem.
No language ever can convey
The joy I feel at this late day,
To read when I am old and gray,
	My very first spring poem.
Grieve not, young aspirants for fame,
Work, wait, not seeking praise or blame,
Leave all, even your much—loved name,
	To time that will restore it.
	LUE.


JUBILEE CELEBRATION.

TWELTH WARD S. L. CITY. 
Dear Sister E. B. Wells:
	The Twelth Ward Relief Society held their
Jubilee entertainment on Thursday evening
March 17th, in the 12th Ward Chapel, which
was beautifully decorated for the occasion, and
some lovely flowers growing in pots were placed
upon the stand, and an elegant bouquet, pre-
sented by Sister J. R. Midgley upon the table
in front of the stand. 
	Mrs. Julia Druce, presiding,called the Assem-
bly to order, and announced singing by the
choir; the song "America” was finely rendered.
Br. J. C. Kingsbury then made the opening
prayer, the choir singing “Our God, we give
praise to thee.” Sister Druce called upon
Sister Annie K. Hardy, to announce the pro-
gramme. Address by Br. J. C. Kingsbury, on
Relief Society work in the days of the Prophet
Joseph Smith. Vocal duet, “The Birds of
Spring” by Misses Mamie and Clara Wardrobe.
Recitation,“Was Marrage a Failure,” by Mrs.
Sarah Stewart. Sister A. K. Hardy read the
historical record of the 12th Ward in a clear
sweet voice. Song,“Speak a Kind Word to the


Loved Ones At Home," Miss Edith Midgley.
Fantasia on the theme, "Gotterhatte Frans
Kaiser" by Prof. W. Clive, accompanied on the
organ by Miss Belle Morris. Encore, "Then
You'll Remember Me." An Address the Relief
Society Organization of the 12th Ward in 1868,
by Bro. E. Snelgrove. A song, "The Boys Of
The Old Brigade" by Br. John Robinson.
Encore "Rocked In The Cradle Of The Deep"
A Vocal Quartette, "Fairy Moon-light", encore,
Juanita by the Symphony Club. Remarks
by Elder George Goddard, and a song entitled
"Hard Times Come Again No More". An
Essay on Relief Society work by Sister Nellie
Little. A song, "The Song That Reached My
Heart Was Home Sweet Home," by Miss
Blanche Kenner. An excellent repast was
provided by the sisters of the Ward, and served
by our young ladies of the Mutual Improve-
ment Society. Benediction by Counselor John
Druce.
	All went away feeling well and happy.
On the next day, March 18th, our Juvenile,
sisters and brothers, numbering about three
hundred, were treated to a Jubilee Party, by
the sisters of the Relief Society of the 12th
Ward. All enjoyed themselves in the dance un-
til 7, p.m; then they were served with dainty
and delicious refreshments, and all seemed glad
to attend a Jubilee Entertainment.
		JULIA DRUCE, President.


TO AN UNKNOWN.
	You are melancholy; and you are brooding
over your own distemper, and so aggravating
it. Neither prayer or meditation will cure it.
The difficulty is that you are self-centered.
	Every self-centered person must be either
self-conceited or melancholy. Every man is
but a sorry object for his own contemplation.
You are constructing your life on the
Ptolemaic theory; you are making everything
revolve about yourself. The glow-worm and
the fire-fly live in the light they produce
themselves, and they are poor creatures.
Phosphorescence never lasts long.
	Walk in the light of God—that is, in the
light that comes from God. The remedy for
melancholy is to become God-centered. You
are unhappy! What of it? There is only
one question: are you useful? No? Then
become useful. Set yourself, not to being
happy, but to doing other people good. For-
get yourself; think of others. “Happiness is
got by being forgot.” Still do not forget
happiness in order to get it. Simply forget it.
Live for others, not for yourself. It is of
small consequence whether you are happy or
not. It is of much consequence whether you
are of service in the world. Love is the cure
for melancholy.
	“Look up, not down; out, not in; forward,
not backward; and lend a hand.”
								Ex.


A LETTER FROM MISS ANTHONY.

	To My Suffrage Nieces:—Now that you
have voted me your president, and every one
will be writing me your work, I have just one
earnest request to make of one and all, and
that is that you do not write with any of the
pale, fluid ink, but with a jet black ink, to
start with then you’ll be sure it is black. I
use Stafford’s, but if any of you can tell me
of a blacker ink as it flows from the pen, I
shall be glad to use it. The pale fluids of
to-day, whether for hand or type written
letters, are simply atrocious. And I protest
against our suffrage girls using them for
their own eyes’ sake as well as for those of
their older sister and co-worker.—Susan B.
Anthony.  	Ex.


156											WOMAN'S EXPONENT
====================================————————————————————————————————
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
————————————————————
			﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT

    EMMELINE B. WELLS;	-	Editor.
————————————————————
	Published semi-monthly, In Salt Lake City, Utah.  Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.  No
reduction made for clubs.  City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
    Advertising rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office,. No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office.  Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.
————————————————————
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
====================================
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	MAY 1, 1892.


TO THE PRESIDENTS OF THE RELIEF
			   SOCIETY.
				——
	As the WOMAN'S EXPONENT is the only paper
through which the Relief Society can co-operate
in its work and labors of love,we earnestly desire
that it should be a continued success.
	The Presidents of each Relief Society are re-
quested to see to the appointing of agents who
are suitable to canvass in each ward, so that a
united effort shall be made and thereby all be
benefitted and this home publication sustained.
	Our Jubilee has proven how necessary it is for
us to have a correct record of our work for 
reference, and that there may be perfect harmony
of action and of purpose throughout our entire
organization.
	Hoping that the sisters will be interested and
make this extra exertion to secure an increased
circulation in time for the new volume, that 
through the columns of the EXPONENT our testi- 
mony may go to all the world,
	We remain, Your Sisters in the Gospel,
				ZINA D. H. YOUNG,
				JANE S. RICHARDS,
				BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
			Presidency of the Relief Society.


THANKSGIVING AND PRAYER.

   President Woodruff and the First Presidency of
the Church have called upon the people to fast
and pray and give thanks, and have set apart a
day for that purpose, the Sabbath day, the first of
May and this day is to be generally observed
throughout all the Stakes of Zion, in the several
wards according to the direction of the presiding
priesthood. That the devotion and prayers of an
entire people offered up in unison and with fast-
ing will be pleasing to our Father in heaven there
can be no doubt. All who have the spirit of the
Gospel and of the times will gladly respond to
this call, and the congregations of the Saints as-
sembled for such a purpose will realize the need
of drawing near to God and putting away worldi_
ness, seek forgiveness and mercy, and renew
their covenants and resolutions to serve Him
more completely.
   Thousands of the Latter-day Saints will hail
this day as a happy omen for the prosperity of
Zion, the Lord has said He will be inquired of,
and He delights in the services of His Saints
and their gratitude and thanksgiving must be an
acceptable oblation at the throne of grace.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	The annual Conference of the Relief Society
was held April 5, 1892, in the Assembly Hall in
this city, at 7 p. m. President Zina D. H. Young

[Column 2]
presiding; her Counselors Jane S. Richards and
Bathsheba W. Smith were present, also Secretary
Sarah M. Kimball, Treasurer M. Isabella Horne,
Cor. Sec'y. E. B. Wells and Ass't. Sec. Romania
B. Pratt were on the stand. The Presidents of
the Relief Society of the several Stakes of Zion
were seated in the upper stand; the house was
well filled with ladies, only a few gentlemen be-
ing present.
   Meeting opened with singing,"O, say what is
truth &c." Prayer was offered by President B.
W. Smith, singing, "Do what is right &c."
   Pres. Z. D. H. Young made a very telling
speech that stirred the hearts of the audience;
she referred in glowing terms to the General Con-
ference of the Church and the grand occasion to
be celebrated on the following day, the laying of
the capstone of the magnificent Temple in this
City; thought we had great reason to rejoice in
the blessings vouchsafed to us; especially in the
gems of truth dispensed unto us, in the teachings
of the servants of God throughout the Confer-
ence. Pres. Young thanked the sisters of the
various stakes and branches for their response to
the Jubilee celebration, in carrying out her wishes
and instruction, and expressed herself eloquently
in regard to the greatness of the occasion, its be-
ing celebrated on the two continents, and on the
Islands of the sea, extending all around the
world as it were; urged the sisters to prepare
themselves to do the work well, to strive for more
intelligence, and to set their mark high and en-
deavor to live up to this high standard; and not
only for themselves but the young women and
children of tender years, "O, how my heart is
drawn out to them."
   Paes. Young then expressed herself in refer-
ence to the Society building halls and places of
worship of their own in all the localities where
there were organizations as soon as possible;
thought perhaps it might sometimes be practicable
to buy places cheap of those who were moving
away, or changing their property, and have this
property and such buildings owned by the Relief
Society and be controlled by them so that they
might have a place to meet and so that the Y. L.
M. I. A. and Primary might meet there too. Pres.
Young said she did not wish to find fault with
anything that had been done, but felt we must
own some property and buildings of our own and
teach our young people to be self-sustaining.
   Pres. Young requested Sister E. B. Wells to
read some remarks of the Prophet Joseph Smith's
to the Relief Society in Nauvoo upon tnis sub-
ject; Sister Wells read:
   "Pres. Joseph Smith donated a City lot to the
Society for the purpose of making homes for the
homeless, and also to furnish work to those who
were out of employment, which he proposed deed-
ing to the Treasurer and her successors in office,
for the use of the Society. He also donated the
frame of a house, and made arrangements for it
to be moved on the aforesaid lot, for a commence-
ment of the establishment."
   "But this benevolent and judicious project with
many others which were designed for the ameliora-
tion of the condition of suffering humanity, was
blasted in the bud by the blighting hand of re-
ligious persecution, and through which the once
beautiful City of Nauvoo became a desolation,
and its inhabitants exiled to Mexico."
   Pres. Young then spoke strongly upon union
and the power it would give us, also upon the
Word of Wisdom and the blessings that would
follow those who would keep that commandment, 
and of many of the teachings of the Prophet
Joseph; said it was his advice that every virtuous
woman in the Church should join the Relief
Society, also referred to sayings of President
Brigham Young upon this subject.
   Sister Sarah M. Kimball said she had been
deeply impressed with the exercises of the Con-
ference, and thought there were some lessons for

[Column 3]
women;" one of the speakers had said he honored
the First Presidency of the Church, the Twelve
Apostles, the priesthood of God, and we my
sisters she said must h onor woman,—and by the 
way,I take this opportunity of inviting you to write
and preserve a memorial of this Relief Society, of
the work which has been done, and of those who
live now, for this generation is fast passing away,
and in this way we shall have a record of our 
work; there will be a committee to do this and 
no one person will decide on this work," made
other suggestions upon this subject.
   Pres. Jane S. Richards, felt like a little child,
and thought we all felt like little children looking
up to our Father and asking Him for the blessing
that we want. The Lord is just as willing to
bless us his daughters as his sons; how we feel
when we are about our work, the Holy Spirit
resting upon us, if we feel our labors are hard or
our burdens heavy, and we have the good spirit
with us it makes them easy and light. We should
remember those that have started this work, and
they are fast passing away, Sister Presendia who
has just left us, and President Young and Sister
Eliza and others, I often feel that Sister Eliza
and Pres. Young are with us, and we could feel
their presence near, and if we could have our eyes
touched to see them, we should know—and the 
angels are near us, and yet we cannot see with
our natural eyes.
   This work of compiling the Jubilee should be
a good labor and an easy one and not hard to ac-
complish with the means there is to do it and the
EXPONENT we want to sustain our own paper, it
is all we have except the YoungWoman'sJournal;
the price of subscription is so little now it is al-
most given away, and we should all of us take it
have it in our homes and read it; the sisters who
stay at home, who cannot get to the meetings of
the Society, get them to take it, it will do them
good; all have not the opportunity to get to the
meetings, there are many hindrances in a family,
let us be very forgiving, if we are forgiving He
has promised us forgiveness; visit the sisters who
stay at home, it will do them good, I didn't used
to go much, I stayed at home my circumstances
required it, there are those not able to get out,
kind acts and kind things bring their reward.
   "We have been having a good time in this Con-
ference, a time of union, the greatest Conference
we ever had,—another capstone is to be laid to-
morrow; the Prince and power of the air has
been determined to give us storms and mud, but
we shall overcome nevertheless. The mothers
need blessing, when the brother spoke of sustain-
ing the priesthood I thought why didn't he go a
little further and bless the mothers in Israel and
the Relief Society which is a very important or-
ganization according to the words of the Prophet 
Joseph Smith, which he gave them by honoring
women in the commencement of the work, they
need prayers, need faith, need wisdom in the 
multiplicity of their cares and labors.
   "Buildings that has been alluded to by Sister
Young is important to the Relief Society, Joseph
the Prophet set the example, Pres. B. Young
counseled us to build houses and granaries, places
of our own to hold meetings in; there are not
many branches but can accomplish this if they
undertake it and persevere; how much better you
will feel when you have your own places of wor-
ship and to meet in; the habit of drinking that is 
growing in our midst and tempting the young is
something deplorable, there is a great deal in the 
word of wisdom besides drinking tea, so many
things that need attention; then we have home
industries that lack for patronage we should make
an exertion to sustain these things, and don't
neglect your prayers,commit all to the care of the
Almighty, live in peace with all people, don't let
the sun go down on your wrath, do not commit
sin when we are angry, we are living for the
kingdom of heaven, may we be true and faithful.


[Column 1]
I rejoice in the Lord .’’Sister Richards made some
remarks upon the rights and privileges of the
sisters and their duty in regard to administering
to the sick and rebuking disease and prayed the 
peace and blessing of God to rest upon the con-
gregation.
	Pres. M. I. Horne rejoiced to see so many
noble women that were interested in the work of
the Relief Society, felt to bless them, those that
had come from a distance hoped they would take
home the spirit of the Conference and diffuse it
among those with whom they were associated,
that the good seed might be sown among the 
sisters who were not able to attend the Confer-
ence; she felt interested in the subject of home-
industries, thought we should exert ourselves to
be more self-sustaining; that we were living in an
important day, when the prophecies of the 
Scriptures and of Joseph were being fulfilled and 
we needed great wisdom; the teachers have a re-
sponsible position, and needed to be prayerful
and have the spirit of the Lord; spoke eloquently
and briefly upon many subjects; the increase of 
wickedness in our midst, the need to watch over
our children and young people, the governing
power and restraining influences, and gave much
good advice to the sisters and the young people.
	Pres. B. W. Smith, spoke of her desire that the
young women should come forward and prepare
themselves to take the places of the older sisters
when they pass away. Said there are 23 Stakes 
that have not paid into the Deseret Hospital fund
we should take this into consideration and not
fail in this; it is a duty we have to perform; to
have a place for the sick and afflicted; we must 
do our part and keep it up; and the EXPONENT
we must have by us; it is a necessity to the Relief
Society; there are many good papers, but the 
EXPONENT is my choice; it contains our record
and we’ll be proud of it some day. I feel as 
Sister Zina said, we ought to have two or three
days for our meetings; we are a host to do good,
I am proud of my sisters and of their  labors. I 
want to do all the good I can and as little harm,
I pray God to bless us all.
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke briefly upon the
Jubilee celebration its greatness, the immense
country over which it extended, the importance
of the organization, the great results already at-
tained and the promises for the future, the ad-
vancement made by women in all lands, the
prejudices being removed, and the grand oppor-
tunities for improvement, and gave some explana-
tions in reference to the history to be compiled,
and also concerning the storing of grain by wo-
men against a day of need.
	Pres. Young spoke in reference to the history
to be prepared of the Relief Society and nomi-
nated the following Committee whose names were 
submitted and voted upon by the assembly, Sarah
M. Kimball, E. B. Wells, Lula Greene Richards,
Romania B. Pratt, Annie Wells Cannon, Augusta
J. Crocheron.
	Sister Zina said the officers and teachers should
be women of God, we expect our sisters to be
brave in the future as they have been in the past,
humble obedience to the principles of the Gospel
makes us better wives and better mothers and 
better prepared to enter into the presence of God;
as soon as we boast we separate the link that
binds us; like breaking the kite string, there is 
nothing to guide it and it falls or floats away, may
we be preserved and our children with all that
the Lord has given us we have everything to
make us happy.
	Assistant Secretary R. B. Pratt read the totals
of the Relief Society report for the last six months
after which there were a few words of counsel
and comfort from Sister Jane S. Richards, and S.
M. Kimball presented the names of the officers of
the Central Board to be voted upon.
	Zina D. H. Young, President, Jane S. Richards
and Bathsheba W. Smith, Counselors, Sarah M

[Column 2]
Kimball, Secretary, Romania B. Pratt, Assistant
Secretary, M. Isabella Horne, Treasurer, and 
Emmeline B. Wells, Cor. Sec’y.
	Pres. Young made a few closing remarks,
speaking in the kindliest manner to the sisters
encouraging them to persevere in their labors of
love and to exercise charity and cultivate the
spirit of humility and blest them with a mother’s
blessing, after which Conference was adjourned
until next October, singing Doxology and bene-
diction was pronounced by Sister R. B. Pratt.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]

 A TALENTED ENGLISH WOMAN.

	The visit of Miss Florence Balgarnie to our
City was quite a pleasant event, yet the ladies
who met her in Washington last year, and also
those who have heard her praises sounded, and
have read her speeches, were greatly disappointed
in not hearing her speak in public. We had
hoped that when she came we should hear her in
the large Tabernacle in Salt Lake City, or in the
Assembly Hall, but her stay was so brief, that it
was quite impossible to advertise a lecture, and
it would have been placing her at a disadvantage
to have urged it so hurriedly. Her voice is clear
as a sweet-toned bell and her manner in speaking
is simply perfect, so natural and unaffected. Her
language is eloquent and she speaks without notes
with the greatest ease and freedom. Altogether
she is a charming, young woman, and we cannot
help regretting that the Salt Lake people had not
the privilege of hearing her.
	It is true that we knew she was coming having
been informed by letter, but were not notified of
the exact time so as to be sufficiently sure, to ad-
vertise a lecture, besides not having her consent
which would have been positively essential.
	Miss Balgarnie speaks for the Liberal Associa-
tions, she styles herself a thorough-going Liberal
and her sympathies are all with the wage-earning
women of all countries, but her work lies with the
working-women of England,Scotland and Ireland.
She tells some very pathetic tales of their condi-
tion and how these Associations are helping them
to better themselves.
	Miss Balgarnie represented at the Woman’s
National Council in Washington as Fraternal Del-
egate, Associations numbering nearly ninety
thousand women, amongst these were the British
Woman’s Temperance Association of which Lady
Henry Somerset is the honored President. The
Women's Peace and Arbitration Society, The
Women’s Liberal Federation of Great Britain
aud Woman Suffrage Associations.
	The morning after Miss Balgarnie’s arrival in
the City,(she came in on a late train), she came to
this office, and Mrs. Emily S. Richards called a
few minutes later and we three ladies went out
together, first making a call at the Deseret News
Office where in the editor’s sanctum the lady was
introduced to a trio of these distinguished gentle-
man C. W. Penrose, John Nicholson and W. J.
Sjodahl, she chatted with Elders Penrose and
Nicholson a few minutes pleasantly and then we
went to the Temple grounds, where she was
shown the Tabernacle and Assembly Hall etc,and
we began our climb to the top of the East tower
of the Temple. The fine view of the city from
the roof and windows of this magnificent structure
she thoroughly enjoyed, as she is an ardent ad-
mirer of the beautiful in nature. From the Temple
we repaired to the residence of Mrs. Phebe
Young Beattie where a delicious luncheon was
in waiting, also one or two other ladies, who had
heard of Miss Balgarnie’s arrival and were
anxious to meet her socially; among them Mrs.
Sarah M. Kimball, President of the W. S. A. of
Utah. After the lunch a barouche was at the
door, and the party of five drove with her about
town, called at the offices of President Wilford
Woodruff where the lady was introduced to the

[Column 2]

President and also to his Counselor Joseph F.
Smith, and others; she seemed to enjoy the few
moments conversation with the venerable Presi-
dent, and made some inquiries afterwards con-
cerning his age and appeared to think as every 
one must that he is a wonderfully well-preserved
man for his years. The party of fivethen dined at
the Templeton.
	We all talked and Miss Balgarnie had told us
of her tour in America and Canada, and we felt
more and more that her stay was much too brief
for her entertaining conversation.
	Mrs. Beatie opened her parlors for a informal 
reception in honor of Miss Balgarnie in the
evening, but it was impossible to send out many
even verbal invitations on such short notice, yet
a few interesting people assembled in the evening
and the lady conversed in an easy and graceful
way though no set speeches were made. She was
presented with a very handsome basket of choice 
flowers by one of the ladies of the party and
several little gifts of books from both ladies and
gentlemen.
	Among the most notable at the reception were
Apostle Franklin D. Richards and his wife Jane
S. Richards, his daughter Mrs. Nellie Webber,
Mrs. Carrie E. Dye, Mrs. M. Isabella Horne,
whom Miss Balgarnie had met in London and
passed a pleasant hour with in 1890, Mrs. Maria
Young Dougall, Mrs. Ann D. Groesbeck, Miss
Margery Dwyer, Mr. Dwyer, Mr. W. B. Dougall, 
and a few others; just before nine o’clock the
carriage came to take the lady away, her good
bye was hurriedly said and accompanied by two
or three of the ladies she took in the Salt Lake
theatre on her way to the train where an opera
company were giving a popular performance, and
then away to the Denver depot where we waited
to see her safe on board and off for New York
via Denver. Miss Balgarnie expected to sail on 
the S. S. Britanica on the 20th of April for her
home in London. It is our impression that the
lady is very much pleased with her visit to
America as a whole. The Yosemite valley she
considered worth almost risking one’s life
to visit. She spent considerable time traveling
in Canada as well, and had visited Niagara Falls 
several times. She was anxious to know concern-
ing the early pioneers to the valley realizing that
the privations and hardships must have been
great. Her visit was a real pleasure for she is a 
very charming person and especially so in con-
versation, though she is something of a radical in
opinions,she sustains the position she takes logi-
cally.
	We shall be very glad to hear of her safe ar-
rival in England, and are interested in her work
which is broad and thorough; and hope to see
what she tells the people in her public speeches
of her experience in America and her visit to
Utah.


THE WOMAN SUFFRAGE CAUSE.

	The advancement of woman's cause is noticable
in many places recently where more privileges are
being extended to women in voting for school
suffrage, municipal suffrage etc. Bills have been
introduced in the Legislatures of several states,
notably in New York, where a bill has passed the
Assembly giving women "the right to vote for all
and every officer hereafter to be elected in this
State and on every question to be submitted to a 
vote of the people." It is the opinion of Eliza-
beth Cady Stanton that the Senate will not pass
this bill, but if not now a day is not far distant
when similar measures will, everything tends to-
wards it; the race is being converted to woman's 
suffrage surely and thoroughly, not excitedly with
out educating but thoughtfully and with the bes
motives in view, the uplifting of humanity through
the mothers.


The bill referred to passed the Assembly April
15, by a vote of 69 to 34. There was some oppo-
sition from a Tammany Hall representative,
which it is said aroused so much indignation as to
carry the bill; following is the bill.
	“An act to prevent discrimination on account of
sex at elections.
	The people of the State of New York Repre-
sented in Senate and Assembly do Enact as Fol-
lows:
	Section 1. Every citizen irrespective of sex
shall hereafter be entitled to vote for all and
every officer hereafter to be elected in this State
and on any question submitted to a vote of the
people, and it shall be unlawful to make any dis-
crimination between citizens on account of sex at
such elections.
	Section 2. No poll clerk, inspector of election
or other election officer or person fulfilling such
duties, shall hereafter refuse to register or to re-
ceive the vote of any adult citizen at any such
election by resson of the sex of such citizen pro-
vided such citizens shall in all other respects
possess the qualifications now required by law.
	Section 3. This act shall take effect July 1893.
	In Kansas municipal suffrage was granted in
1887 and Gov. Humphreys of that State says "the
vote of women has increased at each election.”
At one of the City elections this year in that
state it is stated as a fact that nearly every woman
in the City voted and it was a grand victory for
the better elements of society. “At Jewell the
women nominated a ticket and elected it.” At
Le Roy the issue was the closing of the dives and
joints.” At Newton the woman vote was very
large and a woman was elected a member of the
school board.
	In Illinois the women are making good use of
the ballot for school suffrage. In Freeport in
that State over four hundred men came out to
vote, where last year there were only forty just
to keep a woman from being school trustee.
	At Evanston a conservative seat of learning
there was considerable enthusiasm, and a com-
mittee of woman suffrage advocates did effective
work as soon as they were positive the City At-
torney would allow them to vote, which was not
until the morning of the election. At Blooming-
ton 1,400 women voted for members of the Board
of Education. Women voted largely at Galva,
Hillsboro, Joliet, Aurora, Salem, Princeton,
Normal, Centralia, Vandalia, Effiingham and
pretty well all over the State where the school
elections have been held,
	So woman suffrage is making men wake up to
their privileges lest they should lose them. So
far so good. As a rule in all probability if wo-
men had the privilege of nominating they would
choose men or at least a majority of men. Wo-
men are vastly more generous towards men, than
men are chivalrous to women.
	Wyoming as yet stands alone in the matter of
universal suffrage and has demonstrated the
success of political equality without limitations.
In the House of Representatives in Congress
April 25, Clark of Wyoming introduced a bill
which if it becomes a law, will extend the right of
franchise to every woman in the country over
twenty-one years of age to vote for Representa-
tives for Congress. Thus step by step the way
is being paved with these stepping stones and
occasionally a corner stone is laid by some great
and grand woman in the structure of woman's
Temple of Freedom upon which an imposing
monument of honor may be erected by those who -
come after.
	Majestically the world moves onward and with
this great tide of humanity constantly increasing
in knowledge woman is keeping well abreast of
the time,and the figure of the woman representing
Liberty will ere long be enshrined in a living,
breathing race of women, instead of one carved
out of the cold marble.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


EDITORIAL NOTE

	Mrs. Young, President of the Relief Society,
and Mrs. Taylor, President of the Y. L. M. I. A.
have received official notice of the Biennial Meet-
ing of the National Council of Women which is
to occur in May 1892, and will be held in Chicago
and at which time it is expected they will be
present, as they are by virtue of the office they
hold ex-officio Vice Presidents of the National
Council. Important matters are to be brought
before the Council relating to the International
Council of Women which will meet in Chicago
during the World’s Columbian Exposition, and
will in all probability be the most imposing body
of women from various countries ever gathered
in an assembly for the transaction of business
pertaining to the elevation of womankind through
the advancement of all that pertains to the higher
cultivation of the powers of the human soul. One
of the advantages of the connection of these As-
sociations with the National and International
Councils of Women is in bringing into contact
women engaged in the various pursuits, occupa-
tions and professions that are opening wider
avenues of employment and progression, and
helping to sound the key-note of woman’s free-
dom to all the world. Although perhaps neither
Mrs. Young or Mrs. Taylor can make it con-
venient to attend this year on account of the long
distance, yet they will probably send letters ex-
pressing their views upon the subjects under con-
sideration, and also pay their quota of percentage,
which it was voted should be paid at stated inter-
vals during the intervening four years instead of
paying so large a sum as one hundred dollars
down.


UTAH SILK FOR THE WORLD’S FAIR.

Editor Exponent:
	Brother Graves, Supt. Utah Co. Silk Ass’n. at
the Relief Society Conference held in Provo on
the 15th inst. informed the meeting that Mrs. P.
P. Jennings of Salt Lake City, one of the Ladies’
Committee for the World’s Fair wished three silk
dress patterns made which they propose to wear
there,also a piece of Shot Silk for exhibition. The
following resolutions were sustained at the meet-
ing,
	1. Be it resolved that we, members of the Utah
Co. Stake Relief Society, will do all we can to
meet the wishes of the Ladies’ Committee in re-
gard the World’s Fair at Chicago.
	2. Be it resolved that the President of each
Ward Relief Society, appoint a committee of
three from their Ass’n. to assist in the same. 
	3.Be it resolved that an account of this meet-
ing be sent to the Deseret News and Exponent
asking all those who may have reeled silk or
cocoons that will reel,to send word to Mrs. M. A.
Till, Pres, of U. C. S. A. We hope to have the
active co-operation of these Societies, their
services having been enlisted in this industry
from the first organization in 1877. We have
sufficient spun silk to make one hundred and fifty
yds. fabric; but wish those having reeled silk or
good cocoons to confer with us as early as pos-
sible, we also wish to engage the services of one
or two good reelers. We desire to hear from
those interested in Silk Culture and will be
pleased to answer any question pertaining to the
same, and will post the societies in the near
future regarding their appointment of committees
and also what we wish them to do.
	M. A. TILL, Pres. U. Co. S. A.


LAID TO REST.
	The beloved Cor. Secretary of the W. P. C.A.,
Mrs.Emilie Tracy Y. Parkhurst, has passed away.
Last Thursday eve. the 21st inst, news was re-


ceived of her death after a lingering illness of a
few months. A woman of rare powers, her in-
fluence has been widely felt.  An unfaltering
friend, her life-work has been devoted to the
bettering of her kind.  She had the devotion and
respect of hosts of admirers whose hearts are
well nigh broken in an irreparable loss. She was
the organizer and stay of the P. C.W. P. A. and
none can fill her place with the same tact and
balance as she exercised.
	Today (Sunday) the sad last rites of the Catho-
lic Church over her body were read. The Church
was filled with mourning friends who had come
to take a farewell glimpse of this noble woman
whose life work ended all too soon. 
	ALMA ALDEN.
San Francisco, April 24, 1892.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., AND P. A.
REPORTS.

BOX ELDER STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of Box Elder Stake, convened in the
Tabernacle, Brigham City, on the 8th of March
President Olivia Widerborg presiding. Singing
"How great the joy;" prayer by Anna Wixom;
singing, "Great God attend while Zion sings;"
Treasurer's report read by Fannie Graehl.
	Counselor Zilla Rees: "We need strength
from our heavenly Father, to perform our daily
duties in the right manner; we need to be
watchful and prayerful; we know the evil one
is working hard; let us try to set a proper ex-
ample before our children.
	Sister Harper: "It behooves us to be united,
we must live in such a manner, as to merit the
approval of our heavenly Father."
	Sister Thorne: "My desire is to do my duty,
I feel it is good to meet together to build each
other up.'
	Sister Dewey: "We who are here, feel we
recieve the benefit of meeting together; we all
please our heavenly Father by feeling friendly
towards one another."
	Sister Christina Jensen desired to do her duty.
	Sister Harriet Hunsaker: "Let nothing
hinder us, that we can possible conquer, but try
to come together and assist each other."
	Counselor Mary Wright: "I feel we are a
blest band of sisters; this organization has been
a great blessing to us; the spirit of the Lord is
in our bosoms if we try to do our duty; let us
be prayerful."
	Emilia D. Madsen was the next speaker, then
singing: "May the grace of Christ." Benediction
by Sister Watkins. Afternoon session: singing:
"Guide us Oh! thou great Jehovah." Prayer by
Bishop Dewey. Singing: "How beauteous are
their feet."
	Sister Hubbard: It is long since I have en-
joyed the privilege of being here, on account
of poor health; it is my earnest desire to al-
ways have the Spirit of the Lord in my heart,
to enlighten my mind; if we fail to receive
blessings, it is our own fault, for our Father is
always ready to pour out blessings upon us; we
want to be worthy of the society of the faithful.
	President Olivia Widerborg: "I feel the Lord
has blessed us greatly; we have visited through
the Stake and found good sisters, that desire
to do their duties; the Relief Society sisters are
ready to go and look after the poor and needy
and the downhearted. I never saw a time
with greater need for mothers and wives to
live near to the Lord; plead for the Spirit
of God to assist you. The adversary is keen;
let us be united and keep in the straight and
narrow path. Spoke of the coming Jubilee.
	Counselor Charles Kelly: "I hear you are to
celebrate a Jubilee; fifty years have passed
since the Lord moved on his Prophet to organ,


ize this great help to the Church; if a con-
densed report was presented, it would astonish
the sisters; if any one should know the poor,
the Relief Society surely should; there is no
necessity that any one should suffer Zion."
He also made other good remarks.
	Sister Susannah T. Booth: "It looks as though
the sisters had started a new year with reso-
lutions to improve; I realize when we stag
away from our meetings, we miss something
and still those absent ones, perhaps, cannot
govern circumstances. We have to be charit-
able and long suffering."
	Condensed report read by assistant secretary
Anna Wixom. Mary Jensen: "We are not all
alike or brought up alike, but I feel we are
united; that makes it pleasant to work together."
We ought to be the most grateful people upon
earth, for we are the most blessed. Fifty years
ago we were organized; what a blessing it has
been to us; it has certainly made me better."
	Bishop Harper: "It matters not where the
Latter-day Saints meet, male or female, in the
Spirit of the Lord, their testimony is the same
and the Lord blesses those that are true and
faithful."
	Sister Watkins: "I have seen and heard the
Prophet Joseph many times, I know he was
the prophet of God. I was in the meeting
when the mantle of Joseph was received by
Brigham Young."
	"Bishop Hubbard: "I always rejoiced in the
company of the Prophet Joseph I never doubted
that he was a true Prophet, I have never
doubted this was the work of God. I was in
Nauvoo when the Relief Society was organized.
I pray the God of Israel to bless these sisters
and brethren; may they stand firm and faith-
ful."
	Sister Harding: "If mothers are not trying to
keep the Spirit of the Lord to help them, they
are making a great mistake. Sometimes the
greatest trials we go through, are the greatest
blessings we could receive.
	President Widerborg; reported the Scandi-
navian sisters Society said: "Sister Richards
visited me and sent her love to all the sisters;
let us all try our best and not get tired of
well doing. I see before me some of our
noblest women; do not be weary of this great
work." Conference adjourned for three
months. Singing: 'Lord dismiss us with thy
blessing." Benediction: Bro. Graham.
		EMILIA D. MADSEN, Cor Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]﻿

W. ﻿S. A. REPORTS.

	The Salt Lake Co. W. S. A. convened in the
13th, Ward Assembly Rooms, April 19th, 1892,
Vice President Louise K. Spencer in the chair.
Opened by singing, "Help The Working Wo-
man", prayer by Elizabeth Mc'Farlane; sing-
ing, "Columbia's Daughters."
	Mrs Nellie C. Taylor made a stirring speech
in behalf of working women, and deprecated
the manner in which some women looked down
upon those of their sex who were obliged to
work for their own support.
	Miss M. Goss gave an organ Solo very nicely.
Elizabeth Mc'Farlane read some newspaper
clippings on the subject of woman's labor
and made some comments on the same.
	Mrs. Maggie E. Bassett and Mr. Thomas
Ashworth, sang a duet, accompanied on the
organ by Prof. E. Stephens, which was very
much appreciated. Speeches by Margaret A.
Caine and Vice Prest. Phebe. C. Young, follow-
ed by a song by Miss Maud Pratt, closed the
exercises. The roll was called and the meeting
adjourned until the third Tuesday in May at
the same time and place.
		C. C. R. WELLS, Sec.

W. S. A. OF UTAH.
	A called meeting of the Woman Suffrage

[Column 2]

Association of Utah was held April 7th, in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall; Pres. S. M.
Kimball presiding. Meeting was opened by
singing, "Come, come away," from the Wo-
man Suffrage song book. Prayer by Bathsheba
W. Smith and the exercises continued by sing-
ing.
	Electa Bullock, of Provo, read an "Allegory
on Woman's Rights," by Josiah Allen's Wife;
she also stated they had a manuscript paper
edited monthly.
	President Kimball stated that she wanted
the foundation laid for a grand convention in
the fall; read some questions that had been
prepared to be answered at the convention of
October 1892. Spoke of a committee to recom-
mend a course of study for the associations
throughout the Territory, but had found that
the circumstances in the various counties were
so different that it did not seem possible to
carry the same course out in all.
	Lucy A. Smith, Farmington, read a few of
her ideas on the suffrage question which were
listened to with rapt attention.
	Jane S. Richards thought that if woman's
suffrage was good for a few it was good for all,
and believed that when the time came to share
the benefits of it all would be anxious to do so.
	President Kimball spoke of the great ad-
vantage that would be derived from having a
hall where women could go,and where literature
could be obtained. A call from the stand was
made for a representative from Emery county
and was responded to by Josie Childs. Meet-
ings in that county had not been held for some
time. Women should read, for that was the
best way to gain knowledge. Emily Richards
hoped President Kimball would be preserved
twenty-five years to labor in the cause, for she
had the courage to say what she thought.
(Applause.) President Joseph Smith had
turned the key for Women in this dispensation;
it was six years after this that women of the
nation roused themselves in endeavoring to ob-
tain their rights.
	Margaret Mitchell and Caroline E. Dye
made a few remarks upon the suffrage ques-
tion. Elmina S. Taylor made a stirring speech
and stated she had never failed to cast her vote
when she had the privilege.
	Mattie Barrus, of Wyoming, being in the
congregation, wished to add words of encour-
agement. Had voted there, also held office,
and had seen public offices filled by women
who fulfilled their duties much more credit-
ably than many men had, who occupied those
offices previous to the women.
	Elizabeth Howard, president of Salt Lake
County, Joanna Patten, of Provo, and Dr. E.
S. Barney spoke briefly on the suffrage ques-
tion.
	Mrs. Lapish of American Fork, was anxious
for Sarah M. Kimball, the Susan B. Anthony
of Utah, and other ladies to visit the associa-
tion in her district, for it would do much to-
wards stirring the subject up.
	Meeting then adjourned.
		ADAH CROXALL, Secretary.

S. L. CO. W. S. A.
	The regular monthly meeting of the Salt
Lake Co. W. S. A. was held in the 13th ward
Assembly Rooms, March 15, 1892. Pres.
Elizabeth Howard in the chair. Opened by
singing from the suffrage song book "A suf-
frage song." Prayer by Julia Druce. Sing-
ing, "New America." Roll called Minutes
of previous meeting read and approved. After
which nine new members were admitted.
Annie Brixon of the 4th ward, Eliza Barton of
the 21st ward, and Margaret A. Caine of the
2nd ward, were appointed to act as agents of
the suffrage society in their respective wards.
	Dr. E. S. Barney spoke upon the duties of
these agents. The following programme was
then rendered.

[Column 3]

	Mary Silver made a short, interesting speech
upon suffrage. Mary A. Freeze read a poem
"The Yellow Ribbon." Elizabeth Mc'Farlane
spoke upon an article in the Herald against
women being given the right of suffrage; also
referred to an article written in reply by C.
W. Penrose in the News. I am very much
pleased to have such articles come before the
people,and it shows we are attracting attention,
it is agitation that brings education, I was very
much pleased with the remarks of Pres. Angus 
M. Cannon at our suffrage Sociable, and would
like to see one of his sentiments printed. "It
is easy to understand the love and affection
which a man bears for his wife; the love of
parents for their children, but the love and de-
votion of Susan B. Anthony to her sex is be-
yond comprehension and she might justly be
called the mother of her sex." Mrs. Mc'Far-
lane also read a Scotch Poem.
	Dr. E. S. Barney read an article from the
Evening News written by C. W. Penrose in
favor of suffrage for woman.
	Lillie Freeze "I feel that in this suffrage
move I am experiencing something which I
have longed for a long time, not knowing what
it was I did want."
	Notice of a meeting to be held on Friday
March 18th in the 12th ward was given.
	Pres. Howard had been greatly pleased and
instructed in the exercises and felt much
pleasure in attending these meetings.
	Meeting adjourned until the third Tuesday
in March at the same hour and place.
		M. A. CAINE, Ass't. Sec.

AMERICAN FORK W. S. A.
	Dear Editor: If you will give us a little space
in the Utah woman's paper I will try and
give your readers a little knowledge how the
suffrage cause is prospering here. We have a
paid up membership of one hundred and eleven
members. We hold meetings the last Friday
in each month in the Meeting House, by kind-
ness of Bishop Halliday. Meetings are fairly
attended; we have a Civil Government class of
eighteen enrolled students. Visiting Suffrage
members who take no part in the exercises but
who are interested listeners, three to eight.
Our class is becoming very interesting, and
much honor is due Mrs. Ellen Jakeman of
Provo, who kindly offered to instruct these
classes. We also petitioned the Am. Fork City
Council for the use of City Hall for W. S. civil
government class. Our petition was granted
unanimously. Mayor Cunningham instructed
the Sheriff to have a fire made in the Hall
and have it lighted every Monday evening for
the use of the Am. Fork W. S. civil govern-
ment class. Now we feel very proud and ap-
preciate the magnanimity of such men and it is
for such men we would vote to keep in office
who can accord to women such privileges; surely
the movement for equal rights of women is
advancing steadily. We have also made some
praiseworthy appropriations to the amount of
seventy-five dollars; we have a small bank
account of sixty dollars, and in the Treasury
nine dollars for incidental expenses we have
been very successful socially and financially
in giving entertainments; the association has 
property on hand to the amount of a little
over thirty dollars. I will honorably mention
our national flag, twelve feet long, with golden
star for Wyoming upon it, and as each State
gives to woman her emancipation we shall
make the stars golden, until the blue field
shall be covered with the grand galaxy of
golden States. We have the life size pictures
of E. C. Stanton, Susan B. Anthony and the
Susan B. Anthony of Utah, Sarah M. Kimball,
all in gilt frames, with other paraphernalia
for suffrage occasions. We have international
council of women for 1888 and 1891 which we
loan to members on time. We have fifty-one
subscribers to WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Woman's


Tribune. Women's Column, and Woman's
Business Journal. Also in looking over the tax
list we find in Am. Fork precinct one hundred
and nineteen Women who own property to the
amount of sixty-eight thousand dollars on
which they pay taxes, this is taxation and no
representation. Praying that women will
never quit nor get weary in the suffrage cause
until they are both heard and possess the great-
est boon ever given to humanity—the ballot.
	Yours for suffrage.
		HANNAH S. LAPISH, President.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]

OBITUARIES.

	MARIAN DALLIN WHEELOCK.
Dear Sister Wells:
		It is with feelings of the deepest
sympathy that I communicate to you the death
of our beloved sister, Mrs. Marian Dallin Whee-
lock, who departed this life on the 13th of
March after a lingering illness of eight weeks,
which she bore with patient resignation. She
was a loving and affectionate wife and tender
mother, and was gifted with many noble and
redeeming qualities. Sister Wheelock was the
daughter of Tobius and Anthea Dallin, was
born in Newport, Monmouthshire, England,
May 27th, 1831. She embraced the gospel in
her girlhood and emigrated to Utah in 1852.
Her devotion to the cause of truth has been
manifested in her daily life. She was an earn-
est worker in whatever she engaged in, and
her loss will be greatly felt.
	For many years she was a faithful and
diligent teacher in the Sunday School, where
her labors will be greatly missed. During the
last five years she was president of the Primary
Association of the South Ward, Mt. Pleasant,
but in Aug, 1891, sent in her resignation on
account of failing health.
	She never was happier than when laboring
among the youth of Zion. She was held in the
highest esteem by not only the children of
Mt. Pleasant, but by a host of friends who
knew her throughout the Territory.
	She had the love of all she knew, and if she
had an enemy we knew it not. Her aged
husband has the heartfelt sympathy of the en-
tire community, as also her bereaved children.
	The funeral was largely attended by a host
of sympathizing friends and relatives.
		M. F. C. MORRISON.

ELIZABETH ALLRED.
	In loving remembrance of Sister Elizabeth
Allred, wife of Bishop J. A. Allred, and a faith-
ful Counselor in the presidency of the Relief
Society of Sanpete Stake, associated also with
Sister Sarah Peterson, which place she filled
honorably until her death; she was ever a wise
Counselor. Her demise occured February
22nd, 1892, of pneumonia, at her residence in
Spring City, at the age of 69 years. As a kind
neighbor, faithful counselor and a true friend,
I regarded her with the utmost love and affec-
tion, and on my return home after an absence
of four months I shall miss her society and
companionship more than I can tell, as she was
always one of the first to welcome me whenever
I had been absent.
	Sister Allred was also my Counselor in the
Relief Society at Spring City, Sanpete Co., in our
first Society there many years previous to the
Stakes organization, and I mourn her loss most
deeply and sincerely though I feel assured she
has gone to a better world where all care and
suffering is over and the weary are at rest.
	She has left a host of friends, for whom she
always had a smile and a kind word, whatever
her own troubles might be. She never ceased
to mourn the loss of her only son, Stephen, who
was accidentally killed by the train at Thistle
Station in Dec. 1890, more than a year previous
to her death, leaving a very numerous family

[Column 2]

to whom she was much attached and for whom
she had the tenderest sympathy.
	She was always a faithful wife and mother,
seeking every opportunity to promote the hap-
piness and comfort of the family of her hus-
band, ever their true nurse in sickness, affliction
and trials, watching over them with all the
care and anxiety of a true mother and wife,
ready and willing at all times to sacrifice her
own comfort for their benefit. Together with
her husband, she entertained their friends and
neighbors in the most hospitable manner.
	Sister Allred will be greatly missed as a
representative woman in Sanpete Stake, having
been in the habit of traveling and meeting
with the sisters in the various localities for the
last ten or eleven years; but she has gone from
our midst, and we will see her dear face no more
in our assemblies; but let us, my sisters, emu-
late her noble example that we may be pre-
pared to dwell with her and the many loved
ones who have passed behind the vail. Rest
in peace, dear sister, and may we meet again
where there shall be no more sad partings.
		M. A. P. HYDE.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Miss Susan B. Anthony will attend the an-
nual meeting of the Michigan E. S. A., to be
held at Battle Creek, May 4 and 5.
	The New York Legislature is flooded with
protests against the proposals to license the
social evil. Petitions against it are coming
in, the Buffalo Evening News says, "by the
thousand" and "by the cord."
	The Republican women of Wyoming are
talking of the formation of a woman's Re-
publican League with the idea of aiding the
party which "gave statehood to Wyoming and
with it presidential suffrage for women."—Ex.
	Sorosis celebrated its twenty-fourth birthday
at Sherry's last month. Three hundred women
sat down to breakfast at tables decked with
smilax, violets and roses. The question for
discussion was "Women's Clubs—their evolu-
tion, their present relations to women and to
society, and their future development."
	The WOMAN'S JOURNAL remarks that while
nearly half the States of the Union have given
women school suffrage and have found it harm-
less, "these school suffrage States are still afraid
that the most disastrous results would follow
municipal suffrage." This seems to be rather
a naive admission that the workings of woman
suffrage, so far as experimented with, are not
at all convincing to the States which make the
experiment.—Boston Daily Journal.
	An amusing incident is reported in connec-
tion with the recent exhibition of the bust of
Louisa M. Alcott, made by Mr. Elwell, the
sculptor, whose boast it is that he was one of
Miss Alcott's "boys." When the bust was
displayed with other works of art at a studio
reception, two women were observed to pause
before a bust of Mary Magdalene and heard to
say, in tones of disappointment, that it did not
come up to their ideal of Miss Alcott.


[Column 1]
DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP,
Will commence her Spring class in Obstetrics
and Nursing on Monday May 9, 1892—at
her Office 18, S. Main St. 

	MRS. M. E. VAN. M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p.m.

[Column 2]
	THE WOMAN'S TRIBUNE,
Edited and published weekly at Washington,
	D. C., by CLARA BEWICK COLBY.
Price, $1.00 a year.  Trial Subscriptions,  five
	weeks for 10 cents.
The Woman's Journal, of Boston, and the Woman's Tri-
	bune, of Washington, D. C., will be sent to one ad-
	dress for $3.00 per year.

	Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
	Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
	ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
	AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
	POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But-
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 63 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
Three doors west of Theatre.

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS

[Rio Grande Logo]
THE
Standard Gauge
RAILWAY!
THROUGH THE 
ROCKY MOUNTAINS!
Choice of Three Distinct Routes,
AND THE
MOST MAGNIFICENT RAILROAD SCENERY
IN THE WORLD.
Two Fast Express Trains Daily
EACH WAY BETWEEN
OGDEN, SALT LAKE AND DENVER.
ELEGANT RECLINING CHAIR CARS!
Free of Charge.
Direct Connections made in Union Depots.
THE MOST THOROUGHLY EQUIPPED RAILWAY
IN THE WEST.
D. O. DODGE, A. E. WELBY, J. H. BENNETT,
Genl. Mgr.   Supt.  G. F. & P. A.

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
DAVD JAMES Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


Hana F. A. Richards

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

Vol. 20.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1892.		No. 21


CONTENTS.

	Manners of Working Women—N. V. D. In
Rural England—A Story. The Good Spirit—M.
E. Kimball. In Memoriam—Alma Alden. Cure
for Diptheria. Woman's Work in Mexico—M.
Woman's Rights—Annie E. Waldron. Lady
Somerset's Good-bye—Ex. Economy of Time—
Sarah Ann Howard. World's Fair Notes.
Obituaries.
	EDITORIAL:—Fast Day May First. Editorial
Notes. Birthday Party. Birthday Anniversary.
Resolutions of Respect. Nurses and Accoucheurs.
U. W. P. Club—Ellis R. Shipp, M. D., Sec.
Seventy-Second Anniversary—Edward Stevenson.
	POETRY:—The Capstone—R. M. F. Differ-
ences—L. Lula G. Richards. Outgrown—Julia
C. R. Dorr.


[Column 1]

THE CAPSTONE.

Hearken! O ye house of Israel
	List, ye nations one and all,
Hear it echo from the mountains,
	Know ye not the prophet's call!
See the stars, and stripes are waving
	From the temple's topmost tow'r,
While below proud hearts are melting
	With the impress of the hour.

'Tis a joyous day for Israel,
	Lo! the Capstone has been laid;
Saints and prophets, sires and sages,
	For this day have longed and prayed;
See the mighty hosts assembled,
	Hear the hills and valleys ring,
With the shouts and loud hosannas
	Which they raise to God their king.

Gaze upon the massive structure,
	With its gleaming spires like gold.
While the angel through his trumpet
	Seems to shout, ye nations, hold!
I've a message to deliver,
	Cease one moment from your strife;
Listen to the joyful tidings,
	I have brought eternal life.

Do you know and understand it?
	Once more Father calls to you,
My kingdom's nigh, repent! repent!
	Time is short, the years are few.
Come up to the house of Jacob,
	Honest hearts from ev'ry clime,
Saint or sinner, Jew or Gentile
	Know ye not ye all are mine?

Come and listen to my servants,
	Heed their teachings while 'tis day;
O how often I have warned you,
	To seek out the narrow way.
Aye, how oft my wayward children,
	I have called to you in vain;
But my heart is filled with pity
	So I call you once again.

'Tis the everlasting Gospel,
	Through my servants I proclaim;
Yet in anger you reject them
	Some of them you e'en have slain,
If you won't receive their teachings,
	Cease, O, cease your bitter hate,
For their wrongs make reparation,
	Hasten, ere it be too late.

Soon there comes a day of Judgment,
	Even now 'tis at your door,
When dark scenes of desolation,
	Over land and sea shall pour.
When the troubles come upon you,
	And you feel the chast'ning rod,
Then perchance you'll think of Zion,
	And the humble ones of God,

[Column 2]

That have crossed the trackless desert,
	Many long and weary miles,
And for liberty of conscience,
	Many times have been exiles;
Yet they've builded these foundations,
	And they laid them broad and deep;
Upon which mine holy temple,
	Shall in grandeur stand complete.

So again I've sent to warn you,
	To flee from your native lands,
And come gather with my people
	Who shall teach you my commands.
They shall teach you truth and virtue,
	And amid the trying hour;
You shall gather round my temples
	And be witness' of my pow'r.

			R. M. F,


[Column 1]

MANNERS OF WORKING WOMEN.

	The question, whether woman should be
allowed to be independent and earn her own
living is no longer open to debate. How she
shall earn it, has also been answered, by throw-
ing open to her almost every line of business to
which she seeks admittance. A new element
has been introduced into society, and that it
is a fixed element no one will deny. What
the effect will be is not so easily foreseen.
	Every day you may see on our streets a
large number of women, who go quietly and
briskly to their different vocations. The ma-
jority are stenographers and clerks, though
there is a slight sprinkling of dress makers,
telephone exchange girls, compositors, and girls
who work in book-binderies, and printing offices.
They are not brusque, masculine creatures as
you might expect; on the contrary they wear
bangs and ruffles and laces just as other wo-
men do. Some are pretty and some are plain;
some plump, some thin, and so far as appear-
ances go, they are like the rest of womenkind
who are not wage-earners.
	Are their manners coarse and their language
uncultivated? In order that you may better
judge of that, let me tell you how they lived
in a boarding home, in another city, which
I visited not long since. One girl introduced
me, another took me to the tea-table, a third
invited me to family worship; and when I walk-
ed by mistake into a stranger's room, she did
not swear, nor cast a boot jack at me, but quiet-
ly, donned wrapper and slippers and guided me
to my own room.
	So far as conversation is concerned you will
not hear any more slang and silly expressions
there, than in a young lady's boarding school
or co-educational institution. At the table,
one day, I heard the following quotation in
regard to the potatoes, which a stenographer
pronounced bonus, melior optimus, and there
were discussions in regard to theological tenets,
mission schools, parties, the news of the day,
entertainments, etc. Just before tea time, a
slight little girl came into the library and sat
down by the register to warm herself.
	"Are you cold, Miss H.?" asked another girl,
who sat near, reading. "Yes, I am chilled
through and through. Had to work all day
(this was in January.) without a fire. They
are taking out the furnaces to put in steam,
and I've had to work with a shawl around me."
	"Oh! Miss H——, play something for us
won't you?" interrupted a third.
	"What shall I play?"
	"A waltz."

[Column 2]

	And in a minute the chilled fingers were
getting warm upon the keys of the piano, and
the little girl forgot as she played so eagerly
that for ten hours, those same fingers had put
paper into a printing machine for ten cents an
hour. In a short time a dozen young ladies
were waltzing as merrily as a lot of school girls,
far merrier than many school girls of the pres-
ent day, who have to spend so much strength,
nerve and energy upon their lessons, that
dancing is a discipline and not a pleasure.
	In the reception room after breakfast a half
dozen girls meet to gossip and look over the
daily papers. One pale, thin girl drew her
shawl over her shoulders, arranged herself
comfortably on the sofa, and said, "My cold is
so bad, the Doctor says I can't go to the tele-
phone exchange today. Won't Miss M. the
manager be put out? You see its harder to
get a girl to supply in the day time, as the
night workers are too tired, and you cannot
find any else. I've had a new girl the past
week, trying to teach her the work, and I was
completely tired out. Women are so stupid
about telephones anyway. I'd rather have ten
men ring up exchange than one women. A
woman will ring and ring, and before she has
listened for your answer, she will ring again,
and you'd better drop the 'phone quick or she'll
give you a ring in the ear, and that is no
laughing matter. After she has rung half-a-
dozen times and has finally listened for your
answer, then she says Excha-a-nge, can you tell
me whether Mrs. So-and-So has a telephone?
After you've told her politely, to look in her
book and see, she'll probably say, "But Ex-
change, I've lost my book." So you must
find out and tell her. A man won't lose his
book. He won't ask about a telephone num-
ber unless it isn't in his book."
	"Do you like it in the exchange?" Asked
a visitor.
	"Oh! yes," she said, "The work is light after
all. You have to keep your wits about you.
The only thing is so much electricity is hard
on the system, makes you nervous." And she
gave a dry hacking cough and listlessly folded
her hands.
	Two pretty stenographers were chatting
by the window.
	"Do you know we're both invited by Rev.
R——and wife to come out to their mission?
Then we are invited to stay to tea. There's a
young minister helping him. We must look
up some theological points, so as to have an
interesting discussion." And thus they chat-
ted on.
	This is a sketch of women as they appear in
a working woman's home, but there is the same
type in other places.
	In manners and morals working women
do not compare unfavorably with their more
fortunate sisters? Contact with the world gives
shrewdness; self-dependence, produces dignity
in many cases, and politeness is necessary to
their positions. Working for bread has made
and will make a difference, in the lives of wo-
men.
	We honor the working girl because she has
done so well; and we ask that something be
done for her. Young men have their clubs,
lodges and associations, where they can go and
find suitable and profitable companionship;
but what is there for young women? In how
many cities are there clubs, industrial unions
or "Homes" for young women? There are art
clubs, literary clubs, musical clubs, for women


who have homes, friends, money, and the com-
forts of life. What is there for the woman who
has none of these? Work: that must be all of
life to her, and that is not enough. She can
only earn enough to clothe and house herself.
Clearly, then, some one who has money must
do for the working woman what she can not do
for herself. If in every city there were work-
ing women's "Homes" and clubs life would be
much brighter and sweeter for hundreds of
women.		N. V. D.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XIII.
	The interview between the doctor and Lady
Walton was not decisive, and rather unsatis-
factory than otherwise, yet Doctor Bland felt
hopeful of good results. He had given Lady
Walton some telling points and had succeeded
in making her feel she had a positive duty in
the matter, the responsibility of which she
could not evade.
	The doctor made a report of his visit to
Miss Conway and, at the same time, urged his
own cause so demonstratively that Jane felt
she could not much longer delay her betrothal.
She was free to accept an offer now that her
uncle was dead, who was really the only per-
son likely to have interfered, and she knew
he would approve of the doctor for he had
the utmost confidence in him. That he was
so much older, did not seem so objectionable
to Miss Conway as it would to most young
women, and she was in mind and character
companionable to both old and young.
	While she was revolving in her mind, what
she ought to do, and internally resolved not
to equivocate in the least, but give assurance
to her lover, or make a refusal of all which he
would be compelled to take as final, another
event occured that caused delay.
	The long expected stranger arrived; his com-
ing had been postponed until the gossip con-
cerning him had almost ceased; but when he
came it was renewed with all sorts of extrava-
gant exaggerations, and was more than a "nine
days wonder" in all the country side. He
came at night fall on horseback like a very
troubadour, only that he was accompanied by
good Mr. Burke who came with due ceremony
to install him at the "old ruin" as it was now
almost invariably styled. The family were
prepared, that is his apartments had been
made ready weeks before, and as for the larder
it was well supplied. "There will be queer
goings on when this young interloper comes,"
the old housekeeper had been saying to one
and another, "he'll have a lot of those foreign-
ers comin, to hunt no doubt, no better'n gyp-
sies—that's the race he comes of I warrant,
I've seen some dark-eyed dark-haired, heavy-
browed women, now and agin at night time
when there's been huntin going on, and rolick-
ing at nights, and we all kept up late with
midnight suppers and carousals."
	The doctor and lawyer were both his escorts
at the mansion, and Miss Conway acted as
hostess, and did her part grandly, as she al-
ways did everything. Lady Anna absented
herself as usual; she could not be persuaded to
come down—was, indisposed, her cousin had
said in apologizing for her. Burke insisted
on seeing her as he must leave early, but it
was of no avail; she had really been very
ill, and even the doctor himself dare not urge
her too far. Dinner was served as it had been
in Sir Edward's time, and though there was
some restraint in the manner of welcome, it
passed off without unpleasantness, and, after
some explanation concerning his journey, Mr.
Clairville retired to the apartments assigned
him. His benefactor's valet attended him, and
Miss Conway was left with the two gentlemen
alone, hoping that the mystery which envelop-

[Column 2]

ed this young man might be more satisfactor-
ily explained, yet dreading to inquire into any-
thing so enveloped in mystery. Finding her-
self de trop, she bade her visitors good night
and hurried to her cousin's room, who eagerly
asked concerning the new arrival.
	"What is he like, Jane, and how does he
carry himself?" "Is he—" and she paused a
moment, "is he anything like your uncle?" and
a great sob seemed to well up in her throat;
but she choked it down bravely. No, not at
all,  there is not the least resemblance; he
is very handsome, and a thorough gentleman—
pale and distingue; looks like a scholar, might
be a painter or musician."
	"Cousin Jane, will he assert himself as mas-
ter here, do you think, or make his presence a
dread to us?" "My dear, I cannot tell; he
spoke little, and seemed somewhat embarrassed;
his accent is peculiar, a sort of cross between
French and Italian."
	"Jane, why don't you ask about him; we
ought to know, now he has really come. I
never believed he would; I thought it would
turn out a farce of some sort, but alas! it is
serious enough; and, Jane, you look so sad too,
and I am not equal to all these changes."
Here the poor girl broke down utterly and the
maid was summoned to assist in putting her to
bed, while a sedative was administered to keep
her quiet. It was hours before she slept, and
then Jane stole away to her own room where
she lay dozing and half unconcious, not know-
ing what the morning would reveal, but deter-
mined, let what would come, she would pro-
tect and stand by her fragile, romantic cousin,
left orphaned and alone in the world.
	Early on the following morning she was
called down stairs to meet Mr. Burke, ere he
set out for London. He looked cross and wor-
ried as she entered the room, and his "Good
morning, Miss Conway," was decidedly im-
patient in tone.
	"I am compelled to return to town today;
Doctor Bland will make the needful expla-
nations. I only want to say, Monsieur Clair-
ville will remain here permanently now; I
shall be down again in a week's time and will
look after the settlements. You understand, I
presume, he is Sir Edward's son by an ill-as-
sorted marriage—a foreign actress, singer or
something of the sort. I'm not clear myself as
to his pedigree, but he's here to stay." This was
spoken with some irritability of manner as he
looked up and saw that Miss Conway had turned
very red in the face, and he brought down
his fist on the table at which he was seated and
nearly shivered the china, for his breakfast
had been brought in there that he might be off
hurriedly. It was scarcely light.
	Miss Conway made no reply, which angered
him exceedingly. "Zounds!" he exclaimed
"has'nt a man a right to his own inheritance,
let his mother be what she may? She's dead,
and can't trouble you any way!"
	By this time Jane recovered her composure
sufficiently to say, "When Doctor Bland con-
descends to tell us how matters stand, we shall
know what is best to be done."
	This enraged the lawyer beyond self-control,
and he declared women were always interfering,
where they had no business, and stalked out of
the room slamming the great, heavy door be-
hind him, and Jane sat stupefied, though she
distinctly heard him say to himself as he bang-
ed the door "these pestiferous women folks."
	Monsieur Clairville was a gentleman in all
his tastes and inclinations; even the servants
soon recognized his superiority, though they
were slow to acknowledge, or even to be civil
to the new comer, whom they looked upon as
no better than he should be, not having been
informed of his actual position. One need not
think it strange that Sir Edward had not
shown any affection for him, when he had not
even acknowledged his marriage to the boy's 

[Column 3]

mother. In fact, he had never seen him. The
young man was as much mystified as the young
ladies of the household, and really he was only
a boy, though tall and older looking than his
years. His mother had been dead many years
and he had never known aught of his father
save from his grandmother, who knew very lit-
tle herself, but insisted he was, "a wicked
English nobleman." She petted and indulged
the boy, and when he was sent away from her
to school she mourned for him as though he
were dead, for she realized he could never be
the same to her again any more than Marie his
mother had been after she went away among
great people. Money had been furnished reg-
ulary for the child's maintenance, through
other parties, and the name he bore was that
of the mother, assumed when she left the shel-
ter of home to go out as a singer into the great
world.
	The morning after Clair's arrival at the old
castle, he too arose early and went forth to
look at the place of which, during the last few
weeks, he had heard so much. He roved about
aimlessly, not knowing where to find the most
beauty (for he was an ardent admirer of the
beautiful,) and the morning was a glorious one;
the green fields and magnificent old trees were
charmingly luxuriant in flowers and foliage.
He could scarcely believe he had any part or
portion in this fine estate, so entirely different
from anything he had ever seen before. He
missed something though, for the country there
was somewhat level; though, the fine old woods
not far away made the landscape less tiresome
to one accustomed to the mountainous districts
where his life had been passed. How lonely
he felt withal, and he sighed as he thought
of the new scenes into which he must enter,
and tried to imagine how he ought to meet the
young lady (his sister) Mr. Burke had said,
he could scarcely believe it was true, though
he had been duly informed of the details; yet
Burke had represented her as such an aristo-
cratic creature, and, "mind you, young man,
she may not speak to you for months." These
were the exact words, so he did not anticipate
a very warm welcome from the ladies of the
household. It was late when he found his way
back to the house, for he had enjoyed the fresh
morning breeze and the songs of the birds, and
the freedom, of the out door scenes, and he
dreaded the drawing room and table etiquette,
and most of all the ladies of whom he knew so
little, especially ladies of rank. Again and
again he tried to decide what he should say
and how comport himself, but on this score his
mind was a blank. "If only Burke had re-
mained a day or two, or if the doctor would
come to my aid," but it was a hopeless case,
he must face it alone. He had already been
presented to Miss Conway, and he was inward-
ly thankful for that. He was so bewildered
he could scarcely find the way to his own room
where his valet was waiting, and vexed too
and he had to submit to such brushing and
polishing all of which seemed superfluous, and
at last he was told the family had been wait-
ing breakfast for hours. When he entered the
morning room where his cousin was he was
informed that Lady Anna was indisposed and
that she seldom came down stairs in the morn-
ing.  He ventured at last to ask "when shall
I see my sister, Lady Anna I mean; will you
have the kindness to introduce me, cousin Jane,
Miss Conway I should say?"
	"Certainly Monsieur Clairville, Hilliard,
pardon me Sir, we are such strangers and
scarce accustomed to each other's names as
yet."
	After the first few words exchanged between
them, these two conversed easily of this and
that; the young man was enthusiastic in regard
to the grounds he had seen, and Miss Conway
found him very entertaining. The day was not
so tedious to Clair as he had expected, and to-


wards evening he was formally presented to
his newly-found sister, who received him with a
cold indifference, yet when she learned that he
could sing with the guitar warmed towards
him considerably and begged him to give them
some music. The songs were magical as it
were, and the ice was broken.
	Dr. Bland, coming in later, found quite a
happy party, and the evening hours flew swift-
ly by; and when the time for retirement came
the good nights were reluctantly spoken. Mon-
sieur Clairville felt as though it must be all a
dream or a bewitching fairy tale.


thing; for it is written, "The proud and they
who do wickedly shall be as stubble and shall
be burned up." Pride being a delusive spirit
we may do wickedly before we are aware of it;
rather let us seek to be fit temples for the in-
dwelling of the Good Spirit which is a spirit
of love and confidence in good, also gives us
that peace of mind the world can neither give
or take from us.
	This being the important lesson of life, may
we learn it well, is the fervent desire of,
						M. E. KIMBALL.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	163


DIFFERENCES.
	TO SISTER ELVIRA, ON HER 60TH BIRTHDAY,
				MARCH 17, 1892.
"Not all alike!” Ah no! This world would be
	A stupid one, if we were all the same;
If on each point we could at once agree,
	Soon conversation would grow weak and tame.

One likes an apple best, and one a peach,
	Another still, prefers the luscious pear;
Important lessons these small items teach,
	When we can pause, and give them timely care.

For, as the mouth, so also is the mind;
	Strange differences control these heads of ours;
A grain of thought. keen, witty, or refined,
	One slights, another eagerly devours.

Some rise in grand sublimity aloft,
	The average mind of mortals far above;
And some like simple music, low and soft,
	Find comfort, strength and joy in quiet love. 

But oh! how bless’d the being in whose heart, 
	The Gospel key-note is for each attuned;
Who finds throughout God’s garden, in each part, 
	Rich fruits,though vines and trees are yet unpruned.

Who, with Eliza Snow, or Whitney soars,
	High heavenward, above all earthly towers;
With Emily bright inspiration pours,
	Or walks with “Emile” through fair, buried bowers.

With Zion's thousand poets offers praise,
	Or shouts heroic in the Truth’s defence;
Then joins with "Lula's” artless, childlike plays,
	In loving homage to sweet innocence.

Such is thy soul, Elvira, and today,
	I’ll close this Birthday tribute, I have pen’d,
By adding, I am bless'd, to feel and say,
	I claim thee as my sister and my friend.
							L. LULA G. RICHARDS.


OUTGROWN.

Nay, you wrong her, my friend, her love, has simply out-
	grown,
One can read the whole matter translating her heart by the
	light of one's own.
Two summers ago, when you wooed her, you stood on the
	self same plane;
Face to face, heart to heart, never dreaming your soul's
	could be parted again.

She loved you at that time entirely in the bloom of her
	life's early May.
And it is not her fault, I repeat it, that she does not love
	you today.
Nature never stands still, nor souls either; they either go
	up or go down,
And hers has been steadily soaring, but how has it been
	with your own?

She has struggled and yearned and aspired; grown purer
	and wiser each year
The stars are now farther above you in yon luminous
	atmosphere. 
For she whom you crowned with fresh roses, down yonder
	five summers ago,
Has learned that the first of our duties to God and ourselves
	is to grow.
Her eyes now are sweeter and calmer, but their vision is
	clearer as well;


Her voice has a tender cadence, but is pure as a silver
	bell.
Have you, too, grown purer and wiser as the months and
	the years have rolled on?
Did you meet her this morning rejoicing in the triumphs of
	victory won?

Nay, hear me—the truth cannot harm you; when today in
	her presence you stood
Was the hand that you gave her as white and clean as that
	of her womanhood? 
Go measure yourself by her standard, look back on the
	years that have fled,
Then ask, if you need, when she tells you that the love of
	her girlhood is dead.

She cannot look down to her lover—her love, like her soul,
	aspires;
He must stand by her side or above her, who would kindle
its holiest fires.
  Womankind.					JULIA C. R. DORR.


THE GOOD SPIRIT.

	Since we are told there is an opposite in all
things; how many of us are there who do not
feel the need of the Good Spirit to teach, and
give us light and intelligence on a subject of
so much importance.
	Our Saviour had the opposing spirit to meet,
all the days of His life; and do we expect any
thing less? No not if we learn the most im-
portant lessons of life.
	You will remember when He was baptized
and come up out of the water, that He saw
the Spirit of God descending like a dove and
lighting upon Him. And lo,a voice from heaven
saying, “This is my beloved Son in whom I
am well pleased.”
	Then was Jesus led up of the Spirit into the
wilderness to be tempted of the Devil. And
when He had fasted forty days and forty
nights He afterwards hungered.
	The tempter said, ‘‘If thou be the Son of
God command that these stones be made
bread.”—But He answered and said, “It is
written, man shall not live by bread alone, but
by every word that proceedeth out of the
mouth of God.
	Accordingly those who wish to become ac-
quainted with the Deity will search the
spriptures; and the good spirit will aid them
in their pursuit, and give them the joy and in-
telligence they desire if they do it in humility
not for controversy and dispute, but an earnest
desire to become acquainted with the spirit
that Jesus said He would send to comfort and
bless all who believe in Him.
	But wait a moment did He say all? Well
it is supposed that those who do believe will
keep His commands; for it is written in John
14th chp. and 15th verse, “If ye love me, keep
my commandments. And I will pray the
Father, and He will give you another Com-
forter, that He may abide with you forever;
even the Spirit of truth; whom the world can
not receive, because it seeth Him not, neither
knoweth Him but ye shall know Him for He
dwelleth in you, and shall be in you. 18th
verse, “I will not leave you comfortless; I will
come unto you.” 19th, “Yet a little while, and
the world seeth me no more, but ye see me, be-
cause I live ye shall live also.” 15th chap.
and 14th verse he said, “Abide in me and I
in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of
itself except it abide in the vine; no more can
ye, except ye abide in me—I am the vine and
ye are the branches; he that abideth in me
and I in him, the same bringeth forth much
fruit, for without me ye can do nothing. If a
man abide not in me,he is cast forth as a branch
and is withered; and men gather them and cast
them into the fire and they are burned.”
	Does not this show that we may lose our
faith and become as a dead branch and of no
account.
	May we never boast of being proud of any


IN MEMORIAM.
	Union Square Hall was filled with friends
and members of the W. P. A., on Saturday,
April 30, the occasion being the memorial
exercises held in honor of our dearly beloved
friend and co-worker, Mrs. E. T. Y. Parkhurst.
All that love and affection could do, was shown
in the perfect arrangement of floral gifts and 
tributes to the honored dead. The Hall pre-
sented the appearance of a lovely bower.
One table laden with delicate roses formed a
pretty frame for the photograph of Mrs. Park-
hurst, which seemed to throw light and peace
about it. Her empty chair heavily draped in
black stood near. After an organ prelude,
Mrs. N. B. Eyester, President of the Associa-
tion spoke in a few well chosen remarks
closing with a prayer. Mrs. Sarah B. Cooper
then rose and paid a feeling tribute to her who
had passed before. Touching were the 
thoughts she gave as she dwelt upon the many
noble qualities of Mrs. Parkhurst whom she 
had known and loved for twenty years, "Dead
she is not" said Mrs. Cooper, "only a thin veil
separates Emilie now from us; God has pro-
moted her to a higher work, but she still re-
mains among us guiding us in our various
duties." A number of pathetic poems written
in her memory were read. Among them the
best being those of Mrs. Emily Brown Powell
and Mrs. Hannah Neall. The latter lady has
been appointed to fill the chair left vacant by 
Mrs. Parkhurst. Letters of sympathy had
been received from all over the State. Tributes
of affection from those who knew and loved
her well. The music rendered was pathetic
and appropriate. The resolutions as adopted
were read and a copy was ordered to be sent 
to the bereaved family. Badges of mourning
were distributed to members, who were re-
quested to wear them thirty days. After the
audience singing "Nearer my God to Thee,"
the memorial exercises were at an end. None 
can express the deep sorrow that has befallen
not only the Association but hosts of admirers
and friend in this irreparable loss.
						ALMA ALDEN.
   San Francisco, May 4, 1892.


CURE FOR DIPHTHERIA.
	The Scientific American gives this remedy
for diphtheria: “At the first indication of
diphtheria in the child, make the room close,
then take a tin cup and pour into it a quantity
of tar and turpentine, equal parts. Then
hold the cup over the fire so as to fill the room
with fumes. The little patient on inhaling
the fumes will cough and spit out the mem-
braneous matter and the diphtheria will pass
off. The fumes of the tar and turpentine
loosen the matter in the throat and thus afford
the relief that has baffled the skill of physi-
cians.


The worthiest people are the most injured by
slander, as we usually find that to be the
best fruit which the birds have been pecking
at.—Swift.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, 	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
gne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as 
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	MAY 15, 1892.


FAST DAY MAY FIRST.
	The Fast meetings in the several wards in
this City on Sunday, the first of May, seem to
have been general seasons of rejoicing from the
reports and the spirit and feeling that has mani-
fested itself, and the liberality in giving for the
purpose designed. In most places there was
great freedom in speaking and the Spirit of God
was apparent. Large sums of money were do-
nated and there is no doubt but the Lord will pour
out a blessing upon his people proportionate to
the sacrifices made freely for the House of the
Lord, here in the center Stake of Zion. The poor
as well as the rich have part in this matter, and as
has been stated repeatedly by the Elders and
Bishops of the Church, the small amounts given
by them are as acceptable in the sight of the Lord
as the greater gifts from the abundance of the rich
and in this we have the beautiful illustration
of our Savior, in the New Testament where it is
written:
	“And Jesus sat over against the treasury, and
beheld how the people cast money into the
treasury; and many that were rich cast in much.
	“And there came a certain poor widow, and she
threw in two mites, which make a farthing.
	“And he called unto him his disciples, and
saith unto them, Verily I say unto you, That this
poor widow hath cast more in, than all they which
have cast into the treasury.
	“For all they did cast in of their abundance;
but she of her want did cast in all that she had,
even all her living,"
	We were strangely reminded of this in the re-
marks of President Cannon at the Priesthood
meeting when he said even the poorest among
our people who received support from the Church
should pay tithing of that which they received.
Those who give to the poor the Savior said
“lendeth to the Lord,” but there must surely be a
greater blessing when the poor give of their
scanty means.
	The circumstances under which this people
have built Temples are almost marvelous. In
Nauvoo many lived on potatoes and salt with
sometimes a little corn meal; and when they
could no longer subsist would leave for a respite
to go and work a few days for some one outside
who could afford to pay them, that they might
have support for their families while they were
laboring upon the Temple. One brother who
died recently labored there without remuneration
and so zealous was he to perform that work
“stone cutting,” that he fasted until he fainted at
his work. In Kirtland the sisters who had cows
that gave milk would never use butter upon their
own tables, but gave it all as a free donation to
the men who worked on the Temple; and many
other sacrifices the saints made in those early
days, that those of this generation know not of.
	If some of our young sisters now thought it

[Column 2]
needful, they might contribute of their abundance,
and surely the Lord would pour out blessings
more than recompense. Some young girls we
are aware have already given liberally; and their
names are recorded, and they will never regret
giving for such a noble purpose. Zion is to be
built up by the Saints, not altogether the rich but
the poor, the working people, those who earn
their bread by the sweat of their brow, and not
only men but women; they have their part to do
in the great Latter-day dispensation, and an active
part, though they do not preach the Gospel to the
nations; their testimony to the truth, their fidelity
and faithfulness are as necessary as that of the
Elders in Israel, and when the Temples are dedi-
cated and the work of redemption for the dead is
to be performed their help is just as essential.
	Already Zion is beginning to be the wonder of
the world, and the eyes of all nations are upon
her. There is much to be done and there need
be no idlers in the vineyard. The young people
have much cause for gratitude that their lines are
cast in pleasant places compared to those of the
early pioneers in the work; and if their oppor-
tunities are greater, more will be required at their
hands. The greatness and magnitude of the work
increases, and the need of superior talent is be-
coming more and more apparent. The arts and
sciences open up avenues whereby many things
can be ingeniously and skillfully, done that
formerly took years to accomplish in the old way.
In various ways the Lord is hastening his work-


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	This is the time of paying memberships for the
coming year for the Hospital, and all those who
feel like paying up dues, already left over will
confer a favor by coming forward with the means;
also those who pay regularly will please remem-
ber their membership expires with May 1892.—As
the Hospital is at present very much in need of
funds, favors small or large will be gladly well
comed.
	A benevolent sister interested in the welfare of
the sick and afflicted has recently made a very
acceptable and useful donation to the Deseret
Hospital, which the Board of Directors gratefully
acknowledge with thanks. The gift consists of a
complete bedroom set with bed and bed furnish-
ings bed linen etc., new and of good quality; the
lady also intends to replenish the bedding, towels
and other things when needful, from time to time;
that is to keep up this one bed etc. The ladies of 
the Board have for ten years now labored faith-
fully for this charitable institution, and any gift of
this sort is perhaps more fully appreciated be-
cause of the small resources available to keep up
the current expenses of the institution. Many
others of our sisters could well afford to do this
and would be conferring a blessing indeed upon
suffering humanity.
	We had the pleasure in company with Pres.
Zina D. H. Young of this City, of visiting on
Wednesday and Thursday of last week, Spring-
ville and Payson in the interest of the Relief
Society. Pres. Mary John and her Counselor
Marilla Daniels of Utah Stake had invited us to
go with them on this trip as changes were to be
made in the organizations. At Springville four
new branches were made out of the former one,
and at Payson two branches from the one; as
these large wards had been divided and new
Bishops set apart to preside, it became necessary
also to make these changes in the Relief Society.
We were everywhere cordially welcomed and the
meetings were well attended by both brethren
and sisters; the Bishops at each place mani-
festing special interest in the work of the sisters.
Sisters John and Daniels went on to Goshen to
hold meetings there on Friday, and Sister Young


remained over a day at Springville to visit her
brother, Oliver B. Huntington, while we returned
home Friday morning, well pleased with the visit,
fuller particulars of which will be given in our
next issue.


BIRTHDAY PARTY.

	Thursday evening, May 5th, the home of
Brother and Sister Jos. H. Felt was invaded by a
host of their friends who had arranged to surprise
Sister Louie Felt on the anniversary of her birth-
day. A genuine surprise it proved to be, but
nevertheless the lady proved herself equal to the
occasion, and opened her parlors to the unbidden
guests. A very merry crowd they were, and the
evening passed pleasantly with songs and recita-
tions, good-humored jokes, and some graver
speeches and withal an excellent spirit.
	The first speech was by President Jos. E.
Taylor, who referred to the many good deeds of
the hostess, and testified of the power made
manifest in her behalf when she lay ill and given
up to die, by the physician and many of her
friends; said much calculated to comfort and en-
courage her, and warmly congratulated her on her
birthday etc. Brother Charles Livingston sang a
real old-fashioned Scotch song; Louie Felt, the
daughter, sang with piano accompaniment “Sing
me the sweet old songs,” and one or two others,
she has a fresh clesr voice; Miss May Anderson
and Miss Felt played a duet on the piano which
the lovers of instrumental music very much en-
joyed. Brother Charles Denney gave the “Rose
of Allandale,” acquitting himself well; and
Brother Elihu Barrell, also sang one of the
favorite ballads;  Mrs. Nellie Taylor recited in
her usual dramatic style “Her Letter,” President
C.W. Penrose, L. T. Freeze, B. H. Roberts and
E.B. Wells each made a few remarks; Brother C.
B. Felt recited very pathetically the poem “Too
Late.” Excellent refreshments were served dur-
ing the evening by the young girls present, and a
general good feeling animated all. Sister Louie
Felt responded to the call of Brother Penrose for
an expression of her feelings, in a few well chosen
words, testifying to her love for and appreciation
of her many kind friends, and Elder J. H. Felt
made the closing speech, thanking one and all for
this expression of affection and regard. It was
certainly an enjoyable evening calculated to cheer
the hearts of all who participated therein. Mrs.
L. L. Felt, Dr. Maggie C. Shipp, and Della
Eardley were the originaters we were informed of
the demonstration. About sixty persons were
present.


BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY.

	Tuesday, May third,was the seventieth anniver-
sary of the birthday of Sister Bathsheba W.
Smith, one of the most noted, and one of the best
known women in all Israel. She is the widow of
the late President George A. Smith, a cousin of
Joseph Smith the Prophet, and for many years
First Counselor to President Brigham Young.
Sister Smith holds the honored position of Coun-
selor to Sister Zina D. H. Young, General Presi-
dent of the Relief Society. The party given in
honor of Sister Smith’s birthday was held at the
residence of her grand-daughter, Mrs. George
Horne, in the 19th Ward.
	The First Presidency of the Church were
present, Wilford Woodruff, George Q. Cannon,
and Joseph F. Smith, and the Presiding Bishop,
Wm. B. Preston, also the Bishop of the Ward,
John Tingey, and Hon. C. W. Penrose of the
Presidency of this Stake, Patriarch Joseph Horne
and some other brethren among whom we noticed
Fred Taylor, M. D., son of President John
Taylor, who has recently returned from abroad.


There were, as a natural consequence in a party
of this kind many more sisters than brethren;
Mesdames Zina D. H. Young, M. Isabella Horne,
Sarah M. Kimball, Emma Woodruff, Harriet A.
Preston, Eliza T. Cannon, Priscilla Jennings,
Julina Smith, Bathsheba Merrill, E. B. Wells,
Sarah J. Smith, Maria W. Wilcox, Julia Pack,
Helen Smith, Romania B. Pratt, M. D., Elizabeth
Stevenson and others too, many to mention all
the names.
	It was a very pleasant affair, the company all
seemed to vie with each other in bestowing
merited praise and good words upon Sister Smith
the heroine of the occasion, and in truth a real
heroine, when one considers what she has en-
dured for the Gospel's sake. Many floral gifts
were presented and other pretty and appropriate
remembrances for friendship's sake.
	Prayer was offered by Bishop Preston and short
speeches were made by President Woodruff and
President Cannon, Sister Kimball and Sister
Young and by President Smith; each of the
speakers referred to their long acquaintance with
Sister Smith and the pleasant remembrances of
the days gone by, as well as the trying scenes
through which they had passed together.
	Sister Smith made some very appropriate re-
marks appreciative of the good wishes and kind
feelings of her friends who had honored her, and
expressed her joy in the Gospel, her countenance
beaming with delight and satisfaction she looked
indeed beautiful with the crown of seventy years
upon her head, and the spiritual development to
which she has attained through a life of devotion
and sacrifice for the good of others. The bless-
ings pronounced upon her by the servants of God
during the evening, bore evidence of the high
estimation in which she is held and her purity of
life and character. Her example is worthy of
imitation by the daughters of Zion.
	Refreshments consisting of many delicacies,
were served to the guests in a dainty fashion by
the young ladies of the family, on small tables at
which a few could be seated and chat socially;
and time flew quickly as ever when old friends
meet, and finally the party dispersed, with many
congratulations and good wishes for the pros-
perity, health and happiness of the revered lady
in whose honor they had assembled.
	The EXPONENT adds sincere congratulations,
and may Sister Smith continue her labors of love
among the Saints as long as life is desirable, the
spirit of peace and love abide in her heart and in
her habitation forever.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Died:—At her late residence in the seventh
ward of Salt Lake City, Sunday, April 17th 1892,
of apoplexy, after an illness of five days, Mrs.
Jane C. Richardson, wife of the late Dr. Darwin
C. Richardson.
	The deceased was born in Lisbon, New Hamp-
shire, Oct. 15th, 1819. Arrived in this city Sept.
26th 1847, the same year as the pioneers.
	Whereas—our sister has been taken from us by
the remorseless hand of death, we feel that a
noble woman has fallen, we have lost an honored
and loved friend, and our Relief Society, of which
she has been Treasurer for the past twenty-two
years, an efficient and faithful officer, and the poor
a sympathetic, generous provider, therefore be it—
	Resolved—that we deeply mourn for one who
was in every way worthy of our love and highest
regard; that we will ever strive to emulate her
estimable qualities, and follow her noble and self-
sacrificing example.
	Resolved—that we sincerely condole with the
family of the departed, and lovingly commend
them for consolation, to one who doeth all things
for our good, and whose chastisements are ever
in mercy.


Resolved—that this heartfelt testimonial of our
sorrow and sympathy be presented to the be-
reaved family, also placed upon the record of our
Relief Society and published in the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT.
			MRS. M. W. WILCOX, President.
			MAGGIE Y, TAYLOR,
			E. J. STEVENSON,
				Counselors.
			ELMINA S, TAYLOR, Secretary.


NURSES AND ACCOUCHEURS.

	On Thursday evening, April 29, 1892, Dr. Ellis
R. Shipp's class in Obstetrics and Nursing met
at her residence, to enjoy a few hours socially
after the winter's close application to study and
their recent examinations which were passed suc-
cessfully.
	A number of intimate friends met them, our be-
loved sister, Zina D. H. Young, joining in the
congratulations, and timely counsels to the ladies
just starting out upon their important labors of
love and kindly ministration among the sick and
suffering of their own sex.
	Those who passed successful examinations
are Mrs. Lena H. Jenkenson, Mrs. Margaret
Sharp, Miss Anna Hansen, Miss Hilda Forsburg,
Salt Lake City; Mrs. Emilie Jensen, Newton,
Cache County; Mrs. Ardell Allen, New Mexico;
and Miss Lillie Darnall, Ogden.
	Dr. Shipp will open another class soon at No. 34
South 7th East St.


[Column 1]

U. W. P. CLUB.

	The U. W. P. Club met at the EXPONENT
parlor, March 31, 1892. Prayer by L. T. Freeze,
minutes read and approved. First on the pro-
gramme, an original article entitled "Benefits of
the Club," by M. A. Freeze, brought out many
new points for consideration and improvement.
	Notes on the life and work of the author of
"The Course of Time" Robert Pollock, Lula G.
Richards.
	"Jean Vou Jean" by Victor Hugo, of whom it
has been said, "had he written nothing else would
have made his name immortal," feelingly recited
by C. L. Boyden. Miss G. L. Brown favored the
club with very sweet piano music.
	"Newspaper Women" an interesting article by
Di Vernon, a well known writer, was read by
Gladys Woodmansee, and the subject freely dis-
cussed by the members, thought it not necessary
that one should understand all the workings of
the printing press to be a newspaper woman.
Literary ability both natural and acquired the
predominant features. The manner in which
some reporters write up society women con-
sidered absurd, and to be frowned down by all
truly sensible women, especially when such
articles refer solely to personal charms, style of
dress, and the manner in which they serve their
dinners. Considered that intellectual attainments
and noble traits of character should predomi-
nate.
	By special request C. L. Boyden recited the
"Prisoner of Hungary," the enthusiasm of the
audience evincing both their taste for this refining
art and the superior ability of the artist.
	The Pres. suggested that we have a list of the
members and call the roll at each meeting, and
that certain members be appointed to prepare
articles for the next club meeting, and also thought
it advisable that each should have some article
in readiness in case of delinquency of those on
the programme, that our time might be well em-
ployed and that we might realize mutual benefit.
	The following programme was arranged for
April 30, 1892.
	Miss N. V. Davis to prepare an article on Wo-
man's Work.

[Column 2]

	S. Y. Gates and Josephine Spencer, Pen
Names. Song, Gladys Woodmansee. Humorous
Recitation, C. L. Boyden. Bellamy's "Looking
Backward" to be reviewed by the club.
	G. L. Brown, C. C. R. Wells and L. G. Richards
to discuss the subject of the book.
	Benediction by M. A. Freeze.
	Refreshments served and social chat indulged
in till a late hour.
		E. R. SHIPP, Sec.

U. W. P. CLUB.
	The U. W. P. Club met as per adjournment,
April 30, 1892, in the parlors of the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT. E. B. Wells presiding. Prayer by Dr.
R. B. Pratt. Minutes accepted as read. Letters
of regret for non-attendance were read from
Gladys Woodmansee and C. Louise Boyden.
	N. V. Davis read an original article on "Wo-
man's Work," after which followed an animated
discussion of the subject by members of the club.
The great question resolving itself in the one
idea, should remuneration for labor be based upon
intellectual culture and thought, or simple me-
chanical execution—or a happy medium between 
the two—namely, should a man receive the same
fee for an hour's work at the anvil, as the surgeon
for the length of time at the operating table?
	An original poem read by Ruth M. Fox, en-
titled "The Capstone."
	An article on "Nationalism" read by the author,
C. C. R. Wells.
	Musical selection by Olea Shipp.
	Dainty refreshments were served, and the bene-
diction pronounced by Phebe C. Young.
	Programme for May. One half hour for busi-
ness. Articles on "Woman's Work" by E. B.
Wells and Phebe C. Young; "Pen Names" by
Susa Y. Gates and Josephine Spencer; N. V. Davis
an article entitled "Are our Teachers Well Edu-
cated." Dr. R. B. Pratt, piano solo; Miss G. L.
Brown, original poem.
		ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D. Sec.


ORDER OF EXERCISES OF U. W. P. C.

OPENING EXERCISES	.	.	Prayer	.	.    7.30 P. M.
ORDER OF BUSINESS	.	.	Unfinished Business,
									New Business.
LITERARY PROGRAM	.	.	.	.	.	.	. 8 P. M.
DISCUSSION AND REFRESHMENTS	.	.	.	. 9 P. M.
ADJOURNMENT	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	10 P. M.


SEVENTY-SECOND ANNIVERSARY.

	Chihuahua, Mexico, May 1st, 1892.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Dear Sister Wells.—Just two years ago this
very evening, yourself in connection with
about three hundred other precious and choice
souls, met in the 14th Ward Assembly Hall, to
celebrate the 70th anniversary of my mission here
upon this to me, a New World; and in concert
with our loved poetess, who has returned to God
our Heavenly Father from whence we came, this
I can say "inspiredly,"

	"For a wise and glorious purpose
	   Thou hast placed me here on earth,
	And withheld the recollection
	   Of my former friends and birth.

	This is my 72nd anniversary, and in Old
Mexico, far, far away, from loved ones; and now
I propose giving you a brief sketch of how my
72nd birthday was disposed of, in the City of
Chihuahua, Old Mexico, and also a discription of
this city and people, customs and mode of living,
or in other words my 72nd birthday in Mexico.
	At 5 a. m. as the grayest light of morn began
faintly to cast its shadows around, so I began the
new born year of my 73rd, with thanksgiving and
adoration for so successful a voyage over the


[Column 1]

ocean of life of the past 72 years gone, yes, gone,
never, no, never, to be recalled again.
	I also importuned God's mercy and blessing
for His continued prosperity not only until the
proximity of the 73rd but onward unto the 80th
anniversary, unto which yourself and that
numerous, yes happy company, were all invited to
celebrate in Salt Lake City. Indeed as a dream
it is so and surely one-fifth of the time has al-
ready elapsed.
	The 1st day of May falls on Sunday, and Labor
day, both holidays in this place, and I avail my-
self of the celebration by chance of the gala day as
the elite of the city will be out on the Pallisades,
and the best carriages and horses will traverse
the Alamada in the evening.
	Chihuahua has a population of 28,000, and an
altitude of 4,713 feet, and is situated about 250
miles Southwest of El Paso, Texas, on the Mexi-
can Central Railroad, to the City of Mexico, and
about 1,000 miles Northeast of Mexico City.
	Some mountains and dry peaks surround this
City, without a particle of vegetation, not even a
solitary tree is visible, everything is very dry
and a great scarcity of water, an aqueduct brings
drinking water about eight miles to the city, the
aqueduct is in some places 25 feet high, in one
place we counted forty arches, it looks very mas-
sive of stone; a few fountains of free water are
patronized by the poorer classes, one particularly
in a Pallisade near the Catholic Cathedral, here
two men carry a twenty gallon barrel suspended to
a pole, each man with the end of the pole on his
shoulder, and finds it a welcome over one-fourth of
a mile away for domestic purposes; another with
two five gallon oil cans attached to a shorter pole
and one man with the pole on his shoulder trots
away after filling them with a gourd; now comes
the many Rebecca's with their pitchers, a sort of
jug, on their shoulders or heads, I said to my
dear little brother, J. C. Bentley of St. George,
(and the only Utah companion in this place,) I
will go to that black haired, and dark eyed
Rebecca for a drink, she lifted her pitcher and I
drank, "lifted up my eyes" and thanked God that
our Rebecca's at home could get their water from
city creek by turning the tap at home in their
kitchens.
	After our walk on this lovely morning we stepped
into the Cathedral, where hundreds of poor
mostly devoted women are dipping and crossing
with holy water, bowing, kneeling, praying, count-
ing beads as	*	hugging a cross in some
corner, many for a whole hour are on their knees
while the Priest is offering incense and prayer,
consecrating sacraments etc.—Just at 8 o'clock
the bells and gong call the people together in a
rush, part of the day is spent in church but the
rest of the day is a holiday, where the Pallisades
are patronized and also the Allemanda; today is
of course extra, processions, bands of music,
speeches with cheers and enthusiasm, closing
with music in the Pallisades which are adorned
with walks and flowers. We saw more bonnets
and hats this evening than usually, nine-tenths of
the ladies wear no bonnets or hats, but their
glossy black hair, of which those women are so
proud, adorn their heads, some women and it is
quite common to, wear a light black shawl which
occasionally serves as a head covering falling
back over the shoulders. On the wide prome-
nade the ladies several abreast walk one way,
while the gents promenade in the opposite direc-
tion and on the outside generally.
	The houses are of adobies plastered, with flat
roofs; streets narrow, and the walls of the houses
or courts look much like the style of our old time
forts. But on the inside of these are flowers,
and shrubs, adorned so that the inside has more
attraction than the outside. In our Robinson
Hotel entrance from the street are heavy doors
about ten feet high with a small door where a
servant lies on a couch, so that at night the

[Column 2]

closed gates can be opened to let in the guests at
late hours, but during the day the gates are
opened; from the court is a stairway to the upper
rooms, for this Hotel is two stories high, from our
room we look into the court where are the apple
tree, pear and pomegranate trees,and also an
orange tree but it has been bitten by frost so that
it looks some like our peach and fruit trees of
1848 in Utah.
	The few windows are barricaded with bars and
a sort of open grate projecting a little into the
narrow side walk where often children and the
older ones sit on the window sill viewing and
sometimes conversing with those on the outside,
some of these courts are large and thousands of
of a variety of roses are very pretty with the
walks; bouquets of roses from those inside courts
were presented to me as a token of remembrance
of my 72nd birthday in Old Mexico; the day closes
with my 72nd behind, while my 73rd opens up
very pleasantly although in a strange land.
	With kind wishes and regards,
			EDWARD STEVENSON.
	P. S.—With this I send you a card speciman of
a Lamanite lady, there are in Mexico a variety of
them.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

WOMAN'S WORK IN MEXICO.

	Colonia Juarez, Mexico,
		March 29, 1892.
DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	Since writing you I have had the privilege
of visiting all the wards in the Mexican Mis-
sion, and of meeting with the Relief Society,
Young Ladies and Primary Associations and
found them all in excellent condition. There
are four of each of the above named societies
in the Mission.
	The scenery from Diaz to Juarez, some
seventy-five miles, is similar to that from Dem-
ing to Diaz, an open level country of vast ex-
tent with mountains and hills in the distance.
We can trace the windings of the Casas Grande
river by the lofty cottonwood trees growing on
its banks. We passed through the towns of
La Ascencion and Coralitos. The latter be-
longs to a mining and stock Co., who own a
large tract of land. Here was also the interior
guard of the Custom House. In the prin-
cipal street of Coralitos is a very fine avenue
of lofty cottonwood trees that make a cool
shade for summer. Here is also a store and a
carpet and cloth factory belonging to the com-
pany. There is a Concentrator used for the
separating of the metal from the rock. After
leaving Coralitos we passed through the ruins
of an old town called Boranka. There once
stood a church, grist mill, and quite a number
of houses. We now reach Colonia Dublan, a
settlement of our people, located on the banks
of the river. The houses are of lumber and
adobie. The farms slope from the road to the
river. A good sized adobe school house, nearly
completed, is being built which is a credit to
the settlement. Five or six miles from Dublan
is the town of Casas Grande (large houses)
named after some Montezuma ruins of large
houses, which still exist in the town.
	Colonia Juarez is situated in a canon on the
Piedras Verdie river, which is lined with trees
runs lengthwise through the town. It is a
thrifty, pretty little place, like an oasis in the
desert; a number of handsome brick and con-
crete houses adorn the town.
	They have a splendid school house consist-
ing of three large rooms, a handsome building.
There is also a good store and a grist mill.
Picket and lumber fences enclose orchards and
gardens. Trees are in full bloom, lucern and
grass are green. Every body is busy putting
in gardens, some have peas up two or three
inches high; the soil is sandy and all vegi-
tables grow in abundance. Some very good

[Column 2]

fruit was raised here last summer. It is
expected much more will be raised this
summer as the season is later than usual.
	Pacheco is thirty two miles southwest of
Juarez. The road through a canon is rich in
magnificent scenery. Would I could describe
it that my friends might enjoy it. Large
rugged rocks thrown together in every con-
ceivable shape towered above us in grand
majesty. Trees that appeared to grow out of
solid rock peeped out of the crevices. When
a child I wanted to see the timber that was
made into lumber, growing in the mountains
but never had the privilege until that day go-
ing to Pacheco, when we traveled for miles
through a very fine growth of timber. Pacheco
is surrounded by the pines that are always
green. The houses are made of lumber, it be-
ing plentiful in this country. They have a
comfortable school house, a saw mill and a
store. On Washington's birthday we had a
holiday. Quite a company of the good people
of Pacheco, and Cave Valley accompanied us
to the Caves, some seven miles from Pacheco
which we visited. We enjoyed our picnic
under the trees, by the river, in a lovely spot,
and spent an hour or so in songs, recitations,
music and speeches, and spent a day never to
be forgotten.
	The Caves are the works of nature but they
have been utilized by a race of people who
made rooms by putting partitions of a kind of
cement. The openings leading from one room
to another are very small indicating that small
people inhabited them. It was a curiosity to
us to see water drop, a drop at a time from the
top of the solid rock above us, at the mouth
of the cave, where it is presumed they retained
it for drinking, and household purposes. I
had many thoughts while exploring them and
gathering relics, wondering who the inhabi-
tants were, how long ago they lived there etc.
There are many dried corn cobs and pieces of
brown pottery to be found in them. I rejoiced
in having the privilege of visiting those
wonderful relics of the past.
	We returned to Juarez in time for the
Quarterly Conference of the Mexican Mission
which was held Feb. 27 and 28. We enjoyed
a most interesting time; the spirit of God was
felt in power to the encouragement and comfort
of the saints.
	A great many discouraging things are said
about the Mexican Mission but there are a
good, happy, contented people who are satisfied
to live here in spite of the disagreeable winds,
dust, and other features complained of. Come
and see us in this wonderful historic country,
you will receive a warm welcome and meet
many friends.
		M.


WOMAN'S RIGHTS.

	Sisters, do we realize the many privileges
that are coming within our reach for our im-
provement? Are we aware of how much will
be expected of us, for "where much is given
much is expected," (or required) and we shall
be expected to know something about the great
government under which we live, for there are
organizations being effected among us, and if
we make ourselves interested in the subject we
can learn something about the science of gov-
ernment and the position of citizens in this
great Republic, which will be much to our own
elevation and our influence will be felt in our
families and associations.
	Our government is said to be the best on
earth and I believe it is, but there are defects
in it. One very important one is that it does
not grant women any political privileges.
Think of the injustice of granting the slaves
and their wretched humanity from the slums
of the earth, freedom to the ballot, and it is
o nsidered a precious boon, and prohibiting


[Column 1]

men's wives, mothers, daughters, and sisters'
having any voice at all in matters they are
just as interested in and pertain to them just
as much as any.
	If governments derive their just powers from
the consent of those governed, what justice can
there be in withholding from a portion of the
intelligent citizens the right to give consent
when many of them are property owners and
earners and are required to pay the same per-
cent tax, which is taxation without representa-
tion, one of the main causes of the revolu-
tionary war. They also have to be amenable
to the laws, if they commit crime they have to
pay penalty but have no voice in making the
laws.
	There are great men and women at present,
who are making every effort possible to remedy
this evil in our government for it is surely
getting the nation in a dangerous condition. It
has caused the decay of other great nations
and it is time to guard against such a result,
and what we want is an amendment to the
Constitution of the U. S. putting women on
an equal with their husbands for it will elevate
them and thereby elevate the race.
	And now, we the women of Utah let us
lend them all the aid we can by informing
ourselves, understanding our position, and pro-
claiming the advantages of "Liberty to all,"
loud and long, wherever the opportunity is
afforded us, for liberty is dear, just as dear to
a mother as a father.
	I think the women of our Territory should
take hold of the suffrage question with zeal
and prepare ourselves to use our rights if they
are granted us, intelligently. There are a
class of men in our Territory who heartily
endorse the move taken in our favor, while
there are others who are narrow and say,
"they want their wives at home," simply
selfish. We know that home is a woman's
sphere and if she has a family her pride and
ambition is, and should be, to contribute every
thing that will tend to elevate the standard of
her home and the society in which she moves.
A home presided over by a virtuous, cleanly
and cheerful woman may be the scene of many
ennobling relations in life endeared to man by
many delightful associations; furnishing a
sweet resting place after labor, a comfort in
misfortune and a joy in prosperity.
	Lucy Stone, one of the foremost women of
the age once said, "Woman's nature is stamped
and sealed by the Almighty, and there is no
danger of her unsexing herself while His eye
watches her." This as a rule, I think, is true
and the argument used against it that "politics
are too dirty for women to dabble in," is weak,
for if politics are too dirty for women they are
too dirty for men and a reform is surely needed
and woman's influence is good.
	It is said that the first French revolution
presented one of the most striking illustrations
of the social mischiefs resulting from the
neglect of the purifying influence of woman.
The first Napoleon said, "The great want of
France is mothers." The character of the wo-
men had become depraved which is equal to
saying the race was depraved, and to correct
the evil the cause would have to be removed,
that means to educate and elevate the mothers.
	It is true we do not hear so much about
great women as great men. The greater part
of the influence exercised by woman in the
formation of character necessarily remains
unknown, they accomplish their best work in
the quiet seclusion of home, their greatest
triumphs, because private and domestic, are
rarely recorded, but she is not without her re-
ward, her influence lives and goes on propagat-
ing itself forever.
	However, let us wake up and labor with
interest for the great end in view, viz; perfect
education and elevation of woman to make her
a better companion for her husband, a better

[Column 2]

mother for his sons and daughters, and a better
laborer in society.
	May the difficulties be surmounted and
every effort be fruitful in good, to the enfran-
chisement of woman. There is no good argu-
ment against it. Statistics show, in places
where the right of suffrage has been granted to
women, fewer divorce cases, fewer insane, fewer
nmates of prisons and a better social condi-
tion entirely, proving that it does not break up
the peace of home nor degrade woman, and I
think that one great reason why some men do
not favor it is that,what causes the so called in-
fidel to not believe in the bible, because he
hasn't read it and does not know what is in it.
think if it is properly understood it will
meet a response in every heart.
		ANNIE E. WALDRON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

LADY SOMERSET'S GOOD-BYE.

	Lady Henry Somerset says, in a pleasant
farewell letter to the Union Signal:
	It has been said that I am writing a book
concerning my impressions of America. Noth-
ing could be further from the truth. I found
it enough to breathe your air, to live your life,
to make myself a part of all I saw, without
aiming to enact the role of the typical Briton
on his travels. I came not to teach, but to
be taught.
	But, concerning my impressions, I may tell
you quite confidentially that the intelligence
and education of your wage-workers, the re-
markable acumen and versatile acquirements
of your women, the universality of the cold-
water dinner table, the freedom and courtesy
of the press, the progressive quality of men's
minds, so that they seem to take as a matter of
course that women are equals, the way in which
American men share with their wives the cares
of home and children, the independence of
young women in the general conduct of life,
and especially the pursuit of a vocation rather
than a husband—though not at all to the pre-
judice of their finding that husband—the good
comradeship between young men and women,
boys and girls; the almost universal sobriety
of women—these, with the boundless distances,
rapid transit, and the varied scenery, have im-
pressed me beyond any other characteristics of
this happy country of the Larger Hope.
	In some respects my own dear land excels
you, even in the particular that is your most
striking quality—progressive thought. I make
no plea for the superiority of our own govern-
ment, but I merely state that it has given us
far more rapid and accurate postal service, and
railways much less destructive to human life,
although they do not provide the comfort
and the luxury that I find in this country.
	The smoking car on your trains seems to be
a degradation. I have been obliged to pass
through it several times, and grieve to see that
card-playing is permitted—a thing strictly pro-
hibited on English railways. It is sad to see
how this demoralizing atmosphere has blinded
the occupants, so that the uncleanly floor and
the sickening air are not distasteful to them.
A stunted manhood must result from the na-
tional custom that this "black hole of Calcutta"
car illustrates.
	The fact that our telegraphic system is under
government control is of inestimable value to
our people. We can send twelve words for
twelve cents to any part of the United King-
dom. Our civil service, being wholly divorced
from politics, is in every way more satisfactory.
It is inconceivable to me that any people so
intelligent as the Americans should patiently
put up with changing every local postmaster
with every change of President. You are
ahead of us, however, in that your civil service
examinations are more widely open to women.
One of the differences between our countries

[Column 2]

which seems to me most in our favor, is the
far greater interest taken by English women
in politics, local and general. They under-
stand the questions of the day, and are by that
much better fitted to be the companions of their
husbands and sons. As a result of this do-
mestic aspect of political questions, men of
better class go into political life with us than
is, I judge, the case with you. In this there is
immense advantage to the well-being of the
country; and if I might make one suggestion
to those whose mode of life has been so el-
oquently suggestive to me, I would beseech
good women everywhere to give conscientious
study to these public questions in the mu-
nicipality, the State and the nation. For I
believe that, with the participation of women
in government, the good of the people (which
means the coming of Christ into the laws of
the nation) is inextricably blended. The
white-ribboners have served their country
beyond telling, by bringing these sacred ques- 
tions of human weal to the hearts and hearth-
stones of the people. It is my solemn con-
viction that with all this better understanding
as to the real mission of politics shall come
the greater and more Christian America for
which we hope and pray. Perhaps the Moth-
er Country may do you its greatest service by
proving that the participation of women in
government will be a surer solution of our so-
cial problems; for we are practically certain to
precede you in putting to a test on a large
scale the theories you have propounded. It is
well-nigh positive that within five years wo-
men will be as thoroughly enfranchised as men
throughout Great Britain.—Ex.


ECONOMY OF TIME.

	A very important lesson to be learned in life
is to economize our time. Some people value
their time as their estate, while others scarcely
learn its value, till it is too late. If habits of
carelessness and idleness are formed in youth,
they cannot be so easily thrown off as they are
formed. How necessary it is then in youth to
form habits that will be of benefit throughout
our lives. Lost knowledge may be regained
by study; lost health by temperance; but lost
time cannot be replaced. How often we hear
people say they would do this, or that, if they
"had time." Many who might be called selfish
excuse themselves from doing much, that
might be accomplished. Seek out those in any
community, who have done the most for them-
selves and helped no one in special, or tried to
soothe those in affliction, or seek to bless any
one, and you will find that they will be thought
an almost useless element in society. But on
the other hand a person who does all that he
or she can, for the general good of the people
you will find they are those who are always
active, and are always highly respected. This
class of people, no matter how pressed with
business, always seem capable of doing a little
	This class of people may ever be relied on
with more assurance than the idle class. It is
easier for one who is always doing something,
to do a little more, than for an idle person to
arouse himself to action. If you give a busy
person something extra to do they will soon
have it done; while an idle person will want
to put it off till tomorrow, or another time.
Too much leisure time proves a curse if we do
not make a proper use of it. A very good
motto is to try to build up what we can from
the fragments of time. It is said that the gold
dust is swept up from the floor and coined.
We should learn from this, the nobler economy
of time. Use all our spare moments in study,
something that will ennoble the mind. We
read of the greatest men of learning, how they
strove to improve their spare moments. Some
of them were so poor, that they had not oil to


make a light, and after their day's work was
done, they took their books and stood by a
lamp post, to see to read.
	The small stones used to fill up crevices in
the wall, are as essential as the larger rocks.
And so are the spare moments wisely used,
they contribute to the advancement of the mind
and all intellectual faculties.
		SARAH ANN HOWARD.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


One of the sublimest things in the world is
plain truth.—Bulwer.
	Temptations are a file which rubs off much
of the rust of our self-confidence.—Fenelon. 
	Virtue alone outbids the pyramids; her mon-
uments shall last when Egypt's fall.—E.
Young.
	Loving kindness is greater than laws; and
the charities of life are more than all ceremo-
nies.—Talmud.
	Scratch the green rind of a sapling, or wan-
tonly twist it in the soil, and a scarred or crook-
ed oak will tell of the act for centuries to
come. So it is with the teachings of youth,
which make impressions on the mind and heart
that are to last through life.


WORLD'S FAIR NOTES.

	The women of Springfield and Sangamon
County, Ill., are planning to make an extensive
exhibit of Lincoln relics at the Fair.
	Prince George of Wales, who if he lives will
some day be King of England, will visit the
Exposition, a cablegram from London announc-
es.
	The World's Fair board of Santa Clara coun-
ty, Cal., has petitioned the supervisors for an
appropriation of $300 to defray the expenses
of making an exhibit from the Lick observa-
tory.
	Miss Alice Ridout, of San Francisco, has
been awarded the contract for sculptural work
 on the Woman's Building. She prepared the
designs some time ago. She will receive
$8,200.
	Mrs. Amy M. Beech, of Boston will prepare
an original musical composition to be rendered
at the dedication of the Woman's Building.
Theodore Thomas will conduct the present- 
ation and Prof. Tomlins will organize the
chorus of 400 voices.
	The Lady Managers are in communication
with Mrs. Humphrey Ward, requesting her to
loan the original manuscript of her novel,
"Robert Elsmere," for exhibition in the Wo-
man's Building. An effort is also being made
to secure the manuscript of "Ramona" from
the heirs of the author, Helen Hunt Jackson,
for exhibition in connection with the exhibit
of the Ramona Indian School of New Mexico,
now in process of arrangement.


[Column 1]

﻿OBITUARIES.

	At Kanosh Millard Co., Utah, Sister Char-
lotte Day, daughter of Thomas and Elizabeth
Skinner. "Born October 14th,1831,died March
15th, 1892. Sister Day embraced the Gospel
in South Africa, and emigrated here about
thirty-two years ago. She was among the first
settlers in this place and has been an active
member of the Relief Society here. She was
a very quiet woman and always willing to lend
a helping hand to the sick and needy.
		A. T.

[Column 2]

SARAH THORNTON COLEMAN.	
	Sister Sarah Thornton Coleman departed
this life March 1st, 1892, at 3,30 o'clock. She
was born at Little Paxton, Huntingtonshire,
England, June 11th, 1806; baptized into the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints at
Honeydon, Bedfordshire, in June 1841.
	She was at Nauvoo at the time of the per-
secution of the Saints and emigrated to Utah
among the first settlers.
	Sister Coleman was president of the Relief
Society at Lehi for a number of years. She
lived a faithful saint to the end, and was
respected and loved by all who knew her. At
the time of her death she was aged 85 years, 8
months and 20 days. She had eight children,
seven of whom survive her, 68 grand-children
and about 105 great-grand-children to mourn
their loss. We hope our loss will be her gain.
		MRS. E. J. T.

	Died at her residence in Vernal, Uintah Co.,
of heart failure, Sarah, wife of Bradford Bird.
Sister Bird was born October 9, 1850, in Salt
Lake City. She was married to Bradford Bird
in December 1867. They moved to Ashley in
the fall of 1877, and in the following fall the
first Relief Society of this valley was organized
and she was selected as second counselor and
faithfully filled the office for six years, when
the Stake was divided into wards. In the
organization of the Relief Society in the ward
where they lived she was called to act as first
counselor which position she filled until the
disorganization in March 1888.
	Sister Bird had been for years the President
 of the Primary Association, and was greatly
beloved and respected by the children. She
performed a great labor among the sick and
suffering of her own sex and in preparing the
dead for burial. She was a woman that was
greatly respected by all with whom she was
brought in contact, was a firm Latter-day Saint,
and always bore a strong testimony to the
truth of the Gospel.
		SADIE COLLETT.

	Death has again entered the fold and taken
from us our beloved sister, Jane Geither
Thomas, widow of the late Daniel Claybourne
Thomas. Our dearly beloved sister was
born in North Carolina on May 26th, 1824,
moved with her husband to Texas, where in
1847, she was baptized into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter day Saints. Came to Utah in
1850, lived for several years in Lehi, then in
Cedar Valley, then in Cache Valley, and for
over twenty-five years at Plain City, Weber
Co, where for many years she was treasurer
for the Relief Society; the duties of which place
she performed in the most faithful and satis-
factory manner until her death which occurred
here on Feb. 27th, 1892. She was a true
and faithful Latter-day Saint, a good neighbor
and a sincere friend. She leaves many loved
ones to mourn her loss. Two sons, one daugh-
ter and a host of grand children, unto whom
we the sisters of the Relief Society extend our
heart-felt sympathy in their sad bereavement.
Rest beloved sister rest in peace.
		ALMIRA RAYMOND, Pres.
		MARGARET SHOMAKER, Coun.
		RACHEL CARVER, Coun.
		M. A. W. SPIERS, Sec.


[COLUMN 1]

	DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP,
Will commence her Spring class in Obstetrics
and Nursing on Monday May 9, 1892—at
her Office 18, S. Main St.

	MRS. M. E. VAN. M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p.m.﻿

[COLUMN 2]

THE WOMAN’S TRIBUNE,
Edited and published weekly at Washington,
	D.C., by CLARA BEWICK COLBY.
Price, $l.00 a year. Trial Subscriptions, five
	weeks for 10 cents.
The Woman's Journal, of Boston, and the Woman’s Tri-
	bune, of Washington, D. C., will be sent to one ad-
	dress for $3.00 per year.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
	Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
	ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
		AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
			POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles. Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed.
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But-
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 63 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
		Three doors west of Theatre.

R.K. THOMAS
	26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
		SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House
R.K. THOMAS

		THE
	Standard Gauge
		RAILWAY!
..THROUGH THE. .
ROCKY MOUNTAINS!
Choice of Three Distinct Routes,
	AND THE
MOST MAGNIFICENT RAILROAD SCENERY
	IN THE WORLD.
Two Fast Express Trains Daily
	EACH WAY BETWEEN
OGDEN, SALT LAKE AND DENVER.
ELEGANT RECLINING CHAIR CARS!
	Free of Charge.
	Direct Connections made in Union Depots.
THE MOST THOROUGHLY EQUIPPED RAILWAY
	IN THE WEST.
D.C. DODGE, A. E. WELBY, J. H. BENNETT,
Genl. Mgr. Supt. G. F. & P. A.
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	DAVD JAMES, Box 306. SALT EALK Cl Y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of  the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 20		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 1, 1892.		NO. 22.


CONTENTS.

	Temperance—Phebe C. Young. In Rural Eng-
land—A Story. Wimodaughsis Letter—Ella M.
S. Marble. What Some Women Have Done.
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. and P. A. Reports. W. S.
A. Reports. Woman's Voice—S. P. G. Nation-
alism—C. C. R. W. What to Teach Young Wo-
men—Rev. T. De Witt Talmage. Viavi Treat-
ment.
	EDITORIAL:—In and About San Francisco.
Editorial Note. A Delightful Gathering. Valu-
able Information Wanted—M. A. W.
	POETRY:—Gifts—Emma Lazarus. Dreaming—
Lucy. Reviewing the Past—L. M. H. May Day
—E. T.


GIFTS.

'O World-God, give me wealth!" the Egyptian cried.
	His prayer was granted; high as heaven, behold
Palace and pyramid; the brimming tide
	Of lavish Nile washed all his lands with gold.
Armies of slaves toiled ant-wise at his feet.
World-circling traffic roared through mart and street.
	His priests were gods, his spice-balmed kings enshrined,
Set death at naught in rock-ribbed channels deep.
	Seek Pharaoh's race today and ye shall find.

"O World-God give me beauty!" cried the Greek.
	His prayer was granted. All the earth became
Plastic and vocal to his sense; each peak,
	Each grove, each stream, quick with Promethean flame,
Peopled the world with imaged grace and light.
The lyre was his and his the breathing might
	Of the immortal marble, his the play
Of diamond-pointed  thought and golden tongue.
	Go seek the sunshine race, ye find today
A broken column and a lute unstrung.

"O World-God give me power!" the Roman cried.
	His prayer was granted; the world was chained
A captive to the chariot of his pride.
	The blood of myriad provinces was drained
To feed that fierce, insatiable red heart.
Invulnerably bulwarked every part
	With serried legions and with close-meshed code.
Within the burrowing worm had gnawed its home.
	A roofless ruin stands where once abode
The imperial race of everlasting Rome.

"O God-head give me truth!" the Hebrew cried.
	His prayer was answered. He became the slave
Of the idea, a pilgrim far and wide.
	Cursed, hated, spurned and scourged, with none to save.
The Pharaohs knew him, and when Greece beheld
His wisdom wore the heavy crown of eld.
	Beauty he hath forsworn, and wealth and power.
Seek him today and find in every land,
	No fire consumes him, neither floods devour,
Immortal through the lamp within his hand.
		EMMA LAZARUS.
	Ex.


FOR THE EXPONENT.
	DREAMING.

		[Yet it is not all a dream.]
	I am dreaming, oh I'm dreaming,
		Of by gone sunny days,
	When a lover came to woo me
		With love's sweetest words of praise;
	Ah, those soft bewitching glances,
		They are beaming on me now,
	And the speaking eyes I fancy
		Still are telling love's young vow.


Those bright smiles of love's revealing,
	Have a charming magic gleam,
Passion's earnest voice is thrilling,—
	Ah, it is a happy dream!
A most brilliant, joyous dreaming,
	Fresh and pure as budding rose,
Fragrant incense borne from Eden,
	Solace sweet for cares and woes.
I am dreaming, I am dreaming,
	Of one brilliant Summer day
When with friends we took a ramble,
	Bidding them to lead the way.
But there seemed a reason mystic,
	Oblivious to define,
For the path they took we miss'd it—
	And sought not in haste to find.
So we talked of birds and flowers,
	Of the rocks, trees, flowing brooks,
And so quickly passed the hours,
	That no note of time we took.
On, on, over hills and valleys,
	Still straying we knew not where,
The sweetest flowers were gather'd
	Twined in wreaths most passing fair.
I am dreaming, surely dreaming,
	Of that bright glorious day,
How the stars came forth to greet us,
	As we turned our homeward way,
And I see an altar forming,
	Amid thoughts and dreams divine,
And I hear a voice calling,
	"Dear girl, you must be mine!"
All is pictured out before me,
	As bright meteors they gleam,
And the words, "I love, adore thee!"
	O, it is not all a dream!
Ah, how kindly to those  moments,
	My holiest thoughts reply,
In love's accents soft and tender,
	As balmiest zephyrs sigh.
With radiance pure and holy,
	Its light tinges every hue,
Would to heaven, after moments
	Had thus ever been as true!
O, break not the spell that binds me,
	Nor dispel this witching theme,
The glad light of love is round me,
	Yet it is not all a dream.
			LUCY.


[Column 1]

TEMPERANCE.

	The subject of temperance is one of great
importance to all, both old and young, because
it affects their well-being physically, mentally
and morally.
	"Let your moderation be known unto all
men," was the exhortation of the apostle Paul;
and there has never been a time in the world's
history when such an exhortation was more
needed than the present, because intemperance
in many things has become so common that it is
almost the author of all the evils from which
we suffer.
	Shall we speak of intemperance in dress?
How much better it would be for many if they
would in this respect study their health and
comfort instead of becoming slaves to the fool-
ish and oftentimes injurious customs of fashion.
	Then how much sin and sorrow is caused by
intemperance of speech. The apostle James
says the tongue is an unruly member, hard to
tame and sometimes set on fire of hell; and
truly when we hear men and boys swear and
take the name of the Lord in vain, when we
hear obscene and vulgar language on the streets,
we are compelled to acknowledge the truth of
these words. We should also be temperate in

[Column 2]

our passions and not allow angry feelings to
take possession of us. If we could only re-
member at all times that "a soft answer turneth
away wrath," and could also exercise sufficient
self-control to return a soft answer when angry
words are spoken; or, if we could do no better,
turn away until anger has had time to cool.
If this were always done how many fearful
crimes would be prevented, and how few
quarrels there would be, for we all know that
it is impossible for one to quarrel alone; and
oh! how often loving hearts are wounded by
unkind words, oftentimes thoughtlessly spoken,
but if they come from those we love, how deep
is the scar they leave! And there have been
instances where persons would have given all
they possessed if they could have recalled
words they had spoken in anger.
	There are many other things that might be
classed under the head of intemperance, but we
pass them by at the present to speak of that
bane of human health and happiness, the im-
moderate use of intoxicating drinks. This is
not only a great evil in itself, but leads to al-
most every other.
	I once read an old legend of a man who
was supposed to be perfect, and Satan, desiring
to obtain possession of him, obtained permission
to tempt him with three things, the least of
which was to get drunk. He being greatly
shocked at the magnitude of the first two crimes
presented to him, thought it would not be so
bad a thing to get drunk, and while in that
state committed both the other crimes, and so
the devil gained possession of him.
	We know that it would be impossible to
enumerate the evils that arise and the sin that
is committed through the use of intoxicating
drinks. Could we lift the curtain and look in
to those dens of iniquity where so many of the
youth are led astray, and take their first lessons
in vice; could we look into the homes that are
made desolate, and see the grief and tears that
intemperance has caused, I think it would be
enough to make our young men exclaim with
the wise man: "Wine is a mocker, strong drink
is raging; who so ever is deceived thereby is
not wise; at the last it biteth like an adder and
stingeth like a serpent."
	The question is asked by King Solomon,
"Who hath wo? Who hath contention? Who
hath babblings? Who hath sorrow? Who hath
wounds without cause? Who hath redness of 
eves?" And the answer is, "They who tarry long
at the wine cup," they that go to seek mixed
drink. How true this is, how many times do we
see the youth who was the pride of his father
and promised to be the comfort of his mother,
full of the strength and vigor of his young
manhood and yet how often are all these bright
hopes wrecked on the rock of intemperance and
the gray hairs of the parents brought down
with sorrow to the grave.
	We read in the 35th chapter of Jeremiah
an account of the children of a man by the
name of Rechab, who had promised their
father that they would drink neither wine nor
strong drink, they nor their sons nor their
daughters for ever, and the Prophet Jeremiah
was commanded to set pots of wine before them
to see if they would remain faithful to the
promise they had made, and they said, "we have
obeyed the voice of our father in all that
he charged us to drink no wine all our days, we
nor our wives, nor our sons, nor our daughters."
And because they were faithful to the covenant
hey had made the Lord was pleased with


them and made them a great promise that
though great calamities should fall upon the
wicked the house of Jonadab the son of
Rechab should not want a man to stand before
Him forever.
	The Latter-day Saints have especial teachings
on this matter. We have in the Word of Wis-
dom also a promise given in these last days
that if we will be temperate and abstain from
things that are hurtful, the destroying angel
will pass us by, and we shall obtain great
treasures of wisdom and knowledge. I think I
hear a young man say, "How shall I escape
from this great evil of intemperance, that has
become so prevalent that it assails us on every
hand?" By keeping out of the company of
those who would tempt us and whose ways
lead down to death.
	Said one of our great poets: "Vice is a mon-
ster of so frightful mein as to be hated, needs
but to be seen; but seen too oft, familiar with
its face, we first endure, then pity, then em-
brace." Thus we should shun the first ap-
proach of temptation and turn our backs upon
it; and we shall not only be rewarded with health
and length of days, but shall have gained the
greatest of all victories, a conquest over self.
		PHEBE C. YOUNG.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XIV.
	After the young ladies ascertained that Clair
could sing and play, was fond of sketching and
inclined to be literary in his tastes, they seemed
to forgive everything else and to consider him
one of the family. He helped them wonder-
fully in a way, not practically, but certainly
his tastes were elevating. He loved the ances-
tral home, and though he had been more than
contented in his own country, yet when he
found such grandeur and magnificence in the
place which was to be his inheritance in part,
he felt the pride of a great name and of honor-
able heritage, and his aspirations were noble,
and becoming his station; much more so than
those of his father, notwithstanding the ple-
beian blood that flowed in his veins from the
lineage of his mother.
	Lady Anna improved every day she passed
in the society of her brother. His ideas of
womanliness and of things in general, were of
the highest order, and his influence over those
around him tended towards advancement in
the highest cultivation. His cousin Anna had
never seen any one to compare with him in true
manliness, though in the best society he had
never mingled and scarce knew the customs
and manners of the class of people to which he
really belonged. He never cast any reflections
upon the name of his father, who had defraud-
ed him of his birthright as long as he lived
(and all because of a silly quarrel with his
mother); he seemed to be of a forgiving and
gentle nature, and through these beautiful and
estimable qualities he won friends and obtain-
ed influence, which gave him prestige wherever
he went, and made him a leader, although he
had not the haughty pride and bearing of an
English nobleman. His very simplicity gave
peculiar charm to his manner, that made him
more attractive than those who were accustom-
ed to the elegance and luxury of an aristocrat-
ic home.
	Lady Anna and her cousin soon found that
the elite of the neighborhood were anxious to
cultivate their acquaintance since Clair had
been introduced, for Mr. Burke, true to his
promise, came down a week after his abrupt
departure and informed the family and others
interested in the matter that Monsieur Clair-
ville was the son of Sir Edward Hilliard and
must be acknowledged as his father's rightful
heir, however reluctant the nobility might be
to receive him.
	The young girls were very glad to have such

[Column 2]

a chaperone; and even Miss Conway, staid and
practical as she was, loved to listen to his fine
voice, and never wearied of his songs or con-
versation. It was much better to have some
one to walk or ride or boat with them, and in
every place and under all circumstances, young
Clair seemed to fit in admirably. In time he
took in the whole situation of affairs, and with
wonderful tact managed to make himself use-
ful and needful to them all. Dr. Bland trust-
ed him with his attachment for Miss Conway,
and so did Maitland Walton, and as for his
sister and his cousin, he could read them al-
most perfectly. As he had no secrets of his
own, he was deeply interested in theirs, and
especially so in that of Dr. Bland and Miss
Conway, knowing how deep and intense must
be the devotion of such a man as the doctor.
It was not the love of a boy, but of a man of
mature years, whose affections could not have
been given lightly, and who had staked all
in the strength of this attachment.
	In numberless ways Clair helped the young
people; almost unconsciously he had the most
delicate perception of what was proper and
also of what would be agreeable, and his
plans nearly always succeeded admirably.
	Fishing and boating parties were his chief
delight for pastime, and the doctor was pas-
sionately fond of fishing. On the Hilliard
estate were fine ponds and brooks for these out-
of-door sports, and the young folks were not
slow in availing themselves of these opportun-
ities for out-door exercise. Such excursions
are always favorable for lovers and, now that
Clair knew Maitland Walton, he was generally
one of the party on all such occasions.
	At last Lady Walton consented to be intro-
duced to Clair; she had refused repeatedly, and
it was hard for these young folks to comprehend
why. Jane Conway knew well enough that it
was on account of an old-time fondness for Sir
Edward, but whoever, unless in the secret, could
be made to believe that a lady so refined, deli-
cate and sensitive as Lady Walton could ever
have been in love with such a man, or cherish-
ed through all these years a memory of the past,
that could not be stifled sufficiently to allow
friendly intercourse with his relatives. "To
think"—Lady Walton had said on one occasion
to an intimate friend, "to think that while we all
thought Sir Edward a single man, he had a
wife and child abroad. I can scarcely believe
it is not a hideous nightmare from which I
shall soon awaken to find it a dream."
	Mrs. Walton's pride was wounded, her inter-
view with Sir Edward had been very flattering;
to think through all the long years he had not
forgotten her; if her married life had been un-
happy, she could never have risen above temp-
tation, but she had recieved admiration and
attention almost amounting to adulation; and
it had been a sort of balm to her disappoint-
ment. Now she felt she never could mingle
more in the society to which she had been ac-
customed and where could she look for relief
from ennui! She was not a woman with
sufficient mental vigor to inspire a son like
Maitland to any high pursuit, or lofty ambition,
and his father simply allowed him to do as he
pleased.
	When Maitland learned that Lady Anna had
not been forbidden by her father's will to
marry him, he felt encouraged; he had not
much fear of his father's interference, as he had
no idea of the cause of estrangement between
the families. Lady Walton, Miss Conway,
and now Dr. Bland were the only ones who
knew the history. Miss Conway realized deep-
ly the peculiar embarrassment Lady Walton
would feel when it was positively known that
Clairville was the son of Sir Edward, but she
had supposed her capable of greater sacrifices
of feeling than she seemed prepared to under-
take. Miss Conway wondered in her own
mind if there were no other women in the

[Column 3]

world like herself, ready to sacrifice self for
the sake of others, good and happiness.
	Time passed, and young Clair grew every
day more familiar with the scenes among which
his future life was to be spent; and every one
connected with the household seemed attracted
to him, though evidently wishing to keep him
at a distance. He took them by storm irresist-
ably and they looked up to him, as they
had never done to his father, notwithstanding
their belief that gipsy blood flowed in his veins.
Lady Anna depended upon him for amusement,
as well as for an escort, and ere long confided
to him her heart's secrets. His tenderness for
her was like that one feels for a child, and he
determined she should not be thwarted in her
desires.
	"Do you not know Lady Walton?" he in-
quired one day when they were talking con-
fidentially upon the matter. "No, I have only
seen her once when she called on us after the
funeral, and she is so stately and grand, in
appearance, and I know so little of society, I
dare not venture to talk to her of Maitland;
he must do that himself," replied Anna. "But,"
interrupted her brother, "he does not seem to
have much success, and meantime the suspense
is preying upon your mind; let me see this
superb aristocratic fine lady. I will try to
bring about an understanding that will be per-
manent." And so it was agreed after some con-
sultation that if cousin Jane would consent,
Clair should seek an interview with Lady
Walton. Lady Anna was not so sanguine
as Clair himself appeared to be, both of them
knew so little of such matters, and it was
dangerous ground to venture on, yet unsophis-
ticated in the realities of these things they did
not hesitate as wiser and more cautious people
would have done. Before an hour had passed
Jane had been informed of the decision, and
contrary to her usual caution, had said to Clair,
"Go and try to obtain an interview, make some
excuse in regard to the estate, and you may
see her alone. I wish you success though in
such a hazardous enterprise." The fact was
Miss Conway felt it would be a relief to as-
certain more of Lady Walton's real feelings on
the subject and was willing to risk Clair's
visit thinking it could be no worse than waiting
to know all. Dr. Bland had spoken out
plainly and told her what her duty was, and
now perhaps Clair would learn whether she
had followed the Doctor's advice. The same
afternoon, mounted on one of the finest horses
about the place, and looking like a true court-
ier, Clair rode away watched by the admiring
eyes of the two young ladies, who felt he must
win the heart of Lady Walton, inexorable as
she might be, and so it proved.
	When Clair arrived at the entrance of the
grounds leading to Walton Hall the lodgekeeper
surveyed him from head to foot curiously,horse
and all, and then as he dismounted inquired,
"what can I render ye'se? in blunt English.
Clair addressed him in the most suave man-
ner with, "I have a message to Lady Walton
and must see her." "I can see ye'ze a foreign-
er; go up to the lane that winds between the
great elms and ye'll see the porter just there,
your face'll be yer passport." Thus directed
Clair wended his way along the pathway to-
wards the mansion, his only misgiving being
that he had no idea of the proprieties or maniere
usual on such occasions. A surly porter in
the doorway accosted him with, "Your name,
young man, and who do you wish to see, his
Lordship or the young master?" "Neither sir,
my business is with Lady Walton and it is
most important." "Be seated then, and I will
take your message to her valet." Very soon a
Frenchman with a pompous air appeared and
Clair, who spoke the language perfectly,
told his errand in the tongue most familiar to
him, which impressed him much more favor-
ably than if he had spoken in English. The


valet disappeared and in a moment returned
and ushered him into the library. Lady Wal-
ton with all the courage she could command
and querying who the stranger could be, intro-
duced herself by saying, “I understand you
have an important message for me, but having
observed the likeness to Sir Edward, turned
pale as death and added, “your name, young
man, you have not given it?” “I am Monsieur
Clairville Hilliard;” the last name came re-
luctantly. “I thought so,” replied the lady;
“and pray what can be your business with me?”
She shook with fear lest Sir Edward had sent
a message from his deathbed, and yet she had
heard that the Baronet had never acknowl-
edged him. It was not so easy to explain his
errand as Clair had fancied, he had never be-
fore seen such a magnificent, queenly woman,
and his manner was so timid and hesitating as
to cause anxiety on the lady’s part. She
helped him by saying, “What news do you
bring from the young ladies at the castle? Are
they well, and enjoying the fine Spring
weather?” Thus encouraged Clair found voice
to say, “Lady Anna is not well and I have paid
this visit solely on her account, and I beg you
to listen to me, and to promise me you will see
her and have some proper understanding of an
affair that seems now to become more and more
distressingly complicated.”
	“Your ardor in her behalf speaks well for
your affection as a brother, but might possibly
be misinterpreted.” “How could that be. It is
because of my sympathy for her melancholy
condition that I have come to you;surely there
can be no wrong motive attached to that?”
Clair was not skilled in the world’s methods
and it never occurred to his ingenuous soul
that people might think him anxious to get
her married that the estate might not be en-
cumbered to him she was the perfection of
beauty and delicacy, and his heart went out in
love and tenderness to her the first time they
met. He was deeply wounded by Lady
Walton’s insinuation, and felt to resent it, yet
knew not what to say,an therefore waited un-
til she resumed the conversation.
	‘‘Are you aware that Dr. Bland came here
on the same errand to teach me my duty, and
now this young woman is desperate enough to
send another messenger to question me. Surely
this is very impolite to openly avow her senti-
ments, and not the manner of girls of gentle
blood.”
	“My sister never sent any one to plead her
cause, she is too pure to cherish any but the
most sacred, womanly feelings. Your son has
won her heart and it is breaking because of
your cruelty.” And he strode out of the room
indignantly, the hot blood mounting to his
cheek as it had never done before since his
boyhood.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FOR THE EXPONENT.
			REVIEWING THE PAST.

	I have walked thro' the dust of ages,
		Half a century and more,
	With memory turning its pages,
		Reviewing its records o’er, 
	By the aid of her magic lanterns,
		Were retraced as erst of yore,
	’Till I stood once more in the dawning,  
		On the threshold of life’s door;
	When clouds from the years had rolled backward,
		Dusts from the long line effaced,
	I beheld in marvelous beauty 
		Wisdom and power of grace;
	I saw how His love had upheld me,
		All thro’ years that have fled,
	Over paths beset with temptation, 
		By heedless desire oft led.
	Oppressed by dread spirits of evil,
		Shadows of night coming on,
	A sweet voice called out to my grieving,
		"Wandering, weary one, come!"


From weird, troubled masses of darkness,
		Dispersing shadows of night,
	The voice of the Risen One brought me
		Out into marvelous light.
										L. M. H


MAY DAY.
        
It has rained all through the dark long hours,
An incessant pour, not in fitful showers,
Beneath the dripping lintel come no sunny gleams
With a promise that the day might fulfill the dreams
Of a happy, happy May day with the sunlight's beams.

I stand within the shelter’d porch
	Safe from dripping eaves,
Watching the sparkling rain-drops
	Falling on grass and leaves;
All across the meadows are little pools a-glimmering;
And adown the lane are little rivulets simmering;
A tiny birdling plumes itself within a sheltered nook,
And two shining black birds hop close with daring look;
The watch dog shivering near me gives a piteous whine;
Anon the blatant call of hungry calf, and low of waiting
	kine,
All add to the dreariness of this dripping, rainy day;
Forsooth ’tis dreary dreariness on this the first of May.

Tho' to the sodden meadow and the new-plowed field
The rain brings a promise of a heavy harvest yield—
To me it brings a sadness, for just the day before,
I had given promise the meadows to wander o'er.
The children in their rambles had found some blossoms
white,

Just above the duck pond, so mother must see the sight;—
They thought that on the Mayday
We all would have a gay day;
Dear hearts, they have not learned,
That happiness hard earned,
				Is not secure;
And that pleasures come through pain,
And that losses without gain
				We must endure.

And 'tis the Lord's day, and one of fasting and of praise
To Him that rules the Universe for sending better days.
But now this steady rain fall, we shall not be there I ween,
With the faithful worshipers, for there’s dreary miles be-
		tween.

The mountains towering white
	Are by the storm clouds kissed, 
Even the low hills near us
	Are hid by the rain-fall's mist;
There is no hope 'midst the dreariness
	That the sun will shine today;
When hark ! around and above us
	Trills the mead-lark’s bonny lay.
I know, though there is no break in the clouds, 
	The sky will soon be seen,
And through the rain's unceasing patter,
	I can see a different scene.
		*	*	*		*	*	*
True to the cheery bird’s promise,
	The clouds ere long drift apart;
But the mists still cling to the valley,
	Hugged close to the damp earth's heart;
Like the love of a mother for a wayward child.
	Holding it close in a loving caress,
Hoping and trusting for future good,
	Though often times chilled by its wilfulness.

But the warmth of Mayday Spring time,
	Scattered the silvery sheen;
And the glow of a waning sunlight,
	Tinged valleys and hills of green.

Though the day began with sadness,
Hope brought smiles and gladness,
Perhaps the dewy blossoms, should they grow another day.
Will increase in beauty for another day in May. 
										E.T.


No man or woman of the humblest sort can
really be strong, gentle, pure, and good with-
out the world's being better for it, without
somebody's being helped and comforted by the
very existence of that goodness.


WIMODAUGHSIS LETTER.

	Washington is pre-eminently a city of wo-
men’s clubs. Here was first organized and
established the Woman’s National Press As-
sociation, of which Mrs. Mary S. Lockwood is
president.
	Mrs Lockwood is commissioner at large up-
on the Board of Lady Managers for the Colum-
bian Exposition, and was recently appointed
chairman of the Press Committee by Mrs. Pot-
ter Palmer. She has just been elected for the
second time Historian of the “Daughters of
the American Revolution,” of which Mrs.
Harrison is President. Her recently published
work, “Historic Homes of Washington,” is a
wonderful volume, filled with most thrilling
historic facts never before published. This,
with her earlier published works, has given her
an enviable standing as a talented, versatile
woman, and the Press women are naturally
proud of their leader.
	This club meets regularly for the discussion
and study of literary work. Short paragraphs
on pertinent topics are frequently a part of the
evening’s program. These are afterwards
edited by some members of the club, and pub-
lished in Washington papers. This organ-
ization is not composed of newspaper reporters,
who flock to this city during “the season,” but
almost entirely of women, who are editors of
papers, authors of books, regular contributors
to newspapers and magazines, and all-around
writers.
	Lectures by prominent men and women are
frequently given, and a series of journalistic
talks by eminent journalists is a part of the
writer's plan. Literary women all over the
United States are cordially welcomed to mem-
bership upon the presentation of their name,
endorsed by two members of the society, the
payment of $1.00 and the submission of several
specimens of their literary work to the Cre-
dential Committee.
	Pro Re Nata is another and exceedingly
interesting club, composed entirely of women,
and organized for the study of Parliamentary
Law and extempore speaking. At some future
date I will give an account of its work, but
space forbids a detailed account now.
	The District Suffrage Association is a live
organization and its objects need not be
specified. The Queen Isabelle Associational-
so conveys its mission in its name.
	The Woman’s Anthropological Association
is banded together for the study of the science
which treats of the physical and intellectual
properties of man,—in a word—“human
physiology.”
	The Woman’s Collegiate Alumnae brings
together the college graduates and is in it-
self “a feast of reason.”
	But it remains for “Wimodaughsis” to bring
together “all classes and conditions of wo-
men,” and furnish them headquarters where
women can meet socially, educationally, for
business, or in clubs, where strangers and
friends may come for information in every
branch of women’s work, where a library is
gathering together women’s books, papers and
magazines, and where the pictures and busts
of those prominent in the history of reform
may be preserved.
	Rev. Anna H. Shaw, the eloquent and
popular lecturer, is its president, and its earn-
est officers and members are doing all in their
power to dispose of the 40,000 shares of stock
which it is incorporated to sell at $5.00 a share,
thus enabling the women of the United States
to own National Headquarters.
				ELLA M. S. MARBLE,
						Financial Agent.
—Womankind.


If you want to feel right, do right.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	JUNE 1, 1892.


﻿IN AND ABOUT SAN FRANCISCO.

	The National Editorial Association party ar-
rived in San Francisco Monday, May 23, accord-
ing to the programme published before starting
West on the excursion. Tuesday morning at
nine o’clock, nearly all the N. E. A. party with
a number of distinguished Californians went out
upon the bay in the steamer Ukiah. The ex-
cursion was arranged by the Examiner to give
the visitors an idea of the advantages of this great
City of the Pacific Coast. The boat put out from
the Tiburon ferry landing, Gov. Markham and
staff, Mr. and Mrs. George W. Childs, the Earl
and Countess of Meath, Dr. Alice B. Stockham
(who has just returned from a visit to Japan),
Examiner representatives, and other residents
of the City, among these were Mrs. Nellie B.
Eyster, President of the Pacific Coast Woman’s
Press Association, also of the active Committees
of that Association Miss Minna V. Lewis, Mrs.
Alice Carry Waterman and others. Miss Louise
E. Francis, editor and proprietor of the Castro-
ville Enterprise, the official organ of the P. C. W.
P. A. is quite young to manage and
edit a paper herself; she began at seventeen as a
contributor to the Santa Clara Valley, and was
afterwards connected with the San Jose Mercury;
she began as editor in Monterey, but soon moved
her paper to Castroville. Miss Mary Allen West,
editor of the Union Signal, is one of the dele-
gates of the Illinois Press Association; she is in-
tensely interested in the work of the W. C. T. U.
and is one of its ablest and most efficient champ-
ion s and organizers.
	On Monday evening a reception was tendered
her by the W. C. T. U. of San Francisco at the
headquarters of their Union, which was quite a
success. The handsome double parlors were
beautifully decorated with the most lovely flowers
of the season and trailing vines, the fragrance of
the roses and lilies filled the rooms. Mrs.Spencer,
the Cor. Sec. of the W. C. T. U., introduced most
of the guests, ladies and gentlemen, to Miss West
and others. Quite a number of the delegates
from the N. E. A. came in during the evening
though seemingly much fatigued with the journey.
Later in the evening Miss West responded to the
wishes of the Committee, in a brief address, giv-
ing a sort of sketch of the Temperance work in
foreign countries, more particularly mentioning
the Hawaiian Queen as having allied herself with
the work, and banishing from her table and en-
tertainments not only the wine and liquors but
disallowing the immodest dancing which had
formerly been one of the pleasures indulged in
and looked upon with favor by the late King and
court. She also referred to the work in South
Africa and the promise it gave of good results.
Mrs. Peak, President of the State W. C. T. U.,
made a few remarks upon the State work, and
Mrs. Skelton (a German lady) who had been

[Column 2]
traveling for some time, speaking generally three
times a day, spoke in a humorous vein. She was
introduced by some one with the comment, “the
woman who is never too tired to talk.” Mrs.
Nellie B. Eyster was the next speaker, afterwards
Miss Will, of Chicago, who is interested in the
Alliance work, and last on the impromptu pro-
gramme there was a recitation by Miss Mansfield
(a child about thirteen), “The Demon of Fire,”
illustrating the fiendish work of intemperance in
a very impressive manner.
	Dainty refreshments were served and after
more exchanges of welcomes and congratulations
the guests went their way, pleased with the
cordial greetings of those who had arranged this
happy meeting of people from a distance.
	This afternoon there is to be a reception for Dr.
Alice B. Stockham of Chicago and her daughter
Miss Cora Stockham, at the Palace Hotel, of
which we expect to give some particulars in a
later article. 
	This evening the N. E. A. Convention proper
will open in the Metropolitan Temple, when the
real work of the delegates will begin. As yet
one is not able to ascertain exactly what the
routine will be, the Press Association here being
as much at sea in regard to it as those else-
where.
	The programme for the Convention as thus far
arranged is as follows: Address, ex-President
E. W. Stephens. Address, Superintendent
Porter of the U. S. Census Bureau. Poem, Miss
Anna Cooper. “A non political View of the
Press in Relation to the Negro,” Colonel T.
Sambala Jones of Louisiana. “Cheapening our
Wares,” Hon. Matt. Parrott. “Electricity in the
Pressroom,” J. O. Moses. “Women in Journal-
ism,” Mrs. Sallie M. Moses. “The County Paper
from a Financial Standpoint,” W. H. Burrell.
‘‘Which Makes our Presidents, the Stump Orator
or the Newspaper?” R. M. Banks. Other topics
on which addresses will be delivered or papers
read are: “Circulation of Daily Papers in Interior
Towns and Cities.” “The Relative Influence of
the Metropolitan and Interior Newspapers.”
“The Home Weekly as an Educator,” “The
Practical Pressroom.” ,
	San Francisco, May 23, 1892.


EDITORIAL NOTE.

	The statement in one of the Utah papers that
Miss Josephine Kellogg of Provo was the first
woman lawyer of this Territory admitted to
practice at the bar is not correct; years ago Miss
Georgianna Snow, daughter of Judge Z. Snow,
and now Mrs. Carleton, was admitted to the bar in
Salt Lake City, and there are we believe two other
young women who have graduated in the study of
law and been employed in the offices of their
fathers. One young lady, Miss Lee, it is expected
will soon apply for admission to the bar, if she
has not already done so, and if we are reliably
informed there are one or two in Eastern colleges
preparing for graduation in that science. The
well-known lawyer Miss Phebe Cousins was
also admitted to the bar here in Utah some years
ago.


A DELIGHTFUL GATHERING.

	Tuesday evening, the 10th ult., the young ladies
of the Seventh Ward Y. L. M. I. A. held their
annual meeting in the ward meeting house, in
this City. The decorations were very artistic
and beautiful and the perfume of the apple
blossoms which had been used made the air
fragrant as a summer bower. There were many
lovely plants in blossom on the platform, and
elegant vases of a variety of flowers were ar-
ranged so ingeniously as to produce the most
charming effect.


The fair faces of the young women made the
picture the hall presented more interesting still,
and the programme was of special interest and
particularly well rendered.
	The President, Miss Sarah Eddington, was
absent, but her first Counselor, Miss Rose,
presided, assisted by the other Counselor, Mrs.
Carrrie S. Thomas. The meeting opened with
singing and prayer as usual, and at the roll call
each member answered to her name with an
original sentiment.
	First exercise was a letter from the President,
and then came the subject “Woman in all her Re-
lations," in four papers which were very ably
written and carefully read. First, “Daughter” by
Miss Rose Wallace; Second, “Sister” Miss Kate
Thomas; Third, “Wife,” Mrs. Alice Moyle;
Fourth, “Mother,” Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas. An
original poem by one of the members was then
read by Miss Alice McLachaln, the secretary; the
hymn, “O, my Father," was sung by the young
ladies and was followed by brief speeches from the
visitors present. Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall of the
Central Board was the first speaker; her remarks
were spirited and well-chosen and calculated to
inspire the young girls to noble efforts in the right
direction. Mrs. Nellie C. Taylor of the Stake
Board spoke feelingly especially of the subject
mother,that had been presented. The other sisters
who each occupied a few moments were E. B.
Wells, S. M. Kimball, M. I. Horne and Dr.
Maggie C. Shipp. The congregation sang “The
Spirit of God," and Bishop Wm. Thorne pro-
nounced the benediction. It was certainly one
of the most interesting meetings of the Y. L. M.
I. A. we have ever had the pleasure of attending;
it is very gratifying to see the improvement being
made by our young people in spiritual things.
	After the meeting was dismissed the company
all remained to partake of refreshments and join
in social converse. The time passed swiftly, the
young ladies favoring the company with some
sweet old songs, and after an hour or so we very
reluctantly bade good night. These social re-
unions bring us into communion with each other
in a way that promotes harmony and is produc-
tive of great good.


VALUABLE INFORMATION WANTED.

DEAR EDITOR:
	I desire through the medium of your valuable
paper to gain some information that I very much
wish to have. I am preparing a record of those
who died while crossing the plains—from 1847 up
to the time of the building of the railroad—and
in order to have this complete I need to com-
municate with my sisters and friends throughout
the length and breadth of the Territory, for I
would that not one name, of those dear faithful
ones, should be left out or found missing from our
list, as I know they will not be from the Angels'
record.
	Therefore dear sisters and friends, readers of the
EXPONENT, I ask you individually to please send
me what information you may have in your pos-
session regarding this matter, for soon all personal
knowledge will pass into oblivion, and history
alone can tell the story.
	Others may write of the present, but unto me it
is given to labor for the dead, that blessed host
who have kept the faith, and whose works will fol-
low them.

	"And should we die before our journey's through,
			Happy day, all is well;
	We then are free from toil and labor too,
			With the just we shall dwell."

	It is in their behalf that I make this request and
I trust to have a prompt response, that I may be
able to accomplish all that is in my heart to do in
regard to this work, and I will endeavor to report


my progress from time to time until the work is
completed.
	I should like the date of birth and death, the
place of birth, and as near as possible the place of
burial, which side of the road, the north or the
south, the cause of the death, the company they
were in, the captain's name, and any incidents of
the journey that may be remembered.
	I would also like a similar report of all those
who died after leaving Nauvoo and while crossing
the State of Iowa up to Winter Quarters.
	And not forgetting those who slumber in the
bosom of the ocean, there to rest until the sea
gives up its dead—let all their names be enrolled
with those whose feet are established in the tops
of the mountains, who are still toiling to win the
goal that they have reached.
	It has been suggested that this would be a good
opportunity to also collect the names and dates of
the births that occurred on these memorable
journeys and see how many are still living and
are residents of Utah.
	And,dear Pilgrims of former days, when you are
searching in the archives of your memory no
doubt many and varied scenes will arise in your
minds,but I trust that with me, in your hearts you
can swell the chorus, "All is well; all is well,"
with Zion.
	All communications on the above subjects ad-
dressed to M. A. Winters, Pleasant Grove, Utah
County, Utah, will find a welcome greeting.
								M. A. W.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

WHAT SOME WOMEN HAVE DONE

	[Read at Miss Anthony's Birthday Party in
this City.]
	That a new and in some respects a distinct
era has dawned for woman, the world at large
is beginning to admit,—but that there is any
precedent for such a state of things few will ac-
knowledge; yet are we forced to the conviction
when we look backward;—that such conditions
were not general in the strict sense of the term
is well understood,—but the exception proves
the rule—and as this is the age when all things
are to be restored, woman too will be accorded
her proportion in the great drama of the
world.
	The subject I have undertaken, that of wo-
man's work, or what some women have done,
is so vast that I can only present a few facts.
I will not take you back to Eve,or to Deborah,
nor to any of the scripture women, you know
their record; doubtless you are all familiar
too with the history of Zenobia, Queen of
Palmyra, which tells us not only that she was
beautiful and pure, but was also remarkable
for her great courage, high spirit, and literary
acquirements, and spoke Latin, Greek and the
Oriental languages with fluency, and that in
the administration of government she com-
bined prudence, justice and liberality, so that
all the eastern provinces submitted to her
sway.
	It is a matter of history that 320 years B. C.
Martia, Queen of London, first promulgated
the principles of the English Common Law in
her judgments and enactments. Her Martian
Statutes or Code outlived the Roman, Anglo-
Saxon and Norse invasions, and we have it on
good authority that Alfred the Great revived
her Briton laws and enforced them among
Anglo-Saxons and Danes.
	Two centuries later they were re-enacted
under Edward the Confessor, and a century
after again by Stephen—therefore the earliest
laws of Great Britain which in substance have
been in force 2,200 years, were made by a wo-
man. Tacitus says of the Britons that sex
was ignored in their government. Cæsar says
that women had a voice in their councils and
power in their courts, and often commanded in

[Column 2]

war. Plutarch says that women among the
Britons took part in deciding on war and
peace, as members of the councils, and that
differences with their allies were decided by
the women. The Domesday book, compiled
under William the Conqueror, in 1070—
enumerated the inhabitants of each village who
were entitled by existing Saxon law to vote
for local officers, and included many women.
Women were chosen members of many Saxon
local assemblies and shared in authority.
	When the Barons wrested Magna Charta
from King John, one of the rights for which
they contended and forced him to grant was
the right of women to a vote in the House of
Lords. He was compelled to summon to that
House all earls, barons, and others who held
lands directly from the King, and he sum-
moned to the very first Parliament the Count-
esses of Pembroke and Essex. In the reign
of Edward I. ten ladies were summoned, en-
titled to seats. There is proof that during the
first three reigns after the existence of Magna
Charta women had a right to a voice in the
English government and exercised it.
	John Stuart Mill said "the list of women
who have been eminent rulers of mankind
swells to a great length when to queens and
empresses are added women regents and wo-
men viceroys of provinces." "It is a curious
consideration," he continues, "that the only
things which the existing laws exclude women
from doing, are the things which they have
proved they are able to do. That women are
not fit for power and cannot take part in civil
government seems to be the cunningly devised
law of men, and has created public sentiment
as the bulwark of the law; and yet it is a fact
that we have as examples, Queen Elizabeth,
Joan of Arc, Isabella of Castile, Maria Theresa,
Catharine of Russia, Margaret of Austria and
in our day the good Queen and Empress
Victoria. To tell in brief what good any one
of these great women has accomplished would
be to fill a volume."
	Women have been distinguished for learn-
ing too in the far distant past, though it must
have gone out of fashion in part, as we are all
aware.
	We know of eminent women in many
countries here and there in the days preceding
the era of our civilization who came into pos-
session of privileges and power; some of their
histories are delightful. For instance Aspasia,
who taught Socrates, is said to have been his
preceptress, the wife of the great Pericles of
Atheus, and the friend of the Greek philoso-
phers; when summoned for trial before the
Greek Areopagus she was charged with
"walking the streets unveiled, sitting at table
with men, disbelieving in the Greek gods, be-
lieving in one sole Creator, and with entertain-
ing original ideas concerning the motions of
the sun and moon." Aspasia was far in ad-
vance of her time, and her contemporaries
could not understand her.
	Hypatia (born between 370 and 380—died
415,) whose pathetic story we read, was another
exceptionally learned woman. Her father was
at the head of the Platonic school at Alex-
andria at the close of the fourth century, the
commentator on Ptolemy and the editor of
Euclid, adding to it here and there a demon-
stration of his own. He imparted to his daughter
all that he knew, and history does not tell us
that she was not capable of acquiring knowl-
edge, or that her brain was inferior to her
father's, but on the contrary Socrates, who was
her enemy, tells us that when she suceeeded
her father in the Platonic school and "ex-
pounded the precepts of philosophy" (in both
Alexandria and Athens) studious persons from
all parts of the country flocked to hear her,
and that she addressed both them and the
magistrates with singular modesty.
	Before she was 27 years of age, she had

[Column 3]

written a book on The Astronomical Canon of
Diophantes and another on The Conics of
Apollonius. Because she was suspected of
having an influence in public affairs, and was
deemed worthy to sit in the councils of Church
and State, she was brutally murdered by a
savage mob, who thought superiority in wo-
man an arraignment of inferiority in man.
	And yet there have ever been some noble-
minded men who were willing to admit wo-
man's equality. In the 16th century there were
books written upon these subjects by men
giving to women in some instances superiority
and also other vigorous writers of the day who
denied to women reason, and considered they
only excelled in iniquity.
	Aristotle and others of his school called
woman "a monster," an "accidental produc-
tion." The Hebrews pronounced her "an
afterthought of the Deity, and the mother of
all evil."
	When the councils of the Medieval church
came together to decide on the instruction
needful to the young, they hastened to count
women out and to declare them unfit for in-
struction, and kind-hearted nuns of the
Catholic church, who in defiance of this de-
cision established schools for girls, were pub-
licly stoned when they were met on the streets.
The early Christian fathers denounced women
as "noxious animals," "painted temptresses,"
"necessary evils," "desirable calamities" and
"domestic perils."
	From the English Heptarchy to the Refor-
mation the law proclaimed the wife to be in
all cases and under all circumstances, "her
husband's creature, servant and slave." Her-
bert Spencer, writing of English laws in his
Sociology says, "Our laws are based on the
all-sufficiency of man's rights, so that society
exists today for woman only as she is in the
keeping of some man." Daniel Defoe in 1696
declared his belief that if men were trained in
the same deplorable ignorance as women they
would be vastly more incompetent and de-
graded.
	In the 15th century there was a marked
tendency to recognize women 'on an equality
with men. In 1697—Mary Astell wrote a
letter in defense of the female sex which
passed through three editions; the same lady also
wrote, "A Proposal to Ladies for the advance-
ment of their true interests." It so wrought
on Lady Elizabeth Hastings,a very wealthy wo-
man of the nobility, that she immediately
offered ten thousand pounds for the establish-
ment of a college for women. At the time
Italy led all other nations in activity, and
was remarkable for her pride in learned wo-
men. Lucrezia Morinello of Venice wrote a
work entitled "The Nobleness and Excellence
of Women with the Faults and Imperfections
of Men;" these were some of the opening
wedges that paved the way for further ad-
vancement."
	The university of Bologna, which admitted
women as students and conferred upon them
degrees as early as the 13th century, elevated
them to professorships, taught them law,
philosophy, and anatomy.
	To the Roman civilization we owe a wonder-
ful development of law. The Roman code of
laws is today the basis of the jurisprudence of
the civilized world. We have only very little
of the survival of the Greek and Roman civili-
zation come down to us. The phenomenal
dark ages set in, and for a thousand years after
the life of the "Eternal City" was crushed out,
the world groped in ignorance and darkness,
and very little progress was made in any direc-
tion.
	Four great events of world-wide importance,
each following its predecessor, caused the
divine in man to assert itself, and there came
into the world a quickening spirit.
	These events have been mentioned as occur-


ring almost simultaneously—the revival of
classical learning, the invention of the art of
printing, the discovery of this continent and
the Reformation begun by Luther. During
the Elizabethan era the great ideas were born
which underlie our present civilization. With
the history of American independence we are
all more familiar,but the condition of women
in this country has been after all one long
struggle for education,opportunity and political
equality.
	In the early colonial days, provision was
made for boys’ schools, and Harvard College
was established; but girls were not included in
any of these privileges, and even in Massa-
chusetts, which boas s perhaps more than any
other state of its educational advantages, and
where the Pilgrims first landed, the town of
Northampton, now a famous seat of learning,
voted in 1788 “not to be at any expense for
schooling girls.”
	Later, in the town of Hatfield, an influential
citizen whose children were girls, appealed in
town-meeting for the privilege of sending them
to the public school which he helped to support
by his taxes. An indignant fellow townsman
sprang to his feet and exclaimed, “Hatfield
school she’s! never!” Yet it was Miss Smith of
Hatfield, one of the sex and probably one of
the girls contemptuously denied a common
school education, who afterwards founded and
endowed at Northampton a college for girls.
There was a bitter prejudice against educated
and literary women in the early days of our
American history, strange as it may seem. 
	Although school privileges were denied them,
their education proceeded through the very
logic of events, and we who live in Utah have
had a similar experience. In laying the
foundations of the new government all ques-
tions were discussed that touched human in-
terests, not only publicly but privately, from
the pulpit and around the fireside. Women
listened and took part in them, and yet when
Mary Woolstencraft wrote her famous book,“A
Vindication of the rights of women;” which
was published in London in 1790, it was un-
sparingly condemned in American circles.
Such thiugs prove that the world has always
stoned its prophets.
	To later times the more recent developments
through the noble efforts of such grand women
in the United States as Lucretia Mott, Lucy
Stone, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, and our hon-
ored President, Susan B. Anthony, of the
National American W. S. A., whose anniver-
sary we celebrate today, we who live in this
Republic are greatly indebted for the privileges
of political liberty. In twenty-three states we
have school suffrage, in Kansas municipal
suffrage, and in Wyoming women enjoy equal
political rights with men.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., AND P. A.
REPORTS.

	MESA CITY P. A.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking a few items in regard to the Pri-
mary Association of Mesa City would be inter-
esting,  I herewith, at the request of Sister
Harriet Burton, President of the P. A., send
the following:
	It is presided over by Harriet Burton with
Laura Rapleye and Anna Phelps as Counselors.
The children take a great interest in their
meetings, which Sister Burton manages to make
very interesting. She has the faculty of win-
ning hearts, and so arranging the exercises
as to make them entertaining as well as in-
structive. A Primary Fair was held last sum-
mer or fall, which was very creditable to the
children. An account of it was sent to the
EXPONENT, but never appeared, much to the
disapointment of the officers and members of

[Column 2]

the Primary Association. It was the request
of the authorities of the Stake that funds be
contributed to assist in the completion and
furnishing of the Salt Lake Temple. The
Primary Association felt ambitious to take part
in such a noble work. They therefore inaugu-
rated an entertainment, which was a success
in every respect, and from the proceeds of
which they donated $15.00 for the Temple,
which is a credit to their heads and hearts.
They also have an interest in our Relief
Society Hall, furnishing a fine chandelier,
which is quite an ornament to the building.
Hoping you will make a little note of this in
the EXPONENT, and let the readers know that
Mesa is not a whit behind, in their Primary
organization, I remain your friend,
		S. M. POMEROY.

	IONA.
DEAR EDITOR EXPONENT—
	Thinking that perhaps a few items from
this part of our much favored land might
not be amiss, I submit the following:
	This place is inhabited mostly by young 
married people. By "young" I mean those
born and reared in Utah, to which fair land
some would fain return, but we feel mostly
that we have a mission here although not hav-
ing been called. There are, I should judge,
about sixty families; all, with perhaps one or
two exceptions, belonging to the same faith.
We have all of the different organizations and
in good running order considering that so few
live in town, most of the people being still on
their ranches. There seems a great desire to
have the children educated, not only in book
learning but in the principles of the gospel, as
there are a great many of us that took but
very little part in religion until we came to be
isolated as you might say from the leaders of
our Church and from our fathers and mothers,
who had taught us the principles of life and
salvation. Our worthy President of the Ban-
nock Stake, Brother Thos. E. Ricks, is a good,
kind father to us all, and we love to see his
smiling face as he makes his tours among us.
	Our Relief Society Jubilee was a great suc-
cess, and seemed to be enjoyed by all, and we
had a time of rejoicing long to be remembered.
Our program was similar to those I have seen
published. The EXPONENT is very valuable
to me and in reading it over I can see that
our Utah sisters are far ahead of us in the
cause of suffrage. I am one of those who once
enjoyed the right of franchise, and I hope to
see the day when we will again have all our
rights and privileges, never more to be taken
from us.
	I have been very much tied in the house this
winter, but I hope as the weather gets warmer
I will be able to go about, as I wish very
much to canvass for the EXPONENT, as I
would love to see every mother in Zion sub-
scribe for it, especially the young mothers, as
I believe it to be almost indispensable. In re-
calling the happy hours I have spent in read-
ing it, I would like to see my sisters also enjoy
it.
	Ever praying for the welfare of Zion, I re-
main yours in love,
		ELVIRA C. STEELE.


W. S. A. REPORTS.

			S. L. CO. W. S. A.

	The regular monthly meeting of Salt Lake
County W. S. A. was held in the 13th Ward
Assembly Rooms, May 16th, 1892, Vice Pres.
Louise K. Spencer in the chair.
	Opened by singing, "Columbia's Daughters."
Prayer, Vice Pres., Phebe C. Young. Sing-
ing "Song for Equal Rights." Roll called,
minutes of meeting held March 15th 1892,read

[Column 2]
and approved, minutes of meeting held April
19th 1892, read and approved.
	A programme was rendered as follows:
Reading from The Woman's Manual of Parlia-
mentary Law, by Ardella Eardley. Reading
of a poem, "Martha Washington," by May B.
Talmage. Song, "In Old Madrid," by Maggie
Bassett. Reading, of "The first code of senti-
ments read at a convention held forty years
ago in Seneca Co., New York," by Mrs. Del
Felt. Reading of speeches of Isabella Beecher
Hooker and Miss Susan B. Anthony,by Maggie
Bassett.
	Elizabeth Price read several articles by emi-
nent writers on Equal Rights, and made some
remarks on them.
	Mrs. E. McFarlane read a few clippings on
the advancement of Woman's cause.
	Dr. E. S. Barney made a few remarks.
	Sarah A. Howard, President of the Bounti-
ful Association, made a few pleasing and in-
teresting remarks on Equal Rights.
	Ter. Pres., S. M. Kimball, said she had been
much pleased and edified with all she had
heard during the meeting, and was proud to
see so many young women take an active part
in the programme. Referred to the progress that
woman is making; encouraged the ladies to
press forward in this great work.
	Meeting adjourned until the third Tuesday
in June, at the same time and place.
		MARGARET A. CAINE, Ass't Sec.

			OGDEN W. S. A.
	The regular monthly meeting of the Ogden
Woman's Suffrage Association was held in the
Fifth Ward Institute, April 26, 1892. A
goodly number of members present.
	Regular and miscellaneous business being
promptly disposed of, the president, Harriet
Brown, in an earnest and forcible manner ex-
pressed herself in favor of the enfranchisement
of woman. She should work to be set free
from oppression. Taxation, under which many
of her sex labored without representation, was
bondage, a species of despotism and slavery,
from which woman must be set free. The
equality of woman with man was not for a
special few, but designed to benefit womankind
in general. Mrs. Brown advised the reading
of the Woman’s Column,-the Woman’s Journal,
and other works treating on woman’s rights
and privileges.
	Mrs. Canfield, Mrs. Sarah Richards, Mrs. E.
Y. Stanford, Mrs. L.  B. Farrand, Mrs.  Jane
Richards, each in turn addressed the meeting.
Their speeches were to the effect that it was
woman’s duty as well as her right and privilege
to use her influence for good, and to bring her
ntelligence and talents to bear on all questions
affecting the social relations, the moral con-
dition of society, and the whole life and being
of the human race in every department thereof,
and as they apply to both sexes.. To do this
she must set herself industriously to work to
read up on all public questions, to inform her-
self on civil government and the Constitution
and laws of hej own country.
	An interesting select reading was given by
Mrs. L. B. Farr, also one,on the Constitution
of the United States by Mrs. E. Y. Stanford,
which were listened to with marked attention.
	The meeting closed with a unanimous vote
that each one present canvass her neighbor-
hood and bring two other ladies with her to
the next monthly meeting, to participate in the
work and be prepared to share in the good
time coming.
		LIZZIE M. STANFORD, Secretary.


Patience strengthens the spirit, sweetens the
temper, stifles anger, extinguishes envy, sub-
dues pride; it bridles the tongue, restrains the
hand, and tramples upon temptations.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S VOICE.

DEAR AUNT EM:
	The following extracts from a private letter,
I feel sure, will be interesting to many of
your readers. The writer is a widow with five
young children.
							L. L. G. R.
			*	*	*	*
"DEAR BROTHER AND SISTER:
	I received your very kind and welcome let-
ter a week ago. I should write to you oftener,
but it seems as though every moment of my
time is necessarily employed. We often talk
about you, and wish we could see you all.
Even little John remembers your coming to
see us, and bringing the baby. He talks of it,
and how good the baby’s father is for sending
us the Juvenile Instructor with such pretty
stories in. There is no other amusement he
takes so much comfort in as listening to read-
ing.	*	*	I know you must be kept very
busy with your family of boys, but what a
comfort children are to their parents. There
are trials for all of us to pass through, but our
trials are so much easier if we trust in the
Lord and acknowledge his hand in all
things.	*	*	*	*
	The money you so kindly sent me was grate-
fully received, and was quite a surprise. The
Sunday before it came, I went to meeting, and
the Bishop said that all the tithing of every
kind must be paid before next Saturday night.
I owed five dollars in due bills, for my earn-
ings and a calf; and I had it on hand, for I 
had saved for that purpose. But I was tempt-
ed not to pay it, and to use it for something
else. I overcame the temptation, and paid
the five dollars; and after I had done so, I
felt so rejoiced to think I had overcome. And
at night I received your letter and the money
you sent; then I felt ashamed of having doubt-
ed that The Lord would provide. I thank you
both, and the Lord also, and pray Him to
bless and keep you always.”
		*	*	*	*	*	*
								S. P. G.


[Column 1]

NATIONALISM.

	The subject of Nationalism, upon which I
have been appointed to write (or something
akin to it, but under another name) has for
many years, been, to me, a very interesting
one; but unless my mind shall be enlightened
by the Holy Spirit, I shall not be able to do
justice to even my ideas upon the subject.
	Nationalism, as I understand it, is the con-
solidation of the interests of the people of a
nation, and I believe that a person who can
conceive of the beauty and shape the ideal of
such a system as Edward Bellamy has, in his
"Looking Backward," much to some extent be
inspired by the Spirit of God. Such a system
could not be carried out without unity,and unity
is a principle, or the effect, of obedience to the
Gospel; and it has been said, "No man
knoweth the things of God, but by the Spirit
of God."
	Mr. Bellamy says that by the practice of the
system which he so nicely portrays, all incen-
tives to dishonesty are taken away; but there
is always a space, between the theory and the
practice of every new system, in which some
preliminary steps have to be taken to get it
into working order. First, then, would come
conversion to the theory; then implicit faith in
the author of it. Lastly, but not least, a will-
ingness to sacrifice all of a person's worldly
possessions to establish it; for without a spirit
of prophecy no one could know that any thing
would succeed until it had been demonstrated
by actual practice.
	What the world calls nationalism (the

[Column 2]

essence of it, if not the method as described by
Mr. Bellamy) the Latter-day Saints call a
United Order, an order which must prevail,
among the Saints at least,when the will of God
is done on earth—as it is done in heaven. But
like all correct and righteous principles, it
takes righteous people to establish it—those
who can love their neighbor as themselves,
impart freely of their substance, and labor for
the good of all.
	We have on record several instances of a
system such as this having been in operation,
but at no time, as far as I know, except as a
result of obedience to the Gospel, unless the
Quakers and perhaps some other communities
of a like nature might be classed among that
order, but which according to my understand-
ing run in too narrow a groove to be classed
either with the nationalism of Mr. Bellamy or
the United Order of the Latter-day Saints.
	I will try in my feeble way, to present some
of the instances to which I have referred:
	It is recorded in the 1st chap., of the Acts
of the Apostles that Peter and the rest of the
Apostles were preaching the Gospel in Jerusa-
lem, subsequent to the death and resurrection
of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, and that
their hearers were pricked in their hearts and
said, "Men and brethren what shall we do?"
Peter replied, "Repent, and be baptized every
one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, for
the remission of sins, and ye shall receive the
gift of the Holy Ghost; and in one day there
was added to their number about three thous-
and souls, and they continued steadfastly in
the Apostles' doctrine and fellowship, and in
breaking of bread, and in prayers; and all
that believed were together and had all things
common, and sold their possessions, and goods,
and parted them to all men, as every man had
need."
	We find recorded also that at this time they
enjoyed the gifts of the Gospel; the sick were
healed, the blind were made to see, the deaf to
hear, the lame to walk, and the dead were
raised to life; and every man heard the Gospel
in his own tongue, whatsoever his nationality,
and the people rejoiced exceedingly in the
Holy One of Israel.
	In the 19th chap., of Matthew, we find that
a young man asked the Savior what good
thing he could do that he might have eternal
life. Jesus told him to keep the command-
ments, but the young man answered, "All
these things have I kept from my youth up;
what lack I yet?" "Jesus said unto him, If
thou wilt be perfect,go and sell that thou hast,
and give to the poor, and thou shalt have
treasures in heaven, and come and follow me,
But when the young man heard that saying,
he went away sorrowful for he had great pos-
sessions. Then said Jesus unto his disciples,
Verily I say unto you, that a rich man shall
hardly enter into the kingdom of heaven."
	Let us now turn to the Book of Mormon,
and see what transpired upon this continent
after this time. In the book of Nephi, the son
of Nephi, who was the son of Helaman, we find
that, "there was a great multitude gathered
together of the people of Nephi, round about
the Temple which was in the land Bountiful,"
after the terrible storm and earthquakes which
had taken place at the time of the crucifixion of
our Lord and Savior at Jerusalem, when many
notable cities were overthrown and many
swallowed up in the depths of the sea, and the
whole face of the earth was changed. "They
were marveling and wondering, one with
another, and were showing to one another the
great and marvelous change which had taken
place, and they were also conversing about
Jesus Christ, of whom the sign had been given
concerning his death. And while they were
thus conversing, one with another, they heard
a voice as it were out of heaven, and it spoke
to them, even the third time, and they under-

[Column 3]

stood it, and it said unto them, Behold my
beloved son, in whom I am well pleased, in
whom I have glorified my name, hear ye him."
"When Jesus descended among them, and after
convincing them that it was he that had been
crucified, he taught them the gospel, ordained
twelve apostles and taught them many things
which he forbade them to write; and Jesus
blessed them as they did pray unto him and
his countenance did smile upon them, and the
light of his countenance did shine upon them
and behold they were as white as the counten-
ance and also the garments of Jesus; and be-
hold the whiteness thereof did exceed all the
whiteness,yea even there could be nothing upon
earth so white as the whiteness thereof," and
he taught them for three days, "and after that
he did show himself unto them oft" and did
break bread oft, and bless it, and gave it unto
them. He healed all their sick,and their lame,
opened the eyes of their blind, unstopped the
ears of the deaf, raised a man from the dead,
and opened the mouths of babes, and they
uttered marvelous things, and the things which
they did utter were forbidden, that there
should not any man write them. "And the
disciples whom Jesus had chosen began from
that time forth to baptize and to teach as many
as did come unto them  And as many as were
baptized in the name of Jesus were filled with
the Holy Ghost, and many of them saw and
heard unspeakable things, which are not law-
ful to be written, and they taught and did
minister one to another, and they had all things
common among them, every man dealing justly,
one with another. And he told them to take
upon themselves his name, for they were
founded upon his gospel, and by his name
they should be called at the last day."
	I will make only a brief extract from the
"Pearl of Great Price,"as my article is getting
already too lengthy: "And the fear of the
Lord was upon all nations, so great was the
glory of the Lord, which was upon his people,
and the Lord blest the land, and they were
blest upon the mountains, and upon the high
places, and did flourish, and the Lord called
his people Zion, because they were of one heart
and one mind, and dwelt in righteousness;
and there was no poor among them;	*	*	and
lo, Zion in process of time was taken up into
heaven."
	I will now quote from the Doctrine and 
Covenants from a revelation given to Joseph
Smith, the great Prophet of the 19th century,
April 23, 1834:
	"For it is expedient that I the Lord should
make every man accountable, as steward over
earthly blessings which I have made and pre-
pared for my creatures. I the Lord stretched
out the heavens, and built the earth as a very
handy work, and all things therein are mine."
	"And it is my purpose to provide for my
Saints, for all things are mine. But it must
needs be in mine own way; and behold this is
the way, that I, the Lord, have decreed to pro-
vide for my Saints, that the poor shall be exalted
in that the rich are made low. For the earth is
full, and there is enough and to spare; yea I
prepared all things, and have given unto the
children of men, to be agents unto themselves.
Therefore if any man shall take of the abund-
ance which I have made, and impart not his
portion, according to the law of my gospel, unto
the poor and the needy, he shall, with the
wicked, lift up his eyes in hell, being in tor-
ment."
	Now, in the light of the evidence which we
have upon the subject, it appears to me very
plain that the Lord designed that all His chil-
dren should share alike in the blessings of the
earth, and that when He comes whose right it
is to reign,it will be so arranged; and as "com-
ing events cast their shadows before," many
thinking people will solve the problem, "in
their minds;" but a perfect system of National-


ism, or United Order, will never be established
until every man can recognize in his neighbor
a friend or brother, and all have come to a
unity of faith in the Lord Jesus Christ.
						C. C. R. W.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


WHAT TO TEACH YOUNG WOMEN.

   A mother writes:  “What shall I teach my
daughters?”  This one important and tremend-
ous fact: That there is no happiness in this
world for an idle woman.  It may be with
hand, it may be with brain, it may be with
foot; but work she must, or be wretched for-
ever.  The little girls of our families must be
started with that idea.  The curse of our
American society is that our young women
are taught that the first, second, third, fourth,
fifth, sixth, seventh, tenth, fiftieth, thousandth
thing in their lives is to get somebody to take
care of them.  Instead of that, the first lesson
should be how, under God, they may take care
of themselves.  The simple fact is that a ma-
jority of them do have to take care of them-
selves, and that, too, after having, through the
false notions of their parents, wasted the years
in which they ought to have learned how suc-
cessfully to maintain themselves.  It is inhu-
man and cruel for fathers or mothers who pass
their daughters into womanhood having given
them no facility for earning their livelihood.
Madame de Stael said:  “It is not these writ-
ings that I am proud of, but the fact that I
have facility in ten occupations, in any one
of which I could make a livelihood.”  We
should teach our daughters that work of any
kind, when necessary, is a credit and honor to
them.  It is a shame for a young woman be-
longing to a large family to be inefficient when
the mother and father toil their lives away for
her support.  It is a shame for a daughter to
be idle while her mother toils at the washtub.
It is as honorable to sweep house, make beds,
or trim hats, as it is to twist a watch chain or
embroider a slipper.
			REV. T. DE WITT TALMAGE.


Leave aside all power of a woman's influence
over a man's life if you will, and consider his
helplessness. A man doesn't know how to take
care of himself. He is not quite as helpless as a
ship at sea without a compass, but the simile
can almost be truthfully applied. The absence
of a wife from home has demonstrated to many
a man how large and important a part she is
of it, and of him. The right kind of a wife
knows better what is essential to her husband's
comfort than he does himself—far better. He
waits for illness to come, and then combats it,
frequently when too late. But the wife sees the
symptoms and uses preventives. Her keen in-
sight tells her that her husband is unwell when
sometimes he is not conscious of it himself.
Leave a man alone, and he will sit for hours
in a pair of wet shoes, or wetter clothes. Not
so when a woman is near. Women, we are
told, know little of business, yet when business
troubles come to a man what a comfort a good
wife can be. When he despairs, she is hopeful.
By her efforts, more, perhaps, than by what
she actually accomplishes, she brings new hope,
new courage, and points the way to a new be-
ginning. How often women have been the
means of averting business disasters or mul-
tiplying failures with further implications the
world will never know, but there are men who
know it, and they are the men of whom to ask,
"Is woman a failure?"
				The Ladies Home Journal.


Although the British House of Commons
voted down the woman suffrage bill on April
27, which after Gladstone’s change was hard-


ly to be wondered at, still the vote stood 152
to 175, showing a large number in its favor.
Ex.
	The welcome to Lady Henry Somerset on
her landing at Liverpool, was so general and
enthusiastic that Association Hall could not
hold all who assembled, and an overflow
meeting of nearly seven hundred was held.
The mayor also gave her a reception at the
Town Hall. Ex.


A cheerful heart is the richest of all human
treasures; for even gold shines more brightly
in the smiles of the sun.
	
	There are three things which ought to be
considered before some things are spoken—the
manner, the time, and the place.
	
	We judge ourselves by what we feel capable
of doing, while others judge us by what we
have already done.


OBITUARY.

	Coombs.—In Mauston, Sunday evening, Jan. 24, 1892,
at 10 o'clock, after a brief illness of pneumonia.
	Mrs. Coombs was one of the first settlers of this city,
having resided here about 35 years. She was born at
Vinal Haven, Me., Oct. 11, 1812. Deceased was a lady
esteemed and respected by all who knew her for the many
excellent traits of character and uprightness which marked
her life. She was a true Christian, a constant Bible reader
and followed its precepts as nearly as it is possible for any
one in this world to do. Grandma Coombs belonged to
 hat kind, faithful old fashioned class of people whose
death leaves a vacancy not easily filled. Her only child,
Mrs. H. G. Penniman, of this city, suruives her. They
have always lived together and the kindly presence of
grandma in the home will long be sadly missed. The
 uneral was held at 2 o'clock p. m., on the 27th, from the
esidence of H. G. Penniman. Of the relatives present
were the grandchildren, H. H. Penniman, of Minneapolis;
Col. and Mrs. B F. Parker and daughter, of Milwaukee.
Rev. H. Goodsell, pastor of the M. E. church, officiated
at the funeral, which was attended by a large concourse of
sympathizing friends.

	The lady whose death we record here was bap-
tized many years ago into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints by Elder Wilford
Woodruff, now President of the Church, who was
then on a mission to the Eastern States, particu-
larly Maine,in 1837. She has been in the habit of
paying her tithing and donations to the Temple of
late years, since having been rebaptized by Elder
Miles Romney when he was on a mission to the
Northwestern States. She was desirous of
gathering with this people, rejoiced in the testi-
mony of the truth and died full of faith and of
hope in the resurrection.—Editor.


VIAVI TREATMENT.

	Among the new discoveries of science is the
treatment known as viavi, which some of the 
medical journals of the day speak of in the
highest terms. It is a simple remedy, not dan-
gerous or disagreeable, and does not require
personal examination; the patient can attend to
her own case. It is a local remedy with a two
fold action, constitutional and local.


[column 1]
	OFFICE of the VIAVI COMPANY; Ladies in
poor health please call on Wednesday and
Saturday afternoon Room 533, Constitution
Building.

	MRS. M.E. VAN, M.D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her residence, 167 THIRD STREET
Office hours, 2 to 4 p.m.
[column 2]
THE  WOMAN'S TRIBUNE,
Edited and published weekly at Washington,
	D.C., by CLARA BEWICK COLBY.
Price, $1.00 a year.  Trial Subscriptions, five
			weeks for 10 cents.
The Woman's Journal, of Boston, and the Woman's Tri-
	bune, of Washington, D. C., will be sent to one ad-
	dress for $3.00 per year.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
		Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
	ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
		AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
			POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles. Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed.
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But.
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
	No. 63 E.  FIRST SOUTH STREET,
				Three doors west of Theatre.
R.K. THOMAS

26,28,30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
	SALT LAKE CITY
	The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS
			THE
		Standard Gauge
			RAILWAY!

		THROUGH THE
	ROCKY MOUNTAINS!
		
	Choice of Three Distinct Routes
			AND THE
MOST MAGNIFICENT RAILROAD SCENERY
		IN THE WORLD.

	Two Fast Express Trains Daily
		EACH WAY BETWEEN
	OGDEN, SALT LAKE AND DENVER.

ELEGANT RECLINING CHAIR CARS!
		Free of Charge.

	Direct Connections made in Union Depots.
THE MOST THOROUGHLY EQUIPPED RAILWAY
			IN THE WEST.
D.O. DODGE,	 A.E. WELBY,	J.H. BENNETT
  Genl. Mgr.			Supt.			G.F. & P.A.

		DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS.  Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
		DAVD JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 20.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 15, 1892.	NO. 24. 23


CONTENTS.

	A Day In Heidelberg—A. W. C. In Rural Eng-
land—A Story. Courtesy—M. A. Y. Greenhalgh.
Anniversary at Pleasant Green.	Something
About Voting—Annie C. Hindley. "Will Ye Go
Away?"—Mary Y. Corby. Woman's National
Council—Rachel Foster Avery. 	Compensation.
Gleanings. Obituaries.
	EDITORIAL:—This, That, And The Other.
The Men and Women We Met, In San Francisco.
Editorial Notes. Interesting Letter—Florence
Balgarnie. An Interesting Journey.
	POETRY:—Wild Flowers to Sarah—Augusta
Joyce Crocheron. In Memoriam—Emily Browne
Powell. Spring—M. A. Y. Greenhalgh. If
Mother Would Listen—Margaret E. Sangster.


WILD FLOWERS TO SARAH,

		AN INVALID FRIEND.

	Heart's beloved ! to you I send
		Greeting from the canyon's shade,
	Gathered where the branches bend
		And streams with light o'erlaid;
	Where the birds in sweetest chorus
		Sing their message with my heart,
	And the flowers baeathe their kisses
		In sweet odors for their part.

	All the waters, rippling. leaping,
		In their haste and in their calm,
	Fresh as life and bright with sunbeams,
		Send to you their healing balm;
	All the silence, like sweet prayers
		And the mountains' sense of might,
	With the strength of pine and cedars,
		All, their spell of health unite.

	Could I bring you to their presence,
		Surely, Nature might surpass
	All the feeble skill of science
		And your lips would smile at last,
	For the moment all forgetting
		Present pains and tender fears—
	You would live with eyes and senses
		That belonged to childhood's years.

	Close thine eyes, beloved and wander
		In thy fancy where once grew
	Leafy arch, and flow'ry meadow,
		Bending. blooming, all for you;
	When your heart knew nothing grayer
		Than sweet childhood's duties small,
	And thy world's thy life's fair ranges
		Were within thy mother's call.

	Questions great thou hadst not pondered,
		Trials had not met thee then,
	Yet thy life was fair as morning—
		As though ills had never been,
	Now, o'er all the time and distance
		And its record, thou may'st smile,
	As in childhood, for God's angels
		Have been with thee all the while.

	Though thy bloom of youth hath faded,
		In their stead thy soul hath raised
	Graces that will live forever
		And in memory be praised.

	Take my off'ring small and lowly,
		And perhaps thy soul may hear
	All the sounds and all the whispers
		That are gathered 'round us here.

	Leafy branches proffer shelter
		From the wind and from the sun,
	And the green sward calls your footsteps
		Where the brightest waters run;
	
[Column 2]
	Creeping vines and berry branches
		Send you word of what they'll bear,
	And the flowers would smile to wither
		In your hands so slight and fair.

	Would this little page might bear thee
		All the beauty spring bestows,
	Where the mossy rocks are shaded
		By wild cherry blooms and rose;
	Would I might divide my freedom
		In these rambles, dear, with thee,
	And thy steps with mine discover
		All there is to hear and see.
	
	Until then, I will bear with me
		Thoughts of what thy lips would say,
	And with poet's own delusion
		Be thy guide along the way.

	When thy hands and eyes are weary
		And thou turnest to thy sleep,
	Let one thought for gift and giver
		Place amid thy dreaming keep.
					AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
Bountiful, May, 1892.


A DAY IN HEIDELBERG.

	In all things, music, art, fiction, tragedy,
poetry, history, and religion, there is a grand
climax. This acme is advanced and receded
by many ways, byways and channels, all
pointing to the one grand center, with their
trills and variations, their mellow tints, lights
and shades; their descriptive and romantic
scenes; their intrigues and ambitions; their
metaphors and gentle rhyming; their sorrows,
trials, labor and their gallantry; their prayers,
faith and convictions. How beautiful is the fact
that one attains this acme by gentle and fasci-
nating approaches, then it charms. How sad
if the grandest height came suddenly upon
one, it could only terrify. The sublime
symphony that pervades an oratirio through
its introduction,recitatives,airs, solos, choruses,
thrills and enchants the soul until one is pre-
pared to appreciate and delight in the grand
finale. Just so by gentle approaches and by
ways the writer decided to appreciate and en-
joy the quaint and historical city and castle of
Heidelberg. 'Twas a warm, pleasant day in
March as we left Karlsruhe, the beautiful
capital of Baden, and traversed the pretty
country shaded by the hills and mountains of
the Black Forest. The fields were green, the
orchards were assuming their Spring time
garb of leaves and sweet blossoms, women and
children were working in the vineyards
straightening and uncovering the vines. The
ride was enchanting, passing now and then a
pretty village with its white church steeple
towering above the houses and pointing to the
heavens as a signal of hope, and past the silent
green grave yards, where some beloved ones
are sleeping for ever more, even past the grave
of Fredrika Brion, Goethe's early love, past
many ruins and castles each with its own
peculiar legend, along miles of country skirted
by the Black Forest and the great mountain
Feldberg looming like a monarch above them
all. Approaching Heidelberg along the historic
Neckar viewing castles ruined and restored,
one is almost prepared for the solemn and
magnificent spectacle of the quaint and
crooked city guarded by the grandest ruin in
the German empire; but first gaze on the
gently sloping hills on the opposite shore
where large trees with their expanding boughs
shade the memorable path known as the philo-

[Column 2]
sophers' way; how many great minds have
conned their lessons, and composed their life's
work while treading that beautiful path. At
length when the handsome old bridge con-
structed more than a century ago by Charles
Theodore is reached, then we turn our faces
to the right and behold the grandest sight of
all-the castle-the climax of the day is
reached and for moments I stood apart breath-
less, silently admiring and devouring the scene.
'Twas early evening and the sun's last rays
were tinting the rounded towers with a golden
glow. All else lay in the shade, a gloomy
massive pile, barren of all ornament save the
ivy vines and slender ferns that cling tenderly
to its dark and sombre walls. A monument
on the hillside commemorating ages of daring
deeds, of chivalry, of romance and of splendor.
The city streets are narrow and crooked, the
buildings tall and old and dark,and so shading
the streets that it is a positive relief to enter the
principal promenade, the Anlage where the
walks and drives are broader, and there among
the border shrubs and trees are pretty rustic
seats where one can watch the fashionable
ladies, the children with their nurses, the
pretty girls with their staid chaperones, and
the gaily attired students strolling, riding,
bicycle riding. One almost shudders at the
sight of the scarred faces of the students and
wonders how so dreadful a practice as dueling
can be so popular among intelligent men, and
yet the students were none of them very young
and of course must be learned to belong to the
great university Ruperto Carola of Heidelberg,
known as the Cradle of Science of Germany,
and the third oldest in the empire.
	The city assumed a quiet aspect as night
came on and the great stone pile on the hillside
seemed more sombre and gloomy than ever,
and yet in the days of its glory, when the
home of kings and queens,how lovely it must
have appeared at night with its brilliant lights
shining through the hundreds of windows.
'Twas then as a sentinel guarding the city.
'Tis now but a monument of the past. In the
early morning as the sun just kissed the moun-
tain peaks, and the birds their matins sung, we
were leisurely walking up the long, narrow
path by the outer wall,—a path densely
shaded with grand old trees on one side and
the high massive wall hung with ivy on the
other. Reaching the castle grounds a winding
path leads to the entrance facing the town-
where from the terraced grounds one can view
the entire city with the majestic heights sur-
rounding it, and beyond, the vast plain watered
by the Rhine. Reaching the castle the elegant
palace of Frederic IV. confronts one. It re-
sembles in design work of the Renaissance,
though it was built in the sixteenth century.
Between each of the mullioned windows are
niches each of which contains a statue; this is
the best preserved outer part of the whole
castle and was the finest and most elaborate,
and the interior was finished in the same style,
but now the walls are all barren of ornament,
only occasional fragments of sculpture to be
seen. Wandering through low arched halls,
stopping occasionally to look through the
windows into the gardens and over the city
now assuming a brighter, busier appearance
with the advance of day, we reached the
castle court yard where broken statues and
silent fountains sadly tell of past beauty.
The front of the Otto Frederick castle, facing
the court is finer than the outer wall and


the stone steps before the entrance still
though somewhat broken retain some of their
elegance.  From the tower of this palace the
view is enchanting, extending far over the
Rhine Valley.  Through long halls and rooms,
round and square, large and small,all alike in
their barrenness,we reached the English palace,
which was built for the Princess Elizabeth,
daughter of James the First and Anne, and
wife of the Winter King, Frederick, Elector
Palatine.  This poor princess had many sor-
rows and afflictions though she was so beloved 
by her friends as to be called the “Queen of
Hearts.”  The rooms to this wing are smaller
and the windows are long and pleasanter than
in other parts of the castle, and the apartments
when furnished must have been more home
like to an English Princess.  In the corner of
this wing is a round massive tower known as
the Dicke Thurm, (Thick Tower), its walls are
twenty-seven feet thick along the upper walls.
We walked to the corner where the broken
tower forms now the most picturesque part of
the castle.  When Melac the French com-
mander tried to blow up the castle, after
several attempts all he succeeded in doing was
to break in half this massive tower, and now,
more than two centuries after, one part stands
erect as ever while the other lies on its side in
the moat below covered with beautiful ferns
and clinging ivy.  Some rooms in the castle
in the front overlooking the city are well pre-
served and inhabited, and in the large halls
are kept relics of the castle, pictures, vases,
swords, et cetera.  Among the relics are
pictures of the life of the young student Sand
who drew the fatal number to kill Kotzebue, a
professor who had displeased the students by
some of his writings. Sand was taken to
Mannheim, tried and beheaded for this deed.
	Reluctantly, yet with a sensation of relief
from the oppressive sadness of the old castle,
we turn again into the gardens and from
different positions view the sombre structure.
The paths and the walks are winding and en-
chanting, and the views obtained from the 
heights are beyond description.  The rays of
the setting sun shone on the ramparts and the
shadows lay dark and dense around the
vaulted walls as we again entered the shaded
path, this time with the castle behind us.
Thus ended a day in Heidelberg.
							A. W. C.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN RURAL ENGLAND.
				XV.
	With a champion like Clair, Lady Anna
was not likely to be neglected without its be-
ing resented, and Clair felt not only a sincere
affection for his sister, but he was determined
that Maitland Walton should be left without
excuse.
	After his departure from the interview with
Lady Walton she reviewed the past, as she had
been much in the habit of doing especially since
Sir Edward’s death; she was not particularly
amiable in the strict sense of the word, and
she had been left so entirely to herself during
her married life and had been such a favorite
in society, that she had not taken many lessons
in self-denial; indeed she had indulged in the
idea, that because she had made one great
sacrifice, (and that from compulsion) nothing
more ought ever to be required. Therefore
she had floated along with the current of
pleasure and of fashion, until her son, the idol
of her life, had confided to her his secret, which
had fallen on her like a thunderbolt, when
she ascertained that the girl be loved so wild-
ly, was the daughter of one, who had jilted her
and been the cause of her secret sorrow; she
knew not what course to pursue though much
of it came from wounded pride; now and again
she reflected within herself as to what was to

[Column 2]
be done, for to whom could she go how could
she tell her husband that Maitland had fall-
en in love with the daughter of his old enemy;
would he not at once conjecture that there had
been some association between the Baronet and
herself that had led to it, and without his
knowledge; whereas she had never by word
or deed, or in thought been false to him; until
Maitland had forced her almost to go to Sir.
Edward that night to plead his cause, she
had not looked upon his face; and had not fate
done this; was it her fault? and so she sat
wondering what course to take until the
silence seemed to her unbearable,still she was
unresolved, why should this boy, come into
her life, and speak to her with so much im-
petuosity, why had these chldren of Sir Ed-
ward’s forced themselves as it were upon her
notice what curious train of unknown causes
had produced this effect? was her life so
mysteriously interwoven with that of Sir Ed-
ward’s that though he was dead, she could
not rid herself of the past, nor of the living
present; of his children, for whom he himself
had never cared or manifested even ordinary
affection, scarcely acknowledged?
	These were the self questionings that passed
through her mind, and indeed it does seem
sometimes that there is a mysterious weaving
together of fine spun lines that entangle us, or
an under current that flows into certain lives
and draws them unconsciously to each other,
and who shall declare that this is not true?
	Lady Walton was restless, dissatisfied with
herself, she could not bear to have her hus-
band think ill of her for a single day, “Mait-
land shall speak for himself,” she exclaimed
aloud, as her husband entered the room un-
observed, repeating the words she had uttered,
“and about what, and to whom my dear, you
seem very much disturbed, what means this
agitation?” Lady Walton lost her self control
momentarily, and the hot tears coursed down
her cheeks.
	“What has our boy been doing now to cause
your unhappiness, it is not his delicate health
this time, he seems robust and well
since his return from Italy, is it a love affair,
speak out Helen surely you can have no
concealments from me!”
	“YesHenry it is a love affair of a very seri-
ous nature, and the boy cannot be persuaded
to give it up.”
	“Who is this girl or woman then that you
do not approve of the boy’s choice?” “I have
not said I did not approve of it, you know how
young Maitland is, and we had not expected
him to choose without our knowledge.”
	“Boys will be boys, and this is possibly a
mere fancy, I will talk to him; if the girl is
of good family and accomplished, even if she
is not a beauty, it may be all right, but tell me
Helen who is she, what are her special at-
tractions, and where did this fastidious boy
of ours meet her?”
	“I scarcely know myself how or where he
first met her, it seems to have been his fate, he
must have seen her accidentally somewhere
and fallen in love with her at first sight.”
	“But Lady Walton,” said her husband,
“you are evasive tell me her name? surely you
know it, he has no secrets from his mother I
warrant me,he makes youhis confidente no doubt.
	“Her name is Anna Hlliard,” replied the
lady, knowing there was no escape from the
questioning, by the imperative manner in
which he last addressed her. Lord Walton
looked at his wife a moment in silence, she
sat perfectly quiet, “and do you know this
girl?” he asked. ‘‘No I have met her only
once, I called as was my duty I thought upon
the family after the Baronet’s death.” “Is that
all you have to say, were you aware then that
Maitland was in love with the girl? Tell me
frankly Helen was this what took him to the
continent?”

[Column 3]
	Lord Walton made this last inquiry in a
milder tone, calling his wife by her given
name indicating a softer manner.
	“I think so.” You knew it undoubtedly;
then it was love-sickness ailed the boy;—men
do not die of that, you need not have been
alarmed, but I will see to this matter, lucky I
came in, when you were soliloquizing; how
long then was I to be kept in ignorance of my
son’s doings? until some neighborhood gossip
reached me I presume. Our lives do not seem
to run very close together of late”—“Whose
fault is it?” retorted Lady Walton,“when have
you confided anything to me, or even cared to
tell me where, or how you spent your time
when away” and then she broke down utter-
ly, and her maid was summoned; Lord Walton
walking off in a towering passion, to think she
should have reproved him in the least, and all
the time deceiving him about his own son; and
as he went he muttered between his clenched
teeth, “in love, with that rascally old man’s
daughter, my son, and the heir of Walton
Hall, and these fine estates; by Jove I’ll see
what the girl is like before I sleep,’’and hasten-
ing along he called to a groom to get his horse
ready for a canter across the fields.
	Once on horse back in the exhilarating air
of a fine summer day his passion subsided,
and he enjoyed the ride as he took his way to
the enemy’s fresh fields, new to him, for it had
been many a year since he had entered the
grounds he was now approaching; he did not go
as an intruder, however, but boldly as one
with a purpose in view. Coming in sight of
the castle along the highway, who should he
meet but Dr. Bland riding at a rapid pace,
and as he came near he reined in his horse,
and spoke though he scarcely had a speaking
acquaintance. The Doctor knew Lord Walton
well by sight and guessed something of his
errand and was therefore willing to be
questioned. After exchanging salutations Lord
Walton asked the doctor if he would return
to the castle and introduce him to the family.
The doctor consented notwithstanding he had
been on the way to visit a patient, he could
wait awhile, this was a duty he felt, for Lady
Anna was far from well and she too was a
patient of his as well as his ward, and he knew
Lord Walton to be a man of fiery temper and
unscrupulous in character. As the two gentle-
men rode along, Lord Walton said, “by the
way Sir Edward has a niece at the house, I am
told, who is a most clever and sensible young
person, very unlike other women; quite a re-
markable character, she must be a very ex-
cellent companion for Miss Hilliard, you I
suppose are well acquainted with her:” “I am
the guardian of her cousin, and as business
takes me to the castle often, and also the
practice of my profession, I have seen the
young lady to whom you refer quite frequent-
ly.”
	“The fact is Dr. Bland I would like to
speak to Miss Conway (I believe that is the
lady’s name) my business is with Miss Hill-
iard, but I might manage it better through
her cousin.”
	“I could advise you better if I knew the
nature of your errand,” replied the cool head-
ed doctor.
	“Well I may as well tell you as you are her
guardian it is right you should know, she’s in
love with my son, and as we have never been
on friendly terms with Sir Edward for more
than thirty years its a very awkward affair.”
	“But Sir Edward is dead” replied the doc-
tor, with his usual self-possession not adding
any other explanation.
	“Of course he’s dead but we could never
think of uniting the two families by marriage,
think of our never having spoken for a whole
generation.”
	“If he were living you would not have call-
ed I presume?” Inquired the doctor looking


C. W. P. A. and exchange ideas and be mutually
benefitted. It was really an enjoyable affair and
we were much interested in meeting for the first
time the talented and attractive Miss Keith (Di
Vernon) of whom the papers have had consider-
able to say of late, which proves she is worth
talking about. Another lady editor who drew
out our sympathy as well as our sincere admira-
tion was Mrs. Laura E. Foute of San Antonio,
Texas. She is one of those sweet-mannered,
highly polished and attractive Southern women,
that call out your tenderest affections, and make
you feel akin. Her magazine is The Gulf Messen-
ger, and withal she has a great ambition, which is
to make it the magazine of the Gulf states, and
with all our heart we wish she may succeed in do-
ing so.
	Mrs. Virginia Lull was really the centre of at-
traction of the evening,all things considered, and
as she lives in Chicago and has been doing news-
paper work there for a number of years, we were
all delighted to hear her talk. She is well posted
in all the questions of the day and her witty man-
ner of telling things was very amusing.
	Miss Minna V. Lewis seems to be the pet of
the association, and she is very charming,a sensi-
tive, delicate, little creature with bright eyes and
an expression of tenderness in them, as though
she could “weep for others’ woes;” but she must
have place in another article, also Florence
Mathesen, who is the daughter of the celebrated
Elizabeth Akers Allen of poetry, song, and story
fame, who wrote many years for Godey’s Lady’s
Book and other popular works,but who is beloved
everywhere through the well-known song,

	“Rock me to sleep mother, Rock me to sleep.”

also Mrs. D’Evelyn, Mrs. Sarah B. Cooper, and
her Sunday Bible Class and Mrs. Hannah Neall,
and others. 
	The drive to the beach and the Presidio too
will come in at another time, and the visit to our
quarters, the office of the EXPONENT, of some of
the returning editorial party. Quite a number of
the people we met, men and women, are not yet
mentioned and we shall take great pleasure in
writing them up for the delectation of our read-
ers.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

		EMILIE TRACY Y. PARKHURST.

"My name is Life," a radiant angel said;
	"I bring the sacred bliss of motherhood;"
Then turned to go his Heavenward way, when, lo !
	Another angel on the threshold stood.

Before the awful glory of that face,
	The bright first comer bowed his shining head.
"The smiles that welcomed me must melt in tears,
	Since thou art here, O, Brother Death!" he said.

'Mid twilight's gathering gloom Death entered there;
	Whispered, "The Master calls thee 'Come up higher.'"
Closed to all earthly things, the earnest eyes;
	And set his seal upon the lips of fire.

"She is not dead, but sleeping," saith the Lord,
	But tears are falling like the summer rain
For her, who, wearing woman's crown of love,
	Sank 'neath the weight of woman's cross of pain.
							EMILY BROWNE POWELL.
	The Californian Illustrated Magazine.


SPRING.

	M. A. Y. GREENHALGH.

The meads are clad in verdure,
	The woods resound with song;
The air is filled with perfume
	By zephyrs borne along;
The pink tipped, star eyed, daisies,
	Ope at the morning’s glow,
And the bubbling brook asks softly,
	"Why don’t you Maying go?”
  
The cowslip shakes her golden bells
	Beneath the hawthorn's shade,
And every blushing floweret tells
	How Flora decks the glade.
Listen! each shrub and bramble, 
	Are asking us to come,
And 'mid their wild haunts ramble,
	Or on the hill sides roam.
The blue bell nods her azure head
	With every fluttering breeze,
And Columbines in glowing red,
	Bask neath the tamarack trees,
The gay wild Prairie beauties,
	Their dainty charms disclose
When May resumes her duties
	And heralds in June's rose,
Then larkspurs rear their purple heads,
	And butter-cups in gold array
Smile on the blue forget me not,
	And whisper “This is joyous May.’’


IF MOTHER WOULD LISTEN.

	BY MARGARET E. SANGSTER.

If mother would listen to me, dears,
	She would freshen that faded gown;
She would sometimes take an hour's rest,
	And sometimes a trip to town.
And it shouldn’t be all for the children,
	The fun, and the cheer, and the play;
With the patient droop on the tired mouth,
	And the "Mother has had her day !"

True, mother has had her day, dears,
	When you were her babies three,
And she stepped about the farm and the house,
	As busy as ever a bee.
When she rocked you all to sleep, dears,
	And sent you all to school,
And wore herself out, and did without,
	And lived by the Golden Rule.

And so your turn has come, dears, 
	Her hair is growing white:
And her eyes are gaining that far-away look
	That peers beyond the night.
One of these days, in the morning
	Mother will not be here:
She will fade away into silence;
	The mother so true and dear.

Then, what will you do in the daylight,
	And what in the gloaming dim?
And father, tired and lonesome then,
	Pray, what will you do for him?
If you want to keep your mother,
	You must make her rest today
Must give her a share in the frolic,
And draw her into the play.

And, if mother would listen to me, dears,
	She'd buy her a gown of silk,
With buttons of royal velvet,
	And ruffles as white as milk:
And she'd let you do the trotting,
	While she sat still in her chair:
That mother should have it hard all through,
	It strikes me isn’t fair.


[Column 1]

﻿COURTESY.

	We have frequently heard the question
asked, "What is Courtesy?" and have been
surprised, at first, to hear the query put, but
on farther study, our surprise has vanished.
We have found it mistaken for politeness, and
vica versa. And yet how simple, and distinct
its definition. Courtesy is the destinctive
mark of a refined and cultivated mind, it is
the attribute by which we may recognize the
true lady,or gentleman. It is the characteristic
of the well bred, and kind hearted of all
nations, tribes and people, it is the true index
of a good mind. It is the oil in the machinery
of social life. It is necessary for comfort, and
tends to foster happiness. Courteous words
sweeten life, and a courteous demeanour en-
hances its pleasures. It hides many imperfec-
tions and protects the possessor from many
dangers. Courtesy is calculated to win hearts
and the lack of it to lose them; and the closer
one’s intimacy with a person is, the more need-
ful does the exercise of tact, and courtesy be-
come. Courtesy is never the result of a school
education. It springs from an innate purity
of soul. Pure courtesy is often met with in
those who are entirely uneducated, these are
natures noblemen, and women.
	We have read, and heard, of highly edu-
cated and gifted men, who seemed unable to
be courteous to any one, and they were voted
as boors in society. And yet it can be, and
often is, cultivated, and those in whom it is
found either as a product of their nature, or
as an acquired quality, are the gems and orna-
ments of society, while they who are without
it, are but little sought after, and are often

[Column 2]

shunned. Courtesy is never a burden to its
possessor, and will help to make life's path
easier to travel than any other virtue, except
honesty and truth.
	Of all poverty stricken contradictions the
person who does not possess the quality of
courtesy is the poorest.
	Without courtesy the best actions of our
lives are not appreciated, because the manner
of performing them is not in keeping with the
actions. The courtesy of the heart is allied to
love, from it springs the purest courtesy in the
outward behavior. As the best metal is the
most flexible, so the truly generous hearted,
are the most courteous to inferiors, and those
who are courteous to all, receive much more
honor, than those whom they honor. 
	Again, there are studied courtesies in which
sincerity and truth, have no part, and these
tend to break up, and eliminate every element
of true friendship.
	There are people who profess to be too inde-
pendent to study even the smallest courtesies
They will enter a room or a public place in
an abrupt manner, sit in the rudest attitudes,
pay no apparent attention to those who may
be speaking, and in conversation themselves,
show no respect to those around them. They
do not understand, that there is not one of our
attributes, one of our employments, nor one of
our states of mind which is not as significant
could we interpret it, as holy writ, though not
as instructive. To each of us God has given
talents to be improved by cultivation,and care,
nothing that comes from him can be ignoble
or small, nothing worthless if cultivated as his
gift. This is one of the most helpful thoughts
we get of ourselves, and should teach us how
necess[--] it is to cultivate every grain of the
beautiful seed that nature has given us, then
thoughts will break out into leaf, feelings into
blossoms, a single day may make the whole
heart like a woodland, when the foliage of
sweet and refined thought first appears, the
weeds will not be seen amid the flowers. We
may never be called to leave the sacred pre-
cincts of home, yet there we should cultivate
every grace, and talent, so that we may shed
brightness, and joy upon our nearest and
dearest.
	It is a blessed thing to feel that we are
wanted in life, that we are not like a solitary
speck of sand, upon the great Sahara of the
world, but are a part of a great and glorious
whole, where each individual soul has its own
appointed place, and which we are expected to
perfect ourselves to fill; to devote ourselves
to the bliss of the Divine life by the beautiful
apostolate of kindness, and courtesy. Courtesy
is a fortune in itself; a courteous man often
succeeds in life where men of much greater
ability fail. The history of every country
furnishes instances where courteous manners
have made the fortunes of lawyers, divines
physicians, politicians, and indeed, individuals
of all pursuits. Of two men equal in all other
respects, the courteous one has twice the ad-
vantages, and by far the better chance of mak-
his way in the world.
	Our first introduction to a stranger, their
affability or the reverse, creates a preposses-
sion in their favor, or awakens unconsciously
a prejudice against them.
	Courtesy is a general passport to favor a
letter of recommendation written in a language
which every person can read and understand.
		M. A. Y. GREENHALGH.


Miss. Louise Francis, of Castroville, Cal., has
a valuable piece of property in her daily news-
paper, the Enterprise.  Miss Francis is tall,
rather slim and has beautiful hair and eyes.
Her work is marked by common sense, ac-
curacy and a complete knowledge of her sub-
jects.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT
 
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50 per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
           		SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	JUNE 15, 1892.


THIS, THAT, AND THE OTHER.

	The national editorial party has left the Pacific
Coast, some of them going in one direction and
some in another; a part of the excursion go to
Salt Lake City; some of them via Portland and
the Northern country, and others, in a more
easterly direction, expecting to take in the various
sights and wonders, and look up the Great West
generally.
	Here in San Francisco the weather is pleasant
and the air delightful, with the fragrance of buds
and blossoms.  One can scarcely express the ad-
miration awakened by the floral beauties of this
garden of the world.  It is necessary to see for
one's self in order to believe, for no description
given can do justice to the subject.  Poets may
write, and artists may paint in glowing colors, but
"seeing is believing," for none of these however
clever can approach the reality.
	After going out to the beach and spending a
day there, which is the only relaxation we can
take time to indulge in, then we will turn home-
ward not from choice, for there is much still to
be seen that would be very desirable, only editors
must be at their post of duty and not away float-
ing with the tide of pleasure, or of circumstances.
One gets much material for use even in a short
trip to this Coast, for there is so much that is
new and suggestive and the newspapers, if one
can but take the time to glance through them, O,
dear,—the startling newsey news.
	The Pacific Coast Woman's Press Association
is what interests us most of all here, and the
ladies are doing good work in many ways.  The
President' Mrs. Nellie Blessing Eyster, the new
Cor. Sec'y Mrs. Hannah Neall, the Recording
Sec'y. Mrs. F. W. D'Eveyn, and the Treasurer
Mrs. Florence Percy Mathesen with the Ex. Com.
all seem to be very efficient and full of hope, as
well as abounding in energy, and with such able
women as Mrs. Alice Carey Waterman and Miss
Minna V. Lewis, Miss Eliza D. Keith (Di Vernon)
and others associated in their work, they must
make a success of any laudable undertaking.
They are warm-hearted, generous, and hospitable,
clever, witty and amiable. Mrs. Mathesen was a
Maine girl and talks of her native state enthusi-
astically.  She is arranging to issue very soon a
volume of poems of Pacific Coast writers, which
promises to be an interesting work.  The lady is
a poet herself as well as a story writer and writes
for Phila. Saturday Evening Post, Leslie's Illus-
trated Weekly, Portland Transcript, Wide Awake,
Metropolitan and other journals.
	Miss Lewis is a correspondent of the Business
Woman's Journal, N. Y. Newspaperdom, Kate
Field's Washington, Harper's Bazar, Californian
Illustrated, and the Home Maker. Mrs. D'Evelyn
(Kate Mc'Bride) writes for the Victoria College
Magazine, and Chicago Womad's News. Mrs.


Emily Browne Powell writes for the N. Y. Tri-
bune, Boston American Union, Ladies Home
Journal, of Phila., Springfield Daily Union,
Californian Illustrated, and local papers.  Mrs.
Waterman keeps her own counsel in regard to
her newspaper work and we have not yet ascer-
tained what papers she contributes to, but she is
a wide awake, earnest young woman, very inter-
esting in conversation.  Mrs. Maggie Downing
Brainard, of San Jose, is a typical Southern wo-
man, reminds one very much of Mrs. Willmirth
East, is from Mississippi and decidedly clever,
she is Ass’t editor of Santa Clara Valley Monthly,
correspondent to Clarion Ledger, Raymond Gazette
and Natchez Banner, (all of Mississippi.
	San Francisco, May 27, 1892.


[Column 1]

﻿THE MEN AND WOMEN WE MET.

IN SAN FRANCISCO.

	On the afternoon of Tuesday May 24, Dr. Alice
B. Stockham and her daughter Miss Cora Stock-
ham tendered a reception to the ladies engaged
in the Kindergarten work, the Pacific Coast Wo-
man's Press Association, and the visiting ladies
of the editorial party at the parlors of the Palace
Hotel. Miss Stockham is a lovely young woman,
her very presence is like an inspiration and one
can readily believe what Mrs. Stockham has
stated that her daughter was her inspiration in
preparing her work on Tokology. This valuable
work has been widely circulated in Utah; and
is the most complete work of the kind we have
ever examined.
	We had the pleasure of going to the reception
with Mrs. Waterman, Miss Lewis, Mrs, D'Evelyn,
and Mrs. Mathesen of the P. C. W. P. A. Miss
Stockham received the ladies in the most graceful
and charming way, though her mother had not yet
returned from her trip around the bay with the
editorial party, but came in later, looking very
weary, though in excellent spirits and full of ani-
mation. Mrs. Eyster, of San Francisco, Mrs.
Sarah Wilder Pratt, of Chicago were with her,
also some others; Mrs. Pratt is not only a writer
for the press, but is an ordained minister of
Christian Science and fills several important
positions in Women's Clubs etc., all the ladies
were rather tired as they had been traveling so long
and seeing so much.
	Dr. Stockham had just returned from a trip to
Japan and of course every one was anxious to
hear of that wonderful far-off country; she has
brought with her many interesting curiosities, as
well as a great deal of information, which she will
disseminate for the benefit of the women of her
country, as she is a very pleasing and interesting
writer and story teller.
	The same evening the Convention of the
National Editorial Association opened in the
Metropolitan Hall opposite the U. S. Mint build-
ing. A very fine looking audience assembled,
though the larger part were the visiting delega-
tion. The Chairman of the reception committee
of the California delegation, read an address of
welcome which was very complimentary to the
visitors, and set forth in the most glowing terms
the advantages of California in every respect, its
present prospects, and its great possible and
probable future.
	The President, Mr. W. S. Capeller, made the
address of the evening which was very able and
admirably delivered. These two addresses were
the principal features of the opening meeting.
	One of the most notable men of the Conven-
tion and of the editorial association is the Cor.
Secretary, Mr. J. M. Page, of Jerseyville, Ill.,
editor of the Democrat, he has filled the office he
holds eight years in succession. He is to the N.
E. A. what Rachel Foster Avery is to the N.-A.
W. S. A. has the same soft of wonderful tact and

[Column 2]

talent to grasp the situation of affairs and to not
only make a success of what he undertakes but
to do whatever is best for the Association to the
perfect satisfaction of all concerned. To manage
a large party of men and women, look after the
transportation and see that everything goes right,
at the same time to do the secretary's work and
answer every one's questions in the most polite
and gracious manner as if it were a pleasure, is
what but few people are capable of doing.
	There might be a great deal written of the do-
ings of the Convention, but as it is quite impos-
sible to "tell it all" especially at one time in a
small paper, we will leave some things to the
imagination, and some to use at another time in
these columns,
	One of the best articles read at the Convention
was (in our estimation) "Women In Journalism"
by Sallie A. Moses, and read by Mrs. S. W. Pratt
who gave good expression to the subject, modu-
lating her voice well and altogether rendering it
in a clear and forcible style,which was very pleas-
ing to her hearers.
	On the last day of the Convention, there was a
great deal of unfinished business to be disposed
of and the officers for the ensuing year were to
be chosen, and altogether with arranging trans-
portation and bringing matters to a close there
was a good deal of a "hubbub." However the vot-
ing went on pretty well until some one suggested
a woman for third Vice President; on this ques-
tion, there were a variety of opinions. Some
members holding that Mrs. E. Jeanette Abbott a
Chicago lady, the nominee, was not eligible, and
some gentlemen were anxious to convince those
around them that it would be impossible for a
woman to preside, one man near where we were
sitting said imagine a woman presiding over such
an assembly as this?"
	Sure enough, we thought, for even the Presi-
dent, Mr. Capeller, who is trying his best to main-
tain order, and declaring aloud he would "have
harmony if he had to fight for it" could not pos-
sibly preside with dignity, but if a woman had
been seated in the chair men would have behaved
better. Miss Anthony, Miss Willard, or Mrs.
Sewall and other women we know could have
kept just as good order as Mr. Capeller with all
due deference to the gentleman, his dignity, and
self-possession and his well-trained voice.
	Some of the members were loud in their praise
of Mrs. Abbott and she had a large number of
votes, but the tide of popular opinion was in favor
of the other nominee and so he was elected. Mrs.
Abbott seemed to be very popular with the
llinois delegation and with many others. She
conducts the Elite News, and is the Assistant
Cor. Sec'y of the Illinois Woman's Press Asso-
ciation and is said to be a very charming woman
porsonally. It would have been a very graceful
thing to have elected her, and a sort of a tacit ac-
knowledgement of woman's ability. To make
some sort of reparation or as a compliment to the
ladies, Miss Louise E. Francis was nominated as
Assistant Recording Secretary, and again an ob-
jection, this time that the Constitution made no
provision for such an office, Mr. Capellar declared
her elected any way, and whether she is really a
bona fide officer or not she may know, but we are
not at all sure. Miss Frances is a very competent
young person, has a great deal of independence,
and carries on her own business as a newspaper
editor and proprietor. She is a Californian by
birth and has been educated in her own state.
Her paper is the Castroville Enterprise and is the
official organ of the Pacific Coast Woman's Press
Association. At some future time we hope to
tell our readers more about these bright, plucky
California newspaper women.
	On Manday evening, May 30, there was an in-
formal reception at Mrs. Eyster's in order to bring
together some of the ladies who had not yet left
he city and have them meet members of the P.


Walton full in the face, "I don't quite under-
stand your meaning Doctor Bland.  Do you
insinuate that I am a coward to come into my
enemy's house after his death, to call on a
matter of importance?"
	Dr. Bland did not desire to reply and Wal-
ton rode on in silence until they reached the
courtyard.  Both gentlemen dismounted and
as the Doctor was familiar with the place he
escorted Lord Walton into the house and they
were shown into the library.
	"Tell Miss Conway a gentleman wishes to
see her on business," said the Doctor to the
servant, who soon returned saying Miss Con-
way would be down in a few minutes.
	Jane Conway wondered when summoned by
the servant what had brought a fine gentleman
to see her, for the serving man had described
him as a "foine big man," and she could not
imagine who it could be.  She was not long
in ascertaining, for coming into the room she
was introduced by the doctor to Lord Walton
and she knew at once he was Maitland's father
and suspected the rest.  The interview was not
a long one, and when it was over Lord Walton
insisted upon being presented to Miss Hillard.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	This is the first time in the history of the
United States that women have been made Dele-
gates to a Presidential Convention, but Wyoming
true to the principles of her Constitution elected
one lady, Mrs. Theresa Jenkins and one alternate
Mrs. Georgianna Carlton, the last named lady
Utah has some honor in claiming as she spent
most of her life here, and all her early education 
and training she received in this Territory.
	The Conference of the Relief Society of this
stake will be held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall in this City Friday June 17.  Meetings will
commence as usual at 10 a. and 2 p.m. The
President is desirous of a good attendance of the
members from the wards of the city and from all
parts of the county.  As this is not the time of
year for reports it is expected the Conference will
be of an interesting character.  A cordial invita-
tion is extended to the brethren and sisters in-
terested in this benevolent institution and especi-
ally the Presidency of the Church, the Apostles,
the Presiding Bishops, the Presidency of the
Stake and the Bishops of the several wards. By 
order of the President, M. Isabella Horne.

	The terrible calamities that have been chroni-
cled in the newspapers the last few weeks are
indeed terrifying; while famine rages in one part
of the earth, and war is threatened in another,
floods, cyclones,  storms,  whirlwinds,  raging
torrents, explosions, fires, and disease and death

[column 2]
all these with the destruction of human life and
property seem almost to overwhelm one with
the sickening record; and involuntarily one con-
templates—what is and may be yet to come to
pass. The prophecies of the Scriptures are being
fulfilled in the sight of the people.  Here in these
peaceful vales there is plenty and comparative
quiet, surely there is reason to rejoice and be
grateful that all is as well as it is with this peo-
ple here in the valleys of the mountains.
	The Republican Convention at Minneapolis has
had rather a lively time; after considerable de-
bating and delay, O. J. Salisbery and Frank J.
Cannon were admitted to seats in the Convention
and also Messrs. Goodwin and Varian with each
side one vote.  While the Convention was in pro-
cess of organization, some radical changes took
place in the political atmosphere of the country,
Blaine's resignation as Secretary of State causing
some people to look upon him as almost a traitor
to the President and Cabinet—however this may
be viewed it was doubtless a disappoinment to 
many of his ardent admirers, who have heretofore
looked upon him as the greatest man of his party.
That it will somewhat lessen his influence and his
fame seems more than probable.  At present, in-
dications point to a more turbulent state of the
political affairs of the nation than there has ever
been at any presidential election.  Bitterness in
the two factions of Blaine and Harrison men is
lamentable when one considers the welfare of the 
country is at stake.  On the 10th, the dispatches
announced Harrison's nomination on the first
ballot;  also Whitelaw Reid of New York, for
Vice President; this ends the contest so far.

	The recent visit of Mrs. Solomon Thatcher of
Chicago, to Utah, was a very pleasing affair, as
well as beneficial in the interests of the Columbian
Exposition. Mrs. Thatcher is a very gifted and
brilliant woman, and intensely interested in the
woman's department of the World's Fair; of
which she is one of the Executive Committee.
She addressed the people of Logan, Cache Co.,
while there on a visit to Hon. Moses Thatcher
and family, and had a large audience in the Logan
Tabernacle. On Sunday evening she spoke in
this City, in the large Tabernacle, to the largest
congregation she has ever had the honor of ad-
dressing at any time. She has a fine presence, a
clear manner of expressing her ideas, and holds
her listeners spell-bound with her sympathetic
eloquence.  We shall publish her speech in our
next issue of the paper, therefore we do not desire
to make any extracts, to spoil the effect. Mrs.
Thatcher was introduced to the audience by Miss
Keogh of this city in a few well-chosen words.
While here Mr. and Mrs. Thatcher were the
guests of Presiding Bishop Preston.  We had
an opportunity of meeting the distinguished lady
previous to her departure from this City, and
found her exceedingly interesting in conversation,
and well posted on all general matters pertaining
to women, as well as those directly connected 
with the World's Fair work.


INTERESTING LETTER.

	We publish extracts from a letter received
from Miss Balgarnie, dated May 19, 1891, which
we feel sure our readers will be interested in, as
well as to know that she arrived home safely
after her visit to America. Miss Balgarnie is a
most valiant young woman in the field of work in
Great Britain. While in this country she made
a tour of the United States and Canada, looking
up on many vital questions especially those per-
taining to woman’s status, and particularly wages.
Her ideas on the great questions of the day are
very practical and she knows how to express her
views clearly, as well as eloquently. We shall
ever regret her not being able to speak in this


city, for her manner is so attractive that many
opposed to the question of woman's suffrage and
kindred topics would certainly listen to her be-
cause of her eloquence, and might thus be in-
fluenced against their previous prejudices.—ED.
		*	*	*	*	*	*
	"I would have written before, but I was far
from well for a fortnight after landing, having
caught cold on the boat. I am all right now, and
in the midst of work; this week we have had the
Women's Liberal Federation meeting presided
over by Lady Aberdeen. I spoke on Woman's 
Wages, and told of what I had seen amongst
women Factory inspectors in your country—I
hope ere long we may have them here. One
has already been appointed in Nottingham, and
there are here three women acting as Sub-com-
missioners for the Royal Commission now investi-
gating the Labor question. It is very nice to find
my country women so alive, and immense strides
have been made while I have been away. In
this year the suffrage has advanced more than
during ten previous years."
	"I had a pleasant trip, the Sea was calm; but
amongst all my recollections some of the most
interesting and pleasant are of the day spent in
your hospitable city, amongst all your kind
friends. I do thank you all and you especially
for all you did to make me happy. You will be
seeing Mrs. Beattie, Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, Mrs.
Richards and others,—please give them my very
kindest remembrances.
	I hope if you are ever here that you will come
to see me.
			*	*	*	*	*	*
				Yours Very Sincerely,
						FLORENCE BALGARNIE.


AN INTERESTING JOURNEY.

	Monday night the 11th of April, in company
with Pres. F. A. Hammond, Sister Elizabeth
Howard and Mary A. Freeze, left the City by way
of the D. and R. G. R. R., to visit San Juan
Stake in the interest of women's organizations.
Sister Howard has given a description of her
journey for the EXPONENT, she says, "We en-
joyed the delightful scenery on the train by
moonlight, rather than sleeping, reached Thomp-
son's Springs the following morning, where a
carriage was in waiting to take us to Moab, arriv-
ing at that place about 4 p. m. We held meetings
the next day at 10 a. m., with the Relief Society,
and at 2 p. m. with the Y. L. M. I. A., and re-
mained there until the next morning, when
Brother Holyoak and wife went with us on our
way having fitted up a team with every conveni-
ence for traveling. After driving about 15 miles
we stopped to rest our horses etc., and lunched
at Kane Spring's; resuming our journey we
traveled over fearful gulches and dugways finally
coming to a lovely place, very grand, we camped
for the night, made a great fire of pine trees, pre-
pared supper and after singing and prayer—we
retired, slept well in the open air and felt refresh-
ed when we rose early in the morning; break-
fasted and pursued our way; arrived about noon
at Petersen's hill where we lunched; on our trip that
day we passed between the La Salle and Blue
Mountains far, far apart, and arrived at Monticello
at five p.m. where several of the sisters of the
Relief Society came to visit us at Bishop Jones,
whose wife is President of the Relief Society at
that place.
	"Next day, 16th, held meeting with the Relief
Society, had a large attendance; after dinner,
Young Ladies meeting, the house filled with
young men and young women;—this place is
7,500 feet above the level of the sea, a large level
tract of land, they raise good wheat and have ex-
cellent fruit; this locality is a grand site for the


[Column 1]
building of a magnificent city; looking over the
country one can see an immense distance around
the horizon;here we held a meeting of the Primary
Association at 7 p. m., stayed and attended pub-
lic Sunday services, meeting at ten in the meet-
ing house, Pres. Hammond gave a graphic des-
cription of the cap stone services at S. L. City
on the 6th of April; with which the people were
greatly delighted, as were we also. Sister
Freeze and myself both addressed the congrega-
tion a short time by special request.
	"Brother Geo. Adams came well prepared and
took us to our next camping place Alkali Springs;
we had a delightful drive, passed in the distance
the Elk mountains, when between 30 and 40 miles
on our journey we saw a hundred miles in the
distance, standing alone in a vast plain, a mag-
nificent structure of stone, which resembles a
large castle called "Cathedral Rock"-it stands
1,000 feet high and is one of the most striking
pictures of that wonderful country.
	"We camped for lunch that day on the bank of
Recapture river, which has some sort of tradition
of Indians, Spanish, etc., passed Comb-Wash
Rocks, prominent and steep very noticable, this
ledge is 30 miles long; afterwards we passed
Cotton wood wash a sort of gulch twining in and
out for 40 miles-over rough rocks and down
Cow-Canon one of the grandest places I have
ever seen-it was solid rock, the road had been
blasted, and cut, and dug through here at im-
mense expense and labor;-this canon ushers us
into the beautiful valley where Bluff city is situ-
ated on the San Juan river, where we arrived safe
on the 18th at the residence of Pres. Hammond
and there met his amiable wife and lovely
daughters. Tuesday we held the Young Ladies
meeting; on Wednesday held a meeting of the
Relief Society, and the same evening an informal
meeting of the officers of the several organiza-
tions R. S., Y. L., and P. A. at Sister Josephine
Wood's which we enjoyed very much, conversing
with these good sisters who live so far away from
the centre Stake of Zion.
	"The next day Mrs. Decker, Mrs. Hammond,
and Mrs. Freeze and myself ascended a very
high and steep hill, evidently the remains of some
ancient and immense ruin; it bore every appear-
ance of it;-on the top after our climbing and
clambering on and over the rocks we were per-
fectly delighted to find, and we picked up broken
pieces of ancient pottery, interesting curiosities
probably from utensils of the ancient inhabitants;
at the extreme end of this lofty eminence, is the
cemetery for Bluff, and to reach it the road winds
round and round a long distance, though we had
climbed up the other way.
	"The same afternoon, Thursday, at 2 p. m. we
organized a Woman's Suffrage Association for
San Juan County, with an efficient corps of
officers; considerable interest was manifested on
the subject and no doubt there will be quite an
awakening among the women of the vicinity.
	"Friday at 2 p. m. a general meeting of the
brethren and sisters, at which instructions were
given in all departments of woman's work and
improvement.
	"Saturday there was a Primary meeting well at-
tended; children orderly, and a fine programme
well carried out. Sunday School on Sunday
morning where both of us spoke, and afternoon
meeting where we both addressed the congrega-
tion by invitation.
	"On Monday we left Bluff early in the morning
Sister Hammond joining us, and traveled by
several Cliff Builders dwellings,which were great
curiosities and very interesting; Sister Freeze
went into one of them, was helped up one narrow
step after another in the rocky way by Brother
Burton, until she reached the opening, and had
the opportunity of going inside through the
window as the door was inaccessible. We rest-
ed at Montezuma Wash and lunched there under

[Column 2]
some very grand old trees. We traveled over an
extraordinary formation of art called Corduroy
hill; at the foot of which there are millions of
marbles formed by the elements as hard as rocks.
We crossed Mac’EImo’s Wash, a very hazardous
exploit, then we came to a trading post where
there were a number of Indians, it is named Peak
City; that night we camped out again and indeed
the making of our beds of the pine tree boughs at
our camping places was something quite ro-
mantic
	"Tuesday morning we crossed the line into
Colorado, we lunched in camp and soon came to
the Mancos river where we had supper on the
banks, the river was so high and rapid that Pres.
Hammond was anxious to know the depth of the
water before we crossed, and called to a stalwart
young Indian on the opposite side of the stream,
who wrapping his blanket around him, strode
through the stream, and thus finding it safe to
cross we drove over, the water reaching the edge
of the carriage, but toiling up the other side was
difficult; immediately after we crossed the river
we saw large flocks of young lambs and kids,
beautiful and white, feeding and playing about,
it was a very pretty sight;these all belonged to the
squaws in that vicinity; we rode to a ravine where
we camped over night; we traveled on in the
morning and breakfasted in a grand canon, a
most romantic place, and Mrs. Freeze and I
climbed the hills and picked up more pieces of
pottery and curiosities; we arrived in Olio in the
afternoon. The next day in the afternoon we
held a meeting of the Relief Society at Brother
Geo. Burnham's, and in the evening in the meet-
ing house where there was a large assembly, not
only of our people but other denominations.
	"Next day we paid a visit to an Indian trading
post, to reach, which place we crossed the San
Juan river in a ferry boat which is a wide turbu-
lent stream; we had a very nice visit with the
trader's wife and family.
	"We also visited Mrs. Abagail Stevens and
family, and at her house we held a meeting of the
Relief Society; Saturday we held a general meet-
ing in the meeting house not only attended by our
own people but other denominations as well.
	"Sunday being the general fast day observed
throughout the several stakes of Zion, we at-
tended the meeting, there were people from La
Platta as well; at this meeting every one present
bore their testimony young and old which was a
spiritual feast indeed. In the evening of the same
day the sisters held a general meeting of all de-
nominations, and it was a very interesting time.
	"Monday we spent the time in visiting,Tuesday
morning Brother and Sister Hammond started
off early; later in the day we left in company
with Bishop Burnham; we traveled to La Platta,
the scenery was grand all the journey; traveled
by the La Platta river and reached the town of
La Platta in time to hold meeting in the evening
at Brother Roger's, had a good attendance.
	The next morning May 4, we went to Sister
Lydia Taylor's and as she had a large and
spacious room suitable to convene an assembly,
the funeral of Axel Swan was held at her house
he was a promising intelligent young man, who
had died the day previous. Our arrival was
timely for the parents were grieving inconsolably
as it were,and we were enabled to comfort them in
a measure and soften the terrible blow that
seemed to have fallen upon them so heavily. In
the afternoon we held Primary meeting and the
children acquitted themselves very creditably in-
deed. All the Primary Associations seemed to
be well regulated and the children under good
training. Our journey has been delightful in
many ways, and as we were not hurried we had
excellent opportunity to familiarize ourselves with
the people and understand things much better
than in a hasty trip.
[To be continued.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


ANNIVERSARY AT PLASANT GREEN.

	The sisters of Plasant Green Relief Socity
met at the ward house on Thursday, May 19,
1892, to celebrate the anniversary of their or-
ganization. There were present on the stand
from Salt Lake City the General President
Zina D. H. Young and her Counselor Bath-
sheba Smith, and President M. I. Horne of the
Salt Lake Stake; of the ward authorities
Pres. Alvira S. Hirst, Counselor Ann C.
Bertoch, Bishop L. N. Hardman, Counselors
H. T. Spencer and John Hirst.
	Pres. Alvira S. Hirst presided. After the
usual exercises Pres. Horne addressed the
congregation in a very encouraging and in-
structive manner. Sister Smith then addressed
the assembly in a very pleasing manner, then
the beautiful Jubilee song was sung, entitled
“The Daughters of Zion, the Friends of the
Poor.” Pres. Zina Young occupied the stand
and exhorted the sisters to diligence and to
learn and know the will of our Heavenly
Father. Bishop L. N. Hardman exhorted
the sisters to faithfulness and to be diligent
in all things. Counselor H. T. Spencer ad-
dressed the sisters in a pleasing manner.
President Charlotte Nealson of Hunter ward
addressed the assembly in a brief but pleasant
manner. Counselor John Hirst exhorted the
sisters to be faithful and press forward.
Counselor Ann C. Bertoch said she was
thankful to have our beloved sisters in our
midst and asked God to strengthen us. Pres.
Alvira S. Hirst urged the sisters to treasure
up the good things that they had heard and
profit by them, for we had indeed had a time
of rejoicing and a feast of refreshing. Meeting
then adjourned.
	Another meeting was held in the after-
noon for the purpose of organizing a Primary
Association. Pres. Hirst presiding; after the
usual exercises were over, Pres. Zina Young
with the assistance of Pres. Hirst, proceeded
to organize a Primary, which was effected.
The following named officers were sustained,
Mrs. Fanny S. Brown, President; Mrs. Sarah
H. Coon and Miss Maggie Hardman Coun-
selors; Miss Maud Spencer, Secretary; Master
Lott Hancock, Cor. Sec.; Master William C.
Bertosh, Treasurer. After the organization
was completed Pres. Zina Young addressed
the little people in her pleasing motherly way.
Bishop Hardman, Counselor John Hirst, Coun-
selor Ann Bertoch, Mrs. M. J. C. Auer all
addressed the little people in a pleasing and
instructive manner. Pres. Fanny S. Brown
and Counselors expressed their willingness to
labor for the upbuilding of the Primary, God
giving them strength. Pres. Alvira Hirst
made a few closing remarks asking God to bless
us one and all, that we might be found worthy
to be numbered with his chosen sons and
daughters.
	ALVIRA S. HIRST, President.
	FANNY H. JENKINS, Secretary R. S.


SOMETHING ABOUT VOTING.

	Mrs. President, friends and members of the
Association: it has fallen to my lot to write
something for our suffrage meeting, I have en-
deavored to do my best, and I trust that it
will be interesting and benefical to my hearers;
this is not a religious assembly, but for all that
we need the Spirit of God to direct us, we as
ladies and sisters should work together in
union and strive to have the approval of our
Heavenly Father.
	Why should men fear us at the polls? is it
because they themselves are so corrupt? There
is no mother, wife, daughter, or sister, but that
will vote for an honorable man instead of those
that seek the overthrow of good men; a
mother has the interest of her children at heart


and she desires the company in which they
move to be pure and upright.
	No matter how degraded a woman may
have become herself, she wishes not only to
see her own sons and daughters virtuous, but
also those with whom they may associate.
Men do not give women the credit of being
smart enough to vote. If the mothers are
capable of rearing sons that can vote, why not
her daughters, you would not see a lady reel
up to the Ballot Box, and not know for whom 
she was voting as you will some men, and
you would not see a mother selling her vote
for liquor or a meal,a drunken father is allowed
to vote while a good mother cannot say who
shall govern her sons and daughters; why
even tramps have been allowed to vote.  For
whom do they vote?  Men of the best and
finest type? no, that was not the object of their
vote, it was to get board and lodging.  Would
you find women doing such a degrading thing?
I think not, they would do their best to get an
honest meal; you will not find them tramping,
begging for something to eat from persons that
are sober and industrious.
	Some men do not think that the wife has
time enough to vote, but I think women can
make time for that, it does not take long to
deposit a ballot, that is a very poor excuse.
She needs a rest from sweeping and dusting
and looking after domestic affairs, the mother
would not spend the same time in voting as
her husband would; after she had cast her
vote, you would see her returning to her home 
and to her family, to look after their welfare;
not going away to places for drink, or loafing
on the street cornors.
	Some tell us we are likely to be insulted if
we go to vote; why need we fear anything of
the kind? why not go arm in arm with our
husband or brother? if a woman has property
she is forced to have the time to pay her taxes
and it would not take her any longer to vote
than to pay taxes, and she meets the same
class of men at the one place, as she does at
the other.  If we are to be taxed the same as
men why are we deprived of the right of say-
ing who shall tax us? it is time we were awak-
ing, and asking for our rights; for it is our
right and not a privilege.
	Some argue that for women to vote would
cause family trouble, why should it? man
should not be selfish enough to want his wife
to vote the way he does, the wife has the same
right to use her own judgment as the husband
has; for she will lend her influence in the
right direction nine cases out of ten.
	Let us educate ourselves in these matters that
when we get our franchise we may appreciate
its full value and not abuse it.  Let us honor
it as a God-given right is the desire of one of
your number. 
					ANNIE C. HINDLEY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


"WILL YE GO AWAY?"

	No, Lord we have loved thee too long and
too ardently to go away from thee!  Away
from thee?  Our best friend—our brother—
our advocate with the Father, thou who hast
put away our sins by the shedding of thy heart's
blood, who hast died to purchase for us the
bliss of heaven, in whose name alone we can be
saved?  We are constrained to say in the language
of St. Peter, "Lord, to whom shall we go? Thou
hast the words of eternal life.  And we believe
and are sure that Thou art that Christ, the
Son of the living God."
	Noble Peter—we cannot help loving him for
his boldness and courage in confessing his
Lord.  We are also drawn to him by intense
sympathy which springs from common weak-
ness.  So often we stumble and fall, that we
turn with a kind of relief to him whose steps
faltered even as ours and sometimes as sadly


went astray.  And yet there is something so
interesting and profitable in the story of Peter,
that we turn again and again to study it with
ever increasing delight.  But like us, Peter
was human and his self-reliance caused him to
fall.  This was preceded by the "following afar
off;" had he kept close to his Lord, he would
not have fallen.  Those who have reached
three score and ten, or fourscore years, can on
looking back see many times that they have fol-
lowed afar off until there has come again and
again a gentle reminder, a tender look which
has caused us to weep bitterly, and it is this
experience which forces us to look forward a
few years, with sorrow of heart, when the
young people of this community, will begin to
see the emptiness of worldly pleasure and will 
wish they had not thrown away so many gold-
en opportunities.
	Oh! ye young Latter Day Saints, many of
you have professed to receive the gospel﻿ in
your native land, you have been baptized into
the Church of Christ, you have crossed the
ocean in order to live with the Saints in the
land of Zion, but how is it now?  Many of you
prefer the sinful pleasures which are provided
by the Gentile world on the Sabbath for your
overthrow.
	Others prefer novel-reading to meeting with
the Saints to listen to the instructions of God's
servants.  Does reading a novel increase your
relish for the Bible, Book of Mormon, or any
other sacred book? Does it help you to culti-
vate the spirit of prayer, while your seat in
God's house is vacant? No, it does not.  A
novel reader is seldom a reader of sacred books.
Many and various are the traps set by the
world for your unwary feet, and when you fall
into them, they say in their hearts, “Ah! so
would we have it.” Then comes the sting for
every sinful pleasure is provided with a sting,
ready to pierce you as soon as the gratification
is over. Well will it be for you if the Lord
should give you such a look as He did Peter,
which will cause you to weep biterly. Re-
member you will be called togive an account of
every idle word and every unholy act in the
day of judgment. Let us take the advice of
holy writ which says—“take with you words,
and turn to the Lord, say unto Him, take
away all iniquity, and receive us graciously;”
and He will do it,but His Spirit will not strive
with us for ever. Your Redeemer is asking
you in tender pity, “will ye also go away?”
Oh! let your answer be,“Lord to whom shall we
go?  Thou hast the words of eternal life.”
					MARY Y. CORBY.


WOMAN’S NATIONAL COUNCIL.

Editor Woman’s Journal:
	The annual business meeting of the Nation-
al Council of Women was held at Chicago,
May 9, 10.
	A report from the Committee on Equal
Wages for Equal Work, from its Chairman,
Mrs. Harriet Taylor Upton, was read by the
Corresponding Secretary. It reported progress
in the work of presenting to and urging upon
Congress a bill to secure to government em-
ployees equal wages for equal work, regardless
of sex.
	The President and Secretary were directed
by the meeting to send to the General Confer-
ence of the M. E. Church in session at Omaha,
Neb., in the care of Bishop Fitzgerald, a let-
ter on the admission of women as members of
the Conference. The following letter, signed
by these two officers, was sent:

To the General Conference of the M. E. Church,
	Care Bishop Fitzgerald, Omaha, Nebraska.

	Honored Friends:—The National Council
of Women of the United States, representing
at its last annual meeting sixty-two separate
national societies of women, in all depart-

[Column 2]
ments of beneficent effort and from all parts
of the nation, respectfully congratulate the
General Conference of the great church repre-
sented by your assembly on the majority vote
of ministers and laity in favor of the equal
participation of women in the councils of the
church wherein they form two-thirds of the
membership. We believe this action repre-
sents the most intelligent public opinion of the
present  time, and we, as women workers,
await with earnest expectation the forward
movement in one of the world’s greatest
churches as the forerunner of such universal
action on the part of all churches as shall
realize the New Testament declaration, "There
is neither male nor female, but ye are all one
in Christ Jesus.”
	On behalf of the National Council of Wo-
men of the United States,
	Yours, with high esteem,
		MAY WRIGHT SEWALL, President.
		RACHEL FOSTER AVERY, Cor. Sec.

	The Corresponding Secretary was directed
to write to the Secretary of the National Di-
vorce Reform League, Dr. Samuel Dike,
Auburndale, Mass., stating the desire of the
Council that women be placed upon the Board,
and that the Council has already appointed a
committee to urge this point with the League
	An interesting discussion was called out by
the report of the Dress Reform Committee.
It was decided to have the Symposium on
Dress, which has been prepared by this Com-
mittee for the Council, appear in the Arena.
	The following resolution, offered by Mrs.
E. B. Grannis, President of the National So-
ciety for the Promotion of Social Purity, was
unanimously adopted:

	Resolved, That it is the sense of the Execu-
tive Council of Women of the United States,
that the Health Boards of Hungary and Aus-
tria have set a true key-note for the dress-
reform by urging that legislation be had to
prevent the wearing of long skirts upon the
street, in view of the fact that such skirts gath-
er up poisonous material from the filth of the
streets, and thus endanger the public health.

	The President of the National Council, Mrs.
May Wright Sewall, gave a most encouraging
report of the progress of the Council movement
in foreign countries. As a result of the great
meeting of the French women held in 1889,
the inspiration to which was given by the In-
ternational Council at Washington in 1888, a
National Council of the Women of France
has been formed, and is ready to act in con-
junction with the National Council of the
United States, through the International
Council of Women. In Finland the
national bodies of women are federated through
the effects of Baroness Alexandra Gripenberg,
the representative of that country in the In-
ternational Council of 1888. The three Scan-
dinavian countries, Norway, Sweden and Den-
mark, have lately formed a Scandinavian
Council of Women. In Italy, a sort of Na-
tional Club of women has been formed, with
Queen Margherita as its leader and chief of-
ficer.
	Mrs. M. R. M. Wallace, President of the
Illinois Industrial Reform School for Girls,
member of the National Council, informed the
meeting of a convention of Industrial Reform
Schools which was held in Chicago, May 25.
Mrs. Wallace expects the result of this meet-
ing to be a national association of such schools.
In case of the formation of such an association,
if it shall enter the Council, Mrs. Wallace
thinks the school of which she is a representa-
tive would yield its place to the national society
representing the same idea.
	On Tuesday morning, Mrs. Frank Stuart
Parker, a member of the Council’s Committee
on Dress, gave some interesting information
on the subject, spoke of the large Dress Re-


form Association existing in Chicago, of the
approaching publication of a valuable work
on artistic dress, and promised that her own
contribution to the Symposium would be ready
within a week. Mrs. Parker said that she
could get photographs of some of the dresses
which would be described in her article. She
was instructed to do so, that they may be used
to illustrate the Symposium. On motion of
Miss Willard the resolution,on dress passed at
Washington, D. C., was passed again by the
Executive Meeting, with some slight changes.
	A discussion of headquarters followed. Mrs.
M. R. M. Wallace, Miss Anthony, Miss Wil-
lard and the President urged the importance
of permanent headquarters on the Fair
Grounds, and suggested the advisability of
other headquarters in the city before the
dedicatory exercises of the Exposition in Oc-
tober, 1892. It was decided that the Council,
having been invited by Mrs. Palmer, President
of the Board of Lady Managers, to make its
headquarters in the Woman’s Building, pre-
pare to occupy said headquarters during the
entire time of the Exposition. The Secretary
was directed to notify all national organizations
of women not already members of the Council
that they are invited to enter it, and that all
its members shall have desk room in its head-
quarters at the World’s Fair.
	Miss Anthony and Mrs. Avery reported
their informal talk with Mr. Bonney, President
of the Auxiliary Congresses of the Columbian
Exposition, and his expression of welcome to
the Council of Women; also that he thought
it would be possible to arrange that the Coun-
cil should have free use of the auditoriums
and some committee rooms of the Art Palace,
where the Congresses are to be held, yet re-
taining the entire management of its own meet-
ings. It was resolved that the application of
the Council be sent to President Bonney for
the gratuitous use of two audience rooms and
five committee rooms, day and evening, for one
week, and that the Council ask for such use of
the Art Palace for one week immediately pre-
ceding the meeting of the World’s Woman’s
Temperance Union.
	Tuesday afternoon it was decided, on mo-
tion of Miss Willard, that the Council provide
for a list of “Patrons of the Council.” Any
person whose name is acceptable to the gen-
eral officers may become a patron by payment
of $100 to the Council.
	The resignation of Mrs. Ella Dietz Clymer
from the position of vice-president of the Coun-
cil, on account of poor health, was accepted
with regret.
	The following resolution was passed:

	Resolved, That we commend to the general
officers of the Council, with power to act, the
desirability of carrying out the plan proposed
by the first President in her address at Wash-
ington, D. C., in 1891, in regard to holding
a legislative congress of women at the Nation-
al Capital during the session of Congress, to
act on measures touching the welfare of wo-
men,and recommend the same to the consider-
ation of Congress.

	The President announced her intention of
spending the summer in Europe working in
the interests of the Council, and received the
unanimous approval of the meeting upon her
plan of dividing her time between England
and Germany.
			RACHEL FOSTER AVERY,
					Cor. Sec. N. C. W.


WOMANS EXPONENT.


COMPENSATION.

	[Extract from an essay by Ralph Waldo
Emerson.]
	And yet the compensations of calamity are
made apparent to the understanding also, after


long intervals of time.  A fever, a mutilation,
a cruel disappointment, a loss of wealth, a loss
of friends,seems at the moment unparalleled loss
and unpayable.  But the sure years reveal the
deep remedial force that underlies all facts.
The death of a dear friend, wife, brother, lover,
which seemed nothing but privation, somewhat
later assumes the aspect of a guide, or genius;
for it commonly operates revolutions in our
way of life, terminates an epoch of infancy, or
of youth,  which was waiting to be closed,
breaks up a wonted occupation, or a house-
hold, or style of living, and allows the for-
mation of new ones, more friendly to the
growth of character. It permits or constrains
the formation of new acquaintances, and the
reception of new influences, that prove of the
first importance to the next years; and the
man or woman who would have remained a
sunny, garden flower, with no room for its
roots and too much sunshine for its head, by
the falling of the walls and the neglect of
the gardener, is made the banian of the for-
est, yielding shade and fruit to wide neighbor-
hoods of men.”


GLEANINGS.

	Culture does not exist for its own sake, but
for the sake of added power in all the relations
of life.—Mrs. Charlotte Emerson Brown, New
Jersey.

	Every woman’s club is a continual post-
graduate course for every woman in it, and
for the husbands at home as well.—Mrs. May
Wright Sewall, Indianapolis.

	Literary clubs must be progressive, but not
aggressive.—Mrs. Etta S. Osgood, Portland, Me.

	The object of the woman’s club is to make
every woman’s life more useful to her family
and sweeter to herself.—Mrs. Mary Jameson
Judah, Memphis, Tenn.

	God’s truths always make enthusiasts when
properly understood.—Mrs. J. M. Crouse,
Chicago, Ill.

	Man has been so afraid for his rights that
he has lost the greatest of his rights—the in-
telligent help of woman.—Dr. Sarah Hackett
Stevenson, Chicago.


Margaret Manton Merrill is meeting with
great success, reciting in London. She has
made a hit in George Sutton’s "Pint of Fizz."
Mrs. Merrill, it will be remembered, has done
excellent newspaper work on the New York
Herald.
	English women are very active in politics.
The Women’s Liberal Society, at the head
of which is Mrs. Gladstone, numbers now fully
100,000 members, and the Primrose League,
which is an older organization, made famous
by such women as Lady Randolph Churchill,
is even larger.—Ex.


OBITUARIES.

	Sarah Mulim Hill Mc Kendrick, born April
1st, 1862 in Ogden, Utah, died March 24,
1892 in Wellington, Utah.  She leaves a
family of small children, the youngest nine
days old; she was a faithful member of the
Relief, Society.
							COM.

	At Round Valley, Gila Co.  Arizona,
on May 5, 1892, the Death Angel carried
from our midst Lenore Gibson, aged 2 1/2 years,
daughter of Joseph and Ruth Gibson. She
had been a cripple since Sept. last, but was
improving slowly, when she was taken with


inflammation of the stomach. On May fifth
she was carried across that “Silvery Water,”
where she will await the coming of her loved
ones. No pure or more patient child ever liv-
ed. Too good and pure to live in this sinful
world.
						COM.
	The Lord in His infinite wisdom has seen fit
to call from our midst on the 10th of April
1892, our beloved Sister Maria Stevenson,
wife of William Richardson, aged 65 years.
	The deceased was born at Doncaster, Eng-
land. Was baptised into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter day Saints in 1847. Emigra-
ted to Utah in 1888. Came with her husband
to Plain City, and stayed with her nephew
Bishop J. W. Bramwell until they bought a
home, where they have lived until her death.
She was always patient in her sickness, suffered
much from liver and kidney disease which
caused her death. She was an affectionate and
loving wife and mother, a true and noble Lat-
terday Saint, for whose loss her bereaved hus-
band and her devoted sister M. A. Bramwell
with a host of loving nephews and nieces, and
her sisters of the Relief Society all are left to
mourn; but with the assurance of a glorious
resurrection.
		M. A. W. SPIERS, Sec. R. S.
	[Millennial Star please copy.]

	Our beloved sister M. A. Humphry Miller,
beloved wife of Brother Stephen Miller, died
at her residence in Plain City on the 1st of
April, 1892. Deceased was born in Heathfield,
Sussex Co., England in 1812, was baptized
into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints in Nov. 1854. Emigrated to Utah with
her husband and family in the year 1862; lived
in Wellsville Cache Valley four years, moved
to Plain City in 1866 where she has lived un-
til her death.
	Dear Sister Miller was a great sufferer all
through the last winter from a complication
of complaints, sciatica lung and heart disease,
terminating in pneumonia. She was a faith-
ful member of the Relief Society for many
years, and was an earnest worker as a teach-
er in the south district for a long time.
	She leaves a most loving husband, two sons,
and one daugh er to mourn her loss. Dear
Sister Miller was a true Latter-day Saint, an
affectionate wife and mother; in all her fearful
suffering she was never heard to complain.
One singular thing in her experience is that
in 1862, when she crossed the plains, her
health was so bad that all thought she would
die, and that she was too weak to bear the
journey in her then delicate condition, yet so
great was her faith in the power of healing,
that she was better in her confinement than
with any of her former children; although she
was then over 50 years of age.
	Rest, dear sister, in peace!
	M. A. W. SPIERS Sec. 	R. S. Plain City.


R. K. THOMAS

26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House

R. K.THOMAS

