[WomansExponent | Vol1 | 1872 | January | Issue: 17 | Title: SCIENCE AND RELIGION. | Author: Unknown]

﻿SCIENCE AND RELIGION.
			  —
	Truth is science, and science in its legiti-
mate form embraces all truth; and as “true
science and true religion walk hand in
hand,” nothing that is unscientific can be-
long to true religion, nor can anything that
is irreligious be classed with true science.
There are people whose ideas of religion 
lead them to pray a very great deal, and do
but little else, for fear of doing wrong, and
who dare not read other than spiritual
works; while many scientists, who demon-
strate great truths, being “unbelievers,”
take all the glory to themselves instead of
rendering it to God, the great Originator of
all intelligence. It may be unnecessary to
state here the obvious fact that these two
extremes are both wrong. In whatever form
the principle of divine truth is illustrated it
is sacred, and also scientifiic, and is an
established, fundamenal rule or portion of a
rule pertaining to the one true religion—the
Gospel of Jesus Christ.
	There are simple yet essential truths 
which appertain to daily, domestic life, as
lofty in their natures and more necessary to
be understood, than those of a grander and
more imposing character, which often startle
the world with their singular yet manifestly 
natural delineations. There are scientific 
and beautiful truths in the “Cookery Book” 
as well as in the Bible; and they all belong
to the true religion. It is quite as impor-
tant for present welfare and happiness to be 
considered, wherever it may be done in 
honor and wisdom, as that future blessed-
ness be sought for, regardless of the priva-
tions and inconveniences which may be
unnecessarily borne to-day, in consequence
of a lack of genuine faith and knowledge. 
Salvation is as good to-day as it will be in
days to come, if correctly viewed; and there
is no part of true science or true religion in
looking ever for future blessedness and
passing recklessly by those which should be
appreciated and enjoyed to-day.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿[Written for the Exponent.
					LONDON.	
					     ——
	Written while President G. A. Smith and party, consisting 
of L. Snow his sister E.R. Snow, F. Little, his daughter Clara, 
P. A. Sc ettler, G Dunford and T. Jennings were in London
“en route” for Palestine, 
			BY ELIZA R. SNOW.
				 —
	Far. far away from our dear native land,
	In England’s great Metropolis we stand;
	Where art a' d skill—labor and wealth combine
	With time’s co-operation in design
	Of superstructure’s bold and beauteous form,
	With all varieties of strength and charm.

	Here massive columns—stately towers, arise.
	And lift their spires in greetings to the skies; 
	Fine parks and gardens, palaces and halls.
	With scu ptured [niches,—frescue-painted walls; 
	Where no expense is spared to beautify,
	Nor time, nor toil, to captivate the eye,
	We saw, and viewing, continuously admired 
	The master strokes by Genius’ hand inspired.

	To “New Westminster Palace” we resort,
	Where the Chief Justice holds his august court;
	Twas then in session, and the Exchequer too—
	In wig and gown—a grand, imposing view!
	The House of Lords and Commons, too we saw,
	But not those grave expounders of the law.

	With deferential thought we fixed our gaze,
	There, in “The Prince’s Hall.” where face to face,
	On either side, on caved projections stood,
	With features varied as in life’s warm blood,
	White marble statues, from the sculptor’s hand,
	Of British Statesmen, men who could command
	The power of eloquence—the force of mind,
	A mighty nation’s destinies to bind—
	Chatham, Pitt, Granville. Walpole, Fox, beside
	Others who’re justly England's boast and pride.

	We visited the "Abbey" where repose in state,
	The effigies of many good and great,
	With some whose d eds are well deserving hate.
	Group’d in “ The Poet’s Corner,” here, we found,
	With rich, artistic sculpture trophies crown’d,
	The mem’ries of the muse’s world renown’d.

	In some compartments where old, massive stones
	Comprize the flooring, lie their mouldering bones,
	And we with reverential footsteps tread
	Above the ashes of the illustrious dead.

	  Great London City, mart of wealth and power,
	home for the wealthy—charnel for the poor!
	And here amid its boasted pomp and pride,
	Some faithful Soldiers of the Cross reside—
	A few choice spirits whom the watchman’s care,
	By humble search, found scatter’d here and there,
	“Like angels visit, few and far between,”
	As patient gardeners sep’rate clusters glean,
	  They barter earth’s allurements and device
	To gain the Pearl  of great and matchless price,
	And what to them the honors, pride and show
	That perish with their using, here below?
 	Their hopes are high—their noble aims extend
	Where life and peace and progress never end; 
	Where God’s own Kingdom, Time’s last-knell
		survives,
	Crowned with the gifts and powers of endless lives


