[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | July | Issue: 4 | Title: VISIT TO ALASKA. | Author: going to the sea-level. He was suffer-]

VISIT TO ALASKA.

	PRESIDENT Woodruff accompanied by
members of his family and his Counselors
George Q. Cannon and Joseph F. Smith
and several others left this City, on June 25th
for Portland, Oregon. President
Woodruff was not well at the time and it
was thought he might receive some benefit
by going to the sea-level. He was suffer-
ing from sleeplessness. As soon as he
reached, a lower altitude he was relieved and
after arriving at Portland, Oregon, he could
sleep well.
	From Portland the party went to Tacoma
and from there to Victoria, Vancouver Island,
by way of Puget Sound.
	The President concluded while en route
North, to take a trip to Alaska and the party
made very favorable terms with the Steam
Ship Company; during this trip the whole
party had ample opportunity to see all the
most notable places in the Alaskan and
British Columbian waters. The ladies of
the party are more than delighted with all
they saw and heard The vessel was at
one time moored directly in front of the
Muir glacier, said to be one of the grandest
sights the human eye ever witnessed; the
glacier is two miles long and rises two
hundred and fifty feet above the surface of
the water, extending below seven hundred
and fifty feet it is one hundred and fifty
miles in length and has numerous tribu-
taries. It is estimated to be greater than
the whole number of glaciers in Switzer-
land.
	The party also witnessed something of 
the formation of iceburgs and heard the 
crash of falling ice from the glaciers, which
is like the firing of cannons. Some young-
er members of the party ventured to ex-
plore the sides and surface of the glacier
and tell of the wonderful caverns and cre
vassess, and of the rushing torrents and
waterfalls. Some of the experiences they 
had gave them very good ideas of Arctic
explorers and navigators in the icy regions
of the North pole. While enroute they 
saw how the Captain and crew obtain sup-
plies of ice from an iceberg, this was a 
unique spectale and exceedingly interest-
ing.
	The Captain took the party on the Wil-
lipa up Gardner’s inlet, 125 miles out of the
usual trip of tourists; the scenery at this
point was most sublime and awe-inspiring
to all who had this grand opportunity; the
vessel was drawn up at the foot of a water-
fall 400 feet in height and of majestic size
and magnificent grandeur as it came dash-
ing down the mountain. On the return

[Column 2]
trip the Captain drew the vessel up along-
side a precipice which rose from the water 
perpendicularly 1,500 feet, and receded a 
little to double that height.
	Several whales and porpoises were seen
upon the voyage, in close proximity to the 
steamer, and some of the young men
caught several large Halibut, and two young j
sharks with fishing lines swung over the 
side of the vessel, while at Bartletts bay,
where the vessel took on a cargo of salted 
and smoked salmon. 
	The gentlemen and ladies are all pro-
fuse in their praises of the Captain of the 
vessel, who took every pains to make the 
voyage pleasant and comfortable. Also of 
the Officials and Managers of the Union
Pacific, Northern Pacific and Oregon rail-
way people who showed them every pos-
sible kindness, courtesy and attention and
did all in their power to make the trip
agreeable.
	President Woodruff slept well while away
where the atmosphere was cool, but since 
his return feels the heat somewhat oppres-
sive.
	The young ladies who had this pleasant
journey should write up some of its inter-
esting features, describing places and 
scenery, which must be of special value to 
those who have not enjoyed the privilege
of seeing for themselves, besides it will im-
press it more strongly upon their minds
for future benefit. We should be very glad 
to publish an article of this sort in the 
