[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | July | Issue: 4 | Title: Old Folks Annual Excursion. | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

OLD FOLKS ANNUAL EXCURSION.

	On Thursday the 11th inst., the old
folks of Salt Lake City and county made
the trip to Pleasant Grove in Union Pacific
cars kindly provided by the company for
this happy occasion. It has become a reg-
ular custom now that the “old folks” over
seventy should go somewhere every sum-
mer for an “outing” and a good time.
This is their first visit to Pleasant Grove
and it seems to have been one of the most
pleasant of all the pleasure trips the party
has ever taken. The morning was lovely
after the rain of the previous evening and
the old people were astir early, and so were
the committee who are indefatigable in
their labors to make every thing comfortable
and enjoyable for these aged veterans, who
have come to think of this excursion as a
settled thing, and to expect it and look lor-
ward with a sort of eagerness for the day to
come, from the time their last trip was
taken. To them it is indeed a festive oc-
casion, and they always look so happy,
their faces beaming with smiles.
	It is a beautiful thing to pay respect and
honor to the aged, who have borne the
burden and heat of the day and at eventide
are waiting the summons that comes to all
sooner or later. To minister comfort, to
add some little to the lonely lives of those
who are bereft of friends, and who need
heart sympathy, to greet them with smiles
and kind words which sometimes mean so
much to those whose lines have not been
cast in pleasant places, is commendable and
will certainly return to bless those who
bless.
	This Old Folks Committee and Old Folks
Choir have made quite a “hit” in the part
they have acted year after year in honoring
the veterans. It is a worthy example to
set and one which might be followed by
others if not in the self-same way, in reach-
ing forth a helping hand to the veterans
who have wrought out for their prosperity
many blessings, and made the lives of the
present generation richer, fuller, and more
complete, because of their arduous labors
and heroic self sacrifice.
	The cars containing the precious frieght
of many human souls sped gaily out of the
U. P. depot, at 8 o’clock a. m. There
were many red badges for those over
seventy, quite a number of blue ones for
eighty, and a few white ones for ninety.
Crowds of people were at the depot to see
the train pull out, and once fairly started
Bro. Wm. Foster with the Choir merrily
sang “All Aboard,” to the great delight of
the veterans; afterwards several selections
were given, the choir as is their usual way
going from one car to another.
	The train reached its designation at 10:25
and the party were most heartily welcomed
by the Pleasant Grove people, a brass
band in attendance, the Sunday School
children in line, the whole making an at-
tractive picture. The grove which is a fine


[Column 1]
one was prepared with everything needful
for the comfort of the visitors; and at the
entrance over the archway was the inscrip-
tion “Welcome and Honor to the Aged.”
There was a full committee of citizens to
attend to all the details, and young ladies to
serve the refreshments. On the platform
besides the committee of Salt Lake and
Pleasant Grove were a number of leading
cittzens of Salt Lake and Utah counties and
Apostles Brigham Young, John Henry
Smith, F. M. Lyman and H. J. Grant,
also Elders J. G. Kimball, Jos. E. Taylor,
C. W. Penrose, W. N. Dusenbury and
Mayor Bullock of Pleasant Grove and the
pioneers John Brown and Henson Walker;
many came from adjacent settlements and
the attendance as a whole was very numer-
ous; There were 1,200 over seventy, from
Salt Lake Co. alone, besides those from
Utah CO.
	The exercises of the day began by the
Old Folks choir singing “Auld Lang
Syne.” Apostle F. M. Lyman offered
prayer, the choir sang “We Shall Know,”
and Mayor Bullock delivered the address of
Welcome, after which a bounteous repast
was served in excellent style to all in the
grove, and greetings and conversation of
other days followed which is always a sig-
nificent feature of old folks pienies.
	A call for all over ninety years of age to
come to the platform was responded to by
several and it was found later on that there
were present eight persons over ninety.
Mrs. Margaret Ploutz ninety-five, who was
at Haun’s Mill‘ Mrs. Jennette Aird ninety-
six, Mrs. Sarah Free ninety-five, Mrs.
Sprague ninety-two, widow of Dr. Sprague
so well known in Utah in the early days;
Litus Davis ninety, Nancy Norrell ninety,
Mary Argent ninety-two.
	While the crowd were coming together,
the Lehi band played and the Old Folks
sang the favorite hymn composed by Sister
Eliza R. Snow, “O My Father.” Elder
George Goddard came to the front and was
received with great applause, he stated
that Bro. C. R. Savage had originated the
movement of giving the old folks an annual
excursion, which has now been continued
twenty years. Bro. Goddard in his char-
acteristic way asked all to stand who were
with the first excursion twenty years be-
fore, and about thirty-five rose in response.
Bro. Goddard is a great favorite on these
occasions as well as in all Sunday School
movements. The Lehi band discoursed
sweet music and Apostle Brigham Young
spoke briefly to the veteran fathers and
mothers in Israel. Agnes Olsen Thomas
in sweet voice sang “Away Down on the
Swanee River.” Apostle F. M. Lyman
made a few telling remarks and stated his
belief that the old folks were increasing,
thought that “those who passed away
should be able to carry good news to the
other side and tell them how we loved and
cherished the old folks.” He believed Utah
would become remarkable for love and re-
spect to the aged. A duet was flnely ren-
dered by Misses Frampton and Swenson of
Pleasant Grove. Patriarch John Brown
contrasted the present situation with that
of 1847, when he came here with the
pioneers. At the close of this pleasant
gathering, Doxology was sung and the
benediction pronounced by Elder Jos. E.
Taylor. It is quite remarkable that these
excursions always end happily, nothing of
a serious nature ever having occurred to
mar the trannquility of the aged people, for

[Column 2]
which all feel gratitude to God for his pre-
serving care over these veterans. Great
credit is due also to the very efficient man-
agement of the able committee who never
weary of this delightful undertaking.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
