[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | July | Issue: 4 | Title: FOREIGN LETTER. | Author: Unknown]

FOREIGN LETTER.
	HOBART TASMANIA, June 15, 1895.
	Editor Woman’s Exponent:—I have
long been thinking of writing a short letter
to the Exponent to express my gratefulness
for sending it to me, which is truly appreci-
ated. and is very instructive and beneficial;
but almost feared that I would be trespass-
ing upon your valuable space. Many
others here have read it. and think it an
excellent paper.
   Since I have been in this land, I have be-
held many things that do not seem pleasant
to one that has been reared in the vales of
Mormon Utah.
   It is heart-rending to witness the harsh-
ness and cruelty of parents towards chil-
dren, and the negligence of their support
and instruction. Large families brought
into the world without knowing scarcely
where the food and clothing will come
from, and are thrown on to the world to
beg for a living. Some of the most cruel 
things, from time to time are brought under
my observation, one I will mention:
   I saw some little children standing around
the door of a “public house,” crying on a
very cold day, bare-headed, and bare-footed,
with scarcely enough clothing on to cover
them; two little ones not more than two
and three years old with a red handkerchief
tied up. The mother finally came to the
door staggering from drink. The two little
ones said, crying bitterly, as if nearly
starved, “Mamma he won’t give us a bit
of bread.” She viciously took the bread
from the little boy, which he had evidently
been begging for, and went off with it.
The little boy leaned back against the house
as if disheartened.
	This, with many other things I have
witnessed has almost caused me to go and
weep. To think of the dear little children
so helpless within themselves, who might
be beautiful and noble if cared for tenderly.
   I will not attempt to relate any other in-
stances, but they occur every day among
those people who constantly visit “public
houses.” How my heart aches for the
the poor little children. How grand, if
they could only be cared for as our little
children are in Zion. May our Heavenly
Father forbid that any of the mothers in
Israel, should ever, so sadly neglect their
innocent offspring that He has so graciously
given them, and entrusted to their care.
When I see the mother so brutal I feel as
if I could take the little things, if it were

[Column 2]
in my power, and bring them up to serve
God, and enjoy a few of the blessings which
they are entitled to.
   No wonder each generation becomes
more corrupt and wicked. They have neg-
lected to give the proper training to prevent
the children from being robbed of their
birthright before they are born. And then
children being born with the sins visited
upon them, who need the most guarded
training are the least thought of.
   I have heard it said here, that there are
few honestly born children in the colonies.
   O, I feel as if I could proclaim our glori-
ous Gospel truths, were it possible, with a
voice of thunder unto this hardened people,
and cause them to realize what greatness
and goodness is taught among the people of
God, called Latter Day Saints.
   If they would put into practice in their
daily walks and conversation, the instruc-
tion given by the true servants of God, how
great their happiness and numerous their
blessings.
   One can more fully comprehend this,
when they are brought to see the wicked-
ness here in the world, and contrast it with
the beautiful sermons put forth by our el-
ders from (Mormon) pulpits, and even the
beneficial writings in the Exponent by
leading women.
   Mothers here in the majority think they
must keep their daughters innocent in re-
gard to the marriage relations, and those
things which would keep them from going
astray, if they receive a mother’s timely
warning, and they are not few who treat
virtue as merely nothing. I have talked
with a number who have said, “I would go
to any one rather than my mother to gain
information on such subjects.” So in many
instances mothers have driven their daugh-
ters from them and destroyed that confidence
which should draw their children to them.
Those tender cords are broken which our
Heavenly Father destined to be there.
There is not so much innocence as ignorance,
and it is time the world should wake to a
sense of the false modesty that exists.
   I sincerely pray with all my heart for the
welfare of Zion, and that the Lord will con-
tinue to guide the mothers of Israel to bring
up the young and rising generation to be
honest, noble, industrious, intelligent and
faithful before the Lord, and the eyes of
the world, and not let supposed innocence
endanger their virtue; for when that is lost
then what a sad condition. Although the
sin may be forgiven the stain will never
wash away.
   The parents will be held accountable to a
certain extent for their children’s actions;
therefore it behooves them to be watchful
and prayerful in their behalf.
	My heart is with the suffrage movement,
and I hope that all the sisters will be able
to use the franchise for the best when it is
obtained. If all would listen to the advice
of noble women, they would strive to live
better lives, and their thoughts and actions
would rise to a higher and grander sphere.
They would be eager to encourage and
hasten on the rights of women. I think
women were not put on the earth to remain
silent in political matters, while their fami-
lies are brought in contact with the rascality
of the world around them; they should
have a voice, then, the condition of affairs
would be materially changed. There is a
good society formed here called the
Woman’s Temperance Council, by the wo-
men of South Australia, (who have received
full franchise). But when I attended their

[Column 3]
meeting, I found that with all their good
intent, there was something lacking, and
of course readily perceived they were de-
ficient of that benign Heavenly influence
which creates such sisterly love that is ex-
perienced among the Latter Day Saints.
They cannot accomplish the desired end by
relying on their own strength. The gospel
plan is the only system through which
these things can be successfully carried out.
I remain your sister in the Gospel.
		LOUISE KIMBALL-POND.


