[Vol55 | September 1968 | Page 678 | General Feature | A Little Walk Along the Upper Provo River (Utah) | Claire Noall]
The Upper Provo River, bordered by grasses, trees, and flowers Transparencies by "trea A Little Walk Along the Upper Provo River (Utah) Claire Noall w The evening light was already etching the meadow plants when I set out for a short tramp through field and forest. The music of the purling, plunging stream and the smell of resin and earth, moisture and spent summer, quickened the twilight air. A lowly glance in this high country—some 8,000 feet or more—freed in my veins a spiral of joy that mounted to my fingers and climbed with. My step. As a matter of habit, I took along my favorite lens. This, however, would have been nothing without the lens of my heart. There is something about a curve in nature that diminishes the square manmade corners of the city. A rosette of mountain thistle leaves, deep-cleft, lacepointed, springing from a bed of cacti, fitted into the great round of nature, the cosmic round. Inconsequential though it may appear, to me it depicted the earth mother at work, with such a soft, lovely green and magical energy that she compelled my lens to work. Near this silvery cluster the stock of thistle in bloom (both being Cirsium eatonii) described what the rosette could produce. On a pine-perfumed breeze, each small cream and orchid-colored swordthrust of bloom whispered: I am complete, a flower Mountain thistle leaves (Cirsium etonia) Flower of the mountain thistle in five parts, quite by myself. But the whole Composite family cannot equal the creator of life and the destroyer of stone to be found among the lichens. A lowly look? This? Lichen is one of the strangest members of the entire plant kingdom. Worldwide in distribution, it is flowerless. Yet, flowerlike, it produces delicate filaments, or hyphae, which can cling to stone at any altitude. They can even penetrate the rock. From the sea to the last earthexposed surface on the highest mountain, in its symbiotic partnership between a fungus and an algae, it works endlessly. There are many different kinds of lichen, but in my meadow I saw these "pansies," this encrustation of foliose lichen as a subject for a painting.

Form- (continued on page 692) Foliose Lichen (''Pansies in Stone'') Deep blue pond, fringed with grass and flowers Willow Herb (Fireweed Onagracaea) " Foxglove (Penstemon cyanthus) Transparency by Hal Rumel