[Vol55 | September 1968 | Page 646 | Special Feature | McKay | ]
McKay whose voice has been lifted in many lands to proclaim the everlasting gospel—whose travels and teachings have circled the globe, and whose counsel and guidance have been such a blessing in directing Relief Society activities. We feel to express gratitude and rejoicing for the prophet who dwells among US; and whose days have been lengthened upon the earth to give counsel and blessings to the world-wide Church membership. It is a comfort and an inspiration to Relief Society women to know that they may look to President McKay and to Sister Emma Ray McKay for an example of ideal family life, and for direction in Church and community service. They have guided the sisters and directed them along the pathways that encompass the lives of Latter-day Saint women. Counsel has been given for the sisters as they progress in their callings and increase in their responsibilities from the time that they are daughters in the home, to activities as missionaries Or students, to the time of marriage and motherhood— and always in their positions of membership and _ leadership in Church auxiliaries. Many of the daughters of Zion, in times of perplexity or indecision, have paused to ask themselves: "What counsel has President McKay given us in answer to this questioning? What guidelines has he set before us to indicate direction and the pathway that will lead to eternal progress and an understanding of everlasting purposes?" The spiritual environment of seeking women in the Church has been illuminated and made more beautiful through the life and the teachings of President McKay. He has said: "I want to express appreciation of the environment with which I was blessed... Those grand old mountains... The meadowlark singing in the morning - -- daybreak over the eastern hills.. -. Swiftly do we become like the thoughts we love. -. The Spirit of the Lord permeates all nature.-- one must put oneself in tune by obedience to eternal principles of conduct and by authoritative confirmation." (Home Memories, ppP- 215-216.) May the faith and prayers of Relief Society women everywhere be manifest in birthday wishes to President McKay. May our Heavenly Father continue to bless him. We are thankful for @ prophet "to guide us in these latter days." 644 DLCAILOAQARAVROAHE pee Tes Ors tay een tey: + tee cetendd ( Sree Nasco sege6 OI a3 gS "ere Sen Because e*«9 Cw a Cret®D ae Chey Care Creo @Rew Zelma R. West Gre = 2 Member, General Board of Relief Society ere = chap iC MEV seNE Hee ere e9 raven ets Rha 5 Teal 5 Ak en) SOUNE Aha Gy "360 » Visiting teaching is an integral part of the Relief Society program, and because presidents and visiting teachers care, the visits made to the homes, and the services rendered, have made it a shining example of unselfish service. Let us view it from the position of a president, a_ visiting teacher, and a grateful recipient. Thoughts of a President Who Cares: Today the bishop asked me to be the president of our ward Relief Society. Such a calling affords an opportunity to give service to all of the women in our ward, but can I measure up? Can I do it as my Heavenly Father would have it done? There are so many women I want Relief Society to reach and befriend. Sister Jones seems so timid—hardly says a word when she is at church, and as soon as the meeting is over, she is gone. Ill have to get better acquainted with her. I wonder how Sister Brown is adjusting 646 Litt a ras on since the death of her husband. That was unexpected, for he had not been ill very long. I'm sure she would welcome a sister's friendly interest. I have never seen Sister White or Sister Smith at Relief Society. I know they have young families, and, of course, they are busy with them, but I'm going to talk with their visiting teachers to see how we might help, so they can come to Relief Society and participate in the discussions, develop friendships, and feel our interest in them as individuals. Time spent in Relief Society could be a refreshing break in their week's activities. These women give and give of themselves to their families, and just an hour and a half a week at Relief Society would provide them with an opportunity to "take" for a change, to replenish their reservoir of spiritual strength, and store up for themselves ideas to think about and act upon during the tes oS Gree Grid week. Relief Society would widen their horizons. As. A presidency, it would take us months to visit all the sisters in the ward, and then we would not have the close contact, or the efficient follow-up that the visiting teachers have, for they visit each month. Truly, the visiting teachers are the hands, ears, eyes, and heart of Relief Society, and their service is necessary to the accomplishment of Relief Society goals of service. At one time the Prophet Joseph Smith said to the women: This is a charitable Society, and according to your natures; it is natural for females to have feelings of charity and benevolence. You are now placed in a situation in which you can act according to those sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms. (DHC IV, p. 605.) It is almost as if he were talking directly to the visiting teachers, for they have a special opportunity to act according to their sympathies, so that all women may benefit. The Relief Society Handbook says that the president should "personally interview each visiting teacher, pointing out to her the importance of this special field of work and letting her know of the responsibilities and obligations of this calling." It is best that each sister be told personally the importance of visiting teaching; that she knows the call came to her from the Lord through the proper channels; that he is the one she is serving, as she carries out her assignment. I can see that if the president talks with each sister personally, she is better able to assign each one to the district where her talents and abilities will be most helpful. Because They Care Oh, those precious minutes assigned to the president in visiting teacher meeting! I can't let anything interfere with that time. I care about each visiting teacher, and there is much that can be discussed to help each one to prepare to fulfill her assignment well. We can discuss the importance of being alert and concerned for every sister—the necessity of careful, prayerful preparation of each month's message, and the value of being dependable, of making the visits each month. One month we can talk about our personal preparation, by living so that we do not "shut off our access to the Lord." With the channel open between the visiting teachers and the Lord, they will be given the "power of discernment" to know what each sister needs from the message each month as they visit, but I will caution them that they go into the homes with one thought in mind, and that is to be helpful. One month we will go over the qualities of a visiting teacher which make her effective. These are listed in the Visiting Teacher Report Book, so the teachers can refer to them often. Ruskin said, "the path of a good woman is strewn with flowers, but they rise behind and not before her."' Perhaps those flowers rising behind the visiting teachers do not catch their eye, but the rest of us know they are there, and I will tell them often during the year how much they are appreciated. Thoughts of a Visiting Teacher Who Cares: I accepted the call to be a visiting teacher because I am not in the habit of refusing Church 

647 September 1968

 calls, but I really did not have a testimony of visiting teaching for the district to which I was assigned. It covers three blocks. All the people are long-time members of the Church and attend more or less regularly. They seem to be pretty healthy, with enough to eat and wear. However, when the new president talked to me, she said that the call to be a visiting teacher comes from the Lord through the proper channels— that he is the one I am serving as I make my visits. That being the case; I wanted a testimony of the value of visiting teaching for all the sisters in all the districts. I began to talk to people and to read articles about visiting teaching. I found many examples of devoted, dedicated visiting teachers. Some stakes in the Church cover hundreds of miles, and so the wards are scattered over large areas. Some teachers walk miles to make their visits, others ride bicycles, and others spend a long time on the subway. In one mission branch, a pair of visiting teachers had a district which covered eighty miles round trip, and another pair had a district of forty-five miles, and these sisters made their visits! In that branch, the newest members of the Church were made visiting teachers, and they were enthusiastic about their callings and did a fine job. I can see the value of visiting teaching in these places, because the visits would be the means of bringing the ward or the branch members closer together. New converts would benefit, too, for they would know they had friends when they came to church. 648 A branch Relief Society president praised two devoted visiting teachers who were willing to get involved with an indifferent sister. When the sister had moved into the branch she had asked that her name be removed from the roll, but the president felt impressed to ask the visiting teachers to call on her. The sister worked away from home, so the visiting teachers left messages, called late in the afternoon, and, finally, made contact. They found the sister casual, but not cool, and the teachers kept in contact with her. Soon the sister brought her children to Sunday School, and they were warmly greeted and introduced to many members. Then the children went to Primary, and the sister. To Relief Society. Last year the "indifferent" sister was so active that she was asked to give some homemaking discussions in Relief Society. The president said, "Though other indifferent sisters have not reacted so favorably—the very fact that they are visited and know that the Relief Society sisters care for them can't help but be a good influence.... Success stories just come under different names. I believe all those devoted visiting teachers have found true joy in the application of Christ's teaching '... It is more blessed to give than to receive.' " (Acts 20:35.) Are there opportunities to "sive" in our small district, where everything always seems so all right? Yes there are, and today I got a testimony of it. After visiting teacher meeting, the president asked my companion and me to find out how we could best help Sister White, so that she could get to Relief Society. Then we were awake! Now I see the value of going two-by-two to make visits, and having someone to consult who knows the sisters. My companion and I began to analyze our visits and really to think about the sisters in our district. We decided we had been asleep to need. Oh, we had asked Sister White to come to Relief Society, but never once had we offered to pick her up. It seems that she would have to walk, and with three pre-school children, would have to leave home early and would not be back home until after the other children had returned for lunch. We decided that we didn't listen! Last month Sister Jones had told us about her mother's illness and how hard it was to get her to the doctor. If we had been listening, we would have consulted the president and, under her direction, would have suggested that we drive so that Sister Jones could watch over her mother more carefully during the trip to the doctor's office. We decided that we hadn't been very thoughtful, either! One sister had looked so very tired when we had visited her, and we had remarked about it, but we had not made plans to watch especially for her on Sunday at church to see if the tired look was still there, and to be alert to signs that our services might be needed. My companion and I asked ourselves, "Don't we want to help?" Of course we do, for we care! It is just a matter of training ourselves to listen, to see, and then to do! We realize that the sisters want to help themBecause They Care selves as much as they can, as long as they can, and not ask for outside help, but we want them to have the assurance that we stand ready to assist when we are needed. H. Wayne Driggs said: When we think of the work done by the Savior, we are apt to remember his miracles, but it is significant that our works need not of necessity be these epic-making events.... By the exercise of great faith, as Relief Society members, and more particularly as visiting teachers, we can actually aid the blind to see; we also can open the eyes of those who are spiritually dim-sighted; we can by faith still an actual tempest, and we also can calm the tempest in some troubled soul. One is no greater miracle than the other. The acts of Jesus were acts of understanding and love. These we can perform. These are as much needed today as they ever were. We can "go about doing good." (The Relief Society Magazine, July 1948, page 479.) Listen to the Thoughts of a Grateful Recipient: My visiting teachers brought mea wonderful message. Today. Oh, I had read it in The Relief Society Magazine, but I hadn't thought too much about it since then. But the visiting teachers were so full of enthusiasm about it, and they talked to me eye to eye and. Heart to heart, and I found that I wanted vocally. To express my ideas. The topic was about love, intelligence, and compassionate service. The visiting teachers talked of the need for love and intelligence walking together, as we give compassionate service. I could see that this message applied right here in my home, to me, in my dealings with my family whom I love so much. Never again will emotion, only, dominate my actions as I work with my children. 

649 September 1968

 I will use the intelligence the Lord has given me, so that my love will be a constructive force. As the teachers gave the message, and I spoke my thoughts, their sweet spirits added something special, and the message was alive and vital, not just words they spoke to me. What I like most about my visiting teachers is the fact that I feel comfortable with them. They are mothers, too, and they understand that my home cannot always be in perfect order, or that my hair can't always be beauty-parlor fresh! They accept me as I am. I remember when they came today, I was quite upset over the annoying things my four-year-old and three-year-old were doing.