[Vol55 | September 1968 | Page 684 | General Feature | An Old-Fashioned Fair for | Harvest Time]
Garden in the Netherlands 681 An Old-Fashioned Fair for Harvest Time Dee Berrett Maynard Rwerton First Ward Riverton Stake, Utah Violet Page Hamilton, President Riverton Stake Relief Society Adel T. Maynard, President Riverton First Ward Relief Society The wheel of autumn turns to the bounties of nature—color in gold and orange and green and purple. M= When we began to plan our bazaar in early summer, we decided on a two-fold purpose. We needed to add to the funds of the organization, but even more, we wanted to provide a memorable evening for the families of our ward to enjoy. The decoration committee, under the direction of Edna Cowdell, Shirley L. Newman, Faye Stradley, and Evelyn Bills, gathered up all the refrigerator packing boxes they could find. The boxes were taken apart and painted brown to make the walls of the booths. To support the walls, we used bales of straw which had been donated by one of the members. These were stacked two high along the sides of the display area. Along the back, lengths of lumber were laid between the first and second bales, and across the top to the second bale, making two convenient shelves for displaying articles. The booths were arranged in a '"U" shape. Between the booths, and as a special dis- © play in the area reserved for eating, the bounties of the harvest were beautifully arranged—pumpkins, squashes, cabbages, Indian corn, onions, tomatoes, cauliflower, and wheat, along with Oregon grape sprigs and lovely sprays of Pyracantha. One side of the "U" shape ran across the cultural hall, segregating one end for eating. Our "Old-Fashioned Fair" featured many booths: Ye Olde Bake Shop, with all kinds of baked goods, but an especially varied selection of fruit cakes; an apron gallery; Grandma's pantry, complete with homemade soap, canned goods, onions, carrots, cheese, and other household supplies; a Candy Palace, specializing in handdipped chocolates; many handicraft displays, including quilts and handkerchiefs. The younger set could be outfitted from the Jack and Jill shop, and early Christmas shoppers found a great variety of gifts and a special gift-wrapping service. The "Fair" was indeed a memorable experience, richly rewarding to the Relief Society women, their families, and their guests. 682 HER CN roe Grandma's Old-Fashioned Pantry Standing at the left: Shirley Newman; seated, Marsha Shaw With needle and thread and scraps something beautiful is made.

Standing at one of the handicraft displays, Rebecca Dansie Gift Cookies for All Occasions Melba S. Payne = Not just for Christmas, but for Mother's Day, birthdays, wedding anniversaries, or just as an extra gift for someone special, these dainty hand-rolled and elegantly packed morsels are scrumptious looking and delicious to eat. The simple basic dough is easy to make, and creating the various centers and coverings is interesting fun. Packed in boxes like fine candies or placed in pretty decorated paper bowls, these cookies lend a festive air to any occasion. Color Photograph by the author BASIC DOUGH 1 egg yolk (unbeaten) Let the shortening soften. Add sugar gradually, creaming until light and fluffy. Add egg yolk and orange rind. Mix until evenly blended. Add the flour in fourths, mixing well after each addition. Final dough should form a smooth, compact ball. Pinch off pieces of dough one inch in diameter. After filling the centers with the various goodies, roll into balls and bake in 325 degree oven for 25 to 30 minutes or until a light brown. Do not overbake. VARIATIONS Stuffed Date Tuck-ins Stuff half dates with a piece of walnut and place in dough. Hand roll into a smooth ball. Place on a lightly greased cookie sheet and bake as directed. While cookies are still warm, shake them in a sack of powdered sugar and again when they are cool. Pecan Logs 4 Add chopped pecans to the basic dough and shape into small logs one inch long. Dip in unbeaten egg white and roll in chopped pecans and bake. Chocolate Nuggets Place two or three chocolate chips in the centers. Substitute vanilla flavoring in the dough for these instead of the orange rind. Roll in powdered sugar after baking, or in the egg white, or in chocolate sprinkles, or small colored candies, before baking. Bake as for the pecan logs. Cherry Hide-a-Ways Insert a candied cherry or any of the fruit pieces from fruit cake mix. Chocolate Fancies If you would like a chocolate cookie, just melt some of the chocolate chips and add to the dough (without orange rind). Roll in the egg white, then add chopped walnuts, and bake. Remember a light brown. Do not overbake. 684 8 ounces butter substitute Yc. Sugar 1 tsp. Grated orange rind 24, c. White flour (sifted) s £ w c g = ® ® - = — ~ a > L) ¢ ® i" o Q w i 0 - = I c ie) U c 5 J ~ uy =x ~ 3° > — 2 o S ry) is 4 = © = a a KE "SNOWSTORM"' by Joseph Mallord William Turner (1775-1851) British For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 5—Appreciation of Beauty Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, March 1969—Southern Hemisphere: July 1969. Commentary on page 690. "PORTRAIT OF A YOUNG MAN" by Rembrant van Ryn (1606-1669) Dutch Taft Museum, Cincinnati, Ohio For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 6—The Reward of Persistence Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, April 1969—Southern Hemisphere: August 1969. Commentary on page 689. 686 "SELF PORTRAIT" by Rembrant van Ryn (1606-1669) Dutch National Gallery of Art, Washington D. C. For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 6—The Reward of Persistence Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, April 1969—Southern Hemisphere: August 1969. Commentary on page 689. "LADY JEAN" by George Bellows (1882-1925) American Yale University Art Gallery Bequest of Stephen Carlton Clark, B. A., 1903 For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 4—The Satisfaction of Growth Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, February 1969—Southern Hemisphere: June 1969. Commentary on page 691. 688 "Two Self Portraits"' By Rembrant van Ryn (1 606-1669) Dutch Portrait of a Young Man—Taft Museum, Cincinnati, Ohio Self Portrait—National Gallery of Art, Washington D. (Oe Paintings on Pages 686, 687. For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 6~— The Reward of Persistence Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, February 1969—Southern Hemisphere: August 1969. Read. Yet from his time to the Present men have used such phrases as the following to describe him and his work: The greatest of the Dutch Masters One of the greatest painters who ever lived The master of light One true to himself Possessed of integrity Persistent Followed his "star" Made the ugly beautiful No pose—no vanity Searcher of truth Dramatic but never theatrical Valued truth and sincerity above harmony and beauty Painter of the human soul Perhaps no one has come as close to capturing that "inner light" as Rem- 689 '*Snowstorm"' by Joseph Mallord William Turner (1775-1851) British The National Gallery, London, England Painting on page 685.