[Column 1] 
the superior of all his house. As a great
ruler and warrior, he is admired; as a
prophet and a poet he is loved. “In the
whole realm of lyric poetry” there is noth-
ing that approaches the songs of David,
and the tenderness and pathos of these
songs if there had been nothing else, would
have immortalized his name.
	Joseph Smith, too, was athletic, straight
and powerful in build, he could throw the
strongest in a wrestling match, yet he
never assumed to use his physical strength
for any purpose other than playful exer-
cise. He never attained political power
yet no king was more beloved nor revered
by his subjects than the later-day prophet
by his followers. His words of admoni-
tion, wisdom, prophecy, praise and glorifi-
cation of the Most High, like the songs of
David, vibrate the heart strings and will
echo down through the generations of
time.
	So all along the line of prophets are the
same attributes noticeable and much the
same of adventure and experience. In his
later years, Joseph, while continuing his
prophetic teachings, had that tender mourn-
fulness and sublime resignation which have
always marked the character of the mar-
tyrs. Though hated, derided, persecuted,
even unto death, there was never a sign of
weakness nor retraction in the true proph-
ets, for a power not of earth sustained
them.
	It was when Joseph was a lad of four-
teen that he went with troubled spirit into
the woods and prayed the Lord to show
him the right way; and it was in answer
to this prayer that he received his first
vision. From that time until his martyr-
dom, at the age of thirty-nine, were re-
vealed through him mighty and everlasting
truths to lead those who would believe to
eternal happiness. Of himself he said: “I
am a rough stone. The sound of the ham-
mer and chisel was never heard on me until
the Lord took me in hand. I desire the
learning and wisdom of heaven alone.”
Yet what a testimony to the world is given
in the wondrous things revealed by this 
humble, uneducated man—uneducated, as
he says, save by the power of God!
Through him the gospel of Christ was
brought again to the earth—the priesthood
re-established.
	The great progress in the status of
woman which is now so marked was fore-
told by Joseph, when he organized the
women into the Relief Society. A “School
of the Prophets” for religious teaching was
organized in Kirtland. The gathering of the
pure in heart from among the nations of the
earth that Zion might be built and her light
shine over all the world, was inaugurated.
The stranger, noting the unanimity and har-
mony that existed among the people, asked
the question of the Prophet, ‘How do you
govern these people?” The reply was, “I
teach them correct principles and they gov-
ern themselves.” He revealed the Word of
Wisdom, teaching mankind the necessity of
pure lives that death and disease may be
stayed; the thinkers of today who are striv-
ing most to assist men to care for life ad-
vance the same ideas.
	He revealed the great and glorious work
of baptism for the dead, thus fulfilling the
prophecies that “the hearts of the children
shall turn to their fathers.” In a word, dur-
ing the short period of twenty-four years
marvelous and remarkable truth’s were

[Column 2] 
given to the people concerning the things of
God which had furnished food for thought
and study for all the years following his
death. We are only now developing his
thoughts and trying to understand and com-
prehend his marvelous life and teachings.
The impress he has made upon this people
makes all Latter-day Saints feel as though
he was a part of them. How, then, must
those feel who knew and associated with
him in life! Their testimony is that he
was different from other men, so that those
who had never seen him before could dis-
tinguish him in a crowd; could feel the
magnetism of his presence, would rather be
a silent onlooker when he was near than
participate in any kind of pleasure. These
are testimonies of his possesion of some
power and influence more than natural.
	Let the Saints forever retain in their
hearts a reverence and love for so sublime
a character. Perhaps no words better por-
tray the man than the following from the
pen of President George Q. Cannon:
	“He had been a humble farmer lad—Di-
vine authority sat so becomingly upon him
that men looked at him with reverent awe.
He had been unlearned in the great things
of art and science—he walked with God un-
til human knowledge was to his eyes an
open book, and celestial light beamed
through his mind. His lofty soul com-
prehended the grandeur of his mission upon
earth; and with divine fortitude he fulfilled
the destiny which God had ordained for him
before he was.”
