[Column 1]
		AUNT BETSY’S LEGACY.
	Main street in the town of Lind consisted
of one store, where general merchandise was
sold, a drug store and post office combined,
one one side of the street, while on the other
was a plain square board building known as
“The Lind Hotel,” a stable with yard where
teams could be boarded for a day or so, and
hay and grain were sold, an amusement hall,
and a little shop containing patterns and ma-
terial for art needle work, where lessons
were given in all kinds of embroidery,
crochet and knitting. 
	It is needless to say in such a town there
were no paved streets nor electric lights, nor
other modern improvements, on the con-
trary, the wild grass fringed the edges of
the sidewalks, and narrow creeks of running
water took the place of curbing between the
streets and the walks. The settlers of Lind
had reserved one large square for city pur-

[Column 2]
poses where a rather pretentious city hall
was erected from native stone, in the cupola
of which hung a massive bell, this with a
less pretentious building on the same square
which served for a school room during the
week, and on Sundays a house of worship,
constituted the only public buildings in the
town. It is with the little art shop on the
corner, however, that this story has to deal.
In new settlements out on the western
prairies one seldom expects to find culture
and refinement. The very hardships of pio-
neer life and the circumstances which lead
a family out into such places would rather
lead one to expect a rough and fortune-
seeking community. The town of Lind
was not settled either by fortune seekers or
rangers, but its settlers were a part of that
wandering people who, driven from their
beautiful homes in the east, had sought and
found a refuge in the heart of the western
desert. The Lind people had not left with
the first exiles, nor had they followed them
to their destination, but had stopped midway
and established a trading post, expecting
later to continue the journey. This, how-
ever, never happened and the little town
became a permanent home for the few
weary travellers, increasing but slowly as the
years rolled on, and never assuming a thriv-
ing community. In such a place the men
have generally the most amusement, at least
time hangs less heavily on their hands, for
with the work of subduing the soil, trading
horses and raising cattle, such as is always
the business of these prairie towns, their
minds are well occupied, but the women
fare less kindly. The homes are generally
widely separated and the tasks are less in-
teresting. It happened, therefore, that the
one bright spot in the town of Lind for the
women folks was the little corner store kept
by the dearest of old ladies known to every-
body as “Aunt Betsy.”
	Perhaps some day you may happen to see
on the walls of some modern library or
drawing room an old-fashioned sampler or
ottoman cover worked in red and yellow
wool roses, or a buckskin gauntlet, em-
broidered in silk floss; if you do, it will re-
call Aunt Betsy and her little store where
she taught the women to fashion all kinds
of wonderful designs with the needle and
crochet hook. With her brother’s family
Aunt Betsy had come to America in the
early 60s from a pleasant English home,
and with them had remained by the way-
side. It was not her nature, however, to
be a dependent on her brother nor a nurse
for his children, and having brought with
her a splendid box of material for needle
work and some little means of her own she
soon established herself in business making
her home in the back end of the room, di-
vided only from the store by a large curtain
of blue denim.
	Nothing ever happens in a country town
but what everybody knows every detail and
the corner grocery, post office or village
store, is the great dispensary of news, but
for once in the town of Lind the people were
dumb and not a soul could explain the mys-
tery when one Christmas morning Aunt
Betsy found on her doorstep a wee baby
girl. In a city, such a circumstance might
not create any consternation, at least not
for long, but in an open prairie village miles
from everywhere, in a town where every-
body knew everybody, and there never had
before been a mystery, this happened to be
more than a nine-day wonder, in fact it

[Column 3]
never ceased to be a wonder until many
years later when—but wait, this comes not
now. When Aunt Betsy picked the bundle
off her doorstep in the early morning it had
a light covering of feathery snow, for the
snow had been falling all night and this
slight dusting showed that it had not lain
there very long; sufficiently long, however,
for any tracks of vehicle or footprints to be
covered, and it seemed as though it had
dropped down from the skies with the 
shower of flakes that covered it. Such a-
theory, indeed, Aunt Betsy was willing to
accept, for it was better for her to look upon
the little thing as a gift from heaven and
immediately try to give it a mother’s care,
than to strive to fathom a mystery desired
to be kept, and perhaps bring upon its head
disgrace and sorrow. After many surmises
and unnecessary questionings into each
others’ affairs the village folk resigned
themselves to Aunt Betsy’s philosophy, “If
it didn’t come down from heaven with the
snow, probably the Lord knew where it did
come from, and when he is ready would let
them know too; I only knew it was here
and I intend to take care of it and ask
no further questions.” She did not say,
however, that on its little body was a tiny
shirt, made of soft linen on which some
three weeks previously, she believed she had
stamped a small embroidery scallop, and
which now she had laid carefully away for
further developments.
	When the tiny thing was old enough to
have a name all the women in the town
wanted to assist in the selection, and many
an interesting conversation was held over
the counter about the baby’s name. “She is
so pretty,” said one mother. “I should
think you would call her June or Rose or
Pearl or some fine name like that.” “She is
such a little thing,” said another; “why
don’t you call her Fanny or Minnie or
Mattie.” “She almost belongs to all of us,”
said still another; “why not name her Lindy
for the town.” This seemed to suit most
of the women folk, but Aunt Betsy was a
long time deciding. In the meantime, how-
ever, she was making most wonderful clothes
for the approaching day of the christening;
embroidered flannels and dress, while a cloak
of white cashmere done in blue forget-me-
nots was the principal gift of this loving
foster mother, and not until the second
Christmas, when the little thing was begin-
ning to talk, did she receive a name.
	“I’d like to please you all,” Aunt Betsy
said, “but you have so many different opin-
ons. Now I never but once in my life had
a chance to hear or see any great personage
and that was when my father took us all up
to London to hear Jenny Lind sing, think-
ing perhaps as her name was the same as
ours we might be some relation, and it’s a-
good thing to be loyal to your own family,
so I think I’ll just name this little might of
a thing for that great singer. Lind being
the name of this town named for my brother,
who was the first town officer, I guess it
will suit you all pretty well anyhow.”
	What Aunt Betsy didn’t tell was that the
little embroidered shirt so carefully laid
away had been stamped for some singer
girl, who a few weeks before had responded
time and time again to their applause in the
town amusement hall. So Jenny Lind, un-
der Aunt Betsy’s tutelage and care became
quite a girl in the little community. She
was trained in all things, which her good
foster mother knew, and though her accom-


