[Column 1]
Moroni to the prophet Joseph Smith elicited
no great surprise. “I could not say an angel
would not come,” she said, “when I know
they have visited the earth in days of old;
if then, why not now?”
	Just then, a sweet girlish face looked in
at the door. “Come in,” the lady said, “I
want you to hear about this boy prophet.”
Introducing me she said, “My daughter can
speak better English than I can, she has
just graduated from the English course at
school.” As she entered, she kissed her
mother with great respect, and I noticed
that she always waited until her mother
ceased speaking before voicing her own
thoughts. While the young lady was not
skeptical nor prejudiced during the recital
of the angel’s first visit to Joseph Smith,
she asked several pointed but natural ques-
tions. The story impressed them; riveted
their attention. We spoke of America, her
resources and wealth; of California with her
wonderful climate, fruit and flowers. From
a descriptive poem of the first visit of the
“Mormon” Tabernacle Choir to that land
I read a few fragments.
	“Why did your people not go on to Cali-
fornia?” the young lady asked. The reason
given that God himself had chosen this
abode for his Saints. I had brought a book
of views with me, “In and Around Salt
Lake.” Soon our minds were engrossed
with Utah; her towering mountains capped
 with eternal snow; her pure breezes and
glorious sunsets; her great inland sea, with
its picturesque islands, and her living
springs of water that had made the desert
blossom as the rose.
	How enthusiastic all people become when
speaking of the wonders and beauties of
America.
	But I wished to call on some of our Amer-
ican delegates, who on the morrow were
leaving for home, so I arose to go.
	“Will you not ride with me?” the lady
quickly asked. “I would show you Berlin.”
Assuring her that her guest would glady be
subject to her wishes, she ordered her car-
riage.
	On one side of the house was a covered,
glass arched drive way, where we found the
carriage waiting as we descended the stairs.
	Fraulein Weiner was to accompany us
as far as the school that the younger chil-
dren attended. There we parted with her,
even with regret, as we would not likely
meet again. So it happened that I rode
through beautiful Charlottenburg the guest
of that noble lady. I observed the solemn
looking footmen—their arms crossed—as
the equipages passed us, and wondered if
those I was wont to meet at home, would
recognize me in this role? My friend spoke
of her home life; of her children, and of
many things that drew us together as
women and mothers. This visit we enjoyed
fully as much as the ride itself. Is not Ber-
lin a grand city? Are not her suburbs de-
lightful? No squalid, forbidding-looking
houses, but all seemingly new and attrac-
tive. The poor in Berlin, as in other Ger-
man cities, live on the fourth or fifth story
(no elevators), as the rent is less the higher
up you go. Each family rents a “Wohnung”
as it is called, which has all the conven-
iences, and where they are just as private,
in their home life, as their more wealthy
neighbors.
	We conversed about the Congress, which
had just closed; of the many brilliant minds

[Column 2]
who had given us their best thoughts, and
anticipations of woman’s enlarged sphere,
in the various countries from whence they
came. Of course, Mrs. May Wright Sewall
had been our able and honored president,
and she had made her presence felt through
all that vast gathering. Then we spoke of
those returning home, and incidentally of
those who were to leave on the morrow.
“Shall we not return now?” Frau Weiner
asked. “I would call on the Americans, too;
I would like to meet them.” Pressing the
button in the coach, the footman appeared
at the window; his mistress gave him her
orders, and we were driven rapidly back to
Berlin, and down to the Ballast Hotel. 
	The German lady could not understand
a woman being a minister, so she asked
Rev. Anna Shaw if she baptized people.
	“Yes,” she replied, “if they desire it.”
	“And do you marry people?” the lady
asked.
	“Yes,” she answered, “and I am glad to
say, that when I marry them, they never get
un-married, but live happy ever after.”
	Speaking of the agitation at Washington
on the “Mormon” question, Mrs. Chapman
Catt asked if I remembered a certain lady,
naming her, who had lived among us for
some time in Utah? Yes, the lady was well
remembered. Receptions had been held in
her honor, parties been given, where the
writer had heard her speak in glowing terms
of the women of Utah; what wonders they
had accomplished in wresting that land from
the desert.
	“Well,” continued Mrs. Catt, “all last
winter they lectured against you in the East
and stirred up the trouble you are now hav-
ing. Your own state is the hotbed of the
anti-‘Mormon’ movement.”
	Looking wonderingly at me, the German
lady said, “Anti-‘Mormon,’ anti-‘Mormon’?”
To her, the story of the restoration of the
Gospel was so simple and plain that, to her
mind, there could be no antagonism to its
truthfulness. Aside, I said to her, “Has
there not always been an anti-spirit? Even
in the dawn of time, did not Cain kill Abel,
the righteous one?”
	“Yes,” she slowly answered; “yes.”
	On the way back to Noelendorf, the sub-
ject of Mrs. Catt’s remarks was again
spoken of. This brought out the story of
the mobbing of the early Saints, which
ended in the martyrdom of the boy prophet
and his brother; and the expulsion of the
Church from Nauvoo. All this was to sat-
isfy that “anti-spirit.” The story moved
the tender heart of the lady to sadness, her
eyes were suffused with tears. “Was it not
so in the days of Christ; did those of His
own household receive him? Was he not
wounded in the house of his friends?” Her
gentle face wore a troubled look, but her
heart could understand.
	Proffering the book of views, I asked,
“Would you accept this as a souvenir of a
most delightful afternoon?”
	“I shall be so proud,” she eagerly re-
sponded. “O, yes, will you come again next
week,” she inquired. “Come to tea and
bring your young daughter with you; I
will send you a card.” We lingered long
over the “good bye,” our hearts were full
of regret, at the parting of the way.
	In the quiet hour following, I pondered
over the afternoon’s visit, and its incidents.
Who of my friends would have recognized
me riding in that stately carriage, through

[Column 3]
the streets of Berlin? For two years I had
tramped in the mission field in England,
carrying the gospel mostly to those in the
lowly walks of life. For being a “Mormon”
I had borne the scoffs of the idle and those
who knew not what they were doing, but I
had worn the proud distinction that came be-
cause I was a “Mormon.” I had been
happy when the “Mormon” was hurled at
me and my people slandered. “Are you not
working for Him?” I had asked myself. “If
you cannot bear that little thing for His
sake, you are not worthy of Him.” Did I
love Him, then could I bear for His sake,
and I had lain down on my hard English
bed and slept the sleep of peace. In memory
there arose the happy homes, where the
family groups were outlined in the glow of
the open fire, and thoughts of days when I,
too, was thus surrounded, brought again the
pang I was unable to still. Then the faces
of many congenial friends rose before me
like the one with whom I had just parted.
The doors of poverty had been shut in my
face, but the gates of the wealthy and titled
had been opened wide, and “Come, in and
sup with us, and come again,” had been
said, over and over.
	The Angel Moroni, how oft have I de-
clared his words, and borne testimony of
his visit to the prophet Joseph Smith! It
seems he must know; at times he feels so
near, I almost expect to see him.
	In this service I re-visit many beautiful
places; see the faces of gentle loving friends
who were part of my life then. Shall we
meet again? Yes! When or where I know
not, but we will meet again. Kindly, warm
hearts may be deceived; walls of prejudice
may be built up ever so high, but we will
meet again. It may be when all things are
made plain by the light of eternity, when all
the mists are rolled away. With some in
the world I have left a solemn testimony.
In parting they have said, “When we get
to the other world, we will look for you.”
	“And I will look for you; then you will
know that what I have told you is true.”
And the Angel Moroni? His prophecy will
then all have been fulfilled. 
				LYDIA D. ALDER.
	Salt Lake City, Utah.


