WHAT A MOTHER OWES HER CHILD.
	Martin Luther has said: “The prosperity
of a country depends not upon the abund-
ance of its resources, nor on the strength of
its fortifications, nor on the beauty of its
public buildings, but upon its number of en-
lightened and cultivated citizens, its men of
character and worth; here are to be found
its true interests, its chief strength, its real
power.” Upon whom does the responsibility
rest, of giving such men to the world, if not
upon the mothers of men?
	No greater blessing was ever given by
our Heavenly Father to man and woman,
than parenthood. The custody of a little
child, fresh from our Father’s presence, is
the greatest trust confided to mankind.

[Column 2]
“They are idols of hearts and of households,
	They are angels of God in disguise.
His sunlight still sleeps in their tresses,
	His glory, still gleams in their eyes.”

	Having an assurance of this, how anxious
we should be as parents to so order our
lives, that the tender litttle plants should
grow upright and tall, and straight, that the
fruit-time of their lives might be all that
the blossoming promised.
	No more ennobling and worthy desire can
fill the heart of any woman than to be thus
abundantly helpful to these little children,
not only in her own home, but in every
home to which her influence may be ex-
tended.
	The four corner-stones upon which char-
acter should be builded are: a loving faith
in God, truthfulness, obedience, and self-
denial. The ideals which fill the mental
horizon of youth color all after years; they
are the well-springs which feed the “thought
garden” of the soul. Let us see to it then
that these ideals are lofty, filled with the
love of God, and charity to mankind. “That
which we make our children desire, is of
more importance than that which we make
them learn.”
	Most of the crime and misery of the world
are due to the early influence of home. In-
fancy is neither vicious nor virtuous it is
simply innocent, and is susceptible alike to
good and bad influences. Its safety depends
alone on the watchfulness of its guardians.
	Parents, your child is a bound volume of
blank paper, upon which is to be written the
history of your own actions.	The poet
Burns said:

“O, wad some pow’r the giftie’ gie us
To see oursel’s as ithers see us!”

	My friends, we need go no farther than
the confines of our own homes, to have this
wish gratified. No mirror ever more faith-
fully reproduced an object held before it,
than do the acts of our children represent
the lives of their parents. Of all human in-
fluences those of the home are the most far-
reaching in their results. It then remains
for us as parents to make our homes as per-
fect as we can, that our children may find
within their walls a joy and contentment
against which the allurements of the amuse-
ment hall will have no influence. I believe
one of the most potent factors in making a
home thus perfect is music. You know we
are told a song of praise is a prayer to God.
There is no perfect home without a musical
instrument of some kind. There is no tie
that will withstand the ravages of time and
absence, like the memory of the good old
home songs. Just last week, in the state
prison of California, a prisoner about to
suffer the death penalty for the crime of
murder, was asked by the warden what his
last request would be. He was a native of
Italy, and with tears in his eyes, he asked,
that a woman from his own country, with
a sweet voice, be found and allowed to come
and sing to him the songs of his fatherland.
Hand in hand with music is the literature of
the home. We cannot be too careful what
books and magazines we place within the
reach of a child. Henry Ward Beecher said:
“Books are the windows through which the 
soul looks out; a home without books is like
a house without windows.” We should pro-
vide a diversity of reading in order that
the child’s mind, through the medium of
books, may be given a knowledge of every-

[Column 3]
thing that will fit him for future usefulness;
but always with one great aim in view, to
bring the mind in sweet accord with the
will of God. There is one book that will
never fail us in our hours of pleasure or sor-
row—the Bible. When Sir Walter Scott lay
dying in his great library in Abbotsford, he
said to his son-in-law, “Reach me down the
Book.” “Which book,” asked Lockheart,
viewing the shelves, filled with thousands of
volumes. “There is but one Book,” cried
Scott, and he died clasping the Bible in his
arms. I believe we do not, as a people,
make sufficient study of our sacred books.
If we did, we would be better fitted for the
responsibilities we have to meet, as parents
and members of the Church to which we
belong.

