ness and spiritual nature, which appealed so

[Column 2]

[picture of Joseph Smith]

strongly to his father’s affections, had al-
ready created feelings of jealousy and envy
in his brothers’ hearts, and when, aided by
his natural gifts, he assumed to declare his
future as seen in his dreams their envy
knew no bounds, and he was sold by them
into Egypt, which unknowingly hastened
the very fulfilment of his dreams. That the
power and gift of God was with him, even
as a child, is evident. 
	Joseph, the latter-day prophet, had
dreams and interpretations thereof, and
visions, and revelations, when only a child,
and, like Joseph of old, related them to his
father’s household, most of whom believed
and credited what he said. Like Joseph,
also, he was comely, straight and beautiful
to look upon; his soul shone in his coun-
tenance and his ways were gentle. 
	Samuel, also, was a mere lad when the
gift of prophecy came upon him. He
had been reared from infancy in the ser-
vice of God by a religious mother. His
early duties had been rather to serve than
to dictate, and yet when the occasion came,
though still a youth, his mighty power was
manifest and we read how he predicted to
Eli the fall of his home because of the wick-

[Column 3]
edness of his sons. In later life he became
a judge and great prophet in Israel. 
	Joseph Smith was reared by a religious
and devout mother, who never doubted the
divine mission of her son when he related
to her his marvelous experiences. Like
Samuel he became a prophet who brought
about great reforms, warned the wicked,
and taught most wondrous truths. 
	Daniel, another of the great prophets,
manifested spiritual gifts when a youth. He
foresaw and foretold the destiny of nations
and to him alone was made plain the writ-
ing on the wall. To him also was given
the interpretation of dreams. Like others
of the prophets he received divine protec-
tion so that no one could do him bodily
harm until his mission was ended. 
	Joseph Smith had like gifts and power. 
Like Daniel, he was many times miracu-
lously saved from bodily injury and possi-
ble death. He also foretold the destiny of
nations and warned the people of that most
terrible of strifes—the Civil war.
	David first attracted attention as a shep-
herd boy, and even then his prowess, his
agility, his strength and more than all these
physical qualities, his lofty spirit, made him


