THE NATIONAL COUNCIL.
	The executive session of the National
Council of Women was held in New York
City Nov. 21, 22.
	Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells and Miss Sarah
McLelland of the Relief Society, Mrs. Mar-
tha H. Tingey, and Mrs. Edith Lovesy of
the Y. L. M. I. Association, were in attend-
ance at the session. It was quite important
that all the affiliated societies be represented
wtih their full quota as much important
business was transacted, not the least of
which was the election of officers. Next
year, 1914, the quinquennial will be held in
Rome, when all the great organizations of
women throughout the world will send rep-
resentatives.
	There have been only four gatherings of
the International Council, the first held in
the United States in the city of Washington
when Mrs. May Wright Sewall was elected
president, the second was held in London
and Mrs. Sewall was re-elected, the third in
Berlin when the Duchess of Aberdeen was
chosen president, the fourth in Montreal
when the Duchess was again elected. The
discussions at the triennial in New York
were in anticipation of the business which
will be transacted next year in Rome and
dealt largely with social legislation and mat-
ters pertaining to the status of women in
social and political life. The Utah women
who were in attendance not only took part
in the discussions but also received impor-
tant appointments on committees and were
the recipients of marked attention by the
women of the council. Mrs. Emmeline B.
Wells was elected chairman of the advisory
committee of the Council, Mrs. Clarissa S.
Williams of the Relief Society was elected a
delegate from the United States to the quin-
quennial, to be held in Rome in 1914, and
Mrs. Ida B. Smith, who is at present in
England with her husband, President Hy-
rum Smith, was elected an alternate.
	After the adjournment of the council the
Utah delegation visited friends and relatives
in New York, attended the Sunday services
at the mission headquarters and then pro-
ceeded to Washington, where they spent
Thanksgiving day. The influence gained in
the world by association with women of
note and ability who devote their lives to
causes of humanity is helpful to our women,
and the Latter-day Saint women yield an
influence that is beneficial to others. Much
prejudice has been allayed through this affil-
iation and the true position and condition of
the "Mormon" women has been made plain.
Falsehoods and slanders have been refuted
and the truth been told concerning the peo-
ple of Utah.
	The presence of Latter-day Saint women
at these great gatherings has led to many
newspaper comments, and their dignity, in-
telligence, and benevolence have been sub-
jects of much praise. The officers of the
council have found the Utah women most
capable, and often advise with them on im-
portant matters. Such recognition is much
appreciated and we trust will always as now,
be well deserved. The Utah delegation re-
turned home safely after an absence of two
weeks, feeling that their mission was the
means of much good.


