THE RELIEF SOCIETY OUTLINE. 
	A general outline for work in the Relief
Society has been prepared by a committee
appointed by the officers and directors of the 
General Board. The outline will be ready
for distribution to the several stakes by the
first of the year.
	It embraces many important and interest-
ing subjects and can not fail to be most
beneficial to the members of the organiza-
tion.
	Much attention is given in the outline to
genealogical work, to which the officers of
the different stakes are urged to give their
early attention. Some stakes have already
had organized classes for this study and
have done some splendid work, others are
just adopting it, while still others have not
yet taken it up. It is the desire of the general
officers that this coming year all the societies
willl have completed this course and thus
instigated a desire among the people of bet-
ter, more systematic and increased temple
work.
	It is likely that some of the subjects on
home ethics have already been studied in the
societies, and in such cases the repetition of
such lessons is left to the discretion of the
presiding officers to determine.
	Where societies have not completed the
outline work that has been provided for
them by the respective stakes, that also is
optional with the local presiding officers to
decide, whether to finish the work already
started and then take up the new outline or
to drop the work and begin with the general
outline as soon as it is received.
	The subject of a general outline for the
Relief Society has been much discussed the
past few years, in fact ever since the moth-
er’s work was introduced as departmental
work, and there still remains the question
whether the most benefit can be derived
from the whole body studying the same sub-
jects at the same time, or from each stake
planning its own work. After long delibera-
tion on this matter the general officers have
decided to issue the new outline.
	That it will be gratefully and joyfully re-
ceived by the members and officers through-
out the different wards and stakes is certain
and much pleasure and advantage will
doubtless be derived from its study.
	The outline has been prepared by a most
efficient and capable committee and in its
preparation much time, study and thought
have been given.
	The work will go forth to the sisters of


the Relief Society with the hope that every
lesson will bring splendid results, and awake
a new interest in the great work in which
we are engaged.


