INDUSTRY.

	The following essay was given at a Relief
Society meeting in 1856, by Sister Elizabeth
McLelland.
	I have chosen the subject of “Industry”
to speak upon this evening. Industry,
whether it be hard labor, or the exercise of
the mind, is that by which the great and


good of our sex have been distinguished.
Indeed, it is by the application of this prin-
ciple to their lives that they have become
truly good or truly great. It is said of Jesus
that He went continually about doing good,
hence we see industry was a prominent part
of His character, and no one can truly say
he is a faithful follower of Jesus, unless his
faith is made manifest by his works.
	I can bear testimony myself that when I
have the Spirit of God upon me, I am led
to be industrious, and my pursuits in life
though in a humble sphere, give me much
comfort and happiness. My home, or rather
my husband’s house, is my heaven, and 
when I can make it comfortable and neat,
I feel I am improving my heaven.
	It is in this sphere that the faith of those
of my sex is made manifest, for here are
their works seen.
	And how true it is that by their works
or fruits ye shall know them. No one can
hide himself, for all have their sphere to
act in. And therein will their works make
their character manifest.
	Industry in the domestic circle makes
home happy. And I consider that women
require intelligence to guide their efforts
and direct their energies in their sphere as
much as men. I do not know that I can
express the importance which I feel belongs
to their duties when we take in considera-
tion that the infant soul, mind, and body is
committed to their care, I would ask where
is there greater responsibility? I believe
nowhere. And like all other responsibilities
it requires the constant enjoyment of the
Spirit of God to enable us to discharge our
duty faithfully and acceptably. In this ca-
pacity a woman is president. She is called
to act as a physician and a law-giver to her
little flock or charge. She is all this in con-
nection with her husband.
	By woman’s industry a great deal can be
accomplished in the furtherance of the
works of her husband. If she is faithful
and industrious she lightens his load; bears
part of his burden; anticipates his wants and
is truly what was designed to be a help-
mate. I know by past experience, they can
do a great deal by their industry. Many of
us recollect the second year of our settle-
ment here, how eager we were to raise
crops, but this could not be done without
industry. We had brought with us from
St. Louis two hens; from these we raised
60 chickens. Notwithstanding our scarcity,
this I have not been able to do since, though
we have had plenty. We had four quarts of 
potatoes for seed, and by carefulness and
industry we raised from them, 25 bushels of
potatoes. I know I am not the only one
who could tell similar cases of the effects
of industry.
	I pray God to bless us and enable us to
be industrious, that we may fill the measure
of our creation, that in the end our works
may be done and well done to His accept-
ance, in the name of Jesus. Amen.


