[Column 1]
THE ANGEL MORONI'S PROPHECY.
	“Your name shall be had for good and
evil all over the world.” Amidst the warm-
est felicitations, and most enthusiastic ap-
plausc of the thousands assembled in the
large Philharmonic hall, the Quinquennial
Congress in Berlin had adjourned. The
official and grandest social function of that
great event took place on the evening of the
same day. The city council had issued six
hundred invitations, and voted ten thousand
marks for the banquet. The guests were
the representatives of all lands, and included
the speakers of the Congress, the German
Council of Women, the several German
committees of the Congress, and the city
officials of Berlin.
	About 8 o’clock, hundreds of carriages
deposited the guests at the grand entrance
of the municipal building.
	At the foot of the wide, white marble
stairway, with its bright crimson carpet, a
liveried servant stood on either side to re-
ceive the guests’ cards of invitation.
	The upper hall was gay with flags, ban-
ners and bunting; the air laden with strains
of dreamy music, and the perfume of
flowers. The conservatory was bewilder-
ingly beautiful under the hanging colors
of the electric display, permeating the foamy
water of the fountain which falls in cas-
cades on plants and flowers. The sound of
many voices mingled with the band’s witch-
ing strains as each guest was received, or
friends met and greeted each other.
	Precisely at 8 o’clock—the Germans are
proverbially punctual—the massive doors of
the banquet hall were thrown open, and the
merry throng, entered. A band stationed in
the upper gallery played glad strains of wel-

[Column 2]
come. In the main hall a number of long
tables, exquisitely adorned with flowers,
glistening with glass and abounding with
delicacies, presented an inviting appearance.
The coat of arms of Berlin—a brown bea[-]
about six inches in height, with silken sash,
the German colors, holding with his staff the
guests’ color roses, was placed at each plate.
The effect was strange and unique.
	At a table on the right were seated the
presiding officers of the Congress and city.
The Countess of Aberdeen, the newly elect-
ed president, was of distinguished appear-
ance; the gems in her coronet glistened and
changed color at her every movement. Near
her was our own loved Mrs. May Wright
Sewall, the retiring president, with her
splendid coronet of silvery white hair.
	The assemblage, the music, the sculpture,
the paintings; the feast of reason and the
flow of soul were entrancing. Ten o’clock
found us again in the reception hall.
	While standing here, by the fountain, its
rays now green or amber, crimson or gold,
I found by my side my little German friend,
who sat by me at the table, and who there
interpreted for me, the German speeches.
	“O, I am so glad to meet you again; will
you remain here, while I go for my niece,
she is so anxious to meet a ‘Mormon’?” She
returned soon with a rather diminutive,
brown-eyed, young lady, who asked me
about “your boy prophet,” and why we went
to live in a mountainous desert. Naturally
the answer was an account of the angel’s
visit to the boy Joseph; the prosecutions and
martyrdom of the Prophet, the exodus of
the Saints from Nauvoo, and the long
Western journey. At the close of the inter-
view, the lady seemingly much interested,
expressed a hope that we might meet again,
and we parted with a warm clasp of hands.
	Then was I conscious that there, sur-
rounded by the wealth of the world; splen-
dor and brilliance such as I had never before
beheld; the purple, the fine linen, and the
glitter of gems, where one would never
dream the prophet’s name would be men-
tioned, the prophecy of the angel was again
fulfilled.
	Near us a lady had been standing who
advanced, and I recognized Frau Weiner, at
whose home only two or three days before
we had attended a musical and reception.
After a genuine German greeting, she said,
“Will you remain in Berlin, now the Con-
gress is over?” Being answered in the af-
firmative, she added, “I will send my card,
will you come to my house? I would hear
more of the ‘Mormons’?” Gladly the invi-
tation was accepted, with a promise to come.
This was on Saturday evening. On the fol-
lowing Monday morning, a servant in livery
appeared at our lodgings with two cards;
one bore the name of his mistress, the other
the time of our promised visit.
	Wednesday at 3 p. m. found the writer at
Frau Weiner’s palatial residence in an aris-
tocratic quarter of Berlin. After the usual
greetings our hostess led the way into an
adjoining room, where according to German
custom, she served dainty refreshments. If
one does not eat with the Germans they are
grieved, and think you are not pleased with
them. After tea was served, our hostess
said: “Now tell me about your religion;
you know, I never heard of it, until I heard
you conversing with Fraulein S—at the
banquet.”
	The account of the visit of the Angel


