[Column 1]
			MOTHERHOOD.
	In considering the subject of Motherhood,
shall do so under several different head-
ings: first, what we owe our mothers; sec-
ond, what our mothers owe us; third, the
conjoint responsibility of father and mother,
in rearing a family.
	James Whitcomb Riley says: “The
heaven that lies about us in our infancy, is
motherhood, and no matter how exalted, or
how depraved we may become, we are al-
ways attended by the grace of a mother’s
love.” Every great man has glorified a
great mother A great Jewish rabbi says:
“God could not be everywhere, so He made
mothers.”
	Is there any limit to the debt of gratitude
we owe to the one who, since giving us
birth, has stood like a wall of granite be-
tween us and the ills of childhood, the
temptations of youth, and the sorrows of
maturity, until age has whitened her hair, or
perhaps the summons has come and she has
passed over the silent river, leaving a va-
cancy that no one else on earth can fill; no
one else so willing, so sympathetic, so end-
less and untiring" in devotion. 

	“Nobody knows the work it takes
	To keep the Home together,
	Nobody knows the steps it takes.
	Nobody knows, but Mother.”

	Who shall say when the debt we owe her
is paid? and in what way it shall be paid?
No one but the child himself. Bulwer says:
“The best monument a child can raise to the
memory of his mother, is that of a clean,
upright life, such as she would have re-
joiced to see her son live.” As children we
cannot escape the responsibility of our ac-
tions, and they most truly reflect credit or
discredit upon ‘the memory of the one we
love most, our mother. One mother, in
writing to her son, said:

“Do you know that your soul, is of my soul
	such part
That you seem to be fiber and core of my
	heart?
None other can pain me as you dear, can do,
None other can please me or praise me as you,
Remember, the world will be quick with its
	blame,
If shadow or shame ever darken your name,
‘Like mother, like son is a saying so true,
The world will judge largely of ‘mother’ by
	you.”

	Truly then, until we too cross over and
join her on the shore of the hereafter, the
debt and responsibility we are under to
mother, is never paid.

