[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		NEBO STAKE.
	Minutes of Nebo Stake Relief Society
conference held Sept. 19, 1913, at Santaquin
ward, President Eliza J. Dixon presiding.
	After the opening exercises by singing,
Henrietta Teitjen, President of Relief So-
ciety of Santaquin ward, gave a loyal wel-

[Column 2]
come to all who came to conference, and
President Dixon responded to the welcome
given.
	A brief report of the work done in the
last year was given by Councilor Martha S.
Kapple.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon of the General
Board, addressed the conference. She espe- 
cially urged the sisters to take more interest
in coming to their meetings and to make
their reports read better every year; spoke
of genealogical work; she made many good
and ecouraging remarks.
	Sister Elizabeth S. Wilcock of the Gen-
eral Board addressed the sisters in her pleas-
ing way; said she had known most all the
presidents and leaders of the Relief Societies
throughout the Church. The mission of the
Relief Society is to build people up and help
them, and to be prayerful; also spoke of the
power of the rPiesthood and how we are
blessed every day of our lives by this su-
preme power.
	Bishop Halliday of Santaquin ward said
these Relief Society conferences always
brought some blessing with them, and the
sisters always bring sunshine with their
presence also spoke of many good things
the Relief Society had done in the Santaquin
ward.
	President Dixon gave a short talk.
	Singing, Lord dismiss us with thy bless- 
ing.
	Benediction, by Lars Ahlien.
	Conference adjourned until 1:30 p. m.

	Conference reconvened at 1:30 p. m.,
President Eliza J. Dixon presiding.
	Singing, Jesus Lover of My Soul.
	Prayer, Bishop Halliday.
	Singing, Count your many blessings.
	Minutes of afternoon session read and
approved.
	Sister Elizabeth S. Wilcox spoke on the
subject “The Little Things That Count.”
She spoke very emphatically on our duty
to our children.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon wished to en-
dorse all that had been said by Sister Wil-
cox, and commented on how the Relief So-
society membership when first organized
numbered only 18 members, and now the
membership is 45,000; spoke very emphat-
ically on Temple work and getting work
done for the dead.
	President Eliza J. Dixon wished that the
Relief Society presidents of each ward
would send a representative to join the
Nurses’ Class of Iinstruction held at Salt
Lake City.
	Clara R. Evans felt to thank the Lord for
the many blessings and was so thankful
that the visiting sisters were here with us
today; she also spoke of the temptations of
our young people.
	Brother Jerman felt well paid for coming
to conference, and wished to assist them in
any way.
	President Dixon thanked the good people

[Column 3]
of Santaquin for their kindness and hospi-
tality, and thanked all who had taken part.
	After benediction, conference adjourned
for three months. 
				ELIZA A. HAWKINS,
						Cor. Sec.


