[WomansExponent | Vol40 | 1911 | August | Issue: 2 | Title: The Lund Home | Author: Unknown]

		THE LUND HOME.
	How many women in the Church, I won-
der, know anything about the institution
known as the Lund Home. Shortly after
the years work of the Betterment Committee
—a work undertaken by some citizens purely
out of love for the youth of this city who
seemed to be just growing like weeds in big
gardens or undergrowth in some dense for-
est without discipline of any kind, without
care, and yet children of the state who. if
taken in hand by some one and guided aright
might become good and useful men and
women in the community, well. as I started
to say it was the conditions of these, shall
we call them wayward boys and girls or just
uncared for boys and girls that led some of
our thoughtful men to raise means and use
influence with the authorities to purchase a
large tract of land gaining a piece already
owned by the Church which had school
building thereon, and open a home for boys.
This home is kept up almost wholly by the
Church, and besides providing a home for

[Column 2]
these little fellows where the kindest atten-
tion possible is given them, it also affords
opportunity for work, school and play. The
only regret connected with the intsitution is
that enough people are not sufficiently inter-
ested to assist in this good work by contrib-
uting somewhat if ever so little towards the
place. A home such as this for children
should be made attractive with beautiful
pictures, good books, and pretty things so
far as possible and there are many people
no doubt who would be glad to give some-
thing of this kind to the home, if the mat-
ter was brought to their attention. While
the founding of this home was a beautiful
idea, one wonders why some such similar
place was not provided for little girls as
well. Don’t think that the boys are the
only ones necessary to save, and those who
know will tell you that it is much easier to
reform a boy who has gone wrong than it is
to reform a girl. Probably one reason for
this is that the boys are soon taken charge
of by the officers, while the girls inclined to
do wrong are left longer in the home where
the environment is anything but what it
ought to be.
	One of the women officers of the Juvenile
Court, when talking to a father about his
fourteen-year-old girl one day, was told by
that unworthy parent, that the only way to
deal with that girl was to take an ax to
her;” the lady replied, “No wonder your
little girl is delinquent when you speak like
that.” This same little girl was allowed to
remain in that home with that father and
the environment that such a parent would
naturally have in his home for two years,
and at the end of that time it became nec-
essary for the Juvenile Court to send her to
the State Industrial School, where she now
is an immoral degenerate. Perhaps had
there been a home for girls similar to the
Lund Home for boys, where she could have
been placed earlier, she might have been
saved. The work of the Big Sisters in try-
ing to reform and care for the girls after
dismissal from the Industrial Home, is most
commendable, but how much better it would
be could we save the little girls before the
Industrial Home becomes the only alterna-
tive, for after they have once been inmates
of that institution it is almost hopeless to
try to reform them. With the boys it is
different, they are in for petty thieving,
truancy, and delinquency and such offenses
and the reformation is not so hard, but with
education and proper training they leave the
Home wiser and better but the Superin-
tendent will tell you if you ask, and it is
known to be true, that almost every girl
there is immoral, and when she is discharged
she doesn’t as a general thing, care to re-
form, but in her maturer years prefers the
indolent rollicking life of the underworld
to the higher, better life of true woman-
hood. The blight is on her and she cannot
throw it off. Mothers, don’t your hearts
ache when you think of these poor girls.
Fathers, don’t you think a home should be
provided to save these little ones from sin:
God bless those who strive to help human-
ity in any way, but surely most of all those
who try to save humanity.
