PIONEER DAY.

	THE anniversary of the 24th of July, 1847, will
always be a day of days to the Pilgrims who mi-
grated hither during that eventful year and those
who followed them later, also to their children
and children's children down to the latest genera-
tion. For the sake of the children it seems im-
portant to celebrate in some appropriate way,
either publicly or in families by gathering to-
gether, this day; that the brave men and women
who crossed the trackless plains and marked out
a path for their friends to follow may be held in
sacred remembrance, also because they raised
the standard of liberty on the mountain's top, the
flag of our country, the stars and stripes dear to
every American heart, and it floated to the breeze
for the first time in the great American desert
from the highest peak adjacent and because of
this, it was named Ensign Peak. This fact should
be well established in the minds of the rising
generation, let them hear it from the lips of those
who are living witnesses, for the pioneers are fast
passing away.
	Of the three pioneer women not even one re-
mains, but their memory is dear to the hearts of
their sisters, women who know how loyal and
true they were and how fearless in the cause of
right. And what of the hundreds who followed
after? many little graves as well as larger ones
marked the passage over the great mountains
and across the desert plains. The mothers who
laid their little babes down by the wayside, know-
ing that they could not mark the spot only tem-
porarily, and knowing too that wolves and beasts
of prey ranged over the wild and desolate country.
What sublime faith these Pilgrim mothers had,
none know save those who shared with them the
toils and burdens of those wearisome days. These
things and a thousand other memories arise when
one reflects upon the early dangers and hard-
ships encountered by those, who left their all the
world held dear, to seek out a refuge, a resting
place where they might be free in the exercise of
their religion.
	The privations of those early days are too
severe to be dwelt upon today, and the blessing
and prosperity that has attended this people in
the valleys of the mountains is something almost
beyond belief to those who know the small be-
ginnings. The generation now growing up will
never be able to comprehend the struggles and
difficulties of those times in past history, unless
they should go into a new country as destitute as
this people came hither.
	There is nothing in this world but religious
faith engrafted in the soul, that could sustain and
bind together a band of people, as the Latter-day
Saints were sustained and united under the most
trying and adverse circumstances. Let those who
know not such eternal principles scoff and deride

