A LOVELY WOMAN PASSED AWAY.

	At her home in San Francisco, Sunday, July
17th, there passed from our earthly presence,
another loyal, active member of the Pacific Coast
Women's Press Association, our Assistant Re-
cording Secretary, Mrs. Susan Taylor D'Evelyn,
the wife of Dr. F. W. D'Evelyn, a physician of
note in that city.
	The Press Association had no more earnest,
active member, nor any worker therein a more
faithful friend than Mrs. D'Evelyn. As a member
of the Executive Board and several standing
committees she was untiring in her zeal for the
success of the organization. She was the personi-
fication of all that is beautiful in Christian wo-
manhood and happy motherhood. The heart of
each one of a host of friends, both men and wo-
men, goes out today in tender, but what would
seem to be helpless sympathy for the two little
motherless children, who in the blissful ignorance
of their babyhood, are yet unconscious of the
depth of their loss, but who in the days and years
to come will yearn in vain for the mother love
and care that was given them so abundantly.
	Besides her devotion to her husband and babies
Mrs. D'Evelyn found time in her active young life
not only for her Master's work in the church, but
to take hold wherever a helping hand was needed
along the philanthrophic lines outside, to identify
herself with whatever humanitarian movements
she could. Every interest of her husband's was
hers. In his hospital work she was close beside
him, having been foremost in the plan of the work
of the Lady Patronesses of the San Francisco
Polyclinic which adjunct to that body has proved
itself so efficient in supplementing the good work
among the afflicted poor.
	Mrs. D'Evelyn was a native of the country
which has given to the world so many of its
brilliant writers, Tom Moore, Sheridan, and
Burke the prominent among them. Her writings
abound in that true native wit so rare a gift. For
a number of years a beloved instructor in Victoria
College, Dublin, she has since her residence in
America been in correspondence with the Victoria
College Magazine, and a contributor to other
Dublin papers beside her connection with the
press of California. In her death the people of
the Pacific Coast have lost another woman of
earnest endeavor and inestimable power for good
in the example of her unselfish life.
			MINNA V. LEWIS.
