SAN JUAN STAKE.
	MINUTES of the Relief Society Conference
of the San Jaun Stake of Zion held at
Moab, May 23rd 1892. Pres. Martha Ham-
mond presiding, choir sang, "Prayer is the
soul’s sincere desire." Prayer by Counselor
William Halls, singing, "God is love."
	Minutes of the last meeting read and ac-
cepted. Pres. Hammond gave an interest-
ing account of her visit around the Stake
with the sisters from Salt Lake City. The
several branches in the stake were then
represented Counselor Delia Lyman re-
ported Bluff, Sister Moselle Halls Mancos,
Sister Miriam Wharton Monticellc, Sarah
Holyoak, Moab.
	All agreed that the Society represented
was in a prosperous condition and that a good
feeling prevailed among the sisters and the
Lord was blessing them in their endeavors
to do their duty.
	A song entitled "The Old Cabin" was
rendered by Daisy Shaffer and Mrs. West-
wood.
	Sister Howard spoke of the Relief Society
as a medium through which to obtain in-
telligence and testified that the Lord did
bless all who tried to take part in the work,
all sisters should be alive energetic and
active members of the Relief Society. The
duty of the sisters is to grow into the knowl-
edge of the Gospel and all other intelligence.
	Sister Freeze encouraged the sisters to
speak and take an active part in the meet-
ings, knew the Lord had and would still
bless the sisters in their endeavors to do
their duty urged all to be united and love
each other.
	Br. C. R. Savage from Salt Lake City,
realized that the mission of good sisters is a
great one as they have the blessed privilege
of ministering to the sick and needy and
pour in the wine and oil of human kind-
ness and could be a blessing to all they
came in contact with.
	Dr. J. E. Talmage from Salt Lake City
spoke of the prosperous condition of the
people of this stake said the Relief Society is
doing a grand work.
	Even the great people of the world ad-
mire the organization of the Relief Society.
The speaker continued his remarks at some
length, the theme being praise and admira-
tion for the work done by the sisters.
	Pres. F. A. Hammond endorsed what had
been said by all, hoped all would remember
the good words and would be encouraged
and induced to attend conference more often.
Pres. Martha Hammond testified that the
Spirit of the Lord had been largely enjoyed
during this meeting, spoke of the good done
by the sisters from Salt Lake in their travels
and prayed the blessings of the Lord to still
attend us.
	Conference adjourned for three months
choir sang an anthem "Straight is the Gate."
Benediction by Platte D. Lyman.
		ANNA M. LYMAN Sec. protem.
		EMMA BAYLES, Stake Sec.


