[Column 2]

if they choose, but they who have passed
through these ordeals know that only the most
implicit trust in the Divine source of all good,
could ever have helped them to endure the trials
and perils incident to the journeyings and settle-
ment of these mountain vales. No wonder they
are dear and sacred, for here this people have
lived and suffered and labored and toiled, and
fasted and prayed; sometimes in adversity with
starvation staring them in the face, but through
the blessing of God relief has come and the
heavens have smiled again, and the devastating
insects have been swept away. Many blessings
have been vouchsafed the Saints, and the early
and the latter rain, though the old mountaineers
declared that nothing could be raised here be-
cause there was no rain. Each year almost the
rain has increased and the irrigation has been
lessened, the desert does verily blossom as the
rose, and many miracles have been wrought in
behalf of the Saints if they would but understand.
	In contemplating even the small work done by
women in an organized capacity for that is al-
most the only way to estimate it, we repeat in re-
flecting even upon this small proportion of the
great whole, one cannot but wonder how so
much means has been accumulated,and after dis-
tributing to those in need, and to other worthy
purposes how much is still held in trust for future
use. The women of Utah have performed their
part nobly in all the various places, and some of
them have been very trying ones, and have never
shrunk from fulfilling their part pf the work of
building up the country from the days the pio-
neers landed here down to the present time.
	The experience has enriched them in wisdom,
such as is needed to do battle in times of great
struggles, and this experience, much of it, relates
to the inner life, and the hearts have been edu-
cated more perhaps than the brain, but in this
day of great learning and knowledge of all arts
and sciences the heart is too often left unculti-
vated. Yes, women here have borne their share of
the burdens that attended the opening up of a
new and barren country, and meantime by their
comforting and tender words, by their more
simple and childlike faith have stimulated their
husbands,brothers and sons in many a dark hour.
	Ye who come today and see the fruits of the
industry, thrift and diligence of these gray-haired
pioneers, do not fail to do them the reverence
they deserve,and do not forget that through it all
the women stood by them sharing every hard-
ship with the courage and fortitude of the Pilgrim
mothers of New England, for except for the
heroic trust in God that animated them, they
knew no more where their feet were to be
planted than did those who crossed the mighty
ocean and landed on Plymouth Rock.
	We know whereof we speak when we make
this assertion and hundreds can testify to this
fact. The time may come, and it is devoutly to be
hoped for, when these things will be considered
differently to what they are today, and the part
women have taken in opening up the desert lands
will be fully recognized.
	I know it may be said, other lands have been
colonized and the wilderness cleared and so forth,
but that was different, in this one respect if no
other, that they went prepared and thoroughly
equipped; whereas this people were not given
time to make the necessary preparations for the
journey from Nauvoo, and so scanty was the food
that hundreds died the first year after leaving the
borders of civilization. It was under the most
trying circumstances that they traveled West-
ward, and misrepresentation and falsehood
seemed to follow them even in their wanderings.
	The greatest consolation is only this, "Blessed
are ye when men shall revile you, and persecute
you and shall say all manner of evil against you
falsely, for my name's sake, for so persecuted they
the prophets which were before you."


