[Column 2]
small stream coming from a canyon of that
name, we came upon quite a cluster of 
houses, two stores and a rock meeting house
near completion.
	Passing another succession of farms we 
climb the divide and come upon the top of
a mountain, (the natives call it a hill) over
looking Gentile Valley; it is a splendid 
view, homes in the nooks and on the hill
sides, with the wide sluggish river winding
its way through and passing out between
the mountains.
	The north end of Gentile Valley is a
plateau or table land as yet uninhabited; it
was here we saw a great curosity, known as
the Ice Cave. To all appearances the
country is level, but turning some distance
from the main road, to the right, we came
upon a large basin, with walls of black
volcanic rock, we descended this, cross to
an opening on the east side, then descended
still farther and find ourselves in a huge
tunnel with arched roof and a smooth floor
covered with ice; as other tourists had
broken off some of the ice we took some out
into the daylight and found it to be pure
genuine ice, we went on until it seemed as
though we could see the end, but a young
man traveling with us, a resident of Gentile
Valley, told us there was an opening
through which the daring could pass, that
came out into a small ravine.
	After coming out of the cave we drove to
the opening, distant about half a mile,
found that opposite this opening is another
going into the hill. We have since been
told that it opens into a succession of caves
the end of which has not been explored yet.
Our theory, but it may not be correct, is 
that the snow drifts into the basin and melt-
ing runs into the cave, and the depth of the
cave and cold air that passes through keeps
it in that condition, as the walls appear to
be perfectly dry, we forgot to enquire
whether there was ice in the further cave or
not. Farther on we came to a fissure from
two to six feet wide extending quite a dis-
tance; either, our timidity or eye sight pre-
vented us from seeing the bottom, we saw
some bones on a ledge some distance down.
	After crossing the river we go in an
easterly direction, passing Soda Point, 
Soda Point is the point or end of a mountain
whose top, I should judge, is many miles
above the ocean. It descends almost per-
pendicular to the river, it is an immense
pile of rock, but in every crevice is a pine
tree. It is grand in appearance. The op-
posite side is perpendicular and also consists
of rock, in fact the country for miles is a 
bed of black porous looking rock.
	The railroad track makes a curve here
after passing through Soda turning north,
it must be a bleak windy locality for there
is a long stretch of snow sheds and fences
to break the drifts. After passing the point
the soil is very barren there being but little
vegetation.
	We had had a description of the steam
boat spring yet it was a surprise, instead of
issuing from a cliff, as we supposed, it
hisses and puffs forth from a flat red rock on
the brink of the river whose banks here are
low. 
	Soda and vicinity is a very desolate look-


ing place, the soil consisting of a reddish,
yellow clay. There are some fine buildings,
mostly hotels, but there seems to be no
thrift or order, perhaps being a railway
station gave it that appearance. In the
centre is a large mound on the top of which
is a warm sulphur spring and a few rods
from its base is a soda spring.
	Five miles north of Soda is a rich grazing
country, literally covered with springs. In
walking over a meadow we saw springs of
almost every color, red, black, green, yellow
etc., within a few feet of each other; these
springs boil up in the grass each in a
separate basin, but they do not over-flow;
in the same meadow springs forth blubber-
ing, sparkling soda water and beautiful
fresh water which unite forming Soda Creek
a beautiful clear stream.
	I know of no word that could describe
my feelings as I walked over the spongy
ground and viewed the wonders, except
awe; a reverence and a fear for the mighty
power that could hold in check so many
different elements.
			MARY E. T. GRIFFETH.
FAIRVIEW, IDAHO, July, 25th.


