[Column 1]

and with this long speech she flaunted out
of the room in high dudgeon.
	Jane Conway stood still a moment to
think what was best to do, she had heard
before that the housekeeper had a violent
temper when thwarted, but it had never oc-
curred to her that she could threaten, nor
had she even thought of any relationship
between Mrs. Burke the housekeeper and
Mr. Burke her uncle's solicitor. Discretion
is the better part of valor—thought the
young woman, and I'll wait until she has had
time to think better of it, and see her again
tomorrow. Jane did not mention to her
cousins the little incident in the store-room
where she had encountered the housekeeper;
but circumstances shaped themselves, for be-
fore retiring who should be announced but
Burke himself direct from London. The
housekeeper made her appearance all smiles
and furbelows to wait upon him, and Miss
Conway sent a message into the supper room
to say she would like to speak with him as
soon as 'twas convenient for him to see her
in the drawing-room.
	When the boy who brought the message
left the room Mrs. Burke in an undertone
addressing her husband's cousin, "I know
what Miss Conway wants with you, its to
tell you I've refused to obey her orders,
coming interfering with me after I've been
mistress here all these years, and never took
no orders from anybody but Sir Edward
himself."
	"And do you say you refused to obey
Miss Conway? why she's in charge here!
its only against yourself, do you want to be
dismissed from this place? I shan't help you
if you get notice to go—its for your interest
to keep in with the new bosses, there's not
a shilling left in the will for any of you;
but I've no doubt you've saved up a pretty
penny while you've been in service, couldn't
be otherwise, what use have you got for
money with neither chick nor child? No!
Mrs. Burke you'd better keep the place and
be respectful."
	Mrs. Burke was very much crestfallen
after this conversation, she had counted up-
on this relative of her husband's in case of
any emergency arising, and he had not
shown as much feeling for her as one
might expect from a stranger, but she made
up her mind that she wouldn't leave him a
penny if she should die tomorrow. This
was her verdict.
	Burke the solicitor went to the drawing-
room prepared to do battle in her defence, if
necessary however for he too thought the
Baronet might have remembered his faith-
fnl servants in his will.
	He was totally disarmed when Miss Con-
way appeared, and was ready to agree with
her in everything. In fact she was so cool
and dignified he could not but admire her
manner of dealing with the difficulty. She
said very little but he understood how em-
barrassing her position was, and that she
was really the only one in the house who
could exercise any authority in a way to
command respect, and he could see plainly
that if Mrs. Burke revolted the whole re-
tinue of servants (save perhaps one or two)
would join with her, and the household
turned topsy-turvy and the going to London
would be stopped, and out of that he figured
on turning this London season to his own
account.
	The morning brought the housekeeper
early to Miss Conway's room, "to talk
things over and know what was expected"
she said, but Jane could easily see she was
very much upset and anxious to conciliate.

