MEETINGS.

	THE regular meeting of the sisters which
convenes in the 14th Ward of this city held
Saturday, July 2, at 2 p. m., was specially
interesting. President M. I. Horne pre-
sided. Opened by singing "All is well etc"
prayer by Mrs. M. W. Wilcox, singing "O


Jesus the Giver" etc. Minutes of previous
meeting read and approved, also minutes of
conjoint meeting of 17th Ward and South
Bountiful Primary Associations.
	President Horne was the first speaker,
she spoke of the positions women are and
may be called to occupy, the management
of home, order necessary to happiness,
prayer not to be neglected, humility and
faith needful, referred to the parable of the
ten virgins, and the many temptations that
beset us on every side.
	Mrs. Clara Cannon bore her testimony,
expressed her desire to remain faithful.
	Mrs. F. Smith rejoiced in being with the
Saints after an absence of some months;
said, "there is no place like home," there
are many people in Los Angelos claiming
to be Latter-day Saints and much good
could be done by Elders visiting them,
nothing could induce her to leave this place,
desired to be preserved in the truth."
	Mrs. Julia C. Howe spoke upon
the economy of home; thought our children
should be encouraged to save their nickels
for the Temple and other good purposes,
teachings of this kind will be remembered
by the little ones when they grow to be men
and women.
	Mrs. H. C. Young related a dream she
had in the early days, showing the things
now coming to pass, felt it was necessary
that the young people should be tried,
thought if we clung to our children they
would be saved, she would never slacken
her hold upon the young girls, they will all
eventually be gathered into the fold,
thought much depended upon our union.
	Mrs. E. Paul felt blessed in coming to
the meeting had been prevented by sickness
for some time past.
	Counselor E. Webb felt that the grand-
mother could do a great deal, through kind-
ness to the little ones; they generally be-
lieved all that grandma told them; wished
the young mothers could be at these meet-
ings and hear the teachings, love and
charity should fill our hearts continually,
through love and kindness we must try to
keep the youth in the right path, and may
the Lord bless our efforts.
	Counselor E. Stevenson, "We can't live
too near the Lord in these times, the good
things we hear should be put into daily
practice, we should cease to speak evil of
one another, and learn the lesson of charity;
be guarded in all our sayings, we know that
our lives are full of trials, she felt full of
sympathy for young mothers; we should
treasure up in our hearts the good we have
heard today, and may the Lord assist us to
put it into practise, that we may be useful
in building up his kingdom.
	President Horne made closing remarks, ex-
horting the sisters to be faithful and diligent
in all their duties, that they might receive
the blessings promised. Meeting adjourned
for two weeks, singing "Lord dismiss us
etc. Benediction, V. R. Young.


