[Column 2]

gather untimely, yet to the bereaved and deso-
lated hearts we fully realize it can but be sadly
unwelcome. In her home life the departed was
all that the sweet words, woman, wife and
mother can imply—a tower of strength and an
anchor of rest to which, instinctively, all hearts
would fondly and lovingly cling.  And if "to be a
true womanly woman is great" then Sister Groo
has won that distinction; yes, and more, for she
was not only a true womanly woman, but a true
Latter-day Saint, the highest distinction to which
mortals can attain.
	Not alone in the hearts of husband, children,
and others endeared by ties of kindred will Sister
Groo be missed and mourned. For many years
past, her duties in connection with the Relief
Society have caused the strongest ties of friend-
ship to spring up between herself and associates
in their mutual labor of love; not ordinary ties of
friendship, to be a faint memory in the busy whirl
of life; but eternal and enduring as heaven itself,
and not until these same relations are renewed in
a higher life will the loss occasioned by her de-
parture be fully recompensed. Among the poor,
the afflicted and sorrowful, it would be impossible
to enumerate her deeds of love and kindness, but
unwritten though they be, in the grateful hearts
of the recipients, the memory of Sister Groo will
ever remain green.
	After a brief but intensely severe illness, Sister
Groo departed this life on June 22, 1892, in the
sixty-sixth year of her age. She came to Salt
Lake City from New York, her native state in
the year 1854, since which time she has resided in
this ward, with the exception of a brief period
when she in common with the rest of the Saints
vacated her home and moved South.
	On November 15,1870, she was called to occupy
the position of President of the Relief Society of
this ward, previous to which time she had filled
the office of Counselor. By nature retiring and
modest, inclination would have led her to decline
the acceptance of positions savoring of a public
character, and no motive save that of a stern
sense of duty, could have induced her to yield
her own desires in this respect to gratify the
wishes of others. Yet, she was ever equal to the
requirements of these offices, discharging her
every duty with characteristic dignity and
efficiency, giving entire satisfaction to all over
whom she presided as well as to her superiors
in office.
	That the faithful and devoted wife, mother,
sister and friend has earned the rest she now en-
joys, none will doubt, and while we deeply sym-
pathize with those whose hearts are broken and
desolated by this sad event, yet in fancy we
picture her joy in meeting the loved ones gone
before, and we are glad even in the midst of our
own great sorrow, that she at least has some
alleviation for any pang it may have cost her to
leave the loved and lonely ones behind.
	The funeral services were held on Friday the
24th of June, being very appropriate and impres-
sive, the remarks relating to the estimable char-
acter and life of the deceased.
	The casket of white was completely covered
with the choicest flowers wrought in the most ex-
quisite designs—the gift of those who knew how
well she loved these beautiful creations of her
Father.  And when, at last, her mortal remains
were consigned to mother earth, the mound
which marks her last resting place was a literal
bed of flowers, placed there in quiet sorrow and
reverence by the daughters of her husband, a
fitting close to the last sad rites, paid to one who
always loved and worked among the flowers.
