[Column 2]
Dr. inquired what she would do without
her cousin, at which she forgot herself
momentarily and rated him soundly for
mentioning snch a thing. “And why not?”
said he, “we are soon to be married, and
you must accept the situation however
lonely you may feel, I am glad however
that you have so much spirit, to protest, it
really makes me think you have some of
your father’s characteristics after all, and it
will be the better for you to have a will of
your own, it is quite becoming in a woman
to know her own mind, and I am not so
anxious as to your future seeing that you
can take your own part.
	“Miss Conway was a little disconcerted
she felt it was but an ebullition of emotional
feeling and not at all in keeping with her
cousin’s true character, she knew that An-
na needed a discreet and prudent guide and
Clair with Italian blood in his veins was
not the person to look to; but she comforted
herself with the thought that for the present
she would be near to give advice; she dis-
trusted Lady Walton and had less confidence
in her husband, she had an intuitive feeling
of his insincerity when he came to talk with
her at the Castle, she knew from her uncle
the deception he had practiced in that to
him bitter past, that blighted his whole life,
as it were, and she was glad to remember
she had been downright plain
with him about Anna and Maitland; he
could not be mistaken in her candor, what-
ever might come She pitied Lady Walton’s
weakness and really woudered that Mait-
land possessed as much honor and manli-
ness as he had shown, considering his
parents; she felt he was at least constant
and that was someth1ng.
	After Doctor Bland left the house Jane
had a long talk with her cousin speaking
very plainly to her of her future and assur-
ing her that she would watch over her,
even though she was not in the same house-
hold. Anna spoke of some one to preside
but her cousin asked her not to think of it
at present, for said she “the unexpected
might happen as when I came:” and Anna
added “Or as when Clair came who would
have suspected such a change as that in the
order of events.”
	It was good for Clair Hilliard with his
inexperience to be thrown into the society
of men of the world, like those he met at
the Greyson’s for he would be expected to
take part in the affairs of the County even
if he would not accept a nomination for
office. Men who have an understanding of
general matters can always be useful in the
community where they reside, and help in
the common interests of the people. Clair
had no conception of such things but he
would be called upon to do his share in any
event which might transpire locally, and
therefore all he could learn by personal
contact with wide-awake men would be
beneficial. Maitland needed this too almost
as mnch, he had been carefully trained at
home, but it was in “polite society” as an
escort for his mother to balls and parties,
more than in any public duties: Hearing
men talk and reason together and discuss
governmental questions was quite a school
for these young men, not  that it was all
sound doctrine or correct principles, but it
gave them an insight into a life that was
fresh and new at least to them. They had
more of the theoretical in their natures, and
yet were totally unlike. Time passed
pleasantly and they parted from their new-
made friends with regret thongh both were
anxious to return home; and the young

[Column 3]
ladies were desirous of having their company
once again.
	The first subject under discussion after
Clair’s return home was whether they
should spend the winter in the couutry or
go up to London—Burke had sent word
that Clair would be needed in London to
transact some business and the Doctor nat-
urally urged the country on his own ac-
count, but ostensibly in behalf of the tenan-
try who had never had real Christmas
festivities since Sir Edward had become so
much of a recluse. Anna was really the one
whose claim seemed strongest, for she had
never spent a season in London and favored
going there, she had professed great inter-
est in charitable work among the tenants
when Maitland made his stolen visits, but
it was only a pretext as her cousin Jane
learned to her full satisfaction as well as
disappointment afterwards.
	So it was decided that London should be
the choice for the winter, and Christmas ar-
rangements should be left to the housekeep-
er and others who could assist her in the
distribution, the good Dr. Bland who knew
every one of them to superintend the whole.
	After this was settled Anna was gayer
and busier planning and packing, and
practising for she had almost discarded her
governesses injunctions as to etiquette,
and her love-affairs had made her forgetful
of music and drawing.
	All these she tried to bring back to her
remembrance and Clair was very helpful,
he knew when she was in time and his danc-
ing was perfection. Jane Conway gave no
attention to these trivial matters but busied
herself with things of greater importance.
	The Walton’s were going up to London,
and she knew how much that implied; she
felt that her influence would be less with
Anna, and even with Clair, when thrown
into the society of these fashionable people.
	The old housekeeper was vexed at
having so many orders given her, she felt
very consequential with these young people.
	The old housekeeper was vexed at
having so many orders given her, she felt
very consequential with these young people.
Clair made himself as agreeable as possible,
but she hardly reconciled herself even to his
assuming any authority believing his moth-
er to have been of the gipsy race, and she
would mutter away behind his back about
“the goings on of fine folks, that were no
better than they should be.”
	She wondered too why she was not left
in the will—after serving there “these many
a year” as she expressed it and “no dout”
she would add “this young foreigner will
soon run through all there is, and we’ll go
on to the parish, or be sent to the workus.”
	Miss Conway hearing some of these
things repeated by the servants, felt it her
duty to remonstrate with Mrs. Burke, if she
were to be left in charge at such an impor-
tant time as the Christmas holidays.
	Miss Conway made no allusion to what
she had heard repeated by the servants but
gave some direct orders about the manage-
ment during the winter, when the house-
keeper showed considerable obstinacy and
was so impertinent that she was obliged to
remind her of her position and that her or-
ders were not to be set aside—“and who’ll
ye complain too Ma’am if I refuse to obey
your orders, Lady Anna ’ll never interfere
with me and the solicitor as lives in Lon-
don and has charge is my cousin, least ways
he was poor dear William’s cousin who’s
dead and gone, and he’ll see me righted
ma’am I’m not goin to he humbugged by
young missesses as knows naught, after be-
ing in this house nigh on to twenty years.”


