FOOD FOR THOUGHT.

	AGAIN I have been reading the record
which has been hid up in the ground for
ages, but now brought to light for the bene-
fit of this generation; a time when great
knowledge is given; many sciences de-
veloped, which exhibit the most powerful
display of the human mind, until it really
seems God-like; and why? Did not our
Savior say what would be done in the last
days? Yes truly, He said in the last days
his spirit would be poured out upon all
flesh, your sons and daughters should
prophesy, your old men see visions, and
young men dream dreams, etc.
	We are also told this good spirit will show
us things to come, and bring things to our
remembrance. Will not this make us suc-
cessful in all our pursuits of life? yes surely;
as well in science as any other laudable pur-
suit.
	St. Paul said, "knowledge puffeth up, but
charity edifieth." Here then is the danger
of becoming proud because of the attain-
ments we arrive at. Shall the praise of the
world make us forget God, the author of all
science? We must be short-sighted indeed
if we allow this vanity to take possession of
our minds.
	Yet we are told there is a becoming kind
of pride, yes as many kinds of pride as there
are of virtues. Now I must tell you that
this ancient record, the Book of Mormon,
has given me a new field of thought on this
subject.
	In my youth I was taught to think that
pride was the main spring to success. A
person without pride would not fill any
position properly; because he would be
lacking in ambition, also in dignity and
self-respect; but since reading this book a
clearer view, more sound principles have
presented themselves to my mind. I can
see that the word pride has not been prop-
erly defined. I feel quite positive that the


attributes of the Deity which naturally be-
long to us should never be called pride.
Pride being surely just the opposite to
humility, for it is written of God our Father,
that He resists the proud but gives grace to
the humble.
	Only think while our Savior was fasting
forty days and nights in the depths of
humility; Did He lack dignity and self-
respect, when told to cast himself down
from the pinnacle of the Temple to prove
he was the son of God? The tempter said
if thou be the Son of God cast thyself down,
for it is written, He will give his angels
charge concerning thee to keep thee lest thou
dash thy foot against a stone. His reply
was, "It is written thou shalt not tempt the
Lord thy God." In each temptation he
was reproved in the same manner.
	We learn from this blessed book, points
of doctrine most precious, which will en-
able us to give things their proper value
and also their proper place. While reading
the account of our Savior who after his
resurrection came to this continent to visit
"sheep of another fold," here he taught
them his gospel, same as he taught the
Jews, called his sermon on the mount;
found in the 5th, 6th and 7th chapters of
St. Mathew. These people listened and
obeyed, and three generations passed away
in righteouness.
	But in the fourth generation pride made
its appearance. Then animosity and strife
began; hatred, malice and revenge, took
the place of faith, hope and charity, and
destruction followed in its train.
	Now let us contemplate the difference be-
tween pride and humility, which last like
the bread of heaven strengthens and builds
np, while pride, like the intoxicating bowl,
only stimulates and intoxicates, and if in-
dulged in, will confuse and darken the
mind and also bring destruction and death.
Yet we are told this intoxicating draught is
made from the same grain that bread is
made of; then why not claim the virtues to
belong to pride which humility claims? But
the process which produces the intoxicant
is so different, from the plain, simple bread
of humility, here is the difference.
	Humility in her plain, simple garb could
keep three generations in righteousness,
loving, kind and charitable to all, and thus
make a heaven on the earth. While pride,
made of the same material, upsets and over-
throws all the joy and peace which humility
produces.
	No wonder then that the Bible teaches
that "The Lord resists the proud, but gives
grace to the humble," for by this His king-
dom will be built up, but by the other it
will be destroyed.
	Apostle Orson Pratt once said that we
are Gentile Saints; this being the case we
find ourselves, from force of habit, giving
pride the same credit today that we did be-
fore hearing the Gospel, although so often
corrected in Holy Writ, saying "beware of
pride." Also saying "Pride cometh before
destruction and a haughty spirit before a
fall."
	Have not we fallen far enough? since the
Lord permits those who look upon us with
contempt and ridicule to govern and bear
rule? Let us reflect.
			ZION'S CONVERT.
