[Column 1]
		﻿IN RURAL ENGLAND.
				XVIII.
	WHILE Clair and Maitland were away
during the hunting season Jane and Anna
were busy plying the needle, Jane with
her own wardrobe and Anna with fine em-
broidery and lace; her tastes were refined in
every particular and those were the days of
fine fancy needle-work. The French ladies
or governesses, for they were really ladies in
education and cultivation had taught her
the art of the needle to perfection.
	Every evening Dr. Bland came to sit
awhile when he was not too busy, and he
was most welcome for the old place was
lonely without Clair. The Doctor’s house
was being remodeled and Miss Conway had
to be consulted in the matter, and this was
a common ground of conversation. The
season was delightful, and the young ladies
took great pleasure in walking and driving
through the beautiful fields; the foliage
made charming pictures of which they
never tired, and whether in early morning or
sunset time, the trees and shrubbery wore
every shade of artistic coloring, and often
the girls remarked to each other as they
gazed and admired, “Will we ever be as
quietly happy again as we are now in this
beautiful Autumn weather?” and indeed so
many scenes and changes had come and gone
in quick succession, that this season of rest
was like a forboding. It filled them with
presentiments lest evil was lurking near.
Neither of them knew exactly what would
be done with the old home-ruin in fact it
had never really been a home in Sir Ed-
ward’s time, it was sort of a refuge, Jane
had made it more homelike than before, and
it is little wonder if these young women, did
wonder what the future held in store.
	Time went on slowly but the grey No-
vember soon set in and the gloom deepened
outside, and the raw and chill winds tossed
the dry leaves hither and thither, and finally
the rainy and wet season set in and there
were no more walks or rides, and the girls
thought Clair and Maitland would soon
come now for the hunting must be over;
but when Dr. Bland declared it was famous
hunting weather, Anna felt inclined to re-
bel at being left so long without an escort
or some one to help pass the time away: the

