[Column 2]

inhabitants, and the existing village Indians,
Mr. Morgan thinks, probably represent for
us not merely the race, but the mode of liv-
ing of those who built every one of these
great structures. He also thinks that if we
wish to know what was the America which
Cortez invaded we must look for it in the
light of these recent investigations.
	Whatever degree of barbarism or semi-
civilization was obtained by any of the early
American races, it was everywhere based
on similar ways of living; it never resem-
bled feudalism, but came much nearer to
communism; it was the condition of a
people substantially free, whose labor was
voluntary and whose chiefs were of their own
choosing.
	Widely scattered throughout the United
States, from sea to sea, artificial mounds are
discovered, which may be enumerated by
the thousands or hundreds of thousands.
They vary greatly in size some are so small
that a half dozen of laborers with shovels
might construct one of them in a day,
while others cover acres and are scores of
feet in height. These mounds were ob-
served by the earliest explorers and pioneers
of the country. They did not attract great
attention, however, until the science of
archaeology demanded their investigation.
Then they were assumed to furnish evidence
of a race of people older than the Indian
tribes.
	The Mound Builders were formerly re-
garded as a race so remote from the present
Indian tribes that there could be nothing
in common between them, yet all recent
theories deny this. Many Indian tribes
have built burial mounds for their dead.
	Some of the mounds in Ohio have yield-
ed from their deepest recesses articles of
European manufacture, showing an origin
not farther back than the historic period.
Spanish swords and blue glass beads have
been found in the mounds of Georgia and
Florida.
	The ancient Mexicans—the Aztecs and
the Mayas—were skilled in horticulture,
yet had no beasts of burden, although the
ox and buffalo were within easy reach.
They were a trading people, and used mon-
ey, but had apparently no system of weigh-
ing. They used stone tools so sharp that
Cortez found barbers in the public squares
shaving with razors made from obsidian, a
sort of glass produced by volcanoes. They
worked in gold and copper, yet they had
not learned to make iron tools from the
masses of that metal which lay almost pure
in their midst. They could observe
eclipses and make a calendar, yet it is still
doubtful whether they had what may prop-
erly be called an alphabet. It is certain
that they had a method of picture writing
not apparently removed in kind from the
soft of pictorial mnemonics practiced by many
tribes of Indians at the present day. There
is in existence an alphabet long supposed to
belong to the Aztecs or Mayas, but a few
years ago it was proved to be a fabrication.
Tylor, who is said to be the highest living
authority on these matters, considers it
essential to the claim of civilization that a
nation should have a written language.
Tried by this highest standard we cannot
yet say that either the Aztecs or the Mayas
or the Mound Builders were civilized.
	To sum up in a few words the modern
theory, or Morgan's theory, prehistoric man
in America, it is: All the lodges, palaces,
and pueblos are but the communal dwellings,
of one great aboriginal race, of uncertain
origin and history, varying greatly in grade


of development, but one in society, and in
blood. This has not yet been fully
developed, so it is but a theory still.
	In order to make this theory consistent
Mr. Morgan ignored many difficulties and
settled many points in an off hand manner,
and often states positively what has been
proved was only probable.
	The annals of the Columbian epoch have
been carefully studied, and it is found that
some of the mounds have been constructed
in historical times, while early explorers
and settlers found many actually used by
tribes of North American Indians; so we
know that many of the Indians were build-
ers of mounds. The contents of these
mounds have been compared with the works
of art of the Indian tribes before they were
influenced by Europeans and both were
substantially identical.


