PREHISTORIC MAN IN AMERICA.

[Continued.]
	Knowledge of the American continent
existed in China and Japan as early as the
fifth century. The ships of the Chinese
visited it. They called it Fu-Sang, and in
the great Japanese encyclopaedia it is treated
at some length, and located as seven thou-
sand miles or more east of Japan.
	In 1170 a Welsh prince sailed westward,
passing the south of Ireland, in search of a
land of refuge from the civil war that ex-
isted among his countrymen. After a long
journey he found it and made preparations
for a settlement. He returned to Wales,
secured a company that filled ten ships, and
sailed away never returning. Nearly five
hundred years later, in 1660, Rev. Morgan
Jones. a Welsh clergyman, seeking to go
by land from South Carolina to Roanoke,
was captured by the Tuscarora Indians.
He declares that his life was spared because
he spoke Welsh, which some of the Indians
understood; that he was able to converse
with them in Welsh, though with difficulty,
and that he remained with them four months,
sometimes preaching to them in Welsh. In
early colonial times the Tuscaroras were cal-
led "White Indians" and their ancestors
were evidently the Welsh colony that left
Wales in 1170. But the Norsemen had set-
tlements in America long before this period.
	During the last fifteen years there has
been a new theory advanced by Lewis H.
Morgan. He holds "that there never was
a prehistoric American civilization, proper-
ly so-called, but only an advanced and won-
derfully skillful barbarism or semicivilization
at the utmost. The aboriginal races, ex-
cept perhaps the Esquimaux, were essential-
ly one in their social structure, but varying
in their development. In his view there
never was an Aztec or Maya empire, but
only a league of free tribes, appointing
their own chiefs, and accepting the same
general modes of organization that have pre-
vailed among all the more advanced famil-
ies of North American Indians. The for-
ests of Yucatan held no vast cities—cities
whose palaces remain, while the humble
dwellings of the poor have perished, but
only pueblo towns, in whose great com-
munal structures rich and poor alike dwelt."
	The largest aboriginal structure of stone
in the United States is at Pecos, New Mex-
co. It has a circuit of 1,480 feet, is five
stories high, and once included five hundred
separate rooms. This dwelling at one time
sheltered the inhabitants of a whole Indian
town. There are many other similar ruins
and, as a rule each of these buildings consti.
tuted a village—a single vast house built
on three sides of a court. The stories rose
in snccessive terraces, each narrower than
the one beneath, and each approachable only
by ladders; there being no sign of any inter-
nal means of ascent from story to story.
The outer walls were built usually of thin
slabs of gray sandstone, laid with the great-
est precision and accuracy, often with no
sign of mortar, the intervals being filled
with stones of the minutest thinness, so that
the whole ruin appears in the distance like
a magnificent piece of mosaic work. These
pueblos were practically impregnable to all
uncivilized warfare, and they differ only in
material from the adobe pueblos occupied
by the village Indians of to-day. The only
means of passing from one terrace to another
in both instances is by ladders. Many of
these buildings are now occupied, but more
are in ruins. Each shelters hundreds of

