AN OLD FASHIONED TEA PARTY.

	ON Thursday, July 28th, Mrs. Ellen C. Clawson
entertained, in her handsome, new residence on
South Temple Street, about a dozen of her inti-
mate friends; we were very fortunate in being
one of the number. The lady is known to be a 
charming hostess, and her daughters are also
gifted in this respect. The tea was a perfect suc-
cess, the centre of the table was decorated with
choice flowers in an elegant large China basin,
and pretty bouquets tastefully made were laid for 
each guest. Exquisite old China and silver gave
the table an artistic look with the snowy linen,
and the conversation was a very pleasant part of
the entertainment for some of those present had
known Mrs. Clawson when only a child of thir-
teen, at the time of the exodus from Nauvoo, her 
mother had died of the hardships incident to
that dreadful journey in mid winter; and she was
left the little child-mother with the care of four or
five younger children.
	Dr. Barney who was present had written, "the
old-fashioned tea of fifty years ago," recalling
memories of her childish days, when her mother
gave an old-fashioned tea--which she read while
the guests were seated, and this very naturally
called up vivid memories of the past, and con-
trasting the present with the days gone by, many
reminiscences were brought to mind. Dr. Barney
had been an intimate friend and playmate of Mrs.
Clawson in fact they had waded the brooks bare
foot as children will, and "have been friends to
gether, in sunshine and in shade;" both Mrs.
Clawson and Dr. Barney are active workers in
the organizations of women, and are interested in
all the vital topics of the day. Mrs. Clawson has
been the mother of a very large family, sons and 
daughters, and grand-children in abundance, but
she only seems now in the prime of her life; of a 
truth "her lines have fallen in pleasant places."


ELDER C. W. PENROSE, Mrs. Zina D. H. Young,
Mrs. E. B. Wells and Mrs. Lizzie Penrose, went
to American Fork, July 29, by special invitation
of Mrs. Hannah Lapish, to attend a Grand Rally
of the W. S. A. of that place; a drive to Utah
Lake, music, speeches, songs, recitations, a
banquet in the musical Emporium etc., were the
order of the day of which we will give a fuller ac-
count hereafter.


