[Vol51 | August 1964 | Page 574 | Home | The Evening and Morning of the First Day | Carolle Denton]

The Evening and Morning of the First Day
Carolle Denton

I look into the dark of night,
My eyes wakeful for revealed light.
The midnight be my soul's release,
And sunrise tell me thou art peace.

The shadows now on every slope
Are lessening, and I gain hope
That thou wilt measure and wilt find
More light within my life, my mind.

Thy sun came near in time of youth,
And touched the days of life with truth.
The rays that reached my heart have told
Thy love . . . in syllables of gold.

I look to find the dawning light
Has faded all the shades of night.
Thou art the sunshine and the peace
That bring my soul a bright release.

574

Mister
Lewis
and the
Ravens

Ilene H. Kingsbury

[ILLUSTRATION]

PART I

MR LEWIS was the only man in that pioneer community in Southern Utah, who was called Mister. All the rest wore a kindred sort of title — Brother. The lilt of their phrases may not have matched in cadence, accent, or guttural or nasal twang with those of their townsmen; but that distinctive title of Brother denoted a consanguinity not racial, not linguistic, but theological. Mister Lewis, therefore, was not to be identified with the other males of the settlement.

Quite obviously he was the odd one. First, he had no wife or child. Second, he was not a professed Christian. In addition, he lived on the valley side of town, in the midst of his fields; whereas the rest of the inhabitants lived in a compactly planned gridiron of lots and blocks and fences and ditches. Their contiguous living tended to stylize them. They conformed to a pattern believed safer, saner, and more economical than was usually practiced in frontier lands. Mister Lewis did not conform.

If you had met any man thereabouts you could tell after a short conversation and a scrutiny of his hat and shoes whether he was from Dixie, Sanpete, Orderville, or Iron County. But if you met Mister Lewis you would have guessed, rather incorrectly, that he was a "Sydney Duck" or a refugee from some area of global unrest afar off — ousted, as the oldtimers expressed it.

His ways were of the hermit — offish best described him. One could not determine precisely

575

that he had crossed the road to avoid a greeting, but somehow he was on the opposite side, passing almost stealthily where but a moment ago he was approaching head on. His eyes veiled his thoughts, his seclusion obliterated his past.

* * * * *

AN aproned, bonneted woman stood at her gate hoping at last to stay Mister Lewis in his march toward the fields. As she saw him coming now, of course across the way, she wanted to open the gate and run to him with open arms, as one might toward a long lost child. But if her impulse was to cry to him gratitude deep and reverent, her feet remained embedded in the soil. His demean held her in her own dooryard. She could not ascertain whether he had noticed her, or even knew that this was her house. He shambled on, peering into his puzzling past, remote and inaccessible.

The woman believed she must do something immediately to get his attention or he would be beyond hailing sound. Too late now to run after him, she thought, so she called loudly, "Mister Lewis! Thank you for bringing your cow here every morning and night! The milk was all little Hebe could keep on his stomach!"

The inexorable pace of Mister Lewis plagued her. His only acknowledgment that he had heard her was to flick a stone from his path with a stick he carried. The woman accepted this vague response as more than was to be expected of him. At least he knew she was indebted to him. She must think of some way to repay his kindness. He moved forward now with a vigor much as if he followed a plow. His thoughts remained illusive and uninterrupted.

She glanced toward the earth a foot or two along the fence line. There was a hollow there, a smoothed-out spot where the red sand had become a path for a pail of milk. It was this hollow that bore direct connection with Mister Lewis. As the woman thought about it she could not understand how a man as remote in his thinking and as reluctant to converse as Mister Lewis was, could have found out, in the first place, that her seven children were down with diphtheria. How he found out was not her business, but it seemed most unusual. This, too, before the orange flag of quarantine was nailed to her gate to cry its message.

However, after that information had seeped through to him, he became a person of determination. The fatherless children could not get out of bed to care for themselves, then, obviously, someone must aid them. As he was mortally afraid of the disease that daily sent homemade varieties of caskets to the cemetery, he could not bring himself to touch the gate, let alone go inside the house. His plan of helpfulness, then, must be one worked from a very safe distance. He rightly guessed that fresh food was desperately needed. After multiple schemes had been weighed, he had solved it all by driving his milk cow across the fields to the town, toward the homesteader's gate.

Across his shoulder were slung
