[Vol51 | August 1964 | Page 633 | Home | Social Science — The Function of Divine Law in Family Relations Ariel S. Ballif Poet' | ]

SOCIAL SCIENCE Divine Law and Church Government

The Functioning of Church Government

Elder Ariel S. Ballif

Lesson 16 — The Function of Divine Law in Family Relations

For Fourth Meeting, November 1964

Objective: To point out that the place of honor for the Priesthood in the home is claimed on meritorious behavior.

... Govern your house in meekness, and be steadfast (D&C 31:9).
I exhort you, masters, fathers, and husbands, to be affectionate and kind to those you preside over. And let them be obedient, let the wife be subject to her husband, and the children to their parents (Brigham Young, Journal of Discourses 1:69).

... let the father be the head of the family, the master of his own household; and let him treat them as an angel would treat them (Ibid., 4:55).

THE organizational strength of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is found in the authority placed upon worthy male members. The same power, the Priesthood of God, which makes for the success of the Church, is a powerful factor in the health and success of the Latter-day Saint family when this power is properly applied to the life of the holder, and exercised in righteousness for the family as a whole.

By tradition and by the teachings of the Church, the father is the head of the family. The responsibility of control (or direction or authority, whichever term one chooses to use) of the family is, therefore, in the hands of the Priesthood. That alone is not the important point, but the responsibility such a position of leadership demands is of vital concern.

The foundation of the Priesthood power or authority is love. Love is expressed in thoughtful consideration of others and in assuming the responsibility for their well-being and individual expression. The head of the family, then, must be able to justify his leadership by his thoughtful and loving direction, through counsel and patience with each member of his family. In fact, his measure of success in his calling both as a father and as an elder in Israel is found in the success he attains with the members of his own family. Thus, in a period of social change the father becomes a pillar of stability for those about him, a strength in his wisdom and counsel. However, in all phases of his leadership, he and his wife are one, especially in the family responsibility.

Among the important things expected of the Priesthood bearer in the role of a father should be: (1) Full acceptance of the opportunity of teaching and training the children. Too often this has been left solely to the mother who has certainly been

633

AUGUST 1964

very successful in many cases; but a man holding the Priesthood cannot excuse himself by leaving the teaching of his children to his wife. Together they must assume this responsibility.

(2) He should accept the responsibility for the degree of order and discipline of the home, both for the group and for each member individually. The members of the family learn responsible activity at home more effectively than anywhere else in society. Every child should learn to respect the rights of others, to respect leadership, and even more important, each child should learn, first, to be a good follower if he is to become a leader. There is no place for brute force or whips. A firm hand and steady, at the proper time, will build character instead of trouble in the life of a child. Leadership in the family is not an excuse to force obedience on intelligent human beings. Priesthood cannot rightly be interpreted as dictation or unrighteous dominion. On the contrary, the Priesthood entails the responsibility to see that the best in human expression and experience is obtained through love, counsel, consideration, understanding and companionship for all members of the family.

(3) A third obligation on the head of the family and the bearer of the Priesthood is to develop the spirit of at-one-ness spoken of so often in the scriptures. This can be accomplished by the development of unity and commonness of purpose made possible through love and understanding. The idea expressed in "if ye are not one, ye are not mine," applies first to the family as the basic unit of the Church. The

Priesthood does not simply represent authority to direct in the home, but it is the responsibility to direct, persuade, encourage, and lead in wisdom and charity to a common understanding and unity.

The influence which the Priesthood should develop in the home makes an ideal setting for the active presence of true Christian principles in family life. The essence of the Christian spirit is love and the real power of the Priesthood is love. Love provides the ideal soil in which family experiences may thrive. Love cannot be a one-way affair for husband or wife or parent or child. It must be a mutual thing for balanced development in all members of the family.

PRIESTHOOD IN FAMILY GOVERNMENT

Government is designed to give meaning and direction to group association. The word govern implies steering, direction, regulation and/or control. In our discussion of the head of the family we have pointed out that the responsibility for directing and regulating family life is in his hands. How he does it is of most importance. The Prophet Joseph gave us the key when he pointed out that he taught the saints correct principles and they governed themselves. The Prophet at another time indicated that "The government of God has always tended to promote peace, unity, order, harmony, strength and happiness" (Smith, Joseph Fielding: Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 248). This is the objective of Church government and must be the same for the family.

634

The home is the anchor spot for establishing in the minds of the children the truths of the gospel. It is true that all men have their free agency. Each person must make his own decision from knowledge, experience, faith, and understanding. Knowing the law is important, but the blessings come from living the law. Performance is what counts. God never fails to recognize right living. The head of the family, if he is in tune with the Spirit of God, can receive special enlightenment in the direction of his family.

To the honest and true Latter-day Saint, the only real restriction and restraining influence in the function of Church government is the restraining influence that comes from knowing, and being fully aware of the damaging results of wrong decisions. As has been said before, true virtue is knowing the good and the evil and choosing the good.

The great challenge to the Priesthood bearer and his wife is expressed in the two questions: Are you teaching your family the truths of the gospel in an effective manner? How does your performance measure up to the standards taught by the Church?

Every day parents are setting the pattern of living that will automatically become the pattern of their children. What they do overpowers what they say. Daily decisions, actions, and even thoughts become influences on children from their birth to adulthood.

SOME COMMON AREAS
OF PATTERN SETTING

1. Respect for law and order

HAWAII
Tours to October 12th

TOURS TO
OAKLAND TEMPLE
Preview and Dedication
October through November

TOURS TO THE
ROSE PARADE
in Pasadena, California
December through January

Margaret Lund Tours
3021 South 23d East
P. O. Box 2065
Salt Lake City, Utah 84109
HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337
Idaho Falls 522-2581

is fundamentally established in the home environment. When a parent boasts to the family that he broke a traffic law without being caught, he is suggesting to young ears that the evil is in being caught. Irreparable damage may be done to the child's attitude toward honoring, obeying, and sustaining the law.

2. If in teaching the Word of Wisdom in the home, the emphasis is placed upon careful selection of wholesome foods, the use of wisdom in all these things, the child will learn through a positive approach to such teachings that good results from healthful living. Contrast the above situation with the example of having on your shelves or even sometimes on the table, things not in harmony with the revealed word. This last situation raises questions in the minds of grow-

635

ing children that may result in unnecessary experimentation.

3. Honesty is too often given a second- or third-rate place in our teaching emphasis. Do you ever feel so tired and worn out, or for another reason, suggest to your child that he answer the door or the telephone and say you are not at home? Young offenders who have been apprehended for stealing and lying have been quite upset when offered a drink of coffee because drinking the coffee would be breaking the Word of Wisdom. To them, breaking the Word of Wisdom is more serious than dishonesty. This, it is hoped, is an extreme case, but just such an attitude could be created at home unless honesty is the standard policy in our example to our children.

4. Is your pattern of religious worship tied only to attendance at religious service on Sunday? Or do you have a reverent attitude at your work and in your home, thus creating a peaceful environment for your family every day?

5. Does your application of charity begin at home and spread to your neighbors and friends? Being as concerned about the welfare of each member of your family as you are for your own welfare, is the proper beginning for the application of the first and second great commandments. Love overcomes selfishness, pride, and hate. It fills men's hearts with peace and understanding. Love of fellow men is the real testimony of one's love of God.

[ADVERTISEMENT BOX]
BEAUTIFUL MUSIC
FOR LADIES
THREE PART VOICES

......ABIDE WITH ME;
'TIS EVENTIDE—Madsen .............20

......ETERNAL LIFE—Dungan ..............25

......GIVE ME YOUR TIRED,
YOUR POOR—Berlin .................25

......IN THY FORM—Madsen ............20

......HEAVENS ARE
TELLING—Haydn ........................25

......IF YE LOVE ME, KEEP MY
COMMANDMENTS—Madsen ......25

......LET ALL MY LIFE BE
MUSIC—Spross ..........................30

......LET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT
for Joy—Stephens .....................20

......LORD BLESS THEE AND
KEEP THEE—Madsen .................20

......LORD, HEAR OUR
PRAYER—Verdi .........................20

......LORD, WE DEDICATE THIS
HOUSE TO THEE—Madsen .......20

......PRAIRIE LULLABY—Rich ............20

Use this advertisement as your
order blank
Music Sent on Approval

DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY
15 E. 1st South
Salt Lake City, Utah 84111

Please send the music indicated above.
☐ On Approval ☐ Charge
☐ Money Enclosed

Name .......................................................
Address ....................................................
City and State ...........................................

[LOGO: Daynes Music Company with piano keyboard design]
15 E. 1st South
Salt Lake City 11, Utah

636

"BY PERSUASION AND
LONG SUFFERING"

The intricate task of directing one's family in accordance with the divine plan is a test of faith and a real measure of one's understanding of the gospel. The responsibility of the Priesthood is far reaching. Psalms 127:3-5 says, "children are an heritage of the Lord: . . . Happy is the man that hath his quiver full of them." Being cocreators with God in bringing children into this world makes fathers and mothers accountable to the Father for the welfare of his spirit children and their successful return to his presence.

Parents are responsible for the material necessities of life for the family members. Doctrine and Covenants 83:4 says, "All children have claim upon their parents for their maintenance until they are of age." In Timothy 5:8 we read, "if any provide not for his own, and specially for those of his own house, he hath denied the faith, and is worse than an infidel."

But material things are not the most important requirements. In Section 68 of the Doctrine and Covenants, verses 25-26, the Lord says, "inasmuch as parents have children . . . that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents." And again in Section 93:40, "I have commanded you to bring up your children in light and truth."

These instructions cover the temporal, intellectual, and spirit-

BLACK HILLS PASSION PLAY TOUR
8 days — August 16 to August 23
Includes Earthquake area,
Mt. Rushmore and Elitch Gardens

BLACK HILLS PASSION PLAY
27 days — August 29 to September 24

WORLD'S FAIR
and
NEW ENGLAND AND
CANADIAN FALL TOUR
29 days — August 29 to September 26

LABOR DAY TOUR
5 days — September 5 to September 7
Includes Southern Utah's beautiful parks

OAKLAND TEMPLE PREVIEW TOUR
4 days — October 3 to October 6
Includes preview showing at Oakland
Temple and San Francisco

HAWAIIAN TOURS
October 17 to October 31
14 days in the Islands, 7 days
in the Outer Islands

Esther James Tours
460 7th Avenue
Salt Lake City, Utah 84103
Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051

BEAUTIFUL
HANDY
DURABLE

A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume.

Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service.

Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25
Advance payment must accompany all orders.

Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed.

Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah
Zone 1 and 2 ..... .55    Zone 6 .......... .90
Zone 3 .......... .60    Zone 7 .......... 1.05
Zone 4 .......... .65    Zone 8 .......... 1.20
Zone 5 .......... .80

Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office.
Phone ELgin 4-2581, 33 Richards St., S.L.C., Utah, 84101.

[LOGO: Deseret News Press]

1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104

637

ual well-being of the family members. The instruction to all who hold the Priesthood is to accomplish all that the divine plan includes in the spirit of love and kindness, long-suffering, patience and persuasion. (D&C 121:39-46; 4:6). These instructions apply to activity involving the Priesthood and its functions. This surely would involve the operation of the Priesthood bearer within his own family.

SUMMARY

In summary we can say that the father is rightfully the head of the house, honoring his Priesthood calling and performing his duties in love and kindness. He must also recognize that the family is a joint agreement with his wife and she shares with him in all the values and blessings that the Priesthood implies.

It should be understood that the honor and glory of the Priesthood come through worthy performance of every duty with an eye single to the glory of God.

THOUGHTS FOR DISCUSSION

1. How can a family share in the benefits of the Melchizedek Priesthood?

2. What is the place of leadership for a wife and mother in a Latter-day Saint home?

3. How important is your behavior and pattern of life in the development of your children?

4. How early do children become influenced by the attitudes of their parents?

REFERENCES

Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 68, 83, 93, 121.

Book of Mormon, Alma, Chapter 53.

Widtsoe, John A.: Priesthood and Church Government, Chapter 7.

[ADVERTISEMENT BOX:]
Come With Us To
THE HOLY LAND
including the
MIDDLE EAST
COUNTRIES

Istanbul—Beirut—Cairo—Luxor
Jordan—Israel
Athens—Rome

21 Day All Expense
Personally Escorted
Leaves—October 8th

Call or Write

Murdock Travel,
Inc.
(Your Experienced Travel Counselor)

14 South Main
Salt Lake City
328-3161

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a woman's profile with decorative elements and what appears to be a temple or building structure]

Special for...
Mormon Weddings

Reception Invitations, Napkins,
Albums, etc., featuring L.D.S.
temple designs. (Conventional
styles 100 for $5.95.) Write
for FREE catalog and samples.

100
in raised lettering
only $995

(Catalog airmail for 25¢ — Oakland Temple Designs)
REXCRAFT • Rexburg, Idaho • 83440

638

adult
education
in
nursing

[PHOTOGRAPH: Nurse in white uniform and cap working with medical equipment]

• Is your family grown or mostly grown?
• Do you want to become a technically competent, contributing member of society?
• Would you be proud to serve as a registered nurse with an Associate of Arts degree?
• Are you in need of dignified, remunerative employment?

EVENING CLASSES IN SALT LAKE CITY

BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY
COLLEGE OF NURSING

Through the
B.Y.U.-Salt Lake Adult Education Center
offer a two year associate degree career in

NURSING
FOR MATURE WOMEN WHO ARE HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATES

FOR COMPLETE
INFORMATION
WRITE OR PHONE...

BYU SALT LAKE ADULT
EDUCATION CENTER
300 North Main • 328-0325
Salt Lake City, Utah 84103

FIRST CLASS STARTS SEPTEMBER 29, 1964
