[Vol51 | August 1964 | Page 592 | Special Feature | Promotion Posters for The Relief Society Magazine | Gertrude Keeler]
[Promotion Posters for The Relief Society Magazine Gertrude Keeler]

Promotion Posters
for the Relief Society
Magazine

Gertrude Keeler

[Address Delivered at the Magazine Meeting of the Relief Society
Annual General Conference, October 3, 1963]

OUR specific need, as Relief Society Magazine representatives, is to have facility in expressing pertinent ideas before our groups with appropriate, artistic, and well-chosen posters, charts, placards, or objects to add impressive selling points for the Magazine.

Many of us feel a need for a clear, legible handwriting or for skill in the use of a simple and attractive printed alphabet. We may resort to stenciled or ruled lettering, but we may discover our finished product lacks variety and originality. It may appear squared, heavy, and uninteresting.

A simple, workable alphabet done in freehand lettering is not difficult to do, is not stiff or formal, and is effective in arousing attention. I can almost hear someone say "I can't draw a straight line." Any skill requires some practice, so just be patient and keep trying. You will find in the illustration given here, a simple Gothic alphabet of capitals, small letters, and numbers. Also there are variations you might try.

Guidelines can be drawn with ruler or yardstick for uniformity in height and proportion. These lines can be erased after the poster is finished. Art gum will not mar inked lettering. A general layout or arrangement of words and ideas for emphasis can be planned carefully to insure interesting and attractive designs. We should avoid a crowded appearance of letters or margins. Readability is important, so lettering should be simple and properly spaced.

Room size and distance from speaker to group determine the size of the poster and the letters, spacing, and colors to be chosen. Strong contrasts between background and lettering make wording clear and distinct. Large posters and lettering, of course, are appropriate for large rooms. Pertinent words or thoughts to be emphasized can be painted in contrasting colors. Warm, advancing colors, such as red, yellow, or orange, are good for central ideas. Cool, receding colors are best for backgrounds, such as blue, gray, violet, soft green, black, and white.

Plan the wording carefully to avoid trite, overworked, or superfluous words or designs or fussy decorations. Keep the message brief. The eye can read short sentences and single words at a glance. Lengthy, wordy posters are seldom read in their entirety. Choose thought-provoking statements.

592

AaBbCcDdEeFf
GgHhIiJjKkLlMm
NnOoPpQqRrSsTt
UuVvWwXxYyZz
1234567890

A B C D E F G H I

ABCDEFGHIJKLMNO

A B C D E F G H

Consider your poster as an over-all design with balanced units.
Place the central ideas in a conspicuous place on the sheet.
Pay attention to spelling, grammar, punctuation, and use of
capitals. Do not mix capitals and small letters indiscriminately.
Avoid extreme styles of lettering until a simple alphabet is mastered,
then use your imagination and individuality to make posters distinctive.

Simple, amusing cartoons are effective and can be worked out
easily. See the April issue of the Instructor (1963) for an interesting
article and instructions for drawing faces with a variety of expressions. From these suggestions, we might make animated figures
representing Relief Society Magazine covers.

Experiment, be creative. It is fun. Try it.

593

AUGUST 1964

POSTER MATERIALS

1. Paper
   A. Stiff 16-ply paper, size 22" x 28", about 15c per sheet. All colors available.
   B. Construction paper. Limited colors available. Size 18" x 28", about 10c per sheet.
   C. White butcher paper in a roll. Lightweight, useful and inexpensive.

2. Pens, erasers, etc.
   A. Wide felt tip pens. Standard colors, approximately 59c and 79c each.
   B. Speed ball pens, all sizes, 15c each. India ink 40c, pen holder 15c.
   C. Art gum eraser good for removing guidelines.
   D. Yardstick and foot ruler for guidelines.
   E. Wax crayons are good for construction and butcher paper posters.
   F. Show-card paint (opaque), all colors. Use with brush. This medium is more difficult to manage.

[ILLUSTRATION: Alphabet letters A through F showing numbered stroke patterns for lettering]

EXERCISE 1
Copy these letters, using guidelines and following numbered strokes as indicated.

[ILLUSTRATION: Four balloon shapes - two with simple cartoon faces (one smiling girl, one surprised boy) and two empty balloons]

EXERCISE 2
Draw faces in these balloons, using guidelines for eyes, nose, mouth. Guidelines should be erased later, when faces are drawn.

EXERCISE 3
Read this message. Reword for a poster. Use concise, effective statements.
"The Relief Society Magazine should be in every home. It is helpful for homemakers. It has interesting articles, poetry, and stories to interest the family. Are you a subscriber?"

594

**
