[Vol51 | August 1964 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: 561 House of Earth Carlton Culmsee Maria's Return | Author: Lottie H. Singley, 570; Nijoni (The Beautiful), by Helen Fletcher Collins, 571; The Evening and Morning of the First Day, by Carolle Denton, 574; Sequel, by Dorothy J. Roberts, 586; The Happy Children, by Linnie F. Robinson, 595; A Plea for Loveliness, by A lice Lowe Corbett, 601; I Stood on a Hilltop, by Vilate R. McAllister, 610; Lonely, by Catherine B. Bowles, 625; Golden Wedding Anniversary, by Ida Elaine James, 639; The Goodness of a Child, by Christie Lund Coles, 639.]
the  heart  of  the  house  —  and  a  sunny, 
happy  heart  it  was.  The  fifteen-year-old 
daughter  In  the  story  thought  her  moth- 
er was  abused  because  she  was  a  ro- 
mantic-minded girl  whose  ideas  about 
marriage  ended  with  the  wedding  .... 
Perhaps  I  did  not  emphasize  my  point 
strongly  enough,  and  I  am  grateful  to 
Sister  Robinson  for  bringing  it  up.  I 
enjoyed  the  April  issue  very  much,  es- 
pecially "More  Blessed  to  Receive" 
(story  by  Nita  Ellis),  with  its  compelling 
theme. 
Lael  J.  Litti(e 
Monterey  Park,  California 
The  evening  after  I  had  read  the 
story  "The  Storm,"  by  Lila  Spencer 
in  the  April  Magazine,  I  was  walking 
with  a  dear  friend  who  had  been  denied 
the  privilege  of  meeting  two  of  her 
grandchildren.  "It  just  doesn't  pay  to 
get  attached  to  anything,"  she  said.  For 
a  moment  I  was  at  a  loss  for  words. 
Then  I  remembered  the  story  "The 
Storm."  "No  love  is  ever  lost,"  I  said, 
"no  love  is  ever  wasted."  I  pointed  out 
that  her  grandsons  were  better  off  for 
having  known  her  love  through  the 
years,  and  that  she  herself  had  grown 
from  giving  it.  Thus,  this  grandmother 
was  cheered  and  comforted.  I  cannot 
count  the  times  that  I  myself  have  been 
comforted,  cheered,  and  inspired  by  the 
Magazine. 
Donna   Monzeilo 
Reseda,  California 
The  article  "How  About  a  Get-It  Done 
Day?"  (by  Vera  Stocker,  In  the  April 
Magazine),  inspired  this  letter  and 
others  that  I  have  written  this  morn- 
ing. I  read  with  emotion  the  story 
"More  Blessed  to  Receive,"  by  Nita 
Ellis,  and  can  understand,  because  I 
was  on  the  receiving  end  this  past 
winter  while  family  and  friends  waited 
on  me,  when  I  would  rather  have  been 
up  and  doing  for  them.  The  Magazine 
contains  such  choice  material.  Recent- 
ly, while  visiting  a  friend,  someone 
called  at  the  last  minute  and  asked  her 
to  give  a  spiritual  thought  In  MIA  that 
night.  She  asked  me  for  suggestions 
and  I  immediately  thought  of  the  April 
Magazine  I  had  just  finished  reading, 
and  suggested  the  short  thought  "Ap- 
plication," by  Louise  Murray.  In  my 
teaching  in  Church  and  at  home  I 
frequently  find  myself  referring  to 
stories  and  articles  in  the  Magazine  to 
enrich  the  lessons. 
Rosalie  S.  Wells 
Promontory,  Utah 
I  really  appreciate  the  wonderful 
Relief  Society  Magazine.  As  a  mother 
and  wife  I  need  the  help  that  the 
Magazine  gives  me. 
Mrs.  Meivin  Billings 
Provo,  Utah 
562

The    R^li^f   Society  Magazine 
Volume  51      August  1964      Number  8 
Editor     Marianne  C.  Sharp  Associate  Editor     Vesta  P.  Crawford 
General  Manager     Belle  S.  Spafford 
564     For  the  Blessing  of  the  Lamanites     Boyd  K.  Packer 
572     Singing  Mothers  Present  Music  at  the  American  Mother  Rainbow  Awards  Luncheon 
Marianne  C.  Sharp 
580     Our  Board  Goes  to  Conference     Marjorie  M.  Reeve 
592     Promotion  Posters  for  The  Relief  Society  Magazine     Gertrude  Keeler 
575     Mr.   Lewis  and  the  Ravens — Part  I     Ilene  H.  Kingsbury 
588     The  Someday  Vacation     Alice  Gubler  Sabin 
604     Your  Heart  to  Understanding — Chapter   7     Hazel  M.  Thomson 
562     From  Near  and  Far 
583  Woman's  Sphere     Ramona  W.  Cannon 
584  Editorial:    "Compassion  Becometh   a  Woman"     Vesta  P.  Crawford 
586  In    Memoriam — Alice   Bitner   Castleton 
587  Notes  to  the  Field:   The  Relief  Society  Annual  General  Conference 
587     Picture   Kit  for   the   1964-65  Theology  Lessons  Available 
587     Visual  Aid  Packet  Available  for  1964-65  Literature  Lessons 
611     Notes  From  the  Field — Relief  Society  Activities     Hulda  Parker 
640    Birthday   Congratulations 
The  Home  -  Inside  and  Out 
596     Raw  Apple  Cookies     Florence  L.  Mecham 
596  Butter  Mints     Dorothy  Scott 
597  Pretty   Pillows,  Useful,  Too     Shirley   Thulin 
602  Gleanings  From  the  Summer    Nancy  M.  Armstrong 
603  Pauline  B.  Wale's  Hobby — Seventy  Years  of  Quiltmaking 
618     Theology— The  Vision    (Continued)    Roy  W.  Doxey 
624     Visiting  Teacher  Message — "And  He  Who  Receiveth  All  Things  With  Thankfulness  .  .  ." 
Christine  H.  Robinson 
626     Work   Meeting — Health  and  Its  Influence  on  Happiness    Winnifred  C.  Jardine 
628     Literature — Literature  "Tasted  .   .  .  Swallowed  .  .  .  Digested"    Robert  K.  Thomas 
633     Social  Science — The  Function  of  Divine  Law  in  Family  Relations     Ariel  S.  Ballif 
Poet' 
561     House  of  Earth     Carlton  Culmsee 
Maria's  Return,  by  Lottie  H.  Singley,  570;  Nijoni  (The  Beautiful),  by  Helen  Fletcher  Col- 
lins, 571;  The  Evening  and  Morning  of  the  First  Day,  by  Carolle  Denton,  574;  Sequel,  by 
Dorothy  J.  Roberts,  586;  The  Happy  Children,  by  Linnie  F.  Robinson,  595;  A  Plea  for  Love- 
liness, by  Alice  Lowe  Corbett,  601;  I  Stood  on  a  Hilltop,  by  Vilate  R.  McAllister,  610;  Lonely, 
by  Catherine  B.  Bowles,  625;  Golden  Wedding  Anniversary,  by  Ida  Elaine  James,  639;  The 
Goodness  of  a  Child,  by  Christie  Lund  Coles,  639. 
Published  monthly  by  THE  GENERAL  BOARD  OF  RELIEF  SOCIETY  of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  ®  1964  by 
the  Relief  Society  General  Boord  Associotion.  Editoriol  and  Business  Office;  76  North  Main,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utoh  84111;  Phone  EMpire 
4-2511;  Subscriptions  2642;  Editorial  Dept.  2654.  Subscription  Price  $2  00  a  year;  foreign,  $2.00  a  year;  20c  a  cot>y,  payable  in  ad- 
vonce.  The  Mogozine  is  not  sent  after  subscription  expires.  No  back  numbers  con  be  supplied.  Renew  promptly  so  that  no  copies 
will  be  missed.  Report  change  of  address  at  once,  giving  old  ond  new  address.  Entered  os  second-class  matter  February  18,  1914, 
at  the  Post  Office,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  under  the  Act  of  March  3,  1879.  Acceptance  for  mailing  at  special  rote  of  postage  provided 
for  in  section  1103,  Act  of  October  8,  1917,  outhorized  June  29,  1918.  Manuscripts  will  not  be  returned  unless  return  postoge  is 
enclosed.     Rejected  manuscripts  will  be  retained  for  six  months  only.     The  Magazine  is  not  responsible  for  unsolicited  monuscripts.

For  the  Blessing 
of  the  Lamanites 
Elder  Boyd  K.  Packer 
Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
In  March  of  this  year  almost 
two  hundred  teen-age  Indian 
boys  and  girls  gathered  in  Sandy, 
Utah,  in  a  youth  conference  of 
the  Indian  Student  Placement 
Program  of  the  Church.  They 
represented  almost  twenty  Indian 
tribes,  and  they  came  from  reser- 
vations spread  over  a  wide  area 
from  Mexico  on  the  south  to 
Canada  on  the  north.  For  the 
school  term  they  had  lived  with 
non-Indian  Latter-day  Saint  fos- 
ter families  throughout  Utah  and 
Arizona.  The  theme  of  their  con- 
ference, selected  by  the  students 
themselves,  was  "Our  History 
Foretells  Our  Future." 
Those  who  visited  the  confer- 
ence and  observed  the  display  of 
talent  and  leadership  during  the 
two  days  of  activity  would  have 
agreed  that  a  brightening  future 
awaits  these  young  people.  In 
many  ways  they  reflect  the  de- 
velopment and  progress  which  is 
being  achieved  to  an  increasing 
degree  by  Indian  people  through- 
out the  land.  In  fulfillment  of 
Nephi's  prophetic  words  (see  1 
Nephi  15:13-14),  the  Lamanites 
in  our  day  are,  indeed,  being  re- 
stjarred  to  their  rightful  place  in 
the  House  of  Israel.  By  their 
obedience  to  the  principles  of 
the  gospel,  they  are  beginning  to 
receive  the  blessings  promised  to 
their  ancient  fathers. 
In  devising  a  theme  for  their 
conference,  the  Indian  boys  and 
girls  gave  recognition  to  the  il- 
lustrious history  and  achievement 
of  their  forefathers,  recoimted  in 
The  Book  of  Mormon.  Follow- 
ing the  time  of  the  Savior's  visit 
to  this  hemisphere,  the  Nephite- 
Lamanite  remnant  reached  a 
peak  of  perfection  and  righteous 
achievement.  Fourth  Nephi  re- 
cords : 
"And  it  came  to  pass  .  .  .  the 
people  were  all  converted  unto 
the  Lord,  upon  all  the  face  of 
the  land,  both  Nephites  and 
Lamanites,  and  there  were  no 
contentions  and  disputations 
among  them,  and  every  man  did 
deal  justly  one  with  another  .... 
"And  now,  behold,  it  came  to 
pass  that  the  people  of  Nephi  did 
wax  strong,  and  did  multiply  ex- 
ceedingly fast,  and  became  an  ex- 
ceedingly fair  and  delightsome 
people  .... 
"And  there  were  no  envyings, 
nor  strifes,  nor  tumults,  nor 
whoredoms,  nor  lyings,  nor  mur- 
ders, nor  any  manner  of  lasciv- 
iousness;  and  surely  there  could 
not  be  a  happier  people  among 
all  the  people  who  had  been  cre- 
ated by  the  hand  of  God. 
564