House of 2oith Carlton Culmsee Into the gray earth goeth the black seeds. Out of the gray earth cometh grass and blossoms. Into the hogan of mud goeth the silver blackened by the hands of many. Out of the hogan cometh the silver reborn Into beauty as new as dawn on the old hills. Out of the hogan of mud and the bower of brush Cometh blankets warm against the wind, Strong against the years, Beautiful as the red mesa in the moonlight. ''May it be beautiful below me. May it be beautiful above me. In beauty it is finished."' (The Relief Society Magazine, July 1938) The Cover: §— Navajo Shepherd, Transparency by Lucien Bown: Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: @ Nativity Scene, Photograph by Ray Loomis Art Layout: §% Dick Scopes IHustrations: 9] Mary Scopes Sy ae gap ane I. Enjoy very much to receive every month The Relief Society Magazine. It is thanks to my best girl friend Ann Reynolds, who lives in Ogden, Utah, that I get it. I! Like very much the stories, recipes, and lessons. I was very happy to meet President. Belle S. Spafford wher she was traveling in Europe. I! Felt her sweet spirit and could see that she was inspired by the Lord in all that she does. I am twenty years old and a member of Relief Society for almost two years now. I would like to tell all my sisters who are working for Relief Society I love you all and pray that God will bless each of you with his Spirit and with the blessings that you need. Elaine Gasquy Liege, Belgium The article by Olive W. Burt concerning the patchwork skirt (June 1964) was of special interest to me, since I spent a couple of pleasant evenings working on the skirt in Mrs. Burt's home. 1! Have since made a skirt of my own. Helen Fletcher Collins Dugway, Utah I feel I must write in explanation of an important point in my story ''Mama Lives in the Kitchen'' (February 1964), brought up in the April ''From Near and Far' section. In writing the story I did not mean to imply that the mother was "overwhelmed by kitchen work,"' or even felt that she was. Her kitchen was the heart of the house — and a sunny, happy heart it was. The fifteen-year-old daughter in the story thought her mother was abused because she was a romantic-minded girl whose ideas about marriage ended with the wedding... Perhaps I did not emphasize my point strongly enough, and I am grateful! To Sister Robinson for bringing it up. I enjoyed the April issue very much, especially '"'More Blessed to Receive"' (story by Nita Ellis), with its compelling theme. Lael J. Littke Monterey Park, California 562 ht The evening after I had read the story "The Storm," by Lila Spencer in the April Magazine, I was walking with a dear friend who had been denied the privilege of meeting two of her grandchildren. ''It just doesn't pay to get attached to anything,'' she said. For a moment.! Was at a loss for words. Then! Remembered the story. "The Storm." '"'No love is ever lost," I said, "'no love is ever wasted."' I pointed out that her grandsons were better off for having known her love through the years, and that she herself had grown from giving it. Thus, this grandmother was cheered and comforted: I cannot count the times that I myself have been comforted, cheered, and inspired by the Magazine. Donna Monzello Reseda, California The article ''How About a Get-It Done Day?" (by Vera Stocker, in the April Magazine), inspired this letter and others that I have written this morning. I read with emotion the story "More Blessed to Receive,'' by Nita Ellis, and can understand, because I was on the receiving end this past winter while family and friends waited on me, when I would rather have been up and doing for them. The Magazine contains such choice material. Recently, while visiting a friend, someone called at the last minute and asked her to give a spiritual thought in MIA that night. She asked me for suggestions and I immediately thought of the April Magazine I had just finished reading, and suggested the short thought ''Application,"" by Louise Murray. In my teaching in Church and at home I frequently find myself referring to stories and articles in the Magazine to enrich the lessons. Rosalie S. Wells Promontory, Utah I really appreciate the wonderful Relief Society Magazine. As a mother and wife # need the help that the Magazine gives me. Mrs. Melvin Billings Provo, Utah rhe Relief Society ». — Sl ey ee _—— > ee — 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Soints. © 1964 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magozine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.