[Vol51 | August 1964 | Page 572 | Special Feature | Singing Mothers Present Music at the American Mother Rainbow Awards Luncheon Marianne | C. Sharp]

Singing Mothers Present

Music

at the American Mother
Rainbow Awards Luncheon

Counselor Marianne C. Sharp

... the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads.

THE Singing Mothers of New York and New Jersey Stakes, under the baton of Sister Ellen Neilson Barnes, gave a spiritually moving and impressive experience on May 8, 1964, to the hundreds assembled in the Grand Ballroom of the Waldorf Astoria, New York, at the Rainbow Awards Luncheon of the American Mothers Committee, Inc. This luncheon honored the American Mother of 1964, Mrs. Cora Stavig, and the other forty-nine State Mothers.

These hundred singers, a third of the group which sang at the New York World's Fair on June 24 and 25, were invited by the American Mothers Committee, whose able and gracious President is Mrs. Dorothy Lewis, to provide musical selections at the luncheon.

Five numbers were rendered: "America the Beautiful," "Dear Land of Home," "Give Me Your

Tired, Your Poor," "No Man Is an Island," and "You'll Never Walk Alone," with Melva Barborka, soprano, Louise Pratt, harpist, and Clara Neu, accompanist.

Mrs. Barnes typifies the ideal Singing Mother conductor. She conducted the members in an impressive but restrained way which focused the attention on the glorious music which poured forth. No applause was allowed between the numbers, but an encore "Come, Come, Ye Saints" was called for, followed by a standing ovation from the densely standing audience.

The Singing Mothers were grouped at the back of the dais and hidden by elegant draperies which parted to reveal the Singing Mothers. A backdrop depicting a rainbow set off the four rows of Singing Mothers in their white blouses.

The ballroom presented a

572

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Relief Society Singing Mothers at the Awards Luncheon
For the American Mother of the Year

Waldorf-Astoria, New York City, May 8th

The conductor Mrs. Ellen Barnes stands in the center (in dark dress); Mrs. Dorothy Lewis, President, American Mothers Committee, Inc., is seated at the left of the Waldorf-Astoria sign; seated at the right of Mrs. Lewis is the American Mother of the Year, Mrs. Cora Stavig of Sioux Falls, South Dakota; Mrs. Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society, and a Director of the American Mothers Committee, is seated third from the left in the second row.

The Singing Mothers in the picture are Relief Society members from New York and New Jersey.

beautiful rainbow setting with each of the tables, seating ten, being ringed by rainbow-colored candles. There were four graduated rows of officers and honored guests seated on the dais.

A highlight of the luncheon was the Procession March of the Mothers, each carrying a candle. In addition to honoring American Mothers, special citations were made to "Three American Patriots": Mr. Russell De Young, Chairman of the Board, the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company; Mr. Conrad Hilton, President, Hilton Hotels and Hilton International; and Mr. Frank F. Samford, Chairman of the Board, Liberty National Life Insurance Company.

President Belle S. Spafford has served on the Board of Directors of the American Mothers Committee Inc. for eight years. Mrs. G. Stanley McAllister, Chairman of Music, is the wife of the President of the New York Stake; and Mrs. David J. Wilson, a Vice-President, is the wife of Judge David J. Wilson, and was formerly a member of the Relief Society General Board.

The attractive program includ-

573

AUGUST 1964

ed the following information on Relief Society:

The one hundred-voice Relief Society Singing Mothers Chorus singing at this Rainbow Awards Luncheon is from adjacent metropolitan areas of the New York and New Jersey Stake of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. They are a segment of the large Singing Mothers Chorus of Relief Society women that will present four concerts at the New York World's Fair June 24 and 25. Director of the chorus is Mrs. Ellen Neilson Barnes, graduate of the New England Conservatory of Music, and concert pianist, teacher and choral conductor of Washington, D.C.

There were eighteen women present when Relief Society was organized in Nauvoo, Illinois, in 1842. Today there are 262,000 members of this organization in 6,353 chapters in fifty-two countries of the world. Almost half of these chapters have Singing Mothers Choruses, with a combined

total of 42,000 singers. For special programs and concerts, the singers in several chapters may be brought together as a combined Singing Mothers Chorus. Such is singing today.

Music, especially the song of the heart, is an integral part of the Relief Society program, and is regarded as indispensable to the cultural development, spiritual growth, and joy of Relief Society members.

Honorary Presidents of the American Mothers Committee are Mrs. Dwight D. Eisenhower and Mrs. Daniel A. Poling.

A statue of "The Mother" by Avard Fairbanks is presented each year to the Mother of the Year. This year the presentation was made by Dr. G. Roy Fugal, Chairman of the Advisory Committee and son of Mrs. Lavina C. Fugal, Utah Mother of the Year in 1955, who was chosen American Mother of that year.
