[Vol4 | September 1917 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Home | Title: Entertainments Home Entertainment Morag]

HOME ENTERTAINMENTS. 507 dainty, ruffled and embroidered ones for afternoon wear and the big kitchen aprons needed by all home-makers. Serve light refreshments cafeteria style at so much per portion and have a little music, and a successful sale will be assured. Calico Carnival.  A variation from the usual fair would be a calico carnival. The invitation follows: "Consider yourself cordially constrained to be present at the correctly constructed calico carnival to be held at the Hall, September, 1917, at p. m. Admission 15 cents. "Supper Menu.  One conglomerated circle (sandwich), one cup communicative chocolate, or one cup churned cream, one cider cured cucumber, one cup cold custard. ties. "Ladies requested to wear calico gowns, gentlemen calico "There will be for sale cheap, cunning, calico conveniences that will be a constant comfort. Carnival will conclude with a calico A ball." Tail Food Sale would prove popular. There should be tables or boards for canned goods, bottled fruit, pickles, cake and bread, winter vegetables and fruit. This should prove a winner if well advertised. A Peddlers' Parade is a strong rival of fair boots on account of its novelty and because it permits the workers to circulate among the audience and seek out purchasers. Let the peddlers be dressed in different costumes. These may represent nationalities, or the days of the week, the various holidays, months of the year, or the flowers. Provide each with a large basket to carry their wares. Some may be sold at auction. If you desire a floral fair, a morning glory, poppy, sweet pea or rose scheme of decoration may be used with the attendants in floral costumes. A Rainbow Fair would be pretty, with the booths trimmed with the colors of the rainbow. At its end if well planned and successfully carried out the workers might find the proverbial pot of gold. A Chinese Laundry is novel as a variation of the fishpond. Tickets at 10c or 5c are sold by a "Chinaman," who circulates among the people. If the right one is chosen for this job he will be very popular with the little folks. A booth is fixed up as a Chinese laundry, where the children present their tickets and receive their prize package, which is wrapped up as a laundry bundle. Try a Walking Grab Bag.  This may be represented by a lady or man who is witty and original. The costume should contain pockets in all kinds of funny places high for the older children and low for the little folks. 
 [f the fair is held in a large hall, two people costumed differently, one a 5c and the other a 10c grab. The articles chosen to fill the pockets should be of a uniform value and as far as possible should be worth the money invested. A box table containing articles of 25c value is another suggestion. Articles are collected from friends and are useful and fancy articles of value. These are wrapped in boxes of all sizes and sold. The fact that the attacks cannot be seen until purchased lends an element of mystery which warrants quick sales and the quarters count up rapidly with the right person behind the table. A Lemon or Orange Tree is another suggestion. Tie up gifts to represent the fruit chosen. Provide a short stepladder and a pair of blunt-pointed scissors and allow each child to mount and cut down the desired fruit. Here is a novel way to raise money by donation. Select someone to represent the year, who. for the honor conferred, will contribute $1.00 to $5.00. This person must agree to find twelve people to represent the months, each to pay for that privilege 50c. Each month will find four people to represent the week'-: these pay 25c each. Each week will find seven people or days, each day to subscribe 10c. If each day will find twenty four children to give one penny each and the chain is unbroken. a neat sum will be realized. TO PATCH WILL PAPER. Wall paper should never be patched in a square, rectangular shape and must not be cut with knife or scissors, no matter how neatly or correctly the pattern is matched. If done in this way the patch will stare one out of countenance from the first. Professional paper hangers select a piece of paper considerably larger than the spot to be patched and. taking care that the pattern is accurately superimposed, tear out the patch in an irregular oval or circular shape. The edges must be torn off from the front backwards, so that the edge of the patch all around will be beveled toward the pattern perfectly matched. The irregular zigzag border will fade away into the rest of the design, and will not be noticed when dry.