[Vol4 | September 1917 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: The Widow's Mite Laura Moench Jenkins]

The Widow's Mite. By Laura Moench Jenkins. With a shriek and a roar the evening train rolled into Cloverville station. A young man with a suit case in his hand jumped lightly off. "Hello Tom!" called the agent, as the young fellow strode rapidly down the plank platform. "Home for a while?" "Just to spend Sunday with mother," the new comer replied, stopping long enough for a hearty hand shake with his old friend. "Well, I won't keep ye; I know how anxious mothers are to see their boys when they've been away from home fer awhile. Spec she's at the window now a watchin' fer ye. So long!" "So long," laughed Tom, and away went the agent, dragging the heavy mail bags behind him. Tom Burbank walked rapidly down the village street until be stood before the cottage that had been his boyhood home. As he unlatched the gate and started up the graveled walk, the cottage door opened and a matronly woman stepped onto the porch. A couple of long strides and a leap brought the young fellow to her side, then a glad cry of "My boy! my precious boy!" and the two were in each other's embrace. "How good it seems to be home!" he exclaimed as together they passed into the little front room. "You don't know how good it seems to have you here,'" replied the mother. Tom placed the suitcase in the corner by the organ and popped his hat on the center table almost upsetting a glass of tea roses in his haste. "Smell supper," he sniffed turning his steps toward the kitchen, where sure enough stood a table daintily spread for two. "Are you hungry?" the mother enquired. "Should say T am! Feel like I hadn't eaten a bite for a week." "Well, you'll not have to wait a minute, it's all ready but setting on the table." "I'll just take a wash first; traveling makes a fellow feel so dusty," and Tom threw off his coat and stalked over to the kitchen bench where he had been accustomed to perform this operation as a boy. 
 "Just think, mother," he reminiscently remarked, splashing the water over his face and hands, then reaching for the roller towel, "when I first washed here I had to stand on my tiptoes to reach the wash basin, now I have to bend double to reach it." At this both laughed and Mrs. Burbank announced that supper was ready. Tom stooped before the little mirror to give his pompadour an extra brush, then seated himself at the table where his mother already occupied her accustomed place. Such a merry little meal followed. "Nobody makes strawberry jam like you. mother." the boy remarked helping himself the third time to the rich red contents of a jelly glass near his plate. "I knew you liked it. so I saved that glass for you," the mother smilingly replied. "Trust a fellow's mother to spoil him." "A mother should have the privilege of spoiling her only boy once in a while. Have another one of these cakes? T made them expressly for you because they were always your favorite cake." "No, thank you, mother, I couldn't eat another bite. This supper was immense. Nobody caters to a fellow's whims like his mother." "If you'll excuse me I'll just look around a bit. Tt seems so good to be home for awhile that T want to see everything." So saying Tom pushed back his chair and sauntered to the door. "I'll be back and help you wash the dishes," he laughed as be passed out into the yard. There's something attractive to the back yard of his old home even for a boy grown tall, especially after he has been away to school all winter, and when Tom Burbank returned, he found the kitchen all tidied up and his mother resting in her favorite rocking chair. "Guess you thought T wasn't coming back." he remarked as he glanced around the tidy room. "Tt didn't take long to do those few dishes," was the reply. "By the way, mother, where are your chickens? Don't you keep any now?" "No, I sold them. Grain is high and T am away from home so much, T decided to let them go." Widow Burbank might have added that it required the money they brought to finish paying for his graduating suit, but she spared her son the humiliation. "You've always worked hard mother and now that my THE If! DO IT'S MITE. 501 schooling's finished I'm afraid  I am going to disappoint yon. But  I shall he able to help yon a little." Something in the tone of his voice caused his mother to look sharply at him and ask, "Are you not going back to Salt Lake to work for Uncle Josh as you intended?" The young man shuffled uneasily in his chair as if approaching a subject he somewhat dreaded, glanced absently out of the window a moment and then replied: "No, I'm not going back to Salt Lake. I am going to San Francisco, on Monday morning. To tell you the truth, mother  I've  well, I've enlisted." That his words would strike his mother like a Zeppelin bomb he knew only too well, and he vouchsafed her not a single glance, just sat staring out of the window. That she expected him to take a position in the bank, of which his Uncle Joshua Barton was' president, he knew only too well. They had planned this together and his uncle had promised him the position when his commercial course in the university was completed. How she would take to this sudden change in their plans he hardly knew. As she remained silent and thinking an explanation necessary he presently continued: "You see, mother, the other boys were enlisting  we'll all have to go in the end. We didn't want to be drafted. I preferred not to wait for conscription." Another silence followed; at length the mother commenced brokenly: "Thomas, yon are my only boy. I have struggled alone for eighteen years to get you to where you now are. Your father died before you were a year old, leaving me with three helpless children to support. Bessie, the eldest, just turned eight. I washed and sewed until I could endure that sort of work longer. then the Belief Society loaned me the money to go to Salt Lake City and study obstetrics. From the day I returned home to this very evenings there has never a baby come to Cloverville that T have not assisted into the world. "I gave both girls a fair education and kept a roof over their heads until they found companions in life and went to homes of their own. "But you. my only boy, I have worked and scraped and saved, to give you a university education, that you might have a better opportunity in the world. T have never been able to lay by anything for my declining years, thinking you might  perhaps help me. "Thomas, T could give you to the service of the Lord. Had 
 you told mc that on Monday you were to start for Africa to labor in the missionary field. T could let you go with my blessing and work my finger ends off for your support while you were alone. But to give my only son to this ruthless human slaughter, how can I?" Tears welled to the young man's eyes, but the mother's were dry. and an expression of hopeless stolidity overspread her pale face. "Mother, you always said you wanted me to be worthy to fill a mission, and you say now you could give me to the service of the Lord. Uncle Josh says the gospel can be taught and preached on the battlefield. Don't you think the Lord is permitting this war that His purposes may be accomplished? How could there ever be a Millennium with the world in the condition it has been? ''he yoke of tyranny must be broken, autocracy must end and the people of this world he made free to grow and develop as God designed they should. Here in Utah we have enjoyed so many blessings we haven't realized the terrible conditions existing in other parts of the world. Uncle Josh says our people must not only teach the gospel to mankind, but we must help give them their freedom that they may have the opportunity to learn an 1 live it. Mother, when T was only a small boy you told me of the great war in heaven and the way you told it. you created in my mind such an aversion for the neutral spirits that T can never be a neutral  never  never!" Tom Burbank's mother arose slowly from her rocking chair and walked quietly to his side. Tears were coursing down her faded cheeks. Lovingly she placed her arm around him and drew his head to her bosom. "My son! My dear, brave son!" she sobbed. "T thank God you are not a coward. No. T wouldnt be the mother of a neutral spirit. Go where you feel your duty lies; far be it from me to stand between my boy and what he feels is his duty. T was somewhat unprepared for this tonight. It is late; let us retire. T think by Monday, with the help of our Father in heaven. T can coin crate my only son. to his country and his Gol." From Widow Burbank life had exacted much, but its lesson had developed within her the womanhood that could cast its all in the treasury and of such our Savior said: "Verily, T say unto you. that this poor widow hath cast more in than all they which hath cast into the treasury. For they all did cast in of their abundance; but she of her want did cast in all that she had, even all her living."