[Vol9 | April 1922 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson II - Work and Business]
works. 
QUESTIONS  AND  PROBLEMS 
1.  Discuss  the  proposition:  Grudge-holding  is  the  most 
unprofitable  of  holding.s 
2.  If  the  Lord  had  pursued  the  petulant  policy  of  refusing 
to  speak  to  the  transgressor  even  before  repentance,  what  would 
the  first  prayer  have  amounted  to? 
3.  Discuss  the  cultural  and  religious  value  of  the  habit 
of  apologies  and  their  acceptance  in  the  family  prayer? 
4.  Apply  this  couplet  to  the  necessity  of  self -forgiveness' I 
"Arise,  if  the  past  detain  you, 
Its  sunshine  and  sorjrow  forget. 
No  chain  so  unworthy  to  bind  you. 
As  those  of  a  vain  regret." 
5.  Give  a  practical  illustration  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
64:11. 
6.  Show  that  the  person  who  is  unwilling  to  forgive  can- 
not consistently  partake  of  the  bread  in  the  sacrament  service.

GUIDE  LESSONS  171 
LESSON  II. 
Work  and  Business. 
(Second  Week  in  May) 
LESSON  III. 
Literature. 
(Third  Week  in  May) 
HYMNS   OF  ALEXANDER    NEIBAUR 
Alexander  Neibaur,  a  Jew,  born  in  Ehrenbriestein,  in  the 
noted  Alsace-Lorraine  country,  added  to  the  noble  training  of 
the  Jews  the  knowledge  of  the  Messiah,  and  also  the  knowledge 
that  the  gospel  had  been  restored  through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith.  He  was  acquainted  with  the  Prophet  Joseph,  having 
been  his  instructor  in  Hebrew  and  German  for  a  season.  He 
was  the  first  Jew  to  join  the  Church. 
The  greatest  of  all  books  is  the  Bible;  judged  from  a  purely 
literary  point  of  view,  it  is  in  a  class  by  itself.  When  the 
youth  who  wrote  "Thanatopsis"  was  asked  how  he  obtained 
his  exalted  style,  he  said,  from  reading  the  Bible  and  listening 
to  my  grandfather  pray,  who  employed  much  of  biblical  phrase- 
ology in  his  prayer. 
A  casual  reading  of  the  hymn,  "Come,  thou  glorious  day 
of  promise,"  page  246  of  the  hymn  book,  will  disclose  one  of  two 
things  at  the  outset,  that  its  author  was  either  a  Jew,  or  that, 
through  natural  aptitude  and  intensive  training,  he  had  caught 
the  spirit  of  the  Jew.  The  diction  and  imagery  of  the  hymn 
breathes  the  spirit  of  the  Hebrew  scriptures,  partaking  of  their 
high  literary  and  poetic  quality. 
The  first  line  is  to  the  point,  "Come,  thou  glorious  day  of 
promise."  To  no  other  people  does  the  word  "promise"  connote 
so  much  as  to  the  Jews.  Their  great  forebear,  Abraham,  was  led 
by  the  Lord  to  the  Land  of  Promise ;  they  are  very  frequently 
referred  to  as  a  people  of  promise,  and  their  future  depends 
on  the  fulfilment  of  the  promises  of  the  Lord  unto  them.  In 
other  lessons  and  at  other  times  we  have  alluded  to  the  fact 
that  Jewish  people  frequently  pay  the  high  tribute  to  the  United 
States  of  America  of  calling  it  a  "Land  of  Promise." 
Nothing  could  be  more  thoroughly  natural  than  that  the 
burden  of  this  song  should  be  a  prayer  to  God  to  hasten  the