[WomansExponent | Vol23 | 1894 | December | Issue: 11 | Title: DAVIS STAKE. | Author: Unknown]

DAVIS STAKE.
	MINUTES of Relief Society Conference of
Davis Stake held at Kaysville, Oct. 19th,
1894.
	On the stand with President Susan Grant
and her Counselors were Apostle F. D.
Richards and wife, Sarah M. Kimball,
Mary A. Freeze, President Hess and his
Counselor Hyrum Grant and others.
President Susan Grant presiding. Meet-
ing opened by singing,“Come let us anew”
Prayer by President Hess. Singing, “We
thank thee O God for a Prophet” etc.
Minutes of the forenoon meeting of the
previous conference were read and approved.
President Grant made opening remarks in
which she said she felt greatly blessed in
having our brothers and sisters with us and
that aged Apostle Brother Richards here
with us, was satisfied we would be built up
and strengthened at this conference.
	Sister Jane S. Richards, “I am thankful
I was learnt to be obedient while I was
young, that is why I respond when called
on, I ask your faith and prayers, we are
living in a day when there is much to do.
I am pleased to see Sister Kimball here
we should all feel energetic in attending
our meetings, it is just as much for them
that don’t hold office as them that do.”
Spoke about the Relief Society of Nauvoo,
“I was a member of it,” also spoke about
“obedience, and making our homes happy,
my home is my heaven. Sisters go on
doing good and comfort those that are cast
down I ask God to bless you and me, so that
when we are called on to pass behind the
veil we won’t have any regrets.”
	The branches of the Society of South,


[Column 1]
West and East Bountiful, Farmington,
Kaysville and Summit Basin were re-
ported as being in good running condition 
and good feelings prevailing.
	Sister Sarah M. Kimball, “I am pleased
to meet with you, and ask your faith and
prayers,” she then read the 25th Section in
the Doctrine and Covenants then made re-
marks on what she had read, “think it a 
sermon within itself, I think the words that 
were spoken to Emma Smith meant all
that are called to the same position, we
should cultivate the best of our natures if
we do we become more and more exalted
and elevated, we all have capabilities far
beyond our comprehension, I pray that you
may be blest and comprehend what is best
for you.”
	Counselor Hyrum Grant, “I have been
very much interested in the remarks of the 
sisters and can testify the spirit of the Lord
has attended those that have spoken,’’ spoke
about the power of God, referred to how
he felt when he was first called to be a
teacher. “I felt as though I wanted to
shirk my duty but the good spirit prevailed
and I went and done my duty and I have
felt thankful for the experience I had in do-
ing it, sisters dont feel that you are getting
too old to be useful. I pray that the spirit
of the Lord will continue with us that we
may be blest in meeting together.” Confer-
ence adjourned until 2 p. m. Singing
“My God the spring of all my joys.”
Benediction by Bishop Barton.
	AFTERNOON-SESSION: Opened by sing-
ing, “Redeemer of Israel.” Prayer by
Brother Rouche. Singing, “Come come
ye Saints.” Minutes of the afternoon 
meeting of the previous conference read
and approved.
	Sister Mary A. Freeze then addressed the
congregation. “I heard things this morn-
that I will always remember, the prayer
was a sermon of itself.” spoke on the
word of wisdom, “I heard a man say he
was not converted to the word of wisdom 
until last conference; if I knew a certain
thing would be good for me I would grasp
it, many think that all the Relief Society
is for is to look after the poor and needy
but the Prophet Joseph said it was to save
souls, my spirit has many times needed a
physician, the Prophet also said this
Church was not fully organized until the
women were organized,” spoke about
temple work what a comfort it is to re-
deem our dead, “let us try to understand
the whisperings of the spirit, my dear sis-
ters, the teachers, you should be Angels of
mercy do not underate yourselves you are
doing much good, we should cultivate con-
fidence in ourselves. I pray that you may 
have the spirit of God to educate you that
you may be good sisters and mothers
in the kingdom of God”
	Apostle Richards then said, “I appreciate
very highly this privilege of meeting with
you, I do think the spirit of the Lord is
quite as ready to meet with the women as
the men, I do not think they have as many
bad habits they are not addicted to them,
I was pleased with what Sister Kimball
read to us.” Spoke about the early
organization of this Society, exhorted the
sisters to be more diligent and earnest in
their duties, “you have the same blessings
bestowed upon you as your husbands, and
you must understand these blessings are
yours in connection with your husbands,
there is a great deal resting upon you, your
calling is no mean one. Sisters lift up your

[Column 2]
heads and rejoice for you are blest of the
Lord. I feel honored to associate with the
authorities of this stake, and the women 
that were acquainted with the Prophet
Joseph: spoke upon Woman’s Suffrage and 
being self-sustaining, how different our 
surroundings were when we first came
here. Mothers you want to talk to your
daughters and have them understand what
they came here for, we want our children to
escape iniquity, we want to live so the
whisperings of the spirit will guide us
right for we want our consciences clean and
pure,” exhorted the sisters to be faithful,
“the time will come when it will be known
who has been faithful. I feel to bless you
my sisters that you may be a blessing to
your husbands and families and may the 
Lord help us all,” etc.
	President Hess, “I have enjoyed this
meeting very much, it seems to me that it
has all been just as good as it could be, we 
have a treat today in having an Apostle
with us, it shows to us the interest that is
taken in these organizations. I with my
Counselors have made up our minds that
we can do more good in coming to these
meetings than in any other way, I have al-
ways felt amply paid in attending them,
there is a great labor to be done, among the 
people try and be a little more diligent in
talking up and encouraging the sisters to 
come out to these meetings, that they may
receive the same blessings that you do in
coming, it is to be regretted that no more 
attend these meetings, may God help us to
see our duties and do them at all times.”
President Grant “I think we have great
reason to rejoice in what we have heard,
we will now adjourn our Conference for 
three months, to be held at East Bountiful.”
Singing, “Do what is right, the day dawn 
is breaking” and benediction by Counselor 
Mary Clark.
