[WomansExponent | Vol23 | 1894 | December | Issue: 11 | Title: RESENTATIVE WOMEN. | Author: Unknown]

RESENTATIVE WOMEN.

	The Congress of Representative Women,
A Historical Resume for Popular Circula-
tion of the World's Congress of Repre-
sentative Women, Convened in Chicago on
May 15th and adjourned on May 22—1893,
under the Auspices of the Woman's Branch
of the World's Congress Auxiliary.
	Mrs. Potter Palmer, President, Mrs.
Charles Henrotin, Vice President:
	Edited by May Wright Sewall, Chair-
man Committee on Organization.

	THIS is the title and explanation of a
book which emphatically marks the pro-
gress of the age, and which comprises as
nearly as possible the work of that wonder-
ful week of the great Congress of women
from all-parts of the world.held in Chicago.
The motto upon the vignette (which is a
very handsome one representing the world
in gilt) is "Not for Herself but for
Humanity."
	The book is dedicated “To the men and
women among her contemporaries who
‘having ears to hear,’ can understand its
message and having open minds and
generous hearts, can regard with favor the
ultimate absolutely equal copartnership
which it unmistakably foreshadows, this
work is respectfully dedicated by the
Editor."
	The book is published in two volumes
and in one, both containing the same mat-
ter but differing only in paper and style of
binding etc. These volumes are elaborately
illustrated the frontis piece is The New
Art Institute, where the Congress was held,
then the portrait of Hon. Charles C. Bon-
ney. President of the World’s Congressess
of 1893, and portraits of other members of
that committee and eminent women, Bertha
M. Honore Palmer, President Board of
Lady Managers, and Ellen M. Henrotin,
Vice President; May Wright Sewall,
Chairman Committee on Organization, and
Rachel Foster Avery, Secretary, also of Mrs.
Adlai E. Stevenson, Lady Henry Somerset,
the Countess of Aberdeen, Laura Ormiston
Chant, Frances E. Willard and Susan B.
Anthony arranged in groups are also
pictures of many others, several upon one
page. The illustrations are all very good.
	The subject matter is wonderfully well
classified considering the super-abundance
of material the editor had to deal with, and
her zeal and anxiety to make the book cover

[Column 2]
the ground of the Congress and the
Department Meetings as well. We find it
very difficult to give any sort of satisfactory
review of this extraordinary book, which to
edit was, and necessarily must have been, a
Herculean task. The value and importance
of the book to the whole civilized world can
scarcely be over-estimated. Wherever the
knowledge of the World's Columbian Ex-
position is circulated, this book should be
read in connection with that fact, for it will
give an idea of the completeness of the
mammoth undertaking which entered in-
to every department in life, mentally and
morally (so to speak) as well as educa-
tionally, industriously, socially, economi-
cally and politically, and yet its place was
so unique that it did not intefere with the
proper work of woman in any other depart-
ment of the World’s Congress work.
	The subjects are methodically grouped
under appropriate headings beginning with
the preface which every one should read;
Chapter I. contains the introduction which
gives one a good idea of the most noted
women of the Congress in a few words of
their own, then the address of the Chair-
man, Mrs. Sewall, which in itself is most
complete and beautiful in style, and perfect
in diction—Chapter II. Preparations,
giving one a brief summary of the
enormous work which was done by a few,
preparatory to holding this world-wide
Congress, and especially of Mrs. Sewall’s
visit to Europe in that interest; this chapter
closes with a Programme of the Congress—
in paragraphs presenting all the subjects
and who treated them and names of
Presidents of the day, in the Halls of
Washington and Columbus and many of
those in Department Congresses. Chapter
III—Education, opens with editorial re-
marks introducing and explaining the mat-
ter used, and throwing much light upon the
way all subjects are treated; other chapters
in their order are dealt with in a similar
manner which greatly helps and enlightens
the reader, especially those not present, or
taking part in the Congress itself, who can
somewhat better comprehend the difficulties
of editing such an over-supply of material,
although no one can really sympathize with
the editor in her work except to have had
charge of a like undertaking. Chapter IV.
Literature and the Dramatic Art has not
only an Introductory Comment by the
editor, but Editorial Comments relative to
the session of the General Congress devoted
to considering woman’s relation to Dramatic
Literature and to the stage. A telegram
was read from Mme. Janauschek excusing
herself and expressing her sympathy with
the cause—and the objects of the Congress.
Mlle. Rhea was also unavoidably absent
but the addresses of Helena Modjeska,
Georgie Cayvan and Julia Mrrlowe are
published almost in their entirety. This
chapter is certainly one of the finest in the
book Miss Marlowe closes her address
with the following paragraph:
	"That woman is capable of arduous ef-
fort and untiring devotion has been fully
demonstrated upon the stage. She has
helped to elevate the drama to its rightful
place among the educational forces of life,
and to make true what Morley says:"—
"At the play-house door, we may say to
the doubting, ‘Enter boldly, for here, too,
there are gods.’ "
	Science and Religion follows with pref-
atory remarks by the editor, scientific and
copious extracts from many papers by dis-

[Column 3]
tinguished women in the professions, and in
the ministry, worthy of special notice
would our space permit. Charity, Philan-
thropy and Religion follows, in the Editor’s
comments she says, no preceding chapter
has so clearly shown the character of the man-
agement of the great Congress as this does;
we would like to make many quotations to
show the wide scope of the addresses but in
our small paper it is impossible; however
we will mention in this connection,
"Organized work of Catholic Women,”
"Woman s place in Hebrew Thought"—
and "The Sisters of the People," the last
paper by Mrs. Hugh Price Hughes of Lon-
don, gives one a good idea of the society,
its practical benefits and results, and is com-
paratively new in methods of work.
	Moral and Social Reform comes next.
This is an invaluable acquisition to the
book, there are many addresses containing
the best thoughts, and practical propositions,
of some of the most eminent women en-
gaged in this field of work, in our own
and in foreign countries, as well as much
that has been actually accomplished in this
direction. The comments by the editor are
of great significance. Mrs. Sewall says,
"Of the seventy-one papers presented in
report congresses at least ninety per cent
treat subjects that come properly under the
head of social and moral reform, and the
same is true of at least seventy per cent of
the hundreds of addresses made in depart-
ment congresses. This chapter covers one
hundred and thirty-seven pages, Among
the famous women whose papers are given
(at least in part) are the names of Julia
Ward Howe, Elizabeth Cady Stanton
Viscountess Harberton, Maud Ballington
Booth, Laura Ormiston Chant, Lady Henry
Somerset, and Octavia W. Bates, also of
younger women famous in their own land
but not so well-known in ours, Josefa
Humpal—Zeman of Bohemia, and Mar-
garet Windeyer of New South Wales. These
young women give great promise for the
future. The last chapter in this volume
treats of the Civil and Political Status of
Women and contains many able addresses
by women who have been foremost in
laboring for the advancement of woman's
cause in the sense of moral, social and
political equality. In the address of Mrs.
Jacob Bright, sister-in-law of the Hon. John
Bright, she brings up some of the purposes
for which the LEAGUE she represents is
laboring thus, Equality of political rights
and duties—of educational opportunities,
of wages for women, for work of equal
quality and quantity with that done by
men. Of the right to hold any office or
position, paid or honorary, to which her
fellow citizens may elect her or which is in
the gift of the state. Equality in the
marriage laws, in divorce. In the right to
the custody and guardianship of children
born in wedlock. Of personal freedom and
the rights and liabilities of contract. And
the lady remarks, “The legal position of
the wife in England is a scandal to civiliza-
tion.” Other addresses are by Florence
Fenwick Miller, the Countess of Aberdeen
and other women equally able and well
qualified to enlighten the public.
	The second volume opens with Civil Law
and Government and contains extracts from
addresses by Susan B. Anthony, Elizabeth
Cady Stanton, the Countess of Aberdeen,
the Baroness Alexandra Gripenberg and the
Baroness Thorberg Rappe, and many others
well known to fame in our own country.


[Column 1]
Industries and Occupations in which the
Editor opens her comments with the remark
that “The idea is still current that as a rule
women “are supported” by men. Upon
this popular delusion the following pages
throw much light.” The speakers and
papers upon this subject represent different
nationalities and are therefore of wider
scope and broader thought than as though
presented from one part of the world. Eng-
land, Ireland, Scotland, Germany, Bohemia,
and various states of the union. Elizabeth
Roselowsky, Lina Morgenstein, and Kaethe
Shirmacher gave definite information very
valuable as well as treating the general sub-
ject under discussion in a most able manner,
and as we Americans know most of the
work here in our own land, it is always a
good thing to understand what other
women are doing, to benefit and bless, and
build up elsewhere.
	The Solidarity of Human Interests is
most eloquently and intelligently treated in
a chapter which covers three hundred and
thirty-five pages. The editor states in a
sub-heading—“Illustrated by the Progress
of Women in Spain, the South American
States, England and her Dependencies; in
Poland, Italy, Siam, Iceland and Syria,
and by women of African Descent in the 
United States.” We note also France,
Denmark, Greece and New South Wales.
It would be quite impossible to give the
reader any correct idea of what may be
learned from this one chapter, and of its
true value to those interested in the great
questions, that are agitating the whole
civilized world. The editor in her pertinent
comments says: “This chapter proves that
the woman question is no longer an Ameri-
canism; that it is no longer a local question
at all; that it cannot be regarded as the
curious culminating expression of the in-
sane passion for independence characteristic
of the Angle-Saxon race.” The addresses
were delivered by women some of whom
are conspicuous among their colleagues
in America; Isabelle Bogelot of France,
Callirhoe Parren of Greece, Catalina D’-
Alcala of Spain, Nico Beck Meyer and
Kirstine Frederikson of Denmark, Helena
Modjeska, Poland. Fanny Zampini Salazer
and Sofia Bompiani of Italy, Lady Linchee
Suriza of Siam, Hanna K. Korany of Syria,
Segrid E. Magnusson of Iceland, Helen
Blackburn, England (Editor of the English-
woman’s Review, a magazine devoted to
woman’s work in its best sense,) Martha
Sesselberg, Brazil, Isabel King of the
Argentine Republic, Matilda G. DeMiro
Quesada of Peru, with many noted women
of Canada and the United States. The
next chapter is Education and Literature, as
presented in the subordinate Congresses.
One of the most notable of these is the
International Kindergarten Union given by
Sarah A. Stewart, and perhaps we ought to
mention among abstracts of papers in re-
port congresses such women as Belle Grant
Armstrong and John Strange Winter
(Henritta E. V. Stannard.) This chapter
contains many valuable papers, but it is
utterly impossible to even mention the
names of writers. Religion as treated in
the subordinate Congresses is another very
important chapter in this valuable book;
the Editor’s remarks contain much that
shows the drift of woman’s thought in the
religious world—Mrs Sewall closes her re-
marks with the Reverend Anna Shaw’s in-
spiring analysis and application of the
text” “which translated into current life

[Column 2]
imbues with prophecy. The women that
publish the tidings” already “a great host”
are becoming an irresistible force.
	Chapter XIV—Industrial Social and
Moral Reform, as treated in the subor inate
Congresses. There are also extracts from
addresses in Report Congresses; among
these we notice the name of a famous
German woman Hanna Bieber Boehm of
Berlin, President of the large association
Jugundsckutz ,also Mrs. Bedford Fenwick of
England who represented the Royal British
Nurses Association.
	The closing chapter XV—Orders, Civil
and Political Reform, as presented in the
subordinate Congresses. The Daughters
of the American Revolution by Mrs. Adlai
E. Stevenson wife of the Vice President of
the United States. The Eastern Star, its
origin progress and development by Mary
C. Snedden of Missouri. Treating on this
subject Mrs. Snedden says. “How then
came women to be associated with exclusive
brotherhood of Masons? and what is the
relationship existing between the Masonic
fraternity and the Order of the Eastern
Star? This is an exceedingly interesting
paper, and indeed there are a number of
chapters in the book which taken singly,
are worth the price of the whole volume.
The last paper besides the editor’s conclud-
ing note and the appendix is by Rachel
Foster Avery Cor. Secretary of the
National Council of Women, of which
Mrs. May Wright Sewall is President; and
if it were possible we should very much
like to devote some space to our own ideas
of the work these two magnificent women
have done for this great Congress, that
has carried the new Gospel of women and
of humanity far and wide. In conclusion
we can only say (for language is inadequate)
as we said at first, this wonderful book, and
add that it should be in every home in the
land, and in other lands, where it would
sow the good seeds of the world’s actual
progress, and help to lead into the light of
a broader humanity, many who sit in dark-
ness, and many more who are struggling
for greater truths, and practical adaptation
of those already in their possession. For
the Editor of this stupenduous work we
have the highest commendation, and trust
that it may not only be like bread cast upon
the waters to return after many days, but
that she may realize here and hereafter the
great love and appreciation of the women
of all lands for her noble and magnanimous
work of compiling and extracting the
richest kernels of wisdom, and the finest
gems of truth from so many varied sub-
jects, and making such a harmonious chain
of the whole, linked together with golden
threads of her own fine spun materials.
	Rand McNally and Co., Chicago and
New York are the Publishers, a firm well
known and thoroughly reliable. As to the
typographical work, paper and binding it
speaks for itself, and one cannot help seeing
at once that it is all first class. The books
bound in two volumes are $5.00 per set, in
one, $3.50. That this book will find
ready sale, among those who understand
the signs of the times, is easy to predict.
It is a work which requires thought and
will also produce thought, and lead to higher
and better things. We heartily recommend 
the book to the reading public, and would
gladly see it put upon the Salt Lake mar-
ket, feeling certain that wherever it is read
it will awaken noble sentiments and ad-
vanced views of life its aims and objects.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


