GUIDE LESSONS.. 665 11. What were the circumstances and what must have been the essential content of the petition? See Pearl of Great Price; Book of Mormon, Chapter 5. Would an occasional concert prayer be advantageous in the family circle? LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in January) LESSON III Literature (Third Week in January) The literary lessons for the ensuing year will be a continuation of the lessons of the past year. They will differ in one particular. The lessons of the past year have been devoted entirely to a discussion of hymns written by Latter-day Saints. The work of the coming. Year will include a number of such hymns as: "I know that my Redeemer lives," and other well known hymns in the Christian world. As would naturally be expected Latter-day Saint hymnology is comparatively rich in hymns devoted to the life, work, and memory of the martyred prophet Joseph Smith. The most notable of this group are "The Seer," by John Taylor; "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah," by W. W. Phelps, and "Joseph Smith's first prayer,' by George Manwaring. In the hymn, "The Seer," the author hjas become a veritable mouthpiece of the Latter-day Saints embodying the devotion, the love and admiration of the people for their prophet leader. In a certain sense he might be regarded as a poet laureate of his people, for his thoughts and feelings as directed to the prophet have in the past found echo and are still echoing and re-echoing in the souls of a multitude of people. The first stanza is devoted to Joseph Hhinaodll it tells us that his equal cannot be found among men; that he has soared to the realms of day; that he was the chosen 'of God, and the friend of man, who brought the Priesthood back again. 
 The second stanza, while it carries in every word and in every line the spirit of admiration and devotion for the prophet Joseph, is, in the main, devoted to his mission; he came to bless the sons of earth with keys by the Almighty; and, to further employ the words of the hymn, he opened the full rich stores of heaven, "O'er the world that was wrapped in sable night." The third stanza, like the first and the second, is impregnated with love and devotion for the prophet, now no longer among them, but the real emphasis of the stanza is placed upon his love for the Saints, "His only pride!" "For them he lived for them he died, Their joys were his, their sorrows too, He loved the Saints he loved Nauvoo." The fourth and last stanza is devoted to the thought that he, the prophet, is free, beyond the reach of mobs and strife, where "He waits with. The just who have gone before, To welcome the Saints to Zion's shore." Whatever else may be praiseworthy in this hymn, no other interest exceeds the interest aroused by the emotional quality of the hymn. The third stanza is the most noteworthy in the hymn from the standpoint of style, such lines as "He opened the full rich stores of heaven, O'er the world that was wrapped in sable night, Like the sun he spreads his golden light." mark a decided heightening of style reaching into the realms of poetry. "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah," is a thrilling hymn; like "The Seer," it contains many words and lines of admiration and love directed to the prophet; like "The Seer," it exults in the fact that he is beyond the power of his enemies, and that he has gone to that realm where, "Great is his glory and endless his Priesthood," and where, "Ever and ever the keys he will hold;" and where, "Faithful and true he will enter his kingdom crowned in. The midst of the Prophets of old." ' "Joseph Smith's first prayer," written by George Manwaring, is a picture of that eventful morn, in the spring of 1820, when the Father and the Son appeared to the boy Prophet in the woods. The first stanza gives us the setting, a picture of the morn with nature at the height of its beauty, and in the midst of all GUIDE LESSONS., 667 this earthly loveliness kneels the boy prophet, who, lacking wisdom, is asking God for light. The second stanza tells us that as he knelt he was assailed by the powers of darkness, but his spirit was undaunted and he trusted in his heavenly Father's care. The third stanza makes record of the light descending brighter than the noon day sun, in which appeared two glorious beings, "God the Father and the Son." The fourth tells the story of the answer to the prayer, when the Father turning to the son said, "Joseph this is my beloved, hear him!" then come the lines that tell of the exaltation of the spirit of the youth, whose prayer has been answered: "Oh what rapture filled his bosom For he saw the living God." "We thank Thee, O God, for a prophet," does not refer to the Prophet Joseph Smith, specifically, it is a tribute to all who have led and still lead Israel, consequently we have included it in this lesson. It is one of the best known of our Latter-day Saint hymns, and must always give a particular thrill to a genuine Latter-day Saint. It was written by a young man born the same year that the Church was organized, in Sheffield, England. He was a workman in one of the famous cutlery manufacturing houses of his native city. After writing the hymn, he darried it to meeting, where it was sung by the people of the Sheffield branch. President Joseph F. Smith was present on the oceasion, and recalled distinctly the first time that this hymn, that has so often voiced the gratitude of the people for a prophet-leader, was sung. This stanza is written in simple unadorned English. Its emotional content is that which gives it literary merit. The spirit of gratitude which should be the predominating emotion of all prayers, saturates every word and every line, making it one of the most acceptable song-prayers in the hymnology of the Latterday Saints. "When dark clouds of trouble hang o'er us, And threaten our peace to destroy: There is hope smiling brightly before us, And we know that deliverance is nigh; We doubt not the Lord, nor his goodness,— We've proved him in days that are past; The wicked who fight against Zion, Will surely be smitten at last." 
 The value of the second stanza is not in its emotional content, but rather in the great spiritual thought that it embodies. It is a message of trust and confidence. It tells us that thing, which has so often been proved by those who live the spiritual life, that they who truly rely on the Lord have no need to fear. It is the same thought that is found in that great hymn, sung by all Christians, "How firm a foundation," the fourth stanza of which reads: "When through the deep waters I call thee to go, The rivers of sorrow shall not thee o'erflow, For I will be with thee, thy troubles to bless, And sanctify to thee thy deepest distress." The third and last stanza reads: "We'll sing of his goodness and mercy, We'll praise-him by day and by night, Rejoice in his glorious gospel, And bask in its life-giving light: Thus on to eternal perfection, The honest and faithful will go, While they who reject this glad message, Shall never such happiness know." The first four lines of this last stanza is a song of praise to the Lord for his goodness and mercy; the second four contemplate the graat culmination of it all. The goal is perfection. "Thus on to eternal perfection," an expression which may be interpreted as meaning, thus on to eternal progression, the honest and faithful will go, while those who reject the gospel message can never attain to this perfection. This hymn is not a literary gem in any sense; there are no lines that are of the essence of poetry, nevertheless it is one of the most popular hymns of Latter-day Saints, and justly so. It is just because it has probed the heart, appreciating something of the debt of gratitude that surges through the souls of men and women as the realization grips them, that they indeed have a mouthpiece of God on earth. It is just because it is one of the great song prayers of Latter-day Saint hymnology; it is just because it contains a tremendous spiritual truth, which, coupled with a reverent emotion, justification enough for a song or sermon, QUESTIONS 1. Who wrote the words and music of "The Seer." (This means the music most commonly sung.) Have the words read to the class. 2. Who wrote the words and music to "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah?" Have the words read to the class, 3. Who wrote the words and music to "Joseph Smith's first prayer." GUIDE LESSONS. 669 Have the words read to the class. 4, Indicate particular words and sentences expressive of love and admiration for Joseph the prophet found in "The Seer." 5. Indicate words and sentences expressive of admiration and love for Joseph the Seer found in "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah." 6. Compile from both hymns the sentences that speak of his present state and exaltation. 7. Who wrote the words of "We thank thee, O God, for a prophet?" Who wrote the music which the Latter-day Saints usually sing it to? 8. State three reasons why you personally are grateful for a prophet to lead us in these latter days. 0. Do the prayers of those who surround the family altar usually contain a passage of thanks to God for a prophet? Do the prayers offered in public assembly usually contain a passage of thanks to God for a prophet? 10. What is the "eternal perfection" the Latter-day Saint feels he may attain through the help of God? LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in January) FOREWORD Relief Society workers are interested in promoting the welfare of God's children in every possible way, physically, morally and spiritually. We are anxious to do our work thoroughly, and 'at the same time economically. Experience has taught us' that we can do our work most thoroughly and economically through the home. The home, more than any other institution, touches the individual on every hand. It provides him during the greater part of his life, with food, clothing, shelter, as well as directs him intellectually, morally and spiritually. The slightest change in home conditions affects the life of every member of the family for good or ill. In fact, we are more sensitive to conditions of the home than to any other relation of life. It is because of its significance to human welfare that our organization has always given the home considerable attention, and it is for this reason that we shall consider, in the few lessons that follow, some of the factors which tend to promote or hinder its welfare. The question of method of study has considerable to do with the efficiency of our work. We must begin at the right place and follow in proper sequence. We have been dealing quite extensively with the conditions of poverty and sickness, and the consequences of unfortunate and improper home relations and, in so doing, we have become fully aware of the fact that many of 670. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. These conditions have grown out of ignorance, lack of education, or improper education, concerning the meaning and seriousness of home responsibilities. In the lessons in this department we hope to emphasize the edugational end of the home problem for, as mothers, we feel that we can, and should, through the organization, play a real part in the education of our sons and daughters, in the meaning and gacredness of the home, As mothers, we are more than relief workers, we are teachers in the truest and greatest meaning of the term. We want not only to remove suffering and give immediate relief to those in distress, but in order that we may avoid the very conditions which lead to sorrow, we want to remove ignorance, inefficiency, and vice, and to enlighten youth and promote wholesome social and moral relations all along the line from childhood to parenthood. We are well aware of the fact that many broken homes are the results of improper conduct prior to marriage, and in turn that the failure of parenthood comes as a consequence of poor adjustment between husband and wife. We believe, therefore, that the natural and most successful method will be, first, to study the social life of youth in so far as it bears upon their physical, moral, and educational preparation for home life. In the second place, we shall study the husband and wife relationship in its psychological, moral and social aspects. And, thirdly, we sltall take up the parent and child relationship. In all these relationships we shall endeavor to make use of the simple yet fundamental principles developed in psychology, sociology, and ethics, to the end of more effectively establishing, fostering, and protecting the greatest social institution, the home. THE HOME.—RESPONSIBILITY IN THE HOME RESPONSIBILITY AND CITIZENSHIP A country such as our own has, along with many good things, some problems which must be solved. A society which gives freedom and equality to its members must make certain demands of them. Every individual must carry some responsibility. The ordinary citizen must sense a responsibility for the welfare of the community. As a voter he gives direction to our great political and social affairs and must, therefore, be trained in the meaning and importance of such responsibility. Many of our citizens, however, do not sense fully this responsibility. Some of them ate so indifferent that they do not even avail themselves of the opportunity to vote. Others are willing to vote, but with the dropping of the ballot on election day they feel their responsibility ends. Some of our citizens use the privilege which the country confers upon them, to promote their selfish interests at the GUIDE LESSONS. 671 expense of the public. There are others still who have a positive contempt for our institutions and who are doing all in their power to defeat the very purpose of law and government. These notions are not in harmony with the ideals of our country. Individuals who hold such notions have been improperly educated. The homes in which they were reared have not done their full duty. RESPONSIBILITY MUST BEGIN IN THE HOME By American institutions we mean more than a system of government, and laws, a constitution, we mean also a system of ideas, sentiments and habits. True citizenship in America is more than a gift, it is an attainment. It is a way of living; here in our every day life is found the essence of democracy. Our great social structure will succeed or fail, stand or fall depending upon our ability as parents and teachers to develop in the youth proper standards of citizenship. The home is our basic institution and upon it rests our greatest educational responsibility. It is the human nursery. If our citizens are to possess the attributes which qualify them for responsibilities in a democratic society suitable seeds must be planted very early in their lives. Habits, ideals and sentiments are not directly given to the individual; they grow very slowly. They need a whole lifetime to mature. THE IDEAL HOME The ideal home is careful about two conditions: giving too much liberty to children, on the one hand, and depriving them of necessary freedom for self-expression, on the other. It feels obligated to instil in the lives of youth proper respect for law and authority but it also recognizes the duty of developing in them the power of self control, and the ability to use liberty wisely. Serious consequences follow the neglect of either of these two obligations. Real freedom is not a life independent of law, but one in harmony with it. The laws of God and the laws of the state are for the good of men. Until men recognize this fact freedom is for them an empty term. Some young people, and older people also, frequently disregard authority and break away from the control of law, believing that by so doing they are enjoying freedom. Little do they realize that they are actually depriving themselves of the essential conditions of freedom. They are throwing themselves into the hands of untrustworthy authority and are becoming the slaves of a lower type of control, native instincts, foolish whims and ignorance. No one can run away from law; if he refuses to obey human laws and God's laws, he is sure to suffer 
 The punishment which nature's law inflict. Thousands of young people have come to grief, many homes have been wrecked because of a false conception of freedom. But on the other hand our ideal citizenship does not grow in an autocratic home. The ideal home must recognize individual rights, it must place responsibility upon individuals and consequently must confer freedom in proportion to the responsibility imposed. We need homes that have faith in the integrity of children. We need homes that recognize abilities in children and are willing to place responsibilities upon them according to their physical, mental and moral maturity. We need homes, that can utilize, not only the powers and intelligence of father and mother, but of son and daughter, brother and sister, from the youngest to the oldest member of the family. Homes that can thus distribute responsibilities, and utilize the many kinds and degrees of abilities, are the homes out of which develops the true type of American citizenship, the ideal Church member, the good Latter-day Saint. THE HOME IS MORE THAN A MEANS; IT IS AN END IN LIFE But in our emphasis upon the home as a nursery for citizenship we must not forget that the home is more than a means through which we prepare the individual for other relations of life; it is an end in itself. We have as much right to expect the other institutions in the community, the schools and the Church, to educate the individual for efficiency in the home as to expect the home to furnish the community with good citizenship. The failure to recognize this fact is responsible to a large extent for the present neglect on the part of the community to educate young people for home responsibilities. It is in the home where we spend the greater part of our lives. It is here we share one another's joys and sorrows. As individuals we completely identify ourselves with the home. The mistake of one member of the family is directly felt by all the other members. In the life of normal men and women the home is the institution to which they will consecrate their greatest efforts. They are willing to sacrifice for it, struggle to maintain it, fight to preserve it, and, if need be, die to protect it. Nothing can take its place. All the comfort, all the joy, all the love, that is deemed worth while in the world they expect will come to them through the home. The home is a means to life, but it is more than that; it is man's most natural and real life. QUESTIONS 1, What conditions do you observe about you which tend to show that all people do not appreciate the blessings of a free country? Show that America is more than a form of government. GUIDE LESSONS. 673 3. What can the home do to educate for responsible citizenship? 4, How early in life can a child be taught to carry responsibilities in the home? 5. If a child has not been taught to carry responsibilities in the home, can we expect him to become a responsible citizen? Explain. 6. Give an example from your own experience to show the value of persons being required to carry responsibilities early in life. Can the principle of giving responsibility be overdone? 8. Besides the home what other institutions have we, the function of which is to train children for citizenship? 9. Describe an ideal home, from the standpoint of developing responsible citizens. 10. Which statement do you prefer and why? (1) The home should train the child to become a useful citizen in the community. Or (2) The ty should educate the child to become efficient in living a home ife. GUIDE LESSONS Teachers' Topic for January (Optional ) Note.—Teachers' topics will be published in the Guide Department of the Magazine for each month of 1922. It is optional with the stakes whether or not these topics are used. The Significance of the New Year a. The time for making good resolutions, following the customs of the most ancient peoples. B. "Build not upon regret for the past, but build upon resolve for the future." c. Resolve to read the Scriptures regularly, and try to adapt them to daily life. D. Study "the Sermon on the Mount" for January.