Vol. 9.		SALT LAKE  CITY,  UTAH,  DECEMBER 15,1880.		No. 14.


A CHRISTMAS CAROL FOR 1880.

See the shepherds while they keep—
	Watch, at midnight's sacred hour,
From their drowsy vigils leap,
	Roused by a resistless power. 

Lo! the clouds are o'er them riven,
	Gleams the sky with glory's blaze!
Nearer come the hosts of Heaven,
	While the watchers wondering gaze.

Speechless, rapt in admiration—
	List the while the Angels tell—
That "The Christ" the World's salvation?
	Deigns indeed with men to dwell.

List, they to the wondrous story
	On that holy Christmas morn
That "the Prince of Peace" and glory—
	Was in Bethlehem's Manger born.

Heavenly legions swell the praises
	Of "The Child Emmanuel."
"Glory unto God the Highest,"
	"Peace on earth to men good will."

Is it not a holy Anthem?
	Fitting for the Saints to sing?
Generous wishes let us chant them,
	E'en as praises to our King.

Let us say "A Merry Christmas,"
	From our hearts to friend and foe,
Heavenly hosts will thus assist us—
	Pride and hate to over throw.

Narrow feelings, let them perish;
	Christ's own law of love fulfill;
Let us nobly strive to cherish—
	Unto all the WORLD good will.

				EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
S. L. City.


CHRISTMAS  GREETINGS  AND  REMI-
NISCENCES.
EDITOR  EXPONENT:
 Dear Friend and Sister—“AMerrie Christ-
mas and  a  Happy New Year!” to  you.  These
have been  household words for so many centu-
ries, that I would not alter or  change them for
any new-fangled  version  that  could be given
to them.  What a fund of life, and health, and
hilarity, have  they  caused in the households of
-the world, as one came bounding into  the halls
of rejoicing, when  it  was fashionable  to speak
the feelings of  the heart without form or pref-
ace, and each one was  eager to be  the  first  to
offer the eternal greeting that precedes the day
of  universal rejoicing. “Peace on  earth, and
good will  to men” was  the  universal  text.
What  unlocking  of  hearts ! What  beautiful
freedom,  what  rejoicing, what  blessed gather-
ings of dispersed households! “All the family
meet  at Christmas,” was  the  tale  all  had  to
tell.  Boys and girls “broke up” school for the
Christmas holid[-]ys, and  oh!  the joy of going to
the station in  a  crowd  to receive  the  young
brain workers, who had been away six months;
even  the porter and the  dignitaries  of  the sta-
tion caught the  enthusiasm, and  threw  open
the doors  of  the  cars with a smile  of welcome
as the young travelers rushed forth, and seemed
to  enjoy the  hugs  and  kisses  of brothers and
sisters and cousins almost as much  as  the re-
cipients themselves--so contagious is happiness!
 Christmas  eve was  all fun  and frolic, every
rooffi decorated  with “ivy green” ‘and- the
Christmas holly, with  its  beautiful scarlet ber-
ries; and them from  a  large  bunch  of  ever-
greens in the centre of the ceiling was the mys-
terious mistletoe bough, half sacred, half secu-
lar, peeping out as if afraid of being seen;  but
that was  for  the  coming ball—no notice was
taken of that to-night.  But there was a table
set with monster plum  cakes, nuts, apples, and
above  all  the  snap-dragons!  The  room  now
was  darkened, and  these  being prepared were
ignited, and  then  commenced the grand fun of
the evening--snatching the burning fruit from
the  smoking dish—and every face  having  a
purple and cadaverous hue!
 Then on  Christmas  day morning  all  were
awakened by a lovely peel of  merry bells, ush-
ering  in  this  most  notable  day.  All  rushed
from  their beds  and quickly descended to  the
breakfast  table, where  sat  father  and mother
ready  to  receive  their  loved  children;  every
heart  was  light,  every  face  wore  a  smile  of
happiness and satisfaction.
 And so a week, and  often more, was passed
in  an interchange of the “sweet amenities” of
life. Nor were the sacred duties  of that time
ever  omitted;  rich  and  poor  remembered the
holy institutions  of  that  day,  and religiously
observed them;  and the rich ever spread tables
for the poor  on  that day, and  they enjoyed to-
gether the temporal  and  the spiritual.  Every
prison  throughout  the  country  had  its  rich
Christmas fare spread out upon it.  Surely the
Great  Father  looked  on  the  rejoicing  of  his
earthly  family, and  blest  the  good  and  pure
with  an  especial  blessing  on  that world-
renowned day!
 My mind  has run off  into  other  days  and
other scenes, and almost carried me away;  cer-
tainly away from what I sat down to do—which
was to write a letter to you, my dear friend and
sister, to give you the greetings  of  my heart at
this time.  Close  up  that  desk,  lock  up  that
office, and  retire to a place where you can take
a rest—a Christmas  holiday;  for  surely  you
have  earned one. You  have worked  for  the
public, and the public will  gladly wait on you,
till  you  are again ready to put on the harness.
May  health  of  body  and  strength  of  mind
long, long be yours, till  you shall lie down like
a shock of corn, fully ripe, reposing for a brief
period in the sleep  of death, and then awaken
in  the very  presence chamber of  your  Father,
your God and  mine, and the God  and  Father
of  all  the  good  of  all  ages  and generations,
since the world  began.  I - finish as I began—
“A Merrie Christmas and a Happy New Year”
to you and all yours.
HANNAH  T. KING.


[Column 1]
NOTES AND NEWS.

	COLONEL T. W. Higginson will deliver the
oration on the 28th of December at Union
Hall upon the occasion of the 250th anniver-
sary of the settlement of Cambridge. The poem
will be furnished by Oliver Wendell Holmes.
—W. J.

	LOUISA ALCOTT says that when women are
the advisers, the lords of creation don't take
the advice till they have persuaded themselves
that it is just what they had intended to do;
then they act upon it, and if it succeeds they
give the weaker vessel half the credit of it; if
it fails, they generally give her the whole.
Louisa is unmarried,— W. W.

[Column 2]
	ON Monday Nov. 29, Wendell Phillips was
sixty-nine years of age. The Woman's Jour-
nal says he spent the day at home and received
numerous calls from his friends, receiving many
floral tributes, and from his Irish admirers a
beautiful floral harp.

	"WHAT," asks a correspondent in Iowa,
"will stand out more prominently in the his-
tory of the year 1880 than the fact that
40,000,000 free people chose for themselves a
ruler?" To this the Woman's Journal would
answer, that in history the prominent fact of
this election will be, that out of forty millions
of people, one-half, viz., all the women, were
denied the right and the chance to vote at all,
and that, too, after such service in the war as
allies of the party in power, as no other allies
ever gave. These women are now the politi-
cal peers of Jeff Davis. This is the fact that
will stand out most prominent in history.—Ex.

	AT the Woman's Suffrage Convention held
at Worcester, Mass., Oct. 20, in celebration of
the thirtieth anniversary of the first Suffrage
Convention held in New England, Col. Hig-
ginson offered the following resolution:

	Resolved, That this Convention presents its:
greetings to its venerable early leader and
friend, Lucretia Mott, whose life, in its rounded
perfection as wife, mother, preacher and re-
former, is the prophecy of the future of wo-
man. The large liberty which the Society of
Friends has always given to women has been
justified in her example; have we not the right
to believe that the larger measure of freedom
to church and state we are here to claim will
be alike blessed to all American women?—Ex.

	SAYS Mr. Whittier to an Inter-Ocean re-
porter, "The society of the future must be acted
on more directly by women than that of the
past. In the bringing out of the sensibilities,
they must take a leading part. Woman Suf-
frage I regard as an inevitable thing and a good
thing. Women in public life will bring it up
more than it will bring them down. There
will be considerable floundering before society
would become completely adapted to the
change, but after it shall be fairly accomplished
and in working order, the work of society will
go on without any deterioration, and with a
gain in purity of motive and unselfishness of
law-makers and administrators. I fear its ef-
fect in large cities, where bad women will come
forward. Women are so intense that bad
women will be worse in public life than bad
men. But the difficulty is in the nature of
the city.—Ex.

	A GRAND ratification meeting was held by
the women of Oregon Nov. 21, at Salem in
Reed's Opera House. Many hundreds were
present. Also members of the Legislature who
had voted for the amendment. Music on the
violin and piano were the opening exercises,
after which stirring speeches were made by
Mrs. Duniway,and Mrs. Loughray. Mrs. Duni-
way's centennial poem was rendered by Mrs.
L. M. Lowe and Misses Olive and Julia
Chamberlain gave a song. A number of let-
ters were read and speeches were made by Ex.
Gov. Gibbs and Hon. John Minto. When the
Governor concluded his remarks upon equal
rights he "asked those to rise who favored the
amendment, and the audience rose enmasse
amid great enthusiasm." Good for Oregon.


106	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
TALK.

	And so you don't believe in Primaries.
That's a calamity! Why? Because there is
a great sweep of precious light of this same
Primary Window, which you are so persistently
standing aside from. You think Mutuals are
enough, do you? Well now, my dear, do you
know, between you and me and the EXPONENT,
I would rather see every Mutual die out, than
to see these Primaries fail. If you live fifty
years longer, you will see the force of my last
assertion.
	I have seen men who wait and wait and
procrastinate the planting of trees and vines
from year to year, until when they are old and
weary they can do nothing about the matter
but mourn over lost opportunity, and look out
on a garden of weeds. They neglected to
"take Time by the forelock." And yet, you
don't believe in the Primary?
	I have seen some who never knew how to
start a fire. They would lay a bit of paper,
then a stick of wood, put the match to paper,
and grumble because it wouldn't burn." You
and I don't do that way. We lay the paper,
then some tiny, tiny bits of wood, then larger
kindling wood, then pile up our sticks, and
finally we throw on the logs and sit in the
blaze of our beautiful fire. Just so some peo-
ple expect with one mission, after a life of
dead emptiness, to kindle up a warm blaze that
will last through life. Once in a great while
its done; but much oftener the flame flares up
and then fades and dies mournfully out. The
kindling wood isn't there to support the logs.
And yet, you don't believe in Primaries.
	I have known ignorant painters who try to
paint a picture by laying a daub here, a blot
there, and call it something. But the artist
finds it easy to paint the big rock, the open
sky, the leafy tree. 'Tis the stamen of the
flower, the faint ray of light from the half-
opened casement, the fine web of lace at the
lady's throat, that proclaims him master. A
few strokes don't make a picture; 'tis the mi-
nutest details faithfully followed. And yet
you don't believe in the Primaries?
	You send your children to Sunday School?
That's good. But find me three men out of
three hundred that understand enough of hu-
man nature to feed the mind of childhood in-
telligently. I have long thought a woman far
more suitable to conduct a Sunday School.
Instinct teaches her, if she will but allow it to
sway her, how to administer food, both mental
and moral, to the undeveloped hungry mind.
These Primaries will plant out the shoots of
the tree of Knowledge, graft in the buds of
Faith and Sobriety, and train the vine of In-
telligence round the Rod of Iron. They will
lay the tiny sticks one upon another, week by
week, until in the time thereof the flame of
Opportunity will curl and lap in and around
the kindling wood—up—up—the logs are
reached, warmed and heat up until they light
with a glorious blaze all who are within their
reach, and we sit in the heavenly warmth with
joy and rejoicing.
	And you think the Primaries are of no use?
I am sorry, sorry for you. Just alter your
mind, comb your babies' hair, wash their dear
little eyes out and bundle them off to the Pri-
mary. Never mind if Johnnie has a hole in
his pants—mend it to-morrow; better a bare
knee than a bare mind.
	You may polish their faces and keep them as
clean as new tins, spend your time in clothing
and tidying them up, and leave their poor little
minds destitute of any covering. I have seen
well-dressed, clean-faced little people with their
minds shivering with neglect, exposed to the
scorching rays of Vulgarity, pierced by the
bitter winds of Untruth, foul with the slums
of street slang, and freezing with the ice of In-

[Column 2]
fidelity. How my heart yearns over such for-
saken outcasts from sweet intelligence!
	Shall you send your chickies to the Pri-
mary?
							HOMESPUN.


EDUCATION  AND  OCCUPATION.

	MRS.  EDITOR:—No  subject, with  regard  to
helping  the  unfortunate ones  of  the  earth, is
so impressed  upon  my mind as that of provid-
ing  education  and  occupation.   I  cannot  ex-
press  the  gratified  feelings  with  which I con-
template  the work  of  improvement among our
children and young people;  nor the admiration
with  which  I  regard  those  ladies  who  are so
vigorously  prosecuting this good and great for-
ward movement in our community.
	I have been much engaged  in  the  care of
children  during  my  life. Experience  has
taught  me that in a child's  education one item
is  important—that  man  is  required to render
to  the  world  a  compensation, for  all  that he
consumes  at  least, even though he do  only eat
and drink and die.  But if he would aspire to
anything  more  beyond  this, he  must  become
useful in his sphere in proportion to his aspira-
tion  to  place  himself  in  positions where  men
will be delighted to honor him.
	Idleness, aimless and listless, without  a  pur-
pose  to  accomplish any good thing, inevitably
leads  to  ruin.   Idleness  among  the  healthy
poor  ought  to  be  regarded  as  a  crime  in the
eye  of  the  law, if  provision  is  made  for the
employment of these healthy poor.   But if no
provision  is  made  to  furnish  profitable work
for  such  as  by any cause or circumstance fail
to be  able to plan for themselves business that
will give them a living, then  there is  a  crimi-
nal  neglect  on  the  part  of  such  as have  the
power  to  supply  such  amounts  of land, such
workshops  of  every sort, such broad  and  com-
petent  furnishings, as shall  enable every man,
woman  and  child  who has health to become a
producer  as  well  as  a  consumer.   Anything
less than this is demoralizing  in  its  tendency;
it leads to little else than  a  condition  akin  to
robbery.  The  one  who  eats  the  bread  not
earned by the sweat of his own brow, eats that
which was earned  by the sweat of his neigh-
bor's  brow,  which  leaves him  his  neighbor's
debtor.  How  can  this  be  prevented?  Very
simply.  Romulus  and  Solomon  knew  how.
Let every one have work to do by a systematic
arrangement  of  lands  and  tenements—educa-
tional provision, artistic  and  literary, carrying
with them all necessary preparations for  thor-
ough  business  and  social  benefits.   Let  all
these be provided and placed under the care of 
such  persons  as  are  capable  of  directing  the
needed  labor,  and  how  great  a  deliverance
would be wrought out.
	What if a few  wealthy men  should  appro-
priate  all  they  had  to  furnish  work  for  the
poor, how many  years would pass  before those
who had thus loved their poor neighbors would
in  wealth  outweigh  the  richest  nabob  in  the
land?  Were  there a little village like this in
every county in Utah, the Relief Societies, the
Bishops, and all that go abroad to gather dona-
tions for the poor, would be relieved from more
than  one-half  their work, and  have  the  satis-
faction of  clearing our streets of  indigent poor,
and  planting honor ond usefulness in the room
of  vice  and  degradation.   Also,  they  would
have double  time  to  nurse  the  sick,  visit the
widow  in  her  afflictions,  and  seek  after  the
wayward  and  forsaken.
	Yours truly,
	M. J. C.


THE Baroness Burdett-Coutts has expended
more than $500,000 in ameliorating the condi-
tion of the poor and deserving fishermen of the
United Kingdom.


PAROWAN RELIEF SOCIETY CON-
FERENCE.

MEETINGS AND REORGANIZATION.

	The Fourth Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Societies composing the Parowan Stake of Zion
was held in the Parowan meeting house Nov.
13th. Quite a number of the brethren being
present. Verbal reports were given by the. re-
presentatives of the different branch societies
and organizations in the Stake showing a general
desire in both old and young to increase in know-
ledge and good works. Many of the sisters ad-
dressed the congregation exhorting one another
to diligence and perseverance in the work of God,
bearing testimony to the truth of the principle
of a pluraltiy of wives. President Dame, Bishop
Arthur and several of the brethren addressed
the sisters, said they were proud to see them
stand forth andso valiantly uphold the principles
of truth. Counseled them to seek the spirit of
God and its guidance in ail their undertakings.
Conference was adjourned to be held in Cedar
City on the 13th day of Febuary next.
	November 16th: The sisters of Cedar City
were highlypleased by a call from our beloved
Sisters E. R. Snow and Zina D.Youug, who held
meeting in the evening, imparting to all much
good instruction. Counseled mothers to have
a watchful care over their little ones, to strive
above all to instil into their tender hearts prin-
ciples of truth and virtue. Spoke on the prin-
ciple of Plural Marriage advising all never to
speak lightly of this holy order. Referred to
the necessity of home industries, encouraged the
sisters to persevere in their endeavors at silk
culture. Urged upon them the neccessity ot
attending their meetings and donating to the
poor. The meeting was considered by all pre-ent
to be a feast of good things and we humbly
thank our beloved sisters for their good instruc-
tion; praying the Lord to bless them and pre-
serve them in their labor of love.
	Dec. 6th,a reorganization, of the Young Ladies
M. I. A., was effected and he following young
ladies elected as officers. Caroline Keturah
Arthur, President; Sarah Ann Hig[-]ee, Julia
Ann Neilson Counselors; Ellen E., L. Jones,
Secretary: Sarah Ann Jones Ast. Sec’y., Louisa
Leigh, Treasurer. They were all set apart to
their various offices by the presiding brethren.
The former officers who have labored diligently
since the first organization five years ago, who
were at that time young girls, now have families
to attend to, therefore they are honorably 're-
leased with the blessings and good wishes of the
brethren and sisters for their faithfulness and
humility. May prosperity attend all associations
formed for the benefit, of God's people old afad
young is the prayerof your sister in the Gospel.
			J. P. MACKELPRANG, Cor., Sec'y.


GLAD OF IT.

	The EXPONENT of October 1st, came duly
to hand, filled with indignation at the attempt
that was being made to disfranchise the women
of Utah. The vocabulary of the English lan-
guage has no words with meaning sufficient to
express our indignation at the low, mean, con-
temptible act; and, furthermore, we, as Ameri-
can citizens, intend to proclaim against such
unjust proceedings. Did we say citizens? or
are we allowed that title? What are we then?
The mothers, of men and boys whom we shall
teach to honor the Constitution of our country,
and claim the rights it guarantees to them, and
rally around the dear old flag and save it from
dishonor when perilous times shall come. We
are glad that this encroachment upon the fran-
chise of women was instigated, as it will have
a tendency to cause investigation. Do the
Patriots all sleep? God forbid! If so, let the
cry of liberty reverberate from shore to shore,
until they, shall be awakened to the situation
of our once happy Republican Government,
ere it be broken in pieces as a potter’s vessel.
Ever praying for the triumph of the oppressed,
							W. EAST.


THE ladies of the Philadelphia Flower Mis-
sion, now closed for the season,have distributed
since May 10th, 10,855 bouquets, 1001 cases of
fruit, and books,text cards and papers to about
300 cases.—W. W.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 107


TWILIGHT MUSINGS.

All the high-way grows dim in the twilight,
	And people pass on to and fro,
Little ones soothed into quiet,
	Have started for dream-land I know.
I would follow and ramble there with them
	Had I but the power to go.

'Tis an hour since sunset has faded,
	I gaze through the tremulous air,
Far away to the beautiful temple,
	And long, Oh, I long to be there!
With glad glorified spirits to worship,
	Ever free from sorrow and care.

O, there I shall throw off earth garments,
	Soiled, travel-worn wrinkled and old,
To be clothed in white purified raiment,
	Exceeding in lustre fine gold.
And my soul shall rejoice wflh the angels
	The King in His beauty behold.

Here I stretch out my hands through the darknes
	Far over the silence of night,
And my heart cries throughout the dim twilight
	For forms that have vanished from sight.
And I read precious names on the marble,
	Through tears that are blinding the light.

Between me and that glorious City,
	Rise darkly the graves of my dead;
Veiling over the bright gate of glory,
	Through which the storm-driven have fled.
And in weakness I mourn for ties riven,
	Though sad tears, THEY never more shed.

Yet I watch through the dim evening's twilight,
	And list to the wild breakers roar,
Mark the swift flowing tide of the river,
	That sends back the weird, "nevermore,"
And I sigh for a glimpse of that Country,
	Away on the "Evergreen Shore."

							L. M. HEWLINGS.
Atchison, Kansas.


THE DISTANT SHORE.

'Tis a struggle a gasp and a leap beyond,
	To the distant and unknown shore
Where we'll meet our friends who have passed the veil,
	Meet those who have gone before.

We'll have trod the path that the aged have trod.
	The youth and the infant form
We'll have traveled the road that all must tread.
	The ignorant great and small.

Do we think as we tread the path of life
	That our journey may soon be o'er?
That we'll meet with those that have passed the veil,
	With those who have gone before?
										ANN FELLOWS,


[Column 1]
HOLIDAY PICTURES.

	They hang around the walls of every home-
stead, they are part and parcel of the orna-
mentation of the "old house at home." We
can shut our eyes and trace with artistic skill
the graceful outlines, the sweet, soft touches,
and fancy echoes the silvery music of the gentle
voices that thrilled with tremulous emotion,
when the tender greetings were exchanged and
the good-by died away in the distance. Mem-
ory paints one sublime and glorious picture
which haunts me constantly at the holiday
season.
	An old house brown with age on which the
storms of half a century have beat relentlessly,
surrounded with trees and shrubbery now al-
most leafless,and wide old-fashioned doors that
open into broad and spacious rooms, where all
is light and warm and cheerful. Blazing fire[-]
on the hearth of the shapeless pine-knots that
glow and reflect all sorts of curious shadows on
the walls and polished furniture; some middle-
aged people are standing there; I see it is the
father and mother, with some other relatives,
and one very old gentleman is telling a tale,

[Column 2]
the others are eagerly listening; it is of a battle
in which he fought. Oh, I hear him say "I
wore a handsome uniform, for I was Major you
know." And now here comes a troop of children;
they all rush up to kiss grandpa, and he is
nearly buried in the evergreens and hemlock
boughs with which they are loaded, and al-
though the long room seemed decorated before
with scarlet berries and evergreens, yet the
girls and boys go over it again, festooning more
and more, until it seems indeed a woodland
scene. One sleigh after another drives up to the
door, the merry bells jingling and tinkling in
the sharp frosty air, warm greetings,hearty wel-
comes are interchanged, and happiness beams
upon every face. Sadness and gloom are
banished, all is cheerful and bright, and the
children's glad voices at play echo through
and through, from room to room, and from
garret to cellar. Can any one ever forget a
picture like this, where all was love and gentle-
ness, the mother like a ministering angel, over
all, both old and young, presiding in her home
with the dignity and grace of a queen. I see
her now as she was then, tall and majestic in
figure; her dress is heavy grey pongee,she has on
a snowy white apron, and a small magnificent
crape shawl covers her beautiful shoulders; on
her neck she wears a string of large,gold beads;
her brown auburn hair is abundant, wavy and
glossy, there is no tinge of gray; it is coiled up
and fastened at the back with a very high tor-
toise-shell comb. In our day she would be
designated at once, from her outward appear-
ance, as being a strong-minded woman. How
proud she is of her ten boys and girls; and
indeed, one might think she has reason to be,
for they are all bright and intelligent. She
talks to them, hear what she says: "I wonder
will we all meet again at the old home; how
good Our Heavenly Father is!" but we will not
listen longer for I see a tear in her eye and she
never likes us to see her weeping.
	I need not tell you what the New England
dinner was, nor of the wonderful queer-
patterned old, old china, with which the table
was adorned, or the hearty relish with which
the feast was partaken, and the merry jokes
that flew from lip to lip; but in the evening,
when all sat round the blazing, glowing pine-
knot fire, and each one told a tale or sang a
song, a sort of presentiment came over the
mother, and though she tried hard to suppress
it, the smile faded from out her dark blue eyes
and the big tear drops one by one fell on her
tired hands. She would not give expression
to her thoughts, lest a sadness should pervade
all assembled there, but the influence was felt,
and she knew then, that they would never all
meet again in one unbroken circle.
	Have you patience gentle reader to hear
more? It may be that you have a brighter holi-
day picture, in your own home, and if you
have, cherish it and enjoy it, for such a home-
life is a foretaste of heaven.
	Years have passed by, and those who sat side
by side at one hearth-stone, went one by one
out into the world, and entered into life's great
battle—yet that noble mother's teachings
lingered in their hearts, and through its devel-
opment they were self-helpful and self-denying
—but each one's life was different. Her loving
memory is still deeply engraven upon their
hearts.
	The mother, in the prime of her life, worn
out with trial and hardship, brought about
through persecution for her religious faith,
sleeps in a nameless grave on the lone prairie.
	And so you see the picture has brightness in
it, and rifts of sunshine, but darker shadings to
complete it, and make it true to life.
								AUNT EM.


IT is said that the students  of  Cornell  Uni-
versity  have almost  entirely  abandoned  the
practice of smoking.


LUCRETIA  MOTT.

	The  Press  and   the  Pulpit  of  the  country
gave, the most ample, cordial and well-deserved
testimony to  the  personal  excellence  of  Mrs.
Mott,  to  her  superior  intellectual  ability, to
her   moral  courage, to the  statesmanlike quali-
ties, and to  the  decisive part she  took  in shap-
ing and  carrying forward great national  move-
ments, while at the  same  time  she  maintained
the  most  beautiful  home life.   Her death was
a national  loss,  and  was so regarded.
	But the  question  forces  itself;  If it  was  so-
praiseworthy that  Mrs. Mott  shrank from no
peril to free the  slaves, that she stood with the
first advocates  of  equal rights for women, with
the friends of free thought in  religion, and  of
temperance  and  peace,  how  can  those  who
praise  Mrs. Mott  justify their  own  failure  to
follow  her  example,  or,  still  worse,  how  can
they justify their opposition to these movements
so cherished by Mrs. Mott?
	For more than thirty  years she asked for the 
right  of  citizenship for women.   But she  died
a disfranchised  subject.   What possible  praise
of  this dear  saint can hide so shameful  a  fact,
or  relieve  the  hollow  sound  of  eulogy  from
those whose  deeds  do not support  their words?
	The  Brooklyn  Eagle  proposes  that  women
build Mrs. Mott  a  monument.   But  would  it
not be more  suitable that  men who now praise
Mrs  Mott,  who  have  not  helped,  but  rather
hindered, her  great  claim for  equal  rights for
women,  should  build  her  a  monument  tall
enough  to  have inscribed on it her great heroic,
and  her  sweet  womanly  qualities;  and  below
these  let  it  be  written:  "This  monument  is
dedicated  with  reverent  tenderness  to  the
memory  of  Lucretia  Mott, by  repentant  men
who failed to  support her claim  for  justice  to
her sex, and  who  let her die held by law to the 
political  level  of  felons  and  idiots,  but  who
now, by this token, pledge their best endeavors
to   establish  for  women  the  claim  to  equal
rights which she never ceased to make!"
	Surely the  highest tribute that can  be  paid
to  Mrs.  Mott  is  to  carry out  the  idea to the
support  of  which  she gave her life.
	One  after  another, women  who  are great as
philanthropists, great as statesmen, great as re-
formers, pass  away.   Sarah  Grimke, Angelina
Weld, L. Maria Child and Lucretia Mott, each
helped  to  mold the  age  in  which  they lived.
Their virtues are extolled when  they are dead.
But  the  great  objects  to  which  they devoted
time, strength, money and life, are left unaided
by the  majority  of  those who  are  foremost to
sound their praises.   It may be to the credit of
such  persons that they are  able  to  appreciate
the worth  and  work  of  these  women.  But it
will  add nothing to  their own credit that they
refuse  to  aid,  or  are  indifferent  to the  claims
for  justice  to women  and  equal  rights  for  all
which  Mrs. Mott  upheld,  and  on  account  of
which all  hearts are  now drawn with  grateful
reverence to her memory.  Why  will they not
take  up  the  work  that  fell  from  her  hands
only when  life  itself  ceased, and  thus  aid  in
carrying it forward where she longed and strove
to have it go?	L. S.
—Woman's  Journal.


"FOREFATHERS' Day" will be celebrated in
Plymouth this year with an old-fashioned an-
niversary. Gov. Long, ex-Gov. Rice, Presi-
dent Eliot and Rev. Dr. McKenzie have been
invited to speak, and J. T. Fields to contribute
a peem.—Ex.

	DIED.—On Nantucket Island, Nov. 8, Mrs.
Emmeline Coffin, aged 76 years and 6 months.
She was the wife of Capt. Geo. W. Coffin, and
for, fifty years the stepmother of Rev. Phebe
A. Hannaford, who paid a beautiful tribute at
the funeral to her excellence, and also, at the
same time, to their honored relative, Lucretia
Mott.—Ex.


108	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, DECEMBER 15, 1880.


[Column 1]
	THE BLESSINGS OF  CHRISTMAS.

"Would'st thou from sorrow find a sweet relief,
Or is  thy heart opprest with woe untold?
Balm would'st thou gather for corroding grief?
Pour blessings round thee  like a shower of gold.

	"Christmas  comes  but once a year," is a com-
mon saying.  It  is  often  quoted  when  one  has
performed some generous act, or given himself a
holiday, or when  some  unusual  liberality  is  in-
dulged  in.   Well, Christmas  comes  but  once a
year, to  be sure, but  that  once  brings  joy  and
gladness   to  thousands, and  there  are more good
deeds  done on  Christmas day, or Christmas eve
perchance, than  at  any other  time  in  all  the
year.  Thank the  Lord  for  Christmas!   There
are many reasons why it should  be the best day,
when the best deeds should be enacted. The
Son  of  God, the  Savior  of  the world, was born,
as we suppose, on that eventful day.  It is meet
that all should celebrate it with good deeds, such
as He performed, and such as He and the angels
might recognize and record.  We read that Je-
sus,  our  Master,  went  about  doing  good;  then
should not those who profess to be his followers
imitate his example, and  go  about doing good,
dispensing the bounties which a kind Providence
has vouchsafed  to them  in  rich  abundance, to
the  poor  and  unfortunate, and  thus  show their 
appreciation  of  the life and character  of  the Sa-
vior,  their  elder  brother.  If  on  all  other  days
they are cold and hard, yea, even pitiless, it does
seem that on this day of days, a spark of that di-
vine love, which  every  human  soul  possesses,
must glow and warm the bosom, and cause it to 
overflow  with  kindness  and  love  which  will
manifest itself in living deeds of genuine benevo-
lence.  The  poor are remembered, the destitute
are  clothed,  the  sick  are  visited, the  sorrowing 
are  comforted, the aged rejoice, the children are
made happy, and no wonder it is designated "A
Merry Christmas!"  The family which has been
scattered  are  gathered  to  the  homestead  at
Christmas time, and exchange tender greetings.
Then the feasting, the music and the joyousness
begin.   All  exert  themselves  to  the  utmost
that  happiness  may be  the  result; and  is not
this  in  itself  beautiful?   Even  the  family  re-
unions at the Christmas time are sufficient,were
there nothing else, to fasten it firmly as a day of 
rejoicing, in  the  hearts  of  those  who love their 
friends.
Is there any picture more  pleasant to look up-
on than the  beaming  faces  of  a  happy family,
seated around  the  Christmas hearth, the bright
fire lighting up each countenance, and the merry
jest and witty repartee going  the  round  of  the
assembled circle;  the children in the background
on  tiptoe  with  the  excitement  of  new  toys,
games and amusements; music, songs and tales
of "auld  lang syne" fill  up  each precious  fast-
flitting moment.  These are some of the Christ-

[Column 2]
mas blessings  that come to  the fortunate  ones.
And if  the poor  are not forgotten, then there is
a consciousness of duty performed that is sure to
bring  sweet  peace  to  the  soul.    "It  is   more
blessed to give  than  to  receive" are indeed pre-
cious  words.  The  reward  immediately  waits
upon deeds of kindness and mercy, pouring heal-
ing balm into the aching human heart;  or if the
heart has no regrets, no sorrows, even then there
is a blessing in  doing a generous  act  towards  a
fellow being in need—"a peace that passeth  un-
derstanding."
	Hang up the children's stocking by all means.
It may seem a simple  thing,  but  it  affords infi-
nite pleasure to the little folks, and it is one  of
the reminiscences which they carry with  them
through life.  They never  forget  the  happiness
of Christmas morn, when on awaking from their 
rosy  slumbers  and  fanciful  dreams  of  Santa
Claus and his wonderful costume  and  turnout,
they rushed wildly for the stocking, to see what
dainties or toys  he had left  them  in  his  frolic-
some  journey o'er hill and dale.  How often  in
after  life do these  tender  memories  of  Christ-
mas  and  home  soften  the hearts  of men and
women  towards the destitute and  forlorn  little
creatures, who, through poverty and  misfortune
or untoward circumstances, have not the joys of 
childhood's home life, that so refine and beautify
the soul and prepare it for the larger and broader
plane of usefulness in after years.
	Peace and good will to all  mankind  has  ever
been the motto of the anniversary of His  birth,
who came "to bring  good  tidings  of  great  joy
which shall be to all people."  And while feast-
ing  and rejoicing with glad hearts and  cheerful
countenances, we should  not forget the  grandly
glorious  mission  of  the  advent  of  the  Son  of
which each returning Christmas  brings  to  the
household, they should be taught  to  honor  the
day and  reverence  the  name  of  Jesus, and the 
story of his birth should be as familiar as house-
hold words.  Yes, they should  sing  and  tell this
wonderful story.

Sing the sweet and touching story
Of  the babe in Bethl'em born;
How the morning star with glory
Lighted that auspicious morn.

What  more  beautiful  and  tender
Than  the blessed Savior's  birth?
Cradled in a lowly manger,
Was the King of all the earth.

	Of  all  people,  the  Latter-day  Saints,  whose
experiences  have  been  in  many  instances so
cruel and hard, and whose principles are of such
an exalted  nature, should  abound  in  heavenly
charity, which  remembers the unfortunate and
seeks out and administers to the poor and needy.
There are many who do this, and they  are  un
tiring  in  their  efforts to  reform the erring and
comfort and relieve the destitute, the widow and
orphan, but  the  blessed  Christmas should open
the hearts of all, even the  thoughtless  and  in-
different.
	There  are  many dear  old  ladies who have no
loving hands  to  caress them, or stroke their sil-
very hair, no one to anticipate  their wishes and
bring  them  little  elegancies  or luxuries at the
Christmas  time, and  they were once young and
perhaps  beautiful:  they  too  have  had  all  the
comforts  of  home,  and  may  have  been  sur-
rounded with affluence, but  time  has  changed
all this, and their  loved ones  are  laid  away, or
are in  other  lands,  which  they have left for the
Gospel's  sake;  they  are  in  need  of  sympathy
and tenderness.  Do not forget them.  You who
have  so  many  pretty  things, give  them a nice
handkerchief, a pair of gloves, a pretty ruffle, a
piece of soft lace for the neck—they wore deli-
cate laces in  the "long ago"—a bright  ribbon or
necktie  to  cheer  their sober  faces;  they are too

[Column 3]
old to hang up  their  stockings, and  too  keenly
sensitive  to  ask  favors, though they would fall
like the  fragrant  dew upon  the  wilted  flower.
Such gentle deeds  of holy  charity, and  kindly
words, and sunny smiles will never be forgotten;
the  angels  will  record  them  above, and  they
will call down  the  blessings  of heaven  in  rich
showers  upon  all  who  thus  minister  to  their 
fellow-creatures, and will prove both to the doer
and the recipient a true Christmas blessing.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	MARY Goff is authorized to act as agent for
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT in Almy, Wyoming.

	PEN Sketch of an Illustrious Woman, which
has been omitted in the two last numbers, will
be continued in our next.

	SISTERS Presendia L. Kimball and Elizabeth
Howard attended the Sisters' Stake Conference
held at Grantsville on the 11th and 12th inst.

	WE have received from Sister S. M. Kimball,
Secretary central board R. S., an interesting ac-
count of Relief Society work in England, which
we shall publish in 1st of January number.
Also a report of Beaver Stake Conference.

	WE have been favored with two or three pleas-
ant calls from Dr. Albert J. Leffingwell, of Brook-
lyn, N. Y., who is here to study the "Mormon"
question, or people, for journalistic purposes. He
seems honest and free from prejudice, and we
trust he will at least speak truthfully in writing
anything concerning Utah and her people.

	ON Friday, NOV. 7, a number of ladies and
gentlemen, friends of Dr. Romania Pratt, met
at her residence in the 12th Ward to surprise her
eldest son, Parley P. Pratt, Jun., on the twenty-
first anniversary of his birth. The evening was
very pleasantly spent in social intercourse, mu-
sic, and congratulatory speeches from President
A. M. Cannon, J. P. Freeze, Dr. Ellen B. Fer-
guson and other guests.

	THE Annual Conference of the Relief Socie-
ties of Salt Lake Stake will be held on the 17th
of December in the Council House, instead of
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms as pub-
lished heretofore, and the Conference of the Y.
L. M. I. A. and Primary Associations on the
18th of December at the same place. The room
will be comfortably warmed, and although the
weather is cold, it is hoped there will be a good
representation from all the several branches of
each of these organizations. Reports should be
sent in as early as possible, so that each Secre-
tary may prepare herself, that there may be no
hindrance, as there is always a desire to hear in-
struction from those who preside over these
societies. A very cordial invitation is ex-
tended to the brethren to attend, and especially
Bishops, who are of course interested in Relief
Society work.

	OUR readers will be pleased to hear of the visit
of Sisters Eliza R. and Zina D. in Southern
Utah. In 1st December number we gave a few
items of their journey, and told you of their ar-
rival in St. George on the 19th of November.
From a letter written by "Aunt Zina," dated
Nov. 25 and 26, we have the proceedings of a week
in that city of the Temple. Monday, 22d, spent in
preparing records, etc., called on Sister Artemissa
Snow, who, though in feeble health, is the same
genial, pleasant, patient Saint as in former days;
and also called on Susa Gates, who has a beautiful
baby girl two weeks old. 23d. The sisters, ac-
companied by Sisters Minerva Snow and E. S.
Ivins, went to Washington (not D. C.), Utah,
stayed over night and organized a Primary; they
had "a very interesting time," and everywhere
they find faithful workers in the cause of salva-


tion. Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, were
each day in the Temple. Also organized a Pri-
mary in the 4th Ward, St. George, with eighty-
seven members, Mrs. Julia H. Ivins President.
Saturday,127th, went to Santa Clara, meeting at
10a.m. with the Relief Society; at 2 p.m. met
with the children, and organized a Primary As-
sociation of fifty members, and returned to Sis-
ter Minerva’s at St. George.
	Later on, from Sister Eliza R. “We went to
Pine Valley on Friday last (Dec 3.). The
morning was delightful, and the beautifully
variegated mountain scenery, like a panorama
constantly changing, was sublimely amusing as
we passed on over rugged rocks and through
canon and dell, with ever and anon a healthy
jolt, all of which were accredited for my especial
benefit,” The sisters arrived at their destina-
tion just in time to escape a snow storm, the
wind blowing fiercely, while they “were en-
sconced before a blazing fire.” The next day
they met with the Relief Society in the fore-
noon, and organized the children in the after-
noon, and had a general meeting in the evening.
“Next day went to Pinto; held meetings at half
past two and six p. m., and organized the chil-
dren next morning. Then went to Hebron, 
held.meeting at six. Next morning organized
the children, and drove to Hamblin That eve-
ning assisted the brethren to organize a Relief
Society. The next day went back to St. George."
	By these few items from letters, it will be
seen that these good sisters are helping to pro-
mote the interests of Zion in Southern Utah—
sowing good seed, that will bear rich fruit in
years to come. They have no leisure there more
than here, every moment, save what is needful
for sleep, is employed in some noble work to
benefit and bless: May their precious lives be
preserved, and their days of usefulness pro-
longed, and the record of their good deeds live
forever.

	By cordial invitation of Sister Jane S. Rich-
ards, we attended the Stake Conference of the 
Relief Societies of Weber Co., held on Thurs-
day, Dec. 9, in the Ogden Tabernacle. The re-
ports, written and verbal, were excellent, and
the spirit of the meeting encouraging. Prest.
Peery and Coun. Herrick were present in the
forenoon, and the former addressed the sisters
for a short time. The presence of the Bishops
and brethren from the wards and settlements
must be a great support and strength to Sister
Richards. On Friday, the 10th, the Conference
of Y. L. M. I A. was held at the same place,
and on Saturday, 11 th, the Primary Associa-
tions held their Stake .Conference.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 109


A SURPRISE PARTY.

	On Wednesday, Nov. 8, a number of ladies,
friends of Mrs. Augusta Joyce Crocheron, met
at her house in the 18th Ward, for the purpose
of expressing their respect and regard for her,
and their appreciation of her labors as Secretary
of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Salt Lake Stake of Zion.
After an interval of pleasant conversation, mu-
sic, &c., the ladies sat down with Sister Croche-
ron’s family to a bountiful repast; after which
Sister Mary A. Freeze, President of the Y.L.
M.I.A. of Salt Lake Stake, presented to Sister
Crocheron, in the name of the sisters present
and others who were unable to attend, a hand-
some winter shawl, accompanying the gift with
a few well chosen and happy remarks, bearing
testimony to Sister Crocheron’s faithfulness in
her official capacity, and her usefulness in the
Church and in society.
	Sister Crocheron, who was still more surprised
than she had been at the invasion of her home,
replied with much feeling and after a mutual


interchange of good wishes the meeting ad-
journed, all declaring that they had spent a few
hours pleasantly and profitably.
						E. B. FERGUSON.


﻿OBITUARY.

	DIED, of asthma, November 14, 1880, at St.
David, Pima Co., Arizona, Melissa Jane Mer-
rill, daughter of P. C. and Cyrena Dustin Mer-
rill. Deceased was born in Kanesville, Potta-
wattamie Co., Iowa, Sept. 10, 1848. She was a
loving daughter, a kind friend and a faithful
Latter-day Saint. She leaves a father and
mother, brothers and sisters, and numerou
friends to mourn her loss. She was a very grea
sufferer,yet anxious to live to do good. She was
Treasurer in our Relief Society for nearly four
years, until she was obliged to resign on account
of her failing strength. She was one of the very
best women I ever knew. One of the very few
who have no enemies. All who knew her loved
her. Amiable, patient and gentle to all, it is in
sorrow I try to write these few lines. Miss Mer-
rill never saw a well day for over twenty years.
She was the daughter of the President of our
Relief Society, and we deeply sympathize with
the bereaved mother and relatives of our dear
sister who has gone. She rests in peace, where
there is no more pain nor sorrow, but the re-
membrance of her virtues will live in our hearts
while time shall last.
							MARIA MCRAE.

	Sister Phebe Wise, who died Oct. 29, 1880, of
consumption, in Farmington, Davis Co., had
been an invalid for a number of years, but her
sufferings did not prevent her from rejoicing in
her religion and bearing testimony of the same
with her latest breath. Deceased was the wife
of Thomas Wise, and the daughter of William
and Sarah Hatton, and was born at Brails, War-
wickshire, England, June 9, 1816, and was bap-
tized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints in the year 1849, at Birmingham.
Emigrated from London to Utah in 1865, moved
to Farmington Oct. 29 of the same year. She
has been a faithful member of the Relief Socie-
ty, also a faithful wife and mother. We send
these few lines for publication, to show our re-
spect for her and her family, and to express, in
our feeble way, the sincere regret of the Presi-
dent, Mrs. O. Leonard, and all the officers and
members of the Relief Society with which she
was connected.
					AURELIA S. ROGERS.


TOO RELIGIOUS.
	How often do we hear the  remark such a per-
son  is  too  religous.  We  immediately  ask  in
what respect?  Well, they are very tenacious up-
on some point  of doctrine and neglect others of
more importance.  Well then it  is an  inconsist-
ent kind  of  religion;  not  genuine,  if  it  was  it
would be called  the  true  religion.  Now,  who
ever heard of a man  becoming  too  rich?  Well,
you say those who do not  make a  proper use of
it would  be  better  with  less. We will admit
this  to be true;  but is  the fault  in  the  gold  or
the person who posesses it? We are called Latter-
day Saints.  Now,  when  we  measure  ourselves
by the pattern who comes up to  the mark in its
fullest sense?  Are we not in more  danger of be-
ing weighed  in  the balance and found wanting?
Ibis is  where  the  greatest  danger  lies.   Aud
again should you make the remark  in  the  pre-
sence of children or those who have not sufficient
intelligence to know that you are speaking iron-
ically;  how soon do  they feel to say, "you  shall
not find that kind of fault with me.  No I would
prefer Messrs. Moody  and Sankey's religion, be-
cause it is so easy to come to Christ and be saved."
And our Father wishes his children to be happy.
Certainly He does and  intends  they shall  be if
they keep his covenants.  Their  religion is good
as far as it goes.  It is an  excellent work, much


like that of Moses. The Apostle Paul says that
the law of Moses was a schoolmaster to bring us
to Christ. But when brought there is there no-
thing to do? Yes, before you can enter the King-
dom you must repent and be baptised. This
was what He commanded the Apostles to preach
and then teach them to observe all things what-
soever I have commanded them. And what
are they? You will find them in the 5th 6th,
and 7th,chapters of St. Mathew, Christ’s Sermon
on the Mount. This is the highest law. It
must be people of intelligence who can appreci-
ate its rules.
	People of small minds will do best in the first
school. For instance if a man steals your coat
you must give him your cloak also. Well, says
the small mind “I have made much by stealing
I will try it again and by so doing heap up
wealth.” He has not intelligence enough to be
ashamed. Accordingly is not fit for the higher
grade of education. He cannot enter the king-
dom of our Father unless he repents and forsakes
his sin. When this is done and he begins to
keep the higher law, he will have more intelli-
gence given as he studies its principles; for our
Father is the head or fountain of all intelligence:
And He gives to whom He will. Who ever kept
those laws and did not feel blessed with greater
light and joy and peace and intelligence? If we
can keep them all we shall be heirs and joint
heirs with Jesus Christ. If we keep a few we
are blessed in proportion. Then do not be afraid
of becoming too religious; rather fear that it is
not genuine and drop an idle word which will
spring up a bitter weed, or that we are like the
fruit which at present has grown to a good size,
but at the core we find a worm.
 Now for the sake of our young people let us be
wise, and teach sound doctrine both by precept
and example There are some rigid rules to
observe, such as self-denial,but we gain strength
every effort we make. Also light and intellig-
ence upon the subject we are studying to solve.
Besides dignity of character because we are bet-
ter acquainted with self, and our own strength.
So much so that we will not fail to ask help from
the fountain, of our Father in heaven who never
fails on his part when it is for our best good.
Then do not fear becoming too religious, but
rather fear that we do not come up to the pat-
tern, bince we have the name of Latter-day
Saint.
M. E. KIMBALL.
-Nov. 20th, 1880.


A STRANGER'S SENTIMENTS.

	Madam, I am not one of your brethren but
when I tell you I am interested in all the efforts
made by any church or people, to help such as
want help, that I do not discriminate against
Mormons any more than Catholics, or any other
church or people,I think you will not refuse space
in your columns for a few plain spoken thoughts.
Now you see I have been noticing that Relief
Society of yours and I like your philanthropic
arrangements, I like the Catholic Sisters too, but
I am not going to say anything about them they
have a good time to what you do, their church
has not had such a hard time in the world of
late, and can do a great deal to help their women
along in a good work.
	But here is what I've been thinking—suppose
some of your rich men were to join and buy a
lot of land put it in a condition to be tenanted
and worked by a little neighborhood of folks that
are now in the market place idle, because like
that other man we read of in the Bible no man
hires them—Now if these rich men would put a
few work-shops with good foremen there too, a
school-house that children might be cared for
and all that—would it not help your society
wonderfully in looking after the poor. There,
you say to a woman who was a straw-braider,you
can go now and get work. To the lady that
makes nice little ornaments, flowers of all kinds
&c., there is work. The men who own this place
will pay you. The little girls can knit,sew rags,
make tidies and boys can help in the shops;
learn trades, work on the farms—instead of
being round the streets in idleness and becom-
ing schooled in the vicious ways of the wicked.
Magistrates, policemen, lawyers and jails cost
money. It costs more money to take care of a
practised rascal than it would take to furnish
schooling and work for a boy, and in nine cases
out of ten, the idle street boy becomes a scamp
to be provided for by taxation. I just know that
if your rich men would establish such a little
town, if it was needed in every County in Utah,
that there would be money as well as mercy in
it. I don't beleive in giving so much charity to


folks that are able to work. The sick; the little
folks and helpless, are the ones for you relief
ladies to look after, and I say you ought to have
a hospital and a good one too, where friendless
deserted women and other sick people, might be
provided for and you not have to run all over the
conntry to take care of them. I hope you'll
take this as I mean it, in real good will.
							GEORGE PIATT.


﻿		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SERICULTURE.

 Report  of  the Silk Association  of Box  Elder
Stake.  The Silk Association of Box  Elder Stake
was  organized  June 10, 1879, with the following
officers:   President,  Mary Stark;  Counselors,  S.
L.  Booth  and  Mary  E.  Snow,  Secretaries, Eu-
genia Pierce and Lydia May Snow.   During the
past year we have raised one hundred and forty-
five (145)  pounds  of  cocoons,  one  hundred  and
four (104) pounds of  which have been sold to the
Central  Silk  Association  at  Salt  Lake City, for
which we  received two  hundred  and  eight dol-
lars ($208).  We  have  five  mulberry  groves  of
two acres each, four of which are in the different
wards of Brigham  City, and one  in Three  Mile
Creek Ward.
LYDIA  MAY  SNOW.


[Column 1]
JESSE BURNS,
OR,
WAS IT FATE?

A Sketch of the Exodus from Nauvoo, and the
early Settlement of Utah.

CONTINUED.

	Jesse was industrious and made his family
comfortable as fast as possible. During the
fall several small detachments of the Mormon
Battalion came into the valley. They were
disbanded at San Diego, and left to find their 
way back to their friends as best they could;
footsore and weary, ragged and starving, they
made their way to Salt Lake, while others of
their company stayed in California, or returned
by way of Sante Fe to join their friends at
Winter Quarters. The people at Salt Lake
had no surplus provisions, and at once placed
themselves on half rations, that they might di-
vide with their famishing brethren. It was a
time that tried men's souls, and some, like An-
nanias and Sapphira, were tempted to conceal
their substance, for self-preservation is the first
law of nature, and the saying is perhaps never
more fully realized than under such circum-
stances. All the cattle that could be spared
were killed for meat, the hides, feet and en-
trails were cleaned and eaten. The bones which
were thrown out were crushed and gnawed by
the children, who could not get sufficient to
supply their growing appetites. The Battalion
boys, as they were called, suffered most, for
many of them had no families to share with
them, and although they were not allowed to
starve, their wants could not be fully sup-
plied, and their attenuated forms and hollow
cheeks bore witness to suffering that will never
be forgotten, even though they live to more
than the ordinary age of man. The people
were blessed with health and strength, and it
was several years before disease or death be-
came prevalent among them.
	In the spring, land was ploughed and crops
put in, but with what result they could hardly
anticipate; for the Indians said that no rain
fell in the summer, ahd the country was
parched and dry. A mountaineer, who had
lived twenty years in the country, said he had
tried repeatedly to raise corn or wheat, and it
would not grow in this climate. He would
pay one thousand dollars for the first bushel of
corn raised in the valley. The corn ripened,
and the wheat also, but the thousand dollars
never came. The crickets did though, and
ate the crops so fast that there was a prospect
of losing the whole. The people turned out
en masse, and fought them almost night and
day, killing them by bushels; but all their ef-

[Column 2]
forts seemed to no purpose. The crickets were
horrid looking creatures, such as the people
had never seen before; with bodies as large as
a young mouse, long legs and unwieldy move-
ments, something between a run and a jump.
The ground was black with them, and wher-
ever they went all vegetation disappeared as
though a fire had passed over it. The loss of
their crops would entail great suffering and
probable starvation upon the entire people, as
supplies could not possibly have been brought
from the East or the West in time to save
them, and such scant subsistence as the abor-
igines procured would have hardly sufficed
the white man, their diet being chiefly berries,
sunflower seeds, dried crickets, fish and a little
game. They fasted and prayed, prayed with
an earnestness born of despair, and a faith
strengthened by God's past mercies. A few
days later, myriads of birds were seen in the
air; whirling around for a while, they settled
in the fields of grain and commenced a raid on
the crickets, eating as long as they could.
They would drink and then throw them up,
then eat again, until the crickets were all gone,
and then flew away. The birds proved to be
sea gulls; and as they were not in the habit of
migrating to this country, their coming was
considered a special dispensation of Providence
in behalf of the little band of exiles; and
truly their thanksgiving was due, when, at
harvest, they made a feast, and raising a liberty
pole, floated from its top the dear old flag of
the Union, and adorned it with sheaves of
wheat, oats and barley. A bowery was made,
under which long tables were spread with the
best the country afforded, and every person
was bountifully supplied; after which the day
was spent with music and dancing.
	While Jesse was at work on a grist-mill that
was being built, the scaffolding gave way, pre-
cipitating him sixteen feet, breaking some of
his ribs and injuring him badly. When he
wss carried home Mary was very much fright-
ened, but it was a comfort to know that his in-
juries were not fatal. She nursed him tenderly,
always self-denying and thoughtful of the com-
fort of others, she was a friend and guide to
him in those hours of darkness and suffering.
When he was again able to walk, he often went
with his little girl to the garden, where they
would busy themselves with such tasks as their
small strength could accomplish. He was fond
of his child, and she, in turn, dearly loved her
father. She often sat for hours watching him
as he worked, for he was a carpenter by trade,
and wished she was a boy, so she could be a
carpenter, too. Sometimes she ventured to try
her skill, which generally brought her trouble.
In the fall a tiny baby came to them; a mar-
vel of pink and white, so soft and tender.
Minnie was never tired of looking at it, or
working for it. It was the first baby in their
home since her recollection, and it was her
own, her very own little baby sister. In fact,
the advent of baby Nettie brought much plea-
sure to all; the heart is cold and hard indeed
that does not warm at the appealing helpless-
ness of infancy.
	Jesse's crops were entirely destroyed by the
crickets, his long illness kept him from em-
ployment, aud another winter was near. The
fall emigration came in, expecting to find pro-
visions raised here, which they would have
done had not the crickets made such havoc;
but there not being sufficient grain raised to
supply the demand, before another harvest
many were suffering. Roots and herbs were
gathered, the cattle needed for labor were
killed, and every available means resorted to
for subsistance. Those who had plenty di-
vided with their less fortunate brethren, but
there was still much suffering and discourage-
ment. Jesse worked hard, but he was not
strong, and the lack of suitable nourishment
and home comforts wore on his constitution.
The constant discouragements, the hopelessness

[Column 3]
of their situation, the helpless ones dependent
on him for support, weighed down his spirits,
and he felt many times that if it were possible
he would order things otherwise; but the horse,
when tied to the treadmill, must keep stepping
on, on, no stopping, no turning back. A train
of circumstances had placed him where he
was, and there could be no stopping, just a
weary pressing on. A thousand miles from
civilization, across a barren Indian country, it
was not possible to return. He could feel to
sympathize with the Israelites, when they
longed for the leeks and onions, but he must
struggle on, struggle for existence, for the dear
ones in his care—for the wife, drooping be-
neath her burdens, the little ones that might
never know the advantages of education, or
the delicacies and refinements of life. What
were the future prospects? The crops, owing
to the difficult mode of irrigation, and the la-
bor it cost to water them from the mountain
streams, must necessarily be small, even if the
crickets did not return. Their half-starved
Indian neighbors made constant demands on
them for food, giving no labor in return. Their
idea was that the white man had taken their
hunting grounds and must feed them. A little
band in the heart of the Rocky Mountains,
where there was nothing to induce people to
come with means for improvement, who would
seek them out, or give them succor? Hard,
rough labor wore out their clothing very fast,
and how was it to be replaced? A few more
years and they would have to dress like the
Indians. What chance had they to build cities,
when everything had to be transported over
the plains with ox teams, a distance of thir-
teen hundred miles? Those were dark days,
and it took strong faith or childish simplicity
to make them otherwise. There was so much
to suffer, so much to fear, and so little to
brighten or encourage, that it was no wonder
if his heart failed, or his faith grew weak.
Mary bore her trials with fortitude, but who
shall say she did not sometimes feel the dark-
ness of despair hovering about her? She had
left loving hearts and warm friends, father,
mother, brothers and sisters, who felt that she
was buried in a living grave; and she almost
felt, sometimes, as though she was, or would
be literally buried when the snow fell so deep
and fast, day and night, without cessation, that
it threatened to bury their little cabin in the
mountains, where they then lived alone, except
for a few lumbermen; for Jesse was building a
saw mill that winter, and they were isolated
even from their few fellow-sufferers in exile.

To be continued.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.
The sisters of Sanpete Stake held their
Quarterly Conference at Ephraim City Nov.
21, 1880. There were present on the stand
Pres. Wilford Woodruff, Pres. Teasdale of
Juab Stake, Pres. Petersen of this Stake and
Counselor, Henry Beal. Also others of the
local priesthood. After the reading of the
reports and verbal reports from presidents
of Relief Societies Pres. Hyde addressed the
congregation, upon the fulfillment of prophecy
and spoke of how fast the work of God seemed
to be progressing. Sister Wareham Pres. of
the Stake Silk Association, urged the sisters to
be energetic in promoting silk culture. Stated
that there had been about 14 pounds of silk
raised in the stake during the last season.
Sister Phebe Woodruff, of Salt Lake City,
spoke most comforting and encouraging to the
sisters; and to the mothers, she said her heart
was especialy drawn out, in view of the great
responsibility resting upon them, that of bear-
ing the souls of men; spirits that have been
held in reserve to come forth in this genera-


[Column 1]

tion, to assist in carrying out the great designs
of the Almighty; said it is highly necessary
that mothers cultivate meek, kind and passive
dispositions; that their children may inherit
the same traits of character. Mothers hardly
realize the importance of this their great mis-
sion, with the thousand and one other things
they have to attend to and worry them. But
sisters be noble and walk above the frivolous
trials of life and govern your families with
kindness and reason; and then ask God to for-
give the rest and when we get through our
trials will be our brightest jewels. And when
you have raised up families in the right way
prepared to be useful in the Church of God
rest assured you have performed a great mis-
sion.
	Pres. Woodruff spoke of the Patriarchal law
of marriage. Told the sisters never to be found
fighting against it if they did not enter into it
themselves. Spoke of government saying, we
were violating the law, but if we should re-
nounce this law it would be all the same as
long as we acknowledged modern revelations.
And there is no other law under heaven, by
which men can be exalted to thrones, powers,
principalities and the Godhead, save this law,
No man has a claim on a wife or chilld, or a
family position, or to the increase of seed with-
out this law. He said the sisters were a host
in Israel,and blessed them in the name of Jesus
Christ.
	Pres. Petersen and Teasdale poured out their
heartfelt thanks and blessings for the sisters.
	Sister Sarah Petersen was chosen as Coun-
selor to Pres. Hyde in place of Sister Anna
Larsen who was called to go with her husband
to Castle Valley.
	Sister Phebe Maiben was chosen as general
Supt., of the P. A., of Sanpete. I would like
to state that the total disbursements of last
quarter was $61,399,34; there must have been
a mistake in the print for it was printed, $399,
34, only.
	Singing, Benediction, and Conference was
adjourned until Feb. 21, 1881.
	P. S. Dear Editor—Pres. Hyde has re-
turned from her visit to St. George and the
temple, with a rich flow of the spirit of God, to
enable her to strengthen the sisters as she
travels among them, exhorting them to dili-
gence in every duty devolving upon them.
	The sisters of this place (Spring City) were
so pleased with her return, and anxious to re-
ceive of her influence they made a surprise
party, after which they held meeting all enjoy-
ing the excellent instructions and strong
testimonies of our beloved Pres. Sister Mary A.
P. Hyde.
	Sister Frantzen. Pres. of the Relief Society
in this place takes special pains to fill her re-
sponsible position as a mother to the sisters.
Hoping you will find room in your excellent
paper for this, and wishing you continual
success and joy in your most beneficial labor.
	I remain your sister in the Covenant,
		FANNY KOFFORD, Cor., Sec'y.

	Synopsis of the twelfth annual report of
Wellsville, Cache Co., at the meeting held
July 12, 1880. Total receipts, $157,06. Dis-
bursements: sundries, $17,61; to needy, $57,73;
Temple, $58,78. Cash and merchandis  on
hand, $91,08. Shares in Co-operative Institu-
tions, $124,45.
	Pres. E. Whiton made a few opening re-
marks; some of our brethren being present,
she gave the meeting into their hands.
	Coun. Evan Owens expressed his satisfac-
tion; was pleased with the united spirit that
existed among the sisters, and exhorted them
to be faithful in well doing.
	Brothers R. Baxter, R. Leatham, J. Wood-
ard and T. Howell being present, felt that our
societies were calculated to do a great amount
of good; showed the importance of the sisters

[Column 2]

living up to their privileges, and exhorted
them to be one with the priesthood, setting an
example before our children worthy of imita-
tion.
	Pres. Whiton made a few closing remarks,
exhorting us to be faithful in carrying out the
instructions which had been given. Singing,
"Let Zion in her beauty rise." Benediction
by Elder R. Leatham.
		SUSANNAH E. LLOYD, Sec'y.
		MARTHA A. LLOYD, Ass't Sec'y.

	The Santaquin Relief Society held their
twelfth annual meeting on Thursday, Nov. 4,
1880. Singing, prayer, etc. The report for
the year and the annual reports of the Y. L.
M. I. A. and Primary Association and Silk
Association were read. Pres. Stickney as usual
spoke very encouragingly to the sisters upon
the importance of the early training of their
children and sustaining the Primary and
Young Ladies Associations.
	Bishop Halliday addressed the sisters for a
short time. His remarks were calculated to
encourage us to be diligent and persevere in
the good work in which we delight, &c.
	Brother Johnathan Wolstenhulme followed
with some very encouraging and appropriate
remarks, blest the sisters in ministering to the
wants of the needy, &c.
	Counselor E. Broadbent bore testimony to
the truth of the work. The Spirit of the
Lord was in our midst. We had an excellent
time; many more of the sisters were desirous
to speak, but time would not permit.
	Praying God to bless all those who labor for
the welfare of Zion,
	ELIZABETH J. STICKNEY, Pres't.
	ANN J. STICKNEY, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 111


LIFE INCIDENTS.

BY  HELEN  MAR WHITNEY.

"I  made  a  statement  to  the  brethren  like
this:  I have three chiidren now, and  have  not
seen one of them.  This was  a great puzzle to
them until I unraveled it--one of them  I  had
not seen.
"At  Pillow  Point  we  separated,  Brigham
Young, Lyman  E. Johnson  and  Orson Pratt
and myself took a steamboat and landed at St.
Albans.  *    *  The same day we  passed into
Sheldon,  the  place  of  my nativity, and  where
I  lived  until  I  was  upwards of nine  years of
age.  We  stayed  that  night  with  one  of  my
youthful  playmates.  In the  morning Brother
Pratt  left  me, and  I  continued  there  visiting
the people and declaring to them my testimony
of the Gospel and the Book of Mormon, and
on the  Sabbath following, I, for the first  time,
had  an  appointment  to  preach, being without
a comrade, and   there  I  publicly  declared to
them, my  testimony.  On  Tuesday  following I
went to  Bakersfield, to  one  of  my aunts--my
mother's  sister.  Remained there  a  few  days,
declaring the  truth to them as  t[-]e Lord gave
me  utterance.  My  friends  belie[-]ed  my  testi-
mony, and  acknowledged  the  truth  of it, but
did not obey the ordinance.
	"I started for St. Johnsbury, and took a by-
path  across the Green  Mountains. The first
of these I ascended six miles, and then passed
through the core  of the mountain.  The rocks
on  one  side  for  about  a mile were  very high
and perpendicular;  on the  other side not quite
so high.  The two  main  ranges  of  the Green
Mountains were  each  ten  miles across, without
an inhabitant,  and  nothing  but  a  wilderness
country  densely  covered  with  timber, I had
no  company but  wild  animals  and screeching
owls.  When I arrived in St. Johnsbury I met
my brethren in council  on the 17th  of  July, in
a  barn  belonging  to  a  Mr. Snow, In  this
neighborhood  the  Snow,  Farr,  Badger  and
Bingham  families  received  the Gospel.  Here
we  had  a  good  time, and a large  concourse of
people, attended, who were addressed by Elders
P. P.  Pratt  and  Wm. E. McLellen;  several
were baptized.  From thence we separated and
in different directions.  I went alone down the
Connecticut River into New Hampshire, to the
town  of  New Lisbon;  preached four times and
baptized  one.  The  Lord  was  with me and
blessed  me with His Spirit and gave me utter-
ance.
 "From thence I went  down the  Connecticut
River, passing through  Hanover, and  came to
Plainfield,  where  I  had  connections  residing,
and  where  my  mother  was  born  and brought
up.  Stayed  there  a  few  days  and visited my
relatives,  teaching  the  Gospel  from  house  to
house.   I  found  considerable  opposition, even
among  my  own  kindred.    From  thence   I
passed  through  Claremont,  a  fine, flourishing
town  on the Merrimack River.     *        *        *
I also passed  through  the  towns  of  Nashua
and  Lowel.  Having  traveled  much  on  foot,
my feet  were  exceedingly sore, and  I was un-
der the  necessity of taking stage for Bradford;
where I  met  in  Conference  with eight of the
Twelve Apostles on  the  7th  of  August.  The
Lord  was  merciful  with  us, and  some  were
added to the Church.
 "From thence I went to Boston, in company
with Elders T. B. Marsh and B. Young.  *   *
Two or three public  meetings were held by us,
several  were  believing  and  some baptized.-
Each of us received a snit  of  clothes from Sis-
ters  Fanny Brewer, Polly  Voce  and other sis-
ters in Boston.
 "From  thence  we  returned  through  Brad-
ford  and  came  to  Dover,  where we  staid two
nights.  There  was  a  great  excitement  in
Dover to see the Mormon Apostles.  Brother
Jeremiah  Wiley obtained  permission  to  show
us  through  one  of  the  large  factories in that
town;  we  were  shown  through  every  depart-
ment, from where the bales  of raw cotton were
taken in, to the place where the bales of prints
were  taken  out  of  the  factory;  and  such was
the  desire  to  see  us, that  as  we  entered  each
department  all  the  men and'women stopped,
work to gaze at us.
 "In company with  B.  Young, D. W. Patten
and T. B. Marsh, I went to Saco,  Maine.  Here
we  met  in  Conference  and  instructed the
brethren. as  the Lord gave  us utterance;  some
were  baptized,  and  many  others  were  believ-
ing.  We preached in several towns, and there
seemed to be an effectual door open.
	“From Saco  we  proceeded  to Farmington;
Maine, where  we  held  our  last Conference for
the year 1835.  We had  a  good  time, for  the
Lord  was  with  us, as  He  had  been in all our
councils.  We had now completed  our mission
and the object for which we were sent, viz., the
laying  before the  different  branches  of  the
Church the subjects  mentioned in the Book of
Covenants, Sec. 98, par. 10.
	“According to  this  revelation,  there were
wisemen appointed  in  all  these  Conferences
that we  held;  each  Conference  appointing  its
own. We also laid before them the importance
of this  thing,  and  of  building  the  House of
the Lord  in  Kirtland, and  of  publishing  the
word  of  God to the  nations  of the  earth, and
we feel as though  our skirts were clear of thei[-]
blood, for we had done as the Lord commanded.
There were but a few instances of the command-
ment  having  been  observed by those to whom
it was  given, and the non-compliance of it was
a  principal  cause  of the  Saints  being  driven
from  Jackson  County, Missouri, as  had  been
foretold  of  the  Lord by His prophet.


"We then met in council and agreed to re-
turn to Kirtland. We appointed the day and
hour when we should meet upon the steamboat
wharf at Buffalo. Here we were a thousand
miles from Kirtland, and pretty much without
money. During this mission the Lord had
made Himself manifest in healing the sick,
casting out devils, &c., and manifested his
miraculous power under our administration.
	"August 31. This, morning we started for
home.
	"Sept. 3. I arrived at the house of Brother
J. H. Hale, in Dover, and stayed one day.
Elder P. P. Pratt preached. I left my brethren
at this place, and taking stage arrived same
day at Concord, N. H. I understood an Abo-
litionist named Davis was going to deliver a
lecture at the Court House. I went with the
other stage passengers to hear his principles.
After waiting some time for the gentleman,
instead of seeing his person, as we anticipated,
we beheld an uproar among the people, and
our ears were saluted with the howls of three
or four hundred demons in human shape, who
were in search of the Abolitionist; and not
finding him in the State House, nor streets,
they commenced demolishing a building and
searching others. After a little while the
peace officers prevailed on them to desist.
	"They then prepared an effigy, which they
carried through the streets on a rail for some
time; then forming an assembly before the
State House, had an oration delivered on the
subject and burned the effigy, while the men of
the city dared not to open their mouths, or say
aught to them. They then went to a place
where they had three pieces of cannon, which
they continued firing until daylight. This
was a night of peculiar feeling; reflecting up-
on the night when my Brethren were driven
from their homes in Jackson County, Missouri,
by a similar mob; and also considering that
the time might come when I might fall into
the hands of a like band of ruffians. My cry
to the Lord was, save the man from the hands
of these foul monsters. There was such an
uproar in the city next morning that it took
five men to hold the horses while the passen-
gers got into the stage. This man was one of
the first lecturers on Abolitionism in that
country, which was then very unpopular.
	"Sept. 6, I left Concord, came by stage to
Lebanon, and walked to Plainfield, where I
tarried two days with my cousin, Charles
Spaulding, (at the house where my mother
was born and reared) from whom I received a
legacy of seven dollars, bequeathed by my
aunt, Speedy Spaulding, who had died a short
time before; she had left a similar sum to each
of my mother’s children. By this means I
was enabled to pursue my journey."
	Before returning to Kirtland, my father
spent a few days visiting his friends in Men-
don, and two sisters, one living in Canandai-
gua, and another in Byron, State of New
York; then took stage for Buffalo, riding all
night, where, he says, "I arrived just one hour
previous to the time appointed to meet my
brethren; I found all of them waiting my ar-
rival. We went on board the Steamer United
States, and proceeded as far as Dunkirk, where
she struck a rock and sprung a le[-]k; she made
her way for Erie, where she arrived with diffi-
culty, but we were under the necessity of run-
ning upon a sand bar to save the boat from
sinking. There we tarried on the boat twenty-
four hours, when another boat came along and
wo moved on to it, and in a few hours arrived
at Fairport. We hired two wagons, and ar-
rived at home on the 27th of September.
	"We found our families, friends and brethren
all enjoying health and prosperity, and we were
cordially received.
			To be Continued.


112	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SPANISH FORK, UTAH Co., Utah.
	Many of my friends have repeatedly ex-
pressed a desire to see the productions of my
pen in print; and believing it to be a duty, I
have consented, although with much diffidence,
to publish a small volume of poems and songs,
prefaced by a brief autobiography. I lay no
claim to poetic ability, but have written just as
I have been moved upon by the spirit of in-
spiration. The boot will contain upwards of
130 pages, bound in cloth, embossed cover, gilt
lettered, and the price will be one dollar. In
undertaking this enterprise, I sincerely solicit
the kind support and patronage of my friends.
			Very respectfully,
					HANNAH CORNABY.
	November, 1880.


I have suffered from kidney difficulty for the
past ten years, accompanied by nervous spasms.
Physicians gave me but temporary relief, but
after using three and one-half bottles of War-
ner's Safe Kidney and Liver Cure, my nervous
spasms were entirely relieved. My age is 77
years. I recommend the great remedy, to all
sufferering from nervous troubles.
						MRS. MARY REESE.
		Easton, pa.


[Column 1]
	AROUSING ITS READERS.—An alarm of fire at
midnight is a startling thing, but not half so
startling to many who hear it as would be the
sudden knowledge of their own dangerous phy-
sical condition. Thousands of thousands are
hurrying to their graves because they are care-
lessly indifferent to the insidious inroads of dis-
eass and the means of cure. It is the mission of
H. H. Warner & Co., with their Safe Kidney
and Liver Cure, to arouse men to a sense of their
danger and cure them.—Memphis Appeal.

WARNER'S
SAFE
[image of a black worker]
KIDNEY & LIVER
CURE

HAVE YOU SEEN THE
NEW VICTOR SEWING MACHINE?
	If not you should do so at once, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction. The New Machine
is elegant in appearance and admirable in operation, runs
very easily and without any noise and confusion, although
the rate of speed is very high. Its self-setting and self-
threading shuttle, and absence of springs and cogs, renders
it both simple and durable. ☞ Be sure to see it, for its
general advantages will make you its friend.
VICTOR SEWING MACHINE CO., CHICAGO, ILL.
O. H. RIGGS, Agent, Salt Lake City.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS.
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
To be found in the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

[Column 2]
ROMANIA B. PRATT,
Physician and Surgeon.
	OFFICE—Up Stairs, in Old Constitution Building.
RESIDENCE—Six Blocks East of Post Office, South side
of street.
☞Special study has been given to Obstetrics, Diseases of
Women, and DISEASES of the EYE and EAR.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Fall and Winter Goods. ☜

ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon.

	OFFICE on Main St., Old Constitution Buildings.
RESIDENCE on South Temple Street, between 9th and
16th East Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, Diseases of Children
and Diseases of the THROAT, HEART and LUNGS.

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST.
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed !

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

A LARGE TOCK
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES, FEATHERS, WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES,
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST.
[image of dentures]
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE:—MAIN ST., OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE
P. O. BOX 541,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT

			The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

