VOL. 9.		SALT LAKE  CITY,  UTAH,  SEPTEMBER  15, 1880.		No. 8.


A MOTHER'S  ADDRESS  TO HER
				CHILDREN.
	Written for Sister M. I. Horne and addressed
by  her  to upwards  of  fifty  of her  children  and
grandchildren, on the  occasion of their  Re-union
in the old home. By E. H. Woodmansee.

Is it needful  that I should SAY welcome?
	Is it needful my feelings to speak?
In a measure I'll try to express them,
	But language is feeble and weak
To tell the entire satisfaction--
	The comfort,  the  pride and the pleasure;
That I have in beholding my children,
	Again in the old home together.

When I look on this circle of faces,
	With Jacob, I'm led to exclaim--
"All these God  hath given me," surely--
	'Tis meet to acknowledge his name;
With praise and with thanks I adore Him,
	That so many belonging to me--
My children, and their  children also--
	Well and happy arround me I see.

My bosom  is thrill'd with emotion;
	Hopes and fears,  that I cannot relate;
Reaching out to the future before you--
	Hopes and fears, for your possible fate.
O, a mother would  fain live for ever--
	And sheild all her children  from  ill;
Yet her arm is  but flesh, it is feeble--
	Compared to her love and her will.

Aud Age! must  pass over "the River"--
	It cannot contend with the tide:
But  the Lord  is a safe guard foreve;
	He is always a help to the tried.
And trial is  mortality's portion,
	Yea, the Saints must  be  tried as by fire;
To refine, to prepare, to perfect them--
	For the glory, to which they aspire.

Though our patience and worth, we will merit
	That grand  and endurable prize
A crown,  of Eternal Salvation--
	The reward  of the faithful and wise.
But O, we must struggle to gain it,--
	For such is our Father's decree;
God himself cannot make us obtain it;
	Unless we will diligent be.

And this is a mother's petition--
	That your love may  be never estranged--
From  the Truth,  that the light of the Gospel--
	May be yours, through each  trial and change.
Be true to yourselves,  for your honor--
	By your covenants faithfully stand;
The soul that is bound by his honor--
	Is fitted to serve, or command.

If but one of a househould,  to virtue
	Turn's traitor, and merits his doom;
All who love him, are plunged into sorrow;
	Into deepest affliction and gloom.
I pray that you all may be faithful
	To your conscience, your friends and your God
That you'll walk in the "strait narrow pathway"
	That the wise and the worthy have trod.

I trust  by your  actions forever--
	Your motives will worthy be proved;
That  you all  may be justly respected,
	Even honor'd, and trusted, and lov'd.
Wherever you go, may the angels--
	Your footsteps direct and attend;
May your toil  be abundantly prosper'd;
	Yea, may  blessings upon you descend.

And if in the old home together--
	Face to face we may never more meet;
In a home that is brighter and better--
	May this circle be full and complete;
[column break]
Where the ties of affection are strengthen'd--
	Where they blossom, and flourish, and grow;
Where kindred in love are united;
	Nor anguish of parting will know.

When Earth is a sanctified planet;
	When 'tis cleansed  and celestialized  too;
May we all be allow'd to possess it,
	With the noble, the tried and the true;
And  receive with the faithful  our portion
	That the Father is pleased to bestow,
On  all who have valiantly labor'd
	To build up his kingdom below.
That  we all may have wisdom to merit
	(Nor one even more than another)
The blessing of "Life everlasting,"
	Is the prayer, and the hope of your mother.

S. L. City, Aug. 25th 1880.


[Column 1]
PEN SKETCH OF AN ILLUSTRIOUS
WOMAN.

ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.

(Continued.)

	Sister Eliza has evinced, through the whole
course of her eventful life, a remarkable degree
of adaptability to circumstances, which has en-
abled her to pass through the trying experiences
with which "Mormon" life abounds with greater
equanimity than she could otherwise have
done. The great secret of the success she has
achieved is no doubt mainly due to the simple
fact that she has never been known to shrink
from any task assigned her, however arduous
it might appear.
	On the 10th of December, 1838, in the cold,
bleak winter, Miss Snow, with her father's
family, left her home in Davies County, Mo.--
the "Mormon's" in that locality having been
previously ordered by the Governor to leave
the county within ten days. They accordingly
moved from Davies to Caldwell Co.
	Sister Eliza says her father, in assisting wid-
ows and others, was detained until the very
last day of "grace" allotted to the Mormons
for leaving the county; the weather was very
cold indeed, and the ground was covered with
snow; she walked on to warm her aching feet
until the teams would overtake her; meantime
she met one of the "so-called militia," who
abruptly accosted her: "Well, I think this will
cure you of your faith." The young heroine
looked him steadily in the eye and replied: "It
will take more than this to cure me of my
faith." His countenance fell and he responded,
"I must confess you are a better soldier than I
am." It is indeed wonderful to what injustice,
hardships and persecutions those grandly brave
men and women endured for the sake of their
religion, without a murmur or complaint; and
remember, kind readers, these things transpired
before the principle of plural marriage had
ever been revealed. While this little company
of fugitives were fleeing from danger towards
Far West, they stopped one night at what was
called the "Half-way House," a place built of
logs, perhaps twenty feet square, and then en-
tirely without chinking. This had been the
"almost shelterless shelter" of the hundreds of
poor wanderers who had gone on before them,
compelled by the ruthless mobs to leave their
homes of comfort in mid-winter. On this oc-
casion there were about seventy-five or eighty
persons. Miss Snow says she and her sister Leo-
nora managed so that their mother could lie
down, and they sat by upon the floor to prevent
her being trampled upon, for the travelers were

[Column 2]
crowded into this small space like so many
cattle, and they could hardly be responsible for
their movements. The food the people had
with them was frozen hard, and though there
was a blazing fire in one side of the room, she
says it was not possible for them to get to it to
thaw the food for their suppers, therefore they
resorted to a very novel expediency, which she
tells thus: "The boys milked, and while one
strained the milk another held the pan (for
there was no chance of putting anything down);
then while one held a bowl of the warm milk,
another would, as expeditiously as possible,
thinly slice the frozen bread into it, and thus
we managed for supper. In the morning we
were less crowded, as some started very early,
and we toasted our bread and thawed our meat
before the fire. But, withal, that was a very
merry night. About twenty feet from the
house was a shed, in the centre of which the
brethren built a roaring fire, around which
some of them stood and sang songs and hymns
all night, while others parched corn, roasted
frosted potatoes, etc. Not a complaint was
heard--all were cheerful, and judging from
appearances, strangers would have taken us to
be pleasure excursionists rather than a band of
gubernatorial exiles."
	Reaching the city of Far West, they found
such scenes of sorrow and suffering as no lan-
guage can faithfully depict. The prophet and
many other prominent brethren had been
dragged off to prison, their families were desti-
tute, "and desolation seemed inscribed on
everything but the hearts of the faithful Saints.
In the midst of affliction, they trusted in God."
	It is indeed pitiful to even hear related, or
to read, the history of the cruelties inflicted
upon those innocent, inoffensive men, women
and children during the persecutions in Mis-
souri.
	Sister Eliza says, on the 5th of March, 1839,
while the weather was still very cold and win-
try, they left Far West, leaving much of their
property behind them, and started for Illinois,
whither many of these poor exiles had preceded
them. Her father moved into one of the
northern counties of that State, but Eliza and
her sister stopped in Quincy, Illinois. While
there she wrote some characteristic articles for
the press, and received very flattering encomi-
ums of praise, and many pressing solicitations
to contribute other poetical articles. It was of
course something of a novelty to find genius so
rare inherent in a "Mormon girl," an exile at
that. From Quincy Miss Snow and her sister
moved to Lima, and lived there for a short
time, supporting themselves with needle-work,
compelled to submit to circumstances. It was
then their home-industrial training stood them
in good stead.
	In May, 1839, the Saints began to gather in
Commerce, on the banks of the Mississippi,
afterwards called Nauvoo; and about the mid-
dle of July Sidney Rigdon sent for Miss Snow
to come up there and teach his family school.
She had been living in comparative seclusion,
and away from the society of the Saints, and
it must have been a happy message which came
to her, to join the society of those she loved so
truly, and be associated again with those who
were searching for the knowledge and intelli-
gence which comes only from a divine source.
	During the seven years that Sister Eliza re-
sided in Nauvoo, some of the most important
events occurred in her career which could
mark the life of woman or of Saint. It was


during that  period  she  wrote the most sublime
and  lofty  poetry, and  an  inspiration  from on
High seemed  to  be  resting upon her  almost
constantly.  The  Church  itself  was  passing
through wonderful stages in advancement.  The
revelations  of God seemed to pour down upon
the Prophet Joseph, insomuch  that  a new era,
as it were, was begun, and  light and intelligence
which  had  long  been  hid  was made known to
the faithful, who had proven their  integrity to
the  cause  they had so  earnestly espoused, and
so  manfully  maintained  in  the  face  of every
difficulty and  unjust  and  unwarrantable  op-
pression.
 Woman participated in the glorious blessings
that were imparted with the ushering in of this
phase of  the  new  dispensation;  and  woman
partook  of  the  divine  sacrament,  which  was
offered  only to  those  who  had  complied with
the requirements of heaven  and  made a sacri-
fice through obedience.  At  this  period a new
era dawned upon woman;  marriage and moth-
erhood  were  indeed  supremely  glorified,  and
the  Spirit  of  God  enlightened  the minds of
those  who  humbled  themselves  and  sought a
testimony of the divinity of those eternal prin-
ciples, which seemed too sublimely  lofty for hu-
man comprehension.
 Perhaps  it  was about this  time  that  Sister
Eliza  composed  the  wonderful  hymn,  which
has been sung by thousands and thousands ever
since, and  in  every land  to  which  the  Gospel
has  been  carried, in which she so beautifully
portrays  the  home  of  our Father and Mother
in  heaven, our  mission here  on  earth and our
welcome  home  to  the  paternal mansion  in the
celestial kingdom.
 The "Invocation" breathes  the  very soul of
purity, and has awakened thoughts in the minds
of thousands  concerning our former home that
would  otherwise  never  have  been  stirred.
Who  ever  thought  of a  real  mother  in  the
spirit world?  and  yet the mother-love is strong
in the soul of man;  but these beautiful lines of
hers  have  been  like a sweet  and  grateful in-
cense  to  the  hearts  of  many  who  longed  for
some  satisfactory expression  of  this deep emo-
tion  which  they  could  not  define,  but which
they find in these touching words:

	"In the heavens are parents single?
	No; the thought makes reason stare!
	Truth is reason--truth eternal
	Tells me I've a mother there.

	"When I leave this frail existence--
	When I lay this mortal by,
	Father, Mother, may I meet you
	In your royal courts on high?

The whole  hymn  is  full  of  tenderness,  and
yet there is a strength  of  language in it which
carries conviction with the words.
The  gift  of  prophecy,  through  the  inspira-
tion  of  poetry, is  noticeable  in  the  writings ofo
this eminent  woman,  and  indeed she seems to
inherit from her illustrious race this character-
istic of her Hebrew origin.
			To be Continued.


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.


"XANTIPPE—A FRAGMENT."
			  BY AMY LEVY.
   In the May number of  the University Mag-
azine  appeared  a short  poem  entitled “Xan-
tippe; a Fragment,” which besides  being of
considerable interest  to  classical  scholars,
nobly expresses the indignation of true woman-
hood at the unjust subjection  in  which  women
have been kept.  The  novelty  of the  concep-
tion of Xantippe's character,  and  the  earnest
and thoughtful beauty of the  lines, tempt  the
writer of this brief  notice  to direct attention
to it.
   The name of Xantippe, the  celebrated  wife
of the  great  philosopher  Socrates, is more or
﻿less familiar to every one.  Her fame  has  not
been,  hitherto,  altogether  an  enviable  one.
She stands forth as the prototype of a “scold,”
and is very far from being a romantic and poe-
tic figure in  history.  That  this popular  view
of Socrates’ wife is  not  altogether  a just one;
there is some ground for supposing, and indeed
every reason to  believe  that  she  was a  very
true and attached wife and an excellent mother,
though undoubtedly of  a hasty and passionate
tempter.  Socrates himself,  is said to have  ad-
mitted that she always  influenced  him for  the
good.  It should be remembered too, in mitiga-
tion, that many  things  in  the life of  Socrates
must have been  sore trials  to his wife—for in-
stance, his devotion to  the fair Aspasia.  Still,
however this  may  be, the  hand is a  bold  one
which attempts to,in the face of the popular ver-
dict of  centuries, invest  her  with  a  character
totally foreign to that which has been assigned
her. This Miss Levy  does, and in some  very
beautiful, thoughtful  and  powerful lines, pro-
ceeds to  invest “Xantippe” with  an  interest
until now quite unthought of.
  At seventeen, Xantippe,  a  fair  Athenian
girl, stands “at life’s great  threshold  with a
beating  heart  and  soul,  resolved  to  conquer
and attain.” She sees Socrates in  the  public
places of the city, and her first instinctive feel-
ing is one of repugnance  at  his  uncouth  and
almost  deformed  appearance;  and  when  told
by her father that she is to  wed him—
	She foolish wept, to see at once cast down
	The maiden image of a future love,
	Where perfect body matched the perfect  soul.
But at length  the mighty  soul  of  the great 
philosopher sweeps  before  it this  repugnance,
and the young  maiden loses all  thought of the
uncouth frame, in  noting  the  magic flash of
genius in his  eye, and  listening to the flow of
his learned  eloquence.  Here  the  nobler
thoughts of the  maiden find  their  sequel, her
soul kindles  with the thought of the holy com-
munion of her mind  and his, and with dreams
of life, in  which, strenthened and  upheld  by
his majestic intellect, she may fathom the depths
of  the  unknown,  and  in  true  unison, pass
through  life  to  a  glorious  eternity,  not the
mere plaything, not the  household drudge, the
passive bearer of his children, but as true wife,
true helpmeet, and  kindred soul.  Her  early
and dawning dream is  realized, and in a noble
enthusiasm she  becomes the wife  of Socrates.
	Wed to him, the cruel truth is borne  in up-
on  her;  the  hopelessness  of  her  dreams, is re-
vealed  to  her.  The  philosopher  does not
wish for a  companion--does not seek  for such
in  woman.  He  treats  her  kindly, and gives
her raiment  and food; her mind does not exist
for him.  Yet she does not wish to blame him,
for he meant
	No evil, so I take it, to his wife;
	Twas only that the high philosopher
	Pregnant with noble theories and great thoughts,
	Deigned not to stoop to trust to slight a thing
	As the fine fabric of a woman's brain. 
	I think if he had stooped a little and cared,
	I might have risen nearer to his hight,
	And not been shattered, neither fit for use
	As goodly household vessel, nor for that 
	Far finer thing which I had hoped to be.
    Xantippe for a short time struggles with  her 
fate, and to her unresponsive lord urges her
thirst for real love. At length her spirit  is
broken, and  she  determines  to bend to  fate,
and leaving all her high aspirations unfulfilled,
to strive to become  the  thrifty  housewife; the
noble burst of angry and  eloquent  despair,  in
which  she  takes  this resolve, is exceeding
powerful. .  . ."Can it be
	That we poor women are empirical;
	That gods who fashioned us did strive to make
	Beings too fine, too subtly delicate,
	With sense that thrilled response to every touch
	Of nature;  and  their task is not complete;
	That they have sent their half completed work
	To bleed and quiver hero upon the earth?
	To bleed and quiver and to weep and weep,
	To beat its soul against the marble walls 
 	Of men's'cold hearts and then at last to die?
								 R. L. K.
—English Woman's  Review.


THE EDITOR,

	The work of an editor can only be appreci-
ated by those who have had the fortune to have
had some little experience of it. The editor of
a London daily newspaper is held answerable
for every word in forty-eight, and sometimes
sixty columns. The merest slip of the pen, an
epithet too much, a wrong date, a name mis-
spelt or with a wrong initial before it, a mis-
take as to some obscure personage only too
glad to seize the opportunity of showing himself,
the misinterpretation of some passage perhaps
incapable of interpretation, the most trifling
offence to the personal or national susceptibility
of those who do not even profess to care for the
feelings of others, may prove not only disagree-
able,but even,costly mistakes to which an editor
is liable. As it is imposible to say what a night
may bring forth, and the most important intel-
ligence is apt to be the latest, it will ofteu find
him with none to share his responsibility, with-
out advisers, and with colleagues either pre-
engaged on other matters or no longer at hand.
The editor must be on the spot-till the paper is
sent to press, and make decisions on which not
only the approval of the British Public, but
great events, and even great causes, may hang.
All the most serious part of his duties has to
be discharged at the end of a long day's work,
a day of interruptions and conversations, of
letter reading and letter writing, when mind
and body are not what they were twelve hours
ago, and wearied nature is putting in her gentle
pleas. An editor cannot husband his strength
for the night's battle with comparative repose
in the solitude of a study or the freshness of
green fields. He must see the world, converse
with its foremost or busiest actors, be open to
information, and on guard against error. All
this ought to be borne in mind by those who
complain that journalism is not infallibly ac-
curate, just and agreeable. Their complaints
are like those of the conrt lord who found fault
with the disagreeable necessities of warfare.—
London Times.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	FROM Martinique comes the news of an-in-
teresting antiquarian discovery, in the shape of
the anchor of the ship in which Columbus sailed
on his third voyage to the new world. It is
well known that in 1498 his little fleet came to
anchor at the south-west extremity of the islrnd
of Trinidad, called Arenas Point, and that dur-
ing the night the ship encountered great dan-
ger from a tidal wave, caused by the sudden
swelling of one of the rivers that empties itself
into the Gulf of Paria. The only damage
suffered, however, was the loss of the Admiral's
anchor. This has recently been found by Sen-
or Agostino, while excavating in his garden at
Point Arenas. The anchor weighs 1100
pounds, and was at first supposed to be of
Phoenician origin, but careful inspection re-
vealed the date 1497 on the stock. The geol-
ogical conditions of the ground in which the
discovery was made bear out the conclusions
that the anchor is a relic of Columbus.—Ex.


NOTICE:  The Secretaries of the Y. L. M. I. A.
of this Stake are  requested to forward Quarterly
Reports immediately  to the Offics of WOMAN'S
EXPONENT to be  read at  the Sisters' Quartely
Conference Sep. 25, 1880.
		MARY A.  FREEZE, Pres.
		AUGUSTA J. CROEHERON,  Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		59


LIFE INCIDENTS.
	BY HELEN  MAR WHITNEY.

	I had  intended  to  pass  on without  farther
mention of Zion's  Camp, but  in  looking  over
their history I find it  contains so much that is
interesting, as well as suggestive, that I am in-
clined to  copy a portion  of it  for  the  perusal
of those who are interested in the work of God,
believing that it will be a source  of  comfort as
well as instruction to  the Saints who have had
to drink of the cup of sorrow, and  have  been
tried  in  the furnace  of  affliction.  The follow-
ing is from my father's journal:
	"There were  about one hundred brethren  in
our  company  who  started  for  Zion.  These
brethren  were  all  young  men, and  nearly all
Elders,  Priests,  Teachers.  or  Deacons.  The
second day we arrived at New Portage, *  *
at  which  place, on  the  7th, we  made  regula-
tions for traveling, and appointed a paymaster,
whose name  was  Frederick  G.  Williams, and
put  all  our  monies  into a general fund; some
of the brethaen had considerable, and  others
had little or none, yet all became equal. *  *
We  then  proceeded  on  our  journey twelve
miles, to the Chippeway River; here we pitched
our tents under a fine grove.
	"The next day we were divided into compa-
nies of twelve each, and captains were appoint-
ed  over each company.  I  then  organized  my
company in  the  following  manner, appointing
two  to  attend to cooking, two to see that fires
were made, two to prepare the tent at night and
prepare the bedding, and also to strike the tent
each  morning, two to  fetch and provide water,
one to do the running, two to see to the horses,
see the wagon was greased, and everything pre-
pared for starting; my business was to see that
the company was prepared for, and to see that
all things were done in order.  Our living  was
generally  very good, being  able  to  buy bread
from  the  bakers  or  inhabitants  on  the  way
through the settled part of the country.  After
this we purchased flour and had to bake our own
bread;  we  sometimes  had  to live  on  johnny-
cake  and corn dodger, and sometimes  our liv-
ing was scant.  Every night before we went to
bed we  united  in  our  tent and offered  up our
prayers before the  Lord  for  protection.  This
was done by all of the companies at the sound
of the trumpet;  and at the  sound of the trum-
pet  in  the  morning  every man  was  upon his
knees, each  one being called upon in  his turn
to  be mouth  in  prayer.  The same  order was
attended to in each tent.
	"There were  general  officers  appointed over
the  company, viz.:  Joseph Smith, Commander;
Dr. F. G. Williams, Quartermaster and Histo-
rian  of the  camp;  Zerubbabel Snow  and  Na-
than Tanner, Commissioner of subsistence; Syl-
vester Smith, Adjutant, and Roger Orton, Cap-
tain  of the  guard.  On  the 8th we started on
our  journey, and  on  Saturday,  the  10th,  we
passed  through  Mansfield and  camped for the
Sabbath  in  Richfield.  *  *  *  When  we
came  to  Belle  Fountain  we first  discovered
refractory feelings in Sylvester Smith.  *  * *
	"On Saturday, the 17th, we passed into Indi-
ana, just over the line betwixt the States of Ohio
and Indiana, where  we  camped  for  the Sab-
bath, having traveled forty miles that day;  our
feet  were  very  sore  and  blistered,  and  our
stockings were wet with blood, the weather be-
ing very warm.  I walked most of the journey,
letting the lame and  footsore ride in my stead.
I frequently invited the prophet  to ride, seeing
him  lame  and  footsore;  on  such  occasions he
would  bless  me with a hearty  good will.  My
team performed the journey very well.
	"During the night a spy from the enemy at-
tempted to get into our  camp,  but was stopped
by the guard.  We had our sentinels or guards
appointed every night, on account of spies con-
tinually harassing us.  This evening there was
[column break]
quite a difficulty between some of the brethren
and  Sylvester  Smith,  on  occasion  of  which
Brother Joseph was called to decide the matter.
Finding  quite a rebellious  spirit  in  Sylvester
Smith, and  to  some  extent  in  others, he said
they  would  meet  with  misfortune, difficulties
and hindrances, "and you will know it before you
leave  this  place;"  exhorting  them  to  humble
themselves before the Lord and become united,
that they might not be scourged.
	"A very singular  occurrence took place that
night  and the  next day concerning our teams.
On  the  following  morning when we  arose we
found almost  every horse in the camp so badly
foundered  that we  could  scarcely  lead them a
few  rods  to  the  water.  The  brethren  then
deeply realized  the  effects  of  discord.  When
Brother Joseph learned the fact  he  exclaimed
to the brethren that was for a witness that God
overruled  and had his  eye upon them, that all
those who would  humble themselves before the
Lord should  know that the hand  of  God  was
in  this  misfortune, and their horses should be
restored to  health immediately;  and by twelve
o'clock the same day the horses were as nimble
as ever, with the exception of one of Sylvester
Smith's, which soon afterwards died.  *  * *
	"May 21st we  passed  through  Indianapolis,
*  *  where we crossed White River.  *  *
We had  been  threatened by our  enemies that
we should  not  go  through  the  town, but we
passed  through  unmolested;  everything  ap-
peared  to  be  in  perfect  silence  as  we  went
through, although the people looked aghast, as
if fear  had  come  upon  them.  *  *  *  On
Sunday, the  25th, we  arrived  at  the  edge  of
Illinois.  *  *  On  the  26th  we  resumed  our
journey.  At  night  we  were  alarmed  by the
continual threatening of our enemies.  I would
here  remark  that  notwithstanding  so  many
threats were thrown out against us, we did not
fear nor hesitate to proceed on our journey, for
God was  with  us, and  angels went  before  us,
and we  had  no  fear  of either  men  or devils.
This we know because angels were seen.  * *
	"On Sunday, June 1st, we had preaching all
day, and  many  of  the inhabitants  of  the town
came  out  to  hear.  Brother  John  S.  Carter
preached  in  the  morning.  *  *  Brother
Joseph  proposed  that  some  of the  brethren
should set  forth different portions  of  the  Gos-
pel in their discourses.  He called upon Brother
Joseph  Young to preach upon the principles of
free salvation.  He  then  called upon Brother
Brigham  to  speak, who  set  forth  baptism  as
essential  to  salvation.  He  was  followed  by
Brother Orson Hyde, who proved by the Scrip-
tures  that  baptism  was  for  the  remission  of
sins.  Lyman E. Johnson spoke at some length
upon  the  necessity  of men  being  upright in
their walk and keeping the  Sabbath day holy.
Brother  Orson  Pratt  delivered  an  excellent
discourse on the principles  of  the final restora-
tion  of  all  things.  The  services  of  the  day
were  concluded  by  a  powerful  exhortation
from Eleazer Miller.  His voice was said to be
heard a mile  and a half.  *  *  Brother Mil-
ler was  one  of  the  first  that brought the Gos-
pel to us in  Mendon, N. Y., and when he used
to  retire  to  a  little grove  near my house  for
secret  prayer, he  would  get  so  filled with the
spirit  and  the  power  of  the Holy Ghost, that
he would burst out into a loud voice, so that he
was  heard  by the  surrounding inhabitants for
more than a mile.
	"After the  services  were  over  many stran-
gers were in  our  camp  making remarks upon
the  preaching  which  they  had  heard.  They
said  Brother Joseph  Young, by his  preaching,
they  should  judge  was  a  Methodist;  they
thought  Brigham  Young was a close commun-
ion  Baptist;  Orson Hyde  they supposed was a
Campbellite,  or  reformed  Baptist;  Lyman  E.
Johnson,  a  Presbyterian,  and  Orson  Pratt  a
Restorationer.  They  inquired  if  we  all be-
longed to one denomination.  The answer was
[column break]
we WERE some of us Baptists, some Methodists,
some Presbyterians, some Campbellites, some
Restorationers, &c.
	"On Sunday  morning,  when  we  passed
through Jacksonville, they undertook to count
us, and I  heard  one man say, who stood in the
door  of  a  cabinet  shop, that he had  counted a
little rising  of five hundred, but he  could  not
tell how many there were.  This thing was at-
tempted many times in villages  and  towns  as
we  passed through, but  the  people were  never
able to ascertain our number.
	"While traveling in Indiana some spies came
into our camp;  while we were eating dinner on
the  21st  of  May,  three  gentlemen  came  rid-
ing  upon  very  fine-looking  horses,  and  com-
menced  their  inquiries  of  various  ones  con-
cerning our traveling  in  so  large a body, ask-
ing  where  we were  from  and  where  we were
going.  The  reply  was  as  usual--some  from
the State of Maine, another would  say  I  am
from  York  State, some  from  Massachusetts,
some from  Ohio,  and  some  replied, "We are
from  the  East, and  as  soon  as we have  doue
eating  dinner  we  shall  be  going  to the West
again."  They  then  addressed  themselves  to
Dr.  Williams, to see if they could find out who
the leader of the camp was.  He replied, "We
have no one in particular."  They asked if we
had  not  a  General  to  take  the  lead  of the
company. The  reply was, no one in particu-
lar.  "But,"  said  they,  "is  there  not  some
one  among you whom  you  call  your  captain,
or leader,  or superior to the  rest?"  He  an-
swered, "Sometimes one and sometimes another
takes charge of the company, so as not to throw
the  burthen  upon  any  one  in  particular."
These same spies who had come from the West
passed us that same day and the next.
	"On Monday, June  2d, we  crossed  the Illi-
nois River.  The  enemies had threatened that
we shou!d not  pass  over, but we  were  ferried
across  without  any  difficulty.  Here we were
counted by the ferryman, and  he  declared  we
were five  hundred  in  number, although  there
were  only about one  hundred and  fifty of us;
our  company  had  increased  since  we  started
from Kirtland, in consequence of many having
volunteered and  joined  us  from  the  different
branches of the Church through which we had
passed on our journey.
			To be Continued.


The Sisters Quarterly Conference of this Stake
of Zion will be held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall in this City,on Friday and Saturday,the 24,
and 25, of September. A general attendance is
requested of all the branch societies wherever
the sisters can make it convenient. It is not ex-
pected that reports of Relief Societies will be read,
but the secretaries are requested to bring them
or forward them to the Stake Secretary, Mrs.
Elizabeth Howard, that she may be able to keep
a strict and correct account. The time will be
devoted to speaking and transacting such busi-
ness as may be brought before the conference.
The Primary and Y. L. M. I. A., Conference
will be held on Saturday, the 25th. Mrs. Ellen
C. S. Clawson is desirous of receiving the full
reports from all the organizations in Salt Lake
County.


WE are pleased to notice that Dr. Pratt com-
mences a new class in obstetrics during the win-
ter. She has been requested to teach this branch
of medicine by the leading sisters who are con-
stantly visiting through the Territory and wit-
nessing the painful lack of knowledge in this
department. Her office is central, and she has
the necessary charts, manikin, etc., requisite to
teach as thoroughly as can be expected in such a
partial course. Not only are the sisters inter-
ested in these classes, but the brethren of the
highest authority have extended their approval
and expressed their desire that the people take
advantage of the opportunity opened to them.


60		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1880.


VISIT OF  PRESIDENT  HAYES AND
				PARTY. 
				---------
	On Sunday morning, Sept. 5, at a quarter be-
fore ten o'clock, a special  train left this city for
Ogden, to  meet President  and Mrs. Hayes, Sec-
retary  Ramsey,  Gen. Sherman  and  the  party
traveling with  them  from  the  East.  The Salt
Lake  party  consisted  of President John Taylor
and  wife, Hon. John Sharp, Superintendent of
the Utah Central, and his daughter, Miss Nettie
Sharp,  Hon.  George  Q.  Cannon,  Gen.  D. H.
Wells and wife, Pres. Angus M. Cunnon and
his daughter,  Miss  Mina  Cannon, Gen.  H.  S.
Eldredge, Hon. Wm. Jennings and his son, Mr.
Joseph Jennings, C. W. Penrose, Editor Deseret
News, and  wife, Col. Theodore  McKean, Hon.
David O. Calder and H. W. Naisbitt, Esq.  The
train  reached  Ogden  before  eleven o'clock, and
the Presidential party did not arrive until twenty-
five  minutes  to  one  o'clock P.M. The  Ogden
Brass Band were playing enthusiastically  at the
depot, and a large crowd of citizens had assem-
bled to welcome the Chief Magistrate of the na-
tion and his friends.  There were five coaches in
the train, and the  engine was elaborately decor-
ated.  Governor Murray and  the Committe
were on board the train, having met the Eastern
party and joined them at Weber Station. 
	The President was  greeted  heartily by the as-
sembled crowd, and introduced to them by Gov-
ernor  Murray.  Prest.  Hayes said a few words,
and excused himself on account of its being the
Sabbath day; Secretary Ramsey did  the same.
Gen. Sherman being loudly called for, expressed
his  pleasure  briefly.  The  cars  containing the
new arrivals were then attached to the special
train from Salt Lake, the  engine  having been
artistically decorated  with flags and  streamers
for  the  occasion.  Immediately after, President
Hayes was introduced from the platform of his
car  by  Apostle Cannon  to  Prest. Taylor, Gen.
Wells and the other gentlemen and ladies of the 
party.  The train left Ogden amid loud cheering,
and in a few minutes the President of the United
States visited  Prest.  Taylor  and  his friends, re-
maining  with  them until  after the train passed
Kaysville.  His manner was most affable, and
he conversed with Prest. Taylor and others freely
upon  subjects  of  general interest pertaining to
the interests of  the Territory.  Shortly after the
President left, Secretary  Ramsey  came in and
spent a few moments, then Gen. Sherman, who
remained until the train reached the city.
	While the  train was  between  Kaysville and
Farmington, Mrs. Hayes  sent  to  invite the la-
dies  of Prest. Taylor's  party to visit  her in her
own car, to which they responded, and spent the
rest of the time with her until the train arrived
in the city.  Mrs. Hayes was  just as charming
as ever, very sociable with the ladies, and seemed
pleased and surprised with all that she saw and
heard. She was dressed in black cashmere, with
heavy crape trimmings, her hair put up plain in
the style  of  thirty years ago, and she looked the
very  picture  of  elegant simplicity.  Her  sweet,
intelligent face, her full, eloquent  eyes, her at-
tractive  manner, won all  hearts  at  once.  She
is  indeed  a  noble, whole-souled,  tender, loving,
gentle woman.
 At Farmington the Sunday Schools were  out
and  the  train  stopped  a  few  minutes  for the
President and Mrs. Hayes to  shake hands with
the  children.  A similar  scene was  enacted  at
Wood's  Cross, and both  the  President and  his
amiable wife seemed much pleased.
	When the train  arrived in the  city, carriages
were in waiting to escort the party to the Hotel,
which   had  been  magnificently  decorated in
honor of the arrival.  The streets were thronged
with  people, and  the  Sunday Schools were out
with  banners,  mottoes,  etc.  Crowds  of  people
had gathered around the Walker  House,  desir-
ous  of  seeing  His  Excellency;  and  after  the
party  were  inside  the  house, Governor Murray
came  out  upon the  portico with the President,
and  introduced him to the people.  He  begged
to  be  excused from  making  a  formal speech,
thanked the people for the welcome and retired
while the crowd were cheering.  The Governor
then  introduced  the  Secretary  of  War,  who
also  thanked  the  people, and  expressed his sur-
prise and  admiration  at  the  appearance of the
place and  the  people,  and  said  they  had  met
with surprises all along the route, but the present
one was beyond anything they had seen.
Gen. Sherman  was then introduced.  He has
for many  years  been  greatly  admired  and  es-
teemed  by  the  Mormon people, having visited
Salt Lake once  before,  and  also  the Mormon
settlements in Arizona. His  speech was taken
in full by a short hand reporter.
	Friends ana Fellow Citizens:  Following the
example of  my  chief--indeed, I may say, my
two chiefs--I ought to say nothing;  but I cannot
look  upon  this  crowd  of  people, and  upon the
scenery on my right and  on my left hand, with-
out saying  a few  words of  praise to  those  who
have  come  to  this  desert  land  and made it to
blossom  as  the  rose.  (Cheers  and  applause.)
An old  philosopher remarked, before any of us
were born,that he who made two blades of grass
to grow where only  one did before  was a public
benefactor.  Now the people who have made the
pears and apples, and the peaches and the wheat
and  clover and  the grass  to  grow,  when but a
short time ago there was  nothing  but the sage-
brush  to  be  seen, are entitled to our thanks  as
public benefactors.
 The President will in due time, on all proper
occasions, recognize  your kindness  to him--not
here,but else where;  for he  takes note  of every-
thing as he goes along, and he is so familiar with
the history of  this  people, that when  the  time
comes that he can say a kind word for you, he
will do it.  (Great  applause.)  All  that I  want
to  say  this Sunday afternoon  is this:  Go on as
you have begun, make homes for yourselves and
your children  and be half  as good as you  know
how to be, and you will  be good  enough for this
or any other valley. (Applause.)
	I thank you  again for the testimony to  your
Chief  Magistrate,  and I  believe it will do  good
to him and to yourselves and to the whole world.
 I beg you will excuse us from saying anything
further excepting that  we  intend spending all
of to-day and part of to-morrow in your City,and
will  do the best we can to  view the internal ar-
rangments, the  garrison on  the  hill top and
anything else that we can overtake.  We are, I
may say, on the road to California with all speed
and we can't stop.  Those fellows in  California
hold a lariat around  our  necks and we have got
to go on and make the best of our time--(Laugh-
ter and applause.)  In  the  meantime,  one and
all, we thank you for the heartly recpetion given
unto us thus far.  (Great  applause  and cheers.)
	There were loud calls for Mrs. Hayes who was
then introduced and greeted with hearty cheers.
She bowed  gracefully  and  retired.  The crowd
soon dispersed and the Sabbath  resumed  its ac-
customed serenity.
	In the  evening  the  President,  Mrs.  Hayes
and  a  number of  their  party  attended  service
at  the  Methodist  Church.  The preacher  was
most unfortunate in taking his text,as his whole
aim seemed to be to  convince  them of the gross
wickedness of the  practise of  plural marriage,
yet he  selected,  the  first  verse of  the fourth
chapter of Isaiah, which reads "And in  that day
seven women shall take hold of one man" &c.
Any person who will  read  the chapter  through
cannot fail to see that it applies to holy men and
women, in a day when  Zion is to be redeemed.
Common sense  will convince one that none but
good and pure women would make such a proposi-
tion; those who understood  the  laws and  com-
mandments  of  God.  However  let  that  pass
his sermon is not worth a moment's thought, to
those who understand the law  of  God  concern-
ing marraige.
	Monday morning  between  eight  and  nine
o'clock the President's party  visited the Taber-
nacle, and  while  there  some of the  ladies and
gentlemen held a  conversation with each  other
in low tones from  opposite sides of the building
and were greatly  surprised at  its  acoustic pro-
perties.
	A public  reception  was held  in  the  Walker
House parlors from ten  to  eleven o'clock A. M.
Many citizens  both men  and  women and also
children availed themselves of  this  opportunity
of  meeting  and  shaking  hands  with His Ex-
cellency  Pres.  Hayes  and  his distinguished
wife.
	After the  reception, the  party, in  company
with  Gov.  Murray,  the  reception committee,
their ladies  and  other  invited  guests,  among
whom were Hon. Wm. Jennings  and  wife and
Bishop John Sharp, went to Fort Douglas, where
their  arrival was greeted  by Gen. Smith with a
salute  of  artillery.  They  remained  there to
lunch, then returned to the city and took special
train  immediately  for  Ogden, at half  past one
P.M. The depot yard was crowded with people
anxious  to  catch  the  last  glimpse  of  the  illus-
trious  visitors.  Quite  a  large  company  from
Salt  Lake  accompanied  the  party  to Ogden--
Prest.  John  Taylor,  several  of  the  Apostles
and  many other  prominent citizens.  A goodly
number ofladies were also of the party.
	Soon after the train  started Pres. Hayes came
into Pres. Taylor's  car, and  held a long  and  in-
teresting conversation  with  him.  Mrs.  Hayes
expressed a wish to see the ladies of the party;
accordingly they  were  all  introduced,  she  re-
turned with them and spent some time in pleas-
ant  conversation  in  the  most  sociable manner.
Mrs. Eliza R. Snow Smith presented Mrs. Hayes
with a volume  of her poems  and a copy  of the
little hymn book she has recently published  for
the  children.  She  was  also  presented  with  a
"silk lace  fichu, as a souvenir  of her visit to the 
City of the Saints." The silk was rasied by Mrs.
Schneiter of  this  city,  and the  article manufac-
tured  by  Mrs.  Ursenbach.  It  is a very elegant
and  elaborate piece  of  fancy lace work.  A  note
hastily written at the last moment accompanied
the gift.  Mrs. Hayes  is  certainly  one  of  the
loveliest women we have ever had the pleasure
of meeting.  Her intelligent face  is  expressive
of goodness, mercy, gentleness, tenderness. and
in fact  all  those  beautiful  qualities  that  carry
with them an inexpressible charm  and takes all
hearts captive.  She will  be  remembered with
pleasure by all who met her and we do trust that


her visit, as well as that of the President and
others, may be productive of good. Secretary
Ramsay and Gen. Sherman were genial and so
ciable with the "Mormon" party. Gen. Sher-
man had quite a long conversation with Gen.
Wells, whom he had met when here before.
Everything passed off pleasantly during the
visit of the party, and the result is in the
hands of One Who sees not as man sees.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		61


HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE would call the attention of our readers to
the advertisement of Bro. George Dunford. The
firm is one of long standing, and the ladies will
do well to patronize the establishment, for they
are always polite, attentive and anxious to
please.
	MRS. E. R. Shipp, M. D., will shortly open a
class for thorough training in the art of obstet-
rics and other branches connected therewith.
Those desiring to join this class will please com-
municate with her at once, in order that all nec-
essary arrangements may be made before the
10th of October, upon which day the introduc-
tory lecture will be giuen. Address E. R. Shipp,
M. D., Salt Lake City.
	A FEW of our sisters from other lands are
availing themselves of the opportunity of be-
coming citizens. Sister Betsy Clark Williams
recived her second papers September 9, having
declared her intention to become a citizen and
taken out her first papers two years ago. Other
ladies, who are not native born should "go and
do likewise. It is not such a terrible ordeal: it
is all very simple and straightforward and surely
one would rather take a little extra trouble than
not be allowed the blessed privilege of voting.
Sisters Annie Musser and Margaret Sharp re-
ceived their naturalization papers some time
since.
	SISTERS don't neglect attending the prelimin-
ary meetings to elect the delegates from the
several counties to the Territorial Convention.
Manifest in this positive manner your interest
in the election, as well as to go to the polls and
cast your vote for the people's delegate. Let all be
united in this matter for union is power and
strength and the sisters hold some share of res-
ponsibility in regard to the maintenance of peace
and good order, and wherever and whenever
duty calls them to act or speak, let them use
that influence for the accomplishment of good.
Woman's influence is needed in connection with
man's to counteract the powers of evil in public
as well as in private.


IN MEMORIAM.

	It is always painful to record the death of those
we love, and yet when a Latter-day Saint passes
away, especially after having attained to a good
old age, it is really a matter of rejoicing, for we
have an assurance that they enter into a higher
and holior state of being. Mrs. Mary Symonds
Alley, whose death occurred in this city Aug.
30, 1880, at the advanced age of eighty-five years,
was born in Salem, Mass., August 7, 1795. Her
parents were directly descended from the early
settlers of New England, who came over shortly
after the Pilgrim Fathers. Their names were
John Symonds and Susan Webb, and her father
and both her grandfathers were officers in the
revolutionary war. Her [-]usband, George Alley,
to whom she was married September 15,
1820, also served in the war of 1812, for
which he afterwards received a suitable ap-
propriation. They settled permanently in
Salem, Mass., and were highly respected by
all. There the Gospel found them in the enjoy-
ment of much of this world's goods. Sister
Alley was baptized by Elder Erastus Snow, Feb.


26, 1842, and the family started for Nauvoo Oct-
ober 24, 1812, arriving in that city January 29,
1843. Brother and Sister Alley, with their family
were in the Exodus from Nauvoo in 1846,
leaving the second time a good home and pleas-
ant surroundings for the Gospel's sake. They
remained in Winter Quarters until the spring of
1848, when they started te cross the plains in
Pres. Brigham Young's company. They settled
permanently in the 8th Ward, Salt Lake City.
	Sister Alley has been a widow over twenty-one
years; she has now gone to join her husband, her
daughter and a host of relatives and friends be-
hind the vail. She was a woman of the strict-
est integrity of character, firm and unflinching
in the latter-day work. Her habits of precision
and order, and her prudence, punctuality and
early rising were characteristic of her New Eng-
land birth and training. She possessed as many
virtues and has left as unblemished a record as
any woman who ever lived. Her purity of life
and anxiety to serve God were known to all
with whom she was associated. She suffered
much pain during the last few months, but
peacefully passed away at last. She leaves three
sons and three daughters, many grandchildren
and five great-grandchildren. They may well
be proud of her memory.


[Column 1]
MARRIED LIFE.

	I wonder if there is one out of every ten of the
young people who get married,who fully realizes
the sacred obligations and duties pertaining to
married life. It seems to me that this should be
a matter in which much sober thought and
sound judgment should be used; and that if more
care was taken in the selection of a life compan-
ion by both sexes, there would be fewer ill-as-
sorted, wretched couples in the world than there
are. Marriage has rightly been termed a "lot-
tery," it is this at best; but where people marry
who are totally unfitted for each other by their
difference in tastes, habits and opinions, troubles
often arise, which though they may be "mole
hills" to commence with,soon grow to be moun-
tains. To be happy, perfect confidence and
respect should exist between husband and wife,
for where this is lacking, we often see what at
first appears to be the merest trifle, bring about
in the end the most direful results. If we once
allow jealousy to gain a foot-hold in the heart,
good bye to happiness. This passion is the cause
of much trouble, and misery; the instigator
of many crimes. It stalks abroad in the earth,
coming stealthily along like a "thief in the
night," robbing the gay of their mirth, poisoning
the mind, embittering the feelings, and corrupt-
ing the heart; destroying domestic happiness by
thrusting out love and union, and placing in
their stead suspicion and distrust; turning the
dearest friends into bitter enemies; withering
love, and blighting the fond anticipations of
families. Fault-finding should also be avoided
as much as possible as it oft does more harm
than good, for no one likes to be found fault
with, and where indulged in, often becomes a
chronic disease, turning the most amiable into
very disagreeable persons.
	We might learn many useful lessons if we
would from observation of other people's exper-
ience; but instead of this we often condemn
others and afterwards fall into the same evil
ourselves. How many different phases of
married life there are. For instance we see a
couple who start out together in a very sensible,
consistent manner, always cautious,and respect-
ful, manifesting that kindness, and delicate at-
tention which speaks louder than words, of the
pure and lasting affection existing between
them.
	Next we see a couple who seem so anxious to

[Column 2]
make people believe they are fond of each other;
that they not only offend the natural delicacy of
people who are in any degree refined; but they
also succeed in making people believe them to
be, or that they will eveneually become the very
opposite, of what they pretend, gruff and un-
kind. Again,we find a man who seems to think
of one thing in particular, viz., that he is "Lord
of Creation," which fact gives him the right to
look down on his wife considering her fit only to
be his drudge; bow in humble submission to
every wish however unreasonable,and patiently
receive his abuse. In contrast to this, and the
most rediculous of all, is the "henpecked hus-
band." With what contempt is a man looked up-
on who is led about by the will and caprice of a
woman; who hasn't manhood enough about him
to accomplish anything. But they are often
managed with such tact and skillfulness, that
they scarcely realize that it is so. A very sad
spectacle is to see a couple who have taken each
other "for better or worse," in the days of their
youth, lived together for years, and raised a large
family, finally separate, declaring they can live
together no longer, and not content with this,
must needs defame each other's character, pro-
claim their faults to the world, seeming to de-
light in throwing stones at each other, as they
start out to pursue their separate paths through
the remaining portion of their lives.
	In conclusion I will say that in my opinion,
private, or family affairs should never be made
public property, and domestic difficulties are sel-
dom overcome by outside interference.
									KATE.


SHAKING HANDS. 
			 ---------
	There are  many different  modes  of  greeting
among  civilized nations--raising  the hat, a bow.
a nod  a smile is all  that  is  expected  of all
acquaintance. Kissing, which is so  popular  at
present, is  often a mere  sham.  With regard to
kissing, the French say, "Your hand  for  an  ac-
quaintance, your cheek for  a  friend, and  your 
lips for your lover."  But it has been  carried to
such an extent that  you are expected to kiss  all
your lady  friends  every  time  you  meet them.
whether it  is  agreeable  or  not, and the kiss so
given is sometimes as false and cruel as the one
Judas once gave the Divine Master.
	Hand-shaking, as a manner of greeting, takes
precedence of all others, by reason of its greater
antiquity  and more universal usage.  We cannot
ascertain  definitely when  or  where the custom
originated, but  doubtless  it  has been  in  vogue
among  civilized nations  since  the  early feudal
times,  when it was employed as an assurance of
good faith, each  party giving  his weapon  hand
as proof  that he hand no hostile intentions.
	There are as  many varieties  of  hand-shaking
as  hand-writing, and  it  may be  considered  as
great an index to character.
 First, there  is  the  foppish  style, which con-
sists  in  merely pressing the tips of the  fingers,
which  is  no  hand-shaking  at  all, but merely a
pretense of friendliness.  Such a person is a fair-
weather  friend.  He  is  not  to  be relied upon,
but is a policy  individual  from  first  to last. If
it is to his interest, he will befriend you, other-
wise--you must look out for yourself.
	Then there is the  indifferent  individual, who
lays his cold hand in yours with a loose, clammy
touch,  and  as a Dickens  says  of  Uriah  Heep's
hand, "You  don't know what to do with  it, as
it does  nothing  for  itself."  Such a person has
no strength of character; he has no originality,
and would not dare to advance an opinion of his
own, but  stands hestiatingly, ready to coincide
with everything you say.
	Next comes  the  indefatigable  hand-shaker,
who grasps your hand so tightly that you cannot


withdraw it,  and  then  shakes,  and  talks, and
shakes, until you are so embarrassed and ill at
ease that you imagine all eyes are upon you, and
you are  correspondingly  awkward  and  uncom-
fortable.  This  method  of  shaking  hands  indi-
cates that the person who employs it possesses a
goodly  share  of  self-complacency,  and  always
imagines  that he is doing some one a great ser-
vice; and though it may originate in a desire to
reassure  you and place you at  your ease, it has
anything but the desired  effect.
 Next comes the nervous, energetic individual,
against whom  you  know  by former  experience
you  must  prepare  yourself  for  a  shock. You
unconsciously put your hand to your mouth, the 
better  to  secure  your  false  teeth, and when it
is  over  you  feel  that  you  have  reason to con-
gratulate yourself upon finding that your arm is 
not dislocated at the shoulder joint.
	Lastly there  is  the genuine hand-clasp - the
firm warm pressure of hand to hand, a medium
through which  friendly feeling may be  trans-
mitted from heart to heart, though never a word
be spoken.  How reassuring to be met by such a
person and  greeted  in such  a manner! How
pleasant  to  feel  that  his  professions  of  friend-
ship  are  not  professions  merely, and  to know
that  you  can  rely upon him and that he is sin-
cere in al he does and says.  Then truly, "Then
such God gives no dearer gifts to man."
					JENNIE JINGLE.


62		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
BABYHOOD.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	Babyhood is a theme mighty in minutae!
truly "a day of small things," the A B C of life
in this stage of existence, that ushers every hu-
man being upon the grand Theatre of the world,
yet is the foundation laid then for the character
which the infantile being shall hereafter sustain.
To woman especially it is a deeply interesting
study, for she has been ordained in the councils
of Eternity the producer and sustainer of the
human family, as well as the fosterer and in-
structor of these embryo men and women.
	Heaven is about us in our infancy, for if an
infant has a fine, healthy organization, and is
properly attended by an intelligent mother, it
will be a personification of angelic life. Many
desire children, but few realize the mighty re-
sponsibility that such gifts call down upon the
possessor!

"A spark is kindled then
That never can be quench'd again;
Whole ages down the stream of time
Shall dawn upon that soul of mine,
Yet never see that soul decline.
Yes! ages hence, and it shall be
As in its pristine vigor free!
Worlds shall be born and pass away,
But still it shall not know decay."

	These thoughts teach the mother to think,
urge her to strain every faculty, every intelli-
gence with which she has been endowed to
benefit and improve her offspring. The first
year she should dedicate exclusively to her in-
fant; no work, no business, no pleasure should
stand between her and it; after that such close
attention and watching may in a degree be dis-
pensed with. The first ten years of life almost
form the character; or at any rate give that
strong bias which, if good, no after influence can
entirely eradicate, and if evil, alas! what an un-
dertaking to undo and erase such tuition! The
infant is, in one sense, the most important per-
sonage in the household—some one says: "Truly
we are born princes." It is an imperative being,
and everything gives way before its baby sove-
reignity. Peace and gentleness should be the
atmosphere it breathes; no loud noises or rude,
harsh language should shock its tender ear,
The song that lulls it to rest should be low, soft
and loving. It should never be allowed to cry
to make its wants known, for they should be an-
ticipated and prepared for beforehand. A baby
brings with it one of the most prominent fea-
tures of heaven, viz., order; regularity and punc-
tuality seem peculiar to its nature. It should
be washed, dressed, fed and undressed with un-

[Column 2]
varying exactitude, and its sleep will then par-
take of the same precision. It should never be
allowed when in health to sleep on the lap of its
nurse; I know it is pleasing to some young
mothers to allow this, but a wise mother will
not permit her feelings, even those which spring
from love, to engender bad habits in herself or
child; this would be injurious to both—for while
the child is laid away in its quiet bed she can
perform some of the principal duties of the day,
and be ready to receive it on its awaking. In
England every well-regulated family, where
only two servants even are kept, have a nursery
for their children; and the good of this plan
could only be known by experience. It is a
large, airy room, with no more furniture in it
than is absolutely necessary—a table, wardrobe
for the children's clothes, commodes chairs, no
carpet, except a rug at the hearth for nurse or
mother. All their playthings are in this sanc-
tum, and everything they need—they take their
meals there, and such as are suitable for chil-
dren. One of the servants is deputed to officiate
in this room when needed, and the mother
spends her mornings there, and whenever her
presence is needed in the small empire,mighty in
its minutae ! The parlor, or room of the house-
hold, can then be kept clean and quiet, and in
order for the parents or visitors, and is a sanctum
wherein they can rest in peace, and arrange
their plans of domestic economy, or converse
upon subjects that children have nothing to do
with. No one sho[-]ld sleep in the nursery, not
even the baby; let its crib be placed in its moth-
er's bed room. Cradles are not good, and often
engender indolence in the nurse. In warm
weather the baby should occupy its crib-bed at
night—it is highly injurious for an infant to
sleep in a bed with two adults; it is marvelous
that people do not see this evil at once, and set
it aside, for it seems to me to be a self-evident
fact.
	Infants should never be taken into crowded as-
semblies; the atmosphere of such places is de-
structive to their tender systems. They should
be much in the open air, but not into the glaring
sun, which is injurious to their tender eyes and
to their brain. Some may ignore some of my
remarks, but none will who have ever experi-
enced them. We have nurseries for our young
trees and plants, and for our young animals, and
there they are attended as their peculiar wants
demand; so should it be for the immortal beings
placed beneath our care. The nursery should
be an infant school, where the foundation is laid
for future life. Laws of order pertaining to their
age and understanding should there be taught,
the bigger children assisting in arranging and
keeping in order all within its precincts—such as
the juvenile wardrobe, the baby basket and its
things in general; this they will do with plea-
sure, for "the baby" is ever the pet of the house-
hold, and to wait and attend upon it is ever an
agreeable occupation to the older children, for
there is ever something so sweet and angelic in
a baby that is well nursed and attended to that
is delightful and agreeable to all eyes. And the
nursery the room of the children, shonld be a
place especially set apart for peace and inno-
cence. No conversation should be held there
but what is proper and instructive for children
to hear; no tale-bearing, no back-biting, or fault-
finding, or qarreling, must be allowed within its
holy precincts. We there raise up the young
scions of humanity for time and eternity, and
no seeds must be sown there that will hereafter
produce evil, perhaps seven-fold; no weeds al-
lowed to grow that will choke the progress of
the tender plants that sojourn therein. Such a
course will form an education for future life that
the learning of the schools can never give.
	Can we with all our care make our children
all we wish? No, there will be a difference;
but if on the one hand we cannot raise some to
the standard we desire, we shall find others who
will outstrip even our most sanguine expecta-
tions, and amply repay us for our toiling solici-
tude. And where the organization is good, and
the infant and youthful training has been wise,
and judicious, and prayerful, fear not; "cast thy
bread upon the waters, and thou shalt find it
after many days." Should wise counsels be re-
jected in yonth, should the nature be wild and
will not be bound, still, ye parents fear not, for
the good seed you have sown shall produce its
own. Cause and effect are eternal principles,
and life itself is the school of God, and trial and
sorrow are its lessons, and they bring reflection,
they soften and subdue nature, they carry back
the erring into the sunny days of childhood and
youth, with their bright but beautiful day-
dreams. They will recall the gentle lessons of
the nursery, where mother sat enthroned and

[Column 3]
swayed the sceptre of love over the children
God had given her; where she enforced virtue
and right principles—and they will verily realize
by experience how good they were, and they
will rise up and endeavor to show, even if it be
late, that they are worthy of the parents who so
nurtured them in their early days, and show
also that the Lord has not taken his Spirit from
them.
	I have given only a few hints; vast, vast is
the subject, but intelligence catches hints which
are suggestive. We are fed only by crumbs, es-
pecially the precious food that falls from the
table of our Father and our God!


HOMESPUN TALK.
	Come in, girls, and sit down, I want to talk to 
you a little while; and if any of your young gen-
tlemen  friends  want  to  listen  too, I shall be
more than pleased.
	I don't  know that  what I want  to say is ex-
actly orthodox, but  to me  it  is  good  common-
sense.  You  know how we've  been preached to
and talked  to, and  how  books  and  papers are
always saying something to us about our  duties
as  the  future wives  and  mothers  of Israel.  I
know it is all good, and we surely must  try and
be as prudent as  our  giddy heads  and  dancing
heels will let us be, but - here's my bombshell -
we want  husbands who  are  going  to  be good
fathers. That's where lots  of the  trouble  lies,
and I know it!  Of course boys are lectured quite
a deal about making themselves  ornaments to
society,  and  pillars  of  Zion,  and  lights  to the
world. Are  taught  to  be  honest, industrious,
and when sent on missions  to be faithful and
true.  That's  all good - excellent, so  far  as it
goes - but it  don't  go  half  far  enough.  Are
young men  ever  taught to take the solemn re-
sponsibility  of  paternity  upon  them  with a
knowledge of  what  is  their  duty to  their  off-
spring?  Not often.  Girls, It is my candid opin-
ion that not  one-tenth  as many young men are
as nearly prepared to be fathers, that do become
so, as  are the poor  girls who  are  so much found
fault with.  Now  (this talk, remember, is with-
out  polish)  when a  soul  is  ushered  into  this
world, both man and woman owe to it a  solemn
duty.  Is it enough for a woman to nurse, wash
and rock the  child, scold, feed and patch for the
youth, and  get  rid of the young man as soon as
he is ready to marry or go out for himself?  Is it
enough for the father to look at it occasionally,
buy clothing and food for the child, school, clothe
and  whip  the  youth, and  settle  on the young
man as  much, to give him a start, as his pocket
allows?  No, I say it isn't.  I am not dealing
with mothers just now, and will give you my
idea of  a good and a bad father.
	Do you know a man  that  is  full  of  business
and  care  through  the  day, and  of  moroseness
and newspaper in the evening who growls out
to his wife about the idleness of "the boys," and
says  if  Tom  stays  away  from  Sunday  School
again  he'll "lick  him?"  Do  you  ever  meet a
man who lives for Zion, who devotes his days to
acquiring "filthy  lucre," his tongue  to the  fail-
ings of "the people and the signs of the times,"
his evenings  in  meetings and time  generally in
wondering  why  the  Almighty gave him such
reckless boys and flighty girls?  Perhaps I'd bet-
ter not call these  bad  fathers, and  yet  they are
not good ones.  I might enumerate many, many
different types  of men who fancy mothers must
teach  their  children  to  possess  all the virtues,
and  what  mothers  don't  do  Sunday Schools
must.  But again I say we want  fathers  in the
truest sense of the word.  Fathers who devote
every opportunity to  filling the  youthful  mind
with  righteous  principles.  In the hay field, at
the  dinner  table, around  the hearth, Sundays,
evenings  and mornings to  such conversation as
will form  good  ideas  in  the  mind of a  child.
Fathers  who  will  interest  their  boys  in their
business, and teach them to be careful and pru-
dent.  Fathers  who  think  sweet, wholesome
thoughts and whose  ways  are ways  of wisdom.
Fathers  who  share  the  burden of raising chil-
dren,  and who  realize paternity is a fruitful of 
good  and  evil resulted as  maternity. Fathers
whose love for Zion overflows first around their
own firesides.  Do I know  such a father?  Yes,
I do.  And his boys and  his  girls  are brightest
proofs of my arguments. 
	O girls, I could talk on and on, for this subject
is  much  on  my  mind, but I will  only  say, be
careful  how you  choose  a  husband.  Not only
seek to discover if he is energetic and full of the 
love of the Gospel, but sound him as to his views
of children  and  their  rearing.  Not modest?
Well then  it's not  modest  to marry a man and


bear children.  It is your duty to know his views
of life  in  all  its  bearings.  Spend  less  time in
courting  and  more  in sound  conversation.  Be
wise in your  actions,  wise  in  your  choice of a
husband, and come and see me again.
							SALOAME.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		63


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

	The Relief Society of Sanpete Stake held
their annual Conference at Mt Pleasant Aug.
15th, 1880. The usual opening services were
offered, after which the reports were read: the
condensed reports stated that in this stake there
were 224 teachers; 1721 members 2011 total
officers and members; 101 meetings held; 625
average attendance 109 copies of the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT taken.
	The Financial report states that since the
organization of Relief Sociities in 1868, they
have received $74, 973.67 in cash and property;
and 2. 945 bushels of wheat, most of the wheat
is loaned to the brethren, disbursements to the
poor amounts to $58. 348 22; emigration $295
60; temples $515 92; home-industries 918 19;
books $44. 40; missionaries $379.15; building
897. 79; total $399. 34. And have on hand
$121. 74; in cash; property $13. 392. 59.
	The Conference passed off pleasantly, and
almost every one who addressed the audience
made appreciative mention of the refreshing
visit the stake had enjoyed just previous to
Conference, from our much beloved sisters E.
R. S. Smith and E. B. Wells, who truly added
new warmth and glow to the flame of zeal and
energy which inspires the hearts of the sisters
in assisting to forward the grand principles of
God. Much excellent and appropriate instruc-
tion was given by those who spoke especially
President M. A. P. Hyde and Counselors who
are ever blessed with a rich flow of the Spirit of
God. They urged the sisters to be energetic in
planting mulberry trees and raising silk. Also
reminded them of the great responsibility rest-
ing upon mothers in the training of their child-
ren. Told them to be very careful in the ex-
amples they set before them,to be exemplary in
their manners,promises and talk,that they might
preserve their full confidence and be enabled to
instill into their minds the principles of the
Gospel, and not let them grow up in infidelity.
Several of the brethren spoke approvingly of
the proceedings of the Conference. Singing.
Benediction by J. Frantzen. Conference ad-
journed until November 15th 1880.
				PHIDELIA KOFFORD, Sec'y.


The third Quarterly Conference of the Re-
lief Societies of Parowan Stake of Zion was
held at Paragoonah, August 29th, 1880. The
officers of the Stake, Presidents of the several
branches of Relief Societies, Y. L. M. I., and
Primary Associations were present also Pres. 
Lunt, Bishops Erastus Mc Intyre, John E. 
Dalley and Wm. C. Mitchell, Elders Wm.
Marsden and Thomas Durham, with others of 
the priesthood.
	Pres. Eellen W. Lunt, presiding. After the
usual exercises, and minutes of previous Con-
ference were read and accepted, the Statis-
tical and Financial reports of the Stake Relief
Societies were read for the half year, also the
reports from the Y. L. M. I., and Primary As-
sociations. All the reports both verbal and
written showed each respective society in pro-
sperous condition. Many excellent instruc-
tions were given by the sisters who spoke.
The current of their remarks was on the re-
sponsibility resting upon mothers, the training
of children, evil influences abroad in the land
home manufactures, plural marrage, and the
efficacy of prayer. All realizing that we were
engaged in a work that would take us back
into the presence of our heavenly Father if we
were faithful to the end. In the afternoon the


Sacrament was administered.  A Primary As-
sociation was organized.  Sally A. Olsen Pres.
Eliza  Hanks  and  Mary  L.  Robinson  Coun-
selors,  and  Mary  L.  Barton  Sec.  Bishop
John  E.  Dalley  of  Parowan  made  some  in-
teresting remarks, advised the  mothers to send
their children to the Primary meetings.  Bish-
op Erastus  Mc Intyre said he  never felt a bet-
ter  spirit  in  any  meeting  of the  Latter-day
Saints than was manifested in this Conference,
referred to the first organizations  of the Relief
Society in Nauvoo 1842, and prayed the Lord
to bless those who  were  called  to preside, with
his spirit.  Pres.  E.  W.  Lunt remarked that it
was exactly three years to-day since our beloved
President  Brigham  Young  departed  hence,
thought it would be very appropriate  to  read
his last discourse to the Relief Societies of We-
ber County, delivered in the Ogden Tabernacle
July  19th,  1877,  which  was listened  to  with
marked  attention.  An  interesting  letter  ad-
dressed  to  Pres. H. Lunt  was  also read from
Pres. Jesse N. Smith of Arizona.
	President Henry  Lunt said these, meetings
were like a feast of good  things,  the principles
advanced  were  what  would  save  the  human
family if they would  put  them in  practice, re-
marked  that  this  was the  first  Conference of
any kind held in Paragoonah.  Felt that there
was a bright future for us.  The presence of so
many was a  witness  that we  were  striving  to
live our religion.  Closed his remarks by bless-
ing the congregation.  Pres E. W. Lunt spoke
in favor  of  the WOMAN’S EXPONENT, and re-
commended  every sister to take a copy.  Con-
ference was  adjourned  for three months to be
held in Parowan.  Choir  sang the anthem “O
praise the Lord.” Benediction by Elder Wm.
Marsden.
		JANE P. MACKELPRANG, Cor. Sec’y.
	Cedar City, Iron Co., Sept. 4th, 1780.


[Column 1]
CORRESPONDENCE.

JOHNSON, KANE CO., UTAH,
					July 29, 1880.

	EDITOR EXPONENT:—In perusing a copy of
your most valuable paper, my thoughts wander
far and wide. In July 15th number the first
piece that my eye caught was "Life Incidents"
of the early days of the Church, which caused
my heart to swell with emotion for the Saints
that suffered in those days and triumphed over
all in serving the Lord. We love their memo-
ry, though gone from earth to a better realm.
Next was "Pleasure Excursion to Black Rock"
for the aged fathers and mothers. Bless them!
Methinks I can see their aged-faces beaming
with joy and heart felt thanks to the managers
for their comfort and pleasure. May they live
to enjoy many such occasions.
	As I pass over I comment on "Curiosity,"
"The Word of Wisdom," the neglect of which
is increasing very fast among our young people.
How are we to prevent it? Fathers and moth-
ers, let hot drinks alone, and set a good exam-
ple yourselves, or I believe our Heavenly Fa-
ther's Spirit will be grieved, for He will not
always bear with his children. Let us put them
from us as a thing to be shunned and despised,
especially by our young people,who have always
been taught that they were not good for the
body.
	"Woman's Convention!" Truly this is an
age of progression. The ladies' speeches are
good, and I hope they will succeed in their
efforts to obtain the suffrage. Let woman
stand up for her own rights in wisdom, and
help to make man better, that both sexes may
become equal in intelligence and influence and
assist each other in doing right, and fulfill the
mission they were placed here to work out,
which would exalt them to a higher sphere and
greater honor in the future.
	I do not wish to try your patience but will

[Column 2]
give a short account of how we spent the
Twenty-Fourth of July in this little place.
Salute of six guns at day break, twenty-four
at sunrise. At ten o'clock all repaired to the
schoolhouse. Singing, "Hail, all Hail the
Twenty-Fourth." Prayer by Chaplain W. D.
Johnson, Sen. Speech by the orator of the
day, Nephi Johnson. Select readings by the
brethren and sisters, also toasts given. Sing-
ing from the "Mountain Warbler." At twelve
o'clock all repaired to the residence of W. D.
Johnson and partook of a bountiful picnic.
The remainder of the day was spent in sport-
ive recreation, and all went merry as a mar-
riage bell," and all the people were well pleased
with the day's exercises in memory of the Pio-
neers. May the Lord bless them all.
							J. C. JOHNSON.

PAPANUI, CANTERBURY, N. Z.,
					June 19, 1880.

	DEAR EDITOR:—It is with feelings of pleas-
ure, that I am able to bear my humble testi-
mony to this work, and I thank our Heavenly
Father that He has given me a knowledge for
myself, that I know it to be the work of God.
I am also very happy to think we can keep up
to our sisters in Zion as far as possible, and by
the help of God we will carry it through.
Pray for us, sisters in Zion, for we need your
faith and prayers, and may the Lord bless us
in all our undertakings, that we may be able
to carry them through, and by the help of God
we will.
	We have also established a small Sunday
School here, to instruct the minds of the chil-
dren in the Gospel of life and salvation, as we
know that the influence of the Christian
world's false traditions must be guarded against,
or else their minds would be turned against
the true Gospel. We hope, by the help of the
Almighty, that we may be able to keep the
young minds pure until a way can be opened
to gather home among the Saints of God in
the valleys of Zion, and out of wicked Baby-
lon. We are very few in number, but still we
do our best to live up to our most holy reli-
gion, and gather up to Zion as soon as possible.
There are quite a number of Saints going home
by this mail, which will make our number
still less; but I hope to see the day when we
shall all be able to gather up to the land of
God's choice. May we who are here put on
the whole armor of righteousness, and battle
bravely to overcome all impure desires, and to
establish a reign of peace on the earth, that
we may receive all the blessings there are in
store for all the faithful. My whole desire is
to keep true and faithful to the covenants
which I have made with God, and to the work
in which we are engaged; and I pray God to
bless all his children in the earth, from the
highest to the lowest,it is the fervent prayer of
your Sister in the New and Everlasting Cove-
nant,
						ANNIE NORFOLK.


EXCURSION TO SALT LAKE.

	On Tuesday Aug. 10th, the Relief Society of
the Third Ward of Ogden City, went on a
pleasure trip to Lake Shore. About 200 peo-
ple of both old and young, including a few in-
vited guests our worthy Bishop and Counselors
not forgetting the poor of the ward, all
participating in the affair. On arriving at the
shore,the recreation commenced; some repaired
immediately to the Lake to bathe in its briny
waters, others enjoyed themselves in a large
and commodious bowery. The happy smiling
faces of the veteran fathers the aged mothers,
and middle aged; and youthful sons and
daughters, demonstrated to the observer that
all were happy. After bathing tables were


spread with dainties, fit for a king, of which
all partook freely: an hour or so was spent
very pleasently in speeches and songs. Our
old friend Father Thomas Richardson in behalf
of the Mormon Battalion, followed by our fel-
low citizen Aaron F. Farr, made a few approp-
riate remarks,on the Pioneers, contrasting 1847
to this present day. These speeches were fol-
lowed by others, from Bishops Winslow Farr
and Counselors, congratulatory of the happy
occasion. Mr. John P. Williams and others,
sang a song, "Hard times come again no more."
also Brother John Hastings 77 years old sang
an old Mormon song much to the amusement
of all. 
	There is much credit due our respected Presi-
dent Sister Dinah M. White for the able man-
ner in which the whole affair was conducted
and the great interest taken by her, for the poor,
and the aged and in fact all. She exerted her-
self to make every thing pleasant and agreeable,
and we think that such parties are calculated
to bring union and good feeling in our Society.
Ever praying for the welfare of our worthy
paper, I subscribe myself,
		Yours Respectfully
			LUCRETIA B. FARR, Sec'y.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


STAKE REPORTS WANTED.

	A full Statistical  and  Financial  Report  of
Relief  Societies  from April  1st, 1876 to 1880.
Also a Semi-Annual  Report from April 1st, 18
80 to October 1st, 1880, are specially requested
from each of the Stake Secretaries  throughout
all the Stakes of Zion.  Forward to the Secre-
tary of the First Presiding Board. SARAH M.
KIMBALL, Salt Lake City P. O. Box, 785.

	A full Statistical and Financial Report of
Young Ladies Mutual Improvement  Associa-
tions from their first organization up to Oct. 1,
1880 is  specially requested  from  each  of  the
Stake Secretaries throughout all the Stakes of
Zion, by the President of the  central organiza-
tion of Y. L. M. I. A., Sister Elmina S. Taylor.
Direct  the  reports  to  the  Secretary,  Louie
Wells, care of WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FOREFATHERS AND FOREMOTHERS.

	At a  meeting  of  the "Tristam Coffin  Re-
union Association," held in Nantucket,  August
16,  to provide  for  the  celebration  of the  two
hundredth anniversary  of the death of the pat-
riarch of the island, it  was decided, at the sug-
gestion  of Rev.  Phebe  A. Hanaford,  that two
bronze statues should be erected instead of one.
Tristram and Dionis, from whom  all the Coffins
in America are  descended,  will  thus be  com-
memorated  together.  As  they  lived and
labored in unison,  so  in  remembrance, as in
life, they will not be  divided.  Mrs. Hanaford,
herself a  Coffin, deserves  thanks for this  sug-
gestion  to  remember  their  foremother, which
was accepted  without  a  dissenting  voice,  and
with universal applause. 	H. B. B. - Ex


WHAT SHE COULD.

	"What She  Could," is  the  name of a   song
written  by Miss M. E. Servoss, and  inscribed
to Mrs. Hayes, begining:

	"More brave than they who at the stake
	Their lives for truth resign,
	Is she who from our Nation's feasts
	Hath dared to banish wine."

	It was written at Miss  Willard's request, and
is  published  by  the  author  with music by a
popular composer, and is sold for the benefit of
the Mrs Hayes  Memorial Fund by Miss M. E.
Servoss, 156 State St.,  Chicago,  Ill., who  will
give all profits  as author  and  publisher to the
Memorial Fund.—Ex.


SERICULTURE.
The Relief Society of  the Tenth Ward have
been  experimenting  in  Silk-culture, and onr
labors have been liberally rewarded. We have
nine pounds of cocoons,and sufficient eggs,racks
and  tables, to raise a large quantity next season.
Sister Fawcet has  also raised  seven  pounds  of
cocoons at home.  Charlotta Fawcet, Elizabeth
Paul, Elizabeth Morris.  Committee.


THE aerolite which fell in Iowa in May 1879
has been sold to the British Museum for $6,
500. It was the largest meteoric stone ever
seen in America. Its weight being 431,
pounds. Its composition was earth, triolite,
iron, nichel, cobalt phosphorus, copper, sul-
phur, lead, silver, gold, silicia, magnesia,
alumina,soda, lithia and potassium yet together
like particles of a granite block.

	MRS Rachel Allen of Chester, Mas., has at-
tained the great age of 102 years and six
months, she celebrated the event by a gathering
of her friends.

	A BEAUTIFUL answer was given by a little
Scotch girl. When her class was examined
she replied to the question, "what is patience?"
"wait a wee, and dinna weary."

	THE first railroad in Syria has been com-
pleted. It is a steel tracked tramway on the
American plan.

	M. LEMAIRE the eminent French sculptor
died the 4th, inst. at the advanced age of
eighty-two years.


THE  LADIES
Of Salt Lake  City and vicinity will find  the  LARGEST  and
BEST  SELECTED  STOCK of
BOOTS,  SHOES  &  SLIPPERS,
Also, full and  desirable lines, best brands
Children’s Fine Shoes,
To be found in the West.	Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

HAVE YOU  SEEN  THE
NEW  VICTOR  SEWING  MACHINE?
If not you should do so at once, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction.  The New Machine
is elegant in appearance  and  admirable in operation, runs
very easily and without any noise, and confusion, although
the rate of speed is very high.  Its  self-setting  and  self-
threading shuttle, and absence of springs and cogs, renders
it both simple and  durable.  Be sure to see it, for  its
general advantages will make you its friend.
VICTOR  SEWING  MACHINE  CO.,  CHICAGO,  ILL.
O.  H.  RIGGS, Agent, Salt Lake City.

WARNER'S SAFE BITTERS
   It is the best Blood Purifier, and stimulates
every function to more healthful action, and is
thus a benefit in all diseases.
 In eliminating the impurities of the blood, the
natural and necessary result is the cure of Scrof-
ulous and other Skin Eruptions and Diseases,
including Cancers, Ulcers and other Sores.
    Dyspepsia, Weakness of the Stomach, Consti-
pation, Dizziness,  General Debility, etc, are 
cured by the Safe Bitters.  It is unequaled
as an appetizer and regular tonic.
 It is a medicine which should be in every fam-
ily, and which, wherever used, will save the
payment of many doctors' bills.
   Bottles of two sizes; paces, 50 cents and $1.00.
SAFE KIDNEY & LIVER CURE
SAFE DIABETES CURE
SAFE TONIC NERVINE PILLS
READ SAVE THEYSELF
   Warner’s
Safe Reme-
dies are sold
by  Druggists
and  Dealers
in Medicine
everywhere.
H. H. WARNER &CO.,
Proprietors,
Rochester, N.Y.
and for Pamphlet
and testimonials.

Class in  Obstetrics.
DR. ROMANIA B PRATT,
WILL  COMMENCE  ANOTHER  CLASS  IN  OBSTET-
rics, October 7th, 1880.  By giving three lectures
a week, and  the  students  giving  their whole time to study,
the usual term of six months can be reduced to  a  little  less
than five.  Terms, $30.  Books, three in number $12.
	Those desiring to join the Class should send In their names
and orders for books, as they require to be sent for East.
F. AUERBACH & BRO.
HAVE
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 26
CALL AND EXAMINE
	Fall and  Winter Goods.

ELLEN B.  FERGUSON,
Physician  and  Surgeon.
OFFICE on Main St, over Colder's Music Store.
RESIDENCE  on  South  Temple Street, between  9th  and
16th East Streets.
Special attention given to Obstetrics, Diseases of  Children
and  Diseases  of the THROAT, HEART and LUNGS.

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.

	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated  LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS.  Pumps Repaired  on  short notice.  Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, David James, Box 3066, Salt Lake City.

PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST  TEMPLE ST.
MRS. C. E. DYE,
 Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet.  Also,  a  nice  selection  in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes.  Country Dealers, please Call. Ladles’
Hair Work in all its branches.  Good I York Guaranteed!

Z. C. M. I.
WHOLESALE  AND  RETAIL  DEALERS  IN
DRY  GOODS,  NOTIONS,  GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS,  ETC.

AT  TEASDEL'S
SALT  LAKE CITY.
  Special Departments for Gent’s Clothing and:
Carpets, Ladies’ and Children’s Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

A LARGE STOCK
Of home Made  Trunks  for  Sale  by  JOHN C
CUTLER, Agent for the  PROVO WOOLEN  MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,
Flannels,
Shawls,
Linseys,
Jeans,
Brown Yarns,
White Yarns,
Colored Yams,
Cassimers,
Tweeds,
Cotton Batting, 
Wool Batting,
Brooms,
Washboards,
Brushes, Etc, Etc.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND  RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS. WIRE  MATTRESSES,  FEATHERS,  WALL PAPER.
-AND-
BABY CARRIAGES,
75,  77,  &  79,  First  South  Street,
SALT  LAKE CITY.

DR. A.  B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST.
SPECIAL ATTENTION  PAID
to Filling and  Preserving  the
Natural  teeth.  Teeth  Carefully
Extracted. False Teeth inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner.  PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE: — MAIN ST.,  OPPOSITE  SALT  LAKE HOUSE.
P. O. BOX, 541,


WOMAN'S   EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

