VOL.  9.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER  1,  1880.	NO. 9.


SALT  LAKE  CITY.

All the valley lay in shadows,
Cast by clouds that hid the sun:
Ripened grain fields, em'rald meadows,
Shining lines where waters run;
Stately homes and humble dwellings,
In their blooming foliage shrined,
Caught a charm  beyond the telling,
In the summer day's decline;

Thin a smoke wreathes to the eastward,
Dusky, purple mists uprolled;
Through this filmy veil, to westward,
Softly beamed the sunset's gold;
And the while I stood in wonder,
Silent,  wrapped in fervent thought;
Lo!  a rainbow crowned the splendor
Of  the picture God had wrought.

Is  this lovely valley, teeming
With all gifts from Nature's hand,
The fair Zion of my dreaming,
In the far-off, golden land?
Is't the Zion, fair and  holy,
That 'neath God's own care shall rise,
Where the pure in heart and lowly
Shall be noblest in His eyes?

Is't the Zion of those pages
Writ by prophets grand,  of  old,
Who looked downward through the ages,
And their wondrous changes told?
Is't the land where, slowly wending,
Tribes and nations all shall meet,
In one work and worship blending,
In one people, at His feet?

Guarded by the mighty mountains,
Centuries thy dust has slept;
Freshened  by thy wakened fountains,
Thou  to life again hast leapt.
Fair and pure as thy bright waters,
Which no poisoned currents bear;
Rise thy countless sons and daughters,
Royal crowns to win and wear.

Though the world now doubt the story
Of thy sacred work and claim,
They shall live to see thy glory,
And their fallen wreck and shame.
Though the world in hate deride thee,
Though the waves of evil foam,
Through whatever ills betide thee,
Thou art Zion—thou'rt my home.

Heaven-descended, from a manger
Rose thy King to victory;
Through the desert  and the danger,
He will guard thy destiny.
Brighter than  the  rainbow's splendor,
Shines the crown awaiting thee,
Land of beauty!  Land  of  wonder!
Zion, Bride of Christ to be.
	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHEBON.
September 18, 1880.


[Column 1]
	THE “LIBERALS’” LIBERTY FOR
			WOMEN.

	The most cowardly effort has at last been
made! How forlorn a cause must be when the
necessity arises for its adherents to stoop to the
meanest subterfuges, and to hang its hopes on
the flimsy and uncertain power of technicali-
ties! A truly noble and worthy cause can be
manfully met, and certainly never can be in-
jured by the presence and influence of women,
especially after a faultless test of ten years
trust.
	The public plea is urged that she does not
pay tax! Does she not? If a piece of pri-
vate property can be shown upon which tax

[Column 2]
is not levied and collected at all hazards,
whether it belongs to a man or woman, save
they be "infirm, idiotic," &c., it will certainly
be worth visiting as possessing some very pecu-
liar and interesting properties—a priori. Where
a man and woman conjointly own the same
piece of property, as man and wife, is there a
necessity of paying taxes twice? Can it not be
considered as each pays his or her part, the
same as in any joint stock property. And in
this way every wife DOES pay her equal share
in all taxes her husband pays. Then shall she
also not have a voice with her brother what
shall be done with the taxes? Or shall she pay
the fiddler and stand by, like the awe-stricken
squaw, and look on at the august war dance of
her barbarous brethren. Ah! this suggests the
capsheaf of objections—she cannot go to war
and shed her blood for her country. If she
does not fight the battle of bitter, angry strife,
she fights the unceasing soul and body wearing
fight of home economy, and raises the boys
who can fight. And after all her sorrows, is it
not but right that she should have a voice in
how, when and where these soul-earned boys
shall fight? And further, were she among the
diplomats, nine times out of ten matters could
be adjusted without the sword. If she does
not do exactly everything man does, she does
many things he cannot or would not do: but it
all goes for naught, because she sets no price.
It is high time woman set a high price on all
her works and abilities, and see which bill foots
up the highest. She does not pay poll tax—
one dollar a year! It would be far more manly
to deny yourself a cigar once in two weeks
than to mention such a trifle; besides, where is
there a woman in five hundred who does not
do more than ten dollars worth a year for the
community in which she lives?
	What is the matter that just now a terrible
“fraud” has just been discovered? Were this
not a sudden hallucination, would it not have
been corrected long ago? The gist of the mat-
ter in a few words is, the"Liberals" (what a
misnomer) intend to elect the next congres-
sional representative, no matter how much in
the minority. They presume to question the
validity of the rights and privileges vouch-
safed to the Legislative Assembly (a body of
men possessing the confidence of the people,
evidenced by their very presence,) by the Con-
gress of the United States, and sanctioned by
the acting Governor of the Territory. Is law
a protection or a guide, or is it a vicious
weathercock set up on the cross roads, pointing
the road just as the wind may blow? Spiritu-
alizing the sense and meaning of words and
sentences away, has so long been a tradition,
and environing every thought with such squint-
ing technicalities and expressions, that it takes
more than the wit of a lawyer to tell what the
law really means when it is made. “The Lib-
eral Party!”—this presumptuous usurpation of
one of the most sacred words of the English
language, is an insult in the face of our honest
Constitution. That a few aliens, so far as the
country’s salvation is concerned, should come
here and feast and fatten themselves on the
hard earnings of this people, wrested only by
the most continued and patient labor from this
desert soil, and then as a diminutive minority
endeavor, by every subterfuge, distorted tech-
nicality and sacreligious prostitution of the sa-
cred word "Liberty," to deprive us of our dear-
est rights as loyal citizens of a free country
will probably be a more striking proof to the

[Column 3]
thus far prejudiced world of the unjustness and
unfairness of the principles of action of our
opponents towards us, than any amount of
complaints or arguments we could offer. Of
one thing we are certain, that our Father and
God has body, parts and passions, and that He
will hear our prayers with His ears and will
see our wrongs with His eyes, and will possibly,
in His anger, force an “ass” again to praise
Him, in spite of all his efforts to the contrary.
			ROMANIA  B.  PRATT, M. D.


WE PROTEST.

	Ever since the Gospel of the Latter days
dawned upon the earth, we have met with op-
position and oppression, especially since the es-
tablishment of the holy principle of Plural
Marriage; and the cry has come from abroad:
"Oh, the down-trodden women of Utah! What
can we do to extricate them from their bond-
age?" When lo! the mandate goes forth (there
must have been an inspirational whisper), "Give
them the franchise, and they will soon throw off
the yoke that binds them so slavishly!" It
was done. We accepted the boon gracefully
and gratefully, and for ten years have honored
the power bestowed; but not as our oppressors
had so fondly anticipated. We did not break
our allegiance with our husbands, our reli-
gion, nor our God! And the power of this
people to do good to all the world was in-
creased and strengthened, instead of being
weakened.
	Disappointed in their cherished ideas, the
would-be dignitaries of our Territory have in-
stituted proceedings to deprive us of this privi-
lege—the right to vote. Is there a lady among
us, or even in the world, who does not experi-
ence a righteous indignation, and feel to pro-
test against a course so unjust—so devoid of
that true liberality that should characterize the
official jurisdiction of any and every land.
	Not that we fear the result. No! for what-
ever is done to retard our advancement will be
turned in our favor, even as it was in the grant-
ing of this privilege.

"We trust not in man, he is mortal;
Our trust is in God: He is Eternal!"

			ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.


TO SISTER H. T. KING.

	Thanks. The article on "Babyhood," which
appeared in the last EXPONENT, seems to me
one of the sweetest and best your ready pen
has ever produced. I can believe that in
thanking you for it, I express the senti-
ments of thousands of young mothers. How
good it is to have some one who can help us to
think and plan for our priceless darlings, our
babies, while they are still unable to think for
themselves, and know no more and do no bet-
ter, often, with all their heavenly attributes,
than merely to confuse and perplex us. How
thankful we should be for our "Mothers in Is-
rael;" and—I speak now from my own experi-
ence—our wise-thinking "Mothers-in-law" also.
									LULA.


It is  a  remarkable  fact  that  two-thirds  of 
the church members in this country are women,
to  one-third  men;  while  on  the  other  hand,
nineteen-twentieths  of the  criminals  are men
and only one-twentieth women.


66		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LIFE INCIDENTS.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY. 
	"On Tuesday,  the  3d,  several  of us went
with Joseph Smith, Jun., to the top of a mound
on  the  bank  of the  Illinois River, which  was
several hundred feet above the river, and from
the  summit  we  had  a  pleasant  view  of the
surrounding country.  We could overlook the
tops of the trees and the meadow or prairie on
each side the river as far as our eyes could  ex-
tend,  which  was  one  of  the  most pleasant
scenes I ever beheld.  On the top of the mound
there was the appearance of three altars, which
had been built of stone, one above another, ac-
cording to the  ancient order;  and  the  ground
was  strewn  over  with  human  bones. This
caused  in  us very peculiar  feelings, to see the
bones  of  our  fellow-creatures scattered in this
manner, who had been slain in ages past. We
felt prompted to dig down into the mound, and
sending for a shovel  and hoe, we proceeded to
move  away the  earth. At  about  one  foot in
depth we  discovered the skeleton of a man, al-
most  entire;  and  between  two  of  his  ribs we
found an  Indian  arrow, which had evidently
been the cause of his death.  *  *  *  The
same day we pursued  our journey. While  on
our way we  felt anxious  to  know who the per-
son  was  who  had  been  killed  by that arrow. 
It was made known to Joseph that he had been
an officer who fell in battle in the last destruc-
tion  among  the  Lamanites, and his name was
Zelph. This caused us to rejoice much to think
that  God was so  mindful  of  us to  show these
things to his servant.  Brother Joseph had in-
quired  of  the Lord and it was made known in
a vision.  While we were  refreshing ourselves
and  teams,  about  the  middle  of  the  day,
Brother Joseph got up in a wagon and said  he
would  deliver  a  prophecy.  After  giving the
brethren much good advice, he  exhorted them
to faithfulness and humility, and said the Lord
had  told him that  there would a scourge come
upon the camp, in  consequence of the fractious
and unruly  spirits that appeared among them,
and they would  die  like sheep  with the rot. 
Still, if they would  repent  and  humble  them-
selves  before the Lord, the scourge in  a  great
measure  might  be  turned  away; "but  as the
Lord lives, this camp will suffer for giving way
to their  unruly  tempers"--which  afterwards
did take place to the sorrow of the brethren. 
	The same  day, when we  had got within one
mile  of the  river  Snye,  we  came  to  a very
beautiful little  town  called  Atlas. Here we
found honey, for the  first time on our journey,
that  we  could  buy.  *  *  * There  was a
great excitement in the country through which
we had  passed, and  also ahead of  us;  the mob
threatened to stop us, guns were fired in almost
all directions  through  the  night;  Brother  Jo-
seph  did  not  sleep  much,  if  any,  but  was
through  the  camp  pretty  much  during the
night. We  pursued  our  journey on  the 4th,
and  camped  on  the  bank  of  the  Mississippi
River.  Here we were somewhat afflicted, and
the enemy threatened much that we should not
cross over  the river  out  of Illinois  into  Mis-
souri.  *  *  When we had all got  over, we
camped about one mile from  the little town of
Lousiana, in a beautiful oak grove, immediately
on  the  bank  of  the river. At this place there
were some feelings of hostility again manifested
by Sylvester  Smith, in  consequence  of  a  dog
growling  at  him  while  he  was  marching  his
company up to the camp, he being the last that
came  over  the  river. The  next morning
Brother Joseph said that  he would descend to
the  spirit  that was manifested by some of the
brethren to  let  them  see  the  folly  of their
wickedness. He  rose  up  and  commenced by
saying: "If any man insults me  or abuses me,
I will stand in my own defence at the  expense
of my  life;  and  if  a  dog  growl  at me, I will
let  him  know that I am his master."  At this
moment Sylvester  Smith,  who  had  just  re-
turned from where he had turned out his horses
to  feed, came up, and  hearing Brother Joseph
make  those  remarks, said: "If that  dog  bites
me I'll kill him."  Joseph turned to Sylvester
and said,  "If you kill that dog I'll whip you;"
and then  went  on  to  show the  brethren how
wicked and  unchristianlike  such  conduct ap-
peared before the eyes of truth and justice. 
	"On Friday, the 6th, we  resumed  our  jour-
ney. On  Saturday  night  we  camped among
our  brethen  at  Salt River, and  prepared for
the Sabbath.  *  * Here  we were  joined by
Hyrum Smith and Lyman Wight, with another
company. The  camp now numbered two hun-
dred  and  five men, all armed and equipped as
the  law  directs. It was delightful  to  see  the
company, for  they  were  all  young  men, with
one  or  two  exceptions,  and  in  good spirits. 
We were  now  reorganized  in  the following
order: Joseph  was  acknowledged Commander
in Chief; Lyman  Wight  was  chosen General
of the camp;  then Brother Joseph chose twenty
men for his life guard, I being one of the num-
ber;  Brother  George  A.  Smith  was  Joseph's
armor  bearer;  Hyrum  Smith was chosen Cap-
tain  of  the  life  guard;  the  remainder  of  the
camp  was  organized  into  companies as before
stated. We had twenty-five wagons, two horses
in  each, and  some  three. One  day  while we
remained here our General  marched us out on
a large  prairie;  he  then  proceeded  to  inspect
us, examine our firelocks, &c. Afterwards we
were marched in platoons, and an object being
placed, we  discharged  our  pieces, in  order  to
try  them;  we  were  drilled  about  half  a  day
and then returned to the camp. 
	"My first  attempt  at  washing  my clothes
took place at  Salt River.  My  shirts being ex-
tremely dirty, I put them into a kettle of water
and boiled  them for  about two hours--having
observed  that women who  washed boiled their
clothes, and I supposed by so doing they boiled
out  the  dirt;  I  then  took  them  and washed
them, endeavoring to imitate a woman washing
as near as I  could; I rubbed the clothes with
my knuckles instead of the palm of my hand,
and  rubbed  the  skin  all  off my knuckles, so
that my hands were  very sore for several days.
My attempts  were  vain  in  trying  to  get  the
dirt  out  of  my  clothes.  I  wondered  at  this
considerably; I  scolded and fretted because I
could  not  get  the  dirt  out, and I gave  it up,
and wrung  and hung  them  out to dry. Hav-
ing no  flat irons  to iron them, I took them to
Slsters  Holbrook  and  Ripley  to  get them
ironed; when  they saw them  they said  I  had
not  washed  my  clothes. I  told  them  I  had
done my best; although I had boiled them two
hours before washing, and had washed them so
faithfully I had taken the skin off my knuckles,
still I had  not  been  successful  in  getting  the
dirt out. They laughted heartily, and informed
me  that  by  boiling them before washing I had
boiled the dirt into them.
 "On the 15th we again resumed  our march. 
Many of  the  inhabitants  went  with us several
miles;  they  seemed  to  have  much  respect for
us. We  traveled  about  fourteen  miles  and
camped on a large prairie. 
	"On Wednesday,  the  18th,  at  night  we
camped one mile  from the town of Richmond,
Ray County.  On the 19th we arose as soon as
it was light and passed through the town  before 
the inhabitants were up. As Luke Johnson
and others were passing through, before the
teams  came  along, Brother  Luke  observed a
black woman in a gentlemen's garden near the
road. She  beckoned  to  him and said, "Come 
here, massa,"  she was evidently much agitated
in  her  feelings.  He went up to the fence and
she  said  to  him: "There is a company of men
lying in  wait  here, who are calculating to kill
you this morning as you pass through." This
was nothing new to  us, as we had been contin-
ually threatened through the whole journey,and
death and destruction seemed to await us daily.
This day we  only traveled about fifteen miles;
one wagon broke  down, and the wheels run off
from  others,  and  there  seemed  to  be  many
things  to  hinder  our progress, although  we
strove with  all diligence to  speed our way for-
ward. Our  intentions were, when we started,
to go through to Clay County that day; but all
in vain.
	"This night we  camped on an elevated piece
of land  between  two branches  of the Fishing
River. Just  as  we  halted  and  were  making
preparations for the night, five men rode into
the camp and told us we should see h--l before
morning, and such horrible oaths as came from
their  lips I never  heard before. they told us
that  sixty men were  coming  from  Richmond
who had sworn to destroy us;  also seventy more
were eoming from Clay County, to assist in our
destruction. These  men were  black with  pas-
sion and armed with guns, and the whole coun-
try was in a rage  against  us, and  nothing  but
the  power  of  God  could  save  us.  All  this
time the weather was  fine and pleasant. Soon
after these  men  left  us we  discovered a small
black  cloud  rising  in  the west, and  not more
than twenty minutes  passed away before it be-
gan to  rain and hail, but we had very little of
the hail in  our  camp;  all  around  us  the hail
was heavy. The  thunders  rolled  with  awful
majesty, and  the red  lightnings flashed through
the  horizon, making  it  so  light  that  I could
see  to pick  up a pin  almost  any time through
the  night; the  earth  quaked  and  trembled,
there being no cessation; it seemed as though
the Almighty had issued forth his mandate of 
vengeance. The  wind  was  terrible. Many
trees were blown  down, and others twisted and
wrung  like  a withe. The  mob  came  to the
river two miles from us, but the river had risen
to that height that they wers  obliged to stop
without crossing  over.  The  hail fell so heavy
upon them  that it beat holes in their hats, and
in  some  instances  even  broke  the  stocks  off
their  guns. Their  horses  fled,  leaving  their
riders  on  the  ground; their  powder was wet,
and it was evident the Almighty fought in our
defense; This night the river raised forty feet.
In the morning I went to the river, in company
with  Brothers  Joseph  Smith,  Hyrum  Smith,
Brigham  Young  and  others, as  we  had  it in
contemplation to proceed  that morning to Lib-
erty, Clay  County;  but we  could not continue
our  journey as  there was no way to cross the
river, it  was  then  overflowing  its  banks;  pre-
vious  to  this  rain  falling it was no more than
ankle deep; such  a  time  was  never  experi-
enced  by  us  before. Still  we  felt  calm  all
night and the Lord  was with  us. The  water
was ankle  deep  to  us  all night, even on that
eminence, so we could not sleep. *  *  *
The next day when we moved into the country
we  saw that  the  hail had destroyed the crops,
and that it had come in  some directions  within 
a mile, and in other directions within half a 
mile of our camp.  *  *  We went a distance
of five  miles  on  a  prairie  to  get food for our-
horses, and also to get some provisions for our-
selves, and to get into some  secure place where
we could defend ourselves from the rage of the
enemy. We stayed there  three  or  four  days,
until the rage  of  the  people was  somewhat al-
layed. 
		To be Continued.


The Prince of Wales' sons are receiving
thirty-seven and a half cents per day for their
services in the British navy, and it is believed
that the navy pays for all it gets.

	It might have been expected from Massa-
chusetts, but it has been done in Ohio. The
"Woman's Garfield and Arthur Club, No. 1"
has organized in Cincinnati with forty members
from among the best society in the city.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		67


THE SORELY TRIED.

	"O Thou That hearest prayer, unto Thee shall all
flesh come."—Hebrew Psalmist.

With the speed of light, o'er the cloudlets blue,
Upward the Angels of Mercy flew,
Home, from their mission, on wings of love—
From the earth below to the heavens above.

Home, from their mission to mortals bless—
To obtain for the children of men redress—
To plead for souls on this earthly ball,
In the Courts Supreme, to the Judge of all.

To Him Who "giveth the ravens food,"
To the Source of light, and the Source of good,
Great was the joy of this angel throng
In telling how Virtue "had vanquished Wrong!"

In telling of all who had faithful been
To their sense of right—to the voice within;
Of all who but lean'd unto Virtue's side,
Unconscious that angels had been their guide.

Of love, repentance, and kindly deeds,
(Restricted never to sects and creeds)
And for each good deed and each cry to Heaven,
Was credit accorded and comfort given.

But the widow's prayer, and the orphan's plaint,
The feeblest call from the troubled Saint,
Already had reach'd the Eternal throne—
No need had the angels to make them known.

The cry of distress, in the hour of need,
Outstrips the Angel of Mercy's speed;
And with subtle swiftness is strength supplied
To the weary, the wounded, the sorely tried.

O ye who are bowed with the weight of care,
Believe there is comfort and help in prayer;
Your words nor your tears shall unnoticed fall—
Yea, God will answer before you call.

If not, be trustful, endure the test;
The plan of "our Father," be sure, is best;
"In the pastures green, where the clear streams glide,"
Ere long He will lead you, The Sorely Tried.

					EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
	S. L. City, 1880.


[Column 1]
THE SENTIMENT OF DUTY.

	Every mother in Israel, every true woman,
should keep constantly before her, and ever in
her soul, the sentiment of duty, for it is the
crowning virtue that adorns the human soul.
It is a bright, radiant star, that will light and
brighten our paths, no matter how dark and
gloomy may be the way: it is as a bright gem,
that leads us on to happiness, peace and joy;
it is a beacon light, set out in bold relief in the
heavens, to beckon us onward and upward, out
of the depths of misery and sin, into the realms
of light and goodness; it is a true guide to no-
bility and fame, and those who follow its ad-
monitions are the noblest, purest, best persons,
on the face of the earth. To me there is no-
thing so fair and grand, as integrity and the
sentiment of duty, which if we will only allow
it to do so, will dwell in our hearts forever, a
living fountain of pure and noble thoughts, and
create there an unbounded wealth of peace,
contentment and joy, which will endure while
life lasts.
	O, how great an influence it has upon those
who will listen to its warnings and obey its
pleadings, for it is ever vigilant; the moment
we are tempted to do wrong it is near us, show-
ing us the better way; if we seem to forget which
is the path for us to pursue, it will ever appear,
and point it out to us. It will show us, if we
are not blinded by sin, the calm, tranquil peace
to be found, by obeying its mandates, and when
we have overcome and followed its counsel,
there is no joy or satisfaction that will equal
that which will be ours. Truly there is no
greater virtue than firmness and determination
in carrying out the dictates of our consciences,
and those who possess this spirit of determina-
tion will not be drones in the hive; idlers, par-
taking of the fruit of the laborer, but, instead,

[Column 2]
bright and shining lights in the kingdom of
God. They are the women who will be found
valiant and true, never shrinking from the
paths of duty, but, when the way seems thorny
and dark, they will be striving and dauntless,
and their actions will so brighten the pathway
of life, that others who had fallen by the way-
side, discouraged, will arise, and with renewed
vigor, resume the journey of life.
	There is no subject more worthy of the con-
templation, and thorough study of the young
women of Zion, than this one, for she who lives,
acts and speaks from an enlightened conviction
of duty, exerts a strong moral influence over
all who associate with her, and she will have
many friends, for her life will be so pure and
benevolent, that the good will gather round
her to enjoy the sunshine of her noble nature,
and all will feel her influence for good. She
can bless without an effort; she will be truth-
ful, simple-hearted and reliable; she is only to
know what is right, to be ready to engage in
it; every action will be an example of integrity,
and the joy of performing the labors which her
sentiment of duty has pointed out.
	If all young women would only be guided by
the strictest ideas of duty, there would be no
more dens of infamy,no more worshipers at the
shrine of fashion, no more idle giddy devotees
of folly and worldly pleasure, for it will ever
guide the mind to something more grand and
good; it will breathe into our being a love of
the Divine, and a desire to draw nearer to our
Father, to do his sublime will. and partake of
his eternal, unchanging love.
	Piety sanctifies all the other virtues of the
soul, and sheds the balmiest, purest, sweetest
joy over our hearts, that we ever feel in this
life. No character is complete without it, and
no heart that is devoid of piety can enjoy per-
fect happiness; but she, whose soul has been
baptized by its holy influence, and imbued
with its sweet,heaven-born principles, is indeed
happy and in her joy is no alloy.
								CELIA.


THE  VALUE  OF SOCIABILITY.
	Instead of living and enjoying life, the world
seems  to be striving—striving ever  in  getting
ready to live.  As soon  as a person gets every-
thing in  order for  real living— ah! most gen-
erally before—he dies! Improvement  is the or-
der of the day with all respectable classes,  and
this is right. ‘'Work” and “business” occupy
the hands and  brains of the  masses, and  these
are excellent mottoes.  But, I have lately come
to think that perhaps  this  world  need not  be
such a prosy,practical,work-a-day sort of a world
after all, if  the majority of the  people  would
not so take it and so make it.
	There might be more sociability,a little more
of the old-fashioned calls and  visiting  indulged
in, among neighbors  and  friends, and  still  be
just as many, perhaps more  good works accom-
plished.  How  do  we  know  what  good  we
might have done for some  poor creature in our
neighborhood, to  whom  misfortune has  come,
had we known  of  the  circumstance  in  time?
Often, were neighbors  a little  more sociable, it
would be easy to avert  evils which are now un-
avoidable  because  of  the  isolation  to  which
people subject themselves.
	I am not  writing to women  who have their
time entirely  at  their  own disposal;  who  can
attend to their toilets,  make  fashionable  calls
and be in  trim for receiving fashionable callers
every day.  Neither do I write for the  benefit
of those whose time and  attention  are devoted
to the public  weal,  who  go to  more  meetings
than the most of men could endure, and see and
talk to more people  in a  week  than  they  can
possibly remember  the names  and  faces  of  in
twelve months.  But I would  speak  by means
of pen and paper to the  thousands  of mothers,
who are very properly living for their own little
worlds, their families,  Those whose babies and
household cares  necessarily  tie  them to  their
homes very closely.  I would like  to  persuade
them that staying in the house from morning
till night, day after day from  one year’s end to
another. working  and brooding over work that
it is impossible for them to accomplish, and suf-
fering with  the headache nearly  all  the  time,
does not pay, and is not  exactly fulfilling their
mission. They need a little of the fresh,  pure,
open air of heaven  as well  as  the  babies  and
the  older  children  and  the  fathers.  They
should accompany the babies when  they go for
their  morning  walk  sometimes,  two  or  three
times a week at least. They should occasionally
call on their neighbors who are like themselves,
and insist in the friendliest  manner upon their 
calls  being  returned. Lace  ruffles  and  em-
broidered cuffs need not  be thought of in  con-
nection  with  these  homely sociabilities. The
neat old-fashioned, plain linen answers quite as
well in such cases;  and, indeed, you may really
enjoy your walk and a pleasant chit-chat, with-
out having either collar or cuffs, if you can only
think it. If you  hold  to  the  belief  that you
must wait  to  "dress up"  before  taking  these
little outs, you will  never take them, you  will
never have the time. If you have been fretted
and vexed at home, do  not  manifest anything
of the kind  where  you  make  your  call.  Let
your  conversation be something  to cheer  and
strengthen both your  neighbor and yourself.
 A few weeks ago, I was suffering with a sore
throat which  lasted for  several  days,  By  re-
sorting to simple remedies, such as are generally
known, I suppose  we kept it from becoming a
serious case. But  it would  not get well. One
day, early in  the  afternoon, a friend  called  to
see me, accompanied  by her  daughter, a pleas-
ant spirited girl  at  the happy  age of fourteen. 
My two  little boys  were praised  and  admired
after the usual custom; our house--as my friend
had not visited me  here  before--was  explored
and commented upon; we talked of the different
society meetings,the "Assembly Hall," remark.
able instances  of faith in  children, the  admin-
istration  of  the  Elders  the safest,  surest  and
only  reliable  remedy  in  all  cases  of  sickness,
and kindred  topics;  interspersing  bits  of  rail-
lery and indulging in little laughs where occasion
warranted. We enjoyed ourselves together and
my friend and her young daughter remained with
us till  evening. At  the supper table I observed
that my throat was  much better. Next morn-
ing the soreness was quite  gone and I have felt
nothing of it since.
 That such charming remedies as the one cited
above would prove  effectual  in all  cases, I do
not  pretend  to  say. But  they  are harmless,
and in many instances very  good. My sisters
try them.
							LULA.


A PEOPLE'S Territorial Convention, composed
of delegates from the several counties is to be
held in the City Hall in this city on Thursday,
the 7th inst., at 6 p. m., to nominate a candidate
for Delegate to the Forty-seventh Congress, and
to transact such other business as may properly
come before the convention.
	The convention will consist of seventy-three
delegates, apportioned as follows, based upon
the population as determined by the census of
1880:
Beaver.......................2 Box Elder.....................3
Cache........................6 Davis............................3
Emery........................1 Iron...............................2
Juab...........................2 Kane.............................2
Millard......................2 Morgan..........................1
Piute..........................1 Rich..............................1
Salt Lake..................16 San Juan.......................1
Sanpete......................5 Sevier............................2
Summit......................2 Tooele...........................2
Uintah........................1 Utah..............................9
Wasatch.....................1 Washington...................2
			Weber.................6
	Total..........................................................73


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,  - - Editor.

	Published   semi-monthly, in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah
Terms:  One copy one year, $2. 00;  one copy six months
$1.00  Ten  copies  for  the  price  of  nine.  Advertising
rates: Each square,  ten  lines  of  nonparell  space, one
time,  $2.50:  per  months, $3. 00.  A liberal discount  to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower  West  Room of  the  Council
House,  South  Temple  Street.  Business  hours  from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	Salt Lake City Utah.
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  OCTOBER  1,  1880.


[Column 1]
WOMAN'S RIGHT TO VOTE IN UTAH
CONTESTED.

	We publish in this issue some particulars con
cerning the attempt recently made to take the
suffrage from the women of this Territory. All
at once these "wise men of Gotham" have de-
clared the law conferring the franchise upon
woman null and void, so positively, that they per-
emptorily order the names of certain women and
all other women to be erased from the registra-
tion list. The Supreme Court issue a writ of
mandamus to enforce this demand. Is it not a
grave reflection upon these legal gentlemen so
thoroughly acquainted with matters pertaining
to legislation, and the construction of law, to
have passed over in silence a matter which has
been so loudly talked of everywhere its merits
and demerits so extensively discussed, and have
allowed to remain a law for ten years without a
demur,and now to emphatically declare as Judge
Sutherland did in his argument on Wednesday
evening last, "We deny the validity of the act
giving women the right to vote." According to
this positive statement women here have never
cast a lawful ballot? Of what inconsistency will
they accuse women next? In the name of reason
and justice we would ask as Mrs. Blake did at
a convention at which we were present "why
don't you take women to the end of the world
and jump them off?"
	One of the principal features of the objections
urged by the plaintiff's lawyers was that the law
of 1870, now in question, did not require women
to pay taxes, and consequently stamped the act
as special legislation; and as the act of 1859 pro-
hibited any male from voting unless he was a
tax payer, that was general legislation, and the
two conflicted, but were not contradictory. This
question about tax paying seems to be a disease
with men, and yet they know that every woman
who holds any property whatever in her own
right is required by law to pay taxes, and that
thousands of women, both wives and widows,
pay taxes in this Territory. Poll tax is the only
tax from which they are exempt, that we are
aware of, and all this furore about a privileged
class of voters, is all bosh and nonsense.
	There were several interesting points in the
arguments, which are of great consequence to
all who have the vital question of woman suf-
frage at heart. We shall publish all the argu-
ments made, in full, in our next issue, October
15, as the paper was nearly ready for the press
when the question which involves woman's right
to vote was raised.
	Meanwhile, we would say, this is not the time
for men or women to sleep upon their oars, but
watch the enemy's rank and file well, and never
lose an opportunity to defend the right. Let
those who wish to maintain civil and religious
liberty, stand firm in the hour of danger, and

[Column 2]
trust in the living God, Who knows the secrets
of all hearts.
	The defense affirm that the Supreme Court
has not the power to issue mandamus. If this
demurrer could be strenuously maintained, then
those who are so anxious to do away with women
voters would have to raise some other question,
or attack from another quarter. But it is to be
hoped the women will give the enemy "no quar-
ter," and they will be obliged to succumb to a
law which has been practised and observed for
ten years, and which is calculated, in the very
nature of things, to foster good institutions and
practises, promote industries among the people,
elevate society, and eventually lift woman to a
much higher plane than that enjoyed by her in
the past.
	We attended the sitting of the Court on Thurs-
day afternoon, according to adjournment from
Wednesday evening, when the arguments were
made upon the merits of the question, but Chief
Justice Hunter explained that the Court was
not prepared to render a decision in the case of
mandamus, and therefore the court adjourned,
without transacting any business, until four
o'clock p. m. to-day.
	We have no idea what the legal opinion in
this matter will be, but we know that woman's
cause is in the hands of a higher tribunal than
that of a Supreme Court, and that it will contin-
ally triumph over every obstacle that prejudice,
tradition, envy or malice may place in the way
of woman's advancement and political equality.
"Man proposes, God disposes."


[Column 1]
ATTEMPT TO DISFRANCHISE WOMEN.

	We give below full particulars of the heroic
movement, of a few wise-acres who have pro-
claimed their chivalry as "Cock Robins" by
pouncing upon the "Jenny Wrens." How very
magnanimous they have proven themselves to
be. Let them remember the old maxim "wo to
him who builds himself up on another's ruin,"
Not that we have an idea that they can succeed,
but it will not be their fault if they do not. They
have no doubt learned by heart the coward's
moral. "Always hit some one smaller or weaker
than yourself." Or as Lillie Devereux Blake
pertinently said, concerning the same subject on
a former occasion,they resolved "to cut off some-
body's ears!!" "But when they came to consider
whose ears they could cut off, they were much
puzzled until one old Fox who had eaten a vast
quantity of mice in his day said, "Cut off the
ears of the Field Mice." "These Field Mice are
little and weak, they cannot hurt us whatever
we do to them."
	In the Supreme Court of Utah Territory:
	Affidavit and petition for Mandamus.

TERRITORY OF UTAH,			} SS.
	COUNTY OF SALT LAKE.	}

	George R. Maxwell being first duly sworn ac-
cording to law deposes as follows:
	I am a citizen of the United States, native
born, and more than 21 years of age. I reside in
Salt Lake City, Salt Lake County; Utah Terri-
tory, and have so resided for about ten years
past. I own taxable property and reside in and
have so resided for more than two years past in
the—precinct of said city and county. I fur-
ther state that I am a duly registered voter on
the registration list of voters made in accordance
with the existing election and registration laws
of this Territory.
I further state that Robert T. Burton is duly
elected, qualified and acting assessor and register
of voters in and for said county in this Territory,
and now as such has in possession and not re-
turned to the election officer of any of the pre-
cincts of said county, the registration list of
voters of said county by him made for the pres-
ent year, as such registration officer. I further
state on information and belief that said list con-
tains the names of the following persons who are
not qualified or lawful voters,as I state on infor-

[Column 2]
mation and belief,viz.,Emmeline B. Wells,Maria
M. Blythe, and Mrs. A. G. Paddock and also a
large number of the names of women residing in
the various precincts of said Salt Lake County,
amounting to several thousand in number, but
the exact names and number of the same are to
me unknown; that being informed that said per-
sons above named, and the names of other
females to me unknown as above stated, were
and had been placed on said list by said assessor
and register as aforesaid, I, on the 24th day of
September, A. D. 1880, made a demand in writ-
ing upon said assessor and register at his office
and to his authorized and acting deputy then and
there being; to strike off from said list of voters
the names aforesaid and the names of all females
found in or contained in said list on the ground
that the said persons, nor any of them, nor any
woman had any right to vote; that said Burton,
by his duly authorized and acting deputy, then
and there refused to comply with said demand,
and said names of said persons, as lawful voters
remained, and yet remain, as I state on informa-
tion and belief, in said registration lists as lawful
voters in the county and precincts of which they
are listed.
	And affiant alleges, on his information and be-
lief, and so states the fact to be, that said persons
named, and all other women whose names are
on said list as aforesaid, are not, nor are any of
them, lawful voters; and the retention of said
names on said list as such, must be and, is a vio-
lation of the law and of the rights of affiant as
a lawfnl voter, and of the rights of all other law-
ful voters.
	The said Burton has until the 10th day of
October next to make his return of the registra-
tion list of the various precincts and that in the
mean time such return may be made at any
time, and that said list was completed by said
officer on the 19th day of September, inst., and
that affiant is informed and verily believes that
said officer declares that he will and intends to
return said list containing the names aforesaid,
and the names of a large number of other wo-
men as voters, all of which would be in viola-
tion of law and of the rights of affiant, and
all other lawful voters.
	Wherefore affiant prays for relief as follows:
	For a writ of mandamus or mandate to be is-
sued out of and from this court, commanding
and directing Robert T. Burton, Assessor and
Register of Voters for Salt Lake County, Utah
Territory, to erase and strike from the list of
voters of Salt Lake County, made by him, the
names of the following persons, viz.: Emmeline
B. Wells, Maria M. Blythe and Mrs. A. G. Pad-
dock, and also the names of all women whose
names thereon appear as voters, on the receipt
of said writ; or that he show cause before this
Court at the Federal Court Room, in the Wa-
satch Building, Salt Lake City, Salt Lake County,
Utah Territory, on the 29th day of September,
1880, at 7 o'clock p. m. of said day, why he has
not done so; also that in the meantime the said
officer be ordered not to return said list by him
made, or any copy thereof, to any election officer
until the further order of this court.
					GEO. R. MAXWELL.
				Subscribed and sworn to before
[SEAL.]			me, this 25th day of Septem-
				ber, A. D., 1880.
						J. MCKNIGHT,
							Notary Public.

	After the reading of the above, the Court
promptly issued the writ of mandamus, the text
of which is here given:
George R. Maxwell vs. Robert T. Burton, As-
	sessor and Register of voters for Salt Lake
	County, Utah Territory.
	The People of the United States of the Terri-
tory of Utah, to Robert T. Burton, Assessor and
Register of voters for Salt Lake County, Terri-
tory of Utah, Greeting:
	Whereas, It manifestly appears to us by the
affidavit of George R. Maxwell, a party benefi-
cially interested therein, that you, as assessor
and register of voters for the County of Salt
Lake and Territory of Utah, and the various
precincts of said county, have listed as lawful
voters in the registration list by you made, as
Register of voters for Salt Lake County, the
names of Emmeline B. Wells, Maria M. Blythe,
Mrs. A. G. Paddock, all women; also a large
number of the names of other persons who are
residents of Salt Lake County, and are women,
as lawful voters, and,
	Whereas, It also appears that the petitioner,
George R. Maxwell, is a lawful and registered
voter of said county, and that he made on you,


on the l4th day of September, inst., a demand
that you strike off the names aforesaid, and the
names of all women on said list, on the ground
that they and each of them were not entitled to
vote, and that said demand was refused, and the
names of said women, and a large number of
other women not named, are now in said list as
lawful voters, as it was your duty to do, and that
said list is now in your hands and under your
control, and that there is no plain, speedy or ade-
quate remedy at law for this alleged  failure and
neglect of duty.
	Therefore, We do command you that, imme-
diately after the receipt of this writ, you do
strike off and erase from said registration list of
voters the names aforesaid, and the names of  all
other women listed as voters, or that you show
cause before this court at the Federal Court
Room thereof, in the Wasatch Building, Salt
Lake City, Utah Territory, on Wednesday, Sep-
tember 29,1880, at 7 o’clock p. m. of said day,
why you have not done so; and you are further
ordered not to return said registration of voters
made by you, as aforesaid, or any part thereof,
or any copy therefrom, to any election officer
until the further order of this court.
	Witness the honorable Chief Justice and As-
sociate Justices of this Court aforesaid, this the
25th day of September, A. D. 1880.
	JOHM A. Hunter, C. J.,
	J. S. BOREMAN, A. J.;
	P. H. Emerson, A. J.
[L.S.] Attested by the Clerk and seal thereof
hereunto affixed.
	E. T. SPRAGUE;
	Clerk of Supreme Court of Utah Territory.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		69


[Column 1]
HOME AFFAIRS.

	FAVORABLE DECISION: Judges disagree! Just
as we go to press the decision is given in the
case of the mandamus. The Supreme Court of
the Territory sustain the demurrer. Chief Jus-
tice Hunter and Associate Justice Emerson
maintain the dignity of the law, and justice for
"Mormons." Judge Boreman gives a dissent-
ing opinion. He goes out of office to-morrow.
Gen. Maxwell has been outwitted again.
	THE County Convention composed of delegates
from the several precincts in Salt Lake County,
will be held in the Court House in this city, Sat-
urday, the 2d instant, at 2 p. m., for the purpose
of electing the 16 delegates, apportioned to this
county, to the Territorial Convention.
	REPORTS from Bear Lake Utah, Weber and
Salt Lake Conference of Relief Society, Y. L. M.
I., and Primary Associations are crowded out to
give place to important matters bearing upon the
subject of the attempt to disfranchise the women
of this Territory. We trust our readers will con-
sider this a good and sufficient reason for delay in
publishing.
	DR. Ellis R. Shipp has just returned from a
professional visit in the country. Her time has
been occupied in giving lectures upon physiolog-
ical subjects and treating diseases both Surgical
and Gynecological. She proposes now to locate
permanently in this city and open a class for the
more thorough instruction of woman in those
branches.
	We call attention to her advertisment.
	ON Tuesday evening, September 28, we receiv-
the following dispatch,from Mrs. Belva A. Lock-
wood, of Washington, D. C., "Stand by your
guns. Allow no encroachment upon your liber-
ties. No mandamus here." Mrs. Lockwood is
a brilliant lawyer and orator, and has won an
honored name that will go down to posterity,
by persevering in her efforts to aid the cause of
woman's emancipation and gaining admission as
a lawyer to the Supreme Court of the United
States.
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt will commence her
new class in obstetrics and continue during the
fall and winter. It will open on the 7th inst.
Much valuable information of the human sys-
tem can be obtained by attending these lectures,
and we would suggest to the young married

[Column 2]
ladies, who can devote some portion of their
time to the acquirement of useful knowledge to
attend the lectures given on a subject so intimate-
ly connected with their health and happiness.
See terms in advertisement.
	THE Semi-Annual Conference is near at hand.
On Wednesday next at ten o'clock A. M., the
sixth inst. the meeting will commence, in the
large Tabernacle. It is expected there will be a
numerous attendance from the country. As
this is the year of Jubilee, it is but natural that
people will assemble from all parts, to partake of
the spirit and blessings anticipated on such a
momentous occasion. There are many reasons
why the Latter-day Saints should naturally look
forward to the coming Conference with a great
degree of interest. The kingdom of Gcd is grow-
ing in strength and power and influence and
Zion is lengthening her borders and strengthen-
ing her stakes, and calling out into the broad
field of action more of her earnest laborers.
	We are indebted to the politeness of Mr. James
Dwyer, the able, efficient and enterprising pio-
neer bookseller of this city, for a most exquisite
bouquet of the choicest flowers of the season,
artistically arranged by the donor. Words are
weak to express our genuine appreciation of these
beautiful gifts of God, the flowers; and these
lovely and sweet perfumed ones, coming so late
in the season, and such rare specimens in them-
selves, created quite a sensation, and roused the
enthusiasm of all the family on the subject of
flowers, their beauty, merits, expression of sen-
timents, thoughts and language. Thanks, Mr.
Dwyer, and may your success as a florist equal
your fondest anticipations, in beautifying your
mountain home, which even now forms a great
attraction for all who have an eye to the beau-
tiful.
	ON Tuesday, September 28, Mr. Brigham H.
Goddard and Miss Lulu Kelly, both of this city,
were united in the holy bonds of matrimony.
The ceremony was performed by Pres. D. H.
Wells, at eleven, o'clok a. m. Mr. Goddard at-
tained his majority on the same day— two im-
portant events, in the life of the young man.
The young couple looked charming on the occa-
sion of the reception, which was held the same
evening at the residence of the bridegroom's
parents. The bride was exquisitely dressed in
simple white organdie, with orange blossoms,
and looked the picture of happiness. There
were a great number of guests, and a large va-
riety of choice presents. A delicious repast of
good things was served to all, the tables, which
seated forty people, were twice filled. We join
with many old friends of the family in wishing
these young people health, happiness and pros-
perity. May they travel down the journey of
life side by side, partaking of the rich blessings
of the new and everlasting covenant, and may
their posterity be as numerous as their hearts
desire, and their names be honored in all the
earth.


"LIBERAL" INDEED!
The attempt to take the  franchise  from  us is
indeed  a  peculiarly "Liberal"  movement!  To
have suffrage taken  from  us, after  our  having
proved ourselves loyal to its privileges,  would be
cruelty in the extreme.  Have  we not suffered
indignities enough from out enemies already?
And have not endured  hardships  enough to
merit this blessing?
					JANE S. RICHARDS.

			A QUESTION.
Having, in common  with other women of this
community, enjoyed  the  right  of franchise for
ten  years  past, and  having  broken  no  law by
which I would forfeit  that privilege, I ask, as I
feel I have a right to ask, why an attempt is be-
ing made to deprive me of my lawful rights?
			 	MERCY R. THOMPSON.


"WATCHMAN! WHAT  OF  THE HOUR?"

	Liberal! In every lexicon the word is defined
--"generous," "generosity;" yes,  and  it  means
free, as the Heaven is free! Now, in Salt  Lake
City  it  has  become  a  paradox,  and  a mis-
nomer. Last night I was startled by reading in
the Evening  News an article got up by the "Lib-
eral" (save the mark) clique in our city  to  dis-
franchise  the  women of  Utah! What  is the
matter? Where does the shoe  pinch? "I want
to know." For ten years these said women have
worn this badge of freedom, given  them  by  the
suggestion of Brigham Young, and endorsed and
signed by the then Governor  of  Utah;  and  we
ever respected and honored that  gentleman  for
that  liberal  act,  for  in  that  act  he  gave us
, 'An assurance of a Mannl" We, the Women
of Utah, blessed and thanked those  two  gentle-
men,  who, if you please, gave  a  full  and com-
plete  definition  of  the  noble  word  LIBERAL!
From that time to the present we  have  jointly
cherished the boon, and honored it in every elec-
tion, by voting for men who desired to stand, not
only as benefactors to a small handful of  people,
but  to the whole  human  family,  of whatever,
caste or clime, as far as they had the privilege to
do so; and  a  retrospective  view  will  show
we  have  been  successful  in  the  men
to  whom  we  have  given  our  suffrage;
had  they  been  men  of  another  calibre, they
would not have had our  votes. How is  it  there
has not been  discovered  in  all  these ten years,
the flaw which is now exciting  such  a  furore;
with an attempt made to take away that which
was  honorably  bestowed,  and  has  been  most
honorably acted  upon  by the  women of Utah? 
We have always  esteemed  the  Franchise  as a
great boon to woman;  and  realize  it has been a
great blessing to us. It has  conferred a respon-
sibility that has excited reflection and given dig-
nity to character; it has broadened the brain and
expanded    the  heart  of  the    recipients;
and we  have  ever  acknowledged  the had of
God in inspiring the good  men  who  gave  it to
us, to  place His daughters in  such  positions  as
His  WILL designed, knowing  that  they  would
choose the good and reject the  evil  in  such  re-
sponsibilities, and having enjoyed it so long un-
molested, we cannot but marvel, why intelligent
men, who profess to enact  laws  for  intelligent
people, should all at  once allow  their  judgment
to be hoodwinked and  become so  obtuse  and  so
warped,  that  they  can  no  longer  see the
straight and narrow way" that  leads to truth
and  equity, and  a  "righteous judgment"  even
when the small affairs  of  women  are  brought
under their august fiat! Shall we say  with  one
of old,  "How  are  the  mighty  fallen  and  the
weapons of war perished?" 
					HANNAH T. KING.


70		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
ENTERING A PROTEST.

	I can but enter my solemn protest against the
so-called Liberal principles of those in our midst
who would, were it possible, take from us the
franchise honorably accorded to us by the Legis-
lative Assembly of Utah. I most emphatically
believe that the co-operation of woman with
man in affairs of State will bring about a better
condition of society; and as women are consid-
ered good at cleaning up, I must confess I think
their influence, ability and active exertions are
much needed at present.
					HANNAH B. PIDCOCK.

INDIGNATION EXPRESSED.

	I cannot but protest against the proceedings
of the so called liberals in our midst who are
seeking to take away our rights and privileges as
citizens. It arouses a feeling of indignation in
my heart, and my New England blood rebels
against such [--]nk injustice. How I rejoiced
when the suffrage was extended to us here in
these valleys and felt that it was a God given
privilege which all good and true women ought
to enjoy, and prayed earnestly that the women
of America, who so ardently desired this power
for good might also obtain equal rights as cit-
izens.
						MINERVA W. SNOW.

"THE BLIND LEAD THE BLIND."

	It is astonishing to what a degree some of
"Our Father's" creatures can becloud their own
vision, and still imagine themselves far-seeing
individuals. The case of the late contest entered
into for the purpose of disfranchising the women
of Utah, by certain parties, exhibits this moral
deformity to an unusual extent. It seems that
no amount of experience can open the eyes of
these certain parties in regard to their own folly.
They are pleased to style themselves "Liberals,"
and perhaps they think that they are really try-
ing to act liberally. But if they could only open
their eyes to the truth, they would at once see
that there is neither justice nor even honesty in
their doings, to say nothing of generosity or lib-
erality. They would also see that as in the past,
their own and their co-workers' unjust actions
toward a people who seek to attend to their own
concerns have ever been productive of good
where they have sought to bring evil, so it will
be in the future. It is only a new shot at the
old mark they have so often missed. And they
still waste their ammunition, for they will miss
again.			LULA GREENE RICHARDS.

WE SPEAK IN OUR OWN DEFENSE.

	Inasmuch as we, the veritable women of Utah,
have enjoyed the right of franchise for ten years
with good results, we as Americans would not be
honoring the heritage given us by the patriotism
bequeathed us by our forefathers, who were wil-
[-]ing to give their lives to maintain their honor
and obtain freedom for their posterity—unless we
protested against this attempt to take away our
privileges. It is our duty to express our indigna-
tion at this unheard of political injustice.
	We ask not mercy, but justice. We vote for
men of integrity that have ever honored the
constitution of our country. We are again as-
sailed in our rights; we know for what purpose.
Would it not be wiser to foster and protect vir-
tue, encourage industry and the sacred rights of
affection, than to make us feel the degradation
of the dram shop and its terrible train of conse-
quences, and take the power from us to restrain
these evils in our midst? We may well dread
what next will be required of us.
	In Cache County, there are 9,000 people with-
out a liquor store, or its attendant miseries. And
this is a fair sample of other counties in Utah
Territory, with the exception of those places
where Gentile civilization abounds. Can the
world set us a better example? And now after
our toils and endurance in settling this desert,
that even our accusers may have bread and but-
ter, and the blessing of God upon our labors,
shall we allow the tombstone of policy, which
is being carved by politicians, to be erected over
the grave of principle and honor?
	The ladies of Utah answer, NO!
						ZINA D. H. YOUNG.

OUR "LIBERAL" CLIQUE!

	When reading in last evening's News the pro-
ceedings of our would-be tyrants, I confess that
for a moment I felt warmed up and really indig-
nant. It seems that we "poor, down-trodden

[Column 2]
women," whose sorrows and sufferings called forth
so much PITY until it was disgusting to every
true hearted "Mormon" woman have disappoint-
ed our very "liberal" and sympathetic friends! We
really love our husbands and prefer to be gov-
erned by our brethren instead of by our ac-
knowledged enemies. We have also proved true
to the principles of our religion, which is far
dearer to us than are our lives, or anything else
without it: and it seems we have become a pow-
er to be dreaded, and now the poor hypocrites
are trying to undo what they have done. "To
want to and can't" is their unenviable condition
and will continue to be if we will be humble and
united.
	We shall see the hand of God in this, as we
have in every other move made by our enemies.
They can do nothing against us, but for us.
These trials are necessary to separate the dross
from the pure metal. We can look back through
all our mobbings and drivings and can see the
hand of God in every move. Instead of our ene-
mies destroying us as they hoped and expected
to do, we have become rich and popular and
they are now filled with envy, and are really the
ones to be pitied, for they are trusting in their
own strength as did Goliath, and we trust in the
Almighty, who will show forth his power in
behalf of his people.
				HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

ENFRANCHISEMENT.

	For us as women of America, and Mothers in
Israel, the glorious right of the ballot has meant
strength to those who have our confidence, and
a bulwark of defense in the cause of law and
equity.
	In the statues of our now famous Territory,
and the framing of such laws as our noble Legis-
lators have made for the governing of the same,
can plainly be seen the power of an Allwise and
just God, who never deserts his own. 
	Now let those who believe we have joyfully
exercised and fully appreciated this right, come
to the front and do what they can for the cause
of woman, for not only do we suffer but all
women who have raised the standard for their
own emancipation, have a firm plank in the plat-
form which is being constructed by them for
their greater freedom. 
	How palpable is the plan of our opposers, "dog
in the manger" style, they raise their manly (?)
voices against "weak women" as they please to
term us, to carry out their own mean design to
disable our husbands and fathers from having a
voice in the ruling of the country which their
own industry has made. Don't you know, you
one horse politicians, that the dishonorable sub-
terfuge to which you are resorting, is palpable to
every honorable man and woman who is not
eaten up by spite and avarice? Bah! the very
name of the one chosen for this great and mighty
conspiracy means failure. He has told the story
of "This little pig went to market, and this little
pig stayed at home" to the nation ever so many
times, and everybody knows his sanctity means
"loaves and fishes."
	We may my sisters, lose the right of suffrage,
but let us meet this infringement upon our rights
in solid phalanx, and show that we have the
power and the will to wave our banner of "Trust
in Israel's God" in the face of all the world. 
				ZINA YOUNG WILLIAMS.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

	On August 19 we celebrated the anniversary
of our organization in Peoa, and had a very
enjoyable time. Assembled at the meeting
house at ten A. M., which was tastefully deco-
rated for the occasion by the President of the
Y. L. M. I. A., with some of the members of
the same to assist her. Opening exercises. Roll
called; fifty-one members present. Minutes of
last meeting read and accepted. Report read
and accepted. Four girls and two boys sang
"The Happy Mormons." Questions on the
first principles of the Gospel, to which the
children gave very prompt answers. Thirteen
little boys and girls repeated alphabetical texts.
Six girls and three boys sang "In our lovely
Deseret." Dialogue by two little boys, entitled,
"The boy that wore old clothes." Ten little
girls and six boys sang, "I've two little hands
to work for Jesus." Three boys and three
girls repeated the first twelve verses of the


5th chapter of St. Matthew. Several of the
children recited short pieces. A dialogue by
two little girls, entitled, "What two little girls
could do."
	At noon we had recess for one hour, when
they were regaled with cake, candy and lemon-
ade. Rewards of merit were distributed. Both
young and old enjoyed themselves exceedingly;
all were well satisfied.
	Annual report of Peoa Primary Association:
Our Association was organized by Peoa Relief
Society, by order of our worthy Stake President,
Mrs. Sarah S. Richards, on August 19, 1879, with
the following officers: Mrs. Lydia Marchant,
President; Mrs. Elizabeth Maxwell and Mrs.
Anna Marchant, Counselors Miss Rhoda P.
Huffaker, Secretary; Miss lydia Newman,
Assistant Secretary, and Master Levi Pearson,
Treasurer; since which time we have endeav-
ored to the best of our ability to do all we
could to improve the children committed to
our charge. We hold our meetings weekly;
the exercises consist of select readings, ques-
tions on the principles of the Gospel, Scripture
passages and any good principles by way of
impressing it on their young minds, recitations
by the children. We have enrolled sixty-six
names; average attendance, twenty-eight. Do-
nated to the Temple, $1, 80.
	Our Bishop was present with one of his
counselors, S. Walker, and addressed the meet-
ing for a short time, encouraging the sisters
and parents to do all they could to stimulate
the children to be punctual in their attendance;
was pleased to meet with so many children,
and was also pleased with the progress they
were making; hoped they would be good chil-
dren; and if so, in a future day they would be
very glad they had ever belonged to the PRI-
MARY.
	By request two young ladies sang a gipsy
song. Meeting closed by singing, "The tide of
time is ebbing low." Benediction, S. Walker.
									L. M.


Report of the meeting held in Mt. Pleasant
Sanpete Co., Aug. 7th, 1880. At 10 A. M.
Opened with singing "The Morning Breaks"
prayer by C. W. Lund, singing "We to the
Lord will pray. Sister Morrison then intro-
duced Sisters E. R. Snow Smith and E. B.
Wells to the congregation and said she felt
glad beyond expression to have that privilege,
and hoped that good order would be observed
so that all would be benefitted by the rich in-
structions she felt would be given.
	Sister Wells said she felt glad to meet with
the sisters of this place said it is such a beauti-
ful day and your surroundings here are more
than pleasant, no doubt you have worked hard
to make your city what it is: there is much for
us all to do and to learn, and we should strive
to imitate everything that is good, noble and
pure. The Saints are building temples which
is one great step in advance to be done for our
dead,it will be a mighty work. Sisters if trials
come along try to bear them patiently, keep
them to yourselves and the Lord, do not take
others into your confidence, for that will not
make you feel better but you will always be
sorry afterwards that you have done so.
Showed that trials were necessary to bring us
near to God. She thought that we should
teach our children all that which is good, noble
and virtuous, said it is necessary that they as
well as we should know good from evil, that
they may be able to withstand temptation when
the powers of darkness beset them. Mothers
never let pass an opportunity to teach your
children the principles of our holy religion: if
it should be that your circumstances were such
that you could give them no other education,
than home education, this Gospel will enable
them to make wise men and women. There
has not been so much done in the way of
spiritual education in the past, as is now being


[Column 1]
accomplished, but let us improve every oppor-
tunity in the future. The world is watching
closely and wondering if the rising genration
will honor the Holy Priesthood and bear off
the kingdom of God as the older ones have
done; they are also wondering if our sons and
daughters will sustain and practise plural
marriage as their mothers and fathers have.
Now it is for you mothers to teach them this
principle and above all to show them a good
example. Said, Sister E. R. Snow has pub-
lished a Hymn Book expressly for the Primary
Organizations, it is a neat little work mostly of
her own poems, and urged the mothers to
procure these books for their children.
	Sister E. R. Snow then addressed the con-
gregation: Said she thought it no ordinary
position for her to arise to address an assembly
of Latter-day Saint women—was always happy
to meet with her sisters, and felt truly thank-
ful to see some of the brethren present. Al-
though she did not propose or presume to edify
the brethren she knew it to be very encourag-
ing to the sisters when the brethren manifested
an interest in our labors by occasionally at-
tending our meetings. When they are present,
instead of feeling greater timidity, she felt
more safety in speaking, trusting that if she
said anything wrong, those holding the priest-
hood would correct her, which she would thank-
fully receive.
	Not one of us can truthfully say, "I have
obeyed the Gospel." When we were baptized,
we commenced obedience, but to obey the
Gospel of Jesus Christ, requires the diligent
work of our mortal lives, with the heart, mind
and strength, wholly devoted to the interest of
Zion. I realize, that if I obey the Gospel it
will require all my powers and faculties de-
voted to the work of God while I live in the
flesh, and how much will be required beyond
the veil, is not for me to say.
	We should all realize that we are here on
missions, and, in order to fill these missions, it
is necessary that we so live as to keep the spirit
of  God constantly in our hearts, and that will
direct us step by step, until we shall have ac-
complished the work assigned us.
	Sister Eliza said, the Prophet Joseph Smith
instructed the sisters, whom he organized  into
a Society, that wherever the Church of Jesus
Christ had been fully organized, the sisters
were also organized. Reference is made to
this subject, in the New Testament, but we did
not comprehend it until God revealed it
through his prophet. God in his wisdom, has
given us the great privilege of organizations
from  the oldest member down, almost to the
child in the mother's arms. Said, none of the 
trials and persecutions we have passed through
have been as dangerous, as is the spirit of the
times in which we now live.
	Mothers  do you realize the importance of 
the early training of your children? What can
be of so much consequence to parents than that
their children shall be so cultivated as to grow
up to be men and women of God? The Primary
organizations are designed to assist the mothers
in their most responsible duties in this direc-
tion, and mothers should not think their work
at home more important, than sending their 
children to the Primary meetings. It is neces-
sary that you, mothers, cooperate with those
who are spending their time and devoting their 
energies in the cultivation of the rising genera-
tion. Encourage them by occasionally attend-
ing their meetings, and you will be astonished
at the progress and improvemeet of your little
ones. The "civilization" of the world, which
is a spirit of corruption is creeping in among us,
and it will require all the protection that can
be imparted by filling their minds with good, so
there will be no place for evil—not only should 
the children understand the principles of the
Gospel, but they must have its spirit in their
hearts.

[Column 2]
	She again spoke of the Relief Society: said,
when Joseph Smith first organized it, he said
our "duties were not only to look after the
poor, but to save souls." Said, she considered
the position of Teacher a highly responsible
one, and its duties very important. Some
ignorant persons seem to consider it a begging
calling, but they are not expected to ask for
donations unless they are specially sent to col-
lect means for some special purpose—it is gen-
erally understood that the poor are sustained
by donations, that if the sisters have anything
to impart, they give without being asked, and
although assisting the poor, and administering
to  the sick are the first duties, they are not the 
most important. To properly fulfill her duties,
a Teacher needs the Holy Ghost, that when
she enters a home, she may know what spirit
prevails there; and then she needs the wisdom
of God, that she may benefit those she meets:
Are any sorrowful, that she may administer
comfort, or if they have "lost their first love"
and become indifferent to their eternal interest,
take them by the hand and by imparting
the kind and sweet influence of her own bosom,
lead them back,
	Our organizations are designed for our culti-
vation—to help us on in the road to perfection,
they also place us in positions to be great helps
to the Priesthood.
	Sister Eliza said that Sister Wells had men-
tioned a very important subject. Celestial
Marriage, which, instead of debasing is elevat-
ing to woman. Whatever purifies, is ennobl-
ing, and to live plural marriage as we should
we have to enlarge our hearts—overcome the
inherited narrow contractedness of our nature
—subdue our selfishness and become more God-
like. She bore a strong testimony to the fact
that God had revealed it and required its
practice.
	She exhorted the mothers to watch over their
daughters, and be watchful to protect their pur-
ity. Said,if you want your daughters to become
noble and useful in their sphere, in the first
place, like Queen Victoria, teach them to be-
come good and efficient housekeepers, with "a
place for everything, and everything in its
place." Unless they know how to cook, when
they employ help, their servants will be sure to 
take advantage of their ignorance.
	She spoke encouragingly of silk culture, and
urged the people to promote it, and be in ear-
nest in forwarding Home Manufactures of  all
kinds, that we might become a self-sustaining
people. Exhorted the sisters to attend their 
meeting, said, you will make more in doing so,
than you will in staying at home. Yet I never
counsel mothers to leave their children unpro-
tected for any meeting. Your children should
be your first care—bring them with you, and
they cultivate early the habit, and they will be
punctual attendants when they grow up. In
attending meetings, if we are humble and
prayerful, we are sure to get refreshings from
above, the influence of which is carried to our
homes, home is made happier. Let no one
grow weary in well doing, but let us all  be
learning day by day; little by little, overcom-
ing our own weaknesses, and short-comings
until we attain to perfection.
	Bishops Seely and Madsen made some ex-
cellent remarks and felt instructed with what
had been said and thankful to the Sisters for
this visit. Sister Morrison then made some
closing remarks hoped that all present would
profit by the rich instructions given by our
Sisters, lay it up in our hearts and practice it
in our daily lives. Thanked the Sisters with
all her heart for their visit. Meeting adjourned
until 2, P. M., our Primaries met according to 
appointment, about three hundred small child-

[Column 3]
ren were present,when Sister E. R. Snow talked
to them in such a good motherly spirit and
created such feelings in their young and tender
hearts as will never be eradicated. She then
organized the South Ward. Officers, Ida
Caroline Larsen, President; Clementine Marion
Morrison; Clara Olson, Counselors; George
Christiansen; Secretary; Annie H. Peterson,
Treasurer. Meeting dismissed with singing
and prayer by. Bishop Wm. S. Seely.
	At 4, P. M., meeting was again called  to
order by Sister E. B. Wells who then organized
the North Ward. Officers, Mary Rowe, Presi-
dent; Matilda Neilson, Hannah C. Madsen;
Counselors; John Dehlin, Secretary; Charles
Edward Hampshire, assistant Secretary; Caro-
line Madsen, Treasurer. After a few salutary
remarks from our Bishops, meeting closed with
singing and prayer by Bishop Peter Madsen.
	M. F. C. MORRISON, Prest.
	A. LOUISE HASLER, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		71


CORRESPONDENCE.

	DEAR EXPONENT: It has been some time
since I have scribbled a few lines for your
readers yet I have not forgotten you. When I
last wrote we were living in the pretty little
valley of Sevoia, now we are at St. John. We
were quite sorry to leave our New Mexico
home, as we had lived there two years and be-
come much attached to the tall pines which
stood like sentinels on every side as if to guard
us from danger. There were only five families
there and as the Indians were quite uneasy all
over the country the leading brethren in this
vicinity deemed it unsafe for us to remain longer.
Yet we trust with the blessing of the Lord to re-
turn with other Saints to settle those valleys at
some future time. While there we had no reason
to fear the natives, in fact they appeared more
friendly than ever, and were sad at our depart-
ure. There were white men we had much
greater reason to fear. They knew the Indians
had ill feelings towards the whites as a rule
and they could not see why a few people living
out as we were, could feel so safe right in their
midst, unless we were also enemies to the
Americans. Thus it was the same old story.
We claimed to be Latter-day Saints, and con-
sequently were the peace-breakers and if the
colored people were our friends we could look
for no friendship from those who are so con-
stantly opposed to that poor despised copper-
colored race. But as it is the work of our
Heavenly Father we are engaged in,we can afford
to wait his pleasure and all will be made right.
There are about forty families at this place at
present and nearly all are living in wagons and
tents, or shanties of almost any description,
though doubtless all will try to build houses
this fall. Many would have done so before
had their time not all been taken up attending
their gardens and fields.
	The first part of the season was quite dry and
rather cold, and the past six weeks considerable
rain has fallen, which has improved the looks
of the place a very great deal. We spent the
Fourth of July as pleasantly as one would ex-
pect in a new place. The people were intend-
ing having a real good time also on the Twenty-
Fourth. We were all going to have dinner
at the bowery but a heavy rain and hail storm
come on the day before so we were compelled
to give up that, yet even in St. John there are
events that cannot be postponed even for rain or
hail however furious it may descend. It was
a very inconvenient time with tents and wagon
boxes almost swimming in water still our worthy
friend, Sister Mary Johnson gave birth to a fine
daughter and is getting along as well as one
could imagine. Surely the Lord is proving
that He is willing to take care of and bless
those who prove to him they can give up good
homes in Utah and come to this land, to help
redeem it and make a desirable home for the


Saints. We should do this with willing hands,
and then we are only doing a little portion of
the work and bearing some few of the trials
our mothers and grandmothers were called to
pass through in the rise of the Church and the
first settling of Utah. There are no Societies
as yet here for the sisters, young, or old still we
do not despair but trust that in a few short
months we will have their good influence in our
little settlement, There is a Sabbath School
which I understand is a great help to the
c[--]ldren. It will not be long before the Rail-
road, will be quite near, then how anxiously
will we look for some of our dear sisters from
Salt Lake and that region to pay us a visit.
Even now I can almost imagine I hear their kind
voices and feel the heavenly inflnence they ever
carry. Many of them I am personally acquainted
with, and to all I would say, may heaven's
blessing be with you while you labor in this
life for the welfare of Zion, and may the EX-
PONENT and its noble editor ever be prospered
is the prayer of its friend:
						MARY STUART.
	St. John, Apache Co., Arizona. Aug. 12, 1880.


72		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


REFLECTIONS UPON THE PROCESSION.

	What do I hear? Music, yes, and see the pro-
cession is on the move. What a charming
sight when compared with the entrance of the pio-
neers 33 years ago to day; dusty and wayworn; yet
with hearts beating high and eyes brightened
with love to Israel's God whose hand had brought
them safely through. And this the result of 33
years improvement.
	Never shall I forget the tears of joy starting from
our eyes at the first sight of Great Salt Lake as
we saw it from the top of yon high mountain. It
looked like a peaceful quiet resting place upon its
shores; for we were told by the pioneers as we
met them at Pacific spring that this would be
our home. We had been traveling two and a half
months with ox teams, carrying grain to put in
a fall crop, which was soon accomplished when
we found our place of destination.
	Nor is this all,seven times seven years in pros-
perity have passed away since the Lord restored
the Everlasting Covenant; preparatory to His
second coming. Do you ask is this without trials?
I answer, No. Yet in our most severe trials, we
could go to God our Father for wisdom, and learn
that it was all for our best good. Thus our af-
flictions were sanctified to us, and greater intel-
ligence given; so that the wound was healed and
we went on our way rejoiceing. Hard indeed to
lose our prophet; but was not the same intelli-
gence given to twelve others to carry on the
work. Also in the case when five hundred men
were called to go to the Mexican war. This
seemed [-]o much to a traveling community, try-
ing to find a resting place. But what was the
result? This land belonged to Mexico, and when
a treaty was made, were we not entitled to
homes in these valleys? Most certainly. In this
again we saw our Father's hand. This is but one
instance of the many. But whose carriages are
these with beautiful black horses? Oh! I see! The
faithful and true! the veterans of the day. Faith-
ful in what, do you ask? Faithful to their God
and their country. Faithful in preaching the
Gospel to the nations of the earth, and also faith-
ful to all that is committed to their care. Rut
they are not the only ones imitating our Savior
whose name was the faithful and true.
	The mothers of Israel follow in deeds of love
and kindness to husbands and sons and
finally to all who need their kindness not
only at home, but also in form of Relief So-
cieties. Behold their banner! Also the carriage
of industry, with machines for kniting and sew-
ing, straw braiding, reeling silk, crochet, &c.,
&c., well calculated to make our home pleasant.
The Sabbath Schools also, with cherub faces look-
ing so heavenly. God bless the children!
	But what is this rude cabin of logs, covered
with dirt, and chimney of mud. This repre-
sents our former homes in this valley. Were we
ever happy in such rude structures? Oh, yes;
[---] were all on the same footing, looking forward
[---] [---] days. How often could you hear the
m[---] [---] and joyous ex[-]ressions of love and
hope in these miserable looking houses. Not only
so, [--] [--] morning and evening prayer arose
with songs of thanksgiving for this quiet resting
place. What come next? A mansion, with
tall steps, large windows and lace curtains, rep-


resenting the present times. But are we more
happy now than in the log hut? That will de-
pend entirely upon the spirit we cultivate.
	But to continue with our mechanical skill.
What can I say? Language cannot express the
artistic beauty and grandeur of the scene! And
we feel to say, if so much has been done in this
short period of time, what will the next thirty-
three years bring to us? One thing let us re-
member; it is this; let us not become idolators
over the workmanship of our own hands. But
let us remember the Author of all our blessings.
He who has upheld and sustained us thus far,
will enable us to endure to the end of the race,
if we do not forget Him. It is written that the
wicked shall be turned into hell with all the na-
tions who forget God. And have we not seen
this verified many times when people became
absorbed in the affairs of life; they seemed to
forget that God was the Great Master Workman,
standing at the head of all science—and our kind
Father to instruct and guide us. Let us never
forget God, the Author of all blessings.


Gen. Garfield is not a Woman Suffragist in
the sense of mere wordy declaration, but while
in Congress he voted to allow a woman to prac-
tice law before the Supreme Court of the
United States; and one such act is worth a
thousand glittering generalities.—Ex.


[Column 1]
DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP.
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
	OFFICE in Bishop Hunter’s old residence, between Z. C. M.
I. and the National Bahk.
	RESIDENCE 11th Ward, 7th East Street, between South and
1st South Streets, west side of street.
	Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children as special-
ities.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES &  SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
To be found in the West, Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

HAVE YOU SEEN THE
NEW VICTOR SEWING MACHINE?
	If not you should do so at once, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction. The New Machine
is elegant in appearance and admirable in operation, runs
very easily and without any noise and confusion, although
the rate of speed is very high. Its self-setting and self-
threading shuttle, and absence of springs and cogs, renders
it both simple and durable. Be sure to see it, for its
general advantages will make you its friend.
VICTOR SEWING MACHINE CO., CHICAGO, ILL.
O. H. RIGGS, Agent, Salt Lake City.

WARNER'S
SAFE
BITTERS
	It is the best Blood Purifier, and stimulates
every function to more healthful action, and is
thus a benefit in all diseases.
	In eliminating the impurities of the blood, the
natural and necessary result is the cure of Scrof-
uions and other Skin Eruptions and Diseases,
including Cancers, Ulcers and other Sores.
	Dyspepsia. Weakness of the Stomach, Consti-
pation, Dizziness, General Debility, etc., are
cured by the Safe Bitters. It is unequaled
as an appetizer and regular tonic.
	It is a medicine which should be in every fam-
ily, and which, wherever used, will save the
payment of many doctors’ bills.
	Bottles of two sizes; prices, 50 cents and $1.00.
[Information graphic with two columns]
SAFE 
KIDNEY & LIVER
CURE
SAFE 
DIABETES CURE
SAFE TONIC
NERVLNE 
PILLS!
READ SAVE THYSELF
Warner's
Safe Reme-
dies are sold
by Druggists
and Dealers
in Medicine
everywhere.
H. H. WARNER & CO.,
Proprietors,
Rochester, N.Y.
Send for Pamphlet 
and Testimonials.

[Column 2]
Class in Obstetrics.
DR. ROMANIA B PRATT,
WILL COMMENCE ANOTHER CLASS IN OBSTET-
rics, October 7th, 1880. By giving three lectures
a week, and the students giving their whole time to study,
the usual term of six months can be reduced to a little less
than five. Terms, 830. Books, three in number $12.
	Those desiring to join the Class should send in their names
and orders for books, as they require to be sent for East.

F. AUERBACH  &  BRO.
HAVE
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 126
CALL  AND  EXAMINE
Fall  and Winter  Goods.

ELLEN   B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgoon.
	OFFICE on Main St., over Calder’s Music Store.
	RESIDENCE  on South Temple Street, between 9th and
16th. East Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, Diseases of Children
and Diseases of the THROAT, HEART and LUNGS.

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST.
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good work Guaranteed!

Z.C.M.I.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

AT TEASDEL'S 
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Childrens' Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTER, Agent for the  PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels, White Yarns, Wool Batting,
Shawls, Colored Yarns, Brooms,
Linseys, Cassimers, Washboards,
Jeans, Tweeds, Brushes, Etc. Etc.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES, FEATHERS,WALL PAPER
AND
BABY CARRIAGES,
75, 77, & 79 First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST.
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE: MAIN ST., OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
P.O. BOX, 541,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

