VOL. 9.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 1, 1881.	NO. 21.


[Column 1]
[WRITTEN BY REQUEST.]
ADDRESSED TO THE SISTERS WHO
OFFICIATE IN THE TEMPLE AT
ST. GEORGE.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

'Tis Sabbath morning! calm and bright in rest!
The very atmosphere breathes peace and quiet;
And fans my cheek as with a zephyr's touch!
The birds, their notes, troll low, and calm and sweet
As though they realized a Sabbath morn;
A day of sweet Sabbatic Rest for all!—
Can this be fancy stealing o'er my soul?—
A life-long fancy then it surely is,
For from my early days it seemed to me
That God was nearer on that blessed day!
And oft I've stood upon a well-known hill
And whispered, listen—all the world is still!—
These childish thoughts come back to me to day,
And quick my mind rolls back o'er by-gone years.
And lands me on the stage of latter-days;
And in its Drama, there to take a place—
Calmly I sit and ponder on the scene,
And in imagination, realize
A work stupendous, known but to a few
The length, and breadth, and depth of that vast work
That few, but hold the Primer in their hand,
And only just the "alpha" comprehend!—
And as I muse, the vail is drawn aside
From off my mind! A Temple rises up!
Pure, and white, and standing out in bold relief
All indicating its design, and sanctity!—
I see in visions of my mind the Sentinels
Of Heaven keep eternal watch around—
I see the golden batons of their office
Poised in each one's hand, I see their eyes
Watchful, and omniscient, sedate and mild—
I see the "Dove"—witness of the Sons of God!—
Hovr'ing o'er that consecrated Edifice!—
I see sweet cherubs clustering around,
As ministers to those God-like Sentinels,
They see no night, 'tis an eternal day—
The light of Heaven makes eternal sun;
Around that dedicated Shrine of God!—
A Band of men-Servants of Jehovah
Officiate in its most holy rites,
A Band of sisters, Handmaids of the Lord
Have also ordinations laid on them,
And 'tis to you my Sisters I would speak,
To you. my mind is drawn as here I muse!
How holy is your office!—and how pure
The lives appointed you to live each day,
Within the precincts of that Holy Fane!—
Sisters in the everlasting covenant,
Can you, your holy calling realize
In all its grand responsibility,
For those now living, and for those now dead?
—How sacred do you seem to us outside,
Outside in person—but in the spirit there!
Join'd heart and hand, in all your sacred work—
When bow'd in orisons within those walls
Remember us thy sisters, fond and true,
For be assured we do remember you!
We realize your labors, all of love,
We realize the work you daily do.
And feel His spirit guides you ev'ry day;
And that His angels minister to you,
And hence how sacred is the life you live!
As Priestessess in the Temple of your God!

Of your vocation, little dream "the world"
Yet did they know—I feel there are a few
Would gladly cast their lot with Saints of God!
The Saints of Latter-days—feeling the vanity
Of earthly greatness—all its fallacies
Its tinsel, its emptiness—even its glare!
But know not where to turn for rest and peace;
Pray for their "longing, lingering," weary souls,
That they may hear the Gospel's joyful sound,
Hear and obey, and cast their lot with us,
And swell the serried ranks of latter-days;

[Column 2]
For in that holy Fane I feel to know,
Prayers must ascend, and must be answered too.

I need not say God bless you, for I know
His blessing, and His spirit rests on you;
Our Sister Snow, Minerva, Sister dear,
Here let her rest awhile nor call her home
By any feeling of magnetic aid!
She needs a rest from all her arduous cares,
She'll soon return in renovated strength.
And absence will but make her dearer still;
And now I'll draw my letter to a clese,
Offer the prayer I asked for H. T. KING.
	NOV. 2, 1880.


[Column 1]
THE LAND WE LIVE IN.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	Utah! the Territory, the State of Deseret
in perspective! I feel all will approve and
applaud this subject. Half a century ago the
portion of the globe now known as Utah and
its surroundings, were marked upon the map
as "unknown regions," and little, even in later
years, was known until the Latter-day Saints
located it, as a refuge from mobs and opposing
elements of almost every kind. At once it
gained a prestige, and to-day the eyes of Eu-
rope are gazing upon it as a remarkable spot,
and containing a very remarkable people of
cosmopolitan origin!
	You are aware that Utah is located in what
in geographical language is called "the Great
Basin." Salt Lake City was called the half-
way house to California, and is the metropolis
of Utah. Utah can scarcely be said to have a
history at present, her life is so brief; but here-
after it will be the Mecca of the United States,
if not of the world, for she has been, and still
is, the nursery of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints and the grand gathering
place of his people! and all must see and feel
that she is a blest land. The atmosphere of
her mountains breathe on the true Latter-
day Saint the very Spirit of God. I 
speak in no flowery language, but simply
express what I feel to be true! Utah
will hereafter be famous for the first grand
Temple raised in the Rocky Mountains to the
God of Israel: would that we could see it fin-
ished, and have the privilege of entering there-
in! but patience, we shall see that day, D. V.
	In altitude, Utah is 4,000 feet above the
level of the Atlantic, which accounts for the
rarified atmosphere we have to breathe. It is
encircled by ranges of lofty mountains, many
of them capt by eternal snows. The soil is
good, and has proved remarkably productive,
but, as you well know, requires irrigation to
make it fertile. The climate is warm, dry and
healthy. 
	According to the first section of the bill
passed by Congress, we find it granted that the
New Territory is bounded on the West by the
State of California, on the North by the Terri-
tory of Oregon, and on the East and South by
the dividing ridge which separates the waters
flowing into the Great Basin from those flow-
ing into the Colorado River and the Gulf of
California.
	Utah is geographically one of the most inter-
esting in the Western world—there is no other
just like it that we recollect on the globe.
Look on the map a little east the Great Salt
Lake, and just south of the southwest pass,and
you will see in the northeast corner of Califor-
nia the summit level of the waters which flow

[Column 2]
on the North American Continent. The Salt
Lake is one of the "lions" of Utah. It is re-
markable in many ways; one is, that no outlet
has yet been discovered. Good salt abounds
at the Lake, and plenty of it; some one face-
tiously remarked there was salt enough to do
the curing of the Union if they could not pre-
serve it in any other way, and another capt it
by saying, "Yes, enough to cure the world it-
self!"
	The resources of Utah are truly wonderful;
it is even now an undiscovered country. A
few years ago coal was not known here, and
now see the abundance! No doubt gold and
precious stones are also abundant, but we want
something that is better for us, and that we can
turn to better account. It also furnishes us
iron—and many other valuable things. I
am lawfully covetous of good things for Utah.
I love her; she has become, or rather I have
become incorporated in her, and I would love
to see her adorned with some of the beautiful.
things of the old world. Our riches should be
spent in adorning her, and blessing ourselves
in blessing her and her people. "She is a bea-
con set upon a hill, that cannot be hid," and
time will develop the finger of God upon her
in a marvelous way. Even the Gentiles feel
she is a favored land; and many of them love
her. Above all our craving to see her beauti-
fied, let us crave and desire that her people
will adorn her by the beauty of their wise,
chaste, intelligent lives, for they are the jewels
studded in the diadem of Jehovah! The true
Latter-day Saints are his sons and daughters;
they are the gold seven times passed through
the crucible of the Gospel of Christ; and will
come out free from the dross of earth, and fit
for the Master's use. So mote it be!

"Land of the West! through passing brief the record of
	thine age,
Thou hast a name that darkens all on history's wide page,
Let all the blasts of fame ring out, thine shall be loudest
	far.
Let others boast their sattellites thou hast the planet star
		Utah! the planet Star!"
								ELIZA COOK.


MISS  Rachel Foster of  Philadelphia was
appointed Corresponding Secretary of the Na-
tional  Woman Suffrage Association  at the
Washington Convention  in January  by  the 
President and Executive Committee in place of 
Sara  Andrews Spencer resigned.

   CAMBRIDGE University, England an institu-
tion which has a most  wonderful  prestige has
opened her gates of learning  freely and on the
broadest scale to women equally with man.
This is a grand step towards the higher educa-
tion of woman,  and  signals  a new  and  more
enlightened  era,  as  plainly  as  any  token of
hopefulness yet  realized.  It is an eminent ex-
ample for others to follow  and  will  exert a
powerful influence  in  favor of the woman
question.

  THE National Citizen and Ballot Box  pub-
lished in Syarcuse, N. Y. of which every  num-
ber is worth the full price  of a year's subscrip-
tion, now offers another  inducement to its pat-
rons.  Each  new  subscriber  will  receive a
photograph of the  venerable beloved Lucretia
Mott. The editor Mrs.  Matilda  Joslyn Gage
is one of the ablest  workers  in woman's cause
the world can  boast.  She is a staunch  and
fearless advocate for woman, utterly regardless
on the opinions of Madam Grundy.


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.


LIVING LINKS:
				OR
		SPIRITUAL AND TEMPORAL.

			BY AVONDALE.

				CONTINUED.
	Nothing can be more natural than that a son
who  has  received the  Gospel in the love of it,
should be  anxious  to  make  known  the  good
news  to  his father;  it  is  true, Mr. Missionary
Unipod  was  a  religious  man,  he  was  also a
Baptist but  he  had  not  been baptized by one
who had  received divine authority to adminis-
ter the ordinance  of baptism;  the  son  of Mr-
Unipod had, in common with all believers who
become Latter-day Saints.  And  it is for this
reason that they are all made  conscious of the
validity of baptism,  by  receiving  the  Holy
Ghost as a witness  from  God, as did  all  those
who  were  baptized  by  the  authority,  in  the
"name" of Jesus  Christ, by  the  former Apos-
tles.  These  evidences  were  then  received ac-
cording to the promise, and were credentials of
the authority  of  the  administration, as well as
proofs  of  the  efficacy  of  the  saving  ordinance
of baptism.  That which was true  then is also
true now, if the  Gospel  is  the  same  and  men
have the authority given them from the  Lord
Jesus Christ to  administer in its holy ordinan-
ces.  Now,  the  son  of  the  missionary  had
proved all this to  be  true, and knew for a cer-
tainty that  all who  obey the  divine command
and  receive the Gospel, receive this assurance;
no wonder, then, that  he was anxious to make
known the  joyful  news  to  his  father.  How
often had his father  prayed  for  him, and now
he could reply gladly to the inquiry that would
be  sure  to  be  made by that devout man, as to
the soul's health of his beloved son!
	There were two  things  that  greatly marred
the  peace  of  Mr.  Missionary Unipod - "Ro-
manism" and  "Mormonism."  To  do  battle
with the latter was found to be utterly useless;
but  Catholicism  was  still  deemed  vulnerable.
And,  to  fortify the  minds  of  the missionaries
beneath his  watchcare with  evangelical  argu-
ments  against  Romanism had been the aim of
the superintendent  missionary for a long time.
For this reason he had prepared an address, or 
lecture, on  the  great  apostacy that  took place
after the  ascension  of  Christ.  Now, it so hap-
pened  that  when  the  son  of Mr. Missionary
Unipod entered the apartment of his father, to
tell him  he  had  joined  the  Latter-day Saint
communion,  the  manuscript was just being fin-
ished by his  father, who merely looked up and
said:  "Well,  Joseph,  has  the  Lord  met  with
you?" To his  great  delight  the  son  replied:
"Father, I have obeyed the Gospel of our Lord
and  Savior, Jesus Christ!" So  great was the
joy of the missionary to hear  this  unexpected
news, that he  could not wait to know what de-
nomination  of  Christians  his  son  had united
with-for Missionary Unipod was entirely un-
sectarian in his views-in common  with  most
of  the London City Missionaries.
	What a  pity  it is that  persons  are so  preju-
diced against that religion which acknowledges
Jesus  Christ  as  its  founder,  and  claims  that
present  revelation from Him is essential to the
existence  of  the  church which  He will recog-
nize! but  this  is  the distinctive feature of the 
Church  of Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day Saints.
	The lecture  of the  missionary was intended
to fortify the  minds  of  the  co-laborers of that
excellent  man,  against  the  sophistries  of Je-
suitical teachers who were at that time endeav-
oring  to  prove  the  right  of the  Church  of 
Rome  to  divine  authority;  and, as
the son  of  Mr.  Missionary Unipod
had now  admitted  that  he  was  a  believer
in Jesus Christ, the interesting article was read
by the  father  to him; to  strengthen  his faith
and guard him against the evils of Catholicism.It showed that "the Church  of Rome had not
the  shadow  of authority  from  Jesus  Christ;
that  the Apostles, to whom  alone he had dele-
gated  authority,  were  all  slain;  that  by the
middle of the second century of the Christian
era, not a man remained who had received au-
thority  by  the  imposition  of hands,  by  those
who  held  the  right  to  confer upon  men the
Holy Ghost."  That  "the  assumption  of  the
Bishop of Rome that he held the  authority  of
Peter,  was  based  upon  a  misconception  of
terms.  'The Rock' on which  the Church was
to  be  built  was  that  of  Revelation."  That,
"had the  complete  organization of the Twelve
Apostles  remained  among  men, as  established
by  Jesus,  there  might  have  been  some  sem-
blance  of  authority,  but  not  a  vestige  re-
mained, all were slain!"  Then the aged father
looked up and asked the son the question: "Are
not these  evidences that  the  Church  of  Rome
has no  authority from the Lord  Jesus Christ?"
"This  is  the very reason that our Lord had to
come down  again  to the  earth and restore  the
Gospel to man in our day," was the reply; "the
Apostle John foresaw these things you have so
ably  pictured;  he  had  it  revealed  to  him
that  the truth would be taken from the earth,
and the Gospel would have to be again restored.
He says in the 14th Revelation:  'I saw another
angel * * having  the  everlasting  Gospel to
preach unto  them  that  dwell  on  the  earth.'
That  messenger  from  heaven  has descended,
and authority has again been restored to man."
	"Where did  you learn that?" said the aston-
ished father;  "In  the Church  of  Jesus Christ 
of Latter-day Saints."
	Had a thunderbolt dropped through the ceil-
ing it would scarcely have produced more con-
sternation  than  this  declaration.  All the ecs-
tatic  feelings  that  had  been  experienced  by
the  father  in  hearing  of  his  son's conversion,
all the gentle emotions felt on hearing that his
son had  obeyed  the  Gospel,  were dispelled!
Why? Why?  By  unreasoning, ungenerous,
unchristian prejudice!
		To be Continued.


[Column 1]
SOMETHING TO DO.

	The most industrious people are the most
successful in whatever place or at whatever
business. Have something to do, if there is
but little remuneration, and occupation more
advantageous will come just as readily, indeed,
is more likely to be had, than if one sits down
to wait for it. Parents who allow their chil-
dren to contract idle habits are sowing the
seeds of sorrow and discontent, which will grow
an abundant harvest of misery and wretched-
ness, perchance crime. It would be much ea-
sier to contrive some simple home employment
for the little folks than to settle all the entan-
glement and strife among children who con-
gregate in herds to play, to quarrel and to get
into mischief of every variety and kind imag-
inable, even were the trouble to end there.
	Little girls usually have domestic duties to
perform when very young; "helping mama"
implies a great deal, and it may be a potent
reason why we find, in looking matters plainly
in the face, that among the working classes
there are fewer idle women, than lazy men.
	Many little boys do positively nothing. There
is no wood to chop now-a-days, and no pigs to
feed, no cows to milk, no garden to make for
those who live in the heart of the city; papa
is away at his business, and mama is very busy,
her hands are so full with baby and all the
household duties, and she forgets the old adage,
"Idleness is the parent of many vices." The
boys are noisy and make her head ache, she
gets weary and nervous with their boisterous-
ness, and so they are sent into the street to
play, and there they pick up all the slang, and
get initiated into evil habits, before the parents
have the least suspicion of any harm having

[Column 2]
been done. Something to do is a necessity for
the children; not "all work and no play," but
some positive, regular work each day to form
habits of industry, in order that the children
may grow up to be useful members of society.
Lazy boys are the material from which the
drunkard and the criminal are oftenest made.
And children who are brought up idle seldom
take kindly to steady employment of any sort.
Some work to do, then, is an essential matter
in the training of a child, and should form a
portion of every child's education. Practical
work; not the theory, but the real, genuine ar-
ticle. Beware of idleness! in fact, beware of
idle people; they are not fit for companions,
they are a nuisance everywhere, and generally
complain of the cruelty of fate. There is so
much real pleasure in work, especially of that
kind to which nature seems to have adapted
one, that it seems strange that people should
enjoy idleness. But habit is second nature,
and children brought up idly have no true ap-
preciation of the benefits of pleasures of labor.
There are many who think work at an early
age hinders physical development, and indeed,
heavy, laborious work in childhood, early and
late, continuous, does have a tendency to re
tard growth and so forth, but a moderate
amount of even toilsome work is healthful and
invigorating, as well as elevating and enno-
bling.
	There certainly is a tendency in this age to
despise work, to scheme and contrive to make
money without laboring for it; and men who
have amassed fortunes in business speculations,
etc., although they may have been industrious
boys when commencing life themselves, often
forget it is as necessary that their sons and
daughters should know the true value of money
as it was for them. The facts prove that one
does not profit so much by the experience of
others as by having practical lessons them-
selves, and on this subject of industry and en-
ergy, or something to do, it is imperative that
each one for himself take an active part. Our
forefathers and mothers thought work indis-
pensable in the education of the children, rich
or poor. All were taught industry and econo-
my. How do we find it to-day! We have
terribly degenerated in these respects. The
boys despise the employment by which their
fathers accumulated their wealth, and often
blush to hear it mentioned, and in fact despise
actual labor in whatever form; and this is one
of the causes of the large class of men of lei-
sure, who, after having squandered the fortune
inherited from their parents, resort to number-
less methods to live without work. If we
Latter-day Saints would not see our boys grow
up in idleness, then we should begin by setting
them to work at something, instead of allow-
ing them to run the streets and follow after
the dreadful practices of men who lounge about
the streets and appear to live upon the corners;
idlers, who have no apparent aim in life. I
know many people think they cannot leave the
city, and here there are no suitable places for
their boys, but how much better to go where
there is land to till, and farm work to do, hon-
orable work, than to remain in the city for the
sake of a few attractions, that seem a part of
their life, because they have always been used
to them. This is a subject one cannot help think-
ing upon, if they notice the crowds of boys
who seem to have nothing to do. They may
by and by go out and settle a new colony, but
if they have never been accustomed to labor
they are not the mettle of which pioneers are
made.
							AUNT EM.


THE CAUSE OF SCIENCE: Has received an
important addition in the elegant Observatory
which H. H. Warner, proprietor of the valu-
able Safe Kidney and Liver Cure, has erected
at Rochester.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PATRIARCH HYRUM SMITH'S
BIRTHDAY.
A party was given Febuary 9th, by the R. S.,
of this place in honor of the birthday anniversary
of our Martyred Patriarch Hyrum Smith. Quite
a large number sat down to well spread tables at
four o'clock; after partaking of a bounteous re-
past the evening was spent in dancing, singing,
instrumental music. Short speeches from
Elders Duncan, Chaffin and Fuller, they being
the only residents in Cedar, who were ac-
quainted with Brother Hyrum. Some very
good lines written for the occasion, by E. C.
Cox, were also read; a very agreeable evening
was spent by all.
		J. P. MACKELPRANG.
This day we've met in festive throng,
To celebrate the birth
Of one who's fill a place among
The noblest sons of earth.
Just four-score years and one to day
Dawned that suspicious morn,
When earth in darkest slumber lay
Our Patriarch was born.
Th'o cradled not in luxury,
Nor reared 'mid pomp and state,
He early proved himself to be
A hero good and great.
And one of heaven's nobility
Reserved by God's own plan;
To usher in, in purity
The Gospel unto man.
When Joseph first the truth proclaimed
He hailed it with delight,
And to his latest breath remained
A Champion of the right.
He loved the Prophet Joseph too,
Dear as he loved his life,
And by his side stood firm and true
Through every scene of strife.
And when was quenched that vital spark
Upon that fatal day,
Our martyred Seer and Patriarch
Together passed away.
Buth though for righteousness he fell,
He lives behind the vail;
Beyond the powers of earth and hell
And demons to assail.
And as when he upon this earth
The path of virtue trod,
So now he's busy rolling forth
The purposes of God.
And onward now as in the past
His course will ever be;
Till he shall reign a king and priest
Throughout eternity.
Then while we celebrate his birth
With honor and with love,
Oh may we emulate his worth
And follow him above.
	E. C. Cox.
Cedar City.


[Column 1]
PEN SKETCH OF AN ILLUSTRIOUS
WOMAN.

ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.

[CONTINUED.]

	The steamer bearing the company in which
Sister Eliza was traveling arrived in Liverpool
Nov. 19, and the tourists remained two days in
that city, and then went up to London, where
they spent nine days sight-seeing, calling on
dignitaries, and visiting places of note. Sister
Eliza expressed as much pleasure in all the
variety of wonders with which London abounds,
as any young lady could have manifested. The
spirit of poesy, which has never forsaken her,
helped to give expression to the delight and
enjoyment of the journey, and wherever she
went she burst forth in song, which her ready
pen soon committed to paper. In London she
penned a poem named after that grand city,

[Column 2]
which the readers will find complete on the
26th page of the "Correspondence of the Pal-
estine Tourists." We extract a few lines:

To New Westminister Palace we resort,
Where the Chief Justice holds his August court;
'Twas then in session and the Exchequer too.

	Sister Eliza does not appear to have lost a
single point of interest in all her journeying;
her enthusiasm never flagged. In London
she attended Conference and met with the
Saints. She said to Elder Junius F. Wells,
who was then there on a mission, "I want to
see all the poorest Saints in London;" and she
went with him to call upon them. This is typi-
cal of her character; if there are any poor
she will search them out, and minister to them
spiritually and temporally. Sister Eliza had
her eyes open to take in London, the most fa-
mous metropolis of the world, but as we are
not writing up a book of travels, but the life of
an individual, we will only tell you something
of the woman and not what she saw.
	From London the party went by train to
Harwich and thence to Rotterdam.
	In the letters written by Sister Eliza and
others of the party, while on their Palestine
tour one may gather correct descriptive ideas
of the places that lie along the route over seas
and country. The book which contains these
is for sale at this office and at the Deseret News
office, and we recommend it as an excellent ac-
quisition to the young people's libraries.
	After visiting Rotterdam, Amsterdam, Ant-
werp and Brussels, and admiring the pleasant
pictures by the way, the neatness and simple
elegance of the country, as well as the grand-
eur and magnificence of the large cities, visit-
ing the Houses of Parliament in that interest-
ing kingdom; they went to Waterloo, and spent
a day there investigating and admiring where
that momentous battle was fought which is so
celebrated in history. Returned to Brussels
and took train for Paris. In Paris they called
upon the American Minister; however he was
absent, but met his son, Secretary of the Lega-
tion, who was very courteous and affable, and
of course they were pleased to meet with one
of their own country people in a foreign coun-
try. In that beautiful city Sister Eliza enjoyed
herself very much, visiting all the most cele-
brated places, and being well posted geographi-
cally and historically, she could appreciate
everything so much more than one not familiar
with the subject by reading and study. At
Versailles they had the opportunity of visiting
the Assembly, and were seated in the gallery
of the Diplomatic Corps facing the President
and the Speaker. President Thiers received
them in the evening, surrounded by his Cabi-
net and members of the Assembly. He was
very pleasant, and expressed his regrets at not
being able te converse with President George
A. Smith in English. The Paris American
Register contained some comments upon the
visit of the Mormon party to President Thiers,
which were quite amusing, and show clearly
how little this people are understood. Sister
Eliza wrote a "Farewell to Paris" in expressive
verse, closing with the following:

"Fair, lovely, Paris! What shall be
	Your future who can tell?
Your lofty spires no more I see—
	Again I say farewell!

	From Paris the party went on to Lyons and
en route for Marseilles. Antiquities abound
in the towns and cities through which they
passed and these are always interesting to a
mind like Sister Eliza's. She has remarked
to me that she never could forget the beautiful
grounds around Marseilles particularly the
shore of the "beautiful Mediterranean." The
party visited Genoa and from Turin to
Venice and so on through Italy. Sister Eliza
was in Milan at the close of the year 1872
away from her mountain home and under the

[Column 3]
sunny skies of far-famed Italia. The Muse
could not be silent and she penned a poetic
effusion to the old year from that famous old
city from which we quote

Good bye Old Year! we both are moving on!
You to the cloister of the mighty past,
To join it to the future yet unborn;
I to the far-famed land of Palestine,
Which has a history of the past, that bears,
With a momentous and eternal weight
Of destiny to all of human kind,
Upon the future, which the passing years
With hurried tread ere long will introduce
With bold magnificent developments.

	Sister Eliza seems to have been in quite a
poetical vein at Florence and writes in poetry
of her villa - dotted hills, and rich-gemmed
parapets of the river Arno, the very name
suggests poetry. She closes with,

The crown of peace is on your head
	Its wreath around your brow;
The royal carpet newly spread
	Adorns your threshold now.

	From Florence the travelers went to Pisa
from thence to Rome. Traveling suited Sister
Eliza both in body and mind she thoroughly
enjoyed it all.

To be Continued.


AN ALTAR BY THE WAY.

   Here and there in the Bible we find the
simple touching record; "And he builded an
altar.” The words are full of meaning,- help,
comfort, blessing, promise,- the place was
sacred not only to the builder, but to all that
came that way. Walled up with signal deliv-
erance from trouble, covered with the incense
of prayer, it stood a proof of some human heart's
trust in Divine power; and ruthless must have
been the hand that could have torn it down.
   So it seems to us who from afar have
watched the long weary march of the heroic
band of men and women who believe in the
equal rights of all the sons and daughters of
men,—the long weary march of years; here
and there new devotees joining their ranks:
here and there listening to the parting words
of those called from all earthly pilgrimages,
yet never despairing, never losing sight of the
promise- "for ye are all one," until a score
and a half of years had brought them to the
time and the place of a memorial altar.
 One whose heart and step were light when
the march began, whose voice ever rang its
truest, clearest note forl iberty, but whose lulla-
bies and home whisperings were most loving
and tender, the faithful elder sister of this
patient waiting band, had folded her hands,
and laid down to rest; had laid down her bur-
den, and left her blessing.
   When those who had known and loved her
gathered in the beautiful city where the laws
of our country are made, gathered to speak of
her unfailing faith, her devotion, and womanly
sweetness. And from the altar of love,
wreathed with flowers, smiled the imaged face
of Lucretia Mott, while amid prayers and tears,
the hymn she loved, "Nearer my God to Thee"
rose from tremulous lips,making forever sacred
to all women who shall come after her, this
"altar by the way." -Women at Work.


On Wednesday, March 16th, the Judiciary
Committee of the Assembly (N.Y.) reported a
Woman Suffrage bill; March 17th, the Con-
necticut Senate passed a Woman's School Suf-
frage Bill.  Registration not required.
	THE English Woman's Suffrage Journal
says, most of the speakers upon the coming
election in the Isle of Man refer to women and
their interests in their speeches.  The result of 
the election will be looked for with intense in-
terest by all women who value the franchise,
and indeed by all people who believe in the 
political emancipation of woman.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS. -   -   Editor.

 Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms:  One copy, one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of non parell space, one
time, $2.50 per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street.  Business hours from 
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						Salt Lake City Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, 				APRIL 1, 1881.


ANNUAL CONFERENCE.

	As the Sixth of April, the day for the holding
of our Annual Conference, falls on Wednesday,
it has been deemed advisable to commence the
Conferance meetings on Sunday, April 3d, and
they will be continued on Monday, Tuesday and
Wednesday,—the last day being reserved for the
transaction of the usual Conference business.
	It is hoped that this arrangement of the meet-
ings will meet the convenience of the Officers
and Saints generally, and that there will be a
punctual attendance at the times appointed.
						JOHN TAYLOR,
						GEO. Q. CANNON,
						JOSEPH F. SMITH,
	First Presidency of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints.—Des. News:


HUSBAND, HOME, MOTHERHOOD.
What grand words!  What tender thoughts
each one of them inspires.  They are to true
women the most expressive of affection and hap-
piness of any to be found in the English lan-
guage.  Everything which makes life attractive to
woman is linked and associated with one, or all
of these.  The three combined in a true sense
lift the soul into an atmosphere of sublimity.
The poor cottager is as rich in the possession of
these precious blessings as she who treads the
halls of a palace.  Love, the element which
exalts and purifies the nature abounds in the as-
sociations of each of these conditions. Where
true love is there is tenderness, joy, hope and 
faith in humanity, which ever inspiries faith in
a Supreme Being and aspirations for a lighter life.
How abundantly blest is she who clasps closely
and sacredly in her heart the realizing sense
that she is thus crowned even in her existence
here. No wonder she is gentle, pure, constant
and true, how could she be otherwise with so 
much happiness lying all around her.  Let such
a one continually offer un grateful orisons to
heaven for the mercies of which she is the daily
recipient. One of the poets perhaps Moore, at 
any rate it was a man, said "When the black-
lettered list to the Gods was presented, etc. * *
They slipped in three blessings, wife, children
and friends.  No doubt these comprise the
sun of man's happiness in its fullest and most
complete sense, but for woman, husband, home
and motherhood, are her cherished mine of gold
and precious gems.
Do women hold their blessings lightly? Many
do. They sometimes have all these and yet do
not appreciate the fulness of enjoyment allotted
to them; but were they ever deprived of them,
how agonizing would be the terrible contrast of
circumstances. And yet every woman's nature
lls for these three things, the longings of her
soul can never be satisfied without them, she
may be patient, faithful to that which she at-
tains, but she will never, can never know the 
supreme endowment which comes only with
these conditions. 
 A woman may have a fine house that is not
a home at all, she may be married and yet not
know what a husband is in its truest, highest
sense. These words do not always imply love
and happiness, they are sometimes miserable il-
lusive conterfeits, and the world, the great,
knowing, intelligent world, fails to detect the
difference; but the wife carries the consciousness
of the deception within, if its impress is not
stamped upon the lineaments of her face.  It is
well if hiding it herself, it does not reveal itself
in her children; they are oft times the faith-
ful exponents of domestic infelicity or of marital
incompatibility.
 However, it is possible for women to do much
to create happiness in the marriage relation and
in the home. Certainly, it is necessary that a 
wise choice should be made at first, and having
made it, build a family altar which shall be sa-
cred to love and duty, and suffer no infringe-
ment upon its borders, but guard it jealously and
zealously, and invoke the blessing of God upon it
always. And when one after another, children 
cluster around its holy precints, let them feel
the influence which rests upon it and reverence
the devotion which makes it powerful for good,
and never do aught to mar or detract from its
beauty and symmetry.  Do you ask of what this
altar shall be made? of the purest thoughts,
the truest emotions, and fortified with respect
for each other and honor for God.  Never give
expression to an evil thought which may take
form, or it will assuredly leave its impress.  A 
little thing will shatter it- so frail and delicate
is its nature.  Watch the little things that may
destroy its beauty; for once it is soiled or defaced
the less will you observe it, and by and by you
will cease to regard it with the tenderness and 
adoration once felt for it; and then farewell to
happiness, save that which is momentary. The
idol is shattered which gave home its prestige;
for wanting the altar of love, how poor is all
else, though furnished sumptuously.  Think of it,
you whose "strings of pearls adorn your brows
to-day, like precious diadems, and never crush
one, the least of all, beneath your feet, but connt
them o'er and o'er, and touch them ever with a 
soft caress, and as time goes on, they will grow
more strong, until even storms may beat upon
them and they will not be broken.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	PRIMARY Hymn Books and Tune Books by
Eliza R. Snow for Sale at this Office.

	Augusta Joyce Crocheron's Book, "Wild
Flowers of Deseret," will not be ready until
after Conference.

	IT is fifty years ago to-day since Sister Amanda
Smith was baptized into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints by Elder Simeon D.
Carter, in Amherst, Ohio.

	PREST. WILFORD WOODRUFF and Apostles
Erastus Snow, Brigham Young, F. M. Lyman
and John Henry Smith returned on Tuesday
evening from the South.

	SISTERS Eliza R. Snow Smith and Zina D. Young
arrived Thursday evening from their Southern
trip, and were warmly welcomed by a party of
friends at the depot and the Lion House. Sister
Rachel R. Grant who started with them came
home on Tuesday.

	IT is understood that several sisters coming
from the country to attend the Woman's Con


ference held in this city, were greatly disap-
pointed on account of the adjournment. Mrs
M. I. Horne who presides over the Relief Socie-
ties in this Stake, thinks it wisest and best to
hold the Quarterly Conferences the week of the
Semi-monthly meetings which are held regularly
every other Saturday in the 14th Ward As-
sembly Rooms; otherwise there would be meet-
ings three Saturdays in succession. For the
benefit of all who may wish to attend the next
Quarterly Conference we have published in the
report the positive date, to which the meeting is
adjourned and which has been carefully calcu-
lated and comes on the meeting day.

	THE Jubilee Box which has been some time
in preparation at the office of Mrs. Sarah M.
Kimball, Secretary Central Organization of Re-
lief Societies will be sealed up to-day, eventually
to be deposited permanently in the His-
torians Office. This idea of Sister Kimball's is
a unique one and certainly is strictly original.
The box contains photographs; manuscripts, etc.,
of quite a number of sisters and a few brethren,
each one's package directed to the eldest female
descendant, the box to be opened the 1st of
April, 1930, by Mrs. Kimball's successor in of-
fice. A fuller description of the whole, with the
dedicatory poem, will be published in April 15.
	Mrs. Margaret T. Smoot, is also preparing a
box in the same way, we understand. That
box will contain the name of each officer and
member of the Primary Associations in Utah
County. They were prepared by Mrs. Zina Y.
Williams and Master Sterling Williams.


OBITUARY.

   Died in the 15th Ward, Salt Lake City, Feb.
20, 1881, Mrs. Teresa Hastings Judd. Deceased
(whose maiden name was Hastings) was born
in Turin, Lewis County, State of New York, but
when quite young moved to Canada, and in that
country passed her early life. In 1830 she was
united in marriage to Thomas A. Judd. In 
1836 she was baptized into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, and in 1843 moved
to Nauvoo, the gathering place of the Saints,
where she passed through various scenes of pri-
vation and trial, but was ever firm and steadfast
in her faith. She mourned deeply and sincerely
the martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
She came to Salt Lake City in 1849, and has re-
sided here ever since.
   Sister Judd had five children, all are now liv-
ing, two daughters and three sons, Mrs. Mar-
garet G. Clawson is the eldest, Mrs. Phebe Kim-
ball the other daughter. Two of her sons reside
in Grantsville, and one in Bear Lake Valley.
She leaves quite a posterity upon  earth, five
children, thirty-eight grandchildren and nine
great-grandchildren.
   Sister Judd, was in the best sense of the word
a woman of God. Her life has been faithfully
devoted to the advancement of his kingdom; she
never lost an opportunity of removing prejudice
from the minds of strangers, and doing good to
her brethren and sisters. Her faith in the
principles she had espoused was unbounded, and
her fondest hope and desire was that her chil-
dren should ever revere, sustain, uphold, and
advocate "Mormonism." A gentle disposition
and great faith, combined with an extensive
knowledge of the virtue of medicines, eminently
qualified her to fulfil the duties of an attendant
upon the sick, and she thereby accomplished an
immense amount of good. She was for many
years almost day and night occupied by the bed-
side of the sick, or soothing the last moments of
the dying. She was a member of the Relief So-
ciety of the 15th Ward, has always been active
and energetic even zealous in the per-


formance of every duty, pertaining to the relief
of the poor and needy, the orphan and the
fatherless.
	She has lived and died the life of a true Lat-
ter-day Saint, and has passed away in glorious
hope of a part in the first resurrection. She has
joined the hosts of friends behind the vail, who
are looking forward to a reunion with those who
remain. She will be deeply mourned by her
posterity, and many other friends and acquaint-
ances, and her memory will ever be fondly
cherished by those who knew her many virtues
her loving disposition and honorable life.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 165


A WELCOME.

BY M. ELIZABETH LITTLE.

	To Sisters E. R. Snow Smith, Zina D. Young and Min-
erva Snow, in behalf of the R. S. of Kanab.

	We, the sisters of the R.S., most sincerly wel-
come these, our much beloved sisters, to Kanab.

	A long cherished home is realized in the happy
event. Here, on the frontier of Utah, in com-
parative isolation, it is the first time that any of
our representative ladies, have visited us.
Therefore, we say to them welcome, thrice wel-
come; and may this visit be long remembered
by us, as a time of rejoicing. May we treasure
up the counsels we received as precious gems.
	We welcome you as Lady Pioneers to this
beautiful, but once desert Territory; for by your
untiring efforts, you have greatly aided in de-
veloping refinement and social advancement
among the Saints.
	We welcome you as veritable Mothers in
Israel; for your lives have been given to good
works, and to the accomplishment of holy pur-
poses. We welcome you, as the early exponents,
by precept and example, of the new and ever-
lasting covenant of Marriage, and as leaders in
the self-sacrifice at first necessary to establish its
principles.
	We welcome Sisters Eliza and Zina as our
Elect Lady and her Counselor, and as Presidents
of all the feminine portion of the human race.
Although comparatively few recognize their
right to this authority. Yet, we know they have
been set apart as leading Priestesses of this dispen-
sation. As such we honor them. We welcome
them as the honored wives of our revered and
martyred Prophet Joseph Smith.
	We welcome Sister Minerva as the consort of
our beloved Apostle Erastus Snow, the leading
pioneer to Southern Utah, through whose wise
counsels, the Saints have developed the resources
of this desert country.
	We welcome Sister Eliza as Zion's Poetess.
How often have our souls been thrilled with the
keenest emotions of pain or joy, when reading
those graphic descriptions so beautifully penned
by our gifted sister. Of the heart rending suffer-
ings of our people in early days, of agonized
breathings of her soul, when her beloved hus-
band was cruelly murdered by fiends in human
form. Anon, her heart is filled with praise
and thanksgiving to the Supreme being, for
mercies received, and she wakes up in our bos-
oms the holy sentiments of reverence and love for
our heavenly Father. May our sisters live many
years to continue the great work they have com-
menced; and when the shadows of death hover
near, may their last moments be like the gentle
lulling of the infant on its mother's bosom.
When their spirits have winged their flight to the
realms of bliss, to meet kindred and friends who
have gone before, their kind acts will live in the
hearts of the Saints. The bright halo of their
great and noble souls will float around us, like
the glory of the departed day or the gentle breeze
of a Summer evening.


AMANDA  SMITH.
The name of Sister Amanda, or Mrs. Warren
Smith, is well known to the Latter-day  Saints.
She has had a most eventful life, and the terri-
ble tragedy of Haun's Mill, in  Caldwell County,
when her  husband  and  son  were  killed, and
another son wounded, have  made  her name fa-
miliar to all who have read the history of the 
mobbings and drivings in the State of  Missouri.
Her biography would make an interesting book,
and  would abound with  incidents  of wonderful
manifestations of  the power  of God  in healing
the sick and wounded.  Mrs. Smith is a native
of New England, and was born in Becket, Berk-
shire  Co.,  Mass., Feb. 22,  1809. Her parents
were Ezekiel and Fanny  Barnes; she was one of 
a family  of  ten children. Her  grandfather, on
her mother's  side, James  Johnson,  came from
Scotland in an early day, and in the  revolution-
ary war held the office of General; he was a great
and  brave  man.  Singular  indeed it  is that
many of the Latter-day Saints  that  have been
driven from their homes and plundered and suf-
fered cruelties at the hands of  mobs  are  the  di-
rect descendants  of  the  very  men who fought
for liberty and freedom in the early days of  this 
country.  Sister  Smith  says  her  father  left
Massachusetts when she was quite  young and
went up to Ohio, and settled in Amherst, Lorain
County.,  where the family endured all the  pri-
vations and hardships incident to a new country.
She says:  "My father was one  of  the  honorable
men of the earth, strictly  honest, but  made no
profession of religion, or  did not  belong  to any
church; my  mother  was  a  Presbyterian. I
clung most to my  father, and  partook  more of
his nature  and  strength  of character.  I was
considered rather  an  odd, strange  child  in my
father's house,  and certainly my  life  has  since
been  a most peculiar and striking one.
 "At eighteen years of age  I  was  married to
Warren Smith; we  had  plenty  of  this world's
goods and lived confortable and happily together,
nothing of particular  interest  transpiring until
Sidney Rigdon  and  Orson  Hyde  came  to our
neighborhood preaching  Campbellism.  I was
converted and baptized  by Sidney  Rigdon; my
husband did not like it, yet gave his permission.
I was at that  time the mother of two  children.
Soon after  my  conversion  to  the Campbellite
faith Simeon  D.  Carter  came  preaching the
Everlasting Gospel, and on the 1st day of April,
1831, he baptized me into the  Church  of  Jesus
Christ, of  Latter-day Saints,  of  which  I have
ever since been a  member. My  husband was
baptized shortly after and we were united in our
faith. Before a year had  passed  away  I gave
birth to a pair of twins witho[-]t pain  or  any suf-
fering whatever. This  was  a  'marvel  and  a
wonder' to all, I had suffered so much  with my
other children.  The whole country aronnd were
excited over it, and  thought it  was almost dis-
graceful.
 "We  sold  out  our  property in Amherst and
went to Kirtland, and bought a place west of the
Temple, on  the  Chagrin  River,  then  we  en-
joyed ourselves in the society of  the Saints, but
after the failure of the  Kirtland bank and other
troubles in that place, in consequence of our ene-
mies,we lost all our property except enough to fit
up teams, etc., to take us to Missouri. We started
in the spring of  1838, and  bade  farewell  to the
land of  our  fathers  and  our  home  to  go and
dwell with the Saints  in  what  then  seemed a
far-off place.  Our relatives who were not in the 
Church,  were  very bitter against  our  going  off
into the wilderness, as they termed  Missouri in
those days,"
	There were several  families of us and we trav-
eled  on without much difiiculty until we came
to Caldwell  County,  Mo.  One  day  when we
were going on as usual, minding  our  own  busi-
ness,  we  were stopped by a mob of armed men,
who told us if we went another step they would
kill us all, they  commenced  plundering, taking
our guns  from  our wagons, which  we had
brought, as we were going into  a new country,
and after thus  robbing  us  took  us  back five
miles, placed a guard  around  us,  and  kept us
there in that way three days, and then let us go.
We journeyed on ten miles further, though our
hearts were  heavy  and  we  knew  not  what
might  happen  next. Then  we  arrived  at a
little town of abont eight or ten houses, a grist
mill and saw  mill, all  belonging  to  the Saints,
our brethren and  sisters.  We stopped  there to
camp for the night. A  little  before  sunset a
mob of three hundred armed men came upon us.
Our brethren shouted for the women  and  chil-
dren to run for the woods,  while they (the men)
ran into an old blacksmith shop.
(To be Continued.)


WOMENS CONFERENCE.

	The Ladies' Conference of the Salt Lake Stake
of Zion was held in the 14th Ward Assembly Hall,
Friday and Saturday, March 25th and 26th,
commencing Friday morning, 10 a. m., Mrs. M.
I. Horne presiding. Meeting opened by singing
"Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation."
Prayer by Mrs Diana Reid, sung "On the Moun-
tain Tops Appearing." Minutes of last Confer-
ence read and accepted. Reports from branch
Societies R. S. were read by Mrs. E. Howard.
	Mrs. Horne made some remarks to the Sisters
and expressed her readiness to comply with any
invitation which might be extended to her to
visit the branches of Relief Society in this Stake.
Mrs. E. S. Taylor and Mrs. S. M. Heywood
each made some encouraging remarks Choir
sang "Lord dismiss us with Thy blessing."
Benediction by Mrs. M. P. Young.
	Two p. m. met again and after usual exercises
of singing and prayer, Sisters M. I. Horne, P.
Woodruff, B. W. Smith, S. M. Kimball, M. A.
Wilcox, M. Carrington, S. Gibson, D. Reid, E.
Woodruff, M. P. Young, E. Howard and E. S.
Taylor each made some remarks touching upon
almost every subject, essential to the work in
progress. Elder W. Willis and Father Graves
occupied a short time in speaking and Prest.
Joseph E. Taylor delivered quite an interesting
address, touching upon the duties of parents in
training and guiding their children, the neces-
sity of attending meetings and keeping the
spirit of God wirth us and listening to the whis-
perings of our guardian angel,thought we should
put away all enmity and ill will towards each
other and prepare to dwell together in eternity.
	Mrs. Horne made some closing remarks and
the Conference was adjourned. Singing Doxol-
ogy. Benediction by Elder J. E. Taylor.
	Saturday 10 a. m. Primary Conference Mrs.
Ellen C. S. Clawson presiding. There were
crowds of children in attendance, minutes and
reports were read and an excellent time of re-
freshing was enjoyed by all. The singing was
very inspiring and it was a sight to gladden the
eyes, to see so many children assembled to hear
the good teachings of the Sisters. All Societies
reported were in a prosperous condition, and the
outlook for spiritual cultivation in the children
of Zion is much more auspicious than at any
previous time.
	Afternoon Session, Conference of Y. L M. I.
A. Mrs. M. A. Freeze presiding. Opened by
singing "O My Father, &c," Prayer by Mrs.
Hannah T. King. Singing "Arise, O, Glorious
Zion." Mrs. Crocheron read the minutes of the
last Conference and reports from 1st, 2d, 9th,
10th, 11th, 15th, 17th and 19th Wards, also from
Herriman and Draper. Mrs. Cooper gave a
verbal report of the 7th Wards, Miss Gardner,
West Jordan, Miss Carlisle, Mill Creek, Mrs.
Thompson, South Cottonwood. Mrs. Freeze,
Mrs. L. Felt, Mrs. C. Y. Conrad, Mrs. E. S.
Taylor, Dr. R. B. Pratt and Dr. E. B. Ferguson
addressed the meeting upon subjects calculated
to benefit and improve the young ladies warn-
ing them of the dangerous a[---]roments of the
world and exhorting them to live for a purpose.
Conference was adjourned until June 17 and 18.
Singing "O say what is truth," Benediction by
Judge Z. Snow. E. B. W.


KANAB RELIEF SOCIETY.

	Bishop W. D. Johnson, Jun., having sent to
St. George for Sisters Snow Smith, Zina D.
Young and Minerva Snow, they arrived at this
place Thursday, Feb. 10, 1881. On Friday eve-
ning the Bishop gave a general party to the
ward in honor of these sisters. The amuse-
ments comprised songs, speeches, select readings,
and A Welcome, in behalf sf the R. S. of Ka-
nab, by M. E. Little. We had good instructions
from our much beloved sisters. We also had a
very ample picnic, which caused what Sister
Smith called a delightful confusion. 
	On Saturday Sister E. R. S. Smith organized
a ward Primary Association with 148 members. 
She also effected a Stake organization; the offi-
cers as follows: Lucy A. Johnson, President;
Louisa Spencer and Christine Nuttall, Counsel-
ors; M. Elizabeth Little, Secretary; Mary Udell,
Assistant Secretary; Rachel Ford, Treasurer.
	Sunday, the 13th, they attended school in the
morning, and at seven in the evening held a
joint meeting of the R. S. and Y. L. M. I. A.
The Bishop and a number of the leading breth-
ren were present. Sister Snow Smith said the
time was when we thought that our husbands
would save us, independent of our own exer-


tions. Now we understand that instead of de-
pending entirely on our husbands for salvation
and position, we have to work them out our-
selves. The responsibility and labor that devolve
upon women are becoming more important. If
society is reformed, it is to a great extent because
women are refined. And the well being of her
children depends much on her influence and ex-
ample. These societies are to be helps to the
Bishops, and take many cares from their hands.
We are organized in Ward and Stake capacities,
and it is necessary that every sister should come
forward and take hold of this work, for the bene-
fit of their daughters. The Lord wants us to be
a peculiar people. Felt that none of us draw as
near to Father as we should. When we get the
victory over ourselves then we are saved. "I
would say to my young sisters, never shrink
from a duty. God has put the means in your
hands to become queens and priestesses in his
kingdom, if you will only live for it." She gave
much more good instruction; also spoke on seri-
culture.
	Sister Zina D. Young—"My sisters, we have
had a feast of correct principles, that will save
us if we will listen to and put them in practice.
Celestial Marriage is a principle from God; He
commanded it, and sent an angel to reveal it to
the Prophet Joseph Smith. Treat it sacredly,
my sisters, for the Spirit of the Lord is grieved
when you speak against this principle. Sisters,
never speak disrespectfully of your husbands;
never allow your children to do so; but help and
sustain them in all good works." She also spoke
on sericulture.
	Sister Minerva Snow said: "I feel very hum-
ble. The blessings that we have received this
evening are enough to strengthen us and make
glad our hearts, if we are true and faithful. I
have traveled with these my sisters and had much
joy in their society. I have felt to wish that all
my sisters had the same privilege. We should
overcome our failings. What are the little trials
of this life, to the great blessings that are before
us if we are faithful? I know that the principle
of plurality is true, and that it is from God.
When I see my young sisters embrace this prin-
ciple I feel like throwing my arms around them
and asking the Lord to bless and protect them
from all evil."
	Sister Snow Smith organized a Silk Associa-
tion.
	During the evening we were blessed with
some of the gifts of the Gospel.
	Tuesday, 15th, the sisters left for the other
settlements in the Stake, accompanied by Bishop
W. D. Johnson, Jun., Presidents Harriet Bunt-
ing and Lucy A. Johnson; they also held meetings
with the R. S. and Y. L. A. They returned to
Kanab Wednesday, 23d, when they met with
the sisters of Kanab, at their sewing meeting
Thursday, 24th, at which time we received much
good counsel. Friday, 25th, left this place for
St. George.
	The visit of these our sisters will long be re-
membered by us as a time of rejoicing. May
they live many years to continue their good
work, and may we again be visited by these and
other honored representative sisters of our
people.
				M. ELIZABETH LITTLE.


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A.  AND PRIMARY
		REPORTS. 

	The fifth semi-annual conference of the  Re-
lief Societies of the  Bear Lake State, held in
the St. Charles  meeting house, March 6 and 7,
1881.   Sunday  morning  session  there  were
present  on  the  stand  Pres. J. P. Lindsay and
Counselors;  of  the  Stake  Presidency, Pres.
Wm. Budge and  Counselor J. H. Hart;  Bish-
ops  J. A.  Hunt,  Robert Calder, R. Price  and
some  of  the  Elders;  Presidents  and  other offi-
cers of branch Relief Societies, Y. L. M. I. A.
and Primary Associations.  Meeting  called to
order  by  President  Lindsay. Sang, "Hail to
the  brightness  of  Zion's  glad  morning," &c.
Prayer  by  Pres.  Budge.  Sang, "Sweet  is the
work  my  God  my  king," &c.  Pres. Lindsay
made  a  few opening  remarks;  was  pleased to
see  so  many present, and hoped that whatever
was  said  would  be  dictated  by the  Spirit of
God and  prove  beneficial  to  all.  Roll called
for  the Stake  officers  of  Relief Societies, also
the  leading  officers  of  branch societies. Min-
utes of  previous  conference read and accepted.
Verbal  reports  of  the  Societies  in  the Stake
were given  by their  respective  Presidents, or
representatives. The reports were very  favor-
able, showing  that  a great  degree of interest  is
taken  by all  connected with  the Associations, 
who are  doing  all  in  their power to help emi-
grate  the  poor  from  Europe,  and  respond
cheerfully to  every call  made  upon  them by
the servants  of God, who preside over them in
the priesthood. 
	Coun. Elizabeth  Collings  was  thankful  for
a  standing  in  the  Church  and  Kingdom of
God. Exhorted  the  sisters  to  be  diligent in
seeking for the  Spirit of God, and in all  their 
words and actions to set an example before the
rising generation worthy of imitation. 
	Sister Emmeline  Rich  said  she was  pleased
to  meet with  the brethren  and sisters, and de-
sired  an  interest  in  the  faith  and prayers  of
the Saints. Felt to be one with the sisters, but
had not  been  able  to  attend meetings of late
as  often  as she  desired.  Thought the sisters
were  doing  a good  work. Unless  we attend
our meetings we will fall short of the blessings
promised by our Heavenly Father.
	Pres, Lindsay  was  pleased  with the reports
of the  various  societies,  and  commended  the
sisters very  highly for the interest they exhibit,
and their  willingness  to  respond  to  the calls
made upon them.
	Sang, "But in the last days  it  shall come to
pass," &c.  Benediction  by  Bishop  J. A.
Hunt. 
	Sunday afteroon session.  After  the usual
opening exercises, the Sacrament was adminis-
tered  and  the  statistical  and  financial report
of the  Relief Societies  read  by the Stake Sec-
retary, as follows:
	Statistical and financial report of the Relief
Societies  of  the  Bear  Lake Stake for  the six
months ending  February  14, 1881.  Statisti-
cal: Teachers, 125;  members, 515;  total officers
and members, 640;  meetings  held,  115;  aver-
age attendance, 231;  Church papers, 133;  WO-
MAN'S  EXPONENT,  32.  Financial:  On  hand
at date  of last report, cash, $113.79; property
$439; wheat, 1160 by. and  47 lbs, at  one cent
per lb,  $696.47.  Receipts,  eash,  $157.33;
property, $140.48;  wheat, 49 bu. and 15 lbs, at
one cent per lb, $29.55;  total receipts, $1576.62.
Disbursements: to  needy,  property,  $74.80;
emigration, cash, $56.28;  Temple, cash, $40.94;
property, $64.52;  home industries, cash, $82.91;
property,  $61.14;  books, cash $12.83;  build-
ing,  property,  $34.65;  on  hand,  cash, $78.16;
property, $329.85;  books,  $14.52;  wheat, 1210
bu. and 2 lbs, $726.02.
	Pres. Budge  said  he  esteemed  the privilege
of attending the  Conference  of  the Relief So-
cieties  of  the  Stake  very  highly, and  desired
that  the  Spirit  of  God  might  rest  upon  the
congregation, as well as upon those who might
be called to give instructions.  He had not had
the  privilege  of  meeting with  so many  of  the
sisters  in  this  capacity before, as the  general
organization had not been  affected  before  he
went  on  his  mission  to  Europe. From  the
spirit  manifested  by the  Stake presidency, as
well  as  those who  had reported the  condition
of the  Ward  organizations,  he  was  satisfied
that a good work was being done by the sisters.
Many sisters  had  formerly thought  that  they
could not spare time to look  after public inter-
ests, but the more they  way seemed to  open up to
enable  them  to  do  good. The Societies were
not only the means of  comforting the poor and
the sick, and administering to  their wants, but
they also  assisted  greatly in  more public mat-
ters, such  as  in gathering  the  poor, building
temples and saving  grain, and  in  these works
the sisters of the Bear Lake Stake had labored
with commendable zeal, and had been, accord-
ing  to  the  reports  which  we  had  heard  this
morning, very successful. He trusted that the
sisters  would  continue  to  enjoy their labors,
and that the spirit of  love and affection would
increase. It was desireable also that the sisters
should,  with  all  their  influence,  sustain  the
efforts the priesthood  were making to  discour-
age  entirely  the  use  of strong  drinks, which,
although not very generally indulged  in, were
used  more  or  less by too many. Prayed that
God  might  bless  President  Lindsay  and  her
Counselors, and all the officers and members of
the  Relief Societies  in  the  good  work which
engaged their attention. 
	Pres. James  H. Hart  endorsed all that had
been said and done during the day. Said time
only can develop the good done by the associa-
tions;  it  can  no  more  be  told  than the good
derived  from  the  early  training  of  a  wise
mother, the fruits  of  which may be seen in fu-
ture  generations.  It was  gratifying to see the
sisters so sound in doctrine as they are proving
themselves to be, also  to  watch the progress of
the  young in  the  Primary  Associations, where
they are taught  of God and his ways. Other
interesting and  encouraging  remarks  and in-
structions were given by Pres. Hart.
	Pres. Lindsay said she had been highly edified,
and did not feel tired  although  the  time  had
expired. Felt  very much impressed to do all
she  could  toward  helping to  gather the poor
Saints from the old  countries.  "It is impossi-
ble  for  me  to tell the Presidents of the differ-
ent Associations  all  their  various  duties,  but
the Lord had promised us his Holy Spirit, that
we may do all that he requires of us." Prayed
the  Lord had promised us his Holy Spirit, that
we may do all that he requires of us." Prayed
the Lord to bless  the people. Hoped  to  see
them all at meeting in the morning.
	Choir sang, "Jerusalem  my glorious home." 
Benediction by Pres.  George Osmond.
	Monday morning, March  7, 1881, 10 A. M.
After the  opening  exercises  of  singing  and
prayer, the forenoon was occupied by the Presi-
dent and officers of the Y. L. M. I. A.
	2 P. M.  Singing and prayer.  Presidents of
Primary  Associations  reported  verbally their
respective wards, also  general remarks and in-
structions by Primary Stake  board of officers. 
	Coun. Maria  Rich felt very thankful for the
blessings God  had  given  us. Impressed upon
parents the  necessity  of setting  a  good  exam-
ple  before  their  children;  spoke  of  the Word
of Wisdom  and  the  blessings  to  be derived
from a  careful observance  of the same. Said
we should watch  and pray continually lest we
get careless and fall  by the way. 
	Pres. Lindsay  said  this  is  one  of  the  best
Conferences we have had.  The number in at-
tendance  during  Conference was  encouraging
to her, and showed an increase of interest taken
by the people generally.  Instructed the presi-
dents  and  officers  of  Relief Societies  in their
respective duties;  counseled  the  sisters  to  be
faithful  and  diligent, seeking  at  all times  the
Spirit of God.
	Pres. George  Osmond  said  he  was pleased
with the  way the  house  had  been seated, and
had  enjoyed  himself  so well  that  he thought
he would attend  the meetings  again. He had
been  edified and interested during the  Confer-
ence.  Counseled  those  present  to  remember
the  good  instructions  given  and  try  to carry
them out in their daily lives.
	Miss Julia  Budge  was  appointed  and  set
apart for Corresponding Secretary, Miss Teresa
Wihelmson, Treasurer, for the  Primary Asso-
ciations, Pres. George  Osmond and  Bishop J. 
A. Hunt officiating. 
	The Stake  and  local  officers  of  Relief So-
cieties  and  Primary  Associations  were  pre-
sented and unanimously sustained.  President
Lindsay thanked the Bishop  and people of St.
Charles for  all the courtesies  extended during
the Conference, also  the  choir  for  their  good
music.  Choir  sang, "Before  Jehovah's  awful
throne." Benediction by Bishop R. Calder.


[Column 1]
Conference adjourned for six months to meet
at Ovid, unless otherwise directed.
			ELIZABETH PUGMIRE, Sec'y.
			JULIA BUDGE, Cor. Sec'y.

The Tenth Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of Utah County, Convened in the Meet-
ing House Provo City Feb. 25th 1881. Meet-
ing opened by the usual exercises of singing
and prayer reading of minutes of former Con-
ference and reports for the past six months by
Secretaries. Our conference was strictly a
home conference, no visitors out of the County
being present, but all joined in saying that the
spirit of the Lord was with us throughout the
whole meeting. There were present on the
stand President Margaret T. Smoot, Counselor
Mary John, Sec'y. &c. Bishop Johnson was
also present. Pres. M. T. Smoot said, I am
pleased to meet again with my sisters having
been debarred from attending our last Con-
ference on account of sickness; our object in
meeting together is the same; we have many
duties to perform and we have to keep them
before our eyes continually. I am pleased
with our reports. L will be brief but I wish to
speak of our Jubilee box. The Presidents of
the Societies all understand the object, we invite
all of Utah county to contribute to the box we
wish to slight none, we think it will be some-
thing desirable for our children to look at. for
if we could have had such a record of our
mothers written fifty years ago we would have
appreciated it I think. I ask God to bless us
and enable us to perform our duties.
	Bishop Johnson said. the reports please me
very much; there is nothing pleases me more
than to see the work of the Lord progress. We
have gathered here to serve the Lord. Ma
Smoot says in her remarks that the sisters are
trying to come up with the brethren for my-
self I feel grateful to my sisters for their help
and unity of feeling, we should all strive to
work together in union. We have been pre-
ordained to do the work that we are doing, we
are in the places that we should be in, I do
not wish to take up your time but wish to bear
my testimony to the truth of this work. Let
us improve our time that it may be said of us
"well done good and faithful servants." Let
us help build our temples as fast as we can
that we may do a work for our dead. Coun-
selor Mary John said, I feel to indorse all that
has been said, and let us put it in practice, let
us be thankful that we are able to attend these
meetings, let us try to serve the Lord day by
day, let us try to remember our meetings more
punctually in future. I hope to work out my
own salvation that I may have a seat in the
Celestial Kingdom of God.
	After singing, and prayer by Sister R. A.
Holden, meeting adjourned till 2, P. M.
	Afternoon Session: Meeting opened by sing-
ing and prayer. Ma Smoot said, we will hear
from Sister Zina Y. Williams, after which we
will hear from the presidents of the different
Societies in the County. Sister Zina Y. Wil-
liams said, she would rather listen to the sisters
that were so much older than herself but as
she had been called upon to speak would en-
deavor to do so; and gave a very pleasant de-
scription of letters received from her Mother
and Sister E. R. Snow, showing the work they
had performed in Southern Utah; holding
meetings, organizing Primary Associations, and
Y - L. M. I. A., &c. Spoke of our Primary
Associations, wished to suggest that we put
the names of all the members of the Primaries
in Utah County in our Jubilee box to be
handed down to our posterity. I think it
would be glorious, our Primaries here are in a
flourishing condition. I see such a field of
work here that I can hardly sleep; there has
never been anything yet introduced in this
Church that will accomplish such a vast
amount of good as these Associations, we want

[Column 2]
to save the children so that if we are in Heaven
we can look down and see what they are doing.
I wish the sisters would inculcate in their
children the principles of Celestial Marriage.
It is ennobling and let no mother talk against
her husband before her children, I feel like
saying to my sisters in a voice of thunder, pro-
claim the principle of plurality of wives. Of
course it brings its trials with it but the Lord
will give us strength to bear all our trials and
what would we be worth if we were not tried,
the day is coming that will try us to the very
core and without his Spirit we cannot stand.
etc.
	The Presidents of the different Societies
throughout the County then gave verbal re-
ports of the societies over which they preside,
speaking in praise of the sisters with whom
they were associated, and also bearing their
testimonies to the truth of this Gospel, and to
their belief in the principle of Celestial Mar-
riage. After which SisterMary John bore her
testimony to the truth of plurality of wives and
said I do not see any other way that the Lord
could raise up a race of Kings and Priests,
and I feel determined to teach my children the
principle. I ask my heavenly Father to bless
us all with his holy Spirit while we dwell on
this earth.
	It was moved that we adjourn this Confer-
ence till the last Friday in May. Singing
"Praise God from whom all blessings flow.
Benediction by Bishop Johnson.
	Statistical and Financial reports as follows:
No. members, 2085; teachers, 317; meetings
held, 199; average attendance, 894; Church
papers taken, 297: EXPONENT. 108; disburse-
ments to needy, $627. 12; temples, 141. 95;
missionary, 30. 70; silk, I6. 26; books, 2. 17;
home industries, 80. 15; building 89. 50; sun-
dries, 47. 72. On hand in cash and property,
$8,198, 38 and half, wheat 1870 bushels 32 lbs.
			MRS. CAROLINE DANIELS, Sec'y.

MINERSVILLE.

	Our Improvement Association was organized
October last, with Lydia Blackburn as Presi-
dent, Bathsheba Grundy and Ida Marshall as
Counselors, Harriet Eyre, Treasurer. We
have forty-eight members enrolled. We have
very interesting meetings, and a good spirit
seems to prevail.
				HETTIE DOTSON, Sec'y.
				HELLEN STODDARD, Ass't.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	
﻿


[Column 1]
JESSE BURNS,
OR,
WAS IT FATE?

A Sketch of the Exodus from Nauvoo, and the
early Settlement of Utah.

CONTINUED.

	In obeying the commandments of God we
claim his blessing to guard and protect us from
danger, but in leaving the flock and grieving
his spirit through disobedience, we are exposed
to the powers of darkness and cannot hold the
confidence and trust in Him we might other-
wise have, A great gulf seemed opened before
Mary, on one side were home, friends, faith and
the blessings of God; on the other was Jesse: a
husband's care and a father's protection for her
children; but would not God protect them, He
had promised to comfort the widow (she would
be more than widowed) and to be a father to
the fatherless. It was a trying time for poor
Mary. She had always given Jesse her con-
fidence and respect, his lightest word was her
law. He would be angry, she knew, if she did
not go, after the expense of sending for her.
Howard assured her that there were many good
people in California, that men of means and in-
telligence were bringing their families to settle
in the country, and society was steadily im-

[Column 2]
proving; but people were continually coming to
her with counsel and advise, telling her of the
danger of such a rough country, where the
female population was scarce, and men were
not governed by religious or moral principles.
They sincerely believed there was no safety
outside of Zion, and brought every influence to
bear that might hold her within its sanctuary.
Her young daughter, just blooming into
womanhood, would be much sought after;
should she meet an unkind fate or have her
prospects in life marred through taking her
out of the protecting influence of Zion she
would never forgive herself. Many sorrowful
days and sleepless nights she passed before de-
ciding. She could not believe either Jesse or
herself would apostatize from their faith.
They would stay awhile until they had gathered
sufficient means around them, and the valleys
had become better settled and built up so they
could live more comfortably, and then they
would come back. Like the drunken man who
stood in the door of his room waiting for the
bed to come nearer when he would jump on it;
but when he jumped he fell on the floor, for
the bed was as far off as ever. So they said
it would be with her. Their daughters would
grow to womanhood; no doubt they would
marry there which would be an additional tie
to bind them, and their dreams of wealth and
comfort, might be as far from being realized as
they were at present. Gold was an ignus-fatus
that lured many to destruction, and to Jesse it
had ever vanished when he thought it within
his grasp. Many times when he thought his
dreams about to be realized some freak of for-
tune would change his prospects; and when
three years had passed he found himself still
chasing the phantom, with as little prospect of
its becoming a reality. He had accumulated
some means and embarked in a mercantile
venture which promised fair to be a success,
but he must have patience and wait. Think-
ing it would be better to have his family with
him, and being unable to leave his business, he
employed his brother, whom he had met in
that strange country, after a separation of
many years, to go for them. Had he gone
himself no doubt his presence would have had
more influence with Mary, for few would have
ventured to counsel her then, and whether for
better or worse no doubt she would have gone;
or, perhaps he would have viewed the matter
as she did and concluded to stay with her, and
all the misery of those long years would have
been spared them; but fate had designed it
otherwise, and who shall say that our destiny
must not be marked out? Mary had crossed
the mountains once in an on team, and felt
that the experience was sufficient for a lifetime.
It seemed to be a great undertaking, and her
heart failed her when she thought of exposing
herself to the hardships of another journey.
Finally she resolved to appeal to President
Young and abide by his counsel. His advise
to her was, by no means to leave the valley.
If she went, he said, Jesse never would return.
If fortune favored him he would surround him-
self with home comforts and ties, and, aftersuffering so much in his past experience, he
would be loth to break them; if she was unkind
he would still pursue her where she held her
brightest inducements, instead of returning to
a place which offered so few attractions. If
Mary remained it would draw him back, for
his wife and children would certainly wield a
strong influence. Jesse was a man of intelli-
gence and fine principles, and would grow with
the country and become wealthy and honored.
He was a leading spirit, such a one as was
wanted to give life to the common wealth.
Here were purity, morality and virtue. Here
were no snares for the innocent, nor tempta-
tions for the weak. Here was safety, there
was danger and confusion. Mary came home
feeling calm and comforted; she felt that his


counsel was wise, and she had resolved to abide
by it. She would settle her mind to the duties
before her and say to Howard she would not
go. Minnie was a staunch little Mormon, and
willingly gave up all the fine prospects they
had flattered her with. Her childish faith
had never been shaken with dogmas nor sec-
tarianism. To her God was Omnipotent, and
Joseph Smith was his prophet. She had con-
fidence in Brigham Young and faith to believe
his counsel was for the best. This was a great
comfort to Mary and gave her strength in
those hours of darkness, for it is hard to go
against the feelings of those that are dear to
us, even though it accords with our best judg-
ment.

To be continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THORVALDSEN.

   The great sculptor Thorvaldsen was born at
Copenhagen in 1770. His mother was the
daughter of a peasant; his father was a wood-
carver, who made rough figure-heads for vessels.
When Albert, or Bertel, as his people called him, 
was old enough, he went into his father's work-
shop, and after a little practice it was seen that
his work equalled, and in some points excelled,
his father's. His father saw that if properly
educated, Bertel might be an artist; and at
eleven years old, he was put in to the Royal Ac-
ademy of Fine Arts. He cared for no kind of
study excepting that of his art, which he was
passionately fond of. His teacher thought him
quite a dunce; and when on the distribution of
prizes at the Fine Art Academy, a young
Thorvaldsen got the silver medal, he said it
might be a relative of Bertel's, and thought to
hold him up to the boys as an example of in-
dustry. What was his astonishment on finding
that it was Bertel himself! After that his
teacher called him "Herr," which was a great
honor. In 1796 Thorvaldsen embarked for
Naples, and then went to Rome. The Danish Ac-
ademy supported him  there six years, and at
the end of that time he prepared to return to 
Denmark. As there was trouble about getting
his passport he was delayed, and while waiting,
a wealthy gentleman entered his studio, and
seeing the statue "Jason," he was so charmed
with it that he ordered it in marble. An agree-
ment was made, and Thorvaldsen remained in
Rome. After that he was more prosperous.
   Napoleon ordered "Alexander the Great en-
tering Babylon" in marble, but by the time it
was finished, Napoleon was an exile. Poland
ordered two statues; but being delayed by
sickness they were not finished till after the
fall of Poland. Nevertheless, he found sale for
them. During this time the "Jason" was sadly
neglected, and it was twenty years before the 
gentleman received it! Thorvaldsen returned to
Copenhagen on a visit; but he had but little
peace, as his rooms were constantly crowded
with visitors.
   Again he went to Copenhagen. He was
received with all the pomp and glory that
could be devised by both king and vassal; and
even his native sky welcomed him home, as
there was a gorgeous aurora borealis at night.
On landing he was drawn in a carriage by the
people instead of by horses, although he was
ignorant of the fact until he arrived at the
palace. The people refused to be satisfied until
they had all seen their countryman, and so
Thorvaldsen appeared on the balcony and
bowed to the assemblage. So highly did they
honor him that it is said there was "danger of
his being killed with kindness." Thorvaldsen
moved in all classes of society. His shoemaker
was his friend, as was also the King of Bavaria;
Lord Byron, and Sir Walter Scott were among
his friends.  He died in 1844. His coffin was
carried by forty artists, and on it was lying a
wreath of flowers, wove by the Queen. On


the day he died, he was working  on a bust of
Martin Luther. Among  his  many beauitful
statues are "Night,"  "Morning,"  the "Nest of
Lovers," and the Lion of Lucerne."
M. EMMA KENT.
--The  Watchman.


The women  of Nebraska may well rejoice to
have secured  the  advance  step in the  equal
Suffrage movement having succeded in secur-
ing the passage of the bill to remove the word
"male" from the Constitution.  We had fondly
hoped that Utah might  have  had that honor,
and but  for the  veto  of  the Govenor who
seems  to hold almost  sovereign  power in  this
Territory, Utah might have been  the first.  It
was not for the lack of effort or  championship
on the  part of men or women, and the consti-
uents of those members who voted  favorably
on  that  bill  remember them  gratefully  and
they also remember the others, otherwise.
 THE Thirteenth Anniversary of the National
Woman Suffrage  Association  will  be held  in
TREMONT  TEMPLE,  BOSTON,  Thursday  and
Friday, May 26th and 27th.  All  persons  in-
terested in this great reform are invited  to be
present.
	The speakers will be Elizabeth  Cady  Stan-
ton,  Isabella  Beecher  Hooker,  Zerelda  G.
Wallace, Belva  A. Lockwood,  Rev. Olympia
Brown, Rev. Frederic A.  Hinckley. Phebe W.
Couzins, Elizabeth  Boynton  Harbert,  Rachel
Foster,  Frederic Douglass, Lillie  Devereux
Blake, May  Wright Sewall, Marilla M. Ricker,
Elizabeth L. Saxon, J.  Ellen  Foster, Edward
E.  Davis,  F.  Ellen  Burr,  Elizabeth  Avery
Merriwether,  Clemence  S. Lozier, Rosamond
Dale Owen, Laura De  Force Gordon, Robert
Purvis, Susan B. Anthony and Matilda Joslyn
Gage.
	ELIZABETH CADY STANTON, President,


[Column 1]
WM. G. HEBERHART,
Druggist and Pharmacist,
44 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,
DEALER IN
DRUGS, Medicines and Chemicals, Toilet Articles, Perfu-
mery, and a complete line of goods usually kept in a
first class Drug Establishment. All guaranteed to be pure
and fresh, and will be sold at the most reasonable prices.
Special attention given to Physician's Prescriptions and
Family Recipes.

ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon.

	OFFICE on Main St., Old Constitution Buildings.
RESIDENCE on South Temple Street, between 9th and
10th East Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, Diseases of Children
and Diseases of the THROAT, HEART, and LUNGS.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
Physician and Surgeon.

	OFFICE—Up Stairs, in Old Constitution Building.
RESIDENCE—Six Blocks East of Post Office, South side
of street.
☞ Special study has been given to Obstetrics, Diseases of
Women, and DISEASES of the EYE and EAR.

PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST.
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

15 Cents!	15 Cents!!

BIBLE ALMANAC
For the Year of our Lord,
1881
Published by J. H. HEMAN, Salt Lake
City, Utah Territory.
☞ Ask for it in the Book Stores. Sent by Mail postpa[-]

[Column 2]
CLASS IN MIDWIFERY.
DR. ROUMWNIA B. PRATT WILL BEGIN A NEW
class in Midwifery, m her office, up stairs, Old Constitu-
tion Building, March 1st, 1881. Students should send their
names in time for books to be procured.
TERMS, $30.	BOOKS, $12.

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP.
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
	OFFICE and RESIDENCE over Contributor Office, north of
Z. C. M. I.
	Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children as special-
ities.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST-SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS.
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
[-]be found in the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Fall and Winter Goods. ☜

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 3[-]6, Salt Lake City.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

A LARGE STOCK
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES,
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST.
[image of dentures]
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE:—MAIN ST OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
P.O. BOX, 541.


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion,  and  the  Rights  of  the  Women of all Nations.
				Salt Lake City, Utah, April 15, 1881.           No. 22.


LAMA SABACHTHANI.

		GOOD FRIDAY.

		BY HANNAH T. KING.

Great God! heard'st thou that sad, wild cry
In Heaven, thy dwelling place above?
Where all the archives of thy bosom closed,
And deathly silent every voice of love?

It seemed to be so--for the death cry came,
And  "It is finished!" was the last sad word;
The spirit passed, and took its destin'd course,
And Heaven appeared as though it had not heard.

But earth took up the awful, wondrous wail,
And rent the rocks and shook the aqueous ball;
And darkness threw o'er all its dismal veil,
And spread o'er the earth its universal pall.

There was a cause that silence reign'd in Heav'n
(As when in mortal sorrow one is bowed)
When God heard not, then Heaven itself was mute,
And awful silence was the speaking word.

Grand, sublime, stupendous is the scene!
No mortal mind can fully realize--
We bow before it with our heart's best tears,
And worship silently the sacrifice!

Now let us humbly take the subject home,
We pray--but oft our prayers seem all unheard!
We think our Father has "forsaken" us--
We feel 'tis not according to His word!

But wait, and watch, full oft the answer comes
In form and place we never dream'd to meet it;
Perchance tis never answered--and we live to see
And thank the Lord He woudl not let us greet it!

We live to see and know we were not wise,
So imperatively asking him to give
What then seem'd, oh!  the desire of our eyes,
Without which we would scarcely care to live!

But time withdrew the veil, and then  we saw
Just dust and ashes where we deem'd was life;
The silent ear we thought was turned to us
Was love, that saved our  souls from woe and strife!

"Lama Sabachthani!" the agonizing cry
Of God's own Son, re-echoed oft has been!
But wait, the ebon pall will be withdrawn, 
And God and Heaven fill the glorious scene!

Father of Mercies! take the blinding scales
From off the eyes of all thy faithful ones,
That they may see, and know, and comprehend
Thy Will, in whatsoever form it comes.


LIFE INCIDENTS.

	BY HELEN  MAR WHITNEY.

		CONTINUED.
	After attending the school in Kirtland dur-
ing the winter of  1835  and  6, my father, with
the Prophet's blessing, started again for preach
the Gospel in the Eastern  States, leaving his
family in the  enjoyment  of health  and  pros-
perity.  This was  the  first  mission he  took
alone; he  was  absent  nearly  five  months,
preached  much  and  baptized  thirty;  visited
many of his friends in  Vermont  and the State
of New  York.  This  mission, which  he gives
an account of, is very interesting but too lengthy
to publish in the  EXPONENT, however, I  will
copy a few incidents from it.  He  says, "June
13th I arrived  at  Sacketts  Harbor, where I
had the  pleasure  of  meeting  Brothers Luke
Johnson and Orson  Pratt,  who  were laboring
with all their might for the  cause of  God in
that region.  From that  place  I went on the
Steamer, "United States," to  Ogdensburg, St.
Lawrence County,  New  York,  and from
thence I passed on about  three miles from the
village, where I was stopped by a shower of rain,
which drew me into  the hense of  Mr. Chapin
for shelter, and after making known my calling
the people  desiring a  meeting, called in  their 
neighbors, where I preached  to  them for about
an hour;  many stayed  until midnight, and be-
fore I was up  the  next  morning they  called
upon me, requesting I should preach again that
day  in the  School House,  which I  did, and at
night   I was  again thronged  with  those who
were eager to hear.  The second morning they
likewise called on me and would not let me go
until they  knew the truth  of my testimony, for
by this time the country round was in  an up-
roar of excitement.  On the fourth morning I
was called out of  bed and  baptized  three. I
remained seven days preaching the Gospel of
the kingdom of heaven and  baptized  and  con-
firmed seven.  The promise  was  fulfilled  for
those who believed spoke  in tongues and  the
sick were healed;  a woman named  Davis had
been confined  to  her  bed for five years, not
able to  do anything  during  that time,  and
scarcely able to sit up, who was given up to die
by the doctors.  I baptized and confirmed her
a member of the Church, and at the same time
prayed for her and  rebuked the  disease and
commanded it to depart from her, in the name
of Jesus Christ;  she began  to amend from that
very hour and in less  than one  week she  was
performing her usual household duties, walked
into the streets and  attended meetings to the
astonishment of  the  people.  "Sister  Chapin
and others were also healed of their infirmities.
Sister Davis' husband was considered a staunch
universalist, he was convinced and baptized."
	From there  my  father  journeyed to Platts-
burgh where he stayed  all night;  from  thence
went in a steamer to St. Albans,  Vermont, and
visited  friends and  relatives in  Sheldon and
Bakersfield, and traveled through various parts
of  his  native  State.  He  says,  "I  visited
Wrights  tettlement  on the top of the Green
Mountain, where some were believing, preached
once to  eight or  nine bore testimony  to  the
truth of the Gospel.  I met  Elder Solon  Fos-
ter at Pottsdam-after an absence of about five
weeks I returned to Ogdensburg, met the breth-
ren whom I had baptized and they rejoiced at
my return.  When I got to the house of Broth-
er Heman Chapin, he was grinding his  scythe
and fixing his cradle to commence cutting his
wheat. I proposed to him if he would  furnish
me a  tow frock and pantaloons to put on, and
a rake, I would go into the field  and rake and
bind  all he  could cut,  he declared  there  was
no man living could do it;  says I  never mind
Brother Chapin, its nearly as easy for me to do
it as to say it.  The  next  morning  after  the
dew had passed off we went into the fied, com-
mencing at a peice of wheat which he said had
three  acres  in it - says I go  ahead  brother
Heman, we'll cut down this piece  before din-
ner-about the  time he  took  the  last clip of
the three acres I had it bound in a bundle be-
fore he had  hardly a  chance  to  look round,
and about  that time the  horn  blowed  to call
us to dinner.  We started back  to  his  house,
he never spoke or said one word to me, appear-
ing  rather  confounded.  The  next Sabbath 
such a  congregation  of hearers  I had never
seen in the United States for Priest an peo-
ple had come for twenty-five  miles distance to
see and hear that Mormon that had  performed
a thing that had never  before  been  done in
that country,  for  brother  Chapin  had  pro-
claimed this occurence unknown  to  me. I
tarried for several days in those regions preach-
ing  and  baptizing.  August  25th,  while we
were assembled for a meeting our  hearts  were
filled with joy at the arrival of  Joseph  Smith
Sen.,  the  Patriarch  and  his  brother  John
Smith  who were  on  a mission  to bless  the
churches  in  the  Eastern States.
	Monday 29th,  we ordained Levi Chapin a
Priest, and Oliver Simons  an  Elder  to  watch
over  the  Church;  Father  Joseph  Smith  and
John Smith left us, the  Church  having  made
contributions  at my request.  I then
went to Black Lake,  preached,  and  baptized
one;  then preached  at Pottsdam, and  baptized
another, I returned to  the  township  of  Oswe-
gatchie, called the Church together at Ogdens-
burgh  which numbered 25, and bid them fare-
well.  I left the Church rejoicing in the Lord,
and  many  around  believing  the  testimony.
From thence I pursued my  journey to Victor,
Ontario county where I met Vilate, my  wife,
who was visiting her  friends and connections,
and I tarried  a few  days  with  them.  From
thence  we  pursued  our  journey to  Buffalo.
Here a Magistrate came  forward and paid five
dollars  for our passage to  Fairport, a distance
of  180  miles.  The  passengers  were chiefly
Swiss Emigrants.  After  sitting  and hearing
them some time, the Spirit  of the  Lord  came
upom  me, and I was enabled to preach to them
in  their  own  language,  they  seemed much
pleased and treated us kindly.  We had a very
heavy gale while  going  up the Lake,  so that
almost every passenger  and some of the hands
were very sick; many were frightened and one
woman died, she being very feeble when  she
came  on board;  but we reached our destination
without  accident,  and  arrived  in  Kirtland
Oct. 2nd."
	The mention of my  mother's  last  visit  to
Victor, recalls many seenes of  my  childhood
and impressions which  still occupy  a pleasant
niche in my memory. My uncle Wiliam Mur-
ray and their  sister  Lucretia  Campbell  were
living  in  Victor,  she  had  but  one  son and
daughter who with herself and husband died
many years ago.  My parents  had  buried two
of their children  in Mendon  their first  child
was a daughter  named Judith  Mervin, who
died when  ten  months old the  second  was
William Henry - I being  the third child and
last  daughter  my  mother  ever  bore.  Her
fourth was Roswell Heber, who died when five
months old-this was previous to their hearing
of Mormonism-I can  distinctly remember the
little grave yard between Mendon and  Victor,
where they were buried, and also  of  our visit-
ing at my uncle  Gould Murray's in the city of
Rochester and  of  attending  Sunday  School.
My parents were then Baptists; in three weeks
after joining taht church their ears were salutedwith the Everlasting Gospel.
	The following little  incident  will  no  doubt
remind others  of their childish  enthusiasm as
well as mistakes  which underwent timely cor-
rections.
	One morning  while Uncle Brigham Young
and his two daughters were  living with us, the
oldest one and my brother  William  proposed
that  we four should  go  up to Victor to meet
Grandpa  and  wife, who  was sister to  Uncle
Brigham, as they were  that day  coming down
to Mendon on  their way to  Kirtland.  Little
Vilate and myself were sent  to ask  Ma's  per-
mission who took but little notice what we said


[Column 1]
only to tell us to "go along" or something which
we took for consent, and away we ran through
the deep woods so delighted at the prospects
before us, and the nice ride back with Grandpa
and Aunt Fanny that we did not stop even to
pick huckleberries, which were growing thickly
on either side of the path, when we came out
on the Victor side of the wood, who should we
meet but Grandpa and Aunt Fanny who seemed
to know we were there without permission, and
taking little Vilate, the youngest of us, into
their wagon we were ordered to turn round
and get home with all speed, which we did not
stop to hear repeated, although we were very
tired and hungry too, having walked three
miles, and it being a very warm day in sum-
mer. It was seven miles by the road and they
kmew that we could run back quicker than
they could ride with a loaded wagon.
	It was quite late in the day before we got
back and our folks were hunting for us. Lib-
bie was the eldest, but my brother had to bear
the blame and we were made to realize the ex-
tent of our wrong doing by the strong impres-
sions made upon his feelings by a kind mater-
nal hand. Soon after this our home was sold
and when we were ready to start for Kirtland,
to my father's great surprise some of his neigh-
bors issued attachments against his goods, al-
though they knew that he had paid all his
debts and there were some hundreds of dollars
due to him which he left uncollected, but he
settled all their unjust claims and sent his
goods up to Kirtland by way of Lake Erie.
This prevented us from starting until late in
the Fall of 1833. While we remained we
lived in the house of one of our neighbors;
while there I remember of a terrible thunder-
storm coming up and our parents telling us
we must sit quiet and not talk, for the Lord
was speaking. I was hardly five years old but
their words with the awful thunder and light-
ning made so strong an impression upon my
mind that I have always felt that we should
keep silent when the Lord was speaking,
	When my mother went East she was accom-
panied by brother Joseph Nobles who was ap-
pointed to go on a mission. My eldest brother
was left in charge of Grandfather Murray.
Sister Nobles having no children wished me to
be left with her. This was our first separation
and I could never quite believe that it was of
only three weeks duration for it seemed like an
age to me. Sister Nobles lived but a few steps
from my Grandfather, but when I returned
with her that night I cried myself to sleep
though she tried her best to soothe my grief,
but I refused to be comforted. The only thing
I heard which particularly impressed my mind
was when she said "Brother Nobles has gone
to stay a much longer time than your Ma and
I might cry too but you see I don't." The idea
of her comparing her loss to mine sounded so
absurd to me. I thought, well, neither would
I cry for him.
	I also remember the morning when her sweet
face peeped into the door, I was just kindling
the fire and how quickly I dropped the wood
and flew into her loving arms. They had re-
turned late the previous evening and she could
hardly wait till morning to see me.
	The first object that met my eye as we entered
the door of our own sweet home was my little
brother, who had been very sick and was re-
duced in flesh previous to taking the trip
standing with both hands full of something to
eat, my father had not yet risen but our meet-
ing was a joyful one. The wood fire was burn-
ing brightly on the andirous and our old fash-
ioned tin oven stood before it filled with sweet
apples and Aunt Fanny was preparing break-
fast.
	Although many years have passed, and the
grass has long grown over the graves of those
dear ones, yet the scene is still fresh in my
memory. The winter after they returned I

[Column 2]
was baptized by Uncle Brigham in the tribu-
tary of the Chagrin river, my father cutting a
place in the ice for that purpose, I had longed
for this privilege and though I had some dis-
tance to walk in my wet clothes I felt no cold
or inconvenience from it.
	During the Spring of 1836, I at-
tended a school kept by Sister E. R. Snow in a
house of the Prophet's adjoining his dwelling-
house where she was boarding. I remember
that the Book of Mormon was one of our school
books.
	I never knew Sister Eliza intimately until
after our expulsion from Nauvoo and we had
quartered for the winter in, what is now Flor-
ence, Iowa. There I made her acquaintance
under peculiar and trying circumstances. The
first time I remember of meeting her there she
was lying sick with a fever in a poorly covered
wagon, with the blazing sun beating down up-
on it. Many more were in a similar condition
and had no other shelter, until after the heavy
rains was on us and the nights had become cold
and frosty, which made matters still worse, but
in the midst of these trials, with trusting faith
in the Almighty the Saints were sustained and
comforted. His power was made manifest
many times to our perfect astonishment. Be-
fore starting from Winter Quarters Sister Eliza
was able to go around and administer to her
sisters in affliction. For many years she has
helped to comfort those who stood in need, and
in blessing she has been blessed. Many a time
have her words dropped like refreshing dews
from the heavens, like manna they have come
when most needed, reviving and giving new
hope to the weary and hungry soul. Our in-
timacy began the first winter after we came to
this valley, we were both invalids and though
we lived within half a block's distance of each
other, we were unable to walk it; but we could
communicate our thoughts and feelings by letter
which we often did, though paper like every
other commodity at that time was very scarce;
we never left any blank space. Her notes
contained many things which were to me as
precious treasures, which I have preserved
among other choice relics of the past.

To be Continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PLAIN TALK.

	DEAR SISTERS:—Being a reader of our
valuable paper, I desire to say a few words
through its columns, in behalf of the sisters
who labor in Zion.
	I ofttimes think it would be well if the
brethren would read our paper more than they
do, and become better acquainted with the
sisters’ feelings and desires, and perhaps we
could work to one another’s interest better
than we do now. It is true, the woman is the
weaker vessel, although I think she sometimes
carries the burden of the day and evening too.
Men, as a general rule, arise from fifteen to
twenty minutes earlier in the morning than
women some have chores to do, and some have
not, while the wife prepares beakfast. Then,
whed it is ready, the women serve the table
and wait upon the children; everything is
made easy, and then perhaps the wife is made
light of, because she has not eaten in seven or
ten minutes. Wife has not yet had a rest; table
cleared up, floors brushed, beds shook up, all
things in order, and wife is then ready for a
day's work. Hurries up with all her might,
for she knows the baby will wake soon, and
then the little dear must be tended; then, sure
enough, it is half past eleven. Baby, you
must go down, father is coming for his dinner.
Dear, oh my, no wood cut! Mother must skir-
mish around to get some wood to boil the tea-
kettle. She hurries all day, and evening comes
at last, but little impression made on the day's 
work. Then milk to skim, pans to wash, new


milk to strain, and so forth, a dozen other
things wanting to be done at once, Father,
will you tend the baby until I do some of my
chores? But, bless me! father can't read with
the baby, much less work all day with two or
three teasing and waiting to be waited upon.
	Well, mothers, if we are women, the world
cannot go on without us; so let us take courage
and try to take care of our bodies, that the
Lord has given us, and if we foolishly abuse
them, we will have to account for it. And
take care of our children, and not let them
run about so much, especially in the evening;
it is the very thing that destroys their bodies;
keep them at least one-half of the time at
home—and that is something that all don't do,
to my certain knowledge.
	Well, I will quit for this time. May the
Lord bless the fathers and mothers in Israel,
and help us to realize our duties that we owe
to one another, and the duties that we owe to
ourselves and te all mankind. Amen.
	Clifton, March 23, 1871.				D. K.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	HARPER'S Magazine for May will contain
an article on George Eliot, by an intimate
London friend, and also Mr. Conway's recol-
lections and cunversations with Thomas Car-
lyle.

	THE bill giving Municipal Suffrage to wo-
men was rejected on Tuesday, March 29, by
the Massachusetts House of Representatives,
the vote being 76 in its favor, and 122 against
it.—Ex.

	MISS Sarah Louise Byles, descendant of Dr.
Mather Byles, has lately presented to the
Massachusetts Historical Society the family
Bible of Rev. Increase Mather—a copy of the
Geneva Bible, printed in 1599—and contain-
ing the record, in the hands of Increase Ma-
ther, of his marriage and the births and bap-
tisms of his children.

	PROF. Camille Piton has introduced the
timely novelty of painting in oil photographic
likenesses on wooden palettes, as presents or
souvenirs. The photograph is saturated in
water, detached from its mounting, and then
applied to the wood. By skilfully painting it,
no trace of the application remains, and when
finished, the picture looks like an original
miniature.

	THE first election under the new Manx Re-
form Act took place yesterday, and the first
person to record a vote was a woman. There
were three members to be elected for one of the
sheadings, which includes the town of Ramsay
and three villages. Three cadidates were
nominated by "the Church and Wesleyan
party" and one by the Extreme Nonconform-
ists." The confederated candidates were re-
turned.—Manchester Guardian.

	WOMEN AT SCHOOL ELECTIONS.—Public
opinion in New England and the Middle States
is rapidly drifting into the belief that the active
participation of women in some of our public
affairs will not only be gratifying to them, but
beneficial to the community. The time has
passed when intelligent citizens are frightened
at the idea of women's meddling with public
questions. Their advice and assistance are
sought in the home circle and in the promotion
of religious, charitable and educational work,
and society is the better for their efforts and
their influence. We shall have better schools,
for the assistance of women in their active
management, and our politics will be cleaner,
and our politicians will be more respectable
and self-respecting, when women take an active
part in all public affairs, as we have no doubt
they will do in a few years.—Providence Press.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DEDICATION,

OF SISTER SARAH  M.  KIMBALL'S JUBILEE BOX.

Could I the curtain tear is way
That hides the future from to-day,
And look upon the reader's face,
Bent o'er the lines heron I trace,
How strange, perhaps, the group would be,
Who've come this treasure box to see.
And very few of us, I fear,
Who've placed these little tokens here,
Will meet with you upon that day.
Dear friends- we may be far away.
Should some be there, 'twill no be strange
If they have grown so very changed
That  you will wonder- is it true?
And was the portrait really you?
For fifty years will steal away
The face that we now wear to-day.
But if we do come, never mind-
A seat with the "old folks" we'll find.
If we  somewhat "old styled" appear,
In the advanced mental atmosphere,
Ah, let no slighting thought be cast.
Think of the scenes through which we've passed.

Believers, when Truth's  golden page
Proclaimed unto a darkened age
God's mandate, to observe his laws,
And give our lives unto his cause:
Throngh fifty years we've wrought, and still,
Give our glad service to his will.
This simile should be enough-
Foundation stones are sometimes rough.

Zion! may they next Jubilee
Thy Kingdom's power acknowledged see!
May thy fair Temples have a place
In every clime, in every race.
May olden deserts know again
Bright flowing streams and homes of men.
May the oppressed find sweet release,
And warfare end in lasting peace.

To our successors, we bestow
These little tokens, may you grow
Faithful and fearless in the Right
The Gospel be your guide and light.
May you accomplish all that we
Now in our holy calling see.
And may we too be with you there
Aion's next Jubilee to share.
		AUGUSTA JOYE CROCHERON.
Salt Lake City, March 30, 1881.


LIVE FOR A PURPOSE.

"I would not waste my spring of youth
In idle dalliance. I would plant rich seeds,
To blossom in my manhood, and bear fruit
When I am old."

 We are living in a wonderful era, a most
eventful time. Are the young men and women
of to-day making the most of the opportunities
of their existence here upon the earth in this
age of Gospel light, mental achievements and
scientific discoveries? Are they carving out
a noble name in living characters that will
endure, laying the foundation of a destiny
which shall prove the ultimatum of human
effort with the blessing of God upon its highest
and holiest endeavors? How grand and how
boundless are the possibilities of the future,
which lies before those who are just entering
upon the arena of action. How potent for good
in the hands of young men and women might
be the intelligence, which flows through the
channel of the holy priesthood to those born
in the new and everlasting covenant, if they
exercised the privilleges allotted to them and 
combined humility with knowledge. 
 But how is this blessing to be obtained?
We say the heavens are ready to pour out in-
numberable blessings upon the youth of Zion.
Yes but does the harvest ripen even though
good seed were sown and "God gives the in-
crease" where no careful husbandman has
watered and tended the soil, rooting out every
obnoxious weed, that would hinder the growth
and development of the grain? Does not the

[Column 2]
human heart and mind require as much atten-
tion in its culture as the seed that is sown in
the earth, that it may bear rich fruit intellect-
ual, moral and spiritual? Ay, yes, even more,
for the finer the texture and higher the quality
of any material or element the more assiduous
and constant must be the endeavor to preserve
it from evil or adverse influences in order to
bring it to the utmost perfection. 
   Parents who desire the greatest good for
their offspring lay the foundation in early
youth, and when they are older it is the duty
each one individually owes to himself and his
Maker to work out his own destiny, to set his
mark high, to bring his best efforts to bear upon
the success of his resolves for usefulness in the
path he has chosen for his career upon earth.
Each one should ask himself, or herself, if with-
in the heart the foundation is laid in strength
and sincerity for that which is desirable to at-
tain, the one purpose of a life-time. Much, 
everything we may say, depends upon beginning
right, otherwise one must eventually go over
the ground again and it is always more difficult
to root up and destroy that which has been
thoroughly impregnated in the native soil and
plant anew, than to cultivate the spontaneous
growth. 
 How essential then that the best and truest
principles be first, this being done, let the
cultivation be thorough, and how satisfactory
must be the result. If the principles of our
lives are vital they will bear exceeding rich
fruit, if they bear no fruit then they are not
vital, they are superficial and worthless. The
object of our being here upon the earth is for
a purpose; through the spiritual taining we re-
ceive, we comprehend more fully the glorious
destiny marked out for the Saint of God, and
the way by which one may attain to that pos-
sible exaltation. 
 It is indeed a melancholy picture to contem-
plate that of a young person with all the cap-
abilities of usefulness, even greatness in the
soul, with the intelligence of heaven ready to
burst forth upon them, weary of life longing for
excitement, seeking to plunge into the whirlpool
of worldliness to drown thought, to forget
duty and responsibility, and to elude the
viligance of the monitor within which is always
prompting and urging one to resist temptation.
 If one would have his name honored, his
virtuous actions and life recorded in the book
of remembrance, then let such a one decide
to make the most of his life and aim for a fixed
purpose with a view and determination daunt-
less enough to ensure at least moderate success.
This can never be done through a blind selfish-
ness; one must be keenly alive to the calls of 
humanity, the obligations of his fellows and the
universal brotherhood, "one touch of which
makes all the world akin." I am aware many
will say, they are hedged about with difficulties,
obstacles are continually springing up, and
even the roses are thickly set with thorns and
briers, and the path our Savior trod grows dark
and gloomy, and hope the anchor of the soul is
weary with long waiting, and crushed with
cruel disappointment, and faith has scarce sur-
vived even the short voyage upon the journey
of life. But stop! spiritual faith the germ of
sublimity of resolve must overpower all these
difficulties or it is not genuine. 
 Young men and young women, you who are
living in this golden age, this age of refine-
ment and culture, look well to yourselves; you
want more religion in your lives, every-day re-
ligion, that which will bear you up under trials, 
support you in every difficulty, and give you
that sweet charity which will help you to for-
give even as you wish to be forgiven, and bring
you into closer proximity to each other and
nearer to Him, who is the fount of all excel-
lence. The realities of life are upon you and you
need in connection with these practical religion
and a thrilling sense of its truth, which shall
enter into every fibre of your being making
you conscious of the power which holds the
destinies of nations in its grasp. Begin now
while all  your faculties are fresh and your
ability to do good, to gain name and fame is 
at its zenith of strengh and power. As Latter-
day Spints you have always one purpose in
view that supercedes all others, and that is
salvation, which involves a lifetime of energetic
action in a legitimate field of labor. It is not
one grand or heroic sacrifice that is going to
do the work for  you, but daily and hourly un-
ceasing efforts to live in harmony with God's 
laws will eventually enable one to overcome and
attain a larger faith in himself, greater courage
for the future and renewed zeal in the path
which leads to a sure and safe haven beyond.
The price of lofty attainment in everything
which lifts mankind, is diligence and earnest-
ness in its pursuit. You want the knowledge
that reaches into immortality; then you must
consecrate your life to the labor of progression. 
AUNT EM.


ANOTHER SURPRISE.

	March 25, 1881, being the anniversary of
Sister Orpah Everetts birthday, Sister Emme-
line Windsor organized a small party to give
her a surprise, and a surprise it was both to
her and to ourselves, for she was totally un-
suspicious of our intentions, and unprepared,
and we heard so many good speeches, and re-
ceived more blessings, by the spirit of the Lord,
being poured out, than we had thought of.
We resolved ourselves into a meeting, opening
with prayer, and singing, then followed speak-
ing, reading a few verses by E. B. Spencer,
then speaking again. Sister Ruth Tyler proph-
esied "Not one that is here will apostatize."
What a blessing! Brother Windsor gave an
account of his conversation with President
Young, at Windsor Castle. He had been re-
leased from the ranch, and desired to know
where to go, was told the next morning he
should know; was blessed by President Young
which blessing has since been repeated almost
word for word by Patriarch Perkins. The
next morning was told to "go to St. George and
work in the Temple for nothing, and board
himself," which he has done. No secular labor
gave him half the enjoyment that baptizing his
thousands has done.
	One after another the brethren and sisters
rose and spoke. Some giving life-history, some
bearing testimony, some offering congratula-
tions to Sister Everett. Our well known
school teacher aged 67: and Aunt Dicy, who is
84 at the close of the meeting spoke to us in
the gift of tongues, which thrilled us through
and through. The interpretation was given,
and the parting good bye said. We wended
our way homeward, leaving Sister Everett the
possessor of a nice cake presented by Sister L.
Vance and a beautiful pair of vases. that Bro-
ther Pymm had sent, as a token of his esteem;
as her friend and the teacher of his children.
	EMILY B. SPENCER.


MRS.  JAMES  A. GARFIELD.

	The wife of the  twentieth President of  the
United  States  is a daughter  of  a  Maryland
farmer, Zebulon  Rudolph,  whose  uncle, tradi-
tion says, fought in the Revolution, and, going
to France, espoused the cause  Napoleon and
became Marshal  of  France,  the  gallant  and
unfortunate  Ney. * * *  She  is
fond of  housekeeping, affectionate, yet decided
in her rules of household government, and with-
al a well-balanced, sensible and interesting
woman.  She enters the White House with the
good wishes of the whole  country, and there is
no reason to doubt that she will make the Ex-
ecutive Mansion  a home  as well as a  palace,
and  inculcate in  the  private as well as the
public virtues which should adorn it.- Boston
Jaurnal.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
======================================
THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
========================
EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor.
========================
 Published semi-monthly, in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00  Ten  copies  for  the  price  of  nine.  Advertising
rates:  Each square,  ten  lines  of  nonparell  space, one
time, $2.50; per  month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office,  Lower  West  Room of  the Council
House, South  Temple  Street.  Business  hours  from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
				SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.
=====================================
SALT LAKE CITY, 	-  		APRIL 15, 1881.


GENERAL CONFERENCE.
			--------
	The fifty-first  Annual  Conference  of  the
Church of Jesus  Christ  of Latter-day Saints,
was held  in the large  Tabernacle in this  city,
and continued its session four days.  Commenc-
ing  Sunday  morning  April  3d,  and  closing
Wednesday  afternoon  April  6.  The  regular
business of the  Conference  was  transacted on
the last day.  It is said to have been the largest
Spring Conference  ever  assembled, and  was a
season of spiritual refreshing long  to be  remem-
bered.  There were present of presiding  author-
ities of the Church, Pres. John Taylor,  Counsel-
ors George  Q.  Cannon  and  Joseph F.  Smith,
Apostles, Wilford  Woodruff, (Orson Pratt  came
in the first afternoon  for a short time)  Lorenzo
Snow,  Erastus  Snow,  Franklin  D. Richards,
Brigham Young, F. M. Lyman and John Henry
Smith, Counselor  D. H.  Wells,  and  Patriarch
John Smith, Bishop Edward Hunter and Coun-
selors.  Presidents of Stakes from  different parts
of the Territory,  Bishops,  Elders,  &c.--women
and  children a  mighty  concourse  of people,
gathered to receive instruction and counsel from
the servants of  God, and to  partake of the  in-
fluence of the Holy  Spirit  vouchsafed to  every
humble heart in  worshipping "Our Father" in
spirit and in truth.
 Some Elders were called to go  upon  missions
to the British Isles and Scandinavia and a few to
different parts of the United States.  The preach-
ing altogether was very instructive, and  calcul-
ated to educate the  people in  the  duties  which
pertain to every-day life and also spiritual salva-
tion and exaltation.  On  Wednesday  afternoon
family  government  and  home  life  was  ably
treated upon by Pres. Joseph F. Smith and must
have appealed to the heart of every person who is 
desirous  of  promoting  the  happiness  and  best
welfare of the inhabitants  of Zion.  We  must
begin with small things, the little details which
make  up  the  great  sum  of  human  existence.
Pres. Taylor dwelt upon  generalities  temporal
and spiritual, and blest the  people in the  name
of the Lord.  The organ  and  choir  discoursed
sweet music  during  the Conference, but  at the
close of the last day the  congregation  standing
upon  their  feet  joined  the Choir  in  singing.
"The Spirit  of God   like  a fire  is burning" and
the grand assembly seemed  to be filled with the
power of the Holy Ghost.  Benediction  by Pres.
George  Q.  Cannon,  and  Conference  was ad-
journed until  the 6 of  October  next 10 o'clock
A.  M.


[Column 1]
HOME AFFAIRS.

	PEN Sketch, Living Links and Jesse Burns are
laid over until next issue.

	THERE are a large number of Primary Hymn
Books, and Tune Books to accompany them,

[Column 2]
now ready, sufficient to supply the Territory.
They have been prepared by Sister E. R. Snow,
and published at the lowest prices possible, so
that every child may have one of its own.

	SISTER C. Llijenquist, of Hyrum, sent at Con-
ference time a specimen of cocoons to this office,
which are the largest we have ever seen. The
good sisters of Hyrum are determined to perse-
vere in silk culture, though they have labored
under great disadvantages in many ways.
	
	MRS. Lousiana Heppler has authority to act as
our agent in Glenwood, Monroe, Annabella, Elsi-
nor, Salina, Invernary, Joseph and Redmond,
in Sevier County. Slaterville, Lynne and Mar
[---]sville. Mrs. Mary E. Lightner has been ap-
pointed to act as agent for Minersville.
	
	WE acknowledge with sincere thanks a pretty
little scroll of ornamental paper work by Mrs.
Thomena Sorenson. The whole is cut out with
scissors without patterns. She has made some
very handsome memoiral cards for those whose
loved ones have passed behind the veil. She is
a poor sister and would be thankful for patron-
age.
	IT is a matter of regret that at the last Con-
ference there were no reports from the Young
Ladies Associations of the Territory. The Stake
Secrataries failed in sending in half yearly re-
ports to the central organization as had been re-
quested. There were only two received Davis,
and Weber. Consequently no sort of
showing could be made.

	SEMI-MONTHLY General Retrenchment Meet-
ing in the 14th Ward, Saturday, April 9, was
well attended, considering the unpleasant
weather. Coun. B. W. Smith presided. It
would be well for the sisters from the country
settlements, as well as those who reside in the
city, to make a practice of attending these meet-
ings, as much good advice is given in regard to
the practical workings of women's organizations,
and the duties of women in disciplining them-
selves and their children. The best thoughts
of the sisters are brought forward for the ex-
pression of views and opinions, and consequently
light is thrown upon many principles of living
not perfectly understood. These meetings are a
good school for the development of intelligence.

	A PARTY of thirty ladies, occupying eight car-
riages, met Sisters Eliza R. Snow Smith and
Zina D. Young at the depot, on their return
from St. George, March 31, and escorted them to
the Lion House, where a delicious repast was
arranged; and suspended on the wall of the din-
ing room was the motto, "Welcome Home," the
words artistically interwoven with the most ex-
quisite flowers of the season, embedded in moss.
Two poems by Mrs. A. J. Crocheron and ad-
dresses by Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson and Mary A.
Freeze,in honor of the arrival of these two distin-
guished ladies, were read during the evening.
Sisters Eliza and Zina responded in a happy
manner. A closing prayer was offered by Sister
Presendia L. Kimball,and the company dispersed
at nine o'clock.

	THE Home Dramatic Club played very suc-
cessfully during Conference two very attractive
pieces, "Pique" and "Rosedale." These ama-
teurs are improving very greatly, and becoming
quite popular in their respective character act-
ing. On the 20th inst. they will appear in "Di-
vorce," something more difficult than the Club
has attempted before. This is said to be a very
charming drama, giving one a good idea of mod-
ern society As people must have recreation,
the theatre should be made attractive in the de-
lineation of the various phases of human char-
acter, customs and habits of life. Virtue held

[Column 3]
up as the perfection of character, and vice ex-
posed, though practised in its most intricate and
fascinating forms. In short, the stage holds up
the mirror to life, and shows us, as nothing else
does or can, what is going on around us.

	THE Jubilee Box, which has been prepared by
Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, to be sealed up for fifty
years, is now about ready to be deposited. It
contains contributions from eighty-one persons,
and weighs eight pounds. We publish in this
issue the dedication poem, which will give our
readers a very good idea of the affair. A tin
box is enclosed in one made of wood, and be-
tween the two is placed a list of the contribu-
tions, also a letter, addressed to the prospective
President and Secretary of the Central Board of
Relief Society, asking them to make a similar
deposit for the year 1980, and further expressing
a wish that the custom may be continued from
generation to generation through all time. The
articles are biographical, historical, genealogical,
with some letters of advice and a few poems.
Mrs. Kimball says but little interest was mani-
fested in the box until very recently, and she
had then some cause to regret its not being 
larger.

	A FEW of the personal friends of Dr. Ellen B.
Ferguson met at her residence Monday, April
11, to celebrate her birthday and acknowledge
their appreciation and esteem for one who is la-
boring earnestly in the cultivation of music and
painting among our young people, as well as
ministering in her profession as physician and
surgeon to all classes of society when called
upon. Sisters Eliza R. Snow Smith, Presendia
L. Kimball, M. A. E. Watmough, each expressed
her good wishes and love in a short speech, as
well as several others, both brethren and sisters.
Dr. R. B. Pratt read a very well written and ap-
propriate address, and Mrs. Lizzie Felt sang
"Grandfather's Clock," the company joining in
the chorus. Following this, Mrs. Ferguson was
presented with a handsome little clock. The
party was a pleasant one, the supper was deli-
cious, and all agreed the evening had been a
most enjoyable one. The lady in whose honor
it was given, although very much surprised,
collected herself sufficiently to say a few words
in response to her friends just before they dis-
persed.

	"AUTOBIOGRAPHY and poems by Hannah
Cornaby," is the title of a new book of 158 pages,
just from the press, published by J. C. Graham
& Co, of this city. The typographical work is
very creditable and the binding good. It is a
suitable work to put into the hands of the peo-
ple, calculated to inspire faith and promote vir-
tue and truth, and strengthen hope in the fu-
ture, both here and hereafter. The story of her
life is told in an easy, unpretentious, yet charm-
ing style, and when one commences to read, it is
difficult to leave off until the history is finished.
Many of the stanzas have been addressed to in-
dividuals on personal subjects, yet are applicable
to others under similar circumstances. The
writer is an invalid, who has passed much of her
later life in the sick room, and there is a wealth
of tenderness in her writings, a gentleness in
the style that is specially touching, and leaves a
sweet impression of the author's earnestness
and candor. It is a work calculated to do good.
Price, neatly bound in cloth, $1.00; handsomely
bound in leather, gilt edged, &c., $2.50. For sale
at this office and Deseret News.


EDITORIAL  NOTES.

 COMPLIMENT TO WOMEN.--In Vermont nearly
one-fourth  of all the  towns have elected women
for School Superintendents.


MRS.  Laura G. Fixen,  the "Little Dane," ad-
dressed  the Senate  and  Assembly of Wisconsin
Feb. 23, on the  constitutional amendment ques-
tion.  She was warmly received  and  loudly ap-
plauded.  Her  speech occupied the entire after-
noon.

	IN Colorado, the  first  Monday in May will be
election day in all  the  school districts.  All wo-
men twenty-one years of age, having resided in
the district  thirty days, and six  months in the 
State, not  prisoners, or insane, etc., will be per-
mitted  to  vote  on  all  questions  pertaining to 
schools, taxation  of  property,  improvement  of
school buildings, or  other  educational  interests
on which men vote.  Women may also hold any
office  voted  upon  at  such  elections.  Good for
Colorado.
 THE  President, Counselors, and  Secretary of
the Central Board of  Y.  L.  M. I. A. are  very
anxious to  get  complete reports from Stake Sec-
retaries, in order to record them, and also report
them.  In  October, November, and December,
1880, reports  were  received  from  Bear Lake,
Weber and  Box  Elder  Stakes.  These Stakes
will only need now to make half-yearly reports.
It is  earnestly desired  that all  organized  Stakes
send in  semi-annual reports in good time for the
October  Conference;  also  that  all  Stakes  that
have not reported from date of organization, send
in at the earliest date reports to March 1, 1881.

 TELEGRAMS  just  received announce that sev-
eral  prominent ladies  in  Washington society ap-
peal  to the people of the United States  in behalf
of the sufferers from the disastrous earthquakes,
which  have  been  so  destructive  of  late  in the
island of  Chio, which  is  situated  in the Greek
Archipelago.  These ladies urge upon the pastors
of  all  the  churches,  Catholic,  Protestant and
Hebrew, to take up  collections  in  their congre-
gations  at the  earliest practicable moment that
the rich and the poor  may have the opportunity
of contributing to  the  relief of the fainting suf-
ferers.  Riggs   &   Co.,  Washington,  will  receive
all monies collected.

OBITUARY.

 Sister Maria Normington, wife of Bishop John
Parker died at Virgen City, Kane Co., March 19,
of jaundice,after an illness of four months,during
which time  she had two  paralytic strokes, the
first in her left  arm  five  weeks, the  other the
whole of her left side five days before her death.
She was born at Burnley,  Lancashire, England,
Dec. 25th, 1820.  Embraced  the  Gospel in  the
year 1839, emigrated with her family in the last
hand-cart company in 1856, buried  her husband
and two children on  the  plains,  and  suffered
much herself.  Was married  to John  Parker in
1857, in Salt Lake  City;  moved  to  Virgen  City
in 1863, was a teacher in  the  Relief  Society for
two years;  was a faithful  Latter-day Saint, ever
ready to  bear her testimony to the  truth  of the
latter-day work and gave good counsel to all her
associates. She quietly went to sleep in the hope
of a glorious ressurrection.
						A. ISOM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


AMANDA SMITH.

	[CONTINUED.]
	
	They feared, if men, women and children
were in one place, the mob would rush upon
them and kill them all together. The mob fired
before the women had time to start from the
camp. "The men took off their hats and swung
them and cried for quarter, until they were shot
down; the mob paid no attention to their cries
nor their entreaties, but fired alternately. I took
my little girls (my boys I could not find) and ran
for the woods. The mob encircled us on all
sides, excepting the bank of the creek, so I ran
down the bank and crossed the mill pond on a


plank, ran up the hill on the other side into the
bushes; the bullets whistled by me like hail-
stories, and cut down the bushes on all sides of
me. One girl was wounded by my side, and
she fell over a log, and her clothes happened to
hang over the log in sight of the mob, and the
mob fired at them, supposing that it was her
body, and after all was still our people cut out of
that log twenty bullets.” I witnessed that aw-
ful scene, which can never, no never, be erased
from my memory while I live upon the earth; I
can shut my eyes at any time and see it all over
again. The shock to my nervous system no lan-
guage can define.”
	“When the mob had done firing they began to
howl, and one would have thought a horde of
the infernals had escaped from the lower regions.
They plundered our goods, what we had left,
they took possession of our horses and wagons,
and drove away, howling like so many demons.
After they had gone I came down to behold the
awful scene of slaughter, and oh! oh!! what a hor-
rible sight! My husband and one of my sons,
tem-years old, lay lifeless upon the ground, and
another son, six years old, wounded and bleed-
ing, his hip all shot to pieces; and the ground
all around covered with the dead and dying.
There were three little boys had crept under the
blacksmith’s bellows; one of them received three
wounds; he lived three weeks, suffering all the
time incessantly, and at last died. He was not
mine, the other two were mine. One of whom
had his brains all shot out, the other his hip shot
to pieces.” This last was Alma Smith, who
lives at Coalville, and who still carries the bul-
lets of the mob in his body, but was healed by
the power of God through the careful nursing
and earnest faith of his mother. “My husband
was nearly stript of his clothes before he was
quite dead; he had on a new pair of calf-skin
boots, and they were taken off him by one whom
they designated Bill Mann, who afterward made
his brags that he ‘pulled a d—d Mormon’s boots
off his feet while he was kicking.’ Realize, my
reader, if you can for one moment, the dreadful
scene—nothing but horror and distress. It was
at sunset when the mob left and we crawled
back to see and comprehend the extent of our
misery. The very dogs seemed filled with rage,
howling over their dead masters, and the cattle
caught the scent of innocent blood, and bellowed.
A dozen helpless widows grieving for the loss of
their husbands, and thirty or forty orphaned, or
fatherless, children were screaming and crying
for their fathers who lay cold and insensible
around them. The groans of the wounded and
dying rent the air. All this combined was
enough to melt the heart of anything but a Mis-
souri mobocrat. There were fifteen killed and
ten wounded, two of whom died the next day."
This is only an item of the terrible tragedy known
as the battle of Haun’s Mill. There were not
men enough left to bury the dead, and they were
thrown into an old well that was dry, and cov-
ered with straw and dirt.
	My good friends who read this awful recital,
can you, do you wonder that the children born
about the time of these fearful mobbings and
drivings, should be imbued with a spirit of
avenging the wrongs perpetrated upon these in-
nocent, harmless immigrants? I think not. It
is these and similar persecutions of adding insult
to injury, that have made the Latter-day Saints
feel so indignant when, after leaving the civil-
ized regions, they are again pursued by their
enemies
	To be continued.


CORRESPONDENCE.

ST. GEORGE March, 28, 1881.
DEAR  EDITOR:  Our  Conference  is  over,  and
we  have  bid  adieu  to  our  beloved  and hon-
ord Sister E. R. S.  Smith  and  Sister  Zina D.
Young; but  although  they  have  left  us,  their 
visit will long remain  in our memories as some-
thing pleasant to  think  of,  for the  comfort and
blessings they  have imparted  and  good  work
they have done.
 It was our  coldest  part of winter  when they
arrived, and  after  resting  a  short  time,  and
working in the  Temple,  they in company with
our  esteemed  President,  Minerva  W. Snow,
started out to visit the settlements of this Stake,
facing  cold  and  storm.  Self  seemed  to  be a
secondary consideration with these truly women
of God,  filled with all humility and kindness.
	And the little  children have  seen and talked
with Sister Eliza,  whose songs they have sung so
long in Sunday School.  Now  she has organized
them into Primaries and they have meetings of


their very own,  the  good  results of  which  are
already manifest.
	I must not omit to mention also Sister Rachel
Grant and  Sister  Libby  Townsend, who  spent
part of the  winter here, and with whom we en-
joyed some most  agreeable   Associations.  We
are pleased to have our  friends  from the  North
visit us, it does us good, and we hope that as the
Rail Road  comes  nearer (so  that  they do  not
have "the horrid roads" to travel) that more will
come.  It is a delightful climate in winter,there
being  scarcely  a day  but   the  atmosphere  is
sunny and bright.   I am  sure Italy's  skies can-
not boast of a more beautiful blue.  It now looks
like a posey garden, all  the  fruit trees  being  in
bloom, and  asparagrus  and   pie plant has  been
ready for the table for more than a  week.
	I have been very sick, but through  the bless-
ings of  my  Heavenly   Father  and  faith  and
prayers in  my  behalf,  am thankful to say  I am
gaining strength,  and  hope soon   to be able  to
resume my every day duties.
	With  kind  love and  good  wishes  for your
success I remain your Sister in the Gospel,
	ELIZABETH P. BENTLY, Cor. Sec'y R. S.


OUR SPIRITUAL SURROUNDINGS.

 That we  are more or less influenced by spirit-
ual powers, either  good  or bad, scarcely any one
will deny.  That Satan and his host are seeking
whom  they may destroy we  learn  from the Bi-
ble.  And this is done by them influencing per-
sons  to do wrong, hence it is  by our own acts we
are  condemned.  We  read  of Mary Magdalene
being  possessed of seven devils, and of evil spir-
its  being  cast  out  of  many  others.  Then  we
each have  our  guardian  angels  to watch and
protect us, and these, P. P. Pratt says, "are our
kindred- our fathers  who  have  died and risen
again in former ages." Angels  are  sometimes
resurrected beings,  persons  who once  lived on
this earth, but have passed to the higher spheres.
Spirits  are  persons who have  died  and not  yet
been  resurrected,  or  received  their  immortal
bodies.  History informs us that both have often
returned to earth and made themselves known
to many people.  From  the  Bible we learn that
angels appeared to Abraham, Lot, Hagar, Jacob,
Balaam,  Elijah, Joshua,  Daniel  and  others, and
many angel  visits  are  recorded in the New Tes-
tament,  to  Zachariah,  St.  Peter,  Joseph  and
Mary and St. John, and in the Book of Mormon
we read of angels appearing  to Alma, Amulek,
Nephi and Lehi, and in this age messengers have
appeared  openly  to  Joseph  Smith, Oliver  Cow-
dery, David Whitmer and Martin Harris.  These
messengers  had  some  important  business  to
transact, or  message  to  deliver.  The  Book  of
Mormon says one of the gifts of God is "the be-
holding of angels and ministering spirits."  The
Bible  tells us one  of the gifts is the discerning
of spirits.  From Wilford Woodruff, through the
Deseret News, we  learn  that  he  has, in dreams
that  seemed  almost  real,  seen  and  conversed
with Joseph Smith many times since his death,
and that  last winter  he "had  many such inter-
views with President Young, Heber C. Kimball,
George A. Smith, Jedediah M. Grant, and many
other" who  were  dead.  P. P. Pratt  speaks in
some of his writings of  receiving a visit while in
prison from  his  dead  wife.  How often  do  we
feel  at  times  an unseen assistance, some power
enlightening our minds and making things clear
to  our  understanding, and  assisting us in some-
thing we are doing, when, should we  try to ac-
complish  the  same  object  at another time, un-
aided,  we  would  make  a  comparative  failure.
That  such  is  rendered  may be  proved  by the
following:  "And  it  came  to pass, when Joshua
was by  Jericho, that he  lifted up  his  eyes  and
looked,  and  behold,  there  stood  a  man  over
against him with his sword drawn  in  his  hand,
and Joshua went unto him, and said  unto him,
Art thou for us, or for our adversaries?  And he
said, Nay;  but  as  captain  of  the  host  of  the
Lord am I now come;"  and  it  was certainly by
no mortal  power that  the "wall (of Jericho) fell
flat."
	It may be  argued that it is only on important
occasions that such power is displayed, but many
incidents  have been  related  of  persons  being
saved  from  accident by some peculiar supernat-
ural  impression  of the mind. It was  a  spirit
that  stood before the Lord and said he would be
a  lying  spirit  in  the mouth  of all Ahab's pro-
phets. and so persuade him to go to battle, which
evil terminated  his  life, yet  the  circumstance
seemed  brought  about  in  a  perfectly  natural
way, as though no unseen power was controlling.
	Again, We  read  in the second book of Kings,
about  Elisha  the  Prophet  warning the King of


Israel  against  the  Syrians, and the King of the
Syrians  sent a great  host  to  Dotham  to fetch
him, and  they compassed  the  city.  When the
servant of the prophet saw them he asked him,
"How shall we do?"  And  he  answered, "Fear
not; for they that be with us are more than they
that be with  them."  And  Elisha  prayed  the
Lord to open his servant's  eyes, which He did,
and the young man saw "the mountain was full
of horses and chariots of fire round about Elisha;"
thus we see he was protected by spiritual power,
which could not, without supreme assistance, be
viewed by mortal eyes.
	Another instance  is recorded  in  Isaiah, 37th
chap.,  36th  verse.  "Then the angel of the Lord
went forth, and smote in the camp of tthe Assyr-
ians a hundred and four score and five thousand; 
and when  they arose  early in the  morning, be-
hold, they were all dead corpses."
	Possessing the same priesthood held  by these
ancient prophets, we are entitled to and enjoy
the "beholding  (and  protection)  of angels  and
ministering  spirits.  The following  is from  the
history of Joseph Smith in  the Millennial Star,
