VOL. 9.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 15, 1881.	No. 18.


[Column 1]
OUR HOPES ARE IN THEE.

A SONG IN THE NIGHT.

So long is the night, and the tempest is fearful;
	The landscape is covered with winter's own pall;
Ah! is it the earth, that so blooming and cheerful,
	In the spring, in the summer, enlivened us all?
Oh, yes, 'tis the same, though bereft of its brightness—
	Though the darkness hath jealously covered its face—
Yet the sun in the morning shall smile on its whiteness,
	And spring shall restore to it beauty and grace.
And lo! in the clouds is a star brightly gleaming,
	Its ray through the darkness is cheering to see;
Look upward for light! is its infinite seeming—
	It tells us, O Father, our hopes are in Thee!

So long is the night, Lord, vouchsafe me this, only
	E'en the spirit of song, as to David of old;
"My soul is cast down, 'tis disquieted," surely
	Thou wilt not this blessing, this comfort withold;
For the gloom of adversity gathers around me,
	And Thou art my star, shining forth through the cloud;
If I seek not thy Spirit, Thy peace, to surround me,
	The blackness of night doth my being enshroud.
Put a song in my mouth, let me sing of Thy glory,
	Of Thy mercy, that many may comforted be;
And behold, mine own pathway 'twill brighten before
		me,
	And thus I shall know I'm accepted of Thee.
'Tis even to-night that I truly desire Thee,
	I am patiently waiting Thy kindness to prove,
"Tis the living, O Lord, 'tis the living must praise Thee,
	The dead cannot sing of Thy mercy and love!"
Thy light in the darkness my spirit would see,
	And thus would I sing that our hopes are in Thee!

Do I doubt Thee, my Father? Ah, no; but the spirit
	Of man is depressed, by the body so frail;
Oft, while Hope is exultant, lo! Darkness is present,
	And because of our weakness, Despair would prevail;
But e'en "as a Father, his children doth pity,"
	Thou dost amply allow for mortality's cares;
Thou seest Thy children in hamlet or city,
	And hearest in kindness their wants and their prayers,
Thought each soul's but a speck on life's limitless ocean,
	A drop in humanity's measureless tide;
Yet Thou knowest our thoughts, yea, our every emotion,
	And all who will seek Thee can make Thee their guide.
Great Father! Thy bounty unbounded must be,
	And because of Thy mercies, our hopes are in Thee.

And oh! what is man, that Thou thus should'st regard
		us?
	Oh, what are we, Lord, that Thou even should'st deign
To hear our petitions, to guide us, to guard us,
	To soothe us in sorrow, to help us in pain?
In the dust, at Thy feet, will I even adore Thee,
	My Father, my Father! "the Gnide of my youth!"
Though I stumble and stray, yet Thou still dost restore
		me,
	Dost give me to drink from the fountains of Truth;
Oh, give it me always, whate'er, Thou withholdest,
	Vouchsafe me "the Bread and the Waters of Life."
By the strength of Thine arm still support and enfold
		us,
	And calm we shall be in a tempest of strife;
The soul Thou sustainest to fear is a stranger;
	Yea, Death he can face, on the land and the sea.
Thou art watchful to shield us in darkness and danger,
	When Thou knowest, O Father, our hopes are in Thee!

Ah! what, tho' the honest are grieved in their spirit?
	Ah! what, tho' the trusting are tried from their youth?
Ah! what, tho' it seems they are born to inherit
	Misfortune? 'Twill yet be their triumph in truth.
Though e'en the affections we purely have cherished
	Are crushed, like the roses whose breath we distill,
And the hopes we have fostered, that yet they might
		flourish,
	Pride bids us uproot, by an effort of will;
Though "the billows" encompass us, fiercer by far
	Than e'er seemed the ocean when lashed into foam,
Shall we passively drift to the "gulf of despair?"

[Column 2]
	Or think that the Lord has forgotten his own?
Necessity urges man's bravest endeavor,
	As strengthened by sorrow should sympathy be;
Though buffeted sorely, we know they are never
	Forsaken, O Father, whose hopes are in Thee!
'Mid Sinia's thunders, O Lord, Thou didst tell us
	Thy children should worship and serve Thee alone;
Because of Thine honor, Thou even art jealous—
	The gods we would cling to are surely o'erthrown.
Oh, "cease ye from man," in our ears it is ringing,
	"Whose breath is as naught," who must fallible be;
Our soul's, in thy providence, Lord, Thou art bringing,
	To worship 'Thee only, to lean but on Thee.
Adversity's storms all the weakness discloses
	Of the structures that mortals uprear on the sand;
And foolish is he who his whole trust reposes
	In man, for the tempest he cannot withstand;
Thou art teaching us, Father, tho' mighty men be,
Thou art mightier still, that our hopes are in Thee!
While we "render to Cesar" his due, need we e'er
	Kneel down to a mortal in place of our God?
'Tis oppression, or pride, that presumes or will dare
	To humble his fellow, e'en down to the sod.
Power, invested in man, will at times breed abuses,
	And the triumph of Darkness these help to complete;
For Satan is subtle, and glad of excuses
	To ensnare us, to try us, "to sift us as wheat."
Though, even as children, we stoop for salvation,
	And are "buried with Christ" all our sins to efface,
Yet, as "righteousness surely exalteth a nation,"
	"The TRUTH" MUST uplift us, it CANNOT DEEASE.
To all, thus obedient, God giveth His Spirit,
	And who shall its light or their conscience defy?
Though the actions of mortals some censure should
		merit,
	To blacken the truth is it honest to try?
Nay, bold as a lion for right and for justice,
	Enduring as dauntless Truth's lovers must be;
Give us strength to be true, Lord, with wisdom entrust
		us,
	While "offences must come," let our hopes be in Thee!
Oh, happy are all who confide in Thy promise,
	Oh, wealthy are all who are blessed by Thy love;
Though "riches take wings," though they fly away from
		us,
	Yet Thy grace for our comfort sufficient doth prove.
What if Penury even, Misfortune's twin brother,
	Hath frozen and blighted our prospects so fair?
What if Circumstance strips us almost of a cover,
	And all things around us are gloomy and bare?
Though nothing we see for the fruits of our labor,
	Nor e'en will our troubles dissolve like the snow,
Though "the poor are most surely apart from their
		neighbor,"
	And 'tis even presumptuous the lofty to know;
Though the winds of Adversity sweep round our dwell-
		ing,
	Nor vast is the structure to weather the shock;
Though the floods of affliction are rising, are swelling—
	Need we fear, if our house is upreared on "the Rock?"
While the ear of Omnipoten[—] lists to our plea,
	While, infinite Father, our hopes are in Thee!
So long is the night, yet my spirit rejoices,
	A star still is glowing, still sparkling for me.
Shine out, all ye stars! By your numberless voices
	Proclaim that most mighty your Maker must be.
Shine out, gentle moon, e'en like purified saduess,
	Like sorrow subdued, that is sweeter than mirth;
Shine out, cheer the night with your mellowy gladness,
	And whisper, the Lord is the Judge of the earth.
The sun, in his gorgeous effulgence and splendor,
	We expect not, we pray not, at midnight to see;
All good in its season "the Just One" will render,
	To trust in His purpose contented we'll be.
We can wait, for we know that the darkness will vanish,
	The curtain of night will be shortly uprolled:
"The King of the day" every shadow will banish,
	Will gladden the earth as with glorified gold."
The dawn we shall welcome, the day we shall see,
For, merciful Father, our hopes are in Thee.
						EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
	S. L. City.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	In the Medical and Surgical Reporter, a
weekly journal, published in Philadelphia, Pa-
we find the following notice of Utah Ter. from
a report made by our rising woman physician
Dr. R. B. Pratt.
	Proceedings of the Alumnoe Association of
the Woman's Medical College of Pennsylvania.
	This unpretending volume cannot fail to
be read with interest. It is one of the first
which owes its origin to the female physicians
of this community as a body-so far as we know
actually the first.	*	*	*	*	Dr.
Romania B. Pratt sends a very instructive
medical report on Utah Territory. Of the
diseases of that Territory she writes:"
	"As I scan the table of death, the monthly
mortuary of Salt Lake City, for 1879, I observe
the deadly footprints of the epidemic of diph-
theria. The total number of deaths from this dis-
ease in 1879 was 156, the greater number under
ten years of age. I find the next greater fatality
in acute-lung diseases pneumonia 50, bronchitis
5. It is said that this region of country is
peculiarily favorable to the recovery of patients
suffering from phthisis pulmonalis, if destruc-
tion of lung tissue is not too far advanced. I
will mention the fact interesting on account of
its negativeness—the record of one death from
syphilis. I have not met with a case yet in my
practice."
	The National Woman's Suffrage Association
held their thirteenth Annual Convention in Lin-
coln Hall, Washington, D. C. on Tuesday
and Wednesday Jan. 18th and 19th. Elizabeth
Cady Stanton presiding. Upon the platform
were Susan B. Anthony, Dr. Clemence S. Lo-
zier, Phoebe Cousins, Dr. Caroline B. Winslow,
Dr. Susan B. Edson, Marilla M. Ricker,
Misses Julia and Rachel Foster and several
other ladies of well-known celebrity. The
morning hour on Tuesday opened with memo-
rial services in commemoration of Lucretia
Mott, her picture (a large crayon portrait)
resting upon an easel in the centre of the stage.
It was draped with dark crimson and above
it was a white dove with extended wings a
beautiful vine of smilax trailing gracefully
from his beak, below the picture was a sheaf of
wheat tied with pale blue ribbon, a floral lyre
stood near. In honor to Mrs. Mott the audi-
ence joined in silent impressive invocation.
Mrs Stanton then delivered in an eloquent and
touching manner a graceful and happy tribute
to the memory of that estimable lady. Then
followed a solo by Miss Blanche Washington,
after the singing Robert Purvis was called upon
to present the floral harp to Edward M. Davis
son-in-law of Lucretia Mott as her representa-
tive, who made a happy response. Short
speeches from several of the members followed
and the session closed with the grand and sub-
lime hymn "Nearer my God to Thee."
	Of the work of subsequent sessions we will
give some details in the next issue.


FOREIGN.—The British Parliament re-
assembled Thursday and listened to the
Queen's speech. In the evening Earl Beacons-
field made a long speech in the House of
Lords, condemning the goverment policy. A
protracted debate was had on the Queen’s
speech in the House of Commons, Mr. Glad-
stone urging for its measures. Ex.


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.﻿


[Column 1]
LIFE INCIDENTS.
BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
[CONTINUED.]
	My father's early life and experience, with
his father, is a fair sample of those who pio-
neered and did the hard work of breaking and
settling a new country. The hardships en-
countered by them can be understood and ap-
preciated by those who were pioneers to this
western land, and have made their homes in
these Rocky Mountains. The Leaders, and
many others who were in that little band, were
the veritable descendants of the Pilgrim Fa-
thers and Mothers, who laid the foundation for
their independence. The Prophet Joseph
Smith and his brother, Hyrum, with Brigham
Young, Heber C. Kimball, Bishop N. K.
Whitney, and many of the prominent men of
the “Mormon” Church were born in the State
of Vermont. My father, in his history, says:
"Father Joseph Smith and his brother, John
Smith, were acquainted with the Kimballs, the
families were connected by marriage. Bishop
Whitney and my father were also related; they
were never acquainted until after we moved to
Kirtland, but by tracing back they found that
the mother of N. K. Whitney, whose name
was Susannah Kimball, was a relative of my
father. Father Whitney thought so much of
his mother, that he added the Kimball to sev-
eral of his children’s names; his own middle
name was Kimball, after his mother. Grand-
mother Whitney was a very intelligent, and
what the Yankees term smart woman, and
noted for her ready wit, which the following
anecdote will illustrate. One Saturday, after
the regular training was over, a drunken fellow
came riding swiftly by, and suddenly stopping
before her door, halloed, “Madam, do you
know’t (hic) hell’s broke loose?” “Yes, I see
you’ve got your liberty,” was the quick reply.
	My father and mother were of Scotch des-
cent. Their families have prided themselves
on the knowledge that they came from a noble
stock; but my parents cared very little about
worldly nobility and rank, they were proud to
be able to say that some of their ancestors
were among those who first came to America
and helped gain their independence, and
that their descendants were noble hard-working,
self-sacrificing and conscientious people, who
believed in rising on their own merits.
	The Murrays were a very warm-hearted
race, kind and generous to a fault. Many of
them were possessed of a poetic temperament,
or the gift of expressing thoughts in verse.
After the death of my eldest daughter, Vilate,
my Uncle Gould Murray’s daughter, Libbie,
who I remember when a child, sent me some
beautiful lines.
	When hearing of my mother's death, my
uncle wrote me a loving letter, and closed it
with the assurance that the children of his
own "baby sister" were dear to him, and they
would always find "his latch string on the out-
side." He was the oldest and my mother the
youngest of four children, and from her birth
he took care of her, and always called her his
"baby sister."
	My father was the only one of his family
who received the Gospel. He had a natural
reverence for the Supreme Being, and I have
often heard him, when relating his experience,
say that when a little child he loved to be
alone and reflect upon what his mother had
told him about heaven; and sometimes when
she was going out to spend an afternoon and
wanted him to go with her, he would say, "Let
me stay home at alone, ma, so I can take com-
fernits."
	He was the favorite brother, and had no
enemies until after he joined the "Mormons,"
which act, one might suppose, would have had
the effect of changing his whole nature; I

[Column 2]
might say that in one sense it did change him,
it made him a better man. This step was a
terrible blow to their pride, more particularly
to his oldest sister, Eliza, who was rich and
proud, and although she loved him, she felt so
humiliated that she said she never wanted to
see his face again. His brother, Solomon,
heard the "Mormon" Elders pray, and he told
my father that they were full of the Holy
Ghost religion; father told him he was going
to see them, and he told him to "go." His
daughter has since paid us a visit, and she told
me that her father was converted to "Mormon-
ism," and had it not been for the bitter oppo-
sition he met with from her mother, he would
have been a "Mormon."
	My father, when convinced of the truth of
it, went forward and obeyed its requirements,
without knowing whether my mother would
receive it or not; she never opposed him, but
for two or three weeks he mourned over her,
and plead night and day with the Lord to
give her a testimony of the truth of this work,
when his prayer was answered. Had his
brother done likewise, obeyed his convictions,
instead of his wife, he might possibly have
drawn her and his children after him.
	The following may prove interesting to many
of my father's friends, particularly to those
who were born and reared in the Eastern, or
New England States. He begins his life by
saying: "Concerning my ancestors I can say
but little; my Grandfather Kimball and his
brother came from England, and both assisted
in gaining the Independence of the United
States. My father, Solomon Farnham Kim-
ball, was born in the State of Massachusetts,
in the year 1770; he was raised from his boy-
hood with Judge Chase, of Massachusetts, re-
maining there until he was married, when the
Judge assisted him in establishing himself in
the business of blacksmithing in the town of
Sheldon, Franklin County, Vermont. He
was married to Anna Spaulding, who was born
in New Hampshire, in the town of Plainfield,
on the banks of the Connecticut River. At
the close of the Revolutionary War, my father
was thirteen years old, and I can remember
his rehearsing to me some of the scenes of the
war.
	"He was bald-headed, had dark brown hair,
blue eyes, sandy whiskers and sandy complex-
ion, five feet eleven inches high, and weighed
two hundred pounds and upwards; was captain
of a company of militia in Sheldon, and wore
a cocked up hat of the old English style, and
a strait-bodied coat and short breeches with a
knee buckle, long stockings and Suwarrow
boots with a pair of tassels.
	"He engaged in clearing land, burning the
wood into coal and ashes; he had also a forge
and a trip hammer in the manufacture of
wrought iron. About the time of the embargo,
before the last war with England, my father
lost his property, as it was invested in salts,
potash and pearl ash; the embargo having
shut down the gate of commerce between the
United States and England, left his property
in his hands without much value. He imme-
diately took it into his head to travel to the 
West and go into the Genessee purchase; he
saddled his horse, put on his big portmanteau,
which contained a change of raiment, and
started for the West. Arriving at the town of
Scipio, Cayuga County, New York; he fell in
with Judge Towsley, who employed him as a
foreman in a blacksmith shop, where he labored
six months; after which Judge Towsley and
my father traveled still further westward, to
within fourteen miles of the Genessee River,
to West Bloomfield, Ontario County, where
Judge Towsley assisted him in establishing
the blacksmithing business.
	"In the meantime my father took up several
hundred acres of land in this new country,
and after remaining six months, he returned

[Column 3]
to Sheldon to his family, having been absent a
year.
	"In February, 1811, he took my mother
and their six children in a sleigh, with one
span of horses, and what clothing we had upon
us and a change, and a few blankets to wrap
us in. We traveled on the ice on Lake Cham-
plain up to Whitehall, a distance of 110 miles,
where, spring being open, he traded his sleigh
for a wagon, and proceeded to West Bloom-
field, where he continued his business of black-
smithing and farming, and commenced build-
ing. He built an academy in West Bloom-
field, also two tavern stands and several pri-
vate dwellings. He made nearly all the edge
tools, such as scythes, augurs, axes, knives, &c.;
also ploughshares and agricultural implements
for the country around, to a distance of fifty
or sixty miles; and sometimes he had eight
forges at once, with a foreman and apprentice
at each fire. He generally worked with his
men and occupied one fire, and took the over-
sight of his workmen.
	"We continued living in West Bloomfield
during the late war with England, which place
was in the thoroughfare between Albany and
Buffalo, on what was called the public turn-
pike,' and on which the soldiers passed during
the war of 1812-15. It was flourishing times,
there being plenty of business and money, and
most men in business became involved, so that
when the war closed bankruptcy became com-
mon, as every merchant, tavern-keeper and
grogshop had a banking establishment, and is-
sued shin plasters from one cent up to five
dollars.
	"My father lost the greater portion of his
property, which broke him up in that place,
when he moved two and a half miles east, half
way between East and West Bloomfield, where
he brought a farm near a small lake, called
Stewart's Pond; on this pond there was a little
improvement.
	"Here he established blacksmithing, built a
large tavern-stand, barns and other outhouses,
and once more set out an orchard of various
kinds of fruit trees; this was in the year 1816,
which was called the cold season, the same
year that the black spot was seen on the sun;
the following year we gathered milkweeds,
boiled and ate them, not having salt to put on
them. It was with difficulty that bread could
be procured. My father paid three dollars
per bushel for potatoes.
	"My father was a man of good moral char-
acter, and though he did not profess any reli-
gion, yet he taught his children good morals,
and never would suffer them to swear, or play
upon the Sabbath day, without correcting them,
and would have them remain at home and read
good books, or attend the church.
	"My mother was a Presbyterian, agreea-
bly to the strictest sense of that religion; she
lived a virtuous life, and according to the best
of her knowledge taught her children the ways
of righteousness."
	To be Continued.


ITEMS.

	THE Harvard Annex for Women has 40
students. 
	QUEEN Victoria, before her marriage, was
Victoria Guelph; since, if she were a private
lady, she would be known as Mrs. Wettin, that
being the family name of her late husband,
Prince Albert.
	FOURTEEN hundred students in Berlin alone
have signed the petition for depriving Jews of 
their civil rights. Their outburst would ap-
pear to be caused by jealousy; at a recent meet-
ing of students it was alleged that three-fourths
of the writers and poets in Germany are Jews.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 139


A HEART'S RESPONSE.

The trav'ler on the barren desert-waste
	Would soon grow faint and weary, and despair,
Were there not cooling draughts for him to taste,
	Upspringing from some green oasis there.

And even so in life, when fortunes frown,
	When hearts are sad, and brains are tempest-toss'd
When joy and hope, e'en faith is almost gone
	And worthy aspirations too seem lost—

How sweet to know, indeed sublime the thought
	That friendship's link remains unbroken still;
What nectar sweet to mortal lips is brought—
	Ecstatic bliss. Our cups of joy o'erfill!

E'en pain grows lighter 'neath a loving stroke,
	Wild grief, in time assuaged by friendship true;
Ambitions fire enkindled, and the cloak;
	Of woe exchanged for dress of brighter hue.

Upon my hand there sparkles, fair and bright,
	Thy gift, this ring, an emblem of thy trust;
A talisman of good 'twill be, a beacon light,
	Revealing names and faces pure and just.

The day is past! But oh, the memory.
	Live on, and ere will live throughout all time;
Yes, longer still, through bright eternity
	It will be written on this heart of mine.

Loved ones, for all the honor you have shown,
	As recompense what can I say or do?
My heart is full, and fain would make it known,
	That love and gratitude abound for you.

Ah, yes, my future aim in life shall be
	To live more worthy of thy trust and love;
Be true in joys and through adversity,
	And join you in that better world above.

							E. R. SHIPP, M. D.
S. L. City, Jan. 22, 1881.


[Column 1]		
	SARAH CARTER.
	
WHO WAS IN A TRANCE SEVEN YEARS.
			
	BY HANNAH T. KING.
		
	"Once upon a time"—formerly these words in-
variably commenced some remarkable tale, so
I take them, as mine is also a remarkable tale,
but not founded on "fairies," or "Bluebeards,"
or any of those wonder-exciting histories that
used to be written for the young readers of
those ancienct days, and generally commenced
with these woe-exciting words as above. My
tale, or the episode in a life which I am about
to give, is a veritable fact, to which I was again
and again an eye witness. I shall again repeat
these ominous words, "once upon a time," when
(looking through the lens of memory) the very
earth seemed young, when fruit seemed more
luscious and flowers more exquisitely sweet in
their never-to-be-forgotten perfume, even if they
were not so gorgeous in appearance. We had
not then heard of the rose of the "Cloth of
Gold," the Hybrid rose, and the Nosette, and
the Bankseer and others, and a "Horticultural
show" was a nine days' wonder, blackberrying
and nutting were the red-letter days in the do-
mestic calendar of youth, and the village
"feast" was the grand exposition of the year!
The very remembrance of those times brings
over us a freshness, a freedom, a gladness; that
nothing to-day seems akin to. In the pano-
rama of those golden days, vistas through
which we are now peering, I see two little girls!
Yes, were I a mechanical painter I could pro-
duce them on the canvas, even to their features 
and the very expressino of those little round,
chubby faces; they exhibited strong character-
istics, though the eldest could barely be eight,
and the other probably six years old. They 
were ever dressed precisely alike, quaint and
original, as everything was about them; they
wore little straw cottage bonnets lined, with a
piece of ribbon simply put across to tie them
down, little shawls quaintly pinned down at 
the waist, frocks, stockings and shoes all twin
they invariably walked hand in hand as they

[Column 2]
passed to school, or on the errand on which
they might have been sent. They were fresh
and rosey with health, and were perfect types of
the little rustic, though they differed in ap-
pearance; Sarah, the principal subject of this
little sketch, was entirely the little rustic; Betsy,
her sisiter, denoted a more refined physique, her
complexion pink aud white—Sarah the bru-
nette. They ever seemed entirely devoted to 
each other; in passing groups of children they
would eye them as they passed, and perhaps
look back a little over the shoulder, but on no
account did they ever stop to make observa-
tion or listen to what was going on. This pic-
ture is apropos to them for years. Did not all
this denote character in children of such an
early age? I think so. Probably they acted 
under orders from head-quarters, and truly 
they were obedient.
	The father of these children was a man far
advanced in  years; he was himself a character.
I expect his type is obsolete, for at that time
even, he seemed to belong to a past age. He
was a small farmer, but his own landlord.
Non-enterprising, like a certain class of that
day when he started into life. He would grow
some wheat, enough to supply his family, and 
sufficient to sell to pay his taxes and other tri-
fling expenses, oats for his horses, which always
looked fat and lazy, peas for his pig, of which
he farmed many, and barley for malt for his
own use, and some also for the market. He 
had married early in life, but his family had
grown up and gone out into the world, and his
wife was dead. 
	Of course he must have a housekeeper, and
he found one the very counterpart of him-
self, only she was younger by some years;
how long she remained housekeeper deponent
knoweth not, but finding her one who could
ably fill the chair of state in his household, he
proposed honorable marriage and was accepted.
I wish I could describe her! for she too was of
a type now extinct; indeed, at the time of
which I write she stood out in bold relief, like
her husband, as belonging to the past. In ap-
pearance she was homely, but not vulgar, strong
and stalwart in form, but not masculine; an
arm that we should have shunned, had she 
been angry and attempted to hold a culprit.
She always wore short sleeves from the elbow—
she would have hid herself in the bushes had
she been found walking in the garden in the
cool of the day in a long-sleeved dress, as some-
things she ought to be ashamed of! a large hand-
kerchief over her shoulders, primly pinned
down at the waist; a full apron, that had the
appearance of half a skirt, an open dress folded
and pinned back, a bright colored calimanco
petticoat, a cap—but over that she eternally
wore a little black bonnet; whether she slept
in it I am unable to say, but she was never
seen without it from the rising of the sun to
the going down of the same. I do not know
whether my picture will be vivid to my read-
ers but to me it is graphic and true to the life.
I have spoken of her figure, now a few words
on the face; she wore one eternal expression—
had she ever smiled? It must be long ago. In
looking at her, one might have imagined at
one time in her life she might have had a
great sorrow, and it had set its mark upon 
her as a heavy cloud, which no sunbeam ever
lifted. Had she loved in early life and been
"disappointed?" I have not a glimpse of light
upon that subject, so must leave it; but if so,
it might have been one cause why she took the
uncouth old man for her husband. He was 
also rich: that might have put a bright face
upon affairs. At any rate, she became Mrs.
Carter, and in every sense of the words became
an excellent wife and mother. She was not 
repulsive, but certainly not winning in her 
manners and appearance; she looked entirely
behind the times in which she lived. When I
came to know her, years after the times I am
now describing, in her great sorrow, I ever fel

[Column 3]
deep sympathy and respect for her, and she
evidently appreciated these feelings in me.
Such were the parents of the children des-
cribed above.
	When Sarah was about fourteen years of
age she had a severe attack of typhoid fever.
Her mother alone nursed her  with the most
devoted care and she seemed to recover from
death itself. At last she arose from her bed,
but there was such extreme weakness and pros-
tration of vital energy that she would fre-
quently lie down and have long sleeps. Her
mother considered this as nature bringing
about a restoration in her own way, and did
not attempt to prevent it. Time passed on
and she seemed restored in a degree, but leth-
argy increased upon her; she would sleep for
hours, and at last whole days, and then arouse
up and take some food. Still it seemed no
effort was made to throw off the lethargic state
into which she was daily sinking. Instead of
days, it would now be weeks, perhaps two,  that
sleep, or trance, which lasted seven years! At
the commencement of this trance-like stage
doctors were called in, and indeed many went
to witness the strange phenomenon uncalled
for. Doctor Haviland and Doctor Ficklin,
both of Cambridge, physicians of great prac-
tice and high character in the medical world,
and also in the highest society, were daily
visitors, for a long time, to the beside of the
sleeping girl. Many experiments were tried,
until the poor mother stood forward in her
commanding way, and declared her child
should be no more "tampered with."
	[To be Continued.]


SPANISH FORK PRIMARY.

	The Primary Association of Spanish Fork
had a party in the City Hall on Wednesday
Dec. 22nd, 1880 when about 200 of the little
folks assembled and participated in the enjoy-
ment of the occasion consisting of dancing,
singing, recitations &c. Cakes pies and candy
were bountifully distributed, and all seemed to
highly enjoy themselves. Just before dark
they were dismissed, and in the evening many
of the parents assembled some went in
the dance others enjoyed themselves in social
chat, or listining to the sweet tones of the organ,
or the voice of song in the Council Room which
was very comfortably fitted up for the occasion.
At 10 P. M., refreshments were handed round
again. At 12 P. M., the party was dismised
with prayer. Much credit is due to the Presi-
dency of the Primary Association and assistants,
for their labors in getting up so enjoyable a
party for the Juveniles and also the Adults.
		Respectfully,
						EMMA MONK.


ANNIVERSARY.

	The Paris 2nd Ward Relief Society cele-
brated the anniversary of its organization on
Monday 3rd Jan. There were present: Pres.
Lindsay and Counselors, Maria Rich and
Elizabeth Collings of the stake presidency, also
Pres. Mary A. Shepherd and Bishop Rice be-
sides a great attendance of members and
friends. The first on the programme was
supper, after which, the report of the society
for the year was read and addresses made by
the sisters of the presidency followed by Bishop
Price who encouraged the sisters in their good
work. The remainder of the time was spent in
dancing and singing &c. All present seemed
to enjoy themselves thoroughly, and partake of
the good spirit that such gatherings promote.
								E. M. A.


140	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, FEBRUARY 15, 1881.


THE NEW PRESIDENT.

	James A. Garfield has been duly elected and
declared President for the next four years. by
those empowered with the authority to officiate
in that capacity. On the 4th,of March proximo
the inauguration will take place, and it is antici-
pated that the affair will be the most eleborate of
any inauguration on record. The Inaugural Com-
mitee are well adapted for the executive work
necessary to make it a splendid success, and
money is said to be "rolling in" liberally for all
expenses attending it. Mr. Garfield is reported
as looking worried and fatigued.
	It is desirable and needful that the President
should come to his arduous and extensive labors
fresh and vigorous in body as well as mind. It
is to be hoped his friends and admirers will be
sufficiently mindful of him not to "persecute
him with honors"and attentions beforehand. The
nation at the present time, if it ever did, needs
a strong man at the helm of the ship of state,
one who will maintain justice and equality for
all citizens,irrespective of caste or condition with-
out prejudice and see that all are protected in
their rights and privileges in accordance with
the letter and spirit of the Constitution.


OUR DELEGATE.

	Application was made in the Third District
Court, Feb. 8, before the Chief Justice of Utah
for a writ of mandamus against acting Governor,
Arthur L. Thomas, requiring him to give a cer-
tificate of election to Hon. George Q. Cannon,
who was duly elected delegate to Congress on
the 2d of Nov., 1880. The petition for man-
damus sets forth the plain facts in the case in a
clear and forcible manner, and is signed, George
Q. Cannon. Arthur Brown, Attorney for Peti-
tioner, District of Columbia, Washington.
	Although an attempt has been made to de-
fraud the people of this Territory of an honest
representation in the Halls of Congress, it is to
be hoped that the step now being taken to re-
adjust the matter properly, will be a success-
ful one; that men who honor the law and love
justice may stand firm for the right, without
bias from prejudice and misrepresentation.
Surely, in a Territory, where the people have no
voice in the selection of Governor and Judges,
they should be allowed the privilege at least of a
Delegate to Congress, otherwise their liberties
are indeed entangled.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.

	PATRONIZE home manufacture by going to C.
R. Savage's for the prettiest and sweetest valen-
tines. We found one in our sanctum the other
day artistic enough to satisfy the most ardentest
of true "lovyers."

[Column 2]
	RICHARD A. Proctor, the celebrated English
Astronomer, gave two interesting lectures in the
Theatre Monday and Tuesday evenings, Feb. 7
and 8. His subjects were, first, "The Birth and
Growth of Worlds;" second, "The Life and
Death of Worlds." He gave his ideas drawn
from observation and long, earnest and diligent
study of the heavenly bodies.

	IN the Senate of the United States, Jan. 19,
Mr. McDonald called up the proposition for the
appointment of a committee to hear claims of
women citizens, a request which had been made
in February, 1880. He advocated the subject as
a means by which women applicants for legisla-
tion, etc., might be heard before the country,
and added that he thought it was time they
should be heard. Mr. Conkling thought if the
Senator intended to crown with success this
movement, he should raise a special committee,
and give it to understand its purpose was not to
postpone forever, but act promptly one way or
the other. Mr. McDonald preferred the proposi-
tion as submitted, because new rights and new
propositions would come up, and apprehended
the subject was not one to be soon disposed of,
but so long as the human family lasted, the
rights of women would demand conslderation.
Mr. Davis moved to refer the resolution to the
Committee on rules. Agreed to. Yeas, 26;
nays, 23. And there the matter stands.

	MUCH gain in the cause of Woman Suffrage
has been achieved in England during the past
year. The important fact that the law enables
women owners to vote at elections in the Isle of
Man is a grand beginning. Women workers in
the cause of suffrage are not laboring in vain;
more and more their claims for woman are be-
coming recognized. Woman's Journal, Feb. 5,
contains an account of the Twelfth Annual
Meeting of the American Woman Suffrage As-
sociation, held in Boston the last week in Janu-
ary. This meeting seems to have been specially
interesting. A public hearing was granted in
the Green Room of the State House in behalf of
the petition of the Joint Special Committee on
Woman Suffrage. Lucy Stone, Chairman of
Executive Committee, said the petition asked
for three distinct acts of Legislature, viz.: "a
law to enable" women to vote in presidential
elections, a law to enable women to vote in mu-
nicipal elections and town meetings, and a re-
solve for an amendment of the State Constitu-
tion, abolishing all political distinctions on ac-
count of sex.

	MRS. Ellen C. S. Clawson returned, Feb. 4, from
her visit to the East. Mrs. C. was accompanied
by her husband, H. B. Clawson, Esq. They left
Salt Lake Dec. 15, went direct to Chicago, and
from there to Washington; called upon Bro.
Cannon, visited the White House, the Capitol
and other places of interest, remaining there
only one day. Mrs. C. visited her relatives in
Canaan, New York and West Stockbridge, Mass.,
at Christmas time, and found all delighted to
see her, after forty years' absence, and though
only a child eight years old when she left her
home in West Stockbridge, she recognized all
the old places, and felt almost as if she were liv-
ing over again the days of her childhood. Dur-
ing her stay in the East she succeeded in obtain-
ing many items of the genealogy of her forefa-
thers. Mrs. C. visited the notable places in
New York City, where she spent some time
and was filled with admiration more than she
could express in seeing Greenwood Cemetery.
Scattered through the States of New York and
Ohio are many of the relatives of her family,
whom she spent some time in visiting. She
spent one day at Niagara Falls, whose grandeur
and sublimity impressed her as they do all the
	dmirers of Nature's works, with awe and rever

[Column 3]
ence for the Great Creator. Mrs. C. visited
most of the largest manufacturing establish-
ments in the East—her husband's business re-
quiring him to do so, and she accompanied him.
She has enjoyed her journey very much and re-
turned in good health and excellent spirits.

	WEDNESDAY, February 9, the President and
Senate, Vice-President, Speaker and the House
of Representatives gathered in the Hall of the
House of Representatives for the purpose of
counting the electoral votes. The Vice-Presi-
dent called the Assembly to order and said,
"The two houses being assembled in pursuance
of the Constitution, it became his duty as Presi-
dent of the Senate to open the packages pur-
porting to contain the certificates of election of
the several States of the Union. Accordingly
the regular formula was observed, though the
vote of Georgia having been cast on a day
other than the day fixed for the casting of
such votes by the act of Congress was not re-
corded. "The letters footed up at the close of
the reading, and Senator Thurman announced
that the whole number of electors voting were
369, of which a majority is 185. Had the vote
of Georgia been cast on the 8th day of December,
and counted, the result would be for Garield,
216, Hancock, 155. Not counted, the result
would be, Garfield, 214, Hanckock, 114. "In
either event, James A. Garfield has recieved a
majority of the whole number of electoral
votes. The same statement was made respect-
ing the Vice-President, wherefore the Vice-
President declared James A. Garfield, President,
and Chester A. Arthur, Vice-President of the
United States for the four years beginning March
4th, 1881." (Loud applause.)


HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE regret that some of our correspondents do
not yet understand the necessity of sending
their full name to the editor to secure the publi-
cation of an article. Initials will not answer
any better than a fictitious name.

	A FAMILY party was held at the residence of
Mrs. B. W. Smith; in honor of the anniversary
of the birthday of the martyred Patriarch
Hyrum Smith Wednesday Feb. 9. Patriarch
John Smith and Pres. Joseph F. Smith sons of
the deceased were present, also Apostles John
Henry Smith and F. M. Lyman. About thirty
relatives, not counting the babies, sat down to a
sumptuous dinner about 1 o'clock. The afternoon
was spent in visiting, recalling old times and
items of family history, and in the evening after
agreeable conversation and a general expression
of good feeling a light repast of choice good
things was partaken of and the company dis-
persed.

	GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS TO RELIEF SOCIETY
SECRETARIES: Hereafter Stake Secretaries will
only require semi-annual reports, which should
be furnished them as early as the 5th of Septem-
ber and March, to enable Stake Secretaries to
prepare and forward their reports to Central
Secretary by the 15th, as she is required to give
her report at President Taylor's office ten days
prior to Genernl Conferences. These instruc-
tious are designed for organized Stakes in all the
world. Times of making reports may be varied
to suit the circumstances of branches in foreign
countries and on the Islands.
	SARAH M. KIMBALL, Central Secretaay.
By order of Relief Society President.

	RESPECT THE AGED: On Satnrday Jan. 30, a
few of the sisters of the Relief Society in the
18th Ward of this city went to the house of
Father Tucket as a Suprise Party; it being the
80th anniversary of his birth,they wished to ex-


press their kind feelings for him and his aged
wife.  The table was spread  with  some of the
choicest bounties of  earth  and  all  felt  blessed
temporally and  spiritually.  May  the  peace  of
heaven  rest  upon  them  in  their  declining
years.   Sister Ann B. Snow  and Riser were the
committee in this praiseworthy affair, and may
the Lord help them and all  of us to  do good to
the aged, the  feeble, the fatherless  and  all who
need comfort, and in  blessing  we will be blest.
	M. P. Y.
	LETTERS from St. George  inform us  that  on
Saturday Feb. 5, Sister  Eliza  R.  Snow  Smith
and Zina D.  Young, visited Price City five miles
from St George,  met  with  the Relief  Society
at 10, A. M. and organized  a Primary  Associa-
tion in  the  afternoon  returning  to  St.  George
the same night.  On Monday  morning  they ex-
pected to  start  for  Kanab;  they  will  visit  the
different branches in that stake  and  will prob-
ably  be  absent  from  St.  George  two  weeks.
They are doing a great  work in that  vicinity in
organizing  and  reorganizing   the women  and
children and in awakening a desire  for spiritual
improvement.
	Sister Rachel R.   Grant  Pres.  Relief  Society
13th,  Ward of this city  is spending a few weeks
in St  George and enjoying to a great degree the
good  spirit  and  infliuence  which seems  to have
such a  salutary  effect  upon  all  who  visit the
Temple.
	PEN Sketch of an Illustrious  Woman  is  nec
essarily delayed again also Jesse   Burns, Or Was
It Fate.  We commend to the  attention  of  our
readers the serial now  in  course  of  publication
entitled  Living Links.  It  is  all  true  and  de-
serves being well  read.
	The other  continued   articles are  also  strictly
true.   Life Incidents contains many interesting
items of Church History,  and  important  matter
from the journal of Pres. Heber C. Kimball  the
father of the writer.   Our readers  some of  them
have mistaken the identity of Helen Mar. Whit-
ney confusing her with "Mother Whitney," and
attributing the articles to her.  Helen Mar Kim-
ball was the  daughter of   Prest. Heber C.  and
Vilate Murray Kimball,and is the wife of Horace
K.  Whitney eldest son  of Bishop Newel K. and
Elizabeth Ann   Whitney, lovingly   designated,
"Mother Whitney" by the  people among whom
in good works and faithfulness  to  the  interest of
Zion  she has lived over  half a century.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 141


OBITUARIES.

	DIED: In Fillmore City, January 21st 1881.
Tamson P. wife of Roy H. McBride and daugh-
ter of Janvin and Sophia Dame: born January
13th 1843, McGarysvill.	Hancock CO. Ill.
	She was an excellent wife and exemplary
mother, her loss is keenly felt and her home is
indeed left desolate; Her sickness lasted 30 days
and her sufferings were great all of which she
bore with patience; she frequently spoke of death
but always with calmness and resignation.
	A little while before she died she spoke in a
clear distiect voice, but in a language not under-
stood by those present, at least for fifteen min-
utes closing with a fervent "Amen," then bid-
ding her friends all "Farewell" passed peace-
fully and quietly away. She leaves four child-
ren and has gone to meet the same number in
that better home.
She has gone, she has gone and the lone ones mourn
	For the mother and wife so dear,
But they will meet again and with her reign.
	Where all is bright and clear.
								M. A. MCBRIDE.

	DIED: At Hyde Park, Jan. 24th 1881. Zina
Young, wife of Don C. Hyde and daugher of


Samuel and Rebecca Roskelly, borne at Rich-
mond,Cache Co, March 18th, 1862. Deceased de-
parted this life shortly after giving birth to a fine
son. Sister Zina was a woman of noble mind,
an amiable and affectionate disposition, had
gained the love and esteem of all her associates;
she was deeply attached to her parents; her
mother departed this life not long since; there
will be a joyful reunion. Well may it be said of
Zina, that she was a faithful daughter, a loving
wife and a true Latter-day Saint. Her funeral
was attended by a large assembly of her relatives
and friends. Our Brother feels deeply the loss
of his young companion, but can only bow in
submision to the will of the Lord, as He taketh
unto himself whom He will, and will comfort
and bless the bereaved who trust in him.
							M. L. WOOLF.


ADDRESS TO ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.

WRITTEN BY SUSA YOUNG GATES.

	'Tis evening! In the deepening sky the tiny
clouds drift slow. Each pearly bank, lit up with
beams of light fast fading, show gold and opal
tints. The birds, with mellow notes, trill soft
goodnights, and gently shake their plumage
down to go to rest. The lengthening sounds
glide sweetly to mine ear, and tell of all the day
has done. The Morn arose with breezy breath,
and called the world her own. With eager
hands she grasped the time and mourned the
hours that flew. The Noon with slower steps
moved down the hill and gathered up the mo-
ments, enriching them with labors done. But
now the Evening comes; with quiet placid power
she takes the day, and in her full embrace each
hill and sweeping glade is clothed in loveliness.
The moments, with their rich rewards, come
hastening on to lay them down at her dear feet.
The Morn was fair, the Noon was clear, but
Evening's gentle hand is pressed to running o'er
with promises fulfilled; with hopes grown into
certainties; with pains soothed down to peace,
with fruits of time and love.
		*		*		*		*		*		*
	The Autumn sits with crown of sheaves upon
her yearly throne. Sweet flowers laid there by
loving hands around her bosom twine; and at
her feet are heaped the fruits of many useful
days; her raiments wrought of purest gold spun
out by conquered pride; and in her hands the
staff of truth points to the narrow way. Her
feet are treading out the wine of children's grate-
ful love; her heart's a lake, where all that's good
may gaze and find their image there. Sweet
Spring! Dear Summer! Your seasons bring us
joy, but Autumn's sweet, full tones chant in
our ears the dearest sounds the year can give to
us.
	A maiden in the morn of life, with fairest
dreams and hopes, is sweet as springtime flow-
ers; we feel her beauty in our soul, but fear
and tremble as we look. The summer's glow,
the noontide's heat in life, is full of care, and
but a little of the wealth that's earned is given.
But when the Evening, with its song and pur-
ple shades—the autumn, with its crown of
years—have come, we bring our blessings.
	To-night we hail our Evening star, our Au-
tumn Queen, with joyous acclamations. She
hath shed her light o'er all this people; and na-
tions yet unborn will bask in the sweet sun-
shine of her songs, her deeds, the records of her
life. The pioneer of women in the latter day
is she. Old England's proud of their First Lady;
we of ours are far more justly proud, for she
will be a Queen through all Eternity, and God
Himself will crown her. Her monument will
be upreared in woman's heart, and children will
look back to her as she who, by the grace of
God first gave them their dear Primaries.


We love thee—E. R. Snow! The magic name
—I hear it whispered by the wind, and children's
voices catch the sound and sing it high and free.
The hearts of thousands stir and murmur out a
prayer. Old hands are held to Heaven to call
down years upon her life, and little babies coo
the song of love they cannot speak. All join
our anthem as we pray—God bless thee, E. R.
Snow.
	St. George, Jan. 21, 1881.


LETTER OF GEN. WASHINGTON.

	"When Gen. Washington was at West Point,
New berg, in 1779. He wrote a letter
to Dr. Cochran, the Director General of the
Hospitals, which will well serve to show a
specimen of the homely fare of his table, and
serve as a vestige of the Hasbrook House and its
concomitants, to wit:

	West Point, Aug. 16, 1779.
								DEAR DOCTOR:
	I have asked Mrs. Cochran and Mrs. Living-
ton, to dine with me to-morrow; but ought I not
to apprise you of their fare? As I hate deception,
even when imagination is concerned, I will. It
is needless to promise that my table is large
enough to hold the ladies—of this they had oc-
ular demonstration yesterday. To say how it
is usually covered, is rather essential, and this
shall be the purport of my letter. Since my ar-
rival at this happy spot, we have had a ham,
sometimes a shoulder of bacon to grace the head
of the table. A piece of roast beaf adorns the
foot, and a small dish of green beans—almost
imperceptible—decorates the centre. When the
cook has a mind to cut a figure, and this I pre-
sume he will attempt to-morrow; we have two
beefsteak pies, or dishes of crabs in addition, one
on each side of the centre dish, dividing the space
and reducing the distance between dish and dish,
to about six feet; which without them, would be
nearly twelve feet apart. Of late he has had the
surprising luck to discover that apples will make
pies; and it is a question if amidst the violence
of his efforts, we do not get one of apples, instead
of having both of beef. If the ladies can put up
with such entertainment, and submit to partak-
ing of it on plates once tin, but now iron, (not
become so by scouring) I shall be happy to see
them.
			Dear Sir Yours,
				GEORGE WASHINGTON.


ITEMS FROM LEEDS.

	On New Year's day for the first time we had
a visit from our honored and beloved sisters E.
R. Snow and Zina D. Young. On that day they
met with the Relief Society, and they certainly
have the spirit of their office and calling upon
them as all must feel who come under the sound
of their voices; and I think their visit was truly
appreciated by many of the sisters. Our Relief
Society is in a prosperous condition under the
able managment of Sister Anna Wilkinson.
	On the following morning they met with and
organized a Primary Association which I believe
will be of great benefit to both parents and child-
ren, I believe the sisters all join in a hearty God
bless them, and may they live long to do good.
							S. H. B. C.


PRIMARY MEETIMG.

	94th, Meeting of the Primary Association of
the 11th Ward, held Dec. 10th 1880. Pres.
Louie Felt presiding. Meeting opened by sing-
ing "The day dawn is breaking," prayer by
Susie Simons, singing. Roll called 113 mem-
bers present. Minutes of the previous meeting,
read and approved. The programme was then


carried out as follows: Essays by Annie Peterson
and John Sears. Five verses from the Bible
were recited [-]y Master George Taylor and John
Beardall. Recitations by Mary A. Sears and
Carrie Leaker. Song by Ada Hubbert and little
Louie Felt: after which a few questions were
asked and answered by the children.
	We find it better to have a varied programme
as the children become tired of one thing. For
instance one week a programme like the one
above is carried out; the next the children make
a few remarks telling how they enjoy their
meetings, and speak of the goodness of God to
them. We also practice singing. We have
certain questions that we ask the children. For
instance. If they know of any of the children
belonging to the meeting that are sick, if so we
pray for them. Then we ask how many have
spoken cross during the week, (and we hear
that this is a great help to the parents,) and
many simple questions which please the child-
ren, and keeps the interest of the meetings up.
	Yours in the interest of the Primary Associa-
tion.
					HATTIE A. FELT, Sec'y.


142	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
CORRESPONDENCE.

	DEAR EDITOR: I have often had a desire to
write a few words to our valuable paper, if it is
only to say how much I appreciate it, and the
good and instructive peices written therein, by
our sisters. I can truly say the EXPONENT is a
great comfort to us, it encourages and strength-
thens the laborers of Zion, and all that have a
desire to do good. As a Relief Society we are
striving to live in accordance with the spirit of
the times, in encouraging each other in our
duties as Saint. I am happy to anounce that at
our last Quarterly Conference a Stake organiza-
tion of the sisters was effected. I think it will
prove a great blessing to the sisters of this Stake,
my prayer is that our noble sisters who are labor-
ing for the welfare and advancement of Zion,
may live to see and realize the fruits of their
labors, in rich abundance. Wishing the EXPO-
NENT the success it so richly deserves I am your
friend and co-laborer in the Cause of Truth.
						MARY L. WOOLF.
	Hyde Park, Feb. 6th, 1881.

GARDEN CITY.

	EDITOR EXPONENT: The R. S. of Garden
City, was organized June 17, 1879, under the
direction of Stake presidency Sisters Julia Lind-
say Elizabeth Collins and Mariah Rich. We
have held our meetings regularly every month
also our working meetings monthly which are
generally well attended. A good spirit prevails.
We have stored 68 bushels of wheat, and some
white beans; we have donated 6 dollars to the
temple and have still some means on hand in
the Treasury: the amount stated in the statis-
tical reports. We have a Sunday School a
Young Ladies and Primary Association. We
have a good Bishop well respected by the peo-
ple.
	The people of this place, with a few exceptions,
are young all having young families; we antici-
pate an interesting time through the winter sea-
son. Yesterday being New year's day the child-
ren and friends of our President Sister Ann E.
Cook, left Garden City in 10 sleighs and with
amply filled baskets and cheerfnl countenances
repaired to the home of our President at Iron
Creek 3 miles distant, for the purpose of giving
herself and husband a surprise on the occasion
of the 41st Anniversary of their Wedding Day.
At three o'clock Brother and Sister Cook were
summoned from a short distance where they
were visiting, passing through the dining-room
where two long tables were set with a sumptuous
repast. They were ushered into the sitting
room which was crowded to inconvenience.
Bishop Calder bade them welcome and made a
few appropriate remarks on the object of the
gathering and spoke of the kind feeling enter-
tained by the people toward the family. Several
short speeches were made by others of the
brethren, relating to the good feeling entertained
for them as good and true and long-tried mem-
bers of the Church, their hardships and persecu-
tions in the early rise of the same. An essay

[Column 2]
on their Wedding-day was read, by one of the
children, written by Amy E. Cook, 75 persons
were present at the tables after which all en-
joyed themselves in the dance; others joined
the party later in the evening swelling the num-
ber to nearly a hundred.
	Everything passed off pleasantly with the
best of feelings, Brother Cook thanked the peo-
ple in behalf of himself and wife, for their kind-
ness, said he had not the language to express his
gratitude but felt that it had been a day long to
be remembered.
					AMY E. COOK Sec'y.

MANASSA, COLORADO, Jan. 3rd, 1881.

	DEAR EXPONENT: Wishing to say a word along
with the rest of my sisters, I will endeavor to
write to you again. The winter in this place
has been quite pleasant, so far for this cool clim-
ate, which has proved a great blessing to the
poor Saints, who come in from a warm climate,
very late in the year. Brother Erastus Snow
and Son have been here with us for about six
weeks teaching and preaching to us here which
has proved to be a great help to us here, it shows
that we are not forgotten in our efforts to build
up this waste place. I do not think anyone else
but a Latter-day Saint would have ever tried to
make a home on this barren looking plain, but
we came here with faith that God would bless
the land for our sakes, and the land has proved
to be good, it will yield an abundance of wheat
and vegatables. We have not had time yet to
try fruit to a very great extent. Our town is
growing rapidly, one can see new log houses go-
ing up almost every day. The people here are
mostly from the Southern States, they are a
very kind-hearted people in general. We have
a day and Sabbath School in regular session and
a goodly number of children attending. The
holidays are now over we have had a pleasant
time. We have had some sickness during the
winter but all are now better. Ever praying for
the welfare of Zion, I remain your well wisher
in the Truth.							S. G. B.

MARRIOTSVILLE, WEBER Co. FEB. 8th, 1881.

	EDITOR EXPONENT: We take the opportunity
this evening affords of writing to apprise you
how we are progressing in this place. Our meet-
ings have been held very constant since our or-
ganization in A. D. 1868. The sisters have been
firm and true to the trust enjoined upon them
by their superiors in the Priesthood, and have
labored continuously and assiduously for the ele-
vation of their sex, the well being of the sick,
and the independence of Zion.
	The Relief Society of this Ward gave a party
at Christmas to the young folks which was a
splended affair giving great satisfaction. Danc-
ing which has heretofore been the acme of
amusement for our youth, has toned down con-
siderable, giving place to exercises more intel-
lectual and refined.
	We have had some very agreable birth-day
surprises which have been very pleasant and
profitable, one of which we desire to make hon-
oroble mention of, viz., that of our Pres. Sister
Anne Bickington; The sisters made her some
nice presents; as a token of their high apprecia-
tion of her services, and to crown the whole.
Sister Jane S. Richards, of Ogden, unexpectedly
came in and presented her with a very handsome
portrait of herself having been taken while on
her recent visit to San Francisco, all were very
greatefully accepted, and responded to in a short,
but concise speech by Sister Bickington. Others
present (of which there were quite a number)
contributed with speeches, songs, recitations &c.
Bishop Ritchie furnishing a good quota.
	The Institutions of the Ward are in a fair
healthy condition including the Primary, bear-
ing the aspect of progress, growth and pros-
perity. We have built a good Granary com-
pleted last fall, and stored away about 136 bus.
of wheat.
	The EXPONENT is always a welcome visitor,
and is read with a deep-abiding interest. Ever
hoping for its continued success.
			I am fraternally Yours &c.
					CATHARINE PARRY, Sec'y.


SERICULTURE.

	Report of the Silk Association of Sevier Stake.
The Silk Association of Sevier Stake was or-
ganized May 26th 1879, with the following of-


ficers: President Eliza Ann Ogilvie, Counselors
Ann Marsh and Annie Hansen, Secretary Mary
Marsh, Treasurer, Martha L. Peterson. Since
we were organized we have been doing all we
could, to promote the interest of sericulture in
this stake, more especially in Richfield, we have
purchased some mulberry trees of three and
four years old and planted them on a quarter
lot belonging to the Relief Society. This winter
we have purchased a lot, of seventy-five dollars
($75) cost on which we intend to plant mulberry
trees. We have several hundred cuttings ready
when the season comes to plant them. Some of
the settlements of this Stake are doing very
well in this branch of home-industry.
					MARY MARSH Sec'y.


PAROWAN RELIEF SOCIETY CON-
FERENCE.

MEETINGS AND REORGANIZATION.

	The Fourth Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Societies composing the Parowan Stake of Zion
was held in the Parowan meeting house Nov.
13th. Quite a number of the brethren being
present. Verbal reports were given by the re-
presentatives of the different branch societies
and organizations in the Stake showing a general
desire in both old and young to increase in know-
ledge and good works. Many of the sisters ad-
dressed the congregation exhorting one another
to diligence and perserverance in the work of God,
bearing testimony to the truth of the principle
of a pluraltiy of wives. President Dame, Bishop
Arthur and several of the brethren addressed
the sisters, said they were proud to see them
stand forth and so valiantly uphold the principles
of truth. Counseled them to seek the spirit of
God and its guidance in all their undertakings.
Conference was adjourned to be held in Cedar
City on the 13th day of Febuary next.
	November 16th: The sisters of Cedar City
were highly pleased by a call from our beloved
Sisters E. R. Snow and Zina D. Young, who held
meeting in the evening, imparting to all much
good instruction. Counseled mothers to have
a watchful care over their little ones, to strive
above all to instil into their tender hearts prin-
ciples of truth and virtue. Spoke on the prin-
ciple of Plural Marriage advising all never to
speak lightly of this holy order. Referred to
the necessity of home industries, encouraged the
sisters to persevere in their endeavors at silk
culture. Urged upon them the neccessity of
attending their meetings and donating to the
poor. The meeting was considered by all present
to be a feast of good things and we humbly
thank our beloved sisters for their good instruc-
tion; praying the Lord to bless them and pre-
serve them in their labor of love.
	Dec. 6th, a reorganization of the Young Ladies
M. I. A., was effected and the following young
ladies elected as officers. Caroline Keturah
Arthur, President; Sarah Ann Higbee, Julia
Ann Neilson Counselors; Ellen E. L. Jones,
Secretary; Sarah Ann Jones Ast. Sec'y., Louisa
Leigh, Treasurer. They were all set apart to
their various offices by the presiding brethren.
The former officers who have labored diligently
since the first organization five years ago, who
were at that time young girls, now have families
to attend to, therefore they are honorably re-
leased with the blessings and good wishes of the
brethren and sisters for their faithfulness and
humility. May prosperity attend all associations
formed for the benefit of God's people old and
young, is the prayer of your sister in the Gospel.
		J. P. MACKELPRANG, Cor., Sec'y.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

PRIMARY REPORT.

	The Primary Association of Bloomington
was organized on the 14th of June 1879 under
the direction of Pres Lindsey and under her
kind watchcare and motherly counsel we have
prospered. Our ranks now number 135 mem-
bers. At our last Conference in August last,
a Stake presidency of P. A. was organized, as
follows: Mrs. Anna Laker President, Mrs;
Elizabeth Pugmire and Mrs. Elizabeth Hunt,
Counselors. All are veterans in Zion's cause.
Some of whom have traced their experience
beck to the scenes of Nauvoo. And with such


[Column 1]
wise and efficient counsel we expect to instil
into the minds of the youth the principles of
life and salvation which is the grand aim and
object of the Primary Association.
	On Saturday evening Nov. 20, the Primary
Association of Bloomington gave an entertain-
ment. The opening and closing singing was
conducted by Bro. Grenhalch. Our exercises
consisted in dramatic presentation, fairy scenes,
songs, recitations and dialogues. Two of the
most attractive features of the evening was the
singing of a medley by 12 little girls, after
which they gave a list of follies, and the recit-
ing of an Orthodox Creed by 12 girls of a
larger size, spiced with some choice proverbs.
The proceeds of the entertainment is to pur-
chase books, suitable for the members to make
their selections from, for our weekly meetings.
	Enclosed find two dollars for a years sub-
scription of your paper I certainly think there
should be one at least, in every Primary As-
sociation.
				L. M. HART, President.
				ELMIRA HULME, Secretary.

LAKE VIEW.

EDITOR EXPONENT: We have a Y. L. M, I.
Association with twenty-one officers and mem-
bers, with an average attendance of about fif-
teen, which is very well considering that there
are only seventeen families in the setlement.
	We meet every other Tuesday and the last
Sunday evening in every month with the Y.
M. M. I. Association which gives us about
three meetings monthly.
	We make out a programme every meeting
day for the next meeting, which consists of
select readings, essays, recitations and songs,
and I can truly say the girls do well in all;
they also arise and bear their testimonies when
called upon and I feel the Lord is blessing
them.
	The boys and girls gave me a very pleasant
surprise, on the twenty-second of December.
They met at the residence of Mrs. Louise
Hanson, our school teacher, and at six o'clock,
they burst in upon me not only themselves, but
with baskets well filled, not only with picnic,
but with many pretty and suitable gifts.
	We spent the evening very pleasantly in
songs and games until about half-past eight,
when refreshments were passed round after
which we had more songs, games, and a little
dancing, the company retired about ten o'clock.
The Y. M. M. I Association is in good runing
order and I believe the boys are all trying to
do right in every way.
	There has been scarcely any drinking here
during the holidays, which is very gratifying.
	We have a day-school with twenty-six
names enrolled, which is doing well.
	May the spirit of God rest down upon us all
that we may remain faithful to the end is the
prayer of,
					ELIZABETH MILLER,
	President Y. L. M. I. A.

LITTLETON.

	Our Third semi-annual meeting convened on
the 22nd Jan. 1881. The presiding authorities
of the Stake several bishops, and others of the
local priesthood were present. Also Pres. Ly-
dia Rich and Counselors, and a very good at-
tendance of the presiding officers of branch
societies and members. The Relief Societies
were well represented statistical, financial
and verbally. And all seemed to be doing well
and feeling well in the Gospel. The only com-
plaint seemed to be a slackness in general at-
tendance at meeting. We have built, this last
season, completed and had dedicated a very
nice substantial, concrete granary for the

[Column 2]
Stake R. S. And the most of our grain is in;
its dimensions are 18 by 24 feet.
	The Y. L. M. I. Association and Primary
held their Conference the 23rd Jan. were well
represented and seemed to be in a thriving con-
dition. Our Home Industry Association is in
good runing order and turns out very nice hats,
bonnets &c. &.
	Our Statistical and Financial reports are as
follows, for the half year ending Jan. 10, 1881.
	STATISTICAL: Teachers, 31; members 156;
officers and members, 235: meetings held, 43;
average attendance, 93; WOMAN'S EXPON-
ENT. 16.
	FINANCIAL: On hand July 10, 1880, receipts,
to Jan. 10 1881, cash, $140,50; property,
$1,099, 64; Wheat lent out, in cash $35, 97;
property $106,74; wheat 533, bush. 9 lbs.
	Disbursements: To the poor cash 5,40; pro-
perty, 12,55; temple 10, 00; property 30, 00;
building 26. 96; property 111,37; missionaries,
12,61; books, 4. 89; property 1. 35; Sunday
schools, 4,05. property 3. 51; home industry,
4. 90.
	On hand Jan. 10. 1881. Cash $107. 76.
Property 104 7, 81. Wheat 533, bush, 09. lbs.
			H. CORDELIA SMITH, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 143


[Column 1]
GEORGE ELIOT.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	Though we never were privileged to look
upon this great and grand woman, we have be-
come as it were united to her by our sympa-
thies being excited and wound round her by
her noble works, which we have read with a
marvel and a wonder! and we mourn to hear
she has passed away from this mundane sphere
of action. It seems hard to believe that that
great heart, whose love and sympathy extended
over all God’s creation, will beat no more!
That that brain will no more concoct grand,
beautiful, deep and enduring picture-models of
human life and character, that elevated all who
read, and excited in them a desire to arise to
a higher state of existence than hitherto they
had deemed themselves capable of.
	"Adam Bede," the "Mill on the Floss" and
"Middlemarch" were her first grand publica-
tions; "Daniel Deronda" and "Romola" her
later ones. Her father, of whom she was pas-
sionately fond, was the original of more than
one in his daughter’s novels—notably of Caleb
Garth, in "Middlemarch." Her mother died
when she was still a child. Her father, Robert
Evans, was a land agent and surveyor, and
lived in the neighborhood of Nuneaton, War-
wickshire; he is still remembered as a man of
rare worth and character by many neighbors
in the Midlands. She was a great lover of all
animals, and she ever showed as intense a sym-
pathy and intimate acquaintance with animal
as with human nature. A gentleman once
took her into a racing stable at Newmarket, to
view "Kisber," a Derby winner, and to the
utter astonishment of the Trainer, she drew at-
tention to the fine points of the horse; showing
that even that she had made a study. She
seems to have come up to London when quite
a girl, and became associated with many of
the writers in the "Westminster Review"—
with John Stuart Mill, Herbert Spencer,
George Henry Lewes, Mr. John Chapman
and others. Her first work, "Scenes of Cleri-
cal Life," it is said was sent anonymously to
"Blackwood’s. Magazine" by G.H. Lewes, and
was eagerly accepted by the editor, who dis-
covered in it the promise of rare and pre-
eminent genius. It was not; however, until
"Adam Bede" was published, in 1859, that
the world at large discerned that a new nove-
list of the first rank had appeared. The name
of George Eliot became a household word, and
much curiosity was excited as to the real name
and sex of the writer. At this juncture a

[Column 2]
clergyman, H. Anders, Rector of Kirby, wrote
to the "Times," naming a gentleman who he
assured the editor, was the author of "Scenes
in Clerical Life" and "Adam Bede!" This
produced, on the next day, the following re-
joinder from the real George Eliot:

	"Sir—The Rev. H. Anders has, with ques-
tionable delicacy and unquestionable inaccuracy
assured the world through your columns that
the author of 'Scenes of Clerical Life' and
'Adam Bede' is Mr. Joseph Liggins, of Nunea-
ton. I beg distinctly to deny that statement.
I declare on my honor that that gentleman
never saw a line of those works until they
were printed, nor had he any knowledge of
them whatever. Allow me to ask whether the
act of publishing a book deprives a man of all
claim to the courtesies usual among gentleman?
If not, the attempt to pry into what is obvi-
ously meant to be withheld—my name—and to
publish the rumors which such prying may
give rise to, seems to me quite indefensible,
still more so to state these rumors as ascer-
tained truths. I am, sir, yours, &c.,
						GEORGE ELIOT."
	The secret, however, soon leaked out, and
long before "The Mill on the Floss" was pub-
lished in 1860, it was known in literary circles,
at least, that George Eliot was none other than
Marian Evans, the Westminster reviewer and
translator of Strauss. In appearance, this ex-
traordinary woman was commonplace, and
persons expecting to see a woman of com-
manding aspect, with her genius written on
her face and figure, often turned back disap-
pointed after the introduction; both in dress
and manners she was quiet and unassuming;
only those who could get into low-toned, sober
talk on high subjects, knew what an emotional
glow there was beneath that calm exterior,
how readily she responded to a true sentiment
in which her heart and her intellect agreed!
	There is reason to believe that she saw in
later life the great mistake which she had
made in early life, it must be confessed with
her eyes open. But having put her hand to
the seal of a dual covenant, nothing could
alter her purpose; but though her resolve never
faltered, the arguments with which she justified
herself did falter. She was ever acknowledged
and received into society, her great genius and
the peculiar circumstances that surrounded
her being accepted as apology. Her health
failed with the death of George Henry Lewes.
It is hoped that she leaves some traces of auti-
biography, through which the world will be
made to understand one of the greatest women
of the Victorian era.
	It was desired by some of her friends that
Westminster Abby should be her last resting
place, and it is said that Dean Stanley would
have consented, but on mature reflection that
desire was withdrawn, and her remains repose
in one of the most beautiful, elegant and lovely
cemeteries in the environs of London—I think
Kensal Green, if I remember right. All ad-
mirers of this remarkable woman will look
forward to yet reading a biography that shall
do her justice, and they will bend over its
pages with love and sympathy of the purest
and of the most unique; and many a sigh and
many a tear will be blended with their admira-
tion and rich appreciation.


REFLECTIONS.

	As I sit and reflect upon passing events  my
mind  wanders  back  many  years  then  on
the present, and  also the  future.  What  are
we  to  expect? We look  for many  things to
transpire in the next  five years,  according to
philosophers,  account  of numerous signs in the
heavens, but have  we not been told  of  these
things that were to come, by  our beloved Pro-


[Column 1]
phet while he was  with  us, and have we  not
seen many of these  predictions  come  to pass
just as he said they would;  also many that are
still with us, and  our late  President  Brigham
Young  and  his  co-laborer  Bro.  Heber  has
told us many times  what  would befall the na-
tion.
	We are  not  under  the  necessity of reading
the stars or planetary system for this  informa-
tion. We are in a measure  prepared for these
events.  Our glorious  nation!  and the  ruler
and father of this  free land  of liberty, what do
we expect  of him?  Truth, honor, freedom, for
all mankind, is  what  was  promised  our fore-
fathers that fought and bled when Washington
the noble  father  of our  country  proclaimed
liberty and freedom, and  planted the national
standard,and the stars and stripes floated to the
breese; the very thought  of which makes every
patriotic heart swell with enthusiasm.
	Do we still love that  emblem?  Are we to be
deprived of the promised  liberty and freedom,
that is dear to every  American citizen?  What
has become of the  constitution  and the  laws
that  we as a people  are  forbidden  our  rights
and privileges? 
	Oh, the cry is  you  practice  such erroneous
habits!  you have many wives  and honor them!
take care of  your  offspring!  clothe  them  and
educate them, and teach them truth and right-
eousness and to  love  their  neighbors as them-
selves and  honor  the  laws  of the land and  to
protect  our  national  flag and carry out  the
promised  freedom  that  our  noble father pro-
claimed in 1776! Is it these things or their own
wickedness that  they  cannot  endure to see  a
law-abiding  and  peaceful,  industrious  and
God-fearing  people  rest  in  peace, but must
spread  falsehoods  and slander to  accomplish
their own desires.  But  our  heavenly  Father
is at the helm, and in God  we trust.
	I am wandering from  my  subject and now 
to my mind  appears the "Vision  of  Washing-
ton."  He tells of great and  wonderful  things
that will befall this nation;  and after  the  ter-
rible  event  that  beautiful  cities and  villages
will spring up  all  over the land.  The heavy
cloud seems now to hang over  America, when 
will it  burst  and  the  angry  elements  clear
away?  Are  we as a people  prepared  for  this
awful day?  I fear not!  the  greater portion  of
us seem to be  asleep.  Wake up!  oh, ye sons
and daughters of Israel  humble  ourselves be-
fore the great  Ruler of all!  He will  hear our
humble prayers, He cannot resist the pleadings
of his fair daughters, let us obey his command-
ments  they  are easy  and  plain;  He  says,
"come out of Babylon  oh, ye  my people, that
ye partake not of her plagues and touch not, nor 
handle not of her unclean things!" is this hard?
not at all.  We gather  out  from the world to
worship our Heavenly  Father as  He directs.
Now let us serve  him  with  an  earnest will 
faithfully and we will be blest, and  will  have
peace  that our  enemies  cannot  control, and 
turn things at their will.  Sisters  let us plead
with our Heavenly Father  and urge  our hus-
bands and sons to bow in  humility before God
and  our Delegate will keep his seat in Congress
and the Franchise will not be taken away from
us, nor will our enemies  have power to hurt or 
make us afraid;  for we have this promise given
to us if we are only faithful.
	Now let us wake up  and  humble ourselves, 
ovey the  commandments  given  us  keep the
word of wisdom the law  of Celestial  Marriage,
pay  our  tithing honestly, donate to the temples,
help to  emigrate the poor,  and  come  out of 
Babylon, partaking not of her follies and fash-
ions.  Can we do  all  these?  Most  assuredly
we can.
	Our Heavenly Father says "ask and ye shall
receive, knock  and  it  shall  be  opened unto 
you," Well let us ask  and knock, and be un-
ited in all we do, strive  to be humble and ob-
edient and forgiving  to one  another, then  we

[Column 2]
can  claim the promises that belong to the faith-
ful.  Success to tha EXPONENT may  it always
be a boon to every household as it is to me.
	J. C. JOHNSON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A TELEGRAM received by the Times, London
notifies the arrival at the Executive Mansion, 
Washington, of a writing table, made of tim-
ber from the ship Resolute, presented by Queen
Victoria to the President of the United States.

	SOME two years since the Russian Govern-
ment sent two musicians to Siberia to collect and
write down the national melodies. By travel-
ing from village to village, and attending the
various festivities of the peasants, they have
obtained a large number of tunes, including
about thirty which were previously unknown.
The collection is to be published during the
coming winter, and is looked for with much
curiosity in Russian musical circles.—Ex.


WARNER'S
SAFE
[image of a black worker]
KIDNEY & LIVER
CURE

	Is made from a Simple Tropical Leaf of Rare value, and
is a POSITIVE Remedy for all the diseases that cause
pains in the lower part of the body—for Torpid Liver—Head-
ache—Jaundice—Dizziness, Gravel, Malaria, and all difficult-
ies of the Kidneys, Liver, and Urinary Organs. For Fe-
male Diseases, it has no equal. It restores the organs
that make the blood,and hence is the best Blood Purifier.
It is the only known remedy that cures Bright's Dis-
ease. For Diabetes,use Warner's Safe Diabetes Cure,
	For Sale by Druggists and Dealers at $1.25 per bottle.
Largest bottle in the market. Try it.
		H. H. WARNER & CO., Rochester, N. Y.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
Physician and Surgeon.

	OFFICE—Up Stairs, in Old Constitution Building.
	RESIDENCE—Six Blocks East of Post Office, South side
of street.
☞ Special study has been given to Obstetrics, Diseases of
Women, and DISEASES of the EYE and EAR.

PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST.
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

15 Cents! 15 Cents!!

BIBLE ALMANAC
For the Year of our Lord,
1881
Published by J. H. HEMAN, Salt Lake
City, Utah Territory.
☞ Ask for it in the Book Stores. Sent by Mail Postpaid.

[Column 2]
CLASS IN MIDWIFERY.
DR. ROUMWNIA B. PRATT WILL BEGIN A NEW
class in Midwifery, in her office, up stairs, Old Constitu-
tion Building, March 1st, 1881. Students should send their
names in time for books to be procured.
TERMS, $30. BOOKS, $12.

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP.
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
	OFFICE in Bishop Hunter's old residence, between Z. C. M
I. and the National Bahk.
	RESIDENCE 11th Ward, 7th East Street, between South and
1st South Streets, west side of street.
	Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children as special-
ities.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS.
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obe found in the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Fall and Winter Goods. ☜

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

☞Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

A LARGE STOCK
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES, FEATHERS WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES,
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST.
[image of dentures]
SPEICAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manners, PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE:—MAIN ST OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
P. O. BOX, 541.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
