VOL.  9.	SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH,  MAY  1,  1881.	NO. 23.


COMFORT  IN  SORROW.

One by one, death robs us of our dear ones' love,
One by one they leave us, weeping bitter tears,
Falling, ever falling,  with  the dying years.
One by one they're hidden in the grave so low,
While our hearts are riven, 'neath  a  weight of woe,
None but our dear Father all our grief  can know.
Voice we have greeted, one by one are hushed;
Hands  once  clasped  with  fervor, with  sweet  hope  and
	trust,
Pulseless lie forever,  turning into dust.
Violets  of  springtime, and the summer's bloom,
Leaves in autumn falling, and the winter's gloom,
Silently are weaving shrouds around the tomb.
All  that  cheered  and  gladdened,  from  our  sky  seems
	gone;
Dreary wastes of waters, naught to rest upon:
And  through weeping  clouds,  we're ever struggling on,
But the largest cloud hides most of heaven's blue,
Though we cannot  trace, we'll  trust  and  press on thro',
Till the mists shall vanish, like the morning dew.
Down amid old ruins, God the sunshine sends
Fertilizing showers, into barren fens,
Till green bud and blooming,  over all extends.
Yearning human hearts, along  life's dusty road,
Long compelled  to  carry sorrow's heavy load,
There's a house of refuge—His divine abode.
Faint not, weary  pilgrim, travel-stained, footsore,
There's abundant entrance into heaven's door,
Where the living waters flow on, evermore.
All  of  grief  and sorrow have their bound and time,
But  they cannot enter that celestial clime,
Love and truth eternal, reigneth there sublime.
Time is speeding swiftly with the grave and gay,
And the longest life is but a fleeting day;
Long  or short the journey, it quickly speeds away.
Through the raging waters, deserts burning sands,
His tried sons and daughters reach the promised land,
Aided by His power, guided by His hand.
	L. M. HEWLINGS.
	Atchison, Kansas.


THE  VICTORIAN  ERA.
BY  HANNAH  T.  KING.

 I believe  I  may say without fear  of  contra-
diction, that  Queen  Victoria  has  been  and is
the most popular  sovereign  of  her era, and the
same may  be  said  of her  government. Her
reign has been  agreeable  to her name, for vic-
tory has  crowned every enterprise of the same;
she has  been  surrounded  by  men  of  patriotic
character,  of  broad  brains  and  large hearts,
and she has shown, upon all occasions, that she
realized their  calibre and  ability, and has been
one with them, still ever holding her high posi-
tion  and  prerogative,  of  which  I  believe  her
strong will and good common sense has rendered
her capable of doing at all times;  she has given
proof  of  this on  a  few occasions, when she felt
her ermine  was  too  officiously touched or the
purple too  rudely  invaded;  and  this glorifies
her  position.  Had  Solomon,  "the  wisest of
men," done  this,  he  had  never  fallen so ab-
jectly.
 The  early  years  of  her  reign, especially in
her domestic life, were those  literally  of poetry
and romance;  her life was absolutely above the
common  lot  of  humanity.  She  had married
the man of her choice, and their association to-
gether  as  children, when  he  visited England,
his return  home, and  again  after  some years
paying another  visit, when  their  intimacy was
renewed,  and  they  had  every  opportunity of
becoming acquainted with each  other's charac-
ter and predilections, were all so unusual in the 
preludes of royal marriages, that it looked like
destiny.  Yet, of  course there were agents that
desired  an  alliance  with  the  queen elect, and
who worked for that purpose, and with the best
and  purest  of  motives. Her uncle, her  moth-
er's  brother,  Prince  Leopold,  (subsequently
King  of  Belgium) being  one  of  these  agents;
he had been the happy husband of the Princess
Charlotte, the  daughter  of  George  the Fourth
and Caroline  of Brunswick,  and  but  for  her
sad, early death, would have  stood precisely in
the same position  as his nephew, Prince Albert,
stood. On their marriage the government gave
them Claremont as a residence, and there many
of the  infant  years  of  Victoria  were  
Prince Leopold proving himself a foster father 
to the young sovereign in embryo; here, she 
says, her happiest, childish days were passed. 
	I return to my remark that hers seemed above
the  common  lot.  She  bore  children  almost
without suffering; they were fine formed,healthy
children, and I never  heard  of  sickness being
in their  household;  she  loved  her husband
with a degree  of  worship, and  he  was worthy
of it; she had the proudest nation  in  the  world
at  her  feet;  for  truly  the  chivalry  of ancient
times seemed  revived  and  exhibited  by the
English people  at  that  time;  the men  felt she
was the lady of their choice,  and  the  women
embraced her in their hearts  as their sovereign
queen, and felt as though the grandeur and the 
glory of that  noble  woman  reflected  back on
them--and it  did !  Had  she  indeed  been the
"Lord's anointed" she  could  have  received  no
more loyal homage than she did in every move
she made.
 She was  an  accomplished  equestrienne, and
before  her  marriage a cavalcade  of ladies and
gentlemen issued  from  the  palace gates  every
day, to take their joyous  ride around the beau-
tiful environs.  The  most  fearless  and  accom-
plished  horsewoman  in  England,  a baronet's
daughter, was  engaged  to  ride  and  train the
horses Her Majesty had chosen for her own use,
a groom always accompanying the Lady in her
exercises;  when  she  pronounced  the  horse, or 
rather  his  education  complete, he was led  out
for  the  Queen's  use  and  approval.  Her  Ma-
jesty was  fond  of  reviewing her  soldiers, and
was never absent from such events, which gave
an inspiration  to  such scenes. At this time of 
her life  she  seemed to wear  a  crown  of roses,
entirely without thorns.  Prince Albert shared
in these fond national feelings, for the country
loved him for the wise course  he took  in ever
remaining neutral in all affairs of government; 
if he ever did influence the Queen it was for a
national good.  A  few  years  after  their mar-
riage he  was elected Chancellor of the Univer-
sity  of  Cambridge,  the  oldest  in  the world!
The Queen  accompanied  him,  and  all  the
county families rose up  en masse to rally round
her and her Consort;  nothing could exceed the
enthusiasm, and  yet  respectful  devotion  dis-
played on that occasion. One  hundred of the 
flower  of  the  yeomanry  of  the  county  were
appointed to meet the royal party at the station,
and as a guard of honor escort it into the town.
their   horses were most  of  them  finely trained
hunters, and  they were  a  body  of  men  to be
proud  of. The  entrance  of the  cortege  into
the  fine  old  town,  with  its  world-renowned
buildings, magnificent in their grand old archi-
ture, and the immortal  reminiscences attached
thereto, was a sight never  to  be  forgotten; fir-
ing of  cannon annonced it, and  better still,
and sweeter, were the  bells  of St. Mary's, the
University  Church,  first  the  firing  of them,
and then  floating  off into  the  sweetest music
bells  are  capable  of  giving;  the  cavalcade
passed on to Trinity College, passed through its
fine old gates  of  the most elaborate iron work,
and closed when the royal carriages had passed
in; but through their ornamental work all was
perfectly  visible to outsiders, even to the alight-
ing.
 Trinity  Lodge  is  a  royal  residence  of the
sovereign when  visiting  the  University, there-
fore she  took  possession  of  her  own. Doctor
Whewell, the  world-renowned mathematician,
was then  Master  of  Trinity  College,  and  of
course  inhabited "The  Lodge." Mr. Norton,
the gentleman controller of the Queen's house-
hold, preceded Her  Majesty by  a  day or two,
to see  the needful preparations were all made,
and one was  to  wait upon  Mrs. Whewell, and
inform her  of the  etiquette  it would be neces-
sary for her to  observe, viz., that she must not
attempt  to "receive" the  Queen, as  it was vir-
tually  her  own  residence; consequently, she
and the  doctor  retired, and  in  due  time  the
Queen  received  them  as  her  most  honored
visitors.
The  day  of  the  installation  was  one  to be
remembered. Every house  and  street  was
crowded with visitors.  The  Senate House was
the  scene  of  the  inauguration;  none  but the
creme de la creme were admitted, and they only
by tickets. It is as  large  as  our large Taber-
nacle, with gallery all  round, the students and
Bachelors of Art occupying it, with wranglers,
senior  wranglers  and  young  masters  of  art.
On leaving, all, of  course,  were  standing, wav-
ing hats  and academical  caps, and ladies their
handkerchiefs. The Queen's  graceful  deport-
ment was the  subject  of  general  comment; as
she  literally bowed  herself  out of that august
assembly, never turning  her  back  till  outside
the  door.  There  no  guards  were  needed; as
they left the Senate House a phalanx of a lov-
ing and devoted  people formed  the passage  of 
her egress.  Prince Albert wearing  the beauti-
ful academical robe  of black silk, heavily  em-
broidered  in  gold, with  cap and  tassel of the
same rich  materials;  the  Queen  wearing a
Honiton lace dress and veil, as she always wears
home  manufacture,  which  of  course includes
the richest  fabrics  of  her  Indian possessions,
passed down  smiling  and  bowing  to  all, the
happiest of  the  happy,  and  looking  more  of
heaven than earth! So  ends a chapter which
now is history.


LIFE INCIDENTS.

	BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	CONTINUED.
	Before proceeding any farther I will say to
my friends that nothing could have been far-
ther from my mind, when commencing to write
"Life Incidents," than the thought of going
back or copying so much from my father's
journal; but different ones having expressed
the pleasure they felt in reading these sketches,
prompted me to continue them so far, but it
would be useless to expect much of it to be
printed in this little paper.  The history of his
missionary life, in connection with his brethren,
is one of deep interest, and I had hoped ere
this to have seen it published in book form for


[Column 1]
the benefit of others besides his family. A 
number of them, with myself, having heard his
mind upon the subject, considered it not only
a pleasure, but a duty that we owe to him, to
see that his name and his works are kept in
honorable remembrance, to be handed down to
his numerous posterity, we therefore employed
E. W. Tullidge, the author of the "Life of
Brigham Young," etc, believing this to be the
wisest course in a pecuniary point of view that
we could adopt. After we had expended con-
siderable money to accomplish this purpose, 
and it was prepared for the press, there arose
unlooked-for obstacles, which prevented, or de-
layed its publication, and most of them have
despaired of receiving any recompense, and
consider their money thrown away. One hun-
dred dollars was all the ready money I had, 
and I gave that freely towards it, and it has
often been reiterated in my ears that the money
had better been spent some other way; but I do
not consider it lost, but like bread cast upon the
waters, after many days it will return; and if it
should not, I gave it for a good purpose, and
consider it a very small sum when compared 
with the debt I owe to my father.  
	Besides a true record of his travels and pub-
lic life in the vineyard, it contains much that
has never been published, also many pleasing
and interesting reminiscences and incidents in
connection with his family, which no pains 
were spared to gather up to make the book in-
teresting and desirable. The style of the
author is peculiar to himself, which we often 
criticised to his face, and were allowed to make 
some few alterations; but as far as my father's 
history is concerned, I feel satisfied that it is
held sacred by him, as is the memory of the
man whose name he has never ceased to love
and revere. I shall sketch but little more
from my father's history before I return to the
scenes in Nauvoo. 
	On my father's return from his second mis-
sion to the Eastern States, he found a great
change had taken place in Kirtland; the spirit
of getting rich was prevailing in the midst of
the Saints. He and his brethren were grieved
to see that a spirit of apostacy had crept in
among them. Some of the Apostles were dis-
affected, and were seeking to overthrow the
work which they had previously been engaged
in. My father describes the scene; he says: 
	"We were grieved to see the spirit of specu-
lation that was prevailing in the Church; trade
and traffic seemed to engross the time and at-
tention of the Saints. Wen we left Kirtland
a city lot was worth about $150; but on our
return. to our astonishment the same lot was
said to be worth from $500 to $1,000, accord-
ing to location; and some men who when I left
could hardly get food to eat, I found on my
return to be men of supposed great wealth. 
In fact, everything in the place seemed to be
moving in great prosperity, and all seemed de-
termined to become rich; in my feelings they 
were artifical or imaginary riches. A bank
was also established, called the Kirtland Safety
Society, in which myself and most of the
Twelve were appointed directors. This bank
issued paper to a considerable extent, This
appearance of prosperity led many of the
Saints to believe that the time had arrived for
the Lord to enrich them with the treasures of
the earth, and believing so, it stimulated them
to great exertion; so much so, that two of the
Twelve, Lyman E. Johnson and John F. [-]oyn-
ton, went to New York and purchased to the
amount of twenty thousand dollars worth of
goods, and entered into the mercantile business, 
borrowing considerable money from Polly
Vose and other Saints in Boston and the re-
gions round about, and which they have never
repaid.
	"This state of things did not continue long, 
for our enemies, being filled with jealousy and
hatred, drew upon the bank till money began

[Column 2]
to fail; and in proportion as adversity came up-
on us, the faith of many began to fail, and be-
ing filled with the spirit of speculation, they 
ran greedily into the world, erred from the
faith and joined our enemies. Some who were
entrusted with the bank robbed it of a consid-
erable amount, which was palmed upon us as 
a means to overthrow us; also a counterfeit, 
which was said to have been issued from the
bank. Those of integrity in the Chuch re-
placed the robbed money at the expense of all
they had; I may also add that a greater speci-
men of integrity was never known among men. 
Warren Parrish, who was a clerk in the bank, 
afterwards acknowledged he took twenty thou-
sand dollars, and there was strong evidence
he took more." 	*	*	*
	"This order of things increased to such an
extent during the winter, that a man's life was
in danger the moment he spoke in defense of
the Prophet of God. During this time I had
many hours and days of sorrow and mourning, 
for my heart sickened to see the awful extent
that things were getting to. The only source
of consolation I had was in bending my knees 
continually before my Father in Heaven, and
asking Him to sustain me and preserve me
from falling into snares, and from betraying
my brethren as others had done; for those
who apostatized sought every means and op-
portunity to draw others after them. They also
entered into combinations to obtain wealth by 
fraud and every means that was hellish. At
this time I had many dreams from the Lord, 
which kept me from falling into the snares
which I desired to escape; one of them I will
relate: I dreamed that I entered into the house
of John Boynton, in which there was a panther; 
he was jet black and very beautiful to look
upon, but he inspired me with fear. When I 
rose to leave the house he stood at the door, 
with the intention to seize on me, and seeing
my fear he displayed his beauty to me, telling
me how sleek his coat was, and what beautiful
ears he had; and also his claws, which appeared
to be of silver; and then he showed me his
teeth, which also appeared to be silver. John
F. Boynton told me that if I made myself
familiar with him he would not hurt me; but
if I did not he would. I did not feel disposed
to do so and while the panther was displaying
to me his beauty, I slipped through the door
and escaped, although he tried to keep me
back by laying hold of my coat; but I rent
myself from him." 
	"The interpretation of this dream was liter-
ally fulfillhd. The panther represented an
apostate who I had been very familiar with, 
and is well known by thousands, though I will
not mention his name. I felt to thank the 
Lord for this dream and other intimations that
I had, which, by his assistance, kept me from
falling into snares."  
	My father, in his journal; speaks of Brother 
Willard Richards, who had come to Kirtland
with his brother Levi. Brother Willard had
read the Book of Mormon, and came to inquire
further concerning "Mormonism." My father 
writes: 
	"Dec 31, 1836, I was present when Elder
Brigham Young baptized my friend, Willard
Richards, in a tributary of the Chagrin River, 
east of my house, at twelve o'clock, midnight, 
having assisted my brethren in the afternoon
cutting through the ice for that purpose, and
assisted at his confirmation. In a few days
afterwards I met him in one of the streets; 
while talking on the spiritual affairs of the
world, being full of prophecy I prophesied in
the name of the Lord that I should yet go on 
a mission to the shores of Europe. Brother 
Richards asked, 'Shall I go with thee?'  and I 
said unto him, 'Yea, in the name of the Lord, 
thou shalt go with me when I go.'"
	[To be Continued.]


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TALK.

		HOMESPUN.

   Well, girls, I am always glad to see you.  
You want me to talk, do you?  I am glad you
do, for I have been thinking to-day about your
future lives, and wishing I could smooth some 
of the cobble stones of misfortune out of your
daily paths.  I know you are mostly girls who
attend Mutuals, but as a rule the advice you
get there is general.  Now, my dears, you know,
and I know, that although you have a desire
to be good, honest girls, your ambition is
mainly to "have fun" and to succeed in get-
ting the sweetheart of your choice.  We are
accustomed, and in fact obliged, to work in this
Territory, and have no time and less inclination
to read Harriet Martineau, or even Robbie
Burns.  We read the EXPONENT and occa-
sionally a novel, and fill up the remainder of 
our minds with trifles.  Of course, girls, I 
don't expect you to develop a taste for study
through my chat. but let me beg of you to try
and know something of one subject, at least. 
   Wouldn't you like to be as intelligent and
respected as Sister E. R. Snow?  You can at
least make an effort.  Just set yourself to learn
something.  Study the Bible, Book of Mormon, 
anything to be exercising the mind.  Its no
use to read a book, then never think of it
afterwards.  Take it up, and at the same time
take up your mind and set it at the desk of de-
termination, and above all, think.  I know
how it will be- at first you will read, "In the
beginning;" then, when you have reached the
fourth verse your mind will have slid down the
lap of time, and will be picking the apples of 
Idle Fancy in the vast garden of the Present, 
But commence again.  Treat yourself as a 
disobedient child, box your mind's ear; and fix
your mind's eye on the page before you.  Now
coax that truant, Fancy, to help you work.  
Paint out in vivid colors the picture conjured
up by the majestic words- the vast, palpable, 
throbbing darkness, the brooding quiet, as the
unformed mass swings through eternity.  Ages
pass, and the still, powerful voice calls "light,"
and it is born with a mighty throe of Mother
Earth.  Ages roll on, aud by the Divine Will
the waters stealthily creep away from the 
broad ribs of the mountain peaks, and at the
close of the second day the land is divided from
the roaring, sweeping seas.  Go on with this
panorama, and let Imagination place the pic-
ture in the frame of Reality; and when you
have finished the chapter, lo!  you have thought.  
Your mind has brushed away the cobwebs of
neglect and opened one tiny door and stored
carefully up a treasure.  Don't stop here, then, 
but keep on.  And another thing, if you fondly
imagine one can make up one's mind and the
thing is done, you will be rudely taught better.  
You must know, my dears, my experience has
been that when Homespun says she will, that
relentless tyrant, Circumstance, says she shan't. 
I am not one of those doughty warriors who
have only to say "I will," and it is accom-
plished.  Quite the contrary; through every
possible crevice is poked an excuse into my too
willing hand. and these same excuses are the
wickedest little imps- after I have taken them
to my bosom, and the time comes when the
opportunity is gone they immediately fly out
of my reach and sit in a row facing me, with a 
most ungrateful grin on their faces, and chorus
at me, "Ah, you might as well have done it, 
for you could have dispensed with us." But
shall I tell you what to do even in trying to
cultivate your minds?  Let the pure spirit of
prayer enter the gateway of your heart, and
fold you about with the sweet mantle of hu-
mility, and with humble words bear your wish 
to the feet of God.  Ask Him to help you to
concentrate your minds, to quicken your intel-
ligence, and behold, it is done.  Good night.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SOMEWHERE.

I see adown, the shadows of long years,
	The faint, dim outlines of a dreamy land,
And glit'ring thro' the pearly realm of tears,
	There seems reflected on that far-off strand,
The keenest hopes and joys my life has known,
And silent griefs, which I had borne alone.

I dream'd not that the passion of an hour,
	Could leave its impress in the realm of space,
Or that an angel hand had skill and power,
	The ideal picture of a life to trace;
And true to realistic thoughts and fears,
Preserve the record of the hidden years.

We know not all the mysteries of carth,
	Nor how with good and ill our lives are woven;
We cannot solve the secret of our birth,
	Much less recall the sciences of heaven,
Nor what we saw, and heard, before we came;
We do not even know our former name.

And yet somewhere there must be silent force,
	Which acts upon the soul with subtle skill;
We cannot see the process of its course,
	Nor can we bend it to our feeble will;
But true to life, reflection there will be,
And sometime, we shall know the mystery.

And those who've suffered most, and silent kept,
	Will see in that bright mirror, heaven's blue,
How wrongs and evil doings which have slept,
	Will penetrate the heart of ages through,
And in the light of an eternal dawn,
Expose the pictures, which our life has drawn.
									EMILE.


LIVING  LINKS:
OR 
SPIRITUAL  AND  TEMPORAL
BY  AVONDALE.
CONTINUED.
 Is it not strange  that  professors  of  religion,
who  call  themselves  Christians, should  perse-
cute the  Latter-day Saints? So the  Pagans*
persecuted  the  disciples  of  Jesus  Christ  an-
ciently, whom they called "Christians," as men
now call his  followers  in the Chruch of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints "Mormons." Strange
that  history  should  thus  repeat  itself  so ex-
actly!
	Mr. Missionary Unipod  had  an  intense an-
tipathy to the followers of Joseph Smith, with-
out knowing the reason why;  in this respect he
was  not  alone  among  professing  Christians.
The  conversion  of his  son  to  "Mormonism"
only increased  the  zeal  of this  gentleman  in
the  direction  of  antagonism  to the obnoxious
Latter-day Saints, of which  spirit the mission-
aries subject to his influence naturally partook.
	"Could you  not  find  any  denomination of
Christians to  ally yourself with without going
to these 'Mormons?'" asked the missionary  of
his  son,  as  though  the  Mormons  were  not
worthy  of  the  name  of  Christians.  "These
Mormons" was  spoken  in  a tone  of derision,
which the good man would  not have indulged
in had  he known  that the  Latter-day Saints
are believers in that same Jesus Christ that the
missionary  himself  extolled  so highly -- that
same Jesus who  in  his day was hated, as were
his  followers, for  the  truth's  sake, and  at last,
slain for the testimony of Jesus.

*The Pagans were heathens who lived in the
days of  the  early  Christians;  they  were  the
last  to  receive Christianity.  Pagan sacrifices
were  denounced  by edict  in  385 (by Theodo-
sius)  and  the  heathen  temples  closed, their
shrines and sacrifices were abolished. But Pagan
ceremonies  were  revived  in  the Christian
churches in the beginning of the fifth century,
and with them  the  dark  ages  of  Christianity
were  commenced  and  perpetuated. Then
Christianity become a  fashionable religion, as
it is in various forms to this our day.

	"Father," said  the  Mormon  convert,  "You
know nothing of the inner life of that religion
which  the  world  is  pleased  to  call 'Mormon-
ism,'  or  you  would  not, you  could not oppose
it;  the  very spirit  of  that Gospel  which Jesus
taught is incorporated into every article of our
faith."  "Your  faith,"  replied  the  father, "is
man made;  Joseph  Smith  was a money digger,
profligate and profane, pretending to have reve-
lations  and  the  visits  of  angels, even  of our
Savior Jesus Christ himself."
	"Father, you  have  listened  to  the  voice of
the  enemies of  Joseph Smith,"  replied his son,
"and not  to  his  friends, those who know him,
who have  received the  Gospel he was the hon-
ored  instrument  of  restoring  to  man.  Were
you to listen to the enemies of Jesus Christ, he
was 'a gluttonous  man  and  a  wine-bibber, a
friend  of  publicans  and  sinners.'  You would
not  countenance  the  acts  of  men who stoned
Stephen becasue the heavens were opened to
him, and  'he, being  full  of  the  Holy  Ghost,
looked up steadfastly into  heaven, and saw the
glory of God, and  Jesus standing on the right
hand of  God.'  You used to tell me, years ago,
that  'Jesus  is  coming  to  reign  on the earth,'
that 'the  prayers  of the  Saints  are to prevail
and  to  be  answered,' that  'the  kingdom  will
come, and his will be done on the earth as it is
in  heaven.'  How can  his  kingdom be estab-
lished  without  his  authority?  How  can  his
will be done  on  earth 'as it is done in heaven,'
unless the plan is revealed from heaven? Surely
you will  concede  to  Jesus  the right to restore
the Gospel, and that He had the right to choose
his own instrument.  Joseph Smith was a man
of large faith in God;  he prayed for revelation
from heaven, and God  appeared  to  him, with
his  Son  Jesus Christ, and  the  authority was
given to Joseph Smith to organize the  Church
of Jesus  Christ upon the earth again, as it ex-
isted  when  established  by  Jesus.  As  to the
humble position occupied by Joseph Smith, and
his  lack  of  the learning  of  the  age, the Jews
preferred  similar  charges  against  Jesus; they
challenged  his  authority: 'How  knoweth  this
man letters, having never learned?'  Jesus an-
swered  them,  and  said:  'My doctrine  is  not
mine, but his  that  sent  me.  If  any man will
do  his  will,  he  shall  know  of  the  doctrine,
whether  it  be  of  God, or  whether  I speak of
myself.  He  that  speaketh of himself seeketh
his  own  glory;  but he  that  seeketh his glory
that sent him, the same is true, and no unrigh-
teousness  is  in  him.'  The  Prophet Joseph
Smith always  honored  Jesus in  all his minis-
trations; he  never  took  glory  to  himself, but
gave all the  honor to God."
	"What a  pity  it  is,"  said  the  missionary,
"that  so  much  beautiful truth is embodied in
'Mormonism;'  it  is  this that deceives the igno-
rant and unwary."
	"Father," said the  Mormon convert, "it is a
system of truth, planned in the heavens before
the world was, for  the salvation of all the hu-
man family."
	"Well," said  the  missionary  father  to  his
Mormon son, "I believe you are sincere in your
religion, and I will pray for you;  I have prayed
for you  for  years, you  have  been remembered
at the  Throne  of  Grace, that  you might be able
to assist  in  the  great work in which I and my
fellow missionaries are  engaged--to preach the
Gospel  and be  numbered with  me in the Lon-
don City Mission."
	"Father," replied  the  son, overcome  by the
spirit of love  manifested  in  the words of his
father,  "your  prayers  are  answered;  I  have
embraced  the  Gospel, I have  lifted  up  my
voice in the highways and byways of this great
metropolis, calling  on men  to  have  faith  in
God and in our Lord Jesus Christ, to repent of
their sins  and be baptized for the remission of
sins, to receive the gift of the Holy Ghost by
they laying on of the hands of the Elders; and
although I have been met and opposed by some
of  the  missionaries  of  your  society,  as  have
many of my brethren  who  have been engaged
in preaching the Gospel, I have  rejoiced in my
labors, I have  realized that  your prayers have
be answered  in  my  behalf.  And  when  I
came to tell you, at my last  visit, that I had
received  the  truth, it was that I might cheer
your  heart  with  the  glad tidings  that I had
heard and obeyed the Gospel!"
	To these conversations between the mission-
ary father and his "Mormon" son many listened
attentively, and very few became angry;  when
the love  of  God fills  the bosom, and the peace
of God, which passeth all understanding, takes
possession  of  the  heart, there  will be  no ten-
dency  to  hate.  If no  other  good  can be  di-
rectly  traced  to  these  interviews, ever after-
wards  the  "Mormon"  missionaries,  in  going
forth  to  preach  the  Gospel  in  the  streets of
London, they were not opposed by the brethren
of the London City Mission.
	Could we  but  realize the breadth and com-
prehensiveness of the Gospel, we should all see
the necessity of this great Latter-day work, to
bring  to  pass  the  purposes  of  God,  as  made
known  to  the  ancient  fathers. "In thee, and
in  thy seed,  shall  all  the  nations of the earth
be blessed;"  this was the promise to Abraham,
and  renewed  to  his  offspring, the ancient pa-
triarchs.  This  is  why  God  has again spoken
to man, and  sent his angel to carry out his de-
signs -- those of  blessing  the  entire  human
family, "to  turn  the  hearts  of  the fathers  to
the children  and the hearts of the children  to
the  fathers."  Such  is  the  work begun by the
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  these  days, and  it
will be carried on to its final consummation !
		To be Continued.


ESSAY ON THE WORD OF WISDOM.

The Word of  Wisdom was not given ex- 
pressly as a commandment, but the Lord gave
it more as advice to his children, the same as
our fathers or mothers would give us good ad-
vice, telling us if we would observe it we would
be blessed. It is said that the Saints who do
keep this principle will be blessed with health
and strength, and shall find wisdom and trea-
sures of knowledge, even hidden treasures, and
the destroying angel shall pass by them. In
the revelation it says it is a principle with
promise, adapted to the capacity of the weak
and weakest of all Saints, who are or can be
called Saints; therefore, it seems to me that
there is not one of us but what can observe this
principle and obtain the blessings promised if
we try. I have read that the Lord tells his
servants to do nothing except He gives them
power to do it, if they will obey; and I believe
He would not tell us to do anything except it
would be for our good. I have heard many
people say they cannot give up tea, tobacco, etc.,
but I know that it only requires the will, with
the faith that the Lord will help them (which I
know He will if they ask Him), and think that
it is only for their own good. I believe the
Lord is always ready and willing to bless more
than we are ready to receive, and that He does
bless more than we do really think; but we are
always more ready to listen to the opposite
spirit. It seems to me where there is one spirit
to do good, there are always two to do evil,
which keeps us always striving and trying to
overcome our weakness.		M. A. C.


﻿The National Woman’s Suffrage Association
will hold its Thirteenth Anniversary in Tre-
mont Temple, Boston, Mass., Thursday and
Friday, May 26 and 27.
	Mrs. A. J. Crocheron’s book of poems, en-
titled "Wild FIowers of Deseret” is now in the
hands of the printers,


WOMAN’S	EXPONENT.	"
THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, . . EDITOR.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Saturday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, 	-	MAY 1, 1881.


VISIT TO MORGAN.
	On Saturday morning, April 23, in company
with Pres.Eliza R. Snow Smith, we started for
Morgan to attend the Conference of Relief So-
cieties, Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary Associations.
The Conference was well attended, house crowded
with attentive listeners at each meeting.
	Mrs. Lydia Rich makes a most excellent Presi-
dent of Relief Societies of the Stake. She is
quite equal to the position and possesses genu-
ine ability, combined with humility, which
fits her for the important work. The reports of
branch orgainizations R.S. were very encourag-
ing. The Y. L. M. I. A. Stake organization is
presided over by Mrs. Jane Toomar, and seems
to be in a prosperous coudition. Mrs. Harriet
Welsh has charge of the Primary Associations
of Morgan Stake, which are in a flourishing con-
dition. At the Conference the reports from
all parts were excellent. In the North Morgan
branch, during one quarter, the children of the
P. A. donated 548 Sunday eggs; A motion was
made at the late Conference that the children
appropriate all their donations during the next
six months to emigrate an orphan child from
England. Mrs. Lydia Rich told the children
she would adopt the child and take it into her
own especial care. The child will certainly have
an excellent home and the best of training.
	We attended one R.S. meeting at North Mor-
gan, Mrs. Elizabeth Worlton presiding. There
were a large number of brethren as well as sis-
ters present.
	Pres. W.G. Smith and his Counselors, Patri-
arch Mc'Bride of Richfield, and several Bishops
and Elders attended the meetings of the sisters.
We returned home Tuesday morning, having
remained over night in Ogden. Sister Eliza did
a great deal of public speaking during the three
days we were absent, and enjoyed herself very
much. She has traveled through nearly all the
settlements of the Saints, and many of them
over and over again, and it is her delight to be
among the people and aid by her influence and
earnest labors to promote the interests of Zion.
	On Saturday evening, while at the residence
of Brother S. Francis, we were surprised by a
serenade of the string band, who, although only
lately in practise as a company, perform admir-
ably. We tender them our sincere thanks for
the sweet music and the compliment. We were
also serenaded by the brass band, while at Bro.
Toomar's, which is under the able management
of Bro. Bull, of Morgan. They played some
soul-stirring airs, and we also tender them our
grateful thanks for the honor.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	MRS. Butler, widow of Gen. Butler, now occu-
ples the position of warden of the Utah Peni-


tentiary, formerly held by her late husband. It
is said she acquits herself ably in the post as-
signed her.

	MRS. Elvira S. Barney, of Salt Lake, will gradu-
ate as M. D. at Ann Arbor, Mich., in June next.
She attended the Woman's Medical College in
Philadelphia for one year previous to entering
the lists at Ann Arbor. She is a woman of
strong determination, unflinching purpose and
sterling integrity, and ought to succeed in any
undertaking upon which she sets her mind.

	WE had the pleasure of attending the Relief
Society and Primary Conference of Davis Stake
on Friday, April 22. The Conference was well
attended; three meetings were held, two of the
Relief Society and one of the Primary. Mrs.
Sarah I. Holmes, President of the Stake R. S.
presided with her usual quiet dignity. Pres.
Wm. R. Smith and Counselors, Anson Call and
C. Layton, were present and spoke most encour-
agingly to the sisters and children. Dr. Ellen
B. Ferguson, of this city, also addressed the
meeting in a very able and instructive manner.

	BY letter received from Miss Mattie Paul
Hughes, who graduated last June at Ann Arbor
as physician and surgeon, we learn she has also
<x graduated="" with="" honors,athe-tlpnal="" sqhpo,9f="" elocution="" and="" oratory,="" in="" philadelphjjj;i="" $hq="" ,.ig.="" winning="" her="" own="" way="" to..success="" by="" her,persist.="" a="" tent="" effort="" fixed="" determination,ayfiatakel'="" great="" pleasure="" watching="" the="" progress="" of.thisi="" self-helpful="" young="" woman,="" we="" are="" surejbhr.="" many="" friends="" fellow="" students="" here="" willijoin.id="" ha="" congratulating="" upon="" successful="" rfe-w="" suit="" of="" herearnest="" labors="" so="" huy="" add="" smany="" ’="" good="" wishes="" for="" future="" career="" path’she="" '="" has-="" chosen.="" she="" has="" but="" very="" recently'enfercj="" pennsylvania="" university,="" which="" opened="" its="" doors="" to="" men="" women="" alike,="" mis3="" hughes,="" salt="" bake="" girl,="" entered="" with'="" one="" hundred="" gentlemen—the="" only="" lady="" class.="" rejoice="" prosperity,="" sin-="" cerely="" jhope="" may="" attain="" highest="" excel-="" lence="" possible="" profession,="" believo="" possesses="" requisite="" ability.="" mr.="" archibald="" forbes,="" renowned="" populareondon="" war="" correspondent,="" delivered="" two="" intensely="" interesting="" lectures="" theatre="" this="" city,="" evenings="" april="" 28-and="" 29.="" forbes="" was="" suffering="" from="" severe="" cold="" lameness,="" obliged="" sit="" while="" speaking.="" he="" his="" first="" lecture,="" graduated with honors, at the National School of
Elocution and Oratory in Philadelphia. She is
winning her own way to success by her persis-
tent effort and fixed determination. We take
great pleasure in watching the progress of this
self-helpful young woman, and we are sure her
many friends and fellow students here will join
us in congratulating her upon the successful re-
sult of her earnest labors so far, and add many
good wishes for her future career in the path she
has chosen. She has but very recently entered
the Pennsylvania University, which has opened
its doors to men and women alike, and Miss
Hughes, the Salt Lake girl, has entered with
one hundred gentlemen—the only lady in the
class. We rejoice in her prosperity, and sin-
cerely hope she may attain to the highest excel-
lence possible in the profession, and we believe
she possesses the requisite ability.

	MR. Archibald Forbes, the renowned and
popular London War Correspondent, delivered
two intensely interesting lectures in the Theatre
in this city, the evenings of April 28 and 29.
Mr. Forbes was suffering from a severe cold
and lameness, and was obliged to sit while
speaking. He opened his first lecture, "Royal
people I have met," by saying he had, during
the past ten years, made "seven distinct cam-
paigns, five in Europe, one in Asia, and one in
Africa." He gave forcible and graphic descrip-
tions of several great men of each nation as he
had seen them, under the peculiar circumstances
of war and battle grounds. The second lecture,
"The Inner Life of a War Correspondent," gave
him more opportunity to display his ability in
painting vivid and thrilling life pictures. Those
who heard him will have a conception of the
danger and risks of life and limb to which one
is exposed who writes the war news for the pnb-
lic journals which the people read quietly by
their fireside, or at the breakfast table. Mr.
Forbes is very pleasing in appearance; he has a
wonderful fountain of language, and his style is
sufficiently humorous to make him eminently at-
tractive to his audience.


IN MEMORIAM.

	Benjamin Disraeli! Queen Victoria, desiring
to honor one who had proved himself a faithful
and efficient friend and servant, both to herself
and England, elevated him to the Peerage by
the title of Earl Beaconsfield; but Disraeli's the
household word by which the country will hand


down one of her faithful servants to posterity.
By that name he patiently and perseveringly
trod the road, step by step, to fame and honor,
until he stood at the right hand of his sovereign,
and next to her in authority.
	Over thirty years have passed since the papers
gave to the public the thrilling, impassioned,
fervid speeches of this marvelously gifted man!
and yet, withal, sound policy and common sense
were the basis of the same. There was a strong
opposition and party feeling existing against
him. What was the cause? Would men, sena-
tors, great men, stoop so low as to envy him? or
was it because the blood of Abraham flowed in
his veins? We have no time to trace out the
cause—suffice it to say it existed, and men in
that august assembly, when he first arose to ad-
dress them, forgot to be gentlemen, and actually
laughed him to scorn! thrice he arose, and they
rudely silenced him; then he sat down, and with
a quiet dignity saying the memorable words,
"Gentlemen, you will not hear me now, but the
time will come when you shall hear me!" His
prophetic nature made him calm; he knew his
plane was a rising one, and he had the charac-
teristic endurance of the royal line of Judah. He
verified Milton's superb assertion, "They also
serve who only stand and wait." He waited,
but never forgot to work; and at last came the
"hiring," and the wages with it, and the sup-
port and admiration of a large, influential part
of England, and the entire confidence and ap-
preciation of his sovereign, who often sent for
him for private conferences, and was no doubt
refreshed and strengthened for her arduous du-
ties by his bold, uncomprising policy, and by the
inimitable language in which he ever clothed
his ideas. His prophecy was now fulfilled, they
did hear him, and bowed the knee to him also,
for he was now Premier of England. Methinks
"they" heard him then! Yes, they heard him
gladly; his prophetic words were verified. His
last speech in the House of Lords, on Lord Lyt-
ton's motion with regard to Candahar, lacked
none of the vigor of other times; "it was spirit-
ed, frank, and had many touches of the old in-
extinguishable humor, which used to illuminate
the dullness of House of Commons debates like
flashes of summer lightning." And in his last
severe illness,he spent some of the intervals from
suffering in correcting, with the assistance of
Lord Barrington, that very speech; he seemed
anxious that it should go forth to the world as
correct as he could make it.
	Oh, Death! here is thy sting! This Palladium
of England, its Parliament, Constitution, Cabi-
net and Court, has passed away, and the coun-
try mourns her brilliant Statesman and her hon-
ored Patriot! We too have seen our great men
pass away, and we know how we mourned their
loss. When a luminary is extinguished, we
must feel the darkness!		H. T. K.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	WEDNESDAY, April 20, we attended the second
anniversary of the Primary Association of the
12th Ward, Mrs. Ellen Clawson presiding. The
exercises were all well rendered, and a marked
improvement is noticeable. The numbers have
also greatly increased during the lasr year, and
it is easy to perceive that Mrs. Clawson and her
very efficient Counselors, Miss Annie Davis and
Miss Julia Druce, are using their best efforts to
make the P. A. interesting, attractive and in-
structive.

	TUESDAY, April 19, we attended the second
anniversary of the Primary Association of the
20th Ward in this city. A bazar was fitted up
at one end of the hall with a variety of articles,
ornamental and useful, all made by the little


folks. It was quite an artistic affair. The exer-
cises of the meeting were conducted by Mrs.
Emma Toone in an efficient and dignified man-
ner, and although there were one hundred and
fifty children in the room, the most perfect or-
der was preserved throughout the entire meet-
ing. There were recitations, essays, songs, organ
solos, dialogues, and speeches by the visitors,
among whom we will make honorable mention
of Sisters Eliza R. Snow Smith and Presendia
L. Kimball, also T. B. Lewis, Superintendent
of schools, and C. R. Savage, Esq. During the
exercises a presentation was made to Mrs, Toone
of a motto, handsomely framed, by Miss Louisa
Simmons, in the following words:
	Dear President, as a token of our esteem and
appreciation of your valuable labors and unvary-
ing kindness as the President of the Primary
Association of the 20th Ward, we ask you to
accept this motto. It will be of increased value
to you from the fact that it is the workmanship
of your granddaughter, and with every stitch is
woven our faith and hope that the God in whom
we trust will bless you and the children of this
Association, and the hope of Israel everywhere.
	The work was neatly executed by Miss Geor-
giana Toone. We made several pages of notes,
which we shall publish hereafter.

	FRIDAY, April 15, we had the pleasure of at-
tending the second anniversary of the Primary
Association of the 11th Ward in this city. It
was the first organized in Salt Lake City, and
only preceded by the one in Farmington. There
was a very large attendance of children and a
goodly number of the parents. The Bishop was
also present a part of the time. On the plat-
form were Sisters Eliza R. Snow Smith, Zina D.
Young and Presendia L. Kimball, and many
others who are also aiding in promoting the in-
terests of these organizations. The exercises of
the meeting were conducted in an efficient man-
ner by the president, Mrs. Louie Felt, who cer-
tainly deserves grea[-] credit for her perseverance
in training these little ones. There were songs,
recitations, essays, etc., Lizzie Parsons, a little
thing six years old, sang sweetly, in a clear and
distinct voice, "Nobody's Darling." Two little
daughters of C. W. Penrose sang very nicely in-
deed, quite as well as many young ladies could
have done. But the principal feature of the oc-
casion was the presentation of a wreath of hair
flowers, elegantly framed, by Laura Denney, a
child only seven years old, who came forward
and addressed the audience briefly, then turning
to Sister Eliza with a modest little curtsey, de-
livered, in a clear and forcible manner, a speech
written for the occasion by Dr. Ellen B. Fergu-
son, which occupied perhaps seven minutes.
Towards the close, two very little children, a
boy and girl, came forward and handed her the
wreath, which she very gracefully presented to
the honored lady, who was so completely taken
by surprise she could scarcely reply. The wreath
is formed of a lock of hair from each child in
the Association, and in the center is a single
stem of flowers, composed of locks of hair from
the President and her Counselors, with their
photographs artistically arranged inside the
wreath. Sister Eliza, in a voice choked with
grateful emotion, spoke a few words to the chil-
dren, and thanked them for the honor con-
ferred upon her, and assured them she should
hold the gift very dear to her heart and remem-
ber them all when she looked upon it. Several
ladies expressed their delight in the training of
the young. Little Louie Felt, four years old
sang, in a rich and melodious voice, "I'll be a
little Mormon." Master Johnnie Sears pro-
nounced the benediction.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 181


Primary Hymn Books for sale at this Office.


THOMAS EDGAR WILLIAMS.

	Little Tommie, as we always called him in
loving tenderness, was born July 27, 1873. He
was the second son of the late Thomas Williams
and Zina Young Williams, of Salt Lake City,
and grandson of the late President Brigham
Young and Zina D. Young. July 17, 1874, his
father died. Three years ago his mother re-
moved to Provo, in order to be with her little
sons, and oversee their education herself. Little
Thomas has been for three years past a regular
and diligent scholar in the Brigham Young
Academy in that place. He has made rapid
progress in his studies, and in the principles of
the Gospel. His affectionate disposition and
gentlemanly ways, although only a child, won
for him the kind feelings of his teachers and
the sincere love of his schoolmates. April 17,
Easter Sunday, his cousins from Salt Lake City,
seven of them, darling boys, had the last day of
enjoyment with little Thomas. On the morn-
ing of the 18th he was attacked with diphtheria,
and on the 22d, at 2.30 p. m., at his home in
Provo he passed peacefully away, and left us to
enjoy the society of the blest and pure. The
sweet smile that lingered on that exquisitely
lovely face, seemed to say "be comforted, all is
right, my papa wants me." The sorrowing young
mother and loving little brother, his companion
and playmate, are almost broken hearted, but
they trust in the living God, who knows what
is best for us all, and who doeth all things well.

						ZINA D. H. YOUNG.

	Resolutions of respect to the memory of
Brother Thomas Edgar Williams, who died at
Provo, April 22d, 1881' adopted by the Students
of the Brigham Young Academy, April 25, 1881.
	Whereas, God has seen fit to call from among
us one of our loved and respected friends and
brothers, in the person of Thomas Edgar Wil-
liams:
	Resolved: That we, his schoolmates, have sus-
tained the loss of a valued friend, who had be-
come endeared to us by the many traits of truth
and purity which his character has manifested.
Resolved: That we sincerely condole and sym-
pathize with his afflicted family in their heavy
loss.
	Resolved: That these resolutions be spread
upon the minutes of the Academy, and a copy
be furnished the Territorial Enquirer for publi-
cation, and our brother's sorrowing family,

	THANKS.—Mrs. Zina Young Williams wishes
to thank her relatives and friends for their kind
favors and condolence in this her sad bereave-
ment; they are truly appreciated by her.

"Our joys when extended will ever increase,
Our griefs when divided are hushed into peace."


OBITUARY.

	It is with deep regret that we record the death
of one of our beloved sisters. Janet Heaton
John was the daughter of William and Chris-
tina Sinclair. She was born June 11, 1843, at
Trenent, Haddingtonshire, Scotland; was bap-
tized Oct. 28, 1854; emigrated to America in 1856,
and to Utah in 1863. In 1857 she was married
to John Heaton, by whom she had nine children.
In 1873 her husband died, leaving her with the
care of a large family till the fall of 1879, when
she was married to William John. She was a
kind and affectionate mother, a true and faithful
Latter-day Saint, and an active member of the
Relief Society of this place, having held the of-
fice of Secretary for a number of years previous
to her death. She died March 3, 1881, of puer-
peral fever; her babe survived her but two days,
and was buried with her. She leaves a husband,
seven children and a host of friends to mourn


her loss. May she rest in peace and come forth,
in the morning of the first resurrection.

						ELIZA A. HALL.
	West Portage, Box Elder County.

	Died, at Alpine City, March 23, 1881, Cather-
ine Nash, in the sixty-eighth year of her age.
Deceased was born July 23, 1813, at Ashton
Common, Wiltshire, England; emigrated to
Utah in 1854. She had suffered for several
weeks with rheumatism, and upon the night of
the 21st was taken with a paralytic stroke, which
caused much pain and deprived her of the use
of her left side, and affected her speech.
	Sister Nash has for many years held the office
of teacher in the Relief Society, which office
she well maintained up to the time of her death,
and died in full faith of the Gospel, beloved by
all who knew her. Her remains were followed
to their last resting place by a long procession of
her friends from this and surrounding settle-
ments in carriages and wagons. The sisters of
the Relief Society walked in procession, followed
by the Young Ladies' and Primary Associations.
She was loved by all, both old and young. She
leaves two sons and three grandchildren, who
deeply mourn her loss; also a numerous circle of
friends.
	We miss her, but feel assured that our loss is
her gain.					MARIA ADAMS.

	Died, at Taylorsville, S. L. Co., Utah, January,
1881, Jane Knopp. Deceased was born at Rich-
bury, Essex, Eng., May, 1798; emigrated from
Sockett Heath, Little Thurrock, Essex, in 1855;
stayed in Philadelphia, and emigrated to Utah
in 1860. Sister Knopp was an exemplary wo-
man, a true Latter-day Saint, and an active
member in the Relief Society. She resided for
some time in Wasatch County, and wherever
she was on all occasions delighted in her religion,
as a humble follower of Jesus. She died in full
faith of the Gospel.


AMANDA SMITH.

[CONTINUED.]

	"As I returned from the woods where I had
fled for safety to the scene of slaughter, I found
the sister who started with me lying in a pool of
blood. She had fainted, but was only shot
through the hand. Farther on was Father
Mc'Bride, an aged, white-haired revolutionary
soldier; his murderer had literally cut him to
pieces with an old corn-cutter. His hands had
been split down when he raised them in suppli-
cation for mercy. Then one of the mob cleft
open his head with the same weapon, and the
veteran who had fought for the freedom of his
country in the glorious days of the past, was
numbered with the martyrs. My eldest son,
Willard, took my wounded boy upon his back
and bore him to our tent. The entire hip bone,
joint and all were shot away. We laid little
Alma upon our bed and examined the wound.
I was among the dead and dying; I knew not
what to do. I was there all that long, dreadful
night with my dead and my wounded, and none
but God as physician and help. I knew not but
at any moment the mob might return to com-
plete their dreadful work. In the extremity of
my agony I cried unto the Lord, O Thou who
hearest the prayers of the widow and fatherless,
what shall I do? Thou knowest my inexper-
ience, Thou seest my poor wounded boy, what
shall I do? Heavenly Father, direct me! And
I was directed just as by a voice speaking to me.
Our fire was smouldering; we had been burning
the shaggy bark of the hickory logs. The voice
told me to take those ashes and make a solution,
and saturate a cloth with it and put it right into
the wound. It was painful, but my little boy
was too near dead to heed the pain much.
Again and again I saturated the cloth and put
it into the hole from which the hip joint had
been ploughed out, and each time mashed flesh
and splinters of bone came away with the cloth,
and the wound became white and clean. I had
obeyed the voice which directed me, and having


done this, prayed again to the Lord to be in-
structed further; and was answered as distinctly
as though a physician had been standing by
speaking to me. A slippery elm tree was near
by, and I was told to make a poultice of the roots
of the slippery elm and fill the wound with it.
My boy Willard procured the slippery elm from
the roots of the tree; I made the poultice and
applied it. The wound was so large it took a
quarter of a yard of linen to cover it. After I
had properly dressed the wound, I found vent to
my feelings in tears for the first time, and re-
signed myself to the anguish of the hour. All
through the night I heard the groans of the suf-
ferers, and once in the dark we groped our way
over the heap of dead in the blacksmith shop, to
try and soothe the wants of those who had been
mortally wounded, and who lay so helpless
among the slain.
	"Next morning Brother Joseph Young, who is
still living to testify to this terrible occurrence,
came to the scene of bloodshed and massacr[-].
'What shall be done with the dead?' he asked.
There was not time to bury them, the mob was
coming on us; there were no men left to dig the
graves. 'Do anything, Brother Joseph,' I said,
'except to leave their bodies to the fiends who
have killed them.' Close by was a deep, dry
well. Into this the bodies were hurried, eighteen
or nineteen in number No burial service, no
customary rites could be performed, the mob
were lying in ambush ready waiting the first op-
portunity to diapatch the remaining few. All
were thrown into the well except my murdered
boy, Sardius. When Brother Young was assist-
ing to carry him on a board to the well, he laid
down the corpse and declared he could not throw
that boy into the horrible grave. It was indeed
too much for one whose nature was so tender
and whose sympathies were ever strong in the
hour of sorrow. He could not perform the last
office for one so young and interesting, who had
been so foully murdered and so my martyred
son was left unburied. 'Oh, they have left my
Sar[-]ius unburied in the sun,' I cried, and ran
and covered his body with a sheet. He lay there
until the next day, and then I, his own mother,
horrible to relate, assisted by his elder brother,
Willard, went back and threw him into this rude
vault with the others, and covered them as well
as we could with straw and earth."

To be continued.


182	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
JOURNEY TO TIBERIAS.

	Tuesday, Nov. 9. Left the Orphanage before
day-break, Mrs. Gilbert and our teacher,
Nasra, with a trusty man riding a mule. At
first it was very cold, but as the sun rose it
grew warmer, and was at last so hot that we
began to talk of the 9th of Nov. at home, and
wonder what people would think of it if they
could be suddenly transported into our places.
We passed Kep Henna, the supposed Cana of
Galilee, and went tramping on and on, having
settled down in an order that was regulated
not by our own wishes so much as by the pe-
culiarities or predilections of our animals. The
man leading the way, except when his mule,
which was young and untrained, backed into
us, threatening to upset us all, and only resum-
ing his place after an obstinate struggle; then
Mrs. Gilbert, because her mare would not keep
up unless some one was behind to whip it; then
I, because my whip was long enough to reach
Mrs. Gilbert's mare, and then Nasra, because
her horse, being ambitious and always seeking
to lead the procession, did not require any
whipping up.
	At 10.30 we alighted at Lubeya, under the
shade of some olive trees, and explored the
lunch basket in the silent endurance of the
heat, dust and flies, the only variety being that
every few minutes one of the horses would
stand stock still to aim a deliberate kick at
some one particular fly, that was more trying
to its patience than the rest. It is a weary
road along through the country, all around as
arid and desolate as it is possible to conceive,
but it is as certain as anything can be in this
land, that this very road was trodden by the
feet of the Blessed One whenever he would go
from Nazareth to the Sea of Galilee. It was

[Column 2]
no use trying to fancy the surroundings of that
time, they were certain to be very different
from the present. Every now and then we
met a lonely traveler, that reminded me of Ja-
cob: "With my staff I passed over this Jor-
dan;" or a family group that would have re-
called the flight into Egypt, only that the wife
was never riding, but mostly carrying a burden
almost as heavy as that of the donkey. After
six hours riding we saw the glint of water at
the foot of the hills we had been earnestly
watching; a few paces more, and the whole
lake lay before us. We could call up before
our mind's eye a few of the wondrous scenes it
had witnessed, and I was lost for a while in the
past, till the difficulties of the road recalled me
to the present. We had a descent of 1,000
feet to make, among the black, volcanic rocks
of this region that are such a contrast to the
glaring white limestone of Nazareth. We saw
a shepherd going before his flock of sheep, a
sufficiently rare sight for us to notice it—we
see hardly anything but goats generally. We
passed what they called the Mount of Beati-
tudes, and glanced from it to Safed, the city
set on a hill, which had been in view a great
part of the way. Arrived at Tiberias, we
sought the hospitality of the monks of the
convent, and were glad of an hour's rest before
the meal which they set about preparing for
us. An hour before sunset we went out to get
a sketch of the town. We have learned that
the first desideratum for this work is a quiet
spot, where children and beggars won't find
us, and this time we managed to get into such
a retired corner that we only had the company
of one woman. She had many questions to
ask Nasra about us, and when she had finished,
Nasra took her turn, found out that she was a
Moslem, and then tried to tell her what had
happened here to make this lake so interesting
to us. She went away saying, as they all do,
"God has given us one religion, and you an-
other; ours is good for us, yours for you." We
were glad to go to bed as soon as we had made
an agreement with the master of a boat for an
excursion the next morning to the rival Ca-
pernaum and Bethsaida. The mixture of lan-
guages everywhere is sometimes amusing, some-
times anything but that. Here the monks
talk German and Italian—I can deal with them,
but when the Arabs come in and complicate
matters; Nasra has to come to the rescue.
	Wednesday, Nov. 10. Boat ordered at day
break, but we could not get our breakfast to
start before seven. The boat was the rough-
est, most ramshackle old thing ever seen afloat;
there was no place to sit comfortably, and we
were perched up at the end with no rest for
our backs, and our feet dangling. The pros-
pect of this for six hours was not cheering,
and when somewhat later Mrs. Gilbert had an
attack of sea sickness, she asked me whether I
meant to give in this description, which I was
writing at the time, the sentimental or realistic
view of things; and certainly there are two
views of journeys in this country, very differ-
ent from one another. The present view is
mostly of intense discomfort, of the necessity
of bracing oneself up to endurance ad. lib.;
and of a certainty that you would never, under
any circumstances, do the same journey over
twice if you could help it. But this view
fades with time, and the memory only retains
the sentiments, which at that time were over-
powered by the physical experiences; such has
been the case to-day. I am finishing now at
the convent, and feel much more capable of
taking the aesthetic view than I did when I
wrote the first sheet in the boat.
	After three hours of such rowing as would
send an English oarsman into fits, which with
the help of a sail brought us to Sell-Hum, a
distance of perhaps four miles, we most gladly
went ashore; anything was good for a change,
though we only found heaps upon heaps of

[Column 3]
ruins—splendid columns, capital bases, which
on chipping we found to be of exquisitely
veined marble, interspersed among blocks of
the dark, volcanic rocks of the region. We
only stayed ten minutes, as the boatmen were
in a hurry for the first time since we started,
so we make a dash to get a bunch of oleanders
and anoluer plant, the only green things about
the place, and commence the return via Beth-
saida. Here there is a little life, for there is a
watermill turned by a stream from the interior,
and about it a few donkeys and men are stand-
ing; but beyond this there is nothing but ruins.
It is near noon, and still very hot, and poor
Nasra has had her turn at sea sickness, but I
am hoping that we shall get home before it
comes to my turn, although I have a headache
from yesterday's fatigue. At Khan Unizele
we saw the most picturesque piece of rock of
any we have passed. I remarked that it was
steep enough for the scene of the destruction
of the swine, and the boatman answered it was
called "the rock of the swine;" and this is con-
firmed by an Italian guide book. But I am
inclined to think that it was on the other side
of the lake. We do not land at Khan Uni-
zele, but what we can see of it decides the
question in our own minds that it is not Caper-
naum. Next we pass Magdala, and then we
come to Tiberias again, and land at 2.30, after
having been 7 1/2 hours on the lake, and never
wishing to be on it again. Dinner had been
ordered at one, and had been waiting since that
time; we were almost past doing justice to it,
but a cup of tea, manufactured with the help
of an Etna, sets us up, so that we order our
horses round and start again at four to the
south end of the lake. We don't get as far as
we wish, as our man says the places are dan-
gerous after dark. As we hesitate he says
somebody was killed here a little while ago.
This decides the question; so as we have no in-
tention of running risks, we turn back, getting
two little pencil sketches as we sit on our
horses, and re-enter the convent just at sunset.
After supper I write up the journal, Mrs.
Gilbert does some of the sketches, and Nasra
puts the flowers in the paper to dry. Horses
ordered for seven to-morrow.
	Nov. 11. We left Tiberias before seven; stopped
a little way above the town to get one more
sketch and commenced a long, weary climb to
gain the level, a long tramp, then another climb
to the top of Tabor. Extensive building going
on at the Latin convent here; fine mosaic pave-
ment of old cathedral lately discovered. To
bed early, but could not sleep, owing to barking
of dogs and a stampede among the animals fast-
ened just outside the door. Horses ordered for
seven.
	Nov. 12. Started before seven, walked first
part of the way, too steep to ride; found some
cyclamen already sprung up since rain. At
length, after a long tramp, we reach Nazareth.
					CLARA J. BROOKE.


HAPPINESS

	Of all truly expressive words, the most
sought after, the most talked about, the least
understood, is happiness. Many and varied
are the opinions as to what happiness consists
in, and as many and varied are the roads
chosen in the persuit of it. As gold, or wealth,
is thought by the majority of the people to be
the most powerful ingredient in the sweet com-
pound of happiness, I will invite my readers
to lay aside all thought of worldly associations,
by which we may be biased in our judgement,
and take observations. By the way, I think
observation a true method for learning, and
one within the reach of all.
	Well, let the long line of money lovers pass
in array before us; there are two classes of
them—those who hoard up money, and think


the possession of it alone happiness, if they
could only obtain enough of it, and those per-
sons who crave for money to procure ease, self-
indulgence and prominence among their fellow-
beings. The first shut out all happiness by
hardening their hearts against sympathy, and
even fair dealings, in order to more effectually
amass riches. Their condition is rank avarice,
the twin sister of fanaticism—it knows neither
bounds nor satisfaction, and their dissappoint-
ment is their everlasting inferno.
	The second class, not having shut out all
kindly feelings for their fellow-beings, on the
contrary, being very much attached to them,
as necessary to their ease, comfort and ag-
grandizement, enjoy some degree of happiness,
while youth and health accompany wealth;
but as soon as old age with its infirmities over-
takes them, the enchantment under which they
have lived bursts like a bubble, revealing to
them the vast eternity for which they are to-
tally unprepared, and leaving them nothing
but disappointment and regret.
	Riches, then, are not the mainstay of happi-
ness, but a good servant in its cause, if under
the direction of a wise master.
	Observation teaches me to look for happiness
among the classes of comparatively humble
life; The young man who carves his own way
to prosperity, by frugality, industry and steady,
studious habits, is made happy in the respect
and confidence he creates around him; he no-
tices his neighbor's errors only to steer clear of
them; his noble aspirations buoy him up before
difficulties and obstacles, in the encounter of
which the slothful fall an easy prey. He sees
the autumn of his life set in full of satisfaction
for the labors he has performed, and at peace
with himself and his God he has no dread of
the opening of a future life. The same refers
also to women, although in a different sphere.
	The woman who shirks the respensibilities
which her Allwise Creator has imposed upon
her, misses the true source of her happidess.
The frivolous pleasures which she prefers to
the performance of honorable and sacred duties,
will cause her very desolation. Girls who
spend their precious time in scanning the fash-
ion books and reading trashy novels, and try-
ing to ape the heroine of a dime novel, grow
up into giddy women, who talk of the duties
and responsibilities of a wife and mother as
slavery and drudgery. Comforting and helping
our life companion and protector, slavery?
Training up sweet babyhood into noble man-
hood and womanhood, drudgery? I would
that every woman was blessed with such a task!
There is no drudgery in laboring for those
whom we love. Choose for your partner an
intelligent, honest, God-fearing man, bestow
the confidence and respect upon him that you
wish to be the recipient of, and never fear but
happiness will come to you in daily install-
ments, even in the midst of misfortune and
sickness; for a true woman is happiest when
she can bless and happify. There is sweetness
even in sorrow well endured, and sublime
satisfaction in the consciousness of duties faith-
fully performed.				E. C. E. F.
	Morgan City.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 183


[Column 1]
WOMEN PHSYSICIANS.

	The Public Ledger, of Phil., has an editorial
entitled "The Doctor Crop," and states that
the medical institutions of that city have
turned out within one week 422 graduates. Of
this number nineteen are ladies, and it is wisely
remarked that women physicians have their
own province, and that "It is not they who in-
terfere with the masculine practitioners, as the
wisest of these now agree, but are aids, com-
plementary, and even essential helpmeets in
the proper advance of gynæcology."
	The same paper gives an account of the An

[Column 2]
nual Commencement of the Woman's Medical
College of Philadelphia, and speaks of the
valedictory of Prof. Rachel L. Bodley (Dean
of the College) as being "a valuable contribu-
tion to medical literature." "In this Dr. Bod-
ley made what is in many respects a new de-
parture for such occasions, her theme being an
exhibit to the new graduates of the work ac-
complished by their Alma Mater in the thirty
years of the existence of the college, as exhib-
ited in the careers of her 276 daughters sent
out as medical graduates during that time. To
enable herself to speak with precision, Dr.
Bodley sent to each of the 244 surving gradu-
ates (thirty-two had died in the thirty years) a
circular containing eight questions, to which
she solicited answers. The questions were de-
signed to cover the prominent features in the
experience of the medical women graduated
by the college, in the practice of their life-
work—its professional character, its pecuniary
rewards, its social status, its teaching work, its
membership in medical societies, and finally
that important question in Sociology touching
the influence of the study and practice of medi-
cine upon woman's relations as wife and
mother. Of the 244 surviving graduates, an-
swers were received from 181, and of this num-
ber 151 are in active practice as doctors; the
remaining thirty having given up for various
reasons, among which are domestic duties, phi-
lanthropic work, other business, poor health,
retired old age, and in some instances no rea-
son was assigned. The rest of this interesting
story is given in Prof. Bodley's own words."
The second question, relating to the predomi-
nating character of the medical practice of
those actively engaged, is answered as gynæco-
logical predominating; showing that woman's
greatest work is among women.
	The third question, concerning the social
status of the woman physician, brings forth
encouraging replies, for out of 151 who answer
this question, 144 report cordial recognition.
	To the fourth interrogation fifty-nine are en-
gaged either in hospitals, asylums or medical
schools.
	The fifth question relates to the monetary
value of the medical practice per year, and is
answered by seventy-six ladies. The average
income is found to be $2,907.30 each.
	Question sixth relates to the work for which
woman is pre-eminenily fitted, that of medical
teacher; fifty-four answer this question affirma-
tively. Among these are professors and teach-
ers in the medical schools of Philadelphia,
New York and Chicago.
	The seventh interesting question relates to
their membership in medical societies. Sixty-
six reply in the affirmative. "The professional
ability of many of these ladies has been recog-
nized by election to membership in more than
one State or local medical organization. Sev-
enty-three different medical societies in all
throughout the United-States, have thus hon-
ored women."
	The Ledger speaks of the eighth and last
question as "the curious question," which is
worded thus: "What influence has the study
and practice of medicine had upon your do-
mestic relations as wife and mother?" Prof.
Bodley here lets the statistics speak for them-
selves. "The answers ot the fifty married
ladies who respond to this question tabulate as
follows: Influence, favorable, 43; not entirely
favorable, 6; unfavorable, 1.
	"The song of domestic life,as I have listened
with ear attent, has been sung in no minor
key. In the melody (as the tabulated state-
ment shows) are a few discordant notes, but
these are such that a master might throw in to
enhance the harmony of his strain."
	The Professor quotes in full a number of the
answers to the last question; we will cite but
two, those of our two Utah lady graduates of
that institution. "As a wife, my duties have

[Column 3]
never been interfered with; as a mother, I have
been incalculably benefitted." "My practical
experience has demonstrated what my student
life indicated, that professional and domestic
duties are not incompatible.		E. R. S.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

CENTREVILLE.

	The Annual Meeting of the Primary Asso-
ciation of Centreville was held March 26, 1881.
Present on the stand, Bishop Nathan Cheney
and Counselors, Mrs. Aurelia S. Rogers, Presi-
dent of the Primary Associations of the Stake,
and her Counselors, Mrs. Ann Dustin, Presi-
dent of the Bountiful Association, and Counsel-
or; also of the P. A. of the Ward. After the
opening exercises, the minutes and reports were
read and accepted. The Scripture alphabet was
then repeated by the Association, and was fol-
lowed by songs, recitations, dialogues, etc. Af-
ter which the brethren and sisters spoke very
encouragingly, and gave much good instruction
and advice.
	Members enrolled, 131; average attendance,
75; meetings held during the year, 41; number
of books in library, 5; cash received[-] $8.00;
cash disbursed, $5.15; Amount in Treasury,
$2.85.
					E. C. PORTER, Sec'y.

LIVERPOOL.

	First Annual Report of the Relief Society
in connection with the Liverpool Branch of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
	On December 29, 1879, a number of the
sisters of the Liverpool Branch met at the
house of Elder Scott Anderson (Branch Presi-
dent). Elder William Budge, President of the
European Mission, and Elder James L. Bunt-
ing, President of the Liverpool Conference,
were present. President Bunting opened the
meeting with prayer, after which President
Budge delivered a very interesting and instruc-
tive address, fully explaining the work done by
Relief Societies in Zion, and their incalculable
value as an auxiliary agency in advancing the
work of God.
	Elder Bunting said he would be delighted if
the sisters could see their way to form such a
society; after which, on the motion of Elder
Anderson, the Society was duly formed. Sister
E. F. Johnson was appointed President, or-
dained to her office by President Budge; Sister
Bennet First Counselor, ordained by President
Bunting; Sister Anderson Second Counselor,
ordained by President Budge; Sister Mary Jane
Anderson Secretary, ordained by Elder Bunt-
ing.
	It was resolved to hold weekly meetings,
and at once to enter upon active work by vis-
iting every sister in the Branch; this was con-
tinued nearly the whole year, and a noble effort
was made to induce all to attend to their duties;
and some little relief was afforded to the very
poor. The amount at the disposal of the so-
ciety for the year was only $6.37; and of this,
$2.18 was paid for tracts, which were carefully
distributed from house to house; $3.13 was
given to the sick and poor, and 12 cents was
paid for a minute book, leaving 90 cents in the
hands of the Treasurer.
	In presenting briefly their first annual report
the Relief Society cannot adequately express
their gratitude to their Heavenly Father for
what little good they have been enabled to ac-
complish. They have had many difficulties to
encounter; they commenced with a member-
ship of eight, and during the year five were
added; of these three have emigrated, one has
left the city and one has apostatized. Most of
the members have pressing household duties to


peform, but there has been a willingness to per-
form any duty evinced by nearly all the mem-
bers, which must eventually result in much
good. Going forth in our womanly weakness,
but in the strength of Almighty God, we are
resolved to do our duty, realizing that our
Father has commanded us to cast our bread
upon the waters, promising that it shall return
after many days. Submitted in all Christian
love by
				E. F. JOHNSON, Pres't,
				M. J. ANDERSON, Sec'y.


184	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A DISTRESSED WRITER.

	I have had a pamphlet sent to me entitled
"The Legal Prevention of Illiteracy." I dare
say it is a very able pamphlet, but I have not
read it. It is not illiteracy I want to prevent,
but literacy! I long for some patent method
of convincing every man, woman and child
who is poor, unhappy, or wants pin money,
that they cannot run into literature pell mell,
and make money at will. Above all, I should
like a legal penalty imposed upon every one
who sends a "first effort" to me. It is an equal
"effort," and by no means my "first," for me to
read their poetry, and for them to write it. I
say invariably, and I say it again here, that if
the Angel Gabriel were to write a book, and
ask me for my candid opinion of its merits, I
would not give it to him. I am fast becoming
a misanthrope from the amount of trash gar-
nished with neither sense, grammar, rhyme nor
meter; that my fellow creatures perpetrate
with a view to fame and fortune. Will any-
thing ever convince this crowd of imbeciles that
to write even decently demands previous culti-
vation, information and common sense; or that
real genius is like any other diamond, and
needs careful cutting and polishing. I suppose
not.—Atlantic Monthly.


[Column 1]
JESSE BURNS,
OR,
WAS IT FATE?

A Sketch of the Exodus from Nauvoo, and the
early Settlement of Utah.

CONTINUED.

	Howard was very angry. he was not a
Mormon, and believed their doctrine to be a
"pack of nonsense." People might believe as
they liked so long as it did not interfere with
him, but he considered that they were now in-
terferiug in a most unwarrantable manner, and
he had no sympathy with their feelings. If
Mary would not go she must take the conse-
quences, he would not try to lighten them. So,
taking the wagons and stock and all the pro-
visions made with the money sent by his brother,
with everything he could possibly carry away,
he left her and returned to California. How-
ard was some years older than Jesse, and a wid-
ower. Feeling that it was not good for a man
to be alone, he laid siege to the heart of a sus-
ceptible young widow with four dear little boys.
Herself and her father's family were preparing
to leave the valleys. Thinking, no doubt, it
would prove a blessing in the matter of ways
and means, she graciously accepted his propos-
als, and they were married. She dutifully went
with her husband, who, before reaching home
was so thoroughly disgusted with her conduct,
that he made provision for her to go with her
father's family to another part of the State,
while he went on, a wiser if not a happier man.
	When he was gone and the excitement was
over, Mary had time for reflection. She felt
that Jesse would be very angry with her for
daring to decide in a matter of so much im-
portance, against his wishes, but she put her
trust in God, and prayed Him that her burden
might not be more than she was able to bear.

[Column 2]
Jesse had given everything to his partner, who,
with a view, perhaps, to future possibilities, had
built the house for Mary on his own land. He
claimed it as his now, and she had no thought
of disputing the claim, although it left her
without a shelter for herself and helpless fam-
ily. He was not willing that she should stay
there, even for the few short months that would
intervene before she could hear from her hus-
band. A friend offered her the use of a dilapi-
dated house he had moved out of. She accept-
ed it, and by taking a couple of boarders man-
aged to subsist through the summer months.
But oh, the agony of that long summer! Would
Jesse come, would he send her means, or what
would he tell her to do? His business would
no doubt prevent his coming, and she might
have to wait several years for his return. The
months wore away, and no word came. The
mails were slow in those days, and letters were
a long time reaching their destination even in
summer; in winter the mountains were impassa-
ble. She had sent a letter by mail, thinking it
would reach him before Howard did, and take
the loving words which she knew he would not
carry; for he had left her with a heart full of
anger, and no doubt, instead of cooling, it would
increase with the distance.
	The cabin she lived in could hardly be called
a shelter, for the loose boards overhead let in
the water when it rained, and the walls were in
a ruinous condition; she could not live there
through the winter. She had no money and no
source of income; her provisions were nearly
exhausted, and wood scarce and hard to be got.
If Jesse failed her, what should she do? Her
spirit revolted at the thought of becoming a
charge on the Church. Slowly the summer
months passed by, and September reminded
her that winter was drawing near, when at last
a letter reached her from Jesse.
	Howard had arrived, and putting his own
construction on Mary's conduct, had inflamed
his anger and aroused his jealousy, by telling
him it was for some other man that Mary had
forsaken him, as he termed it. He was hot-
tempered, and poured forth his wrath in no
stinted terms. Abusing Brigham Young and
the Church, and everybody he thought in any
way connected with her detention. He said
she should no longer bear his name, nor claim
his support. Not a dollar more would he ever
send her nor her disobedient children. Minnie
was old enough now to choose for herself, and
she had chosen to stay with her mother; but
Nettie was young yet, and her mind was not
influenced by her surroundings, he would take
her, let the consequences be what they might.
He demanded a divorce, and signed it with his
blood.

To be continued.


[Column 1]
ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon.

	OFFICE on Main St., Old Constitution Buildings.
RESIDENCE on South Temple Street, between 9th and
10th East Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, Diseases of Children
and Diseases of the THROAT, HEART, and LUNGS.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
Physician and Surgeon.

	OFFICE—Up Stairs, in Old Constitution Building.
RESIDENCE—Six Blocks East of Post Office, South side
of street.
☞ Special study has been given to Obstetrics, Diseases of
Women, and DISEASES of the EYE and EAR.

HAVE YOU SEEN THE
NEW VICTOR SEWING MACHINE?
	If not you should do so at once, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction. The New Machine
is elegant in appearance and admirable in operation, runs
very easily and without any noise and confusion, although
the rate of speed is very high. Its self-setting and self-
threading shuttle, and absence of springs and cogs, renders
it both simple and durable. ☞ Be sure to see it, for its
general advantages will make you its friend.
VICTOR SEWING MACHINE CO., CHICAGO, ILL.
YOUNG BROS. Agent, Salt Lake City.

[Column 2]
PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt, and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP.
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
OFFICE AND RESIDENCE over Contributor Office, north of
Z. C. M. I.
	Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children as special-
ities.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
[-]be found in the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NOS. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Fall and Winter Goods. ☜

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

A LARGE STOCK
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES,
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST.
[image of dentures]
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE:—MAIN ST OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
P. O. BOX, 541.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

