VOL. 9.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 1, 1880.	NO.7.


[Column 1]
THE JUBILEE OF ZION,

Written in commemoration of the Fiftieth Anni-
versary of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints by Bishop O. F. Whitney

Hail to the Year of Jubilee!
	Let pealing anthems rise,
And burst of echoing melody
	Loud mingle with the skies!
Let earth resound with music's pow'r,
	Glad welcoming the year,
When Zion sees her natal hour
	The fiftieth time appear!

An hour when, thro' the ling'ring night,
	In beauty broke the morn,
When Faith, exultant, hailed the Light
	That told her Truth was born.
The fulness of an omened birth—
	In verse prophetic given—
When Truth, new springing from the earth,
	Saw Mercy smile in Heaven.

It is a day for Israel
	His highest hopes to raise,
While voice and harp, uniting, swell
	The sounding notes of praise.
For Truth and Virtue, breathing love,
	Have made the world more fair,
Since Righteousness, from realms above,
	Unfurl'd her standard there.

Can friendly eye this radiant scene behold;
Nor feel what fairest words could not unfold?
Or stranger gaze upon its glory rest,
Nor deem, of all, this day divinely blest?
Could Time retrace the wilderness of years—
The stubblefield of human hopes and fears—
Recall from silent regions of decay
The buried greatness of a former day,
Would not the righteous dead their voices raise,
To swell the volume of a people's praise,
And, bursting from the thralldom of the sod,
Declare the wondrous workmanship of God?
But Time, alas! no retrogression knows,
Its ever hurrying stream still onward flows;
The moments coming crowd the moments past,
And each day sings the requiem of the last.
Fair Memory! Thine the task this boon to give;
Bid thou the past within the present live!
On thy bright altar let the embers glow,
To lift the shadows of the Long Ago!

Far down the mystic river of the Mind,
A fleet of recollections slowly wind—
A chain of gems on Fancy's pinions brought,
Historic views on Memory's canvas wrought.
The foremost is a scene where forests grow,
Where flowers bloom and springtime breezes blow,
Where sweet-toned birds send up their matin lay,
And lave in th' golden fountain of the day.
Deep in the bosom of a woodland shade,
Where Solitude her secret home hath made,
A simple lad, his sunburned temples bare,
Pours forth a guileless soul to God in prayer.
A sudden cloud, of midnight depth profound,
Now hurls him breathless to the trembling ground;
Speechless he's stricken, but with voice of will
Calls on his God, and supplicates Him still.
His prayers are heard. [--]o! shining o'er his head
A dazzling light! Where hath the darkness fled?
A pillar brighter than the noonday sun,
When on the purest sky his race is run,
Falls, gently as the earth-reviving dew,
And opens to his gaze a heavenly view;
Two Beings, of a glory to defy
The pow'r of words, stand 'twixt him and the sky,
And is't a voice, or music low and clear,
Whose hallowed sweetness charms the list'ner's ear
Like murmuring waters from a mossy rim:
'Joseph! 'Tis my beloved Son, Hear Him!"

[Column 2]
The scenes roll on. Within a rustic co—
An honest farmer's home of humble lot—
The boy that was, in pride of strength appears,
Erect-'neath manhood's crown of ripening years,
Nor now, as when, in trusting childhood's care,
Alone he sought and found the God of prayer,
Nor when, as singly, stemmed the tide of hate,
Which spurned the truth he dared to innovate;
Friends are his followers. Tho' numb'ring few,
Disciples dauntless, of a doctrine new,
Convened to verify the written word
Of him who bore the burden of the Lord,
When learned proud Babel's king thro' wisdom's ways,
What God had destined in the latter days.
The hour is nigh when monarchs' necks shall bow,
The Stone yet lingers on the Mountain's brow,
But soon with force resistless shall it fall,
And onward roll, victorious over all.
'Tis done—the deed Creation's morn devised—
The Church of Jesus Christ is organized.

The scenes roll on. Now chains the wand'ring sight,
A land of meadows broad and streamlets bright,
Where flowery billows, in the far extent,
Kiss, with soft lips, the bending firmament,
And royal rivers, from their northern throne,
Pour their dark waters toward the burning zone.
A city stands, in purity and pride,
On th' verge of Mississippi's rolling tide;
Erewhile the home of Happiness and Worth,
The sacred source of melody and mirth,
A refuge for the righteous of the earth.
The shrine of Hope, the paradise of Peace,
Where Faith was found in Charity's increase,
The ark where roving Weariness might rest—
A gleam of light upon the earth's dark crest.
But there are sounds of sorrow in the air,
Where Gladness reigned o'er beauty bright and rare,
Dark clouds of grief are gath-ring round thy head,
Whence show'rs of tears shall o'er thy bosom spread,
And Sadness shall the leaves of lichen strew
On thy pale brow, O fated, fair Nauvoo!

A prison cell. The slow descending day
Thro' the rude window sends a farewell ray,
Where Freedom's sons, her worship to atone,
In dreary durance tread the dungeon stone.
Four forms revealed, and one familiar face—
The boy—the man, of other tim[-] and place—
Still young, yet on his brow the crown of care,
That Age and early Woe are known to wear.
What deed of his hath won the felon's doom?
Ask the bright sun, that bids the envious gloom
Give way when Morning lifts the veil of Night,
Why bringeth he again the vanished light?
His deed the same—for bidding darkness flee,
Shares he a dungeon with his comrades three.
Nor filled his cup of fate. Hark! From below,
A rumble as of angry waters flow;
Fast gathering, as clouds foretelling storm,
A horde of demons, housed in human form,
Besiege the portals, and, with surging sway,
The threshold throng—the treacherous guards give way.
A roaring volley rends th' affrighted air,
As rush the mad mob up the trembling stair,
Eager, as wolves, the helpless prey to rend,
Daring, as cowards, strike were none defend.
Now bristling weapons gleam about the door,
Into the cell their murderous showers pour,
While, through the windows, to the fatal room,
Swift rain the metal messengers of doom.
Vainly the captives stem that fiery flood,
Thirsting to mingle with a martyr's blood,
E'en now life's ruddy river's ebbing fast;
Two noble souls on earth have sigh[-]d their last.
Sweet Mercy! Close the bloody book of Fate!
Seared is the sight such scenes can contemplate.
To shield thy chosen, smite their ruthless foes,
O God! Could not thy lightnings interpose?

Weep, Zion, weep! But every drop that's shed
Shall roll an ocean o'er the murderer's head.
Thy tears, tho' vain his victims to recall,

[Column 3]
On Crime's dark soul like molten lead shall fall.
Mourn, Israel! Mourn thy prophet chieftains slain,
Yet know their souls ar[-]. 'neath the altar lain,
To rise in witness at that solemn day,
When Judgment shall the world in balance weigh,
And cowering Sin, from vengeance long concealed,
In Retribution's presence stands revealed.

Where, next, shall Fancy's roving pinion rest?
Mid barren regions of the boundless West,
Where silv'ry steams through silent valleys flow
From mountains laureled with eternal snow.
Where reigns no creed its rival creed to bind,
Where exiled Faith a resting place shall find,
Where th' eagle builds his home upon the height,
And dreams of Freedom that hath wing'd her flight.
'Tis morning. On the mountain, vale and stream
The generous sun bestows a golden beam,
Crowning with glory snow-bespangled hills,
and darting life through all their thousand rills.
No sound disturbs the stillness of that scene—
So bare, so bright, so savage yet serene—
Save where the torrent's distant voice is heard,
Mingling with music of the mountain bird,
Or minstrel cricket, 'neath his drooping blade,
Chrips, ceaselessly, his summer serenade.
But list! Breaks on the ear a stranger sound—
How the high hills those jarring notes rebound,
As sentinels, that wa[-]n what would intrude,
To mar the sway of kingly Solitude!
Now nearer borne upon the canon breeze,
The roll of rocks and crash of falling trees
Blend harsh, at intervals, with human shout,
And clattering wheels that throng the rugged route.
Lo! Issuing from the mountain's rough defile,
Where frowns, on either side, a lofty pile,
A little band of ragged mountaineers
Halt on the ridge—whose milder summit rears,
The towering peaks and plain to intervene—
And gaze with wonder on the glorious scene.
Ah! marvel nothing if the eye may trace
The care lines on each sunbrowned hero's face;
Nor yet, if down his cheek, in silent show,
The trickling tides of tender feeling flow.
Tears, not of weakness, nor of Sorrow's mood,
As when, o'er banished joys, will Memory brood,
Far richer fount each fearless eye bedewed—
They wept the golden drops of gratitude.
Wherefore? Ask of the bleak and biting wind,
The rivers, rocks and deserts left behind;
The rolling prairie's waste of moveless waves,
Besprinkled with a sea of nameless graves;
The city fair, where widowed Loneliness
Weeps for her children in the wilderness;
The river broad, along whose icy bridge,
Their bleeding feet red-hued each frozen ridge;
The Christian world, that drove them forth to die
On barren wilds, beneath a wintry sky!
Would e'en the coldest heart forbear to say,
Good cause had Gratitude to weep that day?
Or censure, for a flow of manly tears,
That brave-souled band—the Mormon Pioneers?
Their names? Go view them on the Golden Page,
The gift of Glory to the coming age;
The van of Civilization's westward sweep,
The few that sowed what millions yet shall reap.
As some fair ship that waves its pennant high,
Bright with the splendors of the evening sky,
Their memory sails along the mystic sight.
Haloed with blessings, as a crown of light,
Floating down Fame's eternal river,
A thing of beauty and a joy forever.
And fifty years, like billows on the sand.
Have left their marks on Life's enruffled strand,
Since dawned the morning of that chosen day
When Israel's fold refound the Narrow Way,
And planted firm the Gospel's glorious tree,
On Joseph's land, the land of Liberty.
Tho' rudely torn from out the parent soil—
Its budding glories fierce Oppression's spoil—
And flung far out upon the burning plain,
To meet the doom its murd'rous foes ordain;


Like Aaron's rod, the Bough of Joseph blooms,
Brings forth, in gladness, 'mid the desert glooms,
With fragrance rare the sterile valley fills,
And blossoms on the Everlasting Hills.
Deep rooted in the chambers of the rock,
Unheeding war, and storm, and earthquake shock,
It stands where Hatred's fiery shafts are hurled,
Waving a welcome to the wond'ring world.
Afar, its shadows o'er the nations fall,
Again its branches climb the ocean wall,
And seeds of Life, sown with Almighty hand,
Are springing from the soils of every land.
And these shall bear, upon the world's broad face,
The fruits of Freedom for the human race,
Freedom for all, of every creed and hue,
Pagan or Christian, Moslem, Greek or Jew,
O'er all alike, the Olive blooms again,
Proclaiming peace on earth, good will to men.
There let it flourish, till from shore to shore—
When tide shall rest and time shall be no more,
And heaven's veil hath withered to a scroll—
The waves of righteousness o'er earth shall roll,
And Zion, the redeemed, the pure, the free,
Shall celebrate the WORLD'S GEEAT JUBILEE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

PEN SKETCH OF AN ILLUSTRIOUS
WOMAN.

ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH
(Continued.)
	Miss Snow received a careful education in
the best schools of the day, and this added to
the most excellent home training, laid the best
foundation for a useful and honorable life.
Nurtured and cherished under the influence of
strong parental love, with a true sense of duty
and strict obedience to the teachings of the
Savior, she developed all those womanly graces
which rendered her society attractive to those
with whom she was associated. As she merged
into beautiful womanhood, the precious endow-
ments of many noble gifts and qualities of
head and heart caused her to be much admired
and sought after by the sterner sex. She was
not a prude, but a modest, thoughtful, studious
and intelligent young lady, with exalted ideas
of life and its responsibilities. She remained
single, notwithstanding the many inducements
offered her to enter into the marriage relation,
until the order of plural marriage was revealed
through Joseph Smith, the prophet.
	And here, let me say, although it may be
looked upon as a superstition, that I believe
the Lord held in reserve certain women to
practically lay the foundation of this holy
order of patriarchal marriage, and in my mind
there is no doubt but "Sister Eliza" was one of
the chosen few. Many of her friends were ex-
tremely anxious to see her well settled in life,
but she was happy in herself and would not
submit to any interference in this matter.
	In her girlhood Miss Snow formed the ac-
quaintance of the famous preacher and scholar,
Alexander Campbell, also Walter Scott and
Sidney Rigdon, able ministers of the Campbell-
ite Church, and men of erudition. They as-
sisted her greatly in the study of the Scrip-
tures, and especially the ancient prophecies, in
which, though young, she was greatly inter-
terested, and which no doubt helped to prepare
her mind to receive the mission of Joseph
Smith, though she became a convert to the
Campbellite faith.
	Sister Eliza tells us that early in 1835 her
elder sister went to Kirtland on a visit to the
Saints, and on her return home bore a strong
testimony of the prophet and the latter-day
work, which impressed her as genuine, true re-
ligion, and yet she feared it was "too good to
be true." However, she trusted, and her faith
increased, and she was baptized on the 5th of
April, 1835, and has from that time ever been
a faithful and steadfast advocate of the princi-
ples of the Everlasting Gospel. In December,
1835, Sister Eliza went to Kirtland and board-
ed in the family of the prophet. While there

[Column 2]

she taught a select school for young ladies,
forming many pleasant acquaintances She
became very intelligent in regard to the prin-
ciples of the Gospel, from frequent conversa-
tions with the prophet, whose knowledge of
God and the plan of salvation seemed to un-
lock the past and future eternities. This was
the commencement of the friendship between
Joseph and Eliza, which was destined, unknown
to them at that time, ultimately to ripen into
the purest earthly affection, and be crowned
with their union in the holy bonds of matri-
mony, in the order of Celestial Marriage.
	Miss Snow returned again to the home of
her parents for a short time, but she was so
imbued with the spirit of gathering, that on
the 1st of January, 1837, she bade farewell to
the paternal home, to which she was most
fondly attached: and determined that hence-
forth she would follow the fortunes and share
the joys or afflictions of the Latter-day Saints.
	It was probably at this time she wrote her
poem, entitled, "What it is to be a Saint."

	"My heart is fixed, I know in whom I trust.
	'Twas not for wealth—'twas not to gather heaps
	Of perishable things—'twas not to twine
	Around my brow a transitory wreath,
	A garland decked wi.h gems of mortal praise,
	That I forsook the home of childhood, that
	I left the lap of ease—the halo-rife	
	With friendship's richest, soft and mellow tones;
	Affection's fond caresses, and the cup
	O'erflowing with the sweets of social life,
	With high refinement's golden pearls enriched.

	The whole poem is eloquent with tenderness.
It is published in Volume l, page 3. At that
time there is no doubt but Miss Snow gave up
her earthly ambitions believing that her relig-
ion was worth the sacrifice, yet keenly feeling
the separation from those in whose hearts she
held so dear a place.
	Reaching Kirtland she up took her abode in
the family of the prophet,aud became governess
to his children and was companion for Emma
during a number of years. She assisted in
many spiritual labors, and gave freely all
her means which she had brought with her
from her home to aid in building the Kirtland
Temple. She had no desire to receive any of
it back again, although afterwards she received
for part of it a homestead which she accepted
for her family.
	The persecution raged in Kirtland after the
Temple had been finished and dedicated, so
that many had to flee for their lives, and in
company with her own immediate family, who
had previously gathered to Kirtland Sister Eliza
started for the West, arriving in Far West,
Caldwell Co., Mo., on the 16th of July; she
remained there with her brother Lorenzo; who
was very sick at the house of Sidney Rigdon
and the family proceeded to Adam-ondi-Ahman
in Davies Co. There her father purchased
land from the "old settlers," paying them in
full. While there terrible events occurred, too
dreadful to record here,the picture is too horri-
ble. None but those who suffered in those
perilous times can ever realize the inhuman
persecutions of the Saints in Missouri.
	  To be Continued.


LETTER FROM A STRANGER.
	Reading an "Exposure of Mormonism," pur-
porting  to  be  written  by one "Mary Ettie V.
Smith," has  turned  my thoughts to Utah, and
I  am very anxious to know the character  and
record of that malignant lady, if she has either,
or if she really exists.  It is quite possible that
you  know nothing  of the book, but it is char-
acterized  by the  greatest  absurdities  and  the
most  glaring  inconsistencies,  together  with  a
degree of jealous spitefulness.  * * *
	Since reading  this  remarkable "Exposure"'


my  curiosity has  greatly increased  to  see and
know  more  of  that  wonderful  people,  that
wrested a home from the rocks and sands of the
western deserts, when  assailed  and  driven out
beyond  the  limits  of  civilization  by  modern
Christianity,  and  who  have  built  up their
Church so  rapidly, and  unite  in their charac-
teristics  such unity of purpose with such terri-
ble energy  that  the  "churches" stand  aghast,
and  the  politicians  wrestle  in  agony of spirit
with the “dreadful Mormon Problem.” I try
to be neutral  in  this  matter, for I am not, as
yet, a believer in  any form of  religion,  but my
sympathies  are with  the  Mormons, as it seems
to  me should be the  case  with any candid  and
fair-minded student  of the history of that peo-
ple.  By the way, I think  if  that  Autobiogra-
phy  of “Mary Ettie’s” was  circulated  every-
where,  it  would  make  converts  rather  than
enemies  to the Mormon  Church.  *  * *


FAITH WHAT IS IT.
	"Now faith is the  substance of things hoped
for, the evidence of things not seen," "Through
faith  we  understand  that  the  worlds  were
framed, by the  word  of God"  and  as  faith is
the moving cause of all action, in temporal con-
cerns, so it is in spiritual.  For the Savior has
said, and  that  truly  "That  he  that  beleiveth
and is baptized shall be saved," Mark 16  chap-
ter, 16 verse; as  we  receive  by  faith  temporal
blessings  all that we do receive, so  we  in  like
manner receive all spiritual blessings that we do
receive.  But faith is not only the  principle of
action,  but  power  also  in  intelligent  beings,
whether in  heaven. or  on  earth.  The Savior
says in explaining the reason why the disciples
could not cast out the  devil, it was because  of
their unbelief "for verily I  say  unto you, said
he, if you have faith as a grain of mustard seed,
ye shall say unto this  mountain  romove hence
to  yonder place, and it shall remove, and not-
thing  will  be  impossible  unto  you."  Also
Joshua  in the sight  of all  Israel bade  the sun
 and moon to stand still and it was done, Joshua
10 chapter and  12;  verse and many more pass-
ages of Scripture  I could  quote  to  show  how
great was the faith of the ancient Apostles and
Prophets. Faith then is the first great govern-
ing principle which  has  power, dominion  and
authority over all things;  without it there is no
power and  without  power  there  could  be no
creation nor existence.
	Therefor my sisters let  us be strong in  our 
faith in our Heavely Father,  and in all good
things and good works.  I remain,
		Your Sister  in  the Gospel.
				Frances B. Hart.


BIRTH-DAY SURPRISE PARTY.
	Friday Aug. 11th 1880 being  the  84th  an-
niversary of the birth of our beloved sister and
friend "Aunt  Dicy  Perkins." a number of her
friends gave her a surprise party.
	President John  D.  T.  McAllister, Samuel
Adams, Bro.  Winsor  and  wife,  Mother
Bird, Aunt  Kate Church, Mother  Clark, and
Sisters Jeffreys, Worthen, Higgins, Alger, Em-
pey  and other; they brought  with  them  both
picnic  and presents, and had  very enjoyable
time.
	During the  evening  they  sang  songs  made
speeches and gave toasts,  and  wished dear  old
"aunt  Dicy"  all  the  hapiness  allotted  to  the
faithful.
The party was gotten  up by  Sisters  Winsor
and  Jeffreys,and was indeed what they intended
it should be a real surprise.
		A. M. W., and L. D. P.
St. George Aug. 17, 1880.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PEOPLE’S TERRITORIAL CONVEN
			TION.

HEADQUARTERS PEOPLE'S TERRITORIAL
		CENTRAL COMMITTEE.
		SALT LAKE CITY  July 28, 1880.
	A People’s Territorial Convention, composed
of  delegates from the several counties ,is here-
by called to  convene  at  the City  Hall,  Salt
Lake  City, on Thursday, October 7th, 1880, a
6 P. M., to nominate a candidate for Delegate
to the Forty-seventh Congress,  and  to  transact
such other business as  may properly  come be-
fore the convention.
	The convention  will consist of seventy-three
delegates, apportioned  as  follows, based  upon
the population as  determined  by  the census of
1880:
COUNTY.                      NO.  COUNTY. 			 NO.
Beaver.....................................2	Box Elder.........................3
Cache......................................6	Davis................................3
Emery......................................1	Iron...................................2
Juab.........................................2	Kane.................................2
Millard....................................2	Morgan.............................1
Piute........................................1	Rich..................................1
Salt Lake................................16	San Juan...........................1
Sanpete...................................5	Sevier...............................2
Summit...................................2	Tooele..............................2
Uintah.....................................1	Utah.................................9
Wasatch...................................1	Washington......................2
			Weber.............................6
	Total................................................................................73
	The central  committees  of  the  respective
counties  and  citizens  generally  who  support
the People’s Ticket, are  requested to  take  the
initiative  in their  several  counties  in  calling
the necessary preliminary meetings for carrying
into effect the  object  of  this  call;  that  a full
and proper representation of the people may be
secured in the  convention;  also to  see  that all
persons who sustain the People’s ticket are pro-
perly  registered,  as  under  the  law  no  person
not  registered  can  vote;  and use all  legitimate
means to secure to the candidate chosen by the
convention as  delegate  the  entire  support  of
the voters of the People’s Ticket.
		By order of the committee.
						JOHN SHARP
							Chairman.
THEODORE McKEAN, Sec'y.


NOTES AND  NEWS.
 ADELAIDE  Neilson  is  dead.  How  many
strangers  to  her  personally,  but  witnesses  of
her  magnetic power  upon the stage, will "drop
for  her  the  silent  tear."  A  grand,  lovely,
beautiful  woman,  of  commanding  presence
and  exquisite  grace.  Her  interpretation  of
the muse of Shakespeare, i her life-like  and
vivid  impersonations  of  Juliet,  Imogene  and
Rosalind,  were  indeed  the  fulness  and  com-
pleteness of representation.  Miss Neilson was
endowed with gifts beyond her contemporaries
-we were  going to  say  beyond  herself.  She
held the  audience entranced whenever she ap-
peared.  She  was  a  queen  of  queens  in  her
profession, and right royally she reigned in the
hearts of the admirers  of  the  histrionic  art;
her  audience  never lost a tone  of her melodi-
ous voice, but watched for the words which fell
from her beautiful lips with as much  eagerness
as  if  they  had  been  strings  of  pearls.  She
took  one  back  in  fancy to  the  realms which
Shakespeare  so  exquisitely portrayed with his
immortal  pen.  We  see  his  characters as liv-
ing,  breathing  forms,  and  the  old  churches,
castles,  forests, bowers, and  all  the  vivid  pic-
tures rise before us in their majesty and fitness.
	EDMUND Kirke, in his life  Gen. Garfield,
says  his  driving  Humphrey Marshall  out of
Kentuchy was the most remarkable  campaign
that  occurred during the war  of  the rebellion.
Pres. Lincoln's opinion about it emphasizes the
lesson  of  the  General's life.  "Why," said he
to a distinguished  army officer who chanced to


be  with  him, "why did  Garfield in two weeks
do what would have taken one of  your regular
folks  two  months  to  accomplish?"  "Because
he  was  not  educated  at  West  Point," laugh-
ingly answered the West Pointer.  "No,"  said
Mr. Lincoln, "that  isn't  the  reason.  It is be-
cause when he was a boy he had to work for a
living.--Ex.

	INTO the  Royal  Academy reeeption  walked
a tallish  lady, slender, with delightfully fuzzy,
ruddy  hair,  great  and  gray,  solemn-looking
eyes sending forth serious  glances  from  under
the ruddy hair, tangled very far over the fore-
head.  She was what Mr.  Whistler would  call
a "symphony in yellow."  Her satin gown with
its long  train  was  of  lemon  color;  the  front
thereof was as of lemons candied  into a spark-
ling  condition, and the  sleeves  were of woven
hair, attached  here  and  there  with  sashes, or
belts, or  girdles  stolen from the morning mist.
Necklacewise  hung  jonquils,  and  diamonds
glittered here  and  there.  It  was  Mlle. Bern-
hardt, who seemed not at all interested in the
brilliant company, but  very much  in  the  pic-
tures,  especially  in  Mr.  Millais's  portrait of
Mr. Bright.--The Watchman.


LETTER.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Dear Friend—I sit down, as it were mechani-
cally, to write an  article for our dear  little pa-
per,  but you know how  prostrated I have  been
of late, and  still  feel  the  effects, so I at  once
succumbed  to  the  feeling  of  inertia  and  ina-
bility!  I decided to  simmer down  my writing
proclivities into a letteret to yourself, that you
might know my heart is on  the right side with
regard to you and the paper.  I will  give  you
a  synopsis  of  how  time  passed with  me while
sitting  day  after  day  alone.  Alone,  but  not
forgotten;  my  friends  were  hovering  around
me  all  the  time, bringing  me  anything they
thought would do me good, mentally and phy-
sically, and  help  restore  me;  and  I pondered
how  much  of  the  beautiful and angelic is un-
known till we stand in need!  then we are made
to know our friends, made to love them with a
deeper love, made to know and appreciate them
more than  ever.  Verily, “there is a silver lin-
ing  to  every cloud,” which  sickness and afflic-
tion develop and demonstrate.  I have so often
repeated my own lines—Angels still are on the
Earth! Yes, that  is  beautiful  truth!  and  I
have  again  experienced  it  within the last few
weeks.  One  thing  my illness  caused which I
shall  ever regret—I was not able to walk and
see the great Twenty-Fourth  Jubilee!  I could
not  have  walked  a  block;  I was  almost  the
only one left in our street.  I locked up all the
lower doors, and took my position at my upper
room window, heard the murmur of the mighty
cavalcade and the martial strains of the band,
and  my mind ran  into  strains  of  its  own, en-
gendered  by  the  day and  the event. "A calm
stole  over me—I was  alone with God and the
angels, for  I  felt  their  sweet infllittlee in the
very air I inhaled from my open window.  All
was  sweet peace  around me—the past and the
present  were  vividly before  me, and so, while
thousands  were  gazing  on  that  thrilling pro-
cession, that  lone woman was ranging the field
of thought, enjoying and rejoicing without one
regret  on  that  never-to-be-forgotten  morning,
July 24,1880—a day ever to be  remembered,
the  first  Jubilee of our Church  of  Latter-day
Saints  upon the  earth!  How  little  the world
know  of  this  wonderful  people!  How  little
the  people who have  come here determined to
live with  us, know or realize  who  or what we
are,  or  why we are here!  Alas!  how little com-
paratively we know of ourselves.  How  true is
that ancient scripture that says, “The Kingdom
of God  cometh  not with observation;” but al


is right to those who do right according to the
best light they have.
	Hold me in your heart, still reserve me a
spot whereon I can speak in the EXPONENT—
if only "Poets' corner"—and accept every good
wish for your prosperity in "Church and State,"
		From your friend,
						HANNAH T. KING.
	Salt Lake City, Aug. 24, 1880.


THE  BRIGHAM  YOUNG  ACADEMY.
		CONTINUED.
As  an  illustration, the  parable  of  "the  five
wise  and  five foolish virgins" is  related.  The
teacher  asks, "Who  will  volunteer  to  repeat
this  parable?"  Immediately  the  little  hands
of  perhaps  a  dozen  children  are  raised, with
eager  delight  at  the  distinction  shown them.
The one selected (invariably the first to  volun-
teer)  will  repeat, with perhaps faultless  preci-
sion, the words  of  this beautiful  story.  Noth-
ing is  arbitrary, all are left to act according to
their  conception of right and wrong;  and  with
pleasure  the  teacher can  see  the  gradual  de-
velopment of  the moral and intellectual capaci-
ties  of  the  human  mind as  comprehended in
the child-student.
	A half hour  of such  instruction,  together
with  the  customary rontine of reading, dicta-
tion,  arithmetic  and  writing,  (the  two  last
named  branches  being  taught upon improved
methods,  that  never  fail  to  give  satisfaction,
and  are  made specialties of) is given twice a
week.  Tuition in drawing, singing and  object-
lessons is given once a week, as also in hygiene,
thus  giving the little  ones an  idea  of  the  im-
portance  of  preserving  their  health,  and  by
what means it can best be accomplished.  Thus
the  monotonous  routine  of  school life is done
away  with  at  our Academy, and  instead  of a
feeling  of  repugnance, the  little  darlings  are
possessed with so keen a relish for learning that
nothing  less than  some  extraordinary tempta-
tion  could  induce them to  absent  themselves
from the school room.
	We will  leave  the Primary department and
proceed to the Intermediate.  This is a step in
advance, for  here the  scholars have their note
books  before  them, in  which  they write  a few
words  now and  then, listening with  attentive
ears  and  eager  looks  to  their teacher, whose
every expression  is  noted and  ideas treasured
by the  little  ones.  We will  begin  with  this
department, as  we  did  with  the  last, by refer-
ring  to  its  theological  class.  Here,  also, the
Book of Mormon and Bible are the  principal
exercises--the  former on Mondays  and  Thurs-
and the  latter on Tuesdays  and Fridays; from
these  books  the lecture  or  lesson being given,
which  is  simplified  according  to  the  under-
standing  of  the  pupils.  The  principles  and
incidents  are dwelt upon in a manner that will
reach the  comprehension of  all, each child be-
ing  given  the privilege  of  asking questions in
relation to the subject before them.  A glance
at their note books  will quickly tell how much
has  been learned.  For instance, we shall see a
map showing the course taken by Lehi and his
family while  journeying  from  Palestine, their
landing in South America, etc., etc.;  the prin-
cipal  settlements  formed by the  Nephites and
the strongholds of the Lamanites;  all of which
show that  these little boys  and  girls are  gain-
ing  understanding  and  knowledge in relation
to  Church  doctrine  and history, and otherwise
receiving  information  of a  highly moral  and
religious character--an amount of information
too  that  is far in advance  of  the limited stock
possessed by the majority of Latter-day Saints.
			To be Continued.


EACH Primary Association in S. L. Co.,  is re-
quested to send a statistical and&nbsp;financial report
to  Mrs.  Ellen C. S. Clawson,  in  time  for  the
Sisters' Conference, Sept. 21, 1880.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00  Ten  copies  for  the  price  of  nine.  Advertising
rates: Each square,  ten  lines  of  nonparell space, one
time, $2.50:  per  month, $3.00. A liberal discount  to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower  West  Room of  the  Council
House,  South  Temple  Street.  Business  hours  from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day  except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, SEPTEMBER 1, 1880.


[Column 1]

AN APPEAL TO WOMEN VOTERS.

"ETERNAL VIGILANCE IS THE PRICE OF
LIBERTY."

	THIS is a true and wise saying. It is one too
that the Latter-day Saints, men and women,
should ponder well in their hearts and diligently
act upon in their every day lives. There are
many duties which demand attention, and which
if neglected, bring people into some sort of bon-
dage, for instance if prayer is neglected, Satan
has power over that individual to lead him
astray, and bring him in bondage to Satan. It
is very customary in this day to talk of freedom
and liberty, this is spoken of as a free country.
Everybody has certain inalienable rights, which it
is an imperative duty to maintain and exercise for
themselves. One of these rights is the ballot.
In Utah this privilege is secured to woman.
Then it is just as important she should exercise
it as it is that man should. The influence of
woman characterizes society, and when woman
has the opportunity of using her influence as a
member of the Commonwealth, it is her impera-
tive duty to assist all that lies in her power, in
the advance, in the maintaining of good order,
and in the protecting or defending of the govern-
ment of which she forms a part. A woman's
vote counts just the same as a man's, and the
women of Utah, who possess this blessed right
should not hold it lightly, nor esteem it a little
thing. Every woman who is old enough to cast
a vote and is a citizen born, or naturalized,
should go to the polls with the same sacred sense
of duty with which she kneels down to pray.
What wisdom would there be in praying to God
to give us liberty, if we do not appreciate it
enough to do our share towards maintaining it?
None. If there is any woman who has not
registered her name according to the law of the
Territory, so that she can vote legally, she
should do so. The books will be open for those
who have failed to register heretofore, on the
13th of September, which will be the second
Monday in this month, at the office of the
Assessor and Collector in each county. Sisters
go and be sure, if you are not already positive.
The opportunity for registering will last one
week only, and whoever desires to register must
do so within that time. At the recent election
held on the 2nd of August, for electing county
officers, many persons went expecting to cast
their vote, and were disappointed, because their
names were not found on the county register.
The registration for the city, or for municipal
elections, will not answer for the county. Do
not fail, sisters, to put yourselves right in this
matter, so that you may be prepared to cast
your vote, which will be quite an important
factor at the November election. What will ap-
ply to the sisters in this county will also hold
good for the women of every other county in

[Column 2]

the Territory of Utah, Sisters, let us be wise
and act well our part, that there may be no
blame attached to us in this matter, which is of
vital interest. In this grand department of
public weal, in this juncture of affairs, which
calls for united effort, woman bears the same
relation to the subject at issue as man, and
wherever there are serious entanglements or
difficulties, woman is as great a sufferer
as man, and many times more so
The burden of oppression, the horror of
war often falls heaviest on defenceless women
and children. God has given us freedom, let us
be grateful. He has given us the ballot; let us
use it wisely for the protection of those we love
and the maintenance of peace and good order.
Let us act wisely and in concert with our breth-
ren in this matter, for what benefits one
blesses the other correspondingly, and there
must be union of effort with men and women, if
any really great good is to be accomplished.


FROM SANPETE TO JUAB COUNTY.
		NOTES BY THE WAY.
	Early on Saturday morning, August 14th, our
party  left Fayette for  Levan.  The distance is
26 miles, and the  roads  were dreadfully  cut up
and very dusty.  Sister Eliza R. in a light buggy,
drove the whole distance.  She is a good chariot-
eer, having driven  a  team most of the way out
of  Nauvoo.  Arrived  in  Levan in time for din-
ner, went directly to Bishop  Aaggaard's, where
Sister  Goldsbrough  was  in  waiting expecting
our arrival.  Bro. Knight had  brought her over
to meet the sisters  there  and  take  them on to
Nephi.  There was  a primary meeting of the
children in the afternoon and a special meeting
of the Relief Society in the evening, to which
the brethren and young people were cordially
invited. There was a good attendance  and all
seemed to enjoy hearing the sisters talk.
	The next  place defined in the programme was
Nephi, whither, on the following morning, Bro.
Knight, with a carriage load  of  sisters, wended
his way. Arrived  at Sister Goldsbrough's  before
noon.  In Nephi  we attended  three  meetings.
The  Primary  Associations  met  together  and
their singing and exercises were excellent.  The
children seem to appreciate having  meetings of
their own.  In  fact  everywhere  the  children
seemed to enjoy the spirit of the Lord  in  these
precious little meetings.  In  the evening  a spe-
cial meeting of the Relief Society  convened and
there was a large audience.  Many young people
were present and great interest was  manifested
in  what  was  spoken.  Sister  Eliza  talked
over  an  hour  without  pausing,  and
her  wise  counsel  and  excellent  instruc-
tions  flowed  forth  as  it  were  fresh  from
the fountain of her soul.  We stopped  with  the
Sisters Pitchforth.  In the morning before leav-
ing for Mona, the next  place  to  be  visited,  we
were shown the job printing press of Miss Leonora
Pitchforth, it is rather odd to  find a young lady
with a printing press, performing  all  the  work
herself.  She does the necessary printing  of  re-
cords,  etc.,  for  the  county,  and  many  little
things  that  would otherwise have to be sent for
some  distance  from  Nephi,  the  nearest  press
being in Provo.  We saw some specimens of her
work which  were  very  neatly  executed.  We
say success  to  the  young  lady's  enterprise  in
printing, we think it shows a good degree of  en-
ergy and she certainly  deserves patronage.
	On the morning of  the  16th, Brother Knight
and  wife  and  Sister  Goldsbrough  took  us  to
Mona, at which place we were to take  the train
for  home.  Two meetings were  held  there, one
with  the  Primary  Association  and  the  other
with  the  Relief  Society.  These  were the last
[column break]
meetings we  attended,  making  thirty  in  all
since  leaving  home.  Everywhere  the  people
seemed prosperous  and  happy.  The sisters  are
making improvement in everything that is prac-
ticable  for the Relief  Society to undertake that
will tend to the general  good, and a good degree
of  enterprise  is  almost  everywhere  apparent.
Spiritually there is  a  great  change  noticeable
since  the  organizations  of  women  have  been
formed.  Many of the sisters who could not offer
up a  simple prayer in public when  called upon,
are now able to speak  intelligently  on the prin-
ciples of the Gospel and to preside with  dignity
in the sisters'  meetings  over  large  assemblies
even when many brethren are present.
	It is  only a little over a year  since  the  first
Primary  Associations  were  organized  in  San-
pete  County, and  others  were  organized in Au-
gust  just  one  year  ago;  and  the  improvement
which has been  made  by  the  children is  very
great indeed.  Little  boys  and  girls  will  open
and  close  their  meetings  with  prayer;  they
will  rise up and speak  of  the goodness of God,
and the joy  there is in doing good.  In singing,
reciting  and  writing  essays,  they  are rapidly
progressing,  and  it  is  a  source  of  pleasure
to  travel  from  place  to  place  and  see  the
unity of feeling  that  exists,  and  the beautiful
and  teachable  spirit which the  children  have
when  they  come  together  in  their  meetings.
This spirit and  blessing  will  go  with  them to
their homes and  their  playgrounds, and  will be
a potent influence in directing the  little ones in
the path of duty and obedience.
	We thank  the  good  people  of  Sanpete  and
Juab for their pleasing attentions,  and shall not
soon forget the many hearty  welcomes, nor the
fervent "God  bless you," from  the  bishops,
brethren and sisters, wherever we tarried on our
way. It is very gratifying to visit the people in
the different  settlements  and  learn  how they
have  toiled and  persevered  under  various dif-
ficulties to build up the country  and extend the
borders  of Zion; and to find them engaged heart
and soul in furthering the purposes of our Father,
to establish  his  kingdom,  preach  the  gospel,
build  temples, and  redeem  Israel. It is  a re-
markable feature of this latter-day work  that go
where  you will among  the  Saints,  there is the
same genuine  spirit and  influence  which is in-
tensely  Mormon, and  is  always perceptible to
the initiated.  It  is  this  strong  cord  of union
which strengthens and  binds  together the peo-
ple of God.  The  more they  become acquainted
with each others' hearts, the  more  closely will
they be knit together in the bonds of that beau-
tiful love which will eventually bring peace and
good will to all.


HOME  AFFAIRS.
THE  Relief  Societies of Utah County held
their Quarterly Conference  on  Friday  Aug. 27.
We acknowledge  the  courtesy  of an  invitation
and sincerely regret not being able to attend.
	The Primary Association  of  the  14th  Ward
held their annual conference on Friday Aug. 27.
Several visitors were  present,  and the  meeting
was  one  of  special  interest.  Sisters  Horne,
Woodruff,  Clawson  and  others  addressed the
children.
	We publish in this issue the poem  by  Bishop
O. F. Whitney, written for the Jubilee, a part of
which was read in the Tabernacle by Col. David
McKenzie at the celebration of the last 24th of
July, and afterwards  published  in  the  Deseret
News aud Contributor.  It now appears  for  the
first time in its complete form.
	The part left out before is a touching pen picture
of Nauvoo and  the Martyrdom  of  the  Prophet
and Patriarch and a glorious tribute to the Pio-


neers of '47.  The young author is not  yet  very
generally known to the public as a poet, but all
who read this grandly eloquent  poem,  may  see
he has the true inspiration of poetry.
	THE general meeting of the Senior and Junior
Retrenchment associations was held in the 14th
Ward  Assembly  Rooms,  Saturday  August 28,
Counselor  Phebe  Woodruff  presiding.  Sung
"Come let us anew,"  prayer by Mrs. S. M. Hey-
wood, sang "Now  let  us  rejoice  in  the  day of
salvation." Minutes of last  meeting  read  and
accepted, also minutes of Y.L.M.I.A. 10th Ward
were read.  Mrs.  Woodruff made a few  good re-
marks.  Mrs.  E. B.  Wells, Mrs. B. W. Smith,
Mrs. S.  M.  Kimball,  Mrs.  Hannah  T. King,
Mrs.  Julia  Howe,  Mrs.  Elizabeth  Barney,  a
Norwegian Sister,  Mrs.  Clara C.  Cannon,  Mrs.
Prescindia  Kimball  and  Mrs.  S. M.  Heywood
each addressed the meeting.  The  principal  ob-
ject was the suffrage  and many good ideas were
advanced.  The  principles  of  the  gospel were
also freely spoken upon and the meeting was de-
cidedly an interesting  one.  Closed  by  singing
"O my Father thou that  dwellest."  Benedic-
tion by Mrs. Amy A. Thomas.
	THERE will be an opportunity given to register
for voting at  the County Court  House in each
County,  for  those whose  names are not already
upon  the county register.  Go to the office of the
assessor and  collector  on Monday the  13th, day
of September or the day  or so following  during
that week, and  make  yourself  sure  if you  are
not already positive, so that you will not lose the
opportunity of voting for the  delegate  to  Con-
gress  for the  Territory  of  Utah.  Because you
voted at the election  of city  officers it does  not
entitle you to cast your vote for County or Terri-
torial officers.  Don't forget to register.  Previous
to the Territorial Convention which will be held
in this city on  Thursday  the  7th,  of  October,
delegates will be chosen from each of the differ-
ent  counties to represent the people and make
the nomination  of a candidate to be voted for as
delegate  from  Utah  to  the  coming Congress.
The sisters should  be  on hand to  perform their
part in  this  matter, and  attend  such  meetings
as may  be called  in  the  locality  where they re-
side, manifesting their interest  as  citizens  and
their desire  to attend to  every duty,  and  fulfill
to the  best of  their ability  every  responsibility
resting upon  them as interested members of the
body politic.
	BIRTHDAY PARTY.--A  pleasant  party  of
friends assembled, by invitation, at the residence
of  Apostle  Orson  Pratt,  Monday,  Aug.  23,  to
celebrate the fiftieth birthday of Mrs. Marian R.
Pratt.  There  were  present Pres.  John Taylor,
Apostle Joseph F. Smith and Gen. D. H. Wells,
Elders  C.  W.  Penrose,  J.  Bull,  Father  John
Lyon, and several other gentlemen and quite a
number  of  ladies.  The  afternoon  passed  off
agreeably in  conversation and croquet, in which
last President Taylor joined with much apparent
interest.  Dinner was served about eight o'clock,
and  after it was over the  music began.  A sere-
nade on the outside was the first intimation, and
Mrs. Pratt invited the musicians into  the  house
to  partake  of  refreshments.  The  string  band
consisted  of  Prof.  Thomas,  W.  Weihe,  and
others, who played  a  few favorite  airs, making
sweet melody.  Some beautiful songs were sung
in  an  effective  manner  by  Misses  Colebrook
Pratt and Wells, and  Misses  Slade  and Mantle
read quaint selections of  poetry in a happy style.
Father  Lyon, in  good old Scotch, read an  origi-
nal  poem, written  by himself and  dedicated to
Mrs. Pratt, recalling  the  time when she was  a
fair and goodly young woman, and drew a pretty
picture of her life, wishing her many  happy re-
turns  of  the  day and an  increase  of  prosperity
nd every blessing.  The lady's brother also read
[column break]
a history of her life in verse written by himself.
The whole affair was a complete success.  Some
elegant and  choice  gifts  were  presented to her
by  relatives  and  friends,  together  with their
universal good wishes, and blessings upon bless-
ings.  In a few days fifty years will have elapsed
since Elder  Orson  Pratt was  first baptized into
the Church.  He is, we understand, older in the
Church than any member now living.
	PLEASANT FAMILY  GATHERING.--On  Wed-
nesday, the 25th  ult., upwards of forty children
and grandchildren  of  Brother Joseph and Sister
M. Isabella  Horne assembled, with  other rela-
tives and a few friends, in  their  dear  old  home
in  this  city, previous  to  the  departure of the
eldest son  and brother, with  his family, for Ari-
zona.  The company numbered  about sixty  in
all,  the  invited  guests  being  President  John
Taylor  and  wife  and  Hon. George  Q. Cannon
and  sister, who were  acquainted  with  Brother
and Sister Horne when they were first  married,
and  had  been  intimately associated with them
ever  since.  During  the  evening  both  of  the
gentlemen  expressed  their respect and  esteem
for the family, spoke of the many  pleasant asso-
ciations  they  had  had  with  the  family,  and
blessed  them  one  and  all  in  the  name  of the
Lord.  The afternoon was mostly occupied with
the  family  dinner, which  was  sumptuous  and
befitting the occasion.  The evening was  spent
in  music, songs,  addresses, from  both  parents
and children--Brother and Sister Horne singing
one of  the old songs they used to sing when their
eldest children  were  playing  about  their  knee.
They both  gave  some excellent counsel to their
children, besides  telling them many interesting
incidents  in  their  early  lives.  During the eve-
ning a beautiful  silver  fruit  stand, filled  with
luscious  fruit,  was  presented  to  Brother  and
Sister  Horne by  their  children.  All was love,
joy, peace and harmony,  there  being only one
thing  to mar the pleasure of the  company--the
absence  of one daughter, with her  husband and
children, from  the  family circle, they  not being
able  to  make  it  convenient to be present.  The
family have been scattered from  one  end of the
Territory to the  other, and  it  has  been  many
years since  they  all  assembled  together in the
old home.  One praiseworthy feature of this large
family is, not one  of  the  children or grandchil-
dren  is accustomed  to  the  use of  either tobacco
or  liquor, and  most  of  them  keep  the  Word of
Wisdom in other respects.--COM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		55


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

	Minutes of general meeting held in Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Hall, July 17, 1880. President
M. Isabella Horne presiding. Choir sang: "Ill
praise my maker while I've breath." Prayer by
Zina D. Young. Singing "O my Father." Min-
utes of Young Ladies Mutual Improvment Asso-
ciation of the third Ward were read. Also of the
Primary Associations of the 18th and 11th,
Wards. Pres. Horne said, I am pleased to
meet with you and wish to explain that when
Conference interferes with our regular semi-
monthly meetings they stand adjourned until
the next regular meeting day. Pres. Taylor is
expected here this afternoon.
	E. R. Snow said, this is our last meeting be-
fore the 24th of July, and we have some busi-
ness to present relating to the celebration. Yes-
terday Sister Zina and I went to Bountiful, and
held sweet communion with the Relief Society
there. In the afternoon the children assembled
and their deportment and attention made an
impressive appearance. About three hundred
were present their Conference was called unex-
pectedly. We were surprised with their ready
replies to questions. Sister Rogers told us that
of those who attended the association not one

[Column 2]
had died with diphtheria or measles which had
prevailed there. The deaths had all been among
those who did not attend the Primary Associa-
tion.
	If any of the different Ward Relief Societies
have made arrangements to ride in the procession
on the approaching 24th they are requested to
report to this meeting. Arrangements have been
made for carriages for the primary and stake
Representatives. At our meeting in the Council
House I reported 290 Relief Society branches in
the Territory. There are more than ten branches
outside the Ter. 300 Belief Society Branches is
as definite an estimate as we are now able to
make, this number will be inscribed on our
banner.
	Mrs. M. A. Freeze Pres. Young Ladies M. I.
stake organization, said we will be represented
in the procession by central and stake committees,
we wish to honor the occasion as it is one of
importance and not likely to occur again in less
than fifty years.
	Sister Zina D. Young, refered to the Home In-
dustries being represented in the procession.
Said three carriages would be devoted to the silk
department.
	Sister Bathsheba Smith said, one carriage is to
be adorned with ladies ornamental needle work
and I hope the sisters will contribute of their
handiwork to make it creditable.
	President Taylor having arrived, and being in-
vited to address the sisters,said, I was not aware
till last evening of this meeting, at least I had
forgotton it, and had arranged to leave this City
this afternoon,going North to attend meetings at
Ogden, during the Weber Stake Conference. I
understand that one of the objects of this meet-
ing is the ordination of officers of the Relief
Society who were elected at your Conference
held on Saturday June 19, 1880, at the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall.
	On the occasion of the organization of the Re-
lief Society, by the Prophet Joseph Smith
at Nauvoo, I was present Sister Emma Smith
was elected president and Sisters Elizabeth Ann
Whitney and Sarah M. Cleveland her Counsel-
ors. The Prophet Joseph then said that Sister
Emma was named in the revelation recorded in
the Book of Doctrine and Covenants concerning
the Elect Lady, and furthermore that she had
been ordained to expound the Scriptures. By my
request my Secretary Elder L. John Nuttall read
to you relative to this meeting from the "Book
of the Law of the Lord," at your Conference
held June 19th, ult., which explained what was
then done.
	The ordination then given did not mean the
conferring of the Priesthood upon those sisters
yet the sisters hold a portion of the Priesthood
in coneciton with their husbands. (Sisters
Eliza R. Snowand Bathsheba W. Smith,stated
that they so understood it in Nauvoo and have
looked upon italways in that light.)
	As I stated, at that meeting, that I was called
upon by the Prophet Joseph and I did then or-
dain Sisters Whitney and Cleveland, and blessed
Sister Emma and set her apart. I could not
ordain these sisters to anything more or to great-
er powers than had been conferred upon Sister
Emma who had previously been ordained to ex-
pound the Scriptures, and that Joseph said at
that time, that being an elect lady had its signi-
ficance,and that the revelation was then fulfilled
in Sister Emma being thus elected to preside
over the Relief Society.
	However after this organization at Nauvoo,
much disturbance arose among the sisters. I do
not wish to be personal especially as Sister Em-
ma is now dead, but think that some of those
circumstances should be known. Sister Emma
got severely tried in her mind about the doctrine
of Plural Marriage and she made use of the posi-


ition she held to try to pervert the minds of  the
sisters in relation to that  doctrine.  She tried to
influence my first wife and to make  her believe
that the revelation was not correct.  Sister Tay-
lor was very much  troubled  thereat and  asked
me what it meant.  Soon after, the Prophet Jos-
eph was in my house and I spoke to him in my
wife’s presence, in relation to what sister Emma
had said,  and  Joseph  replied, “Sister Emma
would dethrone Jehovah to accomplish her pur-
pose if she sould.” Some  of you  sisters  are ac-
quainted with what I refer to  and  of the  preju-
dice that then existed.
	After the death of the Prophet Joseph, in con-
sequence  of  the  confusion  then  introduced
PresidentB.  Young thought it best to defer  the
the operations of this organization—and the  la-
bors of  the  Society  ceased,  until  he  organized
the sisters again  here in this City.
	Those influences  then  introduced and  then
operating were not right, for  the sisters  in  the
various  organization  since  have  accomplished
much good and should not be deprived  of their
rights and privileges  because  others  have done
wrong.
	Pres. Taylor then set apart the Relief Society
Officers as follows.
	Eliza Roxie  Snow Smith,  I  lay  my  hands
upon thy  head in the  name  of  Jesus  and  by
authority of the holy priesthood  I set thee apart
to preside over the Relief Societies in the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and I confer
on thee this power and authority and ordain thee
to this office, that thou mayst  have power to ex-
pound the Scriptures, and  to  bless, elevate  and
strengthen thy sisters.  The Lord is well pleased
with thee, with  thy  diligence, fidelity  and zeal
in the interest  of  thy  sisters. he has  blessed
thee  exceedingly,  and  will  continue  to  bless
thee forever and ever;  and I bless  thee  with all
thine heart can  desire in righteousness, and seal
upon thee all  former  blessings  conferred  upon
thee by the Holy  Priesthood,  in  the  name of
Jesus. Amen.
	Zina Diantha Young  Smith, I  lay my  hands
upon thee in the name of Jesus and by authority
of the holy priesthood, and ordain thee to be First
Counselor to Eliza R. Snow.  Honor thy calling
which is an honorable one; sustain and assist thy
President and thou shalt have joy in thy labors;
thou shalt be a wise counselor;  the  Lord is well
pleased with  thee  and  will sustain  thee, and no
man shall deprive  thee  of  thy  blessings;  thou
shalt have the gift  to heal  the  sick,  and  thou
shalt be blessed in time and in  eternity; In the
name of Jesus. Amen.
	Elizabeth Ann Smith  Whitney, In the name
of the Lord Jesns Christ  and  by  virtue  of  my
office and calling in  the  holy priesthood, I bless
thee and set thee apart to  be Second  Counselor
to Eliza R.Snow Smith. Thou hast been tried and
found faithful and God has helped thee, and thou
shalt be blessed in thine  old age;  and thy name
shall be honored  through  all generations.  Thy
heart shall be filled with peace and joy,and thou
shalt be a wise counselor in thine old age.  Thou
shalt continue to  be  esteemed  as  a Mother in
Isreal, and  thou shalt  continue to be blessed as
thou hast been;  and when thou  shalt  have fin-
ished thy labors, thou shalt have a place  in  the
Celestial Kingdom of God  with  thine husband.
Thou shalt be blessed with all the blessings and
privileges pertaining to this  office and  calling,in
the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen.
Sarah Melissa Granger Kimball.  In the name
of the  Lord  Jesus  Christ and  by  virtue  of  the
holy priesthood I set  thee apart  to the office  of
Secretary of the Relief Societies  in Zion;  to  re-
cord important events and keep a faithful record.
Thou shalt be quick to discern and a ready writer.
Seek more earnestly for the  Spirit of  the Lord,
and thou shalt be blessed more  than  thou  hast
ever had power to  conceive  of.  As  thou  hast
been preserved in life, thou shalt continue to be
preserved.  I seal upon thee, thy  former  bless-
ings, and thou shalt  be honored  in time and in
eternity  and have a seat in  the Celestial King-
dom of God, in the name of Jesus. Amen.
	President Taylor  then  said,  God  bless  the
Treasurer Sister Horne,and bless her with every
blessing that her heart desires in  righteousness,
and Sister Bathsheba Smith, and  God  bless  all
the faithful,  who  love  Israel  and  keep God’s
commandments, do this and every promise here.
tofore made you shall be fulfilled  and more than
now has entered into your  hearts to conceive of.
	The President then took his leave to go by the
afternoon train  to Ogden.
	Sister Bathsheba Smith referred to the Proph-
et  Joseph  instructing  the  sisters  to  conduct
their meetings in accordance with parliamentary
usages.
	Sister Whitney  than sang  one  of  her  sweet
songs of Zion in the language which was spoken
and sung (the Prophet  Joseph  said) by our first
parents in  the  Garden  of  Eden.  Sister  Snow
explained that Joseph Smith told Mother Whit-
ney “If she would use the  gift  with  wisdom  it
should remain with  her as  long  as  she  lived.'
Sister  Zina  then gave the interpreation.  The
theme of which was rejoicing and praise to  the
Great Author and  Giver of good.
	Sister Phebe Woodruff being called on to speak,
said I am greatly pleased to see  my sisters mov-
ing in such  order.  My  heart  rejoices in  what
my eyes have witnessed, and my ears heard this
day.  May we ever be humble and faithful.
	Sister Snow  called attention  to the political
Primary meeting to be held the following Wednes-
day  E.  B.  Wells read  the  call  from  central
committee, political, and urged the sisters to  at-
tend the Primary meeting that  they  would feel
interested enough in the election to vote.  Stake
Pres. M. I. Horne followed  on the same subject.
	Sister Louie Felt  gave  some  instructions to
the Young Ladies relating to the celebrrtion.
	Pres. A. M.  Cannon having  come  in was in-
vited to speak.  Said he  was  pleased and inter-
ested in what he had heard, particularly  what
was said  in  relation  to  voting.  He  hoped the
sisters would remember that “Eternal vigilence,
was  the  price  of liberty.” The  sisters  ought
not to be unmindful of their  political duties and
privileges even though all seemed  calm.  If  all
would vote for  those  who  fear  God  we  would
continue to be a free people.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks.  Choir sang,
Doxology.  Benediction  by  President  A.  M.
Cannon.


54		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

	The Primary Association of Woodruff, held
their first anniversary June 19, 1880. Present
were several of the brethren, President of the
Relief Society and her Counselors, and many of
the parents of the children. After the opening
exercises Brothers Putman and Cornia, ad-
dressed the children encouraging them to be
punctual in attending meeting after which
there were songs and recitations by the children.
Dancing was then engaged in for a short time.
Picnic was passed around when they were dis-
missed, all feeling they had enjoyed themselves
very much.
	We have a small settlement and very much
scattered, that very many of the children are
not able to attend, but all are trying to do the
best they can.
	During the year cards of merit have been
distributed, and the children take great intrest
in the meetings. They have pieced a very nice
quilt for the temple, and have nearly pieces
enough for another.
	The following are the officers. Ruth Cornia,

[Column 2]
President, Clarissa Putman and Adeline Harri-
son, Counselors; Elizabeth Lee, Treasurer.
				TRYPHENA BRYSON Sec'y.

	The Conference of the Manti Primary Asso-
ciation—North and South Wards—was held
in the Bowery on Sunday, Aug. 22, at three
P. M. There was a good attendance of the
members of the Association, and also of the
parents of the children. The meeting was
called to order by Sister Casto, president of
the South Ward. Choir sang. Prayer by
George Braithwaite. Choir sang. Minutes of
conjoint meeting held August 11 were read,
also financial statement of each ward. Both
wards had donated to the Temple and new
Meeting House, and helped Elders going on
missions.
	The programme was then presented to the
audience, which consisted of a varied selection
of essays, songs, recitations and other exercises,
the first in order being music by the Brass
Band; Exercise, "Dispensation of the fulness of
times," class conducted by Sister Lucia Cox;
Song, "The shells we gathered long ago," Mary
C. and Annie, accompanied on the organ by
Mary Westensko; Class Exercise, "Story of
David and Goliath," conducted by Elizabeth
Luke; Class Exercise, "Relation of God to
man," conducted by Eva Cox; Essay on "Obe-
dience," Emmeline Hansen; Class Exercise,
"Revelation of God to man, eonducted by Ma-
tilda Alder; Dialogue, "Between a Gentile and
Mormon Boy," Wm. Peacock, and Wm. Cox;
Recitation, "The Mother's Prayer," Elizabeth
Luke; Song, "Lulu," Edna and Verney Snow;
Class Exercise, on "Faith and Repentance,"
conducted by Hannah Westensko; Music,
Brass Band; Recitation, "I can and I can't,"
Geo. Braithwaite; Essay on "Confidence,"
Elizabeth Hanson; Song, "Li[-]tle Footsteps,"
Diantha and Eunice Billings; Questions and
Answers, Hannah Munk and Annette Alder;
Reading, "Housework," Rose Brown; Recita-
tion, "Table Rules;" Annie Ludwigson; Song,
'-The Boy and Cuckoo," Matilda Alder and
Mary Keller, with organ accompaniment.
	At the close of the programme, Bishop Jen-
sen said he was happy to see the progress made
by the children of the Association, and hoped
the parents would see it their place to attend
the meetings often and countenance the presi-
dents and their assistants, and encourage them
by their presence.
	Bishop Reid said he was deeply concerned
in the welfare of the children, and we could
not allow our children to grow up without be-
ing educated in the knowledge of God. The
pure in heart were to be led and guided into
all truth. Our children were pure, and this
was the time when they should be taught in
purity and truth. This was their seed time;
and as the seed is sown in the ground, so should
truth be sown in the hearts of the children,
and the rain and dew of heaven would water
and nourish the same, by the Spirit and grace
of God.
	President Maiben, after reading a portion of
the Book of Mormon, remarked, the Lord said
"Snffer little children to come unto me;" and
great would be the reward of those who under-
took to do anything to train the youth of Zion;
and thanked Sieter Casto and Sister Tennant
and their assistants for their care and atten-
tion in training the members of the Manti
Primary Association.
	The choir then sang, "Let Zion in her beauty
rise." Benediction by Brother James Craw-
ford.
	WILLIE REID and ELIZABETH LUKE,
							Secretaries.

	We have had some good times here in Lake
Town lately, having received a visit from the
President ef the Stake, Sister Julia Lindsay,
and her Counselors. There was a large at


tendance  of  members,  who,  as  usual, highly
appreciated the  good instructions  given  us by
these  sisters.  Bro. Lindsay and  our  Bishop's
first  counselor,  Bro.  Ephraim  Watson, being
present, were  called  upon to set  apart some of 
the  sisters  to  fill  offices.  Our  Primary Asso-
ciation being destitute  of a President for some
time, Sister Mary  Ellen Findlay was appointed
and  set apart to fill that office.
	We have had a long, cold winter and spring,
and our meetings have  not  been  so  very  well
attended, but  since the weather  has  been  fine
the  sisters  are  getting more alive to their du-
ties.  We celebrated the 4th  of  July on Mon-
day; the  brethren  took their  teams and we all
wended our way to the Lake shore, where there
was  a  bowery  erected,  at  the  top  of  which
floated the glorious stars and stripes, to remind
us of our freedom.  The  Declaration  of  Inde-
pendence was  read by Sister Sarah Ann Nebe-
ber.  Bro.  Robert S. Spence, being  appointed
Orator  of  the  day,  delivered  an  interesting
oration, listened  to by an  attentive and apprec-
ciative audience.  Bro. Joseph Irwin delivered
a stump speech, which was very interesting
amusing. There  were  some select pieces sung
by the  Lake  Town  choir, after  which  we  re-
tired under the beautiful foliage of the trees to
partake of a sumptuous picnic.  In  the  after-
noon  there were  recreations  of  all kinds, such
as are generally indulged in on  such occasions;
all  seemed  to  enjoy themselves, both  old and
young. In the evening we had a very enjoya-
ble time "tripping the light fantastice toe" at a
party, at  which  our  President  of the Relief 
Society made her  appearance with  two quilts,
the proceeds  of  which were  to  be  divided for
the Emigration Fund and the building of  Lo-
gan Temple.  Thus you see that Lake Town is
yet alive, if not often  heard from, and striving
with the others to do her part in the good work
that  we  are  all  engaged  in.  Yours truly in
the Gosepl of Peace.
				MARY NEBEKER, Pres't,
				HARRIET LLOYED, Sec'y.
			------------------
	The Relief Society  of  Fairview  held their
Eleventh Annual meeting at the meeting house
on  the  14th  of  June,  1880.  Our  respected
Bishop, A.  Tucker, and quite a number of the
brethren met  with  us.  The  choir and string
band  were  also  in  attendance  by invitation.
After the opening exercises, reading of minutes
and reports, Bishop  Tucker said he felt thank-
ful  for  the  blessings  we  this  day  enjoyed.
Thanked the sisters for the good they had done,
and are doing for the building up of Zion  and
looking after the sick and needy. spoke very
encouragingly  of  their  labors, and  gave  good
and  timely counsel.
	Father Brady related  some  of his early ex-
perience in the Church, and  congratulated the
sisters on the progress they had made.
	"The Women  of  Utah" was sung by Sisters
T. A. Stevens and Kesiah Brady.
	Pres. M.  A.  Pritchett  felt  to  thank the
brethren for  their  attendance, also the  choir
and all those who had  contributed to the en-
joyment on the  occasion.  Thanked the sisters
for  the  union  and  generosity they had  mani-
fested, and  felt  to  thank  the  Lord  for  every
good  gift we receive at his hand.  Urged  the
sisters to take and to read the WOMAN'S EXPO-
NENT.  The  time  was  spent  in  music, recita-
tions,  etc.,  until  two  o'clock  P. M., when the
Relief Society sisters, with  their husbands and
invited  guests  sat down to a bounteous repast,
superinteded by Sister  Margaret Chency and
committee. The  sick  and  poor  were  not for-
gotten, and  our  jubilee anniversary  was one
long to be  remembered.  There was a party in
the  evening,  at  which  all  seemed  to enjoy
themselves to the utmost.
	We send herewith  our financial report: Our
total income  since  the organization of the So-
ciety  in  June,  1868,  is  $1,971.76.  Disburse-
ments:  for chartiable purposes, $930.67; Tem-
ples, $347;  for  missionaries  and emigration,
$153; for  books,  $28.80;  building,  $166.45;
home industries, $24;  for  fencing, $70.  Total
amount  disbursed,  $1,719.92.  On  hand: in 
Co-op, $200; cash, $31.84;  property, $20.  To-
tal  on  hand  $251.84.  Wheat,  484 bushels,
loaned to the brethren according to counsel.
				LOIS A.  WILSON, Cor. Sec'y.
			---------------
	The Y. L. M. I. A., of Mayfield, Sanpete Co.,
was organized under the direction of Bishop O.
C. Olsen, and his Counselors, March 11th, 1879,
with the  following  officers. Matlida Olsen,
President; Matilda  Jenson, Carolinen Olsen,
Mary Victor,  Margret  Whitlock,  Cynthia
Williams Counselors;  Amelia  Williams, Secre-
tary;  Harriet  Milles Assitant Secretary;
Martha Stevens, Treasurer.  They still remain
the same, and all are alive to their duties.
	We have thirty-one  members  enrolled, and
all are punctual to  attend  meeting;  which we
hold semi-monthly.  Our meetinga are  con-
ducted  as  proposed  by  Brothers,  Wells, and
Hardy. We  edit  a  manuscript paper  semi-
monthly  called the "Encourager," we have also
subscribed for  the  Contributor,  which  is read
with great interest by the members.  The Bish-
op and his Counselors frequently meet with us, 
giving good and fatherly instructions.
	We have made four quilts,  two of  which we
have donated to  the Manti  Temple; one to the 
poor, and the other we sold for wheat;  we have
stored twelve  bushels  of  wheat.  One of our
members' had made twenty  straw hats, as  we
wish to be one with our  sisters  in encouraging
home manufaeture.  The  Y. L. M. I. A., has
been, and is a great  benefit  to this little place,
in leading the  young  in  the way they should
walk, to become  true  daughters of Zion.  We
also had a splendid  time  on  the twenty-fourth
of  July, the  performance  of the day, and the
party in  the evening, was a  real  pleasure and
enjoyment to all.
	We will close by  wishing to be one with the 
sisters  in the cause of truth. 
					MATILDA OLSEN President.
					AMELIA WILLIAMS, Secretary.
				------------------


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		55


[Column 1]
FOURTH OF JULY, 1880.

IN SAN FRANCISCO.

	I promised you full particulars about the
Fourth. We had an unusual demonstration,
therefore I will delineate. The 5th dawned,
and a more, cold, gloomy, forbidding day could
not have been selected. The mist fell like rain,
and overcoats were the order of the day. But
long before the hour set for the procession to
form, thousands of people were to be seen on
the streets—I have never seen so many persons
on the street before. At the junction of Mar-
ket, Kearney, and 3d streets there was an im-
mense arched bridge, painted to represent stone;
and on the bridge there was a miniature fort,
and a dozen tents, and a company of regular
soldiers, who kept guard; and there were can-
nons fired from this fort all during the pro-
cession. The bridge, or arch, was claborately
decorated with bunting, flowers and evergreens.
The procession itself was a new feature. There
was an entire absence of all the Hiberinan
total abstinence societies. There were all the
various military companies, numbering between
twenty and thirty thousand men, with their
attractive, brilliant uniforms, each company in
a different one. It always causes sad reflec-
tions to see them, for to me they appear as tar-
gets.
	There were many interesting tableaux. There
was the chariot with the Goddess of Liberty,
and little girls dressed in white to represent
the different States. Then a large red wood
bark house, with plenty of evergreen trees, a

[Column 2]
clothes-line with men's drawers, shirt and socks,
one man smoking and playing solitare, whilst
his pard was getting the meal, or grub as it
was called. Then there was an old-fashioned
emigrant train, and on one of the wagon covers
was printed, to "California," and another, to
"'Frisco, or bust." Then a large truck carried
a forest, and in the forest were Pocahontas and
several Indians; they had a real wigwam and
other Indian relics. Then there was Washing-
ton crossing the Delaware River, in a real ves-
sel, and appropriately costumed were the sev-
eral characters. Next came the Jeanette, ice-
bound in the Arctic regions; and the icebergs
were admirably gotten up as to shape, size and
color; they had a blue cast, and were covered
with some glittering substance; even the rig-
ging in the ship was covered with hoar frost,
and as the sun made his appearance during the
procession, it very materially heightened the
effect; for which old Sol has my thanks. The
crew and passengers on this vessel had on fur
clothes, and there were two immense polar
bears in the rear of the bergs. Next came
"The Landing of Columbus," There were
evergreen trees, and Indians peeping through
the bushes and uttering their shrill war whoop.
Then came a Southern scene; there were
bushes on which cotton was growing, and the
darkies picking it and singing and cutting
their queer antics, which created much mirth.
One of the tableaux burned before the pro-
cesson started, so we were minus one.
	It was a noble idea (the introduction of the
tableaux), and we are indebted to Col. An-
drews, of the Dramond Palace, for the original
invention. There were many other new fea-
tures, which I cannot remember sufficiently to
delineate them to you. The procession was
very long; I stood still in one place for over
two hours, and then did not see all.
	Woodward's Garden in the afternoon had
daylight fireworks. They are an entirely new
invention, and were a decided success. They
consist of bombs, and are hurled in the air and
explode; some are men, and the wind causes
the legs and arms to move, and gives the figure
a lifelike appear[-]nce; there were animals and
serpents also. These fireworks will undoubtedly
take the place of the others, as they are not a
success here on account of the evening fog and
wind; they can never get one to burn evenly,
it is a sort of go-as-you-please. Hence fire-
works in the evening here are not very popu-
lar, although there were more than fifty thou-
sand went to see those that were advertised to
take place in the evening of the 5th, but which
were a grand fizzle; only the railroads saw
where the fun was—in the dimes.
	There were, as usual, a great many fires, but
only one large one. There were thirty horses
burned and six firemen injured by the roof
falling on them. It was a terrible fire, and
firecrackers was the cause.
	There were very many accidents with the
small boys, and these will happen where there
are so many children and no place but the
street for them to play.
	The sad accident at Monterey cast a gloom
over many of the companies. It is the fashion
for each of the military companies to take a
trip to the country and camp. Young Burk
was on that pleasure trip when he accidently
met his death through the carelessness of one
of his companions. He was the only son of
Justice Burk, aged 22 years. After the mili-
tary had disbanded from the procession, they
formed again and went to the depot and es-
corted his remains to his residence. The hearse
followed the soldiers. and the band played the
Dead March. The body was in the dead
wagon, which followed the hearse. The dead
wagon was covered with the new flag, and his
gun, boots, and other military accoutrements.
It was the saddest procession I ever saw, and
each passer doffed his hat in respect to one who


was so worthy. “In the midst of life we are in
death.” 
	And so another Fourth has gone.  During
the  excitement I queried wither  it  was  worth
so much expense. and  finally concluded it was,
as  the  rich foot  the bills  and it gives work to
many worthy people, and  an  immense amount
of money  changes hands;  and  in  the  long run
these  celebrations do  much good, besides keep
ing  the  heart warm with the  remembrance  of
our  glorious American Constitution. 
	“Three cheers for America, the home of the
true and the brave."
NELLIE.


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.


UTAH  COUNTY  SILK ASSOCIATION.
	A pleasant gathering of  the  principal mem-
bers of the Silk Association of this county con-
vened  at  Father Graves gardens.  In the shade
of the  beautiful avenue was a long table spread
with “good things,” which had  been provided
by the sisters.  About  a  hundred  guests  par-
took  of  the  bounties spread:  while  thus  enga-
ged  the merry  jest and sparkling repartee, en-
livened the scenes, filling the hearts of all with
a sense of joy and thankfulness for God's many
mercies.  The  guests then rambled around the
pleasant grounds,  visiting the cocoonery  where
BrotherGraves is making it practical illustration
of the  enterprise  he advocates so much.
	They were then  called to order by  Brother
Lovelass,  the  Bishop  remarked  that  we  had
met  to  enjoy  ourselves, that  the  sisters  had
labored faithfully for this enterprise which had
been instituted by  the Prophets of God.
	While learning these things ourlelves remem-
ber  the  day  would  come when they would
have to instruct others, that thereby this people
might  become  self-sustaining;  for  many  who
would  be  gathered  from  the  nations  of the
earth, would  need  help;  that  such  meetings
were calculated to do away with preujdice, and
make us love each other,  and  therefore were
for  our good.
	Brother Paxman spoke of the  growing lab-
ors  of  the  sisters, that their duties  would in-
crease  until  the coming  of the Savior.  That
this event was near at hand, and those who
were  striving  to  accomplish  useful  labors  in
temporal and spiritual things and live humbly,
were  like  the  wise  virgins  who  were  pre-
pared to go forth, when the cry comes, "Lo! the
Bride-groom cometh  go ye  out to  meet him.
That these duties  were  numerous,  and one  of
them was silk raising. Said we must teach our
children these  things, that they  might help  to
push  on the kingdom of God.
	President Smoot was glad  to meet  with  the
sisters in  this  capacity, said he  was  informed
that it was gaining strength, although its growth
was  slow,  hoped  it  would  be  sure.  That
silk could be produced from the elements, very
cheaply, and  when  produced  was  always  an
article  of  commerce, that those  who  were not
able to do very hard labor could engage in the
cultivation of silk, and by so  doing they could
help to sustain themselves and increase home-
industry.  Hoped the intelligent efforts  of  the
people would never cease  until they  had fully
developed the  many resources of the Territory.
Advised all engaged  in the  enterprise to keep
out, of debt as debt had been  the ruin of many
laudable  enterprises;  told the sisters to ask as-
sistance of the brethren,when needful for them
to go on in this good work and all wise men and
women would say, Amen.
	The Secretary, Brother  Albert  Jones, read
the  constitution  of  the  Silk  Association of
Utah county.
	Sister Zina  D.  Young ,felt  well pleased to
meet  with the mothers in Isreal, in this capacity;
spoke of the time  when president Brigham
Young addressed the  Saints  for the first  time
on  the  Temple block.,and he then made the
remark, that silk was  in  the elements around
them.  That she had remembered these words,
and when called upon to  engage in this  labor
had cheerfully  responded;  also of a time when
the sisters  were  assembled  together  at Lehi.
President Young entered, and said "What do
I see before me?  A congregation of Eves," how
grand the thought, and while recalling the past
she was  forcibly  reminded  of  the  time  when
Joseph Smith the Prophet walked up and down
clapping his hands  and  shouting  "Hosannah!
hosannah! hosannah! to  God,  and the Lamb.
I have now established  on  the earth  what has
not been since the  time  of  Solomn's Temple."
Exhorted the sisters to  live  those  principles
which unite and bind together, and seek for an
increase of faith in God.
	The assembly  sang "We thank thee O God
for a prophet." 
	Sister Margaret T. Smoot, spoke of the many
things the sisters  had  to  encourage  them, that
the brethren  were  one of them.  That  the
remarks of Sister Young impressed her deeply.
That they were calculated to inspire the soul of
any one who had a soul, and hoped  union would
ever reign  with  the sisters.
	Sisters Beebe, of Provo, Douglas of  Payson,
and Harrison of Springvill made some excellent
remarks.  The  former  returning  thanks  to
Brother Graves  for  his kindness.  The  latter
said there had been 25 lb. of cocoons, and 5 oz.
of eggs  raised  in  Springville  this year, by the
Relief Society.  Brother Z. Coltrin  also  occu-
pied a few moments  in a  few  happy  remarks
and the  assembly  dispersed  for  other  enjoy-
ments feeling refreshed in spirit.
A MEMBER.


[Column 1]
A HAPPY RESTORATION.—I can truly say
that I owe my present existence and happy res-
toration to the hopes and joys of life, to the use
of Warner's Safe Kidney Cure, and I say to
every one suffering from any manner of kidney,
liver or urinary trouble, "Use this remedy and
recover."
	Holley, N. Y. Feb. 25, 1880.

HAVE YOU SEEN THE
NEW VICTOR SEWING MACHINE?
	If not you should do so at once, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction. The New Machine
is elegant in appearance and admirable in operation, runs
very easily and without any noise and confusion, although
the rate of speed is very high. Its self-setting and self-
threading shuttle, and absence of springs and cogs, renders
it both simple and durable. Be sure to see it, for its
general advantages will make you its friend.
VICTOR SEWING MACHINE CO., CHICAGO, ILL.
O. H. RIGGS, Agent. Salt Lake City.

WARNER'S
[image of a safe] SAFE
BITTERS
	It is the best Blood Purifier, and stimulates
every function to more healthful action, and is
thus a benefit in all diseases.
	In eliminating the impurities of the blood, the
natural and necessary result is the cure of Scrof-
uious and other Skin Eruptions and Diseases,
including Cancers, Ulcers and other Sores.
	Dyspepsia, Weakness of the Stomach, Consti-
pation, Dizziness, General Debility, etc., are
cured by the Safe Bitters. It is unequaled
as an appetizer and regular tonic.
	It is a medicine which should be in every fam-
ily, and which, wherever used, will save the
payment of many doctors' bills.
	Bottles of two sizes; prices, 50 cents and $1.00.
SAFE
KIDNEY & LIVER
CURE
SAFE
DIABETES CURE
SAFE TONIC NERVINE PILLS
READ! Save Thyself
☞ Warner's
Safe Reme-
dies are sold
by Druggists
and Dealers
in Medicine
everywhere.
H. H.WARNER & CO.,
Proprietors.
Rochester, N. Y.
☞ Send for Pamphlet
and Testimonials

[Column 2]
ROMANIA B. PRATT,
Physician and Surgeon.
	OFFICE—Up Stairs, is Old Constitution Building.
RESIDENCE—Six Blocks East of Post Office, South side
of street.
☞ Special study has been given to Obstetrics, Diseases of
Women, and DISEASES of the EYE and EAR.

ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon.
	OFFICE on Main St., over Calder's Music Store.
	RESIDENCE on South Temple Street, between 9th and
16th East Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, Diseases of Children
and Diseases of the THROAT, HEART and LUNGS.

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.
☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST.
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

NEW SPRING STOCK!
F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 East Temple St., Salt Lake City.
	Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings; Five hundred pairs Kid Gloves; Trimmings; Ladies'
Ties, Cuffs and Collars; 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
☞ Largest Wholescale Millinery Stock in the West.
Notions Boots and Shoes; Gents' and Boys' Clothing and
Furnishing Goods, Etc., Etc.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

A LARGE STOCK
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,&nbsp;		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

H. DIN WOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES, FEATHERS, WALL PAPER
AND
BABY CARRIAGES,
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST.
[image of dentures]
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE:—MAIN ST., OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
P. O. BOX, 541,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all  Nations.
