[Vol53 | July | Magazine Page 545 | PDF Page 570]

--- PAGE 545 (PDF page 570) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

Well-prepared meals served by loving hands can be more than nourishment. Mealtime should be family time—a time of good food and companionship, a time of rejoicing and thankfulness. What might we do to make our meals more enjoyable?

NUTRITION COUNTS

Food is fuel for work, action, joy; it is fuel for endurance, for nerve, for strength, for fun. It helps the child to grow, the man to stay on the job, the woman to be at her best. It often determines attitude toward life; it can give one vitality and sparkle, or it can be a robber of stamina and enthusiasm.

How can we select food wisely? Nutritionists in the United States Department of Agriculture, working with an eminent food and nutrition board, have devised a simple Daily Food Guide for normal healthy persons. (This may be modified to suit the eating habits and foods of different countries.) The guide provides a framework within which meal planning can be varied and interesting as the homemaker desires.

Daily Food Guide

I. Milk Group—children, 3 to 4 glasses; teenagers, 4 or more glasses; adults, 2 or more glasses. Cheese, ice cream, puddings, and other milk-made foods can supply part of the milk.

II. Meat group—two or more servings. Group includes meats, fish, poultry, eggs, or cheese—with dry beans, peas, and nuts as alternates.

III. Vegetables and Fruits—4 or more servings. Include a citrus fruit or tomato, a dark green or yellow vegetable, and other vegetables and also fruits, including potatoes.

IV. Breads and Cereals—4 or more servings. Includes enriched, whole grain or restored breads and cereals; other baked foods made with enriched or whole grain flour; enriched macaroni, spaghetti, and noodles. In some of the islands of the Pacific, poi and breadfruit are eaten. In Mexico, tortillas and tacos constitute important items of the diet.

TO DISCUSS

1. Where the class consists of some members who have lived in a country other than your own, have them share very briefly with the class the diet patterns of that country. In what ways do they not conform, if any, to the Daily Food Guide? In what ways do they conform?

2. How can vegetables be prepared in order to make them more appealing to the family? Be sure to elicit from class that the cooking of vegetables in a small amount of boiling water (with lid on kettle) only until vegetables are tender, insures minimum vitamin and mineral loss, and helps to retain color and flavor. Use vegetable liquid for soups, sauces, and gravies.

FOOD WITH A FLAIR

Do your meals have appetite appeal? Someone said long ago that we "eat, first of all, with our eyes." Food not only provides nourishment for the body, but it appeals to our senses of sight, smell, taste, and touch. As you plan your meals always consider the color, shape, texture, and temperature of each food, as well as the flavor. Also consider these guides in the relationship of one food to another; be sure the foods you use in the same menu are compatible.

"Our fruit plate is a symphony and I arranged it so quickly," glowed teenage Beth as she set the plate before the family assembled around the table.

"All I know is that it looks good

545