[Vol53 | June | Magazine Page 54 | PDF Page 75]

--- PAGE 54 (PDF page 75) ---
JANUARY 1960

situation that most readers can identify with easily. But very little of this story has to do with Jean's actual illness. What is unforgettable is the heightened awareness of life that imminent death brings. Note how the intensity of the crisis is reflected in the culminating force of the images used:

He had lost all sense of time passing; he could only judge by what he experienced. Often he believed that he was following a shadowy guide, one who had difficulty himself in finding the trail. Then he whimpered because he could not take the lead and, hearing his own wail of humbled pride or of utter exhaustion, he wheeled sharply, plunged through the wake of a cyclone, in search of a corner where he might find refuge. Now he was gripped with the agony of inhabiting a country where there were no corners, only a freezing current of dark air, a night on whose breast he was nothing more than a lost and weeping lad. Then he stood up, on legs that suddenly grew in number, that stretched to stilts through which pain cut like a scythe (Text, page 433; reprinted by permission of Jacques Chambrun, New York).

All the words here seem rooted in reality—yet somehow not limited by the actual. As Jean approaches death, the familiar symbols and relationships by which he has lived are torn apart. Sounds, for instance, are no longer loud or soft; they are "hunchbacked" or "with pointed snouts like weasels." Such language transcends conventional levels, yet seems "right." No standard description appears capable of evoking sounds so intense that they take on shape as well as audibility. Colette seems to be saying that we appreciate the total richness and variety of life only as we come close to leaving it. Our lives are

often so regular that we standardize them, seeing routinely and acting predictably. How gratifying the most obvious manifestations of life appear to be when we are shaken out of our usual reactions.

This story provides an exceptional opportunity for discussion of the multiple functions of language in literary communication. We are so used to words stating that we often feel a little uneasy when they suggest or evoke instead of asserting. Note that Jean's moment of greatest physical crisis is suggested, not medically described, by the following:

Now the boy who had been so gay and so spoiled, so at home in his loneliness, so wrapped up in his privileges as a motherless invalid, knew that only a sad little sound as of crystal breaking, remained between him and a happiness whose hollow name he had still to learn: death (Text, page 432).

By suggesting instead of stating, the author helps us see freshly and forces us to become part of whatever is being presented. If we are to get anything at all from reading that passing from life to death is "a sad little sound as of crystal breaking," we must try to involve ourselves in the mood which the author is providing for us. Assertive words usually serve as signposts which clearly point the way and require little more than mechanical following on our part. Suggestive words are more like compasses; they provide general direction, but leave the traveler to make his own path.

"The Death of the Dauphin"
by Alphonse Daudet

The second selection for this month exploits a theme which

74