[Vol53 | April | Magazine Page 310 | PDF Page 323]

--- PAGE 310 (PDF page 323) ---
APRIL 1966

Bonneville Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah), Douglas Ward Relief Society
Holds Bazaar "Treasures for Everyone"
November 19, 1965

Front row, seated, left to right: Blanche Gadd, Secretary-Treasurer; Arlean Olson, President; Mildred Kinnersley, Work Counselor; Rosetta Palmer, Education Counselor.

Back row, standing, left to right: Jerri Seiler, commentator for the fashion show; Dawn Reeve, committee chairman; committee members: Kathy Young; Gwen Woolsey; Lucile Gates; Beth Sorenson, work meeting leader.

Lacretta M. Evans, President, Bonneville Stake Relief Society, reports: "A most successful bazaar was held, featuring 'Relief Society Treasures' made by the sisters during the year. Bazaar items were displayed in beautifully decorated antique trunks. Bakery goods from 'Treasured Recipes' were sold.

"A 'Treasure Cove' interested the children. To stimulate interest in the bazaar, at the beginning of the year, each sister in Douglas Ward, was asked to donate an apron. After the work meeting a month before the bazaar, an 'Apron Fashion Show' was the feature of the day. It was exciting to see the 110 aprons donated by the sisters modeled. Recognition was given to the sisters donating the prettiest, the most practical, and the most unusual aprons. After seeing the aprons modeled, everyone was anxious to go to the bazaar early in order to buy her favorite apron. We feel that the fashion show created such an interest in the bazaar, in addition to the monetary help, that we intend to repeat it another year. We feel that the fashion show was a contributing factor to the increase in membership and attendance in Douglas Ward."

North Central States Mission Relief Society Board Conducts Fifth Annual
Relief Society Convention
Fargo, North Dakota, August 1, 1965

Seated, front row, left to right: Doris Youngs, First Counselor; Mary B. Ostvig, President; Dola Hofeling.

Standing, left to right: Margaret Ann Abbott, Magazine representative; Jean Marie Didra, Secretary-Treasurer; Olfa Hansen, visiting teacher message leader.

Inset: Doris A. Allphin, Supervisor, North Central States Mission Relief Society.

Sister Ostvig reports: "The theme of the convention was 'Perfecting of the Saints Through Application of Gospel Principles.' Special participating guests included: Elder Bernard P. Brockbank, Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, and Sister Brockbank; Relief Society board members from eight districts of the North Central States Mission; and executive officers and class leaders, representing forty-five Relief Society organizations from Minnesota, South Dakota, North Dakota, part of Wisconsin; and Manitoba, Ontario, and the Lakehead area of Canada.

"Combined and departmental meetings were held, with special original skits. Visual aids were featured, and district displays, showing the accomplishments of the work meeting departments. These were unique, and included pictures of the General Presidency of Relief Society standing under the clock which was donated for the Relief Society Building by the North Central States Mission Relief Society. This clock was installed over the elevator on the main floor of the building.

"The combined Singing Mothers chorus of the mission sang at two sessions of the convention. Special recognition was given to the winners in the mission sponsored short story and poem contests."

310