[Vol53 | August | Magazine Page 583 | PDF Page 612]

--- PAGE 583 (PDF page 612) ---
Summer Morning
on the Temple
Grounds

Olive D. Twiddy
Boston, Lincolnshire, England

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a modern temple building with a tall spire]

■ During the summer I had the opportunity to stay for awhile with two very dear friends, in a cottage situated on the grounds of the London Temple. It was wonderful to awaken in the mornings and look out on that beautiful building. On my last evening there, I felt saddened at the thought of leaving my friends. I went to bed but could not sleep, and I lay there for hours listening to the pouring rain.

By six in the morning it had stopped raining, and I felt an urge to be nearer the temple. So I washed and dressed hurriedly and went walking in the beautiful temple gardens. How peaceful it was, not another human being in sight, and only the rain dripping from the trees to break the stillness. After a short while, the birds started singing and flying from tree to tree.

It was, as if at that moment God opened my eyes that I might see and appreciate the wonderful things he had created. I felt such joy at seeing two young rabbits playing in the grass. Two squirrels came slowly down from a tree, and as I tried to get closer to them they scurried for cover. Two horses in an adjoining field came slowly over to where I stood. They both put their heads over the fence, as if to say "Good morning." I even felt joy at seeing a water vole, in the little stream that runs alongside the temple. The beautiful flower beds, the green leaves on the trees, the grass, all looked different. I walked in the wet grass oblivious of the fact that I had only a pair of open sandals on my feet, and that my feet were wet.

For the first time in my life I saw how beautiful God's earth really is.

I stood on a little bridge over the stream. It was quiet and peaceful, and I felt close to my Father in heaven. I stood there and thanked him for the wonderful things he had shown to me. I prayed right there, that I might always be as humble as I was at that moment.

I know, when the time is right that I shall go through the temple, for I have found so much beauty on the outside. The feeling of peace, happiness, comfort, and humility that I felt on that early summer morning, will, I pray, stay in my memory for many years to come.

583