[Vol53 | February | Magazine Page 114 | PDF Page 119]

--- PAGE 114 (PDF page 119) ---
Quantity Cooking
for Relief Society Functions

Part IV — DESSERTS AND PUNCH
Rosa Shurtz

■ Nothing can finish a meal to perfection like a pie, cut evenly, set neatly in the center of the plate, and topped with a swirl of whipped cream or a little mountain of meringue.

Prepared fillings are often more economical than starting from scratch, but sometimes the flavor isn't up to homemade. Try experimenting by adding more lemon juice, sugar, and butter to lemon filling. To make more volume for each package, fold the cooled filling into meringue instead of putting meringue on top.

All fillings can use a little salt, more flavor, sugar, and a bit of butter.

Don't be afraid to dress up a dessert with chopped nuts, grated chocolate, or whipped cream. Whipped cream can be an expensive item unless you are in a farming community. Try whipped topping made from dry milk crystals, which work very well in any dish using a gelatin base. Use the expensive cream for the finishing touches.

On cobblers, crisps, or deep-dish desserts, part whipped dry milk topping can be folded into whipped cream. This adds to volume and cuts cost and calories. It doesn't hold well but must be used immediately.

BASIC FRUIT PIE

1½ qts. juice from fruit
1¼ c. cornstarch
1¼ qts. sugar
1 tbsp. salt

¼ c. lemon juice
¼ lb. butter
2 No. 10 cans water packed fruit, drained

Heat 1 quart juice to boiling. Mix one pint of juice with cornstarch and add, while stirring, to hot juice. Cook until thick and clear. Stir in sugar, salt, lemon juice, and butter. Add drained fruit. Mix carefully. Cool and fill pastry lined pans. Cover with pastry. Bake at 425° thirty minutes until brown. Yield: eight 9-inch pies.

May be poured into baked crusts and topped with whipping cream.
    Apricot Pie: use halved apricots.
    Berry Pies: 2 tsp. cinnamon may be added with sugar.
    Cherry Pies: add red food color and almond flavoring.
    Peach Pie: almond flavoring and cinnamon may be added.
    Pineapple Pies: Tidbits or crushed pineapple.

114