[Vol53 | July | Magazine Page 522 | PDF Page 547]

--- PAGE 522 (PDF page 547) ---
Songs My Mother Sang

Genevieve Van Wagenen

Mother was no singer. In fact, she had so little faith in her ability that she never even tried out for the ward choir. But the songs mother sang in our home had a lasting effect upon my life—an effect for good.

Mother sang at her work, whether ironing, doing dishes, dusting, cooking, or mending. She sang as she rocked her infants to sleep. It was not unusual, when coming in from play, to see mother sitting in a rocker, singing a lullaby to her drowsy babe. She never interrupted her singing, or stopped her rocking to make inquiries or give orders. Instead, she continued singing, composing her own words to fit the tune, as she sang along. She would sing words of instruction or counsel which she wished us to carry out, while she was occupied.

One of mother's favorite hymns was "I Need Thee Every Hour." To this tune, and from her rocker, she could operate her home, if need be, sort of like remote control. Her melodic instructions would go something like this: "I'm getting the baby to sleep, so please don't disturb. Go wash your face and hands and get a clean dress on. As soon as I lay the baby down, I will comb your hair. I want you to go to the store for me. Hurry fast, I want to do some baking before dinner."

Mother was a versatile melodizer. Other mothers in our neighborhood did not operate on this system. But with mother, it was efficiency plus. Through this system, she answered our questions, settled our childish disputes, supervised tidying the home, and organized her household, all while singing a lullaby.

As children, our favorite songs were the story-telling variety that mother learned in young womanhood. Songs like, "After The Ball," "The Letter Edged in Black," "I'll Take You Home Again, Kathleen," etc.

Mother briefed us in on the background of the song, then she would sing it for us. We listened intently. We were touched by the drama of life. She gave songs more than a melody—she gave them a soul. The tears rolled down our cheeks as we saw the tragedy and felt the remorse caused by the misunderstanding of the two young lovers, in "After the Ball." We shed tears of sympathy, as we heard the pleading words of a brokenhearted and repentant father, in "The Letter Edged in Black," as he said: "Come home, my boy, your poor old Father wants you. Come home, my boy, your Mother dear is dead. Oh, your Mother's words, the last she ever uttered, were, 'Tell my boy I want him to come back!' Oh, my eyes are blurred, my poor old heart is breaking, while I'm writing you this Letter Edged in Black."

We drank deeply of the son's grief, too, on this loneliest of days, as he read: "Forgive the angry words 'twere spoken, you know I never meant them, don't you, Jack? Oh, the angels bear me witness I am asking your forgiveness in this Letter Edged in Black."

Our eyes were flooded with tears. We tried to check the flow, first with blinks and sniffs and chubby fists that we soaked back and forth. Then we resorted to more absorbent sleeves or skirts. We wouldn't think of interrupting mother's singing to go and get a handkerchief—we didn't want to miss a word of it. (I smile now, as I look back on this tender scene.)

When the song ended, we begged: "Sing it again! Sing it again!"

"No," said mother, "you'll only cry. I don't want to make you cry."

"Please, Mother," we coaxed. "Sing it again!"

So mother would sing it again. The tears streamed just as freely, but it was wonderful! There was something strengthening, refreshing, rejuvenating about it all, like refreshing rain.

As the songs flowed on, we children identified ourselves with each character. We felt understood. We sympathized. We discovered values. We learned charity. We grew.

522