[Vol53 | June | Magazine Page 56 | PDF Page 77]

--- PAGE 56 (PDF page 77) ---
JANUARY 1966

after life. It is a bit sad to hear Tithonus lament his decaying body at length but dismiss the wrong choice which brought about his woe in a line or two. How difficult it is to see that the essence of tragedy lies not in how death comes but in the choices which may have governed one's life. To those who see this life as part of an eternal plan, death is not so much release as it is progression. If we accept this view, it is not hard to believe that death is to be feared only where one has not prepared himself for the accounting which death exacts.

"Auto Wreck" by Karl Shapiro

"Auto Wreck" concerns itself with death which seems not only premature but needless, and is a powerful indictment of man's inability to solve his basic problems.

"Auto Wreck" gives a focus which is personal for most of us. In fact, part of Shapiro's point is that the violence of death by automobile accident is so commonplace that we are becoming inured to it. We slow down momentarily as we pass the scene of a wreck; we may even hope aloud that no one was badly hurt. But, once well past the flashing lights and sirens, we resume the speed and driving habits which may unite us with total strangers in the grim intimacy of death.

One of the ways in which the author has tried to keep us aware of our collective guilt and shared danger, is to develop the poem in terms of an injured victim. The bell of the ambulance beats like a heart; the flare pulses like a cut artery; the throats of the onlookers are

"tight as tourniquets," and the horror of the scene holds those who gather as if their feet were "bound in splints."

Yet Shapiro does not rely on this device alone to make us feel our identification with those directly involved. The bell of the ambulance tolls as well as beats, and in its tolling we hear echoes of John Donne's famous sermon in which he reminds us that we needn't send to find out for whom the funeral bell tolls, for when any man dies, humanity is diminished, and as part of humanity we also suffer.

There is nothing so ordered as rhyme in "Auto Wreck." Many of the lines scurry, then pause, only to resume their speed once more, and we realize that the author is letting us drive through the poem as we approach, circle around, and then accelerate on past the accident.

The final stanza, however, transcends the specific accident in trying to fit the particular into the whole—but the poem ends in despair. Other forms of death may be rationalized, if not justified, but the carnage which is becoming an accepted fact of travel by automobile seems hopeless of solution. Such death becomes a tragic commentary upon modern man's enslavement of a technology which is at once his pride and his destruction.

Questions for Discussion

1. How convincing is Colette's suggestion that life must be jarred from its usual modes if we are really to appreciate it?

2. Under what conditions might the universality of death serve to unite people?

3. To what extent do you think Tithonus has recognized his problem in the last lines of Tennyson's poem?

76