[Vol53 | June | Magazine Page 6 | PDF Page 27]

--- PAGE 6 (PDF page 27) ---
FEBRUARY 1966

The windows above the sink looked out into the back garden. As Jennie watched, Sabra came through the trees. The place had been an orchard before the house was built, and Jennie had pleaded that all the trees possible be left untouched. The department had left something of splendor in the air, and it clung in gold light to Sabra's smooth dark hair. Jennie leaned against the sink, the thin sword of love and fear running through her chest. Without her sweater as well . . . and walking so slowly through the chill . . . would the child never learn? What did she find to think about in all the hours she hoarded to herself?

Jennie looked at her daughter with troubled eyes. How could a child be one's own and yet be a stranger? Sabra was too thin . . . like a small wraith against the trees. Her long hair lifted on the wind, glossy and glowing, combed back from her forehead and kept in place by a band. Sabra's forehead was high and clear and her eyes, Jennie sensed, were gatherers of beauty and that was why they had the changing colors. They took the shine from whatever they looked upon, hills or water or skies.

"Sabra!" Jennie went to the door and called the name sharply.

Sabra looked up and smiled. "Mother . . . how beautiful you are."

Jennie took a step backward. Sabra was the only one of the children who had noticed her hair.

Sabra broke into a leaping run. Jennie knew it was the new hair color that drew her and not her harsh command.

Sabra put her fingers lightly on Jennie's hair and on her cheeks, as if sight were not enough and she must, through fingertips, draw to her the essence of her mother.

Jennie blinked fiercely. She held the bird arms in her cupped palms. Cold . . . the child was frozen. "How is your throat? Let me see."

Sabra obediently opened her mouth.

Jennie groaned, sighting the angry red.

Sabra pulled away. "Oh mother, the loveliest thing happened to me today . . . the very loveliest . . ."

"How do you expect the penicillins to help you, when you deliberately go against them by getting chilled like this?" Jennie realized she was speaking in the high, hard voice she hated. She went on, "Your father and I pay good money for the doctor . . . we do everything in our power. . . ."

"Listen, Mother . . . I know it off by heart . . . the whole . . . whole thing."

Jennie rolled her eyes skyward and went back to the mixing bowl. She braced herself to hear one of the interminable poems Sabra adored, or a new Brownie song that made her limp with its familiarity.

"Are you listening, Mother?"
"Umhm"

Sabra planted her feet firmly apart. She looked out the windows. Jennie saw that tonight the eyes were darkly blue and too bright.

". . . Blessed are the poor in spirit: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are they that

26