[Vol53 | January | Magazine Page 19 | PDF Page 20]

--- PAGE 19 (PDF page 20) ---
FOR BARBARA, WITH LOVE

Selina's huge, lonely house. "All right, but there's no obligation attached. Impress this upon your American friend."

Now they were both on their way to London, Monica bubbling with excitement, and Barbara feeling apprehensive at the prospect of the unknown blind date.

Their room on the top floor of the Y.W.C.A. on Baker Street was small but spotless. Monica had arranged for them to meet their dates in the downstairs lounge at eight o'clock in the evening. Dressing was no problem, it simply meant a change of uniform, shirt, and shoes.

Barbara felt a surge of excitement within her. This really was different, preparing to meet a blind date.

Promptly at eight they descended the narrow spiral staircase leading into the lounge, Monica well ahead, eyes shining and anxiously scanning the room for the two American uniforms. Barbara hung back.

"Monica, I don't see any American soldiers, they didn't turn up. . . ."

Monica hadn't heard. Forgetting her lady-like descent, she streaked across the room and into the arms of a husky, dark-eyed American soldier, previously half-hidden by a reception cubicle.

"Cam, oh, Cam . . . how nice to see you again!" Monica hugged him joyfully.

"Monica, honey." Cam held her at arms' length. "We have an audience. This is Mac, full name, Glen McKinley. . . . By the way, where's your friend?"

Barbara stepped shyly forward, extending her hand to meet Mac's.

"Hello, Barbara, I'm very happy to know you."

His grip was firm. Barbara raised her eyes to meet his, and to take a better look at her blind date. He was tall, well over six feet in height, with deep blue eyes and a broad smile. His hair was red, flaming red! Thought Barbara, one couldn't really call him handsome, but he has a certain boyish look which is extremely attractive.

Mac was also taking stock. How fine she is, about five feet high . . . and I'll bet she doesn't weigh over ninety pounds! His eyes photographed her features. Not vividly beautiful, he thought, dark hair tucked neatly beneath her severe army cap. Tiny, piquant face, wide-set gray eyes, a friendly smile . . . no, not beautiful, but certainly appealing. He gave her a warm smile.

Together, they left the residence after deciding unanimously to go dancing at Covent Garden. Mac held Barbara's arm protectively as they edged along the crowded street. He seemed reluctant to start a conversation, and Barbara felt rather shy and quite conscious of the warmth of his hand on her arm. The ballroom was comfortably filled. As soon as a table was secured, Monica and Cam got up to dance. Mac smiled at Barbara. "I'm not the best dancer in London, but shall we try this one?"

The orchestra opened with the sweet, haunting strains of "Besame Mucho," and Barbara glided into Mac's arms.

Oh, dear, he dances differently than I . . . I do hope my feet behave themselves, she fretted momentarily.

19