[Vol53 | May | Magazine Page 396 | PDF Page 413]

--- PAGE 396 (PDF page 413) ---
MAY 1966

It is best not to try to remove anything from non-washable fabrics that will not come out with clear cool water. Clothes should be cleaned before becoming too badly soiled. Tell the cleaner what caused the spots and what you did, if anything, to remove them. For wash fabrics, pre-treat blood, egg, meat, catsup, ink, and similar stains with cool water. Rub detergent into soil caused by body oils, grass, tar, cosmetics, oil, greasy foods, and perspiration. Then rinse with clear water. Harden gum and candle wax with ice and pick off the fabric. Pour boiling water from a height of about elbow height through fruit juice stains. Grass and ballpoint pen ink can be removed by soaking in alcohol, but it may damage colors. A helpful bulletin for home use is the U. S. Department of Agriculture bulletin "Removing Spots and Stains from Fabrics." (Suggest your own national government sources.)

STORAGE

Seasonal clothes should be stored when not in use to protect from dust, mildew, strong light, and insects. Moth and carpet beetles feed on wool, silk, hair, and feathers. While cedar chests and moth balls help some, the best insurance is airtight storage of thoroughly cleaned and brushed garments. Silver fish eat rayons and other cellulose fibers. These insects breed in damp cracks and sometimes require fumigation to rid a home from their damage. Dust destroys colors and wears fibers. Store clothes where they cannot collect dust.

TO DO AND THINK ABOUT

Techniques described herein could well be demonstrated, such as: Laundering helps, correct ironing procedures, pressing a man's or woman's suit, spotting techniques for various fabrics, or storage facilities. Some demonstrations of the care of the new "wash and wear" fabrics may also be helpful.

FROM THE SEA TO THE SHELL

Bernice Ames

The two-minded sea
Advances, retreats
Breaks on shore to run whole again.
Mollusks in the shifting green hammock
Away in currents that fling them
Against rock
Opening a way for escape.

Empty periwinkle and moon shell,
Empty scallop and cowry
Tumble in the lottery of water
Rolled to the beach,
Holding only an echo of life
Given
And taken
By the sea.

396