[Vol53 | June | Magazine Page 9 | PDF Page 30]

--- PAGE 9 (PDF page 30) ---
WHEAT FOR THE WISE

rise up from a sick bed and go in search of words for which she has no need? What was it that Sabra had to have that sent her out in the chill October after-noon? Jennie shivered, remembering her father's warning, "A parent is culpable if a child grows up in ignorance." Culpable . . . culpa . . . mea culpa. Her father's assertion, "The spiritual hunger in man is God's own longing for his child."

"What's going on?" Rex was on the verge of one of his angers. Placate him, said Jennie to herself, but instead she said directly, "Your daughter went to a neighbor to learn that which she was not allowed to learn at home."

Rex glared, "With a whole new set of Encyclopedias! Come off it!"

"Listen," said Sabra in her light, quick voice, "Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness: for they shall be filled."

Rex exchanged a glance with Jennie. He gave Sabra a swift pat, "Run along up to bed. We'll discuss this later."

Jennie watched the child dance away. She looked at Rex. He was girding himself, she could tell it by looking at him. He was summoning all the logic and arguments and refutations.

Jennie straightened her shoulders. She was stepping out on a tight rope. She felt the air under her and the long fall if she stumbled. The pity of it was she had never taken tight-rope walking lessons. How did one, so foolish and so unready, guide herself and her family safely to the other side. There was no question in her mind as to what was required of her, Sabra had only brought it to the surface, the family need.

"No," said Rex firmly, "We're getting along just fine."

"Are we?" asked Jennie.

(To be continued)

JANUARY

Linnie F. Robinson

January comes knocking at my door
Where scattered fragments of the year remain,
In tasks attempted or left undone.
And where discouragement had grown to pain.

But January pushes wide the door—
A calendar of days is in his hand;
My troubles fall like paper to the floor—
New time is mine—the glass is full of sand.

And so I take the legacy of hours
And treadle at the waiting loom of day;
How blithely did I use the springtime up,
How prodigal of every summer way.

But now these hours in new dimensions shine
For I have learned to husband and to ply;
The world has in it so much to learn
But best of all is time again to try.

29