[Vol53 | January | Magazine Page 66 | PDF Page 67]

--- PAGE 66 (PDF page 67) ---
JANUARY 1966

may keep from "running twice as fast" to "get any place."

NEW DRILLS FOR OLD SKILLS

In the previous discussion on cleaning-management, planning and the merits of scheduling were stressed. It is important to formulate the details of a schedule. In what ways would re-scheduling or a new approach to an old task mean greater efficiency? Too meticulous or laborious methods should be shunned. Much of the homemaker's time is consumed in child care. Some must be reserved for rest, especially for mothers with young families; for unexpected guests; for interruptions; and for some family fun that has not been planned. You might work a schedule in this manner:

Daily Schedule — "Pick-up" in various rooms of house; prepare and serve meals; wash dishes and care for work surfaces of kitchen cupboards and large equipment; sweep and dust kitchen and other rooms which require it; make beds; clean bathroom fixtures. A wise mother will train her family early to accept their responsibilities in maintaining a clean home daily. In addition to what must be done daily, time should be scheduled to take care of washing, ironing, sewing and mending, baking, and other necessary tasks, which the individual homemaker alone can determine.

Weekly Schedule—This would consist of a plan for thorough cleaning of each room of the house. Change bed linens; clean all floors thoroughly, including deep vacuuming of rugs and carpets and washing and waxing of floors where necessary; move furniture and clean underneath, with the exception of very heavy pieces; give furniture special attention as to vacuuming over-stuffed pieces, cleaning, dusting etc.; dust difficult areas such as moldings, baseboards and wall and ceiling areas where necessary; remove finger marks from doors, frames, and light switches; give kitchen range and refrigerator extra

cleaning; take special care of plants. These jobs may be done on a particular day—or many homemakers prefer thoroughly to clean one room each day along with the daily schedule, rather than leaving it all for, say, Friday. It is felt that much satisfaction results from leaving Saturday for food shopping, food preparation for Sunday, and for family activities instead of reserving it for a weekly cleaning day.

Monthly and/or Quarterly Schedule (depending on family set-up)—This schedule would include extra thorough cleaning such as washing windows; cleaning of over-stuffed furniture and cleaning and polishing of wood pieces; vacuuming draperies and/or washing and ironing curtains; cleaning cupboards and drawers; cleaning and waxing certain floors; special cleaning of accessories (especially lamps and light bulbs and light fixtures, bric-abrac, and pictures; and other necessary cleaning not included in the weekly schedule. These tasks are added to the weekly schedule as needed and as they can be included. Some homemakers like to clean or straighten a kitchen cupboard or drawer each morning as they wash the breakfast dishes.

Semi-Annual Schedule—This is the deep, extra special cleaning of everything from basement to attic so familiar to the housekeeper. Again, many women prefer to do it "by the inch," and clean one room per month rather than devoting a period of time each spring and fall to the "orgy" known as housecleaning.

To Discuss:

Case Study 1. It is Saturday morning and the entire Price family is at home. Mrs. Price rises at seven o'clock. She prepares breakfast for herself and her husband, and they eat at about seven-thirty. She puts the dishes in the sink, returns to her bedroom, "picks-up," and makes the bed. By this time Timmy, age six, is in the kitchen shouting, "Mommy, I'm hungry. May I have pancakes for breakfast?" She makes the pancakes and serves them to Timmy. It is now eighteen and she begins making the apple pies for the ward dinner that evening.

66