[Vol53 | July | Magazine Page 546 | PDF Page 571]

--- PAGE 546 (PDF page 571) ---
JULY 1966

enough to eat on my birthday," chinned in twelve-year-old Richard. Other members of the family agreed, as they helped themselves to the tempting fruit—common everyday fruit—but arranged with elegant simplicity. The large plate wore a ruffle of red-tinged garden lettuce around its perimeter, and picking up the red tones was a circle of watermelon wedges. Next came canned Bartlett pears, the outside of each pear blushing with a bit of rosy food coloring. Pails of lush green honeydew melon surrounded an old pink glass compote in the center. The compote contained a tangy, sweet French dressing, punctuated with cherry bits.

Food, carefully prepared and served artistically on clean, crisp table linen, can be a symphony—in fact harmony in a meal is as impressive as that in music or in a painting. Your family will react more favorably when food is exciting and colorful. In most cases it is just as easy to plan and prepare an attractive meal as it is a drab, cheerless one.

TO DISCUSS

1. Have the class visualize food combinations on a plate for everyday meals. Ask them to share some of their go-together foods which make for greater color appeal. Would a simple garnish such as a small bunch of grapes, carrot stick, crab apple, or beets do the trick? (Food pictures from magazines might be shown, but it should be remembered that the preparation be kept fairly simple and easy.)

2. How can difference in food textures add to a meal? Give some examples such as crisp croutons with soup or a crunchy cookie with pudding.

3. Try to serve hot foods hot and cold foods cold. Why is it desirable to serve one hot dish to your family, even on a hot day?

AVOID FLAVOR FATIGUE

Contrast of flavors adds much interest to a meal—foods that

are sweet and sour, bland and spicy complement each other because of their diversity. An orange glaze on sweet potatoes, mint with lamb, and apple slices or apple sauce with pork are some examples. Learning the up-to-date methods of food preparation and food combinations will pay off in flavor zest. Relief Society women have always shared their recipes and the blessings they have in their kitchens with others.

SUMMARY

Assume your food responsibility with enthusiasm. Plan wisely, shop to save, store foods properly, learn to cook skillfully (it is always fun to do something over which you are the master), serve food as attractively as possible, and even though at the end of the day you may be weary, put sparkle in your meal with a smile.

TO DO AND THINK ABOUT

Case Study—Mrs. Pett planned the following nutritious menu for her family: roast beef, potatoes cooked in their packets, gravy, buttered cauliflower, waldorf salad (peeled apples and celery with a creamy dressing), homemade whole-wheat bread and butter for those who wished it, baked apple brown Betty, and milk. How would you improve the menu?

Make a list of each family member's favorite foods.

Start a file of attractive and easy to prepare and serve family meals with the food budget in mind.

NOTE:

It may be wise for Homemaking Discussion leaders in countries other than the United States to use food and menus suitable to their particular country. The example contained in "To Do and Think About" is a menu lacking in color. Too much "sameness" is depressing to the appetite.

546