[Vol53 | November | Magazine Page 867 | PDF Page 908]

--- PAGE 867 (PDF page 908) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

One gentleman reported saving $300 in one year by following this practice.

In the Scandinavian countries, after-season and also after-holiday clothing sales enable families to save on their purchases of clothing. The stores also have furniture and drapery, bedding and "white" sales at certain periods of the year. Wise shoppers will plan to purchase their needs at these times. Small fruits are in abundance and many may be picked in the forests at no cost. Apples are in plentiful supply. Savings can be affected by preserving these fruits and making jams, jellies, and applesauce.

THE RETIRED COUPLE

Too often we fail to realize that the retired couple are the same two individuals who began the family cycle and that their financial standing is the direct result of what has gone before. Church leaders frequently counsel members to prepare for their old age during their income producing years by saving or investing funds for this particular purpose. If the family financial plan has been carefully worked out and followed, the years of retirement will have been properly and adequately provided for.

However, the same general rules will also apply, with the proper adjustments and adaptations, in this last stage of the family cycle. People who are in retirement are wise if they follow the same procedures of estimating their income, calculating their fixed expenditures, planning their daily expenses, and using what extra funds they may have, not for saving for the future, but for enjoying life while they can. None of this needs to be a burden, for it naturally falls into an easily-followed pattern of living.

What benefits do the retired couple reap from having a wise financial plan early in life?

SEA ETCHING

Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn

The sound of waves becomes translated
Into ripples, scrolled and fanned,
That show the pattern of the tide
Clear-etched upon the wet sea sand.

867