[Vol53 | December | Magazine Page 8 | PDF Page 53]

--- PAGE 8 (PDF page 53) ---
JANUARY 1966

Holladay Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah), Third Ward Relief Society
Honors Visiting Teachers at Luncheon Party
June 2, 1965

Selma Wall (at left), eldest visiting teacher, presented with gift by Diane F. Emery, youngest visiting teacher.

Maurine B. Folsom, President, Holladay Stake Relief Society, reports: "Visiting teachers of the Holladay Third Ward Relief Society, who had achieved a perfect record of visiting all of the homes for the past two years, were honored at a luncheon party. The youngest visiting teacher, Diane F. Emery, age nineteen, presented a gift to Sister Wall in behalf of the organization. More than half of the visiting teachers received special awards because they did not miss one month of teaching the entire year."

Central German Mission, Dusseldorf Branch Displays Quilt
at Mission Relief Society Conference
June 17, 1965

Left to right: Karin Schliewen; Adelheid Fritsch; Grete Kessler; Anna Marie Kutschke, President, Central German Mission Relief Society; Emma Lange; Ruth W. Benson, Supervisor, Central German Mission Relief Society; Elizabeth Priestnitz, President, Dusseldorf Branch Relief Society.

Sister Kutschke reports: "The spirit of our first Relief Society Mission Conference was wonderful, and all returned to their branches with a feeling of gratitude for the Priesthood and the blessings of Relief Society, and with a greater determination to improve their organizations and help to bring others into activity. The theme of the conference was 'Strengthen the ties that bind us together.'

"The Relief Society chorus, under the direction of Christina C. Van Hulten, furnished the music for the first session. Martha Otto was honored as being the eldest Relief Society sister, having been a member for forty years; and Marta Tobeck was honored as the youngest, having been a member fourteen days. Many lovely handmade articles were on display, and some were demonstrated. The Dusseldorf Branch displayed their first quilt, which was also the first one made by Relief Society in the mission. Of interest, also, was the style show, with lovely dresses and children's clothing, as well as a great variety of aprons. The film 'The Awakening' was shown, and the conference ended with a fine spiritual testimony meeting."

Sister Benson comments: "Last Sunday (Aug. 30) was a great day in our mission. We had our first two new buildings dedicated. The sisters are thrilled with their new Relief Society rooms."

French Mission, Riyadh (Saudi Arabia) Branch Relief Society

Left to right: Linda Bell, social science class leader; Irene Besner, theology class leader; Shayla DeMille, President; Carol Warner.

In a letter giving information regarding this branch of the French Mission, President Cecil E. Hart, reports: "We are in regular contact with the group through Brother Melvin J. Stanford, branch leader of the group . . . and they do come within our . . . guidance."

Sister Besner, who submitted the picture, tells us that the members of the Riyadh Branch are "adding another country to the list which have Relief Society organizations. Our group hold our meetings in our own homes."

52