[Vol53 | May | Magazine Page 366 | PDF Page 383]

--- PAGE 366 (PDF page 383) ---
Wheat for the Wise

Chapter 5

Margery S. Stewart

[ILLUSTRATION: Two children's faces - one blonde child in background and one dark-haired boy in foreground wearing a green sweater]

Synopsis: Jennie Starr, whose husband Rex is not a member of the Church, has received his permission for the family to participate in Church activities for a trial period of one year. Jennie feels that through her work in teaching a Trekker class in Primary, and the children's active interest in their class, their home is gaining a spirit of love, cooperation, and a willingness to become part of a larger purpose.

■ Jennie tried to make her voice very bright, "Guess what?"
"What?" asked the Trekkers suspiciously.
"We've been asked to be on the program for the Christmas party."
The Trekkers, as one man, fell off their chairs and lay about the room groaning.
"Enough," Jennie said sternly, "quite, quite enough. Every man in place."
Still groaning, they climbed back. They looked at her gloomily, "What do they want us to do?"
"We can choose," said Jennie, still striving for enthusiasm. "Isn't that wonderful! We can do a play or sing or make a pageant. We can be inspiring or inspiring. It's up to us. What do you want to do?"

"Nothing!" they cried in shrill accord. Then they settled down to the business of deciding which would be the most startling innovation ever to grace the stage.
Jennie listened with a very real interest. It never failed to fascinate her, the barbarism of the ten-year-old mind.
"But we want to make the people happy," she said. "We want to give them something beautiful to remember."
"We can't even please them," Billy said, "nobody can't please anybody that's over twelve years old."
The others nodded in solemn unison. Jennie secretly agreed with them, in part. It was pretty difficult to be male and ten. Little girls had it better, they were born with an instinctive grace and knowledge of the way to the

366