[Vol53 | July | Magazine Page 543 | PDF Page 568]

--- PAGE 543 (PDF page 568) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

CONCLUSION

What do these truths mean to the Latter-day Saints? The Savior says that they were given,

". . . that you may understand and know how to worship, and know what you worship, that you may come unto the Father in my name, and in due time receive of his fulness.

For if you keep my commandments you shall receive of his fulness, and be glorified in me as I am in the Father; therefore, I say unto you, you shall receive grace for grace (D&C 93:19-20).

CLASS DISCUSSION:

Discuss your feelings toward Christ as they have been influenced by this lesson.


FOR HOME CONSIDERATION:

Following the advice of Elder Romney for every one to search his soul and discover his weaknesses, each sister could list two or three of her weaknesses which she feels are most impeding her eternal progress, and endeavor to overcome them.

VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE
Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants

Alice Colton Smith

Message 73—"But I Have Commanded You to Bring Up Your Children in Light and Truth" (D&C 93:40)

Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, October 1966
Southern Hemisphere: March 1967

Objective: To provide an atmosphere in the home for spiritual learning experiences.

■ In the woods, alone, on a beautiful, clear, spring day, Joseph Smith prayed for truth. It was his first attempt at vocal prayer. At fourteen, confused by conflicting religious claims, he turned to the scriptures for guidance as his devout parents had taught him to do. In these scriptures he found the words that were to bring light and truth to his life and to all mankind. With rare and simple faith, he heeded the counsel of the apostle James to ask God, "that giveth to all men liberally" (James 1:5). Embarking on one of the greatest quests of man, the search for truth, he used one of the best tools of learning, prayer.

He prayed with faith, humility, and a receptive mind.

As is so often the case when we search, we find not the simple answer we seek but an almost unbelievable, exciting new dimension of knowledge. So to him the answer came. The darkness which had enveloped him after addressing what was seemingly a simple question was dispelled, and the answer came in a light, brighter than the sun. He had asked a simple question. God answered him with the key to eternity—that he and we might return to God's presence.

Joseph Smith was a good student. With the never-ending en-

543