[Vol53 | July | Magazine Page 557 | PDF Page 582]

--- PAGE 557 (PDF page 582) ---
UNFINISHED BUSINESS

Amy Hillyard Jensen

When we brought our sixth baby home from the hospital, our elder children were delighted with her. But our four-year-old son Eric found a small fault.

"Mama," he asked me one morning, "Why didn't Heavenly Father finish making the baby?"

"Why, honey, what do you mean? Heavenly Father did finish making the baby!"

"No he didn't," Eric insisted. "She doesn't have any teeth."

This became a family joke, one that I often retell. But it started me thinking. Aren't we sometimes like the child whose knowledge is so limited that he can't understand much of what's happening around him?

It was easy to explain to Eric that our new baby really did have teeth, but that we couldn't see them yet. In Heavenly Father's own time, they would cut through the surface of her gums, just when she was ready to use them.

But it isn't so easy for us to explain some of the other mysteries of life. What do we tell a friend who has lost a beloved child? Are we able still to acknowledge the Lord's wisdom when a valiant struggle ends in apparent failure? Can we look at a situation that appears ugly and forbidding and believe that good will eventually come of it if living in righteousness? Sometimes it's hard to do.

But, as the years pass, we begin to realize that all of life is built on growth and change—that the Lord doesn't leave any of his creations "unfinished."

If given the proper food and care, the infant will eventually grow not one, but two sets of teeth. Given sunshine and rain, the withered bulb will eventually bloom as a scarlet tulip. Nourished by faith and prayer, a shattered hope will someday become the foundation for undreamed of blessings.

PATCHWORK QUILT

Marian F. Apedaile

Life is becoming more and more like a patchwork quilt. We add a piece as we live each day. The thing to do is make each piece as pretty as possible, so that when we leave this life, we will be remembered by the beautiful pieces we have left behind.

MORNING BY THE SEA

Sylvia Probst Young

On softly rolling water, morning sun
Flecked golden, gently rides toward the land,
And white fringed wavelets, fingering the shore,
Leave etchings traced in silver on the sand.
Far in the distance, where the blue meets blue,
A ship's hull rises, phantom like . . . the cry
Of soaring seagull breaks the solitude,
In this vast world of sand and sea and sky:
This quiet world where fear and vain regret
Are lost to me—at this lone oceanside,
I walk and feel a power, infinite,
With time eternal—constancy of tide,
And life beginning new at each sunrise—
Beyond the reach of sea I lift my eyes.

557