vol. 28 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, 1899. No. 10.


CONTENTS.
Beautiful English Homes. . . . . . C. S. Robinson	57.
Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting . . J. S. Woolley	58.
A Woman Missionary . . . . . Mrs. Addison Pratt	59.
Visit Through St. George. . . A.nn C. Woodbury	61.
R. S. Report—Sanpete . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	62.
Obituary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	63.
Deborah Sampson—A Woman of the Revolution
	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Alice Burke	63.
Fiftieth Anniversary Woman’s Medical Col-
	leg. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Elizabeth L. Peck	64.
EDITORIAL:—General Conference . . . . . . . . .	60.
	The First State Fair . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	60.
	Editorial Notes. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	60.
POETRY—On the U. S. M. Steamer. L. D. Alder	57.
	Mother and Daughter . . . . . Shirley Wynne	59.
	For Ever. . . . . . . . . . . . . . C. E. C. Weigall 	59.


[Column 1]
ON THE U. S. M. STEAMER.
		ST. PAUL.

			I.
Sailing, sailing, sailing over the sea so blue,
Away from fair America. the land we love so 
	true.
Our ship’s the brave St. Paul, renowned in Spanish 
	strife,
Bound o’er the rippling waters, filled with human
	life. 
Cannons belched their murderous fires, through
	her railings white,
And twice the Spanish chased her, yet she gained
	the fight;
And once she carried home, a host of heroes dead—
Hundreds sleeping on her decks, Death’s mantle
	o’er them spread; 
True to her trust she proved, and brought them
	home to lie,
Near their cherished homes, ’neath Columbia’s fair
	sky.
And many died as heroes die, while on the home-
	ward way.
And o’er her side were cast to sleep, until the Res-
	urrection Day. 
The ship that carried hundreds dead, unto their
	native land, 
Gave to the waves their precious dust—they noth-
	ing more could stand

			II.
And she escaped the Spanish foe, winning in the
	fight,
Triumphant left them far behind, in the closing 
	night.
Now she salis in peace—murderous war is o’er, 
And carries sons and daughters back to some
	fair, foreign shore; 
Hearts beat fast to view again, the spot that gave
	them birth, 
But O, so sad for e’en awhile, to leave behind the
	best loved spot of earth!
Songs floating o’er the waters, with the violin’s
	sweet voice, 
And the waves so smoothly rippling, in the melo-
	dies rejoice, 
And lightly feet trip now, where once the warriors
	lay;
The spot speaks volumes yet, to those who live to-
	day.
And once a daughter true, weighted down with
	years,
Was coming home again, her loved to meet with
	happy tears;
But Death again came on the ship, only a day
	from shore,
And closed her weary eyelids down, to beam on
	earth no more.

			III.
The night was dark and murky, her loved ones
	wept aloud,
With a cruel iron at hre side, and canvas for a 
	shroud,

[Column 2]
She finds a grave deep in the sea, just in sight of
	home,
Hearts beat for them in sympathy, uttering many
	a moan.
Died in sight of home, buried beneath the restless
	sea,
The dear old eyes can weep no more, but greet
	with joy Eternity.
The eleon waves wail her requiem, the song the
	others sing,
That sleep beneath the briny deep, that ever moan-
	ings bring, 
Moan, moan, will their moanings never cease,
	never die?
Must hearts be always breaking, beneath a sullen
	sky?
No! God will say some day, “"Come from the sea
	ye dead;
O sea, give up thy treasures, hidden in thy bed,
Where diamonds gleam and glitter amid their
	floating hair,
Come forth and view again, Nature’s face so
	fair.”
			IV.
And the Sexton of the sea, must bring his treasures
	forth
That in his bosom, close hath lain, those of care 
	and worth.  
The sun sets blazing bright as gold, where sky
	and waters meet,
And a crimson path comes o’er the wave, to the
	vessel’s feet;
A highway on the waters, no mortal foot can
	tread,
A glory hanging in the sky, now darkening over-
	head.
And then the Night her curtain draws, leaving
	out the light,
That sinks beneath the waves, away from distant
	sight,
Save where reflected in the sky, are bars of shaded
	gold,
Ascending like the ladder, seen by the one of
	old.
Yet clear the steps seem more defined, reaching to
	the sky,
On these rounds do angels come, when we are
	called to die?
Bearing the spirit now released to the home of
	love,
To where the many mansions glisten up above?

			V
But night has come, dark clouds hang low
	around,
Mid the whispering of the waves, and the puffing
	steamer’s sound,
Now the last day faintly beams in the brightening
	sky,
And now to many friends we’ve won a last, a
	long good bye.
This as a world has been to us, gathered from
	every part,
But now Good Bye, our paths in life must grow
	apart,
And ne’er again may clasp of hand, greet us on
	Life’s way.
Our lives have met, our paths crossed o’er, we
	part again today,
So now good bye, like other days this last day can-
	not stay.
St. Paul so famed in days of old, Christ’s disciple
	firm and true,
Oft to our minds a thought has come, of work
	performed by you.
Your glory gathers day by day, the world your
	force and power prize,
Your words and sayings lauded now, even to the
	skies.
We think of how you proudly stood, before the
	Roman cold and proud, 
And Christ your Lord defended, in voice severe
	and loud.
And our St. Paul’s been faithful, too, bringing us
	safely o’er, 
Today we greet with thankful hearts, fair Eng-
	land’s welcome shore.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.
	June 7, 1898, on the St. Paul.


BEAUTIFUL ENGLISH HOMES.
	For many a day to come interesting
events in connection with the International
Congress of Women convened in London,
will be recurring to the mind, furnishing
topics for conversation and data for innum-
erable letters and papers.
	The reception given to delegates and
speakers by the Queen, overshadows in
importance, perhaps, all others of a like
nature tendered by “Old England” through
her most hospitable subjects. Certain it is,
nothing was omitted which could conduce
to the comfort and pleasure of her guests.
There are, however, individual experiences
of English hospitality which surpass all
that can be met with in attendance at pub-
lic functions, even though they be tend-
ered by high functionaries or the nobility
itself. A glimpse of ideal English life is
never afforded the tourist as such, and only
an exceptional opportunity makes it possible
for a stranger to come in touch with that
amiable class which is not of the mass, nor
yet of the nobility, but whose culture places
them so distinctly from the former and
superior to the latter, that it makes an
indelible impression on the mind, of an
American; not because America does not
produce this class, but because it empha-
sizes the fact that in every civilized nation
this class arises under every form of
government, but is large or small according
to the number and varieties of opportunities,
which reflects the advantage or disadvan-
tage of any form of government. 
	With this class of our English cousins,
there is neither ostentation nor gilded
misery, but that conservatism which creates
for themselves a world into which a self-
made man or woman, worthy achieve-
ments may enter, or through whose portals
acceptable members of the nobility may
glide, and yet all known to the world at
large only by impress made upon the pub-
lic welfare.
	The International Congress of women
afforded the opportunity in many cases to
observe this side of English life. Particu-
larly fortunate was the woman who fell to
the lot of Mrs. Sam Garrett. It was not
altogether a matter of chance either, for
Mrs. Garrett agreed to entertain a guest if
she could choose the nationality, and even
America may feel proud that she was her
choice. Fortunate indeed was Mrs. Gar-
rett’s guest.
	Mr. Sam Garrett, Fellow of Peter
House College, is a member of the incor-
porated Law Society and Law Club, and
Senior partner of the leading law firm in
London. Every one knows what that
means, and Mr. Garrett is all that one
would expect to find in a man of his posi-
tion. Mrs. Garrett is a superb example
of the type of English woman immortal-
zed by writers of prose and poetry. By
the merry twinkle in the eyes of both hus
band and wife, one is at a loss to discover
which bears the stamp of reflection and
comes to the conclusion that it is the com-
plement of each other. 
	This delightful couple have five sons:


[Column 1]
Douglas, Harry, (who is a skilled cricketer)
Ronald, Brian and dear little Jeffry. There
is one daughter with an impressive counte-
nonce, and fair Marjory just blossoming into
young womanhood. This charming girl, 
bubbling over with enthusiasm, artless
and guileless, was indeed refreshing to be-
hold and one could not help but feel re-
gret that custom makes the American child
so different. It is true we would not ex-
change our American girl after she has
entered her teens, for the girl of any
nationality on earth but the ingenuous-
ness which prompted Marjory’s answer.
“I am going to be a mother,” when asked
what she desired to be when she “grew
up,” is rare—all too rare—in American
children. Marjory’s response involves
more than individual sentiments; it exem-
plifies the fact that the home is recognized
not only as the basis of society, but that it
is the ideal of English life and womanhood.
In their homes the care and worriment of
business is not carried; the appointments
are conducive to “solid comfort:” the
service is skilled; literature and art commin-
gle, while refinement and joyousness per-
vade the atmosphere, rendering a happy
freedom amid the old world convention-
alities.
	To describe Mrs. Garrett’s home in de-
tail would seem sacrilege. Those who
are familiar with the English home will
appreciate this glimpse; those who are not
must rest content till an opportunity is
afforded them to learn for themselves, but
must rest content in the belief that there
are hosts of other homes counterparts of
this one, several of which are mentioned
below, and to which Mrs. Garrett escorted
her guest, who was an invited speaker to
the Congress, and thus escaped the duties
devolving upon a delegate and was left
free to attend public functions or obtain a
glimpse of English home and social life. It
is needless to say the latter was chosen in 
almost every instance with the exception of
the receptions given by Her Majesty, the
Queen; that of Lady Aberdeen, at the In-
stitute of Water Colors; that of Lady War-
wick, and that of the Pioneer Club. As an
escort this English hostess proved so wise
and agreeable that her guest was quite
willing to say, when asked her approval of
plans for her entertainment and pleasure,
“Whither thou goest, I will go,” then it 
was that the first glimpse of a semi-public
social nature was received at the Pioneer
Club.
	This is the leading club for women
in London. It has a capacious mansion
in Grafton Street for its home. Its draw-
ing room, library, music room, refectory
and, last, but not least, its smoking-rooms
are all suitably equipped. The program was
admirable and the occasion enjoyable. Many
American women added interest to the
entertainment. The following were
among the notable English women: Miss
Lilly Hanbury, Lady Elizabeth Cust, Miss
Chapman, (a well-known writer) Mrs. Sib-
thorpe, (editor of Shafts) Dr. Helen Webb,
Madame Sterling, Miss Pendlington, Miss
Query, Miss Pelham and the Hon. Marie
Davis.
	As the days slipped by, the reception
given by the Pioneer Club was followed by
“At Homes” at the following: Mr. and 
Mrs. Henry Fawcett, authors of the well
known book on “Political Economy,” both
L. L. D’s of note. Mrs. Fawcett was as-
sisted by Miss Agnes Garrett and Miss
Fawcett. Another “At Home” was given

[Column 2]
by Mrs. Q. MacDonnell, niece to Mary
Howit, where we had the pleasure of meet-
ing Lady Hamilton, Sir Joshua and Lady
Fitch, Sir Robert Hunter and wife and
many other distinguished people.
	One pleasant afternoon was spent at the
garden party given by Mrs. Waller and her
husband, Dr. Waller, a celebrated physician,
who, after feasting our eyes and ears upon
the varied entertainment and a stroll about
the beautiful grounds, accorded us the hon-
or of a glimpse into his laboratory.
	The “At Home” of Mrs. Garrett-Ander-
son, that beloved philanthropist and physi-
cian of note, was made particularly inter-
esting by the presence of Rev. Dr. Howis
and daughter, Mrs. Charlick, Mrs. Mar-
shall, M. D., and Mrs. Ayrton, the only 
woman who has read a paper before the
Royal Society.
	So much for London homes; but that
was not enough. A glimpse was afforded
of the country home at Weybridge of Mr.
Charles Swinfern Eady, Q. C., and Mrs.
Eady. Mr. Eady was one of three men-
tioned for judge, and as he seemed to be
the choice, he has, no, doubt, by this time
ascended to that exalted position. Mr.
Eady’s home was once that of the Duke of
York, and its glories are commensurate to
the requirements of such a personage. Its
oaks and beaches are among the glories of
“Old Eagland.” There is one great beach
tree whose trunk to be encircled requires 
the clasped hands of three adults. The outer
branches touch the ground and form shelter
for many rustic seats beneath their mighty 
shade. The house is not the original one,
but built in Italian style, after the house of
Paura. Its spacious courts with chambers
spreading in all directions; adorned with
paintings and bric-a-brac supplements the
appointments requisite to this house of
wealth and culture. Mr. Eady takes much 
pride in his fruiteries, and well he may.
The great vines under cover laden with
nectarines, peaches, muscots, hamburgs or
figs, as the case may be, are all evidences
of the luxury in this beautiful home. This
gentleman affable and entertaining, was 
the architect of these fruiteries. This hap-
py home is presided over by Mrs. Eady, a
charming young wife, hospitable and cor-
dial, who has graced the home with a
daughter, now four years of age and the
embodiment of daintiness, little Miss Dora-
thy.
	In all the round of pleasure the inner 
man was not neglected, though little need
be said on that score, for everyone who
knows anything of English life, knows
that eating and tea drinking is never
scorned.
	Between times places of interest were
visited that need not be enumerated here,
excepting to say that Hyde Park was seen 
in all its natural and fashionable glory, and
as the season had not yet ended, it was a 
sight never to be forgotten.
	There are other phases of London life—
some to be deplored, some to be pitied,
some to be scorned and some to be con-
demned—but nothing can efface the mem-
ory of the ideal English home.
		CORNIELIA S. ROBINSON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


“Are you the defendant in this case?”
asked the judge sharply. “No, sah," an-
swered the mild-eyed prisoner. “I has a
lawyer hired to do de defendin’. I’s de
man dat done stole de ahticles.”


LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	The Semi-Monthly Meeting of Sep. 16,
1899, held in the 14th ward hall, opened
by singing “Come let us anew. Prayer by
Counselor Elizabeth Webb. Singing,
“Come, O Thou King of kings.” Minutes
read and accepted.
	President Horne referred to a letter she
had received from Sister L. D. Alder in
England. She said the sisters there longed
for the day when they could come to Zion.
Thought it was sorrowful to see how little
the blessings bestowed upon us are appre-
ciated. The promise of the Lord willthe
not be fulfilled to us unless we keep
commandments He has given. Spoke of
the Word of Wisdom, and the wonderful
blessings we were to receive by observing
it. Referred to the wars, and how peace is
being taken from the earth in the fulfilling
of prophecy. Spoke upon the law of tith-
ing and the necessity of every man, woman
and child having their names upon the
tithing list. Said we should not do as
ancient Israel did, and rob God in tithes and
offerings. We are prospered and blessed in
every way, and do not appreciate the bless-
ings. Felt all would be able to have a bet-
ter spirit at home if we would attend to our
meetings.
	Sister Jane James spoke in tongues and
it was interpreted.
	Sister Martha Barrow bore a good testi-
mony.
	The congregation sang “The spirit of
God like a fire is burning.”
	President Bathsheba W. Smith said she
thought the sisters could meet together and
bring the spirit of God with them; we can
take it home with us, or wherever we go,
and be benefiting each other. Was glad
she was acquainted with the Prophet
Joseph, his wife Emma and his brothers
and sisters; she knew he was a prophet of
God. Said she wanted to keep her record
clean and keep all the commandments of
God.
	Counselor E. J. Stevenson said she had
been greatly blessed. Referred to her trip
to Summit Co., and said that the sisters
there enjoyed a visit from the sisters here,
and how they wished to come and visit the
Temple. Exhorted all to be honest with
each other and with the Lord. Thought it
a privilege to pay tithing.
	Sister Martha A. Morris sang “Redeemer
of Israel,” and a sister in the congregation
bore her testimony.
	Sister Dakin spoke of her trials, and how
she was trying to feel “Thy will, not mine,
be done,” and believed she was learning
the lesson.
	Sister Witdsoe spoke of how the Lord had
blessed her in days that are passed; how
she had received visions and dreams for her
benefit. Alluded to the watch-care of our
Heavenly Father.
	Sister Sarah Bateman felt thankful that
the Lord had lengthened her days, and that
she was privileged to work in the Temple.
She was the only one on either her father’s
or mother’s side to do Temple work.
	Sister Almeda S. Young alluded to
the teachings of Prophet Lorenzo Snow,
that in paying our tithing the earth would
be consecrated for our sake.
	Sister Horne said those who do not pay
their tithes and offerings, this land cannot
be a Zion unto them.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing, Doxology. Prayer by President M. I.
Horne.
				J. S. WOOLLEY, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
Last spring I saw them seated side by side,
	In the bright ending of the long bright day—
One old, who still her busy needles plied,
	One young, who let her happy dreams have way,
“How fair the day has been, and life is fair!”
	Murmured the maiden. “But, thank God, it
		ends!”
Replied the mother, on her daughters hair
	Laying her hand a moment “and life wends!”
The young girl, smiling, let her rosy dreams
	Of long glad years to come unchecked flow on,
As through the golden sunlight streams
	That the blue cloudless skies gaze down upon.
The aged woman looked towards the hill 
	By the old church where lay the dead at rest,
And sighed her shining needles growing still—
	Life for the young; death for the old is best.”
Later I sauntered by the cottage gate,
	And lo, the white-haired mother sat alone
Bearing life’s sorrows still, while—bitter fate!—
	The maiden to her last long rest had gone!
						SHIRLEY WYNNE.


FOR EVER.
If I had thought our parting was for ever,
			I should have wept,
That day when ’twixt the low hill and the heather
			The dead day crept— 
If I had thought that no more should we linger,
			Just you and I,
Without between us one disturbing finger,
			Beyond the sky 
And great sad sea that now has rolled between us,
			And then so still,
Calm as the day when from the salt foam Venus
			Rose of Jove’s will—
If I had thought—Nay, rather thinking over
			Of days long gone,
I can look back, remembering, though we sever,
			Our hearts are one!
					C. E. C. WEIGALL,


[Column 1]
A WOMAN MISSIONARY.
	[Mrs. Addison Pratt on the Society Islands
1850.]
			[Continued.]
	On the 25th day Mr. Pratt and myself
went on horseback to the village opposite;
had a delightful ride. I was charmed with
the scenery as we rode on the banks: the
tall ito trees overshadowing us, some of the
branches extending more than fifty feet,
forming a complete shade. It was low
water and the beach was covered with a
variety of shells. We reached the village
about 4 o’clock p. m.; distance, fifteen
miles. The native friends gave us a
reception, set food before us, and I do not
remember ever having enjoyed a meal
more.
	That night there was a severe gale of
wind on the sea; the waves roared like
thunder. We were alarmed for the safety
of a ship which we knew was lying in the
harbor at Mataura. We spent the evening
in telling interesting stories about America.
The people were greatly amused with my
description of the camps crossing the plains;
of the herds of buffalos, and all, to them,
wonderful things. They praised me for
being able in their tongue to say so much
intelligibly. The name of the brother who
entertained us was “Ruitora,” which
means in English “three nights.” He s a
wise man, very desirous of gaining light
and knowledge.
	Monday 26 we started home. It was
high tide, and in some places the water
was very deep on the beach. A view of
the sea was grand! Far off, near the reef,
the waters were a clear, bright color of
blue and green intermingled. The reflec-
tion of the sun upon it gave it a spangled
appearance, as though ten thousand dia-
monds were glittering there. Ah,
hought I, your beauty displays itself to 

[Column 2]
he eye, but your threatening voice warns
us that death is concealed beneath your
billows!
	When we reached home we found that
the vessel of whose danger we had fears,
had been driven on the rocks; many men
were engaged in getting her off. The trees
near the house had been stripped of their
verdure and the ground was covered with
foliage. It was the brig Ann, Captain
Harrington from Tahiti. He brought a
quantity of goods, a little damaged, of
which, in exchange for trade, I obtained
one hundred and twenty-four yards of
cloth. Although we are placed here with
no salary, and forbidden by the French
government to demand anything of the peo-
ple, yet the Lord provides for us; all our
wants are provided for. The missionaries
can go to the fields and shoot wild fowl and
ducks about, and the tarrow patches are
free. So the poor Elders can sustain them-
selves and teach the people, not for hire, but
looking for a reward with the ancient Apos-
tles, who preached the Gospel without
purse or scrip.
	We have three little girls in our family
teaching them the English language. It
is really an agreeable task; to discover their
powers of mind and their aptness to learn,
fully compensates us for our labor.
	When these children are first taken from 
their homes, they are extremely wild. Very
soon, however, they become domesticated.
It is amusing to see them try to imitate the
white children. They have most melodious
voices, which seem to be a redeeming ac-
complishment. The grown people are
nearly all fond of reading. The old chief
who waits on us is often heard in his sleep-
ing apartment till a late hour in the night
reading his Bible. Could they have books
printed in their own language, on which to
devote their great leisure, how much they
might be improved. Few indeed they
have except their Bibles and hymn books,
and precious treasures they are to the poor,
honest souls who know so little of the
world. Occasionally for the benefit of the
missionary children, we have a discourse in
our own language. At such times we all
feel edified and comforted. The natives
listen attentively, but not a word do they
understand.
	August 17, a native brother and sister
came in to be instructed from the Bible.
While their teacher was thus employed, I
stole outside and retired to the far end of
the garden. I had been feeling lonely; a
word of reproof had fallen on my ears,
which heightened my sadness. I hurried
to seek a secluded spot, where unperceived
I could indulge in prayer and meditation.
The footpath led underneath large trees.
The stars were peering out in all their re-
splendent brightness; the blue sky shone in
tranquil beauty; the moon was gone, and
the twilight shades seemed passing lovely;
the wind was low; all was still but for the
loud roar of the old ocean’s waves, they
murmured in the distance; the air, oh, so
mild and balmy!
	I sat down in the green grass—the spot
seemed sacred. I gazed into the starry
heavens and thought of the bright world
where our Savior dwells. I thought of the
dear sisters in the valley of the mountains
and longed to commune with them. I felt 
to love those most who, like me, had sor-
rows. So clings the heart to objects assimu-
lated to it. I prayed earnestly for a sub-
missive spirit. Presently a calm came over
me; it seemed the foretaste of happier days;

[Column 3]
it was sweet and silent; it impressed m
that holy beings were near me. I had
been thinking of blighted joys; of dayf
when I looked upon the world as full oe
charms: of the change that came over my
brightest prospects, and how my sun of
hope went down in early life. Then I re-
membered how the bright and glorious
morning star of the Gospel had arisen in
my horizon; with what enthusiasm I had
obeyed its mandates; what danger I had en-
countered, and what deliverance I had
found. A holy calm came over me. I looked
towards the window; the light was extin-
guished. I hurried to the house, fearing
to meet a reproof, which I did, but it could
not disturb my peace. I did not plead for
an apology that I had been alone with God
and nature; that my saddened heart was
comforted. I had passed self-approving     
hours and a great burden was removed. In
secret I thanked the Lord. 
	Today, 22nd of August, arrived the
schooner Ravai from Tahiti. We were all
greatly rejoiced to see her safely landed in
the harbor once more. There had been
severe gales of wind, which had caused us
great anxiety. A native by the name of
Hamutua, and family, came on the vessel.
They brought their children, seven in num-
ber, and presented them to us, saying
“Here are your children, we commit them
to your care, do with them as you think
proper.” They are very good children.
	Oh, what a work there is to be done
here! Who will do it? If the children
were cultivated they wrould be gentle and
amiable like our own children. Those just
committed to our care are beautiful singers.
They seem delighted to have it in their
power to entertain their teachers, and
show no backwardness when called upon
to sing, as our children often do. Their
hymn books are opened on the instant, and
each one knows his part.
	About the 25th, J. Layton brought a bar-
rel of flour from Tahiti. This was indeed a
luxury, having lived a long time wholly on
the native food. Still we did not crave it
to make bread, from that we were entirely
weaned. The bread fruit, tarrow and
sweet potatoes more than supplied its place,
but for pie crust it was a great article. Any-
thing made of flour the children regard the
same as ours relish candy.
	On the 29th, the whole family went to
Mahu (the other village) and left me alone
with the house to keep. I was delighted
with the prospect of enjoying quietude for
a few days. The first morning Brother B.
F. Grouard called and took breakfast with
me. We talked of his lengthy residence
among the Islands; of his desire to return
to the body of the Church. The idea of going
to Salt Lake and meeting his old friends
seems to him a foretaste of heaven. I
hope and pray he may not be disappointed;
but tied as he is with a native wife and a
family of children, the way seems dark and
uncertain. He feels that domestic happiness
has not yet fallen to his lot, and he sighs
for it in secret. How hard it is for us to
redeem ourselves from a misstep in youth!
The effect of it must follow us even to old
age. As we sow, thus we must reap. The
blessings flowing from the Gospel, I trust,
will redeem this brother of whom I write,
and he may yet rejoice in the land of Zion,
with a companion congenial to his nature.
I bade him hope, and trust in Him who
“moves in a mysterious way His wonders 
to perform.”
		[To be continued.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah,
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months.
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00, A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, 1899.


[Column 1]

		GENERAL CONFERENCE.

    The Semi-Annual Conference of the
Church, held during this month, was one
of great interest and had a very large attend-
ance. The weather was particularly fine,
and President Lorenzo Snow opened the
conference on the morning of the 6th of
October, with a voice as clear and resonant
as when a young man. The speaker
seemed to have an unusual flow of the
Spirit of his calling in the holy priesthood.
There are very few men at his age who
could make themselves heard in that great
Tabernacle. Other speakers were eloquent
and earnest in carrying out the counsel
given by the President; the law of conse-
cration and the law of tithing were ex-
plained and expounded, paragraphs were
read in relation to these subjects from the
Doctrine and Covenants, also the Millennial
Star, and much good instruction was given
by President Snow, his counselors and the
Apostles. The music throughout the
meetings of the conference was of an ex-
alted character, the singing at times par-
ticularly partaking of a divine power. This
was very marked on Sunday afternoon,
when the choir rendered the favorite hymn
of the Latter-day Saints, “O, my Father,”
which invariably touches a tender chord
and awakens the most sacred emotions in
the hearts of those who listen.
    The authorities of the Church were pre-
sented to the assembly and sustained by
unanimous vote of the multitude, including
the officers of all organizations auxiliary
thereto, the Relief Society, the Sunday
School, the Y. L. M. I. A. and the Primary
Association.
    An over-flow meeting was held simul-
taneously with that in the Tabernacle,
where the same good spirit prevailed, and
the speakers were equally blest with a por-
tion of the Holy Spirit. The people cannot
but be impressed with the declaration of
President Snow, that the Lord manifested to
him that he should teach the people to observe
the law of tithing; and it must be a great
consolation to those that have been neg-
lectful of this law that the Lord, through
President Snow, has said He will forgive
the Latter-day Saints for this past negli-
gence, if in the future they will observe
this law, but He will not look with forbear-
ance upon further negligence in keeping
this law.
    President Snow closed his remarks upon
this subject on Saturday morning in the
following words:
    “The time has now come when the Lord

[Column 2]
is ready to bestow upon us his choicest
blessings. We are not to contend with our
enemies. All mankind are our brethren
and sisters, and we are not to seek to de-
stroy them. If those who are now con-
tending against us only knew what we
know, they would cease to contend against
us; and sometime they will know.”

		RELIEF SOCIETY.
    The Relief Society Conference was held
in three sessions, morning afternoon and
evening, twenty Stakes out of forty were
represented, and all were reported favorably.
	The morning meeting was devoted to
officers altogether, many questions being
asked by those from a distance and answered
from the stand by President Z. D. H.
Young and others. One of the subjects
presented was in reference to the nursing
class which Dr. Roberts will teach under
the auspices of the Relief Society, and the
presidents in the northern part of the Stake
were notified of the offer made to them to
send students this fall, classes to commence
in November, and continue seven months.
The good work of the trained nurses in
this Stake was alluded to and commended.
    There was a very good attendance in the
afternoon and evening, and the meeting in
the afternoon was favored by a solo, given
by Miss Bessie Edmonds, accompanied on
the organ by Professor Stevens. Miss
Edmonds has a clear sweet voice, and
rendered pathetically ‘‘Eyes That Are
Weary.” In the evening, Mrs. Mary F.
Kelly, leader of a choir of young girls,
furnished the music; and it was pleasant to
hear their rich, melodious voices, and added
greatly to the effect of the meeting. Mrs.
Kelly is a very efficient choir leader, and
the society feels greatly indebted to her
and her choir for their vocal and instru-
mental music. Minutes of the conference
will be published later.


[Column 1]

		THE FIRST STATE FAIR.

	The Deseret Agricultural and Manu-
facturing Society has this year given solid
evidence of enterprise and hard work in
carefully preparing and manipulating most
successfully the first State Fair, which
opened in the Exposition Building and
grounds in this city, on Monday, October
2, at 2 p. m.
	There was a very large crowd of
people present at the opening exercises.
Held’s band discoursed fine music, and
there were seated on the stand, Presidents
Lorenzo Snow and George Q. Cannon, with
several of the Apostles; President Winder,
of the D. A. and M. Society; Secretary
Hammond and some other State officials
and directors of the society who had been
active in the Fair work.
	President Winder called the assembly to
order, and introduced Father Kielly who
offered an appropriate prayer of thanks-
giving and gratitude to God for His bless-
ings and mercies to the people of this
State, acknowledging in fervent earnest-
ness His divine love and wisdom.
	Secretary Hammond made a brief speech
in which he stated that the last words
Gov. Wells said before leaving for the East
to welcome the nation’s heroes, was an ex-
pression of regret at not being able to be
present at the opening of the Fair. The
speaker was proud to welcome the people
of Utah to the State Fair, and made some
happy remarks and suggestions suited to
the occasion. 

[Column 2]
	President Winder stated clearly some
pertinent facts in relation to the history of
Fairs in Utah, past and present, and thanked
the Great Giver of all good for being able
to enjoy the distinction of being among the
promoters of the first State Exposition in
Utah; and after a few more words of greet-
ing, he declared the Fair formerly opened.
	To attempt in detail any description of
the exhibit would be quite impossible in
our columns, but we can briefly express
pleasure and delight that the showing was
so creditable as a whole, and in many par-
ticulars excellent. The woman’s depart-
ment made a good display of fine needle-
work, lace, embroidery and elaborate fancy
work of various kinds. The silk exhibit
was especially good, though we cannot
itemize, yet every one must see that there
is in this industry a potent factor of future
wealth for Utah. Mrs. Margaret A. Caine
with cocoons and silk in all its preparatory
stages, and its final development in dress
goods, etc., and Mrs. Hugh Dougall with
her practical methods and results, and her
fine and elegant pillow lace of silk, made
one anxious to push the silk industry for-
ward more effectually.
	The educational showing was excellent,
and speaks well for the future of the chil-
dren of our new State along these lines.
	There were some good specimens of
painting and coloring on canvas and china
that showed distinct talent in this direction,
a few were particularly good. Perhaps
there is too little encouragement given in
this line to induce those who have gifts,
talents and inclination in this direction to
devote time and care to make finished artis-
tic work on canvas. The china is much
more mechanical and requires less skill and
painstaking.
	There are many things one would like to
mention, but just now the daily papers
have given considerable space to the ex-
hibits. However, we cannot but admire
the persistency and diligence which
the lady directors, Mrs. Bamberger and
Mrs. Fox and their assistants, have shown
in their untiring work to make the best dis-
play possible in the Woman’s Department.
Let us hope that greater energy and effort
may be made by the people another year, to
bring together the best products of the
State along all lines of art and education, as
a stimulus to greater industry, enterprise
and culture.
	President Winder and the secretary,
Hon. S. W. Sears, who have spared no
pains and, in fact, the entire board of
directors, are to be congratulated on the
success of the first Fair in the new State.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	EVER since returning from abroad, we
have intended writing up interesting inci-
dents of the trip, especially the sea voyage
and interviews with distinguished people,
also descriptions of places visited and other
details that are really worth mentioning;
but so much has transpired that seemed of
greater consequence, that from time to 
time the matter has been delayed. In the
near future, however, we expect to publish
a series of articles that will give our readers
a good idea of the International Council and
Congress, and the many wonderful women
from all over the world who met in London
on this great occasion. So many of the sub-
scribers are anxious to have written ac-
counts of the places abroad that we visit e


[Column 1]
and also of the meetings of the Latter-day
Saints that we had the privilege of attend-
ing.
	LETTERS received from Mrs. Lillian M.
Hollister, of Detroit, Michigan, announce
her coming to our city for a few days. Mrs.
Hollister is the Supreme Commander of the
Supreme Hive of the Maccabees, an organ-
ization representing thousands of women
and millions of dollars. The society is
affiliated with the National Council of
Women of the United States.
	MRS. CARRIE CHAPMAN CATT, of New
York City, and Miss Mary G. Hay, of
Ohio, will be in this city October 30, and
will probably be the guests of Mrs. F. S.
Richards. Mrs. Catt is the chairman of the
Committee on Organization of the National
American Woman Suffrage Association, of
which the celebrated Miss Susan B.
Anthony is president. Miss Hay is a
member of the Committee on Organization.
These ladies come West in the interest of
suffrage, and are anxious that the four
equal suffrage states should help other
states to obtain the same rights and
privileges.
	GOVERNOR H. M. WELLS and party
have returned from New York, whither
they went to attend the Dewey celebration
and demonstrations. The Governor is in
excellent spirits, and has enjoyed all the
proceedings in which he participated. He
has met many distinguished people. He
called on President McKinley, and speaks
in glowing terms of the interview. No state
in the Union is prouder of its Chief Execu-
tive than Utah, and the people are proud to
be represented at this greatest American
demonstration by so distinguished a party
as Governor Wells and his staff, and Majors
Young and Grant, whose services to the
country entitle them to a high place in the
hearts of the people.
	MRS. REBECCA B. CHAMBERS, of Penn-
sylvania, and two other ladies, will visit
Salt Lake City on their route homeward
from Seattle, Washington, where they have
been attending a convention of the W. C.
T. U. Mrs Chambers was a member of
the Resolution Committee of the N. C. W.
last winter, and became much interested in
some of the Utah women, members of the
same committee, and has written to Miss
Ann M. Cannon, secretary of the Res. Com.,
stating she will stop over here for a few
days. One of the ladies traveling with her
is a famous singer. Mrs. Chambers ex-
pects to be here over Sunday, the 29th of
this month. It is anticipated she will be
given a reception by the ladies here who
entertain for her a high regard, and will
greatly enjoy meeting her again and giving
her a glad welcome to the City of the
Saints.
	WE acknowledge with sincere thanks the
very courteous invitation from the “Wom-
en of Indianapolis” to be present at a re-
ception given by them in honor of Mrs.
May Wright Sewall, president of the
International Council of Women, Tuesday
evening, the seventeenth of October, 1899,
at 8:30, at the Propylaeum. We are very
sorry that circumstances prevent our attend-
ing this reception, as we feel it will be a
very significant and impressive occasion.
Mrs. Sewall has been made the president of
the greatest organization of women in the
world, although, perhaps, not the largest in

[Column 2]
membership, yet it includes many women
whose grand and able deeds, as well as
rank and title, have made them specially
distinguished. Indianapolis may well be
proud to recognize in a public demonstra-
tion, a woman of its own city, who has
attained such marked distinction before the
world. The whole United States may well
be proud of a woman whose talents and
ability and her own great personality, have
entitled her to be a leader among the
women of all civilized nations.
	THE grand reception tendered to Admiral
Dewey, was the most elaborate naval dem-
onstration the country has ever witnessed
upon any occasion, and in every particular
the affair was a marked success; even the
weather was favorable, so that the street
military parades, and the out door and in-
door receptions and gatherings, had all the
advantages of fine weather. The genuine
cordiality that characterized the introduc-
tions, greetings, handshakings, toasts and
speeches, and welcomings altogether on
Admiral Dewey’s arrival, was everywhere
observable. The presentation of the “Loving
Cup” and of the sword, the gift of Con-
gress, were scenes calculated to emphasize
in the minds and hearts of the people, deeds
of heroism and valor, and awaken a strong
sentiment of patriotism. These lessons
should be valuable to the nation. Especial-
ly was the native modesty of the Admiral
apparent through it all. Whatever honors
were shown him, or gifts bestowed, he ac-
cepted all in the same gracious spirit; and
when the Admiral brought forward his
Captains and introduced them to the audi-
ence, with such hearty good-will, he cer-
tainly must have won the respect and ad-
miration, as well as the lasting love of those
brave and gallant Captains of the navy,
who had served under him so faithfully,
“These are the men who did it. Without
them I could do nothing.”
	THE last week in November, we expect
Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Stetson, poet, author
and lecturer. She is the granddaughter of
Lyman Beecher, and grand niece of Henry
Ward Beecher, Harriet Beecher Stowe, Isa-
bella Beecher Hooker. Mrs. Stetson will
be the guest of Mrs. A. W. McCune while
in Salt Lake City, and of Mrs. Susa Y.
Gates at Provo, where she is expected to
speak under the auspices of the Brigham
Young Academy. Arrangements are in
progress for a series of lectures in this city.
Mrs. Stetson not only comes of the cele-
brated Beecher stock, but is also descended
from the remarkable New England Perkins
family. It is said of her by the critics, that
“her gift of ready and eloquent speech
seems inborn, and more characteristic of
her genius than is her writing.” Some of
us who know her, feel that she is unequalled
in many ways. She is certainly a woman
of the age; a woman with a mission, un-
doubtedly. Her book, “Women and 
Economics,” is everywhere regarded as the
bravest, brightest, most original and most
readable volume on women. It has been
translated into French, German, Dutch and
Swedish, and is said to be one of the few
American books that are making a world-
appeal. Mrs. Stetson is a woman to be
listened to, and whether one agrees with
her views or not, one admires the womanly
earnestness of her speech, as also her strik-
ing appearance, which carries, with her
power of language, the conviction of her
own belief in the truths she expresses.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


VISIT THROUGH ST. GEORGE STAKE.

	I thought a few lines from this part of
the country might interest your readers.
	President Ann C. Woodbury and Coun-
selor Emma Morris, of the Relief Society,
and Rose Jarvis, of the Y. L. M. I. A.,
and Mary Whitehead, of the Primary, of
the St. George Stake of Zion, with Leon
Jarvis as teamster, left St. George on the
17th of August, to visit the settlements on
the Rio Virgen River.
	We arrived at Toquerville the same eve-
ning, and held meetings with the Relief
Society, Young Ladies’ and Primary.
	On the 28th we went on to Virgen City
at 10 a. m., met with the Relief Society
and had a good time. At 3 p. m. we met
with a nice lot of the Primary children. At
8 p. m. met with the Young Ladies. After
the sisters had spoken, all the girls present
bore their testimonies.
	The 18th we went on to Grafton, where
there is a small settlement. We held
meeting at 10 a. m. with the Relief Society
and Primary together, and after partaking
of Bishcp Ballard’s hospitality, we went on
to Springdale, where we met in a bowery
with the sisters and a very fine lot of chil-
dren. Brother Alpheus Gifford, who has
recently lost his eyesight and is quite blind,
and one of the Bishop’s counselors met
with us. Here they have very fine crops,
and we truly breathed the air of freedom.
	The 20th, which was Sunday, we came
back to Rockville. At 10 a. m. met with
the Sabbath School. At 2 p. m. we met
with the Saints in their regular meeting.
After the sacrament had been administered,
the meeting was given over to the sisters.
We urged the Saints to do their duties.
After the services we met with the Primary.
At 8 p. m. we met with the Mutual Im-
provement Association and enjoyed it very
much.
	On the 21st we traveled to Leeds. At 4
p. m. we met with the Relief Society and
Primary, and at 8 p. m. with the Young
Ladies. We had a joyful time. Almost
all the girls bore their testimonies. We
were entertained by Sister Ira McMullin,
whose husband is on a mission.
	On the 22nd we went to Harrisville
There they have no water; everything is
almost dried up. It is a small settlement.
We held a Primary meeting and invited all
to come. We felt well in meeting with the
sisters and children. We had dinner with
Sister Laney and then returned home,
having been away six days. We remained
home eleven days, and then started to visit
the western settlements of the St. George
Stake.
	On the 2nd of September, Brother Rich-
ard Morris, Stake superintendent of the
Sabbath School; President Ann C. Wood-
bury, of the Relief Society; Rosa Morris, of
the Y.L.M.I.A., and Mary G. Whitehead
left St. George. We arrived at Pine Valley
in the evening and put up at Bishop Snow’s.
Sunday we attended Sabbath School.
Brother Morris and the sisters talked. They
have a nice Sabbath School there. We met
with the Saints in sacrament meeting, after
which we met with the Primary and re-
organized it. At 7:30 p. m., we met with
the Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A. We
had an interesting time, many of the sisters
bore testimony to the truth of the work
in which we are engaged.
	On the 4th we went to Grass Valley. We
met with the people and had a joyful time.
All bore testimony to the truth of the Gos


pel. We had dinner with Brother Rancher
and family. At 5 p. m. left for Pinto and
met with the Primary at 7:30 p. m. We
held meeting with the Relief Society and
Y. L. M. I. A.: had a nice time. 
	The 5th we traveled on to Enterprise.
At 3 o’clock we met with the Primary. At
8 p. m. we organized a Relief Society. Re-
organized a Y. L. M. I. A.
	Talked with the sisters in Pine Valley
on the silk industry. We were showing a
sample of the silk we had made. They
said, “Why don’t you talk it up?” I
thought I had talked enough. They said
“We can’t raise silk here, but we can help
about the ribbon loom.” I talked about it
here and a gentleman, not of our faith, by
the name of Marshal, gave me a dollar to-
wards the silk. Bishop Hall met with us
and we had an excellent meeting.
	The 6th we went on to Hebron. At 10
a. m. we met with the Primary; lots of fine
children. Met with the Relief Society.
Bishop Holt attended all the meetings.
	The 7th we went on to Clover Valley.
Met with the Sunday School and Primary
children at 7:30 in the evening, also with
the Relief Society, and Y. L. M. I. A.
	On the 8th we continued our journey on
to Panacca. On the 9th held Primary
meeting at 4 p. m.; also met with the Re-
lief Society and Y. L. M. I. A., and re-
organized the latter.
	The 10th being Sunday, we attended
Sunday School and sacrament meeting,
after which we were invited to a water
melon feast at Brother John Lee’s. Sister
Jarvis met with the Young Ladies’ at 5 p.
m., and held a testimony meeting. We
also had a general meeting at 8 p. m., and
had an enjoyable time. While at Panacca
we stayed at Brother Arthur Lee’s and
were invited out to other places and shared
the hospitality of the people.
	On the 11th we continued our journey
over a broken country to Eagle Valley.
The people, owing to being in such an out
of the way place, have not been visited by
missionaries very often. They thoroughly
appreciated our visit. We met with the
Sunday School at 4 p.m.,and held a general
meeting at 8 p. m. The people were in
from Spring Valley. The first principles
of the Gospel were dwelt upon and we
truly had a time of rejoicing.
	On the 12th we left Eagle Valley and
started for Deer Lodge. We took the
wrong road and traveled on a wood road
about two and a half miles. Brother John
Hammond overtook us and said we would
have a “dear lodge” that night if we
kept on that road; so we returned and ar-
rived at Deer Lodge at 12 o’clock. We
took dinner with Sister Whitehead’s daugh-
ter, Mamie Lund. At 1 p. m. we started
for Bishop Holt’s. We stopped at Modena
and fed and watered the horses. We ar-
rived at Brother Holt’s having traveled
sixty-five miles that day. Sister Holt
kindly entertained us.
	On the 13th we left for St. George and
arrived in the evening, having traveled
there hundred and twenty-five miles and
held thirty-seven meetings. We trust we
have done some good in the cause of truth.
			Your sister in the Gospel,
				ANN C. WOODBURY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OVER five thousand women have obtained
employment in the last few years in Phila-
delphia in business hitherto filled by men
alone.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORT.
			SANPETE.
	Minutes of the Relief Society conference
held at Mt. Pleasant, September 8, 1899,
President M. A. Hyde presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing “We thank
Thee, O God, for a prophet.” Opening
prayer by Elder Edward Cliff. Singing,
“Prayer is the soul’s sincere desire.”
	President Hyde in her opening remarks
said we had arrived at a period when the
work was progressing marvelously. Re-
ferred to the death of Joseph Smith, and
the transfiguration of Brigham Young
when the mantle of the prophet fell upon
him. Referred to the strange spirits that
are abroad in the land to lead away the un-
wary, and the great necessity of the Saints
living near unto the Lord and seeking for
the spirit of discernment, that they may be
able to distinguish truth from error.
	President M. F. C. Morrison represented
the sisters of the Relief Society in Mt.
Pleasant as doing a good work. The peo-
ple were very liberal in contributing to the
wants of the poor.
	Mary A. Frantzen said: “The sisters
of Spring City are improving in attendance
at the meetings and are performing all the
duties required of them.”
	Freedom was represented by President
Libbie Simonson; Manti south ward, by
Stake Counselor Abigail Shoemaker; Manti
north ward, by President Alvira L. Cox;
Fayette represented by letter; Ephraim,
north and south wards, by Stake Secretary
Maria Willardson.
	All these branches were reported as being
in good condition.
	President M. A. Hyde related an incident
of healing through faith and prayer.
	Brother Reddick Allred made instructive
remarks, and President Stena Graham rep-
resented Milburn very favorably.
	Brother Edward Cliff eulogized the work
of the Relief Society, as represented in the
reports.
	Counselor A. L. Cox gave an account of
her recent visit through the different
wards throughout the Stake, accompanied
by Sister Shoemaker. Reported a wonder-
ful improvement during the past year.
Dwelt upon the blessings to be obtained by
perfect obedience to the law of tithing; also
spoke on the signs of the times.
	President Hyde delivered a kindly mes-
sage to the sisters from President Zina D.
H. Young.
	Singing, “O God, our help in ages
past.” Benediction by Brother Reddick
Allred.
	Afternoon session. Singing, “How firm
a foundation.” Opening prayer by Bishop
Lund. Singing, “Guide us O, Thou Great
Jehovah.”
	Moroni was represented by Kirstine M.
Jensen.
	President M. A. Hyde announced the
arrival of Sister E. B. Wells, from Salt
Lake City, who then addressed the confer-
ence. She gave a graphic and interesting
description of her recent visit to London
and the labor performed by the Inter-
national Council. The speaker was elo-
quent over the Herculean labors performed
by the Countess of Aberdeen in the interest
of the Council, and in showing social
courtesies to the visiting delegates, includ-
ing the visit to Queen Victoria and Wind-
sor Castle. She felt that the work the sis
ters had done in the Councils, both the

[Column 2]
National and International, had been good
in correcting wrong impressions and allay-
ing prejudice. She felt to eulogize the
work of the Relief Society in all the world.
Thought that we as a people had reason to
be proud of this organization. Urged upon
the young women the necessity of identify-
ing themselves with the society, that they
may be prepared for the duties and re-
sponsibilities which await them. Thought
that those who had known the Prophet,
should testify of the divinity of his mission
to the youth of Zion. Referred to the
building of a house in Salt Lake City for
the use and benefit of the Relief Society. 
	Counselor A. L. Cox gave notice con-
cerning Dr. Romania B. Pratt’s class in
obstetrics and nursing, urged the sisters to
attend; also dwelt upon the necessity of
sustaining the Exponent.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, “Do what is right.” Benediction
by Brother Reddick Allred.
	A special meeting was held in the eve-
ning, which was largely attended. The
meeting was held in the ladies’ new hall,
which is neatly furnished and reflects much
credit on the taste and energy of the good
sisters of Mt. Pleasant.
				A. L. COX, Cor. Sec.


OBITUARY.
	CORNELIA PRATT DRIGGS.
	Died at her home, Forest Dale, October 7, 1899,
Cornelia, wife of Bishop A. G. Driggs, and
daughter of the late Apostle Parley P, and Mary
Wood Pratt. The deceased was born in Salt Lake
City. Sep 5, 1848, and lived even up to woman-
hood in the old homestead on South Temple St.
She married A. G. Driggs, Oct. 5, 1867, and took
up her abode at Pleasant Grove, Utah Co., where
they lived a few years. Came to Sugar House in
1870.
    Sister Driggs was president of the Y. L. A. in
that ward for a number of years, and at the time
of her death was president of the Relief Society of
Forest Dale ward, which position she held from its
organization.
    She leaves a husband, three sons and four
daughters. Her second son, Mathoni P., is now
performing a mission in New Zealand. On the
morning of Mathoni’s departure, his grandmother
Pratt died. It was suggested to Sister Driggs the
propriety of calling her son home. She would not
entertain the thought. She was devoted to her re-
ligion, and kept the Word of Wisdom to the letter.
Her example was worthy of emulation; her whole
life has been spent in doing good, ministering to
the poor and needy, patient and kind to every one.
She has suffered in patience for the last year; was
perfectly resigned to the Father s will. The
whole community mourn with the sorrowing
household the departure of such a noble spirit.
								      COM.
	CHARLOTTE WOODS CARTER HIGBEE. 
	The funeral services of this noble Mother in
Israel were held in the 7th ward meeting house,
at 12 o’clock, noon, Sunday, Sep. 24, Bishop
Thorne presiding.
    According to her own request, the hymns sung
were “How firm a foundation,” “O, my Father”
and “Come to me will ye come.” The speakers
were Elder David McKenzie, who read a brief
sketch of her life, and Bishop O. F. Whitney.
Six of her grandsons acted as pall bearers, and a
large number of relatives and friends followed the
cortege to Mount Olivet, where the remains were
intered. Members of the choir rendered beauti-
fully “Farewell all earthly honors,” and Coun-
selor McLaughlin dedicated the grave
   Sister Higbee passed from this life Thursday
morning, Sep. 21, 1899, at the residence of her
daughter, Mrs. Minerva Cunnington, Salt Lake
City, Utah. She was the daughter of Roxana
Cresson and Levi Farnsworth Woods, and was
born in the town of Sangerfield, Keene Co., State
of New Hampshire, May 20, 1814.
    The following are her own words, which were
written in 1889:
    “I joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints in the year 1831 in the town of Pomfret,
Chatauqua Co., New York. I have passed through


all the trouble and persecution with the Saints
from that day to this, and never wavered in my
duty. I was married to Gideon Haden Carter,
a widower, in the year 1832; he was killed by a
mob in the battle of Crooked River, Missouri,
1838. I have passed through many scenes where
the power of God was manifest in a marvelous
degree.”
	She lived in the home of Elder Carter (whom
she afterwards married) during the illness and
death of his wife, Hillah Burwell Carter. I again
quote from her own writings:
	"The day before she died, an angel of the Lord
administered to her telling her that her body
should sleep in mother earth, but her spirit should
go to the paradise of God and rest until the morn-
ing of the first resurrection, and should then be
raised to a glorious exaltation in the kingdom of
her Heavenly Father. She received the vision on
a bright, sunny morning, the 1st of April. There
were eight persons and her six children in the
room at the time, who witnessed the glorious light
which filled the room and transfigured her beauti-
ful countenance while she talked to the angel,
which occupied one or two minutes. She talked
freely of what the angel said to her, until she died.
I testify this to be the sacred truth, for I was one
of the eight persons present.”
	She also testifies that a few years ago, when
given up to die by her family and friends, that the
power of the Lord rested upon her, telling her that
her work was not yet finished, and she was healed
in an instant.
	After the death of her husband, she was married
to Isaac Higbee for time and eternity, and was
with him at Provo during the Indian troubles,
keeping the powder magazine under her bed.
When driven with the Saints from Missouri, she
carried her baby in one arm, and her bundle in
the other. She was the mother of eight children—
two by Elder Carter, one son surviving; and six
by Elder Higbee, three of whom have passed away,
and three daughters now live in Salt Lake City.
She also leaves several grandchildren and great
grandchildren, and one brother and two sisters.
	The experiences and good deeds of this noble
woman would fill a volume. It is said she has
been a mother to six families, all of whom love
her and revere her memory. Peace to her ashes.

	Peace, peace, she is passing away,
	But through the gates to eternal day;
	Do not disturb her, fond heart be still,
	Gladly she listeth His will to fulfill, 
			Peace, peace.

	Out of the darkness, mis'ry and din,
	Into the light and glory within,  
	They alone enter, who’ve battled and won,
	They who have earned the glad plaudit well
		done,
				Peace, peace.

	Hushed be your mourning, rever’ntly bow,
	Only the clay remaineth here now;
	Happy in freedom, your mother has fled,
	Shout, shout, Hallujah! she is not dead,
			Peace, peace.

						Ruth M, Fox.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
DEBORAH SAMPSON—A WOMAN OF THE
REVOLUTION.
BY ALICE BURKE.
(Continued.)
	Within a few days Deborah posted a let-
ter to her mother from an-outlying town,
where she got permission to go. A por-
tion of it read:
Dearest Mother:
	I am in a large, well-regulated family. My
superiors are indulgent, but demand punctilous
obedience and propriety of conduct.
	There was a little more and then she
signed herself, “Your loving runaway
child, Debbie.”
	She gave no address, and of course re-
ceived no answer. She grew restless be-
cause no action was given her in the differ-
ent engagements. This reached the Col-
onel, “that Bobbie wanted to fight.” He
sent her out almost instantly with a scout-
ing party to cross the Hudson at Stony
Point. Finally some real fighting came
her way. She engaged in a skirmish be-

[Column 2]
tween Tarrytown and Sing Sing on the
26th of June. The day was intensely hot
and Deborah braced herself against im-
pending dizziness and weakness which
came over her. When the morning
dawned a stifling atmosphere fell upon the
band of men as they picked up traps for
the skirmish. Deborah’s comrades rallied
her on her white face and haggard eyes,
but she made no answer, only went about
her duties. When the order came to move,
she was alert with energy, though pale as
a ghost. Every bit of life centered in her
eyes, which meeting the soldiers as they
spoke to her, fairly dazzled them.
	“Jove,” one man said to a companion,
“if only a woman had such eyes, I’d wor-
ship her.”
	Deborah heard and was afraid, afraid of
being found out. She could not see the
man’s face, for he was turned from her,
but she saw that he was of higher rank
than a private. His voice was pleasant,
deep and manly, not easily forgotten.
	She took her place with the rest and
was soon in the thick of a desperate fight
with the British. She felt her strength
failing, her head swam, the whizz of the
bullets sounded deadly, the hot sun in her
face—for it was midday now—the groans of
the wounded filled the air and with a
woman’s horror and tenderness for the
suffering, she often paused to smooth a
dying comrade’s brow or hear the last
words of another, and thus she struggled
on, finally making her way to the front
ranks. Now desperate with the heat and
misery about her, and wishing to end it
all, what easier way than to be shot down,
serving her country. So she made her
way persistently forward. She felt sud-
denly that some one was dogging her foot-
steps closely, now on this side, now on
that. She did not turn to see, but was
conscious of this presence near her. He
was not her usual comrade, she was sure,
yet she would not turn to ascertain, so
eager was she for death to release her from
her misery.
	As she reached the foremost skirmisher,
a hand was laid on her arm.
“Stop!” a commanding voice said, a
voice she remembered instantly, the one
she had heard in the early morning.
	“I will not!” she exclaimed rebellious-
ly, trying to jerk away from him. 
	“You must not go on! It means
death!” he continued. “Be reasonable,
Robert.”
	“What business is it of yours, let me
go,” Deborah said, averting her face.
	“Rob, you are wilful. Here, look at
me, lad.” The soldier forced Deborah to
raise her head and meet his glance. Her
heart failed her as she did so, for the eyes
regarding her with an expression of grave
earnestness, were clear and of a dark blue;
eyes which seemed to master her soul and
hold her in bondage. Her own fell before
them, she breathed quickly, strangely
moved, she scarce knew why, and for once
her indomitable will failed her. 
	“Well,” she asked slowly, “I’m look-
ing at you. What is it you wish?”
	The wayward manner, the restless
glance of the handsome eyes puzzled her
companion. He eyed her curiously. Debo-
rah knew he was studying her, and with
an effort recovered herself, raised her eyes,
and met his boldly with the same light in
them which he had seen once before.
	“My heavens,” he said, still holding
her, “you’re a strange boy—and if—and
if— ” but here the bullets grew thicker,

[Column 3]
the smoke denser, and in the confusion she
contrived to get away from him.
	“’Tis love,” she whispered to herself,
as she ran madly on. “Love that has
come to me, and I’ve sworn never to give
up my liberty. God help me!”
	With a prayer on her lips she sped on.
She looked backward, but her companion,
tall and stalwart, though he was, could
not be seen. Was he wounded? There
was no time for conjecture, she must de-
fend herself as best she could.
	Before her, ever onward, she fancied
him near her. His thoughtful eyes bent 
upon her and his voice bidding her stop.
But this was only a dream, and she found
herself in a dangerous position with hiss-
ing missiles falling about her, and dense
smoke blinding her. With a groan she
put her hand to her arm, and saw blood
oozing through a great rent in her sleeve.
She was wounded, though slightly. The
pain was intense. She bound it up some-
how and rushed boldly on, stumbling now,
however, for the loss of blood and the
heat made her stagger blindly; then she
was drawn forcibly back. She began to
lose consciousness. The fear of being
discovered forced her to keep partial con-
trol of her senses, and she was aware she
was being led out of danger.
	“Wait, wait,” she gasped.
	Some one pressed a cup to her lips, and
she drank deeply, which revived her. She
looked at her companion. It was he;
bending above her calm and authoritatively.
A great fear took possession of her. She
must keep away from him, keep away
from the dangerous contact of his detain-
ing hand.
	“Don’t you see,” she said, “I’m all
right. The wound is nothing, nothing, I
assure you.”
	She tried to be brave, though her voice
trembled. He was aware of it. 
	Rob, you are talking nonsense. Come
along with me. I am going to take you to
a place of safety.”
	He led her away, and she was too weak
to protest. He made her rest beneath a
tree, while he went to others who were
wounded near by. She discovered his
name while she lay there. It was Ben
Gannett, and he was the surgeon of the
regiment, a brave soldier, as well, in the
service, and cared for the wounded. As
she observed him, strong and yet gentle,
moving from one to the other, a longing
entered her soul to tell him who she was.
His earnest face and wonderful courage
affected her forcibly, but she put the
temptation from her, and rising with re-
newed energy, she went to him.
	“I thank you,” she said frankly, “for
what you have done for me, but I must
join my comrades on the hill.”
	“Not yet, Rob, not yet,” he said.
	“I’m sorry, but you must not try to
stop me, ” she said firmly.
	Dr. Gannett saw it was useless. 
	“As you will then. But don’t be reck-
less, Rob. Think when you’re on the
battlefield, there’s some one cares whether
you live or die, for I do,” he said gently.
	The words were scarcely uttered when
he felt her burning hands clasp his, while
a soft kiss touched his. hand. ’Twas Debo-
rah! but before he could speak she rushed
away with her rifle in her hand.
	“A strange boy,” he muttered, and
then proceeded with his work.
	Little more happened in this first attack.
Deborah escaped with her life, and only
he slight wound in her arm. She evade


[Column 1]
Ben Gannett studiously, and a year passed
without having seen him.
	In June, when the roses awakened and
all the world seemed filled with love and
peace. she was sent out on another expedi-
tion. She tried in vain to crush out of her
soul this love for the young surgeon, but
it would not be killed. The boys in camp
found Bob changed after the skirmish, but
though they teased him, got no satisfac-
tion.
	Deborah on this second occasion was
full of her usual strength and vigor.
	At length the order came for her to join
twenty men who were to retaliate on some
Tories in New York. She sprang on a
horse, and with the others charged the foe
boldly and chased them into a quagmire.
In the midst of her bravery a bullet pierced
her thigh. Her cavalry boot filled with 
blood, and she grew weak and faint. She
called out to the soldiers, “I can go no
further!” One of them stopped and 
offered to carry her, but she motioned him 
away, fearing to be discovered, and he left 
her.
	Scarcely had he withdrawn when an-
other man rode out of the forest. She
knew him instantly, Ben Gannett.
	“Wounded again, Rob?” he said gently,
going to the youth, with blood stains on
his clothes.
	“Yes, yes,” Deborah answered in an 
agonized tone. “And it’s an ugly one.”
She pressed her hand over it, trying to
stop the blood.
	“This time I hope you’ll be sensible,
and let me dress the wound,” Ben said,
holding out a hand to help her.
	“I cannot, Doctor, believe me. I’ve a
horror of being hurt more—and prefer to
dress it myself,” she said firmly.
	“I suppose amongst your other follies,
which are those almost of a woman—”
	Deborah quailed beneath the sarcasm,
and he perceived an odd little smile on her
lips.
	“I say, Rob, amongst your other follies,
you will doubtless try to walk to camp.”
	“Perhaps,” she said, and with a ner-
vous strength she got to her feet.
	“Ah, me,” she exclaimed, with a per-
ceptible pang of pain. He saw she suf-
fered.
	“Do be sensible,” he urged, “and let
me help you.”
	“No, Doctor, it’s useless asking.”
	She tried to walk, but found it impos-
sible.
	“The game’s up. I’m good for nothing.
What shall I do? If I could only get to
my tent I could fix the wound in a
moment,” she said.
	“Well, since you won’t listen to me,
there is but one way I can help you,” he
said, and without warning he lifted her in
his arms and placed her on his horse and
mounting up beside her he started off for
camp.
	Deborah remembered that ride. They
were quite silent, for the day was drawing
to its close. A mist came down and clung
to the trees. It circled over the meadow
like a veil between them and the river.
	Ben was not thinking of the scene but
of his companion. He looked at her
closely. She had lost her cap in the fray,
leaving her shapely head exposed. It was
covered with a mass of short dark curls.
Without knowing what power made him,
he laid his hand on her head. Deborah
moved away uneasily.
	“My lad,” he said, “why are you so

[Column 2]
impatient of care? What is the reason?”
	“Oh, nothing. No reason,” she said
shortly, pressing her hand to her side, and
the Doctor saw she was still suffering.
	He refrained from more questions. He 
saw that his companion’s face grew white
and drawn.
	“Oh, it’s all up with me,” he heard her
say, and then a sudden flash of something
bright in the hand which was free. In a 
second he wrenched the weapon from her.
Deborah in a moment of desperation and 
pain was about to kill herself.
	“Rob, are you mad,” the Doctor said,
pinioning her hands by a strong grasp.
He felt how the boy leaned heavily against
him. Was he too late? Was he dying?
	No, the breath came in short gasps, but
the eyes were closed.
	“Rob”’ he said, “I didn’t mean to be
harsh to you. You are suffering.”
	A pressure of the hand was the only
answer, and thus they rode on, Deborah
in a half conscious state, allowing herself
to rest in his arms.
	“Strange,” the Doctor thought, “a
moment ago such energy and now he’s fit
to die. I can’t help loving the boy, in
spite of his wilfulness.
		[To be continued.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


FIFTIETH ANNIVERSARY WOMAN’S
		MEDICAL COLLEGE.
	Philadelphia, Penn., Sep. 23, 1899.
	The spring of 1900 will mark the fiftieth
anniversary of the Woman’s Medical Col-
lege of Pennsylvania, and the Alumnae are
looking forward to a fitting celebration of
this epoch in the education of women in
medicine.
	An interesting feature will be the presenta-
tion, at the next Annual Commencement,
of the portrait of the late Dr. Ann Preston,
a member of the first graduating class, and,
subsequently, one of the college faculty and
the first woman Dean. She was also the
leading spirit in founding the Woman’s
Hospital in Philadelphia.
	Since many of Dr. Preston’s old friends
are unknown to the present officers of the
Alumnae Association, we take this method
of informing them of our desire to raise a
sufficient sum of money to secure the ser-
vices of an artist who can reproduce on
canvas one whose memory is held in such
reverent esteem. Contributions, which will
be duly acknowledged, may be sent to Dr.
Clara Marshall, 1712 Locust Street, Phila-
delphia.
	ELIZABETH L. PECK, M. D.
		Secretary Executive Board.


MRS. LYDIA VON FINKLESTEIN MOUNT-
FORD, the Palestine delegate to the recent
International Council of Women in London,
says: “During my visit to Palestine last
year, I was struck by the awakening spirit
that seems to have taken hold of the wom-
en. The different religious bodies of the
Holy City have free schools for those of
their own denomination, and receive those
of other creeds; but as they all are proselyt-
ing institutes, they do not tend to break
down the barriers that religious differences
have established between people of the
same race. The younger generation, more
or less educated in these schools, are coming
in contact with the numerous foreigners
who visit the Holy Land. They chafe
under the restraint imposed by sectarianism


and in order to enjoy the social intercourse
of which a mistaken religious zeal has de-
prived them, they are in great danger of
cutting loose from the moral and modest re-
straint so beautiful in young womanhood,
with the idea that they are following French
and other fashions. I was particularly im-
pressed by the great need of a liberal edu-
cation, and their pathetic realization of that
need.


[shield logo]
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
WORLD’S PICTORAL LINE.

[to the right of the logo]
THE PEOPLE’S FAVORITE.

		Leave Salt Lake Ci[-]y
No. 6 The “Fast Mall” for Chicago, St. Paul, St.
	Louis, Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and
	Park City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7 00 a.m.
No. 2 The “Overland Limited” for Chicago, St.
	Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
	Denver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	11 45 a.m.
No. 4 The “Atlantic Express” for Chicago, St.
	Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver. .	6 40 p.m.
		Arrive Salt Lake City.
No. 5 The “Fast Mail” from Chicago, St. Louis,
	Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and Park 
	City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3 00 p.m.
No. 1 The “Overland Limited” from Chicago, St.
	Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver . .	3 00 p.m.
No. 3 The ‘Pacific Express” from Chicago, St.
	Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
	Denver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3 30 p.m.

CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 Main St.		Telephone 665.
					H. M. CLAY, General Agent.

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW.
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol- 
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St. 
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS


Woman's Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
