Vol. 28. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, 1900. No. 15.


CONTENTS.
Memorial Services at Mount Vernon........89.
Miss Anthony’s Letter....Susan B. Anthony 89.
Annual Convention N. A. W. S. A...........
	.....................Rachel Foster Avery 89.
Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting...A. T. Hyde 90.
A Woman Missionary....Mrs. Addison Pratt 91.
Polygamy and Unlawful Cohabitation.........
	...........................Lorenzo Snow 92.
R. S. Reports—Josepa Relief Society........93.
	Weber Stake.............................93.
	Salt Lake Stake..........................94.
	Hawaiian Mission........................94.
Josepa Items.................Emily G. Cluff 95.
Obituary—Martha B. Taylor....M. A. Tudden-
	ham....................................95.
U. W. P. C.................Grace Anderson 96.
Christmas................Susan E. Thompson 96.
EDITORIAL—The New Year and the New Cen-
	tury.....................................92.
Editorial Notes............................92.
POETRY—The Two Cities..........Selected 89.
	I Follow Thee........Ethel Allen Murphy 91.
	Carrara......................-Anonymous 91.
	Elizabeth Cady Stanton. Grace Greenwood 91.


THE TWO CITIES.
On the dusky s re of evening, stretched in
	shining peace it lies,
City built of clouds and sunshine—wonder of
	the Western skies.
While I watch and long for pinions, thither-
	ward to take my flight,
Slow the ærial city fadeth, and vanisheth from
	sight.
Ruby dome and silver temple, circling wall of
	amethyst,
Fall in silence, leaving only purple ruin hung
	with mist.
Darkness gathers, Eastward, Westward; strong-
	er waxeth my desire,
Reaching through celestial spaces, glittering
	as with rain of fire.
To the city set with jasper, having twelve
	foundations fair,
Flashing from their jeweled splendor every col-
	or soft and rare.
Twelve in number are its gateways—numbered
	by the seer of old—
Every gate a pearl most lustrous—and its
	streets are paved with gold.
In the midst, in dazzling whiteness, lightens
	the eternal throne;
From it flows the living water—round it gleams
	an emerald zone.
Luscious fruits and balmy odors, healing leaves
	and cooling shade,
Either side the life tree sheddeth, by sweet
	storms of music swayed.
O, thou grand, untempled city, seen by John
	in vision bright,
Glory-flooded, needing neither sun by day nor
	moon by night.
Filled forever and forever by the shining
	light of Him
Who redeemed the world, and sitteth throned
	between the Seraphlm!
Through thy lovely gates the nations of the
	saved in triumph stream,
Chanting praise above all praises—love of
	love their holy theme!
They no more shall thirst or hunger—they no
	more with heat shall faint;
Christ for tears will give them gladness—bliss-
	ful rest for sore complaint.
“Blessed they who do His bidding!" cries the
	angel, day and night;
They shall find abundant entrance—they shall
	walk with Him in white!
SELECTED.


MEMORIAL SERVICES AT MOUNT VERNON.
	The one hundredth anniversary of the
death of George Washington, which occured
December 14, 1799, was appropriately re-
membered by the patriotic and Masonic
societies throughout the land.
	At Mount Vernon the scene was impres-
sive as conducted by the Masonic Order.
President McKinley, accompanied by mem-
bers of his Cabinet, attended the exercises
and delivered an address. The procession
that moved up the slope to the mansion
consisted of the Third United States
Cavalry band, Grand Tiler of the Grand
Lodge of Virginia, Master Masons of the
District of Columbia, visiting Master
Masons and Local Lodges.
	President McKinley reviewed the pro-
cession with uncovered head, and, as the
last of it passed the mansion, the presiden-
tial party fell in line at the rear and marched
to the tomb where Washington was first in-
terred, and where Masonic exercises were
held one hundred years ago.
	A dirge by the Marine band was played
and a prayer was offered by the Right Rev.
A. M. Randolph, Bishop of the Episcopal
diocese of Southern Virginia. The Grand
Master Mason of Colorado then delivered an
address.
	At the conclusion of the speech the pro-
cession was formed with the Grand Master
of Virginia, Grand officers and invited
guests, the Grand Masters of the thirteen
original states, together with the three
lodges, and proceeded to the present tomb.
Arriving there, the Grand Master of Vir-
ginia and other Grand officers took a posi-
tion in front of the tomb. The ceremonies
consisted of a prayer by the Grand Chaplain
and a speech by the Grand Master of Vir-
ginia. He asked for responses and greet-
ings from the thirteen original states, and
these were given by their respective Grand
Masters.
	The ritual was read and the Grand
Master deposited evergreen wreaths upon
the tomb. Beginning with sunrise and
ending with sunset a gun was fired every
half hour at Fort Washington. A platoon
of Light Battery, M. Seventh United States
Artillery from Washington Barracks, fired a
salute of twenty-one guns, and at the con-
clusion of the ceremonies at the new tomb
three volleys were fired by a detachment of
Battery A, Fourth United States Artillery,
Fort Hunt, Va. When the President fin-
shed his address twenty-one guns were
fired by the United States steamship, Sylph[-]
While the guns from the war vessel were
booming, the entire assembly sang
"America.”
	The Masons had scarcely departed from
Mount Vernon when the Red Men arrived
at the tomb. They went through the cere-
monies prepared by the committee appointed
at the last session of the Great Council of
the United States, held in Washington
last September. The ceremony was per-
formed in the evening at their home lodges
by 2,200 different tribes throughout the
country.
Spirit of '76.


MISS ANTHONY'S LETTER.
ROCHESTER, N. Y., Dec. 25, 1899.
	In this, my eightieth year, I am filled
with a great desire to urge all believers in
the political enfranchisement of women to
manifest that belief in some material way.
Will you not, as a New Year’s pledge,
promised to aid the Suffrage Association in
some direct manner? No woman is so
situated that she cannot do something.
Write me, therefore, that you will do one or
all of the following things: Become a
member of our local club or State Associa-
tion, organize a club, write to the president
of your State Association, telling her that
you stand ready and willing to do anything
in your power which she may call upon
you to do, or contribute a certain amount of
money to the treasury of your local county,
state or national society, that your name
may be counted among those who love the
cause of equal rights for women.
	The command to labor for the elevation
of human kind is not upon a chosen few
only, but upon every intelligent being. I
send this appeal to you personally, and I
beg you to reply to me personally.
Yours sincerely,
SUSAN B. ANTHONY.


ANNUAL CONVENTION N. A. W. S. A.
	The thirty-second annual convention of
the National Woman’s Suffrage Associa-
tion will be held in Washington, in the
Church of our Father, February 8 to 14,
inclusive.
	The nineteenth century was called by
the poet prophet, Victor Hugo, “The
Century of Woman.” Since the dawn of
history exceptional women have demon-
strated by their high abilities as inventors,
skilled workers, poets, artists, teachers and
rulers, that in the domain of intellect woman
was not under the ban of Nature, but under
that of statute and custom. But for the
mass of women the nineteenth century has
been the only epoch in history which has
given them rights as women or opportuni-
ties as human beings.
	To state the difference in the position of
women in all fields of activity between
what it was at the beginning of the century
and is now at its close, would be to present
a series of transformations surpassing the
magic of Aladdin’s lamp.
	The way up the height of woman’s ad-
vancement has been long and steep, but it
has not been dreary. The consciousness of
giving the world a forward movement along
the path of liberty is the highest reward
vouchsafed to human effort. The greatest
men of the century have walked with us.
Poets have sung for us; prophets have
inspired us with visions of success; states-
men have made courts and forums ring
with eloquence in our behalf. Brickbats
have blossomed into roses; scorn has be-
come applause; timidity, opposition and
indifference have changed into a grand
chorus of appeal for woman’s equality be-
fore the law.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Let us then close the century with a con-
vention which shall be a jubilee for our
successes and preparation for the twentieth
century, which is to be not man’s nor wom-
an’s, but humanity’s.
	SUSAN B. ANTHONY,
President.
	ANNA H. SHAW.
Vice-President.
	RACHEL FOSTER AVERY,
Corresponding Secretary.
	ALICE STONE BLACKWELL,
Recording Secretary.
	HARRIET TAYLOR UPTON,
Treasurer.
	LAURA CLAY,
Auditor.
	CATHERINE WAUGH MCCULLOUGH,
Auditor.
	CARRIE CHAPMAN CATT,
Chairman Organ. Com.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The Semi-Monthly Meeting was held
November 25, 1899, at the usual hour and
place, Counselor E. J. Stevenson presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing “O awake,
my slumbering minstrel.” Prayer by
Counselor Elizabeth Webb. Singing,
“Now let us rejoice.” Minutes of the
previous meeting read and approved.
	Sister Stevenson said Sister Zina D. H.
Young and herself had visited Cache Valley
last week. They had excellent meetings
in numbers, and also a great flow of the
spirit.
	President M. I. Horne hoped all had
come today to receive a blessing and had
left their cares at home. Felt we were pros-
pering temporally and spiritually. God
has chosen us out of the world, and we
should all examine ourselves and see if we
are living the life of a Saint. The Lord
has given to his children in the world great
knowledge, but they have not had given to
them the privilege of the Gospel. Spoke of
the wonderful inventions and discoveries
since the organization of the Church, and
we have the benefit of them. The Saints
could not be brought to this land so safely
without the modern improvements. Our
enemies can take everything of a temporal
nature from us, but they cannot take the
testimony of the Gospel. God is no re-
spector of persons. He has bestowed upon
those in the world much useful knowledge,
but to us He has given higher duties, Tem-
ple work, etc.
	Dr. E. S. Barney spoke of the faithful-
ness of President Horne and thought we
should hold up her hands as those of Moses
were held up. Said: “She has been guided
by inspiration, her works speak for her. As
you labor God will reward you.”
	Sister Jane James and Sister Butterworth
each made good remarks.
	Sister Lula Greene Richards spoke of the
old Retrenchment Association and the neces-
sity of reviving these things again. Spoke
of the covenant she had entered into with
many other sisters, in the Tabernacle, by
request of President Young, that she would
wear plain hats. And she knew if we
would be more plainly dressed, retrench,
not follow the fashions of Babylon, we
would be more blessed.
	Sister Almeda Young thought we should
not follow all the fashions of the world and
wished to be one who would dress plainly,
for she knew it to be more pleasing to the
Lord.
	Sister Julia C. Howe believed the same

[Column 2]
spirit that rested upon President Snow in
regard to paying tithing, rests upon Sister
Horne in reviving retrenchment. Thought
we should retrench in eating and drinking,
dressing, etc.
	Sister Zina D. H Young said: “We are
blessed with the spirit of the living God
here today. Anything we ask for of the
Lord in righteousness will be given us.
Every face here is like a star.” Said we
had a right to inspiration to help us in our
work. Spoke of the good example Presi-
dent Young had set for the people and
these organizations, and how they had been
blessed in the work.
	Sister Martha Morris rejoiced that she
was present. Said let us be one, love one
another and be true to our Maker.
	Sister Maria W. Wilcox said she knew
this was the true Church. Knew we would
be rewarded if we would keep the com
mandments of God. Thought the spirit of
retrenchment should be brought among us.
	Sister Julia S. Woolley believed it was
necessary to teach our children economy
and retrenchment, for the punishments
promised would be fulfilled.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde felt we should re-
trench, had felt it for a great while. Said
our daughters should not follow the fash-
ions. Announced that two weeks from
that day a lecture would be given in the
Templeton, at 3 o’clock, the first of a series
on hygiene, anatomy, physiology, wife-
hood, motherhood, etc., given by Dr.
Margaret C. Roberts and others.
	President Horne said she always wore
straw hats made at home as long as she
could get them. She believed in wearing
home made clothing.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing, “Come let us anew.” Benediction by
Sister Clara C. Cannon.

	Minutes of the meeting held January 6,
1900, Sister E. J. Stevenson presiding.
	Meeting opened with singing, and prayer
by Counselor E. Webb. Singing, “Come
let us anew.” Minutes of previous meeting
read by Sister A. T. Hyde, the secretary
being absent from home.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson spoke of beginning
the year aright, Said, “Do not speak evil
of one another, let us try to improve our-
selves in this respect.” Spoke of the faith-
fulness of Mrs. M. A. Hyde, who was
present and would speak to us. Spoke of
teaching our children the need of retrench-
ment, never run in debt and impress our
children never to. Spoke of the death of
F. D. Richards, the friend of woman. Said
to be exemplary mothers and missionaries,
for there is great need of missionary work
here as well as abroad.
	Sister Eliza Angel felt that we had had a
glorious meeting at our confe[-]ence. She
had been in the Church forty-five years.
	Sister Wright, Sister Sarah Phelps and
another sister (name unknown) spoke upon
interesting subjects, and a sister sang a
hymn.
	Sister M. A. Hyde never came here but
she felt the sweet spirit that was manifest
at these meetings. In the year 1843 she
went to an evening meeting and spoke in
tongues, although it was her first attempt
at speaking. She had the privilege of
hearing the Prophet Joseph when he said
that things would transpire in the last days
that would make our ears tingle. She felt
to put her trust in the Lord. Not many
have too much wealth, we are blessed if we
have sufficient for the day. Said it was the

[Column 3]
gift of her husband, Apostle Orson Hyde,
to understand the signs of the times, and
he often spoke of them. She felt as if she
were left alone, for so many had passed
away. Loved to commune with the Saints
and said, “Let us build each other up, for
there is no other joy than to serve the
Lord.”
	Sister Hardy hoped to be able to stand
faithful. Enjoyed the teachings that were
given on the anniversary of the birthday of
the Prophet Joseph Smith.
	A sister in the meeting bore a very
strong and faithful testimony.
	Sister Horne felt that it was here that we
listened to each others’ testimonies, and it
was always a feast. Felt those who were
diligent in the different organizations were
heaven’s nobility. There were tests that
were trying to the aged and also the youth.
Encouraged parents to have their children
attend to their prayers. Said many neither
teach their children nor have family prayers.
Spoke of the union in the 22nd ward branch
and the great good they had accomplished.
Said we must reconcile ourselves to the de-
vision of the Stake.
	Sister Morris sang “Redeemer of
Israel.”
	Sister Webb spoke of the new year. Said
we should cultivate the spirit that comes
from the Lord, which is humility, long-
suffering charity and love. It is necessary
that we be chastened, but He will always
succor us if we put our trust in Him.
Hoped we would always be on the watch-
tower and exhorted all to go to the Temple.
Said how would we feel if the Temple were
closed?
	Another sister felt like acknowledging
the goodness of the Lord. Spoke of the
Temple work, and the beautiful influence
that she felt on her return home after work-
ing at the Temple.
	Sister Brown hoped we would attend to
our Temple work. She heard President
Snow say, that the one who did work for
the dead was a savior to that person, and it
would certainly be recorded to his or her
credit.
	A sister (name unknown) spoke of Tem-
ple work. Said if we worked for the dead
we would be blest.
	Sister Mary Morris said, “It seems just
as good to me to work for my neighbor as
for myself,” referring to Temple work.
	Sister Martha Morris bore her testimony
and Sister Stevenson made a few closing
remarks about the necessity of having the
annual meetings continued.
	The congregation joined in singing the
Doxology, and prayer was offered by Sister
Annie T. Hyde.
ANNIE T. HYDE, Sec. pro tem.


MISS ABBIE EASTMAN, of Phœnix
Ariz., inherited five copper claims three
years ago, and has been working ever since
in California and Arizona to earn the money
required to hold them until they could be
developed and sold. She has always been
obliged to earn her own bread, but with the
sight of a fortune before her she worked
harder than ever. She persevered, and
lately sold one claim for $45,000.
	MRS. ADMIRAL DEWEY startled Wash-
ington society by announcing that women
as well as men would be welcome at her
New Year’s reception. This is the revival of
a custom that was abolished in Cleveland’s
a dministration[-]


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


I FOLLOW THEE.
I follow thee, although thou canst not hear
My footsteps stealing soft beside thine own;
Though all the day and all the night-time lone,
Groping, I see thee, counting it good cheer
If I may walk beside thee, tho’ unknown,
Till love to love responsive shall be grown
And I may touch thy hand and feel thee near.
I follow thee I let my spirit steal
All palpitant and wistful unto thee;
I ask no more but that I still may feel
Thy wide, sweet presence, moving graciously;
I follow thee, and yearning, patient bide
Till thou shalt turn and see me at thy side.
ETHEL ALLEN MURPHY.


CARRARA.
A ship unloading, busy sea-brown hands
Are lifting blocks of marble, one by one;
Quarried where fair Carrara’s golden sands
And purple hills lie sleeping in the sun.
The workman earned his share of daily bread;
The merchant counted up his gains in gold;
“What unwrought statues there,” the artist said,
“What lines of beauty, rare and manifold!
“What grace and glory from these blocks shall
spring!
What light shall clothe them in a little while!
This shapeless block in beauty blossoming,
Shall breathe high thoughts or wear an angel’s
smile.”
O Lives that in a martyr-army stand,
May God’s sweet message come to you and me.
We are the marble, His the Sculptor-Hand
That fashions us for all eternity.
We only feel the pain His chastenings give;
The sharp incisions only can we see.
And He alone, by whom we move and live,
He sees the hidden glory that shall be.
He sees the glory without spot or stain,
The spiritual beauty all unpriced;
And in His love He sends each stroke of pain
To make us like our dear Lord, Jesus Christ.
O, God of Love, give us calm pitying eyes
And sweet patience. Let us also see
The glory and the grace that underlies
Each shapeless mass that waits a touch from Thee.
ANONYMOUS.


ELIZABETH CADY STANTON.
A great and good Elizabeth
Was Hungary’s royal saint,
For whom rare miracles were wrought,
That pious poets paint.
She fought with nature and her heart,
For many weary years,
Resigning ease and joy and love,
For penances and tears.
Once, from excessive prayers and fasts,
Sorrow and scourging sore,
She was about to faint and sink
Upon her chapel’s floor,
When, lo! the water that she craved.
Was by some power divine,
Changed on her trembling, pallid lips.
To good old Tokay wine.
She prayed and wept herself to death,
This hapless saint, Elizabeth!
Another great Elizabeth,
I sing in greater times,
Who merits greater tributes far,
Than these, my halting rhymes.
Here life a noble poem is
in canto eighty-four—
A record of long warfare waged,
And victories galore—
Not hers her own pure flesh to scourge,
But folly, vice and wrong;
At peace with Nature, loving love,
Home, comfort, mirth and song,
She faints not, though the day seems drear,
And hard, and far the goal,
’Tis we who sink and need the cheer,
The good wine of her soul,
Her earnest, royal soul[-]
Still loving life, not fearing death,
God save our Queen Elizabeth!
GRACE GREENWOOD.
November 12, 1899.


[Column 1]
A WOMAN MISSIONARY.

	[Mrs. Addison Pratt on the Society Islands
1850.]
		(Continued.)
	Today I called the native sisters together
to instruct them in their religious duties.
Ellen acted as interpreter, and succeeded
remarkably well. This she has been able
to do for several months. The sisters spoke
in turns, each expressing a desire that I
might soon have a knowledge of their
language, and speak with my own lips
directly to them. I shall soon make an
attempt to do so, and having their faith
and prayers, shall be certain of success.
	October 6th. Memorable day ! Confer-
ence convenes today in Salt Lake City. The
remembrance creates deep sensations in my
mind. I sigh to be there, although I do
not wish to leave my labors here. Before
another month rolls around “Paraita” will
be gone to Ravavai, then we shall be still
more lonely. How much it would animate
us could we see business going on; see men
plowing, sowing grain, driving teams;
have the sound of axes and hammering;
see houses building. But here monotony
reigns supremely. All I hear is the sound
of mallets making native cloth.
	On the 8th, (Wednesday) a party of us
went on a pleasure excursion to some small
islands five miles distant. We landed on
the largest, nineteen souls in all. It is a
beautiful island covered all over with tama-
na and cocoanut trees. The soil is fine,
white sand, which contrasts beautifully
with the green trees. I walked around the
Island, picked up shells and some fine
specimens of coral. The men caught fish,
made an oven in the ground and cooked us
a meal consisting of fruits and vegetables
growing on the Island. The men threw
up a shelter for us with brush and leaves,
under which we spread our bedding and
slept well through the night. The children
explored the Island thoroughly, climbed the
trees, made new discoveries in shrubbery
and flowers. We sailed home with a
pleasant breeze, and passed the village
where the workmen were engaged building
a schooner. They saluted us with loud
voices, "Iu ora nu otou to have ra mai,"
(peace be to you in returning home.)
	I sometimes walk to the opposite village
where the ship is building; distance five
miles. I can walk under the shade of trees
the whole way, sit down in a cooling shade,
rest myself and renew my jonrney. Thus
we resort to changes, and trifling though
they be, they serve to enliven the mind.
	Mr. Pratt preaches regularly in the
native tongue, which I can now under-
stand tolerably well. Baptisms occur
nearly every Sabbath. I wrote an address
to be read in a woman’s meeting, which Mr.
Grouard translated into the Tahitian for me.
They seemed greatly to admire it. I read
to them the 12th chapter of Isiaah, con-
taining, proof of the origin of the Book of
Mormon. Ellen explained and commented
upon it. They inquired if the ancient
Nephites were Europeans? I told them
they were the ancient fathers of the Tahi-
tians. At this they appeared greatly inter-
ested, and wished to learn more about the
book. No organ of their craniums is more
prominent than marvelousness.
	October 19th. Sabbath it is with us, but
not with those at home. One day is lost in
coming here via Cape Horne, one gained by
coming via Cape Good Hope. The natives
have a superstition that if they should fail

[Column 2]
to keep the right Sabbath someone of their
number would sicken and die. Yesterday
Captain Johnson’s vessel sailed. It has
been lying here several days. We were
hoping it would bring us letters from home,
but only one came to us from Tahiti, writ-
ten by Elder Dunn, who is now nearly
ready to embark for America. He is in
very poor health, and we feel in doubt
about his reaching home, but pray earnest-
ly that he may. So our dear little Mary
must leave us with her step-father, Captain
J.   Seven months has she been a visitant
in our family, and by her modest behavior
has endeared herself to us all, more especial-
ly Frances, who has been her constant
teacher. As she has never been fond of
children, her attachment to Mary, we hope,
may effect a change in her. So submissive
and obedient has she ever been to Frances,
she cannot avoid feeling deep sympathy for
her.
	The 24th. Today arrived a schooner
from the Chain Islands, Captain Hervey.
The king of Ravaivai was on board. He
informed us that the missionary house
built of late has been thrown down in a
gale of wind. Last evening native dancing
was heard, much to our annoyance. Their
music consisted of two drums, a small
instrument made of a weed which grows
here, making a low, sweet sound. Captain
Hervey and Mr. Bourne attended the exer-
cises, drank too freely, quarelled and fought.
Today they had a court over the affray.
Such is the example white men set before
the natives.
	The 27th day. Set sail for Raivavai
with a fine breeze; eighty natives on board.
The air being pleasant, we all slept on
deck. Some of the Island women had
never been so far from home before. They
were very sea sick, although all their lives
accustomed to go out in open boats.
	The second day at ten o’clock we made
the island. It is more mountainous than
Tahiti. The small town near where we
landed presents a lively appearance from
the sea. The house of worship looks like a
city hotel, with white walls and green
window blinds. A long row of ito trees
standing in front, small trunks and large
tops, gives the town the appearance of an
Eastern village at a distance, but as you
draw near the scene changes. All around
the “Fere bare ra” the place is thoroughly
clean. A wide stone pavement surrounds
it. The inside work displays taste and
ingenuity. The pulpit is built very high
and the stairs leading up to it are painted
green. As I entered the building, I thought
how much the poor people had striven to
imitate civilized life. The seats are made
of dark wood the color of mahogany, with
a great variety of carved work upon them.
	Queen Rupah, from Tupuin, came with
ns. She brought her fine clotting given
her by the French merchants. She dressed
very handsomely to go on shore, but would
not wear shoes. The king of the Island
appears a kind, good man, is full in the
faith that his people will receive the Gospel.
Those belonging to the English church
commenced looking in their Bibles to forti-
fy themselves with arguments, should any
attack be made against, their doctrines. The
king built a house, intending to have Paraita
and his family remain there, but its being
destroyed by a wind storm was a premoni-
tion to us that it was not the will of the
Lord that we should make a lengthy stay
there.
		(To be continued.)


Woman's Exponent.
EMMELINE D. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.
Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah,
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months.
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, 1900.


POLYGAMY AND UNLAWFUL
COHABITAION.
	From the reading of the various editorials
and articles of the public press it is evident
that there is much misconstruction and mis-
understanding as to the present attitude of
our Church respecting the subjects of poly-
gamy and unlawful cohabitation; and be-
lieving that many good and conscientious
people have been misled and much adverse
criticism occasioned thereby, I feel it but
just to both “Mormons” and non-“Mor-
mons” to state that, in accordance with the
manifesto of the late President Wilford
Woodruff, dated September 25, 1890,
which was presented and unanimously ac-
cepted by our General Conference on the
6th of October, 1890, the Church has
positively abandoned the practice of poly-
gamy, or the solemnization of plural mar-
riages, in this and every other State, and
that no officer or member thereof has any
authority whatever to perform a plural
marriage or enter into any such relation.
Nor does the Church advise or encourage
unlawful cohabitation on the part of any of
its members. If, therefore, any member
disobeys the law, either as to polygamy or
unlawful cohabitation, he must bear his
own burden: or in other words, be answer-
able to the tribunal of the land for his own
action pertaining thereto.
	With a sincere desire that the position of
our Church as to polygamy and unlawful
cohabitation may be better understood, and
with best wishes for the welfare and happi-
ness of all, this statement is made, and is
respectfully commended to the careful con-
sideration of the public generally.
				LORENZO SNOW.
President of the Church of Jesus Christ of
		Latter-day Saints.
	Salt Lake City, January 8, 1900.


[Column 1]
THE NEW YEAR AND THE NEW
CENTURY.
	In entering upon a new year one always
tries to cast off the old sorrows or troubles,
and look forward with bright anticipation
to the near future, hoping good will come,
prosperity, health and such measure of
happiness as is reasonable to expect.
	America, or the United States at least,
seems in the beginning of this year (said to
be the closing of the nineteenth century,
although there are differences of opinion
among “the wise men” to be in a rathe

[Column 2]
prosperous stage of activity, as compared
with many, indeed most other countries.
So far the people of these United States have
reason to be thankful and to congratulate
themselves, that conditions are so favorable
for future peace and prosperity; yet one
never knows what may transpire. Still it
is right to enjoy the blessings which are
vouchsafed by an Alwise Providence and
trust our Heavenly Father for the future, if
we ourselves comply with His laws and
live by His precepts.
	When one takes into consideration the
calamities that visit the inhabitants of the
earth from time to time, it does seem one
cannot be too careful in keeping all the
commandments God has given to the chil-
dren of men, line upon line and precept
upon precept. The Savior’s injunction,
“Be ye also ready,” is one to be thought of
by all. It is well that time is divided and
subdivided, else when one would stop and
consider anything might be a question in
this day of hurry, worry, bustle and ex-
citement. Holidays are good for the peo-
ple for many reasons. The wish for “a hap-
py new year,” that passes from one to
another, although it is done almost mechan-
cally, is a very good custom. It sets one
to thinking, though the thoughts are often
reminiscent.
	The past year has been one of great sig-
ficance and fraught with much importance
to the world, and also to our own country.
The Peace Conference at The Hague marks
a great change in affairs of the world, al-
though its direct effects are not so tangible
as to satisfy those who looked for im-
mediate arbitration; yet it is a step in the
direction of an era of better things.
	The terrible Transvaal war between
South Africa and Great Britain, is certainly
one of the greatest events in the history of
modern times. The death rate among the
British officers is something appalling. One
would think there was need of peace leagues
and every other kind of organization and
influence, brought to bear in favor of put-
ting a stop to “man’s inhumanity to man.”
Would that the time had come to
	Let those who make the quarrels, be the only
		ones who fight,
as the old song says. One hardly likes to
venture further than generalities in speak-
ing of these matters. That the Lord will
come out of his hiding place and vex the
nations we read in the scriptures, and we
know assuredly that the prophecies of both
ancient and modern prophets will come to
pass; therefore it behooves all in the open-
ing of a new year, as well as at all other
times, to look well to our own conduct, and
not judge others, but leave them in the
hands of the Lord, who will do unto all as
seemeth good in His sight, and who knows
all men’s lives and conditions and the in-
ward promptings of their hearts.
	The past has been a wonderful year for
progress in many lines, and when one con-
templates the century as a whole, the ad-
vancement is greater than any previous
one of which we, who live today, have any
knowledge. In art, in science, (many of .
them) in literature, in inventions, in dis-
coveries, in mental and spiritual develop-
ment and awakening, what marvels have
been wrought!
	The Latter-day Saints as a people have
every reason to rejoice in the achievements
of this glorious century. The Lord has
spoken from the heavens and through his
servants has established a work on the

[Column 3]
earth never to be thrown down, or given to
another people. There is so much to do in
this world of ours, that we have no strength
to waste in repining. We must be active
and watchful and try to help on the world’s
great work, as well as do our individual
own. Selfishness is not the spirit of the
Gospel, but consecration to God and our
fellowmen. To lift up humanity should
be our aim and prayer. Earnestness in
any noble cause will effect much in what-
ever is undertaken with the right motive.
	The women of our people (the Latter-day
Saints) have much to do in rolling on the
world’s great work. Some have already
been set apart to preach the Gospel in
foreign lands, and that many more will be,
there is little doubt. The world is making
great progress, and women are gradually
moving forward into broader fields and be-
coming more and more consecrated in their
lives to the higher spiritual work. When
one calls to mind the work our sisters are
doing in the several woman’s Church or-
ganizations and the Sabbath School, the
ministering in the Temples that have been
built and dedicated to the work of the Lord,
for the living and for the dead, besides the
home teaching, it is grand to contemplate.
Certainly the days are filled up in useful-
ness.
	Whatever may transpire, let the women
of Zion at least be prepared by faith, hope
and trust, and by living daily lives dedi-
cated to the noblest, holiest and purest
motives and impulses, that they may draw
from the fountains of inspiration, wisdom,
knowledge and understanding, and be able
to impart to those less highly, favored, prin-
ciples of truth that shall encourage the
weary and comfort the disconsolate, and
teach those ignorant of divine truths the
way of eternal life, that the daughters of
Zion may have their lamps always trimmed
and burning, not only to light their own
way, but to show others who walk in dark-
ness the true path, if they will but follow
after righteousness.
	The past year has been rich in blessings
for the women of Zion. They have had
great opportunities vouchsafed to them of
enlightenment in many ways, and avenues
have been opened that were scarcely
thought possible—and yet it has all been
in the fulfillment of prophecy, which is a
testimony to the faithful that this is the
work of the Lord, and should cause the
Saints to become mindful of Him and ac-
knowledge His hand in all things, in ad-
versity as well as in prosperity, that He
may not forget them in the hour of trouble
or sorrow. Strive to live by the Golden
Rule and love our neighbor as ourselves,
and try to lift up our fellowmen. One may
easily close one’s exhortation with the
scriptural quotation which covers itr a few
words the present and future:
	Wherefore be ye steadfast, immovable, always
abounding in the work of the Lord, for as much as
ye know that your labor is not in vain in the
Lord.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	A Happy New Year to all the patrons
and friends of the Woman’s Exponent,
and may it prove a prosperous one to them
and the dear little paper that has been the
champion of the woman’s cause and for
humanity ever since it was established.
May its subscriptions be doubled during
the year Nineteen Hundred.


[Column 1]
	THE Stake Secretaries of the Relief Soci-
ety of the several Stakes of Zion are hereby
reminded that a yearly report is expected of
them for the general report, from the begin-
ning of the year 1899, January 1st to Dec-
ember 31st, and that the report must be
in as early as February 15, so that the
General Secretary may have sufficent time
to make a correct report for the April Con-
ference. All branches of the Relief Society
not included in Stakes are also requested
to send a full report for the year, that a
complete report of the entire society may
be made, including branches, whether
in the United States or other countries, or
upon the islands of the sea. Address Mrs.
E. B. Wells, Secretary, Templeton, Salt
Lake City, Utah.
	THE Seventh Ward Relief Society held
its annual meeting on Thursday, January
4, at 2 p. m. at the commodious home of
Sister Rigby, as it was not convenient to
have the use of the meeting house on that
day, but the rooms were exceedingly com-
fortable. The president, Mary Alice Lam-
bert, stated in her remarks that it was just
thirty-two years that day since the organ-
ization in that ward, and in that time there
had been four presidents. Spoke of the
good work that had been accomplished and
the many ways in which help had been
given. It was a most creditable showing.
It is the intention of the society to have a
house in which to hold meetings, the soci-
ety at present is very prosperous. An ex-
cellent spirit was manifest, and the report
was a very good one. Visitors present
were Sisters E. B. Wells, E. J. Stevenson
and Counselor Annie T. Hyde, of the Stake
Board. President Horne was not able to
come out as the day was inclement. A
sumptuous repast was served at the close of
the meeting, and social conversation, ex-
change of ideas and New Year’s greetings
were general. Such unions help to increase
the interest of the members and are always
pleasant occasions.
	The Woman’s Century Calendar, edited by
Carrie Chapman Catt, and published by N.
A. W. S. A., New York City, is a unique
little book of eighty pages, and contains
much valuable information on the woman
question and excellent photogravures of
some of the prominent women who have
been national leaders along the several
lines of progressive work, Susan B. Anth-
ony, Lucretia Mott, Elizabeth Cady Stan-
ton, Dr. Elizabeth Blackwell, Rev.
Antoinette Brown Blackwell, Lucy Stone,
Frances Willard, Julia Ward Howe, Har-
riet Beecher Stowe, Mary A. Livermore,
Clara Barton and Belle A. Mansfield. The
book is well worth its price, 25 cents, and
every woman who wishes to help
forward the movement for equality, should
purchase a copy. The motto on the cover
is most appropriate, “Not new women, but
new conditions.” The calendar is quite hand-
some, and very suitable to send to those
needing such information on the question
of equal rights and progression.
	Sketches of Missionary Life, is the title of
a very neat little book edited by Edwin F.
Parry, who is able to speak understanding-
iy upon this subject from experience in his
own field of labor. Elder Parry was re-
cently associated in the presidency of the
European mission of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, with Rulon S.
Wells as president. The book has one
hundred and forty-four pages and is divided

[Column 2]
into fifteen chapters, treating of the various
phases of an Elder’s life when preaching
the Gospel.—Character of men called, Temp-
tations, Providential aid, First Experiences
in the Field, Miraculous help from the
Lord, Experiences in holding meetings,
Friends raised up—and other equally im-
portant and interesting matters. The book
will undoubtedly be of great service to
young missionaries going forth to the
work of the ministry. The youth of Zion
will find this reading matter of a pure and
elevating character, calculated to inspire
faith in the Latter-day work, evidences of
the divinity of the mission of Joseph Smith,
the prophet. The marvelous way in which
men who trusted in the Lord have had their
prayers answered, the manifestations of
healing and the gift of understanding other
languages and being able to make people
of other tongues understand the Gospel by
the spirit thereof, are all clearly set forth in
this little book. Published and for sale at
George Q. Cannon & Sons Co., Main St.,
Salt Lake City.
	The Englishwoman’s Year Book, for 1900,
edited by Emily Janes, secretary to the
National Union of Women Workers of
Great Britain and Ireland, has been re-
ceived at this office and we are very glad to
acknowledge through our columns so wel-
come a gift, and to recommend it to the
public. The book contains three hundred
and fifty pages and is handsomely bound.
It contains information upon woman’s
work, societies and industries along all lines,
educational, industrial, political, literary,
artistic—whether cooperative, social or
individual. To women visiting Great
Britain such a book would be invaluable,
and to those interested in the work of wom-
en everywhere, it is a storehouse of in-
formation. An item or two in the preface
struck home very forcibly: “The collec-
tive conscience of society, ‘God’s secretary,’
as Milton called it, is awake as it never was
before.” At the close the editor concludes
with an Eastern proverb which she says
may serve as a motto for 1900: “By
patience and perseverance, and a bottle of
sweet oil, the snail at length reaches Jeru-
salem.” The editor deserves great credit
for the able manner in which the year book
is arranged, making it also a directory
wherein one can find the names and ad-
dresses of all the noted women who are en-
gaged in any great work or business, as
well as those who stand officially connected
with institutions. Everyone who rejoices
in the advancement of women must feel
proud of Miss Emily Janes’ success in mak-
ing the book such a valuable authority and
so comprehensive upon subjects of such
great importance to the women of the
world.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.  93


[Column 1]	
		R. S. REPORTS. 

	JOSEPA RELIEF SOCIETY.

   As some of our readers will perhaps re-
member, there was an article in the June
number of the EXPONENT, stating that we
had planted an acre of watermelons with a
view to selling them and using the pro-
ceeds to buy wheat and store up.
   Our melon patch did well and we sold
one hundred and six dollars worth of water-
melons, which you will see will greatly in-
crease our wheat.
   Then we made an experiment in seri-

[Column 2]
culture, raising twenty-three pounds of
cocoons of average quality, and have had
one of our young ladies learn the reeling,
so that we will be better prepared lor the
work another year.
   The Hawaiian sisters are very faithful in
the performance of any trust placed upon
them, and perform their duties in the Re-
lief Society promptly and cheerfully,
whether going out into the field to hoe or
water the melons, or to glean wheat, or
whatsoever they may be doing, sowing or
quilting or waiting on the sick. They al-
ways meet in time to sing a hymn and
then unite in prayer, asking the blessing of
the Lord upon the labor of their hands; and
the Lord does bless them and gives them
success in many ways, and I often think if
we were all more childlike and depended
more on the promised blessings than in our
own wisdom, we would be more happy and
contented.
   I will just mention that we said to the
boys, “I do not think there is one boy in
Josepa so mean that he would steal the
Relief Society melons,’’ and so far as we
know, not one has been stolen. For their
good behavior we gave a watermelon feast
to the whole colony, which was very much
appreciated by old and young.
   We are enjoying our usual good health, 
and a spirit of contentment prevails.
   With “Aloha” to all of our colabors, we
remain.
	Your sisters,
		EMILY G. CLUFF, Pres.,
		ELLEN HALLEMANU, Sec.
		
		WEBER STAKE.

   Minutes of the Relief Society conferenc[e]
of Weber Stake, held in the Third Ward
meeting house, December 14, 1899, at
10 o’clock a. m.
   Meeting was called to order by Counselor
Harriet Brown. After singing, prayer was
offered by Elder Stone. Singing, “Guide
us, O Thou Great Jehovah.” Minutes of
October conference read and approved.
   Sister Brown was pleased to meet with so
many sisters in conference. She knew we
all felt sad over the great bereavement of
our president, and realized that President
Richards would be greatly missed by the
Relief Society of Weber Stake. Prayed
the Lord would bless Sister Richards, that
she might be comforted. Desired all the
sisters to be humble that they might be
blest.
   President C. H. Middleton felt very much
interested in the society and was always 
pleased to meet with the sisters. He spoke
of the great bereavement of Sister Richards,
also of the great loss the death of President
Richards had brought to the Church. Asked
the Lord to bless the sisters, also Sister
Richards, that she might be comforted.
   Brother Woodward, president of the
San Francisco branch, spoke for a few
minutes on the good work of the Relief
Society.
   Testimonies were borne by Sisters C. E.
Driver, Mary Ann Ellis, Rosa Scowcroft, Rachel Burton and Frances Dance.
   Sister E. B. Wells, of Salt Lake City,
said she was very glad to meet with the
sisters. Spoke of her trip to England and
meeting with the sisters of the Relief Soci-
ety there. She deeply sympathized with
Sister Richards, and asked the Lord to
bless and comfort her. Prayed the Lord to
bless all the sisters.
   Singing, Doxology.   Benediction by


[Column 1]
President Middleton. Meeting adjourned
until two o’clock.
	Afternoon session opened by singing
“Our God we raise to Thee.” Prayer by
President Middleton. Singing, “Glorious
things are sung of Zion.”
	President Middleton spoke again to the
sisters for a few minutes. Said he had been
very much interested in what had been
said here today, and he was thankful that
we lived in these days of prophets, for he
had been acquainted with all. He loved
all the societies of the Church and enjoyed
visiting the same.
	Sister E. B. Wells was pleased to speak
in another Stake of Zion on the subject ot
her trip to England. She spoke also of her
coming into the Church and listening to
the Prophet Joseph, said he was the most
wonderful man she ever saw. She testified
of his divine mission and the great work he
established. Felt that the sisters did not
realize the importance of this society. Said
there were now thirty thousand women in
six hundred branches of the Relief Society.
Thought the teachers were very, important
persons, and should always be able to re-
port. Said she felt that Weber county was
a banner Stake, being organized twenty-
two years last July. Asked the sisters to
remember Sister Zina D. H. Young, Sister
Richards and Sister Smith in their prayers.
Thought we should all make an effort to
keep our young people in the faith. Al-
luded to the Temples and the future Tem-
ple that will be built in Jackson County.
Spoke of the good the young women were
doing in the missionary work, speaking out
doors, distributing tracts, etc. She spoke
also of the convention at Washington last
winter, and the question of voting against
the Robert’s Resolution. She then gave a
very pleasant account of her visit to the
Queen; said thirteen out of fifty-three dele-
gates from the United States were from
Utah.
	Counselor Harriet Brown felt that we
had been blest, and she rejoiced in the good
things we had heard but still we mourn
the loss of President Richards.
	Singing, “Lord dismiss us.” Benediction
by President Middleton. Conference ad-
journed for three months.
				C. E. DRIVER, Sec.
SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of the Salt Lake Stake was held in
the Assembly Hall, December 23, 1899.
	Present on the stand were President M. I.
Horne, Counselors Annie T. Hyde and
Clara C. Cannon, Presidents B. W. Smith
and Sarah J. Cannon, of the General Board,
Sister Julia C. Howe, one of the aids, also
Sisters Rachel R. Grant, Maria W. Wilcox
and E. J. Stevenson.
	As this was the anniversary of the birth
of the Prophet Joseph Smith, the exercises
were, in a great measure, commemorative
of that event.
	The roll call showed seventeen city
wards and eleven country wards represen-
ted. The conference coming at the holiday
season, and the weather being unfavorable,
prevented many from attending, and the
conference was not so well attended as
could have been desired.
	Conference opened by singing “We thank
Thee, O God, for a prophet.” Prayer by
Sister Julia C. Howe. Singing, “Our God
we raise to Thee.”
	President Horne spoke of the necessity of
order and punctuality in attending to our

[Column 2]
duties. She was sorry to see no more
present on this occasion, when, in addition
to our regular conference, we had met to do
honor to our Prophet. Spoke of the pro-
posed division of our Stake and said this
would be, perhaps, the last time we would
meet as a whole Stake, and wished to hear
expressions from the sisters in regard to the
matter of division. 
	The followihg sisters spoke on the sub-
ject: Sister Jensen, of Sandy; Sister Mary
A. Dixon, of Mountain Dell; Sister L. S.
Stevenson, of Forest Dale; Sister Sarah J.
Cannon, of Cannon Ward. All expressed
themselves as prepared to be satisfied with
the change, though in some instances it
would cause inconvenience.
	Sisters Bathsheba W. Smith and Rachel
R. Grant spoke of the divine mission of the
Prophet Joseph Smith and bore strong
testimonies of the same. Gave personal
reminiscences of his life, and their knowl-
edge of him.
	President Horne wanted the opinion of
the sisters in regard to holding our meet-
ings every three months. President Young
established this order and she felt like con-
tinuing it, unless the presiding brethren
advised us to hold our conference every six
months.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. Meet-
ing closed by singing the Doxology, and
benediction by Counselor Annie T. Hyde.
	Afternoon session opened with the sing-
ing of the hymn, “Hail to the prophet,”
by members of the Temple choir, under the
leadership of Elder C. J. Thomas.  Open-
ing prayer by Elder Samuel Richards.
Following, Brother Horace S. Ensign sang,
in a very effective manner, the beautiful
hymn, “The Seer.” Reading of the min-
utes of the afternoon session of the confer-
ence held September 2, 1899, accepted.
	President Horne felt that the sisters
should have made arrangements to attend
this commemoration of the birth of the
Prophet. They could make some sacrifices
for this special occasion. She had been
well acquainted with the Prophet, and had
entertained him at her home many times.
Related many incidents of an interesting
character in connection with these visits.
	Brother Samuel Richards spoke at some
length on the life and works of the Prophet
Joseph Smith. Told of some occasions on
which he spoke with such power and force
that every one could feel and know that he
was inspired by God. Brother Richards
spoke in a very interesting manner, and
claimed the closest attention from his
audience.
	Brother George D. Pyper sang, in a very
feeling manner, “The Holy City,” which
was much appreciated.
	Continuing, Brother Richards related
many personal experiences with the
Prophet, and said that he considered his
mission on earth second only to that of the
Savior, and, like the latter, he gave his life
at last for the truth’s sake.
	The Temple choir sang “Weep not, weep
not for me Zion.”
	President Angus M. Cannon offered an
apology for his late entrance. Another
meeting had detained him, and had he not
promised to attend, he would not have been
here, but would have been in bed, as he
was not feeling well. The impression made
by the Prophet on his youthful mind would
never be forgotten. He was truly a prophet
of the Lord, and Brigham Young followed,
fulfilling his part, as did also John Taylor
and Wilford Woodruff. “May the bless-

[Column 3]
ings of the Lord be with us all, with Sister
Horne, your president. This may be the
last time we will meet all together as one
Stake, for by the 1st of February there may
be two or three Stakes formed from what
was originally the Salt Lake Stake. And
thus Zion is growing, and the Lord’s will
be done.”
	Sister Lula Greene Richards felt that she
would be doing an injustice to her feelings
and her conscience if she did not accept the
invitation given her by Sister Horne to
testify to the divine calling of Joseph Smith;
and she knew, as had been stated, that
none stood between him and God, except
the Savior. “I hope I shall never be afraid
to bear this testimony before all the world.”
	Conference adjourned until the first
Saturday in March. After singing, bene-
diction was offered by President Angus M.
Cannon.
		AUGUSTA W. GRANT, Sec. 
HAWAIIAN MISSION.
	The semi-annual conference of the Relief
Society of the Hawaiian mission met in the
Laie meeting house, Saturday morning,
October 7, 1899, President Alice R. Wool-
ley presiding.
	The meeting commenced by singing,
“How firm a foundation.” Prayer by Sister
Luukia Pono. Continued by singing, “O,
my Father.” Minutes of the previous
April conference were read and accepted.
	President Alice R. Woolley, the first
speaker, was pleased to meet again in our
Relief Society conference. She was glad
to labor in the work of God, and knew we
had received the true Gospel and the true
light, whereby we can work out for our-
selves eternal life. Spoke of the necessity
of attending the Relief Society and the
benefits gained thereby. Exhorted the
sisters to take care of the poor and needy
among them, for that is the true work of
the Relief Society. The study of the Gos-
pel should also be carried on in the meet-
ings, and we should live humble and
prayerful lives at all times. Asked God to
bless us all while we were assembled to-
gether, that we might have a time of re-
joicing.
	Sister Kai Kaimiawa reported Laie society
and gave a brief sketch of the work since
its organization.
	Sister Kamopama Wahilani reported
Awaiolimu society to be in a prosperous
condition. Said they study the Gospel,
take care of the poor and assist the needy,
and also take care of the dead. Spoke of
giving alms, and referred to the 6th chapter
of Mathew on the subject.
	Sister Laie Broad reported her mission-
ary labors in Maui in connection with Sister
Jennie Musser. Said the majority of the
branches are in a good, condition, most of
them anxious to carry on the work that is
resting upon them. She was thankful she
had been chosen to labor for God and His
cause.
	Sister Jennie P. Musser felt to sustain
the former speaker in what she had re-
ported. She had enjoyed a good time in
her labors and had wanted for nothing.
Was proud to have the privilege of preach-
ing the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and exhort-
ed all to be faithful and keep the com-
mandments of God.
	Duet, by Misses Hattie Kekuku and
Annie Apua.
	An essay on Relief Society work was.
then read by Sister Alice Smith.


Singing, “Hail to the brightness of
Zion’s glad morning.’’    Prayer by Sister
Kamahuilani.
	Afternoon session.  Meeting opened by
singing  “Praise to the man who communed
with Jehovah.’’    Prayer by Sister Ruth
Kauhini.   Continued by singing, “We
thank Thee, O God, for a prophet.’’
	Sister Poopu reported Kahana society.
Sister Rebecca Oliver gave a favorable
report of Waikiki Relief Society, and was
glad that she was a helper in the great
work.  Prayed that the Lord would assist
us to be faithful.
	Sister Kahopewai, of Maui, reported the
Waihee society.
	Sister Miliama Kekuku treated the sub-
ject of “Care of Children,’’ and said:   “It
is necessary that we teach our sons and
daughters those things that will help them
to live good and industrious lives. Teach
them the Gospel and those things that will
elevate them, and they will in after life
honor and bless us. We will be held re-
sponsible for the conduct of our children,
and if we fail to teach them the principles
of the Gospel, the condemnation will rest
upon our shoulders.”
	Sister Elizabeth C. Williams said she
was pleased to meet with the Saints in this
capacity, and desired to be directed by the
spirit of God that she might say something
that would be beneficial to all concerned.
Spoke of her labors on the Island of Kauai,
was pleased with the treatment they had
received, and knew that God had blessed-
them with His spirit while they were
laboring on that Island.   Was thankful to
have the privilege of preaching the Gospel.
Satan’s time is short, and he is diligent to
gain power over us.   But by diligence and
humility we can gain the assistance of the
spirit of the Lord to keep us in the line of
our duty; for “what value if we gain the
whole world and lose our own souls?”
Essay, “Salvation for the Dead,” by Sis-
tnr Kapili Luahiwa, of Waikiki.
	Sister Victoria Kakelaka spoke of her
labors on Kauai in connection with Sister
Elizabeth C. Williams.
	Sister Annie Kauluken gave a report of
her labors performed in North Hawaii and
Hilo Conference.   Spoke of how they had
gone among those not of our faith and
taught them the principles of the Gospel.
Referred to the blessings attached to the
observance of the Word of Wisdom.
	Sister Minerva Fernandez spoke upon
tithing and the counsel given by the ser-
vants of God on that subject in Zion, and
expressed her desire to fulfill the require-
ments of that law and gain the blessings
promised to all who obey this command-
ment.
	Sister Kealoha Reese, of Waikiki, sus-
tained the report given by Sister Kauluken
in regard to their labors on the Island of
Hawaii.    Said they had enjoyed their
labors and the spirit of the Lord had been
with them.
	Sister Ellen C. Cole said she was pleased
to meet in our conference again under such
favorable circumstances.   “We have heard
many precious things this day concerning
our work here on earth, so let us be faith-
ful and weary not in the good fight we
have begun.”   Spoke of the necessity of
parents teaching their children what is
right.
	Duet, by Sisters Margarett Fifield and
Jennie Musser.
Sister Margarett Fifield said, " I am
pleased to meet together again with you
this afternoon. It is the desire of every
soul to worship some Supreme being, but to
us is revealed the true Being.”    Urged all
to be faithful.
	President Alice R. Woolley said, “I am
pleased with what has been said during the
hours of this day, and my heart is filled
with gratitude to the Lord for His blessings
to us while we have been assembled to-
gether in our General Conference; and I
pray that He will assist us to remember the
things we have heard and aid us to put
them in practice, that we may prepare our-
selves for the great labor that will devolve
upon us while we sojourn here in mortality.
We should be liberal in donating, that we
may have more in the treasury to assist in
carrying on this great work we are engaged
n.
Singing,  “Do what is right.” Benedic-
tion by Elder Thomas Waddups.
                 Alice R. Woolley, Pres.
                 Elizabeth E. Williams, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Col
JOSEPA ITEMS. 
	The Josepa Relief Society has just been
bereft of one of its most prominent and in-
fluential members, Sister Makanoe Trous-
seau, who has only been in Utah one year
and a half, but by her energy and good
works she had become well established in
the colony and was ever a power for good.
	In the demise of Sister Makanoe the whole
colony have lost a mother and true friend.
She was ever found at the bedside of the
sick, and her association with Dr. Trous-
seau, of Honolulu, had given her much
useful information, and she was an efficient
and untiring helper in all the interests of
the community.
	The Relief Society desire to express their
appreciation of her good works, and would
exhort all to emulate her worthy example.
OBITUARY AND BIOGRAPHY.
	Sister Makanoe was the third child of Mr. and
Mrs. Joseph Koluhilaau, and was born in the
notable town of Hilo, Hawaii, May 11, 1856. She
attended the Hilo day school from the age of six
years till 1863, then removed to Kona with her
parents and there finished her school education in
1868. She lost her mother, and three years later
married Mr. Kaaipa, by whom she had three chil-
dren, two girls and one boy. Miss Hannah
Kaaipa is the oldest child, and has had the advan-
tage of a good education in the English as well as
the Hawaiian language,
	Makanoe separated from her first husband, and
one year afterwards became the wife of Dr. Trous-
seou, of Honolulu. He was the doctor of the royal
family, and she associated very much with them.
In 1884 she accompanied Queen Kapialani and
the ex-queen, Liliuakalani, on their extended
visits around the group of islands. She was quite
at home in the best society, being a noble, digni-
fied and lofty-minded woman. She was a great
lover of her country and its beautiful scenery.
She visited, the volcano several times with her
husband. She gave her children the advantage of a
good education. She was ever noted among her
associates for her intelligence and wisdom.
	In 1890 Makanoe with her two daughters united
themselves with the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, and, though she met with some
opposition from her friends, she never from that
time forth flinched or in any way neglected her
Church duties. She was the most influential
member of the Honolulu branch, and exercised a
presidency over the Relief Society of the different
Islands. She was chosen president of the Primary
Association in 1895, and still later she and her
daughter, Hannah, traveled for three months,
visiting the Relief Society and different women’s
organizations in our Church. On their return
they reported their labors at the semi-annual con-
ference at Laie (which she always attended) and
Makanoe and Kalwaianne were called on another
similar mission. Her daughter Hannah’s health
was impaired and she took her to the different
Islands to regain her health, and would fast and

[Column 2]
pray for her herself, as well as having her ad-
ministered to.
	Dr. Trousseau died and left Makanoe quite a
fortune. She helped all of her relatives and
donated liberally to the support of the mission. In
the spring of 1898, she, with her father, children
and other relatives, eleven in number, arrived in
Utah and settled in Josepa. That same year she
and her family entered into the Holy Temple and
did the work for themselves and many relatives;
and while in the city for that purpose she had the
pleasure of spending the day in the hotel with her
former friend and queen, Liliuahalani, and intro-
ducing the presidents of the Church and a few
of the sisters to the queen. Sister E. B. Wells,
Dr. E. R. Shipp, Emily G. Cluff and Miss Birdie
Jean Cluff were the only ladies admitted into the
queen’s apartments, aside from Makanoe and her
two daughters, Makanoe spent the whole time
trying to convince the queen of the great blessing
bestowed upon the Latter-day Saints, and obtained
permission from her to do the Temple work for
her relatives for many generations, in fact the
queen sent Makanoe a large book of genealogies
for that purpose, some of which she has done and
now the work falls on Hannah.
	In 1899 Makanoe accompanied President Joseph
F. Smith and party to the Sandwich Islands, at-
tended to her business and some ohurch duties,
and returned with them, only to redouble her
efforts in building up her chosen home. She has
attended all the General Conferences since she
came to Utah and spent weeks in the Tem-
ple.
	On November 30, 1899, she was taken very ill
with cerebral trouble, accompanied with a high
fever. She asked to be taken to Salt Lake City
that she might visit the Temple. Her relatives
and friends protested, as it was a hard journey in
cold weather, but she was determined to go and
they all finally consented, and her brother and
two daughters brought her in on December 7.
On the 8th she visited the House of the Lord and
received blessings that seemed to fully repay her
for her journey, and she seemed resigned and con-
tented and at 6 o’clock on the morning of the 9th,
she passed peacefully away surrounded by her
daughters, President H. H. Cluff and wife, and
Brother and Sister Worthington. All that kind
friends could do was done for her. President
Joseph F. Smith, ever her true friend, and many
of the Island missionaries mingled their sympathies
with the grief-stricken daughters.
	President Joseph E. Taylor, with his corps of
faithful sisters, arranged her in the pure linen and
laid her in a beautiful white casket, and laden
with love and beautiful flowers, she was carried to
her home, accompanied by President H. H. Cluff
and her daughters. Her brother, who had
brought her in, drove the remains home after
leaving the train.
	An impressive funeral was held at Josepa, Dec-
ember 12, at 2 p. m.; and though mourned and
much loved by all who knew her, we know she has
only gone before to receive the reward of the just.
Ellen Hallemanu, Sec.
Emily G. Cluff, Pres.


OBITUARY.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
To the memory of Sister Martha B. Taylor, who
	departed this life December 25, 1899.

	Whereas, in the dispensation of Providence, God
has seen fit to call home one of His daughters,
who labored long among her sisters as a counselor
in the Relief Society of the 21st ward of the Salt
Lake Stake of Zion, and 
	Whereas, she has proved herself an efficient
counselor and an effective member of the organiz-
ation in all its various duties, and was one whose
kindness and generosity of spirit brought sunshine
unto many hearts, helped the needy in time of
want, and was in her own life a fitting embodi-
ment of her constant prayer, that she might be
humble and united in all that is good, therefore, be
it
	RESOLVED, That we, her sisters, united with her
in the Relief Society work, do deeply feel her loss
in connection with her earnest effort and constant
work; nevertheless, in this our loss we feel to bow
to the mandates of an Alwise Creator, who doeth
all things well.
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
entered on the minutes of the 21st ward Relief
Society, and that a copy be sent to her family and
one to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
		ELIZA BARTON, President.
		FRANCES S. CASTLETON, Counselor.
		M. A. TUDDENHAM, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


U.W. P. C.
	The U. W. P. C. held its regular month- 
ly meeting at the home of Mrs. Emma
Jensen, Saturday, December 30, 1899. 
	The rooms were beautifully decorated for
the occasion. The president in the chair.
Opening prayer by Dr. Romania B. Pratt.
The secretary called the roll, members re-
sponding with original sentiments.
	The resignation of Maria Francis as 2nd
vice-president, and also as a member of the
club, was tendered, and accepted with re-
grets. Mrs. E. B. Wells nominated Emily
S. Richards as 2nd vice-president nomina- 
tion seconded by Dr. Pratt and others, and
carried unanimously.
	A communication was read in regard to
collecting reading matter for the soldiers in
the Philippines, and several ladies volun-
teered to respond to tbe call.
	A communication regarding the Kinder-
garten was read.
	Mrs Schiller reported from the Council
of Women’s Clubs, making definite explana-
tions, and several of the ladies expressed their
views on the subject. Mrs. Helen V.
Kimball was nominated delegate to the
Council.
	A motion was made that Mrs. Wells’
dea in regard to the Kindergarten—that it
was not possible to do what was suggested,
and that the school alluded to was strictly a
district school and should be supported by
those in that locality—was accepted and
carried.
	Mention was made of the handsome pic-
ture presented to the retiring president, Mrs.
Ella W. Hyde, at the October meeting.
	Mrs. Wells moved that the remainder of
the time be spent socially, and the motion
was carried. All were very highly enter-
tained examining the very fine collection of
curios gathered from all parts of the world
by the host and hostess, Mr. and Mrs.
Jensen.
	Sumptuous refreshments were afterwards
served, during which the following musical
program was given: Miss Lizzie Thomas
gave an instrumental selection entitled
“Hearts and Flowers.” “Love I have
Sighed to Rest Me,” was beautifully sung
by Miss Judith Anderson. Mrs. Anderson
and her daughter sang “Whispering Hope,”
and Mrs. Anderson sang “Midst Roses
Sweet.” Miss Minerva and Ella Jensen
and Miss Thomas sang “The Gipsy Coun-
tess,” and the program was concluded with
a song, “Flee as a Bird,” by Judith
Andersen.
			GRACE ANDERSON, Sec.


CHRISTMAS.

	Of all the old festivals that of Christmas
awakens the strongest and most heartfelt
associations. There is a tone of solemn and
sacred feeling that blends with our joys and
lifts the spirit to a state of hallowed and ele-
vated enjoyment. Christmas commemor-
ates the religion of peace and love. It has
been made the season for the gathering to-
gether of families and the drawing together
again of those bands of kindred hearts; of
calling back the children who have wan-
dered from the home, once more to gather
around the paternal hearth, there to grow
young again among the loving mementoes
of childhood.
	There is a charm about Christmas that
fills our hearts with mute but exquisite
delight. Our friendly sympathies are


aroused. We feel more sensibly the charm
of each other’s society, and are brought
more closely together by dependence upon
each other for enjoyment. Heart calleth
unto heart, and we draw our pleasures from
the deep wells of loving kindness which lie
in the quiet depth of our hearts.
	Christmas is a day upon which to rejoice
and be happy; a mirthful day, full of inno-
cent pleasures. It throws open every door
and unlocks every heart, and brings all to-
gether in one warm, generous flow of love
and kindness. The presents, the good
cheer, the tokens of love, the evergreen
distributed about the church or home, the
emblems of peace and gladness, all awaken
fond memories and kindle benevolent sym-
pathies.
	How delightedly we turn from the cares of life and mingle in the festivities of the
day! Every sound is full of melody and I
every countenance bright with smiles,
transmitting to others a supreme and ever
shining benevolence, which constitutes a
merry Christmas and reminds us of “Peace
on earth, good will to men.”
	SUSAN E. THOMPSON.


A National Council of Nurses has been
formed in Denmark, and has become affili-
ated with the International Council of
Nurses. The Danish nurses distinguished
themselves during the Greek war.
	MRS. HILDA MINER celebrated her one
hundredth birthday on December 29, at the
home of her daughter, Mrs. H. D. Miner,
in Fredonia, N. Y. She has seven grand-
children, nineteen great-grandchildren and
three great-great-grandchildren. She pos-
sesses a clear mind, good memory, excellent
health and a remarkably amiable and cheer-
ful disposition. Her friends think the pros-
pect bright for a continuance of her long
and useful life. There are two other per
sons in Chautauqua County who have lived
beyond their hundredth birthdays, Ambrose
R. Hanchett, of Mayville, who was a hun-
dred last November, and Mrs. Doty, of
Frewsburg, who is in her one hundredth
and fourth year.


[Column 1]
90% OF AMERICAN WOMEN
wash dishes three times each day. If you are one
of these, wear a pair of “Goodyear” Rubber
Gloves and always have soft, white hands. Sent
by mail postpaid, on receipt of $1.59 Agents
wanted. Address, M. O. Dept,
M. F. Reese Supply Co., Setauket, N. Y.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail.
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

[Column 2]
[logo of a shield]
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
WORLD’S PICTORAL LINE

[to the right of a logo]
THE PEOPLE’S FAVORITE.

				Leave Salt Lake City
No. 6 	The “Fast Mail” for Chicago, St. Paul, St. 
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and 
		Park City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7 00 a.m.
No. 2 	The “Over and Limited” for Chicago, St.
		Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
		Denver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	11 45 a.m.
No. 4	The “Atlantic Express” for Chicago, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver. .	6 40 p.m.

				Arrive Salt Lake City.
No. 5 	The “Fast Mail” from Chicago, St. Louis, 
		Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and Park
		City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3 00 p.m.
No. 1 	The “Overland Limited” from Chicago, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver . .	3 00 p.m.
No. 3 	The ‘Pacific Express” from Chicago, St.
		Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
		Denver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3 30 p.m.

CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 Main St.		Telephone 665.
					H. M. CLAY, General Agent.

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
		LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

OREGON SHORT LINE RAILROAD.

Time Table in Effect October 15, 1899.

	Trains will arrive and depart at Salt Lake City daily as fol-
lows:
					ARRIVE:
From Ogden, Chicago, Omaha, St. Louis and Denver,	3:30 a.m
From Ogden, Portland, Butte, Helena and San Fran-
	cisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	9:05 a.m.
*From Milford, Sanpete, Provo and Intermediate
	points . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	9:35 a.m.
From Ogden, Chicago, St. Louis, Omaha, Denver and
	San Francisco. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3:00 p.m.
**From Garfield Beach, Tooele and Terminus . . . . .	4:00 p.m.
From Tintic and Mercur. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	6:30 p.m.
Cache Valley Express, from Preston, Logan, Ogden
	and intermediate points . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	6:40 p.m.
From Ogden, Butte, San Francisco and intermediate
	points . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7:50 p.m.
					DEPART.
For Ogden, Omaha, Chicago, Denver, St. Louis and
	Cache Valley. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7:00 a.m.
For Tintic and Mercur. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7:55 a.m.
**For Garfield Beach, Tooele and Perminus . . . . . . .	7:45 a.m.
For Ogden, Butte, Helena, Portland and intermediate
	points. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	9:45 a.m.
For Ogden, Omaha, Chicago, Denver, St. Louis and
	San Francisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	11:45 a.m.
*For Provo, Sanpete, Milford and intermediate points	5:30 p.m.
For Ogden, Denver, Omaha, St. Louis and Chicago .	6:40 p.m.
For Ogden, Butte, San Francisco and intermediate
	points . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	8:45 p.m.
*Trains south of Juab do not run Sundays.
**Daily except Sunday.
City Ticket Office Under Masonic Hall, 2nd South St.
S.W. ECCLES,		D. E. BURLEY,
Gen. Traffic Manager.	Gen. P. and T. A.
		W. H. T, BANCROF
	Vice-President and Gen’l Manager


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 28.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1 & FEBRUARY 15, 1900.		Nos. 16 & 17.


CONTENTS.

Justice and Judgment. . . . . . . . . . . . . A. L. M,	97.
A Woman Missionary. . . . Mrs. Addison Pratt	98.
Mother’s Basket. . . . . . L. L. Greene Richards	99.
Brave Women of the Revolution, H. M. Fisher	99.
Anniversary Dinner. . . . . . . . . . . William Rex.	99.
By the Governor of the State of Utah—A
	Proclamation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	101.
Visit to Mexico. . . . . . . . . . Ann C. Woodbury	101.
Reorganization. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	101.
Inside the American Custom House. . . . . . . . . .
	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Henry Blackwell	101.
Mexico Conference Notes. . Sarah A. Clayson	102.
R. S. Reports. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	102.
Obituary. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	103.
From Path to Path. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Little Sister	103.
Lantern Lecture. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	104.
Notes. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	104.

EDITORIAL—An Appeal to Utah Woman. . . . .	100.
	Editorial Notes. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	100.
	Official Notice. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	101.
									
POETRY—Purity. . . . . . . . . . . Mabelle Biggart	97
	Little Things. . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ruth M. Fox	97
	Eighteen Hundred and Ninety-Nine . . . . . .
	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . L. D.  Alder	99.


PURITY. 
	Take my roses white today,
	Scatter them before thy way,
	Pure as crystal from above,
	Speak they of eternal love.

	Take my roses red today,
	Thus for me you have to say—
	Who shall share my heart’s best
		blood, 
	Who shall sail across death’s flood.

	On the cross of red and white, 
	Love and purity unite— 
	Pain and sorrow brought the right,
	Brilliant gems at dead of night.
				MABELLE BIGGART.
En route, Salt Lake City. Jan. 1900


LITTLE THINGS.

At the gates of heaven the angel stood,
Guarding the way to the pure and good,
And passing upon the lives and deeds,
Of those who would enter where it leads.

When a portly man, with form erect,
Looking very wise and circumspect,
Came walking along with lofty mien,
And an air which said, “I’ll go right in.”

He broke the silence, “How do you do,
Please open the gates till I pass through;
I’ve traveled far and would fain sit down,
I am anxious, too, to see my crown.”

How,” said the angel, “thy passport, please,
And name, ere I turn the golden keys;
What hast thou done—tis my right to know,—
While journeying on the sphere below?”

“My passport? Sir, you astonish me!
What I have done all the world could see;
And surely, angel, you know my name,
Why it was rung from the heights of fame.

It was written, too, in letters bold,
On towr’ing buildings in shining gold;
My voice was heard from pulpit, stage,
Indeed my sermons were quite the rage.

I was honored, too, in ev’ry land,
The great and the noble took my hand;
And many wonderful things I did,
My light, good angel, was never hid.

I could wield the pen in prose or rhyme,
My books were read in many a clime,
And in framing laws for humankind,
Mine was considered a master-mind.”

“But,” said the angel, “I prithee tell,
Didst attend to little things so well?”
“Tend to little things,” the great man cried,
“Why, angel, you would not me deride?


You see, mere trifles of little worth,
I left for mortals of common birth.”
Then the angel gravely shook his head,
“Thou hast gained thy just reward,” he said.

On the earth the stars small things appear,
But assume most wondrous position here;
And thou hast failed the crown to win;
Fare thee well, thou canst not enter in.

Then there came a timid little child,
With faltering steps and manner mild;
“Well,” said the angel, “What is thy name?
Didst thou, too, climb to the heights of fame?”

“O, gentle angel, alas,’tis true,
On earth my name was known to few,
But I struggled on the best I could,
Though I know I was not always good.

I could not do much, O angel pure,
For I was weak, but my trust was sure;
So I tried to do each little thing,
The Savior bade me. May I go in?”

He tenderly gazed on the little child,
And clasped her hand, as she wept and smiled;
“Dear little one, thou hast nobly striv’n,
To such as thou is the kingdom giv’n.”
						RUTH M. FOX.


[Column 1]
JUSTICE AND JUDGMENT.
	We find many in our travels who seem
surprised at the little justice that the out-
side world is willing to give to the Latter-
day Saints. Perhaps it is because they have 
been born under the covenant, consequent-
ly have not experienced what prejudice is
often imbibed through hearing false re-
ports. They have not experienced the
changes resulting from the purgation some
have to undergo before they become
grounded in the Gospel.
	Our missionaries who meet with people of
different nationalities and creeds, under-
stand, however, something about the in-
correct principles many are cradled in; people
who travel little and only meet with one
class of people do not always have the
charity and judgment of those who learn
much of human nature.
	My father was a man who had been a
Captain of a merchant ship, a man who had
mixed with many minds and many men;
and though he never heard the Gospel, he
always accepted a truth, even though it
sometimes cost him a great sacrifice to do
so. He always seemed hurt when any one
spoke sneeringly of Jesus, because of His
nationality. He also tried to impress his
children that if they wished to judge any
one, they should place themselves in the
position of the individual they were trying
to judge. Then if they understood his
temperament, and knew something of the
principles he had been taught, also if they
could find out his motives for doing those
certain things and knew of his circutu- 
stances, perhaps they might be capable of
judging.
	Isaiah tells in the 11th chapter that there
shall come forth out of the stem of Jesse,
one who shall not judge after the sight of
his eyes, neither reprove after the hearing
of his ears. If we could follow his example
how slow we should be to judge our neigh-
bors.
	Before judging we should ask ourselves,
these questions: What were their motives?

[Column 2]
What prompted them? Was it Satan who
had set a trap to try to make a man an
offender for a word? Then another ques-
tion would follow: Will you silently and
lovingly deliver that one if he has erred in
spirit or in understanding? Above all, let
us remember the Mormon creed, “Mind
your own business.”
	What a pity we are not as wise as Solo-
mon! Yet Solomon did not always act
wisely, but fell when he had departed
from the path of righteousness. How neces-
sary our words should be flavored with the
spirit of love. What slander would be
saved; unity would take the place of divi-
sion; our homes would be little heavens;
our fences so secure that no intruding
spirits could possibly enter, and evil spirits
would be bound to remain outside—nothing
could harm or hurt in Zion.
	Do we not look for this glorious time ot
come soon, when we are rejoicing and
praising God for the restoration of the Gos-
pel? On the other hand, when we are
weak, when clouds hover over us, and
when our Heavenly Father seems to with-
draw His spirit from us, what blunders we
make, how helpless we are. We wonder at
our carelessness and that we get ashamed
of ourselves. But if we always felt strong
and charitable, we would always be in our
watch-tower. We might have a little sym-
pathy for our neighbor, who has never
walked in the light.
	If we never had felt the pangs of poverty
could we feel, for the poor and destitute?
If we had been always healthy, we could
not advise the sick or speak a cheering
word to the sad. If we had never erred in
judgment, we could not warn our children
of the pitfalls that surround them. We
could feel no need of being watchful and
prayerful in these perilous times, but that
we know the enemy is busy trying to over-
come his people- We know he is sending
extra forces, for his time is short, and what
he does must be done quickly. We know
his dividing spirits are recruting, and find-
ing and spying out our weak places. We
need to stand shoulder to shoulder and
keep sacred the faults of our brothers and
sisters, as we would wish they would do
with us.
						A. L. M.


COUNCIL PRESS NOTICE.
	The National Council of Women will
hold no Annual Executive until the fall of
1900. This organization which reflects or
concentrates the work of so many national
and State organizations, is doing steady
work all the time. Its effort is for the
present concentrated on plans for a com-
mission for Cuba and Hawaii, to investi-
gate into the condition of women in those
Islands, and see wherein the women of the
United States can be helpful or co-operative
with them. These plans will be submitted
at the Executive in the fall and the com-
mission formally appointed.
	It is expected that the President of the
United States will endorse this commission.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
A WOMAN MISSIONARY.
	[Mrs. Addison Pratt on the Society Islands,
1850.]
(Continued.)
	The people fitted up a room for our
reception, spread clean grass for a floor,
laid down mats, on which they laid our
food, and we ate heartily with thankful
hearts. Mr. Pratt began preaching and bap-
tizing. A council was held and it was fin-
ally decided that he should remain there
for a time, and his family return to Tubauai.
	We walked over the Island, went to two
other villages and found in each a respect
able house of worship, making three in
the distance of eight miles. The natives
hailed us as we passed and invited us in a
most cordial manner to stop and eat with
them. There was also a school house in
each village. Such is their reverence for
their prayer houses they would not pre-
sume to have them used for schoolrooms, of
whatever device or denomination. The
walls of their buildings are of the purest
white, plastered on either side with lime
burnt from coral rock. Near one public
building there was a sepulcher built of
hewn stone, where their former king was
buried. There were large squashes grow-
ing near the spot. I inquired if they were
good to eat. The man shook his head and
replied: “This is consecrated ground.
Should any one eat what grows upon it, he
would die of the same disease the old king
died with.”
	I went to see one old grave walled up
with stones. The roof had fallen in and
left the bones in sight. The skulls were
very large, the teeth sound, they had died
in full manhood. The grave was far from
my dwelling, and the natives have great
superstition about going near a place of that
kind, which accounts for its remaining un-
covered.
	We also went to see a large cave in the
mountains. Projecting rocks hung over
the mouth, leaving a small entrance just
large enough for one person to enter. There
was a damp atmosphere inside, and total
darkness. We found candlenuts (strong
thorns on the end of cocoanut leaves) made
a light, by which we were enabled to sur-
vey the inside. It had the appearance of
being a hundred feet long, and the interior
was as high as a three story building, per-
pendicular on one side, extending like the
roof of a house. Some of our company
found bones of human beings in the caves.
I retreated awe-stricken.
	On our return to the village we stopped
to see a new schooner nearly completed.
It was under cover, built in old English
style, with round ends. We climbed to ex-
amine her cabins. It appeared to be well
done. For ornamental work they carve;
pillars and posts in their dwellings are
finished in that style, thus showing to the
observer that they have natural taste and
ingenuity which ought to be cultivated.
	The room we occupied while on shore
was at the end of a building seventy feet in
length. The remainder was occupied by a
crowd of the people who bought food daily
and ate with their visitors from Tabauai.
They set up high post bedsteads for us, of
their own make, curtained round with
their kind of cloth for musquito bar, made
of the bark of the paper mulberry tree,
thin, fine and white.
	The head chief, or king, is a handsome
man, quite fair, with regular features. He
was converted to the Mormon faith on

[Column 2]
another island. He had never seen “Para-
ta” till he called on us on his return from
the Chain Islands. His wife is a complete
opposite, coarse and uncomely. She was
kind and attentive, though unpleasant to
look upon.
	The last Sabbath on that Island was a
solemn one. Five persons were baptized
and the communion and sacrament of the
Lord’s Supper commemorated. The
Tubauai friends were sad at the instance of
leaving their missionary behind. His dis-
course was impressive. His address to
them aroused their sympathies. In affect-
ing terms he committed his family to their
care and protection. Fati, the king, ex-
pressed his great joy that the missionary
would remain with him.
	The following morning great ceremonies
were in operation. The kind people loaded
us with food for the ship’s company on the
voyage home. They followed us in crowds
to the beach, expecting to hear a “wail-
ing” when “Paraita” and his family parted.
We told them it was not our practice to
weep aloud. Sixteen of our number re-
mained behind on that Island. These,
with those who had been baptized, would
form quite a branch of the Church. The
Governor of Taubuai was opposed to
leaving the missionary. He said he would
be more appreciated in his own Island.
	We had a fair wind home and made the
voyage in less than twenty-four hours.
Found three schooners lying in the harbor.
Captain Johnson’s was one, and we had the
pleasure of again seeing our dear little
Mary. Though we were all happy to see
her, we could not help feeling sorrowful to
see her in charge of a mother incapable of
training her properly, and a stepfather
addicted to intemperance.
	As we hove in sight of our Island we saw
a crowd of people standing on the beach to
watch the approach of our vessel. Our
youngest daughter, Ann Louisa, whom we
had left at home with her Aunt Crosby,
stood with the rest to welcome us.
	Captain Grouard immediately put in
freight for Tahiti. The boy, Hiram E. W.
Clark, who came with us from Salt Lake
City, went with the captain on this voyage,
to learn a little of a sailor’s life.
	The natives made a great feast on our
return. We tried to be cheerful to console
them for leaving their teacher in Ravaivai.
The schooners all sailed and left us alone
with our native friends, who showed us
great kindness.
	The 10th day of November, 1851. This
is my birthday. Forty-nine years have I
lived. How few attain to that age in com-
parison to those who come short of it.
What a scene to look back upon! Had I
known in my youthful days what I had to
pass through, how faint and feeble my
heart would have been when the trials as-
sailed me. They were wisely hidden from
me. Often in my youth did a presenti-
ment of a fearful future come before me and
seem to warn me to beware of taking steps
to hasten on my destiny. But it was writ-
ten in the book of fate, and therein ’twas
written that I had much to suffer for the
Gospel’s sake. I have said with Job, “The
things which I dreaded came upon me.”
I have endeavored to bear them patiently,
and wherein I have failed I look to heaven
for pardon. I am not amenable to man,
neither will I suffer man to judge me. My
soul has seen travail, and dark waters have
murmured around me and floods of sorrow
have arisen mountains high and burst upon

[Column 3]
my head. Hunger, cold and nakedness
have stared me in the face. Pain of body
and agony of mind, false friends have beset
me and secret griefs have fastened their
venom on my heart and threatened to
loosen the chords of life. But this glorious
Gospel came and the light of truth dawned
upon my saddened heart and caused me to
sing for joy. Then alll my sorrows were
forgotten.
	Strong confidence in God has enabled me
to triumph in a great measure over every
calamity, and thus day by day I thank
Him that I have lived to see a glorious
work commenced on the earth, although it
has introduced me into a thorny path where
my feet have been goaded to blood. Christ
walked therein before me, and the Prophet
Joseph drank deep of the bitter cup in his
life, and died by the hands of wicked men
in a state that boasts of religious freedom.
Oh, Illinois, of you will it be required!
	In the midst of grief I have joys. Afflicted,
but not in despair. Knowledge of the 
truth is now an anchor to my soul. I look
for joy in the future to equalize all I have
suffered since the fulness of the everlasting
Gospel has made me a pilgrim and a
stranger, far away from my kindred and
country.
	This morning I went to Mr. Layton’s,
who has a Tahitian wife, and she knows
nothing about housekeeping. A young
girl lives with them who assists in the
cooking department. I was very anxious
to give her some instructions in the system
of cleaning house and keeping it in order.
I introduced the subject in a plausible man-
ner, so as not to give offense. The young
girl readily acquiesced, seeming to believe
it would be a nice affair to know how to
keep house like “mau tamahine papa,”
(foreign girls.) It was astonishing the
amount of rubbish we hoed out of one
room. Then a fire in the door yard complet-
ly revolutionized the premises. After this,
Frances, our second daughter, proposed
occupying the room, teaching two little
boys, and further instructing the girl in
rules pertaining to every day life.
	November 12th Mr. Layton had a
daughter born. There was great rejoicing
among the relatives, it being the first girl
in the family. According to their custom,
they would have it wrapped in a square
piece of cloth. I speedily made a suit,
dressed it in our fashion and gave the child
my name, Louisa. All seemed delighted,
and called it a “tamahine papa.”
	Ellen is an excellent interpreter, and I
am also advancing fast in a knowledge of
the language. I met with a few grown
persons for the purpose of reading the
scriptures. They had many questions to
ask in reference to some passages. I
attempted in my own way to explain, and
really was surprised myself at my success.
All present seemed highly gratified. My
subject was baptism for the dead, in which
they manifest a deep interest.
	Little do we know what we can do till
we make a thorough trial. Past the meri-
dian of life I learned a new language. 
(To be continued.)


MRS. FRANCES A. MORTON has been
appointed Superintendent of the Reforma-
tory Prison for Women at Sherborn, Mass.
Mrs. Morton has been in charge of the in-
stitution since the death of Mrs. Ellen C.
Johnson, and had previously served as
deputy superintendent.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EIGHTEEN HUNDRED AND
NINETY-NINE. 

The old year lies a-dying, 
	Cold winter winds are sighing,
		Dark clouds are quickly flying,
			Round the world to night.

Dim, the lamp is burning low,
	Twilight flames and flickers so,
		While the shadows come and go,
			Through the quiet room.

Good bye, Old Year, you’ve been kind,
	’Mid leaves and flowers joy I find,
		Closely ’round my path entwined;
			Year, good bye, tonight.

Gone for aye beyond recall,
	Like the flut’ring leaves that fall, 
		At the early Autumn’s call,
			On the earth’s cold breast.

Solemn the bells ring tonight,
	Telling of Time’s rapid flight,
		Tell, too, of darkness and light, 
			O’er all the wide world.

Can they hush the widow’s cry?
	Groans where thick the bullets fly?
		Carnage where the soldiers die?
			Year, goodbye, goodbye.

Trails of blood you leave behind,
	’Gainst the weak the strong unkind,
		’Gainst the Right, the world combined,
			Man oppressed by man.

Tears fall as you pass away,
	New Year bring a better day,
		When Peace shall the nations sway,
			And Christ come to reign.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.
Sittingbourne, Dec. 31, 1890.


MOTHER’S BASKET.
Babies and books. Women and work, 
	There is room in this world for us all.
The sunbeams that dance and the shadows which
		lurk, 
	All answer to nature’s call.

Nature requires both sunshine and storm,
	So we’ll shrink not from heat nor from cold;
But cheerfully, lovingly strive to perform
	All the work that our baskets hold.

A LAW OF NATURE.
	Every life needs some diversity. Many
mothers, home-workers, are apt to allow 
their time and their minds to be entirely
occupied with the one, all-absorbing theme;
to run too exclusively in the one, never
ending channel. Thus they injure, instead
of gaining best results for their dearest pur-
poses in life.
	An intelligent farmer calls attention to
the fact that “while certain forms of plant
and animal life gravitate toward certain
localities most favorable for their propaga-
tion and development, still, never, under
any circumstance, does such form of life
ever exclusively occupy such territory. A
square rod of native prairie will give a
dozen varieties of grass; one acre of wood-
land, a score of varieties of forest growth; a
small stream of water, a hundred types of
aquatic life, all forms of life held within
proper bounds of some sort.
	“Man ignorantly violates this law and
grows too much wheat, and the rust and
the chinch bug takes it; too many hogs,
and the cholera sweeps them off; too many
hops, and the louse ruins his yard; too
many peaches, and the yellows smite his
orchard; too many potatoes, and the rot
and the bug destroy his crop.”
	These hints are very suggestive, and one
mother having come across them, desires 
others to have the advantage of reading
and thinking over them.
	This law of diversity in nature is a good


law to adopt in our homes. We want good,
wholesome food all the year round, but we
want variety. And as with our physical
natures, so also with the mental and spir-
itual parts of our beings.
	Besides conscientiously looking after the
preparations for bodily food and taking
care of the clothing for our households, let
us read and gain knowledge. Let us pray
and laugh with our children, and be happy.
		L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


[Column 1]
BRAVE WOMEN OF THE REVOLUTION.
	When the bare-footed and thinly clad
soldiers went to the Morris County kitchens
Hannah Carey, wife of David Thompson,
ladled out food from the great iron
pot, saying, “Eat away, men; you are wel-
come because you are fighting for the
country. Eat what you want. It is a
great cause you are engaged in, and we are
willing to share with you what we have as
long as it lasts.”
	The women with homes shared with
those who were without. We cannot im-
agine what they endured. The men fought
well for the country and so did the women.
	Hannah Arnett, of Elizabeth town, N.
J., heard her husband several times say to
some men that he thought of giving up all
effort for independence. She burst into the
room, and, in spite of her husband, rebuked
their weakness and cowardice, saying:
“What greater cause could there be than
that of country? I married a good man, a
true one, a faithful husband and a loyal
Christian gentleman. It needs no divorce
to sever me from a traitor and a coward. If
you take sides with the British you lose
your wife, and I lose my husband and my
home.”
	Hannah Arnett spoke for the patriotic
women of America, and she was as grand
as any of them. They were noble men
and noble women. We are proud of our
ancestors. They are precious relics of a
heroic age, and ought to be garnered up
safely in history.
	“Tempe Wicke owned a handsome
horse which she always rode with skill.
One day as the army was making arrange-
ments to remove, Miss Wicke, mounted on
her favorite horse, started out, wending her
way to Mendam to make a visit. On her
return she was accosted by some soldiers,
who commanded her to dismount. One of
them seized the bridle reins. Perfectly
self-possessed she appeared to submit to her
fate, but not without a vain entreaty not to
take her horse from her. She said she
would be sorry to part from him, but as she
had to, she would ask two favors of them.
One was to return him to her if possible,
and the other was, whether they returned
him or not, to treat him well. The soldiers
were completely thrown off their guard and
the reins were released. The men supposed
she was about to dismount, but nothing
was farther from her mind. No sooner did
the man take his hand off the reins, than
she touched her spirited horse with the
whip. He sped from among them like an
arrow. As she was riding away at full
speed they fired at her, but she was un-
harmed. She urged her horse up a steep
hill. Going around to the kitchen door of
her home, she sprang off and led the horse
into the kitchen, thence into the parlor,
and thence into the spare room, which had
but one window, with a shutter. The
soldiers shortly after came up; searched the

[Column 2]
barn and the woods in vain. She kept her
horse in the spare room for three weeks,
until the last trooper was fairly off. The
courageous and adroit woman afterwards
became the wife of William Tuttle, an
officer in a Jersey brigade. Do you not
think he must have been proud of
her?”
	Mollie Pitcher, the brave and loyal
woman, kindly carried water to the
wounded soldiers until her husband, who
was manning a gun, was killed. She took
his place and assisted in loading and firing
the cannon in the midst of the strife. She
is called the “Heroine of Monmouth.”
After the engagement General Washington
was so much pleased with the gallant con-
duct of the heroine that he gave her a
lieutenant’s commission. She was afterwards
called Captain Mollie, and she deserved her
title. Oh, that all the long-lost and for-
gotten ones could have more written of
them!
		HELEN MELINDA FISHER.


ANNIVERSARY DINNER.
	Twenty-fifth anniversary of the organ-
	zation of Randolph Relief Society.

	The Relief Society anniversary, (twenty-
five years) was celebrated by a grand din-
ner at the meeting house for all the married
people of Randolph Ward. The Opening
address was by Louisa Gray, and after
thanksgiving by Bishop McKinnon, all
partook of a fine dinner, prepared by the
sisters.
	After dinner the following program was
rendered:
	Singing, The spirit of God like
a fire is burning.” Prayer by Bishop Mc-
Kinnon. Reading of the minutes of the
organization of the society, a quarter of a
century ago, effected by Sisters Eliza R.
Snow and Elizabeth Howard, read by the
secretary of the meeting, Wm. Rex. Roll
call of the original members of the society,
thirteen answering to their names.
	Remarks were made by Sisters Elizabeth
Brough and Mary Snowball, relating some
of their experiences in the society.
	Song, “Hard Times Come Again no
More,” by Lillian Webb and company.
	Remarks by Stake President Lucy F.
Grant, and a reading, “Lecture on Wom-
an,” by Mary F. Shelby.
	General remarks by Father John Camer-
on (whose age is now eighty-two years) in
Scotch costume.
	Organ solo by Sister J. K. Nelson, and
remarks by Bishop McKinnon, “Reminis-
niscenses of the Past Twenty-five
Years.”
	President Sarah Tyson’s closing re-
marks were explanatory of the work done
in the past twenty-five years, there having
been only one change, and that was in
counselors, during all that time.
	Benediction by Elder J. W. Smith.

		WILLIAM REX, Sec. pro tem.


MRS. JENNIE C. CROLY, at the New
Year luncheon of Sorosis, recalled the fact
that thirty years ago a man applied for
membership, and she replied that the club
was too young to attend to anything but its
studies, so to speak, and that for some time
to come its motto must be, “Principles, not
men.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah,
Terms: one copy one year. $1.00 one copy six months.
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of lnonparie
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers. 
	EXPONENT office. Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a.  m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JAN. 15 & FEB. 1, 1900.


[Column 1]
AN APPEAL TO UTAH WOMEN.
	We publish in this issue the Governor’s
Proclamation in regard to an election, and
we hope and trust the women of this State
who hold the franchise, and have equal
political rights of suffrage with the men of
Utah will avail themselves of the privi-
lege conferred upon them in the constitu-
tion of the State, and by their earnest en-
deavors to promote the highest good of the
State and its people, use their utmost in-
fluence in the interest of harmony, and
show to the country, of which they are an
important part, that they appreciate the bal-
lot and will make use of it for its legiti-
mate purposes. In the years since statehood
was conferred upon the people many wom-
en have taken an active part in political
issues, and have rendered good service in
both the great parties. A few have been
elected to office, and have made a good rec-
ord. Utah alone of all the states has had a
woman senator, one who sat through two
terms of the Legislature, having been so
fortunate as to get the long term. And
women have been elected to the Lower
House and have been efficient in the work
assigned to them and acquitted themselves
well on committees In several counties in
the State women have filled the offices of
auditor, treasurer, recorder, etc., and at the
present time women are filling the offices of
recorder, treasurer and minor places and
no complaints are made in reference to their
honesty or capabilities. 
	There are comparatively few women who
would care to accept public positions of
trust or emolument if tendered them, but
the few have proven woman’s ability to
discharge public duties with credit and suc-
cess The work so far has . not intruded
upon the home or its obligations. No com-
plaints have been made of neglect of hus-
band or children because of going to vote
or holding office.
	Women can be very helpful in the com-
ing campaign if they will use their woman-
ly influence for justice and righteousness,
not condescending to any of the petty bick-
erings and strife that occasion broils and
disturbances when electioneering is in full
progress. It is not vet decided what the
mode of campaign will be, but whatever may
be the ultimate decision, it will be the plain
duty of every patriotic citizen to consider it
his or her duty to do his best for the main-
tenance of order and a peaceful solution of
the question to be settled by the votes of

[Column 2]
the people of the State. Do not, women of
our fair State, indulge in any ill feeling
that would keep you from casting your vote
for the man of your choice to represent
Utah in the halls of Congress.
	The conditions that confront the people
at the present time throughout the country
and throughout the world, demand from
women their earnest attention and the best
thought and active participation in the
public welfare in whatever way seems wise
and prudent; and more especially does it
devolve upon women who hold the ballot
to exert their utmost influence at the polls
by casting the ballot for men who will
serve their constituents honorably and up-
rightly without fear or favor in the inter-
ests, of justice and equality of privileges, and
maintain the rights of the working man or
woman as well as those who abound in
wealth, that all may enjoy the freedom and
liberty guaranteed by the constitution of
our country.
	At this crisis in the affairs of the state it
seems that every man and woman, and
especially heads of families, should stand
for the principles embodied in the good old
Constitution and Declaration of Inde-
pendence, formulated by our forefathers
under divine inspiration, as we candidly
believe; and whatsoever others may do who
disregard the Constitution or trample it
under foot, the Latter-day Saints above all
people should maintain their integrity to it
and manifest to the world that intense love
of freedom of conscience and the true spirit
of liberty that was the crowning virtue of
our Pilgrim fathers, and which eventually
must be the touchstone of human liberty
for all patriotic citizens who love their
country and the dearest rights of their
countrymen. Love God and your fellow-
men, is a motto often used, but more often
abused Utah should stand for righteous
laws and justice, and above all the women
of Utah should do their part in the inter-
ests of all the grave questions that are on
the tapis at the present time, and prepare
themselves for greater and graver condi-
tions and situations in the future.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.
	AT the conference held to organize the
Jordan Stake of Zion, January 21, and also
when the Granite Stake was organized,
January 28, selections were made of a
presidency for the Relief Society of each
Stake. In Jordan Stake Sister Marinda
Bateman was sustained as president, with
Sister Hedvig Hildah Larson, of Sandy,
and Sister Agnes Cutler, as counselors.
In the Granite Stake Sister Emma Wood-
ruff was sustained as president, and Sisters
Mary P. Young and Katharine H.
Brockbank, Counselors. It is the intention
to complete these organizations within a few
days and get them into running order.
	THE Stake Secretaries of the Relief Soci-
ety of the several Stakes of Zion are hereby
reminded that a yearly report is expected of
them for the general report, from the begin-
ning of the year 1899, January 1st to Dec-
ember 31st, and that the report must be
in as early as February 15, so that the
General Secretary may have sufficient time
to make a correct report for the April Con-
ference. All branches of the Relief Society
not included in Stakes are also requested
to send a full report for the year, that a
complete report of the entire society may
be made, including branches, whether

[Column 2]
in the United States or other countries, or
upon the islands of the sea. Address Mrs.
E. B. Wells, Secretary, Templeton, Salt
Lake City, Utah.
	THE Utah Woman’s Press Club met last
evening, January 31, 1900, at the residence
of the president, Mrs. Aimee C. Schiller,
and, after the transaction of important busi-
ness, one feature of which was ’the appoint-
ment of a committeee to draft a Memorial
for Julia Ivins McDonald, one of the
charter members of the club, lately de-
ceased. Committee, Ruth M. Fox, Romania
B. Pratt, M. D., Lucy A. Clark. Mrs.
McDonald is the only member of the club
that has passed away since its organization,
October 31, 1891. A part of the program
consisted of an original poem by Ruth M.
Fox, and “The Lakes of the Wasatch,” by
Mary A. J. Lambert, both excellent and
entertaining. We wish it distinctly under-
stood the Press Club only aims to do
original work and keep up with the times.
The remainder of the evening was spent in
delightful conversation and the hostess
regaled the members and visitors with
delicious refreshments, which added much
to the pleasure of the gathering.
	JANUARY 31 was the birthday of two of
the most eminent women of Zion, and both
were born in Jefferson County, State of
New York, President Zina D. H. Young,
of the Relief Society throughout the world,
and her first vice president, Jane S.
Richards, of Ogden, whose recent bereave-
ment in the death of her life companion,
President Franklin D. Richards, would
make the day a sorrowful one for her in
stead of a day of rejoicing. A dinner party
was given at the home of Mrs. W. J. Beatie,
Mrs. Young’s daughter. A few of Mrs.
Young’s most intimate friends were present
in honor of the occasion, fourteen sat down
at table. Aunt Zina, (Mrs. Young) as we
all love to call her, pronounced a blessing
that touched every heart with its sweet
tenderness. Mrs. Beatie is a magnificent
hostess, and knows exactly how to manage
a dinner on any great occasion. Her tact
and skill in this respect would satisfy the
most fastidious Beautiful flowers, elegant
china, snowy linen and all that gives zest
and tone to such affairs, with brilliant con-
versation, made the visit to the honored
lady a perfect success.
	MRS. LAURA G. FIXEN, of Chicago,
visited our city enroute from California,
arriving here Saturday morning, January
6. Sunday morning Mrs. Fixen attended
the German meeting and in the afternoon
the meeting in the Eighteenth Ward and
in the evening the Y. L. and Y. M. confer-
ence in the Tabernacle. The lady was
particularly impressed with the sermon of
President Joseph F. Smith, upon purity of
life and character. She stated that she had
never heard the subject set forth so clearly
and pointedly before, and felt that were
such sermons preached from the pulpits of
the churches in the Eastern cities, society,
and the condition of the people would be
materially changed for the better. A purer
atmosphere would pervade real life and
great good would be the result, in the
increase of virtue and morality. Mrs.
Fixen’s work is decidedly philanthropic.
She is business manager of a Working
Woman’s Home, in Chicago, and edits a
paper called Diamond Dust, in the interest
of the same institution. The Home will
accommodate eight or nine hundred women,


and has been a blessing to thousands. Con-
nected with the home there is a dispensary.
The same management has a summer resort
on the shore of Lake Michigan, about thirty
miles distant from Chicago. Mrs. Fixen is
a very interesting woman. She possesses a
great heart and has unbounded charity, is
a fine linguist and is certainly seeking after
truth. It was the privilege of the Utah
women to meet her in Washington last
winter, and having once seen us and heard
something of our religious faith, she could
not forget us, but wanted to know more
and see us at home in our own city. Mrs.
Fixen made an excellent impression in the
National Council, where she gave a synop-
sis of her benevolent work. She is certain-
ly a woman of marked individuality and
strong character.
	MISS MABELLE BIGGART, author and
dramatist, spent a week in our city during
January, but it was only the last few days
before she left that we had the opportunity
of meeting her. She gave her dramatiza-
tion of Adam Bede, in the Ladies’ Club
House under the auspices of the Ladies
Literary Society, and her rendition of the
strong character of Adam Bede and his
brother, Seth, was very wonderful for a
woman. The voice, with the power mani-
fest through the impersonation, surpassed
anything of the kind we had ever seen. She
made all the various scenes very vivid and
real, so much so that one’s sympathy was
intense. Miss Biggart has also her own
dramatization of Ben Hur, and after at-
tending divine service in the Tabernacle on
Sunday, January 21, expressed a wish to
have the opportunity of giving Ben Hur in
that grand place, with the great organ ac-
companiment. Miss Biggart gathered
material while here for an article on Utah,
to be brought out in the magazine, Success.
Her books are Solomon Garland, and, now
in course of publication, Ourselves and Our
Neighbors. For this last she is to make a
trip to Arizona and Mexico—making a
study of the people and the country, its
history, and other matters. Her character-
zation of different classes of people is very
original, both in manner and expression.
She has been a great traveler fur a young
woman, and has met many celebrities in
America and across the water. Miss Biggart
may visit Salt Lake again in April on her
return trip from Mexico.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OFFCIAL NOTICE.
At a special meeting of the Board of
Directors of the National Woman’s Relief
Society, held March 7, 1899, in room 208
Templeton building, (more than the re-
quired number for the transaction of busi-
ness being present) when the subject of
ways and means was being, considered, a
motion was made by Mrs. Martha A.
Cannon, of Ogden, and seconded by Dr.
Ellis R. Shipp, of Salt Lake City, that all
money raised by local branches of the Relief
Society on the 17th of March, over the ten
cent membership of each member enrolled
in the society, should be retained by the
respective society. Motion was put by
President Zina D. H. Young and carried
unanimously.

(Signed)

ZINA D. H. YOUNG,
President.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, 
Secretary.


BY THE GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF
UTAH—A PROCLAMATION.
	Whereas, A vacancy exists in the office
of Representative in Congress from the
State of Utah; and
	Whereas Section 784 of the Revised
Statutes of Utah provides that when a
vacancy occures in the office of Represen-
tative in Congress, the Governor must at
once issue a proclamation calling an elec-
tion to fill such vacancy;
	Now, therefore, I, Heber M. Wells,
Governor of the State of Utah, in pursu-
ance of such requirement, do hereby issue
a proclamation calling an election to be held
on Monday, the 2nd day of April, A. D.
1900, in the several election districts of this
State, for the purpose of electing a repre-
sentative in the Fifty-sixth Congress of the
United States from the State of Utah, to
fill the vacancy now existing. At such
election the polls will be opened at 7
o’clock in the morning and continue open
until 7 o’clock in the evening of said day,
as provided by law.
	In testimony whereof, I have hereunto
set my hand and caused the great seal of
the State of Utah to be hereunto affixed at
Salt Lake City, this 27th day of January,
A. D. 1900.
	(Seal.)		HEBER M. WELLS.
	By the Governor.
	J. T. HAMMOND, Secretary of State.


[Column 1]
VISIT TO MEXICO.
	On the 17th of October I left Salt Lake 
City in company with my son-in-law, to 
visit my daughter in Mexico, whom I had 
not seen for fifteen years.
	We traveled over the Rio Grande West-
ern, passing through Grand Canon, and 
arrived in Pueblo, Colorado, about two 
o’clock; it is a great railroad center and 
has many iron factories in operation.
	The next morning we continued our 
journey, passing through the Raton tunnels. 
Arriving in New Mexico, we saw some 
villages that are creditable, but the Mexi-
can huts have flat roofs and no windows 
in them. We stopped at Alberquerque for 
supper, and left that night on the train.
	At Los Vegas there are some creditable 
buildings. We passed through a country 
well adapted for stock raising, and arrived 
at El Paso, a live city in the western ex-
tremity of Texas. Here are some very 
fine buildings, particularly the Court
House. The following morning we
crossed the Rio Grande river over a long
bridge (via the street car line) into Mexico.
	Here our valises were searched by
Mexican officials, after which we took the
train for Colonia, Dublan. The country
here is very open and level, with a few
mountains in the distance.
	About 5 o’clock p. m., on the 21st of
October, we arrived at Dublan, where there
was a joyful meeting with my daughter.
At Dublan there is an excellent site for a
large city, the only drawback being the
scarcity of water late in the season. This
difficulty will be overcome by reservoirs.
	The latter part of October I went to
Juarez, about eighteen miles distant, with
my daughter and some of the family.
Here I attended a meeting of the Primary
Association under the able management of
Sister Maggie Ivins Bentley, and also
visited the Sunday School, under the super-
ntendency of Miles A.Romney. We were

[Column 2]
kindly treated by the Saints and hospitably
entertained at the homes of Presidents A.
W. Ivins and Henry Eyring, Bishop
Joseph Bentley and others, and met with
many friends, among them Sister Elizabeth
Snow, who is spending the winter with her
daughter in this delightful climate. I had
the pleasure of attending a party in honor
of Elder James Sconson, a returned mis-
sionary, and had an enjoyable time.
	On Thursday I returned to Dublan with
Sister Mary P. Eyring, the president of the
Relief Society of Juarez Stake, and met with
the Relief Society of Dublan. Many ex-
cellent testimonies were borne of the Gos-
pel. There is a good people here.
	On December 2nd Sister Elizabeth
Claridge McCune met with the Young
Ladies’ Association, and a spiritual feast
was enjoyed.
	On December 21st I left Dublan on the
return trip to Salt Lake City. The weather
was cold and stormy, and after traveling
some distance we found the ground covered
with snow. On the train I overheard a
conversation between a sporting man from
New York City and a Western man. The
New Yorker was asking about game, and
was told that there was plenty of game in
the mountains, and that he could hire a
good hunter to accompany him for six
dollars a day, which he seemed perfectly
willing to pay. He was anxious to kill
mountain lion, ard such game. He said
he did not like pork, and thinking he could
not get any other kind of meat in Colorado
and New Mexico, he had shipped some
beef from the East for his own benefit.
When informed that he could get any kind
of meat he wanted, he seemed surprised,
and said the people would have the laugh
on him.
	The return trip was a pleasant one, the
trains making close connections and a
quick trip was made, arriving in Salt Lake
on Sunday morning, December 24. I was
accompanied on the journey home by Elder
William Clayson, who was on his way to
the Eastern States on a mission.
ANN C. WOODBURY.


REORGANIZATION.
	At the ward conference of the Forest
Dale Ward of the Salt Lake Stake of Zion,
held Tuesday, October 22, 1899, the re-
organization of the Relief Society of that
ward was affected, Mrs. Louise Stevenson
being elected and set apart to fill the vacan-
cy caused by the death of President Cornelia
Driggs.
	President Louise Stevenson selected for
her counselors Mrs. Agnes Young and Mrs.
Ella Love. Mrs. Agnes Rumel was elected
secretary, Della Young assistant secretary,
and Mrs. Litha Hendry treasurer.


INSIDE THE AMERICAN CUSTOM HOUSE.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:
	The present Congress has before it the
greatest question that has come up for
settlement since the close of the Civil War 
or is likely to come before it for centuries.
	The American people are in possesion of
Hawaii, Porto Rico and the Philippines.
What shall we do with them?
	“Give them up,” cry the Anti-Imperial-
sts. “Govern them as subject Colonies,”
cry the imperialists. “Organize them as
Territories,” say those who believe in the


[Column 1]
principles that have made our country
great, prosperous and happy.
	Give to Hawaii, Porto Rico and Luzon,
all of them civilized communities, the same
kind and measure of home rule that we
give to New Mexico. Give to each a local
Legislature, elected by all inhabitants who
will take the oath of allegiance to the
United States, and who possess reasonable
qualifications of age, residence, education
and property, irrespective of race or sex.
Bring each of these communities inside the 
American customhouse, establishing with
it precisely the same reciprocal freedom of
trade as exists between Kansas and Okla-
homa, or between Massachusetts and
Florida. Each of these Territorial Legis-
latures should have the right to enact local
laws, subject to Congressional veto when
necessary; each should elect a delegate to
sit in the House of Representatives without
a vote, like the delegates of New Mexico,
Oklahoma and Arizona; each should have a
Governor and a Judiciary appointed by the
President with the advice and consent of 
the U. S. Senate; each should have un-
restricted commerce with all other parts of
our country.
	This condition of affairs would bring,
alike to ourselves and to these new posses-
sions, an unparallelled agricultural prosper-
ity—a free interchange of temperate and
tropical products, upon a scale hitherto un-
known, at prices mutually beneficial—a
permanent and increasing market for
American manufactures—a continuous field
of investment for American enterprise—
and a commerce such as no nation has ever
before enjoyed. This natural commerce 
between the Temperate and Torrid zones
would create a fleet of American vessels not
dependent upon subsidies for prosperity, 
and would vastly enlarge the traffic upon our
railroads, canals, and lake and river steam-
ers. Our flour, beef, pork, mutton, cattle,
hay, wheat, corn, oats and dairy products,
our cotton and linen goods, machinery,
agricultural tools, hardware, coal, petro-
leum, lumber, building material, and a
thousand articles of comfort, taste and lux-
ury, would be freely exchanged for sugar,
tobacco, tea, coffee, chocolate, rice, india
rubber, mahogany, hemp, jute, spices and
tropical fruits, all of which would be sup-
plied at far lower prices than now prevail.
Compared with these widely, diffused bene-
fits to consumers, the loss of sugar duties,
the opposition of sugar trusts and the out-
cry of a few would-be monopolists of tobac- 
co and oranges are insignificant indeed!
	Moreover, it would secure in our new
possessions permanent loyalty to the flag,
and universal satisfaction based upon gen-
eral propriety and enlightened self-interest.
It would bring about an eventual unity of
language, laws, manners and institutions
with our own. The only way to govern
wisely these now alien communities is to
enable them to govern themselves as Terri-
tories under Congressional supervision.
	This course should be adopted at once by
common consent of both the great political
parties of the country. The Republican
party, having now the control of all de- 
partments of the National government, can
organize the new possessions as self-govern- 
ing Territories and secure thereby contin-
ual National supremacy. If it refuse or
fail to do so, at the behest of hostile trusts
and monopolies, it will give the Demo-
cratic party a National issue upon which 
eventual victory will be as certain as sun-

[Column 2]
rise. The only cure for the present discon-
tent of these new possessions, the only con-
dition upon which “benevolent assimila-
tion” can be effected, is their admission to
our continental system of unrestricted
domestic free trade inside the American
custom-house. “Home rule for our new
Territories” should be the watchword of
1900, and will become the settled principle
of the Twentieth Century.
			HENRY BLACKWELL.
	Dorchester, Jan. 1900.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MEXICO CONFERENCE NOTES.
	The Relief Society Conference of the
Juarez Stake of Zion was held at Colonia,
Juarez, Mexico, October 22, 1899, Presi-
dent Mary B. Eyring presiding.
	There were present of the Priesthood.
Stake President A. W. Ivins, Counselor
Eyring, Patriarchs W. R. R. Stowell and
James H. Martineau, Bishops and many
others.
	The congregation sang “Do what is
right.” Opening prayer by Henry Eyring.
Singing, “Praise to the man who com-
muned with Jehovah.”
	After minutes of the former conference
were read, reports of local branches were
given by officers or delegates who had
traveled in teams over mountain roads to
attend the conference, receive instructions
and report the condition of the society.
	There are seven organizations of the
Relief Society here, each was represented
as doing well, which is very gratifying to
know.
	The storing of grain and other articles
of food, such as beans, dried fruits, etc.,
was one of the leading subjects of the con-
ference. The members are liberal in donat-
ing to the society, consequently the poor
are well cared for.
	The visiting teachers were advised to
talk on some principles of the Gospel, and
not to indulge in idle gossip.
	President Mary B. Eyring was thankful
that all the branches had been reported.
Testified that if we are willing to do our
duties as members of the Relief Society, we
will enjoy the spirit of the Lord. The
Lord has blessed us and increased our com-
forts. If we are true mothers at home, we
are true members of the Relief Society.
	President Henry Eyring urged the sisters
to study the Spanish language, as mission-
aries will be needed to instruct the people
of this land in the near future.
	There were many other speakers and
each gave good instructions. The general
and local officers of the society were unani-
mously sustained in the usual way.
	The officers of this Stake of Zion are
Mary B. Eyring, president; Cynthia J.
Stowell, first counselor; Ellen Lunt, second
counselor; Sarah A. Clayson, secretary. 
		SARAH A. CLAYSON, Sec.


R. S. REPORTS. 
MARICOPA STAKE. 
The Maricopa Stake Relief Society con-
ference was held at the Mesa Relief Society 
hall, December 21, 1899, with Counselor F. 
Robson presiding. 
Present of the Priesthood were Stake 
Counselor Henry C. Rogers and several 
others of the brethren. 
Meeting opened with the usual exercises. 
Counselor F. E. Robson felt lonely in the 
(Column 2)
absence of our beloved president, who was 
detained on account of the serious illness of 
her daughter. 
Reports from each ward were favorable, 
and those who attended felt well in the
Gospel.
	We had visiting with us Dr. Ellis R. 
Shipp, of Salt Lake City, who is a member 
of the General Board of the Relief Society. 
She expects soon to commence teaching a 
class in obstetrics and nursing in this Stake 
of Zion. 
We had a visit recently from Elder L. J. 
Nuttall, who reorganized the Relief Society 
under parliamentary rules, and many sisters 
joined, all wanted to take part with renewed 
diligence. The instructions were chiefly 
on the law of tithing and the education of 
the sisters in obstetrics, hygiene, the care 
of children and the sacredness of mother-
hood. 
The meeting adjourned with the feeling 
that we never had had a better conference.
			Anna E. FULLER, Sec. 
SAN LUIS. 
The Relief Society conference of the San 
Luis Stake was held in Sanford, Cone-
jos Co., Colorado, on November 10, 1899, 
President Cornelia Mortensen presiding.
	The choir sang "Earth with her ten 
thousand flowers." Prayer by Brother 
Harmon Christensen. Singing, "Prayer is 
the soul's sincere desire."
President C. Mortensen said she felt 
grateful for this opportunity. 
The roll of Stake officers and ward mem-
bers was called and minutes of previous 
conference read and approved. The choir 
sang "Come, come ye Saints." 
Sister M. Sellers, of Manassa, Sister P. 
E. Cullers, of Mountain View, Sister M. 
E. Hamil, of Morgan, and Sister M. A. 
Berthelsen, of Sanford, all gave reports of 
their respective wards. The sisters were 
united, had good attendance and held their 
meetings regularly. They all expressed a 
desire to do their duties. 
Brother Molten, from Utah, addressed 
the conference a short time. He said: "If 
we have the spirit of God with us, the 
labors in the Church are a pleasure and a 
living testimony of Jesus Christ, and the 
Gospel is more to be desired than anything 
else." 
Sister Dollie Russell, of Antonito, spoke
a short time upon the duties of sisters in 
the Relief Society. 
Singing, "How firm a foundation." 
	By request a special prayer was offered 
by Brother George Irvin, in behalf of the 
sick and afflicted among us. 
Sister Margaret Haskell, of Manassa, 
said, "I feel to bear my testimony that the 
spirit of God is with us. I believe a spirit 
of reformation is among the Latter-day 
Saints. God has spoken from heaven, and 
His work is established on earth. I would 
ask the sisters, in behalf of the Primary, to 
send their children to meetings, and teach 
them at home." 
Singing, "Now let us rejoice in the day 
of salvation." Benediction by Brother 
Hugh L. Sellers. 
Afternoon session opened by the choir 
singing "We thank Thee, O God, for a 
prophet." Prayer by Bishop W. O. 
Crowther. Singing, "The time is nigh, 
that happy time." 
The General and Stake officers of the 
Relief Society  were  presented and 
sustained, also statistical and financial re-


port for the year 1898 read by the Stake
Secretary.
	Sisters M. Showcroff, of Richfield, and
E. Dunn, of Eastdale, gave reports of their
respective branches; said they were doing
well.
	Counselor Magdaline Funk spoke briefly
on duties of mothers, tithing and storing of
grain
	General President Cornelia Mortensen
gave a report of her visit to the Relief
Society conference in Salt Lake City, in
October. She told us many of the instruc-
tions that had been given, and said there
was a rich flow of the spirit of God. Presi-
dent Zina D. H. Young had spoken to the
sisters in tongues.
	Counselor Sarah J. Hostetter addressed
the conference a short time on the subject
of the two powers, good and evil. She
said when we would do good, evil was ever
present. 
	Sister Loretta Petersen bore her testi-
mony to having been healed in the Salt
Lake Temple, by being baptized for her
health.
	Stake Counselor Thomas A. Crowther
encouraged the sisters in their many duties
in the Relief Society, and in training their
children in the ways of truth.
	Conference was adjourned for six months.
	The choir sang "High on the mountain
top." Benediction by Brother Lars Mor-
tensen.
Mary F. Crowther, 
Stake Secretary, R.S.

	A reception was given by President
Cornelia Mortensen, December 27, 1899, at
her home. All the Stake presidency of the
Relief Society, also the presidency of San-
ford Ward and Primary Association were
invited guests, together with other noted
friends. A very enjoyable afternoon was
spent visiting and exchanging greetings of
the season.
	A very interesting program of songs,
select readings, recitations, etc., was ren-
dered, after which all partook of the boun-
ities and luxuries of this earth, that had
been prepared in a way to deserve compli-
ment and praise from all present, by our
loving president.
	About 6 p. m. all wended their way
home, with thankful hearts for the privilege
of associating with friends under such
favorable circumstances.
	I hope we may enjoy many more such
gatherings.
M. F. C.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.
HARRIET H. KELSEY.

	Sister Harriet Huggett Kelsey was born in
Lovell Heath, England, June 6, 1825, and died in
Springville, Utah, December 22, 1899.
	As a child she grew up seeing all her wishes
gratified. At an early age she went to live with
her sister. Here she saw life among the aristoc-
racy. One day, hearing that the “Mormons”
were going to hold a meeting, she went, as many
another had done, out of curiosity.  She was im-
pressed by what she heard and proceeded to in-
vestigate. She was scoffed at by her sister and
friends, and it was only by fasting and prayer
that she overcame the difficulties and was baptized
by Elisha Davis in 1841. She did all in her power
to assist the Elders and aid the Church in any
way.
	In 1852 she met William H. Kelsey, a traveling
Elder, and they were married at Norwood Church
on September 27 of the same year.
	Early in the year 1861 she, with her husband and
three little children, left England for America.
The voyage was long and tedious, as was also the


trip across the plains; and although Sister Kelsey
was in delicate health, she never murmured at her
lot. They arrived in Springville late in the fall of
1861, and have since resided here.
Sister Kelsey worked in the Relief' Society for
thirteen years as second counselor to Ann Bring-
hurst. She was a woman of great faith and
often visited the sick, leaving a blessing with
them. She leaves four children, three daughters
and one son.
Sister Kelsey departed this life as peacefully as
a little child going to sleep.
Zebina Alleman,
President Second Ward R. S.
Springville, January 19, 1900.

DEATH OF ELLEN CLEGG.
Grandma Clegg, as she was familiarly known,
passed to the great beyond to reap the reward of
the just, October 30, 1899, and was laid to rest in
the Heber City cemetery, November 1.
The service was held in the Stake Tabernacle.
It was one of the largest processions ever seen in
Heber City; it extended half a mile.
The two Relief Society branches of Heber
City headed the procession, followed by the Young
Ladies and Primary children. At the Tabernacle
some two hundred children passed by the remains,
and deposited their tribute of flowers on the lid of
the casket, which became literally covered.
The service commenced with the usual exercises
of song and prayer. Bishop John Watkins and
Albert Jones were the first two speakers. They
both crossed the plains in Edward Martin’s hand-
cart company with the deceased and her family.
All the speakers eulogized the sterling qualities of
the deceased.
Sister Clegg embraced the Gospel in her native
country. She was one of the early pioneers of
this valley and passed through the many hard-
ships of early days and poverty, going through
without a murmur. She was a midwife here for a
great many years, going among the sick w enever
called.
Jonathan and Ellen Clegg had lived together
sixty-three years in wedded life, respected and be-
loved by all. Her memory will ever be held dear
to the people of this valley. She leaves behind
her a husband, a host of children, grandchildren,
great-grandchildren, and friends unnumbered to
cherish her memory.
Com.


[Column 1]
FROM PATH TO PATH.

THE EXPERIENCES OF A FEW YEARS.

	When we meet with a face, the features
of which remind us of some one whom we
have seen or known, we think it is very
much like our experiences; for if the faces
that we think are similar were placed to-
gether, we would at once see that they
were not exactly alike. So it is with events
in our lives; while there is much sameness,
there are also some differences which make
the hearing of them or the reading of them
all the more interesting. Believing this to
be the case, I thought it might not be out
of place to write some things that have
happened during my life, and that not
many years ago.
	I like to hear how this one and that one
became a Mormon, so I will now relate how
I became a Mormon, or how I became a
full-fledged Mormon, as our missionary,
Elder Bennion, once said to me.
	To commence my story. When I ar-
rived at the age of twenty, I left my
native island (Guerensey) with my sister
and two brothers to cross the ocean in a
steamer called Bremen, going to America,
where I had a few relatives who lived in
Newark, New Jersey. After residing there
four years we heard of land in Kansas, so
we concluded to go West, to try our for-
tunes in the land of Uncle Sam. We
arrived in the west part of Kansas (which
is now called St. John) in time to put in an
early spring crop. We had been there but
a short time when our nearest neighbor,
who lived over a mile from us, came over
in great haste one day with some very im-

[Column 2]
portant news, and before going on with my
story, I want to say that I was entirely ig-
norant of the people claiming to be Latter-
day Saints, and I believe many are at the
present time, even though living but a few
miles from where our Elders have visited;
and I believe this opposition now stirring
will cause many to inquire of them and our
doctrine.
	Well, this neighbor came over to tell us 
that a colony of people called Mormons was
coming to settle among us, and he seemed
to regret it very much, because he believed 
them to be a very bad people, and thought
we ought to unite with our far away neigh-
bors and see what we could do to prevent
them colonizing. However, as he saw
this piece of news did not put fear into us, 
he did not stay long, not being satisfied
with the effect the information had pro-
duced.
	After he had gone my husband said to
me, “I wonder if they are any worse than
he is? If so, God pity us.”
	This man was very profane and seemed
to have no fear of God or a hereafter, and
had it not been for his good wife and three
dear little children I could hardly have rec
onciled myself to my lonely condition,
especially when the week was ended and
Sunday came. We had always been in the
habit of attending meeting and Sunday
School, I having taught in the Methodist 
Sunday School ever since I was sixteen
years of age. Therefore, we had, since our
arrival, had to content ourselves with read-
ing such books as we had brought with us.
	It was not more than a few weeks after
receiving this news, that my husband said
one evening, “I believe I’ll run down to
the new camp and have a look around."
So after clearing away supper, and putting
our little girl baby to bed—for at this time I
had been married two years—I waited
patiently to hear the report of our new
neighbors. I did not have to wait many
hours before he brought all the information
he could in so short an acquaintance. How-
ever, he had found them to be a very, re-
spectable looking company, clean and tidy,
working like clockwork, all apparently in
harmony. They had already, he said,
built a house all but  the plastering, and
had moved into it. This house was for 
their blacksmith, who was the only man
who had as yet brought his family, the
others had left their wives and children in
Pennsylvania, Ohio, and they were to come
later.
	Finding out that their teams were going
to town the next day, my husband asked
if he could go with them, as one of our 
team was lame, and the distance was con-
siderable, twenty-eight miles. This gave
him an opportuniiy to get acquainted with
of the leading men, with whom he conver-
sed considerbly going and coming, their
chief topic of conversation being on reli-
gion. He proved that they believed that
the one who had organized their Church
claimed to be a prophet, and had been
visited by an angel, so they said. This
surprised me very much and I wondered
why, if since they claimed to be Christians, 
the name Mormon was not found in the list
of orthodox religions.
	However, when the next Sunday came
my husband said he thought he would go
and hear them preach, as they were going 
to hold meeting in the new house and they 
had invited him to come and hear them.
To this I agreed on condition that if they 
preached from the Bible I would accompany


him on the next Sunday. We both contin-
ued to go and hear them preach because it
seemed more like home to go to meeting
again, although what we heard somewhat
disturbed our peace, and our first impres-
sion was that they were a little bigoted as
they passed the sacrament without allow-
ing us to partake of it.
Another thing that disturbed us was that
they proved from the Bible that infant
baptism was wrong, and that baptism by
immersion was right. This caused us to
look around and think that we must be in-
vestigating, consequently many a midnight
hour found us pondering over the scriptures,
but I regret to say, that for awhile our
motives were more for criticism than for
obtaining truth. However, one day some
of my grandfather’s words came to my
mind. When asked by a friend if he
thought one could go insane by reading
scripture, he said, “No, not if they read it
in a prayerful spirit. If they read it that
way it will give them consolation.”
After I had pondered over my father’s
words I knelt down and asked aid of my
Heavenly Father, that I might be led in
the right path, and that if the people were
right I might see it and follow the true
light, even if it was to the giving up of all
the teachings I had heretofore received.
Before going any further with my story
it might be well to explain what faction of
Saints these were. The leader was one
William Bickersten, who had been at one
time baptized in Pennsylvania, by Sydney
Rigdon, who was the leader of that Church
after the death of our beloved Prophet
Joseph. When Sydney Rigdon died, this
William Bickersten claimed to receive a
revelation to reorganize the Church in its
purity. Later on it seems he received
another revelation to gather to Kansas.
That is how they came to this dry, barren
place, where we experienced many losses
through draught. The Lord did not seem
to smile on this gathering, for many had to
at last mortgage and leave for other parts,
till at length fifteen years rolled by and
then there arose a dispute in the Church,
the members taking sides with another
leader, William Cadman.
Now, there were two sides, as we used
to call them, each claiming to be the true
Church, each having a head. The teach-
ers of each side visited us and warned us
not to support the other side, as each had
cut the other off from the Church. Well,
thought this was an awful state of things
and we concluded to remain with the
original head, and as he claimed revelation
had placed him there, we thought it but
reasonable that revelation ought to cast him
out, and this they had not claimed to receive.
(To be continued.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LANTERN LECTURE.
	On Tuesday evening, November 28, an
interesting lecture, illustrated by innumer-
able limelight views, was given in the
Town Hall, by Elder Ezra T. Stevenson, of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints.
	The hall was comfortably filled by an
interested audience, not a few Maoris from
the Te Aroha Pah being among
those present. The pictures were well
produced and the lecture listened to atten- 
tively. A great many of those present left
the hall with a much healthier view of
Mormonism than they previously had.—Te
Aroha and Ohinemuri News.


NOTES.
	ONE often hears parents deplore the fact
that their children have not the same oppor-
tunities which they had of learning to be
useful in the home. Is it so much, though,
that opportunities for usefulness do not
exist, as that they are not embraced? If
the members of the family, each according
to his ability, took some share of the house-
hold work and responsibility, the mother
could more easily find some hours of free-
dom for herself, the servant question
would be less pressing, and the strain of
meeting expenses of the family diminished.
Then, since it is acknowledged that child-
hood is the best time to learn to do things
with the hands, why ask for manual train-
ing in schools and shut it out of the home?
Can there be any better way of giving men
and women a sense of obligation to society
than by teaching them early that they owe
some service to the family? And, if we
wish to show others that we respect labor
and believe in helping each other, must we
not show it in our example in our house-
holds? We suggest that you consider how,
under modern conditions, children may be
made helpful in the household.—Ex.
	OLIVE SCHREINER, in a letter published
in a late number of Mr. William T.
Stead’s War Against War in South Africa
expresses her acute grief over the present
war. She says: “Oh, the people in Eng-
land have not understood, they have not
understood! There is a time coming, a
terrible awakening when they understand
what they have done. Our gallant, heroic
Transvaals are dying, and brave English
soldiers are falling, and the miserable hordes
of blood-suckers and money-makers are
quietly in hiding, to come out when the
war is over to dig their claws into our
hearts. War is a terrible thing; but when
it is undertaken in the service of wealth,
and to crush freedom, it is hell. If
England could but see in time that
Chamberlain is undermining the found-
ations of the Empire, the true Empire of
which South Africans have dreamed, which
shall be a great confederacy of the nations,
not crushed beneath her heel, but bound to
her by indissoluble ties of love and sym-
pathy! Chamberlain is stabbing the heart
of the British Empire.’’—Ex.


[Column 1]
90% OF AMERICAN WOMEN
wash dishes three times each day. If you are one
of these, wear a pair of “Goodyear” Rubber
Gloves and always have soft, white hands. Sent
by mail postpaid, on receipt of $1.59 Agents
wanted. Address, M. O, Dept.,
M. F. Reese Supply Co., Setauket, N. Y.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY

The Leading Retail.
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

[Column 2]
[logo of a shield]
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
WORLD’S PICTORIAL LINE.

[to the right of the logo]
THE PEOPLE’S FAVORITE.

			Leave Salt Lake City
No. 6	The “Fast Mail” for Chicago, St. Paul, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and
		Park City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7 00 a. m.
No. 2	The “Over and Limited” for Chicago, St.
		Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
		Denver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	11 45 a. m.
No. 4	The “Atlantic Express” for Chicago, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver. . .	6 40 p m.

			Arrive Salt Lake City.
No. 5	The “Fast Mail” from Chicago, St. Louis,
		Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and Park
		City. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3 00 p. m
No. 1	The “Overland Limited” from Chicago, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver . .	3 00 p. m.
No  3	The ‘Pacific Express” from Chicago, St.
		Paul, St Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
		Denver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3 30 p. m.

CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 Main St.		Telephone 665.
					H. M. CLAY, General Agent.

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

Oregon Short Line Railroad.

Time Table in Effect October 15, 1899.

	Trains will arrive and depart at Salt Lake City daily 
lows: 
				ARRIVE:
From Ogden, Chicago, Omaha, St. Louis and Denver,	3:30 a.m
From Ogden, Portland, Butte, Helena and San Fran-
	cisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	9:03 a.m.
*From Milford, Sanpete, Provo and Intermediate
	points. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	9:35 a.m.
From Ogden, Chicago, St. Louis, Omaha, Denver and
	San Francisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3:00 p.m.
**From Garfield Beach, Tooele and Terminus. . . . . . .	4:00 p.m.
From Tintic and Mercur . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	6:30 p.m.
Cache Valley Express, from Preston, Logan, Ogden
	and intermediate points. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	6:40 p.m.
From Ogden, Butte, San Francisco and intermediate
	points. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7:50 p.m.

				DEPART.
For Ogden, Omaha, Chicago, Denver, St. Louis and
	Cache Valley. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7:00 a.m.
For Tintic and Mercur . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7:55 a.m.
**For Garfield Beach, Tooele and Terminus. . . . . . . .	7:45 a.m.
For Ogden, Butte, Helena, Portland and intermediate
	points. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	9:45 a.m.
For Ogden, Omaha, Chicago, Denver, St. Louis and
	San Francisco. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	11:45 a.m.
*For Provo, Sanpete, Milford and intermediate points	5:30 p.m.
For Ogden, Denver, Omaha, St. Louis and Chicago. .	6.40 p.m.
For Ogden, Butte, San Francisco and intermediate
	points . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	8:45p m.
*Trains south of Juab do not run Sundays.
**Daily except Sunday.
City Ticket Office Under Masonic Hall, 2nd South St,
S. W. ECCLES,				D. E. BURLEY,
Gen. Traffic Manager.			Gen. P. nd T. A.
				W. H. BANCROFT,
			Vice-President and Gen’l Manager


Woman’s Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation. 
Vol. 28. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 15 & MARCH 1, 1900. Nos. 18 & 19.


CONTENTS.
A Day in Concord................E. H. C. 105
Elizabeth Pixton (Autobiography)......... 106
The Lakes of the Wasatch..M. A. J. Lambert 107
A Good Letter............Della F. Smita 107
Birthday Gathering.................E. B. W. 109
In Honor of Sister E. B. Layton......Annie 109
A Wedding Anniversary..............A Daughter 109
From Path to Path..................Little Sister 109
R. S. Reports............................ 110
Ladies Semi Monthly Meeting..A. T. Hyde 111
A Pleasant Reunion...............Sarah Webb 112
Obituary................................. 111

EDITORIAL—The Seventeenth of March..... 108
	Editorial Notes....................... 108

POETRY—Susan B. Anthony..L. A. C. Ward 105
	God’s Love............................ 107
	We’ll All Take a Ride......Isabel Darling 107


[Column 1]
SUSAN B. ANTHONY.
February 15, 1820 		February 15, 1900.
LOVES ROSARY.
Come let us tell upon Love’s rosary
With years for beads—eight decades in the chain-
The record of a life’s true history,
 Its joy and grief, its pleasure and its pain.
Within the first decade a little child
 Love-welcomed lived within a happy home;
 And from a well of home-joy undefiled,
Wise lessons drew for all the years to come.
She learned to love the quiet Quaker gray;
 She learned the sweet inflections that belong
To Quaker speech; the “Thee” and “Thou” they
 say;
The gentle conscience that can do no wrong.
The second decade saw her at the post
Of duty, teaching, that she might relieve
Her father’s burden. Since then what a host
Have learned of her to think first,then believe.
’Twas then she saw her father’s noble way
Of setting principles above mere gain;
No liquor would he sell; no taxes pay
To government that justified war’s stain.
With these great lessons she learned humbler ones;
The sweet home duties that the home endears;
To cook, to sew, to weave the thread that runs
Home-joys throughout the fabric of the years.
 Within the third decade the world’s great need
 Knocked loud upon the door of her great heart;
She yearned toward the oppressed; no race or
creed
But in that wealth of sympathy had part.
The fourth decade she entered public life;
She heard above all else the cry of slaves;
"Come, break our chains !” No sound of drum
or fife
Could drown that cry, re-echoed from the graves.
"No compromise!” her daring voice proclaimed,
“Emancipation, unconditional—NOW!”
Fearless she faced great mobs—jeered at, defamed;
Yet gentle peace was ever on her brow.
 This same decade bestowed the best of gifts—
Comrades and friends like those the bards have
sung;
Pure, noble, filled with passion such as lifts
The worker, and impels the pen and tongue.
Lucretia Mott, great leader of the band;
Of Quaker birth—a preacher, heaven inspired;
Gentle yet strong, and fitted to command;
Radiant in beauty, and with ardor fired.
Stanton came next, with brilliant, noble face, 
And splendid gift of glorious eloquence;
And Lucy Stone, whose sweet and gentle grace
Brought even enemies to her defense. 
Mott. Stanton, Stone and Anthony; what names
To bear aloft for pure nobility;
The while each voice with gratitude proclaims:
"They gave to us our Woman's Century !"

[Column 2]
The fifth decade saw some dreams coming true;
This great association chose to stand
For Woman Suffrage; ’twas its founders’ due
That name and deed its great work should ex-
pand.
The sixth, seventh, eighth—let us not separate;
Her work went on with added power and joy,
Her boundless courage nothing could abate,
No pain could daunt, no failure could annoy.
Here are three beads apart from all the rest,
Yet hung upon our golden rosary;
And who shall say which one of them is best,—
For they are Faith and Hope and Charity.
This pearl is Faith,—reward of earnest quest;
The turquoise, Hope, is ever in her sight;
The topaz, Charity, lies on her breast;
And over all Love’s moonstone sheds its light.
These are the reliquaries—memories they;
Some dark with pain that racked the very soul;
Some bright with self-sacrifice that may
Mean joy unspeakable, but never dole.
Here is the Cross—ah me ! the heavy cross !
It speaks of disappointments multiplied;
Of work defeated, and the bitter loss
Perchance of hopes for which she fain had died.
We’ve told our beads—the annals of a life
To others given. Now let us look abroad
And see, amid the record of the strife, If we behold her adequate reward.
These years so freely given to the cause 
She made her own, have radiated far;
In evolution there can be no pause;
The circles vibrate past the horizon’s bar.
In the great cauldron of experience
Her thoughts and deeds and words were stirred,
until
The world drew from the seethings a true sense
Of woman’s rights, untrammeled by man’s will.
Today we know man’s life is incomplete
Unless the woman close beside him stand,
Sharing his interests—for this is meet;
It is as God ordained and nature planned.
The perfect whole, poet and seer conceive
Inclusive of both parts; who could desire
A world by woman ruled ? Do we believe
A man-ruled world is even an atom higher ?
No ! man and woman for the sake of truth
And love must join; then seer and poet’s voice;
“Here is the fountain of eternal youth !”
Shall cry; and future nations shall rejoice.
Behold our Queen ! Surely with heart elate
At homage given to her love and power;
World-famed, associate of the wise and great,—
She is herself the woman of the hour !
Priestess of righteousness without pretense;
Her greatness shielded by simplicity;
Justice and mercy join in her strong sense
Of service owing to humanity.
How kindly have the years all dealt with her !
She proves the Bible promises are true;
She waited on the Lord without demur, 
And He failed not her courage to renew.
Oft on the wings of eagles she uprose;
On mercies errands have her glad feet run;
And yet no sign of weariness she shows;
She does not faint, but works from sun to sun.
Deep in her eyes burn fires of purpose strong;
Her hand upholds the scepter of God’s truth;
Her lips send forth brave words against the wrong
Glows in her heart the joy of deathless youth.
Kindly and gentle; learned, too, and wise;
Lover of home and all the ties of kin;
Gay comrade of the laughing lips and eyes;
Give us new words to sing your praises in !
Yet let us rather now forget to praise,
Remembering only the true friend to greet,
As drawing near by straight and devious ways, We lay our hearts—Love’s guerdon—at her feet

[Column 3]
Blow, O ye winds, across the oceans, blow !
Go to the hills and prairies of the West !
Haste to the tropics,—search the fields of snow;—
Let the worlds gift to her become your quest !
Shine sun through prism of the waterfall, 
And build us here a rainbow arch to span
The years, and hold the citadel
Of her abiding work for God and man. 
What is the gift, O winds, that ye have brought ?
O sun, what legend shines your arch above?
Ah! they are one, and all things else are naught !
Take them, beloved—they are love, love, love !
LYDIA AVERY COONLEY WARD.


A DAY IN CONCORD.

	A day in Concord! What a train of
pleasant recollections this brings before my
mind. The task is indeed a heavy one,
that of picturing to my listeners one of the
most enjoyable days of my recent Eastern
visit, and I feel my inability to give even a
faint idea of this beautfful city.
	The first of May dawned happy for us
and we early completed our arrangements
for our contemplated trip. I, with four of
the other girls, boarded a car early in the
day and soon found ourselves at the station, 
from which point we started on our jour-
ney. The first feature is to procure a
guide book, which is hastily scanned as we
progress on our line of march. When we
reach Concord one of our number secures a
three seated carriage, and with a well in-
formed driver we resign ourselves to the
pleasures of the day.
	As we drive down the quaint streets of
this home-like little town, the many notable
places connected with the struggle for inde-
pendence are pointed out to us. Here is
the old Barrett house, which was ransacked
by the British soldiers in the hope that they
would find stores of gunpowder, which
were supposed to have been concealed by
Colonel Barrett. Near it stands the Lee
farm, where the Howard students held
their sessions while their buildings were
occupied by Revolutionary soldiers. The old
Wright tavern, in which, on the morning
of April 19th, Major Pitcairn boastingly
stated that he would win the day, occupies
a prominent position on Main Street. The
meeting place of the first Provincial Con-
gress is pointed out on a lot adjoining the
Wright tavern, while directly opposite this
place we see the Old Hill burying ground,
where the first settlers lived, and where
also the old powder house stood.
	Shall we now drive to the scene of battle?
As we approach the spot that seems so calm
and peaceful, we gaze on the monuments
placed on either side of the river, and as
we read the words inscribed thereon our
minds are filled with horror at the thought
of the terrible conflict. We seem to see the
brave men rouse at the word of their com-
mander and follow the order of him whose
word is law. As they advance, the boast
of Pitcairn seems about to be realized, for
what can be expected in so unequal a strug-
gle? We see the terrible effect of the
deadly volley which is poured into the
ranks of the minute men; and but a mo-
ment afterward see Major Butterich leap
into the air with the inspiring cry, ‘‘Fire


[Column 1]

fellow soldiers; for God's sake fire." As
they readily respond to his call, two of the
British fall and the remaining number
make a disorderly retreat. Cheer upon
cheer rise to the lips of our brave men and
we see the unsurpassed statue of the
Minute Man facing the spot where success
first crowned resistance to an unyielding
foe. We will follow them in their retreat
to Merriam's Corner, where they face
about and attempt to regain their lost
ground. It is of no avail, however, and
they are driven under fire from the Concord
men to Charlestown.
	We have been living in a military atmos-
phere, but let us now for a few moments
partake of the literary spirit with which
this place abounds. It is this same spot
which for years was the home of many of
our most charming writers. The names of
Emerson, Alcott, Hawthorne and Thoreau
are so closely connected with the place that
we seldom hear the name of Concord with-
out having the image of one of these per-
sons brought before our minds.
	As we drive out Lexington road we
come to a large square building which we
are told was the home of Ralph Waldo
Emerson. It is a beautiful place in a set-
ting of pine trees. This was always a
center for the many bright minds of the
age, and the intellectual influence of the
place seems to carry us into a world be-
yond our own. Some distance farther
down the road we see Orchard House,
which was the home for many years of one
of the dearest women who ever lived—
Louisa M. Alcott. Why is it that every
girl's heart thrills when she hears that
name? Need I ask such a question? Here
we can see her with her sister in their per-
fect enjoyment of home life. Their trials
were, perhaps, as heavy as any of us have
to bear, but how nobly they were overcome!
and afterwards the enjoyment of perfect
happiness followed as the just reward.
	It was here that Mr. Alcott established
his School of Philosophy, and the Hillside
Chapel, standing but a short distance from
the Orchard House, was the annual meet-
ing place. Adjoining the place on the left
we see the Wayside which was owned
and occupied by Nathaniel Hawthorne dur-
ing the latter part of his life. A restful
quiet seems to hang over the place, and we
can easily imagine this wonderful man
sending forth his best efforts from such a
spot.
	The Old Manse occupies a position on
the Concord river, in a lot closely connected
with the old battlefield. It is especially
dear to the hearts of Hawthorne's admir-
ers for his charming set of sketches, which
takes its name from this place.
	Henry Thoreau spent the greater part of
his life in Concord. Here he was given
ample scope for the fulfillment of his de-
sire to spend a great deal of his life in the
study of nature. The result of this with-
drawal from human companionship and de-
votion to nature and wild life is given in
Walden, or Life in the Woods.
	Our trip to Concord would indeed be con-
sidered incomplete without a visit to the
famous Wayside Inn in which so many re-
nowned people have been entertained. A
most pleasing description has been given
by our own dear poet, Longfellow, in his
interesting Tales of a Wayside Inn.
	We will now make our way to Sleepy
Hollow cemetery, where lie the mortal re-
mains of these valued contributors to
American literature. As we ascend the hill

[Column 2]
at the top of which we expect to find the
graves we seek, no sound breaks the still-
ness and our conversation is carried on in
hushed voices for fear of disturbing the
silence which hangs over the spot. In
close succession we pass the graves of
Thoreau, Hawthorne, Mr. and Mrs. Alcott
and their brave "Little Woman," and
Emerson, each grave being marked by a
suitable headstone. We feel, indeed, that
no more fitting locality could be chosen for
a last resting place, after the cares and sor-
rows of life, than this quiet peaceful spot.
						E. H. C.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
ELIZABETH PIXTON.
AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
I was born at Chesterfield, in Derbyshire,
England, on the 8th day of February, 1820.
My parents names were John and Charlotte
Cooper. There were five children of us,
four girls and one boy. I was the third a
boy and a girl being older than myself.
We were among the class known as poor
people, and, therefore, I had little or no
schooling and was expected, as soon as I
was able, to add my mite to our support.
My mother died when I was about six
years old, and you all know what home be-
comes without a mother. My father con-
tinued to keep house for about three years,
then the home was broken up and the fam-
ily divided among our relatives. I was
sent to live with my grandmother, until I
was about thirteen years old, then lived
with an aunt for about two years as a
nurse girl. Afterwards I went out to ser-
vice, and continued there until I was nine-
teen years old.
During my service I became acquainted
and kept company with Robert Pixton,
and we were married on May 5th, 1839.
On the 8th of Feburary, 1840, my first
baby, Charlotte, was born, and we got
along very nicely until my husband got
the American fever. He felt disposed to
go to Canada, but being acquainted with
Brother Bateman he finally went with the
Latter-day Saints, and sailed away on the
21st of September, 1841.
This was a sore trial to me, and I lost
my second baby, named George, a week
after my husband left. I now took a situ-
ation as wet nurse in a good family. I re-
ceived seven dollars a week wages and had
a very comfortable home. I stayed there
until October 21, 1843, when I left my
native land to join my husband.
We left in the good ship Champion.
From Liverpool our voyage lasted six
weeks and three days; a pleasant voyage as
compared with some of those days al-
though we were becalmed for four days.
But the end came and we landed at New
Orleans.
The ship company allowed us to live and
stay on board for several days, until the
boat was ready which was to take us up
the river, where we were met by my hus-
band on December 23, 1843, at Island 69,
in the State of Kansas. Brother Pixton
was accompanied by Brother Thomas Sil-
cock, who had also come to meet his wife,
for we had been companions all the way
from Liverpool.
We stayed at Island 69 that winter, and
lived in a blacksmith shop, and in the
spring we started up the Mississippi river
to Nauvoo, where we arrived safe and
sound. We bought a half acre of land of
William Blackhurst, and built a brick room.

[Column 2]
This was our first real estate, and our first
home. Brother Pixton after building our
house worked on the Temple until the
death of the Prophet Joseph, and whilst
here we had our endowments in the Tem-
ple.
We stayed in Nauvoo until the spring of
1846, when Brother Pixton drove some
teams up the country for President Brigham
Young. He came back for me in May
and we moved to Mount Pisgah. At this
time and previously a call had been made
upon Brigham Young for a company of the
brethren to tramp across the continent and
assist in the war in Mexico, and my hus-
band among others volunteered to go. He
left me at Pisgah and started off in what is
known as the Mormon Battalion.
From Pisgah we moved to WinterQuarters
or Florence, as it was afterwards called.
We passed the winter there, we could
scarcely say we lived. I was alone in my
old wagon box with my little girl,
Charlotte. Another baby boy was born to
me there. We called him Helaman,
Brother Brigham Young blessed him. He
died in about five weeks and was put away
with about five hundred more who were
buried at Winter Quarters that season.
I was glad when ihe winter was passed,
and in the month of July, 1847, I went
down to St. Louis to earn sufficient money
for a fit out to take me to Salt Lake I left
my wagon and cattle in the charge of my
friends. I stayed in St. Louis until the
spring of 1848, when I returned to Winter
Quarters and found my yoke of cattle and a
yoke of cows and my wagon all right, and
we started on May 2, 1848, across the
great plains to the Salt Lake valley, driv-
ing my own team. I was in Brigham
Young's hundred, and the wagon in front
of mine was Horace Eldredge's, and the
one behind me was William Van Dyke's.
I could not work my cows very well, so I
let Brother Inman take them to work.
We arrived in Salt Lake City on Septem-
ber 22, 1848, and camped down in the old
fort. One week after our arrival a com-
pany of the Mormon Battalion arrived. My
husband being among the company, we
went out to the warm springs to meet
them, and, after a parting of over two hard
years, we again started life together. We
lived in the fort until we got our city lot,
when Brother Pixton built us one adobe
room and had it finished and moved our 
few things in. In the morning a great
snow fell and it was sixteen weeks before
the ground was clear again.
During our residence in Salt Lake City
we became very well acquainted with
several of the Saints over Jordan, the
Bennions, Harkers and others, and in the
spring of 1859 we moved to Taylorsville,
where we have since resided. My husband
died on the 23rd of November, 1881.
In the spring of 1883 I went to England
to see relatives and friends, and succeeded
in getting a great amount of genealogy,
and have ministered the ordinances for a
great many relatives and friends
Today I have living five children, fifty
grandchildren, thirty-six great grandchil-
dren, and am eighty years old.


MRS. JULIA WARD HOWE presided at
the reception and dinner of the Authors’
Club, at the Vendome, on January 6, and
the Marion Osgood Ladies’ Orchestra furn-
ished the music.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT. 107


GOD’S LOVE.

Could we with ink the ocean fill,
	Were all the earth of parchment made,
Were every single stick a quill, 
	And every man a scribe by trade,
To write the love of God above
	Would drain the ocean dry,
Nor could the scroll contain the whole,
	Though stretched from sky to sky.


WE’LL ALL TAKE A RIDE.

Our grandfather traveled on horseback,
	His rifle slung near to his hand—
'Twas back in the early twenties
	When wild creatures swarmed the land.
Our grandmother rode on a pillion,
	Her arms around grandfather’s waist,
And sometimes they tore through the forest
	In rather undignified haste.

Our father rejoiced in a wagon
	With thoroughbrace springs of the best,
And mother and children behind him
	Like birds cuddled down in a nest.
With buffalo robes tucked around them,
	A heated soap-stone at their feet,
They rode to the music of sleigh-bells
	When winter was paving the streets.

We call for a soft cushioned carriage,
	A phaeton, barouche or coupe,
Ashamed of the style of our fathers.
Ashamed of the wagon and sleigh,
Our children all mounted on “safetys,”
	Of various names and designs,
Roll by with a flash and a sparkle
	And beg us to “push on the lines.”

Our grandchildren—Ah, they will circle,
	Like birds, to and fro in the skies;
Will play with the fangs of lightning
	And laugh when Earth trembles and sighs;
They never need “wait for the wagon,”
Nor ever be left by the car,
But, mounting like eagles or angels.
	May challenge the speediest star. 

ISABEL DARLING.
Woman’s Tribune.


[Column 1]
	THE LAKES OF THE WASATCH.

   (Read at the U. W. P. C. January 31, 1900.)

    Whether in the delicate profusion of the
Spring’s flowery extravagance, or clothed in
the deep, rich green of Summer’s foliage,
in the gorgeous wealth of Autumnal colors,
or buried beneath the snowy silence of
Winter, the Wasatch mountains are beauti-
ful, sublime, inspiring; and high up ly-
ing in open dells between vast walls,
where the earth is intense with insect life
and flowery growth, are fairy lakes of mys-
tic depths, held fast in the rugged cradles
of these mountain ridges.
    Among the deep foliaged ravines the
shifting purple shadows fall upon the rifted
rocks, and in shafts of sunshine the lofty
pines glow with golden green, but in the
deepening shadows, dark, mysterious as
the closing shades of night. Here, bathed
in the breath of the warm, sweet earth
nature whispers her secrets and draws
from the heart its best and truest emotions.
From the sublime heights of Mt. Milli-
cent the lakes of the Wasatch present a
wondrous panarama, scattered here and
there like silver patches, studded with
bright jewels whose scintillating rays toss
and play as the sunbeams kiss their sur-
face, but when the mantle of twilight has
fallen upon mountain crest and valley, and
like a great ball of fire the moon rises, cast-
ing weird shadows over massive boulders,
silhouetting the pointed pines against the
shadowed azure of heaven, and moonbeams
dance and twinkle upon miniature waves,
’tis then nature betrays her subtle power,
her sublimest efforts.
   Silver Lake, nestling soft and tender be-
neath her overhanging crags, mingles the

[Column 2]
moist, fragrant grass upon her margin with
the flowery growth, luxuriant in the shad-
ows of the pungent pine. Upon her shim-
mering surface floats the raft of the patient
angler, and floating across the little valley
from mountain side to mountain side, are
the echoes of the smoking blast and falling
rock, the work of the ambitious and hope-
ful miner. From the border of the lake a
steep, threading pathway leads upward
along the dizzy, scraggy edge of Evergreen
Mountain, in and out by the tumbling
brook, up to its crystal source where two
peaceful lakes repose, separated only by a
grassy, fern-covered knoll, whereon still
stands a deserted log cabin, within whose
four rough walls one human heart lived
out its history of romance and tragedy.
    Greatly adding to the attraction of these
twin lakes and their surroundings, there
are many surprises—marshes and bits of
meadow, pebbly beach and rocky shore,
high reaching limbs of quaking asp and
cedar, of gentian and monks-hood.
    Seen from the narrow ridge above in the
near distance is Alta—poor, ill-fated Alta.
Hemmed in by precipitous mountains, ris-
ing in bleak majesty and clothed with
miners’ prospects, the little mining camp
bears the mark of toil and struggle, of fail-
ure and death. Crushed beneath the white
silence of relentless winter, rebuilt during
the hopeful days of summer, and after
struggle and struggle again,at last deserted.
    Hence to the left through gorge and
glade lies Lake Mary, queen waters of the
Wasatch. Rising from her central, subtle
depths is a rough hewn island of gray
granite, God’s own architecture. Here the
mountain winds sport with the spray, scat-
tering the cloud mist quivering with bril-
liant rainbow hues. The lake waters
crimsoned on one side with the sunset rays,
the other mantled in shadows cold and
green. Upon her borders the extremes of
nature meet, where the snowdrifts linger
through the dreamy summer the mottled
granite warms to life and bears the.sturdy
little buttercup and, too, drawn from
nature’s chociest chambers, are treasures
[-]are of bud and blossom, moss and fern.
Over the turreted little isle, almost sacred
in its isolation, clings a gauzy mist like a
bridal veil. Spalshing and gurgling
through the moss-lined crevices of the
broken massive rock above, filters a tiny,
musical stream, here a crystal cascade and,
there gathering strength in a ferny basin,
again to leap outward and onward, at
length reaching and mingling with the
sinking depths of the surrounding waters.
    With lingering footsteps one leaves this
little scene of enchantment to reach the
borders of unpretentious Phoebe Lake.
Placid and peaceful she lies, reflecting
within her mirror-like depths the downy
clouds of heaven’s archway, and the trees,
hill and mountain side in all their flower-
strewn beauty. Farther up and over the
highest Wasatch ridge are two compauions,
Martha and Katherine. Nearby the drifted
spots of snow remain from year to year, and
every whispering breeze breathes of quiet
and repose. There the wild cats cry and
the mountain call is tossed from hillside to
snowy crest, echoed and re-echoed again
and yet again.
    Lake Katherine, betraying neither source
or outlet, with her white, sandy beach, is
a miniature Pacific. The little black is-
land standing midway in her waters, like a
mimic Hawaii, with her extinct craters
and blackened lava. 

[Column 3]
    Scattered among the rocky terraces, and
nursed in the lap of peak and tower, surround-
de by the bluebell and graceful columbine are
lesser lakes, scarcely more than ponds, each
with possessions of its own. Among the
watery shadows of the little Dog Lake the
dogfish sport and play  Lake Solitude is
sombre, barren and lonely save for the
boom and crash along her crags, echo of
the blast from the home of the shining
metal. As seen from the summit of Mt.
Millicent, the sun slowly sinking, behind
the flaming mass, of scarlet clouds that
cluster along the borders of the horizon, the
picture is worthy the brush of a master-artist.
Could he but paint the reflection of the day
as it is caught upon the bosom of those
lakes, with the silvery sheen of their
burnished waters, it would make his fame
undying, his name immortal. The linger-
ing rays lightly and more lightly fondle the
miniature billows as if loth to take their
parting, but they vanish at length like
fairies of some magic past. When night is
at hand and the mantle of silence so great,
so solemn falls upon the scene, one can but
gaze with awe and enchantment and un-
consciously must lift the heart heavenward
as if to solve the mystery of nature’s won[-]
derful, flowery handiwork.
				M. A. J. LAMBERT.

		A GOOD LETTER.
	Snowflake, Arizona, Jan. 23, 1900.
Editor Woman's Exponent:
    It has been some time since anything
from the Snowflake Stake Relief Society
appeared in the columns of your valuable
paper, and it is doubtless about time for
us to contribute our “mite.”
    As a rule the society as a whole is fairly
well, though some branches are quite
small and the members feel discouraged.
In the forest, where the members usually
live at some distance apart, it is very
difficult to have a permanent organization.
There are some, however, less effected
with the moving fever, that are doing a
good work.
    During the past six months all the
branches in the Stake, with one exception,
have been visited by the Stake presidency.
The officers of the society did not visit
Tuba City, as it is such a great distance
that it is altogether impossible for women
to make the trip alone, hence it is slighted
more than it otherwise would be.
    The presiding sisters are feeling some-
what lonely, as one of their members,
Sister Mary. J. West, is now in Utah. She
has always been an able and energetic
leader, and, of course, her absence is
keenly felt;  yet our president, Sister
Emma S. Smith, is not the kind to be
easily discouraged, and she and her
counselor, Sister Sarah Driggs, are en-
deavoring to do all the good in their
power.
    We have an interest for the leading
sisters in this great work, and pray that
success will crown their endeavors to do
good. We would be pleased indeed if they
would make us a visit out here, for we
certainly need a little refreshing.
    Wishing you every success, I remain,
				DELLA F. SMITH, Sec.


Mrs. F. S. Richards, president of the
Utah State Council, and Mrs. Lucy A.
Clark, delegate, have returned from Wash-
ington. Mrs. Richards represented Utah
in the convention.


108															Woman's Exponent.
Woman's Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah,
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months.
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.

	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of lnonparie
space one time $2.50; per month. $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.

	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.

	Address all business communications to

					Mrs. E. B. WELLS.
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEB. 15 & MAR. 1, 1900


[Column 1]
THE SEVENTEENTH OF MARCH.

On Saturday, March 17, it will be fifty-
eight years since the Relief Society (which
has now attained such magnificent propor-
tions) was organized in the City of Nauvoo,
llinois. We speak of it as having been or-
ganized by President Joseph Smith, but
among the prime movers in this direction
we may look with a degree of honorable
pride to Sisters Sarah M. Kimball and Eliza
R. Snow. Sister Kimball and a maiden
lady residing with her, made some plans to
do benevolent work, and Sister Kimball
having a high regard for Sister Snow’s
judgment and ability, talked it over with
her, and it was agreed to speak to the
President of the Church of which they were
both zealous members. Accordingly Sister
Snow did so and he called together those
near at hand, brethren and sisters, and or-
ganized the Society.
He foresaw and foretold many things
concerning it which have since come to
pass, What that small beginning has been
to the women of Zion, from that day until
the present, in the development of activities
in many ways, and the awakening of
thought and defining of purpose, it is quite
impossible to tell in words. What it may
do in the great future, to which we look
with such earnest hopefulness, remains for
us who still live and labor, and the younger
women who will enlist in the work, to de-
termine by diligence and enterprise along
the lines of higher and nobler aspirations
and culture, than the world has yet attained.
That rapid progress is being made by
a large number of women in all civilized
lands, those who are not blinded by preju-
dice can plainly see. What has been
achieved in the last half century is sufficient
guarantee of what the next half century
must necessarily be ,in the ratio of even
modest calculation.
Therefore, it seems fitting indeed to cele-
brate the day when such a movement was
inaugurated, and to make it a day memor-
able in the minds of all who are within
reach. That the promoters of this move-
ment “builded better than they knew” is
easy for us to see who live today and have
had the great privilege of reaping where
they have sown. It is only proper that each
society, however small, commemorate the
day, making it such an occasion as seems
to them most suitable to their circumstances
in the respective locality. One suggestion

[Column 2]
might be made, however, that particular
respect be shown to the veteran workers in
the cause; and that mention be made in
some one of the addresses or speeches, of
the great advantages the Society has given
to its faithful members, and in promoting
and inculcating correct principles of life,
and of those virtues that ever shine
brightest in the human character.
The general instructions given at the
conference of the Relief Society, in October,
1898, will still apply to the keeping of the
day. It is essential that means be collected
in the various branches everywhere for
current expenses, and the small sum of ten
cents each was decided upon unanimously.
No institution great or small can be sus-
tained without money, and it is true that
hundreds of thousands of dollars in cash,
merchandise and produce has been donated
and disbursed during the time since the
Society was organized. Many industries
and enterprises have been fostered and en-
couraged for the sole purpose of aiding the
destitute, the needy, the sick and afflicted,
and to give labor to the unemployed.
Silk culture is one of the branches of in-
dustry the Society has aided in various
ways, and thousands of trees have been
planted and cocoons been raised and reeled
and woven, and in some instances spun,
etc., houses for meetings and the accomoda-
tion of the needy have been built, granar-
ies also in all of the Stakes of Zion. “Have
women built them ?” some people ask. We
answer “Yes, as Solomon built the Tem-
ple.” We need more of these, more halls
to meet in, more granaries for wheat, more
mulberry trees, more cocoons, more young
ladies to learn the art of reeling silk, and so
on, and then we need a house for general
purposes, where we can not only assemble
for meetings, receptions and lectures, but
where we can transact the business pertain-
ing to this great Society, and where we can
receive in a suitable manner persons of re-
nown who come from time to time to this
wonderful city. We believe the great, the
noble and the learned from various nations
will yet come here, many have already come
and we should prepare for the greater
things that the future is sure to bring. As
Dickens says, “How can we tell what com-
ing people are aboard the ships that may be
sailing to us now from the unknown seas.”
At all events, the Society wants a place
where records can be kept in safety, and
where our sisters who come from a distance
can get the information they require for the
furtherance of the work in their own local-
ity, where they can meet the general
officers and freely talk over and explain
matters of importance, or write letters when
sojourning here for a time. Club women
in many of the large cities have built such
places, and our Society is much larger and
of greater importance, for it is not only
national but international. There is no
reason why our light should be hid under a
bushel. “Let your light so shine that
others may see your good works.”


[Column 1]		
		EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Tuesday, January 6, Mrs. Emily S.
Richards, of this city, and Mrs. Lucy A.
Clark, of Farmington, started for Wash-
ing to to attend the convention of the
National American Woman's Suffrage
Association, and to be present at the birth-
day celebration of Miss Susan B. Anthony,
who will be eighty years old on February
15. Mrs. Richards represents the Utah

[Column 2]
State Council of Women as its president,
and Mrs. Clark as delegate. Mrs. Richards
has attended several conventions in Wash-
ington previously, but it is Mrs. Clark's first
visit to that city.
	THE Stake Secretaries of the Relief Soci-
ety of the several Stakes of Zion are hereby
reminded that a yearly report is expected of
them for the general report, from the begin-
ning of the year 1899, January 1st to Dec-
ember 31st, and that the report must be
in immediately, in order that the Gener-
al Secretary may have sufficient time
to make a correct report for the April Con-
ference. All branches of the Relief Society
not included in Stakes are also requested
to send a full report for the year, that a
complete report of the entire society may
be made, including branches, whether
in the United States or other countries, or
upon the islands of the sea. Address, Mrs.
E. B. Wells, Secretary, Templeton, Salt
Lake City, Utah.
	Mrs. Sophia Sharp and her daughter,
Mrs. James E. Jennings, gave a Kensington
at the latter's beautiful home on South
Temple, on Tuesday, February 6. The
rooms were very tastefully decorated, and
the ladies, many of them old friends and
acquaintances, enjoyed to the utmost the
pleasant afternoon. Here, too, there was
sport in guessing. A small wax candle had
been lighted, and each lady was asked to
guess how long it would burn; and a cup
was filled with small candy balls and the
ladies were asked to guess how many it
contained. It was very amusing to hear
the guesses made, most of them very wide
of the mark. One lady, however, secured
the prize and walked away when the party
was over carrying the china cup containing
the candy. Dainty refreshments were
served by young ladies and the conversa-
tion at the prettily arranged tea tables was
most interesting "over the tea cups." The
party was a great success, happiness was
depicted on every countenance, and the
pleasure was spontaneous and uninter-
rupted.
	Thursday, February 1, Mrs. Priscilla P.
Jennings and Mrs. Harold Jennings enter-
tained at a Kensington at the former's
handsome residence on South Temple. The
two ladies received their guests in the spa-
cious hall. About sixty ladies were pres-
ent. An amusing feature of the afternoon
was the guessing contest. A card with
ribbon attached was handed to each lady on
entering the room, with twenty numbers.
These figures represented the twenty pic-
tures that were being handed around, and
the one who could tell the largest number
of either the name of the picture of the
artist was to receive a prize. Mrs. Martha
B. Jennings won the prize. The rooms
were prettily decorated and flowers were
disposed in quaint and elegant vases and
the effect was charming. Delicious refresh-
ments were served in most hospitable fash-
ion. Mrs. Jennings is a very genial hostess,
one who knows well how to bring the right
people together. This is her first entertain-
[-]ent since her return from Europe, where
she visited, meantime journeying here and
there for two years. A good part of the
time was spent in Paris.


THE Woman Suffrage Association may
now discuss the question, “Are the men of
Kentucky too emotional to take part in
politics?”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 109


BIRTHDAY GATHERING.

Tuesday, February 8, 1898, was Siste
Elizabeth Pixton’s birthday, and the good
people of Taylorsville assembled in the
meeting house to do honor to the veteran
pioneer and noble worker in the interests of
Zion.
About three hundred people were pres-
ent. The hall was beautifully decorated
and a variety of flowers, including calla
lilies, were on the stand and elsewhere.
The sisters had taken great pains to have
everything in order for the enjoyment of
the guest of honor and her relatives and
friends.
A program had been arranged suitable for
the day, Brother Archibald Frame conduct-
ing the exercises. On the stand were
Bishop Heber Bennion and Counselors Wm.
Panter and W. H. Haigh, Elder Samuel
Bateman and Bishop J. S. Rawlins, Sister
Pixton, President Zina D. H. Young, Sis-
ters E. B. Wells, Margaret Spencer and
Mary Rawlins.
The choir and congregation sang “Our
mountain home so dear.” Prayer was
offered by Elder Bateman. The hymn
“We thank Thee, O God, for a prophet,”
was sung, after which remarks were made
by Bishop Bennion in praise of Sister
Pixton’s life and good works. He gave
some reminiscences of the early settlement
of the place that were quite humorous.
Next was instrumental music bv Miss
Daisie Pixton. Brother Haigh read a sketch
of Sister Pixton’s life which we publish on
another page. Miss Farrell and Laura
Pixton sang ‘‘After the Din of the Battle is
over,” etc., and Sister Young, who had
known Sister Pixton fifty years, spoke for
a few minutes, calling up many old mem-
ories.
Her speech was followed with a song by
Althea and Katie Pixton. a short speech by
Sister Wells, then a recitation by little
Hazel Pixton, “If the Dishes Would Only
Wash Themselves.” Next, remarks by
Sister Spencer, and after she concluded her
remarks an intermission was taken and a
sumptuous dinner was served in the large
hall to all the assembly.
The tables were decorated with flowers
and all the bounties of the earth, seemingly,
were supplied for the delectation of the
guests. Mrs. Pixton was seated in the
centre of the first table, at her left Mrs.
Young, on the right Mrs. Wells and Bishop
Bennion at the head of that table. When
all were seated at the three tables, about
one hundred and fifty, the Bishop asked
the blessing. The conversation at table
was mostly of the early days in the valley,
and the prosperity that had attended our
efforts in these vales.
The guests dispersed after having feasted
upon the good things with which the
tables were so bounteously supplied, and
the younger portion of the party filled the
tables again, while the older ones conversed
and enjoyed the hour in the exchange of
greetings, etc.
The program opened again after inter-
mission. Bishop Rawlins was the first
speaker, referred to Brother Pixton and the
settlements over Jordan, the Bennions,
Harkers and MacKays. Recitation by
Charlotte Harker Watts, “The Diamond
Wedding,” then a quartette, “My Own
Beloved Where’er I Wander,” and encore,
“Scatter Seeds of Kindness,” and next a
speech by Sister M. A. Webster, who has
long been associated with Sister Pixton in

[Column 2]
Society labors and as a neighbor. After-
wards a song by Mrs. Margetts Mulhall
and a recitation by Phillip Margetts, the
veteran actor, and a song by George Mar-
getts and others.
All those who spoke testified to the high
esteem in which Sister Pixton was held by
the community, her generosity to the poor
and needy, her liberality with her friends
and her devotion to the Latter-day work
were favorably commented upon.
One of her little grandchildren sent a
few childish verses which we give below.
Sister Pixton has been energetic, indus-
trious and faithful in all her duties as
mother, wife and friend, and certainly
“her works follow her.”
E. B. W.

Dear Grandma:
I cannot be with you on your birthday, I am
sorry to say,
But take pleasure in wishing you many happy
returns of the day. 
I understand you will be eighty years old,
And still one of the best workers of the world
I am told.
Give parties to your relatives, year by year,
Oh, grandma, to everybody you are very
dear,
And we hope you will live many years longer,
And gradually, get a little stronger. 
I know you have not an enemy all over the
place,
As far back as any of us would be able to
trace.
Come to town each week and act as meek and
mild,
And get around as though you were but a
child,
Always helping those out who are in need,
And in doing good things you are in the lead,
And now I will stop with love and best wishes,
And the family join me in sending you some
birthday kisses.

NAOMI VAN DYKE.


IN HONOR OF SISTER S. B. LAYTON.

   An enjoyable surprise party was given by
the officers and members of the Kaysville
Relief Society, on February 6, 1900, in
honorable remembrance of their worthy
president, Sister Sarah B. Layton.
   Sister Rachel Mansell gave a word of
welcome when Sister Ellen Barton and
Sister Josephine Ranch escorted Sister
Layton to an elegant wicker rocking chair,
which had been hidden from view.
   Sister Ada Williams made a beautiful
speech in behalf of the society: “We, the
officers and members of the Kaysville Relief
Society present to you this chair in loving
remembrance of your long and faithful
labors; and may you be permitted to re-
main with us for years to come and enjoy
this our gift. And when you are through
with it, may your children keep it in
loving remembrance of their mother.”
   Sister Layton has been an officer in this
society from its first organization, which is
thirty-two years. She has been a faithful
worker and a true friend to the poor.
   An excellent program was rendered,
after which a sumptuous repast was served,
when all chatted merrily until the shadows
of eve were beginning to fall, when all
dispersed, feeling that the time had been
well spent.				ANNIE.


MRS PHOEBE HEARST, of California,
maintains the Hearst free library and read-
ing room at Lead, S. D., paying all the ex-
penses. It contains 6,ooo volumes and is
largely patronized, although Lead is situ-
ated in the Black Hills region. Mrs.
Hearst is interested in the welfare of the
district, as she owns a large share of the
stock of the Homestake Mining Company.


A WEDDING ANNIVERSARY. 
Mrs. E. B. Wells:

	A family reunion was held at the resi-
dence of President David John, 145 South
J. St., Provo, February 8, the occasion be-
ing the fortieth anniversary of the marriage
of Mr. and Mrs. John. All their children
were present, and a few of their intimate
friends, numbering in all forty persons. A
delicious dinner of all the good things of
the season was partaken of at five p. m.
	The rooms were beautifully and taste-
fully decorated for the happy event, and
the bride was as charming and happy, if
not as young and blooming as forty years
ago. Such milestones on the journey of
life help to lift the burdens that are some-
times heavy as we tread the highway on-
ward, even though there is much daily
sweetness in association of kindred and
friends.
	All spent a pleasant afternoon in social 
chat, relating reminiscences of the past
which had cast their shadows on the future. 
One of their daughters, Mrs. Worsencroft,
represented the bride of forty years, and
Miss Emma John a bride of fifteen years,
and her other two daughters bridesmaids of
forty years.
	The following day, February 19, Mr. and
Mrs. John entertained their grandchildren,
numbering twenty, in a delightful manner,
in charge of their mammas. It was in-
deed a gala day for the little folks, and one
long to be remembered.
			ONE OF THE DAUGHTERS.


FROM PATH TO PATH.
THE EXPERIENCE OF A FEW YEARS.
		(Conclusion.)

	Just at this time my husband went out to
Indian Territory, where he had been twice
before to preach to the Cherokees. This
time he was told to take his family with
him, and this necessitated selling our
home, as the missionaries have to pay all
their individual expenses, and we had
mortgaged our cattle to go on the other
missionary trips. We went, and our cat-
tle all died, except three head, with Texas
fever. But that was not all. The whole
family took down with the ague and my
father, who came from the old country to
visit us, died with a paralytic stroke, so
that in six months we had had more trouble
on account of sickness than we had seen in
the fifteen years of our sojourn in Kansas.
We had experienced cyclones and draught,
but not anything like we were now passing
through.
	Finally we returned to Kansas, all too
weak to be able to wait upon one another,
and as this mission was not for any particu-
lar length of time, my husband was released.
The first thing we had to do on our re-
turn was to look around and try to secure a
home again, though we had to board until
such time as we received strength to help
ourselves. Our means being nearly ex-
hausted we were anxious to help ourselves
again, but my husband’s condition was
very serious, ashemorrahage of the bowels set
in before the ague left him, therefore he
was six months just able to crawl around.
However we all recovered with the excep-
tion of my second girl, who was four years
of age. She died with inflammation of the
bowels, ague fever and congestive chills,
and, as I have already stated, we lost my


[Column 1]
dear father. Cloud after cloud seemed to
be crowded over us till we almost despaired
and felt that truly we must be forsaken of
the Lord, as want was beginning to stare us
in the face and our home was gone. But
we never failed to ask aid of Him who had
so often heard our prayers.
Before long a man came to us and offered
to trade eighty acres of land that was
mortgaged, with a house on it, for a
beautiful stallion that we had. We were
only too glad to make the trade so that we
might get a home of our own once more.
Just previous to moving into our new
home some Utah Elders arrived and com-
menced a series of meetings, and finding us
out, they came to see us. One evening
when one of them called my husband was
just going to preside over a cottage meeting
so he invited the Elder to go with him,
telling him that if his partner who was
to assist him had no objection he would
invite him to speak, to which proposal they
both agreed, the Utah Elder being given
paxt of the time. And thus the Lord was
leading us from path to path, until such
time as we could discern the narrow way.
That night before they parted the Elder
asked the question which was a very im-
portant one to me and that proved a turn-
ing point in our lives. The question was
this: “Do you believe that Joseph Smith
was a true prophet of God?”
We replied that we knew it, and that we
knew the Book of Mormon to be of divine
origin. The Doctrine and Covenants we
had never heard of.
He then asked if we believed that the
Gospel was brought by the angel and was
never to be taken from the earth again ?
We said certainly we did. Then where
was the Gospel from the time of Sydney
Rigdon's death till William Bickersten or-
ganized his Church ?
That question disturbed us more than
anything had yet done. My husband
walked the floor till nearly midnight, and
within a week concluded to be re-baptized.
When I saw that he was determined to be
baptized, I said to him: “The Josephites
claim to be the Church, and we claim to be
the Church, and the Utah Elders claim they
are the only true Church. Don’t be in a
hurry. If we have been deceived we might
be again deceived.” But later when I
heard the principle of baptism for the dead
fell in love with the doctrine, for I had
been puzzled about the dead many times.
About this time a dream that I had had
when in great sorrow, on account of the
split in the faction, came to my mind again,
as it had often done since I began to under-
stand it, though I kept quiet and thought
would do nothing in haste. Meanwhile,
was glad to see the Elders, and felt there
was some affinity with them, as we all be-
lieved that Joseph Smith was our prophet.
asked one of them one day why he called
me sister when he believed I was in need of
baptism, and would have to be rebaptized
before I could unite as a sister.
“Well,” he said, “I think you will be a
full-fledged Mormon one of these days.
You know you are only a half-fledged Mor-
mon at present.”
To go back to my dream, which I could
not forget. I dreamed that I was on board
a ship, and I was sitting studying a book
when a violent storm arose, tossing the
ship with violence. I thought my husband
was one of the officers and was walking the
deck in a very excited manner, when an
old gentleman, who had been lying asleep

[Column 2]
on a narrow bed laid near me, rose up and
said to me, in a sweet voice: “Sister, do not
study so much, but rest. This ship is
going to pieces, but you will be saved.”
My husband then repeated the same words,
word for word: “Do not study, but rest,”
etc.
Well, I did rest, and it was not until I
heard sermons on the principle of baptism
for the dead that I felt that there was yet
something great and grand to receive, and
that the Utah Elders had something more
than the Bickerstens or Josephites had ever
been known to offer. So from that time on
became more zealous than ever to hear
the missionaries, so much so that one day
my daughter, noticing this fact, called me
out of the room when I was conversing
with them, to tell me to beware or I would
be caught in the net.
And so it was, by gaining here a little
and there a little, precept upon precept,
that all last I became not only willing, but
anxious to be caught in the Gospel net, be-
ing baptized by Brother Edwin Udall, who
also baptized my daughter a few weeks
later.
After these Elders had been released my
two eldest boys were baptized by Brother
Taylor, whose home was at Harris-
ville. Both these missionaries have
since been laid away to rest from their
labors. The amount of fruits that will be
brought forth from their labors will not be
known in this life, but we know their works
do follow them. This is why we never
forget to pray for our missionaries. We
know they need patience, they need cour-
age, they need good health. They have to
pass through many trials, and those who
will not be humble enough to receive them
and accept the healing balm, that they may
be healed of the poisonous errors that they
have imbibed from their infancy, will con-
tinue to grow worse, and they will grow
worse, and they will rage and foam until
they become a wonder to themselves, not
knowing what ails them.
May you and I, dear readers, continue to
be led as little children; for unless one be
comes as a little child, he or she will not
enter the kingdom of heaven. If we are
faithful to the end, the trials and tribula-
tions we have passed through will appear
as mere trifles as we become worthy to hear
the words:
Well done, good and faithful servant, thou hast
been faithful over a few things enter thou into the
joy of thy Lord.
LITTLE SISTER.


110 WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.
PAROWAN STAKE. 
The Relief Society Conference of the
Parowan Stake of Zion was held in Cedar
City, Feb. 8, 1900, President Mary Ann
Lunt presiding. There were present of the
presiding authorities: Uriah T. Jones,
president of the Stake, and counselors,
Francis Webster and Bishop W. H. Corray
and counselors, and also some other breth-
ren.
Conference commenced by singing “Come
let us anew.” Opening prayer was offered
by Lehi W. Jones. Singing, “Let Zion in
her beauty rise.”
President Lunt was pleased to see so
many present, and hoped we would have a
good conference. Thought it best to hold
our conference every three months, and
prayed the Lord to bless us through this
conference.

[Column 2]
The reports were then given by the local
presidents or counselors; they were very
encouraging. The sisters held their meet-
ings regularly, had a good attendance and
were united. A good spirit prevailed
among them, and the sisters expressed a de-
sire to do their duty.
Bishop William A. Cory encouraged the
sisters in the good work they were per-
forming. Spoke at some length upon the
training of our children and urged the
parents to set a good example before them.
Bore his testimony to the work we are en-
gaged in.
Counselor Francis Webster knew the
Gospel to be the pearl of great price. Said
we learned very slowly, line upon line and
precept upon precept. Urged parents to
train their children in the Gospel. He was
proud to be a member of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
Morning session closed by singing “Sa-
lem’s bright King, Jesus by name.” Bene-
diction by Peter Wimes.
Conference reconvened at 2 o’clock.
Singing, “God moves in a mysterious
way.” Prayer by Elder Richard Palmer.
Singing, “God spake the word and time
began.”
The statistical and financial reports were
then read and accepted and the General and
Stake officers were sustained. There was a
change in the Stake secretary. Sister
Clark has a large family of small children
and it was deemed wise to release her,
which was done and a vote of thanks given
her for past services.
Sister Caroline K. Jones was then sus-
tained as Stake secretary.
Counselor Annie Ward bore testimony
that the sisters were being awakened to the
spirit of knowledge. Encouraged the
sisters in their labors.
Counselor Annie E. Webster spoke upon
the storing of grain and urged the sisters
to be wide awake in looking after and in
instructing their children; for the kingdom
of God would eventually rest upon them.
Bore a strong testimony to the truth of this
work.
President Lunt felt to endorse all that had
been said, and encouraged all to live pure
and happy lives.
President Uriah T. Jones endorsed the
excellent remarks that had been made and
hoped all would be converted to the teach-
ings that had been put forth. Said we
should devote our time and energy for the
benefit of our children. Thought mothers
should have a good education, so they can
bring up their families intelligently and to
the best advantage. Prayed the Lord to
bless the Relief Society.
Conference adjourned by singing the
hymn “Awake, ye Saints of God awake.”
Benediction by Brother Joseph Hunter.
CAROLINE K. JONES, Sec.
BANNOCK STAKE.
Minutes of the Relief Society conference
of Bannock Stake, held at Lund Ward,
November 18, 1899, at 10 o’clock a. m.,
President Mary A. Call presiding. Sing-
ing, “O my Father.” Prayer by Bishop F.
H. Reddish. Singing, “We thank Thee,
O God, for a prophet.” Minutes of last
morning session of conference held at Trout
Creek Ward, were read and accepted.
The following wards were represented:
President Columbia Loveland, Chesterfield
Julia Pond, Thatcher; Letetia Banks,
Lund; Christina Higgenson, Hatch; Ellen


[Column 1]
Cramer, Lund branch. All the branches
were in a good thriving condition. No
grain has been received as yet on account
of frost.
President Mary A. Call felt weak in ad-
dressing the conference. We cannot have
visiting sisters with us from Salt Lake at
every conference, as the expense is too
great but through a full payment of the
ten cent fund we can have one visit once a
year, and thus receive instructions direct
from headquarters. Felt that the sisters
had responded nobly to the call for funds to
assist the nursing class, which had been
advised by the General Board for the
benefit of ours and the Pocatello Stakes, as
well as all the other Stakes of Zion. Felt
that, through having had such excellent
success, the Lord had been pleased with the
undertaking. Testified to the good results al-
ready received by her own family, and en-
couraged the sisters to be united in all
things calculated to advance temporally as
well as spiritually.
Counselor Sarah M. Call said she was
pleased to have had the privilege of attend-
ing the General Conference at Salt Lake
City, and felt that our Stake was in touch
with Relief Society work after comparing
our condition with reports from other
Stakes. Encouraged the sisters to pay
tithing and advised the necessity of holding
fast meetings occasionally in the different
branches, as it gave an increased flow of
the Spirit of God in our midst.
Counselor Rosa B. Knowles gave an ac-
count of her labors in the nursing class. She
took a great delight in her labors, though a
very great amount of difficulty had had to
be overcome to accomplish this work, on
account of having a large family of small
children and having been in poor health.
Though she had received knowledge, she
would yet be unable to accomplish the good
necessary without the united faith and
prayers of her sisters. Desired to go forth
as a nurse in obstetrics in faith and humil-
ity, and exercise her faith in behalf of the
other sisters who had taken the course at
Soda Springs, she having graduated at the
same time with Sister Christina Higginson
at Pocatello.
Sister Emma Toone, one of the Soda
Springs class graduates, said that she had
been greatly blessed in her efforts. Re-
joiced that she had responded to the call
made of her to take the course, for it de-
volves upon some one to do this work, and
she felt thankful to have been worthy of
such a mission and that she had been so
successful in her studies. Bore testimony
that Dr. Ellis R. Shipp had accomplished
a great work in giving us this knowledge
to do so much good among our mothers in
the Stake. Earnestly asked the assistance
of the faith and prayers of the Saints in the
Stake in her own and other nurses behalf.
Mentioned a movement that had been sug-
gested of forming a nursing class for the
purpose of meeting with the other sisters
who had graduated in the Stake and
instructing each other in their continued
study of this branch of knowledge.
President Mary A. Call felt that she
must express her thankfulness and satis-
faction in listening to the testimonies of the
nurses.
Bishop F. H. Reddish bore testimony to
the willingness and usefulness of the Relief
Society sisters in his ward. Realized that
the sisters work under greater difficulties
than the brethren to be able to accomplish
their work and must consequently practice

[Column 2]
great sacrifice, through which our greatest
blessings are received, accompanied by faith
and humility and a disposition to submit
ourselves to those in authority. No great
good is ever accomplished without oppo-
sition. We need still more nurses in our
midst.
Meeting adjourned until one o’clock p. m.
Singing, “Come let us anew.” Benedic-
tion by Elder John Knowles.
Minutes of afternoon session of Bannock
Stake conference, November 18, 1899,
President Mary A. Call presiding. Singing,
“Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation.”
Prayer by Julia Pond. Singing, “Earth
with her ten thousand flowers.” Minutes
of afternoon session of last conference were
read and accepted. Officers’ meeting, all
funds reported. Officers of the General
and Stake Board were presented and ac-
cepted.
President Mary A. Call explained the
object of membership fees. Advocated sub-
scriptions to the EXPONENT, in order to
keep posted on the affairs of women, and to
sustain it as the organ of the Relief Society.
Advised mothers to look after the welfare of
their children, especially at the time for
them to choose companions for life. Girls
from sixteen to twenty years of age need to
be preparing themselves for the responsibi-
lities of motherhood, rather than to be per-
forming that duty without a proper knowl-
edge.
Sister Dorthea Lau represented the Soda
Springs ward. Though a small society,
they have ample opportunity of doing
good.
Christina Higginson, a graduate of the
nurses class, heartily endorsed the labors of
Dr. Ellis R. Shipp and felt that she was a
true Saint and an excellent teacher of her
profession, and she felt to recognize the
authority by which the doctor had been
sent to us.
Sisters Mary E. Parker, Julia Pond,
Brother P. P. Lexemberg and Sister Edleff-
sen each spoke of the necessity of giving
our children a proper training, of informing
ourselves by reading good books, that we
may teach them according to the mind and
will of God, for he will not hold us guilt-
less for neglect in this line. We as
parents must encourage the Primary Asso-
ciation workers, for their interest and ours
cannot be separated. Many mothers wear
out their bodies in their efforts to look after
their children’s physical welfere and grosely
neglect their moral and spiritual training.
Let us teach our children to pray, pay tith-
ing, love their meetings and honor the
priesthood, and great will be our joy and
satisfaction in raising up a righteous pos-
terity to the Lord.
A paper was read by the secretary en-
titled “The Origin and Destiny of Woman.”
After closing remarks by Counselor Sarah
M. Call, conference was then adjourned
for six months.
Singing, “The Spirit of God like a fire is
burning. Benediction by Mary A. Tol-
man.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.										111


MRS. MARY LOWE DICKINSON, of the
National Council of Women, finding that
there was danger of a deficit in the treas-
ury, promptly contributed $450, which put
the balance on the right side.
	THE South African war is costing
England about $5,000,000 a week. If the
economical and housekeeping sex had the
Parliamentary vote, it is likely that they
would object to so large a butcher’s bill.


OBITUARY.

		JULIA IVINS MCDON4LD PACE.
 
   A womanly woman; what more can we say ?
Has passed from the gloom to the beautiful day;
As such she was greeted, and if women we be,
As such we shall know her eternally.
  
   Death comes to all, but never does it come with
more crushing sadness than when a mother is sud-
denly called from home and little ones; and when
to the noble qualifications of wife and motherhood
is added marked ability and a desire to be helpful
to one’s fellow creatures, then indeed is the blow
twofold,
   Such a woman was Julia Ivins McDonald Pace,
who was unexpectedly called away in the prime of
womanhood, while her babe was sleeping upon
her arm. So far as health would permit she had
been an active worker in many associations,
having been connected at different times with the
Primary, Young Ladies and Relief Society organ-
zations. She was also secretary of the Silk Asso-
ciation of St. George. Earlier in life she went to
Ann Arbor to study medicine, but her health fail-
ing her, she returned home, not being able to
complete the course.
   She was a charter member of the Utah Woman’s
Press Club, and a member of the Committee on
Bylaws, her home being in Salt Lake City at the
time of its organization; and although later she
moved to St. George, we were proud to retain her
as an honorary member.
   She was a writer of no mean order, having
written many excellent papers for the club and for
the press. Her stories, too, may be found in
many of our home publications.
   Our beloved sister, now deceased, was born
December 2, 1859, and died January 17, 1900.
She is the first member of the Press Club called 
away by death.

Methinks that I see the Books opened,
And an angel the pages turn o’er.
Till he comes to her name, when he pauses—
“Sainted woman, thou’lt sorrow no more;
Thy life has been weighed in the balance,
Which tipped at the mark of pure gold,
By thy name is recorded most worthy,
‘Enter into the joy of thy Lord.’ ”
RUTH M. FOX,
ROMANIA B. PRATT,
LUCY A. CLARK,
Committee.
Resolutions of Respect.
Passed out of regard for the memory of
				a good woman.

   WHEREAS, Our Heavenly Pather in His infinite
wisdom, has deemed it best to call unto Himself
our beloved co-worker, Julia A. McDonald Pace,
who recently departed this life in St. George
Utah; and
   WHEREAS, She has been suddenly removed from
us in the prime of a useful life, wherein all the
powers of her talented mind and sympathetic
heart, over-taxed her physical endurance, in her
devotion to the cause of truth and the building up
of God’s kingdom upon the earth, therefore be it
   RESOLVED, That the General Board of the
Primary Association bow in humble submission to
the will of the Great Creator.
   RESOLVED, that we deeply regret the loss of her
valued counsels and zealous labor, in behalf of
the Primary children of Zion.
   RESOLVED, That we extend to her family our
heartfelt sympathy in their bereavement. 
   RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
placed upon our records, one sent to the Deseret
News and Woman’s Exponent for publication, and
one presented to the sorrowing family.
LOUIE B. FELT, President,
MAY ANDERSON, Secretary.


LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING. 
	The Ladies Semi-Monthly Meeting was 
held in the 14th Ward Assembly Hall,
Saturday, February 17, 1899, Counselor 
Elizabeth J. Stevenson presiding.
	Meeting opened with singing. Prayer 
by Sister Julia C. Howe. 
	Remarks were made by Sister Stevenson
on the great blessings we enjoy. She had 
just returned from visiting in the Pocatello 
Stake, and had found a great feeling of 
unity and love. One of the presidents said


[Column 1]
she and her counselors personally visited
the poor.
	Sister Mary Silver said we were greatly
blessed in many ways, that she thought it a
great privilege we had in using the oil in
administering to our children.
	One sister testified that she had been
healed of asthma and also partial paralysis
by the administration of the Elders. Knew
of many others who were also healed.
Hoped she might continue faithful and do
her duty.
	Sister Martha Morris then sang, very
sweetly, “O Jesus, the Giver.”
	President M. I. Horne was thankful that
we could meet and testify of the power of
healing. All were not healed in Christ’s
time. A promise is made that if our time
has come we will be taken, if not, we will
live if we believe. Advised the sisters to
use mild herbs and not depend so much on
physicians. She had raised her own chil-
dren through the laying on of hands and
also using herbs. The prophet said the
sisters had the privilege of administering
and no matter who believeth these signs,
such as healing the sick, etc., should follow.
Should we not prize these blessings? Are
we living so that we can claim these bless-
ings? Let us put our trust in our heaven-
ly Father. Spoke of the promises made
through keeping the Word of Wisdom and
of cultivating faith. Do not fear when
diseases are around, we must expect them,
but trust in the Lord and all will be well.
Referred to the late Apostle F. D. Richards,
who was a faithful, humble, true Latter-
day Saint; and also Brother Goddard, who
had done a great work in the Sunday
Schools. The Saints should be cheerful
and happy. Let those who give, give
freely and cheerfully. Believed much good
would be accomplished through the divi-
sion of the Stake, in waking the people up
and making them more energetic. She had
felt at first that it was like a mother losing
her children, had very little trouble in this
Stake, some were energetic, while others
were as if they were in a rut. Today is a
proving day, not of many words, but a day
of warning. Spoke on Sabbath breaking.
One circumstance she had never spoken of
in public, but felt it her duty to do so. At
the time the Gospel was brought to Canada
Sister Walton opened her house for Elder
P. P. Pratt to hold the meetings in. While
the prophet was in Toronto, Canada, visit-
ing the Saints, there was a special meeting
called at Sister Walton’s home present were
John Taylor and wife, John Snyder and
wife, Joseph Horne and wife, Sydney
Rigdon, Thomas B. Marsh, Joseph Field-
ing and his two sisters, Mary and Mercy.
They asked the prophet to relate the visit of
the angel to him. His countenance lit up
and shone by the influence of the Holy
Ghost while he related to us the incidents
connected with the restoration of the Gos-
pel, especially that relating to the visit of
the angels, etc.” “I am the only one now
living of those present on that occasion.”
	Sister Witdsoe felt the influence of the
Spirit. She was thankful to hear Sister
Horne’s testimony. Spoke of keeping the
Word of Wisdom, little by little if we
could not all at once.
	Sister Butterworth thought we if could so
live that our guardian angel would prompt
us what to do in sickness. Another sister
thought the Lord blessed His daughters as
well as His sons. She was the only one o
a large family who had embraced the Gos

[Column 2]
pel. It is not those who do well for a sea-
son, but those who endure to the end.
	Sister Margaret Nightingale had felt
greatly disappointed when she had come to
meeting and found the door shut. Felt to
appreciate these meetings, and wished to be
a true Latter-day Saint. Remarks were
also made by a sister who had been at the
organization of the Granite Stake.
	Sister Howe said her heart went out in
regard to faith, she had been healed by the
administration of her sisters. Our prayers
will be answered if we ask in faith. Said
Sister Lydia D. Alder sent her love to all.
She was filling a good mission, her heal[-]h
is not excellent. She would like all the
sisters to remember her.
	A sister had lost her only child, but had
been blessed and comforted by Apostle
Taylor. Testified that this was the work of
God.
	Sister Martha Morris sang, “Let us pray,
gladly pray.”
	President Horne notified the sisters that
our conference would be held in the 14th
ward Assembly Hall, Saturday, March 3.
Thought it advisable to have the officers of
the Relief Society of this Stake meet here
once a month. The other meeting would
be for the public. Adjourned meeting
for four weeks.
		A. T. HYDE, Sec. pro tem.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A PLEASANT REUNION.
	A reunion of the branches of the Relief
Society of the St. Joseph Stake was held in
Pima, Saturday, January 6, 1900. There
was a good attendance, every society being
represented with the exception of St.
David and Franklin, from which, on ac-
count of the distance, no one was present.
	A well arranged and appropriate pro-
gram was rendered, consisting of songs,
recitations and music, also speeches by
President Udall, of the St. John’s Stake,
Patriarch Claridge and others, after which
lunch was served to two or three hundred
people.
	In the evening a dance was given which,
under the able management of Professor
Emile Maeser, proved to be profitable as
well as pleasant. All returned to their
homes feeling reunited indeed.
			SARAH WEBB, Sec. R. S.


[Column 1]
90% OF AMERICAN WOMEN
wash dishes three times each day. If you are one
of these, wear a pair of “Goodyear” Rubber
Gloves and always have soft, white hands. Sent
by mail postpaid, on receipt of $1.59 Agents
wanted. Address, M. O. Dept.,
M. F. Reese Supply Co., Setauket, N. Y.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail.
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

[Column 2]
[logo of a shield]
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
WORLD’S PICTORIAL LINE.

[to the right of the logo]
THE PEOPLE’S FAVORITE.

			Leave Salt Lake City
No. 6	The “Fast Mail” for Chicago, St. Paul, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and
		Park City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7 00 a.m.
No. 2	The “Overland Limited” for Chicago, St.
		Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
		Denver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	11 45 a.m.
No. 4	The “Atlantic Express” for Chicago, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver .	6 40 p.m.

			Arrive Salt Lake City.
No. 5	The “Fast Mall” from Chicago, St. Louis,
		Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and Park
		City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3 00 p.m.
No. 1	The “Overland Limited” from Chicago, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver .	3 00 p.m.
No. 3	The “Pacific Express” from Chicago, St.
		Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
		Denver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3 30 p.m.
CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 Main St.		Telephone 665.
					H. M. CLAY, General Agent.

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
		LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

The Most Convenient Local Train Service
in the State is given by the . . . . . .
OREGON SHORT LINE
	RAILROAD.
FIVE Fast Daily Trains Each Way between
Salt Lake City and Ogden . . . . . .

See that your tickets read via the
	“SHORT LINE”
			And Get the best.
CITY TICKET OFFICE for tickets to all points, 100 West
Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.

S. W. ECCLES,		D. E. BURLEY,
	Gen’l Tfc. Mgr.		G. P. & T. A


Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 28		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 15 & APRIL 1, 1900.		Nos. 20 & 21.


CONTENTS.
Results of the Revolution . . . . Mabelle Snow	113
Thomas Jefferson . . . . . . . . Annie W. Cannon	113
The Rise of the Relief Society . M. A. W. Pratt	115
The New Stake. . . . . . . . . . . . . C. A. S. Young	115
Anniversary Meeting at Provo . . . . C. B. Pratt	115
R. S. Reports—Salt Lake Stake . . . . . . . . . . . .	117
	Los Angelos . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	118
Farewell Surprise Party. . . . . . . . . Little Sister	119
Obituary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	119
George Washington Association, K. H. Ward .	119
Resolutions of Respect . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	119
R. S. Granite Stake. . . . . . . . Celestia A. Young	120
EDITORIAL—Relief Society Conference Notice	116
	Our New Possessions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	116
	Editorial Notes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	116
POETRY—The Sparrow’s Mission . M. F. Kelly	113
	A Hymn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . L. D. Alder	115


[Column 1]
THE SPARROW’S MISSION.

Seated alone at my window
	Gazing down on the street, 
I watched the people passing,
	And heard the dull tramp of their feet.
But my heart was o’erwhelmed with sorrow,
	As I cried in my agony,
“Father amid these many millions,
	Tell me, canst Thou know of me?

“Can every one of thy children,
	Claim a share of Thy love?
Can a prayer of mine ascend
	To Thy home in the realms above?”
And my heart was o erwhelmed with longing,
	So I cried in my agony,
“Father, amid these many millions,
	Tell me, dost Thou care for me?”

Just then a sparrow descended,
	Perched on my window sill,
And chirped as he flew away,
	His mission of love to fulfill.
But the bird had taught me a lesson,
	A message from heaven to me,
The Father who cares for the sparrows,
	Does know and will care for thee. 
				MARY F. KELLY.

RESULTS OF THE REVOLUTION.
	(Read at a meeting of the Daughters of the Re-
volution.)
	The revolution in 1776 was one of the
most important events in human history.
It related not only to the freedom from
tyranny of the people who took the initia-
tive and carried it to a successful issue, but
to the liberties ot the human race as a
whole. The history of the world from then
to the present proves this, if it proves any-
thing.
	This momentous occurrence produced
the most perfect basis upon which to build
a beneficient governmental superstructure—
the American Constitution. It has no
counterpart in human affairs. It provides
to the individual citizen the fullest possible
freedom, the most ample personal protec-
tion and the complete security of legal
property possession. It is the basis guar-
anty of exact equality before the law,
without classified distinctions. Hence the
American nation is composed of the most
independent and, therefore, the most strong-
ly individualized race on the face of the
earth today, with a record for progress that
has no parallel.
	The leaven of the American Revolution
and its results have not been combined
within the borders of this nation, but have
stimulated emulation in every civilized
country, and a degree of its genius has

[Column 2]
even been carried into nations hitherto en-
veloped in the shroud of absolute barbarism.
	But perhaps the most striking beneficient
effects have been produced upon the nation
from which the American colonies revolted
—the kingdom of Great Britain. This
nation is now but a monarchy in name.
The estimable lady who nominally occu-
pies the throne of the British empire is
practically subject to the will of the minis-
terial government, her prerogatives of
sovereignty being mostly mere matters of
form.
	Similar changes in a more modified de-
gree have been developed in all of the
great nations, even among those which
were heretofore unqualifiedly despotic.
The central course of this remarkable ten-
dency toward popularization of rule is com-
prised in the American Revolution; and its
results—the production of the constitution,
the development of institutions of govern-
ment in harmony with that magnificent
basis, and the progressive effects upon the
nation.
	The history of American institutions
shows that every impediment to the devel-
opment of human liberty, as embodied in
our national system, must, in the process of
Divine adjustment of human affairs, sooner
or later be swept out of existence—hence
the civil war of 1861. Its first result was
the preservation of the Union; its second,
the abolition of slavery. The removal of 
that blot upon our escutcheon made the
great Republic consistent within itself, and
placed it in a position to champion, when
necessary, the cause of the oppressed out-
side of its own border, as well as within the
circle of its own domain.
	The nation may pass through many nar-
row places in the future. Trial is a de-
veloper of national as well as Individual
character, but every barrier to her progress
will be surmounted.
	Her past shows that her destiny is to
continue to be the central light of good
government to all the world.
			MABELLE SNOW.


[Column 1]
THOMAS JEFFERSON.
(Read at a meeting of the D. A. R.)
	For the fulfillment of great purposes 
great men are born; and who questions the
idea that the immortal Washington and his 
brilliant and courageous colleagues were pre-
destined for their wonderful careers. Where 
in history can a similar fate to that of 
Washington be found? How he was pro-
tected through the long, fierce struggle of 
the Revolution, both from the enemy’s
fire and the dangers of the camp, though 
he shared all the privations and terrors
with his soldiers and stood always in the 
front of battle, often between the lines 
with fierce and dreadful firing on both sides
yet escaped unharmed, unscathed. His
coat of mail was neither steel, such as was 
worn by the warrior knights of old, nor 
stitched with threads of sorceries and super-
stition, like the knights of mythical legends, 
but an armor of a faith sublime; and a 
knowledge that his cause was just, made 
him invulnerable.

[Column 2]
	Washington stands in the vast firmament 
of American history the brightest star, but 
around his name cluster such a brilliant 
constellation of names as to illumine 
the path of our history for ages yet to 
come, and not the least brilliant of these 
is the subject of this sketch—Thomas Jeffer-
son.
	The only difficulty arising when writing 
a simple sketch of Jefferson is to know 
what not to tell, as for more than forty 
years, from youth to extreme old age, years 
when America was making most wonderful 
history, he was one of the most active and 
notable of Americans. 
	A certain fascination and romance is al-
ways associated with the military, and 
doubtless the most daring and brilliant 
heroes of the Revolution were the men who 
surrounded Washington on the battlefield, 
but in the making of a country the scholar 
and statesman is quite as necessary as the 
soldier, if not more so. It is the mind that 
guides the army, after all, and to quote an 
old familiar phrase, “The pen is mightier 
than the sword.”
	The one statesman above all others to 
whom this country is forever and ever in-
debted is Thomas Jefferson. Jefferson’s
father, Peter Jefferson, with a few other 
pioneers, doubtless anticipating the advice 
of Horace Greely, “to go west and grow up 
with the country,” had left the settlements 
along the James river and taken up home-
steads in a then unoccupied and almost un-
known land, along the Rivama river, just 
east of the Blue Ridge mountains, and here 
on this estate, named Shadwell, Thomas 
Jefferson was born, and here he lived as a 
child, boy and man, with but temporary 
interruptions, for 27 years. For a boy 
born in a wilderness he enjoyed remarkable 
advantages. His biographers tell us he had 
good English at five, Latin, Greek and 
French at nine, regular classical studies at 
fourteen, a college course at seventeen and at 
twenty-four he was admitted to the bar.
	His personal appearance at this time is 
described as six feet two inches in height, 
slim, erect as an arrow, with regular 
features, a very ruddy complexion, an ex-
tremely delicate skin, full, deep-set hazel
eyes and sandy hair. He was more a stud-
ent than an athlete, yet he possessed a pas-
sionate love of nature and took the greatest 
delight in horsemanship. Though an ardent
student, he was not necessarily a book-
worm, but, on the contrary, was fond of 
society. He was an expert musician, the
violin being his favorite instrument, was a 
good dancer and a daring rider.
	His devotion to home life and the build-
ing of his beautiful and famous home of 
Monticello reads like a romance. He had 
his first love affair during his college years.
It was, however, unsuccessful, but it stirred
“his sympathetic nature to its profoundest
depths.” However, he recovered from this
disappointment and later very happily mar-
ried a beautiful, accomplished and wealthy
widow, Mrs. Martha Skelton, whose wealth 
greatly aided him in carrying out his plans 
for the home and estate of Monticello, but 
she did not live to see them all fulfilled. 
	A few words about this beautiful, historic


[Column 1]
home would not be out of place here, for it 
occupied almost all the spare moments of 
thought from public life of its owner. Even 
to this day it is considered a work of art 
and wonderful ingenuity. It stands on a 
hill known as Little Mountain, overlooking 
the whole estate. Mr. Jefferson began the 
building of this home before the Revolu-
tion, but so many interruptions occurred 
that it scarce deserved the name of a home 
until after twelve years labor, in 1782 the 
Marquis de Chalellux paid Jefferson a visit 
and thus describes the house: “The house
Monticello,—of which Mr. Jefferson was 
the architect, and often one of the work-
men—is rather elegant and in the Italian 
taste, though not without fault.” Then
after describing the different rooms he 
further says: “We may safely aver that 
Mr. Jefferson is the first American who has 
consulted the fine arts to know how to shel-
ter himself from the weather.” But in 
course of time the house changed entirely 
and became from a plain Italian villa a
spreading country mansion of twenty 
rooms, with Greek porticoes and an octa-
gonal dome with very solid brick walls, 
strong frame work, good floors, a great pro-
fusion of elaborate trimming and full of his 
quaint and strongly original devices.
	The designing of this house was a labor
of love, and here, when free from public
duties, Jefferson lived, the cherished mem-
ber of a wide circle of friends, the head and 
center of a numerous family group, and 
here were entertained, with the grace and 
hospitality of a true Virginia gentleman,
the most noted people of our own land, and 
the most distinguished writers from foreign
lands. The conduct of this home life clear-
ly illustrates the fact that the artistic and 
poetic temperament dominated, not only
his youth, but his whole life.
	As Thomas Jefferson’s home-life was 
ideal and a beautiful example to young 
America, far more so was his public career, 
For over forty years he served his country 
as legislator, governor, congressman, minis-
ter plenepotentiary, cabinet officer, vice-
president and finally president.
	The most noted work of his life, and the 
one that has immortalized his name and 
cherished it in the hearts of the American
people, is, of course, the Declaration of In
dependence. It is a simple matter of his-
tory, probably, which every school child 
knows, and yet, surely sufficiently impor-
tant and interesting to bear repeating how 
the Declaration was prepared: Jefferson
was named a delegate to the General Con-
gress where he took his seat eight days after 
Colonel Washington had been appointed by 
Congress commander-in-chief of the colo-
nies, and he was placed upon the committee 
to draw up a statement of the causes which 
had impelled the colonies to take up arms 
against the mother country, upon another
committee to report upon Lord North’s con-
ciliatory proposition, when in the winter of 
1775-6 the news arrived from England that 
the king had denounced the colonists as 
rebels, and the law confiscating American 
vessels and cargoes, and the impressment 
of American crews into the British navy 
was authorized, the colonies became more 
united, and on the 11th of June, 1776, Con-
gress appointed Jefferson, Adams, Franklin, 
Sherman and Livingstone to prepare a
Declaration of Independence. Jefferson, at
the request of his associates, prepared a
draft of the Declaration, which, after two
or three verbal corrections by them, was

[Column 2]
taken up for consideration in the House on 
the 2nd of July.
	In the debates on the Declaration Jeffer-
son took no part, “thinking it a duty to 
be, on that occasion, a passive auditor of the 
opinions of others, more impartial judges
than he could be of its merits or demerits.”
Two or three expressions had been made 
which gave offense to some members, the 
words of “Scotch and other foreign auxili-
aries” were resented by some delegates of 
Scottish birth; and the strictures on the
king’s repeated veto of colonial law which 
permitted the slave trade, were disapproved 
by some of the southern delegates. 
	On the evening of the Fourth of July, 
1776, the Declaration was reported back 
from the committee of the whole House 
and agreed to. Thus was framed and 
passed the document which circumstances
have given an importance possessed by no 
other production of an American pen. It is 
regarded as the weapon that dismembered a 
great empire and that gave birth to the 
grandest of nations. For more than a cen-
tury on each anniversary of its adoption it 
has been read to assembled multitudes, and 
its style and sentiment are a model for 
every people which seeks for itself the 
right of self-government. Jefferson him-
self requested “that his tombstone should 
testify it to be the greatest achievement of 
his life.’’ Had others of these early leaders
possessed the sagacity and forethought of 
Jefferson it is more than probable that the 
sorrow and despair of the great civil war
would have been averted, for in the original 
draft of the Declaration there was a clause 
abolishing slavery. Then in the Virginia
legislature he introduced a law which was 
finally passed, prohibiting the further im-
portation of slaves into the state, and in 
Congress, 1783, he introduced a clause pro-
viding that after the year 1800 of the Chris-
tian era, there should be neither slavery 
nor involuntary servitude in any of the 
states, otherwise than the punishment of 
crimes whereof the party shall be duly con-
victed to have been personally guilty.”
And it is a fact that though he was fired 
with the Virginia passion for acquiring 
land he did not try to increase his slaves,
and never owned sufficient number to 
properly care for and till his large posses-
sions. Neither by purchase or investment
did he ever acquire slaves, possessing only 
those inherited from his father’s and wife’s
estates. On this question his own words 
are the best illustration of the depth of his 
feelings; he said: “I tremble for my country
when I think that God is just; that His 
justice cannot sleep forever; that considering 
numbers, nature and natural means only, a 
revolution of the wheel of fortune, an ex-
change of situations is among possible 
events, that it may become probable by 
supernatural interference. The Almighty
has no attribute that can take sides with us 
in such a contest.”
	As a statesman Jefferson was unequaled; 
as a politician he held extreme views and 
differed in many important questions with 
the leaders of his time. He was the most 
conspicuous representative of the Demo-
cratic party while Alexander Hamilton was 
the leader of the Federal, the two great 
schools of American politics. This differ-
ence of opinion certainly never carried any 
particular dissension, for both were mem-
bers of Washington’s cabinet, Jefferson 
secretary of state and Hamilton secretary 
of treasury. Washington very prudently 
sided with neither party, though it is

[Column 3]
popularly believed that his sympathies 
were more with the Federal than the 
Republican leader. He must have held his 
powerful opponent in high esteem for in 
the entrance hall of his beloved Monticello,
opposite his own statue, stood a bust of 
Alexander Hamilton. 
	As Congressman one of his most im-
portant acts was securing the adoption of 
the system of coinage still in vogue. As 
president, a position he held  for two terms, 
doubtless the one act most beneficial to the 
country was the purchase of the territory 
of Louisiana from France. He also suc-
ceeded in greatly reducing the public debt, 
fortifying the seaports, reorganizing and re-
arming the militia and extinguishing 
the Indian’s titles by fair purchase and pro-
moting their emigration beyond the Miss-
issippi.
	Though Mr. Jefferson was pressed to ac-
cept a nomination for a third term, even 
formally requested by the legislatures of 
five states, he promptly refused and re-
tired from public life in 1809, to his home 
of Monticello. But though not politically 
or publically engaged in service, he never-
theless always maintained an interest in all 
affairs tending to the welfare of his coun-
try, and one of his last acts was one of the 
most important—namely, the founding of 
the University of Virginia, of which he has 
been said to say, “I would rather be presi-
dent than president of the states.”
	The simplicity of his character is evi-
denced by the manner in which he rode to 
the hall of Congress on the day of his in-
auguration. Instead of a coach and six, as 
had been the custom, he rode horseback,
without a guard or even a servant in his 
train, hitched the horse’s bridal to a fence 
and walked in without ceremony to receive 
the tenures of the highest office in the land. 
The graciousness of his character can pos-
sibly be best illustrated by the remark he 
made when he took Franklin’s place as 
minister abroad: “I go to succeed Frank-
lin; no one could replace him.” The
tenderness by the simple act of keeping a 
vow made in boyhood to his friend, after-
wards brother-in-law, Abner Carr, by bury-
ing him under his favorite oak on the little 
mountain. This incident is said to have 
originated the little cemetery on the slope 
of Monticello, where the dust of Thomas 
Jefferson now lies in its last repose.
			ANNIE W. CANNON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MRS. LOUISE MAUDE is the only author-
ized translator of Tolstoi’s great novel
“Resurrection.” A remarkable fact con-
cerning this transaction is that it is the
only complete reproduction of the author’s 
manuscript. The Russian edition has been 
emasculated by the censors so that it can-
not be read in full in the original language.
	SENATOR DEPEW, in his address to the
Sons of the Revolution on Washington’s
Birthday, said that Washington was a
brilliant success in everything except
courtship. He defeated the British many
times, at many places; he stormed forts 
and captured them; but when it came to 
making a maiden’s heart capitulate, he 
failed. On three different occasions, he
said, Washington attempted this, but met 
defeat; and it was not till he met the
Widow Custis that he succeeded. Wash-
ington’s ill success in this direction the
speaker attributed to the fact that he re-
sorted to poetry. When the girls read his
halting verses they concluded that they 
did not want such a suitor.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A HYMN.

		O, Saints of the Most High,
			Who dwell on Europe’s shore,
		You’ve heard His servant’s cry,
			Low bow His thrown before. 
Praise give to Jesus King, He comes on earth to reign,
Soon will the tidings ring, give glory to His, name.

		O, keep your covenants true,
			You made beneath the wave,
		A crown He’ll give to you,
			And life beyond the grave.
A name and place in Zion, awaits you over there,
And Judah’s fierce lion, will soon your way prepare

		Proud Babylon will fall,
			Destruction o’er her spread;
		List! to the watchmen’s call,
			Have Saints to Zion fled?
The sun will darkened be the moon be turned to
	blood,
The Saints will Jesus see beyond Atlantic’s flood.

		Rejoice ye Saints of God,
			For mighty is His power,
		Hold fast the Iron Rod,
			’Tis His avenging hour.
No more rejected there past the cold finger’s scorn,
O’er the power of men, hail Church of the First
	Born.
						L. D. ALDER.
	London, Eng., Oct. 1899.


[Column 1]
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF THE
RELIEF SOCIETY.
	As I am not able by sickness to attend
the Relief Society meetings with my sisters,
thought I would employ my pen to write
a short essay.
	Joseph Smith, the prophet of the last
days, was the first to organize a Relief
Society in this last dispensation of the ful-
ness of times. I will here quote a few
lines from his teachings to the Relief
Society.
	He said: “This is a charitable society
and according to your natures, it is natural
for females to have feelings of charity and
benevolence. You are now placed in a
situation in which you can act according to
those sympathies which God has placed in
your bosoms. If you live up to those
principles how great and glorious will be
your reward in the celestial kingdom. If
you live to your privileges, the angels
cannot be restrained from being your
associates. Females, if they are pure and
innocent, can come into the presence of
God: for what is more pleasing to God
than innocence? And I now turn the key
in your behalf in the name of the Lord,
and this Society shall rejoice and knowl-
edge and intelligence shall flow down from
this time henceforth. This is the begin-
ning of better days to the poor and needy,
who shall be made to rejoice and pour forth
blessings on your heads.”
	Find this in the EXPONENT, September
1, 1884.
	Now there are many references made to
the relief of the poor in the Bible. There
is a beautiful illustration of the woman
who used the precious ointment to anoint
the Savior’s body. He said “for His
burial.” His disciples found fault with
the woman, said it was waste, it might
have been sold for so much and given to
the poor. It might have been intended
for that purpose, but she had kept it and
was inspired to pour it upon the head of
Jesus, and He said “she had wrought a
good work on Him,” and wheresoever this
Gospel should be preached in the whole
world, that should be told as a memorial of
her. He also said “For ye have the poor
always with you; but me ye have not al-
ways.”
	Dorcas was one of those women full of

[Column 2]
good works and alms deeds that Peter
brought to life. All the widows stood by
him weeping and showing the coats and
garments which Dorcas made while she
was with them. The things that Dorcas
made were kept to clothe the poor, like our
faithful sisters do and have done. I know
a great many who have spent a lifetime
laboring for the poor in our Relief Society,
faithful from the first organization until
the present.
	There has been a marked degree of im-
provement and progression in our society
from the days of Nauvoo when we heard
the Prophet’s prophetic words. You, my
sisters, the pioneers of the Relief Society,
are the ones that the blessings fall upon;
for at that time all were poor and needy,
and you are they who have been faithful to
your calling and have poured forth bless-
ings upon the heads of the poor, and by so
doing have received their’s in return.
	Who were the beginners? I can count
out of the families of the first members of
the Church, and some few are acting now.
They should berelieved by younger sisters.
And I repeat Joseph Smith’s words:
“Great will be your reward in the celestial
kingdom, and those who have passed be-
hind the veil—yes, the angels—will be
your assistants to help you to follow up 
your lineage to weld the link of parantage
and blood kinship to prepare them for the
millennium reign. Your work has ex-
tended its influence and usefulness to every
Stake and branch of the Church, which be-
speaks the approval of divine authority.
			MARY ANN M. PRATT.
	March 16, 1900.


THE NEW STAKE.
	President Frank Y. Taylor is to make a
visiting tour accompanied by all the officers
of the Granite Stake of Zion, visiting
every ward in the new Stake, leaving home
every Sunday morning in order to attend
the Sunday Schools, afternoon services and
call a conjoint meeting of the Y. M. and Y.
L. M. I. A. Association, for the purpose of
becoming better acquainted with the people
of the different wards.
	After the afternoon services a special call
is to be made for the officers and mem-
bers of the Relief Society to meet and be-
come acquainted with the new Stake presi-
dent of the Relief Society and her officers.
	The first visit was made to the Sugar
Ward, February 11, 1900, Sunday morn-
ing at 10 a. m. After the opening exer-
cises the Stake officers of the Sunday
School and some of the General Board were
introduced. Remarks, instructive and in-
teresting were made to officers, teachers and
children. The children marched to their
different classes in excellent order, accom-
panied with very pleasing music. The
Stake officers were arranged in groups and
conducted to the different classes. We
were very much impressed with the exer-
cises of the kindergarten class, which was
managed with skill and interest.
	After the Sunday School was dismissed
we were ushered into another room of the
building and seated at tables beautifully
decorated with flowers and heavily spread
with a sumptuous dinner, which added to
the comfort and pleasure of all present.
The dinner was conducted by the ladies
in a very pleasing manner. Appropriate
toasts were given by President Taylor and
others.
	The afternoon services were indeed a


spiritual feast. Introductory speeches
were made by both brothers and sisters of
the Stake officers, interspersed with sweet
music by the choir.
	At the close of the meeting President
Taylor requested all the members of the
Relief Society to remain for a short meet-
ing, and introduced Sister Emma Wood-
ruff as president of the Granite Stake Relief
Society She made a few remarks, then
introduced her counselors and secretary,
each of whom expressed a desire to be a
stay and a help to their president, Sister
Woodruff.
	The Relief Society president of Sugar
Ward, Sister Sarah B. Gibson, expressed
her love for Sister Woodruff, and spoke of
her steadfastness in the Gospel from her
(Sister Gibson’s) earliest recollection.
	President Taylor spoke very encourag-
ingly to the sisters. He expressed a deep
interest for the prosperity of the work in
this the new Stake.
	Counselor Miller endorsed all the presi-
dent had said, and made a few closing re-
marks.
	Benediction by Counselor Julia A.
Rockwood, of Sugar Ward
	We very much appreciated the kind and
hospitable treatment tendered us by the
Bishopric and people of the Sugar Ward.
			C. A. S. YOUNG, Sec.


ANNIVERSARY MEETING AT PROVO.
	The members of the Relief Society of the
four wards of Provo City appropriately
celebrated the fifty eighth anniversary of
the organization of the Relief Society, in
Nauvoo, 1842.
	A meeting was held in the Stake Taber-
nacle on Saturday, March 17, at 2 p, m., at
which Sister Mary John presided. After
singing and prayer, a very interesting pro
gram was carried out as follows:
	An address on the organization of the
Relief Society, by Sister Marilla Daniels.
	Items of interest in her life were given by
Sister Martha Bullock.
	Brother James E Daniels sang “Daugh-
ters of Zion”
	Sentiment, “The Relief Society,” by
Sister M. A. Till
	Address by Sister Bennett, subject “The
Organization of Women.”
	Song, by Miss Julia Ramsey.
	Reminiscences of the life of the Prophet
Joseph Smith, taken from the diary of the
late Dr John Riggs, by Sister Melissa
Riggs Stewart.
	An address by Sister Deborah Billings.
	Song by Brother George Buries, “Let
Bygones be Bygones Forever.”
	An address by Sister Sarah Partridge.
	There was a good attendance at the
meeting, and there were ten sisters present
who had seen the Prophet Joseph Smith.
	After singing the Doxology, and prayer
by Brother A. J. Stewart, the meeting was
adjourned for one year.
			CAROLINE B. PRATT.


A FEW months ago it was announced
that both Houses of Parliament in West
Australia had passed a resolution in favor
of full suffrage for women. This was an
earnest that they would pass a bill to that
effect as soon as the necessary red tape
could be untied. Now the news comes
that the bill has finally passed both
houses. So, one by one, the Australian
provinces join the procession.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah,
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00 one copy six months.
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of lnonparie
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Mrs. E. B.WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class, matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAR. 15 & APRIL 1, 1900.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The General Conference of the Relief
Society will be held in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall in this city, on Thursday,
April 5, meetings commencing at 10 a. m.
and 2 p. m. It is desired that there should
be a large attendance of the members, and
that each Stake organization should be
represented by its president, or some one
authorized to act for her. A cordial in-
vitation is extended to the Bishops and all
brethren interested in the welfare of the
society.
			ZINA D. H. YOUNG
						President.
			JANE S. RICHARDS, 
			BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
			SARAH JENNE CANNON,
						Counselors.
	E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


[Column 1]
OUR NEW POSSESSIONS
	It is hard work to settle the question of
the right kind of government for the new
possessions, as they are called, that have
recently been made over to the United
States, even in one’s own mind. Various
propositions are made as to what ought to
be done, and women have had something to
say, although women’s opinion on national
questions is not what is expected by men of
this nation. Nevertheless, women have
opinions as well as intuitions and emotions.
	It is rather confusing to one who would
gladly take a correct view of the situation
to hear so many sides to this important
question argued. The Hon. Whitelaw
Reid, in what is said by good judges to
have been an able and impressive address,
stated at the close of his speech, “My last
word is an appeal to stand firm and stand
altogether for the continental union and for
a firm civil service for the islands.” Presi-
dent Schurman, the great speaker at the
same meeting in Boston, closed his address
by saying, “We must have a permanent
civil service in the Phillipines. It must be
well paid, and the best men in the country
must go there, and they must be animated,
not by the love of money, although they
must have good salaries, but by devotion to
the public service, by considerations for the
welfare of the Filipinos themselves. With
such a class of men going there, retained 
permanently, and promoted in virtue of
merit, I have no doubt whatsoever of the

[Column 2]
successful solution of the problem which
has devolved upon us in the Orient.”
	One editor who has studied this question
carefully, and who lives in a city famous
for its public advantages, comments thus:
“Unfortunately, such a civil service we
have not, never have had and are not likely
to have. He must be indeed an optimist,
devoid of practical observation and exper-
ience, who will hope for good government
by officials appointed by any political party
in power at Washington. The result will
be a carpet-bag government followed by a
social and political collapse. We can
adopt the second alternative and make
these people citizens, not of the United
States, but of Hawaii, Porto Rico of Luzon
and the other islands organized as self-
governing territories.”
	In short, this writer would give these
people a similar form of government to New
Mexico, and of that which formerly was
provided for Utah. Governor and judges
appointed by the President of the United
States; he reasons that this system with free
commercial intercourse with the United
States inside the American custom house,
the free interchange of temperate and torrid
products would bind the new possessions to
us and to each other in a friendly and
mutually profitable unity, material and
moral. This may be good as far as it goes,
but these people must have something else
besides commerce they must have material
and practical civilizing influences and meth-
ods they must have teaching and training
along many lines to make them truly citi-
zens at all. In short, women as well as
men must help with this great undertaking.
The women of those countries will help
wonderfully by their influence when they
have been reached by the women of the
United States, who can be sent out by the
President and Congress to aid in these at-
tempts to rescue from barbarism these
savage nations and tribes.
	The National Council of Women of the
United States appealed to President Mc-
Kinley in February, 1899, that there be a
commission of women to co-operate with
the men who might probably be sent to
these islands when the war was over.
	Women should study these great and
grave questions, even though they do not
form an opinion, it is well to know what
others think and become acquainted with
what the leaders of this great free govern-
ment are doing to help on the cause of en-
lightened freedom.

	At present the war between Great
Britain and South Africa is engaging the
attention more than any other subject. We
are too far removed from the scene of action
to be sure of our opinion, but we must
necessarily deplore such a war, seemingly a
war for greed; and, O, how terrible are the
tragedies being enacted! and who shall
answer for the loss of so many innocent
lives? General Joubert is reported dead,
Gen. Conje has been taken prisoner, which
seems even worse than dying for the free-
dom of one’s country. A brave soldier, a
hero, whatever else may be said of him, it
must indeed be hard for such a man to be
shut up in prison. But with these two
great Generals absent, one in death and one
in prison, it naturally seems the Boers
must soon surrender altogether, and yet,
perhaps, there are others as brave and as
skillful, and the war may go on, for if, as
Olive Schriener says, the people of the
Transvaal are determined to fight until

[Column 3]
death, then there will be more battles
fought, and the end is not yet for the great
armies of Great Britain. 
	Would that some peaceable method of
settling hostilities might be negotiated and
the peace which Shakespeare speaks of in
Henry IV, might follow:
	“Peace is in the nature of a conquest:
	For then both parties nobly are subdued,
	And neither party losses.”

And Milton says in one of his sonnets:
	“Peace hath her victories,
	No less renowned than war.”

	The latest dispatches show that the Boers
are not conquered, and although the
British soldiers outnumber them by many
thousands undoubtedly, and are well
equipped, yet Kruger has not lost heart, if
reports can be relied upon. He is reported
as saying to the New York World re-
porter: “My burghers are fighting bravely
and they will continue to do so until Great
Britain asks for peace or withdraws her
soldiers,” and adds:
	“Even as your forefathers fought against
great odds in the Revolutionary war, so
we are struggling, and even as God was
with your people, so is he with us. We
have fought with England before and we
defeated her soldiers, and we will be vic-
torious again.”
	But that will be as the Lord wills, He
holds the destinies of nations in His hands,
and His purposes must be fulfilled. But
for women whose dearest and best must go
forth to battle, surely they will with one
accord long and pray for peace and protest
against the horrors of war that fill the earth
with mourning aud lamentation.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	We have given considerable space to the
George Washington Association because of
the call made and the money raised by the
school children of Utah for the Memorial
Building to be erected in Washington, D.
C. It is well to let the people here and the
children know how far the matter has ad-
vanced and what is really being accom-
plished.
	Tuesday, March 20, was open day at the
Cleofan and the visitors were entertained
delightfully at the home of Mrs. James H.
Moyle. Mrs. Cora Hooper Eldridge gave
a lecture on Oriental Art, illustrated with
rugs, pottery, pictures and dainty articles
that made the subject exceedingly inter-
esting, as was also the conversation at the
time tea was served after the lecture was
over. The Cleofan seems to be quite a pro-
gressive club of exceptionally bright young
women, and many of its members are giving
marked attention to the fine arts.
	The Countess of Derby laid the founda-
tion-stone of the Rectory at St. Albans,
Cheatwood, England. The Earl, her hus-
band, was present. The St. Albans Mis-
sion Guild cleared the ground, the ladies
provided tea for the diggers each Saturday
afternoon until the work was done. This
ceremony performed by a woman is new in
the world; we have had one instance only
of which the writer is aware here in Utah.
President Sarah M. Kimball laid the corner
stone of the Fifteenth Ward Relief Society
hall in the year 1868.
	Sisters M. G. Clawson and P. J. Kimball
gave a Kensington on Tuesday, March 20,
at Sister Clawson’s residence. About sixty


[Column 1]
ladies were present, all old friends, making
the affair a very entertaining one indeed.
Carnations and smilax were used in the
decorations, which made the beautiful par-
lors even more attractive. Sister Clawson
has for years been famous for her dainty
culinary accomplishments, and, of course,
the “tea” was exceptionally fine, and the
ladies lingered around the artistically ar-
ranged tea tables, chatting of other days,
longer than etiquette requires. Both Mrs.
Clawson and her Sister, Mrs. Kimball, are
charming hostesses.
	The Seventeenth of March was pretty
generally observed here and it is ardently
hoped that it was also in other Stakes of
Zion. Condensed history of the Society
itself and sketches of its founders, and
items from the teachings of Joseph Smith
the Prophet, were among the exercises on
the program in some of the wards, together
with music, hymns and songs suitable to
the occasion. In some places parties were
held and dancing was indulged in, and in
others social reunions were given and the
old folks were feasted and made happy.
The day has been observed according to
the wish of the General Board and it has
doubtless made an impression that will be
lasting in the minds of the people. The
17th being Saturday, it was more conven-
ent for some of the branches to celebrate
on Friday, and as each organization could
choose what hour seemed most suitable,
therefore invited guests had the opportunity
to visit several of the meetings.
	The Fifteenth Ward Relief Society held
its meeting in the new hall which the sis-
ters have had finished and furnished during
the past year. It is quite commodious and
was neatly and appropriately decorated.
Mrs. H. A. Badger presided and about
seventy-five members, including a few
visitors, were present. Remarks were
made by President M. Isabella Horne and
Elder L. John Nuttall, and among the
exercises Mrs. E. B. Wells gave a verbal
sketch of the late president of the Society,
Sister S. M. Kimball and read a poem by
Sister L. L. Greene Richards, written for
the Society, and also an address by Presi-
dent Eliza R. Snow, made in July, 1868.
At intervals music and recitations were
rendered. Sister Prudie Brown read a
poem written especially for the meeting by
Sister Mary E. Morris, who was unavoid-
ably kept at home by illness. The musical
exercises, conducted by the choir leader,
Brother Ashman, were exceptionally good.
	The Third Ward Relief Society held its
anniversary meeting to celebrate the first
organization in Nauvoo, on Saturday,
March 17, at 2 p. m., in the meeting
house, Mrs. Frances Smith presiding. The 
secretary had charge of the program.
Visitors present were President M. Isabella
Horne and her counselors, Annie T. Hyde
and Clara C. Cannon, also Elizabeth J.
Stevenson and E. B. Wells, of the General
Board. During the rendering of the music-
al exercises each of the visitors addressed
the meeting. President Horne spoke
mostly upon the signs of the times, quoting
many passages of scripture and prophecies
that are now being fulfilled. The other
subjects referred to were general, though
replete with testimony of the Gospel and
the duties and high calling of the women
of Zion. Sister Wells also alluded to the
advice given by President Z. D. H. Young
in regard to reading the Book of Doctrine

[Column 2]
and Covenants in the Society meetings and
especially the subjects upon faith. Bishop
Maycock made brief remarks at the close
of the meeting. Tables were set in the
vestry where all present partook of deli-
cious refreshments prepared by the Society.
Beautiful flowers adorned the hall and the
good spirit was manifest in all the teach-
ings. President Frances Smith and her
associates are to be congratulated on the
success of their celebration.
	The Twelfth Ward Relief Society con-
vened on Friday evening, in their ward
chapel, President Julia Druce presiding,
and conducting the exercises. The first
feature of the entertainment was dinner
served by a committee of the sisters, who
proved themselves very efficient in the
matter of pleasing their guests. At the
head of one of the long tables sat Bishop
H. B. Clawson and at his left the venerable
president of the Society at large, Sister
Zina D. H. Young, and next to her Sister
Emily Young Clawson, and on the Bishop’s
right was Apostle John Henry Smith and
wife. Sisters E. B. Wells, Julia Druce and
her counselors, J. R. Midgley, Sister
Hooper and others. The feast was abund-
ant and delicious and the conversation
general and interesting. The program was
varied and some of the exercises were
humorous in the extreme, songs and music
very good, and the entertainment passed off
well. Aunt Zina, as she is familiarly
known and lovingly spoken of among the
Saints, made an exceedingly interesting
address, also Apostle John Henry Smith,
Elder L. J. Nuttall and Bishop Clawson
spoke briefly. Sister Midgley read a paper
on the history of the Society and gave a
brief outline of the work of the Society in
that ward, and the several presidents and
officers that had served at different periods
since its organization. The music was
particularly good. We are sorry not to
have space to give the program more fully,
but we can say they have excellent talent
in the Twelfth Ward.
	The Seventeenth Ward Relief Society
celebrated anniversary day March 17,
Saturday evening in the ward hall, Presi-
dent Clarissa S. Williams presiding. The
house was filled with the brethren and sis-
ters and a few invited guests. The sing-
ing was a beautiful feature of the program,
some exquisite songs were rendered, beside
the sacred hymns. Sister B. W. Smith,
one of the presidents of the General Board,
gave a verbal sketch of the first Relief
Society organized in Nauvoo and of its
officers and work. At the close of Sister
Smith’s address, a neat little girl in white
came forward and presented her with an
elegant bouquet of choice flowers. Sister
Julia C. Howe, who had been connected
with the ward since its organization, read a
sketch of the Relief Society in that ward
from the time it was, first organized, men-
tioning in an affectionate manner the sever-
al officers now departed. The secretary,
Mrs. C. F. Wilcox read a written paper on
The life and labors of “Aunt Zina,”
and the possibilities of the Society, and
paid a beautiful tribute to Aunt Zina, her
labors of love, her tender, sympathetic
nature, her untiring devotion to the inter-
ests of Zion, and her magniminity of char-
acter in all departments of life. The presi-
dent responded in a gracious and humble
manner. Sister E. B. Wells, Apostle John
Henry Smith, Elder L. John Nuttall and
Bishop W. J. Beatie each made brief re-

[Column 3]
marks. Mrs. Williams is an excellent pre-
siding officer and is well beloved in her
ward. Towards the close of the evening’s
exercises a very pretty small silk flag was
presented to Sisters Wells and Williams by
the little girl in white.
	We were very much gratified with the
invitation to attend the sisters’ conference
of Juab Stake, at Nephi, and participate in
the reorganization of the Stake Board of
the Relief Society. President Mary Pitch-
forth, who has had charge of affairs
for seventeen years, had resigned, and that
necessitated a new Board of officers. Apostle
George Teasdale was present at the confer-
ence and spoke in high terms of praise and
commendation of President Pitchforth and
of President Goldsbrough, who preceded
her in the position, and the good sisters
who had labored with them both. Sister
S. A. Cazier sang, very sweetly, “Ever re-
membered for what she has done.” Presi-
dent J. W. Paxman, Counselor C. H.
Sperry and Bishop Parks were all present
at the meeting. The new Board consists of
president, Kate L. Paxman, counselors,
S. A. Cazier and Mary A. Grover; aids, M.
A. May, and S. K. Latimer; secretary,
Una Chappell; assistant secretary, Sarah
Brown; treasurer, Helen Grace. Sister
Mary Pitchforth, the retiring president,
and her counselor, Hannah Jones, were
made Honorary members of the Stake
Board, and a hearty vote of thanks was
given them for their faithful Services in the
past. Conference was held on Friday,
March 23. President H. A. Badger, of the
Fifteenth Ward Relief Society, accompanied
the writer to Nephi and participated in the
business of the meeting; also bore a good
testimony of the Gospel. Sister Mary
Pitchforth has been a model president, but
is at present in very delicate health.
Another visitor at the conference was
President M. A. Hyde, of Sanpete Stake
Relief Society, who bore a strong testimony
concerning Joseph Smith and the Gospel
dispensation.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.
		SALT LAKE STAKE.

	The Relief Society Conference of the Salt
Lake Stake, held March 3, 1900, in the
Assembly Hall, President M. Isabella
Horne presiding, commenced by singing
"Arise, O glorious Zion." Prayer by
Counselor Clara C. Cannon. Singing,
"Where the voice of friendship’s heard.”
	The officers present on the stand were
President M. I. Horne, Counselors A. T.
Hyde and C. C. Cannon, President Zina D.
H. Young, President Bathsheba W. Smith,
Maria W. Wilcox, Julia C. Howe, Clar-
issa S. Williams, President Emma S.
Woodruff, President Sarah J. Cannon,
Emma A. Empey, Elizabeth J. Stevenson,
President Mary A. Hyde.
	Roll call, twenty-three wards represented
out of twenty-five. Minutes of the confer-
ence held December 23, read and approved.
	President Horne was the first speaker.
Said this was the first meeting held since
the division of the Stake, and she was
pleased to see so good a representation. It
is a grand and a great calling to be an officer
in the Relief Society, and the officers should
be alive to their duties, energetic and faith-
ful in every particular. We must not be
slothful servants, nor let anything interfere
with our spiritual advancement. We need
a revival of interest in our associations, and


[Column 1]
much depends upon the energy of the
officers. All should be humble and willing
to be dictated by the Holy Spirit. Do not
aspire to office, but be willing to fill the
humble places, for they are all important.
All the officers need our prayers.
	President Zina D. H. Young said: “It is
a great thing to be satisfied with the provi-
dences of the Lord, and do not always be
wanting, or when you come to the end of
your lives and are weighed in the balance,
you may still be found wanting. I pray
the Lord to bless all who are here, they are
His jewels, and I also pray for those who
are not here but who desire so much to be
here, if it were possible.”
	President Sarah J. Cannon said: “I feel
that there is a good spirit here, and am very
much pleased to be able to be here. I feel
the importance of what Sister Horne had
said—that we need an awakening in the
Relief Society. I have thought of this a
great deal, and wonder what can be done in
this regard. Be charitable and try to avoid
giving offence to any one.”
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde was extremely
gratified to see the good representation con-
sidering the division of the Stake. Felt
that this division would be productive of
good. Spoke of the duties of mothers, there
is none greater on earth, and the Relief
Society is one of the greatest helps in this
direction. “We hope to have some special
meetings where these things may be con-
sidered. Relief Society workers when they
go around making their visits should invite
all the sisters to come to meeting, try to
get all to come who possibly can. Do not
find fault with those who are in authority
over us, for that is where Satan will gain
possession of our minds.”
	President Bathsheba W. Smith was de-
lighted to meet with the sisters always, and
never regretted coming to a meeting. Dis-
couraged card playing, never saw any good
come from it. “Always be cheerful and
have a contented mind and happy counte-
nance.” Believed that we could make our
meetings more interesting if we would meet
together often and each one strive to do her
duty.
	President M. A. Hyde, of Sanpete Stake,
was delighted to be present and hear the
good instructions given by the sisters. Had
the pleasure of knowing the Prophet Joseph
Smith, and said there were not many left
who had had the privilege of seeing him.
Bore a strong testimony and prayed the
blessing of the Lord to be with all, especial-
ly those who are placed over us to instruct
us.
	President Emma S. Woodruff, of the new
Granite Stake, said they felt in this new
Stake that the Salt Lake Stake was their
mother. “We feel satisfied with the pres-
ent arrangements, though it is a great re-
sponsibility. I feel like my greatest desire
is to serve the Lord for the rest of my life
When our children are young they need
our care, and even when they are grown
we should not slacken our vigilance, for
they need our care almost as much then.”
	Presided Horne explained that on ac-
count of the unavoidable absence of Sister
Riter, Sister Emma A. Empey had kindly
consented to fill her place. Gave instruc-
tions as to how the nurses should report,
etc. It is quite a trouble and care to look
after the sick, but this is a part of our labors
and we should not shirk them.
	Sister Horne introduced Sister Empey,
who spoke for a few minutes, expressing
her desire to give satisfaction in this posi-

[Column 2]
tion, although she hardly knew what her
duties would be.
	Sister Elizabeth Stevenson said: “We
should live lives of example. Look at the
lives of these our sisters, two of them
eighty years old and over. Let the officers
take the instructions home to their branches
of the society. Let us watch well over our
children, they are our jewels. The sisters
should try to assist their husbands, be care-
ful in financial affairs. What a sad thing it
is to see a Latter-day Saint become a bank-
rupt.”
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m. Sing-
ing, We thank Thee, O God, for a prophet.”
Benediction by President Elizabeth Paul.
	Afternoon session commenced by singing
“Do what is right,” led by the Temple
choir. Opening prayer by Sister Julia C.
Howe. Singing, “Jesus I my cross have
taken.”
	The minutes of the afternoon session of
the conference held December 23 were read
and approved. The annual financial and
statistical report was read and approved,
also the Stake treasurer’s report read and ap-
proved.
	President Horne was pleased to see a bet-
ter attendance, and urged all the sisters in
the Stake to make an effort to attend. The
influence of the example of the mother was
very hard to eradicate from the minds of
the children. The Prophet said that a
good and pure woman was a fit companion
for angels and her influence over her asso-
ciates was unbounded. Spoke of the neces-
sity of being humble. A humble spirit has
more influence over the people than the
words of great orators. Our trials and
temptations only serve as means of prov-
ing us. We will get our reward for the
good we do and the faith we have. Testi-
fied of the following occurrence which hap-
pened in Canada, at the home of a Mrs.
Walton, near Toronto. Those present were
John Taylor and wife, John Snider and
wife, Joseph Fielding and two sisters,
Joseph Horne and wife and some others.
The Prophet related with great force and
power the circumstances connected with the
bringing forth of the Book of Mormon. His
face and whole body seemed full of light.
Advised the sisters to learn as much as pos-
sible about the Church, and also endeavor
to keep in touch with what is going on in
the world. Prayed for the spirit of the
Lord to bless and prompt us to do right,
and to encourage and cheer us continually.
	Mrs. Priscilla J. Riter, superintendent of
the nurses, spoke of her inability to con-
tinue the work, because of sickness in her
family. Commended those nurses who had
fulfilled every duty required of them in
caring for the poor and sick. Said those
who are most prompt to answer the calls of
charity are the best nurses and are compe-
tent to receive the best wages. Mrs. Riter
spoke at some length in a very interesting
way of the work performed and the spirit
manifested by the nurses. Hoped they
would receive encouragement from the
Society officers, and desired always the sup-
port of the sisters and the blessings of her
Heavenly Father.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde moved that a
vote of thanks be given Sister Riter for her
very efficient work, and hoped she would
soon be able to take it up again; carried.
	Sister Emmeline B. Wells then spoke of
the 17th of March, the day on which the
Relief Society was organized, and hoped
each ward would celebrate the day in such
a way that an impression would be made on

[Column 3]
the minds of the people in the ward. Make
it a day long to be remembered. She was
very much interested in all work which
would make the Relief Society the best and
most efficient society for the development of
women on the earth. The sisters will never
regret the work they do in the Relief Soci
ety. Referred to the silk industry in Utah.
Everything is favorable to the raising of
silk, but there was not enough cocoons
raised to warrant an experiment station.
The silk commission will assist any one
who wishes to learn about the work. The
Utah silk commission, of which President
Zina D. H. Young was chairman, sent an
elegant black brocaded silk dress, made of
Utah silk, to Miss Anthony as a birthday
present on her eightieth birthday anniver-
versary. Sister Wells spoke of the EX-
PONENT as the organ of the Relief Society.
Said it always contained reports of the Re-
lief Society of the various Stakes of Zion,
and news of interest educational to women.
She had been requested to prepare a com-
plete file for the Paris Exposition, and ex-
pected to do so, with suitable bindings for
that great occcasion. Urged the
sisters to support the paper, it was a
woman’s paper for women. Spoke of hav-
ing represented the Relief Society in the
International Congress in London last sum-
mer. Hoped the sisters would do all they
could to forward the work of the society
We have much information to give
to strangers and we should prepare our-
selves.
	President Zina D. H. Young requested
that every president should have a copy of
the EXPONENT. The Lord will eventually
open the way for the furtherance of His
work. Prayed for the blessings of the
Lord continually to accompany His daugh-
ters.
	President Horne wished the wards to
celebrate the 17th of March. “Officers of
the Salt Lake Stake will meet in the 14th
ward hall four weeks from to day.”
	The Temple choir sang “O, Paradise,”
and the conference was adjourned for three
months, or the first Saturday in June.
Closing prayer by Elder C. J. Thomas.
		AUGUSTA W. GRANT, Sec.
LOS ANGELOS.
	Our little branch at Los Angelos is really
not so large as it has been, owing to many
leaving for Utah, Idaho and other places.
Still, some have been added to the Church
through the labors of our faithful Elders in
this mission.
	Our Relief Society, though not making
so much headway as we could desire, is not
asleep, by any means.
	The president of our branch, Elder H.
C. Jacobson, thought proper some two
weeks since to have a social gathering of
Saints and friends, hiring a large hall for
this purpose. An admission fee was
charged, which proved a success. We took
advantage of this opportunity to offer needle
work for sale, made by the sisters, which
we soon disposed of, realizing some ten dol-
lars. We have one or two friends who are
needy and must do what we can to help
them. We felt pleased with our work, and
all enjoyed themselves, friends as well as
Saints.
	I wish to say my address will again be
531 Court St., which please note. Wish-
ing the compliments of the season, I re-
main,
		Your sister in the Gospel,
				E. WOOLLACOTT.


118 WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.									119


RELIEF SOCIETY JORDAN STAKE. 
	At a conference held at East Jordan,
January 21, 1900, for the purpose of or-
ganizing the Jordan Stake of Zion, it was
proposed that the following officers of the
Relief Society of the Jordan Stake be
sustained: Marinda Bateman, president;
Hedvig Huldah Larson, first counselor;
Agnes Cutler, second counselor. 
	The appointments were sustained unani-
mously, and Marinda Bateman was set
apart January 27, 1900, by Francis M.
Lyman; Hedvig H. Larson, same date, by
Anton H. Lund; Agnes Cutler, by Francis
M. Lyman; Elizabeth Gardner, chosen as
secretary on February 10, 1900, set apart
on the same date by Francis M. Lyman;
Emily White, chosen as corresponding
secretary on February 10, set apart March
10, by Orin P. Miller; Mary Aggie Cushing 
chosen as treasurer on February 10, set
apart March 16 by Hyrum Goff. 
			ELIZABETH GARDNER, Sec.


FAREWELL SURPRISE PARTY.
	Though it is for the benefit of the people
that the new wards are being organized, it
causes a feeling of regret and sadness to
part with some of the members who are
thus moved to start in the fresh field in
which they are called to labor.
	It was with such feelings that the mem-
bers of Willow Creek Ward met on the 1st
of March to give a farewell party to Sister
Thompson, who besides being an officer of
the Stake Y. L. M. I. A., was president of
the same association of the ward, and a
teacher in our Relief Society, and was also
secretary of the Sunday School.
	In a neat little speech Sister Ida Barratt,
in behalf of these associations, presented
our sister with a wreath of flowers, made
from the hair of the members of the afore-
said associations, as a token of respect and
appreciation of her labors among us.
	In response Sister Thompson said she
was sure the ward had been united and suc-
cessful in getting up this surprise, and in
their efforts of showing their appreciation
of her labors, and that enough money could
not be laid at her feet to buy this wreath of
flowers that had so affectionately been pre-
sented to her.
	After a continuation of the program all
went home, feeling that they had done
their duty, and all felt happy. 
					LITTLE SISTER.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	To the memory of Sister Julia Anna Ivins
		Pace, who departed this life Jan. 17, 1900.
	Whereas, In the dispensation of Providence,
God has seen fit to call home one of his daughters
who labored long as corresponding secretary for
the Relief Society of the St. George Stake of Zion;
and
	Whereas, she has proved herself an efficien
worker in all her various duties, and was one
whose kindness and generosity of spirit brought
sunshine to many hearts, helping the needy in
time of want, and was in her own life a fitting em-
bodiment of her constant prayer, that she might be
humble and united in all that is good; therefore,
be it
	Resolved, That we, her sisters, united with
her in the presidency of the St. George Stake, do
deeply feel her loss in connection with her earnest
effort and constant work; nevertheless, in this our
loss, we feel to bow to the mandates of an Alwise
Creator who doeth all things well.
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be
sent to her family, also that one be sent to the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publication. 
			ANN C. WOODBURY, President.
			EMMA MORRIS, First Counselor.
			JANE F. BLEAK, Second Counselor.


OBITUARY.
LUCY H. FLAKE.
	Died, in Snowflake, Arizona, January 27, 1900, 
Sister Lucy H. Flake, wife of William J. Flake, 
one of the Bishopric of this ward. 
	Sister Lucy Hannah White Flake was the eldest 
child of Samuel and Mary Burton White. She 
was born in Knox Co., Ill., August 23, 1842. Her
parents came to Utah in 1850, and were among 
the first settlers of Lehi, moving from there to
Cedar in 1853. She was married to William
J. Flake, December 30, 1858, by Apostle Amasa
M. Lyman, in Cedar City, Utah. She was the 
mother of thirteen children, nine sons and four
daughters, six of whom, five sons and one
daughter, have preceded her to the other side. 
	With her husband and family she left their home
in Beaver, where they had lived nearly eighteen 
years, and came to Arizona in the fall of 1877. 
They lived for awhile on the Little Colorado river, 
but not being able to make a dam stay in the 
river, Brother Flake bought the home and ranch
of Mr. James Stinson, on Silver creek, in July, 
1878, from which the town of Snowflake was made, 
which has been the home of Sister Flake ever since. 
	She was sustained as first counselor in our Relief
Society to Mary J. West, president, when it was
first organized, July 12, 1880. She acted in that
capacity for fifteen and a half years, when she
was sustained as Stake president of the Primary
Association in November, 1895, in which position
she gained the love and respect of the children as
well as the parents, by making regular and fre-
quent visits to the different branches in the Stake.
She has been head teacher in the primary depart-
ment of our Sunday School for five years, where 
she has been very efficient and faithful.
	Sister Flake was taken sick on the 10th of De-
cember, 1899, with an affliction of the bowels, and 
suffered very much for two weeks, then so far re-
covered as to be able to go to the Primary Christ-
mas tree, Old Folks’ Day and other places during 
the holiday week, but on the 2nd of January she
was again taken down, suffering very severely 
and not eating a meal from then till the end came. 
	All that could be done by husband, children and
loving friends was done for her, but all to no pur-
pose. Her son, Osmer D. Flake, is on a mission, 
and is now president of the Mississippi Conference. 
Her second daughter, Jane F. Wood, lives in
Mexico. The other two daughters and three sons
were at her bedside. 
	She has been a faithful Latter-day Saint, a true
wife and mother, a wise counselor and friend, a 
prompt tithe-payer, has kept the Word of Wisdom
and has been a constant subscriber to the
EXPONENT, only missing the year they moved to 
Arizona of subscribing every year. 
	As members of the Relief Society to which she 
was so faithful, we deeply deplore her loss and 
sympathize with her husband and children, and 
pray that we may emulate her honest, upright
course in life, that our reward may be as sure as 
we feel dear Sister Lucy H. Flake’s will be.
			MAY H. LARSON, 
		President Snowflake R. S.


GEORGE WASHINGTON ASSOCIATION.

The George Washington Memorial Asso-
ciation held its annual meeting at Washing.
ton, D. C., December 13, 14 and 15, 1899.
There was a large attendance from the
several organized States and much interest
was felt by those who could not be present,
as the voting of several hundred proxies
showed. The first session was devoted to
reports of officers,and the annual election of
new officers—Mrs. L. D. M. Sweat, of Port-
land, Me., president of the Mt. Vernon
Association, was chosen-president by accla-
mation. The other officers are as follows:

VICE-PRESIDENTS.
Mrs. Archibald Hopkins, Washington;
Mrs. Washington A. Roebling, New Jersey;
Mrs. Henry R. Mallory, New York; Mrs.
Frank Northrop, New York; Mrs. Law-
rence Maxwell, Jr., Ohio: Mrs. Elizabeth
T.King, Maryland; Mrs. Tod Helmuth,
New York.

TRUSTEES.
Mrs. Phoebe. A. Hearst, California; Mrs.
Calvin B. Brice, Ohio; Mrs. H. H. Adams,
Connecticut; Mrs. Wm. T. Carter, Pennsyl-
vania; Mrs. John L. Routt, Colorado; Mrs.
Leslie C. Wead, Massachusetts.
Recording Secretary of Association—
Mrs. Susanna P. Gage, Ithaea, N. Y.
Recording Secretary of Board—Mrs.
Leslie C. Wead, Brookline, Mass.
Corresponding Secretary—Mrs. John
Russell Young. Washington, D. C.
In the opening address the president, Mrs. Ellen A. Richardson, said: “We
seek on this occasion to promote the final
and supreme, object which Washington
sought to secure in the last hours of his
life. However much confused the work-
ings of this association may become on ac-
count of the long postponed governmental
action and defeated legislation, we never-
theless can but anticipate the happy day
when the last purpose of Washington shall
be in some manner fulfilled. The fulfill-
ment may not come in the very terms which
he prescribed, but fortune and Providence
may yet combine to make such a fulfillment
as shall demonstrate the loyalty of the
American people to the memory of their
first and greatest citizen.”
Greetings were read from Mrs. Henry
Sanger Snow, president of the D. R. Soci-
ety; Mrs. Daniel Manning, president of the
D.A. R. Society Mrs. W. B. Lowe, presi-
dent of the General Federation of Women’s
Clubs, and others.
The report of the treasurer, Mrs. Frank
Northrop, showed an addition of $6,000 to
the contingent and building funds, and
pledges of $8,000 to the building fund. Four
hundred and eighty-two members have
been admitted during the year, making a
total membership of over fourteen thousand.
Reports of State Chairmen and Questions
of Policy occupied the second day’s session,
which adjourned at 4 p. m., to allow the
members to attend the memorial celebra-
tion in Epiphany Church. The charter
membership closed at noon, December 14,
1898, and many distinguished names were
added to the members, among them, Hon.
James Wilson, Secretary of Agriculture;
Dr. Dabney, President of the University of
Tennessee; Mrs. Ellen Hardin Walworth,
Saratoga, N. Y., and Mr. Charles D. Wal-
cott, Director U. S. Geological Survey.
Letters were read from Dr. Benjamin
Ide Wheeler, President of the University
of California, and Dr. Shurman, President
of Cornell University, and a member of the
Education Committee, endorsing the estab-
lishment of a national university, and re-
marks were made to this end by Dr. Dab-
ney, Mr. Walcott and Dr. W. J. McGee,
Chief of the Bureau of Ethnology, all em-
phasizing the purpose and object of the
association to build a Memorial Building,
which shall be devoted to such educational
uses as shall fulfill, as far as possible, the
wishes of Washington, as the policy of the
Association.
In the evening a solemn observance of
the centennial of Washington’s death was
held in the Lafayette Opera House. This
commemoration was by the women of the
land through the George Washington Mem-
orial Association, which, some three years
ago, suggested that there be some national
observance of the day in Washington. The
celebration was of the most solemn and im-
pressive character and filled the Opera
House with a large audience of representa-
tive men and women. In the boxes were
representatives of the Cabinet, Diplomatic
Corps and Supreme Court, and in the seats


heads of colleges, government officials, rep-
resentatives of different creeds and men of
different political minds—all there to testify
to the universal love and esteem in which
Washington is held today.
	The theatre was decorated with flags, tall
palms and other potted plants. A portrait
of Washington and the President’s flag
were suspended over the heads of the
speakers. Over a hundred members of the
Washington Choral Union occupied the
rear of the platform, singing “Before Jeho-
vah’s Mighty Throne” and the Hallelujah
Chorus, with telling effect. The instru-
mental music was furnished by the Fourth
Artillery band, which was present by
special order of the secretary of War. After
the rendition of Chopin’s Funeral March
and another dead march, “At Rest,” fre-
quently played at military funerals, the
exercises were opened by the Right Rev.
Henry Y. Satterlee, Bishop of Washington,
who offered a fervent prayer, invoking the
Creator to instil into the American people
the national spirit which so strongly char-
acterized the life of Washington.
	Hon. John A. Kasson, former minister
to Austria and Germany, acting as Master
of Ceremonies, reading an original letter of
Washington’s and speaking briefly of his
will, in which he devoted part of his for-
tune to the establishment of a national
University. He said in closing, “Wash-
ington proposed no elaborate mausoleum
for himself, no monument to his own great-
ness, no memorial bridges, but his great
heart and intellect did desire a monument
of good, not formed of marble, but of loving
stones, a National University into which
advanced students might enter from every
section of the land, and remove sectional
lines and local prejudices. His chief wish
has remained unfilled for a hundred years.
It is singularly appropriate that the noble
womanhood of the land should at last
undertake the fulfillment of his last desire.”
	Dr. W. J. McGee read the extract from
Washington’s will bequeathing to Congress
fifty shares of the Potomac Company to be
used for the establishment of a National
University.
	Dr. P. B. Barringer, President of the
University of Virginia, gave an account of
Washington’s death, Dr. J. L. Curry,
former Minister to Spain, spoke at consider-
able length on “Washington as a framer of
the Constitution,” and after music by the
Choral Union Dr. Chas. W. Dabney, Resi-
dent of the University of Tennessee, made
the closing address. He referred to Wash-
ington as our first great expansionist, early
seeking to extend our government over the
western country and bind all its people to
us. “Everything he did,” the speaker
said, “from the forming of the Constitution,
which was to bind the states together, to
the construction of inland lines of naviga-
tion, which were to bind them together in
commerce, had for its object the develop-
ment of the national spirit—all his plans
were shaped to this end, that America, the
land of the free, should become a great
nation.”
	A letter was read from Cardinal Gibbons,
praising Washington’s toleration of religion,
and the ceremonies concluded with “The
Star Spangled Banner.”
	The last session, December 15, was de-
voted to amending the by-laws, and new
business, and at its close the members sep-
arated, feeling that the Association was
nearer the attainment of its object than
ever before.		KATE H. WARD.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY GRANITE STAKE.
	The people who attended the conference
at Mill Creek ward were honored with the
presence and wise instructions of Apostle
Francis M. Lyman, Anton H. Lund,
Abraham Owen Woodruff, Seymour B.
Young, of the Seven Presidents of the
Seventies, and others of the authorities of
the Church January 28, 1900, for the pur-
pose of organizing the Granite Stake of
Zion.
	Sister Emma Woodruff was chosen Stake
president of the Relief Society, and Sisters
Mary P. Young and Katharine H. Brock-
bank, as counselors. President Emma
Woodruff was set apart in the afternoon by
Apostle Anton H. Lund.
	The following Saturday at Farmer’s
Ward, February 3, 1900, the counselors
were set apart by Apostle Francis M. Ly-
man, Abraham Owen Woodruff, Bishop
John R. Winder and President Frank Y.
Taylor. Sister Celestia A. S. Young was
chosen and set apart as secretary, and Maria
B. Winder, assistant secretary and treasurer
both, until the other office could be filled.
Celestia. A. S. Young, Sec.


NOTES.
	MRS. LUCINDA H. STONE passed away
at her home in Kalamazoo, Michigan, on
March 14, aged eighty-six yerrs.
	MRS. HAMMOND, of Swaffham Manor,
Norfolk, England, who died recently at
the age of ninety-four, was the daughter
of Mary Charworth, whom Byron loved so
hopelessly. Miss Charworth married Mr.
Muster, who took the name of his wife.
	QUEEN WILHELMINA, of Holland, is
said to be looking forward with appre-
hension to the visit of the Shah of Persia,
who is expected to pay his respects to her
as he passes through Holland on his way
to the Paris Exposition. When the late
Shah visited Antwerp, the king’s palace
was put at his disposal, and after his de-
parture the government was obliged to
renovate the carpets, upholstery and a
great deal of the furniture.


[Column 1]
90% OF AMERICAN WOMEN

wash dishes three times each day. If you are one
of these, wear a pair of  "Goodyear" Rubber
Gloves and always have soft, white hands. Sent
by mail postpaid, on receipt of $1.59 Agents
wanted. Address. M. O. Dept.,

M.F. Reese Supply Co., Setauket, N.Y.

		R. K. THOMAS

   Removed to 67, 69 & 71 Main St.,

		SALT LAKE CITY.


		The Leading Retail.

		      Cash House.

		   R. K. THOMAS 

[Column 2]
[Image of Union Pacific shield logowith the text THE PEOPLE'S FAVORITE. next to it]

			Leave Salt Lake City

No. 6 The “Fast Mail” for Chicago, St. Paul, St.
	  Louis, Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and
	  Park City............ ...............    ... ..............    7 00 a.m.
No. 2 The “Overland Limited” for Chicago, St.
	  Paul, St. Louis. Omaha, Kansas City and
	  Denver...  ......................  .........................   11 45 a.m.
No. 4 The “Atlantic Express” for Chicago, St.
	  Louis, Omaha, Kans[-]s City and Denver...  6 40 p.m.

			Arrive Salt Lake City.

No. 5 The “Fast Mail” from Chicago, St. Louis,
Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and Park
City................................		  Park City................  ......        ....   ..........	    3 00 p.m.
No. 1 The “Overland Limited” from Chicago, St.
	  Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver....	    3 00p.m.
No. 3 The "Pacific Express” from Chicago, St.
	  Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
	  Denver.................................... .................	    3 30 p.m.

CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 Main St. 		   Telephone 665.
					      II. M.CLAY, General Agent.

Save Your Money!
	  
	  And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	  with Zion’s  Savings Bank & Trust
	  Company, the oldest and largest savings
	  bank in Utah.

		Since the establishment of the bank
	  we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	  ings accounts.

		The laws of Utah permit married
	  women and also children who are minors
	  to open savings accounts in their own
	  name, subject to their own order. Have
	  you such an account? If not, open
	  one NOW

		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	  TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	  lar to thousands, and compute said
	  interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.

			LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier

Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.


	The Most Convenient Local Train Service
	in the State is given by the .  .  .  .  .  .

			OREGON SHORT LINE
				   RAILROAD.

		FIVE Fast Daily Trains Each Way between
			  Salt Lake City and Ogden.  .  .  ,  .  .


See that your tickets read via the

		“SHORT LINE”

						And Get the best.

CITY TICKET OFFICE for tickets to all points, 100 West 
	     Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.
 
	   S.W. ECCLES,		      D. E. BURLEY,
		Gen’l Tfc. Mgr.					G.P. &T. A


Woman’s Exponent. 
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 28.
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 15 & MAY 1, 1900.
No. 22 & 23.


CONTENTS.
Mrs. Zina D. H. Young......E. S. Wilcox 121
Sixth Ward Anniversary.......E. W. Condie 122
Current Events..... Aimee C. Schiller. 122
General Relief Society Conference.. E. B. W. 134
A Brief Sketch of my Life..M. F. C. Morris 125
Pioneer Woman........................ 126
R. S. Reports.................... 126
Obituary................................ 127
Primary Conference............ Ella W. Hyde 127
U. W. P. C.............................Grace Anderson 128
Letter to Silk Raisers............ 128

EDITORIAL—A Beautiful Little Book....... 123
Paris Exposition...................  123

POETRY—To Mrs. Isabella Horne.. E. B. W. 121
Embryo....................... 122
Lillies and Violets........ Lydia D. Al'er 122


TO MRS. M. ISABELLA HORNE. 
A BIRTHDAY GBEETING.
 
A life replete with brave and noble deeds,
Wrought in sweet patience and humility,
With loving thought for all humanity, 
And that which ev’ry living creature needs.

Eighty and one, long years, how strange it seems,
That you should see so many wond’rous things,
As recollection to your memory brings;
Ti at Israel’s Prophets only saw in dreams,

Ah, me ! what ’tis to live so many years,
And toil and labor, all the time for good,
Thro’ youth and wedded life, and widowhood,
Such shifting scenes of hope, of joy, and fears.

Courageous woman, you have earn’d a rest;
Wisely you’ve striven for ‘‘the better part;”
And trials borne that pierced you to the heart,
‘‘Tried as by fire,” yet bravely stood the test.

O, may the years to come, be full of love,
Of children and of children’s children, too,
And rich in evr’y blessing dear and true,
Foretaste of that celestial world above.

And when we meet upon ‘‘the other side ”
Then may we know each other’s faces well,
And gladly greeting, all our vict’ries tell,
Where peace and truth forevermore abide.

There may your lov’d ones who have gone before
Salute you with the songs of yesterday,
You’ve sung together on life’s glad highway,
Sweet murm ring music echoed o’er and o’er.
Emmeline. B. Wells.
Nov. 20, 1899.


MRS. ZINA D. H. YOUNG.
AND THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, lovingly known
by many thousands of people as “Aunt
Zina,” has had a most remarkable life his-
tory. Being one of the early Church
members, she has known the mobbings
and drivings, plundering and persecution of
various kinds experienced in this age of
the world only by the people of whose
religion she has been ever a most zealous
and a leading member. But it is of that
part of her life, (and that is a considerable
portion) which has been spent in Relief
Society work to which I will now refer.
It was shortly after the first organization
of the Relief Society, effected by the
Prophet Joseph Smith in Nauvoo, and in-
cluding but nineteen members, that Aunt
Zina became a member. She was then a
young woman about twenty-one years of
age. Being now seventy-nine, a long life
has been employed in the exercise of

[Column 2]
charity, that grace denominated by St.
Paul as the greatest of all.
The expulsion of the people from Nauvoo
made it impossible for the Relief Society to
continue operating long as an organized
body. But that very event, by the sick-
ness, suffering and sorrow entailed, made
greater the demands upon the sisters for
charity in acts of love and kindness.
Not long after the settlement of the
Saints in Salt Lake valley, the Relief
Society was organized “as a natural out-
growth of the parent society in Nauvoo.”
It was the desire of President Young that
Miss Eliza R. Snow assist in forming the
organizations with Mrs. Zina D. H. Young
as her counselor. The Relief Society
branches have increased until now they
exist in all of the forty-two Stakes of Zion,
in outside states and in foreign lands,
wherever are located enough members of
the Church to organize one. At one time
there were thirty branches of the Relief
Society on the Sandwich Islands; the num-
ber is now probably twenty-nine, emigra-
tion causes some changes. There are
some in Germany and Switzerland, also in
Norway, Sweden, Denmark, England,
Scotland, Wales and Ireland. In the
United States they exist in Kansas City,
Chicago, the states of Washington, Oregon,
California, Nevada, Idaho and Arizona.
And in Canada and Mexico there are or-
ganized Stakes. Each Stake has its set of
Relief Society officers complete, and these
are presided over by the general board.
Aunt Zina has lived to see the Relief
Society grow from that one organization in
Nauvoo to six hundred branches, with a
membership of over thirty thousand. She has
been present at and assisted in the organ-
ization of very many of these, traveling in
heat or cold, sunshine or storm, comfort or
discomfort, as the circumstances allowed.
And when not so engaged she has spent
much of her time in visiting different Stakes
and organizations, giving instruction and
counsel, ministering unto the sick, com-
forting and inspiring to good works all with
whom she came in contact by the blessed
influence of her heavenly spirit. Besides
all the other work she has done, she has
presided innumerable times at the impor-
tant event of incoming life. And none can
say how many times she has been present
to bless and to comfort the sick and the
dying. With patience and long-suffering
has she listened to the plaints of poor
humanity, ministering in either a spiritual
or temporal way. For many years she
was chief nurse in the family of President
Young. Often and often she has been
called an “angel of mercy.” Viewing the
work she has done, one is led to think she
had a special mission to fill in this life, per-
haps appointed unto her “before the
foundation of the earth.”
After the death of the president, Eliza R.
Snow in December, 1887, the general board
was reorganized with Zina D. H. Young as
president, a position she has continued to
fill with dignity and honor to the present
time.
Under the auspices of the Relief Society

[Column 3]
a great effort has been made to establish
the silk industry in Utah. In the year
1857 President Brigham Young sent for
silk worm eggs, and, at his request, Aunt
Zina commenced the raising and care of the worms, beginning June 1, 1869, at
Forest farm, now known as Forest Dale.
She was the pioneer in that line of work in
our State, and was made president of the
Silk Association, organized later. She and
her aids traveled the length and breadth of
the territory, using the most earnest efforts
to get the industry well established.
Another great work done by the Relief
Society was the organization of the Deseret
Hospital Association, on May 12, 1882.
Eliza R. Snow was president, with Zina D.
H. Young vice-president, and a full corps
of officers. “The Relief Society Stake
presidents were members of the honorary
committee, and were expected to represent,
the interests of the hospital in their respec-
tive localities.” After years of toil and
struggle the hospital was closed.
In all of these labors Aunt Zina has been
one of the foremost workers. But the
general public cannot realize the beauty of
her home life. I heard one of her children
say she had never known her mother to
utter an impatient word at the trials and
difficulties besetting her. She took them
as lessons intended for her by the Great
Father. And one may say she has gradu-
ated with honor from the school of patient
endurance and self-sacrifice. Man has his
special fields of labor and woman hers. Aunt Zina has done what it would have
been impossible for man to accomplish.
Her spirit is one of the meekest of the earth
and yet one of the most majestic. Presi-
dent Young paid high tributes to her
qualities as a mother. One of her admir-
ers penned the following lines, which it
seems appropriate to quote:
“In little ways unknown to a man  Aunt Zina oft has raised her hand, To soothe the heart, the swollen eye,
When none but she and God were nigh. She’s traveled o’er the dusty plain,
The desert hot in hail and rain,
And talked where brethren could not.”
A sketch of Aunt Zina’s life necessarily
includes much of the work done by the
society, but not all. The charity work
that has been done, in the way of feeding
and clothing the poor, making quilts to
comfort them through the inclement season,
looking after the sick, dying and dead,
alleviating the sorrows of the distressed—of
this work all can never be told. Besides
this, lands have been bought and halls
erected for the use of the society. When
the society became national and inter-
national some advantages were gained.
The president of the general board and a
delegate have the privilege of represent-
ing the society at the National Council of
Women. In that way an idea of the great
work done by the Relief Society organiz-
ation is given to women from all parts of
the world. Aunt Zina and others have
gone to represent us at these councils.
The most recent move of great impor-
tance is the organization of the nurses


class. In the Salt Lake Stake women re-
ceive instruction free, Dr. Margaret C. Roberts
instructor, and in return, after their train-
ing, they give their services free for a cer-
tain time, subject to the call of the superin-
tendent, Mrs. Priscilla J. Riter.
The next thing greatly to, be desired is
to awaken an active interest in the younger
women of the Church, particularly those
who by natural endowment or superior edu-
cational advantages could help give an im-
petus to the work. Perhaps then the much
desired central building in Salt Lake City
could become a reality. A building where
all the important records of the Relief
Society could be kept, a library maintained
and perhaps sleeping apartments and din-
ing room for the entertainment of distant
visitors, an assembly room, recreation hall,
and bureau of information.
Perhaps, too, as the work becomes en-
larged, the poor will be so well cared for
by establishing industries and giving em-
ployment to the able and caring for the
unable, that real poverty would scarcely be
known.
Perhaps, too, rooms can be found, and,
what is more, just the right teachers to
gather the children from the streets in the
evening, affording them attractive enter-
tainment and profitable instruction, which
might be the means of saving many
precious souls. The great and admirable
work that has been done can be recorded,
but the work that may in the future be
done, only a prophet can fortell. Anything
in the way of good and charitable work
done in an organized way may be imagined
and perhaps become a reality.
E. S. WILCOX.


122
WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SIXTH WARD ANNIVERSARY.

The second anniversary of the Sixth Ward
Relief Society of this city, held in com-
memoration of the first organization by our
beloved prophet, Joseph Smith, in Nauvoo,
was held in the Sixth Ward Assembly
Hall, March 17, 1900, President West pre-
siding, Counselors Ellen R.Watson and
Alice Butterworth assisting. On the stand
were Bishop Jas. C. Watson, Counselor
Jesse West, Brothers Alexander Burt,
Edwin Rushton, Thomas Green, James
Poulton, Sen., David Fullmer, Thomas
Winter, Carl A. Ek and George Irvine.
Meeting opened by singing “We thank
Thee, O God, for a prophet,” organist,
Sisters Louisa Giuique and Sister Jane
Poulton. Prayer by Brother Edwin
Rushton.
A short sketch of Relief Society work
was read by the secretary.
President West in her opening remarks
gave a warm welcome to the brethren and
sisters present. Spoke of the good spirit
here today and the surprise awaiting her.
“In looking over this clean hall I cannot
express fully my gratitude to my young
sisters, also Counselor Arnold G. Giuique,
who has been untiring in assisting to reno-
vate this hall, and to all who aided in this
work.” Regretted that her health was
such that she was too feeble to aid in this.
The Lord would bless all who were valiant
in the cause of truth.
Bishop James C. Watson felt honored in
being connected in this noble work with
the sisters of the Relief Society. Approved
of the sketch read by the secretary. “The
financial report speaks well for the good
work the sisters are performing.” In be-
half of the brethren and sisters, returned
thanks to those who had so ably renovated
the hall, the young sisters also to the sis-
ters of this society who have kindly donated
carpet for the stand; and the choir, not for-
getting Brother and Sister Butterworth,
who kindly donated two table spreads and
a mat for the stand. Regretted the absence
of Counselor Arnold G. Giuique, who is
very sick this afternoon, through overwork
in his zeal to have everything done in
order. “In every capacity we find him ever
faithful. May the blessings of our heavenly
Father rest on him and all who are faithful
workers in the church and kingdom of
God. The spirit of peace is here to day,
everything is pleasant to look upon; the
sisters of this society are in harmony with
the Bishopric, they are noble women doing
a grand work assisting the poor and needy.
President West is heart and soul in this
work.” He could more fully understand
now why President Young adopted as an
emblem the hive of Deseret, for we are like
the busy bees, earnest workers. Invoked 
the blessings of the Lord on those present.
Counselor Jesse West expressed his
pleasure in meeting with the brethren and
sisters on this occasion also in hearing the
report, the sisters were engaged in a good
work. Felt to thank the Lord that his lot
was cast in these valleys with the Saints of
God, where we could go up to the house of
the Lord and perform our work for the
dead. Spoke of the magnitude of this
Latter-day work. The sisters of the Relief
Society were blest and would continue to
be blest. Spoke of the first organization of
the Relief Society—the Prophet Joseph
was inspired.
Brother Alexander Burt said it gave him
pleasure to hear the good report of the sis-
ters, and endorsed the sentiments of the
former speakers. In this comfortable hall
we cannot fail to feel the spirit of peace.
Spoke of the advancement the brethren and
sisters who were faithful to the truth were
making. This Latter-day work embraces
all that is good, the Lord chooses the hum-
ble and meek of the earth to do His work.
Counselor Ellen R. Watson expressed
her pleasure in meeting with the brethren
and sisters. Desired to be one with the
Bishopric and sisters of the society. Spoke
of the good work the teachers were doing.
Their’s is one of the most important auxili-
aries in the Relief Society.
Counselor Alice Butterworth desired to
be one with those who were serving the
Lord. Spoke of the hardships and poverty
existing in early days in these valleys,
some forty years ago the change that
wealth has brought about the indifference
many are exhibiting. The Lord had blest
her with means, desired to use it for the
furtherance of the Gospel. Spoke of the
progression the Church had made since
early days.
Brother Winter said, “one year ago today
we met under similar circumstances. Many
inducements had been offered him to leave
Zion, but he never had any desire to do so.
Felt to stay with the people of God where
he could hear the voice of His servants and
carryout their counsel and instruction. The
day is not far distant when we shall thank
our Heavenly Father for His protecting
care over us in these valleys, for tumult
and strife are abroad in the earth.” Closed
his remarks by invoking the blessing of
the Lord on President West and her aids.
Brother James Poulton, Sen., took
pleasure in being present with this Relief
Society, lie was in full fellowship with
them and desired to be known as such.
Felt we were having a feast. Many re-
flections had passed through his mind this
afternoon, and he felt the peaceful influence
prevading here. Spoke of the perfect sys-
tem existing in the Church. The Relief
Society was one of the greatest auxiliaries
in it, the sisters had, and were, doing a
great work. The blessing of the Lord at-
tended their labors. Spoke of the benevo-
lence of Queen Victoria and her daughters,
who were performing charitable acts among
the poor, making clothing and sending
things to those in need. Many of the nobles
of the earth were aiding the poor and
needy, for this they would receive a bless-
ing. The Relief Society were more succsss-
ful. They have obeyed the truth and God
has given them power to minister to the
needy and comfort and bless the sick. Let
us give the honor and glory to our Heaven-
ly Father for these blessings. Felt to ask
God to bless all those who were workers in
this great cause, even the Relief Society.
Prayed for President West, that the Lord
would strengthen her for her integrity to
the Gospel.
Brother David Fullmer was pleased with
the good records the sisters were making,
the aids they are to the Bishopric. Said
God bless them for their noble work.
Spoke of the surprise he felt on entering
this room, the young sisters have done a
good work, we appreciate their labors.
Brother Thomas Green appreciated the
honor in being invited on this occasion, not
alone for the feast prepared, but to hear
the good instruction given here today.
Spoke of the integrity of President West
and her untiring devotion to the sick.
Prayed the Lord to bless her future days
with health and strength.
Brother Carl A. Ek said, “My heart is
full of thanksgiving to my Heavenly
Father for revealing the Gospel in these
last days.” Felt that the sisters of the
Relief Society were blest in their labors.
Spoke of the respect he felt for the aged,
who had grown old in the service of the
Lord; who had borne the burden and heat
of the day. Alluded to the privilege of
baptizing his mother, she being the first
one he baptized after he embraced the Gos-
pel, also had the satisfaction of seeing her
die in full faith of the Gospel.
The Bishop, in his closing remarks, re
referred to those who did not honor their
calling, who were absent from meeting,
neglected their duties and were not, willing
to fill their positions such should be re-
leased. For those who had small children
he had charity, and felt to bless them and
urge them to care for them. But for those
who wilfully neglected their duties he had
no sympathy. The Lord would bless the
sisters who were faithful and make their
burdens light.
Singing, “Do what is right.” Benedic-
diction by Brother George Irvine.
Refreshments having been previously
prepared by the sisters, the brethren and
sisters partook of the same. After a social
chat all retired feeling greatly blest and
benefited.

ELIZABETH W. CONDIE, Sec.


Miss Susan B. Anthony, and Mrs.
Carrie Chapman Catt will both speak at the
annual Festival of the New England
Woman Suffrage Association, to be held in
Boston the last of May. The occasion bids
fair to be even more brilliant than usual.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.									123


EMBRYO.
I feel a poem in my heart tonight
	A still thing growing;
As if the darkness to the outer light
	A song were owing;
A something vague, and sweet, and sad;
	Fair, fragile, slender;
Not tearful, yet not daring to be glad,
	And oh! so tender.

It may not reach the outer world at all,
	Despite its growing;
Upon a poet-flower such cold winds fall
	To blight its blowing;
But oh! whatever may the thing betide,
	Free life or fetter,
My heart, just to have held it till it died,
	Will be the better.


LILIES AND VIOLETS.

TO E. J. A.

Lilies of the Valley o’er a grave I see,
Droop their dainty heads in loving sympathy,
And meck-eyed violets, breathing patience, trust,
Shed fragrance on the air, ’bove the sleeping dust.
Crocuses and hyacinths peep through the earth,
Heralding the Springtime’s near approaching birth.
The world’s hum and bustle, seems far, far away,
Falls the solemn stillness of a Sabbath day.

A mother bends in tears, o’er the lowly bed,
While her first-born sleeps, ’mong the uncounted
dead;
Tenderly her hands twine flowers ’mid the leaves,
Touching them so gently, while her spirit grieves.
Again she feels baby hands, close round her
	pressed,
Kisses the tiny head, laid upon her breast;
But, O, ’tis past and 'mid the quivering pain,
The sad refrain is ringing, “never again.”

The wind blows piercing cold, storm-clouds over-
	head,
And the morning’s sunshine, suddenly has fled;
The sea moans in the distance, beautiful sea, 
That soothed him to sleep in smiling infancy.
The years roll backward, though to manhood he
grew,
The past seems the present, and the years but
	few,
Death, how like the sea, hides other lands so fair,
That none e’er may know, till they cross over there.
So leave him with his God, He doeth all things
	well,
Giveth His beloved rest, where angels dwell.

Unto the mourning heart, whispers words of
	peace,
That from the fret of life, bring a sweet release;
Though the chain is broken, golden chain of love,
Yet affection's tendrils reach far up above;
Clinging around the loved, on the unknown shore,
Where they dwell with  Him, in bliss forever more.
Birds are sweetly trilling ’mong the sighing trees.
Songs of exultation, bringing sad hearts ease.

LYDIA D. ALDER.
	St. Lewards-on-sea, Jan. 1900


CURRENT EVENTS
		
			MARCH.

	In the great cities of the world there has
been much of late to study and observe.
The path of progress in America has not
been without its impediments and difficul-
ties, but progress, nevertheless, real and
striking, has stood preeminent. The
Phillipine situation has continued to be the
leading topic of serious discussion with no
point of absolute unanimity, except the
fervent hope and prayer that the pending
warfare between the United States troops
and the natives come to a speedy end. The
Secretary of War has just returned from a 
trip through the island of Cuba, the chief
object of which was to observe the present
conditions there—political as well as mili-
tary. The result of his observations, as
summed up in interviews of the Press, is
highly encouraging. No definite action
has been taken on the Porto Rico Bill, the
Republican Senators have been conferring
over the bill for some time, but have been
unable to come to any agreement in the
matter.
	A most important bill was passed in the
House of Representatives, March 13. It
had been passed by the Senate and has now 
become a law, the President having affixed
his signature March 14. This bill is called
"The Gold Standard Currency Bill."
	Telegrams dated March 13, state that 
Bloemfontein was occupied by the British
troops. President Steyn and the fighting
Burghers of the Orange Free State have 
fled into the Transvaal.
	March 14 reports were circulated that the
government at Washington had tendered its
good offices in behalf of peace between
Great Britain and the South African Re-
public. It is feared that the peace confer-
ence will prove a complete failure, as up to the
present time not one of the powers who 
signed the three articles agreed on has
officially ratified the treaty.
	March 17, more commonly known as St.
Patrick's Day, was enthusiastically cele-
brated throughout Great Britain and her 
colonies.
	The Paris Exposition Buildings are
nearing completion and travel thither has 
already commenced.
	The first edition of Rev. Dr. Shelden's
paper, the Topeka Capital, appeared March
13. Rev. Dr. Shelden experimented and
published a paper which has excited much
comment, favorable and otherwise. The
object of this experiment is to publish a
paper on strictly moral and honest lines.
In commenting on this paper other editors
insist that it is not possible to make a per-
manent success of such a paper as the
Shelden edition, for the reason that the pub-
lic buys its newspapers to read the news,
and that the paper which endeavors to
preach instead of giving the news, will
never be popular with the masses.
	An event still fresh in the minds of all, is
the assassination of Senator Goebel, of
Kentucky. The foul crime is still shrouded
in mystery, but the keenest detectives are
at work and a number of men prominent in
official life have been arrested as accessor-
ies to the crime. The investigation is very
sensational.
	A distinguished visitor was in our midst
during March in the person of Hon.
Wm. J. Bryan, and later still Hon. Tom
Fitch, a famous Republican orator.
	On Saturday, March 10, the remains of
Abraham Lincoln were removed from under
the Lincoln monument at Springfield, Ill.,
and placed in a temporary vault.
	Among the notable deaths of the month
was John Ruskin, an English writer, art
critic and reformer, and Abram I. M. Wise,
of the Hebrew Cincinnati College.
	In concluding this brief sketch of the
month's events, let us join in hoping that
ere another month elapses the white flag of
truce will float over the nations of the
world, and that progress and true civiliza-
tion will continue its onward course.
				Aimee C. Schiller.


ANOTHER PIONEER GONE.

	Died, January 19, 1900, in the sixty-
ninth year of her age, Mary Stone, at her
home in Alameda Co., California. She
was born August 7, 1831, in Sucick Co.,
New Jersey. Here her parents joined the
Church and emigrated to Kirtland, Ohio,
and afterwards to Nauvoo, Ill. She was
married in March, 1846, to John Murdock,


and left with the Saints in the same
spring for Winter Quarters on the Mis-
souri river. Her young husband died in
August, the day before arriving at their
destination, and was the first white man
buried in the Indian mound at Winter
Quarters. This left her a widow at the
age of fifteen. Her father, David Norris,
was killed at Nauvoo on the 16th of
September, the same year, while with
others defending the homes of the Saints
from mob violence. Her mother died in
November, six weeks later, while on her
journey to Winter Quarters.
	Sister Mary Norris Murdock started
with the pioneer companies in the spring
of 1847, for the valley, arriving the latter
part of September. Two years later she
was married to Samuel Holmes and was
one of the first settlers in Kaysville,
known as Holmes ranch, two and a half
miles north of Haight's ranch. While
living there she had seven children born,
and sometime in the sixties she emigrated
with her husban and family to San Fran-
cisco, and from there to Mission San Jose,
where another child was born. Three
months later her husband was accidentally 
killed by the falling of a ladder while topping
out a hay stack. Eight years after, she
married Mr. Stone. She had two children
born to her by this marriage.
	All her journey from New Jersey to her
home in San Francisco was done by teams
in covered wagons. She was of a patient,
hopeful nature, and was beloved for her
many noble qualities. She was ever ready
to respond to the call of any one in sick-
ness, and for many years was found at the
bedside of her neighbors for miles around,
many times going in the night over rough
roads, administering comfort to the suf-
fering. She passed quietly away sur-
rounded by the loving faces of her chil-
dren. Her sister, Louisa Norris Dicker,
who resides in this city, was telegraphed
for but only arrived a few hours after her
sister had breathed her last, which was a
sad disappointment, as they were very
fond of each other.
	Sister Stone had a complimentary ticket
to the pioneer Jubilee, and came here after
thirty-five years absence, meeting many
old friends and making some new ones.
She would often speak of it afterwards as
one of the great pleasures of her life.
						L. N. D.


HONOR TO WHOM HONOR IS DUE.
Last Thursday, March 29, Sister Agnes
Cutler was tendered a very pleasant sur-
prise party at her home in East Jordan.
For the past three years Sister Cutler has
been the active president of the ward Re-
lief Society, but with the organization of
the Jordan Stake, she was chosen second
counselor to the Stake president of the Re-
lief Society, Sister Marinda Bateman.
The surprise party was given to show
the respect and appreciation in which Sister
Cutler is held, and to wish her God-speed
in her more exalted calling. The time
was spent enjoyably, singing, reciting and
partaking of the bounties of this life, after
which Sister Cutler was presented with a
handsome present, consisting of a piece of
household furniture. Over seventy Relief
Society workers were present, among the
more prominent being Sisters Marinda
Bateman and Hilda Larsen, of the Stake
presidency, and Sister Emily White, assis-
tant Stake secretary.


124														WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		Woman's Exponent. 
EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah,
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months.
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.

	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.

	EXPONENT office Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.

	Address all business communications to

					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, April 15 & May 1, 1900


A BEAUTIFUL LITTLE BOOK.

	A very attractive little book has recently
been issued from the Juvenile Instructor
office, entitled The Latter-day Prophet, a
history of Joseph Smith, written for the
young people. The book is a suitable size
for children, the simplicity of language
used will recommend it to the little folks.
The loftiest subjects are so simplified as to
be understood by the children; at the same
time they retain the thrilling testimony that
always accompanies the truth. It is really
a narrative full of wonderful manifestations
of the power of God, and His dealings with
His obedient children.
	The subjects are arranged in short chap-
ters, which will make it the more helpful
to the young readers, and more adaptable
to Sunday School work.
	As a people we really have much need of
this class of books, and it is gratifying to
know that a man of such splendid attain-
ments as President George Q. Cannon has
made a study of the Prophet's life for the
children of the Saints. Joseph Smith natur-
ally loved little children; this is apparent in
his history, and has been handed down to
us as one of his characteristics by those who
knew him well personally. The children
of the Saints should learn to love Joseph
the Prophet through being acquainted with
his life and character, as well as to rever-
ence him because of his greatness as a servant
of God, prophet, seer and revelator.
The book should be in every home where
there are children, and it should be studied
carefully. There are still a few people
living who knew Joseph Smith personally,
and who testify of his tenderness to every
living creature and his love for flowers and
music, poetry and the drama, also of his
fondness for athletic games. He was un-
doubtedly the most remarkable man of this
century, and the time will come when his
superiority will be widely acknowledged.
	President Cannon has given the story
of  the golden plates in the most happy style,
minutely describing their appearance, also
the golden breastplate and the Urim and
Thummim, the hill in which the stone box
was hidden and the various times the angel
Moroni appeared to him and conversed with
him about them. The terrible persecutions
the Prophet endured because of the power
of evil, and his great courage and fortitude
are forcibly portrayed.
	It is a fine book for the little men and


women, the best, as far as we have seen, of
its kind; but it has the best subject to deal
with and the writer knows how to reach the
hearts of his readers, and partly because in
this instance his own has been thrilled with
the story he relates.
	The book is for sale at George Q. Cannon
& Sons Co. Publishing House, Main St.,
Salt Lake City, Utah. Price 50cts.


[Column 1]
		PARIS EXPOSITION.

	Paris, April 14.— The Paris Exposition
was opened at noon April 14. The most
favorable weather conditions prevailed and
innumerable bright colored domes glistened
in the sunshine. Paris was early astir with 
people wending their way towards the
Elysee and in the direction of the exposi-
tion.
	All the public buildings and numberless
private houses were decorated with trophies
of flags, chiefly the tricolor. The neighbor-
hood of the exposition was especially gay
with bunting, while most of the pavilions
themselves were surmounted with floating
banners.
	President Loubet, as he stood in the
presidential tribunal surrounded by the
cabinet and household, opened the exposi-
tion with the words: "I declare the expo-
sition of 1900 open.”
	Thus was the Paris Exposition, designed
to celebrate the world's entry into the new
century, inaugurated, and shouts of “ Vive
Loubet” and ‘‘Vive la Republique' ’ rose
from his 40,000 hearers, and silk hats were
waved in the air. The crowds outside the
hall took up the cheering and the exposition
was open.
	The spectable inside the Salle de Fetes
was brilliant with color and illumination.
The immense circus shaped hall is decor-
ated with magnificent frescoes, represent-
ing allegorical subjects by famous French
artists and its stained glass cupola bears
superb designs by Hermann and Goodwin.
It formed a beautiful setting for todays
ceremony.
	Contrary to expectations, the premier, M.
Waldeck-Rousseau, made no address at the
opening of the exposition, Mm. Millerand
and Loubet being the only speakers.
	President Loubet saluted the committees,
and entered the hall through, the throng of
more than 40,000 people that formed a sea
of human faces all turned toward the door.
As a salvo of artillery announced the presi-
dent’s arrival, there was a moment of ex-
pectant silence, then the heavy red plush
cushions covering the door were thrown
aside and the president in evening dress and
wearing the broad red insignia of the Legion
of Honor across his breast stepped into the
tribune which had been temporarily erected
for today’s ceremony, the presidential gal-
lery which is to serve for all later cere-
monies not yet being ready. At the same
instant an orchestra composed of musicians
of the famed Republican Guard struck up
the Marsellaise. The whole assembly un-
covered and remained bare-headed during
the remainder of the proceedings.
	Before the strains of France’s stirring
national hymn had died away a mighty cry
arose of “Vive Loubet, vive la Republique,
vive la F[-]ance!”
	President Loubet stood in the front of
the tribune with M. Waldeck-Rousseau,
M. Deschanet, president of the chamber of
deputies, and M. Delcasse, minister of
foreign affairs and all of the ministers ex-
cept the Marquis de Gallifet, minister of

[olumn 2]
war, who was absent because of indisposi-
tion.
	Grouped behind him were a number of
richly uniformed officials. The acclama-
tions were still echoing through the al-
coves and galleries when President Loubet
and the ministers resumed their seats and
M. Millerand began his speech formally
handing over the exposition to the chief of
state.
	M. Millerand’s address was received with
rounds of applause which attained a veri-
table roar at its conclusion.
	President Loubet then arose and delivered
an address which was also cheered.
	M. Waldeck-Rosseau was up to the last
moment expected to speak, but he changed
his mind, and when President Loubet con-
cluded he remained seated. The orchestra
then rendered Saint Saen's hymn to Victor
Hugo, and President Loubet descended
from the trifiune. 
	Americans will especially be proud of
their country’s display at this world’s fair,
for the United Stales stands second only to
France herself in number of exhibitors,
which treble those of any foreign country.
	The highest testimonial of Americanhood
comes from Commissioner General Picard
himself. In comparing the state of pro-
gress of the installation of various nations,
he said to Commissioner Peck, ‘‘It is an
object lesson to us all to see the American
people’s work. I thank you for your
promptitude and the advanced condition of
work in the United States section.”


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	The General Conference of the Relief
Society was held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall, in this City, Thursday, April 5,
1900, President Zina D. H. Young presid-
ing. Her counselors, Jane S. Richards,
Bathsheba W. Smith and Sarah Jane Can-
non, the secretary, E. B. Wells, and Presi-
dent M. Isabella Horne, of the Salt Lake
Stake of Zion, and many presidents from
other Stakes were on the stand.
	Meeting opened at 10 a. m. by singing
“Zion stands with hills surrounded.”
Prayer by B[-]other Redding Allred. Singing
duet by Sister Christine Anderson and her
daughter, Miss Judith Anderson, "Whisper-
ing Hope,” very beautfully rendered, Miss
Lizzie Thomas accompanying them upon
the organ.
	Secretary called the roll, response from
thirty-eignt Stakes, eighteen presidents, ten
secretaries, ten by other representatives.
Minutes of previous conference read and ac-
cepted.
	President Young gave an interesting ad-
dress of welcome and greeting to the sisters
assembled, and asked the Lord to bless us
all and renew our spirit and strength and
comfort us with His Holy Spirit.
	President Jane S. Richards would much
rather have heard from “Aunt Zina,” and
felt some others would, but wished to be
obedient at all times, and as she had been
called hoped she might be able to say a few
words of encouragement. “The Lord said
He would have a tried people and we want
to be His. Sometimes we would rather
choose our trials, but it is not given us to
do. If all had come to this meeting who
ought to have, there would not be a vacant
seat, that is how it should be. The society
was organized for the care of the sick and I


have never stayed at home when I felt that
I could go. Sister Zina wants the presi-
dents to visit their Stakes once a year at
least, if not more. We are so glad when
we can see the sisters. If we exercise faith
I believe Sister Zina will be able to visit the
sisters in their conferences.” Sister Rich-
ards urged the sisters to be good to poor
people, for we are all dependent upon the
same Father. If some are wayward, let us
coax them to return if we can. There are
many who need spiritual strength, and
there’s a great promise to the lost sheep,
we will make mistakes, but I don’t think
we should wait until people are dead, or
can’t hear us, let us do this and set a good
example.
	Sister B. W. Smith said: ‘‘My dear sis- 
ters, I greet you with a joyful greeting. I
remember when we first set out to comfort
the sick and afflicted, and to comfort each
other and look after the wayward. I was
asked to speak about the first organization
and how things were then. There were
only a few, nineteen in all, and the society
grew and increased to several hundreds and
a great interest was taken. We want to
teach righteousness in all things and to
comfort each other, and do whatever we
can to help build each other up.” Sister
Smith spoke of observing the 17th of March
and paying the donation. She would like
to see the sisters come into the Temple; how
would we feel when we pass away if we
have not done this. She recommended
reading the life of Joseph Smith in the
society, knew that he was a man of God; she
had been well acquainted with him enough
to know his daily walk and conversation.
Let us enjoy ourselves and never be weary
in well doing.
	President Young spoke upon prayer, com-
fort and wisdom, the great responsibilities 
of mothers, the foundation of all is prayer;
then urged all to pay their tithing and do-
nations, and encourage those who are not
interested to attend our meetings. It the
hill of corn is not fed by the elements it will
not grow. Let us teach the children indus-
try, how to save and economize. Referred
to Sister Eliza’s words about idleness and
uncleanliness; said she knew Sister Eliza
almost seventy years ago, and was thankful
for her being upon the earth; that we
knew her and had her with us. Loved to
look upon the faces of the Saints, they had
come from under the water, had received
the Holy Ghost. Let us do our duty and
our labors will be crowned with success
when the last day comes.
	Sister Horne: “When we hear the word
of the Lord given to us, we should observe
it. We’ve had many good things this
morning, and we should digest them when
we are performing our labors. We know
the Lord is as good as his promises, and we
should follow the teachings of the Savior
and acknowledge His hand in all things;
by this means we are proven. We are
called to help accomplish the work of God.
Solomon in summing up said: Fear God
and keep His commandments was the
whole duty of man. We have had so much
instruction from Sister Eliza and Mother
Whitney in the past, we should remember
them in love, and we expect to meet them
when we go behind the veil. There are
many insinuating spirits abroad, and we do
not want to be overcome by them. If we
walk humbly the Lord will arrest calamity
and when diseases come that baffle the
skill of the physician as mentioned in the
Book of Doctrine and Covenants, don’t be

[Column 2]
fearful, ask the Lord to help you, trust in
Him, and may the Lord help us to under-
stand our duty and teach those in our care
to keep the Sabbath day holy and work
righteousness.” Sister Horne closed with
a blessing upon all.
	Sister Mary J. West Counselor in the
Snowflake Stake, Arizona, gave an excel-
lent report of the Stake. Said they had
two Relief Society halls, they gave the first
one they built freely for the Academy and
then put up a beautiful little brick build-
ing. The spirit of the Lord is with the
Saints there, and they are comforted and
blest. Sister West offered a beautiful tri-
bute to the memory of Sister Lucy H.
Flake, who had recently passed away. She
had been president of the Primary Associa-
tions of the Stake. She was one of the
most useful women, a true Saint of God.
Sister West bore a strong testimony to the
divine mission of Joseph Smith and prayed
that the aged mothers in Israel might live
many years to teach the daughters of Zion.
	Sister Zina Y. Card, president of the Y.
L. M. I. A. of Alberta Stake, reported the
Relief Society of that Stake of Zion which
she designated as the baby Stake. The
society have one house which they pur-
chased. The 17th of March this year was
observed throughout the Stake in Cardston.
The society gave a banquet to the old
folks, all over fifty were invited. She
realized it was easier for the Saints to live
their religion in new settlements where all
were equal. Sister Card spoke strongly
for the support of the Exponent and for
the central building in this city, and alto-
gether her speech was replete with a living
testimony of the truth.
	President Elizabeth Fox, of Oneida
Stake, said she had not been able to attend
conference for a year and a half. Rejoiced
in being present and seeing the sisters who
had labored in the Relief Society ever since
the first organization. Referred to the
branch of the society in Oregon as belong-
ing to their Stake. Had tried to encourage
the sisters in taking the sacrament, knew it
was a blessing to the sisters in the society.
Prayed that we might increase in wisdom
and understanding, and train our youth in
the principles of the Gospel, teach them to
observe the law of tithing while they are
young, be charitable to the wayward and
they will turn back. Asked every blessing
upon the Saints in the name of Jesus, amen.
	Sister L. M. Hart, counselor in Bear
Lake Stake, made an excellent report. The
president, Sister Lindsay, was ill and could
not attend the conference. She referred to
the visit of Sister Jane S. Richards and
Apostle F. D. Richards to their Stake dur-
ing the last summer and how much they
appreciated the instructions particularly
upon tithing. In that Stake the society
was helping to build the Stake Academy.
On the 25th of December they made a party
for its benefit and it was the party of the
season; they realized $240.00. She felt a
school for the children of our own faith
would be the best influence for the boys
and girls to train them in the Gospel
principles. They were very much lacking
skilfull help in nursing. Physicians were
reaping a harvest. Referred to the teach-
ings of President Woodruff and felt to bear
them in mind.
	Congregation standing sang, “O, ye
mountains high’’ and benediction was offered
by President Jesse M. Smith.
E. B. Wells, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


A BRIEF SKETCH OF MY LIFE.
	My parents names were William
Cruickshank. and Mary Farquhar Cruick-
shank. I was born in Aberdeen, Scotland,
June 5, 1825, and lived there until my mar-
riage, which event took place December 22,
1843. My husband’s name was William.
Morrison, also a native of Aberdeen.
	In 1844 my husband received an appoint-
ment in Her Majesty’s dockyard, Woolwich,
Kent, England, and thither we went, in-
tending to spend the remainder of our lives
in happiness and comfort. But alas! we
are short-sighted mortals, for our Heavenly-
Father had ordered it otherwise, and dur-
ing the summer of 1847 my husband heard
the principles of the Gospel as taught by
the Latter-day Saints, which aroused in
him a spirit of inquiry to know more about
them. He had been longing for something
and knew not what, but the desire of his
heart was soon to be granted, he being
earnest and prayerful, and his prayers were
answered.
	At this time I went on a visit to my
native home and stayed four months. Dur-
ing my absence my husband had ample
opportunity to investigate for himself, and
soon became convinced of the truth of the
great Latter-day work, which soon proved a
source of joy and satisfaction to him.
	During my stay in Aberdeen my little son
was taken down with scarlet fever and
putrid sore throat; and although everything
was done that medical skill could suggest,
it was all to no purpose, my darling was
taken from me and removed to a higher
sphere and I was left to mourn.
	During this short period my husband had
heard the. Gospel preached by one of the
Elders of the Church, Thomas Bradshaw.
He believed and was baptized for the re-
mission of his sins and received the gift of
the Holy Ghost, which gave him light,
knowledge, wisdom and understanding, and
he was enabled to communicate with me
words of comfort and consolation in the
hour of our severe affliction, this being the
first great sorrow of our lives. But “The
Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away.
Blessed be his name.”
	Three weeks after the death of my boy,
the Lord blessed me with another son, and
was soon able to return to my husband
with a joyful heart, and with joy he received
me and preached to me the principles pf the
Gospel of repentance and baptism for the
remission of sins, which I gladly accepted,
making the bonds that united us more firm-
ly riveted than ever. I was baptized into
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, January 1, 1848, by Elder Thomas
Bradshaw. I felt convinced of the truth
from the first I heard it, and the Lord has
blest me ever since. He enlightened my
mind and gave me a clear conception of the
principles of eternal truth, as they were ad-
vanced to us from time to time through
divine revelation, and I have truly rejoiced
from that day to the present.
	Then the desire to emigrate took posses-
sion of us from the very beginning, and we
were in earnest looking Zionward all the
time.
	In 1850 I had a daughter born, and again
three weeks later death robbed me of my
only boy. But we prayed to our Father in
heaven to give us strength to bear our
trouble, that we might be able to hold up
under every trial.
	In 1852 another daughter was born to us,
and three weeks later my dear sister, who


[Column 1]
with her husband had embraced the Gospel,
died in childbed, leaving her husband and
one son four years old, her babe being
buried with her. It really seemed as if our
troubles were greater than we could endure,
but with prayerful hearts, exercising pati-
ence and perseverance, the Lord helped us
and we were enabled to break up our home
and make a start for Zion. Thus in Sep-
tember, 1854, we bade farewell to father,
mother, brothers and sisters, and all we
held most dear on earth, to travel to Zion in
obedience to the commands of our Father in
heaven, trusting in Him and looking ahead
for a brighter day to come.
	Our passage from Liverpool to New
Orleans took eleven weeks, and from there
to St. Louis two weeks more, making our
journey by water thirteen weeks. When
we got to St. Louis they would not allow
us to land, so we had to be quarantined two
weeks longer, and during that time we took
the cholera, thirty of our company died. I
had it very bad, but was instantly healed 
by the power of God but my two little
girls and my sister’s boy all died in one
week.  Being left childless our trials were
almost more than we could endure, but the
Lord was with us and strengthened us for
the trying ordeals we had to pass through.
When we arrived at St. Louis we found our
means had all been taken to emigrate the
poor.  As we belonged to the independent
company we had to remain there two years
and make a new outfit, which we did, and
were again able to start in April, 1856.
	During our stay in St. Louis I had a
daughter born who lived just ten months;
so, you see, I left three of my own girls and
my nephew laid there to rest to await the
resurrection of the just. Surely I had all
I could endure, but the Lord gave me
strength equal to my day, and I never once
looked back.
	We arrived in Salt Lake City September
22, 1856, just three weeks before the first
handcart company. We got us a home in
Salt Lake City on our arrival, and were
very comfortable. We had a son born
December 9, 1856, all well.
	We remained in Salt Lake City until the
brethren were called to Echo canyon to
meet Johnston’s army, my husband being
among the first. During his absence
Bishop Woolley called from the stand to
find out who would be ready to start south
next morning. I raised my hand, and
started at 9 a. m. with my infant son,
Willie, in my arms. My friends came
around me and begged me not to go farther
than Provo and they would soon come.
They were Sisters Kent, Richards, Caine,
Gates, Colbrook.
	So we said goodbye for a little while and
traveled on till we arrived at Provo, and
the brother who owned the team said,
“Now, Sister Morrison, this is Provo, how
far will you go with us?’’ I said, “How
far do you go?’’ He said, “One hundred
miles farther.” “Then,” said I, “if you
will take me I will go as far as the team
will carry me, for I feel that is where the
Lord wants me to be.’’ So we drove right
to Ephraim. I did not see my husband for
eleven weeks, but it was a joyful greeting
when we did meet.
	We lived in Ephraim from the spring of
1858 till the spring of 1859, my daughter,
Mina being born on March 13. As soon
as I was able we moved to Mt. Pleasant,
where we remained living in the Fort [-]ll
the spring of 1865. February 15 my
daughter, Tina, was born, and one month

[Column 2]
later we moved into our new “Home sweet
Home.”
	In 1865 my husband was called upon to
lead a company of thirty, to make a loca-
tion in Sevier Co., which he did in 1867.
The settlement of people were driven from
their homes by Indians and lost all they
had. By this time my husband's families
were getting numerous, he having three
wives. After a while President Young
called on those Saints to try it again, which
they did, and have remained there ever
since.
	In 1868 Bishop Wm. S. Seeley was called
upon to organize the Relief Society, which
he did and nominated me as president. He
also nominated Sister Madsen first counselor,
Sister Dehlian second counselor. When
called to fill this important position I felt
helpless as a child, and felt it utterly im-
possible for me to fulfill the duties of that
office with propriety. I prayed earnestly
to the Lord to help me and give me wisdom
that I might be able to do my part in a man-
ner that would be pleasing and acceptable
unto Him, also to fill the office with credit
to myself and satisfaction to all concerned.
	It will be thirty-two years on the 11th of
May since our Relief Society was organized,
and I can truthfully say that our sisters
have been all that I could wish or desire.
They have been always ready and on hand
to give aid and assistance when called upon,
to visit the sick or to minister to the wants
and necessities of the poor and those in
distress. I can also say that no one has
ever called for help and been refused. With
regard to the dead of Mt. Pleasant, we sis-
ters have dressed and laid away between
six and seven hundred, and you know that
means work. But the Lord has greatly
blessed our labors and given us strength
equal to the task before us.
	I am proud to be able to say the sisters
are most liberal in contributing to the wants
of the poor, also in responding to any call
made upon them, and do so cheerfully,
without a murmur or complaint. I know
it is due to the prayers of the sisters who
are associated with me, that I have been
enabled to keep on as I have and feel as I
do. Our desire is to live humble and faith-
ful, and strive to do unto others as we
would wish to be done unto.
	That we may be able to run the race and
gain the prize which has been laid up for
the faithful, is my desire and prayer in the
name of Jesus, amen.
					M. F. C. MORRISON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


PIONEER WOMAN.
With seventy-five years of life behind her
and another well nigh completed, and with
many a hardship bravely borne, Mrs.
Elizabeth Murphy McLelland, a pioneer of
’48 and widow of Thomas McLelland,
second Bishop of the Seventh Ward, of this
city, passed from mortality at her home in
Farmers Ward, Thursday, April 12.
The . deceased was born in Manahan,
Ireland, in Ausust, 1824. Having em-
braced the “Mormon” faith she sailed from
her native land in 1844, and went to Nau-
voo where she resided until the expulsion
of the Saints. During her residence there
she became well acquainted with the
Prophet Joseph Smith and was a firm be-
liever in him and the doctrines he taught.
Mrs. McLelland was among the first
“Mormons” who departed from Nauvoo,but
remained in the various camps in Iowa un-
til the fall of 1848 when she came on to


Utah one year after the arrival of her hus-
band’s team.
    Seven living children, numerous grand- 
children and a host of friends mourn Mother
McLelland’s demise. Her children are, in
the order of their ages: Mrs.Thomas A.
Starr, of Cassia County, Idaho, who arrived
in Salt Lake a few days before her mother’s
death; Mrs. Margaret Palmer; Thomas
McLelland, of Farmers Ward; Edward
McLelland, ex-deputy sheriff; Sarah Lisle,
of San Mateo, California, and Mrs. Horace
Stayner, of Salt Lake.


R. S. AND P. A. REPORTS

	ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATION.

    On March 17th last the Relief Society of
Forest Dale Ward convened for the purpose
of celebrating the first organization of the
Relief Society, Louisa Stevenson presiding.
    After singing and prayer, the minutes of
the first organization of the Relief Society
were read, after which the following pro-
gram was rendered:
    Sketch of the life of Sister Bathsheba W.
Smith, by Stake Counselor Mary P. Young.
Duet, by Miilie Kimball and Maggie
Summerhayes. Select reading, by Sister
Belle Hansen. Recitation, “The Changed
Cross,” by Sister Nellie Fowler. Song, by
Sisters Libbie Pratt and Maggie Summer-
hayes. Guitar selection, by Hazel and
Geneva Love. Song, by Hannah Gates
and Rhoda Laird.
    There was a good spirit manifest and all
rejoiced exceedingly in the work of the
Lord.
				AGNES RUMEL, Sec.

		ORANGEVILLE.
    The annual meeting of the Orangeville
Relief Society was held in the Relief Soci-
ety hall, March 17, 1900, at ten o'clock a.
m., and was a testimony meeting, with
President Rhoda E. Robertson presiding.
Singing by the Relief Society choir, “How
firm a foundation.” Prayer by Charles H.
Oliphant. Singing, “Praise to the man who
communed with Jehovah.”
    President R. E. Robertson welcomed the
visitors who were with us. Reading from
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, by Lucinda C.
Curtis.
    Stake President Anna U. Larson ex-
pressed her pleasure in meeting with the
Orangeville Relief Society. Said she had a
testimony to bear; she would never have
left her native land but for the knowledge
that this was the work of God.
    Maria Guymon bore her testimony that
this is the work of the Lord, and Rachel 
Killian felt proud to say that she had al-
ways been a member of the Relief Society.
Felt that mothers had one of the greatest
missions on earth to fill in rearing their
children properly.
    Sister Susanna Jewkes bore her testi-
mony to the goodness of the Lord. Bishop
Jasper Robertson said the spirit of the Lord
was with us, and that thousands were cele-
brating this day. President R. G. Miller
congratulated the sisters on the great oppor-
tunities they enjoy.
    Professor B. Cluff, Jr. bore a strong testi-
mony to the divine mission of the Prophet
Joseph Smith.
    Singing “O, say what is truth.”
    Professor George Cluff spoke of the many
branches of the Relief Society that exist to-
day, and all carrying peace and kindness
with them.
    Singing, “The spirit of God like a fire is


[Column 1]
burning,” Benediction by Bishop Robert-
son.
	Afternoon session, presided over by Sister
Jane Moffatt. Singing, “Now let us re-
joice.” Prayer by Andrew Anderson.
Singing, “O, my Father.” Opening re-
marks by Rhoda E. Robertson. Song by
Jane R. Cox and company. Maria Guyman
gave a sketch of the first Relief Society or-
ganized by President Joseph Smith. Reci-
tation by Mary Jewkes. Remarks by
Bishop Robertson. Song by Emma
Higgs. Essay, by Sarah A. Ful-
mer. Song by Mary A. Sorensen and
company. Music by the Snow Brothers.
Remarks by Stake President Anna U.
Larsen. Solo, Joseph Jewkes. Song,
Grace Oliphant. Remarks, Anna Pulsi-
pher. Hymn, “Weep, weep not for me
Zion.” Passing of picnic. Hymn, “We
thank Thee, O God, for a prophet.” Bene-
di[-]on by A. G. Jewkes.
	RHODA E. ROBERTSON, Pres.
	JANE R. COX, Sec.
KAMAS.
	The sisters of the Kamas Relief Society
met in annual anniversary meeting at the
Kamas meeting house, March 17, 1900,
President Ann Harder presiding. A num-
ber of the brethren were also present.
	The choir sang “An angel from on high.”
Prayer by Sister Laura Pack. Singing,
“Praise to the man.”
	President Ann Harder made a few pleas-
ing opening remarks, adding that as Sister
Ruth Pack was unable to be present on ac-
count of illness, Sister Julia I. Pack would
give an address.
	Sister Pack expressed pleasure at the
privilege of celebrating this anniversary,
spoke of the first organization of which she
was a member, and of the wonderful increase
and progress made, and of the great amount
of good accomplished. Prayed the Lord’s
blessing on all faithful workers in the
cause.
	Presidents May Simpson and Katie
Burbidge sang a duet.
	Sister Emma Pack recited “The Starless
Crown,” after which the minutes of the
first organization were read by Counselor
Margaret A. Woodard, who added a few
interesting remarks on the work of the
society.
	Counselor Willet S. Harder spoke on
Church organization and Relief Society
work and bore a powerful testimony.
	President Ward E. Pack spoke of the
great mission of the sisters and their power
for good, and of the aid rendered in this
Stake in assisting the authorities in accom-
plishing good.
	President Ann Harder gave a short sketch
of work done the past year, and made all
present welcome to the feast.
	An original poem was read by Sister
Edith Lambert, the choir sang “The Spirit
of God,” and closing prayer by W. S.
Harder.
	Tables were then set and all partook of
the good things prepared in rich abundance.
After social chat and reminiscences of other
days, the company separated with the
feeling that another pleasant landmark was
reached in the journey of life.
	EDITH LAMBERT, Ass’t. Sec’y.
RELIEF SOCIETY, PANGUITCH STAKE.
Reorganized.
	Our Relief Society was to be reorganized
at our Stake conference, and then the sis-
ter who was elected for president was absent-

[Column 2]
and we thought best to wait until she ac’
cepted and was set apart with the other
officers, which was done on the 17th of
March, at the close of our celebration, and
was as follows: Elizabeth Delong, presi-
dent; Alice Jane Cameron, Hannah A.
Crosby, counselors; Hannah A. Crosby,
secretary, M. Isabella Henrie, treasurer.
	Our president desired to attend the con-
ference and intended to if possible, and may
have been there, I am not quite sure. We
have had no Stake organization for nearly
two years and no report, except that we
have heard from all the wards and all are
in fairly good condition but one, Cleveland,
which is practically disorganized on account
of so many moving away.
	We feel that Sister Delong will fill the
position satisfactorily to all, and we will be
pleased to receive any instructions the
General Board may have to give.
	HANNAH A. CROSBY. Sec.
FARMINGTON
	It is some time since anything from our
Relief Society appeared in the columns of
the EXPONENT, we therefore thought per-
haps a brief report of our meeting of the
17th of March might be of interest.
	The meeting was held at the Farming-
ton vestry, President Helen Miller presid-
ing. After the Opening exercises the
secretary read an article from the Expo-
nent explaining the object of the meet-
ing, it being to celebrate the first organiza-
tion of the Relief Society by the Prophet
Joseph Smith.
	Mrs. Lucy A. Clark read the original
minutes of the first meeting held, with
Eliza R. Snow secretary, also gave a
sketch of the Relief Society of Farmington
from its organization, June 3, 1868, until
the present. It was very interesting.
	“O, my Father” was then rendered.
Sister Annie Tanner gave a much appre-
ciated sketch of the life and labors of Sis-
ter Eliza R. Snow Smith, and concluded
by giving one of her beautiful poems.
	Interesting and instructive remarks were
made, testimonies borne by Stake Counsel-
or Mary S. Clark, President Helen Miller,
Sisters Hannah Miller Julia Steed, Caroline
Bigler, Temperance Moon, et al.
	A very enjoyable time was spent, the
spirit of the Lord was with us in a marked
degree, softening the feelings of all pres-
ent so that many were in tears. After
singing and benediction meeting was ad-
journed.
	MINERVA RICHARDS KNOWLTON,
								Secretary.
TWENTY-FOURTH WARD ANNIVERSARY.
	Minutes of the entertainment given on
the 17th of March in honor of the first or-
ganization in the Twenty-Fourth Ward,
Salt Lake City. We had a very enjoyable
time and a good spirit prevailed.
	We commenced the meeting by singing
“We thank Thee, O God, for a prophet.”
Prayer by Brother Wilson. Continued by
singing “How firm a foundation.”
	Sister Mary Howell read the minutes of
the first organization in Nauvoo, Ill.
	Brother Gill made a few remarks. Said
he was pleased to be with us and spoke of
Relief Society work.
	Solo, by Lottie Cottom, “Flee as a Bird.”
	Recitation by Brother Cottom, Sen.,
“The Convert’s Dream,” composed when
Brother Cottom was imprisoned for his re-
ligious principles. Remarks by J. W. Roe,
who spoke about the celebration of the or-
ganization.

[Column 3]
	Brother Edwards sang a Welsh song,
“Time Waits for no Man.”
	Duet by Lunie and May Harmen.
	Refreshments were served by Sister Kate
Ames and her aids, and after intermission
the exercises were resumed.
	Song by Sister Johnson. Brother J. W.
Christenson made a few remarks and gave
good instructions to the society.
	President Nightingale thanked the sisters
for all they had done expressed her good
wishes and prayed God to bless us one and
all.
	Meeting closed by singing “Guide, us, O
Thou Great Jehovah.” Minutes of the
meeting were read and accepted.” Bene-
diction by Brother Backman.
		NELLIE A. MORRIS, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.
Resolutions of respect to the memory of Sister
Josephine Hansen,
	Sister Josephine Hansen departed this life at her
home in Heber City, Utah, March 16, 1900, aged
fifty-nine years lacking one hour. Her death
happening at this time is a very sad occurrance, as
her husband, Peter Hansen, is laboring in the
missionary field in Denmark. He has been ab-
sent from home almost two years. She has been a .
faithful member of the Heber east ward Relief
Society.
	Resolved, That it is but a just tribute to the
memory of the departed to say that in sorrowing
over her removal from our midst, we mourn for 
one that was faithful and worthy of our respect
and love.
	Resolved, That we, the officers, in behalf of the
members of the east ward Relief Society, do
mourn for her, realizing that we have lost a noble
sister and colaborer.
	Resolved, That we tender our heartfelt sym-
pathy to the bereaved family.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
placed on the records of the Relief Society and a
copy be sent to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publi-
cation.
				SARAH BOND, President.
				EDDA R. JOHNSON, Sec.
SISTER HENRIETTA HOMAR YOUNG.
	Sister Henrietta Homar Young was born in
Reisoer, Norway, April 6, 1842, was baptized into
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in
1853 and was married to H. O. Young in Rockport,
Summit Co., Utah, November 12, 1860, and died
of heart failure, at Parley’s Park, Summit Co.,
Utah, October 27, 1899.
	She was a true Saint, a loving wife and mother
and was the mother of nine children, three of
whom died in infancy. She leaves a loving hus-
band, six children and a wide circle of friends to
mourn her loss. Her children are all married.
	She was an earnest worker in the Relief Society
and a true mother in Israel. Ten minutes before
she died she was engaged in helping with a party
for the first misssonary that had been called from
our ward. She died without a minute’s warning
to those around her. She was greatly beloved by
all who knew her and her death has cast a gloom
over all the ward. She was a kind, true friend in
joy or sorrow, and the only comfort there is in her
loss is knowing she has gone to the presence of our
Father in heaven.					COM.


PRIMARY CONFERENCE. 
	Minutes of Primary Conference of the
Salt Lake Stake, held in the Assembly
Hall, March 17, 1900, President Camilla
C. Cobb presiding. Opened by singing,
“We are the children of the Saints.” Pray-
er by Master David W. Cummings, of the
Nineteenth ward. Singing, “Did you
think to pray?” Roll call with twenty-
two associations represented, and minutes
of previous conference read and approved.
	The first exercise on the program was a
song of welcome, by members from the
Ninth Ward. Tillie Thomas, from the
Nineteenth Ward, read an essay On Pri-
mary work. The story of Samuel was re-
peated by Heber Mathews, from the Fifth
Ward. Motion song, by nine little girls


from the Eleventh Ward. Violin solo, by
Samuel Newton, from the Nineteenth
Ward. Questions and answers on the life
of Joseph Smith, by two little girls from
the Twenty-first Ward. Duet, by two
little girls from the Seventeenth Ward.
Mandolin solo, by Ettie Browning, from
the Third Ward.
	Counselor Joseph E. Taylor addressed
the conference. Expressed great pleasure
in listening to the exercises by the children.
Gave good counsel and advice, especially
to the boys in regard to swearing and being
destructive. Said children should honor
and obey their parents and teachers, their
love and counsel cannot be exceled. Asked
the children why we were brothers and
sisters? Said it was because we were
baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ.
Spoke words of praise for teachers and
children. Prayed God to bless us.
	President Nellie C. Taylor, of the Y. L.
M. I. A., complimented the children on
their good behavior and urged them to be
prayerful. Related an instance of a little
boy coasting, who came very nearly being
killed, and knew he was saved because he
had said his prayers that morning.
	A duet was rendered by Silva and
Frances Vowley, from the First Ward.
	President Louie B. Felt, of the General
Board, said she had listened with pleasure
to the sentiments that had been given; was
also pleased with the large attendance of
children. Urged them to remember what
Brother Taylor had said to them in regard
to obeying parents and teachers. Wanted
every little boy and girl to be a missionary
and bring some one with them to the next
conference.
	By request the children from the Eleventh
Ward gave another motion song.
	President Zina D. H. Young, of the
Relief Society, spoke a few words to the
children in regard to having faith to be
healed; made other remarks.
	Singing, “We thank Thee, O God, for a
prophet.” Benediction by Master Eli
Eliason, of the Thirteenth Ward.
			ELLA W. HYDE, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


U. W. P. C.
	The U. W. P. C. held its regular
meeting in the EXPONENT office, on March
21, 1900, the president, Mrs. Schiller, pre-
siding. Opening prayer, Ruth M. Fox.
The roll was called, members responding
with original sentiments, after which the
business before the club was considered.
	The second circular on the Industral
Problem was read, and the president re-
ported from the club council. The Con-
sumers League was then discussed. A
communication was read regarding the edu-
cational work.
	Mrs. Wells announced to the club that
Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Stetson would be
here on the 25th of April. A recommend-
ation was read asking for the names of the
club, after which the following program
was carried out:
	A poem composed by Lucy A. Clark,
entitled “Wedding Bells,” was read by
Ruth M. Fox. Phebe C. Young read a
paper on Manilla, and Aimee C. Schiller
read Current Events.
	It was decided that the club hold a special
meeting during the month, invite the
Reapers’ Club to meet with us and have
Emma J. McVicker talk on education. 
	Prayer, Rebecca Doolan.
				GRACE ANDERSON, Sec.


LETTER TO SILK RAISERS.
	Mrs. Margaret A. Caine, secretary of the
Utah Silk Commission, has issued a circu-
lar letter to prospective silk culturists, a
copy of which here follows:
	“The Utah Silk Commission desires to
call attention to the fact that the time for
raising silk is again upon us, and we trust
that those who intend entering upon the
work this year will write to us at once for
eggs. Those who are taking up the work
for the first time will kindly state the num-
ber and size of the trees from which they
can obtain leaves; also the number of per-
sons who can give their time during the
latter period of the raising season, so that
we will be able to send the necessary quan-
tity of eggs.
	“We also desire to state that eggs can be
obtained from the commission free, and we
would prefer every one who is going to
raise the worms to have seed from us, as
we provide a quality which gives a much
better result than those raised by people
having no experience. We will also send
pamphlet of instructions free to those wish-
ing any information upon the subject.
	“We trust that many people throughout
the State have already planted numbers of
mulberry trees, and have been watchful
lest any of those which have grown are in
danger of being destroyed. We also wish
to say to those who have trees, and do not
care to use them, that they may do a great
deal towards establishing this important
industry by allowing others to use the
leaves, and we assure you that it will only
benefit the trees even if they are stripped
several times, they will soon become much
more thrifty, and this will also be a means
of disposing of the fruit which is sometimes
an annoyance, especially when trees are
planted on the street.
	“As a whole, the commission feels very
much encouraged with the results of last
years work, and trust it will be very much
increased this year. All communications
should be addressed to Margaret A. Caine,
Secretary Utah Silk Commission, Salt Lake
City, Utah.


[Column 1]
90% OF AMERICAN WOMEN
wash dishes three times each day. If you are one
of these, wear a pair of “Goodyear” Rubber
Gloves and always have soft, white hands. Sent
by mail postpaid, on receipt of $1.59 Agents
wanted. Address, M. O. Dept.,
M. F. Reese Supply Co., Setauket, N. Y.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 67, 69 & 71 Main St., 
SALT LAKE CITY. 

The Leading Retail.
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS


[Column 2]
[logo of a shield]
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
WORLD’S PICTORIAL LINE.

[to the right of the logo]
THE PEOPLE’S FAVORITE.

			Leave Salt Lake City
No. 6	The “Fast Mail” for Chicago, St. Paul, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and
		Park City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7 00 a.m.
No. 2	The “Overland Limited” for Chicago, St. 
		Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
		Denver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	11 45 a.m.
No. 4	The “Atlantic Express” for Chicago, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver . .	6 40 p.m.
		
			Arrive Salt Lake City.
No. 5 	The “Fast Mail” from Chicago, St. Louis,
		Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and Park
		City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3 00 p.m.
No. 1 	The “Overland Limited” from Chicago, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver . .	3 00 p.m.
No. 3 	The ‘Pacific Express” from Chicago, St. 
		Paul, St Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
		Denver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3 30 p.m.
CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 Main St.			Telephone 665.
						H. M. CLAY, General Agent.

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah. 
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts. 
		The laws of Utah permit married 
	women and also children who are minors 
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account?  If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol- 
	lar to thousands, and compute said 
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

The Most Convenient Local Train Service
in the State is given by the . . . . . .
OREGON SHORT LINE
RAILROAD. 
FIVE Fast Daily Trains Each Way between
	 Salt Lake City and Ogden . . . . . .

See that your tickets read via the
		“SHORT LINE”
			And Get the best.
CITY TICKET OFFICE for tickets to all points, 100 West 
	Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.
S. W. ECCLES,		D. E. BURLEY,
	Gen’l Tfc. Mgr.		G. P. & T. A


Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

