Vol. 28. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 1, 1899. No. 5.


CONTENTS.

An Internatinoal Gathering					33.
Women in Literature						34.
Notes from Idaho				Annie Bird 34.
A Passing Thought				Judex Judicii	34.
Mrs. Bedford Fenwick						35.
Reception at Stafford House					35.
A Woman Missionary		Mrs. Addison Pratt 36.
A Visit Through Oneida Stake 	D. E. Dudley 38.
R. S. Reports—San Luis 	Mary F. Crowther 39.
	St. Joseph				Sarah Webb 39.
Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting	J. S. Woolley 40.

EDITORIAL:—Abroad in London			36.
Congratulations							36.

POETRY:—The Message of Peace
						Julia Ward Howe 33.
	Sister Elizabeth Stevenson	Ellis R. Shipp 35.
	When I Have Time				Selected	35.


THE MESSAGE OF PEACE.
Bid the din of battle cease !
	Folded be the wings of fire !
Let your courage conquer peace,—
	Every gentle heart’s desire.

Let the crimson flood retreat !
	Blended in the arc of love
Let the flags of nations meet;
	Bind the raven, loose the dove!

At the altar that we raise
	King and kaiser may bow down;
Warrior-knights above their bays
	Wear the sacred olive crown. 

Blinding passion is subdued;
	Men discern their common birth. 
God hath made of kindred blood
	All the peoples of the earth. 

High and holy are the gifts 
	He has lavished on the race,— 
Hope that quickens, prayer that lifts,
	Honor’s meed and beauty’s grace.

As in heaven’s bright face we look
	Let our kindling souls expand; 
Let us pledge, on Nature’s book,
	Heart to heart and hand to hand.

For the glory that we saw
	In the battle-flag unfurled,
Let us read Christ’s better law: 
	Fellowship for all the world.
		Julia Ward Howe in S. S. Times.


[Column 1]
	AN INTERNATIONAL GATHERING.
	OPENING MEETING AT THE CHURCH
		HOUSE.
	The great International Council of Wom-
en opened its sittings June 26th. No such
gathering of women has ever been held be-
fore. The female sex of the whole world
was represented by delegates who came
from the ends of the earth to be present.
What the Council is and what it is going to
try to do has already been set forth in great
detail in these columns, and it is therefore
needless to go into the matter again.
	Westminster Town Hall was too small
for the assembly of all the delegates in one
place, so a move was made to the Church
House, in the great hall of which Lady
Aberdeen, the president of the Council,
took the chair at its opening session, and
delivered her presidential address. Long
before the opening hour of half-past two
the hall was filled both in floor and galler-
ies. The scene was strikingly picturesque.
There were a few men present, scattered
here and there about the meeting; but all

[Column 2]
the ladies had come in bright toilettes, and
the hall looked a moving mass of color. In
the end gallery were two Salvation Army
lasses, in red jerseys and poke bonnets; a
group of ladies from India sat in the side
seats, in native costumes of soft muslin and
heavy gold bangles and earrings. On the
platform was a lady from China in full
native dress. She wore a bright scarlet
petticoat, over which was a loose deep
blouse of ruby silk. The sleeves of this
had deep cuffs of bright blue, on which was
worked some exquisite gold embroidery.
Behind her sat her Chinese interpreter.
		THE DELEGATES.
	On the platform were gathered all the
presidents, vice-presidents and accredited
delegates from the various countries. Mrs.
May Wright Sewall, vice-president; Baron-
ess Alexandria Gripenberg, of Finland,
treasurer, and Miss Theresa Wilson, secre-
tary of the Council, were on the right and
left of Lady Aberdeen. The other dele-
gates on the platform were Mrs. F. H.
Gaffney and Miss Susan B. Anthony, U.
S. A.; Mrs. Bloomer, Mrs. Willoughby
Cummings and Mrs. Gibbs, Canada; Frau
Bieber Boehm, Germany; Fru Hierta Ret-
zius, Sweden; Lady Battersea and Mrs.
Creighton, Lady Hampden, New South
Wales; Fröken Henrie Forschammer, Den-
mark; Madame Klerck Von Hogendorp,
Holland; Lady Hamilton and Mrs. Henry
Dobson, Tasmania; Madame Bogelot and
Madame Oddo Deflon, France; Mrs. Flora
Annie Steel and Miss Mary Bhor, India;
Mrs. Neilson Hamilton, Persia; Dr. Cecilia
Grierson, the Argentine Republic; Madame
Shen, China, and Madame von Finkelstein
Mountford, Palestine. Delegates were also
present from Switzerland, Belgium, Italy,
Russia, Austria, Norway, Victoria, South
Australia, West Australia, Queensland,
Cape Colony and Iceland. The list of
women well known in public life in this
country who were scattered about the hall
would fill a column.
		THE SERVICE OF HUMANITY.
	Lady Aberdeen was greeted with cheers
from all pa[-]ts of the hall as she gave to all
the delegates a personal welcome, and ex-
pressed the hope that during their stay in
London they would feel themselves at
home. She went on to tell her hearers
that the movement was taking shape
differently according to the genius and
spirit of each people. This, she said, was
what they desired, so that their councils
should be truly national in character.
	“It will be asked, ‘How in the world
can such a conglomeration of associations
existing in so many different countries and
formed for so many various objects, some
actually opposed to one another, and com-
prising hundreds of thousands of women
of different religions, different races and up-
bringing, have an intelligible purpose, and
work together for a practical end?’ And
yet we claim that in the very varieties of
opinions and ideas and methods of work
which exists among us lies our raison d'etre,
the centre and kernel of our being. For

[Column 3]
the unity which it is our aim to seek after
does not lie in identity of organization or
identity of dogma, but in a common conse-
cration to the service of Humanity, in the
spirit of that Love which we hail as the
greatest thing in the world.
	“This may appear to some pure idealism,
and idealism of a nature unlikely to be of
any practical value. This is not, however,
our view or experience. True, it precludes
us from organizing ourselves in favor of
any one propaganda at the cost of another—
the founders of the Council who formulated
our constitution wisely foresaw that if we
identified ourselves with any movement of
a controversial character, we should sacrifice
forthwith the very essence of the council
idea, which is to provide a common centre
for women workers of every race, faith,
class and party, who are associating them-
selves together in the endeavor to leave the
world better and more beautiful than they
have found it.”
		THE WOMAN’S AGE.
	Lady Aberdeen reminded the Congress
that though it was a women’s congress
they had a number of men working with
them. The present age, she said, had been
called the “Woman’s Age:’’ indeed the
past fifty years had produced a revolution
in the position, the responsibilities and op-
portunities of women. This had led to the
formation of associations and unions of
women for mutual help; for when woman
found her life expanding so fast in every
direction she had to endeavor to fit herself
for the new conditions. Younger women
had no idea of the responsibility which had
rested upon those who had gone before.
	“The pioneer women who first broke
down the barriers which had been closed so
firmly against the participation of our
mothers in higher education or in any pub-
lic duties whatsoever, had but barely fin-
ished their task, and the road was as yet
rough and new, but yet the call seemed an
imperative one to go forward and take up
duties which appeared sacred and pressing,
and at the same time to show that this
could be done without sacrifice of our
womanliness.”
	The banding of women together, went
on Lady Aberdeen, should not be allowed
to crystallize into a permanent element in
social life. Man was not meant to live
alone—but still less was woman. It
might be well to have a union of mothers,
but do the fathers count for so little in
the home that their counsel is not needed [-]
	"There are many earnest workers in the
present day who are watching with anx-
iety the effect on the home life of the coun-
try of the numberless societies which have
grown up of late years and which, though ad-
mirable in themselves, create so many mani-
fold interests that they may tend to separate
husbands and wives, parents and children,
brothers and sisters, from the natural in-
fluences which each ought to exercise over
one another, and thus neutralize home life.”
	It was often taken for granted, concluded
Lady Aberdeen, that a congress of women
would occupy itself in devising plans where-


by women might be emancipated from the
cares and duties of home. That was not
the ideal of their progress. They held, she
said, amid loud cheering, that the wom-
an’s first mission must be her home, and
by it she would ever be judged. The
dream of all was a better country, which
meant, in other words, a land of better,
happier, truer and holier homes.

	INTERNATIONAL GREETINGS.

	Then came a long series of speeches from
the delegates. Mrs. May Wright Sewall
gave a bright account of the rise of the
movement which began to take shape at
the Chicago congress of women. Mrs.
Sewall put in a plea for tolerance and for-
bearance. Baroness Gripenberg, who
spoke (as indeed all the foreign delegates
did, with the exception of Madame Deflon
and Madame Shen) in very good English,
referred to the present state of her country
(Finland) and to the “local difficulties”
which were in the way. Miss Susan B.
Anthony spoke of the States, and Mrs.
Boomer for Canada. Lady Battersea and
Lady Hampden followed, the latter saying
that women led the movement for the federa-
tion of the Australian colonies. An interpre-
ter from the Chinese Embassy said that
Madame Shen was sent to the conference
by special orders from the Emperor. He
controverted the usual opinion that women
in China were not good for anything.
That was an entirely erroneous impression, 
he said, amid laughter.
	Among the other speeches was an ani-
mated one from Madame Finkelstein 
Mountford, who, to show her cosmopolitan
claims, said she was a Russian born in
Turkey and married to an Englishman.
		 —Daily Chronicle.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		WOMEN IN LITERATURE.
	An interesting feature of the Internation-
al Congress of Women has been the large
number of new recruits drawn from the
ranks of society.
	At St. Martin’s Town Hall on June 28,
where the subject of “Women in Liter-
ature’’ was under discussion, Lady Helen
Graham and Lady Cynthia Vincent were
cordially welcomed by members of the Con-
gress. The topic under discussion was
evidently an attractive one to a large num-
ber of delegates, as the room was well filled,
and the remarks of the various speakers
were followed with much interest.
	Mrs. Flora Annie Steele was the first to
speak on the subject. She carried a bunch
of roses that matched the chiffon bow at her
throat and the flowers in her neat round
hat. The novelist’s regret was that the
time limit would only allow of the most
primary interpretation of the subject.
Nevertheless, she made good use of the
twenty minutes allotted to her. Women
in literature, she said, was a subject which
took one back to the beginning of all 
things, and she hazarded the opinion that if
Eve had not bartered her paradise of purity
for a paradise of love, three-quarters of the
literature of the world would never have
been written.
	This novel assertion tickled the audience
immensely, and Mrs. Steele amused them
still further by declaring that it was a woman
probably who was the author of the first 
document. She most likely cut the first
notch in a stick as an aid to memory in the

[Column 2]
arduous round of domestic duties, which
was the beginning of all books.
	Passing from the lighter vein and treat-
ing her subject seriously, the speaker con-
tended that women maintained a high
average of literary merit, and that literature
was undoubtedly a successful field for wom-
en to cultivate, their great strength lying
in their feminine outlook.
	There were other papers and other speak-
ers, but the honors of the sitting rested
with Mrs. Steele, whose address was unani-
mously voted to be a masterly treatment of
the subject.
	As on the opening day, the different sec-
tions were again well patronized on June
28, thus showing that the interest in the
Congress is well sustained. Another sec-
tion which attracted a large attendance was
that which discussed rescue work. It was
under the presidency of Mrs. Benson, wid-
ow of the late archbishop, and was held in
the Convocation Hall at the Church House.
	Lady Frederick Cavendish, in a very
earnest, but at the same time amusing ad-
dress, spoke of the work of the Church
Army among women, and explained some-
thing of the character of the class dealt
with. By way of illustration, her ladyship
quoted the case of a girl of sixteen who had
knocked her sister down. When spoken to
about it the girl’s answer was that she
“only happened to flap up against her sis-
ter, and didn’t mean nothing.”
	There was quite a number of interesting
speeches on this subject by delegates from
different countries, and it was evident that
the audience were in cordial sympathy with
movements having for their object the
rescue of the fallen.
	Another striking paper was that deliv-
ered in the Art Section by Mme. Starr Can-
zi[-]ni on the spirit of purity in art. “I do
not underrate cleverness,” she said, “when
cleverness means real power. But what
matters power and style,if the motive of the
work be unworthy or irreverent? One
thing is certain,” she declared, “though
the greater responsibility must always rest
with men who are stronger, yet neither
good nor evil can exist in the world with-
out the consent of women.”
	An attractive feature,so far,at the section-
al meetings has been the floral decorations.
The rooms have been tastefully adorned
with roses and other flowers, and the effect
has been very pretty. In this respect
Lady Battersea has been a generous con-
tributor, and Mrs. Reggie Bingham and
many other ladies have responded to the
appeal made to them, while there have
been many willing hands ready to arrange
the floral gifts to the best possible advan-
tage.
	There were two receptions on June 28th
after the work of the day was done. One
was held by Mrs. F. Beer at 7 Chesterfield
gardens, and the other was at Lady Batter-
sea’s house at Marble Arch. It was so
arranged that they did not clash as regards
time, and there was a large gathering at
each.
	Lady Battersea’s reception Tuesday eve-
ning for the delegates of the Women’s Con-
gress was numerously attended.
	The house was prettily decorated with
palms and pink and white flowers, with
large bowls of roses placed about in the
different reception rooms. Lord and Lady
Battersea received their guests at the head
of the staircase, Lady Battersea looking
handsome in gray and white brocade, with

[Column 3]
emerald and diamond stars in her hair and
on the corsage of her dress.
	Some of the pretty women present were
the Duchess of Sutherland, in pale blue
satin and pearls; Lady Randolph Church-
ill, in pale pink with some pearl orna-
ments in her hair; while Lady Ulrica Dun-
comb was looking quite lovely in pale yel-
low, with a necklace of pearls and dia-
monds. Among others there were Lady
Aberdeen, Lady Harcourt and Mrs. As-
quith.—Ex.


NOTES FROM IDAHO.

Editor Woman's Exponent:
	Thinking a little sketch of our society
yould be interesting to the readers of the
EXPONENT, we forward the following:
	This branch of the Relief Society was or-
ganized August 7, 1898. There are ten
wards in the Stake, each having a branch
of the society. We have visited every
branch twice and held two conferences and
will hold another on the 21st of August.
In making the circuit of the Stake we have
to travel about two hundred miles. We
were received and treated well by the peo-
ple, and found the society in good condi-
tion, considering the scattered condition of
the people.
	Dr. E. R. Shipp is here in Pocatello,
teaching a class in obstetrics and nursing.
Eight from this Stake are in attendance.
	Ever praying for the success of the Re-
lief Society work, I remain,
	Your sister in the Gospel,
	ANNIE BIRD, Cor. Sec.


A PASSING THOUGHT. 
	The poor, the miserable, the vicious, the
depraved can never be reached except by
the spirit of sympathy. Benefits scorn-
fully flung to them, as we would scarcely
fling a bone to a dog, will neither improve
their love nor touch their hearts. No deep
abiding good will be wrought by those who
abandon the stimulus of hope. Socially
there must be a far greater awakenment to
the sense of duty.
	At present the few are magnificently
liberal, the many are shamefully unchari-
table. It has become a question of the day
chat the rich should more and more feel the
guilt of a selfish luxury, unaccompanied by
either public munificence or private gener-
osity. Bet them let all, look well to it that
they have no share in the interests of
crime no investments in gains derived from
the causes of human misery. If each one
swept thoroughly before his own door, the
streets would be clean. There is a judg-
ment.
	JUDEX JUDICII.


THE publication of “Nicholas Nickleby”
freed England from the low class of private
schools, assured a wide-spread interest in
national education and the better training
of teachers, and helped to reveal the funda-
mental principle of true discipline in home
or school, that all coercion is dwarfing in
its effect on character-growth. There are
many teachers and parents who still need to
learn that even the most refined methods of
coercion cripple the individuality of the
child and prevent the development of its
true selfhood, the divinity of its nature.
For them “Nicholas Nickleby” is one of
the best of all books. They should read it
once a year.—The Century.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SISTER ELIZABETH STEVENSON.
While sympathizing friends and loving kindred
	dear
With clasping hand, tones subdued, and gently
	falling tear—
Draw so near to thee, with tenderest helpfulness,
In deep affliction’s hour, thy soul to cheer and
	bless—
I, thy loving friend, so many miles away,
Can only look above, and for thy comfort pray.

O, blessed, holy bonds of love and faith divine!
That draw us ever near that high and sacred
	shrine,
E’en while to mortal life we ever fondly cling,
This constant faith subdues its bitterness and
	sting.
Our burdens at His feet, our trust with Him
	above,
While aching hearts receive His blessing and His
	love.

Beloved friend, through many changing years,
Together we have known this precious hope that
	cheers;
That heavenly inspiration, which ever beams so
	bright
Shall now descend upon you, to cheer you with its
	light,
To bless as thou hast blessed, the sorrowing and
	bereaved,
Till with implicit faith, the victory is achieved.
						ELLIS R. SHIPP.


WHEN I HAVE TIME.
When I have time, so many things I’ll do,
To make life happier and more fair
For those whose lives are crowded now with care;
I'll help to lift them from their low despair,
			When I have time.

When I have time, the friend I love so well
Shall know no more those weary, toiling days;
I'll lead her feet in pleasant paths always
And cheer her heart with words of sweetest praise,
			When I have time.

When you have time? The friend you hold so dear
May be beyond the reach of all your sweet intent—
May never know that you so kindly meant
To fill her life with sweet content,
			When you had time.

Now is the time! Ah, friend, no longer wait
To scatter loving smiles and words of cheer
To those around whose lives are now so drear,
The may not need you in the far-off year—
			Now is the time!
					Canadian War Cry.


[Column 1]
MRS. BEDFORD FENWICK.
	Discussion: “The effect upon Domestic
Life of the Entry of Women to the Profes-
sions.” Mrs. Bedford Fenwick:
	“The first question which it appears to me
is raised by Mrs. Fenwick Miller’s admir-
able paper is: ‘Does the wife who is en-
gaged in professional work make for the
good of the home? And, in consequence,
is she, or is she not, of benefit to the
nation?’ Mrs. Miller seems inclined to
answer the question in the affirmative, and
in this view I would cordially agree, al-
though; at the same time, it must be gener-
ally realized that outside professional work
is somewhat inconsistent with the old-
fashioned idea of the domestic life of the
housewife. It must be regarded as un-
questionable that the professional wife can-
not serve two masters. If she attempts to
perform so impossible a task she will fail in
her duty to both. However well cultured
her brain, however well trained her facul-
ities may be, the average woman cannot be
at once the successful professional worker,
and the mother and home-maker. No
one should attempt to combine such di-
verse functions. To succeed in any pro-
fession in these days of keen competition
means unremitting toil, early and late, and
the employment of every power of brain
and body which one may possess. Under

[Column 2]
these circumstances, the professional wife
must depute the majority of her domestic
duties to others, and as a matter of justice
to her husband, this fact should be clearly
understood before marriage, so that the com-
pact should be a fair one. Marriage is a
contract, and should carry with it a sense
of mutual obligation; but too often the ‘re-
ciprocity has been all on one side.’ The
man has governed, the woman served, and,
in the large majority of marriages, both
parties have enjoyed this well defined posi-
tion. But it is the fact that women enjoy
their servitude that is the chief difficulty in
raising the ideal of marriage in the public
mind.
	“But we are forced to realize that the
woman, however highly cultivated and
trained, is constituted by nature a creature
of infinitely more delicate nervous organi-
zation than a man, and that it is impossible
for her to bear the nerve-strain of house-
wife and breadwinner. Such a strain
would speedily spell nervous exhaustion,
and inevitable misery in domestic life. As
have said, no man would attempt to do
so much, and it must not be expected from
any woman. Let us own at once that wife-
hood and motherhood are recognized as
privileges, duties and joys by the average
woman. To be just to our daughters, let
them be taught from their youth up all the
dainty arts, and some of the crafts, which
go to make good mothers and worthy
wives.
	“Each girl should be afforded opportun-
ities equal to those given to her brothers,
and by skilled teaching, be enabled to earn
her bread in that branch of labor for which
she shows inclination. Should she ever be
thrown upon her own resources, she will
then be safe and independent. Such a
trained and skilled worker may, or may
not, elect to marry, but should it seem
good to her so to do, she will, at least, be
well equipped to aid her husband by her
earnings, or not, as circumstances may re-
quire. It is by the realization that Duty is
the great law of life, that humanity will pass
through the stages of evolution and attain
the highest sphere of being.
	“The effect upon the home life of indi-
viduals, and, in consequence, upon the
national life, of whether a woman is em-
ployed after marriage in domestic arts, in
professional duties or in public work, will
depend largely upon the circumstances of
her environment, upon the spirit in which
she performs her duty. It may be her
duty to give up, after marriage, the special
work by which she has earned an honorable
livelihood, or it may be her duty to con-
tinue it. Duty must determine the result
in every case. The ultimate effect upon
domestic life will be the result of the man-
ner in which each woman faces and per-
forms her individual duty in the body
politic. On any other basis, domestic life
has always been, and always will be, a
failure. Every day we see the increase of
toleration in the public mind, on what is
known as the ‘woman question,’ and the
domestic relations of the sexes are only one
phase of the development of this question.
	“How far the marriage relations can stand
the strain of economic equality—no other
equality is of any value—remains to be
seen; and whether the average woman will
shoulder the responsibility, which the
claim for equality will necessitate, remains
also to be seen. I am inclined to think the
average woman will not do so. The bril-
liant exception we can safely leave to her

[Column 3]
own devices—only I would say to mere
man, ‘Don’t marry her.’ Too many
martyrs have already been sacrificed on the
altar of Genius, and the average women
have need of her. The exceptional woman
is instinct with irrepressible devotion to
some Cause, with a big C, which it is her
duty to further, irrespective of every indi-
vidual consideration. With Mrs. Fenwick
Miller I am loath to deprive the nation of
the motherhood of the intellectual woman.
The selection of the fittest as propagator of
the species in the animal and vegetable
kingdoms, is the aim of the agricultural
and horticultural breeder. Why not also of
the humanitarian? But it is the physical,
the pure blood strain, the perfection of
form and coloring, which is considered in
the development towards perfection in those
kingdoms. And intellectual force is a
strangely elusive quality: science has not
yet demonstrated that it is possible to propa-
gate it through prearranged physical unions
—rather we have come to speak of indi-
vidual talents as ‘gifts,’ and we have not
yet attained to the scientific knowledge by
which we may ‘breed’ the great artist or
law-giver. In conserving the purity of the
human physical forces we may add one
quota to the higher development of the
human race—beyond, we must be grateful
for the ‘gifts’ the gods give us. They
have given the average woman a keen
sense of duty and love of home. I think
we may trust her not to sacrifice the sub-
stance for the shadow.”


RECEPTION AT STAFFORD HOUSE. 
 	On the evening of June 26th the official
reception of the International Council took
place at Stafford House. Nearly one
thousand guests were present, of whom the
great majority were ladies. The guests
were welcomed by the Duchess of Suther-
land and the Countess of Aberdeen. They
formed a harmony in black and white that
would have attracted the admiration of Mr.
Whistler, the Duchess wearing a lovely
gown of white crepe de lisse, adorned with
bands of blue and silver passementerie,
with diamonds in her hair and on her neck,
while the Countess of Aberdeen was in
black satin richly trimmed with jet, with
pearl and diamond ornaments. Later in
the evening they were joined by Lady
Warwick, who wore a beautiful costume of
white satin embroidered with silver, and a
diamond tiara.
	Among the delegates present, perhaps Mr.
and Mrs. Shen, from China, who wore
their national costume, attracted the most
attention. On all sides were to be seen
ladies who had taken a prominent share in
different branches of philanthropic, educa-
tional and political work. Lady Dufferin
was present in black satin and lace, Mrs.
Creighton, Lady Wimborne, Mrs. May
Wright Sewall, Lady Knightly, of Faws-
ley, Mrs. F. A. Steele, Madame Antoinette
Sterling and many more. Music was pro-
vided by a Hungarian band, and all the
rooms opening on to the gallery were
thrown open to the guests.
	Perhaps the strange irony of life was
never more clearly shown than by the fact
that this great gathering of women should
have taken place on the very night when
the sex in England were being deprived of
one of the powers which they exercised to
most advantage.
					Daily Chronicle.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah,
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months.
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 1, 1899.


[Column 1] 
ABROAD IN LONDON.
	Here we are in London, England, hav-
ing escaped the perils of the great deep,
and railway travels, rain, hail and wind,
thunder and lightning, both at sea and on
land, as well as the noise and various other
inconveniences, and landed safe at Liverpool
and reached destination alone after arriving
at Eustis station: Mrs. Gaffney, the only
one we really knew, going off in a “four-
wheeler” to the Hotel Cecil, and the writer
to the Westminster. Rain pouring down in
torrents, but the very idea of driving through
the streets of this famous city, and catch-
ing a glimpse of the House of Parliament
and Westminster Abbey would compensate
for anything, unless an earthquake or cy-
clone. Emotion, sentiment, every mental
and spiritual sense awakened to its highest
activity; tears as well as rain were stream-
ing down, and it was well for the moment
to be alone. Indeed it seemed good to be
alive, and it was not necessary to pinch
one’s self, as a friend since remarked she
had to, to realize the fact of an actual living
personality, possessed of heart and brain.

“If thou hast not the tender heart-throb, pitying,
Proclaiming kinship of a deep world-love,
	Thou hast not lived.”

	There are no words to express the deep-
est emotion awakened in one, of a truly
sympathetic feeling for all delightful things
existing in nature and the great world.
	Westminster Abbey two minutes walk
from the hotel, think of it! and all the
time in view if one looks out of the win-
dow; also the great Parliament clock, called
here “Big Ben,” so one can always know
the correct time. Yet, in a way, we have
not a minute to do anything outside of the
Council and Congress, and so many meet-
ings are held at the same time that the puz-
zle is which to attend. But one can only
get into two meetings in the same morning
or afternoon, (not even the reporters unless
they are fleet of foot) because the distances
are too great from one place of meeting to
another, but usually two are held in one
building; for instance: in the Large Hall,
Westminster Town Hall, and the Small
Hall, and the same is true of some other
buildings; yet when there is a business or
executive session, those of us who have
the privilege of attending know where we
must go.
	The entertainments are certainly a
very great feature of the International
Council. Concerts and theatres fade into

[Column 2]
insignificance in comparison to receptions
given by the elite of London, or, one might
say, of British nobility to members of the
Congress.
	The opening of Stafford House, where
one is received by the Countess of Aber-
deen, the Duchess of Sutherland and
Countess of Warwick, all three, is indeed a
remarkable thing for any organization of
women in this very exclusive country
where the lines of class distinction are so
strongly marked. To describe all this, or
even a small part of it, would take more
time than the writer can give while here;
that must come afterwards.
	The reception at Stafford House was
Monday, June 26, from 9 to 12 p. m. The
magnificence of the house is bewildering in
its effect upon one new to such splendor.
	Surrey House reception, given by Lady
Battersea, was on Wednesday, 9:30 to 12
p. m. Lord Battersea received with his
wife. The house was more antique than
that of Stafford; the affair was, however,
quite as brilliant.
	Saturday afternoon, July 1, 4:30 to 7,
garden party at Fulham Palace given by
the Lord Bishop of London and his wife,
Mrs. Creighton. This palace is four
miles’ drive from Hyde Park corner,
though it is also reached by district rail-
way and Putney omnibus.
	Other official entertainments come next
week, of which we hope to write later, if
we survive the excitement.
	We are constantly being asked if the
meetings of the Council and the various
Congresses come up to our expectations.
We can answer both yes and no—some are
wonderful, and all have some excellent
features, but there are also some things not
reaching the highest standard of excellence.
And although there are on all occasions
from twenty to thirty reporters at the tables
reserved for them, yet the London papers
give very meagre accounts of the proceed-
ings, or even of the official receptions.
	There are so many great meetings and
great occasions of various kinds in this
far-famed city of the world, that even an
International Council and Congress of Wo-
men from many countries is only one
among the many assemblies. Parliament
is drawing to a close and the intense inter-
est of the British empire must centre more
particularly there, as well as with the great
banking and commercial welfare of the
land, so far as newspapers are concerned.
	We have not yet visited 42 Islington,
Liverpool, though we anticipate doing so;
but today we have been to the headquarters
of the Elders in London. We attended fast
meeting at 2 p. m. in Myddleton Hall, a
very nice, comfortable meeting room,
where several of our party bore testimony.
In the evening meeting we were privileged
to partake of the sacrament, and had the
opportunity of speaking again to a much
larger congregation. After meeting we
talked with the president of the Confer-
ence and of the branch about organizing a
Relief Society; this will possibly be accom-
plished during the present week. There
was a branch of the Relief Society here for
some years, but it has died out for want of
proper understanding and on account of
the president’s delicate health. We found
a very good spirit prevailing in the meeting
and among the brethren and sisters of the
branch, though it is difficult to understand
why people who have been many years in
the Church do not have an ardent desire
to gather to Zion. More anon.


CONGRATULATIONS.
	The EXPONENT cannot refrain from ex-
pressing its heartfelt congratulations to
Mr. and Mrs. John Q. Cannon upon the
arrival in the family of beautiful twin boys.
We are pleased to say that mother and
babes are doing nicely; the father is as
proud as can be, and justifiably so. The
little “Cannons” are as bright and up-to-
date additions to the general’s family equip-
ment as any one could desire, and from
present indications will grow up to be
valuable and honored members of Utah’s
hero-band, for many years of future useful-
ness and progress. May they live to fulfill
the most ardent, loving wishes of their
families and friends.


A WOMAN MISSIONARY.
	[Mrs. Addison Pratt on the Society Islands,
1850.]
			[Continued.]
	For the first time in my life I took food
as a medicine, forcing it down as I would a
nauseous draught given to save my life.
Two or three times a flying fish found on
deck was dressed and cooked for me: the
sweetest morsel I tasted on the voyage.
The weather was fine, a few days’ head
wind was all the difficulty we had to en-
counter; and had it been possible for me
to have shaken off my seasickness, I should
have passed the time pleasantly. We
spoke an American whale-ship on the pas-
sage. The captain came on board with his
little daughter, six years of age, a very
pretty child. His wife, who was sailing
with him, had given birth on board ship to
twin boys, then six months old. The
captain from his vessel held them up to our
view. We praised the beauty of the ocean-
children, and hoped he might carry them
safely to the end of the voyage. Five days
before we reached Tubaui we saw the
Pamutus at a distance.
	We looked through a spy-glass and saw
cocoanut trees. Hope began to spring up
in my heart that the voyage would soon be
over. Two days before we landed I had a
fainting spell, the most severe I ever had in
my life. I called on the Elders to adminis-
ter to me, which they did, and from that
hour my darkness fled; I was relieved in
body and mind!
	As we drew near the island where we
expected to land, the children began to
talk of meeting their father. It never
once occurred to them there could be a dis-
appointment at hand. Frances, our second
daughter, had often been sad on the way.
She would frequently retire to some seclud-
ed corner to indulge in silent reveries.
When the ship hove in sight of Tubaui,
her countenance changed. On the 19th of
October she was constantly on deck look-
ing toward the desired harbor, her coun-
tenance brightening every moment. The
wind was contrary for a whole day. We
looked through a spy-glass and saw cocoa-
nut trees. We strained our eyes to catch a
glimpse of something to confirm our hopes
that all would be well with us when we
landed. Nothing could we see resembling
human life. The great cocoanut trees
towered their majestic heads far above the
horizon, and their long branches, waved in
the breeze! But the living beings were
enshrouded in the thick foliage of the
shrubbery which grows so luxuriantly ove


[Column 1]
the Islands. My highest anticipations were
to set my feet on terra firma once more; to
get fried chickens and fish and fruits of
various kinds—something to satisfy my 
longing appetite, and a soft bed to sleep on.
	In the afternoon of October 21st the pilot
came off to us. I gazed at him from head
to foot as a representative of the people
with whom I must dwell. He was huge
in size, but I thought him good looking.
I told the captain to ask him if “Paraita
was on the Islands?” He replied: “He is
not.” In an instant Ellen’s face was like
marble! She sat down with folded hands
and closed lips. I was prepared for such
tidings; had often thought that such an
event would only be coincident with many
others of a like nature which had fallen to 
my lot. To be thus informed was not the
bitterness of it. He was a prisoner on
Tahiti! The French governor had him in
custody, he was not allowed to leave the
Island. It did not alarm me, so seared
was my heart to hard things. The captain
sent word to Elder Grouard to come on
board. During the interval the children
walked thoughtfully about the deck. At
length Messrs. Grouard and Alexander
came off to the brig. They could scarcely
believe their own eyes! To see so many
American brethren coming to dwell with
them, to relieve them of their solitude,
filled them with joy and surprise! Mr.
Grouard had been for seven years shut out,
as it were, from the world, having been
sent with Mr. Pratt in the year ’43 from
Nauvoo. He has acquired an air of dig-
nity and sobriety, assimilating him with a
Catholic monk. His eyes are sunken, ap-
parently with sorrow, and his whole ap-
pearance at the time was grave and majestic.
I had seen him in the vigor and bloom of
youth, and thought him a gay, lively man.
Now his look was full of wisdom and years.
He very respectfully invited us to go on
shore.
	We were conducted over the coral reefs
with great care. The Island at a distance
presents a picturesque appearance, the
beach being skirted with ito and burau
trees, also with bananas and cocoanuts
and a variety of shrubbery of the most vivid
green. It being the 21st of October, the
season we expect to see the leaves turning
yellow and falling off, not to see the least
sign of decay conveys to the mind a feeling
of admiration.
	The buildings, though far from elegant,
have an appearance of romance. Little
white cottages in the woods,shining through
the green trees, away from the bustle of
the busy world far over the mighty ocean!
To find the remnants of Israel enjoying,
though in a rude state, an incessant spring!
The idea was exalting to one tired of the 
sea as I was. The buildings are low but
very long, plastered inside and out with
lime made from the coral rock; there can-
not be a purer white. I thought of eating
the good fruit, and weak as I was, I walked
with a light step. Multitudes of people
assembled on the beach to welcome us. As
soon as they could reach our hands, they
saluted us in Tahiti: “Ea ora nu ae, te fetii
nu Paraita,” each by our Tahitian names,
as we were introduced by Mr. Grouard.
	A native man who held the office of
“alcalda,” according to French jurispru-
dence, came and took me by the hand, say-
ing, “vau araitai oe” (I will lead you.)
He had a piece of blue drilling bound
about his loins, a sailor jacket, which he
wore without a shirt: that was his com-

[Column 2]
mon suit. On Sabbath days he dressed
like a white man. We took the lead; the
remainder of the company followed at a re-
spectful distance. I could hear them
laughing behind us, but I did not look
back, so intent was I in talking to my
guide. We soon reached the place where
the former friends of “Paraita” resided: I
mean those with whom he had his home,
they were all his friends. Nabotu and
Terii were their names. The latter was
sick with the measles. As soon as she
heard “Paraita’s” family had come, she
rose by faith above the disease and com-
menced arranging supper for us. In the
same house we found Mr. Grouard’s
native wife with a young babe. She ap-
peared exceedingly timid, would not stay
in the house. We tried to win her con-
fidence, talked by an interpreter, assuring
her we were her friends, that we had come
to do her good. The supper was set before
us, every dish entirely new, except fowl
and fish. Everything was relished. I felt
no aversion to anything that was called
food, it was all delicious to my taste.
	The whole population assembled to
greet us: “Ia ora na otou te haera ra mai to
Tubuai nai,” (Peace be to you in coming
to Tubaui) went around and around.
Evening drew near, the singers came in to
sing. Long grass was laid for a floor, on
which they were seated. The music was
delightful! Their voices are loud and
clear, and no people can excel them in
keeping time. Queen Rapah came with
the rest, and I urged her to be seated in a 
chair, but she refused, so modest was she
and unwilling we should think she wished 
to assume any superiority above the other
women. The moon was then at its full,
and the house was surrounded with shade
trees covered with bright yellow flowers. I
looked upon the humble people seated on
the ground singing the praises of God. I
gazed  upon the scenery which surrounded
the dwellings: the pale rays of the moon
shining through the trees in a thousand
shapes; the tall cocoanuts waving their
branches high up in the azure vault; the
great itoes above all the rest; seen by the
queen of night, while the imagination was
warm with the reflection of the great dis-
tance we had come and the suffering we
had endured, all conspired to fill the mind
with ideas great with meaning. I said,
“God is in it all!”
	Brother Grouard sought to encourage us.
He believed that when the Messenger
(king’s vessel) returned from Tahiti,
Brother Pratt would come: it did not thus
prove. The idea of his being a prisoner
was painful to me, except when I con-
sidered it was for the Gospel’s sake we had
come to a strange world.
	A whole week was spent in conversa-
tion. Mr. Grouard had been preaching
among the Islands for seven years, had
heard very little from the Church. Great
things had transpired, he had many ques-
tions to ask. Hoatan, the native chief
who had the charge of us, ordered the
house repaired and the lot fenced. Seventy
banana trees were planted, and a garden
made with the seeds we had brought. Near-
ly all were new to the natives, they had
never seen any of our common vegetables.
Here in October we make our gardens.
Such cabbages I never saw grown before:
mammoth in very deed! Very soon we
had a fine flower garden to look upon. We
planted corn in November. We had only
to dig up the ground with a spade, it was

[Column 3]
loamy and mellow, everything grows ap-
parently by magic.
	Sister Grouard soon became accustomed
to our habits, and would in a small degree
conform to them. We find her rather a 
sensible, intelligent, ingenious woman.
	A letter arrived stating that the governor
on Tahiti would not permit Mr. Pratt to
leave that Island until all the Mormon
Elders would assemble in Tahiti and sign a
document, entering into an agreement to
teach nothing derogatory to the French
government. This was a trial of our pa-
tience, but we strove to bear it as graciously
as was possible. The good people were so
sympathetic they were ready to weep over
us. 
	The second week we all went to Mahu, a
village on the opposite side of the Island,
five miles over a mountain. We could
walk beneath the shade of trees the whole 
distance. It was where Mr. Pratt landed
when first he came on his mission. The
same family were still living in the same
house where he took up his abode.
They were very friendly. Their little
daughter, thirteen years of age, was the
wedded wife of Brother Alexander, the first
man on the Island baptized into the Mor-
mon faith. She looked like a mere child
and conducted herself like one. The old “Fere
bare ra” (prayer house) stood near the
beach, a tall ito tree in front of each door.
I went into the house where six years be-
fore my husband had been wont to pray. In
the pulpit, just as the sun was setting, I
kneeled before the Lord to thank Him for
preserving all our lives while crossing the 
great waters.
	The second day I returned on horseback.
The children complained of being lonely,
mourned the absence of their father. We
amused ourselves by teaching the native
women how to knit, and studying the lan-
guage.
	On Christmas Sister Crosby and I made
a feast for our families, inviting what few
white brethren and sisters were on our side
of the Island. We had string beans, cucum-
bers and green corn. That was something
to communicate to our kindred in the cold
regions of Lower Canada, where snow at
that season is often six feet deep.
	The people were very anxious to teach
us their language. Nearly all our evenings
were spent in reading and translating the
scriptures. It was a source of great
amusement: there are so many mistakes
made it excites merriment. The house
was thronged at night with natives reading
and singing. Many of them had never
seen a European woman. Our eldest
daughter played the flutina, which amused
and delighted them. It was no little diver-
sion for us to exhibit the little curiosities
we brought with us from San Francisco, to
witness their pleasure and admiration, hear
them eulogize America, and marvel that it
should contain so many wonderful things !
	I brought with me the likeness of the
Prophet Joseph Smith and of Hyrum, which
I hung against the wall of a room in the
mission house. A native brother from the 
Chain Islands, one evening while we were
all seated around the table reading, with-
drew and went into the room to look at the
picture. He kneeled before it in order
that the painting might come in range
with his eyes. For a quarter of an hour
he gazed steadfastly upon it, I believe,
without turning his eyes. I did not suppose it
was an act of worship, but he wished to
impress the lineaments of the features upon


[Column 1]
his mind. I could not help admiring his
devotion. I knew his faith was strong in
the Gospel, and he felt a solemn pleasure in
surveying the features of the murdered
Prophet and Patriarch.
	The Island sisters have great faith in the
consecrated oil, which was blessed by Presi-
dent Brigham Young previous to our leav-
ing Salt Lake City. When I told them
from whence it came and the designs of it,
they would invariably bring their sick chil-
dren to me and request me to anoint them
with the holy oil, nothing doubting but
a cure would be effected; and, according to
their faith, often was it done unto them.
	Their habits of devotion are really com-
mendable. At all seasons of the year they
rise at early dawn. The first exercise is to
call the family and fall upon their knees in
prayer. Often before their first meal,
they ring the bell and go to the house of
worship, read a chapter in the Bible, sing a
hymn, and, if their teacher is present, they
ask questions upon portions they do not fully
understand, seldom continuing their ex-
ercises more than a half hour. They make
many feasts, sometimes calling all within
hailing distance to come and partake. At
other times they send the food to their
kindred and neighbors, and a generous,
share to their teachers.
	On January 4th, 1851, Elder Grouard
made a great feast to celebrate his 33rd
birthday. It was held at his own dwelling
house, a very long building. About one
hundred people were invited. The food
was purely native, with the exception of
fifty mince pies, which the missionaries’
wives contributed. The guests were not
assembled until the food was all arranged
in order. Mats were laid the whole length
of the building, large leaves laid for plates,
likewise plaited for tablecloths. Through
the centre was laid the food, a cocoanut at
each plate; the shells being a bright orange
contrasted beautifully with the green leaves.
	I shall never forget the admiration I felt as
I gazed upon that table spread upon the
ground! Never in my life had I seen any-
thing to exceed it! Mats were laid for the
guests to be seated. A few there were who
had knives and forks. All present seemed
to have merry hearts. Mr. Grouard rend-
ered thanks to the Great Disposer of events,
that he had lived to see that joyful day,
even to greet so many of his friends from
America and have them present on that
grand occasion! When all had feasted to a
fullness, and while remaining seated, Mr.
Grouard arose and addressed the assembly
in a most appropriate manner. He referred
to his long confinement on the Islands, be-
lieving it to be his duty to remain there till
the Elders were sent to relieve him. Thirty-
three years of his life had passed away;
truly his life had been an eventful one.
He felt that the Lord had heard his pray-
ers, in that he had lived to see the faces of
so many of his former friends, and to re-
joice with them in the midst of a humble
and loving people, whose hearts were
warm towards us and were ready to re-
ceive the truth. Thirty-three years from
that day, when he should have attained his
sixty-sixth year, he said, "I will make
another feast." All present, if living,
should be invited. We all responded a
hearty amen!
	Mr. Grouard is a gentleman distinguished
for beauty and graceful appearance; though
by being excluded too much from society,
he has acquired too large a share of gravity
and sedateness. He combines the orator, phil-

[Column 2]
osopher and preacher of righteousness, with
the sailor and native man of the Island. He
has married two Island women. The first
died, leaving him a little daughter one
month old. The second has borne him three
sons. The girl, now four years of age, was
placed in our eldest daughter’s charge, a very
sprightly child. She had never learned
one word of English from her father, which
to us seemed very surprising. With her
new teacher she made rapid improvement.
[To be continued.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
A VISIT THROUGH ONEIDA STAKE.
Franklin, Idaho, July 12, 1899.
Dear Editor Exponent:
	President Elizabeth Fox and Counselors
Mary Hawkes and D. E. Dudley started
on their annual trip around the Oneida
Stake, Monday, June 12, 1899.
	They held their first meeting at Fair-
view, President Phebe McNeal presiding.
The meeting opened with the usual exer-
cises of singing and prayer. The subjects
spoken upon were storing grain, building
granaries, paying tithing, education of our
children and preserving the virtue and
health of the daughters of Zion. A good
spirit prevailed. Several of the local sis-
ters bore faithful testimonies.
	After enjoying dinner and sociability
with President Phebe McNeal, we pro-
ceeded on our way rejoicing to Weston,
where at 2 p. m. we found the sisters all
assembled awaiting us. Bishop Clark and
Counselor Michaelson met with us, which
was much appreciated, for it seemed to give
strength and confidence to have our
brethren meet with us. President Clark
not being able to be present, the meeting
was presided over by her first counselor,
Andrea Larsen. A good spirit prevailed.
	President Fox was the first speaker. She
was sorry Sister Clark could not be present.
Was glad the brethren were here so they
could hear what was taught to the sisters
in their ward; gave much timely in-
struction; also read the instructions to the
Relief Society which were published in the
EXPONENT of May 1, 1899, and advised
them to be kept in their record for future
reference in their society.
	Counselor Mary Hawkes was pleased to
see so many present. She could heartily
endorse the remarks of President Fox.
	Counselor D. E. Dudley, followed. Ad-
vised the sisters to take care of their health
and to teach their children to be self sup-
porting and assist them to acquire a useful
education.
	President McNeal, of Fairview, advised
the mothers not to work so hard; said many
things could be neglected. Give a mother
time to care for her little ones.
	Bishop Clark wished to encourage the sis-
ters. Said the sisters were good to the
sick and poor under all circumstances.
	Counselor Peter Michaelson appreciated
the Primary workers and all who were en-
gaged in instructing the young.
	We were kindly entertained by Sisters
Preston and Larson for the night.
	Tuesday morning early we continued
our journey to Dayton. The air was very
cool and bracing, considering it was the 13th
of June. At 10 o’clock we met with the
Relief Society of Dayton, President Sarah
Callen and counselors, and Elder Stephen
Callen being present on the stand. We
were cheered by the warmth of a coal fire,

[Column 2]
which we were much in need of, as the
morning was cold.
	President Fox was pleased to meet with
the sisters, and hoped all were active
workers. Read the printed instructions of
Eliza R. Snow Smith from the EXPONENT,
and advised the sisters to take the EXPO-
NENT and read it, etc.
	D. E. Dudley spoke of the beauty of the
fields of flowers and the grandeur of the
mountains and streams and the magnitude
of the divine work we are engaged in; said
our Father was at the helm. Spoke of the
blessings we enjoy, and of the abundance of
the crops on the dry farms of last season.
Said the Lord had opened the windows of
heaven and poured out such blessings that
we could hardly contain them all, as many
had to move out into tents and put the
grain in their dwelling houses. In one in-
stance their building burst, and the grain
ran down hill and filled a ravine. Predic-
tions of the Saints of God were being liter-
ally fulfilled every day.
	Elder Callen bore testimony to the truth
of the remarks of all who had spoken, and
pronounced the benediction.
	At 2 p. m. we met with the Relief Soci-
ety of Clifton ward. President Elizabeth
Henderson and counselors and Elder Wil-
liam Garner were present and a goodly
number of sisters. The instructions were
on the same subjects and quite lengthy,
which occupied the time from 2 until 4
o’clock, after which we partook of the sup-
per the sisters had prepared beforehand, in
company with quite a number of sisters,
and separated for the night to meet again in
Oxford at 10 o’clock.
	Promptly on time we met at the Ox-
ford meeting house with a goodly number
of sisters; and one unusual feature of the
meeting was a band of young ladies who
came and sang in the choir for the meeting.
President Lewis and her counselors were
present, and she presided over the meeting.
	None of the priesthood being present,
meeting was opened by Sister D. E. Dud-
ley, and Sister Haws was remembered in
the prayer by her request, as she was very
sick.
	President Lewis reported her branch as
in good condition but less in number, as
they had organized a branch at Swan Lake
on the 23rd of April, 1899, which had taken
the larger portion of her flock.
	After a lengthy meeting we took dinner
with President Lewis, and proceeded on to
Treasureton to fill our next appointment at
3 o’clock. We found many of the sisters
present. The people are scattered over a
district of seven or eight miles, which is a
great disadvantage to the sisters in attend-
ing meetings and acting as teachers. They
have lately completed a Relief Society
building in which they intend to hold meet-
ings and store grain. All are united in the
good work.
	We spent an enjoyable evening with
Brother and Sister Williams and proceeded
on to our District conference.
	Tuesday morning was balmy and cool,
all nature smiling. The grass was green
and the trees in blossom and clear streams
were rippling down the hillsides under-
neath the cool shade, wending their way to
field and garden, not the river. The re-
mark was made that some wise man had
said: “He who makes two blades of grass
grow where only one grew before, is a
benefactor.” Then surely the inhabitants
of these grand old hills and valleys are
benefactors to a great extent, for thousand


of blades grow where sagebrush grew be-
fore.
	We arrived at Mink Creek at 10:30 and
rested and dined with Brother and Sister
Graham. Met in conference at 2 p. m.
Present on the stand were President Eliza-
beth Fox and Counselors Mary Hawkes
and D. E. Dudley, President Graham,
Phebe McNeal and Bishop Rasmuson, of
Fairview, all of whom spoke, and the spirit
of God was abundantly enjoyed and much
good counsel was given: instructions about
building granaries, storing grain, taking
and reading the EXPONENT and paying
tithing. President Graham reported the
society in good working order. Said the
Relief Society had donated twenty dollars
to help the missionaries in the last two
years, and had looked after the poor and
done much good in general.
	Our next meeting was held at Glen Dale
at 10 o’clock Friday morning, President
Mary Ann Nelson presiding, President
Fox and Counselor D. E. Dudley, of the Stake
presidency, being present on the stand.
Meeting opened with the usual exercises;
members enrolled, 26; members present,
16. The organization is complete. The
sisters are young; they had not subscribed
for the EXPONENT as yet, but would do so.
	Proceeded on to Preston to fill our last
appointment at 2 o’clock p. m. We met
with the usual kind reception of the sisters,
who were glad to see us although we were
dusty and traveled-stained. President
Julia Roper presided. After the opening
exercises much good instruction was given,
but as it was practically the same as has
been mentioned before, it is not necessary
to repeat it here. The subject of purity
was continued, for the Gospel was never to
be taken from the earth, and God in His
wisdom had reserved noble spirits to come
forth in this day for this special work, and
He desired them to have pure and noble
bodies to live in.
	After benediction we separated to go to
our homes, feeling that we had been great-
ly blessed in our labors.
E. FOX, Pres.,
D. E. DUDLEY, Sec. pro tem.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.
SAN LUIS STAKE.
	Minutes of a Relief Society conference
held in the Manassa Stake house, May 12,
1899, commencing at 10 a. m., President
Cornelia Mortensen presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing, “Now let us
rejoice.” Prayer by Brother Charles Cot-
ton. Singing, “Do what is right.”
	Sister Cornelia Mortensen said we were
assembled to hold our Relief Society con-
ference, and she felt grateful to our Heaven-
ly Father for this privilege. Hoped we
would receive the spiritual food we so
much need.
	Sister Mary Jensen gave a report of Los
Cerritos branch of the Relief Society. Said:
“I am glad to meet the sisters in confer-
ence and feel that we will be blessed while
thus assembled. If we ‘do what is right
and let the consequence follow’ we will be
all right. The sisters of Los Cerritos are
very much interested in our Relief Society,
and the brethren seem to think we are do-
ing well. We read the Doctrine and
Covenants. We have some Mexican sis-
ters enrolled, and they take a great inter-
est in the labor. We should observe clean-
liness and teach it in the Relief Society, do

[Column 2]
good where we can, uphold the authorities,
pray for all and be exemplary.”
	Sister Margaret Hamil, of Morgan, said: “I
always feel like doing my duty, for I know
I have to work out my own salvation. We
are getting along fairly well at Morgan, we
have more enrolled than usual. We have
some money, property and wheat on hand,
and have a lot bought and paid for where
we intend to build a house of our own. I
would exhort the sisters to be faithful in
their duties and qualify themselves to be
able to give a cause for the hope that is
within them.”
	Sister P. E. Cullers, Mountain View
branch, said: "My brethren and sisters,
being called to give a report of the Moun-
tain View and Bountiful branches of the
Relief Society, I will endeavor to do so to
the best of my ability. The sisters are de-
sirous of doing all the good they can in for-
warding the work of the Relief Society.
We have an enrollment of twenty mem-
bers.”
	Sister Rosa Koch, of Manassa, read an
essay entitled, “The Home and Mother as
They Influence our Lives.”
	Sister Magdaline Funk said: “I am glad
to meet with my sisters in conference and
have rejoiced in listening to the reports
given. Let us be awake to our duties,
these societies are a great aid to the Bishops.
The sisters in their visits can find out the
circumstances of families that the brethren
cannot. I pray God to bless us all. Amen.”
	Sister Dollie Russell bore a strong testi-
mony to the truthfulness of the Gospel.
Said she had seen the power of God
made manifest in many ways.
	Singing, “The Spirit of God like a fire is
burning.” Benediction by Sister Maria
Harrison.
	Afternoon session. Meeting opened by
singing “How firm a foundation.” Prayer
by Brother Robert Coleman. Singing, “O,
Ye mountains high.”
	Sister M. Sellers gave a report of Manas-
sa ward. Said the sisters were united and
they were trying to do all the good they
could.
	Sister Margaret Haskel gave a report of
her visit to the conference of the Relief
Society in Salt Lake City. She said she
had not felt more of the spirit of God in any
meeting than in the Relief Society confer-
ence. One sister was moved upon to speak
in tongues, and it was interpreted by
another sister. Many important subjects
were talked upon: one was unity, another
the storing of grain.
	Sister Mary F. Crowther presented the
general and local officers of the Relief Soci-
ety, and they were unanimously sustained;
also called the roll and read the minutes of
last conference.
	Sister Forthilda Funk gave a report of
Sanford ward. She said they were trying
to improve and all were feelfng well.
	Song by Sister Ada L. Maloy, entitled
“O, my Savior.”
	Sister Emily Dunn, of Eastdale, said in
reporting their society she desired to be
led by the Spirit of God. She said she had
nothing but good to say of her sisters, and
every sister in the ward had her name en-
rolled.
	Brother Orlando Funk was somewhat
surprised at being called to speak in this
conference. Bore his testimony that the
Spirit of God had been with us. He spoke
at length on cleanliness, habits and duties of
mothers.
	Sister Melvina Hutchins said she had

[Column 3]
been well paid for coming to meeting today,
and bore her testimony to the truth of the
Gospel and power of healing by the priest-
hood, and was thankful to her Heavenly
Father for this testimony.
	Sister Irene Smith said she was thankful
to have the privilege of speaking and bear-
ing her testimony to the truth of the
Gospel; also spoke of the necessity of form-
ing good habits.
	President Cornelia Mortensen gave a re-
port of her visits together with her coun-
selors in the various wards in the Stake.
Said they found the sisters striving to do
their duties with renewed energy. Spoke
at length on cleanliness, and exhorted the
sisters to put into practice the instructions
given.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
Singing, “Come, come ye Saints.” Bene-
diction by Sister Annie Westover.
CORNELIA MORTENSEN, Pres.
MARY F. CROWTHER, Sec.

ST. JOSEPH STAKE.
	The conference of St. Joseph Stake was
held at Pima, June 17, 1899. Meeting was
called to order by President Elizabeth Lay-
ton. There were present on the stand of
the presiding priesthood, Presidents Andrew
Kimball and W. D. Johnson, besides
Bishops from several of the wards.
	After singing by the Pima ward choir
and prayer by Bishop John Taylor, minutes
of the preceding conference were read and
approved. Roll was called, showing
twenty officers present. Opening remarks
were made by President E. Layton.
	President Sarah Weech reported the Pima
Relief Society: said they had completed their
society hall and had for some time been
meeting in it.
	President Jennie Cluff, of Central, and
President Nancy Rollins, of Layton, re-
ported their respective societies.
	President Kimball said he was proud of
the Relief Society; that he honored it and
respected the officers and members of the
same. Had always, under all circumstan-
ces, according to his best judgment, per-
formed his duty in regard to them, and,
with the help of God, would continue to
do so.
	Elizabeth Moody, of Thatcher, who had
recently returned from a two years’
visit in Provo, was thankful to be at home
again mingling with the sisters with whom
she labored so long and diligently. She
had attended the Relief Society in Utah in
a ward capacity as also in their conference,
and did not think they were in advance of
our society, either in attendance or the
storing of grain. Encouraged the sisters in
their good work and asked God to bless all.
	Singing by the choir. Prayer by Broth-
er Peter H. McBride.
	Afternoon session, 2 p. m. Singing.
Prayer by President William D. Johnson.
Verbal reports of the wards were continued
by Josephine Curtis, of Eden; Dorothy
Nelson, of Bryce; Elizabeth Skinner, of
Graham, and Oliva Larson, of Mathews.
There being no representation from Frank-
lin and St. David, they were reported by
the Stake officers who had lately visited
them. Each of the branches was reported
as being in good working order, and all
seemed to have a desire to assist in the
furtherance of the cause.
	Stake Counselor Adelia Curtis said she
would, if she could be led by the spirit of
God, speak a few minutes to the teachers.


Said: “You sisters who are called to labor
in this capacity cannot afford to neglect
your duty. If you do not visit often,
make it thorough when you do. You must
go in humility, with a prayer in your
heart, and ask your Heavenly Father to
assist you. No office can be filled without
some sacrifice on the part of the officer. It
is sacrifice that brings forth the bless-
ings of heaven.” Asked for the faith and
prayers of the sisters.
	Ex-President Wilmarth East, who has
been greatly afflicted for the past four years,
was, by the kindness of some of the sisters,
taken to the conference, where she enjoyed
herself and the sisters enjoyed her presence.
She bore a strong testimony to the truth of
the Gospel, and urged the mothers to have
a constant watch over their children; also
spoke in tongues.
	A beautiful quartette, “There’s Room for
You to Anchor Safe in Heaven,’’was rend-
ered by members of the choir.
	President W. D. Johnson said there were
many things that could be talked of profit-
ably. All should understand and obey the
Gospel. These associations are organized
for the benefit of all. Each will be re-
warded according to her acts. Live as
Latter-day Saints, and God will add His
blessings.
	Statistical and financial reports were read
by the secretary. Remarks by Bishop
John Taylor.
	Sister Colman, of the St. Johns Stake,
was pleased to be in our midst. Though
she was among strangers she felt that we
were sisters. We should be kind and
thoughtful of the aged and infirm.
	President Elizabeth Layton urged the
sisters to do their duty as members of the
Relief Society, and to attend the officers’
monthly meetings. Was thankful for the
instructions of the brethren and pleased
with the reports of the sisters. Felt en-
couraged in her labors and knew that God
had and would continue to bless all who
serve Him.
	The names of the Stake officers were
presented by President A. Kimball and
unanimously sustained by the congregation.
	President Kimball spoke at some length
on the storing of grain. Said President
Young knew what he was doing when he
called upon the sisters to save grain. The
prophets did not make any mistake when
they said the time would come when a 
barrel of flour would be worth a barrel of
gold. Said this society was not organized
as a speculative body, but to care for the
destitute, comfort the downcast and save
what they have for a time of scarcity.
	Conference adjourned for six months
by the choir and congregation singing,
“Lord dismiss us.” Benediction by
Bishop George Skinner.
	SARAH WEBB, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting con-
vened in the 14th ward hall, July 8, 1899,
with Counselor Elizabeth Webb presiding.
Meeting opened by singing “O, happy
souls who pray!” Prayer by Sister Gib-
son. Singing “We thank Thee, O God,
for a prophet.” Minutes of previous meet-
ing read and approved.
	Sister Webb said she was glad to see so
many present; felt that we need to come
often together to refresh our minds, for we
all need the help of the Lord. A special

[Column 2]
prayer was offered by Sister Webb for Sister
Samson, who is very sick.
	Sister Lambert said we make great pro-
fessions to be the Saints of God, felt it a
great privilege to be called such, but it is
necessary to ask the Lord continually to
help us to do our duty. Felt that the
society work was very elevating: to look
after the sick and afflicted, the poor, etc.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith spoke of the
pleasant time she had at an old folks'
gathering the previous day; that she was
presented with a fan, as she was the only
one present who had had her endowments
in the day of the Prophet Joseph Smith;
also spoke of the necessity of tithe paying.
Don’t borrow or be in debt, was an exhor-
tation she made. Said she had the privi-
lege of attending the solemn assembly in
the Temple, July 2nd.
	Sister Pixton spoke of the goodly num-
ber present. Said she felt that it increased,
the spirit of God for many of the sisters to
meet together. Spoke of the way in which
the Lord had blessed her. She was pleased
to say that her husband had always paid
tithing. Spoke of the danger of allowing
children to have money to waste, but be-
lieved in doing good with it. Do not
waste our time, for there is many a sin of
omission as well as commission.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon knew that no
sister would go from this meeting without
a blessing if she was seeking for one.
Thought it was necessary to be practical
women and improve ourselves. Spoke of
our blessings, and said that we should be
thankful for them.
	Sister Barnes spoke of the charity and
humility Sister Pixton had always shown.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde expressed her
thankfulness at meeting again with the
sisters. Thanked the Lord for restoring
her daughter. Felt that if we respect
the head, the mouthpiece of God, we would
never go astray. Spoke of the way we
were misrepresented in the world. Spoke
of visiting the Johns Hopkins Hospital,
said to be the best in the world. Read the
requirements of a nurse in the same; also
spoke of the indifference there was for the
Gospel in the world. Said to the nurses
present, that their president, Mrs. Riter,
would like reports from them.
	Dr. Roberts said she did not know what
President Horne required her to do today,
but she desired the spirit of the Lord to
prompt her to do and say what was required.
Explained to the nurses what was required
of them in this charity work. Said Dr.
Richards had stated that where these
nurses had attended his patients, he had
nothing but good words for them; that they
were as competent as if they had taken a
four years’ course. Spoke of the noble
character that had been made manifest
among them, and said some had com-
plained because they felt they could not do
the charity work they had promised to.
Said Sister Hyde would take charge of the
nurses in the absence of Sister Riter.
	Counselor Webb said President Horne
was absent on account of an accident which
had befallen her. Announced that there
would be a Relief Society excursion to
Saltair on the 28th of July. Said she knew
that through obedience we would re-
ceive blessings. She exhorted the wom-
en of the society to be exemplary.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing, Doxology. Prayer by Sister Clara C.
Cannon.
J. S. WOOLLEY, Sec.

[Column 3]
	IT is a good rule to be deaf when a
slanderer begins to talk.
	DESPISE no one; for everyone knows
something thou knowest not.
	To live without envy is a certain indica-
tion of great qualities.
	THE greatest benefactor to society is not
he who serves it by single acts, but he
whose general character is the manifesta-
tion of a higher spirit than pervades the
man.


Save Your Money! 
And when you get a dollar, deposit it 
with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust 
Company, the oldest and largest savings 
bank in Utah.
	Since the establishment of the bank 
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts.
	The laws of Utah permit married 
women and also children who are minors 
to open savings accounts in their own 
name, subject to their own order. Have 
you such an account? If not, open 
one NOW.
	We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said 
interest four times a year. 
WRITE for any information desired. 
	LORENZO SNOW, Prest. 
	GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier 
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street. 

R. K. THOMAS 
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY. 

The Leading Retail
Cash House. 
R. K. THOMAS

[Column 1]
GARFIELD
BEACH.
[Column 2]
POPULAR
BATHING
RESORT.
OPEN JUNE 22.

Boating, Bathing, Dancing.

TRAIN SERVICE:
<div>[Column 1]
SALT LAKE.
10 30 a.m.
2:15 p.m.
4:30 p.m.
6:45 p.m.

[Column 2]
LEAVE
GARFIELD.
1:00 p.m.
5:30 p.m.
7:30 p.m.
10:00 p.m.

Round Trip 25c. 

Depot Cor. First South and Fourth West.


Woman's Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 28.
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 15, & SEPTEMBER 1, 1899.
Nos. 6 & 7.


CONTENTS.
A Woman Missionary . . . . . Mrs. Addison Pratt	41.
Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting . . J. S. Woolley	42.
Raising Mulberry Trees . . . . . . Jane S. Coleman	46.
The Old Folks Remembered . . . . . . Little Sister	47.
Obituary—Martha V. Steiner . . . Rhoda C. Nash	47. 
	Maude VelleFairbanks . . Jane Worsencroft	47.
	Lucy Althea Gardner. . . . . Delilah Gardner	47.
	Mary Caroline Hart . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Com.	47.
A Pleasant Birthday Celebration . . . . . . S. A. R.	47.
R. S. Report—Morgan . . . . . . . . Emeline Wood	48.
Reunion at Saltair . . . . . . . . . Aimee C. Schiller	48.
U. W. P. C. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Aimee C.Schiller.	48.

EDITORIAL:—A Spiritual Awakening . . . . . . .	44.
	At Home Again . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	44.
	Laying of Corner Stone. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	46.
	Marriage of Miss E. W. [-]ears . . . . . . . . . .	43.
	Editorial Notes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	43.

POETRY:—O God, the Darkness Roll Away . . .
  	 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . William Gaskell	41.
	The Everlasting Day. . . . R. S. Wellsbourne	41.
	To Sister Elizabeth Stevenson . . R. M. Fox	43.
	Send Down Thy Truth . . . . . . . . . . . E. Sill	43.
	The Age of Gold . . . . . . . . . . M. I. Savage	43.
	Freedom . . . . . . . . . . Ella Wheeler Wilcox	43.
Miscellaneous . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .


O GOD, THE DARKNESS ROLL AWAY.

	(Sung at Women’s Meeting on International
arbitration, London,  June 27, by Miss Esther
Palliser.)

O God ! the darkness roll away 
		Which clouds the human soul,
	And let thy bright and holy day
		Speed onward to its goal !

	Let every hateful passion die
		Which makes our brethren foes,
	And war no longer raise its cry
		To mar the world’s repose.

	How long shall glory still be found
		In scenes of cruel strife,
	Where misery walks, a giant crowned,
Crushing the flowers of life?

	O hush, Great God, the sounds of war,
		And make thy children feel 
That he, with Thee, is nobler far
		Who toils for human weal —

	Let faith, and hope, and charity,
		Go forth through all the earth;
	And man in holy friendship be
		True to his heavenly birth.

						WILLIAM GASKELL.


THE EVERLASTING DAY. 
(Sung by Miss Ella Walker at the Women’s
Meeting on  International Arbitration.) 
I stood on a lofty mountain 
And I gazed over land and sea,
And thought of life's wondrous fountain, 
Its source, and Eternity. 
I thought of God's mighty secrets, 
And how His Myst'ries blend, 
The past without beginning, 
A future without end. 
I looked on the boundless splendor 
Till its marvels dimm’d my sight, 
Then slept in a calm amazement, 
And dream'd with a strange delight;
I dreamed of a Heav'nly City 
Where soul with soul will blend,
Where time has no beginning, 
Where bliss will never end. 
The dream was a revelation, 
A vision of vanquish'd strife, 
A sweet imagination 
Of pure and hallow'd life:
A vision of God's great bounty, 
When sin shall have passed away, 
Of souls from sleep awaking 
To everlasting day. 
R. S. WELLEBOURNE.


[Column 1]
A WOMAN MISSIONARY.
	[Mrs. Addison Pratt on the Society Islands
1850.]
		[Continued.]
	Mr. T. Whittaker, an intelligent Eng
lishman, was living on the Island with a
Tahitian wife, a good, kind woman, but
resembling him as little as a bear resembles
a sheep. He removed with her to Tahiti,
where he zealously engaged in preaching
the Gospel. He is an excellent man, full
of faith and good works, and fine looking.
In his own country he might have married
a woman of culture and refinement; but his
lot was cast here, and it seems to be the
custom with white men who come here
from different nations to intermarry with
the people, leaving their wives when they
return to their respective countries, some-
times taking their children home to be edu-
cated.
	To my children it seemed cruel that after
performing such a long and tedious journey
they were not permitted to meet their fath-
er. Towards the last of January Capt.
Johnson’s schooner was descried in the dis-
tance, coming from Tahiti. The pilot went
off to it, and returned with the joyful in-
telligence that “Paraita” was on board.
Great was the excitement! we were afraid
to believe it. King Tomatoa sent for us to
come to the beach and look through his spy-
glass and view the vessel and the pas-
sengers. We did so, and beheld the long
expected man walking the deck. He had
grown very fleshy, looked surprisingly
large. The news flew like lightning over
the village, and the whole population as-
sembled at the landing to greet and wel-
come their old friend and missionary. He
had been three years absent from them, and
great were their declamations of joy on
seeing him return to their Island. Not-
withstanding their eagerness to grasp his
hand, as they crowded to the water’s edge,
they parted to make an opening for his
wife and children to salute him first, show-
ing more consideration than many persons
would in more civilized life. It was a great
day for us all. He brought with him a bushel
of Tahitian oranges, the sweetest in the
world; likewise a quantity of Vii apples of
peculiarly delicious flavor, a fruit we had
never seen before. The natives hastened
to make a feast, and a great one it was, for
the vast amount of food that was cooked.
Brother Busby had left the preceding day
for Tahiti. I had contemplated going on
the same vessel, had I not received an im-
pression that it was not right to go. I
should have passed my husband on the
way, and been left on Tahiti an uncertain
length of time.
	As soon as the accustomed ceremonies
were over, the building of a schooner was
commenced at Mahu, on the opposite side
of the Island. The material was taken
from San Francisco to build the cabin. Mr.
Grouard was competent to construct the
vessel from the keel to the topmast, and
Mr. Pratt could make the sails. The vessel
was to be of eighty tons burthen, with
welve double berths in the cabin, a centre

[Column 2]
table, transom and library. This was for
the benefit of the mission. It was built of 
tamara wood, (Island mahogany) timber of
the most enduring kind. The native men
saw their lumber with pit saws; they make
beautiful chests of their mahogany, also 
bedsteads and lounges of timber resembling
black walnut. The name of this wood is
mikii.
	Every day found me at the old “Fere
bare ra” (prayer house) teaching the native
children, in their own language, to read and
write; my own and the half-breeds in Eng-
lish. The remainder of the time I devoted
to my journal and letter writing, together
with studying and translating the Hawaiian
language. The whole time was entirely
occupied. Mrs. Tompkins and her two
little daughters I taught regularly. Her
education had been sadly neglected in early
life, but she seemed ambitious and deter-
mined to conquer the first rudiments, and
learn to read and write. She has good
natural talents. What a misfortune to be
neglected in childhood! Mr. Tompkins, 
though a little better educated, is not her
superior in judgment. He is very hospit-
able, but requires those who share his liber-
ality to feel their obligations; thus caus-
ing his benevolence to lose half its value.
Time passed on, and we had little to
complain of but fleas and mosquitoes; they
were terribly annoying! They have their
seasons. In winter (July and August) the
fleas are innumerable. In summer (Decem-
ber and January) mosquitoes take the place
by storm. No venomous reptiles. One
only, called the santipee, whose sting is
like that of a bee. Soft mud will extract
the poison. The work on the schooner
still progressed, the white men and natives
all working with a will. Occasionally a
company of us went across the mountains
to visit them at their work. Though dis-
tant five miles it was a delightful walk, the
road nearly the whole way being shaded by
beautiful trees, some bearing delicious fruit,
which we partook of as we sat down to
rest.
	About the middle of May, ’51, we were
all invited over to witness the launching of
the new schooner. Mr. Whittaker had just
completed a new sail boat; in that we set
sail about sundown. The moon was at its
full, and shining in all its loveliness. The
sea was calm, we had a delightful ride on
the water. Our friends were waiting our
arrival, had a blazing fire lightening through
the timbers: a most romantic sight. There
were ten females, old and young, in the
boat. Our native friends came out to meet
us on the reefs, and carried us in their arms
to dry land. The singers had long been
practicing new tunes to sing on the grand
occasion. The vessel had to be drawn a
considerable distance by hand; it would re-
quire all the strength the island afforded.
Those who were not members of the Church
protested they would not lend their aid un-
less the king would grant them a dance.
Permission was given, great preparations
were made and untiring skill exercised
to invent ornaments. They were engaged
in making native cloth from the bark of the


[Column 1]
paper mulberry tree for a long time before
the launching. They made it fine, bleached
it to a snowy whiteness, then stamped
with brilliant colors, all of home produc-
tion. Shapes of birds, flowers and fishes
were painted on their robes, also letters and
wheels, all of the brightest tints, which
contrasted strikingly with the white ground-
work. Both male and female were dressed in
white, their robes all the same fashion, made
whole, two yards in length, with a hole in
the center to put the head through. These
thrown carelessly over their white dresses
gave them a tasteful appearance.
	Early Monday morning we were assem-
bled to witness the parade. Officers were
chosen to conduct the movements. A
messenger was sent before to announce
their approach. There were two large com-
panies, each company occupying its own
space of ground in the dance. They had
no music, except their own vocal elements,
so loud and clear that one might imagine
himself listening to an Italian band. Their
dancing was with form and order; great
exactness in keeping time. To describe
the different exercises, the unheard of ges-
tures, and the scene throughout, would re-
quire the art of a sculptor and painter;
and they would come short of a just deline-
ation. The pile of food far exceeded all the
other wonders. To see provisions enough
to last two hundred and fifty persons a
whole week, all cooked and laid in one
huge pile, bound in bundles so thick with
leaves that not a particle of air could pene-
trate it, no more than it can jars of fruit
hermetrically sealed. Pigs weighing more
than a hundred weight, roasted whole and
tied up in the usual style, thrown on to the
heap, till it looked like a haystack of leaves.
	When the first exercise of dancing was
over, they commenced pulling at the ropes
fastened to the vessel’s sides, to move it to-
wards the coral reef. Many unsuccessful
efforts were made ere it was started at all.
They were obliged to take advantage of low
tides, or stand in deep water. The king’s
son, who was captain, stood in his place
with the scarlet coat on which I had made
him, and a glittering sword in his hand.
It was his prerogative to give the word of
command. Loud and incoherent ejacula-
tions, such as “a, te, a! te, a!” a signal
for them all to pull together. The wives
of the missionaries were idle spectators.
They had not as yet been invited to take
hold of the ropes. At length an old man
fastened on an extra rope and invited them
to help pull. We all stepped forward and
took hold of the rope with a will! It so
happened at that instant the vessel moved
for the first time. Loud acclamations re-
sounded, almost deafening, about the
strength of the “mau vahime papa,” (foreign
women.) For four successive days it was
moved a short distance each day. The
labor continued till the food was all con-
sumed; then the work was suspended to
cook more. We returned to our homes be-
fore the vessel was launched, those who
could not render important service.
	About the middle of May the schooner
Ravai was brought around to the village
where we lived. Great rejoicing was mani-
fest when she was seen under full sail.
She was anchored a mile and a half from
town. We all walked to the place and
went on board; sailed around till we were
opposite the town, and were taken to shore
in the small boat. Preparations had been
made for a voyage to Tahiti and the Chain
Islands. Mr. Grouard was appointed cap-

[Column 2]
tain and Mr. Alexander was first mate.
	Mr. Pratt and our eldest daughter took
passage on board the new ship Bavai. We
stood on the beach and saw her move off so
majestically, and we felt proud of her. The
native women who had sons on board, gone
for their first voyage, commenced weeping
and wringing their hands. We had not
thought of shedding tears till we heard
their cries. It is their custom thus to wail
and lament when a friend dies or goes to
sea. They wring their hands and tear their
hair, and make the most piteous lamenta-
tions. The Elders all left the Island except
Brother A. Hanks. He rem[-]ined to be
company for the families of the missionaries.
I expected to be very lonely, but, on the
contrary, we all enjoyed ourselves remark-
ably well.
			[To be continued.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting con-
vened July 22, 1899, in the 14th ward hall,
with Counselor Elizabeth Webb presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing “All is well.”
Prayer by Sister Sarah J. Cannon. Con-
tinued by singing, “Who are these arrayed
in white.” Minutes of previous meeting
read and approved.
	President Horne came in; said she
was necessarily late. She always liked to
be present at the opening, as all feel better
when they are present to take part in the
singing and prayer. Said she believed that
the Lord would help any one who would
make an effort to do her duty. There is no
progression unless we make an effort to do
what is required of us. We only stay here
a short time in this preparatory state, and
we receive blessings for what we ac-
complish. Said our work in the Relief
Society is more to the poor Saints, but we
never refuse to do good wherever we can.
It is our duty to know ourselves and teach
our children to know there is a God, and to
serve Him. Spoke of the simplicity of the
Gospel, and how easily it was understood.
Said she thought we all had cause to be
thankful to God for His goodness to us.
	Sister Emily Stevenson felt to rejoice in
the Gospel. She knew if we kept the com-
mandments of God, we would be saved in
His kingdom.
	Sister Mair said that a great many do
not know that this is the church of God,
but it is our duty to explain it to others.
	Sister Wilcox bore testimony that she
knew this was the truth, and she greatly
rejoiced in it.
	Sister Louie Stevenson said: “We are
sent upon the earth on missions, and it is
our duty to bear testimony to all with
whom we come in contact, if they ask for
such.”
	Sister Butterworth felt thankful that she
was one of the workers in this Church.
She had been a busy bee in the “Hive of
Deseret” for forty-five years. Spoke of the
duties of Latter-day Saints. Said: “We have
got the children of the earth to teach the
Gospel to, ourselves to save, our families to
raise and teach them correct principles, and
it behooves us to be very humble and
prayerful.” Testified that there are blessings
attached to the observance of the law of
tithing.
	The congregation sang, “The Spirit of
God like a fire is burning.”
	Sister Peterson knew that Joseph Smith
was a prophet of God, and she was pleased
to be numbered among the Saints.

[Column 2]
	Sister Sarah Bateman said she did not
wish to go away without bearing her testi-
mony. She always thanked the Lord that
she was permitted to mingle with the
Latter-day Saints and work in the Temple.
	Sister Smelie said she thanked the Lord
every day that she was brought into these
mountains—this home of refuge. Said the
Gospel was everything to her.
	Sister Peterson believed if we were faith-
ful and asked our Heavenly Father for
what we wanted, He would grant us all
that is for our good.
	A young sister in the congregation said
she was thankful she was born and raised a
Latter-day Saint, and that she was a mem-
ber of the Relief Society.
	Another sister said we should teach our
children true principles, and be prayerful,
that we may teach them to be Saints.
	Sister Pixton said if we do not put our
testimonies to a good use, God will not be
pleased. She wondered how many would
be ready if the call should come for us to go
out to meet the Bridegroom. It had been
taught to us to be prepared ever since the
days of Nauvoo. Spoke of the sorrow it is
to see our children marry outsiders and go
astray, as so many are doing at the present
time. Spoke of the necessity of doing the
work for the dead, and not idling our time
away.
	Sister Neal was glad to meet with the
sisters and receive the instructions she did
here. Said she was one of the members
when this society was first organized. Spoke
of the many testimonies God gives to His
daughters as well as His sons.
	Another sister bore testimony of the
truth of the work, and spoke of the duties
of those who wish to do work in the Temple.
	Sister Harriet A. Badger said she rejoiced
to be here and meet with these sisters. Felt
we had a great deal to do in a short time.
Knew we must learn to be kind to each
other and love each other.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde said she wondered
if we realized the value of testimony. She
thought it necessary that we should all be
witnesses to this great work. How thank-
ful the Prophet Joseph felt, and how he
was braced up when he had the three wit-
nesses to support him! Thought it neces-
sary for each to bear a testimony of the
Prophet Joseph to her children.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Bene-
diction by Counselor Elizabeth Webb.
				J. S. WOOLEY, Sec.


“WHEN, in 1857, Lord Salisbury married
his wife, he was plain Robert Cecil, twenty-
seven years old, a second son, with no im-
mediate prospect of succeeding to the Mar-
quisate. She was a daughter of a Judge of
the now extinct Court of Exchequer, Baron
Anderson, and older than her husband, but
a woman of great intellectual gifts as well
as personal attractiveness. The marriage
was distasteful to young Cecil’s father, and
for a long time he had to eke out a scanty
income by writing for newspapers, chiefly
the Saturday Review. The death of his
elder brother in 1865 permitted him to as-
sume the courtesy title of Lord Cranborne,
and that of his father, in 1868, made him
Marquis of Salisbury. The lineal des-
cendant of Queen Elizabeth’s Cecil, Lord
Burleigh, has proved himself worthy of his
distinguished ancestor, and is the foremost
of living British statesmen.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


TO SISTER ELIZABETH STEVENSON.
Blessed are they that mourn for they shall be 
comforted.

	Courage, brave soul, they grief allay!
		Though life seems dark and drear,
	It is not so, to cheer thy way
		The angels hover near.

	We know thou'st drunk the bitter cup,
		Aye, drained it o'er and o'er;
	But thou hast laid thy treasures up,
		Where sorrows are no more.

	And thou art faithful; thou art true;
		As years roll swiftly by,
	E'en this great grief thou wilt not rue,
		Nor pain, nor tear, or sigh.

	And, O, thou art so greatly blessed,
		Great joy should fill thine heart,
	That thou art given through righteousness,
		In His great work a part.

	Yea, even that thy voice is heard
		In Zion's stakes afar,
	Proclaiming by thy deeds and word
		The Christ—our guiding star. 

	And couldst thou ask a greater boon,
		Than—called by love divine—
	To work for those beyond the tomb?
		O, what a lot is thine!

	That God will give thee light and trust
		According to they need—
	Thou knowest all His ways are just—
		Thy sisters can but plead.

	Blessed are they that mourn, He said,
		And blessed are the pure;
	In me they shall be comforted,
		My word is strong and sure.”
					RUTH M. FOX.
July 7, 1899


SEND DOWN THY TRUTH.
	(Sung at the Women's Council Arbitration
meeting, London, June 27.)
	Send down Thy truth, O God!
		Too long the shadows frown,
	Too long the darkened way we’ve trod:
		Thy truth, O Lord, send down!

	Send down Thy love, Thy life,
		Our lesser lives to crown,
	And cleanse them of their hate and strife:
		Thy living love send down!

	Send down Thy peace, O Lord!
		Earth’s bitter voices drown
	In one deep ocean of accord:
		Thy peace, O God, send down!
							E. R. SILL.


THE AGE OF GOLD. 
(Sung at Women’s Arbitration meeting, June 27.)

	The God that to the fathers
		Revealed His holy will
	Has not the world forsaken;
		He’s with the children still.
	They envy not the twilight
		That glimmered on their way;
	Look up and see the dawning
		That broadens into day.

	’Twas but far off, in vision,
		The father’s eye could see 
	The glory of the kingdom- 
		The better time to be,
	Today we see fulfilling
		The dreams they dreamt of old;
	While nearer, ever nearer,
		Rolls on the age of gold!

	With trust in God’s free spirit-
		The ever broadening ray.
	Of truth that shines to guide us
		Along our forward way-
	Let us today be faithful,
		As were the brave of old,
	Till we their work completing,
		Bring in the age of gold! 
					M. I. SAVAGE.


MARRIAGE OF MISS E. W. SEARS. 
	At the residence of the bride’s parents,
Hon. and Mrs. S. W. Sears, Thorndike, 
East Waterloo, on Friday at high noon, (12
M.) Miss Emilie W. Sears was mar-
ried to Mr. John Gillette Roberts, of In-
dianapolis, Indiana. The ceremony was 
performed by the Rev. I. Elmer Goshen. The 
wedding was a very quiet one, only mem-
bers of the family being present and one or 
two friends, visitors from Janesville, Wis-
consin.
	The house was beautifully decorated,
the windows and mantlepiece of the parlor, 
where the ceremony took place, were banked
with ferns and palms, brightened with nas-
turtiums of the most charming varieties;
the library was fragrant with lovely roses 
of all shades of color; the hall was deco-
rated with long-stemmed, old-fashioned
hollyhocks, and the dining room, where 
the wedding breakfast was served immedi-
ately after the marriage, was filled in 
every available place with the daintiest-
colored and sweetest of sweet peas. The 
bride wore a gray “going away gown,” with 
white silk waist, and carried a large bouquet 
of exquisite delicate roses, and a dainty 
ivory fan. 
	The newly wedded pair left Salt Lake 
City early the following morning on a wed-
ding tour to New York, Chicago and a 
number of large cities in the East, and 
were given a brilliant reception at the 
residence of the bridegroom’s parents, in 
Indianapolis, while enroute.
	The bride is well known in Salt Lake 
City, and familiarly to those who visit this 
office, as she has assisted here occasionally 
during the last few years and at times con-
tinuously, in the absence of the editor. 
	Mr. Roberts, the bridegroom, taught 
Mathematics in the High school in this city, 
but left here two years ago to accept a more 
remunerative position in Detroit, Michigan, 
where the young people expect to reside, for 
the present, at least. 
	Mr. Roberts is an electrical engineer, and 
is superintendent of the chemical department 
of the Detroit Switchboard Telephone and
Constructing Company, and is reputed to 
be one of the most expert men in his line of 
business in the country. 
	May every blessing desirable for the at-
tainment of complete happiness be showered 
upon these young people just entering, as 
it were, the portals of a new life; and may 
their union prove a happy and prosperous 
one in all that will bring true success in 
the future, both in this life and that which 
is to come. 
	The EXPONENT extends most sincere 
and heartfelt congratulations to Mr. and 
Mrs. Roberts, and trusts the future may 
be fraught with such rich and happy influ-
ences, that their days may flow on smoothly 
and scarce a pebble disturb the waves of 
the ocean of life, over which they glide 
ever onward.

And love is best, pure love without alloy, 
	Of all the blessings and the mercies given;
It brings the sweetest bliss, the highest joy 
	And gives us faith and hope that lights to 
		Heaven.
Dear “Emmie” may your star of love be bright 
	To guide through every mist and every storm;
May showers to prove thy faith be only light 
	And blessed sunshine after cheer and warm. 
									E. B. W.


JEALOUSY is the greatest enemy to
[-]rotherhood.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	THE Relief Society Conference of this
Stake of Zion, will convene in the Assem-
bly Hall, Saturday, September 2, 1899,
meetings commencing at 10 a. m. and 2 p.
m. It is confidently expected there will be
a large representation from all branches of
the Stake.
	WEDNESDAY evening, August 30, a
lawn party was given at Mrs. Amelia F.
Young’s residence, by her niece, Miss Hat-
tie Wallace to the Young Ladies Chorus
conducted by Madame Swenson, the leader
and teacher of about forty young ladies.
The grounds were prettily decorated with
flags and bunting, and lighted profusely
with every variety of Chinese lanterns,
which, among the trees and heavy foliage,
gave the place a fairy-like appearance, the
bright young girls in soft, airy summer cos-
tumes, many in white, and a few in bright
colors, flitting about here and there, added
greatly to the beauty of the scene, and with
their merry conversation and the delightful
arrangement of the entire affair, gave one
that charming sense of rest in recreation
that is so helpful to those who grow weary
with daily toil and need some sort of
change. There were a number of young
gentlemen present, by invitation, for of
course the girls must have escorts, and we
noticed one or two, perhaps three, of the
volunteers who recently returned from
Manilla. The tables were spread under
the shade of the trees, with dainty refresh-
ments and decorated with a variety of
lovely flowers and viewing the occupants
from available nooks here and there, the
effect was very pretty. Mrs. Young and
her two sisters, Mrs. Wallace and Mrs.
Brown, and a few other matronly women,
including Mrs. Adams, of Parowan, (whose
daughters were among the chorus) seemed
to enjoy the party as much as the younger
people. The evening was beautiful, the
sky clear and the stars brilliant, and every-
thing seemed propitious to the happy oc-
casion.


REUNION AT SALTAIR.
	A pleasant remembrance in the minds of
the U. W. P. C. is the successful reunion
held at Saltair, Thursday, July 12, 1899.
	The members and friends boarded the
4:15 p. m. train, arriving at the beach in
ample time for a dip in the lake. Those
not caring to venture in the water, set the
banquet table, which fairly groaned under
its weight of tempting viands.
	The absence of our esteemed Honorary
President, Mrs. E. B. Wells, who was in
England, was keenly felt.
	At 8:15 p. m. the club returned home,
extending a vote of thanks to the committee
in charge and many good wishes for the
success of the U. W. P. C. 
			AIMEE C. SCHILLER.


FREEDOM.
	I care not who were vicious back of me,
	No shadow of their sins on me is shed
My will is greater than heredity,
	I am no worm to feed upon the dead.

My face, my form, my gestures and my voice,
	May be reflections from a race that was.
But this I know, and knowing it, rejoice,
	I am myself a part of the Great Cause. 

I am a spirit! Spirit would suffice,
	If rightly used, to set a chained world free.
Am I not stronger than a mortal vice
	That crawls the length of some ancestral tree?
				ELLA WHEELER WILCOX.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah,
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months.
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUG 15, & SEP. 1, 1899.


[Column 1]
A SPIRITUAL AWAKENING.
	During the summer the visits made in
the several Stakes of Zion by the First
Presidency and Apostles of the Church
and the sisters who have traveled with
them, must have caused quite a spiritual
awakening among the people. Meetings
where the spirit of the Lord has been
poured out in rich abundance, have been
reported from time to time in the daily
papers; and those abroad in other lands, as
well as those at home in Zion, have taken
note of these proceedings and are not un-
mindful of the results which must necessa-
rily follow such special teaching and preach-
ing of the commandments of the Lord.
Naturally a more strict observance of the
law of tithing, of keeping the Sabbath day
holy, the Word of Wisdom and training of
the youth of Zion in paths of virtue and
holiness will follow, and thereby will
come a blessing upon all the interests of
the Saints upon the earth.
	The work is hastening on; the mission-
aries abroad in the world are busy sowing
good seed wherever opportunities can be
made. Distributing tracts from house to
house is done by both men and women
missionaries; also preaching in the public
parks and elsewhere in the open air.
Young women have left good homes, and
some of them who were receiving liberal
salaries for teaching in schools and academ-
ies, to labor in spreading the Gospel in
foreign lands, not for honor, nor the sake
of any remuneration in this world, but that
they might be instrumental in helping on
the cause of truth, which will eventually
redeem mankind from sin.
	The writer rejoiced while in England in
hearing these true and earnest young wom-
en bearing testimony to the knowledge ob-
tained through the Holy Spirit, which
leads into all truth. Such testimony only
comes through humility, prayer and faith-
fulness, and it brings a peace that passeth
understanding.
	Mrs. Lettie Dewey Campbell, Miss Inez
Knight, Miss Zina Chipman, Miss Joseph-
ine Booth, Miss Clara Holbrook, these
young sisters, and also Mrs. Lydia D.
Alder, are all engaged as missionaries, as
laborers in the field, devoting themselves
wholly and solely to the spread of righteous- 
ness and correct principles, giving freely of
that which is more precious than the wealth
of the world.
	The Elders, who without purse or scrip
are proclaiming the everlasting Gospel in

[Column 2]
all parts of the earth, even upon the islands
of the sea, and these with the hundreds of
Home missionaries throughout the several
Stakes of Zion, in the Rocky mountain
region, must certainly arouse greater zeal
and enthusiasm, and make an impression
that cannot be erased on the minds and
hearts of the honest in heart wherever their
lot may be cast. Although there are many
people inclined to scepticism, yet there are
still others who are looking for something
higher and more satisfying than they can
find among the theories heretofore extant
in the world; and occasionally these honest
seekers for truth are found, one here and
another there, and are convinced of divine
revelation to the people in this dispensation
through a prophet sent of God as in days of
old. “Blessed are they who know the
voice of the Good Shepherd,” and are will-
ing to leave all and follow Him.
	The persecution that has been aroused in
our own country, “the land of the free and
the home of the brave,” is most lamentable,
and one cannot but recall the words of the
Savior in contemplating the situation: “It
must needs be that offences come, but woe
be to him by whom they come.” But his-
tory has proven repeatedly that “the blood
of the martyrs is the seed of the Church.”
And there is no doubt of the truth of the
scripture, “Surely the wrath of man shall
praise thee; the remainder of wrath shalt
thou restrain.”


[Column 1]
HOME AGAIN. 
	After a rather prolonged trip abroad for a
busy woman, here we are at the desk again,
everything just as if we had only been
absent a few hours. It is very pleasant to
return home and find one’s family all in
good health, and, in the case of the writer,
to find an addition of a fine pair of twin
boys to the numerous grandchildren, was a
very happy surprise on reaching New York.
A marriage in the family, too, was one of
the surprises to greet our arrival, and alto-
gether only joyful news and occurrences to
greet one and cheer the home-coming.
	To recount the happenings, and even the
principal events of a journey of nearly
three months, is a puzzle; but to one attend-
ing such meetings as the International
Council and Congress of Women in Lon-
don, the official receptions and parties, and
trips here and there, it is utterly impossible
to satisfy one’s self in the least degree.
However, to be able to report good health
and no accidents by land or sea, is in itself
something to rejoice over and to be exceed-
ingly thankful for.
	There were a number of Utah women in
England, all of whom had reached there at
an earlier date than the writer. Some of
them had gone to labor as missionaries,
some on business or pleasure, and others to
attend the International Council and Con-
gress. These were Mrs. Susa Young
Gates, Mrs. Lucy B. Young, Mrs. Eliza-
beth C. McCune, Mrs. M, A. Caine, Mrs.
C. S. Thomas, Miss C. Holbrook and Mrs. L.
D. Alder; the last named has also remained
to do missionary work. The entire journey,
from leaving Salt Lake until the return
home, has been full of interesting occasions
and rich in all that helps to make one’s
time pass happily and “fly, as it were, on
the wings of the wind.”
	At the opening of the Quinquennial on
the afternoon of Monday, June 26, it was
found that the Large Hall, Westminster
Town Hall, would not hold those entitled

[Column 2]
to be present, therefore the crowd was in-
structed to wend its way to Convocation
Hall, Church House, Deanery, Westmins-
ter Abbey, and the International Council
was formally opened in that historic build-
ing  by the Countess of Aberdeen with an
address of welcome, which we hope to pub-
lish in full at some future time. It was a
very able paper, and seemingly touched
upon every subject pertaining to the work
of the Council in the past and suggestions
for future advancement.
	After the address came the introduction
of International officers and the Presidents
of Federated National Councils, which in-
cluded many foreign countries: The United
States, by Mrs. Fannie Humphreys Gaff-
ney, of New York; Canada, Mrs. Boomer;
Germany, Frau Anna Simson; Sweden,
Fru Hierta Retzius; Great Britain and Ire-
land, The Lady Battersea; New South
Wales, The Viscountess Hampden; Den-
mark, Froken Henrie Forschammer; Hol-
land, Madame Klerck von Hogendorp;
New Zealand, Mrs. Pember Reeves.
	Other countries who have signified the
intention of federating with the Inter-
national Council were represented by fra-
ternal delegates, but had no vote. The
only voters (proper) were the officers of the
International Council and Presidents of
National Councils already federated; not
even delegates duly elected had votes.
The countries thus represented were France,
Switzerland, Belgium, Italy, Russia, Aus-
tria, Norway, Victoria, South Australia,
West Australia, Queensland, Cape Colony,
Tasmania, India, Persia, Argentine Re-
public of South America, China and Pales-
tine. Delegates from societies internation-
ally organized (present, but without a vote)
Bureau International Permanent de la Paix;
Federation Abolitioniste Ginirole; Union
Internationale des Ames des Jennes Filles;
World’s Women’s Christian Temperance
Union; World’s Young Women’s Christian
Association; International Union of Press
Clubs; International Order of King’s
Daughters.
	Each person introduced had about five
minutes in which to speak for the country
and Council she represented. This occu-
pied the entire meeting of the afternoon.
The day was very hot and the hall was
crowded. Many distinguished people were
present, both in the seats below and the
front seats in the galleries above. Madame
Von Finklestein Mountford represented the
country of Palestine, where there are as yet
really no organizations of women, but
where it is hoped such like institutions may
soon be established, and also in India,
China and Persia.
	The official reception of the Duchess of
Sutherland at Stafford House was held the
same evening, Monday, June 26, from 9 p.
m. to 12, and was certainly in every par-
ticular a royal entertainment. The house
is one of the richest in architecture and in
all its appointments of finishings and furn-
ishings, which are indescribable. The en-
trance hall is famous throughout England
and is of solid white marble with marble
staircases on either side that cross the upper
hall and are finished with elaborate brass
balustrades. Seated on the wide staircase
at the top of the front opening to the gal-
lery on either side, were four of the most
beautiful women of rank and title. First,
the Countess of Aberdeen; next her, the
Duchess of Sutherland, and farther on to
the right, the Countess of Warwick and her
sister. All these grand ladies we had the


[Column 1]
opportunity of meeting and of being wel-
comed by them most cordially as members 
of the Council.
	Afterwards we passed up the grand stair-
way to the drawing room and other apart-
ments opened for the reception, and passed
where the Hungarian band were discours- 
ing the most exquisite music one could
imagine, which floated thro’ these elegant 
halls, diffusing melody such as is seldom
heard except by the most highly favored of 
the world.
	There were a small number of ladies
whom we had met before, Miss Anthony,
who is always lovely and gracious to her
friends, and Mrs. Sewall, Dr. Shaw, Mrs.
Bedford Fenwick and Mrs. Fenwick Miller
(these two ladies we had been acquainted
with at the Woman’s Congress in Chicago)
and quite a number of others. Mrs. Char-
lotte Perkins Stetson, the grandniece of
Henry Ward Beecher, whom we had met
in Des Moines, Iowa, and who is certainly
one of the brightest women of this nine-
teenth century; who is always sweet and
charming, and who really seemed to take
extra pains for some of our Utah party.
Recently her book on the Economic ques-
tion is attracting world-wide attention, al-
though by many severely criticised. Mrs.
Stetson is a forcible speaker, and also a
brilliant and intellectual writer. She in-
tends visiting Salt Lake City in the near 
future.
	There is not time or space to describe
Stafford House or the wonderful paintings
and banquet, but some time we may per-
haps make separate articles of these great
palaces we have seen and where we have
been entertained.
	Lady Battersea’s reception at Surrey
House was in many respects similar to that
of Stafford House; but at Surrey we were
received by Lord and Lady Battersea, and
it is not the custom, as in America, to be
introduced and passed down a long line of
distinguished people.
	Perhaps in giving the public gatherings 
and entertainments tendered to the Council,
we ought to have mentioned first of all the
informal reception given by the Countess of
Aberdeen on Saturday afternoon, June 24,
previous to the opening of the Council.
This was a very pleasant way of having
the delegates and speakers meet each other,
and a very graceful thing on her part, to
bring the ladies into a sort of friendly inter-
course Here we met several ladies we had 
previously known, in closer proximity than 
at the great receptions afterwards, as we
were fewer in number, and as the affair
was given in the “Members’ Mansions,”
which had been engaged for Council pur-
poses. On this occasion the Countess re- 
ceived alone, and stood on her feet for
about three hours. In looking back over
the entire time of this great gathering of
women from all parts of the world, we are
of the opinion that she was more thought-
ful and more considerate in providing for 
the well-being, comfort and entertainment
of members of the Council, than anybody 
could have imagined, or even desired. If
she does not have an attack of nervous
prostration after all is over, one would be
inclined to believe she had been given
superhuman strength.
	The next great reception was at Fulham 
Palace, the residence of the Lord Bishop of
London and his intellectual and accomplished
wife, Mrs. Creighton, who was one of the 
ablest women of the International Council,
and one who was instrumental in bringing

[Column 2]
about the success of the great undertaking
which brought the women of all civilized
lands together on one platform to discuss
the greatest and most momentous questions
of the day.
	Fulham Palace is very antique in ap-
pearance, and reminds one of the past cen-
turies; it is in the very atmosphere of the
house and grounds, though it is kept in ex-
cellent repair, and there have been, doubt-
less, many changes and improvements made
from time to time, yet one feels the sacred-
ness that pertains to ancient cathedrals,
and places where holy men have lived and
served and dispensed their learned lore, or
wisdom, such as is not vouchsafed to any
except those who devote their lives to the
great divine Master. It is impossible for
the writer to put upon paper in a few words
the emotions experienced while roaming
about under the shade of the trees centuries
old, and contemplating the scenes that must
have been enacted and events that had
transpired during the years that had flown
since the house and surroundings had been
occupied by Bishops and their curates and
rectors. At some future time we hope to
devote an article to our impressions of Ful-
ham Palace.
	On Monday, July 3, the Society of
American Women in London entertained
officers and members of the Council at a
luncheon and reception. The president,
Mrs. Griffin, Mrs. De Freise and Mrs. Fay
received the guests in elegant private par-
lors at Hotel Cecil, and the stars and stripes
were specially noticable in the draping and
decorating. Delicious refreshments were
handsomely served; but more of this here-
after.
	Tuesday afternoon, July 4, a garden
party was given by Lady Rothschild and
Mrs. Leopold de Rothschild, at Gunnersbury
Park, an elegant residence and park grounds
in the suburbs of London, where every-
thing was on the grandest scale imaginable;
indeed the papers said it was the most elab-
orate affair of its kind ever given in Lon-
don, certainly beyond any description the
writer will be able to give, such places
must be seen to be appreciated. At this re-
ception there were perhaps half of the Utah
ladies present. Lady Rothschild and her
daughter-in-law, Mrs. Leopold de Roths-
child, received and welcomed the guests on
their arrival, and every possible variety of
amusement had been provided in the
grounds, and refreshments were served in
the house during the entire afternoon. The
whole affair suggested wealth, luxuriance
of grandeur and beauty, and the greatest
hospitality and cordiality possible to ex-
press.
	The Countess of Warwick gave a garden
party and entertainment at her Hostel at
Reading, on the afternoon of July 5, which
was one of the most interesting occasions
we had the opportunity of participating in.
The guests spent the time in listening to
addresses in the garden, under the magnifi-
cent shade trees, by the Countess herself,
Lady Georgina Vernon and some titled
gentlemen, all upon practical subjects per-
taining to education and Reading College.
Tents were placed in near proximity where
refreshments were served, as also in the
house itself, which was very unique in all
its arrangements. After the exercises and
some social conversation, the grounds ad-
jacent were visited by the guests, and a few
of the ladies, accompanied by one of the
Professors from the College, visited the in-
stitution and went over almost the entire

[Column 3]
building. Reading College is built on the
site of an old abbey, and one part of it is
composed of the old abbey and cloisters.
	The Countess of Aberdeen, among other
social functions, gave a breakfast to all
officially connected with the Council, in
the private banqueting hall of the West-
minster Palace Hotel, and presented an ad-
dress of welcome to which one of the Ger-
man ladies responded in behalf of the
foreign delegates, and Dr. Stevenson, of
Chicago, for the United States, mentioning
especially that it was the 4th of July, In-
dependence day. Lord Aberdeen also had
a few words to say. Lady Marjorie Gor-
don assisted her mother at the breakfast,
which was a successful social function.
	The Countess also gave a Farewell, re-
ception at the Royal Institute of Water Col-
ors at the close of the session of the Coun-
cil. After issuing a thousand invitations,
some two or three hundred more were sent out,
it was a most eleborate entertainment. Lady
Marjorie assisted her mother in receiving,
and no one could doubt their desire to make
all happy, when they could stand an entire
evening and welcome each of the hundreds
of guests personally. The refreshments
were delicious, and served after the most
hospitable fashion. The water colors,
though of the finest one could imagine,
were lost sight of by many who preferred
living beauty in artistic costume. Really
the portraits on the walls, and the living
pictures that were moving about hither and
thither, flitting from room to room, were
brought into a sort of rivalry by the art
loving connoisseurs. The Countess spared
no pains or sacrifice to make every one hap-
py; she really gave herself for the time
being to the Council without limitation.
The women of the world are greatly in-
debted to the self-sacrifice of this philan-
thropic, heroice gentlewoman, who, with-
out display of ceremony, but with the true
instinct of royalty, devoted her valuable
time and magnificent talents to those who
came from afar, and like the Queen of Sheba
we can say, “the half had not been told.”
	The visit to Windsor Castle was entirely
due to her tact, influence and thoughtful-
ness. This visit has been described
by so many, that one scarcely feels to go
into detail; but Her Majesty, Queen Vic-
toria, cannot have too much said in her
praise as a woman, a mother and a sover-
eign of a great empire. It was most
gracious and lovely of the Queen of a great
realm on which the sun never sets, to favor
the delegation of the International Council
with Her Majesty’s presence in person, and
the ladies manifested their appreciation in
smiles and bows and waving their handker-
chiefs and singing in chorus, “God Save
the Queen.”
	The tea afterwards in St. George’s Hall,
where every appointment of the table was
significant of royalty, might well have been
called a banquet, so elaborate were the
preparations and so elegant the service.
	It was a fitting close to the great Inter-
national gathering of women of all lands,
that they should pay their respects to Her
Majesty, who in her life, public and pri-
vate, has been the embodiment of the high-
est and noblest qualities of true woman-
hood, a fitting example to the race. Dur-
ing the reign of this wonderful Queen much
has been done in forwarding the cause of
woman along various lines of learning, art
and science, and several special orders have
been introduced for the distinction of illus-
trious ladies. The profession of nursing


has been established on a permanent basis,
and great good has been the result of the
Queen’s sanction and assistance. Many
gateways have been opened whereby gentle
women (who have not fortunes at their
disposal) can obtain independent liveli-
hoods; altogether Her Majesty has proved
her desire to promote the best interests for
the happiest advance in the position of
women in the Victorian era.
	At a subsequent time we will mention
other receptions we had the privilege of
attending and some of the celebrated peo-
ple to whom we were introduced, also our
visits to Paris and Versailles, in France;
Liverpool, Birmingham, Manchester and
Nottingham, Warwick, Kenilworth, Leam-
ington and Cambridge, Stratford on Avon
and other notable places in England; and
Edinboro and Glasgow in Scotland.
	We have been asked many times both in
England and since our return to America,
what the outcome of this great Congress of
women from all lands will be, or what
great achievements will be the ultimate re-
sults? It is almost too soon to estimate
the gains that may accrue, but it is only
reasonable to suppose that a better under-
standing of the conditions of women in all
parts of the world, and, therefore, greater
success for any common or special cause.
That greater love and charity will prevail
among womankind cannot be doubted,
when such a fraternal feeling is fostered
and cherished as that which prevailed so
largely during the entire sessions of the
Council and Congress. Ultimately a great
federation of the sisterhood of the world
will come to pass by means of the processes
now at work, and that will mean for all
the world a higher type of civilization.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LAYING OF CORNER STONE.
KEARN’S ST. ANN’S ORPHANAGE.
	The laying of the corner stone of the
Kearn’s St. Ann’s Orphanage, marks an
epcoh in the history of Utah of which all
loyal citizens may be justly proud; and it is
ardently desirable that other men and wom-
en, whom the Lord has blessed with
abundant means, may follow the noble ex-
ample thus given by Mr. and Mrs. Thomas
Kearns, who made it possible to establish
more permanently this charitable institu-
tion founded some time since by Bishop
Scanlan and the devoted Catholic ladies
and Sisters of Charity, by giving to St.
Ann’s Orphanage an edifice to which has
been appropriately added their name. The
building will be a very handsome one
when completed, and stands upon a large
plat of ground sufficient for its needs in the
way of play-grounds and other purposes.
	The ceremonies of laying the corner
stone were conducted by the Right Rev.
Bishop L. Scanlan, assisted by Vicar-Gen-
eral Dennis Kiely, under the waving stars
and stripes, and were of a very interesting
character. The exercises opened with
singing the hymn “Nearer my God to
Thee,” by the children’s choir, Miss Clara
Folek singing the solo. Then the corner
stone was laid by Bishop Scanlan, assisted
by Vicar General Kiely. The stone is
gray, three feet long and two wide. In
the box was placed a document containing
the following:
	The corner stone of the Kearn’s St. Ann’s
Orphanage, was laid on the 27th day of August,
1899, by the Right Rev. L. Scanlan; the supreme
pontiff at the time being Leo XIII.; the apostolic
delegate to the United States being Archbishop

[Column 2]
Sebastain Martinelli; the bishop of the diocese of
Salt Lake City being the Right Rev. L. Scanlan;
the President of the United States being William
McKinley; the Governor of the State of Utah
being Heber M. Wells, the Mayor of Salt Lake
City being John Clark; Utah’s representatives in
the Congress of the United States being Joseph L.
Rawlins, Senator, and Brigham H. Roberts, Con-
gressman.
	There has been deposited in this cavity: Copies
of the Salt Lake Tribune of August 27, 1899; the
Salt Lake Herald of August 27, 1899; the Deseret
Evening News of August 27, 1899, the Colorado
Catholic of August 26, 1899; a copy of the invita-
tion issued by the committee having in charge and
conducting the exercises of the laying of the corner
stone, and a copy of the program which was car-
ried out on this occasion. Coins of the United
States of the following values: One cent, a nickel,
a dime, twenty-five cents, a half dollar and a dol-
lar; a photograph of the Right Rev. L. Scanlan; a
photograph of Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Kearns and
children; a pamphlet, being a descriptive cata-
logue of the work of St. Mary’s academy, Salt
Lake City; a pamphlet, being a descriptive cata-
logue of the work of All Hallow’s college, Salt
Lake City.
	The contractors for the construction of the
orphanage are Marrion & Fielding.
	Salt Lake City, Utah, Aug. 27, 1899.
	The address of Bishop Scanlan was earn-
est, eloquent and tender, based upon the
familiar text found in the New Testament:
“Pure religion and undefiled before God
and the Father is this to visit the fatherless
and widows in their afflictions and to keep
himself unspotted from the world.” The
Bishop enlarged upon the subject of “What
means Christianity?” and especially applied
the scripture texts “What ye do unto the
least of these ye do unto me,” and “Love
thy neighbor as thyself;” also that man
was made in the image of God; he referred to
the writings of St. Augustine, in which he
said “No relationship is nearer than that
which exists between man and man.” The
whole discourse was exceedingly impressive
and might be studied as a lesson of divine
love and charity, it certainly could not fail
to produce good results. It is published in
full in the daily papers.
	After the address, Mrs. Sutton, of Park
City, sang with organ accompaniment,
“The Holy City,” and Governor H. M.
Wells delivered a brief and telling address,
in which he aptly included the text, “It is
more blessed to give than to receive.”
Hon. C. S. Varian then presented the
memorial trowel made from Silver King
bullion, to Mr. and Mrs. Kearns, the
founders of the edifice of which the corner
stone had just been laid. In Mr. Varian’s
speech he presented some facts in relation
to the struggles of the orphanage in the
past, and paid a high compliment to the
efforts of Bishop Scanlan and the Sisters of
Charity.
	Mr. Kearns responded with many affec-
tionate allusions to his wife and her desire
to endow such an institute, her devotion,
and that of the noble and self-sacrificing
Sisters of Charity, to motherless children,
and added on his own part, “Even in my
short life there was one bright moment, one
ray of sunshine when I wrote the check
that provided for them a home,” and al-
luding to the trowel, “In years to come
when mine eyes shall rest upon this little
treasure, it will remind me that shrouds
have no pockets, and true charity
knows no creeds, and while we enjoy the
luxuries of the world, that beneath this
roof, the Kearn’s St. Ann’s Orphanage,
must never sleep a hungry child.”
	Senator J. L. Rawlins made the closing
speech, which was a beautiful tribute to
heavenly charity, and the founders and
benefactors of the home. He expressed

[Column 3]
the wish, and thought that “others would
be led to cast their bread upon the waters,
and thus dedicate a portion of their wealth
to so good a cause.”
	The exercises concluded by singing the
national hymn, “America,” in which the
choir and audience joined.


RAISING MULBERRY TREES.
AN EXCELLENT REPORT FROM WAYNE CO.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:
	Thinking it might interest you and our
beloved president, Zina D. H. Young, to
know of our success in planting mulberry
trees and cuttings this last spring, and as
myself and counselors have recently visited
the southeast part of our Stake, I will tell
you of our beginning in the good work.
	Torrey Relief Society owns a city lot of
an acre and a quarter, and they have
planted seventy, three-year old trees from the
Salt Lake nursery, and about one thousand
yearling trees and cuttings.
	Caineville Relief Society has a city lot.
They planted out fifty, three-year old trees,
and four hundred yearlings and cuttings.
	Giles Relief Society also owns a lot, which
is not yet fenced. Brother White has planted
out on his own premises, one thousand cut-
tings and four hundred yearling trees for
the Relief Society, when the sisters get
their city lot fenced. He has twenty large
mulberry trees, ten years old, around his
home. I asked Sister White, who is presi-
dent of the Giles Relief Society, to make a
start next spring to feed silk worms. She said
she would give it a trial. We also distribu-
ted over one hundred yearling trees to
some friends in that part, which are all
growing nicely.
	Our efforts have been blessed in this
direction. Most of the trees planted have
grown and made good progress. We intend
to double our efforts next spring in plant-
ing out mulberry trees. We advised
some of the sisters to plant half an acre or
more on their own homesteads, and told
them that in time it would be a profitable
investment; besides it was an obligation
placed upon the sisters to make a success of
this enterprise. We have offered to furnish
young trees to those who cannot buy and
who will care for them, that we may get
this industry started.
	We had a very pleasant time holding
meetings, talking up this subject and get-
ting the brethren and sisters interested in
our labors. The Bishops attended our
meetings, and felt to extend a helping
hand. They all expressed their apprecia-
tion of the labors of the Relief Society, which
is encouraging, for we like to have the appro-
bation of our brethren.
			Yours respectfully,
				JANE S. COLEMAN.


AN aged lady getting into a cab in Dub-
lin, said to the driver, “Help me in, my
good man, for I am very old!” “Begor,
ma’am,” said he, “no matter what age you
are you don’t look it.”
	A VILLAGE schoolmaster entering school
one morning, read on the blackboard the
words: “Our teacher is a donkey!”
The pupils expected nothing less than, a
cyclone or an earthquake; but the philo-
sophic pedagogue contented himself with
adding the word “driver,” and opened the
school as usual.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE OLD FOLKS REMEMBERED.
	The first old folks’ day in Bingham Stake
was celebrated in an agreeable manner
at Brother Joseph Rich’s grove, he having
kindly offered the same for the occasion.
There not being many very old people here,
the age was put at forty-five, and every one
of that age, or over, was invited. Consider-
ing that it was harvest time, and a very
busy time, and near the Twenty-fourth
celebration, there was a pretty good atten-
dance.
	We were entertained with plenty of good
music from the Willow Creek band at the
commencement; then followed a hymn and
prayer, speeches, songs and recitations.
	Bishop Jardine in his remarks alluded to
the vast difference in our number now and
when he came here, the Saints at that time
being few and far between. When the
first ward was organized the first tithing
paid amounted to two dollars; now it
amounts to one thousand dollars.
	In the afternoon we had a short program,
after which they danced; and though I
know little about dancing, I very much en-
joyed seeing them, especially the dance
they call “Grand French Four.” Sister
Clark, I believe, received the prize for the
best step dancer.
	After the dance Brother Bybee inquired
who was the oldest brother on the platform,
and we found that Brother Williamson was.
He was awarded a cane, and the oldest sis-
ter, Abigail Campbell, received a rocking-
chair. Brother Bybee then asked the oldest
sister who had never had her ears pierced
to come forward. She was Sister Stokes,
and was promised a breast-pin. Then
Brother Bybee inquired who had given
birth to the most children. Sister M. L.
Bybee was the lady, having had fifteen chil-
dren. I believe her prize was a lamp.
	Every one went home looking happy.
We separated hoping to meet again next
year, and that none of the dear faces will be
missing.
				LITTLE SISTER.


[Column 1]
OBITUARY.
MARTHA V. STEINER.
	Died, June 6, 1899, at her residence in San
Diego, Califo[-]nia, of typhoid fever, Martha V.
Steiner, aged forty-one years.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, an Alwise and Overruling Providence
has seen fit to call from this sphere of action, our
respected sister and friend, Martha V. Steiner;
and
	Whereas, she having proven herself an ener-
getic and faithful member of the M. I. A., and
a capable and efficient officer, having served as
secretary of said association, be it
	RESOLVED, That we truly appreciate her efforts
in the past, and the noble generosity of her nature,
which has often ministered to those in need; and,
be it further
	RESOLVED, That we truly mourn her loss and re-
gret her absence, and that we extend the hand of
sympathy to those whom her death has bereaved;
and, be it further
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
added to the M. I. A. record, a copy be furnished
the bereaved family, and one sent to the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT for publication.
						RHODA C. NASH.
	In behalf of the M. I. A. of San Diego, Califor-
nia.
IN THE MEMORY OF THE LATE SUSAN MAUDE VELLE
FAIRBANKS.
	Sister Fairbanks was born September 23, 1819,
in Bergen county, New Jersey, and died March 2,
1899. She became a member of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, February 2, 
1843 at Bergen, New Jersey, arrived in Salt

[Column 2]
Lake valley August 28, 1848, and moved to Pay-
son in the year 1851. She was the mother of thir-
teen children, ten of whom are how living,
seven sons and three daughters and a number of
grandchildren. Her husband died in 1895. She
was a faithful and energetic worker in the Relief
Society, being one of the early pioneers, having
passed through those trying scenes in the early
history of the Church, and also the hardships of
the settlement in this country. She bore her trials
with patience and fortitude and was always cheer-
ful. Her mind was bright and intelligent, she
was well informed on all leading topics, and she
was pleasant in conversation.
	Sister Fairbanks was a faithful Latter-day
Saint and has made a good record. She has gone
to her rest as a veteran in the church of God, and
as such will receive the reward of the faithful.
The funeral services were held in the Payson
tabernacle, Sunday, March 5, 1899. A large cor-
tege followed the remains to the cemetery.
			ANN PICKERING, Pres.
			JANE WORSENCROFT, Asst. Sec.
	First Ward Relief Society, Payson.
LAURA ALATHEA GARDNER.
	It becomes our painful duty to again record the
death of one of our faithful sisters, Sister Laura
Alathea Gardner, who died at Afton, Uintah
Co., Wyoming, (where she had gone for her health)
July 10, 1899. She was attended during her last
illness by her husband, one son, one daughter and
numerous relatives and friends.
	Her remains were brought to West Jordan, Salt
Lake Co., Utah, where the funeral was held July
14th. The body was taken to the Salt Lake City
cemetery for interment.
	The funeral was largely attended, and the
principal speakers were Presidents Angus M. Can-
non and Joseph E. Taylor, who dwelt upon the
many virtues and faithfulness of the deceased.
	Sister Laura Alathea Gardner was born August
3, 1834, at Alexandria, N. Y., and crossed the
plains to Utah in 1850. Married Archibald Gard-
ner March 3, 1852. She was the mother of eleven
children, eight sons and three daughters. Her
husband, four sons, two daughters and numerous
grandchildren survive her.
	She has always been a faithful member of the
Relief Society. When the branch in West Jordan
was organized in 1868, she was one of the first en-
rolled. In February, 1869, she was chosen presi-
dent, which office she held until the 12th of Decem-
ber, 1880, when she moved to Taylorsville.
	On July 6, 1891, Sister Gardner having moved
back to West Jordan, was chosen second counselor
to Sister Agnes Cutler, and subsequently the ward
was divided and Sister Agnes was in East Jordan.
The West Jordan Relief Society was reorganized
on January 13, 1896, and she was chosen first
counselor to President Marinda Bateman, which
office she held at the time of her death.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, our Heavenly Father in His wisdom
has seen fit to call from our midst, on the 10th of 
July, A. D. 1899,  our beloved counselor, Laura
Alathea Gardner, we, the members of the West
Jordan Relief Society, do feel to mourn her loss;
and we know that we have lost a counselor and
kind friend.
	RESOLVED, That we do cherish her memory and
put into practice her wise teachings, and strive to
be kind, patient and charitable as she always was,
and try, as she did, to comfort the distressed and 
encourage the erring to lead a better life.
	RESOLVED, That we sympathize with her aged
husband and sorrowing family; and we pray that
our Heavenly Father, with His holy spirit, will
heal the wound thus caused by the loss of a loving
wife and mother.
	RESOLVED, That we send a copy of these resolu-
tions to the bereaved family, one to the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT, and that one be kept and inserted in
our minutes, as a record of our beloved counselor
and kind friend.
				MARINDA BATEMAN, Pres.
				DELILA GARDNER, Sec.
MARY CAROLINE HART.
	Sister Mary Caroline Hart, daughter of Brother
Levi R. and Sister Harriet M. Hart was born Oct.
17, 1884, at Salt Lake City, Utah, and lived at
Thomas Fork, Bear Lake Co., Idaho, where she
resided at the time of her death, July 22, 1899.
	She has always been a very tender and loving
child, and most exemplary young lady, and was
dearly loved by all who knew her. She was a
faithful member of the Sunday School, and for
the last three years has taken an active part in the 
Relief Society. She leaves a father, mother and

[Column 3]
five brothers to mourn her loss, her brother James
being in Germany filling a mission at the time of
her death.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, our Father in Heaven, in His infinite
wisdom has seen fit to take from our midst one of
our esteemed sisters, Mary Caroline Hart, and 
	Whereas, in her demise we have lost a dear
friend and Latter-day Saint, therefore
	Resolved, That we, the officers and members of
the Thomas Fork Sunday School, do extend our
heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family in this
their hour of sorrow.
	Resolved, That we ever cherish her memory
and regard her virtues as worthy of emulation.
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be
presented to the bereaved family, one placed on
the records of the Sunday School and one sent to
the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publication.
	THOMAS FORK SUNDAY SCHOOL.


A PLEASANT BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION
	A social gathering of friends, children
and grandchildren met at the residence of
Sister Lucinda Brown, in honor of her
seventy-fourth birthday.
	After partaking of a most delicious din-
ner, and thanking our Father in heaven for
the same, an impromptu program was
rendered. President Willis E. Robison
kindly consented to take charge of the
guests.
	After an appropriate selection from
the hymn book had been sung by all,
Patriarch E. H. Blackburn spoke very
commendably in behalf of our beloved sis-
ter. In his remarks he said that if he had
his hands upon the head of Sister Brown,
he felt he could say she was accepted of the
Lord.
	Presidents H. M. Hanson and G. S. Bas-
tian dwelt upon the excellent traits of
character Sister Brown must have pos-
sessed to train and raise her children in the
fear of God without a husband’s assistance.
She was always ready and willing to com-
fort those who were despondent and sad,
and was a friend in very deed to all.
	“O my Father, Thou that dwellest”
was played upon the mandolin and guitar
by Miss Ella Hunt and Mr. Bennie Robison.
	Counselors Nancy Blackburn and Eliza-
beth C. Jeffrey, of the Relief Society,
spoke words of encouragement, and praised
Sister Brown for her true integrity.
	Beautiful and appropriate music was
rendered by her children, Bishop Brown
and wife and Mrs. Sheffield.
	President Robison thought reunions of
this nature promoted a feeling of love to
draw us together and to elevate and broad-
en our views in our sphere of usefulness.
He was pleased to be associated with a wom-
an like Sister Brown, who had fearlessly
stood in defence of the principles of truth,
taught her family the Gospel in its purity
and gone through many trials to serve the
Lord; and during the past twenty-five
years he knew she had sought the best
society, and was proud to have her for a
friend. Felt that her actions would meet
the reward of again being associated with
her husband, who has been dead for many
years.
	Sister Robison thanked all for the
great honor shown her; felt it was more
than she was worthy of. Asked God to
bless all those present; that they might do
good on the earth.
	President Robison read the following
verses:
Dear husband, my soul shall treasure thy request
And when the night of fever and unrest
Melts in the morning of Eternity,
Like a freed bird then  I will come to thee.


I will come to thee in the morning sweet!
I have been true and soul with soul shall meet
Before God’s throne, and shall not be afraid;
Thou gav’st me trust, and it was not betrayed.

I will come to thee in the morning dear!
The night is dark, I do not know how near
The morning may be of that eternal day;
I can but keep my faithful watch, and pray.

I will come to thee in the morning love!
Wait for me on the eternal heights above;
The way is troubled where my feet must climb
Ere I shall reach the mountain top sublime.

I will come in the morning, O, my own!
But for a time must grope my way alone,
Through tears and sorrow, till the day shall dawn
And I shall hear the summons and pass on.

I will come in the morning, rest secure!
My hope is certain and my faith is sure;
After the gloom and darkness of the night
I will come to thee in the morning light.”

	After singing “When shall we all meet
again,” and prayer by Counselor Jacob
Bastian, all returned home, feeling the day
had been well spent.
				SARAH A. ROBISON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.
MORGAN.
	The Relief Society conference of the
Morgan Stake convened in the Stake house,
August 3, 1899.
	Present on the stand were President
Lydia Rich and her counselors, President
Jane S. Richards, of Ogden, Sister Eliza-
beth Stevenson of Salt Lake City; also a
number of ward presidents. President
Richard Fry, of Morgan Stake, was also
present. 
	Morning session opened with singing 
and prayer, after which the statistical and
financial reports from five wards were read;
also the Stake report.
	Sisters Richards and Stevenson then
addressed the conference. They spoke on
the law of tithing, and bore strong testi-
mony to the truthfulness of it and of the
Gospel.
	Two p. m. After the usual exercises, 
five wards were reported: all were in
good condition.
	The speakers for the afternoon were
Counselors Webb and Tonks, and Sisters
Richards and Stevenson. The remarks of
the sisters were mostly on our home duties:
the training of children, keeping ourselves
pure, etc. They denounced the practice of
talking about our neighbors. 
	After singing, the meeting was dismissed
by Elder S. Francis.
				EMELINE WOOD, Sec.


U. W. P. C. 
	The regular monthly meeting of the U.
W. P. C. was held in the EXPONENT
office, Friday, June 30, 1899.
	The opening prayer was offered by Mrs. 
Ruth M. Fox, after which the secretary
called the roll, responses being given by 
quotations from Rudyard Kipling. 
	Mrs. A. M. Bradley, as representative of 
the Press Club, in behalf of the Federation
of Clubs, offered tickets to all for Field day 
at Saltair, Thursday, July 6th, the pro-
ceeds to be used for the free traveling
library.
	Mrs. Brown moved that the Press Club
spend a social day at Saltair, Thursday,
July 12th, which was seconded by Mrs. 
Fox: carried. Mrs. Aimee C. Schiller and 
Edith A Lovesy were appointed a commit-
tee of two to perfect all plans for the day.


A motion by Mrs. Bradley, seconded by
Mrs. Brown, that the club adjourn until
September, was carried.
	This being an evening with Kipling,
Mrs. I. Cameron Brown, the first on the
program, read a most interesting paper on
the life and poems of this well-known writ-
er. Mrs. Maria Francis followed with the
reading of one of Kipling’s masterpieces.
The latter was beautifully read, and proved
of great interest to all present. The pro-
gram closed with an interesting and care-
fully prepared paper on Current Events, by
Mrs. Rebecca H. Doolan.
	There being no further business, the
meeting adjourned.
			AIMEE C. SCHILLER, Sec.


NOTES.
	LADY SOMERSET is laboring to induce
London and other English cities to employ
matrons in police stations, after the fashion
of the United States.—Ex.
	No change of condition, be it ever so de-
sirable, can of itself change character, or
build up principle, or create virtue. And it
is upon these, after all, that we must de-
pend for real progress as well as for per-
manent happiness.
	ESTELLE REEL, U. S. Superintendent of
Indian Schools, in her annual report, says
that all the teachers among the Indians
agree that the solution of the problem of
Indian education lies in industrial training.
The studies that will enable the Indian lad
to earn an honest dollar by manual labor
are what he needs.—Ex.
	LADY GEORGINA VERNON, daughter of
the tenth Earl of Haddington, is well
known as an authority on dairying as an
occupation for women. She spent some
time in Normandy studying into French
methods of cheesemaking. She strongly
urges the practicability of dairying for
women as a self-supporting industry, but
says that cheese would be the most profit-
able branch of the work.—Ex.
	CLARA BARTON, president of the Red
Cross, has been visiting at the home of
Judge Joseph Sheldon in New Haven, Conn.
Miss Barton returned from Cuba about two
weeks ago. She was accompanied by her
general field-agent, Dr. Hubbell. The
rumors that have been in circulation for
weeks that Miss Barton would soon relin-
quish the management of the Red Cross
was denied by her friends. “She is in good
health notwithstanding her age,” said one
who has talked with her since her arrival
in this city. “Of course she is tired after
undergoing such hard work.”—Ex.
	THE House of Lords has done good work
in passing the second reading of the Shop
Assistants’ Bill, which provides for the
seating of women in shops. It has been
shown that appeals to humanity have failed
with the employers, and compulsory legis-
lation is therefore absolutely necessary to
stamp out this evil. Many young women
have been ruined for life by being compelled
to stand behind a counter for hours and
hours. Compulsory legislation has been
passed on the subject in some of the colonies
and several of the States of the American
Union; It is not reasonable that England
should lag behind. Where the health of
the people is concerned, all other consider-
ations must give way.—Ex.


Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust 
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank 
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not open
	one NOW.
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired. 
			LORENZO SNOW, Prest. 
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

Dr. Margaret C. Roberts
Will commence her next CLASS IN
OBSTETRICS AND NURSING on 
Monday, Oct. 16th, 1899.
	Address 75 North, State St., Salt
Lake City.

GARFIELD BEACH.
POPULAR BATHING RESORT.
OPEN JUNE 22.

Boating, Bathing, Dancing.

TRAIN SERVICE:
LEAVE					LEAVE
SALT LAKE.				GARFIELD. 
10 30 a.m.				1:00 p.m.
2:15 p.m.					5:30 p.m.
4:30 p.m.					7:30 p.m.
6:45 p.m.					10:00 p.m.

Round Trip 25c.

Depot Cor. First South and Fourth West.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St. 
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House. 
R. K. THOMAS


Woman's Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 28. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH SEPTEMBER 15, & OCTOBER 1, 1899. Nos. 8 & 9.


CONTENTS. 
Deborah Sampson—A Woman of the Revolution
	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Alice Burke 49. 
The Royal Red Cross. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50.
Toast to Mrs. Stanton. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50.
A Woman Missionary. . . . .Mrs. Addison Pratt 51. 
R. S. Reports—Denver, Colorado. . . . . . . . . . .53.
	St. Johns, Kansas. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .53.
	Hamburg, Germany. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54. 
	Fremont. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55.
	Salt Lake. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .55.
Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting . J. S. Woolley 56.
Miscellaneous. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
EDITORIAL:—General Conference Relief Society
	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52.
	Great Events in 1899 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .52.
	Editorial Notes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .53.
POETRY:—The Better View . . Ella W. Wilcox 49.
	The Spoiler, M. A. Frost and J. A. Caverno 51


THE BETTER VIEW.
If we talk of the good that the world contains,
	And try our best to add to it,
The evil will die of neglect by and by—
	’Tis the very best way to undo it.
We preach too much and we dwell too long
	On sin and sorrow and trouble;
We help them to live by the thoughts we give,
	Their spite and might to redouble.
For the earth is fair and the people are kind,
	If once you look for their kindness;
When the world seems sad and its denizens bad,
	It is only your own soul’s blindness.
And I say if you search for the good and pure,
	And give no thought to evil,
Our labors are worth far more to the earth
	Then when we are chasing the devil.
ELLA WHEELER WILCOX.


[Column 1]
DEBORAH SAMPSON—A WOMAN OF THE
REVOLUTION.
BY ALICE BURKE.
	A young woman bent over a coat sleeve
made of coarse fustian. It belonged to a
half finished garment lying on a chair.
	She stitched away buisily by the light of
a dip candle, standing on the wooden table.
	The room was humbly furnished, evi-
dently the home of a farmer.
	Deborah Sampson—for so the young
woman was called—was a rather remark-
able looking person. Tall, of athletic
build, yet a close observer might have
been surprised to see her small, tapering
hand and dark attractive face. Her
skin was clear and white, enhancing
the beauty of her slumbrous brown eyes and
thick, soft black hair, and showing the
sweet mouth and pearly teeth. She had an
attractive personality, though she seemed
to be unaware of it, her whole mind centered
on an absorbing passion to serve her coun-
try.
	To look at her, one knew that some-
where, sometime, Deborah Sampson had
known better circumstances, for the turn of
her graceful head and the shapely hand
plying the needle betrayed gentle parents—
and this was true of her, for she was des-
cended from William Bradford, governor of
the colony of Plymouth, her grandfather
being Elisha Bradford, a man of consider-
able note, his wife a French woman by
name Bathsheba C. Broche, and their
daughter was Deborah's mother. Her
grandfather had been rich but suddenly

[Column 2]
lost his money and took to a seafaring life,
hence her parents were very poor.
	Deborah was born at Plympton, in Ply-
mouth County, Massachusetts, in December,
1760. When she became of age she had a
home with a farmer, Mr. Thomas. She
had a singular tenacity of purpose and at
this time she was greatly interested in the
revolution which had broken out. During
the day she worked hard at spinning, in
the dairy, and in the fields raking hay, or
binding oats. She could harness a horse
equally well, and often sprang on one and
rode off for a long canter over the country
roads. If a spare moment came she sat
poring over books which she borrowed
from the school children, and every scrap of
news about the war she read eagerly.
	At eighteen she contrived by teaching a
small district school to save twelve dollars,
and with this she bought some coarse fus-
tian, cut out a suit of men’s clothes for her-
self, and thus it was she sat sewing by the
lonely candle.
	“There is no escape for me,” she thought.
“The way is marked out for me. I must
leave these peaceful scenes and enlist in the
army.”
	There was a look of dreamy ecstacy on
her face. It seemed on the previous night,
she had a strange dream. She thought she
stood on the summit of a high hill, in view
of the sea, where a terrific storm raged.
Suddenly a huge serpent wound its way to
her. She fought it bravely, conquering it,
and then she awoke, filled with an over-
powering desire for a real battlefield, a real
foe to attack.
	The utter silence of the small room gave
her mind full play, and she thought of the
weeks to come.
	At this moment something was thrown
against the window.
	“ ’Tis he, David Brenton," she murmured.
	The sound was repeated. She extin-
guished the light, pushed aside the cur-
tains and looked out.
	The night was warm in the early spring,
the breath of the budding flowers filled the
air, and the moon shone above her.
	She was very lovely as she stood there,
revealed to the anxious lover beneath the
window. She wore a full white muslin
shirt, drawn in by a black laced bodice.
She had unfastened it about her throat, and
her dimpled neck lent a statue-like simplici-
ty to her beauty.
	“Deborah,” he said, in a low voice, “I
knew you were there, for I saw the light.”
	“Well," she asked, in her melodious voice,
"Why do you come? Why don’t you stay
away?"
	"Because, sweetheart, it’s impossible. I
love you and hope in time you will return
my love.”
	Deborah laughed.
	“It’s quite useless. Why wear out your
life running after a shadow? I shall never
love you.”
	“I don’t believe it. Surely, if for no
other reason, think of your mother. She
wishes for our union, and think, Deborah, of
the beautiful home I can give you. Try to
love me darling,” he urged. He was a

[Column 3]
man of wealth, and loved her devotedly.
	“I am sorry I have to repeat my no, be-
cause I’ve said it so often, you must be
tired of hearing it.”
	“What will you do when you leave
here? Where will you go? I have heard
you think of making a change,” he said,
ignoring her refusal, as he invariably did.
	"Of that I cannot speak, as it only con-
cerns myself, and it’s no use trying to find
out, for I will not say.”
	He talked of something else and she
gradually got from him that the soldiers in
Boston were in need of food.
	"Why is it, Deborah, you revert to the
war? You are greatly interested in it, are
you not?" he inquired. He saw her face
beam with that wonderful light of courage
and inspired aspiration.
	“I scarcely know,” she said. “I’m sor-
ry, sorry, I’m not a man. If I was I’d
shoulder a firelock and march against the
Red Coats. Yet here within me is the
longing to help these brave men. God
give me strength to find out the way,”
she added beneath her breath, and soon
David Brenton departed.
	When he was gone, she tied up her bun-
dle of work and slipped out of the house,
across a meadow, and close by a large hay-
stack in which she concealed it. This
done, she returned to her room, and then re-
tired for the night.
	Thus she worked daily on the suit,
and at length it was finished. She
sent to the soldiers in Boston, as soon as she
could[-] a few fowl and sheep of her own
raising, bought with some of her hard
earned money at Mr. Thomas’.
	She saw her mother frequently. She
lived in a ramshackle old place, at a short
distance, and the elder woman often urged
the suit of David Brenton, but in vain.
Deborah made a final decision in her own
mind, she would enlist in the army as a
private, disguising herself as a man in the
suit of fustian, which was safely stowed
away in the haystack. She had but to
make the venture and all was before her.
She gave the good people notice, saying
she wanted higher wages, and intended
going to some other town. In a day or
two it was settled between them.
	She tied up a few articles she might re-
quire, and just as the dawn peeped forth,
on a cool day in May, after a kind farewell
to Mr. Thomas and his wife, she started off
for Staunton Mills, and later for Worcester
and the American camp. She wore on
this morning her usual costume, a brown
woolen skirt, white shirt and laced bodice.
The farmer and his wife watched her out of
sight, and when she found she was un-
observed she ran into the meadow, snatched
the suit of fustian out, wrapped it in her
bundle and on she went. She did not say
good-bye to her mother, nor let her know of
her intended departure. At times this
struck home to her, but she thrust the
longing from her. She soon reached a
track of dense woodland, and screened by
the thick bushes she proceeded to change
her apparel, and slipped into the rough
suit of fustian. She stepped forth in a few


[Column 1]
moments fully clothed as a man. Her fig-
ure lent a new grace to the garb, and she
seemed a comely youth. She clipped her
thick black curls closely to her head,
and placed on it a soft hat, which she had
bought the day before, and thus equipped
she breathed freer. Her way seemed
mapped out for her, straight to the Ameri-
can camp, some miles distant. Before pro-
ceeding, she gathered some dry branches
and made a fire, heaping her clothes upon
it, and, setting a light to it, waited until
they were reduced to ashes. These she
covered with earth, and once more set off.
	The day was well on when she paused at
the outposts. The sentinel eyed her curi-
ously, but the fire in her brown eyes shot
straight into his own and awakened a re-
sponsive chord in this weather-beaten soul.
	“I’ve come to enlist,” Deborah an-
nounced; her deep voice filled the place for
a boy’s readily.
	“Well, an’ yer have. I’m glad on it,
young man. Come this way!” He led
her through the ranks straight to Colonel
Patterson.
	He looked pleased when he saw Deborah.
There was a curious intenseness and vigor
about her, which people felt, and she gener-
ally won her point. Her smile was the sun-
niest the Colonel had ever seen, as she
doffed her hat and made known her errand.
He studied her attentively.
	“Yes, you’re just the boy I need,” he
said, laying his hand on her shoulder. She
shrank away, but overcame her embarrass-
ment instantly. “You shall be with me
for a while. I want a young fellow to run
errands to different places along the lines.
You shall fill that position, and be mustered
in at the same time. We shall have leave
of absence soon, and I shall take you home
with me, for you’ll be useful there.”
	Deborah consented readily, though she
had wished for immediate action. She was
mustered into service in May, 1781, under
the name of Robert Shirtliffe.
	The men called her “The Blooming Boy,”
because of her fair skin, and often Bobbie,
to all of which she made no remonstrance.
She became indispensable to the Colonel,
and when his leave of absence came he
took her home with him.
	She found herself in a comfortable home,
with little to do except a few letters to copy
for the Colonel. She busied herself about
the place, working in the garden, and doing
whatever came to hand. The household
grew to love the young man, and she was
careful to evade discovery. She had begged
a room to herself, and the Colonel gave it
to her. About this time a niece came to
stay at the house, and as ill luck would
have it, she became enamored of the youth-
ful soldier. Deborah tried every means to
avert this disaster, but the girl’s earnest-
ness was not to be quelled so easily, and
Deborah went to the Colonel with the story.
After she told him the facts of the case, he
said, “My dear boy, you are needlessly
alarmed, for nothing would please me more
than to have you marry my niece; and
what reason prevents your doing so? Try,
my dear fellow, to love her.”
	Deborah grew white to the lips with fear
and dismay.
	“Colonel Patterson, you don’t know
what you ask,” she said hastily.” “Think
of me, sir, I am only a common soldier. I
haven’t a cent in the world.”
	“Don’t look so frightened, Rob,” the 
Colonel said, laughing. “I’m not going to
force you to marry her, though I’d like

[Column 2]
nothing better. I’d willingly supply the
money to start you comfortably in some
business.”
	“You are too generous, sir, but believe
me, I cannot. It is better that I leave here
at once, if, sir, your niece loves me, as she
has almost told me.” A hot flush mounted
Deborah’s cheeks.
	The Colonel laughed still heartier.
	“My dear Rob, you’re blushing like a
girl.”
	“I believe I am, sir, and I’m ashamed of
it.”
	“You need’nt be. I’d have done the
same if a girl had proposed to me. But
you musn’t think of leaving me. The
young woman shall go first.”
	“This is scarcely fair, sir. No, I shall
go.” The slight figure stood erect, the
voice rang out decidedly, and the Colonel
met only defiance in the handsome brown
eyes.
	“And I say you shall not go,” he said.
“You are dismissed for the present.”
	Deborah saluted her superior officer and
withdrew. She hurriedly put a few arti-
cles together, and when the next morning
came, Colonel Patterson’s household was
astonished to find the young soldier miss-
ing.
	Deborah proceeded back to the American
camp, where she once more got in the ranks
as a private. She carried a bayonet, car-
tridge box, etc. She enlisted for the whole
term of the war, a position never before or
after held by a woman. She filled the full
complement of a soldier’s life, slept in tents
and went through the usual routine of the
men. Her mother in the meantime and
her lover, David Brenton, received rumors
of her death, or of an elopement. They de-
cided to make a search for her, and ended
their pilgrimage by going through the
American camp, fearing she might have
gone there to nurse the soldiers. It hap-
pened that Deborah was putting on her
coat as she caught sight of her mother and
David Brenton being shown through the
camps by two officers. She went inside the
tent immediately, greatly excited. Would
they know her? She snatched up a book
and pretended to read.
	Presently the party passed by her tent,
and David looked in curiously. Deborah
sprang to her feet instantly, pulled her
hat well over her eyes, and saluted her
superior officer. David did not know her,
but saw only a slender youth giving the
army courtesies to his officer.
	How’s everything going with you,
Bobbie?” the Captain inquired.
	“Very well, sir,” Deborah answered in a
scarcely audible voice. Her mother started
slightly as she spoke, and looked intently
at the slim figure in blue, but there was a
short distance between them.
	“It seemed,” she said, in the tender
mother-voice, which went straight to the
girl’s heart; “it seemed as if I had heard
that voice somewhere, sometime. Who is
the young soldier, sir?”
	“Robert Shirtliffe, and a fine young fel-
low.”
	The young fellow turned away and bent
over some writing and the Captain, know-
ing the reticent nature of the youth, moved
away with the other two.
	Deborah’s eyes filled with tears. She
rushed to the opening and unperceived by
them, she watched them for a long way.
Her beloved mother, gentle, sweet as ever,
and she had let her go!
	A roll of drums, a sound of fife, and

[Column 3]
Deborah’s tears ceased to flow—a blazing
fire quenched them as it burned in her
eyes.
“No! no! My country, for thee! I am
here, and it is well. God will guide me. 
		[To be continued.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE ROYAL RED CROSS.  
	“The coveted honor of the Royal Red
Cross has been bestowed by Her Majesty
upon Miss Leonora Maxwell-Muller, wom-
an superintendent of the Indian Nursing
Service in the Madras Presidency, and upon
Miss Annie Gill Mark, superintendent of
the Army Nursing Service, and Miss Ger-
trude Mary Payne, of the Army Nursing
Service.
	In the case of Miss Mark and Miss Payne
the honor is in recognition of their services
in tending the sick and wounded. In that
of Miss Maxwell-Muller it has been in rec-
ognition of her competency in the discharge
of her duties and in the care bestowed in
training British soldiers and army hospital
corps attendants in nursing duties. 
	Miss Maxwell-Muller was trained in the
General Hospital, Birmingham, and after
holding various appointments in the Royal
Scotch Nursing Institute and in the Guards’
Hospital, London, she entered the Indian
Nursing Service in 1889. She became
deputy superintendent, and in 1893 was
appointed woman superintendent of the
Madras Presidency. Miss Maxwell-Muller
was at one time a student of the Ear Hospi-
tal, Glasgow. She is also a registered
member of the Royal British Nurses’
Association.”


TOAST TO MRS. STANTON. 
	The following toast to Mrs. Elizabeth
Cady Stanton was offered by her son,
Robert Livingston Stanton, on a birthday
anniversary of Gerritt Smith Stanton, Sep.
18, 1893. It was the custom to celebrate
these occasions in Mrs. Stanton’s family
with toasts and original verses:

				I.
		Here is a toast
		We all can boast;
	She’s mother, sister, “Aunty Lee.”
		She raised us all
		In many a squall,
	With the help of dear H. B.
				
				II.
		She raises cake
		And bread and ‘sich.’
	From Jersey up to Maine;
		But her favorite raise
		Is not from maize,
	’Tis when she’s “raising Cain.”

				III.
	Germany has her Bismarck,
	England Gladstone, forsooth;
	Poland, Kosciusko; Hungary, Kossuth;
	America had her Washington:
		Columbia, Bolivar:
	But we have got the best of all,
		Our darling, dear old mar!

				IV
	Then let us hope and always pray
		That full many a year may pass
	Before we have a vacant chair
		Long side the apple sass;
	For search we may through tale and
		song,
		We'll never find another
	With so many virtues all in one
		As are found in our dear Mother!


MR. WALTER H. PAGE has resigned the 
position of editor of the Atlantic Monthly.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE SPOILER. 
BY M. A. FROST AND J. H. CAVERNO.
(After the manner of Rudyard Kipling.)

A woman there was and she wrote for the press
	(As you or I might do)
She told how to cut and fit a dress, 
And how to stew many a savory mess,
But she never had done it herself, I guess, 
	(Which none of her readers knew.)

Oh, the hour we spent, and the flour we spent, 
	And the sugar we wasted like sand, 
At the hest of a woman who never had cooked
(And now we know that she never could cook,)
	And did not understand.
 
A woman there was and she wrote right fair
	(As you or I might do,)
How out of a barrel to make a chair, 
To be covered with chintz and stuffed with hair, 
’Twould adorn any parlor and give it an air!
	(And we thought the tale was true.)

Oh, the days we worked, and the ways we worked
	To hammer and saw and hack,
In making a chair in which no one would sit,
A chair in which no one could possibly sit,
	Without a crick in his back.

A woman there was and she had her fun, 
	*(Better than you and I)
She wrote our receipts and she never tried one, 
She wrote about children—of course she had none—
She told us to do what she never had done, 
	(And never intended to do.)

And it isn’t to toil and it isn’t to spoil
	That brings the cup of disgrace,—
Its to follow a woman who didn’t know beans, 
A woman who never had cooked any beans,)
	But wrote and was paid to fill space,
					The Congregationalist.


[Column 1]
A WOMAN MISSIONARY.
	[Mrs. Addison Pratt on the Society Islands
1850.]
[Continued.]
	During the absence of the vessel, the vil-
lage was quiet. I spent much time in read-
ing and writing. I read Mr. William’s
history of his missionary enterprises among
the South Sea Islands. I was much inter-
ested. I had never conceived an idea of
the immense numbers of islands where the
inhabitants had been taught the scriptures
of divine truth. To read of their savage
customs and terrible idolatry, and now to
see their docility, their genuine piety, their
ingenuity and skill in mechanics. Who
would presume to say that the British mis-
sionaries had not done them good? They
prepared the way for the true Gospel.
What good could we have done them had
they not had bibles and hymn books in
their own language, published by the mis-
sionary societies in England? They had
not taught them the fulness of the Gospel.
How could they, when they did not under-
stand it themselves? They should be ac-
credited for doing what they could.
	On the 7th of June we took an all day
march; climbed up the highest peak of the
mountain. The scenery below us was
grand indeed! The sublimity of the
mighty ocean, which lay stretched out be-
fore our wondering eyes, inspired us with
awe and reverence for Him who gave it its
bounds, and by His mighty power prevents
it from deluging the earth! We made
many little discoveries which interested us
very much. We found plants and shrubs
entirely new to us. There we found the
brake, so common in New England,
grown to a tree thirty feet high, leaves ten
feet long, the trunk six miles in diameter,
perfectly straight, of a pithy substance, af-
fording a beautiful shade for the wild goats
which are found at the mountain tops.
The charming little grottoes and arbors

[Column 2]
seemed alluring, almost sufficient to tempt
a lover of nature to seclude himself and live
alone in palaces human hands had not
formed. There he could sleep in the
bowers; no cold winter to freeze him; cool
breezes would fan him in the heat of the
summer; when hungry he could go to the
foot of the mountain and find plenty of
food and fruit, which is free for all. Where,
thought I, could another such a situation
be found in the grand wide world!
	After having fatigued ourselves till we
could scarcely walk at all, we bent our way
homeward. We plunged down the steep
precipices, through thickets where, before
entering, it seemed impossible to penetrate.
But we found goat paths in the dense
shrubbery which precipated our way down.
I, however, became so exhausted, I was
obliged to sit down on my feet and slide
myself along the declivities as best I could.
	When nearly down, Brother Hanks left
us and went ahead to prepare supper. We
had yet remaining a long walk. We sent
the children before us with sufficient appa-
ratus to make a dish of tea, with which we
had prepared ourselves. It consisted of a
coffee pot and two saucers. They went to
the first stream of water, struck a fire, and
had the tea made when we overtook them.
The tea, with other refreshments, so much
revived us that we were enabled to reach
home just as twilight disappeared. Ann
Louisa, my youngest, faithfully served me
as a staff coming down the mountain; she
did not seem to falter at all. No poor
travelers were ever more thankful to get to
a place of rest than we were that night.
We were lame for a week, but we did not
regret the excursion, neither would we had
it made us lame for a month.
	I could now say I had traversed the
highest peak of the mountains of Tabouai.
As we went up, we saw the natives grating
arrowroot to make what they call peas. The
grating is a novel method. A hard, stout
cord around a block of wood, tied firmly,
forms a grater. On this they pulverize the
root, which is something like an Irish pota-
to. Then through a cloth fastened onto a
frame they strain it off, rince it a number of
times, settle and drain off the water, and
it is done. It is then spread on cloth in a
close yard and dried in the sun. Nothing
can exceed it in whiteness. It is a pleasant
sight to see it spread in such immense
quantities, knowing how good it is for
food. The most delicate dishes can be
made of it with eggs and the milk of the
young cocoanut. All the while this labor
was going on the “dancers” kept up their
exercises. The members of the Church did
not mingle with those in their dancing,
though their labor was performed in com-
mon. It is their custom to make amuse-
ment of nearly every kind of labor.
	The cultivation of tarrow is quite labor-
ious. Swampy ground is chosen for the
raising of that vegetable. Running water
is kept constantly flowing over the patch of
tarrow, and when any is taken out the tops
are immediately replaced. It runs down-
ward like a beet, and grows about the size,
or some larger. It is a very good substi-
tute for bread. By replacing the tops it is
kept growing all the years with their
rounds.
	The Ravai by this time was due, six
weeks being her allotted time to make the
trip. We dared not expect her; and yet,
as though we really did, we walked on the
beach the evening of the set day, and gazed
upon the waters to see if we could discry
an object resembling a vessel. Frances

[Column 3]
exclaimed, “Oh, if I could see the Ravai
heave in sight I would dance for joy!”
At that instant the cry was heard: "Tohi
a hoi!” It sounded from one to another,
who all cried the same, till it was heard the
entire Island over. It was dusky, and we
could not discern it closely, but the natives
are never mistaken in such matters. She
lay off and on till morning, and came to
anchor at an early hour. Two hours be-
fore daydawn found us up preparing break-
fast and getting ready to receive our friends.
	It was the 20th of June, 7 o’clock in the
morning, when the friends came on shore.
Ellen was much pleased with her voyage.
She had excited much curiosity among
those who had never seen a white women
before. She carried with her a musical in-
strument with which she diverted many
who had never seen or heard any such
thing before. They made her many nice
presents, and two females proposed making
friends with her. This is a custom advan-
tageous to foreigners who come here for a
permanent residence. If you consent to
accept them as your friends, they will feed
you as long as they have a morsel for them-
selves. In return they will expect you to
divide with them, if they should need your
assistance.
	Brother Brown stopped a week with us,
and we had a fine visit. He is a promising
young man, and bids fair to make a good
Tahitan scholar and a faithful preacher of
the Gospel.
	Capt. Grouard left his wife on Suara, one
of the Chain Islands. He seemed in better
spirits than usual; free to act himself. His
wife is so disposed to be jealous that he ap-
pears under restraint in her presence, espe-
cially in the company of white women.
	Brother Brown had been kept a prisoner
in the Calaboose on Tahiti, for two or three
months, by order of the French govern-
ment, but had been released by the inter-
position of the American consul and per-
mitted to go to an island called Ravaivai.
	On the 5th of July, our schooner sailed
for the second time, to bring all the bull-
ocks from the island, which had been put
on the mountain to fatten for the market.
They were very wild, and great excitement
prevailed while the men were getting them
on board the vessel. Many of the natives
had never seen cattle before, and were terri-
fied at the sound of their bellowing and
their pawing in the earth.
	The boy, Hiram E. W. Clark, who
came with us from Salt Lake City, went
for a pleasure trip to Tahiti; Brother Hanks
went to join the Elders on the Chain Is-
lands. We were left lonely. All being
settled, we renewed the school. The
native boys seemed very anxious to learn
the use of figures. They commenced earn-
estly, but it soon became irksome to them.
They cannot stand strict discipline or close
application; everything taught them must
be presented in the shape of amusement.
	On the 24th of July I spent the day in
the “Fere bare ra” (prayer house) teaching.
It never once occurred to our minds that
the day was passing unheeded. We had
intended in some way to celebrate it; but
the white men were nearly all gone, not
enough of the right element to have an
agreeable assemblage.
[To be continued.]


“MRS. J. ELLEN FOSTER recently spent
several days very delightfully at Northfield
in attendance upon the Christian Workers’
Conference.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

Woman's Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah,
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months.
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p.m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEP. 15, & Oct, 1, 1899.


GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The General Conference of the Relief
Society will be held in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall in this city, Thursday,
October 5, 1899, meetings commencing at
10 a. m., 2 p. m. and 7 p. m. It is desir-
able that there should be a representative
from each Stake of Zion to report, and all
officers and members, also Bishops and
brethren, are most cordially invited to
attend the meetings of the conference
of this great organization.
ZINA D. H. YOUNG,
President,
JANE S. RICHARDS,
BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
SARAH J. CANNON,
Counselors.


[Column 1]
GREAT EVENTS IN 1899.
	This year, 1899, has been one of great
events significant of material changes, and
brimming over with exciting details in
which the whole world is interested. Much
has transpired of general interest, and the
newspapers and associated press have not
lacked for such news as the people clamor
for in this age of feverish unrest.
	The war with Spain was scarcely settled
by treaty until the war with the Phillipines
began in dead earnest, and there is little
likelihood of any satisfactory arrangement
being made in the near future. Indeed, it
is a grave question how to adjust matters
so as to reach a peaceful solution. Mean-
time the Peace movement called for the
powers in several great nations, to unite
upon some method that would bring about
more peaceable relations when difficulties
should arise between the various countries,
either on sea or on land; and at this stage
of the civilization of the world such
measures must seem at least to be oppor-
tune; to pursue barbarous practises was all
very well in the days of feudalism, but
with the enlightenment of the nineteenth
century, surely ought to come such ration-
al and progressive advancement in com-
mercial and political and all other inter-
national matters, that some common ground
of settlement might be formulated so as to
avoid much that has been objectionable to
all right feeling people, who desire the
welfare of mankind.
	The Peace Conference at “The Hague”
has accomplished more than many of its
promoters anticipated at first. At any rate,
this remarkable conference brought togeth-

[Column 2]
er delegates from many countries eminent
for learning, wisdom and judgment, and
with such minds in close contact with each
other, naturally the result must be char-
acteristic of the whole. They came to-
gether undoubtedly to do effective work,
and certainly it was an unique event,
something “new under the sun.” The
finale acte which summed up the labor of
days and weeks has at least given fresh
courage, and a certain faith in humanity to
those who have taken note of the proceed-
ings and the ultimate outcome.
	Recently a question has arisen, whether,
after all, it was not the Pope who originated
the Peace Conference, instead of the Czar.
It is stated upon good authority, that the
papal representatives were shut out from
the deliberations of the conference; yet the
fact seems well established that the Pope’s
proposition to the Czar was made as early
as 1895. It is a well-known fact that
Pope Leo XIII. has been against war
measures, and has been greatly exercised
because war could not be prevented.
Whether the Pope or the Czar made the
first move towards calling the conference,
evidently the leaven is working, and though
the permanent good desired may not be
reached in the near future, yet the confer-
ence is certainly one of the memorable
events of the century. The influence of
the great gathering at “The Hague” will
spread abroad, and though many may
doubt its beneficient results, the world will
be the better for all such humanizing efforts.
	Another great event, and one seemingly
fraught with direful consequences, is the
Dreyfus trial, which has caused more of a
sensation—and of an entirely different char-
acter from the Peace Conference. And the
end is not yet. The effect of such proceed-
ing s cannot be in the nature of civilizing
and uplifting humanity, but exactly the
opposite. The interest in the case was not
really so much because of the moral con-
viction everywhere that Dreyfus was inno-
cent, but that the issues involved were of
such vital importance to the French nation;
and the new trial caused a great excite-
ment throughout, but the crisis was reached
when an attempt was made to assassinate
M. Labori, Dreyfus’ counsel. It is current-
ly reported that the attempt was in the in-
terest of General Mercier, whose testimony
against Dreyfus was to be subjected to
Labori’s examination.
	The idea that Dreyfus would be vindi-
cated and his innocence proved, seemed the
prevailing opinion almost to the very last;
and when the verdict was “guilty”—peo-
ple were more than surprised—indeed it
seemed an impossible thing. However,
against the almost universal opinion of the
countries nearest allied to France, and who
certainly would expect justice, even tem-
pered with mercy, yet the unexpected has
happened. What the consequences will be
it is hard to determine. Latest telegrams
seem to have indicated pardon from the
government, and now the “pardon” has
been granted, so say the telegraphic dis-
patches, by President Loubet.
	Preparatory to the pardon, which it
would seem was confidently anticipated,
“rooms were engaged for Madame Dreyfus
and children,” at Folkestone, four miles
from Dover. The kindly expressions of
the people of the place towards M. Labori
and Madame Dreyfus, were very affecting,
so say the dispatches. 
	Now that the pardon has been granted,
the French officials are fearful of a great

[Column 3]
demonstration, and prepare to get Dreyfus
out of the country before the pardon goes
into effect.

	The Transvaal is the all absorbing ques-
tion of the British government at the pres-
ent time. The general opinion is that
Cecil Rhodes finds the Transvaal as an in-
dependent Republic detrimental to the in-
dustrial, commercial and political projects
of the far-reaching imperialists. Olive
Schreiner, a South African English woman,
a writer of great force and immense popu-
larity, has recently published a book giving
her views of the entire situation; it is en-
titled “An English South African’s View of
the Situation.” This South African or
Transvaal question, is worth studying from
Olive Schreiner’s standpoint. She says: “A
new Phenomenon has started up in South
African Life. The discovery of vast stores
of mineral wealth in South Africa, more
especially gold, has attracted suddenly to
its shores a larger population, which is not
and cannot, at least at once, be South Afri-
can. These are literally foreigners. ***
To those who know the Klondyke and
Western America it is not necessary to de-
scribe Johannesburg. *** Rightly to
understand the problem before the little
Transvaal Republic today, it is necessary for
Englishmen to imagine not merely that
within ten or twelve years forty millions of
Rnssians, Frenchmen and Germans should
enter England, not in driblets and in time
extending over half a century, to be ab-
sorbed and digested in the original popula-
tion, but instantaneously and at once, not
merely to remain in England and there to
extract wealth; not merely that the bulk of
this wealth was exported at once to other
countries enriching Russia, France and
Germany out of the products of English
soil, that would be comparatively a small
matter, but that the bulk of the wealth ex-
tracted was in the hands of a few persons
and these persons opposed to the continued
freedom and independence of England, but
were attempting by the use of the wealth
they extracted from England to stir up Rus-
sia and France and Germany against her,
that through the loss of her freedom they
might the better obtain the command of
her wealth and lands. When the English-
man has vividly drawn this future for him-
self, he will hold as nearly as is possible,
in a nutshell, an image of the problem
which the people and government of the
Transvaal Republic are called on to face to-
day, and we put it straightly to him,
whether this problem is not one of in-
finite perplexity and difficulty?”
	“Much unfortunate misunderstanding has
arisen from the simple use of the terms
“capitalist” and “monopolist” in the dis-
cussion of South African matters. The
question before us is not, shall one South
African possess twenty millions, live in his
palace, live on champagne, have his yacht
in Table Bay, and deck women with a hun-
dred thousand dollars worth of jewels, while
the South African next door has nothing?
This is not our question! Our problem is
not the problem of America. *** Their
fate is bound up with the land they live in;
their ambitions are American. *** When
they die it is to American institutions they
leave their munificent donations. The mass
of the wealth they expend on themselves is
expended in America, and returns to the 
people of the country in many forms.”
	Who gains by war? is one of the ques-
tions Olive Schreiner puts forcibly.


“What matter who goads England on, or
in whose cause she undertakes war against
the Africans, she can win?” This is
a question used by the author of the book;
but she goes on to make a most thrilling
statement thereafter.
After giving a most graphic description
of the state of the country and its women
following the victory of the English, if
such a victory should be gained, she says:
‘‘You say all the fighting men in arms
might be shot. Yes, but what of the wom-
en? If there were left but five thousand
pregnant South African born women, and
all the rest of their people were destroyed,
these women would breed up again, a race
like unto the first.
	“Nearer home, we turn to one whom all
South Africa are proud of, and we would
say to Paul Kruger, ‘Great old man, first
but not last of South Africa’s great rulers,
you have shown us you could fight for
freedom show us you can win peace.’
	“On the foot of that great statue which in
the future the men and women of South
Africa will raise to you, let this stand writ-
ten: ‘This man loved freedom and fought
for it, but his heart was large; he could
forget injuries and deal generously.’ On
our great African flag let us emblazon
these words, never to take them down:
‘Freedom, Justice, Love, great are the two
first, but without the last they are not com-
plete’”
	
	These three great events mentioned are
significant of tumults and calamities, and it
would indeed seem that the elements of
civilization are stirred to the very centre.
One could enumerate dozens, yes scores of
other subjects of serious importance, but
there is no need of particularizing further
to show that the scripture, II. Timothy,
3-1, is being fulfilled, “that in the last days
perilous times shall come.”
The latest news from Dreyfus is of his
pardon being secured, his departure from
France to some place unknown, (disputing
the retreat to Folkestone) and the failure of
his health under the mental as well as
physical strain he has undergone. The
dispatches of September 20, state: “Cap-
tain Alfred Dreyfus at 3 o’clock this morn-
ing left the prison * * and proceeded to
Vern, where he took a train bound for
Nantes.” Mme. Dreyfus left Rennes at
noon, accompanied by her father and
friends.”

	Latest news from South Africa report
that Prest. Kruger or the Transvaal govern-
ment has appealed to at least three Europ-
ean powers for mediation in the Anglo-
Boer dispute, and that the three powers
were represented at the Hague Peace Con-
ference. Here is a good opportunity for
practical work in the direction of arbitra-
tion. Let us hope the appeal will not be
in vain.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]	
	EDITORIAL NOTES
	THE regular annual business meeting of
the National Woman’s Relief Society will
be held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall in
this city, on Monday, October 2, 1899, at 2
o'clock p.m. 	All officers and members of
the society are cordially invited to be pres-
ent.
	E. B. WELLS, Gen. Sec.
	
	A SUGGESTION has been made that
Tooele, Davis, Weber, Box Elder, Morgan,

[Column 2]
Cache, Summit and Wasatch Counties
be solicited to furnish students for Dr.
Roberts’ training class. She would like to
have one hundred or more.

	THE City of Rome, which sailed from
Glasgow on the 26th of August, ult., had
on board, returning home, some of the
ladies who went to London to attend the
International Council, and others who had
been over visiting in England, France and
Scotland, others collecting genealogy, and
also missionaries, one lady, at least, and
several brethren. Among the lady passen-
gers were Mrs. Elizabeth Claridge McCune,
Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings and Miss Lucile
Jennings, of this city; Mrs. Jesse Knight,
of Provo, and Mrs. Lettie Dewey Campbell,
of Deweyville. All these sisters return in
good health and spirits, notwithstanding
the thrilling incident of an iceberg striking
the steamer and creating much alarm among
the passengers, in fact, giving them all a
good shaking up. One young man from
New York, a clergyman who had been
traveling in England for his health, went
violently insane, the shock being too great
for him in his weak state. This brings
back to Utah all the ladies who attended
the International Council and Congress, ex-
cept those who remain to labor as mission-
aries.
	THE Utah Society of the Daughters of
the Revolution, met as a sort of sociable on
Saturday, September 16, at 3 p. m., at the
residence of Mrs. Isabel M. Sears, East
Waterloo. The house was prettily decor-
ated with flowers in every available place;
late roses, bright, beautiful nasturtiums
and astors. Several letters from head-
quarters were read, the correspondence
which has accumulated during the absence
of the Regent; the remainder of the time was
occupied by the Regent (Mrs. E. B. Wells)
giving an account of her trip to London
and Paris, and the receptions tendered to
the International Council, including the
visit to Windsor Castle and tea in St.
George's Hall. The "five o'clock tea,"
with many delicious delicacies was a pleasant
part of the social affair. The table was
beautiful with floral decorations, and each
guest was given a knot of ribbon the colors
of the society. Regrets were expressed at
the absence of the First Vice-Regent, who
was expected to add something descriptive
of her trip to London; and also the absence
of the Recording Secretary, whose approach-
ing marriage was the apology for her not be-
ing present. The next meeting will be held
in the Templeton, room 208, on Monday,
October 16, at 3 p. m. All members are
urgently requested to attend, that a course
of study may be begun for the winter.

	DR. MARGARET C. ROBERTS expects to
open another class for a Corps of Nurses in
November of this year. It is ardently
hoped that under the auspices of the Relief
Society in the several Stakes of Zion near
Salt Lake County, suitable young and mid-
dle aged women may be selected who have
the ability and aptitude for this employ-
ment, after taking a course of physiology
and general nursing. The term will con-
tinue for seven months with three lessons a
week. Each student must be supplied with text books, note books and pencils, cost not
exceeding $2.50. Dr. Roberts will have
some of the best surgeons and physicians of
Salt Lake City to give lessons during the
course. As the course of instruction will

[Column 3]
be given free of charge, in consideration
of this free course of study. each sister
taking it will agree for a certain length of
time to nurse under the direction of the
president of the Relief Society in the re-
spective locality where she resides free of
charge, unless permitted to do otherwise be-
cause of circumstances. A suitable room
will be furnished for the lectures and in-
struction. Dr. Margaret C. Roberts tenders
her services free to the Relief Society, for
the benefit of that organization, and that
the sick, who have not faith to be healed,
may be nourished with care and skill, and
that not by the hand of an enemy, "accord-
ing to the word of the Lord to the Latter-
day Saints. For further particulars apply
to Dr. Margaret C. Roberts, 75 North State
Street, Salt Lake City.


R. S. REPORTS.
	DENVER, COLORADO. 
Editor Woman's Exponent:
	The members of the Relief Society of
Denver wish me to write you, to let you
know how we are getting along. 
	Our Relief Society has only a small
membership, but we endeavor to do our
duty as best we can, with our limited
means. During the past summer we have
assisted in caring for some of the poor in
this city, and we have furnished a room
complete in “The Haven,” which is a home
and industrial training school for young
girls. They come from all parts of the
State; some are orphans, and others might
better be, and some are half orphans. This
room is occupied by two girls as a bed-
room. It is furnished with a nice iron
bedstead and bedding, also chairs, wash-
stand, glass, rug,s and all things necessary
for a girl's bedroom; and we have the
privilege of placing our literature there for
them to read, and on the door we have a
nice plate with the name of our Church on
it: “Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints.” 
	We have a good band of sisters here, if
they are few in number. They feel like
pressing on in the good work, and we en-
joy the EXPONENT and have articles from
it read in our meetings.
	Ever praying for the health of the
editor of the EXPONENT, Sister Wells, we 
remain,
	Yours in the cause of truth,
		EVA HALEY, Pres. 
		MARY E. WOOLLEY, Cor. Sec.
		ST. JOHNS STAKE, KANSAS. 
	Our society was organized July 8, 1899,
by our mission president, Elder Wm. Jack,
and we now have seventeen members en-
rolled. 
	We have in our treasury, twenty dollars.
We have given one ice cream social, from
which we cleared five dollars and seventy
cents. We have pieced two quilts, and
quilted three; also made three comforts and
sewed carpet rags. We have held twenty-
five working and testimony meetings.
Those held on the first Thursday of each
month are devoted to testimony bearing.
	Following are the minutes of our first
regular monthly meeting:
	Saint John’s Relief Society held in the
Saint’s Church, Thursday, August 3, 1899, 
at 2 o’clock p. m.  presided over by our president, Sister Lucy Brekenridge. 
	The meeting was opened by singing the


[Column 1]
hymn, “We thank Thee, O God, for a
prophet.” Prayer by Sister Breckenridge.
Singing, “Come let us anew, our journey
pursue.” Roll was called and minutes of
previous meeting read and approved.
Members present, eleven. 
	Sister Oden spoke for a short time. Said
that she was thankful that she belonged to
our society; that she felt like going ahead
and doing what she could.
	Sister Hawkins said that the Lord would
bless us if we would be faithful, and prayed
that we might continue in the Gospel.
	Sister Baker bore her testimony with
much feeling. Desired always to be faith-
ful and do her part, both in the Church
and in the society.
	Sister Dixon spoke of the true prophet of
God. Said we were just starting and must
have a foundation—trust in the Lord. Ex-
horted us to keep ourselves pure, and bore
a strong testimony to the truthfulness of
the Gospel.
	Sister Gooing was thankful to meet with
us again. Expressed her willingness to do
all she could to aid the society.
	Singing, “O, say what is truth.”
	Sister Breckenridge felt thankful that she
lived in this day of the restoration of the
Gospel. She hoped that we would all go
ahead and be faithful, and we would be
blessed.
	Sister Miller felt well and thought the
Lord would bless us if we did what we
could. Testified that she knew that we
had the true Gospel.
	Sister Smith, of Thistle, Utah, who was
visiting with us, said she would soon have
to leave for her home, and might never see
us again in this life; but she felt we would
meet in the next. Knew the Lord would
bless us, He had blessed her.
	The sisters then sang, “Earth with her
ten thousand flowers.
	Sisters Breckenridge, Gooing, Dixon and
Budge each donated ten cents.
	Singing, “O, my Father.” Benediction
by Sister Hawkins.
			LUCY BRECKENRIDGE, Pres.,
			MARGARET BUDGE, Sec.
HAMBURG, GERMANY.
	The Relief Society of Hamburg is in a
very flourishing condition. It is presided
over by Sister Reicht, with Sister Ahers as
first counselor and another good sister,
whose name I do not remember, as second
counselor. They meet twice a month, a
work meeting and a testimony meeting
alternately. They have not many poor,
for they are nearly all poor, but through
untiring efforts, they succeed in almost pay-
ing the rent of the hall where the Relief
Society meetings are held.
	They are earnest workers in the cause,
and desire to do all they can to roll on the
great work of the Latterdays. They enter-
tain the Elders all it is possible for them to
do, some inviting them to take a meal a
week with them, some do part of their
washing and others mend their clothes.
My heart went out to them in their great
efforts to bless the Elders when sent to
them, out of their scanty store.
	They desire to come to Zion, it being
their dream by day and by night. They
love the sisters in Zion. They knit socks
and stockings, let their president buy
towels and other necessary articles, on
which she gets ten per cent off, they paying
the regular store price, so as to let that
much go into the treasury. They have a
secretary and treasurer.

[Column 2]
	Of course they do not use quilts in
Germany, so those avenues we have at
home are not open to them to assist them in
gathering means. The light feather bed,
which, by the way, is decidedly comfortable
on a cold night, and a spread is all they
have on their beds. But they are so earn-
est and intelligent, the love of Zion quick-
ens their understanding and the cause they
work in makes it a labor of love.
	Three meetings were held and one
officers’ meeting. President Reicht enter-
tained some of the Elders and myself, as
also did Sister Ahers. Both of these fami-
lies are getting near the day when they
may come to Zion. Some of the other sis-
ters invited us to their homes also, among
them being Sister Schroder, who puts every
spare ten penny into a box, thus saving
the money to get to Zion.
	I spoke to the first German meeting of
sisters on July 24, 1899. They send their
love to President Zina D. H. Young and
all the other sisters in Zion. They would
have all come down to the boat when I
left, only that it did not go out until 11:30
p. m. Still some came with the brethren,
who would not say good bye, but “We’ll
meet again in Zion.”
WE’LL MEET AGAIN IN ZION.
	To the Saints in Hamburg and my friends.

We’ll meet again in Zion, fair Zion far away,
And clasp each friendly hand on that gladsome
	day;
We’ll see the mountains rising, snow-capp'd to
	the skies,
And the lake on whose fair bosom the evening
	sunset lies.

We’ll meet again in Zion, where God’s own Tem-
	ple stands,
And tell how we as strangers, glad meet in fore-
	ign lands;
As comrades in the Vineyard, where hearts so
	closely meet,
Brave toiling on midst trials, to tell the story
	sweet.

How Christ will come to Zion, His church to teach
	anew,
And choose His very own, His jewels not a few;
Then may we meet in Zion, though oceans inter-
	vene
And roll forever onward, that land and us be-
	tween.

Then, too, in that blest Zion, the city paved with
	gold,
May we amid its splendors, our Savior’s face be-
	hold;
O, there where Saints are gathered from every 
	land and clime,
May we hear the welcome plaudit, “Beloved you
	are mine.”

And through the countless ages, eternities un-
	born,—
When the purple hills of Paradise, gently kiss the
	morn;
And Life’s flowing river, for aye glides smooth
	along,
May we join in the chorus of the New, Unchang-
	ing Song.
						LYDIA D. ALDER.
	North Sea, August 10, 1899,
			FREMONT.
	A delightfully successful tour through
this (the Fremont) Stake has just been
completed by the Stake presidency of our
Relief Society and others, accompanied by
Sister L. L. Greene Richards, of Salt Lake
City.
	Sister Richards came to Rexburg on the
23rd of July, and went on to Haden, in
Teton Valley, forty miles from here, where
she spent Pioneers’ Day with her sister,
Mrs. M. G. Homer, and daughter. On the
25th Sister Homer and daughter accompan-
ied Sister Richards back to Rexburg, where
they were joined by Relief Society Stake

[Column 3]
President Temperance Hinckley, and First
Counselor Mary S. Anderson.
	These sisters commenced their trip
through the Stake on Wednesday, July 26.
Their first meeting was held with the Re-
lief Society of Salem Ward. Continuing
their travels and visits, they held meetings
with the sisters in each of the following
named wards: Island, Lyman, Burton,
Rexburg, Hyatt, Egin, Parker, Ora, Wil-
ford, Twin Groves, Fall River, Mary’sville,
Teton City, Pratt, Chapin, Darby, Ray-
mond, Leigh and Haden.
	With the exception of Jackson’s Hole
and, I think, one or two other small, scat-
tered settlements, where as yet not enough
women reside to form a Relief Society,
every ward in the Stake was visited. 
	Besides the Relief Society meetings, the
sisters met with the Young Ladies’ and
Primary associations in some instances,
where such meetings could be arranged.
	Sisters Flamm, Black and Atkinson
joined the company of visiting sisters in
some of the wards. In several instances
they were also favored with the presence
and support of Stake President Thomas E.
Ricks, his counselor, Wm. F. Rigby, and 
Patriarch A. E. Hinckley. The Bishops
and other leading brethren also showed a
kindly interest in the work of the sisters in
most of the wards.
	There were two wards in which it was
found the removal and resignation of
the Relief Society president rendered re-
organization necessary; and several of the
branch societies were needing to be aroused
and reminded that the duties required at
the hands of the sisters in the society were
of vast importance, and must be diligently
attended to. But in the majority of cases,
good, harmonious work was being done;
and an eagerness to be taught how to im-
prove and progress was manifested by the
brave, noble women who are pioneering
their portion of the work of the Lord in
these comparatively new settlements.
	In all the meetings held by the sisters in
this annual visit through the Stake, the
teachings were of a remarkably elevating
and purifying nature, combining temporal
and spiritual matters in a way to be clearly
understood by all.
	The Relief Society throughout, and the
Young Ladies’ and Primary Associations,
were urged to take an active interest in all
each other’s welfare; to visit back and forth,
encouraging and sustaining each other with
their united faith and prayers, as well as by
good words and works. The law of tithing
and kindred topics were impressively ex-
plained and illustrated, together with near-
ly, if not all, the principles and doctrines
belonging to the Gospel of salvation, both
for the present and the future life.
	“Sister Lula” (as we like to designate
L. L. Greene Richards) being the principal
speaker in all the meetings which have
been mentioned here, took especial care
never to neglect presenting a loving mes-
sage and blessing to the sisters of the Fre-
mont Stake from the honored and beloved
president of the Sisterhood, Sister Zina D.
H. Young, and her counselors; in response
to which, on behalf of the Sisterhood of the
Fremont Stake of Zion, we sincerely re-
turn love and gratitude to dear “Aunt
Zina” and her associates; and thank her
and them for sending us the motherly
benedictions and instructions by so worthy
and capable a messenger as our dear Sister
Lula.
	May the peace and love of heaven ev


[Column 1]
abide with Sister Zina D. H. Young and
the great and grand organization over
which she presides.
			SARAH A. BARNES,
					Stake Sec. R. S.
		SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of Salt
Lake Stake, was held in the Assembly
Hall, Saturday, September 2, 1899, com-
mencing at 10 a. m., President M. Isabella
Horne presiding. On the stand, beside
President Horne, were her counselors,
Annie T. Hyde and Clara C. Cannon,
Corresponding Secretary Maria W. Wilcox,
and Aid Julia C. Howe; also President B.
W. Smith, of the General Board, and Sis-
ter Elizabeth J. Stevenson.
	Meeting opened by singing, “We thank
Thee, O God, for a prophet.” Prayer by
Counselor C. C. Cannon. Continued by
singing, “For the strength of the hills,”
etc. Roll called: city wards represented,
20; country wards, 20. Minutes of pre-
vious conference read and accepted.
	The secretary stated that she had great
difficulty in getting in reports in time to
make Stake report; urged greater prompt-
ness.
	President Horne gave valuable instruc-
tions to the sisters on the duties of mothers
in training their children, and duties in the
Church. “Out of the 2717 members re-
ported, we should have a much larger at-
tendance at meeting this morning.” Said
she was pleased to see such a good repre-
sentation of officers. Felt sure that all the
sisters could make arrangements to come to
conference once in three months, if they
had sufficient interest.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith said:
“The word of the Lord to the Saints is that
the sisters and the Saints should pay tith-
ing and donations, and not let the names
of the brethren alone appear on the books.
Teach your children to keep the Sabbath
day holy; teach them to pray and observe
the Word of Wisdom.”
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde said: Every
one comes here to gain instruction, and be
able to carry home to her society something
that will be of benefit. Our report shows
that the attendance at the ward meetings is
not so large as it should be. There is a great
responsibility resting upon the officers.
There are just as good women outside the
society as there are in it, but they have
not the spirit of Relief Society work. How
many are going to work to help bring them
in and inspire them? The younger sisters
should be more interested, for it is a noble
work of sacrifice and doing good. Many
of our nurses are doing a noble work of
charity among the sick and needy. We ex-
pect soon to organize classes for young
ladies and young mothers, where lectures
on hygiene, physical development, etc.,
will be given. Impress upon your children
at your knee the divinity of the mission of
Joseph Smith, that when they go out
among the nations, they may have the
spirit of truth burning in their hearts.”
	Counselor M. M. Daniels, of the Relief
Society of Utah Stake, expressed great
pleasure in meeting with us, this being her
first opportunity of doing so. Rejoiced in
all she had heard here. Spoke of the good
results of paying tithing, and gave many
good instructions. “The young people
have too much amusement, for it keeps
them in a state of excitement. One amuse-
ment follows so quickly upon another, that

[Column 2]
their minds never have a chance to calm
down. It is really injurious to their
nervous system.” Thanked the Lord that
she had seen and known the Prophet Joseph
Smith, and had a testimony and knowledge
of the divinity of his mission. She was
healed of chills and fever when she was
baptized at the age of nine years.
	President Sarah J. Cannon, of the Gener-
al Board, said if we would follow out the
instructions we had heard this morning, we
would certainly see good results. Spoke of
her son being healed by the administration
of the Elders. This morning he had left
home to go on a mission. When people
who are outside our Church asked her what
we believe in, she told them that we be-
lieve in what the Savior taught when He
was here upon the earth. Some had said to
her that they did not think we wished to
talk about our religion. She told them
this was a mistake, for we wished every
man, woman and child on the earth to have
a complete knowledge of our faith, that all
the human family might be benefited
	President Mary Ann Hyde, of the Relief
Society of Sanpete Stake, said: “The
progress of this work is marvelous when
we think of the small number at the com-
mencement, and the great extent of the
work now. The mission of President Snow
is wonderful, and he is awakening the
Saints to a sense of duty, and doing a great
work. Do not fall into a state of lethargy.”
	President Horne felt that the time had
been well occupied. Desired a larger at-
tendance in the afternoon to hear the in-
structions that were to be given. She had
received a letter from Sister Lydia D. Alder
from London, and she sent her love to the
sisters and expressed her interest in the
work.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. Sing-
ing, “The time is far spent.” Benedic-
tion by Sister Maria W. Wilcox.
	Afternoon session. Meeting opened by
singing, “Come, come ye saints.” Prayer
by Sister Elizabeth Webb. Singing,
“Zion stands with hills surrounded,” by
Prof. C. J. Thomas, Brother Charles Bar-
rell, Sisters Maggie C. Hull and Lizzie
Thomas. Minutes of afternoon session of
June conference read and accepted. Finan-
cial report read and accepted also.
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon gave much
good instruction to young mothers. Said:
“Motherhood is the grandest mission on
earth. We, as mothers, should lead lives
such as our children should follow. If
there are some who are wayward in youth,
by this good example they may be influ-
enced to return to the fold. The Gospel is
the same that was preached by the Savior,
and is just as beautiful now as it was then.
Teach your children not to form acquain-
tances with those who are not of our faith
that will lead to marriage; ‘be ye not un-
equally yoked together.’ There is much
unhappiness results from such unions.”
	Sister Julia C. Howe felt her soul lifted up
in gratitude to the Lord for the instructions
given here. “In listening to them I often
wish that we might have had such in-
structions when I was young and rearing
my children. But our Heavenly Father
will excuse our ignorance. The young
women should identify themselves with the
Relief Society and assist the older sisters,
for they have had many advantages that
some of the older ones have not enjoyed.”
	Sister Elizabeth J. Stevenson said: “It is
a great pleasure to me to meet with the sis-
ters, to look upon their faces. I am thank-

[Column 3]
ful to live in the day of prophets and
apostles. Our children should never be
permitted to forget the life of the Prophet
Joseph, and his work. The youth should
have correct principles instilled into their
minds. They should be taught economy,
that, through their extravagance, their
parents may not be called upon to mort-
gage their homes. They should be willing
to minister to the sick, go and read to them,
if they wish it. How much better the
young sisters can do this than the older
ones! Do not desire to be freed from the
care of looking after your children. They
will all be grown up, and you will be left
alone soon enough.”
	The quartette sang “I know that my Re-
deemer lives.”
	President Horne spoke on the subject of
tithing. Said: “It should make no differ-
ence to us what is done with the tithing.
How much does it take to keep the Tem-
ple open? to bring the missionaries home?
to pay clerks? and many other things. We
should not try to dictate to the Church
authorities. The Lord will pour out
blessings upon us if we pay our honest
tithing. At the annual meeting in the
branches, the presiding sisters should
be invited to come; it will increase the in-
terest in the respective society. A great
many of the branches of the society in this
Stake are leaving off their work meetings,
but this should not be done. Our work is
temporal as well as spiritual. These
meetings should be held once in two
weeks, and clothing should be made and
repaired and collected for the poor.”
Mentioned the shooting of a young lady in
the Southern States, who was trying to
protect the Elders from a mob.
	President Elmina S. Taylor, of the Y. L.
M. I. A., felt that she had lost much by
not being able to attend our meetings.
“The Relief Society has been the greatest
blessing of my life. No true and faithful
worker in the Relief Society is in danger of
apostatizing.” Was sorry to hear that
some of the branches had stopped their
work meetings, and President Horne had
not given any instruction for this
change.
	Sister Mary Freeze was the next speaker.
She felt thankful for the spirit of obedience
with which she had been blest. There is
a certain reverence due those who are
placed to preside over us. Felt to love
and honor those whom the Lord loved and
honored. Said all should live nearer to
their Heavenly Father, for the reins will be
drawn tighter, and those desiring to partici-
pate in the blessings of the Temple must
live better. Believed that the people were
endeavoring to do better in the matter of
tithing. When we do learn to obey our
Father, we will then be prepared to receive
fully the teachings that are given from
time to time.
	Sister Camilla C. Cobb felt humble, and
felt as though the best women on earth were
associated here. Desired to be active in
the discharge of her duties. Was engaged
now, and always had been engaged in the
training of children. Bore a faithful testi-
mony to the truth of the Gospel, and de-
clared herself to be anxious to do her duty
in every way. Hoped we would be pre-
pared for the sifting time, which is surely
near at hand.
	Conference adjourned to meet on the 2nd
of December. Singing, Doxology. Pray-
er by Elder C. J. Thomas.
			AUGUSTA W. GRANT, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LADIES' SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING. 
	Semi-Monthly Meeting of August 5th,
1899, in the 14th ward hall, Counselor
Elizabeth Webb presiding. Singing, "God
moves in a mysterious way." Prayer by
Sister Margaret P- Young. Singing,
“Arise, O glorious Zion." Minutes read
and approved.
	President M. I. Horne hoped the sisters
were not losing interest in this and other
meetings. Thought at the present time
more diligence was required of us. Spoke
of the law of tithing, and the necessity of
our observing this law; believed if we
did all the poor could be cared for, the
Temples supplied, and there would not be
a debt upon the Church. Spoke of the
necessity of mothers teaching their chil-
ren to be tithe-payers. There will only be
a few chosen to do the important things of
God’s work. "Let us wake up and not be
always the sleepy virgins. Let us appre-
ciate what God has given us and pay our
fast donations, for this is a law of the
Church." 
	Sister Jane James rejoiced that she had
had the privilege to see the Prophet Joseph
Smith.
	Sister Mary Morris made some excellent
remarks.
	President Zina D. H. Young said: "We
are all seeking after truth." Exhorted all
to come to meeting and bring their friends.
"God had said meet often and speak often
one to another, and a book of remembrance
is kept." Spoke of the necessity of women
keeping the commandments of God, for we
all feel the influence in our homes and else-
where. 
	Sister Brown believed all should come
together and hear the testimonies of
one another; she always loved to tell of the
glorious principles of the Gospel.
Sister Armeda Young spoke of the love
she felt for Sister Zina and Sister Horne,
our leaders; of her faith in the law of tith-
ing.
	Sister Nightingale spoke of the blessings
of the Lord to her, and desired to have
wisdom to raise her children.
	Another sister spoke of the promises 
God had made to the widows: they had
been fulfilled in her behalf. Spoke of the
increase of faith in her children through
the law of tithing.
	Sister Phelps believed a dark day was
coming to prove the Saints. She then
spoke in tongues; the interpretation was
given by Sister Maria Y. Dougall.
	Sister Mair said she had received a great
many testimonies by attending these meet-
meetings. Thought we should attend to
our children and teach them by example.
	Sister Ellis had many things to be thank-
ful for. She always had a testimony.
	Sister Margaret P. Young had embraced 
the Gospel more than fifty years ago, and
she had always tried to obey the priest-
hood and attend to her duties. She had
ever honored President Brigham Young,
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith said she had
always loved President Brigham Young
and those who had succeeded him.
	Sister Liddle spoke of the blessings of
the Lord to her, and her firm belief in the
law of tithing.
	Sisters J. S. Woolley, Mary Morris and
Julia C. Howe, bore testimonies. 
President M. I. Home thought we should
increase in numbers. Announced the con-
ference to be held September 2nd; also
spoke of the necessity of storing grain.

[Column 2]
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing Doxology. Benediction by Sister.
Brown.
J. S. WOOLLEY, Sec.

	Minutes of meeting, held in the 14th
ward hall, August 19, 1899, Counselor E.
J. Stevenson presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing "Redeemer
of Israel," Prayer by Counselor Steven-
son. Singing, "Lord we come before Thee
now."
	Sister Stevenson said that President
Horne had gone south. Trusted that
while we were together we should have a
profitable time. "I am now, and have
been, passing through, it seems to me, the
most severe trial of my life. But the
Lord knows why; I am trying to acknowl-
edge His hand and say ‘Thy will, O Lord,
not mine, be done.’ This is what we all
have to come to. We are told we are to be
tried like gold, seven times purified in the
furnace, and the Lord knows what will try
us most." Admonished the sisters to be
faithful and true to their covenants, 
and go to the Temple whenever possible; it would
give them renewed power to overcome;
that is what we need continually.
	Sister Shaw said: "I feel to rejoice that
I am here this afternoon, and enjoy the
good spirit. I feel thankful for the Gospel.
I came here when I was a young girl and I
have tried to bring my children up in the
right way. I have done a great deal of
Temple work and I hope to do more. I
thank the Lord for all His goodness to me."
	Sister Dickison said: "That I may keep
faithful is the greatest desire of my heart.
The greatest blessing is the spirit of the
Lord. He has lengthened out my days
through obedience to His laws. I have
tried to live right; to be an example to
those around me. I thank the Lord for the
privilege of coming to Zion. I prayed to
the Lord when a child, and I was healed
by the power of God, and promised I
should be better and gather to Zion, and
that the angels of the Lord should adminis-
to me in times of need, which has been
verified. What a testimony it has been to
me! We now live in a time when we
need a great testimony. Let us be honest
in our dealings with each other and the
world. We all have an experience to pass
through. I have great faith in the Gospel.
We should live our religion. I have had
many testimonies. I desire to teach my
children to do right. My children are all
to me." She then referred to poor Sister
Howard’s great grief in the accident to her
little boy.
	Sister Stevenson felt thankful for the
very pleasant interview we had enjoyed
and the good spirit that had been with us;
and suggested that we offer a special prayer
for the afflicted mother and friends in this
terrible accident, and for others who are
afflicted; also announced the conference in
two weeks at the Assembly Hall.
Meeting adjourned for four weeks. Sing-
ing, Doxology. Benediction by Sister
Whitehouse.
	E. J. S., Sec. pro tem.


“Every night this same lady sits in front
of us with her big hat!” said a playgoer to
his companion. “Sir,” snapped the
lady referred to, turning sharply around
upon the speaker, “I wear a different hat
every night.”


NOTES.
	“MRS. IDA H. HARPER, since the close of
the Women’s International Council, has
been sight-seeing in England, Scotland and
Ireland. She expects to visit friends in St.
Petersburg, and to return about December
1, to Washington, where she will spend
the winter.’’
	“THE convention of the National Army
Nurses’ Association, at Philadelphia, Sep.
6, had an unusually large attendance The
feature of the session was the appearance of
Miss Clara Barton, of the Red Cross Society,
who made an address. Mrs. Elizabeth W.
Ewing, of Phoenixville, Penn , president of
the association, submitted her annual re-
port, and those of other officers were read."


Save Your Money!
		And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors 
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW.
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN- 
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

Mother: “I am surprised, my dear, that
you suffer a man to kiss you!” Daughter:
“But mamma I don’t call it suffering.”

Dr. Margaret G. Roberts
Will commence her next CLASS IN
OBSTETRICS AND NURSING on
Monday, Oct. 16th, 1899.
	Address 75 North, State St., Salt
Lake City.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY. 

The Leading Retail
Cash House. 
R. K. THOMAS


Woman's Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
