[Vol10 | October 1923 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons for December - Lesson I - Theology Lesson - Th]

Guide Lessons for December LESSON I Theology Lesson THE SPIRIT OF THE LORD (First Week in December) In this lesson our aim shall be to consider the value of the Spirit of the Lord as a source of understanding and as an influence shaping our lives. A. A Source of Illumination. For the Race. "There is a spirit in man, and the inspiration of the Almighty giveth them understanding." Accepting this scripture as true, and believing in the dectrine of opposites to the extent of a conviction that there is a being using his power against the power of God, we may safely assert that there is a spirit in man and the spirit of the Evil One giveth it misunderstanding. Man, then, finds himself between two opposing influences with the freedom of choice, but this freedom of choice is a gift? a gift denied by one and given by another of these centers of power, God and Satan. Had Satan succeeded in putting over his plan for our earthly existence we could 'not have become free agents, but would have been without the Spirit of the Lord, and our condition under his "constitution" may be judged by -contemplating the words of President Joseph F. Smith. (See Gospel Doctrine, page 76.) The great universal function of the Spirit of the Lord is to "light men and guide them through mortality." (For the distinction between the Spirit of the Lord and the Holy Ghost, see Gospel Doctrine, page 82.) Through the illumination of the Spirit of the Lord mankind will be led to the understanding that Generosity pays better than greed; Kindness is stronger than cruelty; Forgiveness is sweeter than revenge; and Freedom is a better governor than force. B. Progress. 1. The Spirit of the Lord a Spirit of Order. Understanding without orderly application is akin to faith without work, ideas without expression. 'My house is a house of order, and not a house of confusicn." (Doctrine and Covenants, 132:8. This scripture may have a physical as well as a spiritual application. 2. The Spirit of the Lord a Spirit of Discovery. "And I looked and beheld a man among the Gentiles who was separated from the seed of my brethren by the many waters, and I beheld the Spirit ef God that it came down and wrought upon the man, and he went forth upon the many wa'ers, even unto the seed of my brethren who were in the promised land."?Book of Mormon, I Nephi, 13:12. The student attitude of Columbus aided the inspiration cf the Almighty just as it did in the case of Joseph Smith seeking to discover which of the churches he should join, when all were confusion in relation to God ideas. Every step forward made by men, of scientific investigation, is prompted by the Spirit of the Lord. The discoveries which have cut down the death rate among children, inventions which have made it possible for man to do more in one day than he could do at one time in a month, to travel farther in ene hour than he could in a day, to communicate with more people in a minute than he once was able to do in a lifetime?all these things are due to the promptings of the Spirit of the Lord, responded to by man. It is encouraging to note that some of the greatest of these truth-finders, whe may not unfittingly be called scientific saviors, acknowledge the source of the illumination which made their achievements possible. 3. The Spirit of the Lord a Spirit of Freedom. "And it came to pass that I beheld the Spirit of the Lord that it wrought upon the Gentiles, and they went forth out of captivity upon the many waters."?I Nephi 13:13. 4. The Spirit cf the Lord a Spirit of Thrift. "And I beheld the Spirit of the Lord that it was upon the Gentiles and they did prosper."'?I Nephi 13:15. It is significant that the people who came to America for religious freedom, i. E., seeking God, have prospered, and the gold hunters have not prospered. 5. The Spirit of the Lord is a Spirit of Peace. Premptings to conciliation are from the Lord, but feelings of subjugation, thoughts of peace at any price, are out of harmony with the Spirit of Him who drove the speculators out of the temple and ordered Satan to get behind Him. On these grounds we can understand what He meant when He said, "I came not to bring peace into the world," for He knew that peace was far behind His mortal birth. 6. The Spirit of the Lord a Spirit of Service. Since companionship of the Spirit of the Lord is full of free will, it is above compliance or forced faithfulness. It is never servitude. It has in it the jog of privilege. It is helpfulness with 
 preparation; it IS leadership with love; it is masterful as well as meek; it is the service that springs from within, draws strength from 'above and builds gratitude below. It is the service spoken of by the Savior when he taught that to be master of all meant to be a servant to all, a service as irresistible as the gouloeznrn and as certain of success as truth is of triumph. 7. The Spirit of the Lord a Spirit of Sacrifice. Sacrifice begins where convenience leaves off. From the giving of a smile or a kind word to the standing aside that another person may pass on, or, the giving of one life that another. May live. The promptings of the Spirit toward sacrifice is an urging towards one of the best investments in the universe. He who was wisest in the choice of values said, "And if I be lifted up from the earth, I will draw all men unto me." (John 12:32-33.) Few may be called on to die for others, but all are called to live for others, and in so doing we but follow the great Exemplar. C. Four Things that Especially Encourage the Spirit of the Lord: "Sincerity, kindness, charity, and purity of thought.'?Doctrine and Covenants 121:42-45.) QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. State the universal functions of the Spirit of the Lord. 2. Correlate the statements of President Joseph F. Smith on the Spirit of the Lord with the thoughts expressed in the hymn beginning, "Know this, that every soul is free." 3. Discuss the proposition, "There is a spirit in man and the spirit of the evil one giveth it misunderstanding." 4, Mention the seven headings of this lesson given under the heading B?Progress. 5. Read or quote Doctrine and Cevenants, 121:42, 45.