A PILGRIMAGE.
	A little child, wandering in woodland
ways, among the tangled grass and beside
the rippling brooklets, strangely wondered
at all she saw, and, more strangely still,
at what she felt within her own little heart;
the wild flowers in the shady dells, the bees
and singing birds, and, at night, when all
seemed hushed and still, the melancholy
croaking of the frogs—on and on and seem-
ing to echo afar, thoughts that were brood-
ing in her own untrained mind. All these
sounds, sometimes harmonious, and yet


[Column 1]
withal discordant, never unpleasant, seemed
a wild melody. And yet there was naught
of the savage in her nature. She roamed
the hills, she climbed the trees, she stood
aloft on rocky heights, and talked to the
birds, and trees, and fountains, and to the
brooklets flowing on and on over the peb-
bly sands, and to her ears all sounds were
music. 
	She believed in elves and fairies, and
fancied she would some day see them and
that one would yet come to spin golden
threads like “Clotilda’s god-mother.” Some-
times she felt sad, after watching and wait-
ing and no one came to make her day-
dreams come true. She fashioned wreaths
from the evergreen vines that trailed in
the woods under the trees, and wondered
again and again how crowns were made
from the laurel bushes that seemed so stiff
and grew so straight and ungainly. She
dreamed great dreams of imaginary poets
and wandering minstrels that played upon
harps and sang militant music, mild and
melodious and melancholy, like the whip-
poorwill she had often heard in the night
time. Sometimes she could be found sitting
on the moss-covered rocks under the over-
hanging, graceful hemlock boughs, imag-
inging herself the queen of the fairies. 
	This child was “impossible” so the
neighbors said, and these good Puritan
mothers wondered why her mother allowed
her to indulge in such wild fancies. 
	But even childish dreams have an awak-
ening and as time flew by, the child grew
older, if not wiser, and new thoughts and
desires to know of books and pastimes such
as other children enjoyed, and school
friends and companions who talked of re-
alities, not of fancies, began to occupy her
mind. She learned quickly and helped oth-
ers, which seemed to her unsophisticated
mind the one aim to be desired. Her studies
were almost a pastime and she seemed to
have known many things before she read
them in her books. 
	She was romantic in the extreme. Her
imagination carried her afar, and she trav-
ersed over lands in the distance, she climbed
the highest hills, she compassed land and
sea, as it were, and she told marvelous tales
of what she had seen and heard. She be-
lieved in herself. She felt she could over-
come all obstacles in her way. She as-
tounded all her teachers. In fact, those who
knew of her progress in the studies she had
undertaken, far in advance of those of her
age, predicted for her a brilliant future. 
The little maiden who had found there were
no real wood nymphs or fairies believed
she could attain celebrity and was encour-
aged in her ideas of reaching the highest
excellence in such studies as little girls
of her age never dreamed of undertaking. 
Much of the reading and many of the stud-
ies of the child were of a classical nature. 
Her own taste in literature was of that kind
and yet she loved the romantic, but her
heroes and heroines were of the highest
class. She loved the poems that were lofty
in tone and sentiment and her thoughts
were of those who had accomplished great
things—Rome and the Romans; Greece
the land of philosophers and poets; Scot-
land and its great romances, Waverley and
others. 
	The child grew and she found her way
into the hearts and homes of her kindred,
and her winsome ways were the admira-

[Column 2]
tion of those who were in any way associ-
ated with her. Yet she was dreamy and in
some way irresponsive to endearment. She
seemed to shrink from contact with all ex-
cept a very few.
*		*		*		*		*
	A change came to the young maiden that
altered the whole course of events—a won-
drous change. Whereas she had religious
tendencies, implanted by education and in-
heritance, yet she had not known deep con-
victions, nor was it likely in one so young. 
Yet suddenly it came about, and her whole
soul was wrought upon by the strange news
that a prophet had proclaimed a new reve-
lation from heaven. He had a small fol-
lowing—only a few. It was wonderful. 
	The truth entered into her very heart
and soul; all her spiritual faculties were
aroused: she wanted to see the prophet. 
	Her wish was gratified. She saw and
heard him. What a great change was
wrought! So true and zealous was this
unsophisticated child that not all the temp-
tations the world could offer would have
made any impression upon her, to make her
doubt the knowledge that she had indeed
seen and heard from a prophet of God. 
Trials and persecutions, sorrow and priva-
tion, were as naught compared with the tes-
timony given her when she saw and heard
him. 
	Then followed the great tragedy—the
Prophet and Patriarch were slain. Many
failed in their faith—not so the maiden who
had been bereft of all that she loved best. 
She mourned the loss she suffered, as it were
apart from others, yet her sorrow was as
genuine as those who made more parade of
grief. Her heart was deeply touched and
the sorrow of that terrible time could never
be effaced from her memory.
*		*		*		*		*
	Leaving the city of the Saints, crossing
the Mississippi on the ice in the dead of
winter, camping out, sleeping in tents, and
all the other exigencies and inconveniences
of such an unpremeditated journey, to a
young delicate girl was not only a new and
novel experience, but attended by many al-
most insurmountable difficulties, and in this
case proved more than her nature could
endure. Brain fever set in, and life was de-
spaired of, but notwithstanding, the girl
rallied and lived to reach Winter Quarters,
where, during that first winter of 1846 and
1847, the pilgrim Saints suffered so much
from fatigue and hradship. Many strong
men and women suffered and death car-
ried away those of all ages, but particularly
women and little children.
	Spring came. The pioneers left for the
unknown way to the Great Basin, and the
children needed a teacher. Gladly the young
girl opened a school for those in the vi-
cinity. It was in a log house without a
floor, romantic enough to suit even her pe-
culiar temperament. Six months she taught
the girls and boys of all ages, almost with-
out books. Much of their teaching was
really of a religious nature, and it was the
simple faith of the young woman that
helped her over the rough places of life.
Her mother had died and been buried by
the wayside in an unknown grave, and she
was left in charge of three motherless chil-
dren, but she still had her romantic fancies
and dreams. Her songs and poems were
her only pastime. 
	Later in the spring of 1848 the body of

[Column 3]
the Church left Winter Quarters on the
Missouri river for the valley, and in the
beautiful month of May, with the three chil-
dren, she journeyed toward the west once
more, this time to find a permanent home. 
	The variety of scenery, the incidents of
the way, especially in such large traveling
companies, more than compensated for all
the inconveniences and difficulties to be en-
countered; the trials and privations were
over-balanced by the prophetic thoughts of
the mountain home where freedom and lib-
erty for the chosen people would be found
and maintained. 
	Reaching the vale in the mountains
after coming through Emigration can-
yon, the teams were corralled on City
Creek and camp made opposite the
Temple site, and here, on this very
ground she passed many shifting, chang-
ing scenes in her life’s eventful his-
tory. All these changes, whether gay or
sad, were to her so many books of knowl-
edge, sometimes left to moulder and rust
without opening the pages to look therein,
and again, just peeping in for material to
interest the many who question of the
numerous incidents that had unfolded in
the settlement of the valley, and withal after
many years what has been the result of life’s
adventures into unexplored volumes of
thought and experiences! How can the
story be told of any woman’s long life, es-
pecially of one who had such lofty aims and
aspirations to accomplish some great pur-
pose to help others, especially to benefit
womankind and children!
	The whole trend of the busy, active life
of this dreamful child and woman proves
that the longing fancies of her girlhood
were in a sense prophetic of her later
life. In her mature womanhood, when
the vista of opportunities opened up, un-
looked-for and unsought, dreams and ro-
mances in a sense resolved themselves into
realities, yet all has been wrought out so
absolutely different than could have been
anticipated even by the most sanguine ob-
server, and consequently establishes the fact
at least in the mind of the “once impossi-
ble,” that there are lingering in the brain
some dim recollections of consciousness or
sub-consciousness, pre-existent and through
all the grievous trials and vicissitudes of
life a hope in the ultimate triumph of light
over darkness, the shining light that is like
an anchor.				W. W. W.


