“THE EXPONENT,” FORTY YEARS AGO.

time was surely ripe for a woman’s paper
wherein they might better tell to those in
the world who would read, the truth about
their condition, sentiments and position. Ed-
ward L. Sloan, the gifted editor of the Salt
Lake Herald, was probably the one who
took the initiative in the matter. Realizing
that the time was propitious and the field in-

[Column 3]
viting, he suggested the thought to Miss
L. Lula Greene, a young writer of promise,
of starting a woman’s paper. Miss Greene
was a grand-niece of President Brigham
Young, and she immediately wrote her uncle
a letter for advice in the matter. He sent for
Eliza R. Snow and other leading women,
and put the matter before them. The result
of the conference was
the starting of a pa-
per and Miss Greene
was summoned to be-
come the first editor.
President Young gave
the work to her as a
mission; and had it
not been for this phase
of the call, in all prob-
ability the inexperi-
enced young woman
would have hesitated
long before assuming
such an unusual un-
dertaking. However,
what her whole life
has shown was shown
in her youth—she
was obedient to coun-
sel; and she entered
upon her novel duties
with a firm resolve to
do her best with the
Lord’s help. She
brought to the work
the freshness and
fragrance of youthful
enthusiasm subdued
by a religious senti-
ment; and her work
will stand unique
among her people for
the beginning of a pa-
per that has wrought
so much of good. The
felicitous and expres-
sive name EXPONENT
was given by Presi-
dent Young, and the
paper was to pro-
claim the views and
sentiments of the
women of the Latter-
day Saints.
	Miss Greene was
married to Levi W.
Richards in 1874, and
her home duties de-
manding first atten-
tion, it became neces-
sary to have an as-
sociate editor. For
this position, the
choice naturally fell 
upon Mrs. Emme-
line B. Wells, who had been a valued con-
tributor to the paper both of prose and
poetry. Shortly after Mrs. Richards with-
drew altogether from editorial work, and
Mrs. Wells became editor, a position held by
her to the present time, a period of over
thirty-five years, all the time keeping it in
the eight-page newspaper form. Perhaps


[Column 1]
after forty years some think its dress old-
fashioned, perhaps some think its style not
up-to-date; but its struggles and victories
have endeared it as it is to patrons as well
as publisher; while as to its past, the record
and recital of the trials and triumphs, not
only of the women of Utah but of the
women of the world, as told in its columns,
old-fashioned though its form may be, has
been more truthfully and forcefully given
than in any other paper in existence. For the
EXPONENT lays proud claim to the double
distinction that it was not only the second
woman’s paper published west of the Mis-
sissippi river, but that it is now the second
oldest woman’s paper in the United States,
if not in the whole world.
	The EXPONENT has had many homes if
not many editors. It started out in the old
Herald building on West Temple street and
was published by the Herald Publishing
company, its delivery department being
handled by the Campbell and Patterson
book store just south of the Constitution
block on Main street. President Young,
however, who was always a patron and ad-
visor of the editors, wanted to have the of-
fice nearer the Church headquarters and of-
fered an office building on the corner of
State and South Temple streets, the present
location of the Alta Club. At this time the
services of Miss Cornelia Horne were se-
cured for the paper in the capacity of busi-
ness manager, while Miss Annie Wells was
assisting in the work in the office. After
President Young’s death in August, 1877,
the office was moved to the old Constitution
building. While located there, President
John Taylor made a visit to the editor, Mrs.
Wells, gave her words of praise and en-
couragement for the work of the paper, and
immediately provided a more comfortable
and suitable home for it in a large room on
the first floor of the old Council House, the
present site of the News building. He had
the room beautifully furnished, and gave
the editor every possible encouragement in
her work. In 1882, the Council House was
destroyed by fire and almost all the property
belonging to the paper, including not only
the elegant furnishings but reference books,
bound volumes, back numbers, valuable pa-
pers, etc., were destroyed. The EXPONENT
then found a home in the brick building on
Main street owned by President Daniel H.
Wells, where a part of Z. C. M. I. now
stands, and later moved to the “little house
behind the wall” on South Temple street,
about where the east end of the Hotel Utah
extends. It was here that Punditi Ramabai
came to visit the “charming little Mormon
woman editor and suffragist” and Edmund
Russell wrote in the editor’s “guest book”:
“Not the first guest to the little house be-
hind the historic wall—if every one who
has found pleasure in its welcome had
taken away a stone not one would be stand-
ing now—May it never be torn down and
may we long find the same welcome behind
it.” But alas, it was soon to be torn down,
both the historic wall and the house, to make
room for modern improvements; and the
EXPONENT again found a home in the Con-
stitution building, this time, however, re-
modeled and more convenient. When the
Templeton Hotel was turned into an office
building Mrs. Wells was one of the first
applicants for office room for her paper, and

[Column 2]
she remained there until the Bishop’s build-
ing, where the Woman’s Relief Society were
to have headquarters, was ready for oc-
cupancy, and where now the paper has, we
trust, found a permanent location.
	The office of the WOMAN’S EXPONENT
during all these years and with its many
changes of location has always been the
headquarters of the Relief Society, and the
columns of the paper have been largely de-
voted to Relief Society work. The motto of
the paper has been the “Rights of the
Women of Zion and the Rights of the
Women of all Nations”; and the aim has
been to encourage all effort for good and
reform and advancement among all classes,
especially among the Latter-day Saints. The
untiring efforts of the editor to bring out
young writers, uplift the discouraged, help
people to discover themselves, develop
latent talent and encourage women in dif-
ferent avocations, has been one of her most
marked characteristics, and her paper is
a great part of her life’s work. What plans
she may have for the future of the EX-
PONENT are yet to be unfolded; but the past
certainly constitutes an enduring monument
of noble work that can never be torn down.
Forty years on the First of June! May each
succeeding forty years be lived as worthily!
