THE ONE PERFECT LIGHT AND
			POWER SYSTEM.
	You Are Invited to Investigate and Take
				Shares.
There is a King whose kingdom, not of earth,
Sheds forth a Light of such transcendent
		worth,
	Compared therewith all worldly lights are
		pale;
In all that wealth, shareholder you may be;
The shares, unlimited, are also free;
	Humility and honesty prevail,
	With these two requisites you cannot fail.

The King is also God, with Power Supreme;
His work is real, no speculative dream;
	All who invest are furnished work to do;
And power to do their tasks, their shares se- 
		cure;
To those who serve, large dividends are sure;
	Integrity keeps all both safe and true;
	No one can touch that which belongs to you.

Not only King and God, but changeless Friend,
To all who on His faithfulness depend:
	Have you known friendship—know you then
		its source?
It rests with Him, He through His grace im-
		parts
Its warmth and sweetness unto mortal hearts;
	To prove His friend gives influ’nce of such
		force,
	No adverse pow’r can stay the upward course.

O, more than these! The great Instructor, He,
Of all true art and science holds the key;
	Inspires all energies that stand for good;
Strengthens the weak, guides and directs the
		strong,
Leads right by wisdom to subdue the wrong;
	Yea, more, stands forth as from the first He
		stood;
	Omnipotent, Eternal Fatherhood!

My King, my God, Friend, Teacher, Father,
		Thou,
With all Thy Light and Power, dost allow
	Thy faulty, failing child, myself, to be
In the high classes Thou Thyself dost teach,
Forgiven, soothed, kept safe within Thy reach.
	Fed, clothed, housed, taught, beloved—all
		blessings free—
	And near, and nearer, as I write, to Thee!
				—L. LULA GREENE RICHARDS.
	Salt Lake City, May, 1912.


[Column 1]
			IN MEMORIAM.
	At her home in Fillmore, April 23, 1912,
Isabella E. Robinson departed this life after
an illness of one day. She was the daugh-
ter of Parley P. Pratt and Belinda M. Pratt
and was born September 1, 1854, in Salt
Lake City. Her father was one of the early
converts to the faith of the Latter-day Saints
and was one of the original quorum of the
Twelve Apostles; he was assassinated while
doing missionary work in Arkansas in the 
summer of 1857, leaving the subject of this
sketch fatherless in her early childhood. She
came with her mother to Fillmore in 1871,
where on April 10, 1872, she became the
wife of Alonzo Robinson, and bore him
twelve children, eleven of whom survive her.
She has been a public spirited woman and
served the people in all of the Church or-
ganizations, and as County Recorder for two
terms, and also a member of the Board of
Education, in which position her aim was
for the betterment of the public school sys-
tem, and higher morals for the youth of 
Zion. On November 14, 1904 she was ap-
pointed to the position of President of Re-
lief Societies of Millard Stake which posi-
tion she held up to the time of her death.
	Funeral services were held in the Ward 
chapel which had been appropriately dec-
orated, and were conducted by Bishop P. L.
Brunson.
	Elders A. A. Hinckley, O. L. Thompson
of the Stake Presidency, Willis E. Robin-
son, J. D. Smith, C. Anderson and P. L.
Brunson each spoke in the highest terms of
the good work and the noble and exemplary
life of the deceased. By her death we are
deprived of a valiant worker, a loving and 
devoted wife and mother, and a consistent
Latter-day Saint. The following resolutions
were read by the Fillmore Relief Society:

