RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT. 
	Relief Society Conference of the Hyrum
Stake was held on Tuesday, May 21st, in
Hyrum Third Ward meeting house. On the
stand were Alice M. Horne and Jennie A. 
Hyde of the general board, Presidents W. C. 
Parkinson and A. M. Israelsen of the stake
presidency, members of the high council,
and all members of the stake Relief Society
board. President Louisa Allen presided. 
	At the morning meeting Counselor 
George Davis offered the opening prayer. 
	President Louisa Allen gave a good re-
port of the Relief Society of the Stake. We
have ten organizations all in good working
order; we are looking after the needs of
the poor and trying to do a good work. 
	Presidents Marie Wilson of Hyrum First


Ward, and Nettie Price of Paradise each re-
ported the Relief Society in their respective
wards as in good condition.
	Nancy Wahlen of Hyrum Third Ward
sang, “I know my Heavenly Father knows.”
	Alice M. Horne of the general board felt
pleased to be here. Gave many words of
encouragement to the sisters. Spoke of our
educational system. The necessity of care-
ful thought and study. What a responsi-
bility we have in choosing the best methods
and that which is for our best good. It is
well to hold fast to the revealed word of
God. 
		AFTERNOON SESSION.
	After the opening exercises a song was
sung by Mrs. Maughan of Wellsville, and a 
paper read on “Success in Life,” by Sister
Vilate Davis.
	Song, Miss Eva Petersen.
	Sister Jennie A. Hyde of the general
board addressed the sisters on Relief Society
progress, and complimented us on having
so many young sisters in our organization;
they with all their cares and responsibilities
need the association of the older sisters.
	Song, Sister Yeates and Jessop of Mill-
ville.
	Sister Horne gave an interesting dis-
course on Art. Dwelt on the beauties of na-
ture and natural scenery.
	Sister Nellie Parkinson called the atten-
tion of the ward presidents to the call that
has been made for assistance to the people of
the Mississippi flood district.
	Choir sang, “If There’s Sunshine in Your
Soul.”
	Benediction by Counselor Mary E. Bax-
ter.
