			RESOLUTIONS:
	Whereas:
	A loving wife and mother, Sister Isabella
E. Robinson, has been suddenly called by
death, and
	Whereas:
	The said Sister Isabella E. Robinson was
the daughter of one of the early leaders of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, Elders Parley P. Pratt, and she her-
self one of the pioneers of early days into
this then Western wilderness, and during all
the years intervening from then until strick-
en with death she has been a devoted and
consistent Latter-day Saint, an untiring
worker, both in temporal and spiritual af-
fairs. She was an intellectual, high-minded 
woman; a woman righteously devoted to her 
home and children, a dutiful wife, a loving
mother, a hospitable friend and neighbor.
She was trusting as a child, always with
an abiding faith in the goodness of God;
she was always humble and lived a simple 
honest life. She never complained though
often her lot was hard, but faithful, and sub-
missively struggled on to the very end; al-
ways inspiring faith, love, and duty in the
hearts of all she met. Her thoughts were
rich and pure, her mind was a great store of
useful knowledge; good books were her con-
stant companions. Truly of this good wom-
an may it be said: She was a noble char-
acter, hers was a beautiful life.
	“Strength and honor are her clothing; and
she shall rejoice in time to come. She open-
eth her mouth with wisdom; and her tongue 
is the law of kindness. She looketh well

[Column 2]
to the ways of her household, and eateth not
the bread of idleness. Her children arise up
and call her blessed; her husband also, and
he praiseth her. Many daughters have done 
virtuousyl, but thou excellest them all.”—
Proverbs 31: 25-29
	Therefore,
	Be it resolved by the officers and members
of the Fillmore Relief Society, that we deep-
ly regret the loss of our beloved Stake Pres-
ident Sister Isabella E. Robinson, and we
extend our sympathy and condolence to the
relatives and family of the deceased and say
unto them: emulate the noble characteristics
of this good woman.
	To her children we would say: let her
life be your guide. Be comforted in the 
thought that she was good and pure, and 
that she is now in the presence of God.

“Mother Dear, sacred name, and sweet; how slow
	we are to prove,
The height and depth and deathlessness of per-
	fect mother love.
We take her tender daily care, just as the thought-
	less flowers
Look up to God for daily light, because we
	know ’tis ours.
But when we miss, from heart and life, the com-
	fort of her care,
Then we must learn to live without her presence
	and her prayer.
’Tis then the name of Mother is to us a holy
	thing;
And hovering low, we seem to feel the shelter of
	a wing.”

	Another faithful Relief Society worker
passed to the great beyond—Sister Phoebe
Jones died at the home of her daughter,
Mrs. Wm. Hill at St. John, Ida., Monday
evening, Feb. 26th. Mrs. Jones was born at
Tredegar, South Wales, in 1841. She joined
the Church of Latter-day Saints at the age 
of fourteen years. When twenty-one years
of age she left home and family and im-
migrated with the people of her choice, and
after a long and perilous journey across the
plains by ox teams she landed in Salt Lake
City in the fall of ’62. She moved to Wil-
lard, Utah, in ’63, and after residing there
eleven years, she came to St. John and had
been a resident of this place about twenty-
eight years. She was the mother of eleven
children of whom five survive her. Besides
her five children, who are bereft of a
mother, she leaves three brothers and one
sister, twenty-six grandchildren and twelve
great-grandchildren, and a host of other rel-
atives and friends.
	She was elected president of the Relief
Society ten years ago, which position she
held till the time of her death.
	She was a mother to the motherless and a
friend to the poor and needy. Many a trav-
eler has found shelter under her roof and
none was ever turned away hungry, as she
was always ready and willing to share her
mite with all she thought needed it.
	Funeral services were held at the St. John
meeting house Feb. 29, being conducted by
Bishop Monson. Music was furnished by
the Malad Tabernacle choir. The speakers 
were Bishop J. P. Harrison, Elders R. J.
Harding, of Malad, and Moses Davis, of
Salt Lake City.


