WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	SUFFRAGE NO FAILURE IN UTAH.
	It is quite astonishing that a journal of
wide reputation and up-to-date ideas like the
Ladies’ Home Journal should take such a
backward step as it has on the woman suf-
frage question, and especially surprising that
the editor should be so thoroughly misin-
formed on that subject. In a recent number
in an editorial entitled, “The signal failure
of woman suffrage,” the editor says: “While
granting there are some improved laws on
the statute books of Wyoming, Utah, Col-
orado and Idaho, the states where women
have voted for from fifteen to forty-two
years, still the largest and best number of
laws for the protection of life do not exist
in those states, but in those other states
where women do not vote.” This assertion
is absurd on the face of it, for men in all
the states have always had the power to
make the laws and the younger western
states, with the older ones for patterns, have
selected and framed the laws in accordance
with the best laws of older states and the
Constitution; but with woman suffrage in	
these four states mentioned, at each legis-
lature since the suffrage was granted new
and splendid laws have been placed on the
statute books. In Utah no man can dispose
of any property without the consent of his
wife and her written signature is necessary
for any transfer or mortgage of property.
We have the nine-hour law, the limit any
girl or woman is compelled to work, a law
which affects not only the women in the
factories, behind the counters and in offices,
but the nurses in the hospitals, and this law
is enforced, while Maryland is only now
rejoicing over a ten-hour law. Utah has
raised the age of consent to eighteen, while,
as every one knows in the southern states
it is as low as fourteen. Two criminals have
just this last month been sent to the state
prison, one for fifteen years and one for
sixty-one years, either sentence considering
the respective ages means life imprison-
ment, for rape, while to quote Miss Jane
Addams of Chicago: “In the state of Il-
linois the punishment for rape is the same
as that inflicted for the theft of fifteen dol-
lars’ worth of property, and a man may not
be extradited from one state to another for
so slight an offense.”
	In Utah all merchants are compelled to
place stools or chairs behind the counters for
the convenience of the women clerks. We
claim a curfew law, and have no superior
Juvenile court in the United States. Our
educational system ranks third in the union
of states. It is unlawful to perform a mar-
riage ceremony for any boy or girl under
the age of twenty-one without the consent
of the parent or guardian and such marriage
if performed can be declared void. Nor did
we forget, the comfort of the men, for a
woman legislator framed and put through a
law compelling all women to take off their
hats in public gatherings. In fact our stat-
ute books are full of improved laws for the

[Column 2]
safety of life, the comfort and protection of
women and children; and while we realize
there are other laws necessary, we feel con-
fident that with the strength of our votes
we can procure them, and we are not sleep-
ing either. We have made many victories
and expect to make more.
	The other suffrage states have made equal
advancement, and are alive to the necessity
of better laws, therefore, we feel the Jour-
nal criticism to be quite unjust. As uni-
versal suffrage is a foregone conclusion, it
seems almost needless to argue the question
now, for before long editors and others will
be so accustomed to this mark of progress
as to wonder why they ever opposed it.
							A. W. C.


[Column 1]
		WOMEN’S MAGAZINES.
	Perhaps nothing more distinctly calls for
confidence, fearlessness and grit than the
venture of placing a magazine or newspaper
in a field already flooded. A man would
scarcely hazard the thought unless behind
the venture there were a rich corporation, or
political or religious influence. But without
any such backing, with only a desire to give
to the world some new thoughts, higher
ideals and advanced education, there have
been a few women brave enough—and as
some of their friends have told them, foolish
enough—to make such a venture. Among
these there have been, of course, some finan-
cial failures; but from a literary standpoint
the women’s magazines have not only been
unique but praiseworthy and stand as a
mark of advanced thought for woman’s
elevation, socially and educationally.
	The literary field has never been denied
to woman, but the proper preparation has;
and considering the prejudice and disadvan-
tages she has had to contend against, one
marvels at the great advancement she has
made. With admiration we recall the names
of Margaret Fuller Ossilli, Fanny Fern, the
Bronte sisters, Lucy Stone, Kate Gannett
Woods, Emmeline B. Wells, Abigail Scott
Dunniway, Kate Field and Charlotte Per-
kins Gilman.
	Today, when the magazines and news-
papers are not complete without their
women writers, it is scarcely possible to
credit how brave these women had to be
to face the ridicule and opposition and some-
times persecution of a few years ago. When
the great Charles Dickens caricatured the
women writers, and classed them all as the
ridiculous Mrs. Jellaby, while other wits
dubbed them “Blue Stockings,” it was not
an easy matter to appear in public print, and
that is largely the reason that most women
writers used a nom de plume instead of their
own name. Ridicule and even abuse were
bravely borne, and these noble women toiled
fearlessly on, knowing that women were just
as gifted as men and just as able if only
the way could be opened. We laugh now,
we women suffragists, when people say they
don’t believe in “woman’s rights,” because
all along the way we see, following the ad-
vance guard, a great army of the best think-
ing, most studious men and women of the
world. Such results are due not alone to the
suffrage workers who have lectured, held
congresses, conventions and councils
throughout the land, but also to the women
who have burned the midnight oil—the
women who have carried the burden of a

[Column 2]
magazine or newspaper almost without as-
sistance, placing in the homes of the people,
the hands of the traveler, the salesman, the
laborer and the scholar, the written words to
break down the wall of prejudice, invade
the ranks of ignorance and throw into the
limelight the writing on the wall foretelling
the onward march of progress. 
	The dauntless Lucy Stone launched on the
Atlantic coast the clean and forceful paper,
The Woman’s Journal, in the early sixties;
while on the other side of the continent Abi-
gail Scott Dunniway started The New
Northwest in 1869. Here in the intermoun-
tain region a young Utah woman, Miss L.
Lula Greene, started the WOMAN’S EXPO-
NENT, in 1872. Some time in the eighties the
brilliant Kate Field published her Washing-
ton, which, though short-lived, was forceful,
witty and popular; and now in recent years,
notable among women’s magazines is the
Fore Runner, all of its printed material pre-
pared by that charming and brainy woman—
Charlotte Perkins Gilman. The Woman’s
Journal, published in Boston, is the official
organ of the Suffrage Association. For
many years it was published and edited by
Lucy Stone, later assisted by her husband,
Mr. Blackwell, and still later by her daugh-
ter, Alice Stone Blackwell, who at her moth-
er’s death succeeded her in the editorship.
The Woman’s Journal has been a power in-
deed in the cause of educational, political
and social advancement for women, and its
present editor certainly deserves praise for
the wonderful amount of information given
through its columns about the progress of the
suffrage cause and other kindred subjects.
The New Northwest, published in Portland,
probably came short of the necessary finan-
cial support for it ceased to be issued some
time ago; but during its publication it also
was potent for good and always advanced
the cause of higher education and privileges
for women. Poor Kate Field died in Ha-
waii, and her literary work was thus sud-
denly closed, but her paper, The Washing-
ton, was full of bright and witty things and a
valuable instrument for the suffrage cause.
The Fore Runner—well, it is Mrs. Gilman
—if you know her—keen, bright, sharp,
witty and interesting. How long one wom-
an’s brain can hold out producing fiction,
poetry, essays, criticism, reviews and all
the varieties of literature with which its
columns sparkle, is hard to tell; but now in
the course of its third year this magazine
bravely holds its own, is eagerly looked for
and pleasurably read.
	There are other women’s papers, of
course, but these are the ones whose chief
aim is the advancement of woman. These
are the ones whose battle has been long
fought and gloriously won. 
						A. W. C.


