SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH	-	MAY, 1912


[Column 1]
	EARLY PIONEER EDUCATION.
	That the Latter-day Saints have always
favored education even under the most ad-
verse circumstances is self-apparent. Those
who have been connected with this Church
from the very beginning, know how earn-
estly the people have sought to make educa-
tion general in the settlements and wher-
ever they might sojourn even for a limited
time.
	Leaving Nauvoo, Illinois, suddenly in the
dead of winter, they took with them books,
though a miscellaneous collection, books of
value, and among them many school books.
In Winter Quarters school was taught six
months in a log school house, with rustic
seats of various kinds and a dirt floor. As
we recall the facts there were about thirty
pupils, among whom were some who came
to the valley in the first year. The company
that followed in the wake of the pioneers
and who built the fort on the place now
known as the Pioneer Square had schools
opened that first winter. The teachers whose
names are on record in the history of the
state taught in their own homes, rude as
they necessarily were. In the second year
of the settlement of the valley, 1848, Heber
C. Kimball built a small school house on
the north side of City Creek. In this little
building councils were also held and most
important business pertaining to the wel-
fare of the community was transacted. Here
Horace K. Whitney taught a fine school,
assisted semi-occasionally by the writer.
There are men and women now living who
were pupils in that school and are promi-
nent in both church and state. This school
was of high order and it was entirely free,
at least so far as the writer knows there
was no remuneration to the teachers.
	Afterwards schools were opened, in dif-
ferent localities, wherever there were suf-
ficient settlers to require it. Among the early
teachers we recall Jesse W. Fox, also Sarah
M. Brimhall, who taught in the Fourteenth
ward. Hannahrette Pratt, Keziah Pratt
and afterwards Eleanor Pratt were among
the very first. In 1852 the writer taught
school in a log school house in the Twelfth
ward, on what is now Fourth East street.
She had sixty-five pupils, men and women
who today stop sometimes in their busy
public life to recall the little pioneer school
where they took their first steps in educa-
lion.

[Column 2]
	One of the invaluable developments in
the way of social and literary advancement
was the formation of a literary society of
men and women at the home of Lorenzo
Snow, known as the Polysophical Society.
This society even antedated the Transcen-
dentalists of New England. The best known
men and women of the city were members.
One instrumental in organizing this soci-
ety, Brother William Eddington, is still liv-
ing. The poems, essays, etc., written for
this society were quite meritorious, and
many of them form a part of our Church
literature.
	The legislature of the Territory at its
first session made provision for district
schools as is recorded on the public docu-
ments. On Feb. 28, 1850, less than three
years after the arrival of the Pioneers, and
before many of the people who had taken
part in the exodus from Nauvoo had reached
the valley, the legislature issued a charter
for founding a state university. This uni-
versity, known then as the University of
Deseret, with a chancellor and a board of
regents, is the beginning of the University
of Utah which today ranks so excellent
among educational institutions. The pro-
vision made for its founding at such an
early date shows how the pioneers felt in
regard to higher education.
	Music has always been one of the “hob-
bies” of the “Mormon” people, and its cul-
tivation has been wonderfully encouraged.
It has always been a feature of the home life
among the people. The songs of any dis-
tinct people show the tendency of thought
and aspirations and mark the trend of feel-
ing; and music, both vocal and instrumen-
tal, has ever been a distinctive element in
the tone and policy of this people; in fact
it has seemed to be a necessity, as it were,
and the songs and hymns and labors of our
writers and composers have been most help-
ful and inspiring in the labors of the people
in the mountains and valleys uplifting the
soul under difficulties and diffusing joy and
peace and content. It has been often re-
marked that had it not been for our band
of musicians and our beautiful singers in
early times cheering the spirit of those
weary pilgrims in their exile and journey-
ings, they never would have had the cour-
age to toil on to the distant haven of rest
and peace which they expected to find in
the valleys of the mountains.
	Some of those who have progressed and
have striven for the highest and best to be
attained know how earnestly the people
have labored to uplift and encourage high-
er education in music, art, and literary de-
velopment. Neither has it been in vain—
the proofs are evident, and in the near fu-
ture the young men and women of this
mountain region will rank with the greatest
orators, poets, statesmen and scientists of
the world.
	In the early days there was a freshness
and simplicity in all ways and doings that
was a marked characteristic not at all to be
deplored, but a genuineness that could not
well be misunderstood. We came to this
region to build up a community that would
protect virtue and foster and encourage in-
dustry and become in every sense self-sup-
porting, in all that the word implies—to be
an independent and a worthy people. With
such an aim, guided by faith, have we
builded.


