DAUGHTERS OF THE REVOLUTION.
	In March the Daughters of the Revolu-
tion held their election of officers and
started on another year of laudable en-
deavor. At the first meeting after this the
new regent, Miss Catherine A. Wells, made
the following interesting address to the
members:
	The honor you have given me I appre-
ciate. I wish to thank those who elected me
and will accept the position, hoping it will
educate me in the things that will make me
strong, that I may be a better patriot than
I have been in the past. I will endeavor
to magnify the position to its uttermost. I


am especially pleased with the officers with
whom you have surrounded me. With dear
Aunt Em’s counsel, Mrs. Willey’s and Ab-
bie’s keen intellect and enthusiasm, Mrs.
Smith’s wisdom and experience and Mrs.
Farnsworth’s ability, I feel strong already.
	I think this Society a very important one
and believe it will some day be a power
for good in our nation. What we need now
is to enthuse the old members and make
our meetings so interesting and popular
that new members will want to join. I wish
every Daughter that is eligible would be-
come a member, as it is a privilege to be a
member of this Society; not that we are any
better than our foreign sisters, but because
we can have the right to honor our fore-
fathers and mothers for the great work
they have accomplished in making us a
free nation; and it seems to me it is our
duty to make patriots of our young people.
In thinking over the regents from Aunt Em
to Mrs. Spencer I think every one that has
held this position has been the right one
in the right place and at the right time when
she could do the most good, and what a 
coterie of intelligent, bright women! I trust
we will continue to progress and be as suc-
cessful in our administration.
	I am so proud of the Matilda Evans
Chapter and I wish we had one in every
town and city in Utah. I am heartily in
favor of the Junior Auxiliary and hope the
mothers and grandmothers will take an in-
terest and have their children join. I think
it would encourage Mrs. Horne if the
members would visit the Junior Auxiliary.
We have in our Society that courtesy which
is so necessary for the good feeling of its
members. I hope we will continue the culti-
vation of it so when we mingle with our as-
sociates and strangers we may ever have
in mind and remember the great example
we have before us of Lafayette’s courtesy
to Mrs. Morris, when he rode through the
streets of Philadelphia.
	There are three things in life that strong-
ly appeal to me: my religion, my home
and my country. I have tried to do my
duty by all. I believe if each and every one
could receive a testimony of our religion
and know the truth for ourselves, and use
that sweet influence in our homes, we could
give to our state better citizens, and to our
country better patriots. I trust that our
Society may progress and increase so it
may be said of the Utah State Society of
the Daughters of the Revolution in the
future that we are the banner society of
the Union.


