THE MAESER MEMORIAL.
	The principal event of the closing exer-
cises at the Brigham Young University,
Provo, this year was the dedication and
presentation to the Church of the Maeser
Memorial. The Alumni Association of the
University passed a resolution seven years
ago for such a memorial, and organized
committees to push the work. As a result
of this resolution, five years ago ground
was broken for the foundation and on the
30th of May, 1912, the beautiful building
was ready for dedication.
	The site of the building could not be
surpassed in the world for natural loveli-
ness. On the summit of a hill, with the
great towering peaks of the Wasatch so
close behind it as to seem almost as though
one might touch them with the outstretched
hand; with the broad, verdant valley slop-
ing towards the sapphire waters of Utah
lake in the foreground, and the picturesque
and garden-like city of Provo lying be-
tween; to the north and south the fruit-
ful fields and blossoming orchards of the
Utah valley, the beautiful marble edifice
stands majestic in its splendid setting. The
memorial itself is classic throughout in
style. It is constructed of the famous white
stone from the Sanpete quarries, and the
massive pillars on the portal are especially
imposing. The building is fully equipped
for occupancy, with furniture in perfect
keeping, and will be used for the home of
the Teachers’ College.
	While the Alumni Association are re- 
sponsible for the inception of this grand
memorial, the Church and many friends
and organizations have contributed means
and made the effort a possibility, and today
both the State and the Church may well be
proud in the possession of such a temple of
learning.
	The exercises of the Alumni Association
were highly interesting but the crowning
feature was the dedication of the building
by President Joseph F. Smith. His impres-
sive prayer thrilled all who were present
and rendered the occasion most sacred. He
besought that the spirit of purity, beauty
and nobility should exist in the building
and prevail there always; that the spirit
of the gospel and of true education should
characterize everything that might be done
there, and that love and unity should al-
ways exist between pupils and teachers.
	The erection of this building is a fitting
tribute to the memory of Karl G. Maeser,
founder of the Church school system-—
which, though such a problem in the begin-
ning—the combining of secular and re-
ligious training—he so beautifully and com-
pletely solved. Today the influence of the
Church schools is felt in every part of our
Church work, being especially noticeable
in the missionary field. The elders who
have the advantage of the Church school
training have not only a fund of digested
and available information to help them, but
also an abiding testimony of the gospel, and
are at once armed and ready for the battle
in the world with unbelief or misguided
ideas. Brother Maeser sought no honors or
reward for his work, but in a humble, quiet
way made the force of his character felt
wherever he went. He brought with him
from his native land, Germany, high ideals
as well as thorough and advanced educa-
tional methods, and he wrought a mighty


work as a teacher among the youth of
Zion—a work indeed more lasting than
the marble temple which is now dedicated
to his honor, strong and firm though its
foundations are, for he builded human
character which shall endure forever.
						A. W. C.


