WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
NINETEENTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY
				HALL.
	The following paper was read by Sister
Agnes G. Branch, secretary, at the dedica-
tion services May 7, 1912, when the Relief
Society building was dedicated by Bishop
Osborne J. P. Widstoe, at which were pres-
ent more than one hundred. Among these
were Bishop Barton, Sister Wells, general
president of Relief Society, and counselors,
Sisters Clarissa S. Williams and Julina L.
Smith, and Sister Harker, president of the
Salt Lake Stake and counselors, and friends
from the Twenty-second and Twenty-
fourth wards:
	In the year 1897, the Relief Society of the
Nineteenth Ward, Salt Lake Stake of Zion,
began to accumulate means for the erection
of a little home of their own. From fairs,
voluntary donations from members, profits
from excursions, and dances they had in the
bank Jan. 1 1901 the amount of $338.64.
About this time they sold their little old
house on Third North. Adding the money
they had already collected to this, they pur-
chased the ground on Center Street. Later,
by advice of Bishop Barton, they exchanged
that piece for the ground on which this
building stands. The size of the land thus
secured would have made it necessary to
build flush with the sidewalk, but through
the kindness of the Bishop, the Society was
allowed the privilege of more ground in the
back, belonging to the Ward Hall, in order
to make the building look good and to have
the lobby or entrance.
	Having secured a suitable piece of ground
Ann S. Neal, then president, gave this par-
ticular part of the business over to Sister
Annie Rawlings, then her first counselor.
The work of collecting means went slowly
but steadily along. When Sister Rawlings
was appointed president, she said that we
would build when we had $1,000 in the
bank, and to reach this every effort was put

[Column 2]
forth. April 5 to 8, 1902, a lunch room
was conducted on Richards Street for con-
ference visitors, netting the sum of $54.
Other ward fairs were held; more volun-
tary donations from members received of
from 5 cents to $1.00; a sewing committee
was organized, and quiltings and sewing
bees were held all over the ward, wherever
a kind sister would open her home for this
work, as all this time we were without a
home of any kind. The committee carried
bundles of cotton and the material for these
quilts and aprons to these places, and the
finished articles home to store in their
houses, until they were known by this trade
mark.
	The Society had $1,176.39 in the bank
Dec. 31, 1905, when their dream was shat-
tered by the division of the ward and our
dear mother gave her departing children,
the Twenty-fourth Ward, $500 of the money
on hand. Now, with fewer members to
work and raise funds, they kept up the
struggle, until 1908, when Bishop Barton
advised Sister Rawlings to have the ward
canvassed for pledges of money for support.
A committee of sisters did very good work,
and the people were very generous, and be-
tween $400 and $500 was collected in this
way. Many of the members have faithfully
paid their 10 cents a month, and the sisters
have spent many, many days in sewing, thus
making a small profit by careful buying and
cutting of material. In 1910, Bishop Widt-
soe, successor of our friend Brother Barton,
called all the organizations together, and
planned for a ward fair from which $173
was realized and given us for our share of
the work.
	Great credit is due to Sister Chestina
Trescott, secretary, and to Sister Rebecca
J. Asper, secretary of the building fund.
You may look over their books and find
credit given for every cent collected or dis-
bursed, be the amount as small at 5 cents.
	Now our dear president desires to extend
her thanks to the Bishopric for their recent
gift of $100; to all auxiliary organizations
who have helped in any way; to Brothers
Irvine and Wright for planting the lawn;
to those who have donated dishes; those
who have cleaned and kept the building
comfortable, in the nearly three years it has
been built; to all who have helped in any
way to erect this hall, and to lift the burden,
which she has carried since the commence-
ment of the building fund; and she also
would say that not one cent of the money
collected for the poor has ever been con-
verted to this or any other purpose but the
comfort of the poor; and that she has al-
ways been guided in her every act by those
in authority over her; and now offers this
little building, of which we are very proud,
with her love and blessing for dedication.
	Paid for the hall with interest $2,126.20;
in addition, William Asper drew plans,
wrote specifications and superintended the
construction of the hall, all gratis, which
saved us the amount of $75; paid building
permit, $1.50; taxes for sidewalk, $20.44;
clearing real estate, $35.25; blinds, $12.00;
Twenty-fourth Ward, $500.00; making a
total collection of $2,695.39.


Mrs. Susie Wissler, a widow, has been
elected Mayor of Dayton, Wyo., on the in-
dependent ticket. A majority of the votes
were cast by women.


