CORRESPONDENCE.
			SPOKANE, MAY 24, 1912.
Pres. E. B. Wells,
	DEAR SISTER: At last I can report our
Relief Society organized here in the Spok-
ane Branch.
	The meetings are all well attended. Sis-
ters are interested and doing a grand work.
	January 4, 1912 when first organized,
Sister Eliza Preston was president. Four
meetings were held and she moved to Idaho.
	There was so much sickness in the branch
things progressed slowly.
	March 31, 1912, Sister Kate Murray was
sustained as president in Sister Preston’s
place.
	We are fortunate in having a woman with
her experience in our midst to lead in this
work. She is the only one in our organiza-
tion that has ever attended Relief Society
meeting. Her home was in Brigham City.
While there, she took an active part in Re-
lief Society, so is of great value to us here.
	I am pleased to say that since she has
been president, a great work has been ac-
complished.
	Two weeks ago the sisters all went to the
Orphans’ Home and served for the home-
less children.
	At our regular sewing meetings we have
made one quilt and have blocks for another
almost ready to put together.
	A better band of workers would be hard
to find than those here. They are all ready
and willing to do whatever they can to help
the work along.
	We have fifteen names on our roll. Please
find a check inclosed for the dime fund.
	Names of officers of the organization as it
stands today and sustained March 3, 1912:
	Sister Kate Murray, President.
	Sister Pauline Van Cleave, First Coun-
selor.
	Sister Ethel Clark, Second Counselor.
	Sister Ada Headlee, Secretary.
	Sister Thyra Nelson, Treasurer.
	Sister Victoria Egbert, Class Leader.
	Sister Anna Wilson, Class Leader.
	We have fifteen enrolled and an average
attendance of twelve at our meetings.
	Sister Wells, we are anxious to keep in
touch with the General Board, so if you have
any suggestions, books, or papers that would
help out in this work, please send them to us.
We are anxious to be a credit and feel we
need all the support you can give us until
we get a little older in the work.
	Received a letter from mother and she
said you had been over to the house, and
spent the afternoon. I should like to have
been there myself. I am enjoying my work.
Have been away from home nineteen
months. Will be released to come home in
October. Eleven months I labored in Port-
land, and the rest of the time here.


They have a fine Relief Society in Port-
land. It was organized before I came but
we have organized the one here in Spokane
also the Y. L. and Y. M. M. I. A.
	They are also doing a most excellent
work.
	Hoping to hear from you sometime in the
near future, I am yours lovingly,
				CATHARINE L. WOODBURY,
			1524 Pacific Ave. West,
						Spokane, Wash.

