		THE PRESENT DAY.
	Religion is as old as human history or
human language; and there is good reason
for saying that it is universal, though there
are and have been individual atheists and
communities with little sense of religion.
The temperament of certain races renders
them more highly susceptible of profound
religious impulses, just as some individuals
have a deeper fund of religious feeling, of
piety and reverence, than their neighbors.
Most of the great religions profess to have
been directly revealed to man by inspiration


[Column 1]
from God, and are thus miraculously com-
municated to man, who has only to hear, un-
derstand and obey. On the other hand
many inquirers seek the origin of religion
within man himself, and it is claimed that
it is not necessary that those who do so
should deny the truth of all religions, or
reject belief in an almighty and infinite God.
	The religious matters of the United States
have certainly adopted the elective system.
According to figures recently issued by the
census bureau, which has completed a re-
ligious census, there are a hundred and
eighty-six religious denominations in the
United States.
	If, however, a man cannot find a satis-
factory denomination, he can make his
choice among 1,079 independent churches.
The census bureau reports that the churches
are growing faster than the population. The
last religious census before this was made
in 1890. Between that date and the close
of 1906, which is the last year included in
the latest report, the increase of the popula-
tion of continental United States was 33.8
per cent. During that same period, in the
number of communicant church members
there was an increase of 60.4 per cent; in
the value of church edifices an increase of
35.3 per cent, and in the value of church
property an increase of 85.1 per cent. In
every particular, except in the number of
church organizations, the rate of increase
in religious bodies has exceeded the rate of
increase in the population at large. Of the
total population in 1890 the reported church
membership represented 39.1 per cent. The
greater part of this increase has been by the
Roman Catholic church. In sixteen years
its population nearly doubled. Its percen-
tage of increase was 93.5 per cent. Not-
withstanding the Protestant bodies increas-
ed at a much lower rate, they have grown
more rapidly than the population. Their per-
centage of increase has been 44.8 per cent.
To put it in another way, of the 6.4 per
cent gain in church membership in propor-
tion to the population, 4.4 per cent is Roman
Catholic, 1.8 per cent is Protestant. Among
the Protestant denominations the Disciples
(including the Church of Christ) made a
gain of 78.2 per cent. The Lutheran bodies
follow closely with a gain of 71.6 per cent,
and the Protestant Episcopal church comes
closely after, with a gain of 66.7 per cent.
The Adventists and Baptists are more than 
half again as numerous as they were in
1890. 
	Remarkable percentages of increase are
also set down to the Eastern Orthodox
churches, Independent churches and Chris-
tian Scientists. One of the most striking
figures in the whole report is that which re-
cords the increase in the number of Jewish
organizations, largely due to immigration.
In the membership of the Roman Catholic
church are counted all baptized persons, in-
cluding infants, and also adults who never
attend church. On the other hand, in Prot-
estant denominations, only those are in-
cluded who are voluntarily enrolled. For
this reason the census bureau has made an
allowance of 15 per cent in the Roman
Catholic figures for purposes of comparison.
Out of the forty-nine states and territories,
in one the Mormons are in the majority, in
sixteen the Roman Catholics, and in twenty-
nine the Protestants. Of the Protestant
bodies the Methodists are the most numer-
ous.
	The Methodists and Baptists together

[Column 2]
have more than half of the religious organi-
zations in the country. There has been
an increase in the number of denominations,
but many of these are newly created and in-
significant. The process by which certain
denominations have united and others have
joined in co-operative movements, is of far
greater significance than merely nominal in-
crease in the number of religious bodies.
There is much for the church to do in this
country which it has ignored and neglected.
There are many signs that other organiza-
tions are wresting from the church some of
its leadership; nevertheless, if these figures
mean anything, they indicate that the
church is, materially at least, in a healthy
state of growth.
	The most far-sighted among us cannot
predict the outcome of the remarkable
change which the vast stream of immigra-
tion, so long continued, is fast effecting in
the Republic. History records no such pop-
ulation movement in previous ages, nor is
there any precedent for the assimilation of
races, now apparently in progress. Assim-
ilation is, however, in reality the mightiest
problem before the American people today,
and light upon it, even the feeblest rays,
would be most welcome. In the changes of
attitude of the American people towards re-
ligious beliefs which have occurred since the
previous inquiry, is to be found one of the
first signs of the new composite of race,
now in process of creation in the United
States. From Dr. Carroll’s estimate of the
present strength of the various denomina-
tional families of the country and their
growth, it is very evident that Christianity,
while it may be losing its grip on part of the
constituency, is still in possession of incal-
culable power and influence, as some of the
following denominations will prove.
	Adventists, 6 bodies; Baptists, 14 bodies;
Brethren (River), 3 bodies; Brethren (Ply-
mouth), 4 bodies; Buddhists (Chinese);
Buddhists and Shintoists (Japanese); Cath-
olics, 9 bodies; Catholic Apostolic; Chris-
tadelphians; Christian Connection; Chris-
tian Catholic (Dowie); Christian Scientists;
Christian Union; Church of God, (Wine-
brennarian); Church of the New Jerusa-
lem; Communistic Societies, 6 bodies; Con-
gregationalists; Disciples of Christ; Dunk-
ards, (4 bodies); Evangelical (2 bodies); 
Friends (Quakers), 2 bodies; Friends of the
Temple (German); Evangelical Protestant
(German); Evangelical Synod (Jews) 2
bodies; The Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints; Lutherans (23 bodies);
Swedish Evangelical; Mission Covenant;
Mennonites (12 bodies); Methodists (7
bodies); Moravians; Presbyterians (2
bodies); Reformed (3 bodies); Salvation 
Army; Schwenkfildians; Social Brethren;
Society for Ethical Culture; Spiritualists;
Theosophical Society; United Brethren (2
bodies); Unitarians; Universalists; Inde-
pendent Congregations.
	These are some of the sects that prevail
in America today, and to attempt to explain
the religious tenets of each faith would be
a herculean task for anyone to attempt, and 
I will conclude by stating that of all the
religious denominations now in existence
among men, none have attracted such atten-
tion from the others as the organization
known as “The Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints,” the members of which
are popularly, though erroneously, called
“Mormons” because of their belief in the
divine authenticity of the Book of Mormon,

[Column 3]
a record of the ancient inhabitants of Amer-
ica. In every nation where the fame of
this Church has spread, and where its elders
have appeared to teach their faith, one fea-
ture which stands pre-eminent is the bitter-
ness with which they are opposed, without
even the opportunity of being heard, prin-
cipally by professed believers in Christian-
ity. With this prominent fact before us it
is beyond dispute that to this organization,
above all others in this generation, must be
applied the saying, “For as concerning this
sect, we know that everywhere it is spoken
against.”


