[WomansExponent | Vol20 | 1891 | June | Issue: 22 | Title: A DELIGHTFUL GATHERING. | Author: Unknown]

A DELIGHTFUL GATHERING.

	Tuesday evening, the 10th ult., the young ladies
of the Seventh Ward Y. L. M. I. A. held their
annual meeting in the ward meeting house, in
this City. The decorations were very artistic
and beautiful and the perfume of the apple
blossoms which had been used made the air
fragrant as a summer bower. There were many
lovely plants in blossom on the platform, and
elegant vases of a variety of flowers were ar-
ranged so ingeniously as to produce the most
charming effect.


The fair faces of the young women made the
picture the hall presented more interesting still,
and the programme was of special interest and
particularly well rendered.
	The President, Miss Sarah Eddington, was
absent, but her first Counselor, Miss Rose,
presided, assisted by the other Counselor, Mrs.
Carrrie S. Thomas. The meeting opened with
singing and prayer as usual, and at the roll call
each member answered to her name with an
original sentiment.
	First exercise was a letter from the President,
and then came the subject “Woman in all her Re-
lations," in four papers which were very ably
written and carefully read. First, “Daughter” by
Miss Rose Wallace; Second, “Sister” Miss Kate
Thomas; Third, “Wife,” Mrs. Alice Moyle;
Fourth, “Mother,” Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas. An
original poem by one of the members was then
read by Miss Alice McLachaln, the secretary; the
hymn, “O, my Father," was sung by the young
ladies and was followed by brief speeches from the
visitors present. Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall of the
Central Board was the first speaker; her remarks
were spirited and well-chosen and calculated to
inspire the young girls to noble efforts in the right
direction. Mrs. Nellie C. Taylor of the Stake
Board spoke feelingly especially of the subject
mother,that had been presented. The other sisters
who each occupied a few moments were E. B.
Wells, S. M. Kimball, M. I. Horne and Dr.
Maggie C. Shipp. The congregation sang “The
Spirit of God," and Bishop Wm. Thorne pro-
nounced the benediction. It was certainly one
of the most interesting meetings of the Y. L. M.
I. A. we have ever had the pleasure of attending;
it is very gratifying to see the improvement being
made by our young people in spiritual things.
	After the meeting was dismissed the company
all remained to partake of refreshments and join
in social converse. The time passed swiftly, the
young ladies favoring the company with some
sweet old songs, and after an hour or so we very
reluctantly bade good night. These social re-
unions bring us into communion with each other
in a way that promotes harmony and is produc-
tive of great good.


