Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon T seems but yesterday we heard Kris Kringle's tinkling bells Followed by the roar and din Of the. New Year entering in 'Mid Father Time's farewells, Now, Harlequin and Valentine appear With merry jest and song, 'Tis so, the world wags on. ME: FRANCES PERKINS, New York Industrial Commissioner, is being urged for a place in the cabinet of the new president. Mrs. Perkins is strongly opposed to child labor and says to continue it at this time is to sanction extending the depression into the lives of the next generation. INEZ HAYNES IRWIN, first woman president of the Authors' League of America, has been chosen by the National Council of Women to prepare and edit the book on the achievements of women for the Century of Progress Exposition at Chicago. HE state of Idaho has unveiled a monument honoring the women pioneers who first entered Boise valley, 1811, with the Wilson-PriceHunt expedition. RS. OLIVIA DEHN is the winner of the Scribner prize of $250 for the cover design for the forthcoming George Washington Memorial edition of Gould's History of Masonry. Mrs. Dehn is a student of the Chicago Art Institute. ADY AGNES M. GIBBS has turned from literature to science and recently was awarded a B. S. Degree by Kings College, London University. ELEN WILLS MOODY, tennis champion, is very happy to relate her interesting game with King Gustavus of Sweden, 75 years old. She says he plays a wonderful game and is the world's champion for his age. HE Woman's party gained a long sought victory during this congress when President Hoover signed the bill giving to women equality with men in eligibility for positions in federal service. MILDRID DIDRICKSON, famed athlete, won her finest game in life so far when the Amateur Athletic Union finally decided not to disbar her from membership because of an unauthorized advertisement, MRS. SAMUEL HALPIN, president of the Woman's Zionist organizafion is sponsoring an intensive educational campaign on Zionism among women. MRS. INA M. HARPER, of New York and San Francisco, is said to be the owner of the Island Palmito del Verde, 75,000 acres in extent, lying in the Pacific off the coast of Mexico. She is virtually the Empress of this rich and populous island. ELLEN TERRY'S MEMOIRS, by Edith Craig and a new biography of George Eliot by Emilie and Georgus Romieu both promise interesting studies for this winter. 100 PRINCESS DER LING has a new book of short stories, "Golden Phoenix," and is completing "Venerable Wisdom," a motion picture contrasting modern and old China. MARY LOUISE MAKIR in her new novel, '""The Long Knives Walked," has brought the mind back to the romantic age of Indian lore and now critics are recalling the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE beautiful story, Ramona, by Helen Hunt Jackson and placing it as an authentic romance of Indian life. MRS. MINNIE D. CRAIG has been elected president of the House of Representatives in the legislative assembly of North Dakota. This is the first time in the history of the United States this honor has been bestowed upon a woman.