Notes from the Field Oneida Stake. "THE District Demonstration sent by the Cooperative Extension Work in Home Economics, under the direction of the University of Idaho, has been working in connection with the Oneida Relief Society during the year 1932. Such subjects as Christmas gift suggestions, nutrition and food for school children, planning school lunches, food supply, the preservation of foods and methods in the storage of vegetables were covered very thoroughly. A useful course was given in the remodeling of clothing. These meetings have been largely attended, and the women in the stake have been greatly benefited. Health work has not been neglected. The stake Relief Society cooperated with the Health Association and the doctors in holding seven clinics for children between the ages of three to nine. The doctors and dentists donated their services. Relief Society Conferences have been held in all of the wards. Snowflake Stake. SISTER LULU J. SMITH of Snowflake stake, writes: "The death angel visited the town of Woodruff, Snowflake stake, Arizona, early in the year 1932, and took with him one of our most beloved and brilliant women, Addie S. Pace. She lived but a short span as far as years are concerned, but few have lived a life so full. Her greatest accomplishment was that of motherhood. She was an invalid many years, but still believed in fulfilling God's commandment. Ten beautiful children called her mother. Mrs. Pace was a leader in both church and civic activities. At the time of her passing she was literary class leader in the Snowflake stake Relief Society. Her interest in education made her active in ParentTeachers' work. She was president of the Navajo County Council of Parents and Teachers. She was a poet and writer of rare ability. 'The Mormon Pageant' presented at the dedication of the Grand Canyon Bridge, was a product from her pen. Her beautiful poem 'Prospective Mother,' now dedicated to the use of the Snowflake stake Relief Society, will live on and on. With all of her charming characteristics she was so humanly human, so artistically humorous. Her association with us has been most enlight- 106 ening and pleasant. The ideals for which she was striving will better equip her for the great mission to which she is now called. May her soul inspiring teachings and her sweet influence still abide with us to enable us to live as she lived— the abundant life." Boise Stake. UNDER the direction of Myrtle A. Arthur, the Boise stake Relief Society held an exhibit in connection with the convention held September 11, 1932. This took the form of a joint flower show and exhibition of quilts made of Relief Society colors, blue and gold. Much enthusiasm was created. The annual convention of the Class Leaders of Boise Stake was held Saturday, October 23, 1932. Sister Myrtle A. Arthur, stake leader of the Work and Business department, gave an inspiring talk on "The Need of Encouraging the Young Married Women to Join the Relief Society," and a plan was presented for a new department to be called the Young Married Women's Department, introduced in the Work and Business meeting. A talk on "Preparation and Methods of Giving Lessons" was given by President Mary C. Martineau, in which she urged the class leaders to thoroughly study and prepare outlines that would interest all the members of their classes. The concluding lecture on "Adult Education," and the privileges our sisters have of building a well rounded personality through the courses of study followed by the Relief Society was given by Brother J. M. Isaacson, of the High Council. The meeting adjourned at 2 o'clock, and at 2:30 Sister Lilas Worthington, Stake Welfare worker, conducted a class for Ward Presidents and Welfare Workers, in which she took up the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE matter of conservation of food, and Sister Urania B. Miller, stake teacher topic leader, held a training class for teacher topic leaders. Bear Lake Stake. OUR lesson work has been exceptionally well taken care of, and our class leaders are women who have a desire to improve and to place the different lines of work before our sisters in such a manner that each one attending can feel fully repaid. We all know that in our Relief Society work we can gain knowledge and increase our understanding in a number of very interesting subjects. One of our projects is health work, and securing a school nurse. Her work is to raise the standard of our school children by personal contact with teachers, parents and children. Our Christmas Seal Sales and the support that we get from our County Commissioners, makes it possible for us to have our nurse in our county. We have received many favorable reports of the work accomplished by her last year.. Our Social Service work is being supervised by Sister Longhurst, who took the course in Salt Lake City, a year ago. She has the ability to accomplish whatever she undertakes, and is filled with a desire to be of benefit to those in need of understanding assistance. This work is new in our community, but it is a fact that every county needs these able, well trained workers. They help to solve the problems in many different phases found in the cases needing assistance or adjustment. A trained worker in these cases goes to the bottom of a case, tries to learn the why and the where and the how of a case when working it out, and helps clients to retain home-life on a higher standard. NOTES FROM THE FIELD "The woman's camp was held in July, 1932, at Fish Haven. Our former camps have taken in women from four south-eastern counties. Last year three more counties were added to the group. One of the most delightful programs ever given was put over. Miss Hepworth and the County Committee are to be congratulated on the success of the camp. Our slogan is 'A bigger and better camp each year.' Our only regret is that more of our Bear Lake women could not attend. We extend an invitation to all women and men interested in the work to attend. This camp comes to us through the University of Idaho. The extension workers bring to the women who attend, a real three days of profitable enjoyment. Last year 521 women attended. Among the speakers were Mr. Chenworth and Dr. Halverson from the University of Idaho; Brother Melvin J. Ballard and Sister Elise B. Alder, and our own President Roy A. Welker, were among the speakers. The Neilson trio from the S. B. Of U. I., and local talent assisting, was very much appreciated. "Another project that we have tried to work out during the summer months is a program. Of art needlework and decorations of different kinds to be used as outlined in our Work and Business Meetings. In the summer we had a flower show and art exhibit. In the call made by the General Board for one article of clothing to be given by each member, a very good response was made." 107 Garfield Stake. THE Garfield Stake has had a profitable and active year. The secretary writes: "Each ward in the stake held appropriate exercises in commemoration of the 17th of March. Two stake teachers' conventions were held, as follows: Escalante, June 18, 1932, and Junction, June 25, 1932. A short social was given after each meeting. A Genealogical pageant, 'The Hearts of the Children,' with 40 characters, was presented by the two Escalante wards for the stake Relief Society under the direction of Sister Ruby T. Osborne, and presented twice at Escalante and once at Junction. It is felt throughout the stake that much good was accomplished through the presentation of this pageant. "Pennants for 100% teaching have been given every three months to wards earning them. This activity has increased the amount of teaching done in the stake very materially. "Every ward has participated in the activity of collecting articles of clothing, resulting in much help to the needy. "All Union Meetings have been held as scheduled, and all class work done. Board meetings have been held on an average of once a month. Many difficulties have to be overcome in doing Relief Society work in this stake because of the long distances to travel to get to meetings, but officers and members have the right spirit to overcome them and so we all feel well in the work and rejoice that we belong to the National Woman's Relief Society." THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON MRS, AMY BROWN LYMAN MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND President First Counselor Second Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer THE GENERAL BOARD Mrs. Emma A. Empe Miss Sarah M, McLelland Mrs, Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Ida P. Beal Mrs. Katie M. Barker Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Rosannah C, Irvine Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Editor Mary Connelly KIMBALL Manager Louise Y. ROBISON Assistant Manager Amy Brown LYMAN