Notes to the Field Church-Wide Exhibition HE General Board of Relief Society extends a most hearty invitation to all stakes to participate in a great church wide exhibition; the exhibition to consist of the work done or taught at the Work and Business Meeting. This exhibition will be held during the 1933 April Conference. We hope that all stakes will respond to this invitation, and help to make this display an outstanding event. Each stake will be limited to ten articles. To 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, not later than four days before the opening of the Relief Society Conference in April, 1933. Each article is to be labeled with the name of the stake and the value of the article, the label to be sewed or pasted on securely, where it can be plainly seen. The General Board will be responsible for the care of the articles after they receive them, also for their safe return. Articles typical of the community are most desirable. For example, one stake has made Indian baskets and pottery, which are typical of their locality. Articles do not necessarily need to be beautiful, but may be just useful and interesting. For example, one ward makes good soap, another cards wool, another remodels clothing. These times have developed the ingenuity of our women in many lines, and numerous useful articles have been made for almost nothing, and we should like to have these things displayed, as well as the beautiful quilts, rugs, etc., and other art work. Address all packages to: The National Woman's Relief Society, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. Be sure they will arrive on or before March 27, 1933, four days before the opening of the Relief Society General Conference, in April, 1933. We are very desirous that every stake shall be represented, and it will be a great disappointment to us if your stake is absent. Please notify the General Secretary by March 15, 1933, that you will participate. To the Choristers and Organists "All one's life is music if one touches the notes rightly and in time." IN New York some ten years ago a Hymn Society was formed by a number of hymn writers, editors, and organists who were interested in furthering hymn singing and improving the quality of hymns. They were anxious to know just what place a good hymn had in the education and character training of youth. Their conclusion was that a hymn expresses the worshiper's attitude toward God, and God's purposes in directing His children. In a recent issue of the Improvement Era, Prof. Edward P. Kimball makes this comment: "The Lord has declared to Latter-day Saints that the songs of the righteous are a prayer unto Him, and that He will answer them with blessings on their 104 heads. If our song is to be a prayer it must be first of all spoken with full realization of what the poem says: Song is merely glorified speech, and speaking and understanding are the first requisites in singing, and especially in singing that is done in the service of God." If our choristers and organists will come to realize the truth of Prof. Kimball's comment they will not have much difficulty in teaching new hymns and improving the quality of the old ones. Choristers and organists, as a group be determined to further better "hymn singing in our organization." In the year 1933, "Let us with voices united adore Him," by learning and singing new and appropriate hymns. It is suggested that the choristers and organists teach the hymn "Nay Speak No II!" (No. 88 in Latter-day Saint Hymns, No. 75 in "Relief Society Song Book") so that it can be sung as a congregational song at our conference in April. It is one of the favorite hymns of our president, Louise Y. Robison. Choristers and Organists, give it the proper recognition—learn the words and the melody so that the combined effort will be satisfactory to our beloved president. THE Councillor," a Bulletin of the National Council of Women of the United States, in reporting the Activities of Member-Presidents says regarding the activities of the Presidents of the Relief Society and Mutual Improvement Associations: "Between August 1 and November 1, Mrs. Ruth May Fox, President of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, and 27 of her board members made 290 visits to membership units throughout the west, holding leadership conventions at which they contacted approximately 13,000 officers and leaders. "Members of the board of directors of the National Woman's Relief Society, 23 in number, made 104 speeches about the National Council projects in connection with A Century of Progress during the summer and fall, Mrs. Louise Y. Robison, the president, speaking on that subject in Colorado, New Mexico, Arizona and Utah." Relief Society Song Contest THE General Board is to conduct. A contest for a Relief Society song. It is to be dignified, challenging, and inspiring. The poem shall not exceed three stanzas and a chorus. The prize offered is $50.00 for the words and the music, or $25.00 for the most appropriate words for a song. The General Board reserves the right to accept or reject any poem or song submitted. The contest closes June 15, 1933. RULES OF THE CONTEST 1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saints. 2. Only one poem or song may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The poem should be typewritten, if possible; where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written. Where words and music are submitted, both must be done clearly and precisely. 4, The sheet on which the poem is written should be without signature, or other identifying marks. 5. Only one side of the paper should be used. 6. Each poem, or song, must be accompanied by a stamped envelope, on which should be written the con- NOTES TO testant's name and address. Nom de plumes should not be used. 7. Statement should accompany the poem that it is entered in the contest. 8. The contestant guarantees the poem or song submitted to be his or her original work, that it has never been published, that it is not now in the hands of an editor, or other person, with a view of publication, and that it will not be published nor THE FIELD 105 submitted for publication until the contest is decided. 9. The judges shall consist of the music committee, one professional musician, and one of the executive board. 10. The poems or songs must be submitted. Not later than June 15, 1933. 11. All entries should be addressed to: The Relief Society Song Contest Committee, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.