[Vol43 | February 1956 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Lesson | Title: Visiting | Author: Elliott]
[Visiting Teacher Messages: ". . . For Behold, Ye Are Free; Ye Are Permitted to Act For Yourselves" Edith S. Elliott]
Visiting  cJeacher    1 1 Lessages 
Book  of  Mormon  Gems  of  Truth 
Lesson  40— " .  .  .  For  Behold,  Ye  Are  Free;  Ye  Are  Permitted  to  Act  For 
Yourselves;  For  Behold,  God  Hath  Given  Unto  You  a  Knowledge 
and  He  Hath  Made  You  Free"  (Helaman  14:30). 
Edith  S.  Elliott 
For  Tuesday,  May  1,  1956 
Objective:  To  show  that  free  agency  is  an  eternal  gift. 
HPHERE  was  never  any  other  in- 
tent by  our  Heavenly  Father 
than  that  man  should  be  free  to  act 
for  himself.  The  whole  plan  of 
salvation  encompasses  this  premise. 
Throughout  scriptural  history  we 
read  about  the  fruits  of  freedom 
and  the  curse  of  bondage. 
In  the  Book  of  Helaman,  we  read 
how  Nephi  exhorted  the  people  to 
turn  from  their  selfish  ways  and  live 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and  be 
ready  for  his  coming.  He  also  re- 
minded them  that  they  each  had 
their  free  agency.  In  all  of  our  re- 
lations with  our  Father  in  heaven, 
he  has  made  it  clear  that  we  are  at 
liberty  to  choose  our  mode  of  be- 
havior. 
In  our  everyday  lives  it  is  the  di- 
vine gift  of  freedom  that  we  must 
cherish.  Unless  we  guard  this  preci- 
ous gift  we  will  be  subjects  for  en- 
slavement by  the  power  of  darkness 
in  both  our  spiritual  and  temporal 
conduct. 
We  have  all  seen  the  dwarfing  ef- 
fects of  apathy  and  indifference  to 
a  worthy  project.  These  factors 
court  decay  of  the  will  to  do,  to  act, 
to  think,  to  initiate,  to  be  free.  They 
are  indeed  a  form  of  enslavement. 
Let  us  be  aware  of  entangling  in- 
fluences and  cast  them  aside;  rather 
let  us  choose  our  Heavenly  Father's 
plan.  He  has  given  us  a  knowledge 
that  under  any  circumstance  our  will 
to  do  is  free.  Matthew  Arnold's  ex- 
planation is: 
Yet  the  will  is  free;  strong  is  the  soul 
and  wise,  and  beautiful;  The  seeds  of 
God-like  power  are  in  us  still.  Gods  are 
we,  bards,  saints,  heroes,  if  we  will  (Cour- 
age, page  12). 
To  enjoy  the  liberties  with  which 
we  are  so  blessed,  we  must  respect 
the  rights  of  others.  We  do  not 
need  to  indulge  our  fellow  man  to 
the  point  of  losing  our  own  free- 
dom and  self-respect,  nor  should  we 
be  selfish  to  the  point  of  forcing  our 
will  upon  another.  Understanding, 
compassion,  and  truth  are  founda- 
tions for  peaceful  relations  one  with 
another. 
It  is  only  through  freedom  and 
liberty  that  we  can  develop  our  God- 
given  talents  and  enjoy  the  oppor- 
tunity to  choose  our  way  of  life,  and 
we  should  do  so,  with  judgment,  in- 
telligence, and  honor,  for  our  Heav- 
enly Father  has  given  us  the  knowl- 
edge. 
Page  127