[Vol43 | February 1956 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Fiction | Title: Sixty]
[Sixty Years Ago]
Sixty    [J ears  J/igo 
Excerpts  From  the  Woman's  Exponent,  February  1,  and  February  15,  1896 
"For  the  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the 
Women  of  All  Nations" 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  IN  MARICOPA  STAKE:  President  Alice  Richens,  Mesa 
Ward,  Louisa  Harper,  Lehi  Ward,  Ann  Kleinman,  Alma  Ward,  Esther  Openshaw, 
Nephi  Ward,  and  Sister  Sarah  Tiffany  of  Papago  Ward,  gave  encouraging  reports  .... 
All  seemed  to  be  doing  as  well  as  usual,  although  there  seemed  to  be  a  faithful  few  who 
had  to  do  the  principal  part  of  the  work  of  the  respective  society,  but  upon  the  whole 
there  was  general  good  feeling  ....  President  Collin  R.  Hakes  was  altogether  proud  of 
the  Saints  of  Maricopa  Stake.  Spoke  a  short  time  on  the  duties  of  those  who  had  ac- 
cepted positions  of  responsibility  in  the  Church,  and  the  order  of  the  Gospel. 
— F.  E.  Robson,  Sec. 
A  LEADER  OF  WOMEN:  Mrs.  Carrie  Chapman-Catt  has  cleared  $140  for 
the  National  Organization  Committee  by  her  Woman  Suffrage  Calendars,  which  have 
found  a  ready  sale.    We  congratulate  her. 
— Selected 
AN  INTEREST  IN  GOVERNMENT:  Lady  Aberdeen  is  a  constant  attendant 
on  the  sessions  of  Parliament  in  Ottawa.  She  occupies  a  place  beside  the  Speaker  in 
the  House  of  Commons. 
— Selected 
HEART  BE  STILL 
Then  heart  be  thou  still,  cry  out  no  more! 
Thy  jewels  are  shining  there, 
In  gladness  they  tread  the  golden  streets, 
And  offer  for  thee  a  prayer. 
Now  hark!     Through  the  gathering  gloom 
Hear  the  angel  voices  tell, 
"Daughter  arise,  thy  cross  take  up, 
With  thy  loved  ones  all  is  well." 
— Lydia  D.  Alder 
WOMAN  OF  DESTINY:  Queen  Christina  of  Spain  has  been  asked  as  arbitrator 
to  settle  a  long  standing  dispute  over  the  boundary  lines  of  Columbia,  Equador  and 
Peru.  This  is  the  first  time  in  the  history  of  the  world  that  a  woman  has  been  chosen 
to  settle  an  international  dispute.  Her  administration  of  Spanish  affairs  has  been 
characterized  by  tact  and  statesmanlike  ability,  controlled  by  high  moral  principle;  and 
not  the  least  of  her  claims  to  admiration  is  the  fact  that  she  has  maintained  peace  in  a 
country  proverbial  for  being  in  a  state  of  constant  unrest  and  turmoil. 
— Woman's  Voice 
THE  THIRD  STAR:  The  early  Mormon  women  were  very  largely  of  New  Eng- 
land birth,  and  they  have  gloried  in  having  emulated  the  exile  and  privations  of  the 
Pilgrims  for  the  same  cause,  namely  freedom  to  worship  according  to  their  conscience. 
— Woman's  Tribune 
Page  96