[Vol43 | February 1956 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Lesson | Title: Literature | Author: Jacobs]
Ey ore Literature of England Lesson 56—Review of English Literature Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: The Literature of England, Volumes I and II, Woods, Watt, Anderson) For Tuesday, May 15, 1956 Objective: To remind and surprise ourselves at how much we have forgotten and remembered. Note: This lesson will be most effective, it is believed, if the program of review is followed by using eight participants, as recommended by Brother Jacobs. The general board does not approve of women dressing as men; however, the eight sisters who read the excerpts might be dressed as women in the dress of the respective periods, and have before them the writing materials used at that particular time to lend atmosphere to the presentation. HORTLY before his death in gol A. D., Alfred the Great, King of the 'West Saxons and one of the brightest torches in England's history, wrote the following: "He seems to me a very foolish man, and very wretched, who will not increase his understanding while he is alive." Earlier, Socrates (469-399 B. C.) had written that "surely knowledge is the food of the soul,' while later Francis Bacon (1561-1626) tells us that "whatever deserves to exist deserves also to be known, for knowledge is the image of existence and things mean and splendid exist alike" (my underscore). Likewise we are commanded in the Bible, ",.. With all thy getting get understanding" (Prov. 4:7) and in the Doctrine and Covenants "... Teach one another... In all things that pertain unto the kingdom of God " (D. & C. 88:77, 78). How humbly we stand before these great words, how full is our gratitude for membership in the Church whose restoring Prophet taught that "A man is saved no faster than he_ gets knowledge" (D. H. C. IV, 588). How grateful for membership in the Relief So- LESSON DEPARTMENT ciety, which bolsters its belief in intelligence as God's glory in one way by leading its members each studymonth to "the best that has been thought and said in the world." Through the past seven years of readings and discussions in English Literature, we have opened many doors, yet, rarely, have we squeezed inside more than a toe or a hand— once or twice a head, almost. Probably a normal reaction might be to classify these seven years as an apprentice period which has served to define the outer limits of our scope, but now we should really begin to master this material which we know but casually. 'To such thorough and willing initiates we should point out that, by its very nature, this course was never meant to be anything but introductory. If our study has given pleasure in the search and the sharing; if it has stimulated our sisters to love the best enough to search for it both within and _ beyond the bounds of our outline, then nothing has been in vain. Three Goals Attained But though we have not accomplished all, which was never our aim, still we have nibbled at three goals, at least. Nothing broadens like travel, whether in time or space. In our travels back through time we have come to know a vast array of men and women from all walks of life. Because we have become acquainted with them through their most intimate hopes and fears and beliefs, as couched in their own carefully weighed words, we may possibly know their real selves better than did their non-reading contemporaries. Each of these writers has, in turn, 131 Ied us personally by the hand past labyrinths of obscurity, pettiness, bombast, and insincerity; past mountains of evidence both pertinent and inconsequential, to face those conflicts and hopes which were central to himself and his age. Our survey has thus enabled us to peel back the layers of peoples, customs, ambitions, and fears which have been laid up, then scrambled together, to form England through the centuries. Finally, by bringing us to know all sorts of men and cultures through time, our survey has provided the basis for comparing one reality, one writer with another, and most important of all, with ourselves and our present world. The voyage into perpetual self-discovery is one of the most important we can undertake. Here, again, our survey has provided at least a launching. Such a study of literature prolongs life by quickening and deepening it. Wise Winston Churchill defines three types of people: those who are toiled to death, those who are worried to death, and those who are bored to death. In the last two areas, so increasingly lethal today, literature gives ballast and balance and inward calm; once these are established, zest and the love of life follow. Breaking the Time Barrier In looking back over these seven years devoted to English literature, we must remember that, being mortal and human, and heirs to those who have preceded us, we should emphasize those values which we have in common with our brothers through time rather than those which separate us. Thanks to 132 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1956 the wonders of language and books, about the only barrier which separate us—time itself—can be removed at any moment by those who will bother to open a book. It sounds almost too easy. It is Herman Melville who reminds us that "genius all over the world stands hand in hand, and one shock of recognition runs the whole -circle round." Excellence knows no bounds. Procedure Now let us put our imaginations to work; let us annihilate time as suggested above. Since, in varying degree, each of us recognizes excellence and genius, consider, if you will, how much more apparent these high virtues must be to those who possess these attributes. Enter with us, then, if you can, a large and stately study severely plain and subdued in decor. The walls are booklined from floor to ceiling, the room is gently lighted from high narrow windows, draped. As we face the window-slits, only one object breaks the gleam of light reflected across the polished floor: a large round table in the center of the room. Around it are eight high-backed oaken chairs spaced at regular intervals on which eight men are seated, writing. The writing materials vary —much goat and sheepskin scraped clean and dried into parchment, various grades and shapes of paper, while writing instruments vary from goose quills to steel-nib dip pens, to handmade pencils and fountain pens. We wait for a time. The men seem unaware of our presence, writing as if in a trance, intent, dedicated. 'The tension of stillness is blurred only by the scratch of penflourishes. Still we wait. Finally, when nothing happens, slowly we approach near enough to read over a man's shoulder as he writes. It is difficult to see past his massive shoulders and full black cowl as he leans forward to his manuscript; finally we catch a glimpse of his first three lines which, translated, read: Lo! We have listened to many a lay Of the Spear-Danes' fame, their splendor of old, Their mighty princes, and martial deeds! Thus begins Beowulf, the oldest known writing in English. Probably first written down by this English monk, sometime around the year 1000, it was probably composed in northern England about 750. Inasmuch as we have used our imaginations freely thus far, we cannot retract now. 'Therefore, let us imagine the great hall containing the round table is our hall here and now, and the eight persons seated about it are transformed into eight Relief Society sisters chosen to speak for the eight periods and the best writings of each period. Perhaps, after an introductory statement incorporating the scope and goals of our study of English literature, each of the eight might stand, declare the age she represents, then read a brief excerpt from the best writings of the age before passing the continuity on to the next period. In preparing the introductory material or the unifying narrative, the class leader should be reminded that her functions might be compared to that of the string which connects the pearls. In this project the em- LESSON DEPARTMENT phasis should be on the literature itself; theory and history best justify themselves, if they merely join together the various selections and then remain in the background. It would seem that the greatest problem might be the selecting of what to read. Since the purpose of this hour is primarily one of enjoyment through participation and recollection, the class leader should recall those passages which she remembers most fondly or which she feels will be best received. 1. The Old English Period, 449- 1066 (Text, vol. I, pp. 2-71) From the Anglo-Saxon Invasion to the Norman Conquest In 410 a. V. The Romans left Britain. In 428 began the Germanic invasions of England, organized more completely by Hengest and Horsa in 449. Wave after wave of Scandinavian Vikings brought constant pillage and warfare. About 850 England was conquered by the Danes and ruled by them until AIfred the Great broke their power. The period began in_ barbaric paganism, with England a mysterious isle on the outer edge of civilization. Blood-guilt or murderguilt could be removed by giving of gifts to the murdered's kin. The hero-warrior was supreme, and ties of blood were strongest. The Teutonic mind was moody, somber, and stubborn. The high virtues, as seen in Beowulf, were pride, personal honor, and courage, and loyalty. In 597 Christianity was organized in southern England by St. Augustine, and by the end of the period, through the saving, perpetuating functions of the monasteries and the great love of learning of Alfred 133 the Great, Christianity was dominant. The reader might choose to read aloud a scene from Beowulf (pp. 21-56) or a selection from "The Wanderer" (page 57), "The Seafarer" (page 58), or the lovely, simple Parable of the Sparrow as found in Bede's Ecclesiastical History (page 64, lines 51-72). 2. The Middle English (or Medieval) Period, 1066-1485 (Text, vol. I, PP. 72-277) From the Norman Conquest to the Accession of the Tudors This period serves as the link between wild, prehistoric, and modern England. Four great influences dominate these centuries: first, the conquest of England in 1066 by William of Normandy, who made French language and literature dominant until after 1400; second, the feudal pattern of life, which preceded the English village, in which the manor of the lord or the duke was the center of life and commoners were serfs or slaves to the master, he in turn having the strongest loyalty for his lord and king; third, the ideals of chivalry — gentility toward all women, kindness, courage, fighting against wrong, but, most powerful of all, was the concept of courtly love — all these dominated the world of lords and ladies and knights. 'The fourth and greatest force of the age, however, was religion: the pursuit of the Holy Grail, the ten Crusades, the other worldliness of the church-dominated culture. Yet then as now people were people. While there was violent persecution by church and state for heresy, there was healthy vigor 134 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1956 among the commoners, as seen in their riddles and ballads which survive to the present day, notably "Edward" (page 117), "The 'Two Corbies" (page 119), "Sir Patrick Spens" (page 122), "The Wife of Usher's Well" (page 124), and "Bonny Barbara Allen" (page 124). The medieval romance was popular, as in Morte Darthur (page 261), and Sir Gawain and the Green Knight (page 167), and the morality play was the great artform for the people. Chaucer, by first writing in English with power, by combining almost every contemporary subject and literary form in his works, but mostly by knowing and loving his fellow humans more deeply and compassionately than almost any other English writer, is the best representative of the age. The reader might choose to read from the folk ballads, or from the immortal characterizations of knight (page 212), merchant (page 216), or prioress (page 213), as found in the Prologue (page 211) to Chaucer's Canterbury Tales. 3. The Renaissance Period, 1485- 1625 (Text, vol. I, pp. 278-564) From the Accession of the Tudors to the Death of James I. One of the richest flowerings of the English spirit, this period produced some of its greatest literature, as seen in the King James translation of the Bible, and in the writings of Sir Francis Bacon, John Bunyan, Ben Jonson, John Donne, Robert Herrick, George Herbert, and, above all, William Shakespeare. Freed from domination by church and _ illiteracy, more and more Englishmen expressed the exuberance they felt as England became a great commercial nation and the reigning queen of the seas after defeating Spain in 1588. Likewise, in the discovery that man can know and understand the world about him, and even control and better his lot, the typical Rennaissance citizen believed all knowledge to be in his province, that everything "which deserves to exist deserves to be known." It is most difficult to choose merely one or two selections from this age of our greatest poetry, but at the top of the list must appear Shakespeare's sonnets and selections from the King James Bible. Suggested sonnets are 18 (page 424), 29 (page 425), 33 (page 426), 55 (page 426), 104 (page 428), and, perhaps best known, 116 (page 428). Songs from Shakespeare's plays (pp. 429-433) contain some of the loveliest lyrics in the language. Bible selections (text, pp. 520-547) are best-known to us. 'Therefore, it seems rather superfluous to name one passage above another, so personal are many. 4. The Puritan Interlude, 1625-1660 (Text, vol. I, pp. 564-719) From the Death of James I to the Restoration of Charles II. The English peoples ever have been filled with fervor for nght and truth and godliness. In Bunyan (page 705) and Milton (page 638) we have the two great voices of Puritanism. In majesty and poetic use of language Milton has been tivaled only by Shakespeare, while his personal intensity, his moral and spiritual integrity stand supreme. Milton the man and Milton the artist are inseparable. His one mag- LESSON DEPARTMENT nificent protest against the Cavalier and Roman artificialities, and his ringing affirmation of man's necessary right to courage, moral, and spiritual strength, and unhampered freedom of the will—all these virtues set him apart and above from the lesser lights of English literature. And for the epic brilliance of his poetry, read from Paradise Lost, Book I (page 650), at will. Again, Milton's ability to write poetry of beauty and music and great inner power can be displayed by reading from Samson Agonistes (page 676). 5. The Neo-Classical Period, 1660- 1784 (Text, vol. I, pp. 720-1131) The Neo-Classical movement arose as a reaction against both the laxness of Cavalier literary and moral standards, and the mgorous severities of the Puritans. It was an age of skepticism, order, reason. A classical symmetry pervaded literature, music, architecture, and landscape gardening. It was by this same ordering of nature by which the ancient Greek and Roman writers had achieved their unrivaled excellence in structure and form. NeoClassical writers followed the classical unities of time, place, and action, not in blind adherence to rule, but because they felt they must, since by following the ancients, they best followed nature and reason. Wit, reason, balance, restraint— these qualities predominate in the writings of Dryden (page 768), Addison and Steel (page 885), Pope (page 973), Goldsmith (page 1023), Johnson (page 1043), and, in a lesser degree but tinged with a more bitter satire, in Swift (page 910). Perhaps the fairest representative 135 of this period is Alexander Pope, a briliant craftsman and writer rather than a great one.