[Vol43 | February 1956 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Fiction | Title: Salads | Author: Gardner]
[Salads for Health and Beauty Rhea H. Gardner]
Salads  for  utealth  and  {Beauty 
Rhea  H.  Gardner 
Extension  Service  Home  Management  and  Furnishings  Specialist 
Utah  State  Agricultural  College 
THE  list  of  possible  combinations  of  vegetables  and  fruits  for  salads  is  as  long  as  your 
imagination.  If  you  have  plenty  of  imagination,  you  will  have  little  need  for 
recipes.  However,  sometimes  our  imagination  gets  a  bit  sluggish  and  requires  a  little 
push  to  get  it  going.  That's  the  purpose  of  the  following  recipes  and  suggestions  for 
salad  combinations. 
Vegetable  Salad  Combinations 
1.  Cut  or  break  up  leaves  of  lettuce,  endive,  and  water  cress.  Toss  together  in  a 
salad  bowl  with  tomato  wedges,  sliced  cucumbers,  radishes,  and  little  green  onions, 
sliced.    Serve  with  French  dressing. 
2.  Mix  thinly  sliced  radishes,  water  cress,  endive,  and  cauliflower  broken  into  pencil 
size  flowerets.    Toss  together  with  French  dressing. 
3.  Mix  together  narrow  strips  of  green  pepper,  sliced  celery,  cucumber,  and  very 
thinly  sliced  carrots  and  turnips.  Serve  on  a  bed  of  lettuce  with  French  or  Thousand 
Island  dressing. 
4.  Toss  together,  just  before  serving  time,  shredded  cabbage,  shredded  tender  young 
beets,  and  very  thin  strips  of  green  pepper.     Season  with  French  dressing. 
Fruit  Salad  Combinations 
1.  Alternate  wedges  of  avocado,  orange,  and  grapefruit  on  a  bed  of  lettuce  or 
endive.     Serve  with  fruit  French  dressing. 
2.  Combine  melon  balls  of  honeydew,  cantaloupe,  and  watermelon.  Serve  in  let 
tuce  cups  with  fruit  French  dressing. 
3.  Combine  equal  amounts  of  cantaloupe  or  honeydew  melon  balls  with  sections 
of  grapefruit.  Serve  with  pineapple  dressing. 
4.  Peel  and  core  fresh  or  canned  pears.  For  each  serving  allow  half  a  pear.  Frost 
with  softened  cream  cheese  and  roll  in  chopped  peanuts  or  blanched  and  toasted  al- 
monds.    Serve  with  or  without  a  cream-type  dressing. 
Fresh  Fruit  Salad  Plate 
Any  variety  of  fresh  fruit  may  be  used.  Select  fruit  combinations  that  will  give  a 
pleasing  color  harmony.  Leave  berries  and  sweet  cherries  whole,  cut  peaches,  fresh  pine- 
apple, melons,  and  pears  in  bite-size  pieces. 
Fruit  Plate  as  a  Dessert 
Finely  crush  ice  and  form  on  a  mound  on  a  serving  platter.  Put  one  end  of  a 
toothpick  into  a  piece  of  fruit  and  the  other  into  the  mound  of  crushed  ice.  Continue 
until  the  ice  is  all  covered  with  fruit.  Refrigerate  until  ready  to  serve.  Thoroughly  chill 
but  do  not  freeze  fruit.    Serve  as  a  dessert  with  a  heavy  meal. 
French  Dressing 
1/3  cup  vinegar  or  lemon  juice  1   teaspoon  paprika 
1   cup  salad  or  olive  oil  1  teaspoon  sugar,  if  desired 
%    teaspoon  pepper  few  grains  cayenne 
Combine  all  ingredients.  Shake  or  beat  until  thoroughly  combined.     Chill. 
Page  108

SALADS  FOR  HEALTH  AND  BEAUTY  109 
Fruit  French  Dressing 
%   cup  orange  juice  XA    cup  salad  or  olive  oil 
!4   cup  pineapple  juice  lA   teaspoon  salt 
2  tablespoons  lemon  juice  1  teaspoon  sugar 
Combine  all  ingredients.    Beat  or  shake  until  well  blended. 
Pineapple  Dressing 
lA    cup  sugar  1  Vi    cups  pineapple  juice,  or  combination 
2  tablespoons  cornstarch  of  orange  and  pineapple 
dash  celery  salt  4       egg  yolks,  slightly  beaten 
!4    teaspoon  salt  %    cup  lemon  juice 
Mix  dry  ingredients  in  the  top  of  a  double  boiler.  Stir  in  the  pineapple  juice. 
Cook  over  boiling  water,  stirring  constantly  until  mixture  thickens.  Cover  and  cook  for 
10  minutes,  stirring  occasionally. 
Stir  a  little  of  the  hot  mixture  into  slightly  beaten  egg  yolks.  Add  to  remaining 
hot  mixture.  Cook  over  hot  water,  stirring  constantly  for  3  minutes.  Stir  in  lemon 
juice.    Chill. 
When  the  dressing  is  cool,  fold  in  1  cup  of  heavy  cream,  whipped. 
■  m  ■ 
LPra trie    vUi n ter 
Grace  Barker  Wilson 
All  night  long,  under  frozen  sky 
With  never  a  hint  of  stars  or  moon, 
The  prairie  lay  like  a  dragon  fly 
Wrapped  in  an  eiderdown  cocoon. 
No  wind  ruffled  the  icy  air 
Nor  stirred  a  flake  of  the  falling  snow; 
Not  even  a  track  of  wild  thing  there 
To  mar  the  quietness  below. 
With  ashen  face  the  morning  came, 
But  no  sun  pierced  the  overcast, 
While  winter's  undisputed  claim 
Held  all  the  prairie  frozen  fast.