[Vol43 | February 1956 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Fiction | Title: Mary | Author: Cakes]
and  writing  at  the  University  of  Utah  and  have  done  singing  locally.  I  am 
the  Primary  chorister;  I  sing  with  the  Singing  Mothers,  teach  a  Sunday  School 
class,  and  am  a  visiting  teacher  in  the  Relief  Society  of  the  Forest  Dale  Ward. 
I  have  worked  in  most  of  the  auxiliaries  of  the  Church.  Mine  is  a  family  of 
three  children,  an  assortment  of  pets,  my  husband,  and  myself.  I  enjoy  skiing, 
tennis,  and  painting,  and  I  work  at  learning  to  play  the  piano,  with  no  success 
as  yet."

cJhe  fyCustraltari    II it 
tsston 
Preston  Nibhy 
TN  the  summer  of  1840,  ten  years  after  the  Church  was  organized,  a  young 
convert  in  Hanley,  Staffordshire,  England,  named  William  Barrett, 
seventeen  years  of  age,  who  was  about  to  make  a  voyage  to  Australia,  was 
ordained  an  elder  by  George  A.  Smith,  of  the  Council  of  Twelve,  and 
appointed  to  labor  as  a  missionary  in  that  country.  He  arrived  in  Australia 
and  delivered  his  message,  but  it  is  not  known  that  he  made  any  converts. 
Two  years  later,  Andrew  Anderson,  one  of  the  first  converts  baptized 
in  Scotland,  by  Elder  Orson  Pratt,  in  1840,  moved  to  Australia  with  his 
family  and  located  at  Sydney,  New  South  Wales.  In  1845  he  reported  to 
the  Church  Authorities  in  Nauvoo  that  he  had  baptized  eleven  people  and 
organized  a  branch  of  the  Church. 
The  real  beginning  toward  the  establishment  of  a  mission  in  Australia 
was  made  in  1851,  when  Elder  John  Murdock  of  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  was 
appointed  by  the  First  Presidency  to  open  a  mission  in  that  land.    He  was 
Photograph  submitted  by  Leah  Liljenquist 
THE  MURRAY  RIVER   FROM  THE   NEW  SOUTH  WALES   SIDE 
AT  COROWA,  AUSTRALIA 
Page  88

THE  AUSTRALIAN  MISSION 
89 
Photograph  submitted  by  Leah  Liljenquist 
THE  BURRAGORANG  VALLEY,  NEW  SOUTH  WALES,  AUSTRALIA 
accompanied  on  his  journey  by  Elder  Charles  W.  Wandell,  and  the  two 
brethren  arrived  in  Sydney  on  October  30th.  Through  their  diligence 
they  soon  established  a  thriving  branch  of  the  Church,  and  the  work  of 
proselyting  has  not  ceased  since  that  time. 
New  Zealand  became  a  part  of  the  Australian  Mission  in  1854,  and 
the  two  countries  were  known  as  the  Australasian  Mission.  From  1880  to 
1897  the  headquarters  of  the  mission  was  at  Aukland,  but  in  October  1897, 
two  separate  missions  were  formed. 
In  1930  the  membership  of  the  Australian  Mission  was  1,313;  in  1954 
the  membership  had  increased  to  3,053. 
President  David  O.  McKay  made  an  extensive  tour  of  the  Australian 
Mission  in  January  1955.  During  July  1955,  the  Australian  Mission  was 
divided  into  the  Australian  and  South  Australian  Missions.  This  was  done 
by  Elder  Marion  G.  Romney  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  who  had 
journeyed  to  Australia  for  that  purpose,  acting  under  the  direction  of  the 
First  Presidency.  Before  the  division  of  the  mission,  there  were  twenty- 
five  Relief  Society  organizations.  Elder  Zelph  Young  Erekson  is  president 
of  the  Australian  Mission,  and  Sister  Ada  Irene  Soane  Erekson  presides 
over  the  mission  Relief  Society.
