Pioneer Days of Payson By Emma S. Curtis Simons "Brother Brigham is coming! Brother Brigham is coming!" The happy message was repeated in every home in the village; and added to that was the request from our beloved bishop, jlohn B. Fairbanks, that our town be put in order and everything be made clean. We had three days' time, the work falling mostly to women and small children, as the farms claimed the time of the men and larger boys. Our wood yards were a sight to behold! At least a wagon boxful of chips was raked up and then the yard was swept. Farm implements were put out of sight. Corn cribs were put in order that the play school might open as soon as all was quiet again. The houses were as clean as homemade soap and improvised brushes could make them; our windows were as clear as the atmosphere. At last the day arrived. Brother Brigham had said that when he gave his time to visit the people he wanted to see every man, woman and child in each community. A boy on horseback was stationed on the hill to the northeast, with a white towel tied to a stick, which wa's to be waved as a signal of the approach of our guests. An hour's waiting, and the flag was waved. We were there, on each side of the street, the line extending as far as our numbers would permit?mothers with babies in their arms (who had ever heard of a baby carriage?); mothers and daughters in calico dresses and sunbonnets; men and boys wearing hats made by the thrifty housewives from straw carefully laid aside the previous year; little boys with pants that had been made long, worn short, exposing bare feet and legs so brown one would have guessed they belonged to the natives. Soon the carriages passed slowly down the line, with President Young and company bowing as graciously to us as if we were members of the royal house of England. That evening we held our meeting im the one small public building; the message was of cheer, good will, faith, hope, and the reward that comes from well doing. President Young blessed us as a father blesses dearly beloved children. On one of the late visits made by President Young to the southern part of the territory, he was accompanied by his old friend, Colonel Thomas L. Caine, who was in poor health. It was hoped a winter in Dixie's mild climate would prove beneficial to him. Col. Caine was a small man, educated, refined, a gentleman in every sense of the word, with eyes that spoke volumes. There is something attractive in friendship, but it touches the divine when it exists between such men as Col, Caine and President Young. Protective Values of Pioneer Foods By Jean Cox Although the food supply of the pioneers was extremely meagre compared with the variety and abundance of our present markets and storerooms, the protective values were present in proportionately greater amounts than they are now found in many of the. Present highly refined foodstuffs. In pioneer times, methods of food manufacture were necessarily simple. In many cases dire necessity demanded that all or practically all of the available foods be used. Waste of foodstuffs was considered unethical if not worthy of greater punishment. While the pioneer sometimes ate food that did not especially appeal to the palate, both hunger and great need prevented encouragement of many food fancies or idiosyncrasies which ordinarily tend to limit the variety of foods eaten by the individual or group. What Are the Protective Foods? The term "protective foods" simply means those that contribute to growth, reproduction, and healthful maintenance. Foods of this class are relatively high in ash, vitamins, and certain kinds of protein. When any diet fails to supply these important foods, although it may be adequate in terms of energy requirement, there is necessarily a decrease in the degree of well being and the rate of growth. Where the diet, over a considerable period of time, is noticeably deficient in vitamins and ash, there is a corresponding decrease in resistance to disease as well as a lowering of general well being. Where a limited diet, furnishing but a few of the protective foods, is the rule, there is a general tendency to colds and to a run-down condition in the spring. Because of the impossibility of having a variety of protective foods all of the year, it is generally conceded that the kinds and amount of illness among pioneers were proportionately greater in the spring than at other seasons of the year. This low resistance to colds and other germ diseases always results where the late winter and spring diets do not contain sufficient foods that are high in the vitamins and ash. Food Economies in Pioneer Times Owing to the difficulties in getting to markets as well as to the low available money income in pioneer life, the farmer's bank account was evidenced in the wheat and potato bins, cattle and sheep herds, and the family storeroom or cellar. Part of the responsibility of the housewife was to portion out the foodstuffs so that the supplies would extend to the following harvest or  future source of supply. It was therefore necessary that food consumption conform to the strictest standards of economy. Fortunately for the pioneers, potatoes were usually cooked with their jackets on, thus making available the valuable ash constituents close to the skin, which are frequently lost in our present methods of preparation. [Fruit butters also conserved more ash than do the present day jams and jellies with their relatively high contents of sugar. High Values in Parts Now Discarded When an animal was killed for food, common custom made good use of different parts of the carcass now frequently discarded. While the preparation and consumption of brains, blood pudding, head cheese or scrapple, as well as the wider use of internal organs, extended the meat supply of the family, these facts alone do not tell all of the story. Recent scientific study has shown that the parts of the animal used from necessity by the pioneers had proportionately greater food value than the present generally accepted choice of muscle meats. Thus necessity again furnished some degree of health insurance to people having a meager food supply. It is interesting to note that muscle meats compared with the rest of the edible carcass are surprisingly rich in protein of a superior quality as well as in ash and vitamins.: In cereal consumption among pioneers, two factors contributed | to the use of practically the entire grain. Probably the biggest, reason was the limited production of both wheat and corn?-a condition that made it necessary to eat practically all of the available grains. The limited amounts harvested were far too precious for human needs to allow much waste or to use grain as food for farm animals. Andther factor was that the crude milling of grains removed only the two outer coverings, the bran and shorts. Frequently, however, both of these were used for food. While the supply remained limited, it was common custom to use so-called "shorts," and frequently some of the bran, in bread making. Rough Foods Enhance Growth This custom contributed to the health of the family, since the outer coverings and germ, which are now removed in milling, furnish a fairly good source of ash and vitamins. Big business evidenced in centralized milling has made it necessary to prepare flours with better keeping qualities than those formerly produced, which contained the germ of the grain. Recent studies give convincing evidence that vegetable oils from the germs of wheat and corn are valuable for vitamin D, which is the vitamin considered necessary for reproduction. From PROTECTIVE VALUES OF PIONEER FOODS 389 a nutrition standpoint, there is considerable argument against the common custom of limiting the use of cereals in the diet of ? highly milled flours, which are deficient in both vitamin and ash. The argument may be emphasized by stating that in pioneer times the wider use of the entire grains as food afforded more protection than do the more refined flours of the present day. It is good nutritional practice for the family or the individual to make habitual the use of cereal, including some of the whole grains or else the parts of grain not found in highly milled flour. Food Value of Molasses Cane molasses, another pioneer food that merits discussion, is a form of sweet furnishing a means of buying health by the gallon or barrel. At the Iowa Experiment Station, careful feeding experiments with white rats show that cane molasses contains greater food value than either beet molasses or sorghum. A diet sufficient for the growth of white rats was supplemented with five, ten, or fifteen percent of cane molasses; the results, carefully studied, proved that the addition of the molasses noticeably increased the rate of growth of the rats. It was shown also that, with rats fed on diets including molasses, more young were born and a larger percentage of young were reared than when the molasses was not used. The experiment, extending through several generations, furnished satisfactory proof that, aside from its high sugar content, molasses is also rich in vitamins and ash. In comparison with the 100 percent pure cane or beet sugar, which is valuable merely for energy, molasses is a food rich in vitamins and ash?elements that make it valuable for both growth and reproduction. While honey is higher than sugar in ash and vitamins, the proportion of these is considerably less than in molasses. One of the chief nutritive values of honey over sugar is the fact that a more easily digested form of sugar is found in honey. Values in Cereals and Datry Products Among pioneers the consumption of cereal was proportionately high, the consumption of sweets low, as compared with present standards of consumption' of cereals and sugars. According to recent estimates the average per capita sugar consumption in this country is 115 pounds per year as compared with the average consumption of 11 pounds in 1827. The amount of sugar consumed has rather steadily increased. Recent and careful studies: indicate that the low sugar consumption by the pioneers had some advantages over the present high intake of various kinds of sweets and confections. The more generous use of milk, butter, cheese, and eggs had distinct nutritive value in pioneer diets. This class of perishable  foods was in those times an important part of the family food supply. These foods, exceptionally rich in vitamins and ash, contain also superior varieties of protein. When used to supplement cereals these proteins from milk and eggs are more valuable than protein from other sources. Thus the generous use of dairy products and whole grains in addition to the consumption of green and root vegetables furnished building material for good teeth and strong bones. While the pioneers, from necessity, frequently used "greens" to supplement the scanty supply of staple foods, this exigency should be considered, in the light of modern science, as a health contribution. The general acceptance of mustard, wild spinach, beet and turnip tops as a part of the diet from early spring into summer gave a certain degree of health protection and helped to establish a wider range of food selection among pioneers. A Good but Meager Fare Though the pioneers were often tired of their limited fare, and though there have been, unquestionably, some rather serious results from restricted diets, yet it is safe to say that the higher values of the common foods of the pioneers as compared with the more highly milled and refined foods of the present time, did much to give them health, the courage to fight Indians, and the endurance to wrest their living from raw and unbroken lands. It is not the purpose of this article to idealize pioneer foods, nor in any way to give the impression that in the early settlement of this State it was comfortable to be cold, hungry, or to have only half enough food; but the fact remains that the common table resources of fifty years ago contributed food elements to the average diet which have now been removed by the competition and the economic necessities of big business. It is an accepted fact among nutrition experts that both present and future generations are bound to suffer from the results of a diet composed largely of highly milled white flours, refined sugar, and fats. During the different manufacturing processes much of the ash and vitamins have been removed. In some cases these products have been put on the market in a more easily marketable form, but in other cases these so-called unrefined parts of the foods have been widely used in feeding cattle and fowls. Cattle breeders and poultry men realize that the outer coverings of grain, and molasses from beet sugar, are very valuable to them. The present high cost of perishable fruits, vegetables, and dairy products is a factor limiting generous consumption of these foods in many homes. In order to insure satisfactory nutrition for the family, these facts need to be brought frequently to the attention of the housewife until protective foods are considered a necessary part of the family diet.