Compiling a Census of Post-Polio Patients HE National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis reports that it is launching a massive program aimed at helping thousands of persons disabled by polio to achieve greater degrees of self-sufficiency. "Step one in the dynamic new phase of the war on polio is the compilation of a roster of post-polios across the nation by some 3,100 National Foundation chapters,' according to Basil O'Connor, president of the National Foundation. "In the light of new knowledge in the treatment of polio and modern rehabilitation techniques, a great many polio victims now may benefit from additional treatment and training, much of it recently developed at respiratory and rehabilitation centers. We want to find out who these people are and what can we done for them over a period of time." The general board of Relief Society is co-operating in this worthwhile endeavor and calls to the attention of its readers the following questionnaire, a copy of which should be filled out for post-polio patients whom the reader knows, and mailed to the county chapter of the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis in which the patient lives. POLIO PATIENT REPORT National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis Fe ae. -___ ae a LeCOUNTY CHAPTER (LAST) (FIRST). - (MIDDLE) 2, Tote "AdGiess 0ieeaie—-amemne. Meee cece ecteenec seston enncnseo=srnesa (No. And Street) (City or Town) (State) 3. Date of Birth eect 4. Date of Onset - 222.22 22a eens (Mo.); (Day) Yr.) (Mo. ) (Day) Yr.) 5. Can patient climb stairs? ( )Yes ( )No 6. Dress self? ( )Yes ( )No 7. Is patient gainfully employed: at home ( )Yes ( )No; outside home (' )Yes ( )No 8. Does patient attend school? ( )Yes ( )No 9. Is patient now receiving regular treatment for polio? ( )Yes (_ )No 10. If "yes," where (check below-)? ( ) Hospital in-patient service -cccececeseeseeeeeseetees ee Hospital City ()) Ontepaitient clinigpe --: ceee. Eeeoo cccecteeeeee ee Agency City ( -) — Phaysiciam's OfF1Ce ---. Scs-sesssesnensnenenenencnanennecennoesscneenecearederconrensrcatsnensantsacersee Name City (GR Mee oli) Oe eee ee Check if attendant is used (__) i (Address if different from above) 12. Date physician last saw Patient" — -2iicccscsscrereeedecnnectoreoeceoennenecennansnsnaaransanecscrenenseren 12. Is patient using respiratory aids (iron lung, chest respirator, rocking bed)? (_ ) Yes (_ ) No. (Indicate which) 13. Is patient receiving outside financial assistance for polio treatment? (Other than family)? (SNCS. Seen cee cee ( ) No (Indicate source) 14. State briefly any special problems patient now has as result of polio (problems of travel, finance, medical care, JOD PCHOM) oe ees ses enenceemenenentenncenncene (Mo.) (Day) Yr.) (Signature) Relationship to Patient NFIP Form #661 —— USE REVERSE SIDE FOR ADDITIONAL COMMENTS Page 668