[Vol47 | June 1960 | Sequence: 05 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorial | Author: Crawford]
[Editorial: The 130th Annual Church Conference Vesta P. Crawford]
It is the road that is restored to us by the restoration of the gospel and the restoration of the EDITORIAL Priesthood. Do not be misled by the professions of men. Beware of the idea that you do not have to live the gospel in order to obtain the salvation and exaltation that are promised.... I believe that bad acts, bad thoughts, inaccurate beliefs do not develop the spirit; but on the contrary, they may retard or dwarf it. I believe that all that we do that is good, builds us up and helps us to prove ourselves, that we teally are living our second estate. Brethren and sisters, do not be misled, do not stray, do not imbibe the tendency of the age that it does not make any difference what you do. It makes all the difference in this world and in the hereafter. It makes the difference between salvation and exaltation and damnation... You cannot afford so to jeopardize the hereafter. RESIDENT Henry D. Moyle declared that it is the avowed purpose and mission of the Church to prepare mankind for the second coming of Christ that the Savior's eternal mission may be fulfilled in his promised reappearance upon the earth: All that man has accomplished, and all further advancement in every realm of human activity made by man will aid in the accomplishment of God's ultimate purpose for us here in mortality — that is to say, the establishment of his Church and Kingdom here upon this earth, preparatory to the advent of the second coming of the Savior of mankind.... Science and religion alike are entirely obligated to God, and so are we all. Neither science nor religion can successfully refute the second coming of Christ. The evidence is too complete, too convincing, too much a part of the great eternal plan of God. We know he will come, even as he ascended, a material being, a living Personage, separate and apart from the Father, with an immortalized body of flesh and bones. This is our work — to prepare for 367 the second coming of Christ. This is the dispensation of the fullness of times, spoken of by Paul, the apostle. We have in our hands, with which to work, all that has gone before in all generations of man. We deny final consummation of his mission here upon the earth if we deny his second coming. Thus only can the revealed gospel of Jesus Christ be presented in its fullness... N presenting the Church Statistical Report on Wednesday morning, April 6, President Clark stated that the membership of the Church, December 31, 1959, was 1,616,088, and the membership of Relief Society at the same time was 203,752. In his closing address on Wednesday, President McKay expressed gratitude for the beautiful and inspirational music presented at the various sessions of the Conference — the Tabernacle Choir on Sunday, under the direction of Richard P. Condie, with Alexander Schreiner at the organ; on Monday the Mormon Choir of Southern California, under the direction of H. Frederick Davis; and on Wednesday the Brigham Young University Combined Choruses under the direction of Dr. Newel B. Weight, and Dr. Don L. Earl, and other musical selections of praise and rejoicing. In his closing message to the Church, President McKay - said: "This has been in a_ remarkable manner, an outstanding spiritual Conference." We have had testimony that God is a living Being. We have had _ testimony that Christ is at the head of his Church.. We have had testimony of the Spirit that he has revealed in this dispensation the gospel of Jesus Christ to the Prophet Joseph Smith.... God bless those who have given the messages of this Conference. 'They have risen to heights sublime. —V. P. C.