[Vol47 | June 1960 | Sequence: 06 | Category: General Feature | Title: Notes | Author: Meeting]
Notes TO THE FIELD Program for the November Fast Sunday &vening ITleeting HE special program for the Sunday evening meeting on Fast Day, November 6, 1960, "IHfome the Heart of Happiness," has been mailed to stake and mission Relief Society presidents. We urge that these programs be distributed to the wards and branches without delay. Hymn of the Mlonth—Semi-Annual List July to December 1960 HE Church-wide congregational hymn singing project, inaugurated by the Church Music Committee, will be continued during the coming six months, and all auxiliary organizations have been invited to participate. The purpose of this project is to increase the hymn repertoire of the Church members and to place emphasis on the message of the hymns. Stake Relief Society choristers and organists are requested to give assistance at leadership meetings to ward choristers and organists in carrying out this project. An analysis and story of the hymn will be printed each month in the Church Section of The Deseret News. Following is a list of hymns approved for the six months July through December 1960: No. July Thanks for the Sabbath School — Willes-Murray 177 August Sweet Is the Peace Morton-Durham 191 September Lead Me Into Life Eternal W idtsoe-Schreiner 141 October With All the Power Watts-Durham 216 November Come, Ye Thankful People Alford-Elvey 29 December I Heard the Bells Longfellow-Calkin 219 Page 368 You Hl Always Be Rich Betty Lou Martin ARGO Hanseen stood by the M living room window which overlooked the valley. A wave of love surged through her being as it always did when she gazed at her valley. To her, the majestic mountains rising in the distance and the beautiful fields stretching before her, meant warmth and security. She always felt a sense of well-being, as if she were coming home after having been away a long time. Spring was coming to the valley. It was in the air everywhere. The birds chirped the message all along the way. 'The cows in the pasture bellowed contentedly, and the ducks down by the stream quacked the happy news to the world. A wonderful time to be alive, thought Margo as she finished dusting the living room, and then went to the front door. "My, it's warm enough today to leave the door open for awhile," Margo mused. The clean, fresh air of spring spread through the house, and Margo stood in the doorway drinking it in. She gazed down at the path that led to the barn and saw her husband Jed and her sixteen-year-old son Randy coming toward the house. She knew that they, too, were experiencing the wonder and beauty of an early spring day. "What time do you expect Susan's train to be in?" John inquired. "We don't want to miss our little girl. My goodness, Margo, do you realize that it has been five years since we have seen her?" "I know, dear," Margo said, half to herself and half to Jed. Margo felt the same bewilderment overcome her as it had earlier when she was dusting and cleaning. Would Susan accept them? After all, she had been living in Europe for the past four years. 'The Hanseens had never had many of the material things in life, but they had been blessed with a richness of spirituality and love for one another. 'They knew how to find joy in life through giving of themselves to others. They each shared a love for God and were thankful for the opportunity that they had of serving him. Margo had brought Susan up to appreciate and love God, as she had brought up her other three children todo the same. Their oldest daughter, Joan, had married and lived on the other side of the valley. 'Their son Jim had built himself a home a half mile from them and was content to help Jed with the farming. Randy was still in school; however, after a mission and college, he, too, wanted to settle down close to his folks. When Susan Hanseen had married 'Tony Cartwright, Margo's fear had begun to develop. She liked Tony very much, but, after all, he had come from a family of considerable wealth. 'The Hanseens had very little in common with the Cartwrights. When Mrs. Cartwright had first come to visit the Hanseens, she hadn't seemed to relax, and Margo found herself on edge, too, although she had never had any difficulty making people feel at ease before. Susan had been living in Europe Page 369 370 since her marriage, where Tony had a high position representing the Government. Now Susan was coming home for a visit. Margo hoped and prayed with all her might that Susan would not have changed. The past five years the farm had just barely paid its way. The family still drove the same car, had the same furniture, and the same old radio that had to be hit on the side to make it play. The only new addition was the television set, which was the pride of the family. They did not believe in going in debt. If they did not have the money to buy, then they waited until they did. S Margo dressed to go to meet Susan's train, she thought of all the royalty and titled people and officials that had entertained Susan and Tony. Once again the icy hand of fear gripped her. She looked at her gray suit. It was old. She had bought it just before Susan was married, but it was clean and neatly pressed. She looked at herself again in the mirror. She was only slightly plumper, and her dark Brown hair was streaked here and there with gray. Yes, after all, she was five years older. "Are you ready, Jed?" Margo called to her husband. "We don't want to be late." Jed walked into the room, and Margo looked at her husband with love. If only we could have afforded him a new suit. I can get by with my clothes, but his are getting so old. Susan can't help but remember that suit. Margo kept these thoughts to herself. She did not want her husband to think that he looked shabby. She wouldn't hurt his feelings for anything in the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1960 world. When Randy entered the room, Margo felt very proud of her goodlooking son. He carried himself proud and straight, and his cleancut features only added to his immaculate appearance. "Oh, Randy, Susan won't know you; you have grown up so much." Margo gave her son a loving pat as she straightened his collar. Margo took one last look around as she pulled the door shut. She had done her best to have the house in order. It was neat and clean; the rest would depend upon Susan. The drive to the city relaxed Margo somewhat as the beauty of the valley spread before her. Then, as they approached the station, her uneasiness began to come back. Jed, sensing her dilemma, reached for her hand and held it gently in his. "Margo," Jed spoke softly, "I know how uneasy you are about meeting Susan. You are worried that she will not accept us for what we are. But remember this, she knows what we are, how we live, and we cannot change our lives just to please her. She must accept us the way we are. We accept and love her the way she is, just as we do our other children." Margo smiled up at Jed. "I know it, dear. It is just that a little farm in the middle of a little valley may seem insignificant compared to the places that she has been and the things that she has done." HE train pulled into the station on schedule, and a beautiful, smiling Susan ran from the train into the arms of her parents. "Let me look at you. Oh, you are just YOU'LL ALWAYS BE RICH the same as when I left, except you, Randy. My goodness, how you have grown." Susan stood back now, surveying her family. Margo felt stunned by her daughter's remark — "You are just the same as when I left." How does she mean it? Margo wondered to herself. "You look wonderful, Susan," Margo said sincerely to her lovely daughter. Susan was even more striking than ever with her golden blond hair combed smartly back into a French twist. Susan hugged Margo again as they started for the car. "You look wonderful, Mother. I do like that suit on you." As they drove toward the farm, Susan chatted excitedly about the plane trip over, the parties she had attended, and the people she had met. When they reached the farm, she jumped out of the car and ran toward the house. When Margo went inside, she didn't see Susan. She needs a few minutes to herself to look around, Margo thought as she went to the kitchen to prepare supper. Soon she heard Susan coming down the stairs, and when she turned around she was. Startled. Susan was dressed in a plain pink cotton skirt and blouse. Her golden hair waved loosely to her shoulders, and her lips were just barely touched with pink lipstick. She looked very much like the same happy Susan who loved spring in the valley, and. Cried when the old mother cat died. "Oh, Mother, the place hasn't changed a bit," Susan spoke as she went to the cookie jar. "Hmmm, niy favorite cookies, I see." "No, Susan, things haven't changed too much. I guess that we seem to have stood still after all the 371 places that you have lived and the many interesting people that you have met." Margo felt her heart sink. Susan got up and went to the kitchen window. "Spring in the valley; how I have dreamed about it. Tony wanted me to wait and come home in the summer, but I just had to sec my valley in the spring. Remember when I was a little girl how I used to wake up real early and run to the window to see if it was spring?" "Yes, I remember, Susan." Margo sighed, remembcring. ""Ihose were wonderful years. We are not very rich, dear, but." "Oh, Mother," Susan chided as she stood directly in front of her mother, "you'll always be rich. Maybe not in the things of the world, but in the things that really and truly count. I just hope that I can instill in my children the things that you and Daddy have tried to teach me. And I hope that I can make my children as happy as you have made me. I know that Jim, Joan, and Randy feel the same as I do." Margo flung her arms around her daughter. "Oh, Susan, I was so afraid that you would change and grow away from us." "Change? Grow away from you?" Susan was crying as she spoke. "Why, the very day that I left, Tony made the remark that he hoped you would save a little space for us so that we, too, could build here some day." Margo and Susan dried their eyes and together they walked down toward the barnyard, and Cuddles, the little terrier, trotted happily beside them. He was glad that Susan was home, too.

Sor a Flower Leone H. Simms N spring, at the home where I was a little girl, we had lilacs and apple blossoms, but, as summer came on, there were practically no flowers. Just across the street, however, the whole south side of our neighbor's yard was a mass of bloom. I especially remember the poppies nodding their gay red, pink, orange, and white heads at me in the gentle summer breeze. Some of them even poked their heads through the fence — coaxing me to pick them. I have always had a deep love for flowers, and an urge to pick them, touch them, and bury my nose in them, and so on many a day I almost broke the stem of one, and sometimes my fingers stroked the petals. One day I asked my mother if she thought it would be all right to pick just one of those that were sticking out through the fence, and was disappointed when she told me "no, though in my heart? D known all along that "no" was the right answer. "But," she went on, "you may go over and ask our neighbor if you may have one, and remember to thank her." If you could see our neighbor as I used to, with my timid little girl eves, you would know how big and frightening a thing this seemed to me. She wore her hair pulled straight back from an unsmiling face, and her voice sounded gruff and harsh. I know she was a good woman, often harried by the cares of the day, and striving to keep things the way they should be, but still I was afraid of her — not that Page 372 she would harm me, but that she would be cross with me. But I did want a flower, so I summoned all my courage and walked across the street. When the gate creaked as I opened it, I almost ran back home, but took a fresh hold on my retreating courage and went on in. When she answered my knock, I managed to say, "Could I please have a flower?" and I wasn't too surprised, but was crestfallen, when she answered gruffly, "No, you can't," and shut the door. Resigned but depressed, I walked back across the street and told my mother what had happened. Pve wondered since, just what were her thoughts.