Annie's Awakening By Linnie Fisher Robinson "WHO has the thread?" "Not I," chorused a half dozen voices. "Why, Annie Condor, you have it," said Sarah Hall, laughingly. "So I have," said Annie, in surprised confusion, "I didn't notice it lying there." There was a pause for a moment, then Janet Brown resumed, "As I was saying, none of us ever have what you'd call real vacations, but then none of us miss them very much." Annie Condor's hands fell lax in her lap, her eyes took on a far away expression, she forgot the quilt before her. It was Janet who said: "Why, Annie, I declare if you're not woolgathering today, and you the fastest quilter in Green Valley." "I was just thinking," said Annie, "that we do miss them—the real vacations—there's Nellie Jorgens, the doctor says her whole trouble is nerves. Do you think, with a real vacation every year, she'd be in the fix she's in?" "I don't know as anyone could give Nellie a vacation," Sarah said. "Nellie'd be afraid to go away for fear something would be wasted in her absence." Annie's pale face flushed, "It's really my fault," she said slowly, "that we're a bit personal today; but married life either makes women saving or wasteful; and if it makes you saving on a farm where there's so much waste, for lack of help and time, you soon become a slave. It's better that life should make you lax—on a farm." There was a storm of protest. To think Annie could say that, and her the neatest housekeeper in Green Valley. Annie looked calmly at the group of friends she'd sewed with close to thirty years. "I just want to say there's no use fooling ourselves any longer, we do miss real vacations, and we miss 'em badly. I always meant to have one, but I never have. Maybe—well, well — where's that thread gone now?". Janet broke the perplexed silence, "I guess if you'd wanted one bad enough you could a' had one; you have the finest stock, the finest crops, in fact, the finest farm. Now my John says if we were you we'd sport a lot, and take trips—long ones, you bet." "But," said Annie with a traitorous feeling, yet speaking in spite of herself, "we don't own them— our farm and things—they own us! For years our mortgage owned us, and we gave all that was in us to lift it; it took years because of the taxes and machinery needed. There's times good and times bad; and in the bad years taxes remain the same, and eat up the good year's profits. Why, I've lived from month to month, waiting for the egg check —waiting to see it go for mash and light bills; the milk check for interest, and any left over saved for taxes and the mortgage. I'd hope for a time when there'd be a surplus; and when there was, there'd be a cow bloated and dead that had to be replaced. Every coat I ever wore was bought for the warmth and wear of it; and now—" Annie's voice trailed off.  The women's quilting club of Green Valley was silent; if any others had such thoughts as Annie voiced they were not going to say so; they savored too much of rebellion, and sounded downright traitorous to farm life and farm men. "Well, you've had a fine table, Annie, and good warm clothes— a good car—" "We've all had that, more or less," said Annie mildly; "but what for? To feed hired help and ourselves, so's to keep up strength for more work. It's stretch and strain, and disappointments all down the trail, and only in years comes victory, and some times not then. It may be alright for them who live only for the physical, and food's all they require; but any woman who has pride enough to scour and clean, and scrimp and save, has a longing for more than food. How'd it be to have long evenings of pleasant companionship without the talk being about the grasshoppers, water shortage or the potato failure. And then only after the men have come in at dark, starved, cross and tired, to make hours of washing milk pails, sweeping the kitchen, where odious boots and shoes speak eloquently that they must be kept out of the cold if your men are to keep well. Where bathrooms, shining in the afternoon, are covered with hay leaves and black from the different hands that have splashed and entirely destroyed their cleanliness. Even the hired girl, if you have one, gets cross, by that time." The ladies looked even more aghast. Martha Williams spoke up, "I've had those feelings, too, sometimes —round about haying time. You're tired, that's what! With my great weight and rheumatism I'm happiest now at home; a warm house and food fills me with content." The ladies laughed—even Annie; for Martha's deep drawling tones, and her more than two hundred pounds were loved by all. In a few moments all was normal again; quilting talk of every day pleasantness began, the new neighborhood twins, Safira's quince jelly that took first prize at the fair, the fire that broke out in the Johnson's basement—all these were viewed and reviewed until at last another quilting day was over, and the ladies departed for home. Annie Condor, driving the family car over the jolty roads, scarcely noticed that fall was reigning in splendor upon the mountains; she only saw the car, dusty with mash, and spattered with mud. It was no use trying to keep it shining, even if it was practically new, no one had time to clean it but she; and only that morning, right after she'd washed it, pa had made a flying trip for mash, since the pigs had, somehow, got into the chicken coop and eaten the last of it. Their one and only truck was already being loaded with third crop hay; so, as was often the case, the touring car must act as second, or emergency truck. She drove straight to her door, disdaining the yawning garage, some of the family would need it—why drive it in? Hyrum Condor, coming tired and sweaty from the field, followed Annie into the house. He sat down on the edge of a straight back chair. Annie turned, "That's the way all farmers do," she mused to herself, nodding to pa, "sitting on the edge of their chairs, like as though it 'ud help 'em get out quicker. That's what I've always hated about this farm—never a minute in a chair, but you feel you're stealing it, 'less 'tis ANNIE'S AWAKENING 85 ten or eleven at night, and then you're stealing health from your work tomorrow. Winters it's worse —-sorting apples in a cold, damp cellar, breaking ice from the buttermilk-barrel, cleaning coops, and mixing mash, pruning trees, and plowing, when the wind and cold fairly make one stiff! Why we're just nothing but machinery that keeps oiling itself for work!" Annie beginning to tie on an apron, came to with a start, what was that pa was saying? "Got a chance to sell out? When? Who?" said Annie breathlessly. "—and I been thinking," said pa, "as how—maybe we better, and move to the city, like you said you wanted to; we could take a long trip, too, if the boys got jobs; and then there wouldn't be no barn yard to carry in, Or so many weeds to bother you. Maybe I'd have time to help you in your flower garden; you wouldn't have no separators, or milk pails, or milk strainers, or churning to bother you, then; and we could clean up, come evening maybe" Pa ceased talking, and began looking out of the window at the land he'd practically given his life to; dust. And hay leaves clung to the creases of his collar. His shoes under their dust, from the field, were hardened and cracked; but pa was totally unconscious of them. He was already mentally saying goodbye. Annie did some quick thinking; what did life mean? What were they here for? The boys were strong, healthy, clean, young fellows; they were industrious, and liked school. By saving and choring winters, they could go on; would they be able to if they moved to the city? The satin slippers, she'd longed for years ago, were not wanted so much now. Suddenly it was clear to her—what she wanted was for them she loved to be happy; pa was happy here. She remembered how he'd looked the day he finished off the mortgage, and the triumph on his face when after a struggle they'd raised the taxes, too. And the boys—mixing college and cows, and fine laying pullets—Annie began to think of supper, that fresh, whole wheat bread, and the new butter—there was apple sauce— "No, pa," she said, beginning to stir around briskly, "I never did want to sell." "You never wanted to. Sell!" echoed pa, following Annie into the pantry, where she began pouring a pan of milk slowly into a shining white pitcher. "What is it you've wanted all these years, Annie?" Annie picked up a spoon and guided the cream safely in with the milk; then she said, with new discovery in her tones, "I guess I just wanted a little choice in the matter."