2 The Impenetrable Shield By Judge Nephi Jensen ON the 10th day of December, 1919, Dr. Fred Winslow Adams, of Brooklyn, New York, preached a noteworthy sermon. He chose for his theme, "The greatest safeguard against temptation." In order to be thoroughly prepared for the discourse he interviewed by letter a number of world notables, on the subject in hand. He asked each one of these outstanding men what they regarded as the best safeguard against evil. Here are some of the responses received: "Will," Irving Bacheller. "The will to resist," Strauss. "High Aims," Andrew Carnegie. "Healthy Interest in Good Things," Rabindranath Tagore. "Knowledge," Arthur Brisbane. These answers present an interesting array of ideas on the vital question of moral restraint. The group of responses are significant because of the variety of minds that have made contributions. We have here the views of a noted man of letters, a famous philanthropist, a great captain of industry, a profound philosopher, and a brilliant journalist, on an all important matter relating to right living. It would be a very profitable study in the secret of moral control to seek for a common denominator of these answers. Is there such a common denominator? Is there some master word into which all of these fine words are reducible? Irving Bacheller insists that "will," is the best safeguard against evil. His conclusion is based upon the popular idea that "will" is the most dominant attribute of selfhood. But if we think the matter through we shall discover that there is something that controls the will. I cannot say, "I will,' unless I can say "I am." That is quite evident. I cannot say "I can" unless I can say "I believe I can." That is equally certain. Moreover, if I am rightly disposed morally, I will not say "I will" unless I can say "I ought." And, I cannot say "I ought," unless I can say "I believe I ought." So back of will is the belief that we can and ought to do the thing we will to do. That is faith. It is faith that moves the will to do, to dare, and to achieve. It is faith that controls the impulses and aspirations of the heart and guards the soul against its deadly foes. OSCAR STRAUSS' "will to resist" is reducible to this simple gospel word, "faith." Why do you resist temptation? You are tempted  to tell a falsehood. Why do you resist? Because you believe intensely that truth is one of the enduring realities; and that it is base and ignoble to desecrate the truth. You are tempted to be dishonest. Why do you refrain? Because your soul is held in control by the unshaken conviction that honor is better than gold; and that integrity is worth more than all the wealth of the world. You are tempted to harbor an impure thought. Why do you shrink from the deadly intruder? Because in your heart of hearts you believe that purity of life is the only nobility; and the only passport to the abode of the Gods. Tempted to be hateful. Why do you shun the enticement to wrath? Because your soul is gripped by the holy faith that God is love; and that to become like him is the only supremely important achievement. Faith in the true, the pure and the noble is the sustaining strength and power in the will that resists sin's deadly enticement. The Indian philosopher, Tagore, concludes that "A healthy interest in good things," is the strongest shield of the soul. Undoubtedly an abiding "interest" in worthwhile things is a most: valuable moral restraint. But what is it that gives us this lively interest in high things? You are interested in preserving the sanctity of your body, because you believe a clean sound body is the basis of all worthwhile possessions. You are interested in guarding the integrity of your mind because you believe that a clean, untrammelled intellect is absolutely necessary to the highest culture. You are interested in keeping unsullied your imperishable soul, because, you believe devoutly that the human personality is the highest and sublimest thing in the world. It is faith in "good things" that gives to us that healthy "interest in good things," that arms us with strength and courage to shun evil things. EVEN "knowledge" is not as trustworthy as faith as a safeguard against sin's encroachment upon the sanctity of the soul. Knowledge will hold the temper at bay when the mind is vividly awake to the terrors of evil. A popular wrestler, who in his youth had learned the facts regarding strength-destroying nicotine, became an addict to the weed. One day a friend of high ideals saw the idol of the wrestling fans, smoking, and sharply reminded the noted athlete of the injurious effect of tobacco addiction. The wrestler instantly became serious. For the moment he recalled what he had learned about the destructiveness of nicotine. He threw away the cigarette. But within an hour he was seen smoking again. This athlete had only dead knowledge of the enslaving effect of the cigarette. This knowledge only controlled his conduct for the moment it was actively present in his mind. Quite in contrast with this incident in the life of this athlete, is the story of a young man who had been kept from smoking by a more potent restraining power. Some years ago there arrived at the mission home of one of the American missions of the Church a bright-eyed ruddy-cheeked young man who had been sent out to do missionary work. It was the custom of the Mission president to quiz the new arrivals in the field, rather searchingly about their past habits, and practices. After he had interrogated this young man at some length he asked him point blank, THE IMPENETRABLE SHIELD 73 "Did you ever smoke?" "I have never tasted tobacco," was the instant truthful response of the boy. What had been his shield against the most popular and widely practiced vice of our times? Not knowledge. He had never made a scientific study of the health-destroying, nerve-stupifying, and mind-bewildering effect of nicotine. But at his mother's knee, in the Sunday School, and from the pulpit he had been taught the simple truth that God had said, "Tobacco is not good for man." These terse divine words had been written upon the tablets of his soul by the fire of a living faith. This faith was the impenetrable shield of his soul. FAITH is more than knowledge. It is knowledge plus. It is knowledge in action. It is an awakened active attitude in respect to right and wrong that nerves the soul with strength to resist every temptation. The story of Joseph's resistance of the wicked advances of Potiphar's wife, is one of the most inspiring examples of moral integrity in the history of the race. No man was ever more sorely tempted. And yet he answered the woman's evil proposal with a most positive declaration of his fidelity to principle and loyalty to God: "How can I do this wickedness and sin against God?" There is the eternal ring of virtue in these words. They came from the depths of a soul that was as true as truth. Joseph's rebuff of the siren's wicked advance is an imperishable monument to the majesty and grandeur of a clean mind and a pure heart. Back of this courageous refusal to consent to moral degradation was a soul-controlling conviction of the enduring sanctity of personal honor; and an undying belief in the reality of divine law. This faith was the fiber and sinew of Joseph's moral strength. His thoughts and conduct were controlled by the all-controlling faith which is the soul's integrity to truth. Faith in God is the awakened sense of our divine sonship. This consciousness of the divinity within us gives to our souls a sanctity which we dare not desecrate. The fixed conviction that our spirits belong to the family of the Gods brings home to us the ennobling and controlling thought, that all our deeds mar or make our souls, that have the opportunity of returning to the presence of God. Souls gripped by this sense of the eternal consequences of thought and deed, spurn temptation's insidious smile.; Faith in the reality of immutable divine law, vests the soul with the awful sense of accountability to a Moral Governor of the universe. This abiding feeling of responsibility to one who is just, true, and holy is the real monitor of the soul. It is by the unerring guidance of this inner moral force that we are led safely past the reefs of moral danger and pitfalls of vice. He who "endures as seeing him who is invisible" is kept by that very sense of the nearness of God, in harmony with the pure purposes of the Most High. Faith's long range view of time, makes eternity part of the present and gives to our every thought and act an eternal significance. This deep sense of the all-enduring effect of our deeds sobers us and puts us on our guard against the recklessness of the eat-drink-and-be-merry spirit. Out of the consciousness that life is not a swiftly passing idle moment  but an eternity of limitless possibilities comes our deep sense of moral values. The settled conviction that there is a vital eternal difference between right and wrong is the strong enduring armor of the soul. OUR conduct is controlled by something deeper and stronger than beautiful sentiment or fine-spun ethical distinctions. The soul's integrity is kept inviolate by robust enduring convictions of the terror of evil; and the everlasting worth of rectitude.. It is faith ever living faith, in the good, the beautiful, and the true that gives the soul its strong moral bent and attitude; sets the heart immovably upon the things that are high; and puts one's life in harmonious union with the God of all righteousness. It was this noble thought that inspired the apostle to say, "Above all taking the shield of faith wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked." THE soul-fortifying strength of this vital faith finds its most splendid expression in modern times, in the lives of the Latter-day Saints. There is space for only one or two instances of the soul controlling power of this moral force. The morning paper of January 2, 1931, carried a report of a lecture by Dr. George W. Mursell, noted psychologist, before the American Society for the Advancement of Science, on the effect of religious training on delinquency. The conclusions he announced were based upon tests he had given to 600 Ohio reform school boys, and 400 boys outside the reformatory. The boys examined ranged from 12 to 18 years of age. As a result of this investigation, he affirmed "that there is no significant relation to religious training and delinquent and non-delinquent behavior—that whatever causes one class to be delinquent or non-delinquent, it is not religious training, knowledge, attitude or background, as measured by these tests." The day before this report appeared, two young men returned home early in the morning from New Year's Eve parties. The one came from a popular club. He reported that it was "wide open." Men and women smoked, drank, revelled and told obscene stories. There was nothing formal or dignified about it except the apparel of the guests. The other young man returned from a party given by the Friar's Club of the U. Of U., made up of returned L. D. S. Missionaries. There were present seventy couples. In giving his report the young Friar said: "We had a jolly, lively, good time." "Did any one smoke?" a friend asked. "I did not see a cigarette." "Did any one drink?" "I didn't see a single flask." "Did any one tell questionable stories?" "I did not hear a coarse word." This last story is warrant for a conclusion quite at variance with that of Dr. Mursell. It may be that the inculcation of vague and sentimental ideas about God, and His laws, has no deterrent effect upon the moral conduct of youth. But boys and girls who are deeply and profoundly impressed with the reality of God, and His salutary laws, by the impress of a religion of real faith stimulating power, are protected by this vital faith from the errors and follies of the world. These seventy young Friars and their partners, had been taught from infancy that the THE IMPENETRABLE SHIELD 75 All-wise and beneficent Father had said that 'strong drink" and "tobacco" is not good for man. By the faith-awakening power of a religion which has upon it the unmistakable marks of divine vitality, the idea of the wrongfulness of the use of stimulants and narcotics had become ingrained in the very mental and soul fiber of these young people. This faith in the reality of the divine injunction against the desecration of the body and mind, with deleterious things had become entwined into the very nature and being of these young people; and it kept them circumspect on the night when those not likewise shielded were carried by a spirit of conviviality and frivolity into harmful and destructive excesses. ONE of Utah's District Judges a few years ago bore eloquent testimony to the restraining and refining effect of this vital faith. In his young manhood he became a little skeptical through reading Darwin and Spencer. While his doubts were still giving him some disquietude, he attended a social function at one of the popular clubs of Salt Lake City. The room was blue with tobacco smoke. Wine glasses were clinking amid the empty laughter of excessively convivial men and women. All restraints were thrown to the winds. There was a total absence of dignity, refinement, restraint and those things which are characteristic of human life at its best. After spending a few minutes at this club, the Judge walked over to the Assembly Hall where an enthusiastic meeting of Mutual Improvement workers was in progress. The hall was filled to capacity with eager. Earnest devotees of the ennobling idea of human enlightenment and uplift. A fine spirit of dignity, serenity and self-control pervaded the whole gathering. Order and decorum reigned supreme. Those who spoke were impressed profoundly with the eternal importance of high thinking and fine and noble living. As the Judge walked away from this gathering he silently soliloquized, "There is a difference between this group of splendid earnest young people, and the crowd at the club." Surely there is a "difference." What has made this, difference? These Mutual Improvement workers had been awakened by a soul-enlivening faith in the divinity of the human personality, and its eternal significance. This deep rooted faith had guarded them through the years of youth from the pitfalls of vice; and fired them with a deathless zeal. For things that are fine and high. Only a religion of high spiritual power: can fortify young people against temptation as these young people. Were fortified. For only such a religion can awaken in the heart the intensified faith in things that are deep, pure, true, and high, that makes the soul immune to the onslaughts of vice. Mormonism. More than any other religion, of today, possesses this marvelous faith-stimulating power. It actually awakens in the hearts of those who come under its benign influence a keen, abiding sense of reality to God's law, a deep and enduring conviction of man's kinship to God. And a certain assurance of immortal life, and the eternal possibilities and glory of the human _ personality. This vitalized faith has given to the Saints a firm set moral fiber, that keeps their hearts securely anchored to the beautiful, the good, and the true.