Lesson Department Theology and Testimony (First Week in April) Doctrine and Covenants ORGANIZATION OF THE CHURCH 1. A Period of Security. While at the Whitmer home at Fayette, the Prophet enjoyed a period of security and freedom from outside annoyance, scarcely equalled at any other time in his life. The Whitmer family was large and highly respected throughout the community in which they lived. The fact that the Prophet was: welcomed at their home did much to create a friendly feeling toward him by the people of Fayette and adjacent parts of the entire country. Indeed, because of this, many of the people invited him to come to their homes and instruct them. 2. Early Baptisms. Soon after the Book of Mormon was translated and published, the Prophet naturally turned to the matter of effecting an organization of the individuals already converted. It will be remembered that nearly a year earlier, May 15, 1829, Joseph and Oliver were baptized at Harmony, Pennsylvania. A little later Samuel H. Smith was baptized at the same place. In June of that year, Hyrum Smith, David Whitmer, and Peter Whitmer, Jr. Were baptized in Seneca Lake, not far from the Whitmer home. Considerable interest has centered in the question as to the number who had been baptized up to the time of the organization of the Church, April 6, 1830. David Whitmer places the number at seventy-five; others at thirty, thirty-five, and forty. Elder B. H. Roberts, however, has computed that the number probably did not exceed nine. (See Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. 1, pp. 195, 196.) 3. A Young Men's Organization. Another matter of widespread interest is that nearly all of those who early joined the Church were young people. At the time of the organization, Joseph Smith was only twenty-five; Oliver Cowdery, twenty-four; David Whitmer, twentyfive; Hyrum Smith, thirty; William H. Smith, twenty-two; Peter Whitmer, Jr., twenty-one; Brigham Young, twenty-nine; Heber C. Kimball, twenty-nine; Parley P. Pratt, twenty-three; and Orson Pratt, nineteen. It appears that the New Dispensation was especially attractive to the zeal and enthusiasm of young men. 4, Preliminary Instruction. As early as June of 1829, the word of the Lord came to Joseph Smith in the Whitmer home at Fayette, outlining the procedure that should be followed when the Church was to be organized. Here are the Prophet's words: "We had not long been engaged in solemn and fervent prayer, when the word of the Lord came to us in the chamber, commanding us that I should ordain Oliver Cowdery to be an Elder in the Church of Jesus Christ; and that he should ordain me to the same office; and then to ordain others, as it should be made LESSON DEPARTMENT known unto us from time to time. We were, however, commanded to defer this our ordination until such time as it should be practicable to have our brethren, who had been and who should be baptized, assembled together, when we must have their sanction to our thus proceeding to ordain each other, and have them decide by vote whether they were willing to accept us as spiritual teachers or not; when also we were commanded to bless bread and break it with them, and to take wine, bless it, and drink it with them; afterward proceed to ordain each other according to commandment; then call out such men as the Spirit should dictate, and ordain them; and then attend to the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost, upon all those whom we had previously baptized, doing all things in the name of the Lord." (History of the Church, Vol. 1, pp. 60, 61.) The Prophet declares that thereafter the Lord continued to give him instruction from time to time concerning these new duties which now devolved upon him. 5. A Comprehensive Revelation. A few days before the Church was founded, the Prophet received a remarkably inclusive statement from the Lord relating to Church doctrines, organization, and management. Students are advised to read the revelation (Section 20) with care. Space prevent more than an enumeration of the principal topics therein treated as follows: 1. Early history of the Church. 2. The Book of Mormon. 3. The existence of God. 4. Creation of Man in the image of God. 5. The Atonement of Christ. 6. Universality of Salvation. The limitations of present, 113 7. Trinity of the Godhead. 8. Justification through grace of God. 9. Proper subjects for baptism. 10. Duties of the elders, priests, teachers, and deacons. 11. Duties of the members. 12. Manner of baptism. 13. Blessing on the bread. 14. Blessing on the wine*. 15. Conferences. 16. Membership records. The 6. Organization of the Church. Thus instructed, and in compliance with Divine command, Joseph met with a number of his associates at the Whitmer home in Fayette, New York, April 6, 1830, and six of those who had been baptized proceeded to organize the Church. The names of the six who participated in the organization are: Joseph Smith, Oliver Cowdery, David Whitmer, Hyrum Smith, Peter Whitmer, Jr., and Samuel H. Smith. Following is the Prophet's own account of the procedure: "Having opened the meeting by solemn prayer to our Heavenly Father, we proceeded, according to previous commandment, to call on our brethren to know whether they accepted us as their teachers in the things of the Kingdom of God, and whether they were satisfied that we should proceed and be organized as a Church according to said commandment which we had received. To these several propositions they consented by unanimous vote. I then laid my hands on Oliver Cowdery and ordained him an Elder of the 'Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints'; after which he ordained me also to the office of an Elder of said Church. We then took *(See Section 27:2-4.) 114 bread, blessed it, and brake it with them. Also wine, blessed it, and drank it with them. We then laid our hands on each individual member of the Church present, that they might receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, and be confirmed members of the Church of Christ. The Holy Ghost was poured out upon us to a very great degree?some prophesied, whilst we all praised the Lord, and rejoiced exceedingly." (History of the Church, Vol. 1, pp. 77, 78.) 7. Before the group disassembled, a revelation was received directing that a record be kept and that in it Joseph should be designated as "a seer, a translator, a prophet, an apostle of Jesus Christ, an elder of the Church through the will of God the Father." (Doctrine and Covenants, 21:1.) The Lord then commanded that the Church give heed unto his words, adding that his counsel should be received as if it came from the mouth of God, for he was now appointed as leader of Zion in the last days. 8. Joseph states that before the assembly was adjourned others of the brethren were ordained to different offices in the Priesthood. Several of those who attended the meeting became converted and shortly thereafter were received by baptism, among whom were Joseph's own father and mother. Martin Harris was baptized "about the same time." 9. Bishop of the Church, On the fourth day of February, 1831, shortly after the Prophet's first arrival in Kirtland, Edward Partridge was called by revelation to leave his merchandising business and become a bishop in the Church, to which office he was required to devote his entire time. (Ibid. 41:9.) 10. Organization of the First RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Presidency. Two years later, March 18, 1833, the First Presidency of the Church was organized, with Joseph Smith, president, and Sidney Rigdon and Frederick G. Williams, counselors. This action was in keeping with a revelation received ten days earlier, in which the Lord said to the Prophet 'And again, verily I say unto thy brethren, Sidney Rigdon and Frederick G. Williams, their sins are forgiven them also, and they are accounted as equal with thee in holding the keys of this last kingdom." (Ibid. 90:6.) Indeed a year earlier Frederick G. Williams had been called by revelation to this position. (Ibid. 81:1, 2.) Of the organization the Prophet says: "Accordingly I laid my hands on Brothers Sidney and Frederick, and ordained them to take part with me in holding the keys of this last kingdom, and to assist in the Presidency of the High Priesthood, as my counselors." On the fifth of December, 1834, Oliver Cowdery, second elder of the Church (Ibid. 20:3, 4), was ordained by the Prophet as assistant-president "to officiate in the absence of the President according to his rank and appointment, viz: President Cowdery, first; President Rigdon, second; and President Williams, third, as they are severally called." 11. The First High Council. Meantime, February 17, 1834, the. First High Council of the Church was organized at Kirtland, Ohio. With the following members: Joseph Smith, Sr., John Smith, Joseph Coe, John Johnson, Martin: Harris, John S. Carter, Jared Carter, Oliver Cowdery, Samuel H. Smith, Orson Hyde, Sylvester Smith, and Luke S. Johnson. 12. Patriarch to the Church. "The first patriarch to the Church in LESSON DEPARTMENT the New Dispensation was Joseph Smith, Sen., father of the Prophet Joseph Smith, Jun. He was ordained to that office by Joseph Smith, Jun., Oliver Cowdery, Sidney Rigdon, Frederick G. Williams, who at the time were the presidency of the Melchizedek priesthood on the 18th of December, 1834, at Kirtland, Ohio." (Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. 1, p. 387.) 13. Calling of the Twelve. In 1834, Zion's Camp made its memorable and trying march from Kirtland to western Missouri. Measured by its immediate results, some have thought that the trek was largely unsuccessful, at least in its efforts to reinstate the suffering saints on their property in Jackson County from which they had been ruthlessly driven. But viewed in the light of a preparatory training for more important responsibilities, the "Camp's" journey of a thousand miles proved to be of inestimable value to those who did not falter, for, as the Prophet later explained, "those who went to Zion with a determination to lay down their lives, if necessary, should be ordained to the ministry, and go forth to prune the vineyard for the last time." 14, The members of Zion's Camp were summoned to a special meeting held at Kirtland, Ohio, February 14, 1835, at which time it was announced by the Prophet that the meeting was called by command of God for the purpose of choosing Twelve Apostles from among their number. At the afternoon session. Following an impressive prayer, and the song "Hark! Listen to the trumpeters," the Three Witnesses were called upon to pray?each in turn ?and to proceed with the selection of twelve men to be apostles. (See Doctrine and Covenants 18:37.) 115 After prayer the witnesses were blessed by the Presidency. They then selected the following twelve men and ordained each separately: 1. Lyman. E. Johnson 2. Brigham Young 3. Heber C. Kimball 4. Orson Hyde 5. David W. Paten 6. Luke S. Johnson 7. William E. M'Lellin 8. John F. Boynton 9. Orson Pratt 10. William Smith 11. Thomas B, Marsh 12. Parley P. Pratt 15. Heber C. Kimball states that after the twelve had thus been ordained by the witnesses, the First Presidency laid their hands upon them and confirmed these blessings and ordinations (See History of the Church, Vol. 2, 190-200.) 16. The First Quorum of Seventy. Two weeks later, February 28, 1835, at another meeting of those who had been members of Zion's Camp, the members of the first Quorum of Seventy were selected from their number. The names of the first seven presidents follow: 1. Hazen Aldrich 2. Leonard Rich 3. Joseph Young 4. Zebedee Coltrin 5. Levi W. Hancock 6. Lyman Sherman. 7. Sylvester Smith 17. It had evidently not been revealed at this time that the seven presidents should be "chosen out of the number of seventy," (Doctrine and Covenants 107:93.) for five of these men were High Priests. Accordingly, at a later date these brethren were directed to unite with the High Priests' quorum and five seventies were selected to fill the places thus made vacant. The new RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE presidency consisted of the following: 1. Joseph Young 2. Levi W. Hancock 3. James Foster 4. Daniel S. Miles 5. Josiah Butterfield 6. Solomon Gee 7. John Gayford 18. Thus when the Church had been founded scarcely five years all of its major governing bodies had been organized and placed in operation. Suggestions for Discussion and Review 1. Why, in your judgment, was 116 the Church not fully organized, with all necessary officers, at one time? 2. In what sense was Zion's Camp a training school for those later selected to the Council of Twelve and the First Council of Seventy? 3. Why were the Three Witnesses called upon to select those who constituted the first Council of Twelve? 4, Why was Oliver Cowdery made a member of the First Presidency when the Prophet already had two counselors? 5. Have any additions been made to the organization of the Church since the days of the Prophet Joseph? Teachers' Topic THE BEATITUDES Aim: To enable us to more fully appreciate the Beatitudes and apply their beautiful truths to our daily lives. "Blessed are the peacemakers: For they shall be called the children of God." (Matt. 5:9.) God delights in peace, and all who seek to bring about peace shall be like God, and shall be called children of God, Peacemakers. However, are not passive persons, but active?active in preventing and in settling disputes and in trying to get men to love and understand each other so as to live in peace. They strive to reconcile men to God, and so bring peace to their souls. Papini tells us that "these peacemakers are not the meek of the second beatitude. The meek refrain from answering evil with evil; the peacemakers do more, they return good for evil, they bring peace where wars are flaring up. The origin of every war is self love, love which becomes love of riches, pride of possession, envy of those more wealthy. Hatred of rivals; and the new law comes to teach love for all creatures, even for those who hate us. The peacemakers who teach and practice this love, cut at the root of all war. When every man loves his brothers more than himself there will be no more wars, neither great nor small, neither civil nor imperial, neither of words nor of blows, between man and man, between class and class, between people and people. The peacemakers will have conquered the earth and they will be called the true sons of God, and they will enter among the first into His Kingdom." (Papini?"Life of Christ.") Christ was the great peacemaker. He tried to get men to love and understand each other so that they LESSON DEPARTMENT could live in peace. "For where envying and strife is there is confusion and every evil work. But the wisdom that is from above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, and easy to be intreated, full of mercy and good fruits, without partiality, and without hypocrisy. And the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace of them that make peace." (James 3: 16-18.) We should labor to promote peace in families and communities and use our influence to prevent wars?so following the example of Christ. Peacemakers shall be recognized by God as his children, because they share in His purpose. Where 117 God lives in the souls of men, there is peace and righteousness. Apostle Melvin J. Ballard at the last General Relief Society Conference urged: "Let us be peacemakers, and if any of your sisters, in your visits, open their hearts to you, and tell you, and some feel that they just have to, the troubles they are having with their husbands. Er with a neighbor, and you can solve the trouble, do not come to Relief Society teachers' meeting and tell it. You do not have to report it to anybody, but can settle it yourselves. If you will do that you will spread the spirit of peace." (The Relief Society Magazine for May, 1932.) Literature THE DELIGHT OF GREAT BOOKS (Third Week in April) MOBY DICK?MELVILLE "Tis God's to judge, deny the fact who can, The proper study of mankind is man."?Alexander Pope. "Moby Dick" by Herman Melville is a great book. It has been likened to an epic poem, because it portrays one great figure, one great conflict, and one great emotion. The story becomes in turn myth, allegory, and parable as it deals with the inner strife in everyman, the strife of spirit and sense. The conflict is told in the terms of whaling. As a book of adventure it is the adventure of a soul. Time has recently discovered the book for us, a great book neglected in its own age, and marked it as a masterpiece of American literature. John Masefield, England's poet Laureate, comments upon the story: "In the wild beautiful romance. "Moby Dick", Meville seems to havc spoken the very secret of the sea, and to have drawn into his tale all the magic, all the sadness, all the wild joy of many waters. It stands quite alone, quite unlike any other book known to me. It strikes a note no other sea writer has ever struck." Lewis Mumford in the most recent biographical study of Herman Melville (1929) says of the book: "Moby Dick" is one of the first great mythologies to be created in the modern world, created, that is out of the stuff of that world, its science, its explorations, its terrestrial daring, its concentration upon power and dominion over nature? Moby Dick thus brings together the two dissevered halves of the modern world and the modern self?the externalized self bent on conquest and knowledge, and the ideal self bent on human values. Thus we have the best tragic epic of 118 modern times and one of the fine poetic works of all time." Herman Melville?Ishmael. Herman Melville, mariner and author, was born in New York on August 1, 1819, the birth year of Kingsley, Lowell, Ruskin, Whitman, and Queen Victoria. His ancestors were of old Scottish lineage tracing their origin to a Sir Richard Melville, a nobleman of the court of Edward the First, in the thirteenth century. Allen Melville, his father, was a merchant importer whose business took him on frequent trips to Europe. In 1814 Allen Melville married Maria 'Ganesvoort, a lady of Dutch origin whose family won fame and honor in the War of Independence. Mr. And Mrs. Melville were correct members of society. Herman was the third of eight children. The boy's disillusionment began at home. Of the kind but inadequate father the memories were chiefly the stories of the sea and ships and of the great ports Havre and Liverpool told by the sea-coal fire on winter evenings. Allen; Melville died a bankrupt when Herman was thirteen. Mrs. Melville was a woman "fitted chiefly for the gilded prosperities of life." She is remembered by her son as "cold", "worldly", "haughty", and "severely critical" in his autobiographical novel "Pierre". The disappointments of childhood, poverty, and loneliness, account for the author's curious identification of himself with Ishmael?'an infant Ishmael driven out into the desert with no maternal Hagar to accompany and comfort him. The death of his father forced Melville to discontinue his education at the Albany Classical Institute. It was a hardhearted world to which the boy turned RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE while the Ganesvoort cousins continued to go to school and to have butter on their bread and cream on their porridge. He first got work as a clerk in the New York State Bank. A year later he joined an older brother in a business venture. The failure of the business sent the boy to work on his uncle's farm at Pittsfield, Massachusetts. Now the boyhood ambitions, to go to college, to become an orator, to become a traveler, to make the name of Melville glorious?all seemed unattainable. The proud seventeen-year-old youth cut himself loose from his family and set out to see the world as a sailor on the "Highlander" bound for Liverpool. The comfortless ship, the blaspheming crew, the drudgery and hardships made the voyage particularly unpleasant. In Liverpool with romantic zest he visited the abbeys, the minsters, the green fields of his father's stories, with morbid questioning he viewed civilization's crop of human dregs in the dock of life of the world poet. The return journey after six weeks in Liverpool was fraught with more hardships and privations. Melville found himself "a sort of Ishmael in the ship without a friend or companion." In "Redburn", a record of his early life including this first sea experience we begin to read the riddle of Melville's personality. In the story we can trace his feelings about life. We see a disappointed youth who had had hopes of education, cultivation, and gentility. Like Dante he felt that he had received unforgivable affronts from the world; like Hamlet he suffered the sadness that came from diseased thought. For the next three years Melville lived among the civilities of life; he taught school at East Albany, New LESSON DEPARTMENT York. School teaching provided him with board and six dollars a quarter, social adequacy, and some leisure time. He made good use of these years reading widely and experimenting at authorship. "Fragments from a Writing Desk", a series of essays commenting upon life, reveals the fact that the Jone hours by candlelight were nights of preparation. In 1840 Richard Henry Dana published "Two Years Before the Mast?, an account of a long voyage round Cape Horn to the Spanish settlements of California. The book was a clear, wild call, the call of the sea to Melville. The sea fever coursing his veins he answered the call: "I must go down to the seas again, to the lonely sea and the sky, And all I ask is a tall ship and a star to steer her by Ok OK I must go down to the seas again to vagrant gypsy life, To the gull's way and the whale's way where the wind's like a whetted knife; And all I ask is a merry yarn from a laughing fellow rover, And quiet sleep and a sweet dream when the long trick's over." ?Masefield. So Herman Melville went whaling on the Achusnet, sailing from New Bedford, Jan. 3, 1841. "A whale ship was my Yale College and my Harvard," declared Herman Melville, the gentleman adventurer. He saw the golden age of whaling, the age that was to close soon with the discovery of petroleum in 1859. The Achusnet cruised in the South Pacific for fifteen months without entering a port and for six months without sighting land. The captain was tyrannical, themotley crew dissatisfied, the routine 119 monotonous, but the adventurer learned whaling. As the ship neared the Marquesas Islands, Melville and a shipmate planned to desert the ship and escape the intolerable condition which promised to continue for four or five years longer. For the next four months Melville lived among the Typees, a cannibal tribe of the islands. The Typees were simple to the point of childishness, all things adding to the enjoyment of life instead of the defeating of life. Melville learned from these primitive people that civilization but multiplies the complexities of life and living 'Sf truth and justice and the better principles of our nature cannot exist unless enforced by a statutebook." The moment for escape came again, this time in the form of an Australian whaler. Now Ishmael found a friend, another Ishmael, Dr. Long Ghost, the ship's physician. In this educational adventure the doctor, a man who had roved the world over, who quoted Virgil, and who was a gentleman, was a picaresque library and he who associated with him had much to read and much to learn. Mutiny occurred on the whaler as it lay in the harbor of Papeetee, Tahiti. The crew was taken on board a French man-of-war and held for five days. Melville and Dr. Ghost were freed. The next two months were spent in pleasant wanderings about Tahiti. Melville joined a whaler "Leviathan" bound for Japan leaving the brother Ishmael behind never to see or hear of him again. Honolulu lured Melville to leave the whaler, and for several months he worked as a shipping clerk. The sea fever was satisfied and the rover took the homeward journey on the frigate "United States', arriving in Boston, October, 1844. Melville left America to seek adventure. He 120 traveled far and experienced much. The home coming was a joyous adventure. Melville settled down immediately to record his adventures. During the next ten years the author's chief works were completed. First came "Typee'', an account of life among the Typees, a pagan Utopia. Then followed in rapid succession: '"Omoo"', the experiences in Tahiti; "Mardi", a fictitious story of the South Seas; "Redburn", the experiences of the first voyage to Liverpool; "White Jacket", life on the frigate "United States"; "Moby Dick', Melville's masterpiece; "Pierre", Melville's Hamlet; "Israel Potter', the life story of a 'Revolutionary soldier. The first books were well received, the prodigal was welcome. The later books, however, received little attention from the American reading public. During the period of intense litetary activity, three noteworthy events 'happened in Melville's life: first, his marriage to Elizabeth Shaw; second, a trip to England to arrange for the publication of his books; third, the establishment of his home in the Berkshire 'Hills' on the Arrowhead Farm. It seems ironically strange that Nathaniel Hawthorne was Melville's neighbor at Arrowhead, and both men were working on their masterpieces at the same time in their Berkshire retreat. But how different the reception of their works. "The Scarlet Letter" received immediate recognition, while "Moby Dick" was definitely neglected. The Puritan setting brought reverence and understanding for Hawthorne's theme, while the sea as a setting brought a mysterious vagueness to Melville's. Poverty again stalked with RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Ishmael. His books yielded very little income. But for the generosity of his wife's father he would have been in destitution. The Melville household suffered from niismanagement as well as from poverty. Mrs. Melville was not fitted for domestic life. She was, however, an understanding and _ loyal wife. She secured for her husband the means for a long European trip. While abroad Melville turned his attention to writing poetry, the best selections being "Battle Pieces and Aspects of War" and "Clarel, a Poem and Pilgrimage in the Holy Land". Upon his return to the United States Melville received an appointment as inspector of customs at New York. It was a partial release from poverty. The duties kept him close to the things he loved best, the sea and its ships. Years passed, almost twenty of them and at last Ishmael was free. A legacy from Mrs. Melville's brother brought the freedom. With a new enthusiasm Melville turned to authorship, but not long was granted. On September 21, 1891, the announcement of the death of Herman Melville came as a surprise to a public that had forgotten and ignored the man they had once hailed as one of the glories of their literature. Moby Dick?I shmael's. Story. "Moby Dick" is a story of the sea and a tragedy of revenge. Today the whale has become a memory. In the records of American whaling is a strange story. It is the story of Moby Dick, the terror of whaling vessels for many years. No whale was ever so fiercely hunted. He was encountered in every ocean and on every feeding ground. LESSON DEPARTMENT From first to last Moby Dick stove fourteen boats and caused the death of over thirty men. This record was undoubtedly known by Herman Melville, the mariner. Melville's novel is more than a story of a great white whale, it is a tragedy in which a human being is brought to disaster. Captain Ahab identified himself with God and assumed the task of judgment. His quest for revenge ended in tragedy. "Call me Ishmael', says the teller of the story. Ishmael is lured 'to a whaling voyage by the stories of the demonic actions of the great white whale, Moby Dick. Ishmael begins his adventure at the Spouter Inn, New Bedford. Here he meets a companion for his adventure, Queequeg, a cannibal carrying around with him an harpoon, an idol, and a dried human head. This strange character had left his native island far away in the West and South to learn more of the Christian lands than a few sailors could tell him. Alone he had paddled to a far distant strait frequented by whalers. After many encounters he arrived at the Spouter Inn. Ishmael is drawn to Oueequeg by the sincerity and simplicity of the heathenish rites he observes daily. As a bond of friendship Ishmael joins Queequeg in his worship. One Sunday morning Ishmael attends the Whaleman's Chapel. Father Mapple delivers an unforgettable sermon, expounding the story of Jonah and declaring the wisdom of the God of the Ages. "Woe to him who would not be true! Woe to him whose good name is more to him than goodness!?O Father! I leave eternity to Thee; for what fs man that he 12] should live out the lifetime of his God?" On the boat that takes Ishmael and Queequeg to Nantucket to board the whaling ship "Pequod", Queequeg rescues a man whom he had previously punished for making fun of him. A mystery surrounds the captain of the "Pequod", he does not appear until the vessel has been to sea several days. The first time he appears on deck, a foreboding shiver runs over Ishmael. Captain Ahab assembles his crew. The chief mate, Starbuck, is a Quaker by descent and a prudent earnest man. Stubb, the second mate, is a happy fellow, sensible and competent;: Flask, the third mate is happy and ignorant. The harpooners are Queequeg, Tashtego, an Indian, and Daggoo, a gigantic negro., With titanic pride Ahab announces the purpose of the voyage, to capture the great white whale. Moby Dick had bitten off Ahab's leg and left him 'humiliated and crippled. Ever since the encounter, Ahab had cherished a wild vindictiveness against the whale identifying with him all his bodily woes and all his intellectual and spiritual troubles. Ahab pledges his crew; they drink and swear death to Moby Dick. Starbuck alone remonstrates, "To be enraged with a dumb thing seems _ blasphemous." Ishmael takes the oath of revenge and makes Ahab's feud his own. Night and day Ahab broods over Moby Dick. From the charts in his cabin he guides the ship to the feeding grounds in season. Every vessel sighted is accosted with the same question, ''Hast seen the white whale?' The "Pequod" sails on week after week and month after month. In the Indian Ocean a 122 large sperm whale is killed by Siubb. Then follows the butchering of the whale, the preparation of the blubber, and the storage of the oil. During this activity Queequeg was seized with a fever. Long weary days of suffering followed. Queequeg requests a coffin-canoe to be made. All is ready and Qneequeg is placed in his last bed with his harpoon, biscuits, and a flask of water. Later this odd character decides to live. When asked whether to live or die be a matter of will, he answered to the amazement of the crew, "Certainly," It was a strange incident with a strange significance in the story. A week or two after Queequeg's strange recovery, an English whaling ship is met. The captain of the vessel tells a strange story, the story of losing his arm in an encounter with a great white whale. Ahab urges the man to seek revenge in another encounter. At last definite news of Moby Dick and his course was given to the "Pequod's" crew. Then came the chase. Somehow as Ahab nears his enemy his old humanity comes back; he tnderstands Starbuck's love for his wife and child; he thinks of the girl-wife he deserted; he meditates on his forty wasted years. As he tries to grapple with the problem of his own nature, he asks, "Is Ahab, Ahab?' The soliloquy that follows reveals no answer for Ahab. The next day Ahab's enemy glides back into his life. Mobey Dick appears mild as the day, a glittering white mass in the azure sea. "Call all hands', is the thundered command. The four boats are lowered, Ahab's in advance.