ALBERTA HUISH CHRISTENSEN Your Home Beautiful By Mabel Margaret Luke COLOR AND COLOR SCHEMES HERE is no more important element in the decorative scheme of a room than color. Wise color management is one of the most effective, and certainly the least expensive means of beautifying the interior of our homes. When close economy must be observed in decorating rich colors may often take the place of rich materials. Proper employment of color can often accomplish marvelous results. Everyone tis affected by color, consciously or unconsciously. It is all about us. We cannot escape from it if we would. In our homes color creates the atmosphere which has an effect on our thoughts, our moods and our actions. If used correctly it is a force that greatly enriches home life. Color appeals to our emotions. South America, Mexico, The Orient are more emotional and hence more colorful. Imagine, if you can, a colorless world, no color in flowers, trees, birds, sky and people. It would not be a pleasant place in which to live. Now, picture a room without color. How uninteresting, how insipid, how monotonous. Not long ago, so-called serviceable colors (that didn't show the dirt) were popular. Every room was of drab mustard homeliness. Fortunately, however, within the last few years the world has become color conscious.. There is decreed. A brighter note in house furnishing. Dull and depressing i colors are doomed. Even the simplest articles The used in our homes are in bright, cheerful attire. Because of the importance color has assumed it is very essential to know the important principles of color harmony. Many people not knowing these rules lack courage where color is concerned and while realizing it is an important instrument are afraid to make use of it ina decided manner. Everyone recognizes the wondrous harmonies and richly varied qualities of tone of a great pipe organ, but there are only a few who know how to manipulate the stops and keys in order to bring forth these results that thrill. Just so it is with color. We enjoy its marvelous effects, but are afraid to venture in the production of these effects ourselves. Perhaps we have made attempts and been discouraged by the outcome. This disheartening result is altogether unnecessary as the employment and combination of color is based on easily understood and mastered principles. To begin a study of color we must work from the three primaries, red, yellow and blue. These are called the foundation colors because they cannot be made from any other colors, and from them all other colors can be derived by combining with each other and black and white. In fact, the United States Bureau of Standards have secured and standardized 15,576 tones, shades and tints from these three primaries. Have certain into whatever HE primaries qualities and YOUR HOME BEAUTIFUL 79 combination they enter carry these qualities with them. For example: Blue suggests coolness and _ restfulness. Yellow, light and cheerfulness. Red is an advancing color, warm, active and aggressive. If blue and yellow are combined we get green. Now green will partake of the qualities of both blue and yellow —it is light and cheerful, yet cool and restful. Blue and red combining give violet, which has a neutral effect as the qualities of red and blue are so opposed they counteract each other. Combine red and yellow we will secure orange, having the qualities of both red and yellow. These three colors resulting from the combining of the primaries are the secondary colors. If the primaries are not combined in equal amounts we would secure different tones, for example blue might be combined with just a small amount of yellow, resulting in a blue-green and would, of course, partake more of the qualities of blue than yellow. A word about the use of black, white, gold, and silver, which are theoretically not colors, and grey which is a combination of black and white, (or perhaps tinted so that it is yellow-grey, blue-grey, green-grey, etc.) The first four and pure grey do not have advancing or receding qualities. All make excellent backgrounds. Black, white, gold and silver will prove useful as accenting  colors. You will do well to observe this precaution in the use of black and gold: Much is quiet and distinctive, a medium quantity is noisy and vulgar, and a small amount is elegant and very valuable for emphasis. Before attempting to discuss color further it will be necessary to define a few terms. Tint is any color combined with white, a shade is any color combined with black. Examples: pink would be a tint and maroon a shade of red. Value is the degree of lightness or darkness of any color. For instance, yellow is light or high value, violet is dark or low value. This principle is of much importance. If we introduce into a scheme an article that is so light it seems to jump out of the background, or so dark it sinks in, its value is too high or too low. In connection with value we must consider scale, which when applied to color is the proper degree of correspondence in the value or intensity (strength) of the colors used. This does not mean that all colors must be light or dark, or of the same intensity. Notes of brighter, stronger colors should be introduced, but these contrasting colors should not be so different as to clash. If when one enters a room any object because of its color seems to call attention to itself it is more than likely out of scale. As a rule all colors must be subdued or greyed in using. Full intense colors must be used very carefully if at all. Of course, to what extent this can be done depends on the room and its occupants. Having great patches of colors in full strength for the person of refined sensibilities would be very much like living with a brass band and would soon prove very irritating. Colors have certain physiological effects which we will not take up in detail, only to illustrate. Blue is the color of coolness, of space and tranquility. Its influence is quieting, and restful, and it can be used in large quantities. However, if used too much it may have a depressing effect, especially on people that are inclined to be melancholy. Green is safe to use in quantity. We may follow nature in this regard. But even this if used alone would prove tedious. Red if used to any extent is not wholesome to live with. It is fatiguing and irritating. Because of the tendency of red, orange and yellow to be advancing they can have an effect on the apparent size of a room, making a room appear smaller. Blue and green being receding or retiring colors will give an effect of space. The question of value also comes in— the lighter tints seemingly enlarging a room, and the darker to draw together, or make it appear smaller. A light color on a ceiling makes it appear higher, a dark lower. Important applications of these points can be made in our own homes. Red, orange, yellow and tints and shades of these colors are on the warm side of the spectrum; blue and green and perhaps violet on the cool side. Therefore, if you were "doing" a room of northern exposure or of little light you would want to create the effect of light and warmth by using the warm colors. To give the effect of artificial sunshine the tints of yellow are best as they reflect the light. In a room flooded with sunlight cooling colors as blue and green help subdue the brightness. The law of appropriateness is as important here as in other fields and this rule might not always be applicable, but it is usually advisable. YOUR HOME BEAUTIFUL 81 IN planning color schemes for rooms we can do no better than to follow nature's example. She has used the darker hues for the base, lighter for the trees and mountain or middle distance, and lightest of all in the sky, then into this as notes of interest and accent she has brilliant colors in the flowers, the birds and the butterflies. This is true in our rooms,—the floors darker, the walls lighter and ceiling lightest of all, and then use bright notes for emphasis. A good rule to follow in planning your color scheme is to chose a foundation or key color, which should be about fifty percent of the color in the room, then the relief or contrast of about forty percent and the remaining ten percent in accenting color or colors. It is essential that all the primaries be present in every color scheme or the eye is not satisfied. Do not understand this to mean that red, yellow and blue must be present in every room, but combinations or shades, tints and tones of these colors. For example we might have yellow as the dominant color, if with it we used violet, the complementary of yellow (which contains red and blue) the scheme would be complete. Or green, orange and violet is a complete harmony as every primary is represented in the composition of the secondaries. In our homes we must have a number of colors agreeably assembled for it would be just as impossible to produce pleasing effects with only one or two colors as it would be to have a harmonious musical composition of only one note. Color harmony may be of two kinds, with variations of each. The first group is Harmonies of Likeness, or when the colors have enough in common to make them congenial, and Harmonies of Contrast in which colors lacking in any common quality are so opposed that each sets off and lends emphasis to the other. THE first of the Harmonies of Likeness is a Monochromatic Scheme, in which different values and intensities of the same hue are used. Unless handled with care this harmony would prove monotonous. An example of a Monochromatic harmony would be a room in which the walls and woodwork were in buff, the ceiling ivory, the floor in natural oak and the curtains cream. To satisfy the eye they must be introduced to the other two primaries which may take the form of lavender in the upholstery, cushions or pottery. The second Harmony of Likeness is an Analogous Scheme, or one in which is used several hues with a common element running through all, that is colors that are neighbors on the color wheel, and here too we will use a small amount of the complement of the main color to complete the harmony, for instance we might start with green, a tint of which we would use on the walls and woodwork, a greyed yellowgreen in the drapes and upholstery, cream in the curtains, combined with the complementary of green, which is red, touches of which might be in the drapes, in a vase, or in a bowl of roses. The analogous scheme may often get us in trouble because of the sensitiveness of some colors such as blue. A normal blue, a blue green and a blue-violet would clash if used in proximity. Therefore it is a pretty safe rule to stay between the primaries and secondaries on the wheel. Do not include hues on both sides. This rule does  not apply to orange, tones of which may be used together on either side, including! Yellow, yellow orange, orange, red-orange and red, and all shades and tints of them. The first of the contrasted harmonies is the complementary scheme in which a color is combined with its complementary or the opposite color on the wheel. This completes the primary triangle necessary for harmony. Because complementary colors intensify each other this scheme must be used with great care, the colors being greyed, otherwise the effect can be harsh and crude. A great deal of neutralizing color such as grey is usually best in this scheme. A good illustration of the way to use this harmony would be to have the foundation color blue, with grey for the neutralizing tone. As an accent use the complementary of blue which is orange, or some form of it as peach or apricot. THE Triad is perhaps the most commonly used as well as having very interesting possibilities if the. Colors are modified in either quantity or intensity or both. They must not be used in equal amounts. The rule for this harmony is to choose three colors lying at equal distances from each other on the color wheel. The first harmony would be the primaries, red, yellow and blue, the second—orange, green and violet, a third—yellow-green, red-orange, and blue-violet, and so on we might go around the circle. The second of these would be illustrated in the following room: The walls are of beige, paneled and painted, the woodwork in old ivory enamel. On the floor is a rug the predominating color of which is deep plum. The curtains are of beige net, the overdrapes of chintz in tones of plum, rose and green. One chair and couch are upholstered in the same kind of material as the drapes, another chair in plain green rep. Accents in cushions, in lighting fixtures and bric-a-brac are in gold, blue and green. An interesting note is often struck by the introduction of the complementary color of either of the triad colors into the scheme. Blue in the above room is an example of this. Incidentally this room would be very suitable for a northern or eastern exposure as the predominating colors are warm. Before leaving color let me suggest that to have a lovely house a unity of treatment should prevail. It is something of a shock to pass through a succession of rooms whose color schemes are so entirely unrelated to one another that their clashing is almost audible. This does not mean that you cannot have variety. You can, but there must be a thread of continuity running from room to room so that they will seem to be a part of the whole.