A Month of Anniversaries By Lucy Rose Middleton FEBRUARY is a month of anniversaries. It is especially significant to us Americans because of the birthdays of our most illustrious countrymen, George Washington and Abraham Lincoln. Throughout the United States homage is paid to these great men for their lives of service. As a nation we are singularly fortunate to have had men so surpassingly great to carry us through the most trying times of our history. We think of these two men not only as a soldier and a statesman, but as men of sublime character, whose lives have become enshrined in the hearts of every American. The Anniversaries may be observed in our homes by preparing southern and western dishes which belong to the period and locality of these men. We are probably more familiar with southern dishes than with those of the West. Southern cooking has long been distinctively set apart. Its methods and style are truly different. It is exemplified in the recipes below by the following: chicken a la Maryland, candied sweet potatoes, and corn cake or corn muffins. Indian Pudding is among the few dishes that are associated with frontier days of the west. Pork, cabbage, corn and onions were also extensively used. The idea may also be carried out in the way of cake decorations. The cherries tell the story, many times told and many times to be told again, of the boy who had the courage to tell the truth. Upright rails around the cake are symbolic of Lincoln, the rail-splitter. For foundation, there may be used any cake you like best, sponge, angel, pound or fruit. My suggestion would be a sunshine cake, to signify rejoicing. RECIPES FOR LINCOLN'S BIRTHDAY Baked Pork Tenderloin with Fried Apple Rings Wipe meat, sprinkle with salt and pepper (allow 1 teaspoon of salt to each pound of meat.) Place fat side up, on rack in open roasting pan. Sear for 15 minutes in hot oven. Then reduce the temperature rapidly to slow or 300 degrees, and cook until tender. Thirty minutes to the pound is allowed. Gravy may be made from the fat in the pan.  Core tart apple. Pare or not, as desired. -Cut in half-inch slices and fry (saute) in butter, bacon or sausage fat until tender but not broken. Turn once. Serve with pork tenderloin. Creamed Silverskinned Onions 3 cups small silverskinned onions. 1 cup thin cream. 3/4 teaspoon salt. Cook the onions in boiling salt water for 15 minutes. Drain, add cream, cook in double boiler until soft, adding salt the last ten minutes of cooking. Thicken slightly if desired. Combine shredded or chopped cabbage with drained, crushed pineapple. If desired, add chopped or broken nut meats or marshmallows cut in pieces. Moisten with cream dressing. Indian Pudding 5 cups scalded milk. 1/3 cup corn meal. 1/3 cup molasses. 1 teaspoon salt. 1 teaspoon ginger. Pour milk slowly on meal, cook in double boiler for 20 minutes, add molasses, salt and ginger; pour into buttered pudding dish, set in pan of hot water, and bake 2 hours in moderately slow oven (325F.) Serve with cream. If baked too rapidly, it will not whey. Ginger may be omitted. This pudding is the kind made by our grandmothers twice removed, who baked it for hours and hours then some more hours until it was most delectably curdled. RECIPES FOR WASHINGTON'S BIRTHDAY Chicken A La Maryland 2 young chickens, cut in pieces for serving. Salt and pepper. Flour. 1/3 cup melted butter. 1 cup chicken stock. 1 egg slightly beaten. Soft bread crumbs. 2 cups of white sauce made with cream. Sprinkle chicken with salt and pepper, dip in flour, then in egg diluted with 1 tablespoon water, then in bread crumbs. Place in well greased pan. Bake 35-60 minutes in hot oven, basting after 5 minutes with melted butter. Serve with white sauce. Candied Sweet Potatoes 6 boiled sweet potatoes. 1 cup brown sugar. 1/3 cup melted butter. Salt. Drain, peel, and cut potatoes in halves lengthwise. Arrange in buttered baking dish, sprinkling each layer with sugar. Pour over butter and sprinkle with salt. Bake 2 hours in slow oven (300 degrees.) Brown top in broiling oven.. Fig Corn Meal Muffins 1 egg. 1 cup cooking figs. 2 tablespoons sugar. 1/3 cup yellow corn meal. 1 teaspoon salt. 1 cup buttermilk. 1 1/2 cups of flour. 4 teaspoons baking powder. 1/3 teaspoon soda. 2 tablespoons melted shortening. Boil figs for ten minutes, drain and cut into small pieces. Beat egg, add sugar. Add alternately the sifted dry ingredient with the buttermilk. Add melted shortening. Mix well and fold in the figs. Pour into greased muffin pans, and bake twenty minutes in a hot oven. Serve hot with butter, A MONTH OF ANNIVERSARIES 95 Sunshine Cake 11/2 cups sugar. 1/2 cup water. 1 cup pastry flour. 1/4 teaspoon salt. 6 eggs. 1 teaspoon cream of tartar. Boil the sugar and water together until the thread stage is reached. Or about 216 deg. Fah. Have ready the stiffly beaten egg whites, and pour over these in a fine and steady stream the hot syrup, beating all the time, as you do in making boiled frosting. Beat until cool, then add the egg yolks. Fold in carefully the dry ingredients which have been sifted together three times. Add any flavoring you like, and bake like angel cake in an ungreased tube pan almost an hour, gradually increasing the heat from 325-350 degrees. Invert the pan to cool the cake. Ice with any plain white icing. Upside-Down Cherry Cake In a frying pan, place 4 table-. Spoons of butter; let melt, and brush sides of the pan with it. Add 1/2 cup of light brown sugar, let melt, and spread evenly over the pan; then add two cups of canned cherries stoned and drained from their juice. Over this, pour cake batter. Bake at 350 degrees F. About 50 minutes. A frying pan of average depth and about 9 inches across requires the following amount of cake batter: 1/2 cup of butter. 1/4 cups of sugar. 21/2 cups of cake flour. 21/2 teaspoons of baking powder. 1/4 teaspoon salt. 1 cup of sweet skimmed milk. 4 egg whites. Cream butter and sugar well together. Add alternately the sifted dry ingredients with the milk. Lastly fold in the egg whites, beaten stiff, but not dry. When baked, turn out on a platter. Decorate with whipped cream, sweetened and pressed through a pastry tube, making ribbons diagonally across the cake. Serve warm, with maraschino cherry decoration.