If the end bring me out wrong, ten angels swearing I was right would make no difference," EDITORIAL 109 Council of Women Program THE National Council of Women are busy planning their program for the Century of Progress Exposition. An advisory group on November 30th expressed great enthusiasm for the proposed program for Chicago and after much discussion decided that there shall be two major topics for consideration: the first "How to Obtain a Minimum of Security for Every Individual" and the second: "How to Insure Each Individual Maximum Opportunity for SelfDevelopment." "The committee recommends a series of roundtables, conducted by experts, for the discussion of such pertinent subjects as unemployment, housing, the regulation of production and distribution, the stagger wage plan, the banking and credit structure, and various phases of education, including vocational training and guidance and the right use of leisure. Findings of these roundtables will be brought in and made a part of the general discussion at the congress." "The challenging purpose of the organization in attempting such a program was thus defined by Miss Phillips at the close of the meeting: "We hope to set larger objectives for all women so that they may use the power they have acquired through suffrage, personal rights, education and platform privileges in helping to solve the problems of the machine age. In short, we want to draw economics, politics and culture, too long separated, into a plan which will secure for each richer opportunities and for our country and citizens greater contentment and more effective service. Our aim is to rouse women to a sense of their political and social responsibilities." The International Congress of Women which convenes July 16- 27th will have their program center about "Our Common Cause?Civilization." Experts from many countries will be called to discuss current political and social trends and to determine the part women's organizations can play in furthering social and economic progress. The chairman of the exhibit says: "We shall tell the story of the work of our member organizations along educational, civic, philanthropic and other lines, not in conventional fashion with dry statistics, but with colorful exhibits suggesting action. It is a challenging task to attempt to portray the splendid contribution women's organizations have made to present-day social progress, but we believe we shall find a medium to do it in some striking and original way.