[Vol29 | September 1942 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Frontispiece | Title: MessageFirst Presidency]

Message of First Presidency To the Presidency, Officers and Members of the Relief Society Dear Sisters: We offer our sincere congratulations to the Presidency, Officers, and Members of the Relief Society upon the issuing of their Relief Society Centenary. A hundred years of great achievement is fittingly witnessed through its fruitful pages. We ask our Sisters of the Relief Society never to forget that they are a unique organization in the whole world, for they were organized under the inspiration of the Lord bestowed upon that great Prophet who was divinely called, by a visitation of the Father and Son, in person, to open up this, the Last Dispensation, the Dispensation of the Fullness of 'Times. No other woman's organization in all the earth has had such a birth. This divinely inspired origin brings with it a corresponding responsibility, in consecration to service, and in the loftiest loyalty to the Priesthood of God and to one another. Members should permit neither hostile nor competitive interests of any kind to detract from the duties and obligations, the privileges and honors, the opportunities and achievements of m?mbership in this great Society. The prime, almost the exclusive allegiance of every member of this great group, runs in this field to their fellow members and to the organization. Members should permit no other affiliation either to interrupt or to interfere with the work of this Society. They should give to Relief Society service precedence over all social and other clubs and societies of similar kinds. We urge this because in the work of the Relief Society are intellectual, cultural, and spiritual values found in no other organization and sufficient for all general needs of its members. We urge all the Sisters to take these things to heart, and to cooperate in continuing the Relief Society in its position of the greatest and most efficient woman's organization in the World. Faithfully your brethren, Heber J. Grant J. Reuben Clark, Jr. David O. McKay Note: The above message was sent by the First Presidency to be included in A Centenary of Relief Society, the special centennial commemorative book soon to be issued by the General Board. 1
Vol. 29, No. 
  SEPTEMBER 1942