[Vol29 | September 1942 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Article | Title: Information Desired on Folk]

Information Desired Regarding Persons 100 Years of Age
THE Old Folks' Central Committee is building up a register of all persons, Latter-day Saint and non-Latter-day Saint, in Utah or elsewhere who are 100 years of age or over. Information regarding such persons will be greatly appreciated. It is desired that the information include the following:
Name
Date and place of birth
Present place of residence or over
If a photograph is available, the committee would appreciate having it included. Information should be mailed to: LeGrand Richards, Chairman, Old Folks' Central Committee, Presiding Bishop's Office, 40 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah.

Grains of Gold
(A Pioneer story based on facts)
Ora Pate Stewart
THE gold rush was on. The prairie dust was cringing under the wagon wheels; that is, the other wagon wheels?but this wagon and this wheel were just about done for. The broken spoke was still quite secure, with the strips of Mary Ann's petticoat holding it in place. But the petticoat wouldn't hold the broken piece that had come loose from the rim. And Edmund Richardson was quite discouraged. He never should have left Pine Center without a spare wheel. But then, he never should have left Pine Center. He knew now he had been wrong all along. But Mary Ann wouldn't have it so. Edmund was good, and he was nearly always right. If just this once he happened to be wrong, it was no time to let him down.
"Edmund," she said, like a woman groping for the needle of hope in the haystack of discouragement, "couldn't we chop off the reach and go in on two wheels? The oxen wouldn't get so tired, and we don't need half this junk. Of course, we couldn't carry much in an oxcart. It would mean leaving the rocking chair and maybe the china tea set from England, but we might get through that way. And Edmund... After you make good in the gold fields we can have a new churn."
She pictured the Indians coming upon the discarded heap, yelping delightedly with china teacups dangling from their ears, and slapping the wooden belly of the churn in war dance rhythm. But Edmund had stopped with her first sentence. "The reach! Why, Mary Ann, I think you've struck gold!"
BUT the gold was still 800 miles away when one of the oxen lay down. There was a peculiar swelling on his side. Edmund was worried.
"Poor critter," he said, "looks pretty bad."
"Maybe it's just rest that he needs," Mary Ann said, with more hope than she really had in reserve. But in the morning the critter looked worse, and along toward noon they knew he would never get up again.
Mary Ann poked at the sagebrush fire as she brewed sagebrush leaves to help stretch their limited food rations. "Maybe we could pull together in his side of the harness," she said. "And after you've made good in the gold fields we can get another ox."
But the gold fields were still 700 miles away when they had to stop again. Their food was almost gone. Edmund shouldered his gun and started over the ridge to see if he could scare up a jackrabbit. A coyote slinked over toward the taller brush, and Edmund raised his gun, but he did not shoot. A coyote?well, maybe it would come to that, but not quite yet! Then, too, a shot might arouse some Indians. He lowered the gun. It would be risk enough to shoot if he saw a jackrabbit.
But upon reaching the top of the ridge, he didn't see a jackrabbit; he saw a ribbon of smoke rising up from the valley on the other side. He dropped to his stomach and crawled to cover under a brush near by. He could see other smoke ribbons now?eight, ten, maybe fifteen. A half-formed hope crossed his mind. Was this the hurried camp of the rushers for gold?those whipping, cursing people who had passed him on the prairie? But no, this was no hurried camp; these folks were here to stay, with chicken coops and pigs. Not even Indians would camp like this in neat log cabins with a garden patch. A homey longing crept into Edmund's heart. How nice it would be to sleep in a bedstead again. He sensed that he could smell a stew?maybe with dumplings. Poor Mary Ann! She'd given up a lot to marry him, and right on top of their marriage this fool rumor about gold had taken hold of him. She'd had a miserable honeymoon, with dust and grime and hurry and hardship?and now maybe starvation. But Mary Ann hadn't complained. Few men had a wife like Mary Ann.
Mary Ann! He must get back to her. She would have the water ready for the rabbit. He would have to tell her there wouldn't be a rabbit. And then suddenly like a bolt of thunder he realized that he must tell her something a great deal worse. These people in the valley were not gold rushers! They were not Indians! They must be Mormons!
"Heaven, preserve us now!" he said, half-aloud.
But Mary Ann seemed to know. She had piled the brush knots ready for the fire. But she hadn't lit it. She looked pale and thinner than usual. She even looked a little bit afraid, and Edmund was glad to put his strong arms around her and hold her close.
"Do you suppose they really are Mormons, Edmund?" she whispered.
"I'm afraid so. There's nobody else would build like that away out here."
"Edmund, what shall we do?" she asked.
"I don't quite know," he answered. "We could cut down around them, but we'd probably scare up some Indians."
"Which would be the worse?" Mary Ann asked.
"Well, it's all according to whether you want to be scalped or boiled in oil." He meant it for humor, but it didn't sound very funny.
"The thing is, Edmund, how can we go any farther? It looks like we'll have to get another ox from somewhere."
"And our rig is practically done for. The right axle is about ready to go."
"Our food will be gone tonight. We'd better find a place to camp."
It sounded like the end, even to Mary Ann. Mormons, Indians! Indians, Mormons! It was a case of eeny, meeny. They finally decided that they would try the Mormons, but from the other side of the creek. The settlement, they reasoned, might offer them protection from the Indians. As for protection from the settlement, they could only pray. They would be on their way just as soon as they could reinforce the axle and get another ox. Maybe they would have to leave without the ox; maybe without the axle. They would see.
THEY settled down against the settlement like scared puppies alongside of a mother dog?where they could get a little warmth and nourishment, but from where they could crawl away if she should turn suddenly to snarl at them.
"How do the Mormons treat their captives?" Mary Ann ventured as they were arranging camp.
Edmund puzzled. "I can't say that I rightly know, Mary Ann. Come to think of it, I've never heard just exactly what they do do to 'em, but it must be awful?as bad as they are."
"Hello, there," a man's voice called from across the creek. Edmund raised up and peered over the ox into the darkening atmosphere. Mary Ann hurried to his side.
"I saw your fire," the man went on. "Have you come to settle in these parts?"
"No, no," Edmund answered, trying to sound calm and unstartled. "We're just passing through. We won't be any trouble at all. We just wanted to fix our supper and water our ox. We don't mean to bother you." He tightened his arm around Mary Ann's trembling waist.
"Your ox looks a bit worn, pardner," the man went on. He was wading the shallow stream now.
"He's pretty tired," Edmund said. "We thought we'd let him rest up while we fixed the axle."
"I see," said the stranger. "You're in a pretty bad way. How far do you calculate to go?"
"California."
"California, hum... They say there's gold out there."
"That's what they say."
"Well, pardner, that's quite a long way," said the stranger. "You'd better come over an' have supper with us tonight. Then tomorrow we'll help you fix up your rig."
It sounded friendly enough. But it might be a trap. Edmund looked down at Mary Ann. "We'd better not risk offending them," she whispered. After all, they were contending with Mormons.
"We haven't much," the man went on, "but we're thankful for what we have, and it's better than starving."
The supper was flour mush. There were no trimmings?just flour mush. But it was the most tasty meal they had had for days.
"It'll help a little to keep you going until you get that gold," the man said. And his wife smiled at Mary Ann. And Mary Ann smiled back.
That night the stars seemed closer. The ox didn't paw around in the dirt; and they had a good night's rest, 'The valley was beautiful in the early morning. It had been months since they had heard a rooster crow. And following up the rooster they heard a lad walking in the direction of the shed swinging a milk pail. "It's peaceful here." said. Edmund
646 FEXING the rig was more of a job than Edmund had figured, and the third morning found him quite disheartened at his task. Mr. Abbot, the man who had befriended them was very helpful. But there was so pitifully little to work with. Mrs.
Abbot had shown Mary Ann where the pigweeds were that made the best greens, and had filled an empty can with dried leaves of peppermint. She had even divided the flour and placed two cupfuls in a napkin for Mary Ann. But two cups of flour and a can of peppermint leaves were scant subsistence for two people on the desert ahead, especially when the two people would be doing the work of an ox. Mary Ann ached at the prospect. It was plain that they wouldn't be leaving yet?not today anyway. The Abbot boy came over to the creek. He carried the milk bucket, with the milk still warm and foamy. "Today is Fast Sunday," he said simply. "We don't eat on Fast Day, so we won't be needing this milk. Pa says you might as well have it." So this was Sunday. Mary Ann wondered what they were doing at the little church back in Pine Center. She had been the organist there. She wondered what they would be singing.
Sunday was such a nice day. The boy still held the morning milk. "Ma says if you'd care to go to church she'll wait for you. We'll be going down after a bit." "Yes, yes," said Mary Ann, "we'd love to go. We'll be over in just a little while. And thank you for the milk?but we will fast too. Go get the lid and set the pail in the creek to keep the milk cool. And tell  your father thanks anyway!" The Church was a log room with rows of benches running across. An organ stood at the front, over which a patch-work quilt was draped. The organ, Mrs.
Abbot told Mary Ann, was brought across the plains by the Davis family. But Sister Davis had passed on at Winter Quarters, so there was no one in the settlement who could play it. But it lent a tasteful note to the Church. And little Lottie Simmonds was learning to pick out pieces with one finger. A man called Brother Swenson made a prayer, long and earnest, in broken but sincere English.
Then a Brother Peterson spoke. It was the day of thanks, he said. And many of the group arose and expressed their thankfulness. Mary Ann was thankful and so was Edmund, and they prayed hard in their hearts. ?Then Brother Peterson said they would all join in a hymn. It was a sturdy song, like the people who sang it: "Come, come, ye Saints, no toil nor labor fear, but with joy wend your way...." The way would be easier from now on.
Already the burden seemed to be lifting; and Edmund stood a little straighter. ""Tho' hard to you this journey may appear, grace shall be as your day." 'The journey seemed to be pointing in a different direction?not so steep and hazardous as it had been. "Gird up your loins, fresh courage take, our God will never us forsake;' Mary Ann knew that she would need that girding.
Already she knew that she must take fresh courage?not alone for her and Edmund, but for another life, still too small and weak to make its own needs known or felt outside a moth- GRAINS OF GOLD er's heart. She prayed that God would bear with her. "And soon we'll have this truth to tell?All is well! All is well!" Mary Ann edged her way to the organ, lifted the quilt and found the keyboard. 'The chords came out strong and clear. The people left their benches and gathered around the organ. The women put their arms around Mary Ann, and the men stood by with tears tracing the lines in their faces. "And should we die before our journey's through, 647 happy day?All is well! We then are free from toil and sorrow too; with the just we shall dwell. But if our lives are spared again to see the Saints their rest obtain, Oh, how we'll make this chorus swell?All is well! All is well!"