[Vol29 | September 1942 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Article | Title: Work-and-BusinessThrift Buying]

Work-andBusiness New-fashioned Thrift Lesson 2
Thrift in Food Buying (For optional use on Tuesday, November 10, 1942) THE woman who wants the greatest returns for her food dollar must know food values, and be alert to the economical ways of feeding the family. More money is spent proportionately for food than any other division of family expenditures. Low income groups often need to spend 35 to so percent of their entire income. It is estimated that in 1940
American consumers ? spent $14,800,000,000 for food grown in this country. 'The question naturally arises, "Why, then, are so many people illnourished?" The answer is: "Adequate nutrition cannot follow without wise spending." One of the best thrift measures is to know comparative food values and to choose the least expensive in each group that will best fit the needs of the family. One food may be a cheap source of energy or protein while others might be expensive from this point of view but absolutely essential as a source of vitamins and minerals. Grain products and dried beans, peas, etc., or legumes are a cheap source of fuel and protein, but they are not the best source of minerals and vitamins. Sugar and fats are moderate-priced sources of energy, but they, too, are deficient in minerals and vitamins, except butter. Meats are a good but relatively expensive source of protein and fuel, but they are deficient in some vitamins and minerals. Eggs, averaged throughout the year, are rather expensive, but they are rich in protein, fats, minerals, and vitamins. Milk and cheese are moderate priced sources of protein, rich in minerals and vitamins. Fruits and vegetables are expensive sources of protein and fuel, but they furnish our best minerals, vitamins, and roughage at moderate prices.
To insure adequate food value at lower cost one would buy cheaper cuts of meat, more eggs when low-priced, cereals, cheese, and milk to furnish protein; cereals, honey and molasses, and cheaper fats to furnish energy; fruits and vegetables to insure a good supply of minerals and vitamins.
Some of the most nutritious meats are found at the bottom of the price list. Because we have not learned to cook them well, such glandular meats as heart, liver, and kidney are not used as much as they should be. With the exception of calf's liver, they are low in price and all are high in iron and some vitamins. Grade A eggs are best for flavor, but other grades have just as much nutritive value as grade A. Color of shell has no effect on nutritive value, flavor, or keeping qualities. Unless sold by weight, the larger eggs are usually the best buy, although they cost a few cents more per dozen. Cheaper grades do as well for cooking when flavor is not so important.
Milk, at any cost, is a good buy, especially for children. The purchase of dried eggs, canned or dried milk helps to lower food costs under normal conditions, but due to the present needs of the army and for shipments to our allies, the price is higher than during normal times, if the products are procurable at all.
Highly-refined and ready-to-serve cereals are many times more expensive than the natural whole wheat ones. Enriched cereals, breads, flour and other reinforced foods do not cost any more than those highly refined, but are more nutritious.
A division of the food dollar will help the housewife to provide a healthful balance of foodstuffs. One-fifth or more should be spent for milk and milk products. One-fifth or more should be spent for meat, eggs, poultry, and fish. One-fifth or less should be spent for bread and cereals. One-fifth or less should be spent for fats, sugars, and other groceries. One-fifth or more should be spent for fruits and vegetables.
BECAUSE of the fluctuation in prices, it is impossible to give costs of commodities, but some suggestive points may serve as a guide to better buying. Begin planning for the foods needed at least a week ahead of the shopping trip. The plan should be flexible enough, however, to permit the purchase of special bargains or "best buys" at week-end sales. Study bargains offered; a bargain is not determined by price alone. Compare prices and buy in as large quantities as is practicable; only those foods should be bought in large quantities which will keep well and for which there is storage space. A larger single purchase of food will usually save a few cents over several smaller ones. Look for net weight and compare prices of packaged or bottled goods; see if they are slackly filled and if they have a false bottom which will reduce contents. Ask for definite weights and measures. Know how to read labels, and ask the price of goods before buying. Know the seasons when different foods are most plentiful. By using fresh fruits and vegetables you save canned, dried, and preserved ones for use when fresh ones are most expensive. Select a variety of fresh, crisp well-flavored fruits and vegetables, then retain these qualities by carefully and quickly washing (do not soak in water), removing tops from root vegetables and by storing in a refrigerator or other cool place. Careless handling, bruising, and leaving at ordinary temperatures cause a great loss of vitamins.
Look for high values rather than merely low prices. Compare prices, compare quality. As a general rule, it is not a luxury to buy high quality rather than low quality products because marketing costs, including packing, transportation, handling, and refrigeration, are as great for poor as for good quality goods. It is more economical to buy high grade food at higher costs and utilize every bit of it than to buy poor grade for less money and waste half of it.
Buy canned foods when they are cheaper than the fresh and when quantity and storing are big items to consider in the purchasing. Many times the higher percentage of food costs is due to poor selection, wasteful preparation, buying out of season, waste of leftovers, and improper care and handling.
Shop around, honest dependable merchandise, good informative service, and fair prices constitute the best help to consumers. Careful and intelligent buying not only saves money needed for so many other things, but also saves time, energy, and food values, all of which means keeping the family physically fit for the strain of everyday living.
Questions for Discussion
1. What are noticeable changes in food prices since the beginning of the war?
2. What adjustments are you making in your home to rising food prices?
3. Give plans for daily or weekly marketing trips.
4. Give examples of how you are trying to develop more thrifty food-buying habits.
References
1. Recipes to Match Your Sugar Ration
2. Wise Buying in Wartime?Tomatoes and Tomato Products
3. Wise Buying in Wartime?Eggs
4. Wise Buying in Wartime?Beef
The above pamphlets are obtainable by writing: Consumer Division, Office of Price Administration, Washington, D. C.
See "Salvage for Victory Program," Relief Society Magazine, August 1942, p. 553.
Note: Watch daily papers and periodicals for daily wartime planning and wise buying of food.