[Vol29 | September 1942 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: In Retrospect - Chapter IX: National and International Councils of Women]
In Retrospect
President Amy Brown Lyman
CHAPTER IX
NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL COUNCILS OF WOMEN

MY first attendance at a meeting of the National Council of Women of the United States, an organization with which Relief Society has long been affiliated, was in 1911 when I accompanied President Emmeline B. Wells to an executive session held in Chicago. I had heard much of the Council from the older members of the Board, and therefore I was filled with happy expectations at the thought of seeing it in action.

We were barely settled in our room at the Auditorium Hotel when newspaper men asked for an interview. Their questions were chiefly concerned with the place of Latter-day Saint women in the Church and their attitude regarding polygamy and the seating of Reed Smoot in the United States Senate in 1904. It was very interesting to me to see how well Sister Wells, a small woman of eighty-three years, handled the situation, holding her own with ease and composure, to the great amusement of these husky, aggressive young "newshawks."

I was greatly pleased with the recognition and courtesy shown by the women of the Council to "Aunt Em," who was one of the oldest delegates in attendance, and one of the most experienced in public affairs. The vice-president, Kate Waller Barrett, a devoted friend of Mormon women, called at our rooms the first evening and informed us that the Resolutions Committee had already met and had gone over the resolutions which had been previously submitted; that among these was one handed in by the National Christian League for the Promotion of Purity, protesting against supposed polygamous practices in the United States, and deploring the fact that the United States Senate had seated Reed Smoot. Mrs. Barrett said she would see that one of our delegation had an opportunity to "sit in" at the next meeting of the committee. This she thought would act as a deterrent, and would prevent this resolution from being brought out in the convention and from being published in the papers. When "Aunt Em" informed her that I would represent us at this committee meeting, I was greatly worried. However, by the second evening, I had gained courage, and, with the help of friends in the committee, we succeeded in eliminating the resolution.
