[Vol29 | September 1942 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: The Work of Evans]

The "Work" of Work-and-Business Day
Priscilla L. Evans
Member of Relief Society General Board
THE exigencies of the present have brought about the stimulation of and given impetus to the work program of our work-and-business day. This is a definite good. It is often true that out of trials and sacrifice a lasting benefit will emerge. In an effort to assist those less fortunate than themselves, the "work of their hands" was the first concrete contribution of the members of the Relief Society. Work-and-business day is the outgrowth of this fundamental concept. Its program today is wide and varied, but always the spirit behind the humble beginnings of the Society is strongly felt on this day. At any cost, this spirit must be preserved.
One of the vital purposes of this great organization is to develop and to maintain a true sisterhood. In this field it is unique, for unlike other groups this sisterhood prescribes no requisites of scholarship, of social position, or of economic standing. These sisters have only a desire to be together, to partake of the spirit, common to them all, and to learn the Lord's will concerning them. The work-and-business day, perhaps more than any other day in the prescribed program, offers the opportunity for the development of this sisterhood.
With emphasis throughout the entire nation being placed upon the importance of the work of the women in homes, our sisters can, through their work-and-business day activities, demonstrate that they recognize homemaking as an art?perhaps the most important of all the arts. Homemaking embraces, in its perfection, all beauty, system, and order, which reflect capability and mental superiority; hospitality, which evidences the development of the social graces; and last and most important, spirituality and a dependence upon God's favor for the spirit of the home. The "work of the hand" is an essential element of homemaking, for good housekeeping is one of the first requisites of good homemaking.
In the years immediately before us we shall all be required to use our hands in the exercise of all the skills at our command. Our hands and minds must be busy and willing. And we must share our knowledge and our experience with our sisters, especially with our younger sisters. And what a blessing this will be, not only to them but to us! We shall come to know that we all have skills and crafts to be handed down to the coming generation, even as our grandmothers and mothers handed their treasured knowledge down to us. All good homemakers have developed ways and means of securing satisfactions, which amount to skills and crafts, though they themselves do not recognize them as such. It will be an immeasurable blessing, too, under present conditions, to receive encouragement to keep our hands busy, for as Angelo Patri truthfully says: "There is something about the feel of work in the hands that soothes the mind and comforts the spirit. It drives away fear and steadies the will. Busy hands lay the foundation for courage and usefulness in times of emergency."
The real value of the simple, humble tasks of the hand is nicely expressed by Ione Mohler in her poem, "A Quilt," from Our Legacy?Relief Society Centennial Anthology of Verse, page 274:
I used to think a quilt
Was just a bunch of scraps
Patterned in a casual sort of way,
Padded and quilted leisurely,
And spread upon a bed
Day after day.
I little knew the patience
It took to match the blocks,
That love and faith and hope
Were all required;
That perseverance is a part of art
And courage keeps your hands
From getting tired.
I used to think a quilt
Was just a bunch of scraps;
And life is patterned
Much the same,
Perhaps.
LET us hope that the necessity which now makes it imperative that we fashion things by hand will teach us to appreciate, as our grandmothers appreciated, the greater beauty of handwork and how much more desirable it is than machine work, no matter how nearly perfect the latter may be. There is an indescribable elegance, or perhaps a spirit, in handwork, whether needlework, sculpture, or architecture, which we all sense but cannot put into words.
Diana's clothes were labor-bought,
Made while evening's lamplight fell.
Queens and wealth have vainly sought
Clothes to look and hang as well.
?Eva Willes Wangsgaard, "Diana's Shawl," Our Legacy, page 285.
In his Seven Lamps of Architecture, John Ruskin aptly expresses this distinction between the work of the hand and the work of a machine in the hand of man. I quote from "The Lamp of Life":
I have said that hand-work might always be known from machine-work; observing, however, at the same time, that it was possible for men to turn themselves into machines, and to reduce their labor to the machine level; but so long as men work as men, putting their heart into what they do, and doing their best, it matters not how bad workmen they may be, there will be that in the handling which is above all price; it will be plainly seen that some places have been delighted in more than others?that there has been a pause, and a care about them; and then there will come careless bits, and fast bits; and here the chisel will have struck hard, and there lightly, and anon timidly; and if the man's mind as well as his heart went with his work, all this will be in the right places, and each part will set off the other; and the effect of the whole, as compared with the same design cut by a machine or a lifeless hand, will be like that of poetry well read and deeply felt to that of the same verses jangled by rote. There are many to whom the difference is imperceptible; but to those who love poetry it is everything?they had rather not hear it at all than hear it ill read; and to those who love architecture, the life and accent of the hand are everything. They had rather not have ornament at all than see it ill-cut?deadly cut, that is. I cannot too often repeat, it is not coarse cutting, it is not blunt cutting, that is necessarily bad; but it is cold cutting?the look of equal trouble everywhere?the smooth, diffused tranquility of heartless pains....
Certain it is that in no other way can we so perfectly express ourselves as in the hands. This is true even though the work is not of lasting character. We express ourselves in the daily tasks of our homemaking quite as definitely as in a piece of beautiful lace or an exquisite tapestry. And, indeed, we read character in the hand itself. Only a useful hand?a hand that has served?is a beautiful hand. The portrait painter appreciates that he can catch the spirit and character of his subject in the hand. You will recall the young artist, Dallas, in Edna Ferber's So Big. When first she saw the lovely Selina who wore the unmistakable scars of arduous and unremitting toil, she turned to Dirk, Selina's son, and said: "There?that's what I mean when I say I want to do portraits. Not portraits of ladies with a string of pearls and one lily hand half hidden in the folds of a satin skirt. I mean character portraits of men and women who are really distinguished looking... With that fine splendid face all lit up with the light that comes from inside... And her hands! She's beautiful. She'd make me famous at one leap. You'd see!"
May the coming year bring to each of us added appreciation of the grandeur and dignity of the "work of our hands," to the end that the work of the work-and-business day may, in addition to providing a service to those in need, bring helpful aid to every member.