[Vol29 | September 1942 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Editorial | Title: The Season]
EDITORIAL 
Vol.    29 
 SEPTEMBER     1942 
 No.  9 
cJhe  LKeuef  (bociety  ibaucational  Season  ig^a-^S 
'HPHE  month  of  September  always  comes  at  a  time  when  ReHef  Society 
finds  Rehef  Society  women  leaders  are  called  upon  to  hold  the 
looking  forward  to  the  opening  of  interest  of  more  than  40,000  new 
the  Relief  Society  educational  sea-  members  who  have  come  into  the 
son.  This  year,  the  beginning  of  the  Society  as  a  result  of  the  centennial 
second  100  years  of  Relief  Society  membership-building  program.  It  is 
work,  finds  us  facing  many  new  and  no  wonder  that  Relief  Society  lead- 
unusual  conditions.  The  war  has  ers  approach  the  work  of  the  new 
brought  about  many  changes  to  season  with  apprehension  and  hu- 
which  we  must  adjust  and  which  mility,  wondering  how  they  may 
will  tax  the  ingenuity  and  resource-  manage  without  that  which  of  neces- 
fulness  of  Relief  Society  leaders  sity  has  been  taken  from  them,  and 
whether  serving  in  general,  stake,  or  how  they  may  in  reality  meet  the 
ward  capacities:  General  and  stake  numerous  pressing  needs  of  a  great- 
Relief  Society  conferences  and  ly  increased  membership, 
union  meetings  have  been  discon-  Upon  ward  officers  will  fall  much 
tinned  during  the  war  emergency,  of  the  burden,  but  they  must  not  feel 
Visits  by  General  Board  members  to  that  the  entire  problem  is  theirs  and 
stakes  and  by  stake  leaders  to  wards,  theirs  alone.  Even  though  general 
where  travel  is  entailed,  have  neces-  and  stake  Relief  Society  confer- 
sarily  been  curtailed.  Some  women  ences  have  been  discontinued,  the 
who  have  efficiently  served  the  So-  General  Board,  through  the  stakes,  is 
ciety  as  officers  and  class  leaders  are  keeping  in  very  close  touch  with  the 
giving  up  their  positions  because  local  Societies,  directing  the  work 
they  have  accepted  employment  in  through  bulletins  and  correspond- 
order  to  aid  the  war  effort.  And,  at  ence.  Additional  helps,  such  as  a 
the  same  time,  the  members  of  the  booklet.  Leads  for  Class  Leaders, 
Society,  sorely  taxed  spiritually  be-  will  also  be  provided  by  the  General 
cause  of  the  uncertainties,  separa-  Board.  Stake  boards,  while  not  con- 
tions,  and  sorrows  incident  to  the  ducting  union  meetings,  are  advised 
war,  are  looking  to  the  Society  to  to  remain  fully  officered,  and  to 
help  them  to  make  proper  evalua-  stand  ready  to  aid  the  wards  in 
tions,  to  guide  them  in  how  to  best  every  possible  way. 
conduct  their  lives,  how  to  most  The  conduct  of  the  union  meet- 
wisely  administer  the  affairs  of  their  ing,  after  all,  is  only  one  of  the  many 
homes,  how  to  help  their  children  ways  through  which  the  stake  unit 
meet  life  in  a  world  dislocated  by  strengthens  the  wards.  Through  in- 
war,  and  above  all  to  help  them  to  terpreting  programs,  relaying  instruc- 
keep    spiritually    strong.     All    this  tions  of  the  General  Board,  by  coun- 
Page  638