[Vol29 | September 1942 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: Handwork of Pioneer McBride]

Winsor, and is evidence of the fine handwork of pioneer days.
![CURTAIN MADE BY EMELINE Z. BOWER WINSOR IN 1876] Pioneer Days

Happenings
Annie Wells Cannon
We would hold you long, September days,
With your mystic song and purple haze.
Will the opening of the schools, the renewed functioning of the Parent-Teacher Association and the women's clubs, an important part of the population will be back to normal, and there will be an increased use of the public libraries, provided these groups endeavor to maintain their customary search for knowledge and to uphold the finer cultural ideals of community life. Even in these days of strife and turmoil and sorrow, let us hold fast to the higher, beautiful things of life.
JUDGE REVA BECK BOSONE, of Utah, had some novel experiences in her recent trip East. Besides a conference with Judge Black of the Supreme Court, she sat as second judge on the Cleveland bench at the trial of twenty-three racketeers, considered so dangerous that all prosecution witnesses had to be kept in jail while waiting to testify.
DR. MILDRED HELEN McAFEE, president of Wellesley College, was sworn in head of the newly-created feminine navy reserve with the rank of lieutenant commander, August 3, 1942. The oath was administered by Secretary of the Navy Knox. Present also was Admiral Ernest J. King, Commander-in-Chief of the United States Fleet.
DIANA BARRYMORE, 21, has chosen marriage for a career. Will she also give up the Barrymore traditional stage career? Unlike Diana, Princess Alexandra, of Greece, has been compelled because of war conditions to postpone her hopes of blissful marriage with her young lover, King Peter of Yugoslavia. So goes the world.
FLORENCE GRANT SMITH, talented daughter of President Heber J. Grant, since exhibiting her beautiful water colors this summer, is ranked among the professionals by artist judges.
GUSANA BRANSFORD EMERY HOLMES, 83, Utah's "Silver Queen," died this summer. A world-wide traveler and socialite, she led a colorful life. In Utah she possessed large holdings and had many close friends.
LENORA HUNTER BARTON, matron of the L. D. S. Nurse's home, died suddenly last month. She was an active Church worker all her life.
MRS. EMMA CORBRIDGE, of Utah, passed her ninetieth birthday last month midst a town celebration in her honor. With her life essentially one of wonderful experiences, she finds herself still interested in world affairs.