[Vol29 | September 1942 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Article | Title: Theology and]

East 33rd St., New York City, New York. Class leaders can obtain back numbers of national magazines from this firm. Page 655 LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology and Testimony Articles of Faith, By James E. Talmage Lesson 11
The Church and Its Plan of Organization (Tuesday, December 1, 1942) Condensation of Chapter XI of Articles of Faith, by Talmage (This condensation is placed in the Magazine in the hope that it will result in more class members familiarizing themselves with the lesson.) The Primitive Church When Christ established His church upon the earth, he appointed all the officers necessary for the cartying out of his Father's purposes. Each appointee was divinely commissioned with authority to officiate in the ordinances of his. Calling. Thus were given unto the Church, apostles, prophets, evangelists, pastors (Eph. 4:11), high priests (Heb. 5:1-5), seventies (Luke 10:1- 11), elders (Acts 14:23; 15:6; I Peter 5:1), bishops (1
Tim. 3:1; Titus 1:7), priests (Rev. 1:6), teachers (Acts 13:1), and deacons (I Tim. 3:8-12). Apostasy from the Primitive Church Scarcely had Christ organized His church before the powers of darkPage 656 ness descended upon it. This tide of opposition soon enveloped every known follower of the Savior. Christians were tortured and killed by the unbelievers until the time of Constantine in the fourth century. Under his patronage, Christianity became the religion of State, but the finer attributes of the original Church were missing. Pagan forms and beliefs had crept in, and offices were sought by those who wished to benefit themselves financially and politically.. Ordinances were changed and perverted. In very deed, darkness covered the earth. This Great Apostasy Foretold The prophets of old uttered solemn warnings of approaching LESSON DEPARTMENT dangers. In Isaiah 24:5 we read: "The earth also is defiled under the inhabitants thereof; because they have transgressed the laws, changed the ordinance, broken the everlasting covenant." Restoration of the Church The Lord in His mercy provided for the reestablishment of His Church in the last days, and for the last time. This restoration was effected by the Lord through the Prophet Joseph Smith. Thus, the Church has been again organized with all its former completeness.
657 PLAN OF GOVERNMENT IN THE RESTORED CHURCH Orders and Officers in the Priesthood The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints recognizes two separate orders of the Priesthood. The lesser is called the "Aaronic" and the greater is the "Melchizedek'"' order. Deacons, teachers, and priests are the offices in the Aaronic Priesthood. In the Melchizedek order are elders, seventies and high priests. Apostles, patriarchs, and bishops also come under this heading. Each of the above offices have definite functions and requirements, all of which are explained in the Doctrine and Covenants. LESSON PLAN Article 6?"'We believe in the same organization that existed in the Primitive Church, viz., apostles, prophets, pastors, teachers, evangelists, etc." Lesson Aim: To show that the restored Church is an organization composed of offices and officers comparable to the Primitive Church, and that such an organization provides its members with opportunities for mental and spiritual growth. Suggested Material Outline I. The Church A. Definition and characteristics of the true Church. B. The Primitive Church. C. Apostasy from Primitive Church. D. Restoration of the Church to earth in latter days. II. Plan of Government in the Church. A. Aaronic Priesthood. B. Melchizedek Priesthood. C. Authority of presiding quorums in Priesthood. III. How the Church Develops its Members A. The Priesthood. B. Sacrament and Testimony Meetings. C. Church Auxiliaries. 

 ?SEPTEMBER 1942 (In the foregoing section, the various activities which are provided for Church members should be enumerated and commented upon: speaking, teaching, singing, planning, organizing, financing, equipping, writing, record keeping, counseling, missionary service, proselyting, traveling. ) Suggested Method Outline Round-Table Discussion The class leader may select a number of women to take part in this discussion group. It is preferable to have women who have had a wide: diversity of background, whose ages vary, and who possess fluency of expression. Also, it might be well to choose, as some of the group, women who have worked in the various Church auxiliaries. Both the leader and the group should maintain the inquirer's attitude throughout. The leader or chairman should not be seated on a platform or in any position that indicates a teacher-pupil relationship. The best arrangement is for the group to sit around a table where each may see the other. To start the discussion the leader might try the experiment of suggesting that each person introduce herself and give something of her background. The leader then assumes the responsibility of starting the discussion and keeping it going. The leader should have thought through the subject and should have at least a tentative plan for proceeding. The above Suggested Material Outline could well be followed, and the leader would formulate her own salient questions based on the outline. The group should be at least acquainted with Chapter 2 of the Articles of Faith, by Talmage. The leader should not superimpose her ideas upon the group, but she should give them a sense of direction with her comments and questions. If the leader is questioned and the discussion is on the verge of assuming the teacher-pupil relationship, it is excellent technique to turn a question back to the questioner or to another person in the group. It is well to remember that a discussion is never a complete success unless most of the people in the group eventually inject their thoughts. The leader has a significant task in reviewing once or twice during the discussion "the points made, the questions overlooked, the information needed, and the existing differences of opinion." She should also stop the discussion While the group is still interested and should summarize just what has been accomplished and what still remains un-answered. Class leaders are urged to try this method even though it is new to them. It will lend variety and interest to the educational work of this department, and it is one of the newer techniques in teaching adults. Class leaders may feel incapable of assuming the leadership of the round-table discussion group, but after a few attempts they will be quick to see the advantages of such a method.