Guide Lessons. AUGUST. Home Economics LESSON I. CANNING SOUPS. The canning of vegetable soups, purees, and consomes is thoroughly practical, and should be a part of our economy work. It will be a delight next winter to be able to reach to a shelf for a home-canned jar of soup, open it, heat it, and serve within a few minutes' time. We are accused of being a wasteful people, wasting much of the products of garden and farm. The bones that are often discarded when meat is being packed for winter use contain valuable food. Let us develop, through soup making and soup canning, habits of economy and education in thrift. The bones from beef and chicken are by far the most common, though others can be used. SOUP CANNING RECIPES. Soup Stock. Secure twenty-five pounds of beef hocks, joints, and bones containing marrow. Strip off the fat and meat and crack bones with a hatchet or cleaver. Put the broken bones in a thin cloth sack and place them in a large kettle containing five gallons of cold water. Simmer (do not boil) for six or seven hours. Do not salt while simmering. Skim off all fat. This should make about five gallons of stock. Pack hot in glass jars, bottles, or enamel or lacquered tin cans. Partially seal glass jars. (Seal tin cans.) Sterilize fifty minutes if using a hot-water bath outfit; forty minutes if using a water-seal or a five pound steam-pressure outfit; thirty minutes if using a pressure-cooker outfit. (Check list of supplies to be provided before beginning work.) 25 pounds of beef bones. 5 gallons of water. / 'cogitable Soup. Soak pound lima or navy beans and 1 pound rice for 12 hours. Cook 2 pound pearl barley for 2 hours. Blanch 1 pound carrots, 1 pound onions, 1 medium-sized potato, and 1 red pepper for 3 minutes and blanch. Prepare the vegetables and cut into small cubes. Mix thoroughly lima or navy beans, rice, barley. Of carrots, onions, potatoes, red pepper. Fill glass jars or the  
 enameled tin cans three-fourths full of the above mixture of vegetables and cereals. Make a smooth paste of one-half pound of wheat flour and blend in 5 gallons of soup stock. Boil 3 minutes and add 4 ounces salt. Pour this stock over vegetables and fill cans. Partially seal glass jars. (Seal tin cans.) Sterilize 110 minutes if using the hot-water bath outfit; 90 minutes if using a water-seal or a 5-pound steam pressure outfit; 55 minutes if using a pressure-cooker outfit. (Check list of necessary supplies.) 1/4 pound lima or navy beans. 1 pound rice. 1/2 pound pearl barley. 1 pound carrots. 1 pound onions. 1 medium-sized potato. 1 red pepper. ' ? pound Hour. 1 ounces salt. 5 gallons soup stock. Bean So tip. Soak 3 pounds of beans 12 hours in cold water. Cut 2 pounds of ham meat into % inch cubes and place in a small sack. Place the beans, ham, and 4 gallons of water in a kettle and boil slowly until the beans are very soft. Remove the ham and beans from the liquor and mash the beans fine. Return the bam and mashed beans to the liquor and add 5 gallons of soup stock and seasoning, and bring to boil. Fill into glass jars and tin cans while hot. Partially seal glass jars. (Seal tin cans.) Process  2 hours if using a hot-water bath outfit: 110 minutes if using a water-seal outfit; 90 minutes if using a 5-pound steam pressure outfit; 70 minutes if using a pressure-cooker outfit. (Check list.) 5 gallons stock. 3 pounds beans. 2 poilu's lean ham. 4 gallons water. Salt and pepper to taste. Tomato Pulp for Cream of Tomato Soup. Place tomatoes in a wire basket or piece of cheesecloth and plunge into boiling water from 1 to 3 minutes. Plunge into cold water. Remove the skin and core. Place tomatoes in a kettle and boil 30 minutes. Pass the tomato pulp through a sieve. Pack in glass jars and tin cans while hot, and add a level teaspoonful of salt per quart. Partially seal the glass jars. (Seal tin cans.) Sterilize 25 minutes if using a hot-water bath outfit; 20 minutes if using a water-seal or a 5-pound steam-pressure outfit; 18 minutes if using a pressure-cooker outfit. Cream of Tomato Soup from Canned Tomato Pulp. Place 1 quart of tomato pulp in a kettle. Add one-eighth teaspoonful of baking soda, pepper and salt to taste, 2 tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar. Boil for 7 minutes. Place 1 quart of mi}k and 2 tablespoonfuls of butter in another kettle and simmer for 7 minutes. Add the contents of the tomato kettle to the contents of the milk kettle and boil for 5 minutes. The product is then ready to serve. (Check list.) 1 quart can tomato pulp. Two teaspoonful baking soda. 2 teaspoon uls granulated sugar. 1 quart milk. 2 tablespoonfuls butter. Salt and pepper to taste. Chicken-Soup Stock. Place 30 pounds chicken in 10 gallons of cold water and simmer for 5 hours. Remove meat and bones, then strain. Add sufficient water to make 10 gallons of stock. Fill glass jars or tin cans with the hot stock. Partially seal glass jars. (Seal tin cans.) Process  110 minutes if using a hot-water bath outfit; 90 minutes if using a water-seal outfit; 70 minutes if using a 5- pound steam-pressure outfit; 55 minutes if using a pressure-cooker outfit. This stock is used to make soup where the term "chickensoup stock" is employed. (Check list.) 30 pounds chicken. 10 gallons water. Vegetables (Mixed) without Stock. Many people would like vegetable soup during the winter season, but find it impracticable to secure the soup stock during the summer season when the vegetables are so abundant that they are rotting in the garden. It is suggested that the vegetable portion of the soup be canned during the summer and made available when the soup stock is prepared during the winter. It makes the preparation of the soup a simple matter whenever the stock is available. Soak 6 pounds of lima or navy beans and 4 pounds of dry peas over night. Boil each l/2 hour. Blanch 16 pounds of carrots, 6 pounds of cabbage, 3 pounds of celery, 6 pounds of 
 turnips, 4 pounds of okra, 1 pound of onions, and 4 pounds of parsley for 3 minutes and dip in cold water quickly. Prepare the vegetables and chip them into small cubes. Chop the onions and celery extra fine. .Mix all of the vegetables together thoroughly and season to taste. Tack in glass jars or tin cans. Fill with boiling water. Partially seal glass jars. (Seal tin cans.) Process  110 minutes if using a hot-water bath outfit: 75 minutes if using a water-seal outfit or a 5-pound steam-pressure outfit: 55 minutes ii using a pressure-cooker outfit. (Check list.) 16 pounds carrots (small.) 6 pounds cabbage. 3 pounds celery stems and leaves. 6 pounds turnips. C) pounds lima or navy beans. 4 pounds okra. 1 pound onions. 4 pounds parsley. 4 pounds dry peas. Salt and pepper to taste. MEAT CANNING RECIPES. Poultry and Game. Recipe No. 1 Kill fowl and draw at once; wash carefully and cool; cut into convenient sections. Place in wire basket or cheesecloth and boil until meat can be removed from bones. Remove from boiling liquid and remove meat from bones; pack closely into glass jars: fill jars with pot liquid, after it has been concentrated one-half; add level teaspoonful of salt per quart of meat, for seasoning; put rubber and cap in position, not tight: sterilize the length of time given below for the one particular type of outfit you are using: Water bath, homemade or commercial 4 hrs Water seal. 214 4 5 pounds steam pressure 3 10-15 pounds steam pressure 14 " Remove jars; tighten covers: invert to cool and test the joint: wrap jars with paper to prevent bleaching.