[Vol56 | March 1969 | Page 174 | Special Feature | "The Salt of the Earth" | Belle S. Spafford]
would be combined with opportunities for mental and spiritual growth, and provide ways and means whereby they could equip themselves to meet life's. Challenges in every age. Through obedience to this great plan, the accomplishments of Relief Society as an organization stand in first place among those of organized women of the world; so much so that those unacquainted with Relief Society, and the capabilities of its active individual members, are amazed in learning of it. An example of this is an experience of the cultural refinement class leader of my own ward Relief Society when she traveled with her medical doctor husband on a professional trip to a California hospital.

["The Salt of the Earth" Belle S. Spafford]

As was her practice, she took with her the Relief Society textbook to study while she waited for him. And so it was that she happened to be in a California hospital waiting room reading Out of The Best Books, Volume 3, when she became aware of being closely observed by a refined appearing woman sitting across the table from her. At length the woman spoke to her saying, "Excuse me, please, but I see by the title of your book that you evidently belong to a literary study group." Our class leader replied that she did, and that the group was the women's organization of the Church to which she belonged. It seemed to surprise the woman to hear that a Church group "What Wilt Thou Have Me to Do?" studied literature, or anything other than theology. So our sister had the opportunity to explain to her the extensive educational and service program of Relief Society. On hearing of its variety, and broadness of scope of the studies and activities, the woman's reaction was one of amazement. Could it be that we who are so close to and engaged in our Heavenly Father's program for us, accept it as an ordinary privilege and fail to associate this blessing with its inspired source? Do our neighbors and friends recognize, through us, Relief Society's proffered opportunities? In every stake in the Church there are Latter-day Saint sisters, as well as those not of our faith, who are not yet acquainted with the strengthening influence of Relief Society. Are we using every opportunity to demonstrate its constructive force in our own lives? It has been said that the only Bible some people read is the example they see in the lives of others. As Relief Society sisters, even our small acts speak with power to those who are read- 'ing our lives. Evidence of the potency of Relief Society in lifting standards and accomplishments to the point of influencing others through example was recently brought to my attention. A woman from Australia applied at the Church Information Center for assistance in learning about so-called "Mormonism." She explained that she knew nothing about the Church but that she had a friend in Australia who, as she said, "joined the Mormons," and that she also belonged to "their woman's or- 

175 March 1969

 ganization." She reported that in a very short time it had completely remade the friend and changed her focus in life, that she had almost reversed her former practices and attitudes toward people. Most important of all, she now seemed to be enjoying a happiness one seldom sees in life. The visitor explained that while touring the United States, she had made special effort to come to Salt Lake City to learn the truth about such an organization. It is stimulating to know that the pattern and directives given to Relief Society sisters through the years are as applicable today in preparing us to meet the challenges of modern living, as they have been throughout our history. How grateful we should be for this magnificent blessing that is ours to share. It gives us opportunity to light our spiritual candles every day as we live, that en masse we may become a light- ° house to those who are searching for truth. May we so pattern our lives that they will be a visible answer to every woman who is mentally asking, "Lord, what wilt thou have me to do?" aio THE SEAMSTRESS I have been sewing all these many years, It's queer how fast the seasons go, Still, sewing is just an avocation Wedged in between the other loves, you know. Between the summer's canning and the children's time, Between the constant meals—a little dress; On birthday party days the sewing room was locked Against the danger of my eagerness. For always there were times a child would come Seeking some fellowship—unnamable to say— Nothing particular—yet needing something said =e. About his own well-being or some praise that day., a 7. For hunger must be met in children's hearts And leisure hours be theirs to feel, Making a child know he's loved and special— "~~ A sort of stitching just for heart appeal.