[Vol56 | March 1969 | Page 180 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere Ranriona | W. Cannon]
[Woman's Sphere Ranriona W. Cannon]
EDITORIAL

Music in Relief Society

■ The sweet, pleasing, harmonious sound of music, expressing the ideals, beliefs, and emotions of Relief Society sisters, has been heard in Relief Society meetings since that first meeting in Nauvoo when the Society was organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith. The minutes of the founding meeting record that the meeting commenced with singing "The Spirit of God Like a Fire Is Burning" and closed with "Come Let Us Rejoice in the Day of Salvation." How could the feelings of the sisters on that momentous occasion have been expressed more fervently; what could they have done that would have revealed their gratitude to the Lord in a way more pleasing to him than through song, for the Lord declared, "For my soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me . . ." (D&C, 25-12)?

Throughout its history, Relief Society has encouraged congregational and choral singing. It has urged mothers to see that children with talent are given training. It has encouraged music in the home because of its importance to the spiritual and cultural well-being of the home and family.

Relief Society women have responded to the encouragement given and have shown joyful interest in the singing opportunities afforded them by Relief Society. Congregational singing, led by able choristers, has enriched Relief Society meetings and brought meaningful enjoyment to members.

Choral music in Relief Society has had an interesting history, and countless women have been brought into the Society as active members through the choral music program. Many non-Church members have joined Relief Society to sing in the chorus and have found it an open door to Church membership.

Typical of the stake choruses in earlier days was the Salt Lake Stake chorus, conducted by Agnes Olson Thomas. In an interview at her home in Salt Lake City in April 1942, Agnes Thomas said: "I was selected to the office of Relief Society chorister in the old Salt Lake Stake . . . I think it was in 1916—and I served for sixteen years. Our choir numbered about