[WomansExponent | Vol28 | 1899 | August | Issue: 5 | Title: SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUG 15, & SEP. 1, 1899. | Author: Unknown]

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUG 15, & SEP. 1, 1899.


[Column 1]
A SPIRITUAL AWAKENING.
	During the summer the visits made in
the several Stakes of Zion by the First
Presidency and Apostles of the Church
and the sisters who have traveled with
them, must have caused quite a spiritual
awakening among the people. Meetings
where the spirit of the Lord has been
poured out in rich abundance, have been
reported from time to time in the daily
papers; and those abroad in other lands, as
well as those at home in Zion, have taken
note of these proceedings and are not un-
mindful of the results which must necessa-
rily follow such special teaching and preach-
ing of the commandments of the Lord.
Naturally a more strict observance of the
law of tithing, of keeping the Sabbath day
holy, the Word of Wisdom and training of
the youth of Zion in paths of virtue and
holiness will follow, and thereby will
come a blessing upon all the interests of
the Saints upon the earth.
	The work is hastening on; the mission-
aries abroad in the world are busy sowing
good seed wherever opportunities can be
made. Distributing tracts from house to
house is done by both men and women
missionaries; also preaching in the public
parks and elsewhere in the open air.
Young women have left good homes, and
some of them who were receiving liberal
salaries for teaching in schools and academ-
ies, to labor in spreading the Gospel in
foreign lands, not for honor, nor the sake
of any remuneration in this world, but that
they might be instrumental in helping on
the cause of truth, which will eventually
redeem mankind from sin.
	The writer rejoiced while in England in
hearing these true and earnest young wom-
en bearing testimony to the knowledge ob-
tained through the Holy Spirit, which
leads into all truth. Such testimony only
comes through humility, prayer and faith-
fulness, and it brings a peace that passeth
understanding.
	Mrs. Lettie Dewey Campbell, Miss Inez
Knight, Miss Zina Chipman, Miss Joseph-
ine Booth, Miss Clara Holbrook, these
young sisters, and also Mrs. Lydia D.
Alder, are all engaged as missionaries, as
laborers in the field, devoting themselves
wholly and solely to the spread of righteous- 
ness and correct principles, giving freely of
that which is more precious than the wealth
of the world.
	The Elders, who without purse or scrip
are proclaiming the everlasting Gospel in

[Column 2]
all parts of the earth, even upon the islands
of the sea, and these with the hundreds of
Home missionaries throughout the several
Stakes of Zion, in the Rocky mountain
region, must certainly arouse greater zeal
and enthusiasm, and make an impression
that cannot be erased on the minds and
hearts of the honest in heart wherever their
lot may be cast. Although there are many
people inclined to scepticism, yet there are
still others who are looking for something
higher and more satisfying than they can
find among the theories heretofore extant
in the world; and occasionally these honest
seekers for truth are found, one here and
another there, and are convinced of divine
revelation to the people in this dispensation
through a prophet sent of God as in days of
old. “Blessed are they who know the
voice of the Good Shepherd,” and are will-
ing to leave all and follow Him.
	The persecution that has been aroused in
our own country, “the land of the free and
the home of the brave,” is most lamentable,
and one cannot but recall the words of the
Savior in contemplating the situation: “It
must needs be that offences come, but woe
be to him by whom they come.” But his-
tory has proven repeatedly that “the blood
of the martyrs is the seed of the Church.”
And there is no doubt of the truth of the
scripture, “Surely the wrath of man shall
praise thee; the remainder of wrath shalt
thou restrain.”


[Column 1]
HOME AGAIN. 
	After a rather prolonged trip abroad for a
busy woman, here we are at the desk again,
everything just as if we had only been
absent a few hours. It is very pleasant to
return home and find one’s family all in
good health, and, in the case of the writer,
to find an addition of a fine pair of twin
boys to the numerous grandchildren, was a
very happy surprise on reaching New York.
A marriage in the family, too, was one of
the surprises to greet our arrival, and alto-
gether only joyful news and occurrences to
greet one and cheer the home-coming.
	To recount the happenings, and even the
principal events of a journey of nearly
three months, is a puzzle; but to one attend-
ing such meetings as the International
Council and Congress of Women in Lon-
don, the official receptions and parties, and
trips here and there, it is utterly impossible
to satisfy one’s self in the least degree.
However, to be able to report good health
and no accidents by land or sea, is in itself
something to rejoice over and to be exceed-
ingly thankful for.
	There were a number of Utah women in
England, all of whom had reached there at
an earlier date than the writer. Some of
them had gone to labor as missionaries,
some on business or pleasure, and others to
attend the International Council and Con-
gress. These were Mrs. Susa Young
Gates, Mrs. Lucy B. Young, Mrs. Eliza-
beth C. McCune, Mrs. M, A. Caine, Mrs.
C. S. Thomas, Miss C. Holbrook and Mrs. L.
D. Alder; the last named has also remained
to do missionary work. The entire journey,
from leaving Salt Lake until the return
home, has been full of interesting occasions
and rich in all that helps to make one’s
time pass happily and “fly, as it were, on
the wings of the wind.”
	At the opening of the Quinquennial on
the afternoon of Monday, June 26, it was
found that the Large Hall, Westminster
Town Hall, would not hold those entitled

[Column 2]
to be present, therefore the crowd was in-
structed to wend its way to Convocation
Hall, Church House, Deanery, Westmins-
ter Abbey, and the International Council
was formally opened in that historic build-
ing  by the Countess of Aberdeen with an
address of welcome, which we hope to pub-
lish in full at some future time. It was a
very able paper, and seemingly touched
upon every subject pertaining to the work
of the Council in the past and suggestions
for future advancement.
	After the address came the introduction
of International officers and the Presidents
of Federated National Councils, which in-
cluded many foreign countries: The United
States, by Mrs. Fannie Humphreys Gaff-
ney, of New York; Canada, Mrs. Boomer;
Germany, Frau Anna Simson; Sweden,
Fru Hierta Retzius; Great Britain and Ire-
land, The Lady Battersea; New South
Wales, The Viscountess Hampden; Den-
mark, Froken Henrie Forschammer; Hol-
land, Madame Klerck von Hogendorp;
New Zealand, Mrs. Pember Reeves.
	Other countries who have signified the
intention of federating with the Inter-
national Council were represented by fra-
ternal delegates, but had no vote. The
only voters (proper) were the officers of the
International Council and Presidents of
National Councils already federated; not
even delegates duly elected had votes.
The countries thus represented were France,
Switzerland, Belgium, Italy, Russia, Aus-
tria, Norway, Victoria, South Australia,
West Australia, Queensland, Cape Colony,
Tasmania, India, Persia, Argentine Re-
public of South America, China and Pales-
tine. Delegates from societies internation-
ally organized (present, but without a vote)
Bureau International Permanent de la Paix;
Federation Abolitioniste Ginirole; Union
Internationale des Ames des Jennes Filles;
World’s Women’s Christian Temperance
Union; World’s Young Women’s Christian
Association; International Union of Press
Clubs; International Order of King’s
Daughters.
	Each person introduced had about five
minutes in which to speak for the country
and Council she represented. This occu-
pied the entire meeting of the afternoon.
The day was very hot and the hall was
crowded. Many distinguished people were
present, both in the seats below and the
front seats in the galleries above. Madame
Von Finklestein Mountford represented the
country of Palestine, where there are as yet
really no organizations of women, but
where it is hoped such like institutions may
soon be established, and also in India,
China and Persia.
	The official reception of the Duchess of
Sutherland at Stafford House was held the
same evening, Monday, June 26, from 9 p.
m. to 12, and was certainly in every par-
ticular a royal entertainment. The house
is one of the richest in architecture and in
all its appointments of finishings and furn-
ishings, which are indescribable. The en-
trance hall is famous throughout England
and is of solid white marble with marble
staircases on either side that cross the upper
hall and are finished with elaborate brass
balustrades. Seated on the wide staircase
at the top of the front opening to the gal-
lery on either side, were four of the most
beautiful women of rank and title. First,
the Countess of Aberdeen; next her, the
Duchess of Sutherland, and farther on to
the right, the Countess of Warwick and her
sister. All these grand ladies we had the


[Column 1]
opportunity of meeting and of being wel-
comed by them most cordially as members 
of the Council.
	Afterwards we passed up the grand stair-
way to the drawing room and other apart-
ments opened for the reception, and passed
where the Hungarian band were discours- 
ing the most exquisite music one could
imagine, which floated thro’ these elegant 
halls, diffusing melody such as is seldom
heard except by the most highly favored of 
the world.
	There were a small number of ladies
whom we had met before, Miss Anthony,
who is always lovely and gracious to her
friends, and Mrs. Sewall, Dr. Shaw, Mrs.
Bedford Fenwick and Mrs. Fenwick Miller
(these two ladies we had been acquainted
with at the Woman’s Congress in Chicago)
and quite a number of others. Mrs. Char-
lotte Perkins Stetson, the grandniece of
Henry Ward Beecher, whom we had met
in Des Moines, Iowa, and who is certainly
one of the brightest women of this nine-
teenth century; who is always sweet and
charming, and who really seemed to take
extra pains for some of our Utah party.
Recently her book on the Economic ques-
tion is attracting world-wide attention, al-
though by many severely criticised. Mrs.
Stetson is a forcible speaker, and also a
brilliant and intellectual writer. She in-
tends visiting Salt Lake City in the near 
future.
	There is not time or space to describe
Stafford House or the wonderful paintings
and banquet, but some time we may per-
haps make separate articles of these great
palaces we have seen and where we have
been entertained.
	Lady Battersea’s reception at Surrey
House was in many respects similar to that
of Stafford House; but at Surrey we were
received by Lord and Lady Battersea, and
it is not the custom, as in America, to be
introduced and passed down a long line of
distinguished people.
	Perhaps in giving the public gatherings 
and entertainments tendered to the Council,
we ought to have mentioned first of all the
informal reception given by the Countess of
Aberdeen on Saturday afternoon, June 24,
previous to the opening of the Council.
This was a very pleasant way of having
the delegates and speakers meet each other,
and a very graceful thing on her part, to
bring the ladies into a sort of friendly inter-
course Here we met several ladies we had 
previously known, in closer proximity than 
at the great receptions afterwards, as we
were fewer in number, and as the affair
was given in the “Members’ Mansions,”
which had been engaged for Council pur-
poses. On this occasion the Countess re- 
ceived alone, and stood on her feet for
about three hours. In looking back over
the entire time of this great gathering of
women from all parts of the world, we are
of the opinion that she was more thought-
ful and more considerate in providing for 
the well-being, comfort and entertainment
of members of the Council, than anybody 
could have imagined, or even desired. If
she does not have an attack of nervous
prostration after all is over, one would be
inclined to believe she had been given
superhuman strength.
	The next great reception was at Fulham 
Palace, the residence of the Lord Bishop of
London and his intellectual and accomplished
wife, Mrs. Creighton, who was one of the 
ablest women of the International Council,
and one who was instrumental in bringing

[Column 2]
about the success of the great undertaking
which brought the women of all civilized
lands together on one platform to discuss
the greatest and most momentous questions
of the day.
	Fulham Palace is very antique in ap-
pearance, and reminds one of the past cen-
turies; it is in the very atmosphere of the
house and grounds, though it is kept in ex-
cellent repair, and there have been, doubt-
less, many changes and improvements made
from time to time, yet one feels the sacred-
ness that pertains to ancient cathedrals,
and places where holy men have lived and
served and dispensed their learned lore, or
wisdom, such as is not vouchsafed to any
except those who devote their lives to the
great divine Master. It is impossible for
the writer to put upon paper in a few words
the emotions experienced while roaming
about under the shade of the trees centuries
old, and contemplating the scenes that must
have been enacted and events that had
transpired during the years that had flown
since the house and surroundings had been
occupied by Bishops and their curates and
rectors. At some future time we hope to
devote an article to our impressions of Ful-
ham Palace.
	On Monday, July 3, the Society of
American Women in London entertained
officers and members of the Council at a
luncheon and reception. The president,
Mrs. Griffin, Mrs. De Freise and Mrs. Fay
received the guests in elegant private par-
lors at Hotel Cecil, and the stars and stripes
were specially noticable in the draping and
decorating. Delicious refreshments were
handsomely served; but more of this here-
after.
	Tuesday afternoon, July 4, a garden
party was given by Lady Rothschild and
Mrs. Leopold de Rothschild, at Gunnersbury
Park, an elegant residence and park grounds
in the suburbs of London, where every-
thing was on the grandest scale imaginable;
indeed the papers said it was the most elab-
orate affair of its kind ever given in Lon-
don, certainly beyond any description the
writer will be able to give, such places
must be seen to be appreciated. At this re-
ception there were perhaps half of the Utah
ladies present. Lady Rothschild and her
daughter-in-law, Mrs. Leopold de Roths-
child, received and welcomed the guests on
their arrival, and every possible variety of
amusement had been provided in the
grounds, and refreshments were served in
the house during the entire afternoon. The
whole affair suggested wealth, luxuriance
of grandeur and beauty, and the greatest
hospitality and cordiality possible to ex-
press.
	The Countess of Warwick gave a garden
party and entertainment at her Hostel at
Reading, on the afternoon of July 5, which
was one of the most interesting occasions
we had the opportunity of participating in.
The guests spent the time in listening to
addresses in the garden, under the magnifi-
cent shade trees, by the Countess herself,
Lady Georgina Vernon and some titled
gentlemen, all upon practical subjects per-
taining to education and Reading College.
Tents were placed in near proximity where
refreshments were served, as also in the
house itself, which was very unique in all
its arrangements. After the exercises and
some social conversation, the grounds ad-
jacent were visited by the guests, and a few
of the ladies, accompanied by one of the
Professors from the College, visited the in-
stitution and went over almost the entire

[Column 3]
building. Reading College is built on the
site of an old abbey, and one part of it is
composed of the old abbey and cloisters.
	The Countess of Aberdeen, among other
social functions, gave a breakfast to all
officially connected with the Council, in
the private banqueting hall of the West-
minster Palace Hotel, and presented an ad-
dress of welcome to which one of the Ger-
man ladies responded in behalf of the
foreign delegates, and Dr. Stevenson, of
Chicago, for the United States, mentioning
especially that it was the 4th of July, In-
dependence day. Lord Aberdeen also had
a few words to say. Lady Marjorie Gor-
don assisted her mother at the breakfast,
which was a successful social function.
	The Countess also gave a Farewell, re-
ception at the Royal Institute of Water Col-
ors at the close of the session of the Coun-
cil. After issuing a thousand invitations,
some two or three hundred more were sent out,
it was a most eleborate entertainment. Lady
Marjorie assisted her mother in receiving,
and no one could doubt their desire to make
all happy, when they could stand an entire
evening and welcome each of the hundreds
of guests personally. The refreshments
were delicious, and served after the most
hospitable fashion. The water colors,
though of the finest one could imagine,
were lost sight of by many who preferred
living beauty in artistic costume. Really
the portraits on the walls, and the living
pictures that were moving about hither and
thither, flitting from room to room, were
brought into a sort of rivalry by the art
loving connoisseurs. The Countess spared
no pains or sacrifice to make every one hap-
py; she really gave herself for the time
being to the Council without limitation.
The women of the world are greatly in-
debted to the self-sacrifice of this philan-
thropic, heroice gentlewoman, who, with-
out display of ceremony, but with the true
instinct of royalty, devoted her valuable
time and magnificent talents to those who
came from afar, and like the Queen of Sheba
we can say, “the half had not been told.”
	The visit to Windsor Castle was entirely
due to her tact, influence and thoughtful-
ness. This visit has been described
by so many, that one scarcely feels to go
into detail; but Her Majesty, Queen Vic-
toria, cannot have too much said in her
praise as a woman, a mother and a sover-
eign of a great empire. It was most
gracious and lovely of the Queen of a great
realm on which the sun never sets, to favor
the delegation of the International Council
with Her Majesty’s presence in person, and
the ladies manifested their appreciation in
smiles and bows and waving their handker-
chiefs and singing in chorus, “God Save
the Queen.”
	The tea afterwards in St. George’s Hall,
where every appointment of the table was
significant of royalty, might well have been
called a banquet, so elaborate were the
preparations and so elegant the service.
	It was a fitting close to the great Inter-
national gathering of women of all lands,
that they should pay their respects to Her
Majesty, who in her life, public and pri-
vate, has been the embodiment of the high-
est and noblest qualities of true woman-
hood, a fitting example to the race. Dur-
ing the reign of this wonderful Queen much
has been done in forwarding the cause of
woman along various lines of learning, art
and science, and several special orders have
been introduced for the distinction of illus-
trious ladies. The profession of nursing


has been established on a permanent basis,
and great good has been the result of the
Queen’s sanction and assistance. Many
gateways have been opened whereby gentle
women (who have not fortunes at their
disposal) can obtain independent liveli-
hoods; altogether Her Majesty has proved
her desire to promote the best interests for
the happiest advance in the position of
women in the Victorian era.
	At a subsequent time we will mention
other receptions we had the privilege of
attending and some of the celebrated peo-
ple to whom we were introduced, also our
visits to Paris and Versailles, in France;
Liverpool, Birmingham, Manchester and
Nottingham, Warwick, Kenilworth, Leam-
ington and Cambridge, Stratford on Avon
and other notable places in England; and
Edinboro and Glasgow in Scotland.
	We have been asked many times both in
England and since our return to America,
what the outcome of this great Congress of
women from all lands will be, or what
great achievements will be the ultimate re-
sults? It is almost too soon to estimate
the gains that may accrue, but it is only
reasonable to suppose that a better under-
standing of the conditions of women in all
parts of the world, and, therefore, greater
success for any common or special cause.
That greater love and charity will prevail
among womankind cannot be doubted,
when such a fraternal feeling is fostered
and cherished as that which prevailed so
largely during the entire sessions of the
Council and Congress. Ultimately a great
federation of the sisterhood of the world
will come to pass by means of the processes
now at work, and that will mean for all
the world a higher type of civilization.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LAYING OF CORNER STONE.
KEARN’S ST. ANN’S ORPHANAGE.
	The laying of the corner stone of the
Kearn’s St. Ann’s Orphanage, marks an
epcoh in the history of Utah of which all
loyal citizens may be justly proud; and it is
ardently desirable that other men and wom-
en, whom the Lord has blessed with
abundant means, may follow the noble ex-
ample thus given by Mr. and Mrs. Thomas
Kearns, who made it possible to establish
more permanently this charitable institu-
tion founded some time since by Bishop
Scanlan and the devoted Catholic ladies
and Sisters of Charity, by giving to St.
Ann’s Orphanage an edifice to which has
been appropriately added their name. The
building will be a very handsome one
when completed, and stands upon a large
plat of ground sufficient for its needs in the
way of play-grounds and other purposes.
	The ceremonies of laying the corner
stone were conducted by the Right Rev.
Bishop L. Scanlan, assisted by Vicar-Gen-
eral Dennis Kiely, under the waving stars
and stripes, and were of a very interesting
character. The exercises opened with
singing the hymn “Nearer my God to
Thee,” by the children’s choir, Miss Clara
Folek singing the solo. Then the corner
stone was laid by Bishop Scanlan, assisted
by Vicar General Kiely. The stone is
gray, three feet long and two wide. In
the box was placed a document containing
the following:
	The corner stone of the Kearn’s St. Ann’s
Orphanage, was laid on the 27th day of August,
1899, by the Right Rev. L. Scanlan; the supreme
pontiff at the time being Leo XIII.; the apostolic
delegate to the United States being Archbishop

[Column 2]
Sebastain Martinelli; the bishop of the diocese of
Salt Lake City being the Right Rev. L. Scanlan;
the President of the United States being William
McKinley; the Governor of the State of Utah
being Heber M. Wells, the Mayor of Salt Lake
City being John Clark; Utah’s representatives in
the Congress of the United States being Joseph L.
Rawlins, Senator, and Brigham H. Roberts, Con-
gressman.
	There has been deposited in this cavity: Copies
of the Salt Lake Tribune of August 27, 1899; the
Salt Lake Herald of August 27, 1899; the Deseret
Evening News of August 27, 1899, the Colorado
Catholic of August 26, 1899; a copy of the invita-
tion issued by the committee having in charge and
conducting the exercises of the laying of the corner
stone, and a copy of the program which was car-
ried out on this occasion. Coins of the United
States of the following values: One cent, a nickel,
a dime, twenty-five cents, a half dollar and a dol-
lar; a photograph of the Right Rev. L. Scanlan; a
photograph of Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Kearns and
children; a pamphlet, being a descriptive cata-
logue of the work of St. Mary’s academy, Salt
Lake City; a pamphlet, being a descriptive cata-
logue of the work of All Hallow’s college, Salt
Lake City.
	The contractors for the construction of the
orphanage are Marrion & Fielding.
	Salt Lake City, Utah, Aug. 27, 1899.
	The address of Bishop Scanlan was earn-
est, eloquent and tender, based upon the
familiar text found in the New Testament:
“Pure religion and undefiled before God
and the Father is this to visit the fatherless
and widows in their afflictions and to keep
himself unspotted from the world.” The
Bishop enlarged upon the subject of “What
means Christianity?” and especially applied
the scripture texts “What ye do unto the
least of these ye do unto me,” and “Love
thy neighbor as thyself;” also that man
was made in the image of God; he referred to
the writings of St. Augustine, in which he
said “No relationship is nearer than that
which exists between man and man.” The
whole discourse was exceedingly impressive
and might be studied as a lesson of divine
love and charity, it certainly could not fail
to produce good results. It is published in
full in the daily papers.
	After the address, Mrs. Sutton, of Park
City, sang with organ accompaniment,
“The Holy City,” and Governor H. M.
Wells delivered a brief and telling address,
in which he aptly included the text, “It is
more blessed to give than to receive.”
Hon. C. S. Varian then presented the
memorial trowel made from Silver King
bullion, to Mr. and Mrs. Kearns, the
founders of the edifice of which the corner
stone had just been laid. In Mr. Varian’s
speech he presented some facts in relation
to the struggles of the orphanage in the
past, and paid a high compliment to the
efforts of Bishop Scanlan and the Sisters of
Charity.
	Mr. Kearns responded with many affec-
tionate allusions to his wife and her desire
to endow such an institute, her devotion,
and that of the noble and self-sacrificing
Sisters of Charity, to motherless children,
and added on his own part, “Even in my
short life there was one bright moment, one
ray of sunshine when I wrote the check
that provided for them a home,” and al-
luding to the trowel, “In years to come
when mine eyes shall rest upon this little
treasure, it will remind me that shrouds
have no pockets, and true charity
knows no creeds, and while we enjoy the
luxuries of the world, that beneath this
roof, the Kearn’s St. Ann’s Orphanage,
must never sleep a hungry child.”
	Senator J. L. Rawlins made the closing
speech, which was a beautiful tribute to
heavenly charity, and the founders and
benefactors of the home. He expressed

[Column 3]
the wish, and thought that “others would
be led to cast their bread upon the waters,
and thus dedicate a portion of their wealth
to so good a cause.”
	The exercises concluded by singing the
national hymn, “America,” in which the
choir and audience joined.


