[WomansExponent | Vol28 | 1899 | August | Issue: 5 | Title: A WOMAN MISSIONARY. | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

A WOMAN MISSIONARY.
	[Mrs. Addison Pratt on the Society Islands,
1850.]
			[Continued.]
	For the first time in my life I took food
as a medicine, forcing it down as I would a
nauseous draught given to save my life.
Two or three times a flying fish found on
deck was dressed and cooked for me: the
sweetest morsel I tasted on the voyage.
The weather was fine, a few days’ head
wind was all the difficulty we had to en-
counter; and had it been possible for me
to have shaken off my seasickness, I should
have passed the time pleasantly. We
spoke an American whale-ship on the pas-
sage. The captain came on board with his
little daughter, six years of age, a very
pretty child. His wife, who was sailing
with him, had given birth on board ship to
twin boys, then six months old. The
captain from his vessel held them up to our
view. We praised the beauty of the ocean-
children, and hoped he might carry them
safely to the end of the voyage. Five days
before we reached Tubaui we saw the
Pamutus at a distance.
	We looked through a spy-glass and saw
cocoanut trees. Hope began to spring up
in my heart that the voyage would soon be
over. Two days before we landed I had a
fainting spell, the most severe I ever had in
my life. I called on the Elders to adminis-
ter to me, which they did, and from that
hour my darkness fled; I was relieved in
body and mind!
	As we drew near the island where we
expected to land, the children began to
talk of meeting their father. It never
once occurred to them there could be a dis-
appointment at hand. Frances, our second
daughter, had often been sad on the way.
She would frequently retire to some seclud-
ed corner to indulge in silent reveries.
When the ship hove in sight of Tubaui,
her countenance changed. On the 19th of
October she was constantly on deck look-
ing toward the desired harbor, her coun-
tenance brightening every moment. The
wind was contrary for a whole day. We
looked through a spy-glass and saw cocoa-
nut trees. We strained our eyes to catch a
glimpse of something to confirm our hopes
that all would be well with us when we
landed. Nothing could we see resembling
human life. The great cocoanut trees
towered their majestic heads far above the
horizon, and their long branches, waved in
the breeze! But the living beings were
enshrouded in the thick foliage of the
shrubbery which grows so luxuriantly ove


[Column 1]
the Islands. My highest anticipations were
to set my feet on terra firma once more; to
get fried chickens and fish and fruits of
various kinds—something to satisfy my 
longing appetite, and a soft bed to sleep on.
	In the afternoon of October 21st the pilot
came off to us. I gazed at him from head
to foot as a representative of the people
with whom I must dwell. He was huge
in size, but I thought him good looking.
I told the captain to ask him if “Paraita
was on the Islands?” He replied: “He is
not.” In an instant Ellen’s face was like
marble! She sat down with folded hands
and closed lips. I was prepared for such
tidings; had often thought that such an
event would only be coincident with many
others of a like nature which had fallen to 
my lot. To be thus informed was not the
bitterness of it. He was a prisoner on
Tahiti! The French governor had him in
custody, he was not allowed to leave the
Island. It did not alarm me, so seared
was my heart to hard things. The captain
sent word to Elder Grouard to come on
board. During the interval the children
walked thoughtfully about the deck. At
length Messrs. Grouard and Alexander
came off to the brig. They could scarcely
believe their own eyes! To see so many
American brethren coming to dwell with
them, to relieve them of their solitude,
filled them with joy and surprise! Mr.
Grouard had been for seven years shut out,
as it were, from the world, having been
sent with Mr. Pratt in the year ’43 from
Nauvoo. He has acquired an air of dig-
nity and sobriety, assimilating him with a
Catholic monk. His eyes are sunken, ap-
parently with sorrow, and his whole ap-
pearance at the time was grave and majestic.
I had seen him in the vigor and bloom of
youth, and thought him a gay, lively man.
Now his look was full of wisdom and years.
He very respectfully invited us to go on
shore.
	We were conducted over the coral reefs
with great care. The Island at a distance
presents a picturesque appearance, the
beach being skirted with ito and burau
trees, also with bananas and cocoanuts
and a variety of shrubbery of the most vivid
green. It being the 21st of October, the
season we expect to see the leaves turning
yellow and falling off, not to see the least
sign of decay conveys to the mind a feeling
of admiration.
	The buildings, though far from elegant,
have an appearance of romance. Little
white cottages in the woods,shining through
the green trees, away from the bustle of
the busy world far over the mighty ocean!
To find the remnants of Israel enjoying,
though in a rude state, an incessant spring!
The idea was exalting to one tired of the 
sea as I was. The buildings are low but
very long, plastered inside and out with
lime made from the coral rock; there can-
not be a purer white. I thought of eating
the good fruit, and weak as I was, I walked
with a light step. Multitudes of people
assembled on the beach to welcome us. As
soon as they could reach our hands, they
saluted us in Tahiti: “Ea ora nu ae, te fetii
nu Paraita,” each by our Tahitian names,
as we were introduced by Mr. Grouard.
	A native man who held the office of
“alcalda,” according to French jurispru-
dence, came and took me by the hand, say-
ing, “vau araitai oe” (I will lead you.)
He had a piece of blue drilling bound
about his loins, a sailor jacket, which he
wore without a shirt: that was his com-

[Column 2]
mon suit. On Sabbath days he dressed
like a white man. We took the lead; the
remainder of the company followed at a re-
spectful distance. I could hear them
laughing behind us, but I did not look
back, so intent was I in talking to my
guide. We soon reached the place where
the former friends of “Paraita” resided: I
mean those with whom he had his home,
they were all his friends. Nabotu and
Terii were their names. The latter was
sick with the measles. As soon as she
heard “Paraita’s” family had come, she
rose by faith above the disease and com-
menced arranging supper for us. In the
same house we found Mr. Grouard’s
native wife with a young babe. She ap-
peared exceedingly timid, would not stay
in the house. We tried to win her con-
fidence, talked by an interpreter, assuring
her we were her friends, that we had come
to do her good. The supper was set before
us, every dish entirely new, except fowl
and fish. Everything was relished. I felt
no aversion to anything that was called
food, it was all delicious to my taste.
	The whole population assembled to
greet us: “Ia ora na otou te haera ra mai to
Tubuai nai,” (Peace be to you in coming
to Tubaui) went around and around.
Evening drew near, the singers came in to
sing. Long grass was laid for a floor, on
which they were seated. The music was
delightful! Their voices are loud and
clear, and no people can excel them in
keeping time. Queen Rapah came with
the rest, and I urged her to be seated in a 
chair, but she refused, so modest was she
and unwilling we should think she wished 
to assume any superiority above the other
women. The moon was then at its full,
and the house was surrounded with shade
trees covered with bright yellow flowers. I
looked upon the humble people seated on
the ground singing the praises of God. I
gazed  upon the scenery which surrounded
the dwellings: the pale rays of the moon
shining through the trees in a thousand
shapes; the tall cocoanuts waving their
branches high up in the azure vault; the
great itoes above all the rest; seen by the
queen of night, while the imagination was
warm with the reflection of the great dis-
tance we had come and the suffering we
had endured, all conspired to fill the mind
with ideas great with meaning. I said,
“God is in it all!”
	Brother Grouard sought to encourage us.
He believed that when the Messenger
(king’s vessel) returned from Tahiti,
Brother Pratt would come: it did not thus
prove. The idea of his being a prisoner
was painful to me, except when I con-
sidered it was for the Gospel’s sake we had
come to a strange world.
	A whole week was spent in conversa-
tion. Mr. Grouard had been preaching
among the Islands for seven years, had
heard very little from the Church. Great
things had transpired, he had many ques-
tions to ask. Hoatan, the native chief
who had the charge of us, ordered the
house repaired and the lot fenced. Seventy
banana trees were planted, and a garden
made with the seeds we had brought. Near-
ly all were new to the natives, they had
never seen any of our common vegetables.
Here in October we make our gardens.
Such cabbages I never saw grown before:
mammoth in very deed! Very soon we
had a fine flower garden to look upon. We
planted corn in November. We had only
to dig up the ground with a spade, it was

[Column 3]
loamy and mellow, everything grows ap-
parently by magic.
	Sister Grouard soon became accustomed
to our habits, and would in a small degree
conform to them. We find her rather a 
sensible, intelligent, ingenious woman.
	A letter arrived stating that the governor
on Tahiti would not permit Mr. Pratt to
leave that Island until all the Mormon
Elders would assemble in Tahiti and sign a
document, entering into an agreement to
teach nothing derogatory to the French
government. This was a trial of our pa-
tience, but we strove to bear it as graciously
as was possible. The good people were so
sympathetic they were ready to weep over
us. 
	The second week we all went to Mahu, a
village on the opposite side of the Island,
five miles over a mountain. We could
walk beneath the shade of trees the whole 
distance. It was where Mr. Pratt landed
when first he came on his mission. The
same family were still living in the same
house where he took up his abode.
They were very friendly. Their little
daughter, thirteen years of age, was the
wedded wife of Brother Alexander, the first
man on the Island baptized into the Mor-
mon faith. She looked like a mere child
and conducted herself like one. The old “Fere
bare ra” (prayer house) stood near the
beach, a tall ito tree in front of each door.
I went into the house where six years be-
fore my husband had been wont to pray. In
the pulpit, just as the sun was setting, I
kneeled before the Lord to thank Him for
preserving all our lives while crossing the 
great waters.
	The second day I returned on horseback.
The children complained of being lonely,
mourned the absence of their father. We
amused ourselves by teaching the native
women how to knit, and studying the lan-
guage.
	On Christmas Sister Crosby and I made
a feast for our families, inviting what few
white brethren and sisters were on our side
of the Island. We had string beans, cucum-
bers and green corn. That was something
to communicate to our kindred in the cold
regions of Lower Canada, where snow at
that season is often six feet deep.
	The people were very anxious to teach
us their language. Nearly all our evenings
were spent in reading and translating the
scriptures. It was a source of great
amusement: there are so many mistakes
made it excites merriment. The house
was thronged at night with natives reading
and singing. Many of them had never
seen a European woman. Our eldest
daughter played the flutina, which amused
and delighted them. It was no little diver-
sion for us to exhibit the little curiosities
we brought with us from San Francisco, to
witness their pleasure and admiration, hear
them eulogize America, and marvel that it
should contain so many wonderful things !
	I brought with me the likeness of the
Prophet Joseph Smith and of Hyrum, which
I hung against the wall of a room in the
mission house. A native brother from the 
Chain Islands, one evening while we were
all seated around the table reading, with-
drew and went into the room to look at the
picture. He kneeled before it in order
that the painting might come in range
with his eyes. For a quarter of an hour
he gazed steadfastly upon it, I believe,
without turning his eyes. I did not suppose it
was an act of worship, but he wished to
impress the lineaments of the features upon


[Column 1]
his mind. I could not help admiring his
devotion. I knew his faith was strong in
the Gospel, and he felt a solemn pleasure in
surveying the features of the murdered
Prophet and Patriarch.
	The Island sisters have great faith in the
consecrated oil, which was blessed by Presi-
dent Brigham Young previous to our leav-
ing Salt Lake City. When I told them
from whence it came and the designs of it,
they would invariably bring their sick chil-
dren to me and request me to anoint them
with the holy oil, nothing doubting but
a cure would be effected; and, according to
their faith, often was it done unto them.
	Their habits of devotion are really com-
mendable. At all seasons of the year they
rise at early dawn. The first exercise is to
call the family and fall upon their knees in
prayer. Often before their first meal,
they ring the bell and go to the house of
worship, read a chapter in the Bible, sing a
hymn, and, if their teacher is present, they
ask questions upon portions they do not fully
understand, seldom continuing their ex-
ercises more than a half hour. They make
many feasts, sometimes calling all within
hailing distance to come and partake. At
other times they send the food to their
kindred and neighbors, and a generous,
share to their teachers.
	On January 4th, 1851, Elder Grouard
made a great feast to celebrate his 33rd
birthday. It was held at his own dwelling
house, a very long building. About one
hundred people were invited. The food
was purely native, with the exception of
fifty mince pies, which the missionaries’
wives contributed. The guests were not
assembled until the food was all arranged
in order. Mats were laid the whole length
of the building, large leaves laid for plates,
likewise plaited for tablecloths. Through
the centre was laid the food, a cocoanut at
each plate; the shells being a bright orange
contrasted beautifully with the green leaves.
	I shall never forget the admiration I felt as
I gazed upon that table spread upon the
ground! Never in my life had I seen any-
thing to exceed it! Mats were laid for the
guests to be seated. A few there were who
had knives and forks. All present seemed
to have merry hearts. Mr. Grouard rend-
ered thanks to the Great Disposer of events,
that he had lived to see that joyful day,
even to greet so many of his friends from
America and have them present on that
grand occasion! When all had feasted to a
fullness, and while remaining seated, Mr.
Grouard arose and addressed the assembly
in a most appropriate manner. He referred
to his long confinement on the Islands, be-
lieving it to be his duty to remain there till
the Elders were sent to relieve him. Thirty-
three years of his life had passed away;
truly his life had been an eventful one.
He felt that the Lord had heard his pray-
ers, in that he had lived to see the faces of
so many of his former friends, and to re-
joice with them in the midst of a humble
and loving people, whose hearts were
warm towards us and were ready to re-
ceive the truth. Thirty-three years from
that day, when he should have attained his
sixty-sixth year, he said, "I will make
another feast." All present, if living,
should be invited. We all responded a
hearty amen!
	Mr. Grouard is a gentleman distinguished
for beauty and graceful appearance; though
by being excluded too much from society,
he has acquired too large a share of gravity
and sedateness. He combines the orator, phil-

[Column 2]
osopher and preacher of righteousness, with
the sailor and native man of the Island. He
has married two Island women. The first
died, leaving him a little daughter one
month old. The second has borne him three
sons. The girl, now four years of age, was
placed in our eldest daughter’s charge, a very
sprightly child. She had never learned
one word of English from her father, which
to us seemed very surprising. With her
new teacher she made rapid improvement.
[To be continued.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
