[WomansExponent | Vol28 | 1899 | August | Issue: 5 | Title: RECEPTION AT STAFFORD HOUSE. | Author: Unknown]

RECEPTION AT STAFFORD HOUSE. 
 	On the evening of June 26th the official
reception of the International Council took
place at Stafford House. Nearly one
thousand guests were present, of whom the
great majority were ladies. The guests
were welcomed by the Duchess of Suther-
land and the Countess of Aberdeen. They
formed a harmony in black and white that
would have attracted the admiration of Mr.
Whistler, the Duchess wearing a lovely
gown of white crepe de lisse, adorned with
bands of blue and silver passementerie,
with diamonds in her hair and on her neck,
while the Countess of Aberdeen was in
black satin richly trimmed with jet, with
pearl and diamond ornaments. Later in
the evening they were joined by Lady
Warwick, who wore a beautiful costume of
white satin embroidered with silver, and a
diamond tiara.
	Among the delegates present, perhaps Mr.
and Mrs. Shen, from China, who wore
their national costume, attracted the most
attention. On all sides were to be seen
ladies who had taken a prominent share in
different branches of philanthropic, educa-
tional and political work. Lady Dufferin
was present in black satin and lace, Mrs.
Creighton, Lady Wimborne, Mrs. May
Wright Sewall, Lady Knightly, of Faws-
ley, Mrs. F. A. Steele, Madame Antoinette
Sterling and many more. Music was pro-
vided by a Hungarian band, and all the
rooms opening on to the gallery were
thrown open to the guests.
	Perhaps the strange irony of life was
never more clearly shown than by the fact
that this great gathering of women should
have taken place on the very night when
the sex in England were being deprived of
one of the powers which they exercised to
most advantage.
					Daily Chronicle.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah,
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months.
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

