[WomansExponent | Vol28 | 1899 | August | Issue: 5 | Title: WOMEN IN LITERATURE. | Author: Unknown]

		WOMEN IN LITERATURE.
	An interesting feature of the Internation-
al Congress of Women has been the large
number of new recruits drawn from the
ranks of society.
	At St. Martin’s Town Hall on June 28,
where the subject of “Women in Liter-
ature’’ was under discussion, Lady Helen
Graham and Lady Cynthia Vincent were
cordially welcomed by members of the Con-
gress. The topic under discussion was
evidently an attractive one to a large num-
ber of delegates, as the room was well filled,
and the remarks of the various speakers
were followed with much interest.
	Mrs. Flora Annie Steele was the first to
speak on the subject. She carried a bunch
of roses that matched the chiffon bow at her
throat and the flowers in her neat round
hat. The novelist’s regret was that the
time limit would only allow of the most
primary interpretation of the subject.
Nevertheless, she made good use of the
twenty minutes allotted to her. Women
in literature, she said, was a subject which
took one back to the beginning of all 
things, and she hazarded the opinion that if
Eve had not bartered her paradise of purity
for a paradise of love, three-quarters of the
literature of the world would never have
been written.
	This novel assertion tickled the audience
immensely, and Mrs. Steele amused them
still further by declaring that it was a woman
probably who was the author of the first 
document. She most likely cut the first
notch in a stick as an aid to memory in the

[Column 2]
arduous round of domestic duties, which
was the beginning of all books.
	Passing from the lighter vein and treat-
ing her subject seriously, the speaker con-
tended that women maintained a high
average of literary merit, and that literature
was undoubtedly a successful field for wom-
en to cultivate, their great strength lying
in their feminine outlook.
	There were other papers and other speak-
ers, but the honors of the sitting rested
with Mrs. Steele, whose address was unani-
mously voted to be a masterly treatment of
the subject.
	As on the opening day, the different sec-
tions were again well patronized on June
28, thus showing that the interest in the
Congress is well sustained. Another sec-
tion which attracted a large attendance was
that which discussed rescue work. It was
under the presidency of Mrs. Benson, wid-
ow of the late archbishop, and was held in
the Convocation Hall at the Church House.
	Lady Frederick Cavendish, in a very
earnest, but at the same time amusing ad-
dress, spoke of the work of the Church
Army among women, and explained some-
thing of the character of the class dealt
with. By way of illustration, her ladyship
quoted the case of a girl of sixteen who had
knocked her sister down. When spoken to
about it the girl’s answer was that she
“only happened to flap up against her sis-
ter, and didn’t mean nothing.”
	There was quite a number of interesting
speeches on this subject by delegates from
different countries, and it was evident that
the audience were in cordial sympathy with
movements having for their object the
rescue of the fallen.
	Another striking paper was that deliv-
ered in the Art Section by Mme. Starr Can-
zi[-]ni on the spirit of purity in art. “I do
not underrate cleverness,” she said, “when
cleverness means real power. But what
matters power and style,if the motive of the
work be unworthy or irreverent? One
thing is certain,” she declared, “though
the greater responsibility must always rest
with men who are stronger, yet neither
good nor evil can exist in the world with-
out the consent of women.”
	An attractive feature,so far,at the section-
al meetings has been the floral decorations.
The rooms have been tastefully adorned
with roses and other flowers, and the effect
has been very pretty. In this respect
Lady Battersea has been a generous con-
tributor, and Mrs. Reggie Bingham and
many other ladies have responded to the
appeal made to them, while there have
been many willing hands ready to arrange
the floral gifts to the best possible advan-
tage.
	There were two receptions on June 28th
after the work of the day was done. One
was held by Mrs. F. Beer at 7 Chesterfield
gardens, and the other was at Lady Batter-
sea’s house at Marble Arch. It was so
arranged that they did not clash as regards
time, and there was a large gathering at
each.
	Lady Battersea’s reception Tuesday eve-
ning for the delegates of the Women’s Con-
gress was numerously attended.
	The house was prettily decorated with
palms and pink and white flowers, with
large bowls of roses placed about in the
different reception rooms. Lord and Lady
Battersea received their guests at the head
of the staircase, Lady Battersea looking
handsome in gray and white brocade, with

[Column 3]
emerald and diamond stars in her hair and
on the corsage of her dress.
	Some of the pretty women present were
the Duchess of Sutherland, in pale blue
satin and pearls; Lady Randolph Church-
ill, in pale pink with some pearl orna-
ments in her hair; while Lady Ulrica Dun-
comb was looking quite lovely in pale yel-
low, with a necklace of pearls and dia-
monds. Among others there were Lady
Aberdeen, Lady Harcourt and Mrs. As-
quith.—Ex.


