NOTES FROM THE FIELD 58 The following is the winning poem the Tintic Stake Relief Society: SACAGAWEA By Melba Allen, Goshen Ward Farflung from out the thrilling past, Emblazoned bright in deeds that last, Are echoes of the great of old Whose hearts beat steadfast, high and bold. And lo! From out that echoing throng Comes a sweet story told in song, A saga, of a maid sincere Whom we should honor and revere. Sacagawea, far from home A captive maid had lived alone Within a strange and distant land Far from her father's loyal band. And oft when trees in green were dressed, When churning waters were at rest She walked along the forest glade And longed for home, this Indian maid. To Charbonneau she soon was wed. She found him harsh and cruel, instead Of loving, kind. T'was then she knew He scorned her skin of copperhue. In spite of trials and deep despair Her dauntless spirit kept her there A heroine in embryo Who on a mission soon would go. And then one morning clear and bright A straggling company came in sight. Adventurers bold, a: motley crew, They came into this land so new. New to the whitemen, yet so old To wandering tribes and chieftains bold. They journeyed westward to the s&, They hired a guide. "T'was none but She. Her papoose, small and newly born She strapped upon her sturdy form. Sure of her task as though 'twere done She led them toward the setting sun. As through the wilderness they'd roam Her native instinct led them home Unto her people's hunting ground Where aid and food they quickly found. No mortal pen can ever tell The trials, the sorrows that befell _ That noble band. And She, so brave, Their faith and food, their lives did save. Her light of courage ere shall cast From out the portals of the past A beacon to all womanhood To build a life of worth and good. * * * * Sacagawea, brave and true, Help us to be a guide like you! Tintic Stake in the Poetry Contest conducted by 

VOL. XXV AUGUST, 1938 No. 8
Editorials
Appreciation of the Beautiful
IN the beginning God created the heaven and the earth.... And God saw that it was good.
One of our inheritances from our Heavenly Father is this love of creation and experiencing joy in seeing that the things created is good and beautiful. One of mankind's most exalted moods is that mood in which he views a product of his own creative genius with approval and has the thrilling consciousness that it never would have been were it not for him. When any work draws out of one the best of which he is capable there is spiritual growth. When one makes a conscious effort to develop so that his best is the expression of truth and beauty, there is the greatest of spiritual growth.
How desperately the world needs the exalted ideal of work! How fortunate is the country with a well-developed folk art! How fortunate is the home with an heirloom, the value of which is increased by time because of the character of the work which is the expression of the truth and beauty of the soul of the artist. The spirituality which he developed with his work will enrich our lives as we grow in appreciation of the truth and beauty expressed. Destroying such a piece of work is sacrilege. It is destroying art, and behind any work of art is the soul of the artist.
A love and an appreciation of such beauty will add spiritual tone to any home. Every home should have some handmade article into which has entered the elements of beauty, proportion, harmony, good true workmanship, which will lead surely if unconsciously to an appreciation of the finest wherever found. If we have not, let us begin now to build for the future.
?Kate M. Barker.
Unselfish Giving
"LET no man seek his own but every man another's wealth." (I Cor. 10:24.)
The Master has truly said that it is more blessed to give than to receive but in giving as in all other activities wisdom is needful. The mother desiring all good for her child is willing to give of her strength, even of her life. But should she always carry the child to shield it from misstep, denying
EDITORIALS
it the opportunity to do, the child would never walk. The teacher who in her anxiety to push the pupil forward does the thinking for it, denies to it the right to grow. The social worker eager to assist people in distress unwisely giving of material assistance and service may actually retard the family's ability to overcome its difficulties and become self-sustaining.
Man's destiny is to become a creator and he is happiest when creating. Denied the opportunity to give of himself he stagnates. The satisfactions of giving are such that once enjoyed unwise giving may result. The psychologist tells us that the mastery satisfaction is fundamental in the psychology of man. Many people give to gratify the mastery impulse. Who does not upon occasion like to do the big thing?the generous thing?to be in reality "the Lady Bountiful?" Someone has said giving makes the sublime appeal to the "I am big" which lies deep-rooted within all mankind. At times we give, particularly of our means, to be relieved of further social responsibility.
There still remain many, however, whose endless giving is prompted purely by the spirit of the Master?the sincere love of fellow man. But no matter what the deep-seated and underlying motive for giving; be that giving material wealth or service, it builds strength and power?strength to overcome selfishness, to share, to love our neighbor as ourself?and is a source of genuine joy.
Sometimes, in our own selfish unselfishness we give to excess, standing in the way of others enjoying the same satisfactions and development which we so highly prize. Forceful personalities unintentionally but frequently monopolize the giving opportunities within the social group, submerging less aggressive members. When continued over long periods of time this may result in the individuals so denied having a feeling of inadequacy which affects personality even as lack of physical exercise affects muscular development.
We often give because we appreciate the fact that we are better able to do so than another, losing sight of the fact that the effect of doing is of greater value in personality than the thing done. There is no surer way to make a friend than to let a person do something for you. Abraham Lincoln recognized this truth and often employed it in winning erstwhile enemies. At one time he was bitterly opposed in Congress by a certain gentleman. So intense was the man's feelings against Lincoln that he refused to speak to him save when political necessity demanded. Lincoln learned that the gentleman owned a very valuable set of books. Approaching him one day he asked for the loan of one volume. Returning it a few days later he so sincerely expressed his appreciation that the gentleman offered another volume and still another. The result was that Lincoln won for himself a loyal supporter and a fast friend.
The Savior stands the pattern in giving as in all else. He invariably gave guidance and opportunity that joy and development might come to others. He had no need of the widow's mite but recognized the need of the widow to make the gift. "He that provides opportunity for another increases the fruits of his own righteousness.