[column 1]
commerce. He never began a letter with-
out writing a line of prayer in Latin in-
voking the aid of Christ. He read the
Bible from beginning to end, believed in
its prophecies respecting the discovery of
America and could repent the Catholic
prayers like any priest; he was an ac-
complished navigator, and repeatedly made
practical voyages. In 1477 he says he
sailed 100 leagues north of the Island of
Thule, or Iceland, but does not seem to
be aware of the traditions of the Scandi-
navians respecting the discovery of
America by the Norsemen 500 years
previous. He sailed south as far as the
coast of Guinea, the Island possessions
of Spain and Portugal, as the Azores,
Madeira, Canary and also the Island of the
Meditteranean. The stories and legends
of the great wealth of India were then
agitating the minds of the people of
Southern Europe. Commerce with India
was then carried on by way of land, the
route around the Cape of Good Hope was
not then known.
	Columbus was desirous of shortening the
route to Asia by sailing westward and thus
facilitating trade. He was convinced of
the sphericity of the earth; but believed
in the dimensions assigned to it by Ptolemy
which were much less than the actual size,
and that the solid parts of the earth ex-
ceeded the liquid. He also over estimated
the size of the Asiatic Continent. His
theory was that if he sailed west beyond
the possessions of Portugal and Spain, he
would soon reach the eastern coast of Asia.
Had he known of the immensity of the
actual distance westward to Asia, it is
doubtful that he would have discovered
America. In 1470 we find Columbus in
Lisbon. His presence here is like the
presence of artists in Rome, Lisbon was
one of the greatest maratime cities of the
age, engaged in commerce with all the
known nations of the earth.
	Here he married Felipa Perestrello the
daughter of a discoverer. The Island of
Porto Santo was conferred on the family of
Perestrello for some achievement, by Don
Henry of Portugal. Here Columbus re-
paired after his marriage and learned many
things advantageous in his future discover-
ies. Columbus had several conferences
with the king of Portugal who listened to
him with favor, but his demands were so
great that Don John did not comply. He
however decided to appropriate the designs
and ideas of Columbus and make the
discovery for himself so under pretense of
provisioning the Cape Verde Islands, he
sent out an expedition to follow the course
mapped out by Columbus. This proved a
failure and when Columbus learned of the
treachery of Don John his indignation was
so great he decided to quit Portugal im-
mediately. His wife having died, he took
his only child Diego, intending to lay his
claims before the Spanish sovereigns. He
also sent Bartholomew, his brother 1485 to
obtain assistance from the English
monarchs, Bartholomew was taken by
the Corsairs, chained to the oar as a gal-
ley, but after three years escaped gained an
audience with King Henry of England, who
was pleased with his plans, but from whom
he received no assistance. Columbus did 
not obtain an audience with Ferdinand and
Isabella until 1487, but he now had some
powerful allies who espoused his cause, among
which were the Dukes Medin Celi and
Medin Sidonia the great Cardinal Mendoza
whose power was such that he was styled
the third King of Spain. Columbus seems

