EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE beautiful Pansy Calendar of Grant
Bro’s. is a handsome souvenir of that en-
terprising firm, and will not only be a very
useful article of household value and an
ornament too, but is undoubtedly a good
advertising investment. It is certainly a
very lovely thing and not likely to get out
of sight on account of its size or lack of
beauty. We tender our thanks for the
holiday remembrance, and wish the firm
success in business ventures for the coming
year.
	THE stores and shop windows are bright
and gay with holiday goods of all descrip-
tions. Never before were there so many
beautiful things displayed as one sees
nowadays. The book stores however are
the most interesting to the writer, Duncan
Mc’ Allister is making a fine display, keeps
the newest books, and magazines, by the
most popular authors and editors, and has
many handsome and unique souvenirs and
gift-books of the newest patterns and in
great variety. Hargetts Bro’s have also a
fine colleotion in the same line' and style of


goods, and last but not least by any means
C. R. Savage’s Bazaar and Art Gallery is
packed full of everything nice and new in
that line and the genial proprietor, who has
cartered to the public taste for a quarter of a
century deserves the patronage of his old
friends and new ones too. His selections
in the way of books are all that could be
desired and his toys are almost more, for the
variety and profusion bewilder the purchaser
completely. Altogether Salt Lake cannot
complain of its book-sellers, for they keep
the market well supplied with fine stationery
and current literature.
	THE Woman’s Cooperative Store has
Christmas goods of a variety of kinds as
well as other goods for ladies and children
furnishes dress materials and trimmings and
the Dress-making parlors of the establish-
ment are ir. running order, employing
competent help and guarantee satisfaction
in the work. In Millinery also the store is
not behind other shops, and it is a good
place to get hats and bonnets, besides wor
men should patronize institutions managed
and conducted by women who have stepped
forward’ in the matter of business. Go to
the Woman’s Store and see what there is to
buy there before purchasing elsewhere.
	THE Juvenile Instructor is a good place
to do business in the way of Christmas
goods, they sell cheap, and supply country
demands: they keep a great variety of
stationery of the finest qualities, they have
a fine stock of the best books, all the Church
works, and are very accommodating. They
also have a good supply of toys, dolls,
games and many such like articles for
children and young folks, and there is
scarcely anything in this style of goods or in
this line that one cannot find at this fine
new building just East of the Templeton
Hotel. The Juvenile Instructor handsome-
ly bound would be an acceptable Christmas
Gift to almost any one, and is safe to recom-
mend in the way of reading matter.


