[Column 1]
﻿A HISTORIC HOUSE.
HOUSES have histories as well as in-
dividuals, and some of them pass through
a variety of singular experiences also like
their masters and mistresses, which written
up after the manner of Dickens for instance
might be very interesting to read even in
this day rich with incidents worth nothing.
To tell the various scenes that have been
enacted in many old habitations would be
to go over the events of many lives, and
might not be entertaining to those connected
therewith.
Whether notable or not the house now
occupied by the writer, is certainly histori
cal in many ways. Old and gray and
weather-beaten, built in the very earliest
time of the settlement of this great City,
and by its founder Brigham Young. Oc-
cupied first by members of his family, and
considered one of the homes of this great
leader and pioneer, whom Edward Tul-
lidge has designated as an empire builder.
The homes of all truly great men are in
a sense historic and of national value, and
Brigham Young’s name grows more and
more illustrious the world over as the
years roll by. At an early period in the
history of the house Daniel H. Wells came
to dwell in it, and here during his residence
therein were transacted many things per-
taining to the growth and advancement of 
public interests, pertaining to the Church
and the Territory, civil, political and mili-
tary as well as things spiritrual.
In the prime of his life, it may well be
said, Daniel H. Wells took up his abode in
the house as it originally stood—an adobe
structure of four rooms, afterwards adding
two more, larger than the others, remark-
ably spacious for those days. Several of
the Wells’ children (some of them now
quite widely known) were born here, and
many came to ask counsel and to hold com-
munication with its genial master. Meet-
ings of men who were taking up the cares
and responsibilities of a new government
were held in this room—for the last seven
years known as the little office of the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and deliberations

