WORLD’S FAIR AND SILK INDUSTRY.

	THE work for the World’s Fair or Columbian
Exposition is going on in the Territory in various
departments, and all sorts of legitimate ways and 
means are being adopted to raise money whereby
to forward the work of collections and exhibits.
There are many articles in process of construction
and it will not be very long until the women will
be able to report positively on some of the work.
Of one fact we feel assured that no other State or
Territory has made the showing in silk culture
and home manufacture of silk, that has been made
here and almost without capital; simply by the
active energy and enterprise of those who have
not only believed in home industries practically,
but have been willing to go to, and do with all
their might, by the exercise of brain and will-
power as well as their hands, whatever was pos-
sible to forward this laudable industry. A small
beginning certainly, and the results sometimes
discouraging, but when one goes over the whole
ground as we have been doing lately and estimates
the full amount of mulberry trees raised, of eggs,
worms and cocoons; of spinning, weaving, dyeing,
twisting, reeling, and manufacturing into articles,
such as sewing-silk, flosses, embroidery silks,
ribbons, laces, vails, handkerchiefs, dress-goods,
fringes, etc. It is quite a history of work,and has
been done with but very little machinery and
most of that of rude home construction.
The greater part of the work has been done by
women and children in all parts of the Territory,
and much credit is due Mrs. Zina D. H. Young
not only for encouraging this industry, but she
has traveled and worked more for it, we really
believe, than any other person. When Brigham
Young laid out his mulberry farm south of the
City (now Forestdale) and built there Mrs. Zina
Young -went down and took charge of the
cocooneries remaining (there one year until
there was a fairly good start of the enterprise.
She has been the pioneer worker in the silk all
the way through, and deserves the credit. She
was the President of the Deseret Silk Association
organized in 1875, the society having auxiliaries
in every county and nearly every town and
ward in Utah. Most of the people here know of
the great exertions made to raise cocoons and
make a success of this industry, but it languished
for lack of means, which ought to have been
forthcoming from those who had abundance to
have made it profitable and would thus have elderly
women, who could by this means have been self-
supporting when not able to do more laborious
work.
	The Legislature of Utah appropriated
fifteen hundred dollars to buy machinery but
through some mistake of the purchasers it did
not prove of the practical value expected. The
Relief Society has also given means, and
individuals as well have subscribed stock, but
because perhaps of gold and other mines yield-
ing wealth sooner, it has not been sustained in
the last few years as it was previously. Brigham
Young had the utmost faith in it and made the
very first start, sending into foreign countries for
the best seed to produce trees for the food of the
worms, as early in 1856. 
	Women and men have been emigrated from
foreign lands who were skilled in the employment
in various parts of the work thousands of dol-

