[Column 2]
	With these words comes a reflection up-
on the first Christmas ever held in this val-
ley, and that by the Mormon Pioneers.
Perhaps the first place in all Christendom,
that the first Christmas has been celebrated 
by them, the Mormon people. Not the 
far-famed city then an oasis in the vast
wilderness of sage brush, watered by its 
one crystal canyon stream then unnamed.
But, in their wagons, tents and hastily con-
structed cabins, a merry, a thankful Christ-
mas, for there were no enemies, no
persecutions, all was hope and faith in the
promise given them. Have they forgotten?
Have they ceased to repeat the legend of 
those days to the children and grandchildren
who have grown up a populouos multitude
around them? Or, can these children 
realize the scenes that in future years shall
be as a romance to historians? Do those
Pioneers sing to the little ones the songs
that belonged to their time? I remember 
hearing one once, and the refrain was this:

"A life on the desert plains,
A home on the mountain’s breast,
Where the Indian rudely reigns
And the sea has gone to rest.”

	Why should those songs which were a 
part of their history, be suffered to fade 
away in the past? They expressed the
emotions, experiences and hopes of that 
time and cheered the Pilgrims, and should
be preserved.
	Are those pioneers remembered and re-
garded as heroes and heroines? Actuated
and moved by the spirit that impelled them, 
is it less grand than the story of the Puritan 
fathers and mothers; that is now a heritage
in every Puritan household? Is not that
spirit of pride already lighted to glow
around the names and memory of the
pioneers? O, wondrous work of a few
fleeting years, so few that not all of those
veterans are passed away. 
	Not many of them saw with prophetic 
eyes the miracle to be wrought by prayers,
faith and works; the miracle already 
wrought and which those eyes not all yet 
dimmed, behold.  O, ye Pioneers! What 
have ye brought to light? Where once
your wagons camped in the arid dust and 
brush. a city’s streets are paved; where
once your camp fire burned, electric lights
now glow, and your cabins have given place
to palatial edifices of industry and com-
merce. Your camp-fire schools are changed
to Academies and Colleges, your looms to 
factories.
	Into the sleeping Utah land came the
prince of light and broke the sleep of ages. 
Your lands of desolate, miry clay have 
turned to bricks, to gold; your eyes have
traced and your hands brought forth to use-
fulness the foundations of coal and iron 
beneath the “everlasting hills;” the granite
and marbles have changed their cumbrous 
shapes to adorn your habitations and the
resting places of your honored dead; the 
mountain streams have washed to view 
their grains of gold; and by the vapors of 
the inland sea and the caldrons of heat
below, the great Alchemist in the subter-
ranean laboratories of nature, has moulded
the veins of silver and copper, lead and 

[Column 3]
gold, wrapped in the rough covering of 
earth. In the desert wastes your artesian 
wells are bursting forth with purer brilliancy 
and far more benefit, than your most famed
political orators; and you have had, if not,
“the shadow of day” “the pillar of fire 
by night,” by the shore of that wonderful
Lake, that the great and the noble come to
view. Where once, barefooted boys (they are
Nature’s noblemen now,) herded their
straying cows and boiled eggs for their din-
ner in the springs that George A. said were
“only half a mile from-some-where” the
magnates of the land hold their feasts, the
feeble invalid and the wonder seeker come, 
in carriages or cars, to drink and bathe in
its healing waters, and bestow their
eulogiums upon its virtues, its delights,
and Utah; and they call it Beck's Hot
Springs. Why! every pioneer’s son knew
its merits long ago. Your “cattle are upon
a thousand hills,” your sheep and lambs
spread like fields of snow and your herds of
untamed horses sweep like clouds across
the plains, until Utah is not large enough;
your names and possessions reach into States
and Territories the wilds of Mexico and the
borders of Canada, while still others bear
the story of the Gospel’s plan to nearly 
every nation upon the earth. Once—the low-
ly and misunderstood Mormons, now, it is 
an honor to be born in Zion, now, to hail 
from Utah is a passport. Now, the voices
of your sons and daughters are heard in the
counsels of Committees of the outside
world.
	Your artists, sculptors, professors and 
authors are acknowledged, your vocalists
and musicians, your choirs and choral 
societies are famed among the professors of
our country. 
	The sons of pioneers who entered this
valley in covered wagons (oftimes torn and 
soiled) and in some cases drawn by a com-
posite team of oxen and cows, with worn
out and repaired harness such as was never
seen before and will never be seen again;
now ride in luxurious carriages behind
thoroughbred horses in glittering harness;
or speed along the old six months trail in 
rail-road carriages in which some of them
are share holders. And this soil of which 
it was predicted, that it would not raise
corn, now yields the fruits of the North and 
the Semi-Tropics, and sends her potatoes
east, her wheat to England, and her dried
fruits back to the States and Territories of
the Union. And yet, when you reached
here, destitute though you were, and the 
crickets destroyed your scanty crops; though
sickness visited you and clothing worn to 
tatters, you were as one said: “a thousand
miles from anywhere,” and you turned
your thoughts to God, your hands to 
labor and waited for the blessing. But the
world you had left followed you when they 
reached here travel worn over the roads you
had made in the trackless wilderness, you 
warmed and fed, and pointed out the way
still on, Still the tide of emigration fol-
lowed your lonely trail, until many nations
have yielded their representatives. Still
they come, but now to wonder, admire and
respect. And one by one, and in groups.


they seek the place where Brigham Young
is laid. Around his silent ashes the foot-
steps of the stranger falls; men who never
saw his face nor heard his voice, but un-
consciously by that visit render tribute to 
his power and majesty of mind among men. 
And they turn to the Temple, a mystery to 
the world, a benediction to us, crowning
triumph of your weary pilgrimage, sacred 
offering to His holy name. 
	Founded under the leader of that
wondrous pilgrimage, it is indeed fitting
that it should be completed under the
administration of Wilford Woodruff, one of
the last of that noble band whose names
will live in immortality.
	Brigham and Wilford! Their names will
arise, more than all others in the Temple’s
history. Each led their people through 
ordeals that tried men’s souls; but the 
clouds are passing away. You had your
black crickets, and the sea gulls came to 
your rescue; you have also had your
political crickets who have tried to devour 
our larger crops but they’ve found the
amount too large and are trying to unswal-
low it, and perhaps, some other Gulls may 
come to our relief in their case. To many 
of our Pioneers, but few more Christmas 
seasons will come, they will have passed to
where the Prince of that Day will greet His
worshippers. Honor, happiness, comfort
and rest be yours while yet you stay; and 
passing to the promised reward, may you
fall sweetly asleep to a glorious awaken-
ing.
	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON. 
Dec. 12, 1892.


