[Column 2]
the honse, and as I met him at the door, 
I said to him, “I wanted you to come, for I
fancied you were hungry, and I have food
that I can give you.”
	Thank you young woman, said the man,
but I must first do the will of Him that
sent me. I perceive, said he, that you are
one of the daughters of Israel; and to such
am I sent, even to. the lost sheep of the
house of Israel, to tell them the way of
salvation.
	While he was talking to me the vision of
my mind seemed lit up by the light of
eternity, and again the star opened, and I
regarded the poor wayfaring man as a
messenger from heaven. The more I
heard, the more I believed, and the more I
longed to obey, and inherit the blessing of
the glorious gospel.
	In short, I believed all he told me, cast
in my lot with the persecuted people of
God. Believing in Apostles and Prophets,
the gospel of salvation by Jesus Christ,
faith, repentance, and baptism for the re-
mission of sins, and the gift of the holy
ghost by the laying on of hands. And I
began more than ever to delight in honesty,
integrity, truth and virtue, and every thing
of good report; and I labored and prayed
continually, that I might keep the com-
mandments, and be saved in the kingdom
of God.
	I now had new motives for exertion, and
patient toil; for I had heard of a better
land, even the land of Zion. And every-
thing, even the star of my destiny seemed
directing me to it.
	So I continued in my place three years
after this, during which time I had more
than one offer of marriage, but upon neither
of these did the star open, and I refused.
	By the end of that time I had saved
money enough, and proceeded on my way
to the land of Zion, under the good star of
my destiny, and kind heaven’s approval.
	I have no time, nor inclination, to relate,
here all the taunts and persecution I had to
endure on account of my faith in, and
obedience to the gospel. Suffice it to say,
the star of my destiny was over me, and I
had full faith and confidence in Him who
rules the stars.
	Soon after I joined the Church I wrote a
long and loving letter to my mother, but
she supposing herself to be a good Chris-
tian,it seemed natural to suppose that I must
have been deluded, and she wrote to the
effect that she must renounce me as a
daughter, unless I renounced my faith.
	This letter from my mother whom I
loved so much, gave me great affliction.
For surely the spirit of the Lord did not
dictate such a course. I wrote again loving
as before, and if I felt one bitter thought I
did not express it, but she never wrote to
me after until she heard I was leaving the
country.
	I was standing on board ship ready for
departure, in the midst of a company of
Saints, we had just been singing one of the
songs of Zion, when I saw my dear mother
stepping on to the deck. The next moment
was locked in her embrace. My mother
tried hard to persuade me to return with
her; and as I felt the affectionate pressure
of her maternal embrace, and fondly looked
upon her aged and careworn countenance,
my bosom yearned over her, and my heart-
strings seemed to cling around her more
than ever. But all these strong ties of
nature, had to be sundered, for I could not
persuade my mother to accompany me;
though the money she brought for my

[Column 3]
ransom, as she called it, might have paid
her passage, over. But truly do I now
know what it is, to forsake my dearest
relative for the sake of the kingdom of
God.
	This parting with my mother was the
most painful part of my life. My brother
Thomas had left the country and had not
since been heard of. John had married,
and settled in a distant country. And here
was I, leaving my poor aged mother alone
and almost helpless in the world. And
how could I resist the conviction that I
ought to stay with her, as long as she lived,
aud comfort her. And yet, over and above
all this, there was the great command of
Jehovah, “Come out of her O my people,
that ye be not partakers of her sins, and
that ye receive not of her plagues.”
	Up to this time I had had no association
with any congregation of saints. And now
I soon found opportunity of making my-
self useful. But I was beginning to take
offence at the conduct of some, when I
heard a kind voice near me saying, "Are
you perfect sister?” And turning I saw—
but much improved in appearance—the
poor wayfaring man that three years before
I had seen sitting upon the stile, and whom
I had relieved with a morsel of bread, and
from whom I had received in return the
words of eternal life; and now he taught
me to understand myself, and my relation-
ship to those around me, that I must not
look for perfection here but, said he, “these
are the poor and despised, and in some cases
the most unlearned and down trodden of
poor fallen humanity; and these, said he,
let us be willing to hope are all trying to
become saints of God in very deed.”
	By the daily exercise of faith in Him,
who holds the winds in His fiat (as it were)
and the waves in the hollow of his hand, we
got over the sea in safety; and traversed
our great overland journey of nearly two
thousand miles of toil and trial—suffice it to
say we had trials by sea and by land; but
we had gained an experience that was bet-
ter to us than gold.
	When we had reached that part of the
way where we obtained the first view of our
mountain home, the joy of our hearts was
beyond compare. Again was the vision of
my mind lifted up as before, and I indulged
in the fancy, that the star opened and again
saw a young man coming toward me, bnt
this time that part of the sight was more
than a passing vision, it was a reality and
so soon to pass away, it was the poor way-
faring man that I had once relieved with a
morsel of bread.
	There we were, comparative strangers to
each other in a strange land among
strangers, and yet not among strangers but
brethren. And this we felt in our hearts
and souls to be indeed the case. But here
we stood at the altar of God, plighting our
vows to each other of eternal love and
fiidelity, without money, or property, but
with our strong hands and willing hearts,
to assist each other in forcing from the
elements of this desert land, the necessities
and comforts of life! And co-working to-
gether with all the saints, in the building
up of the kingdom of God.
	My husband was one of the traveling
Elders who had been called, in England, to
preach the gospel; so that like me, he had
not been to Zion before. I heard him give
some account of his labors, and a thrill of
holy joy ran through my soul, as I heard
the Prophet say “well done.”
	(continued on page 94.)


