ONE OF A STRING OF PEARLS.
	WITH the waning days of December we com-
mence to turn new leaves and register new vows.
How just and brave and true we are going to be
after January 1st! That fellow whom we have
done our best to injure we are going to forgive.
That special peccadillo we have cherished we are
going to abandon. That debt we have shirked
we are going to pay. And so we enter upon the
untried year as children start to school on Mon-
day morning, with clean bibs and faces. Alas!
how many of us come tagging home at the end ol
the year, like these same children at the close of
the day, tatters, soiled garments and tears. But
however much we fail, and however hopelessly
we fall short of the standard set before us, never
let us give over striving, my dear. The time
spent in forming all these good resolutions is not
wasted time, any more than that time is misspent
which a steamer spends in coaling up. The
wheels rest while the furnace fires take on a rud-
dier light the contention down in the furnace
room among the rods and pistons and valves is
hushed for awhile, while the great ship takes on
new fuel. Just so the soul grows richer by that
divine impulse which holds it to the dock of a
good intention. Even he who stumbles most,
yet keeps walking between falls, is better than he
who sits on a fence and whittles his idle life away
in useless shavings, like a truant school-boy with
a pine stick and a new jack-knife. Is it not better
that those children of ours, those precious little
feather-heads who give us so much trouble now
and then, should promise and faithfully try to be
good, than that they should never make an effort
toward right-doing? And to the Father who
watches us so patiently out of heaven as we
stumble and riot along our way, is it not far bet-
ter in His eyes that we aspire, even though we
seldom attain? The eagle that attempts to soar,
even though his wings are clipped, has more of
the eagle nature in him than one that is content
with his cage and with his keeper.		SELECTED


