[Column 2]
lars have been thus laid out, Father Graves of
Provo did more than any other man to further this
important home-industry. The WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT in its volumes contains the record of this
work with many interesting details. Now it is
hoped a new impetus will be given that will en-
rich the Territory and be more advantagous,
than many schemes that are receiving much at-
tention from capitalists and men and women who
are desirous of developing the country. Brigham
Young in his first sermon preached on the Temple
Block said, “The elements are full of silk” and
he was right, for it has been successfully proved,
as to the quality of the raw material. In the
centennial year, 1876 the display of our home
silk, in the Constitution Building attracted great
admiration from tourists and persons crossing the 
continent, who called to see what the people a
thousand miles from civilization had to show as
products of their industry and skill.
	In September 1880 when President Hayes with
wife and party visited the West, while here Mrs.
Hayes was presented from some ladies as a
souvenir of her visit with an elegant lace fichu,
which had been greatly admired by ladies who
had traveled in foreign lands where the most
elaborate and beautiful lace work is on exhibition
in public places.
	Of this fichu the cocoons were raised by Mrs.
Scheneter of this City (German) the silk prepared-
here and the lace weaving done by Mrs. Ursen-
bach formerly of the Jersey Isles. Our  limited
space prevents our saying more now but there is
much more might be written with all propriety
about what the women of this Territory have
done for silk culture.
	The silk portieres that the women of this Ter-
ritory are having made for the Woman’s Building
will be an elegant and appropriate gift. Made of
silk raised and prepared in skeins eleven or twelve
years ago by women for their own personal use,and'
designed and embroidered by our own artists,
these portieres will be effective in representing
our efforts in this direction.


