[Column 1]
	People who have beeu attracted here 
because of this and that; some who have
had letters of introduction from those whom
we had met elsewhere or who had called
before, and some who felt drawn to the
place because of its quaint appearance and
surroundings, or from idle curiosity, or a
desire to know about the peculiar doctrines
of our faith, or were interested in questions
pertaining to woman’s advancement, en-
franchisement and higher education.
	Lastly the romance of this old place is
greatly enhanced by the many poems and
stories written here, and which perchance
were better from the very glamour, that
lingers round the place made sacred by so
many tender associations and recollections
of the past. In the great future which
awaits Utah, these memories may find place,
and the past as it reaches farther and farther
from view grow more rosy-hued and the
children of that generation look back with
a degree of pride and reverence on what was
written behind these “historic walls.” If
there was no sentiment in the world there
would be no poetry,and much of the history
of the heart as well as of the people would
be lost to mankind. We all like to know
not only what transpired in the past but the
feelings, affections and sentiments of those
who took part in the affairs of the times in
which they lived and flourished.
it seems a great pity that such houses
should be torn down, or to destroy the ro-
mance, that clings to these old primitive,
colonial homes of the early settlers who
distinguished themselves in the establish-
ment of the colonies and whose habitations 
are almost a part of their identity.
	But so it is and must necessarily be, the
old must give place to the new, and the
world move onward as the years roll by.
	In the days which we recall when this old
house was new and we were young, life
was quite different from that of the present
time. There were no regular mails, no
daily papers, few women’s papers here or
elsewhere, everything was very poor and
narrow and limited comparatively; women
did not only their own house-work, but
made soap and candles, spun and wove, did
their own knitting, dress-making and milli-
nery, but taught the children and helped in
all sorts of ways. We do not care to go 
back to those days, nor do we wish to see
people live in the old style, but we do hope
some of the old landmarks may be pre-
served to mark the days that are departed,
and to tell the tale of the early Pilgrims
who laid the foundation of this great and
flourishing city.
	Many are the pleasant associations con-
nected with this old house in the mind and
heart of the writer. Memories of loved
ones whose familiar forms and faces, seem
to haunt the rooms where they were wont to
linger and gladden with their sweet pres-
ence. That delightful past lives in its
richness still, and sweetens the lonely

