[Column 2]
and conclusions were arrived at, that had
weight with the community.
The old stone wall with its massive pil-
lars gives a sort of feudal dignity to the
place, and thousands of strangers, stop and
wonder, and some admire the tone and
style this superb, though homely, structure,
antique in its appearance, lends to the long
low dwelling it protects and shelters behind
its gates.
Leaving that past, the history of which
has been recorded in the History of Utah
by Bishop O. F. Whitney, we may with all
due propriety mention more recent matters 
pertaining to the old home known for forty
years as the Wells’ House.
There are in all communities leading wo-
men citizens as well as men, and in this
particular house perhaps as many of these
have gathered from time to time as in any
one house in Utah.
To some this may seem a little exagger-
ated but the facts will we are sure verify the
statement.
Eliza R. Snow, the President of the
Relief Society, the largest organization of
women, this side the Rocky Mountains
was a regular visitor here as long as she
lived and here in this very room most of
the business pertaining to the conducting
of the Society in all its several Stakes and
branches, not only in Utah but throughout
the world has been deliberated upon and
decided. Many thousands of letters per-
taining to this charitable organization have
been written here at this same desk, and
from here sent abroad to nearly all parts of
the civilized world.
Zina D. H. Young who succeeded the
former President, lias made this place her
headquarters in the same way, and still
continues to do so.
Meetings of several different organizations
have been held here regularly or at intervals,
where much has been planned relating to
the interests of women and their intellectual
and spiritual development. The preliminary
gatherings for the work of organizing
some quite important associations have been
held in this house, and credentials prepared
for those who have gone as delegates to
represent the respective associations at
headquarters in Washington and other
places East and West. All the preparatory
work for the Woman Suffrage Association
of Utah Territory, the selection of officers
and their appointments, the Constitution
and By-laws was done here, previous to
the public meeting held in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall.
The Woman’s Co-operative Mercantile and
Manufacturing Inst’n. which represents con-
siderable capital and is managed entirely by
women was originated and held its earlier and
afterwards regular Board Meetings here for
some time.
The Utah Woman’s Press Club was or-
ganized and the Constitution formed here,
and holds its regular meetings in this same

[Column 3]
house. Without alluding to the improve-
ment made and the work done by this club
of writers, we can assuredly say it has been
a great pleasure to meet from time to time,
these bright intellectual women whose con-
stant effort is the advancement in the broad-
er paths and fields of the higher education
of the world of mankind including in its
largest sense womankind.
And now we come to the latest
organization effected here of which no
previous mention has been made in the
columns of our paper, The Reaper’s Club.
This is really a literary club of women, who
are past school or university life, but who
wish to keep pace with the progress being
made nowadays, in the great variety of
studies,such as history, ancient and modern,
current literature in all its forms and phases,
and whose interest in the intellectual and
moral development of the world is such as
stimulates them to make every effort pos-
sible for general enlightenment, moral,
spiritual and physical growth. The club
is limited to thirty members beside five
honorary members the topics so far have
been Queen Isabella, Columbus, Ferdinand,
The Reformation, Savonarola. Among the
things which make this an interesting house
old as it is and queer as it seems compared
with the modern cottages, is the great num-
ber of celebrated people, local travelers,
tourists who have made visits within its
time-honored walls, or calls long or short
at different periods since it was built.
In the palmy days of the early pioneers,
Squire Wells (as he was generally designat-
ed) did a great deal of entertaining; and
though those were the days of scarcity and
high prices, he was famous even then, for
his hospitality. Many dinners and evening
parties were given here to the brethren and
sisters, and upon occasions to men who
were occupied in official positions civil and
military.
Probably there are not one of the Apostles
of this or former times or those in authority
in this Church who have not been entertain-
ed at some one of these social gatherings in
this house, besides many hundreds of others;
not to speak of the many marriages
solemnized here, and other happy occasions;
and indeed of even the deaths of some
people of note, which are known to have
taken place in this old house.
Referring to celebrated people, who have
found welcome in this old house during our
sojourn therein, we may be excused perhaps
in mentioning foreigners, authors, editors
and people entitled to newspaper notoriety.
Among the many not literary have been
distinguished men in Church and state
throughout Christendom, also Barons, Dukes
and Military men, Duchesses, Countesses,
Dowager Countesses and many poets,
authors, lecturers, doctors and newspaper men
and women of more or less celebrity; besides
the people who have neither rank or title,
but simply want to see and hear.


