[Column 2]
brothers, and my little darling, my only
sister. I remember how pleased I felt
when she was born; when I first learned
that I had a sister. How proud I was to be
her nurse. How I would hold her to my
bosom and breathe into her infant soul, as
it were, such loving words as rose so na-
turally then, to lips not yet defiled! And
often have I seen not only my mother but
father do the same. And how often in
after life has my soul seemed to feed upon
the memory of the past, and longed to re-
turn again to, or reproduce such happy
days.
	When we would run through the fields
to meet our father returning from work,
and he wouid often stop, and fondly em- 
brace us all. Then taking baby in his arms,
with words of love and kind encourage-
ment, would lead us home. There to re-
new those tender embraces in which our
loving mother always shared.
	Little did we think then, that the time
would ever come that we should be met
with a scornful frown, but so it came to
pass.
	For some cause that I never understood,
we removed from our peaceful home in the
country to London. I believe that an offer
to my father of higher wages, was the
cause. We had heard wonderful stories of
London, and I remember how we all en-
couraged each other to rejoice in the pros-
pect before us. And alas! I remember too,
how soon we were undeceived.
	The sweet refreshing breeze, the clear
and delicious sunshine, the delightful music
of the birds, and above all the bright green
fields were gone, and seemed to be gone
from us forever.
	Whenever I was sent on an errand, or
had occasion to go from place to place, at
every turn of the street I would look for
green fields but I looked in vain.
	Were I to tell you all the. discomforts of
our new home, it would be but the old
story, that breathes too much of disgust
for description here. Suffice it to say,
every one of us felt unhappy. I can re-
member, how tiresome we children were,
and our dear mother’s patience, and for-
bearance, under all her trials.
	But there was now a new trial looming
in the future, greater and worse than them
all. My poor but good, my kind and
loving father, now-seemed to lose his love
for us, and took to drinking as he said, to
enable him to sleep at nights. I remember
hearing my mother say, “what was good
for her husband, was good for her.” And
as they had walked in the way of virtue
and peace, so they went down the hill to-
gether. But it was not the way of peace
now; Alas no! “the way of transgressors
is hard.” And so it verily was, to them
and us. My brothers learned to roam about
the streets, in bad company, to fight and
swear; and became lazy and saucy to my
poor mother, and untruthful.
	But in the midst of all this degradation,
my little sister Linny, seemed to grow up
so pure and loving; so kind and affectionate,
and even happy. Often as I reflect upon
the past, do I seem to hear her musical
voice, as she would come bounding into the
room, to tell of some kind action done, of
some sweet babe that she had been nursing
perhaps half a day for a penny; and now
that the soul-destroying drink, had brought
us to abject poverty, little Linny’s pence
were often needed for bread.
	One evening, when my father and
mother had been drinking, and had a

[Column 3]
terrible quarrel, I had been tremblingly
watching, in the hope of being able to
prevent them doing each other harm. I had
missed Linny and knew not where she had
gone. When my father and mother were
quarreling, I had often persuaded her to go
to a neighbor’s house out of the way for I
knew such scenes were terribly painful to
her. After getting my parents to bed,
(girl as I was) and seeing them fast asleep,
sat down to wait for Linny; when I heard
her sweet voice gently calling me up the
stairs. We had no candle, inside the house
it was dark; but outside, it was clear and
star light. I crept softly up to the little
back room where we slept. There sat my
sister at the window, gazing on a star,
“Angelina” she said, “sit down beside me
darling, and look at this beautiful star, I
have been admiring it so long, and have
seen fields and flowers, and beautiful trees:
even surpassing the beauty of those of our
dear old home.” “Look,” said she “and
you’ll see the star open.”
	Well we sat down, hand in hand,long and
lovingly together, conversing about the
star, but to me the star opened not, neither
did I expect it would. I remember she
repeated some sweet and comforting texts
of scripture, and passages she had learned
at school, for in the midst of all our sin and
sorrow, we had attended regularly to a
Sunday school.
	The next day Linny was ill: and my
father and mother were sober. Poor Lin-
ny’s sickness increased upon her day after
day. One day she called us all, around her
bed, and told us she knew she was going
to die. “For surely” she said “that
beautiful star was open to me last night,and
saw the angels.” And I verily believe
she thought she did.
	My father and mother now became deep-
ly concerned about Linny, they broke off—
their drunken habits but Linny died point-
ing them to the cross, and expressing a
hope of meeting us all in heaven.
	About this time my father and mother
signed the temperance pledge, and faithfully
they kept their covenant.
	But new trials awaited us, my father’s
constitution was broken, and the miscon-
duct of one of his sons, nearly broke his
heart. In much affliction he toiled on,
but could only earn a scanty pittance. For
alas! who in London will employ a man
that has not strength to do a full day’s work.
	My brother John remained at home, but
Thomas was gone we knew not where.
John was a good lad, and much of our lit-
tle leisure was spent together, at the window
often talking of Linny and the star, until
indeed, we became almost superstitious.
	But our dear parents were more affection-
ate to each other now than they had been
for years and we were leading the lives of
humble penitents, conversing together often
on the love and mercy of God, and our
faith in the atonement.
	But the time of our great tronble came,
our father died; in the faith of the gospel
doubtless, so far as he understood it. And
my mother, my brother and my self went
into service; I obtained a place in the
country. Here I began life anew, with
new hopes, new joys, and new and severer
trials; in my new place I found I had much
to learn. And some people round, while
professing great friendship, were more ready
to teach evil than good.
	There was a man in my master’s employ-
ment lucky for me, (wise people said) he
was neither young nor handsome but he


persisted in paying his addresses to me, and
not supposing him to be guilty of flattery
or deception, I accepted his company some-
times in a walk. One night, when passing
a lonely spot, he made a proposal to me
that I knew was very wrong. And I felt
so indignant, and even surprised and
ashamed that I did not answer; whereupon
he proceeded to violence and a severe
struggle ensued. I resisted with all my
might, and pleaded with the man, begging
him in mercy to desist, but in vain. Then
as I felt my strength failing me, I prayed
to God; When in the vision of my mind
the star opened and a young man approach-
ed, coming to my help. Suddenly I ex-
claimed, “Look! look! who’s that? where-
upon the man, supposing some one was in-
deed coming, ran away in fear. I kneeled
down, and with a girlish heart gave thanks
to God; then walked home alone in safety.
	My mind now became filled with many
and serious thoughts. I saw now how it
was that so many modest and guileless young
women, were seduced and ruined, what a
narrow escape I had had, and how the
heavens had been opened as it were to my
help. And I resolved that I would sooner
die, than I would yield to any inhuman
monster, that sought to gratify his lust at
the expense of woman’s virtue. And that
too often they will do, under the strongest
pretension of the purest love. For this base
man had been very civil and obliging to
me; and had professed to love me with all
his heart, yet upon the slightest danger to
himself, he ran away and left me, and that
in a lonely place, on a dark night.
	I now became more than ever reconciled
to my lot as a servant, paid more attention
than ever to my duties, and had less desire
than ever to be gadding about.
	About this time my thoughts were often
stirred within me, concerning the way of
salvation. Sabbath after Sabbath, did I
attend Church. Joined in the formal prayers,
heard the minister preach, but my mind
was neither enlightened nor comforted. So
prayed in all humility and earnestness to
the Lord, the Almighty God, to guide me
into His knowledge.
	One night I had the following dream,
and of what should I dream but the star.
I dreamed that I was borne away in space,
how, and by whom, I could not tell; but
soared to my favorite star, and as I
approached the ineffable glory, the star
opened, and I entered its hallowed portals.
There I was met by the same young man
that I had seen in my vision before; and
he pointed out to me the beauties and
glories of the place and the exceedingly
pleasing appearance and happy condition of
the people. He told me that if I would
be true to the light of the star of truth,
and follow the divine guidance for which I
had been praying, that I should one day
come there again, be one of that heavenly
order and share their joys.
	Then he brought me down to earth, and
parting said, “If in any turning point of
danger or doubt in your eventful life to
come you can but behold, in the vision of
your mind, the opening star you may
advance.”
	One day, not long thereafter, I saw a
man sitting on a stile near the house; and
my attention was irresistibly drawn to him,
I knew not why. He appeared to me like
one who was tired and hungry, and I felt
a wish to relieve him. My master and
mistress were both kind hearted and good to
