	IT was a bright, clear morning in the
Wasatch range. The lofty, Alpine valley
near the head of the canyon, high up among
the peaks, lay gleaming in the morning sun.
White stemmed quaking aspens stood out
in sharp relief against a background of 
dark pines. Their pale green leaves, shot
through with golden sunbeams, trembled
lightly in the gentle breeze which came like
God's breath from the cool gulches and the
windy heights. Above and beyond the
fringe of trees stretched an unbroken for-
est, and still beyond, yet in the near distance,
rose rocky cliffs and snowy summits, out-

[picture of Lake Annette]

lined in grey and white against the deep
blue sky. The deeper blue of the little
glacial lake, a natural reservoir of icy crystal
water, fed by everlasting snows, rock-
bound on every side, and imprisoned from
below by a confused barrier of broken gran-
ite, dimpled in the morning breeze, and
smiled in a faint and fitful way wherever
the sunbeams glinted here and there over
its fretted surface.
	The sparse yet vital, wild life, peculiar
to high elevations within the timber limit,
made itself heard and seen on every hand.
In every forest opening a swiftly flitting
wing; from every thicket an occasional
clear bird-note; across the little waste of
broken rock the stealthy snake-like move-
ment of the weasel, and from its remote re-
cesses the peculiar, plaintive chirp of the
little rock-rabbit. 

[Column 2]
	Out of the forest comes the far-piercing
cry of a brood of young hawks quarreling in
their nest at the top of some towering red-
spruce; two slowly circling specks on the
sky just above yonder rocky peak show to
the practised eye where, in a blasted pinion
tree, a pair of eagles guard their eyrie; and
upon every sunny Alp, in every dark glen,
by every steep mountain trail, along the
banks of every snow-fed streamlet, and
over the little open valley, smiling in the
sunlight, gleams of color and faint, rare
odors revealed the presence of countless
flowers of a thousand kinds. Above all, a
tonic air, like wine, vital and exhilarating,
giving health, strength, hardihood and joy.
	Along the side of the moun-
tain, and across the Divide,
winds a steep and rocky path.
Up this trail a young man
and a maiden were slowly
toiling, stopping now and then
to recover breath and gaze out
upon the wonderful world
below. To the fisherman,
angling for rainbow trout in
his little boat on the lake,
the trail is but a slender
thread drawn diagonally up-
ward across the face of the
overhanging mountain and
the figures of the young man
and maiden appear like two
small beads moving along this
thread, so close together as
to seem scarcely separable.
But the fisherman has seen
them before, wandering along
a wood-road, hand in hand-
he, straight, strong and stur-
dy as the mountain pine; she,
slender, sweet and graceful as
the wild columbine nodding
to her on its tall stem as she 
stooped to pluck it.
	Was it the golden light of
the early morning on that of
early love that shone in the
faces of these two?
	For them the world was
new and life was new, and
both were full of brightness
and beauty, of poetry and
promise. They paused just
where a fall of rock had car-
ried away the young trees from the outer
edge of the trail, thus affording an unbrok-
en outlook. Far below them lay the silver
lake, fringed with its dark and sheltering
pines, and on its surface quietly rocked the
boat in which the fisherman still stood cast-
ing for the coy and fickle trout. Beyond
the lake stretched a broad Alpine meadow,
carpeted with young wild grass, and dotted
at its farthermost edge with now and then a
rustic cottage, half hidden in a clump of
aspens or of pines. Cattle were grazing
here and there and a ribbon of blue, lined
with light green, marked the course of the
willow-fringed mountain stream. Beyond
the meadow, at a point where the hidden
trail left the forest and came out upon a
wooded road, a long line of pack mules and
horses came slowly into view, and the faint
tinkle of their bells rose up from the dis


tance blended with the shouts of happy
children.
	It was as if the two lovers stood above
and apart from this little world, and looked
down upon it, even as they looked out upon
life, through a clear and crystal glass.
	Broad, beautiful, bright, and bathed in
the atmosphere of youthful hope and antici-
pation, so stretched this lovely scene, and
so lay life before them.
	Above on the mountain trail stood the
girl who had once, her lover by her side,
looked out upon a little world of bright-
ness, warmth and beauty.
	Now, the sun was hidden, the sky grey
and gloomy, the Alpine meadows sodden
with recent rains, the peaks shrouded in
vast veils of vapor which lifted in places
only to grow heavier and darker elsewhere.
The white stemmed aspens now seemed
like ghosts, gleaming wierdly
through the driving mist, while
the old, dead trees, blasted by
lightning or blackened by for-
est fires, stood like unburied
skeletons, and stretched forth
uncanny arms toward the
cloud wraiths; flying above
them. Flashes of lightning
still threw an occasional lurid
light over the dark pictures,
while peals of thunder rolled
down the gulches and shook
the crags and peaks to their
very foundations. At the
feet of the girl lay the scat-
tered columbines, beaten from
their stems by the violence of
the storm.
	White-faced and desolate
she gazed gloomily at the dark
lake beneath her, or at the
cloud fringes clinging to the
mountain summits, or from
time to time glanced fearfully
among the sombre pines of
the surrounding forest, whose
murmuring filled her with a
nameless dread, as if it were
the requiem of her past hopes.
At length she turned timidly
to retrace her steps, but even
as she descended the lovely
trail, the cloud bank began to
lift, and the familiar outlines
of the mountains came into
view. Behind the peaks and
along the Divide, appeared a
narrow ribbon of yellow sky,
which widened to a glowing
sea of glass, upon which floated cloud islands
of a soft and pearly grey. It was as if the
sky were filled with the wings of doves.
The chill wind died to a refreshing breeze,
which like the breath of God came again
from the cool gulches and the windy heights,
laden with balsam from the pines, and
bringing with it health and hope, mean-
while the driving mist had spread out in
long, vaporous sheets or broken into filmy
streamers which again widened, divided,
grew every moment thinner until before the
maiden had crossed the meadow and
reached the rustic cottage, her home dur-
ing the short, mountain summer, the last,
lingering cloudlet had dissolved in the
clear and crystal atmosphere, and the little
Alpine valley was again a world of bright-
ness and of beauty .ANNA D. THRALL.

[Picture of WASATCH BY MOONLIGHT appears in the right]


