A UTAH WOMAN INVENTOR.

	MRS. JULIA FREKE SAMSON, of this City,
has invented an unique music holder
which she had patented Feb. 21st, 1893,
and which has been highly recommended
by musical people here and elsewhere, in
fact it will be a great convenience as the
following letters which are correct copies of
the original abundantly testify.
THE KNUTSFORD,
				Salt Lake City,
						Sep. 27, 1892.
	The music holder designed by Mrs. J.
Samson, examined by me this morning,
combines several advantages which will
commend it to musicians and students.
	Music can be sorted, held in position,
carefully protected from injuries and con-
veniently packed and carried about, by
means of this very comprehensive and
practical arrangement.
	The undersigned expects to save wear
and tear of music and considerable incon-
venience in the future by its use, 
	(signed) WILLIAM H. SHERWOOD,
Director Piano Department, 
				Chicago Conservatory.
	This Testimonial is certified to officially
by a Notary Public.
	Here also is another copy of a letter also
certified to in the same way.
		SALT LAKE CITY, Sep, 28, 1892.
Mrs. Samson:
	MY DEAR MADAME:—Your music
holder, the “Tallyho” is the very thing
our choir singers need to carry their books
in, and to protect from rains etc.
	Thousands of dollars are wasted yearly
by singers having to roll their books in
their hands in their way to and from re-
hearsal. This can now all be alleviated,
your ingenious device making it possible to
carry them straight—also to place them al-
together where nothing need be lost or
forgotten when wanted.
	What is so useful to choristers, must be
equally useful to all others who have, similar
books to carry and keep together. It must
succeed when known and understood for it
is so much needed.
			Yours,
				EVAN STEPHENS.
	Conductor of Tabernacle Choir and
Choral Society Salt Lake City.
	The “Tallyho” can be manufactured
here, and will, it is hoped, soon be put up-
on the market; the difficulty has been lack
of means, and yet it does seem very hard
when home products and articles are so
much talked of, that there cannot be means
furnished to manufacture what would
be so useful and economical in our own
community. The “Tallyho” was on ex-
hibition at the World’s Fair and elicited
considerable attention, but it wants
patronage as well as money. Those so
ardently interested in home work should
take pains to look into this matter. Wo-
men inventors are rare, and Utah should
make the most of those who have shown
ability in this line.


