VISIT OF PEN WOMEN.

	WE were delighted to meet and welcome
to our City on Sunday morning, May 13th,
some of the members of the National Wo-
man’s Press Association and their guests,
whose long expected visit here we had
looked forward to with such pleasant antici-
pation; and though their stay was only
very brief, yet it was a satisfaction to see
and converse even for a few hours with these
bright, brave women, who had accomplished
so much in the world of letters, becoming
so widely known from their work as some
of these women writers have, during the
last few years.
	A few of the officers and members of
the Utah Woman’s Press Club met them at
the depot and drove with them to the
Hotel Templeton, in the big Utah and Mrs.
McCune’s handsome carriage, and after-
wards drove over some parts of the City.
After lunch they went through the Bee
Hive, once the residence of President
Brigham Young, thence to the Tabernacle
and from there to Saltair Beach. Mr.
Nephi W. Clayton, the generous and amiable
manager, running a special train out as a
compliment to the press women.
	The visitors were homeward bound, hav-
ing visited Southern California, the Mid-
winter Fair and places of interest, includ-
ing the Yosemite, the Geysers and big trees,
and also attended the Woman’s Congress in
San Francisco, some of the ladies having
read papers and also spoken at the Congress.
Most of the party were from Washington,
D.C., others from Boston, Baltimore and
Chicago, and one very bright little woman
from South Carolina. They traveled in a
special car all the way, the Demarara, hav-
ing started on their trip westward April 14;
from here they went on to Denver and
Manitou, expecting to reach Washington
on the 17th inst.
	Mrs. Mary E. Lockwood, chief of the
party, is the President of the U. W. P. A.
and was one of the Vice Presidents of the
Board of Lady Managers of the Columbian
Exposition, has published some books and
is editor of the “American Monthly
Magazine,” she has a home at the National
Capital; Mrs. H. W. Balston, correspondent
of the Woman’s Tribune, and a poet of some
celebrity, known best by her poem of 
Columbus, written expressly for the World’s
Fair; Mrs. A. Maynard Richardson of
Boston, best known in art work from her
Limages pottery and in the literary world
for her art criticisms, and she did valuable
work at the World’s Fair as one of the jury

[Column 2]
on art. She treats on other subjects also
and is a very clever writer, and brilliant
women; she has a studio in Boston and is
well up in art technique; she hopes to
come west next year to make some
sketches.
	Mrs. Emily Charles Thornton (Emily
Hawthorne) has written poetry for papers
and magazines all her life, has published
some of them in book form, elaborately il-
lustrated; she is a correspondent of Advanced
Thought. Mrs. Julia A. Anderson is cor-
respondent of the Philadelphia Daily News,
has been during the World’s Fair a secret
service writer, but she is now devoting
much of her time and best efforts in writ-
ing a book which will soon be published.
	Mrs. Joanna Turner, an ex-army nurse,
had seen some actual service, and is a cor-
respondent for the Wisconsin State Register.
Mrs. Elvira Bliss Sheldon, correspondent
of Washington Daily Times, and Canton
Clipper, Ill. Mrs. J. L. McCreary, cor-
respondent of Humbolt (Iowa) “Kosmas.”
Judge Clark of Washington, D. C., was
among the gentlemen of the party, also Mr.
Geo W. Grey, whose daughter was also
one of the party; and Mr. Henry Sampson
and wife;—one or two other gentlemen of
the party had hurried homeward without
stopping over.
	Mrs. B. W. Moses, of Washington, in-
terested us very much on account of hav-
ing heard of her through Bishop Whitney,
who was at one time a guest at her house in
Washington in company with her nephew,
Jim McKnight, well known here in his boy-
hood. nephew of Feramorz Little and
grand-nephew of President Brigham
Young. Mrs. Moses is a brilliant talker
has seen much of the world, has traveled
extensively in foreign lands and has some-
thing interesting to tell. She intends com-
ing to Salt Lake again in the near future.
There were other women of note not
regularly engaged in press work, but doing
some special  correspondence for Eastern
papers while away.
We hope and trust the party will have
some pleasant memories of Utah and their
visit here, and certainly those of us who
met and conversed with them, will always
be more interested in their welfare and suc-
cess because of the bond of union and love
formed by the one day’s pleasant associa-
tion and interchange of kindly thought.


