UTAH FEDERATION OF CLUBS.

	THE Utah Federation of Woman’s Clubs
held its first Annual Convention in this
city, Thursday May 10th, delegates from
the Ladies’ Literary, Utah Woman’s Press
club, Reapers’ Club, Cleofan and
Woman’s Club, of this city, the Nine-
teenth Century Club of Provo, the Spring-
ville Woman’s Ciub, the La Coterie, the
Magazine and the French Circle Club of
Ogden being present.
	The morning meeting was an executive
session of the general officers and of the
several clubs; the chief business consisted
in the election of officers for the ensuing
year. A nominating committee was ap-
pointed by the President and the vote was
by ballot, which resulted in the election of
Mrs. C. E. Allen, President; Mrs. Patten (of
Ogden,) Vice President; Mrs. Emma
McVicker, Secretary, Miss Georgia Webber,
Treasurer.
	At the afternoon session there was a
large attendance of members from the


several clubs, in the Federation, and the
variety of colors in ribbon denoting the
respective clubs with the artistic floral
decorations, added to the bright intellectual
faces of the women present, made a charm-
ing and delightful picture. Most of the
ladies spoke without notes or memoranda.
Mrs. Jennie Leonard of Springville gave
quite a practical address on the subject, “Is
the limitation of club numbers desirable?”
The next subject was “Home Talent and
Outside Talent.” Mrs. Nellie Little gave a
very able address upon “Parliamentary Law”
and Miss Josephine Kellogg the President
of the Nineteenth Century of Provo made an
exceedingly interesting speech and regular
law argument on “Helps and Hindrances
of Club Life.”
	The representatives of the Ogden Clubs
invited the Federation to meet there next
year and the offer was accepted.
	In the evening there was a session at the
First Congregational Church, the ladies of
the Cleofan had beautifully ornamented the
platform where the officers and speakers
were seated. Mrs. Carlow of Ogden, the
retiring president, made a most efficient
officer; and her charming appearance, and
gracious presence are fitting and appropriate
to the position. An organ solo by Mrs.
Hamilton opened the evening session and
the first speech was made by Mrs. Farlow
on the “History of Woman’s Clubs” and
her manner, voice, style and the impression
upon her audience was telling in the ex-
treme, and she handled her subject in a
masterly manner. Miss Geneva Jennings
sang two airs, has a clear soprano voice,
has been studying recently in Chicago.
The Treble Clef Society composed of
ladies sang the “Water Lily” and
Lullaby” song sweetly, Professor Krouse
accompanist. Mrs Patton gave artificial
society some severe cuts, her subject was
“The Social Phase of Club Life.”
	Mrs. C. E. Allen’s address came last and
she was heartily applauded, her subject
was “Educational Influence of Woman’s
Clubs” she dwelt impressively upon self-
culture, and also the good fellowship pro-
duced by the opportunities for mutual
help afforded by Woman’s Clubs.


