	QUESTION.

	IN looking down the columns of a daily
newspaper I noticed nineteen different re-
ligious sects. I ask which one of them
all have the true gospel of our Savior
Jesus Christ? I feel that this is a most im-
portant question to understand—it involves
the salvation of all mankind. Ephesians 4th
chapter, 4th verse it reads, “There is one
body and one spirit, even as ye are called
in one hope of your calling, ” 5th verse, one
Lord, one faith, one baptism.” Read St. Mark
1st chapter 5th verse, “And there went out
unto him all the land of Judea and they of
Jerusalem and were all baptized of him in
the river of Jordan, confessing their sins.”
St. Mark from 18 to 20th, verses “And Jesus
came and spake unto them, saying, “All
power is given unto me in heaven and in
earth. Go ye therefore and teach all
nations, baptizing them in the name of the
Father, and of the Son and of the Holy
Ghost. Teaching them to observe all
things whatsoever I have commanded you;
and, lo! I am with you always, even unto
the end of the world. Amen.”
	What language could be more plain or
positive in portraying the true , plan of sal-
vation? Here we can read the Saviour’s own
words given to his disciples after his resur-
rection and just before his ascension up in-
to heaven. The same gospel is repeated in
St. Marks last chapter from verses 15 to 20
“And he said unto them, go ye into all
the world, and preach the gospel to every
creature. He that believeth and is baptized
shall be saved; but he that believeth not


shall be damned. And these signs shall
follow them that believe” etc. We know by
reading the Savior’s own words as they are
written in the Bible, and not the doctrines of
men, which is true. And he gave some
Apostles and some prophets, and some
evangelists and some pastors and teachers,
for the perfecting of the saints and for the
work of the ministry, for the edifying of
the body of Christ “till we all come in the
unity of the faith, and of the knowledge of
the Son of God, unto a perfect man, unto
the measure of the stature of the fulness of
Christ.” Thes. 5th chapter verses 19 and
20. “Quench not the spirit. Despise
not prophesyings.”
	How can those who profess to be
ministers preach the true gospel when they
deny there should be prophets or the gifts
of the spirit? It took prophets and
apostles for the work of the ministry. They
have another plan different from the Bible
plan that the Savior taught, and how are
we to know that their gospel is true. We
read in St Mark’s last chapter verse 2, “And
they went forth and preached everywhere
the Lord working with them and confirm-
ing the word with signs following,” Amen.
	The Savior has not returned
to earth to change His gospel, He
would not change it, it is the everlasting
gospel. Rev. 14th chapter 6th verse, “And
I saw another angel flying through the
midst of heaven, having the everlasting
gospel to preach unto them that dwell on
the earth, and to every nation, and kindred
and tongue and people,” 7th verse, “Saying
with a loud voice, Fear God, and give
glory to him; for the hour of his judg-
ment is come, and worship him that made
heaven and earth, and the sea and the
fountain of water.” How this language
of St. John’s accounts for all these different
diversified gospels being advertised. The
true and everlasting gospel ceased to be on
the earth, and the angel that John saw had
to restore it again in its primitive order,
with apostles, prophets, helps and govern-
ments, with its gifts and blessings, the
same faith which we must contend for, that
was once delivered to the saints, and John
says, 18th chapter 4th, verse “And I heard
another voice from heaven saying, come
out of her, my people, that ye be not par-
takers of her sins, and that ye receive not
of her plagues;” 52nd verse, “For her sins
have reached unto heaven and God hath
remembered her iniquites.” Second
Epistle of John 9th verse, “Whosoever
transgresseth, and abideth not in the doc-
trine of Christ, hath not God. He that
abideth in the doctrine of Christ, he hath
both the Father and the Son.”
