[Column 1]
SOME PICTURES AT THE ART
	PALACE IN THE WHITE
			CITY.

	NORWAY, land of the ancient Viking, of
Olaf the cliff-scaler, and Olaf the Saint,
may not be important in art, yet she sends
us wholesome pictures, such as might be
expected from a country peopled by men
and women in whom the sentiments of
home-love and religion are strong.
Mountainous and with a coast washed by
the Northern seas, we have a preponderance
of wild, landscape and marine. The her-
ring-fishery; the fos; the village crowded
between the feet of glaciered crags and the
deep fjord; Lofoten, bleak Islands of the
Arctic—place of the Maelstrom—the Nor-
wegian artist paints with simple pride.
“Raftsund,” by Normann, is a specific
example evolved by honesty from crude
art standards.
	Of large canvases England sends not one.
“The Roll Call,” “The Last Muster,”
“Hercules wrestling with Death for the

[Column 2]
Body of Alcestes," are pictures whose size
is at variance with the importance of their
subjects. Surely of the art of yesterday
if we must place it there so soon, “The
Roll Call,” by Lady Butler, is a picture
that will be cherished for many a to-mor-
row. The bravery of a brave nation’s
soldiers is shown without a touch of vanity.
. In the school of elegance, Sir Frederick
Leighton leads. “The Garden of the
Hesperides,”
	“Daughters three,
	That sing about the golden tree,”
seems to end the possibilities in euphony of
line and color. “Requiescat,” by Briton
Riviere, carries us into the region of
Tennysonian heroics. George H. Mason
evokes delicious poetry from the youth of
the nineteenth century. His lovers return-
ing from the fields, in “The Harvest
Moon,” his “Girls dancing on the Sea-
shore," breathe a love as ingenuous, an in-
nocent as sweet, as any of the Golden
Age.
	England has never lacked for watchers of
the sea and sky. Henry Moore is the latest
devotee. With him impressionism and
knowledge go hand in hand. “Morning
Bright, ” is a study in azure. The blue sky
arches over the blue sea, the waves glide
rhythmically and all is joyous. Air, grace,
out-door-feeling—these are the artists’
aims. Linnell, on the contrary, takes us
back to studio traditions. “Storm in
Autumn,” is grand and dramatic, the tones
are rich but conventional, the sky a memory
triumph.
	Sir J. Everett Millais—Geo. Frederick
Watts, these two masters give us four mir-
acles of art: “The Ornithologist,” “Sweet
Emma Moreland” and “Love and Death,”
“Love and Life.” Millais paints as no one
has painted before. He seeks popularity
and we give him applause. He touches
with genius the narrow prettiness of English
home life and makes it classic. The cher-
ub, who with wide-open eyes,looksat the dead
bird in the old enthusiast’s hands—who but
Millais would have painted her so well?
Since the prim little maid we saw in “The
Minuet,” he has done nothing better. True
to his theory of woman’s place in art, as a
thing to be loved, he has painted “Sweet
Emma Moreland”—ripe-lipped, violet-
eyed, dainty-limbed; a sweet adjustment
between the spirit and the flesh.
	In Watt’s grand allegories we see Love,
his wings outstretched, standing amid
roses—powerless to bar the steps of the
veiled shadow. Life—her face radiant with
surprise and joy—led by Love up the steep,
stony path to the mountain’s summit.
	Of pictures from other nations we have,
from Holland, Josef Israel’s masterful
“Alone in the World;” from Germany,
Garbiel Max’ psychological study, “Kather-
ina Emerich” from Italy, Augusto
Corelli’s, “Thanksgiving”an evening on the
Campagna of Rome. France, it seems, has
