RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	THE General Conference of the Relief
Society was held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall, in this City, on Thursday April 5th,
1894—Mrs. Zina D. H. Young presiding
her Counselors Mrs. Jane S. Richards,
Mrs. B. W. Smith and Mrs. Sarah M.
Kimball, were present also the Treasurer
Mrs. M. I. Horne and Mrs. E. B. Wells
Secretary.
	There were many representative women
in the upper stand from the several stakes
of Zion, and the congregation was quite
large for the morning session. Exercises
commenced with singing “Lord we come
before thee now,” and prayer was offered
by Counselor Bathsheba W. Smith, singing
“Now let us rejoice in the day of Salvation.”
The Secretary read the minutes of the
October Conference (forenoon) which were
accepted. Opening remarks were made by
the President in which she greeted the
sisters affectionately. President M. A.
Hyde of Sanpete Stake was the first speaker.
Her remarks were spirited and to the point,
she referred particularly to the excellent
condition of the Society over which she
presided. Corrected an error made in the
grain report from the Stake, said it should
have read ten thousand bushels of wheat
instead of one thousand.
	President Adeline H. Barker, Cache
Stake, urged the sisters to rally round their
President and uphold, sustain and love her
thus helping her to carry the great
responsibility which rested upon her as the
President of a great organization. Spoke
tenderly of the wonderful work done in the
Logan Temple and the blessings we who
live in this day and age enjoy.
	President of Wanship, Summit Co. made
a few remarks also bearing testimony to
the truth of the Gospel, and stating they
had no poor in their Ward.
	President Jane S. Richards of Weber
Stake spoke in an interesting manner of
the power of healing and told of some
wonderful instances; thought it should be
our duty to comfort the sorrowing and help
lift the burden from the weak and encour-
age the doubting. Referred to the first or-
ganization of the Society by the Prophet
Joseph, spoke feelingly upon love, charity,
union and many subjects that were calcu-
lated to promote the growth and the
prosperity of the Society.
	Mrs. Louissa Jones, Secretary Relief
Society Beaver Stake, made a clear concise
and definite report concerning what had
been accomplished recently in that locality.

[Column 2]
	Mrs. Anderson Counselor Relief Society
of Bannock Stake, made an able report and
said the attendance was large, the Confer-
ences even in Midwinter having specially
large congregations.
	President Susan Grant, Davis Stake made
a brief report and spoke impressively of the
death of President William R. Smith of
their Stake, his able help and wise counsel
to the Society also of the recent death and
funeral services of Jesse W. Fox; thought
the white drapery used by our people on
these occasions took away some of the
gloom that prevailed when all was black;
President Lydia Rich of Morgan Stake,
made some good points in regard to saving
grain, and also upon charity, and said none
there were really destitute, she expressed
great joy and satisfaction in this labor of love
and exhorted all to diligence.
	President Mary John, Utah Stake, spoke
of the great number of branches to be
visited in that County and in brief what
had been accomplished; related a dream
she had which had proven to her that
Brigham Young was the lion of the Lord.
	President Mary Jane Atwood believed in
being prompt in all that we were expected
to do, and desired to have wisdom above
all things to perform her labors among the
sisters, wanted to promote union throughout
the stake, spoke considerably upon the
proper discharge of duties pertaining to or-
ganization work.
	Counselor Sarah Forsythe of Wayne
Stake, referred to the great energy and
perserverance, diligence, kindness and faith
of their President, and the confidence she
had inspired in all those associated with
her, and of the good work that was increas-
ing among them, notwithstanding the many
inconveniences under which they labored,
and being such a great distance from head-
quarters.
	President Zina D. H. Young spoke elo-
quently of the sacrifices the Saints had
made in leaving their homes, and the graves
of their forefathers to come to Zion, of the
trials and privations many had endured,
alluded affectionately to the hand-cart com-
panies, and the crisis which now seemed
impending.
	President M Isabella Horne, of Salt
Lake Stake referred to the prophetic sayings
of Joseph Smith and others now being ful-
filled, and of the prosperity which had at-
tended this people in these valleys of the
mountains; the enjoyment we had in the
angelic work of looking after and supplying
the wants of the needy and in comforting
those who were cast down and needed
sympathy, brought up many examples of
faith, and referred to instances which occur-
red in the days of the Savior; thought per-
secution made us strong, but seducing in-
fluences were dangerous. Sang Doxology,
benediction by Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball.


