WOMAN’S PATRIOTISM.

	EVERY nation has its heroes, its patriots,
and statesmen, and proclaims their virtues
far and wide, till they seem to walk before
us as examples, as guides and instructors,
sometimes for good, sometimes for evil. 
	Though history generally makes most
familiar to us, men who have dedicated their
lives to their country, the opposite sex,
women have been no less active. Prejudice 
and ignornace have for centuries buried in
oblivion their virtues, and brought to
daylight only their frailties, never striving
to enlarge and elevate their idea and
motives.
	But that time has passed. We live in an
age of progress, when the very atmosphere
cries ‘‘Onward and upward,” and woman
is beginning to take her right position in
the world.
	It is apparent that she is God’s appointed
agent of morality. She teaches, she in-
spires those sentiments and feelings which
are called the virtues of humanity, and
whether these virtues shall progress,
whether the permanent improvement of our
race shall be upward, depends on how man
treats her. Was it not a woman that was
first to proclaim a risen Saviour? Was she
not the one chosen by our Lord himself, to
go forth bearing the glad tidings to the sor-
rowing disciples, that their Redeemer lived?
Do we. not plainly see that Christ recognized
woman as the equal of man, and who, after
this, shall say, ‘‘Stand back, woman?”
What is man without woman? He is selfish,
prejudiced, and easily cast down, while he
calls himself “lord of all creation.” Not
so with woman. She is the prop that keeps
him standing. He, from his pedestal of
honor and renown, smiles benignly upon
his worshipers. He may be consulted in

[Column 2]
the affairs of state, and he exults in his own
greatness. That is one side of his nature,
wait, just wait, till he gets within the four
walls of his home. He finds the woman;
she plans and plots for him the glorious
works of the future, she patiently assists
him with his lectures, his writings, his
everything, while the poor tired statesman
smokes a quiet cigar, or visits the land of
Nod.
	The life of Disraeli, England’s late illus-
trious statesman proves this when weary
and worn out with  the complex questions
of state, he was ready to throw up honor
and renown, and only cheered by a wife
who eagerly aided him by words of com-
fort, clearing away the dark clouds of doubt
and mystery. Is it not time that woman
claimed her own? Why should others
shine by her efforts? Even if her path be
not so high as this, every woman may be a
patriot, and do her country a world of good.
Every woman whose object it is to raise her
children to be good,useful men and women,
who are willing to defend their flag from
insult and injury, has placed a boon in the
hands of her country. How true it is that
‘‘the hand that rocks the cradle, is the hand
that rules the world!” Her trials and suf-
fering may soon be forgotten, but her deeds
will last forever.
	Though not in the power of all to com-
mand upon the battle-field as Joan of Arc,
Boadicea Bona Lombardi or the Maid of
Saragossa did, yet her work is none the less
great.
	Harriet Beecher Stowe illustrates a case
where the pen has proved a potent factor in
the female hand. How that book, “Uncle
Tom’s Cabin,” inspired noble, deep think-
ing men and women to put down the curse,
that bid fair to destroy this boasted land of
Liberty. 
	The story was not the outburst of
a chimerical brain, but the truth as gleaned
from actual facts. The volume was not
planned at once. No, like the far off light
which the traveler sees, but which comes
no nearer to him save by his own exertions,
step by step, every time the foot goes for-
ward coming nearer the journey’s end so
with her, humanity struck the flint, and the
tiny spark inspired her. Onward she
pressed, the goal was reached and a blow
struck in poor, suffering Africa’s behalf.
	This writer was a patriot true and bold,
shunning not the boulders that darkened
her path, fearing not the hate of her South-
ern brethren, ready to give her life for
humanity.
	She had not the fiery eloquence of Clay or
Webster, but she made use of the talent
placed in her hands, and her task was as
faithfully performed as those of Lincoln,
Grant or Farragut.
	The world is beginning to learn that,
after all, the progress and prosperity of a
nation depends as much upon the woman
as the man, and to gain the desired ends,
their rights must be equal, that they may
walk together, one supporting the other,
till Purity, Justice and Truth, shall clasp
hands, never more to be rent assunder.
	FLO.
San Francisco.


