an opportune time, she took in the situa-
tion as a whole; she knew how willing he
was others should bear his responsibilities,
and his mother was of the same type. She
had loved Anna as a sister and desired to
watch over her children, but she felt that the
father ought at least to accept the position
of a parent, she had hoped it would have
aroused his manhood to have such a charge
upon his hands and heart—but she saw
now with sorrow and with pity, that even
Anna’s death had not had the effect she had
hoped and looked for. Mrs. Bland almost
choked with emotion as she said “Maitland
I must speak to you as I think a sister
should, you must be aware that there is a
solemn duty resting upon you in the care
of these helpless children, a duty which
cannot be fulfilled by any one but yourself,
and I entreat you now, as you value your
future happiness, and theirs, not to leave
them here and go away. I will do my
part but you must also do yours, as a
father should.”
	“But my mother needs me cousin Jane,
she is in great trouble as you know, and it
is my duty to stand by her and defend
her.”
	“Cousin Maitland far be it from me to
wish you to neglect your mother, but she is
a woman in years; and has seen much of
the world, she will not be at a loss for
advisers, she has those near her capable of
giving good counsel, and she can wait;—
she will not expect you to leave these lit-
tle children to come to her, they should be
your first thought. I cannot consent to
your going, my better judgment tells me it
would be wrong, Anna would not have for-
saken these children had you been taken


away, she would have been father and
mother both as nearly as possible, let me
plead for her—you surely will reconsider
this idea of going away.”
	“Cousin Jane excuse me if I say I must
go, there will be a ship sailing in a few
days now—I will try and come back soon
bringing my mother with me—I cannot
bear to stay here now that Anna has gone, 
I never liked the country as you know, it
was to please her that I came.” Mrs.
Bland felt it was hopeless to say more but
decided to ask the Doctor to add his en-
treaties to hers, and so they parted for the
night, her mind full of the grave phase of
the difficulty she had to face, while he only
thinking of himself, longed to be off and
away, and forget unpleasantness in new
faces and scenes. Before retiring that
night Jane talked long and seriously with
her husband, who promised to do his best
to awaken the fatherly instincts of Mait-
land and make him see the wrong he would
do by leaving his children to others, and
his affairs with a steward who was very
incompetent to manage for him when his
master was there to oversee. In a few days
Dr. Bland found an opportunity to speak to
Maitland, and he listened attentively for he
held the good Doctor in the highest estima-
tion, but he made no promises, and as time
went by it was very apparent he intended
going; the servants were gossipping among
each other as is quite natural, and the
houeskeeper came to Mrs. Bland with the
news as she imagined it to be, that his
Lordship (her young master) was about to
leave for England.


