NATURE.

	WHAT is nature? It was the decree of 
God that went forth when worlds were
made. It is shown in all His works.
How grand, how beautiful! The heavens,
the earth and the sea declare His name.
The sun, that glorious orb of day, the
source of light, heat and life. The moon,
the queen of night, and the countless
numbers of stars that light up the firma-
ment. The air we breathe. The seasons
as they roll around, bringing seed time and
harvest. Old ocean that years change not,
lakes, rivers and forests. The mountains
whose lofty peaks tower toward the sky.
Nature, what a field for thought and
adoration! Her book is open to all. The
animal, mineral and vegetable kingdoms,
with man at the head. Man, the Creator’s
greatest work. Placed here on earth for a
purpose. Will the time ever come when
mankind will realize as they ought, why
they are here, and what they are here for?
How much sorrow and suffering might be
avoided if they but thought of these things
in early youth. The laws of God would
be regarded in all things, spiritual and
temporal, and they themselves receive the
blessings. The mineral kingdom—what a
source of wealth to man? Its supplies are
inexhaustible. The vegetable kingdom,
without which man could not subsist.
What beauty! What perfection and order.
There are seldom any freaks in nature and
in her wise economy nothing is lost, al-
though on one hand constant wear. Yet on
the other continual building up. Should not
men’s hearts flow with gratitude to the
giver of all good whose wisdom passeth all
understanding. Could such a world have
been made by chance? No, man alone has
said, “There is no God.” The wonders of
nature are to be seen all around, above,
beneath. The unbeliever is to be pitied.
His mind, that God-like gift of intellect,
must be dark indeed, cheerless and hope-
less. Religion, the love of God is man’s
only solace.
	“Creator yes! Thy wisdom and thy word
	Created me! Thou source of life and good!
	Thou spirit of my spirit, and my Lord:
	Thy light! Thy love, in their bright plentitude
	Filled me with an immortal soul, to spring
	Over the abyss of death; and bade it wear
	The garments of eternal day, and wing 
	Its heavenly flight beyond this little sphere,
	Even to its source, to thee, its Author there."
