BOX ELDER STAKE.

	Quarterly conference of the Relief Society of
Box Elder Stake, convened in the Tabernacle

[Column 2]
at Brigham City, on the 13th of March, at
ten o’clock, a. m. President Olivia Wider-
borg presiding. Singing, ‘‘Do what is right
let the consequence follow.” Prayer by
connselor Mary Wright. Singing, ‘‘Hail,
to the brightness of Zion’s glad morning.”
Roll called, minutes read and accepted. Re-
ports were made by Sister Harper, president
Calls, Fort; Sister Watkins, president
Fourth Ward, Brigham City; Sister Cordon,
Willard; Sister Michelsen, president of
the Scandinavian Association; Sister
Gregorsen, counselor Third Ward, Brigham
City; Sister Thorne, president Three Mile
Creek; Sister Bigler, counselor in Second
Ward, Brigham City; Sister Jensen of
Mantua. Each made encouraging remarks.
	President Widerborg, explained that
Sister Mary E. Snow has resigned her
position as president in the second ward, and
her counselors had done remarkable well
in her absence. The Lord will bless Sister
Boden, who will be her successor. Sister
Charlotte Boden responded with a wish to
be faithful and perform every duty.
	Sister Bowring: I heard Brother Kim-
ball once say we should be as clay in the
potter’s hand, if we depend on the Lord we
shall be so. We can do a great deal of
good to each other, we should continually
plead with the Lord to give us strength to
live faithful.
	Emelia D. Madsen: It is a sacred calling
to be a president or an officer in the Relief
Society. The teachers in visiting should try
to find the needy. They need to possess the
Spirit of the Lord, the spirit of discernment
and great big hearts that they may find even
those who shrink from receiving help in
their need. This money famine has affected
many, who would rather give than take.
Our deceased president, ‘‘Aunt Harriet,”
used to say, ‘‘we should save souls,” per-
haps some may even become strengthened,
in their faith by the consideration and
sympathy of their sisters.
	Counselor Mary Wright: Most of us
have had experience in the healing of the
sick, we should have confidence in our
brethren and sisters. Let us not find fault
with each other, it is weakening to our-
selves, let us do all the good we can. If it
was not for the Relief Society we would
not be what we are. Singing, ‘‘An Angel
from high,” Benediction by Brother Call.
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—Singing, ‘‘Hark!
the song of Jubilee.” Prayer by Bishop
Valentine. Singing, ‘‘Sweet is Thy work
my God, my King.” Reports from the
different branches read by Sister Annie
Wixom. President Olivia Widerborg: ‘‘I
am happy I am one with you my sisters,
Latter-day Saints, whose hearts are full of
an earnest desire to serve the Lord. You
have heard the reports, the Lord has blest
us, peace, love, and unity has bound us to-
gether, I feel to thank the Lord. Let us live
so that love and unity may grow among
us, we all have faults, but none of us have
a moment to spare to find fault with others.
I would say to Presidents and Secretaries,
keep your reports straight; by the help of
my sisters we have tried to get our Stake
record in such a shape that when we go
behind the veil we can show on black and
white what we have done with your means.
	Sister Sadie Hansen, Beaver Dam, Sister
Booth, President First Ward, Brigham City,
made some interesting suggestions; referred
to President Woodruff’s birthday reception,
how he called their attention to his faults,
believed there was not a man living with so
few faults as Brother Woodruff.


President Rudger Clawson: I have per-
fect confidence in your president, that she
will use your means to the very best. You
have ample opportunity to advance in good-
ness, with principles of the gospel, help
the sick and the downcast. A great many
of our sisters have faith and the gift of
nursing. Referred to the promise in the
Doctrine and Covenants. It is not the
doctors who save life, but the Lord, He
controls the principles of life. Brother
Clawson spoke in an impressive manner of
the danger in using chloroform too freely,
great care should be taken in deciding when
to use it.
	Counselor C. Kelly: A tree is known by
its fruits, I am proud of it. I have been
pleased to listen to the fatherly counsel by
our president. I am a strong believer in the
laying on of hands and administration of
the servants of God. It is good to keep those
principles before our children, this lays
greatly in the hands of the mothers. There
are many delinquent fathers as well as there
are mothers. God bless you sisters and fill
you with peace.
	Treasurer’s account read by Sister Fanny
Graehl. President Olivia Widerborg: “I
want to say in honor to my God, I went
this morning and asked the Lord to bless 
me that I might hear what would be said,
and praised be the Lord, I have heard every
word that has been said.” Conference ad-
journed for three months. Singing, “Now
let us rejoice in the day of salvation.”
Benediction by Bishop Harper.
EMELIA D. MADSEN, Cor. Sec.
	WAYNE STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the
Wayne Stake was held in the Loa School
House, Feb. 25, 1894. President Jane S.
Coleman presiding. Singing, ‘‘God is
Love,” prayer by Elder F. W. Young.
Singing, ‘‘Weary not.” Minutes of last
conference read and approved President
Coleman made opening remarks, prayed that
a goodly portion of the Spirit of God would
be with us during our Conference. The
branches of the Relief Society in Fremont,
Loa, Willmoth, Thurber, Teasdale, were
represented in good condition, all reported
they had commenced to read and study the
Lectures on Faith as requested in their meet-
ings.
	Sister Lucinda Brown spoke on the good
teachings given during our Stake Confer-
ence; spoke of home industries and that we
should sustain them, that the officers and
members of the Relief Society should
work in unison and each perform their part
for the general good; gave some instructions
with regard to burying our dead, there
should be order in all such things, desired
the blessing of God to be with us.
	President J. S. Coleman said she was
pleased to hear the good reports from the
Relief Society as represented. Caneville
and other branches did not have a repre-
sentative present on account of sickness.
Spoke of the great improvement continual-
ly going on in the institutions of our 
Church for the advancement of all. Felt it
was inspiration that rested on our beloved
President Z. D. H. Young to have the
Lectures on Faith read and discussed in our
meetings; thereby faith will increase in our
midst. Mothers will more fully understand
the principles of the gospel, and be able
to teach their children, may faith and good
works be planted and impressed in the
young and tender mind that our posterity
may be mighty. Counselor Sarah S.
Forsythe spoke of guarding our children
from evil habits and keeping them em-
ployed, especially have something to amuse
and instruct them at home evenings.
	Elder J. T. Lozenby spoke of the great
ness of England through home manufacture.
If we stay at home and produce what we
need and to spare, the dollar will come to
us. Elder F. W. Young said he had been
pleased wth the instructions given, related
incidents of the influence women possessed
for good; if they will unite with their hus-
bands in buying home manufactured goods
we could give employment to many of our
own people.
	‘‘O my Father” was rendered in a very
creditable manner by James Stringam.
Singing an anthem. Benediction by J. A.
Taylor.
	Sarah S. Forsythe, Act. Sec.


