RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	[Concluded.]
	AFTERNOON SESSION:--Opened with
singing "O say what is truth" prayer by
Mrs. Lydia D. Alder, singing "For the
strength of the hills we bless thee" &c.
Minutes of previous October Conference
read (afternoon) Counselor L. M. Hart
Bear Lake Stake gave an excellent report
in a concise manner of the work in which
the sisters of that locality were engaged.
Mrs. Angeline Hinckley reported Millard
Stake as doing well and especially in regard
to the needy. Mrs. M. A. Grover in a 
very able manner spoke for Juab Stake, one
partiular feature of her remakrs being that
the young mothers come to meeting with
their babies. Mrs. M. A. Stoddard was
authorized to represent Cassia Stake in the
interest of which she did remarkably well.
	President Zina D. H. Young then spoke
upon the subject of silk culture and the
necessity of making preparations in time to
accomplish good results, explained in detail
some experiences in this direction, also
spoke particularly of the care of the sick
and of the ordinances of the Church, the
blessings which were to follow the be-
liever the cultivation of faith and the
virtue of prayer and of promoting greater
union.
	Counselor B. W. Smith made some ex-
cellent remarks about the Temple and the
sweet spirit prevailing in that sacred place,
thought all the Saints must be truthful,
upright and honest; increase in love and
good works, love each other and promote
the cause of righteousness and help for-
ward the interests of this kingdom; ex-
horted mothers to teach their children to be
industrious, and knew if they would, such
children would be more likely to grow up
honorable men and women, urged the
silk culture and the circulation of the WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT, and many other home
industries and home subjects.
	Mrs. M. I. Horne gave out a notice con-
cerning the Woman's Store and the Circular
that had been prepared, solicited the
patronage of the women of the County,
thought the store should be better sus-
tained. Counselor Reese from Box Elder,
said some branches in the Stake were very
remote and could not be visited often but
once a year the President and others gener-
ally succeeded in reaching them; spoke
very highly of their President and  her
noble work.
	Counselor Jane S. Richards spoke very
interestingly upon a variety of subjects
urged the sisters to sustain the EXPONENT,
and to economize and do those things that
were necessary, felt that visiting the sick
and assisting and comforting them was in-
deed a labor of love; thought we should en-
courage silk raising, many of the trees
planted years ago are dead, but the people
should put out new ones, spoke of the
cyclones and many calamities that were
coming and felt if we wished to avoid these
things we must live near the Lord; those
who were aged should be diligent in season
and out of season and the young had no
time to lose.
	President F. A. Hammond of San Juan
Co. said he represented one of the largest
counties in area, but they only had eighty-
five votes, believed in woman suffrage, felt
that the Relief Society was a great power
and aid to the people, they had no Bishop's
trials, no family troubles, and no need of
difficulties, there were no whisky shops,
no gambling dens; the EXPONENT was ap-
preciated among them, he felt it was im-
portant for the sisters to have it and always
read it himself with great interest, the
speaker did’nt know much about seri-culture,
but he remembered the flax and tow, knew
how it could be utilized, the Lord has told
us, to adorn ourselves with our
own hands.
	President Z. D. H. Young made some
telling remarks about the EXPONENT urg-
ing the sisters to sustain it by their sub-
scription, asking those who did take it to
raise the right hand that she might see how
many there were; spoke of the request she
had made through the EXPONENT that all
the branches of the Relief Society should
study the lectures upon faith and seek to
get the spirit of them and that in so doing
they should be blest, said "have we left the
homes of our fathers and the graves of our
ancestors to come here and forsake the truth
and descend to lesser things? verily no, we
must keep the commandments of God in
that alone there is safety for us."
	The secretary, by request, read the
circular issued by the officers of the Wo-
man's Co-operative Store, which was com-
plete in itself and called for support from
the women of Zion, made some remarks up-
on subjects connected with the work of the 
society.
Mrs. Emily S. Richards spoke of the silk
of the Utah Exhibit in Chicago, described
the silk curtains, and the embroidery in
sego lilies, also the Provo and Logan cur-
tains and the linen exhibit from Springville,
and many other articles, described hur-
riedly her work at the World's Fair, and of
the great interest manifested in our women
and especially at a meeting in the organiza-
tion room where she had spoken of our
different associations, the Relief Society, the
Young Ladies' and the Primary, referred to
some influential women who had expressed
their astonishment, and Miss Anthony's
reply, in which she stated that she had
known of the organized work we had
been doing for years.  Mrs. Richards ex-
pressed her great satisfaction with our
position before the world and our connec-
tion with the National Council of Women,
explained how it first came about and
what an advantage it had been and would
be in the future.
	President J. N. Smith of San Luis
Colorado, spoke of the blessings and
privileges of the Gospel enjoyed by the
Saints in that locality, though all were poor,
and referred to it as the magnanimous state,
where women enjoyed and could exercise
the right of the ballot. President Ricks, of
Bannock Idaho, referred to the days of the
Prophet Joseph and gave some interesting
incidents of that period. President Haight
of Cassia, Idaho, related some facts that had
come to his notice in that Stake when the
Relief Society had accomplished very
material good, alluded to one instance
where the Society had helped to lift the
mortage from the property of a widow
which was a great temporal blessing, urged
the sisters to help in sustaining home
manufactories. President Horne gave
some notice of the circulars for the Wo-
man's Store and the congregation joined in
singing the Doxology. Benediction was
pronounced by President Thomas Ricks,
and Conference adjourned for six months.
