U. W. P. C.
	THE Club met at Dr. Shipp's Office on
the evening of April 28th; an extra large
number of ladies’ in attendance. The roll
call was responded to with choice quota-
tions from the poets. Ella W. Hyde read
a paper which she had prepared, on the
“Life and work of John Howard Payne,”
author of the old but ever touching “Home,
Sweet Home." An original poem,
entitled, “Fickle April,” was read by Ruth
M. Fox, who was also the author. Olea
Shipp favored the club with music.
Dr. E. B. Ferguson read a very able and
scholarly paper on the subject of
Psychology, dealing especially with the
Intellect: showing its several divisions and
subdivisions, the actions and province of
this department of self as distinguished
from the other powers of the mind. 
	The second part of this subject, assigned
to Miss G. Woodmansee, was carried over
for one month by request. Mrs. A. E.
Bennion followed with a lecture on the
“Will.”' Explained the importance of the
position which it occupies in the mental
economy. By way of illustration, the
lady refered to the benefit the world has
reaped from the persistence or will of
Columbus, and other discoverers and inven-
tors. As examples of those possessing
wonderful will power she named, Patrick
Henry, Joseph Smith, Brigham Young
and among our intimate friends, E. B.
Wells, Dr. E. R. Shipp and others. How
would they have succeeded without this
power? Mrs. C. Louise Boyden, who was
pleased to be with the club again, after a
long absence, gave a recitation, entitled,
“The Old Church Organ,” as told by a
yankee; rendering it in her well remember-
ed and pleasing manner.  Pearl Russell
gave a pretty vocal selection and E. B.
Wells read a poem, entitled, “Leona.” 
	Miscellaneous business was attended to
and the critic wishing to be excused from
that task until next month, it was dispensed
with. Benediction by Mrs. Z. D. H.
Young. Refreshments and discussion fol-
lowed until the time for adjournment.
	Programe for May 31st:—Lecture on
Psychology, “The Feeling,” Gladys
Woodmansee; Music, Lizzie Shipp; Poem,
original, Dr. E. R. Shipp; Paper on
Theosophy, Dr. R. B. Pratt; members to 
respond to roll with sentiments from Pope. 
