EDITORIAL NOTES.

	ON Tuesday evening, April 17th, a few
of the friends of Mrs. Emily H. Wood-
mansee met at her residence to show their
esteem and love for one, a sister and a poet,


who has always bravely defended the cause
of Zion under all adverse circumstances,
and in the days of prosperity has sung its
praises, and in joyful strains portrayed its
beauties and excellencies. Her poems are
all, of them rich with the inspiration of
Gospel truths.
	There were about thirty people present
and most of the sisters answered to the roll
call with an extract or verse, sometimes
more than one from Sister Woodmansee’s
own writings, which abound in sentiment
suitable to repeat on such occasions. There
were no formal addresses but some af-
fectionate expressions of good will and
such fellowship as promotes harmony and
an increase of love among friends whose
daily lives are full to overflowing of 
practical everyday matters in this work-a-
day world. Mrs. Woodmansee was
given a handsome copy of George Elliot’s
Poems. Mrs. E. B. Wells, in behalf of
the ladies,made the presentation; two of the
late lamented Sister Elizabeth Howards
daughters were present, all the way from
Big Cotton Wood. Mrs. Kate Howard
Brockbank, whose husband Elder Isaac
Brockbank, accompanied her and Mrs.
Mary Howard Brinton, Bishop Elias Mor-
ris and wife of the 15th Ward, and Bishop
George H. Taylor and wife of the 14th
Ward, Sisters M. Isabella Horne,
Lula Green Richards, Margaret
Y. Taylor, Mr. and Mrs Edward Steven-
son, Mrs. C. S. Thomas, Dr. E. R.
Shipp, Helen Mar Whitney, Mrs. Vilate
Romney and others, most of the sisters
spoke a few encouraging words, and Miss
Myrtle Woodmansee favored the company
with some piano music, giving choice selec-
tidns and delicious picnic added to the
social enjoyment, as refreshments ever do,
when the conversation is highly intellectual
and even spiritual.
	THE ladies of the World’s Fair Associa- 
tion of Davis County presented to the Salt
Take Temple the handsome set of furniture
made for their exhibit, and upholstered in
homemade silk (sage green,) the wood
carved in sego lilies, the floral emblem of
Utah. This furniture attracted much at-
tention in the parlor of the Utah Building,
it was a meritorious piece of workmanship
and now it is in a place appropriate to its 
artistic value. The design was by Utah
women and they may well be proud of
their brilliant success. A colored portrait of
Mrs. Amelia Spencer Rogers, surrounded
by some of the boys and girls of the Pri-
mary Association, handsomely framed, was
also given with the furniture. Mrs. Rogers
was the originator of the idea of our
Primary Associations, and the writer was
present when she first gave expression to
the thought to our former president and
leader, Sister Eliza R. Snow, who grasped
the situation, and with the assistance of
others as helps, organized the associations
that are now doing such good work
throughout the valleys of the mountains
we term Zion. The committee who pre-
sented the valuable exhibits to President
Lorenzo Snow in the Salt Lake Temple
were Sisters Lucy A. Clark, Jane Holt,
Athalia M. Steed and Anna Williams.


