WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


W.S.A.

	MINUTES of W.S.A. held April 17th,
1894, third Vice President Julia Druce in
the chair. Singing "Search for Freedom"
prayer by Mrs. E.M. Price, singing “Help
the Working women.” Roll called by the
Secretary. Minutes of the previous meet-
ing read and approved. Dr. M. Hughes
Cannon being the first on the program
responded, gave a very interesting address
on the rights and and ability of woman, dwell-
ing on the force of character of the
Spartan women and the courage of the
Roman women; recited "The Gladiator."
Spoke on women being accused of too
much slavery to fashion to have anything
to do with politics brought to bear the time
when men shaved off their hair and wore
wigs. Mrs. E.M. Price spoke very
eloquently on Queen Elizabeth's Statesman-
ship. Mrs. Ella W. Hyde spoke on Suf-
frage proper; thought there was not the
shadow of a doubt but what we would one
day get the franchise, exhorted us to study
the suffrage subject. Mrs. May Talmage
was invited to say a few words, stated she
had been absent so long did'nt feel prepared
said it was the same with suffrage as other
things we must study and keep ourselves
bright. Mrs. Fox made some interesting
remarks; recited a poem “My Fortieth
Birthday” composed by herself which
she did in a very sympathetic manner.
	Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball Honorary
President gave a short address and alluded
to the honor conferred upon Mary the
mother of the Savior in a very interest-
ing way and referred to traditions concern-
ing Mary and the angel Gabriel.
	Mrs. M.A. Freeze thought if immoral
men like Colonel Breckenridge could help
make laws, when the women got the
franchise they would elect better men.
President E.J. McFarlane suggested we
had a spirited poem recited or read every
meeting, her remarks were followed by a
few words of counsel from Vice President
Ardella Eardly, the ladies adjourned to the
parlor and were entertained with music and
singing by Miss Fay McCune. Meeting
was then adjourned for one month.
