SILK QUESTION.

	BY advices from the Department at
Washington D. C. I am informed in
answer to my inquiries that the silk sec-
tion of that Department is abolished, owing
to lack of appropriations hence no eggs
will be distributed this season consequently
there is not any prospective market for co-
coons there. The Secretary states that the
experience of the past quarter of a century
particularly that during the six years prior
to 1891, shows that in the United States
Silk Culture cannot be made profitable un-
der existing conditions.
	Therefore it seems what is done must be
by private enterprise which experience


Utah has always had to deal with, although
statistics prove that as far back as 1622 the
cultivation of silk was strongly urged and
land owners were compelled to plant mul-
berry trees or a fine was imposed. Seri-
culture was largely entered into and was
pronounced the most profitable industry of
the Country and the quality and excellence
equal to any produced in Italy. In 1770
2-300 pounds of reeled silk was taken to
Philadelphia to be worked up and the same
year a Mrs. Susanna Wright at Columbia
Lancaster Co. made a piece of goods 60
yards in length from her own Cocoons
which was worn by the Queen of Great
Britain as a Court dress. Ladies took up
the industry as a fashionable employment
and prior to the revolution wore silk dresses
of their own fabrication.
	Up to 1812-13 sewing silk was sold an-
nually to the amount of $600 by one
family alone.
	Therefore it would appear a pity, nay
even a sin that sericulture be allowed to
languish when by the showing of this lit-
tle paragraph such good results were
established and that sufficient interest
should be taken to promote so beneficial
and laudable an industry, which permanent-
ly established would create a vast revenue.
	I hope all who take a pleasure in seri-
culture in Utah will endeavor to their ut-
most to promote the industry if only for
home consumption realizing with what
success the Utah Silk Exhibit met at the
World’s Fair and the merited attention it
receives at the Midwinter Fair.
	I fear my article is already too long for
our progressive little EXPONENT but re-
member the amount of means President
Brigham Young expended to forward seri-
culture and how ardently he advocated and
recommended it and his saying the elements
in Utah are full of silk.
	M. A. TILL, Prest. Utah Co. Silk Asst’n.
Provo City, April 24th, 1894.


