IN MEMORIAM.
	BIOGRAPHICAL sketch of Rachel Cook Drol-
linger. She was born in Mason Co. Kentucky, June
14th, 1798. She was married to Samuel Drol-
linger Dec. 21st, 1819. They both joined the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
in July, 1831, Samuel being baptized on the 7th,
and Rachel on the 8th of the month by Elder
Solomon Hancock.
	They moved to Jackson County, Missouri, with
the Saints and with them were driven out; and
from hardship and exposure endured during that
time he died Aug. 16, 1834, in Clay Co., Missouri,
leaving Rachel a widow with six children.
Three weeks from that time her eldest son (then
in his 15th year) died from the same cause.
	Then with her five children four sons and one
daughter, she was with the saints in their suf-
fering and persecution.  Moved with them to
Nauvoo, and was an active member of the Re-
lief Society that was organized by the Prophet
Joseph, and I will here say that the Prophet was
assisted by this worthy family in a material way,
financially, several times. From Nauvoo with
her family she traveled with the Saints, and
came to Utah in the year 1852, locating in Payson
where she resided until her death
	She was the first President of the Relief
Society organized in Payson which organization
was perfected in February, 1856.
	Sister Drollinger was always the friend of the
unfortunate, gentle and kind to those who needed
her sympathy. Yet she had, as it were, an iron-
will, and could not look upon affectation, pride or
deception with the least allowance.
	Plain and outspoken in her manner and so
honest in her convictions in this regard that she
urgently requested to be laid away in a neat,
plain, white coffin; her request was respected and
complied with.
	Rachel Cook Drollinger departed this life on
Jan. 22nd 1894, having lived to the ripe old age of
ninety-five years seven months and eight days.
Having lived a faithfnl Latter-day Saint sixty-two
years, six months and fourteen days, and a widow
fifty-nine years, five months and six days.
	Thus ended the life of one who was never idle,
and who never lost an opportunity to do good.
	She died as she had lived with a firm reliance
of a glorious resurrection.
									COM.


