COMMITTEE.

	EARLY in the history of the National Coun-
cil of Women of the United States, it was
found necessary, in order to carry on its
work with proper deliberation, that An-
nual Meetings of its Executive Committee
should be held. Such Annual Meetings of
the Executive Committee have been held as
follows: the first in Indianapolis in May,
1891; the second in Chicago in May, 1892;
and the third in Chicago in May, 1893.
	By the constitutional plan of triennial
meetings, the second triennial sessions of
the Council  would have been held in
Washington in 1894. When, however, in
1891, it was determined that the National
Council of Women should take the
initiative in convening in this country a
meeting of the International Council in
1893, it was voted that the regular sessions
of the National Council should be post-
poned for one year, hence the next meet-
ing of the National Council of Women of
the United States will be held in Washing-
ton in February of 1895. The next meet-
ing, therefore, of the Executive Committee
will be of unusual importance. Before it
will be laid full reports by the President,
Corresponding Secretary and Treasurer, as
well as by the Recording Secretary of the

[Column 2]
work in their respective departments of the
National Council since 1891.
	This will cover the work of the Council
in relation to the World’s Congress of
Representative Women, and to its exhibi-
tion in the Woman’s Building during the
Columbian Exposition of 1893.
	Owing to the work of the Council in
relation to the International Council during
the last two years, its work proper in our
own country, while not neglected, has been
sensibly diminished. Unusual activity will
therefore be necessary, not only on the part
of the General Officers, but on the part of
all the organizations belonging to the
Council, to make the sessions of 1891, fulfil
the plans proposed in the address of its
first President, Frances E. Willard, and in
the statements subsequently  issued by the
present officers of the Council.
	Owing to the initiative taken by the
National Council, local councils are rapidly
springing up throughout the country, each
in its own community applying to local
needs the principles of individual organic
liberty and mutual helpfulness among or-
ganized bodies, now so generally recognized
as the dominant principles in what has
come to be popularly known as the “Coun-
cil Idea.”
	One important question to be settled by
the Executive Committee at its approach-
ing meeting is the relation of local coun-
cils to the National Council, and the
representation to which local councils shall
be entitled at the sessions of the National
Council in its meeting in 1895.
	The general outlines of the program of
that meeting will also be determined by
the Executive Committee, at this time
therefore, the approaching meeting will be
a meeting not only of the Executive Com-
mittee, but also of the committee of Ar-
angements.
	The Executive Committee is constituted
of the General Officers and the Presidents of
all organizations belonging to the Council,
while the Committee of Arrangements in-
cludes the Executive Committee and one
delegate from each of the organizations be-
longing to the Council. Members of the
Committee of Arrangements, who are not
members of the Executive Committee,
will in the coming meeting be entitled to
speak upon all questions that should come
before the Executive Committee for its con-
sideration, but will be entitled to vote only
on such questions as are usually entrusted
to the Committee of Arrangements.
	All Patrons of the National Council are
cordially invited to be present at the
meeting of the Executive Committee and
the Committee of Arrangements, when
they will enjoy the privilege of participat-
ing in discussion of all questions that arise,
of proposing questions and even motions.
Patrons, however, have no vote. Al-
though reasons for this have been fre-
quently stated, it cannot perhaps be too
often reiterated that the central thought
of the Council Idea is the equal representa-
tion in its deliberation and its policy of all
the ideas and objects represented by the or-
ganizations belonging to the Council
therefore it is that the membership of an
organization does not affect the number of
votes that it has in the Council, where each
organization belonging to it has one vote on
all questions that come before the Executive
Committee, and two votes on all questions
that come before the Committee of Ar-
rangements, and where no one else, ex-
cepting the General Officers of the Council,


has any vote. The vote allowed to the
General Officers is, of course, allowed on
the understanding that the General officers
of the Council as such, represent no
organization belonging to the Council, but
stand only for the fair application of the
Council Idea to all work undertaken by it as
a whole.
	It is hoped that every organization be-
longing to the Council will, at the ap-
proaching meeting in May, be represented
by both its President and one delegate, and
that all patrons of the Council will be
present at the meeting.
	At the present juncture nothing is more
necessary to the interests of the organized
work of women in the United States than
that an accurate knowledge of the history,
the objects and the methods of the Council,
and a just conception of the Council Idea
shall be spread and propagated throughout
the country.
	The proposed meeting of the Executive
Committee and Committee of Arrangements
will be held on the 7th and 8th of May in
the city of Philadelphia. The local prepara-
tions are in the hands of Rachel Foster
Avery, Somerton, Philadelphia, Corres-
ponding Secretary of the National Council
of Women, to whom all those preparing to
attend this meeting are requested to write.
	MAY WRIGHT SEWALL,
	President of the National Council of Wo-
men of the U. S., and General Vice-
President of the International Council.
	RACHEL FOSTER AVERY,
	Corresponding Secretary of the National
Council of Women of the United States.


