		JUAB STAKE.
	MINUTES of the Quarterly Conference
of the Relief Society of the Juab Stake
held in the Nephi Tabernacle, Dec. 15th,
1883. President Mary Pitchforth presiding.
Sang, “Come, dearest Lord, descend and
dwell,” prayer by Counselor Charles
Sperry. Continued by singing, “Come
thou desire of all thy Saints," minutes of
the last Conference read and approved.
President Pitchforth, in her opening ad-
dress, prayed that the Spirit of God might
rest upon her, as also those assembled that
every word might be dictated thereby.
Spoke at some length on the advancement
of the young, was very much interested in
the young ladies and gentlemen of Nephi;
asked the blessings of God on all present,
that at the close of our conference we can
say it is good to have met together. Sang,
“Now let us rejoice in the day of Salva-
tion."

[Column 2]
	Sister Wilkey represented First Ward of
Nephi, Sister Lerwell, Mona; Sister
Christenson Levan branches, all being in
excellent condition. Meetings were well
attended and a unity of' feeling existing in
their midst.
	Singing “Fear not, I am with thee.”
By the suggestion of President Pitchforth.
	Sister S. A. Cazier offered an inspired
prayer in behalf of Sister Udall. Sister
Udall having left the meeting to appear be-
fore the commissioners.
	Counselor Hannah Jones referred to the
prayer offered by Sister Cazier, she was
truly inspired; referred to Sister Wells’
speech in the suffrage meeting, had learned
more than she had ever known of that
association. Was in favor of the associa-
tion, and the rights of women.
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke of the shadow
that had fallen on our meeting through the
arrest of Sister Udall. Sister Zina Young
had sent her love to the sisters, would very
much like to have been with them, desired
the sisters to cultivate the spirit of faith,
read the Lectures on Faith in the Doctrine
and Covenants, advised that practice to be
introduced in all the branches of the Relief
Society. Not any of us were safe without
faith, we always need it. Spoke of the
good that had been wrought for Zion, the
benefits of the Salt Lake Temple and how
much good had been done there, referred to
the storing of grain, also the respect shown
to the Salt Lake Choir in attending the
World’s Fair, had been very much in-
terested in the reports of the sisters. Urged
them to cultivate more and greater faith
in our midst. Sang, Doxology. Prayer
by Brother Hartley,adjourned until 2 p. m.
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—President Pitch-
forth persiding. Singing, “I know that
my Redeemer lives.” Prayer by President
Paxman. Sister Udall represented Second
Ward of Nephi in good condition, felt
grateful for the prayers offered up in her
behalf, had felt the influence of the prayer,
testified that it had been answered,
desired to prove true and faithful. Sister
Bryan felt blessed in a knowledge of the
Gospel, prayed God to bless all, with every
blessing that would be for our good.
	Sister Wells spoke at some length on
the silk industry, advised the sisters to
plant mulberry trees, and raise cocoons;
gave a discription of some of the exhibits,
at the World’s Fair, referred briefly to the
different meetings of women at Chicago.
	Reading by Sister Chappell, “He
willed it so.”
	President Pitchforth had been very
much interested in listening to the remarks
of Sister Wells, felt that the God we wor-
ship will protect us in the faith we believe
in. Was thankful for the gospel and all
the blessings we receive.
	Recitation by Sister S. A. Cazier,
“Wherefore and Why,” composed by
Sister Emily H. Woodmansee.
	President Paxman was pleased to have
Sister Wells with us to explain so intelle-
gently what transpired at the World’s Fair,
referred to the silk industry; felt that the
time would come when we would dress in
the silk raised here. Spoke of
the manifestations of God in many ways to
his poor and how full of gratitude we
should be, prayed God to be with us and
seal upon our hearts what had been said.
	Singing, “We thank thee O God for
a prophet,” benediction by Bro. Charles
Sperry.

[Column 3]
	RELIEF Society Conference, March 16,
1894, President Mary Pitchforth presiding.
Sang, “Praise ye the Lord.” Prayer by
Brother Sperry. “My God the spring of
all my joys.” Elder John L. Nuttall was
the first speaker. Had become very much
interested in the Relief Society in all its
stakes and branches. Explained the new
organization of the Relief Society, said it
is a church organization, the same church,
the same laws and the same sisters; spoke
of the energy of President Young in these
societies dwelt at some length on the duties
of the officers and members of the Society,
also on the necessity of storing grain.
Choir sang, “Redeemer of Israel."
Minutes of previous meeting read and ap-
proved.
	President Pitchforth then read the
Eureka yearly report, also a letter from the
president of the Levan branch, represent-
ing the Levan Ward in good condition,
spoke of the energy of the sisters and their
faithful labors, felt it a privilege to bear
testimony to the truth of this work, hoped
that the Lord would accept our repentance
for what we have failed to do in the past
and be merciful to us in the future.
	Sister Wilkey represented First Ward and
Sister Udall Second Ward of Nephi as being
in excellent condition; a unity of feelings
existing with officers and members.
	Singing, “How firm a foundation."
Counselor Bigler was very much interested
in listening to the reports, also the speakers;
felt that we were truly blessed of the Lord
at all times. Counselor Jones said her
soul rejoiced in the blessings of God to this
people, felt that all the branches in the Juab
Stake were filled with the same spirit, spoke
of the growth of the soctiey, and the in-
telligence of the young.
	Sister Bryan knew that the work was
true, wished to live worthy of all the
blessings in store for the faitliful. The
Lord knew how to chastise his people, 
He always did it in a proper manner; asked
the blessings of God upon all present.
	President Pitchforth presented the officers
of the Juab Stake, which were sustained by
unaminous vote. Elder James Paxman
said his heart had been made glad to hear
the excellent reports of the sisters, the
work of the Relief Society was a great
labor, the sisters hearts were as large as
mountains, had nothing but blessings in his
heart for them; spoke of the good results of
a loving kind influence at home, the
responsibility rests upon mothers, your
mission is at home, let home be first, other
duties after. Spoke of the testimonies of
the sisters and the good they had done.
	President Paxman, said if we could
retain what had been said we should be
truly benefited by coming, referred to the
Relief Society, said that the bishops had
testified to him of the help and comfort the 
sisters were to them. Spoke on the storing
of grain, encouraged the storing of corn and
beans as Brother Nuttall had previously
referred to it, thought that the articles of
faith instructed by Sister Young to be read
in each society would be of great benifit to
us, spoke in praise of the officers of the
society, the Lord was with them at all
times to sustain them and build them up.
Concluded by saying “may the Lord pour
out his blessings upon all.” After singing
and prayer conference adjourned for three
months.
