and we, after a time, discover that we have
faculties we can call into action; can grasp
and hold with the hands, and shortly use
our feet to walk.
	How delighted the child is when he can
accomplish this, and with what pleasure he
wlll do anything his parents or guardian 
will tell him to do.
	Yes he appreciates the faculties given
him, and the love of the parents for him
creates a love in the child, also and it is his
delight to do everything in his power to
please those who love him so tenderly.
Is not this typical of ourselves and what


we are or should be in the sight of God
our Father. 
	Yet the opposite spirit, Lucifer, tells us
you need not pray, Our Father knows what
you need before you ask Him. This is an
easy lesson, but is it a profitable one?
	Our Elder Brother’s lesson is quite the
opposite to this. He says, “seek and ye
shall find, knock and it shall be opened un-
to you.” In this way our faculties are
developed and drawn into action. Our
Father sees that since we are made in His
image, we must develop those faculties to
become God-like and partake of His nature.
While Lucifer would teach us that he has a
shorter and a better way to gain the same
result. Here we need wisdom to know
which lesson to learn first.
	Since we are told to become God-like we
must learn both spirits; that we may give
each one its true value and its proper place. 
	Now you must cling to the parent or
guardian who loves you, and has already
gained the experience you seek, and
remember that our Heavenly Father’s
voice is the first to listen to, to be safe from
evil, for after you have decided which to
follow you will find you have a prompter
in either case, either on the upward or
downward grade, after those faculties are
developed; but before this time his Satanic
majesty has no power, over little children.
This is the decree of God our Father.
	How wise, how merciful and good He is
to his erring children, knowing as he does
that the path through this world is a rough
one, yet it will teach us to seek wisdom
from the fountain of light and intelligence,
to arrive safely into port, to our eternal
home.
	When we read the history of our
Lord and Savior we see how many trials
He met with, yet He gained strength every
