time, until now some dare to say there is
no limit to her sphere within the circle of
man’s ultimate destiny;—that her intel-
ligence, her moral obligations, her suscepti-
bilites and sensibilities;—her place and
power, and her appreciation, all render her
competent to be a complete companion of
man, through all the conditions and
vicissitudes of time; a sharer of all his
honor and glory beyond the limits of this
probationary experience.
	It seems to be justly claimed that her
importance has not been appreciated by man
as was designed in the beginning it should
be, when it was immutably decreed that a
man should leave both his father and
mother, and cleave to woman as an indis-
pensable companion to his future welfare,
that when woman is to take precedence of
both father and mother in the eternal
economy, she may not be lightly esteemed,
must not be looked upon with indifference,
not be set aside in any condition as some-
thing that can be dispensed with. Jesus
himself, recognized this law of the Creator,
and gave it complete endorsment as bind-
ing upon man, when he quoted it in de-
fence of his views, that from the beginning
there was no such thing as a separation
contemplated, after the relation of man and
wife had been consummated.
	Certainly it is by and through her that all
men are, ever were and ever shall be; and
must she not share in the accountability
which man shall render of his life? Where
then is the time or place in which she is
not entitled to share with him in all the
responsibilities and honors that man is
capable of bearing, or legitimately acquir-
ing?
	To govern is made her duty from the day
of man’s birth. She is both fitted and
competent for the honorable performance of
that duty. To learn his needs, and provide
for and administer to them she is equally
proficient; and in respect for, and in the
performance of duty she is ever the peer of
man. For integrity and honor she may
be fearlessly trusted, as the prevailing rule
of her life.
	It has not been so much by the encourage-
ment that man has given, as by her own
persistent efforts, that woman has risen
in the higher civilization of Christian nations.
It is certainly a great advance of the time
when she was subjected to a seclusion

[Column 2]
amounting almost to imprisonment, or to a
servitude equal to slavery; when she was
not considered as the ornament  and refiner
of society, the companion and friend of
man; but among the higher castes of society
was often required to sacrifice herself upon 
his tomb.
	The influence of Christianity has changed
to a great extent these conditions of her 
life; have released her from the actions
and degrading restrictions in which she had
almost become the soulless thing which 
she had been represented to be, and restored
to her many of her natural rights which
tend to establish a just and true equality of
the sexes; and a woman now is often
acknowledged the absolute sovereign of
a great kingdom as in hereditary monarchies
like those of modern times. In our day
she has not only acquired excellence but
prominence in many of the professions, as
well as in science and art, which places her
in the front, and makes good her claim to
the right of equality with many of the
sterner sex.
	It has now become a universal sentiment,
that nothing marks more decidedly the
character of man, and of nations, than the
manner in which they treat woman. In
fact, woman’s influence in society for good, 
cannot be overestimated. She is no longer
considered to be a mere plaything for
treacherous man. She is of that im-
portance that no man can be properly
educated, or fitted for life, who has not
experienced the influence and spiritual
divinity as embodied in woman and mother.
	An inspired writer has said of woman
that her price is far above rubies, and that
by getting one for a wife, man finds favor
with God. Who can estimate the value of
God’s favor? Or who can declare the worth
of a virtuous woman? She is in fact the
link that connects the temporal with the
spiritual, earth to the heavens, and man to
God. Well did the poet write:
		‘‘Heaven when it had created man,
		Unfinished found creation’s plan
		Nor would the links together meet 
		’Till woman made the chain complete.”
	The Father chose her by and through
whom all his spiritual children should come
to earth, and so ordered that she should be
the first to know the advent of the spirit to
its home, “a house not made with hands,”
and not until she has endowed it with the
virtues of her soul does she present it a
priceless offering to her Lord. Thus wo-
man is recognized by the eternal decree of
the Father to be the first to cherish
humanity; as also, she was the first to be-
hold immortality in a risen Son and Savior.
	The fact that no man is without the wo-
man in the Creator’s economy, makes it
difficult to find a place between  the advent
of humanity, and the immortality of the
risen dead, where woman’s sphere may not
be found, in which she may not tread with
that triumphant womanly pride that shall
fit her not only for the associations of men,
but of angels and of God.
	In view of the fact that there can be no
man, priest, king or God, without woman,


we may cease to talk about woman's
sphere as though it had a limit, other than
the world in which she moves.
	The author of the following lines, may
have exceeded even our own appreciation
of women:
	“There’s not a place in earth or heaven,
	There’s not a task to mankind given,
	There’s not a blessing or a word,
	There’s not a whisper, yes or no,
	There’s not a life, a death, a birth,
	That has a feather’s weight of worth,
	Without a woman it it.”
