PEN AND SCISSORS.

	"I DON'T believe in fashionable church-
es," said a lady, recently; "but after all,
considering that we can all go to the same
heaven, perhaps it is better to keep up the
social distinctions as long as we can."
	A DARKEY'S EXPLANATION OF TELE-
GRAPHING.—"Now you see Sam, s'pose
da was a dog, and dat dog's head was in
Hoboken, and his tail in Brooklyn." "Go
'way, da ain't no such dog." "Well, s'pose
there was." "Well s'pose da was." "Well,
den, de telegram is jest like dat dog. If I
pinch dat dog's tail in Brooklyn, what he
do?" "Dunno." "Why, if I pinch dat
dog's tail in Brooklyn, he go bark in Hobo-
ken. Dat's the science of it."—Harper's
Drawer.
	"You voted for Tilden?" queried a Bos-
tonian, andressing a New Yorker. "Well,
yes, all the fellers of our club voted for
him," replied Fifth Avenue. "Well, what
kind of a man is he, any way?" asked Bos-
ton. "Well," said F. A., wiping a speck of
dust from his eye-glass, "I don't know
much about him. One feller said the other
night that Tilden might do for President,
but he shouldn't want to have him own
fifty-one per cent of the stock of a corpora-
tion of which he and his friends held the
other forty-nine per cent. I don't think it
is complimentary—do you?"—Boston Jour-
nal.
	"IN what way is your husband profli-
gate?" asked a Californian judge. "What
do you mean?" the woman asked. "In
what does his profligacy consist? what
does he do when he is profligate?" "Oh, I un-
derstand. Well he's profligate with horses."
The judge's countenance underwent a
variety of expressions, in which astonish-
ment and perplexity predominated, as he
put the next interrogatory: "Profligate
with horses! What—what do you mean by
that?" "Well he went not long ago to
haul twenty dozen of eggs two miles to sell
them, and he hadn't got more than half
way when the horses shied, tipped the wag-
on, and broke thirteen dozen, and eggs
fifty cents a dozen at that. If that ain't
being profligate with horses, then I don't
know what is."
	A SHARP Yankee went into a country
store down East, and thus accosted the pro-
prietor; "Squire, do you trade?" "Consid-
erable," was the reply. "I mean do you
dicker?" "Some; what ye got fer dicker?"
"Guess I'd like a darnin' needle" The re-
quired darning needle was dickered for the
egg, and the Yankee was going away when
he turned and said, "Squire do you treat?"
"Well, I don't mind if I do," replied the
good-natured store-keeper. They repaired
to an adjacent tavern, and the usual bour-
bon was produced. "Hold on," cried the
Yankee, "my chist's weak, and I never
take whiskey without an egg in it." The
generous shopkeeper handed him the dick-
ered egg, but without asking him for his
needle again. The Yankee broke the shell
on the edge of the glass, when he ex-
claimed. "Geewillikins! this egg's got two
yolks! Guess you'd better give me anoth-
er darnin needle."


[Column 1]
TEASDEL'S
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
		FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
