R. S. REPORTS

	The General Retrenchment meeting, held
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Saturday, Dec. 23rd, 1876, was presided
over by Mrs. M. I. Horne, who had been for
some time absent, and who expressed her-
self gratified to be again at home with the
sisters, who were co-workers with each
other in the great work of the improvement
of the spiritual and temporal condition of
the saints. She called the attention of the
sisters to the many duties to be performed,
and the necessity of diligence and faithful-
ness; she referred to the preparation the
sisters had been called upon to make in re-
spect to the future, when famine, pestilence
and destruction would visit the nations.
She exhorted the sisters to pray for wis-
dom, and listen to the still small voice bear-
ing witness in their hearts to the words of
eternal life. She referred the sisters to the
subject of the closing year, and entreated
them to consider well their opportunities
and blessings, and desired that each one of
those who had taken upon them the name
of Saint should honor it and improve
every good gift or talent, and devote them-
selves to the great work of reformation and
redemption. She told the sisters God had
revealed His relationship to the children of
men, and it devolved upon all to seek
mightily to carry out the Savior's golden
rule, "To do unto others as we would they
should do unto us," and overcome the self-
ishness which has become so general all
over the world, and penetrated into the
church and kingdom of God.
	Counselor Miss E. R. Snow then address-
ed the meeting upon the subject of punctu-
ality; said it was not only the key to busi-
ness but to the confidence of the people; it
is one of the essential traits of character to
cultivate, and should be carefully observed.
Counselor Zina D. Young and herself had
been North and held meetings in Harris-
ville, Mariot, and met with the brethren
and sisters in Kaysville. They found the
people waking up considerably to the inter-
ests and welfare of Zion. She spoke con-
cerning the Lamanites, and some manifest-
ation s that had been given to the sisters,
and gave much valuable instruction.
	Counselors Zina D. Young and Bathsheba
W. Smith and several other sisters spoke
upon subjects which are applicable to the
present time.

