			AN ALLEGORY.

	In traveling through Hindostan some
years ago, the writer accidentally came
across a curiosity of which very little ap-
pears to be known. Having occasion to
remain for a few days at a village which
lay a short distance from a large body of
water—perhaps of sufficient extent to enti-
tle it to be called a sea—my attention was
directed to the ruins of what had once been
a grand and beautiful temple, an object, as
I was informed, that would well repay a
visit. This temple was situated immedi-
ately on the border of the sea, and from a
variety of marks it was evident that its
destruction was greatly owing to the re-
peated and continued beating of the waves
against the structure. The remains of pil-
lars of stone, placed at regular intervals,
particularly attracted the attention. In-
scriptions, that had originally been cut very
deep, were still visible on many of these
pillars, and on one the word "Hope" was as
plain as though it had been chiseled yester-
day; on another, but not so clear, the word
"Mercy" could be seen; and in fact each pil-
lar bore an inscription of some meaning.
The hand of Time, however, had pressed so
heavily on some as to render them very in-
distinct, while the waves had worn others
so much that to decipher them was impossi-
ble.
	While gazing on these ruins, and wonder-
ing what motives could have actuated the
erection of this temple, I saw a rather
strange looking person approaching the spot
where I stood When he had arrived with-
in speaking distance, I asked him if there
was not a history connected with this tem-
ple, upon which he related the following
story, which I believe contains a moral of
worth. Here is the story as he spoke it:
	"Long ages ago a great and good being
called God, caused this temple, the ruins of
which you now behold, to be erected, and
named it the 'Temple of the Soul.' The
dome of the structure, on which the name
of the temple was inscribed, was support-
ed by a number of pillars, which were
placed so close together as to render them
impenetrable. On each of these pillars was
cut, or engraven, the name of some attri-
bute, among which were Truth, Friendship,
Hope, Purity, Love, Faith, Conscientious-
ness, Pity, Reason, Charity, Wisdom, Be-
nevolence, and others, many of which have
been forgotten in the transmission of the
history from generation to generation. The
names lost could never be recovered, be-
cause many of them were effaced, while
some of the pillars have gradually mould-
ered away until there are now left only a
letter or two, and others are entirely de-
stroyed. This temple God left in the charge
of his children, to whom he gave pointed
and unmistakable instructions that it should
be carefully preserved.
	It was erected so close to this sea, which
is called the 'Sea of Evil Influence,' that
even in the fairest weather the water laves
the sand within a few rods of the temple;
so that, whenever the tide ran up the beach
an unusual distance, or a storm arose, the
waves dashed furiously against the edifice.
Had the children of God paid that respect
which was due to His instructions, they
could have prevented the encroachments
of the 'Seas of Evil Influence' upon the
'Temple of the Soul;' but they deluded
themselves into the belief that, as the close-
ness of the pillars rendered the temple im-
pregnable, the building was perfectly se-
cure, forgetting that with every dash of the
waves against the temple, the structure was
weakened.

[Column 2]
	"You see," said he, "that stump which
extends further towards the sea than the
rest? That pillar was called 'Truth,' but as
time wore on, and being more exposed to
the water than the other, the letters are en-
tirely erased, nay, there is hardly any of
the pillar left.
	When the children of God discovered
that unless some action was taken the Sea
of Evil Influence would ultimately ruin the
'Temple of the Soul,' they determined that
they would endeavor to avert the probable
danger. But as they consoled themselves
with the thought that no great damage had
yet been done, and as there appeared to be
no pressing necessity for immediate action,
they concerned themselves very little about
the matter. Meantime the Pillar of Truth
was slowly but surely succumbing to the
continued action of the waves, till finally a
portion of it was washed away. The charm
was lost. That which had been an impene-
trable barrier was now broken and the wa-
ters of the Sea of Evil Influence rushed tu-
multuously into she Temple of the Soul, to
which all the pillars were now exposed.
The next pillar that fell was that of Faith,
which was immediately at the left of the
pillar of Truth, and on which still remains
the faint outlines of the letters f and a.
The work of destruction was now thorough-
ly begun, and all the pillars of the temple
were at the mercy of the waves. After
the pillar of Faith had fallen the next that
gave way was Reason; then Purity, and
Love, Charity, Conscientiousnecs, Mercy,
Wisdom, and lastly Friendship followed;
and now the only pillar remaining uninjured
is that of Hope. For ages that pillar alone
has withstood the action of the waters to
which it was exposed, nor, strange as it
may seem, does it bear any visible marks
either of the hand of Time or the influence
of the sea, while the word Hope is still as
clear as it was originally. Thus, through
disregarding the commandments God gave
his children, the result is the ruin of the
magnificent 'Temple of The Soul.'"
	The stranger then left me to meditate on
the history he had just related, and draw a
moral therefrom.
									S.


[Column 1]
