HOROSCOPE.

My baby sleeps: his precious head is laid
Upon my arm close to my happy heart.
In all the beauty of sweet infancy,
And heavenly innocence, and undefiled,
Angelic purity, he nestles close
Within my sheltering arms; and, gazing now
Upon thy fair, unconscious face, my son,
And feeling deep within my love-rapt heart
The countless worth of one pure infant soul,
My spirit kindles with the living glow
Of prophecy; to-night I could withdraw
The close-drawn vail between the fleeing now,
And that bright realm of hope futurity,
And say, dear child, what life will bring to thee.

My mother-heart, with all its love and pride,
Would crown thee king in heart and mind and soul,
Without one mortal frailty strong enough to chain
Thy heavenward aspiring soul to earth.
It pictures thee so strong that thou canst lend
A helping hand to all the weak and frail;—
So brave that courage shall ignite anew
The failing fires of hope in many a heart
Whose lamp of faith is flickering dim and low,
And from whose failing arm the strength is gone;—
So great the meanest never fear to claim
Their little due, their modest consequence;
So pure that gold, though seven fold refined
Is base alloy beside thy spotless worth,
And Christ himself, though Lamb of Innocence,
Might well delight to share with thee His crown.
Oh, joy! I will the mystic vail unclose
And feast my soul upon this vision bright,
And bask in light thus shining from afar,
And bless my motherhood thus glorified!

But stay! a shadow gloomy, strange and chill,
Falls o'er the glowing presage fancy wrought,
And bids me, sorely 'gainst my willingness,
See, what might be the bitter opposite—
My noble giant weak, and frail, and vile;
Speed like mad charges to the gulf of death;
This lily hand, which I so fondly kiss,
Imbued in some weak brother's welling blood;
This seraph brow black with the brand of Cain.
This incense breath hot with the fumes of wine;
And, reeking with the foul narcotic weed,
These censer lips pollute with blasphemy;
Woe! shame! My brain grows sick and wild
My tortured fancy shrinks aghast—appalled
I dare not look! Oh, draw the curtain close,
Lest I be seared in heart, and brain, and eye.
Thou God of love, and could it then be so,
That this white soul could grow so black and vile?
Oh! rather take him to thy heart of love,
mind leave me on the earth without a child.

I strain my cherub to my bursting heart,
And shower tender kisses, fervent prayers,
And tears of grief and love upon his head.
Love is so strong, and yet so powerless
To hedge the loved one in from danger dire!
I can but pray; 'tis he—this child—alone
Who must the fearful conflict win or lose.
I can but feebly arm the unskilled hand,
Almighty God, but thou canst make it strong.—
The waves of thought sweep swiftly on and on
Till, through my love-born, deep anxiety,
Unto my troubled heart the "still small voice"
Breathes low and sweetly, "Peace, be still!"

Though earth be overrun with craft and guile,
And men defile their bodies and their souls,
And say God sleeps, and neither hears nor sees
Their deep iniquities, I am awake!
I have reserved unto this fearful day,
Unto myself a chosen noble few.
To come forth now—to shine on earth
A living light that all who will may see.
Let thine be one: and do thou watch and pray,
And pour into his soul my living word
To be his spirit's light 'mid deepest dark,
His sure defense whatever foes assail;
His arm of strength to raise my fallen ones;
His heart of grace the weakest ne'er to scorn;
His rock of faith which shall forever stand;—
Do this, O mother, and be strong of heart,
For all who trust in Me shall surely find
My word returns not void; nor one true soul
Will I forsake:—Remember I am God."
